February 7, 1929 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

SOCIAL

Pyramid Club
The following were week-end guests of the Pyramid Club: Misses Eunice Glenn, Lottie Rose, and Elizabeth Hendon from Asheville; Pat Miller from Greensboro. The following alumni and friends were visitors: “Jim” Kuykendall, “Bill” Wilkinson, “Bill” Strong, Ben McAulay; Misses Mary Booker, Elizabeth Lowe, Emily Frazier, Sally Couch.

Kappa Sigma
The following were the guests of Kappa Sigma for Pan Hellenic week-end: Misses Alcie Jenkins of Randolph-Macon; Mary Aldrich Wyman of U. S. C.; Fay Cox, “Dot” Cottrell, “Lou” Best, of Converse College; Melba McMahon and Billie McMahon of Charlotte; Virginia Jones and Vara Keller of Chatham Hall; Janet Lowe and Sara Efird of Salem College; Line Thompson of Dunn; Frances Mosely of Greenville, N. C.; and Emma Cathrane of Queens College; Messrs. Mackenfuss, Crutchfield, Walker, King, Culler, and Stackhouse of Wofford; Lentz, Kings Mountain; Poole of Spartanburg; Black of Davidson; Osteen of Dillon; Johnson of Macksville; Edgerton, U. N. C.; Brunson, U. N. C.; Garland, Gastonia; and Player of Wofford College. One of the most enjoyable occasions of the week-end was the banquet at the Charlotte Hotel Saturday night with N. R. McGeachey acting as toastmaster.

Phi Gams
Week-end guests of the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity were: Misses Dot Adams, N. C. C. W.; Mary Delia Rankin, N. C. C. W.; Dot Cottrell, Converse; Sarah Anderson, Richmond; Nancy Watts, Queens; Ditty Winter, Agnes Scott; Elizabeth Board, Salem College; “Lib” Patterson, Charlotte and Josephine Kluttz, Charlotte. Among the visitors and alumni were: Messrs. A. G. Briggs, Richmond; J. L. Foster, Winston-Salem; D. J. Chipman, Winston-Salem; Jim Moore, Salisbury, John Creech and Charlie Norfleet, Winston-Salem; and “Bub” Hall, Belmont.

S. A. E.
Visitors of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity were Misses Myra Boynton, Atlanta; Frances McCormick, Laurinburg, N. C.; Margaret Blue, Fayetteville; Ann Osteen, Sumter; Martha Clarke, Fayetteville; Susanne Gay, Hartsville; Frances Shute, Monroe; Rockdale Prince, Laurinburg; Louise Holiday, Converse; Julia Reid Roseboro, Jacksonville; Claudia Peterson, Jacksonville; Elise Cross, Columbia; Messrs. Tom Baker, Jacksonville; Jimmie Clark, Fayetteville. An informal dinner party was held at the Mayfair Manor Saturday night with about twelve couples present.

T. U. O.
Guests for the week-end of the Theta Upsilon Omega fraternity were: Misses Ellen Hawkins, Evelyn Josephs from Charlotte; Evelyn Beaver, Salisbury; Helen Rudsell, Converse; Louise Ruff, Converse; Charlotte Koonce, N. C. C. W.; Elizabeth Gatewood, N. C. C. W.; Levinia Moore, Charlotte; Messrs. Jack Hand, Charlotte; Bob Lowrance, Gastonia; Warren Smith, Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Phi
The Pi Kappa Phi fraternity entertained with an informal banquet at the Charlotte Hotel Saturday night in commemoration of Founders Day. The following were week-end guests: Misses Elizabeth Dewey, Salem; Catherine Bowers, Washington, N. C.; Elizabeth Haggard, Wilmington; Bert Sterling, Wilmington; Louisa Farrow, Betty Mallock, Charleston; Elizabeth Darling, Greensboro, N. C.; Eleanor Ward, Charlotte; Edith Johnson, N. C. C. W.; Margaret Kruesi, Chattanooga; Dee Hall, Belmont; Messrs. Joe Hall, Belmont; Russell King, Keiner Johnson of Wofford; Everett Teague; Scott Brown, Chattanooga.

Delta Theta Chi
The following were week-end guests of the Delta Theta Chi fraternity: Misses Christie Maynard, N. C. C. W.; Audrey Johnson, Duke; Charlie Hoffman, Gastonia; Mary Jane Wharton, N. C. C. W.; Anne Timmerman, Limestone College. The following alumni and friends were present: Messrs. Charlie Gignilliat, Bill Evans, Dick McGowan, Earl Donahoe, U. N. C.; Fred Salters, U. S. C.; John P. McKnight, Charlotte.

K. A.
Visitors of the Kappa Alpha fraternity for the week-end were: Misses Helen Cody, Atlanta; Helen Tillotson, Gastonia; Frances Collins, Brenau; Dorothy Fetzer, Brevard; Rosie Townsend, Charleston; and Martha Erckman, Hendersonville. Messrs. J. J. Willard and Joe McConnell from the University of Virginia were present.

BETA
The Beta Theta Pi fraternity entertained the following over the past week-end: Misses Frances McWhorter, Umatilla, Fla.; Lornie Davis, Winter Haven; Stephanie Bragaw, Lexington, N. C.; Mary McMillan, Oberlin, Ohio; Brantly Nichols and Henrietta Whisnant from Charlotte; Penelope Cannon and Shorty Reed from Concord; Mary Shepherd Gray and Louisa Wilson from Gastonia and Katherine Edmundson, Mooresville. The following alumni were present: Messrs. W. C. Knight, Durham; J. S. Irvin, Reidsville; and W. L. Lingle, Jr., Richmond, Va.

Pi K. A.
The following were week-end guests of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity: Misses Betty Everett, Portsmouth, Va.; Mary Belle Deaton, Hollins College; Helen Brawley, Statesville. Alumni visiting were Messrs. Charlie Harrison and Clement Penn from Greensboro.

Seniors Honored
On the week-end of February the 23rd the Seniors together with their week-end guests will be honored by the faculty and their wives with a party in the college gymnasium. The nature of the party has not yet been revealed, but it will be centered around the theme of George Washington whose birthday is celebrated during the same week. It is expected that there will be a number of young ladies, guests of the Seniors, present for the occasion. This event is setting a precedent in the social life of the Davidson campus. Never before has a class been entertained in such a manner. We are looking forward to it as marking a new era in Davidson social life.

C. E. Social
On last Thursday night the members of the local Christian Endeavor Society were entertained in the basement of the church at a Valentine Party. Miss Maline Lyon was in charge of the affair. Ice cream and cakes were served.

S. C. Boys Eat
On Monday night of this week fifty boys from South Carolina gathered at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel for a social hour. Short messages concerning South Carolina, her ideals and history were given by faculty members and students. Salad and sandwiches with hot cocoa, and ice cream were served. D. C. Hunter and S. R. Coker are officers of this organization.

Prof. E. J. Cullum and P. B. Fry Attend Meet
Prof. Cullum and P. B. Fry left today to attend a meeting of the Southern Glee Club Association in session for two days at Greenville, S. C. While there they will attend a luncheon and banquet given in honor of the visitors. Prof. Cullum is a member of the Board of Directors of this organization.

Senior Smoker
Last night the Senior class held a smoker in the dining room of the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel. Plans for the coming Senior Week-end were discussed.

EDWIN M. STECKEL
(Continued from page 1)
a strain or two of this selection Monday night, because its melodies have been borrowed to make a theme song for a musical comedy, a popular song, and a stirring march. These latter compositions are simple and hence available, but the symphony can only come to us through such mediums as the symphony orchestra or a great pianist. Thus Davidson will have the opportunity of hearing masterpieces played by artists as well as having them discussed by an interesting and appealing speaker. During Professor Steckel’s lecture-recital, numerous selections will be given on the Steinway-Duo-Art Reproducing Piano. With each one he will give a short talk about the composer and the selection. In the course of the program, the following numbers will be given:
The Music Box—Leadoff; (Played by Leginska.)
Unfinished Symphony (First Movement)—Schubert; (Played by Albert Stoessel.)
Fantasie—Impromptu (Op. 66) Chopin; (Played by Harold Bauer.)
Ave Maria—Schubert; (Played by Robert Ambruster.)
Hark, Hark! the Lark—Schubert-Liszt; (Played by Paderewski.)
Turkish March—Beethoven; (Played by Harold Bauer.)
Ase’s Death (Peer Gynt)—Grieg; (Played by Percy Grainger.)
Day Break (Peer Gynt)—Grieg; (Played by Percy Grainger.)
The recital is to be presented through the courtesy of Parker-Gardner Company, Charlotte, N. C.

We all ought to be thankful, says Felix, that we are not taken seriously by our friends.

Varied Professions Call Davidson Men
Number of Undecided Men Shows Large Decrease
A comparative study of the professions which Davidson College students intend to pursue as a life work reveals the interesting fact that over a period of five years, those intending to enter the business world and medical profession have been increasing, candidates for the ministry have remained practically the same, the law profession has added a number of future attorneys, and the teaching profession will claim double the number specifying their intentions in 1923. Perhaps the most interesting observation, however, was the decided decrease in those students who stated they were undecided. In 1923-1924The total was 223. The following year it went up to 236 but had been gradually diminishing since that time until the comparatively small number of only 142 expressed indecision this year. Comparative figures for 1923-1924 and 1928-1929 for the leading selections of professions follow: Medicine, 96 to 96; business, 86 to 109; ministry, 80 to 81; law, 38 to 58; teaching, 21 to 47; engineering, 30 to 73; undecided, 142. Among other professions which Davidson students have expressed their intention to follow are medical missionary, chemistry, accounting, missionary work, journalism, farming, architecture, lumber, dentistry, navy, Y. M. C. A., interior decorating, forestry, scientific field, plant breeding, army, aviation, and diplomacy.

LITERARY SOCIETIES

Philanthropic
The feature of the program of the Philanthropic Literary Society was the second debate in the class debating tournament now being held in that society. The juniors, upholding the affirmative of the query “Resolved that trial by jury should be abolished,” eliminated the seniors who had the negative. The junior team was composed of Jasper Black and Frank Erwin. Helm and B. F. Brown represented the seniors.

Eumenean
In the Eumenean Literary Society, the program was devoted to an open forum on the query, “Resolved that Congress should adopt the Cruiser Bill.” The following men spoke: Dumas, J. C. Matthews, Bird, T. E. Hill, J. A. Ward, and J. F. Preston. A vote of the house was in favor of the affirmative.

Dr. Chas. Young Dies At Albany
Dr. and Mrs. J. W. MacConnell have received news of the sudden death of their brother-in-law, Dr. Charles Young, Director of the State Laboratories at Albany, N. Y. Dr. Young returned from Peking a few months ago where he had been head of the Pathological Department of the Union Medical College. He had been in China for a number of years and was recognized as one of the world authorities on plague, kala-azar, and other oriental diseases. He was an honor graduate of the University of Illinois and of Johns Hopkins, and had been with the Rockefeller Foundation for Medical Research for several years, having made several trips around the world investigating plague at different points and was decorated by the Imperial Chinese government for work in Manchuria. His death is a distinct loss to the medical world. He was en route to Harvard University to prepare for the publication of his latest investigations when he died suddenly from heart disease. Dr. McFadyen, of Davidson, was associated with him in his work in China.

My, you need a haircut. Stop at Norton Bros. and get a real college haircut. He has three real barbers. NORTON BROS. in Post Office block—Three first-class workmen.

Hand in a Feature
The contest sponsored by Delta Pi Kappa. Fifteen dollars in prizes offered for the best editorials and feature articles. Refer to last week’s Davidsonian for the rules of the contest. The papers are due before midnight Thursday, February 14. Hand all contributions in to Aubrey Brown, editor, in 20 Rumple.

C. E. T. C. Deputation Visits Sugar Creek
Four Davidson Men Speak Before Christian Endeavor
Last Sunday, February 3, the Christian Endeavor Training Class sent a deputation to Sugar Creek Church, in the vicinity of Davidson. Sugar Creek Church, at this time, was host to several visiting Christian Endeavor societies, its own having more than one hundred members. The total number present amounted to over two hundred. The meeting took the place of the evening service and was preparatory to the mass meeting and banquet to be held in Charlotte Thursday, February 7. The Davidson delegation received invitations to visit several other churches and will do so in the course of the next month. The program rendered was as follows: Song. Scripture reading. Song by the quartet. Four Davidson men gave talks: Tom Fill, J. A. Jones, R. Brown, Reid Graham. Song by the quartet. Talk by Mr. Bierman of Charlotte, who is president of the Mecklenburg County Christian Endeavor Union. Prayer by Rev. Johnson of An- nity Church, Charlotte. He stressed the mass meeting and banquet to be held in Charlotte Thursday night. The meeting was closed with the Mizpah.

We are told that will make freshmen think on their feet. The only thing Davidson lacks is a cafeteria. Davidson has no cafeterias.

Put ’Em in the Home
Co-eds in universities and colleges of Australia have no social standing with the males that lord it over their institutions of higher learning. So declares N. C. L. Nelson, leader of the debate team of the University of Sydney, which recently opened its American tour at the College of the Pacific. In classes, the men and women are separated by a rail in front of the room, and the co-eds sit in the front, leaving the back for the men. Neither do men pay any attention to the women on the campus, and it is seldom that college men would think of ‘dating’ a college girl. They think a woman’s place is in the home, according to Nelson.

Likes Us
Chicago—(CNA)—"Your college students are very strange. The men beat one another in their fraternity houses and yet they respect and cooperate with one another. In fact, I have never seen such cooperation as that displayed by American student groups.” Dr. Ludwig Mueller, German educator, who has arrived at Northwestern University as an exchange professor to study American collegiate customs and thoughts, made the foregoing remarks.

Co-Ed as Harem Captive
Wheaton, Ill.—(CNA)—Orphaned by the Turkish massacre of 1916, kidnapped by Arabs and adopted into the household of a sheik of a nomad tribe, then in the hands of a Turkish harem keeper, next a prisoner of war and at last rescued and befriended by American missionaries, such is the life history of Miss Arousiag Stephanian, now a co-ed at Wheaton College. Her adventures read like an Arabian Nights tale. When she was 8 years old, her parents and three sisters were killed in a massacre of Armenians in Arabia, where they lived in exile. After finally escaping to an American mission, she was befriended by Dr. Stephen Trowbridge, who was in charge. She was sent to the Congregational missionary school at Marash and was a student there during the battle between the Turks and French in which many of her teachers and classmates were killed. From there she went to the American girls’ school in Constantinople for three years. Dr. Trowbridge interested the Sunday School Times, a religious publication, in her plight and funds were obtained to send her to America to continue her studies. She attended the Friend's Select School in Philadelphia, a Quaker institution, for three years, and entered Wheaton this fall. She is specializing in music and plans to return to Constantinople to teach at the end of her college course. She plays the piano and violin and has a splendid contralto voice.

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There”
Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips
HENDERSON AUTO CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

“DRUGS”
Stationery
“Prescriptions”
Make Our Store Your Store
Fountain Pens
Kodaks and Films
A Complete Assortment of Pipes
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
"SODA"
Candies
Tobaccos
“Drug Sundries”

York, Baltimore, Detroit, Cleveland—a semaphore halts a luxurious flyer drawn by a puffing steam engine. A simple switching maneuver, and electricity takes charge. A giant electric locomotive, quickly under way, glides silently into the homestretch with its long string of Pullmans. Like a thoroughbred, it makes the run—tirelessly. Passengers alight in a clean terminal—clean because there is no smoke or soot. Another milestone in transportation—another event in the life of the iron horse! Civilization is progressing, with electricity in the van. How far this advance will take us is a problem for our future leaders. It is for them to develop and utilize new applications of electricity—the force that is pointing the way over uncharted courses, not only in railroading, but in every phase of progress.

The G-E monogram is found on large electric locomotives and on MAZDA lamps, electric vacuum cleaners, and a multitude of other appliances which serve us all. It is the mark of an organization that is dedicated to the cause of electrical progress.