THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 3, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for the paper must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday. Anonymous articles will
not be published.

ZEB V. LONG, Jr. Editor-in-Chief
H. McCALL Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
J. B. BLACK Managing Editor
J. W. McCUTCHAN Managing Editor
S. S. LEY Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN Athletic Editor
W. G. RAGAN Feature Editor
J. F. PRESTON Feature Editor
J. L. BROWN Assistant Editor
S. T. ERO Associate Editor
P. B. EYED Associate Editor
C. M. PRATT Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. M. BROWN Asst. Bus. Mgr.
N. B. DICKS Asst. Bus. Mgr.
C. G. PEPPER Subscription Mgr.
W. S. LEA Solicitor
J. R. SMITH Solicitor
C. W. F. SPENCER Solicitor
D. G. STEPHENSON Solicitor
W. T. HANCOCK Solicitor
W. H. NOAH Solicitor

JOHN M. BROWN President
N. B. DICKS Vice-President
C. G. PEPPER Secretary-Treasurer

OCTOBER 3, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN

—Congratulations to every man who played in the Clemson game for an unexcelled display of courage.
—Picks Captain Thad Brock as Davidson's first all-state candidate.
—Wants revenge on Wofford’s Terriers for last year's beating.
—Urges every student to be at Spartanburg fighting as hard as his team is.
—Believes that the co-operative plan of chapel conduction will bring about a fine spirit.
—Advises all new men to get lined up for some definite college activity.
—Congratulates the fraternity pledges and wishes them every happiness.

WANTED—CONSIDERATION

It has been no secret to those in authority that the last two or three years have brought about a
distinct trend away from advertising in college annuals and newspapers. By far the worst sufferer has been the average college
newspaper, which plays such a vital part in the life of every student body, and is so truly a part
of the college organization. Merchants’ associations advance the idea that college advertising is of little or no value to their
business, that the returns are practically negligible. Furthermore, they claim that due to the number of schools constantly dogging their
trail, it becomes a nuisance and a practical impossibility to give advertising to these many seekers.

There is little doubt that much is to be said in favor of a policy which protects the merchant from
undue expense in advertising, but just as in the courts of law, sometimes the great law of circumstance triumphs over
written statutes, so in the matter at hand circumstances play a large part. It has long been Charlotte's claim, and
we are led to believe from glowing speeches and hearty backslaps by prominent residents of the Queen City that the
claim is a proud one, that Davidson is Charlotte’s own. To read feature articles in Charlotte newspapers, or to read
Charlotte writers when something big happens at Davidson, one would gather that the college lies well within the city limits
of the Mecklenburg capital. This spirit grows on Davidson boys until some of them not acquainted with the job of
getting out a paper actually believe that anything Davidson needs in Charlotte is hers for the asking. To knock the
whole dream in a cocked hat, along comes the Charlotte Merchants’ Association with the declaration that no more may college
solicitors look to Charlotte firms for aid. The situation has become rather desperate, not only with our college newspaper but
with most college papers. We are speaking as much for Queens and neighboring schools as for ourselves.

Thousands of dollars pour into the coffers of Charlotte firms every year from the pockets of college boys and girls
who come of necessity and for pleasure. To give a concrete example—a week ago Davidson played one of her big
football games in Charlotte. Some five hundred boys and countless other supporters went to the city at a minimum expense
of three dollars apiece. Bus fare and meals alone make three dollars a conservative estimate, while countless dollars were added
to the total for amusements, shopping, and other reasons. There are many such days for every Davidson man, and a
reasonable estimate is that four hundred Davidson men visit Charlotte every week. Imagine the multiplied dollars this regular occurrence means
to the business of the city.

Several Charlotte firms come to Davidson often to display their goods, and a steady undercurrent of feeling against these firms
is being noted because of the fact that, while soliciting Davidson trade and professing to be in hearty accord with
the needs of the institution, these same firms refuse to advertise, and thereby give life to college publications. It is
a case of Charlotte merchants sitting in a forced position of power, wielding an unfair sceptre over the college round-about.
We are not criticizing Charlotte alone, but associations everywhere which have sounded the knell of college advertising are roundly scored.
They tell us that goodwill and fair play is the keynote of all business, and if this axiom is in
any wise worthwhile, then it seems to us that the merchants are due to wake up and come out of
their shell of business conceit. Especially is this true when the circumstances are forced, as in the case of Davidson,
Queens, and other nearby schools. The merchants are well aware of the fact that they will get the trade of
necessity on the student’s part. It seems that the only way to appeal to them is to present an ideal
of real interest and less talk about “our” schools.

Not being well versed in the workings of merchants’ associations, we cannot offer a positive cure for the evil which
threatens to stamp out most college newspapers. However, why not consider a proposition like this? Let Charlotte agree to give
advertising to schools within a limited area, and if necessary let an accredited list of schools be prepared. Let Greensboro
and Raleigh take care of schools in their immediate territory, and so on through the state. The burden would not
be great on any one group, and the situation in the colleges would be infinitely better, both in practical and
ideal measures. Certainly, more consideration is due the schools which pour out their support daily to the business of the
city. Certainly, any measure of fairness calls for a revision of the present plan.

LYING SIGN-BOARDS

The following article is an excerpt from the Washington and Lee Bulletin. It is exceedingly helpful and should be taken
to heart:

The proverbs or maxims of a people generally represent the wisdom of long experience. They are sign-boards on life’s great
highway erected by former generations, and most travelers accept their guidance without question. As a false sign on a crowded
roadway may lead multitudes astray, so an untrue maxim, especially when circulating among the young and inexperienced, may turn countless
lives into dangerous or fatal paths. “Every young man must sow his wild oats,” “All’s fair in love and war,”
“Every man has his price,” are examples of such lying proverbs. Our boys and girls, inexperienced travelers on the new
road, are misled by current fallacies and false traditions, especially if the falsehood is sugar-coated with a little truth and
its acceptance furnishes a ready excuse for laziness or misconduct. To this doubly dangerous class belongs the oft repeated and
widely believed statement that the boy who leads his class in school is generally a failure in after life. To
the lazy and self-indulgent, to social dudes and tin-horn sports and overgrown children, to all who long to study less
and play more, this theory is as fascinating as poisoned candy in a kindergarten. It not only excuses neglect of
duty, but crowns the loafer as a man of far-seeing wisdom. The truth is that those who outstrip their indolent
or brainless competitors in school or college, continue to do so when school days areover. The next time, therefore, the
silly falsehood that star students generally fail in business threatens to become epidemic on your campus, kindly arrest the spread
of the contagion.

Cosmic Chaos
J. W. McCutchan

One thing which is a continual worry to unfortunate columnists is, How many readers of the paper pay more than
a casual glance to the humble ramble? Various estimates have been made by statisticians. It is practically agreed that the
percentage of those subscribers who do not read the column does not exceed that epic figure, 99 44-100 per cent.
Still, one is hardly expected to Walk a Mile to read one. Perhaps an effective way to test this mythical
number would be to run the identical copy two weeks in succession and hopefully wait for the storms of protest.

Floods and storms rage through far southern states, while people either flee or try to place barriers before the rushing
waters. Times have changed! (Have they? Maybe.) Flood refugees can no longer float about in arks until the waters abate.
It is undoubtedly terrible when mighty rivers break their banks, but in ancient times the lives of millions of people
depended on the seasonal overflow and the rich silt which it deposited. Once the Nile did not overflow for seven
years. Famine!

Borger, Texas oil town, is making a great attempt to imitate that Abdullah’s (it might be Adullam) den of the
middle west, Chicago. The town is on a boom, boom-boom in fact. An underworld gang, which indicates major proportions, has
been uncovered. Stabbings, free-for-alls, burglaries, and pillages follow in close sequence. One cannot refrain from wondering if a second Massacre
of St. Bartholomew’s Eve is in a phantom form. Yet all the cruelty and ingenious torture of the Medicis can
hardly compare to the systematic slaughter of today.

Great comment has been caused, concerning Premier McDonald’s tentative visit to this country. It is our personal opinion, if we
are capable of having one, that nothing startling will result. The English diplomats are too brilliant to transact any important
business of state, away from their native country, and the English press is too scathing to permit it. In fact,
the probable sequence of events follows: Mayor Walker proffers Premier McDonald the keys of New York City, in jade green
pajamas, i.e., the Mayor, not the keys nor the City. Next in order, the British Official is at the throttle
of the Capitol Limited, while ambassadors-plenipotentiary gambol in his private car. President Hoover greets him, the Boy Scouts of America
present him with the totem pole of Chief Sit-on-the-Ground. The Senate and Congress present him with the best resolutions of
respect, of which they are capable. He sails from New York Harbor, with strands of confetti waving from his neck.
The Senate appoints a committee to investigate the report that he has carried three new cruisers and four super-dreadnoughts back
with him.

It seems a pity that most newspapers persist in giving as much publicity to airplane accidents as they do. To
read the daily sheet one would believe that fully fifty per cent or more of those who ascend to the
air in ships return only by the gravity method. Few stop to think how many lives are lost in automobile
collisions and grade crossing accidents. This is a constructive age. That which is new is too often frowned upon. To
quote Emerson, “A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.” The general public condemned the first steam engine which
traveled at the dangerous speed of twelve miles per hour.

Cuts happened to be the main topic of a bull-session the other night. One student inquired, “How is -----? Does
he cut his classes often?” Without a moment’s hesitation another replied, “No, he’s an Old Faithful guy-sir.”

We had one slight misgiving at the game the other day. After waiting for the teams to take the field,
and watching the motor-cops go round and round like a yo-yo, we were nearly convinced that a six-day motorcycle race
was in progress. Faster, please!

Professor: “Any questions?”
Voice: “Yes; what course is this?”—Gargoyle.

In Chicago
When thrown out of a cabaret be nonchalant—light a bomb.—Gargoyle.

“What’s the matter”?
“My brother slept on my pipe last night.”
“That’s nothing.”
“But it was my windpipe.”

Teacher: “Willie, can you tell me how matches are made?”
Willie: “No, ma’am, but I don’t blame you for wanting to know.”
Teacher: “Why, what do you mean?”
Willie: “Mother says you’ve been trying to make one for ten years.”

Smokehouse Saga
By W. C. Ragin
(Published Weakly)

When there are gray skies—you’re at Davidson. Without a doubt, the theme song of this campus is “I get the
flu when it rains.” Oh well, there’s really no use to worry about the weather until water-lilies begin to sprout
in such secluded nooks as the famous Chinaberry Tree of story and song. Instead of kicking about all of this
dampness, try to find some good in it. Just remember, it only rained forty days for such an outstanding character
as Noah, who was doubtless a prince of a chap. Therefore, we're already in a class by ourselves. However, I
would like to know one thing—where’s the man who used to pray for rain? I’m afraid that this little drizzle
is going to hurt the trade at the Student’s Store if it continues much longer. The students (if any) will
come to realize that there’s no practical value in spending their nickels and dimes to get a swimming pool. (See
the manager of the store to find out the date when construction on the pool will start.) Why have a
pool when you have to fight swirling torrents of H2O plus good ole red MUD every time you leave a
building? Speaking of mud, have you noticed the broad, simpering grins on the faces of our friends and comrades—the pressing
club agents? They are truly sitting on top of the swirl. You certainly can’t accuse anyone of being a fair
weather friend, that’s one cinch. Well, I'd better cease this idle chatter before I run the rain idea in the
ground. Head for the hills, boys, the levee’s done busted!

POETS’ CORNER

The following is an excellent bit of modernistic verse which was found on a piece of paper used to chink
a hole in the walls of Rumple:

Mary had a little lamb,
Its fleece was white as snow,
And every place that Mary went,
the lamb was sure to go.

Say, buddy, where’s Budweiser? Oh, it’s near beer.

One reason why a girl looks better in profile is because you can’t see that the bloom of youth is
higher on one cheek than on the other.

“Take away women, and what would follow?” screamed the orator.
“Me,” yelled a man down in the audience.

He: “What’s the difference between a taxi and a street car?”
She: “I don’t know.”
He: “Fine! Then we'll ride home on the street car.”

“I just can’t go through with this,” cried the honest little girl with a penny in her hands at the
subway turnstile.

Lass: “Oh, you are just too slow.”
Lad: “I’m afraid I don’t grasp you.”
Lass: “Yes, that’s just it.”

First Burglar: “Go on, git out! I'm working dis floor.”
Second Thief: “Bunk! Dis is my story and I'll stick to it.”

Then there was the Scotch regiment which deserted when the commander ordered them to give way to the right. (Editor’s
note: pardon this, but it’s getting late.)

I call my girl “Someplace Else,” because she isn’t all there.

Editor’s Note
It will be the policy of The Davidsonian to welcome all original work to its columns. We believe that there
are a great many writers in the student body who have never come to light, and we are sure that
the freshman class holds men who will be able to write entertainingly on subjects of their own choosing. Any men
who wish to write columns at regular intervals, or simply on occasion, are urged to see the editor and talk
matters over. It is never too late for new men to submit material, but the advantage of an early start
is very obvious. Report once.

ZEB. V. LONG, JR., Editor.
