THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 10, 1929: 5

Football Team Will Be Guests at a Dinner in New York on Saturday

Dr. A. B. Reese, '17, Will Be Host at University Club to Coaches, Team and Other Guests

POLICE ESCORTS TEAM

To Insure Rapid Return to New York, Bus Will Be Escorted By Police

No event occurring during the past several years has so stirred up the interest of Davidson College alumni up north as the approaching football tilt between Uncle Sam's soldiers and the Davidson Wildcats at West Point next Saturday afternoon. Elaborate preparations have been made to entertain the team while at West Point and in New York over the weekend, and but few alumni in that section will be absent when the game starts.

Dr. A. B. Reese, graduate in the class of 1917, will be host to the team, coaches, and a few others, at a dinner to be given at the University Club in New York Saturday night. Arrangements have been made for a police escort from West Point to New York after the game, in order to facilitate the return of the bus to that city, the time of the dinner being determined by the time of arrival back in New York.

Other alumni have been given an opportunity to attend this dinner upon the payment of $6.00, Doctor Reese individually sharing the expense for approximately thirty guests. Among those from this section who will attend, besides the team and coaches, are J. A. Cannon, Concord; Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, director of athletics at Davidson, and Ernest Milton, alumni secretary. Many cars containing Davidson alumni will be in the motor cavalcade that will assemble at the West end of Bear Mountain Ridge at 11:15 a.m., and proceed to West Point, where a special luncheon has been arranged at the Officers’ Club for Davidson alumni and guests. A rough estimate of the number attending this luncheon indicates that approximately eighty alumni will be together.

Over three hundred alumni and friends will be in the reserved section, according to the alumni secretary, who this week mailed out badges to alumni from Washington, D.C. to Boston, Mass., and as far west as Niagara Falls, N.Y.

1927 Corrections

The alumni secretary is following out the plan of listing changes in addresses for the different classes each week in The Davidsonian, and is devoting space in this issue to the class of 1927. Some of these changes have occurred during the summer months, but most of the addresses have been received since the opening of school. Corrections follow (N.C. is omitted after North Carolina towns):

E. F. Bohannon, Jr.; 256 W. 73rd St., New York, N.Y.
W. H. Bordeaux, Gladstone Hotel, 11th and Pine Sts., Philadelphia, Pa.
D. M. Calhoun, Elizabethtown.
W. T. Covington, Jr., University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
C. G. Davis, U.T.S., Richmond, Va.
H. L. Estridge, Southern Bell Tel. & Tel. Co., Charlotte.
W. O. Green, Schreiner Institute, Kerrville, Texas.
M. D. Haney, Jr., Mint St., Charlotte.
C. J. Hansell, Davidson.
P. F. Jones, U.T.S., Richmond, Va.
J. A. King, 2042 Norton Road, Charlotte.
J. A. Law, Jr., Pioneer Life Insurance Co., Greenville, S.C.
L. H. Leathers, 609-614 Andrews Bldg., Spartanburg, S.C.
W. H. Leggette, Reynolds High School, Winston-Salem.
R. L. Lincoln, University of Virginia, University, Va.

(Continued on page 6)

Additional Alumni Deaths

Continuing the alumni deaths which have occurred during the past summer and early fall, the alumni secretary recounts the following, which completes the list of those reported:

B. J. Brown, '01

Redford Jethro Brown, aged 49, was fatally injured in Charlotte October 4 when he was run over by a huge truck of the city sanitary department. He was rushed to the hospital but died 27 minutes after arrival, the rear wheels of the nine-ton truck passing over his body. Mr. Brown was troubled with nervous disorders for the past year and was with a nurse at the time. When the truck approached, he broke away from his nurse and ran toward it. Mr. Brown had lived in Charlotte all his life, and for the past 25 years had been superintendent of the meter department of the Duke Power Company. Rev. Morrison Brown, '94, and Andrew J. W. Brown, '99, both of Charlotte, are Davidson alumni who survive.

J. M. Alexander, '90

James McKnitt Alexander, aged 65, died in Rock Hill, S.C., but moved to Rock Hill 27 years ago, where he proved to be influential in the life of that city. Not only was he city treasurer, but he held similar offices in fraternal organizations and was a leader in several orders. Mr. Wolfe's chief connection during the later years of his life was with power companies, being a member of such organizations in Henderson, Raleigh, Asheville, and other cities.‘ ; ‘ ie Talladega, Ala., before going to Salisbury, Charlotte Sanatorium, where he died a few (Continued on page 6) at his home in Charlotte on May 17, following a brief illness. He was manager of the Southern Power Company’s business in that city until health necessitated his retirement several years ago. “VOILA!” Squire Alexander, after leaving Davidson, located in Hickory as a merchant, later going to Charlotte. He was a direct lineal descendant of John McKnitt Alexander, secretary of the convention which drew up the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence, and who was also one of the signers.

S. G. Moore, 1900
Samuel George Moore, 52, for sixteen years treasurer of the city of Rock Hill, S. C., and prominent in that section, died at St. Joseph's Sanatorium in Asheville on June 20th, following an illness of a year. He had been a patient in Asheville for three months.

J. A. Matheson, ’90
Junius A. Matheson, well-known and esteemed business man of Greensboro, died suddenly at his home in Greensboro on June 19, at the age of 59 years. Death resulted from an attack caused by high blood pressure, and the day before his death he spent the morning at his office. After graduating from Davidson, Mr. Matheson entered the teaching field, and was at one time superintendent of schools in Durham, and later on the faculty of N. C. C. W. He entered the real estate field following his retirement as an educator, and had been working as a member of Matheson-Wills Real Estate Company for 12 years. He was active in civic and church enterprises, and was chairman of the committee in charge of building the new First Presbyterian Church in Greensboro, which is being dedicated this week. Dr. J. P. Matheson, '99, is a Davidson alumnus and brother who survives.

C. T. Brewer, '91
Charles Thomas Brewer, a man widely known in the newspaper world, and particularly in the Dakotas and Louisiana, died suddenly as he was trudging along the highway near his ranch at North Bayou, Miss., on June 13. He was the victim of heart disease. Mr. Brewer's death came just a day or two before he was to leave his desk in the New Orleans (La.) Times-Picayune newspaper office, and permanently retire from the field. The deceased did not graduate from Davidson, but obtained his degree from the University of South Carolina. He had had some newspaper experience in Charlotte and Columbia while a student, and drifted into Fargo, N. D., in 1891, where he became connected with The Fargo Forum, and for years was known as “Colonel” Brewer because of his column, “North Dakota Kernels.” Leaving North Dakota in 1912, he went with the St. Paul Dispatch for two years, and later joined the New Orleans Times-Picayune, where he remained until his death. Mr. Brewer was a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity at the University of South Carolina, and was one of the men who established the present chapter at Davidson.

V. R. Gaston, '93
Virgil Riley Gaston, 60, died at his home in Aberdeen, N. C., on June 15, his death resulting from a stroke of paralysis, after he had suffered for several weeks. He was pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Aberdeen at the time of his death. Mr. Gaston attended Columbia Theological Seminary in Columbia, S. C., after graduating from Davidson in 1893, and his pastorates had included churches in Norfolk, Va., Antioch, N. C., and Aberdeen.

J. M. Wolfe, ’97
John McKnight Wolfe died at his home in Salisbury, N. C., on July 7, after an illness that extended over several years. Mr. Wolfe was a prominent resident of Salisbury and had been active in various civic and church activities.