January 31, 1929. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

WILDCATS VERSUS V. P. I. --- SATURDAY NIGHT

CAT TRAX
As They Follow the Red and Black
By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

Lenoir-Rhyne’s Mountain Bears brought a hard-playing quintet over Monday night, and they gave the local ball flingers quite a handful
of action for the entire evening. 39-26 was a safe margin though. We want to see a few more double-deckers
rolling into the hoops when the Cats hit State, Duke, and Wake Forest. We'll probably need ‘em.

Tonight Monk and his merry men again invade the Queen City of Charlotte for a little fracas. The last time
over there the Cats bowed to Captain Rufus Hackney and his Tar Heels from Carolina. And in the clash tonight
with Charlotte Monograms the Cats are likely to bow again unless they watch their step. The Monograms have a speedy,
sharp-shooting aggregation. They have cleaned up pretty well around these diggings, and will be out to tame the Wildcats. There
is a special cause for vengeance, because last year the Jungaleers pulled a big surprise party to lick the Charlotte
lads.

Then Saturday night Davidson will play host to a V. P. I. team for the first time in several years.
In fact, unless we are off in our calculations, it was back in 1922 that the last crew from Virginia
Poly stepped onto this fair campus. That was the time our own Monk Younger brought his South Atlantic Grid Champions
down and saw a fighting Wildcat team tie them at seven all. We look for the Cats to sail right
on through for a win over the Technicians. Elon put it on them good by a margin a week or
so ago.

It’s great news to hear that the varsity trackmen are entering a big indoor meet at the University of Virginia
about the last of February. There are several men on Captain Pritchett’s ledger who will make some noise at the
coming meet, and besides it will be invaluable training for the outdoor meets later in the spring.

Every day sees Tex Tilson shoving it to his footballers a little harder, and before so many more moons have
passed away there will be the regular Saturday afternoon practice games. That football team is going to be right in
there next fall and we're putting our money on ’em now.

Looks like Old Georgia Tech has raked out a few good courtmen as well as gridiron heroes this year. So
far, the Ramblin’ Wrecks are showing the way to all their Southern Conference rivals. Somebody better step in before it
is too late.

We are getting worried about those eccentric Tar Heels. There was nothing slouchy about the way they romped on Tebell’s
Red Terrors from State. Can they cop the Southern Title again? Don’t think for a minute they haven’t a chance
to do that very thing.

The Charlotte Observer is up to its old tricks of consigning Davidson to the cellar. “The Davidson Wildcats have plenty
of fight but at present appear to be no match for State, Carolina or Duke,” says the Observer. Well, we
still say “there will come a time.” Some of these nights, the Cats are going to get right to a
man, and then somebody is going to get upset.

Seems to us that this new “Y” basketball team is going to fill a need on the campus and furnish
more real action to boot. There is a good prospect for games with all leading “Y” teams hereabouts, and there
is good material out to cope with the best of them. Everybody get behind the “Y” cats and give them
the boost they deserve.

Heroic, Allemen
Vancouver, B. C—(CNA)—A rescue at sea to the accompaniment of “Old Man Noah” sung by college boys, was described recently.
They bravely sung while more than 100 passengers of the coastwise steamer Princess Adelaide were brought to this port by
the steamer Princess Royal to which they were transferred after their own ship was rammed.

Lenoir-Rhyne Bears Meet Defeat 39-26 At Hands of Locals
Visitors Grab an Early Lead But Wildcats Soon Draw Away For Win
CLOSE GUARDING
Game is Rough and Thrilling—Pritchett and Calhoun Top Scorers—Winecoff Leads Bears

In a game marked by the excellent guarding of both teams, the Davidson Wildcat five beat the Lenoir-Rhyne team 39
to 26 last Monday evening. Both teams played almost air-tight ball in the first half, which ended with the score
16 to 10 in favor of Davidson. However, in the second half the Wildcats went wild and ran up 30
points. Coach Younger began running in his substitutes during the latter part of the game and the Lenoir team increased
their score.

The Lenoir five jumped into an early lead, scoring four points before Davidson looped a goal. The Wildcats quickly tied
the score at four-all. The score was also tied at six-all and eight-all, but Davidson quickly jumped into the lead
at that point and were never headed or even threatened after that point.

Captain Pritchett of the Wildcats was high point man of the game, scoring 13 points. He was death on free
throws, sinking five out of six tries. Calhoun ran Pritchett a close race for first honors, shooting six field goals
to get 12 points. He made five of these in the last half, several of them from difficult angles.

For the visitors, Winecoff was high man, scoring ten points. Kiser, captain of the Lenoir five, also played a good
game, getting eight points.

Lineups
Davidson (39) Lenoir-Rhyne (26)
Pritchett (c), (13)---Winecoff (10) R. F.
Calhoun (12)---Kiser (c), (8) L. F.
Young (10)---Miller (2) C.
Moore (2)---Lemon (4) R. G.
Goodson---Pasour L. G.

Substitutes: Davidson: Shepherd; Rusk (4); Wilson; Crawford; Proctor. Lenoir-Rhyne: Pasour. Rawson (Georgia), referee.

CURRENT COMMENT (Continued from Page 2)
ment proceedings were started against but the matter dropped when the House voted a tie. And in 1923 Gov. Walton
was impeached and ousted from the governorship. Gov. Robertson, Oklahoma theatre on box-office appeal of movie stars, gave Clara Bow
first place among the women, followed by Colleen Moore and Billie Dove, with Greta Garbo ranking twelfth. Among the men
Lon Chaney came first, with Tom Mix and John Gilbert next in the hearts of their countrymen and women. Independent
owners, voting, placed Clara Bow first among the women, followed by Colleen Moore and Billie Dove, with Greta Garbo ranking
twelfth. Among the men Lon Chaney came first, with Tom Mix and John Gilbert next in the hearts of their
countrymen and women.

Wildcats Down Elon Five, 41-35
A rally by Elon in the final minutes of the game with Davidson here tonight fell short and the Cats
won, 41 to 35, in a fast cage battle. Davidson held a marked advantage through the first half, leading 26
to 16 at the intermission, but during the second period the Elon cagers speeded up the play. Davidson had run
the score up to 40 to 28 with only a few minutes to play when Elon spurted to count seven
while the Cats only scored once.

Parker, sub Elon guard, was the outstanding player for his school with Captain Briggs also showing up well. Captain Pritchett
and Calhoun were Davidson's stars and were also the night’s high scorers.

Line-up:
Elon
Briggs (c) 4 1 9
Parker 2 1 5
Sitts 2 4
Gaddis 4 0 8
Barker 4 1 9
Roing 0 0 0
Total 7 35

Davidson
Pritchett (c), f 1 13
Calhoun, f 2 14
Shepherd, f 0 0
Johnson, c-g 0 6

Wildcat Grapplers Whip Concord 21-5
Local Matmen Easy Winners in Initial Bout of Season

Davidson defeated Concord Y. M. C. A. January 11 in the first wrestling bout of the season. The Wildcat grapplers
lost only one match to the visitors, Herriot being thrown by a Concord man after eight minutes of fierce struggling.
In the six matches staged, five were copped by the locals while the “Y” men took one; this making the
score 21-5.

Cowan in the 118-pound class won by a fall after four minutes of tussling. Flythe, 128 pounds, managed to squeeze
out a time decision over his man as well as Brown, 138 pounds who also won on time. Brock 158
pounds, pinned their opponents’ shoulders to the mat for victory. Russell, 138 pounds and

Makes Initial Bow
Y. M. C. A. Court Team As Organized Unit
Quint—Schedule Now Being Worked Out
“Y” CATS

Varsity Reserves to Play on New Team

Gilmour is Captain—Milton Manager—Games to be Away From College

Davidson Y. M. C. A. basketball team has secured a number of games to be played away from the college.
They met the fast Charlotte Y team last Tuesday night and have two more games certain. Monroe Gilmour has been
elected captain of the team.

The reserves of the varsity basketball squad banded together to form a team known as the Davidson Y. M. C.
A. team. They make the trip, a member of the team must qualify in his event according to the times
and distances posted. Time

Trackmen to Meet Strong Opponents
Seven Hard Meets Ahead for Pritchett’s Men

With exams a thing of the past, track practice has started in real style. An indoor meet is to be
held at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville on February 22nd in which the Davidson team will be in competition
with five or six of the best teams in Virginia and North Carolina. The qualifying times and distances are posted
in Captain Pritchett's office. To make the trip, a member of the team must qualify in his event according to
the times and distances posted. TimeConcord’s win came in the 148/C. A. team. They practice along with the pound class.
The heavyweight match was called off because the "Y" team’s man was unable to appear. Captain Tom displayed his talents
as a bone twister in a short exhibition with Hill after five minutes. Tilson refereed, while Younger and Meyers were
the timers. A return match is scheduled in Concord tonight. Coach Miles stated that probably the same ones who entered
the ring in the first match would do so tonight with one or two exceptions. This has been the first
week of strenuous work and regular practice, which started on Monday after exams were over. The Freshman team has been
working out with the varsity, and there are several prospects for the next year. Only two meets have been scheduled
for the Kittens at present, but there are several pending with nearby high schools and other freshman teams.

The Varsity schedule is as follows:
- January 31: Concord Y. M. C. A, There.
- February 6: V. M. I., There.
- February 12: Carolina, There.
- February 16: N.C. State, Here.
- February 23: Duke, There.

Fifty Men Report for Drills
Football practice starts Monday afternoon, January 28, on the Freshman field under the direction of Coach Spring Younger. The practice
will continue for the next six weeks. This period will be devoted to teaching the fundamentals of the game in
a more thorough manner than in fall practice. There will be very few scrimmages during this time. As has been
the custom in the past, the squad will be divided into two teams, one called the Reds and the other
the Blacks. There will probably be at least three teams during the latter part of the practice. Approximately fifty men
reported for the first day's work.

Bill Milton, one of the Junior Assistant Managers of basketball, has worked up a schedule for the team. The schedule
as worked out by Manager Milton is:
- February 8: Kannapolis Y, There.
- February 15: Greensboro Cone Memorial, There.

These are the only two games that are positive thus far. There are letters out to the Y. M. C.
A's in Spartanburg and Lincoln. These games are practically certain and wait upon the arrangement of a date. It is
the plan of the manager to secure a more extensive schedule. Dates for a game with the Salisbury Y have
not been set, but return games will be played with this team later in the season.

The team is composed of the following men: McGavock, Smith, Overman, McCall, Miller, Crawford, Wilson, and Shepherd. The last three
named men will play when the games of the varsity do not conflict. At a meeting of these men, Monroe
Gilmor was elected captain and will lead this team in all of its battles.

Charlotte “Y” Wins Over D. C. “Y” Team
The recently organized Davidson Y. M. C. A. basketball team lost their first game to the Charlotte Y. M. C.
A. basketeers by the lopsided score of 76 to 38. The Davidson “Y” team is composed of second-string varsity men
and is primarily to give substitutes playing time instead of allowing them to sit on the bench. The game with
Charlotte “Y” was played Tuesday night in the Y. M. C. A. gymnasium. In winning this game, the Charlotte team
ran its string of victories to nine straight. The Davidson court men were hopelessly outclassed from the start of the
game, with the Charlotte men ringing goals almost at will. Henderson, of the Charlotte team, was the outstanding player of
the game, with his spectacular shots dropping into the basket from every angle, giving him a total of 28 points
for the game. Three men on the Queen City team scored more points than the high-point man of the Davidson
team. They were Jones with 14, Reid with 13, and the star of the game, Henderson. One other man scored
as many goals as Davidson’s high man, Hurt, with ten. Shepherd turned in the best game for the collegians. He
tossed five field goals into the basket for a total of ten. Overman, McGavock, Gilmour, and Smith also played good
games for Davidson.

The line-up:
Davidson “Y” FG FP TP
Gilmour, f ------------- 1 5 7
McCall, f -------------- 1 2 4
McGavock, c ----------- 4 0 8
Smith, g --------------- 2 1 5
Miller, g --------------- 2 0 4
Shepherd, f ------------ 5 0 10
Crawford, g ------------ 1 0 2
Overman, g ------------- 0 0 0
Totals ----------------- 16 8 40

Charlotte “Y” FG FP TP
Henderson, f ----------- 13 2 28
Jones, f ---------------- 7 0 14
Reid, c ----------------- 5 3 13
Clark, g ---------------- 3 0 6
Dellinger, g ------------ 3 0 6
Hurt, f ----------------- 5 0 10
Sloan, g ---------------- 1 0 2
Totals ----------------- 37 5 79

Referee: Turner.

The Southern drawl, the nasal twang of the easterner, the broad “a” of Boston, the provincialism of the westerner, all
were heard that morning when representatives of the sections gave readings. Prof. Muyskens urged uniformity in speech as an asset
to national progress.

Colleges Loan Money
Washington—(CNA)—College educations are being sold on the installment plan! The United States Bureau of Education discovered 282 American colleges and
universities lending nearly $4,000,000 annually to boys and girls to be repaid after graduation.

Chicago, Ill—(CNA)—A prediction that America’s speech will be uniform throughout the land in 25 years if talking pictures keep on
developing, was made today by Professor John Muyskens of the University of Michigan, addressing the National Association of Teachers of
Speech.

New York—(CNA)—Nancy Samuel, who has toured the country as a member of an English debating team, is disappointed about cheering
at American college football games. She had been told the leaders turned cartwheels. Those she observed only swayed.

Several meets are being arranged for the freshman team, and although no definite trips have been decided upon, it is
likely that there will be at least one meet away from the college. Captain Pritchett has issued a general call
for track men to start work right away in order that they will be in the finest condition possible for
the first meet. The reason for the early start in practice is mainly on account of the fact that the
men are in better shape if they have been conditioning themselves for some time.

The following is the varsity track schedule:
- March 30—University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.
- April 1—V. P. I., Blacksburg, Va.
- April 6—Wake Forest, Davidson.
- April 13—Tech Relays, Atlanta.
- April 20—Clemson, Davidson.
- April 27—V. M. I., Lexington, Va.
- May 4—State Meet, Greensboro.

MUSICAL PROGRAM
(Continued from page 1)
This recital is sponsored by the music department of Davidson College, as a beginning of what is hoped to be
a series of musical events planned for the future. The recital is given through the courtesy of the Parker-Gardner Company,
of Charlotte, representatives for Steinway pianos.

Wildcats to Meet V. P. I. Quintet Here
Kittens Play Gobbler Freshmen in Afternoon
The Wildcat basketball outfit will meet its first Virginia foe next Saturday when they take on the fast V. P.
I. cagers on the local court. The Davidson Freshman team is slated to meet the first-year men of V. P.
I. in the afternoon. The V. P. I. cagers are credited with a win over the University of Virginia five
on the Cavaliers’ own court and, while little else has been accomplished by them this season, this is enough to
establish the Gobblers as a comparatively powerful aggregation. Looney, who played fullback on the V. P. I. gridders, is considered
the best on the team. Rice, at forward, is the Gobblers’ high point man and in his floor work runs
Captain Looney a close race. McEver, the V. P. I. stationary guard, was halfback on the football team and is
a brother of the Tennessee back who made the famous 98-yard return of Alabama’s kickoff last fall. McEver has played
a consistent game all season and is responsible for much of his team’s success.

Saturday’s encounter will mark the Wildcats' first appearance against the Gobbler cagers since 1925. That year the Davidson quintet won
by a 40-29 score.

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There”
Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips
HENDERSON AUTO CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

BRICKS CONES DE LUXE ICE CREAM at STUDENT STORE CUPS
MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM CO.

“DRUGS”
Stationery “Prescriptions”
Make Our Store Your Store
Fountain Pens Kodaks and Films
A Complete Assortment of Pipes
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
“SODA”
Candies Tobaccos “Drug Sundries”
Come In and Hear the Latest Records
W. S. HENDERSON
MAKE THIS STORE YOUR HEADQUARTERS
STUDENTS SUPPLIES OF ALL KINDS
FOUNTAIN SERVICE Equal to the Best
Davidson, N. C.
