Page Four

DEPUTATIONS SENT TO NEARBY CITIES

“Y” Sends Men to Greensboro, and C. E. T. C. to Charlotte

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. sent a deputation of five men to the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro to conduct the young people’s departments of the Sunday School on Sunday morning, May 5. The deputation was composed of R. E. Kell, C. R. Lake, P. B. Fry, W. C. Archie, and A. N. Myers. On Saturday afternoon and evening, the Junior, Intermediate, and Senior departments of the Sunday School gave a picnic at which the Davidson men presided. After the refreshments, R. E. Kell gave a very interesting talk. Sunday morning at a joint meeting of all the departments of the Sunday School, C. R. Lake delivered a short talk and W. C. Archie sang a solo accompanied by P. B. Fry on the piano.

On the same date, the Christian Endeavor training class sent a deputation of seven men to conduct the evening service at the Westminster Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, the service being sponsored by the Christian Endeavor society of the church. The meeting was led by R. F. Sloop, with special music furnished by P. B. Fry at the piano and C. C. Orr on the violin. Also, a vocal solo was rendered by G. P. Pardington. Talks were made by J. A. Jones, F. V. Poag, and S. S. Wiley, the subject being “The three elements of a Christian life: personality, character, and ability, as shown in the lives of Christ and Paul.” After the service, the deputation was entertained with supper at the home of Mr. McCachren.

Officers Selected By Sigma Upsilon

The local chapter of Sigma Upsilon, a national honorary fraternity recognizing talent along literary lines, at its meeting on the night of May 1st elected the following men to serve as officers of the club for the coming year: R. F. Jarratt, President; C. M. Pratt, Treasurer; D. P. Anderson, Secretary. R. A. Boggess, retiring President of the chapter, presided at the election. J. G. Johnston, who acted as secretary and treasurer last year, is the other retiring officer of Sigma Upsilon.

Three Men Chosen As Junior Marshals

Commencement, until a few years ago, was a Literary Society function. The two societies had charge of all activities including the election of Marshals. At the present time, commencement is conducted entirely by the classes concerned. The Junior Marshals to work along with the Chief Marshal, Bob Kell, at commencement this year were elected recently. They are F. R. Brown, President of the Y. M. C. A.; J. B. Knox, honor roll 1, 2, 3; L. A. Mills, Assistant Baseball Manager; and E. S. Heefner, President of Reporters’ Club and Varsity Cheerleader. The alternates are S. Y. Cassels and F. D. Poag.

Phi Beta Kappa To Initiate Seven Men

Phi Beta Kappa will initiate the following men on Friday, May 31: C. J. Albright, H. S. Davidson, G. A. Fry, F. Hall, T. E. Hill, L. D. Kirkland, and E. R. McConnell. Though some schools have the Phi Beta Kappa address along with commencement exercises, the Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa always has its address delivered in the fall or winter. Dr. Archibald Henderson spoke here January 11. The newly-elected officers are: Dr. J. W. MacConnell, President; Dr. W. L. Porter, Vice-President; Prof. J. K. Foreman, Secretary-Treasurer.

VESPER SERVICES

In charge of the program, Eugene Dubose led the singing assisted by Jimmy Johnson at the piano. Mrs. Vowles and Eugene Dubose sang a special duet. After the responsive scripture reading, three members of the Freshman class made short talks comparing life to the daily course of the sun. Chester Arnold, taking as his text, “And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man,” spoke on the sunrise of life. He emphasized the importance of starting out right while we are still young and still able to mold our characters. He urged us to take stock of ourselves as we face the future, to see if we are the givers of, and if we have developed, the rays we want to stick by us. Are we masters of our souls as was Christ? Nat Spier then discussed the sun in the mid-day sky. Christ, the “Sun,” sends forth his rays.Some receive them and in turn radiate them out to others, some fail to pass them on and others are not even penetrated by them. Christ lived a life of service. What are we doing to further the effectiveness of that life? How closely are we trying to follow his example? May we live in such a way that men may see our good works and glorify our Father in Heaven. The sunset of life was pictured by Herbert Newman. He spoke of the sunset as the sure close of everyone’s drama of life. No matter how beautiful a sunset may be on an uninhabited desert island, no one can appreciate it. And in the same manner, the glory and beauty of Christ are lost to the world if we do not tell others of him. Then there are things in our lives that, as the clouds hide the sun, keep us from having our full influence. When we come to the sunset of our lives, will we be able to say with Paul, “I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith”?

O. D. K. SELECTS TEN FOR BEAVER CLUB

Omicron Delta Kappa has selected the ten freshmen who will compose the Beaver Club for next year. The present club submitted a list of prospects to the local circle of O. D. K. and the following men were elected to membership: Ashcraft, J.; Baker, A. J.; Dubose, E. Z.; Dwelle, E. C.; Gorham, E. L.; Gorrell, R. W.; Lillard, W. H.; McConnell, J. D.; Regen, J. B.; Norton, R. F. The Beaver Club is an honorary sophomore society sponsored by Omicron Delta Kappa. Its function is to be a welcoming committee for all visiting athletic teams, and to serve the college in any way possible on commencement or Home-Coming Days and the like. Ten men are elected annually from the rising sophomore class.

“Do college men get drunk as a rule?”
“That’s no rule, it’s optional.” 
New York Medley.

OUTSTANDING MEN (Continued from page 1)

of educational and vocational schools. To Mr. Cook is due much credit in building up the educational department of the institutions for which he is largely responsible. On him will be conferred the degree of Doctor of Pedagogy.

On the campus, on formal occasions, John Wards have been the authentic footwear for many years. Our styles are designed especially to meet the college man’s requirements.

For the first time this year, the Vesper Service last Sunday was held outdoors with members of the Freshman class conducting. Don King had

We'll See They Get There”
DEAN RUSK
BILL BAILEY
206 Watts
DAVIDSON, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Internationally known for his engineering skill, Mr. W. S. Lee, a graduate of the Citadel, Charleston, S. C., is Chief Engineer and Vice-President of the Duke Power Company. He is one of the foremost hydro-electric engineers in the country. He is to receive the degree of Doctor of Science.

DAVIDSON ALL TALKING

SEE and HEAR now at the THEATRE

LOOK WHAT WE HAVE THIS MONTH WITH ALL TALKING.

CONRAD NAGEL

Monday and Tuesday, May 13-14
“HOLE IN THE WALL” (A Paramount Picture)

Wednesday and Thursday, May 15-16
“IDLE RICH”

Monday and Tuesday, May 20-21
“BROADWAY MELODY”

Friday, May 24
“Fast is East” with LON CHANEY (SILENT)

Monday and Tuesday, May 27-28

Club” May 9, 1929

FELT GOODS SALE
PENNANTS - PILLOWS
TABLE RUNNERS
Rock Bottom Prices
ALL NEXT WEEK
Students’ Store
Make This Store Your Headquarters

EXAM. PADS
NOTE BOOKS
STATIONERY
MAGAZINES
FOUNTAIN PENS, PENCILS
NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK

W. S. HENDERSON
Davidson, N. C.

WHY CAMELS ARE THE BETTER CIGARETTE

Camels contain the choicest tobaccos grown, expertly blended for matchless taste and fragrance. They have a welcome mellowness and mildness that you will find in no other cigarette. Smoke them as often as you like, Camels never tire your taste. The quality is evident in every puff. You can bank on the quality of a cigarette that continues to be the biggest success in smoking history.