Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN April 11, 1929

Yes, but man has done pretty well for himself.

She—Oh, these awful week nights.
Junior—Never mind, just comb your hair.

Old Lady—Are you sure this is a real alligator?
O'Brian—Yis mam. I shot that one mesilf.
Old Lady—It looks a bit rubbed right here.

Athletic Schedule
Athletic events in which Davidson will take part for the rest of the season are as follows:
April 10—Wofford, here.
April 12—Washington and Lee, at Lexington.
April 13—V. M. I. at Lexington.
April 15—V. M. I. at Lexington.
April 16—V. P. I. at Blacksburg.
April 17—University of Virginia, Charlottesville.
April 22—Elon, here.
April 25—Duke University, at Durham.
April 26—State, at Raleigh.
May 3—Oglethorpe University, here.
May 4—Oglethorpe University, here.
May 8—Guilford College, here.

Fresh Baseball—
April 11—Campbell College, here.
April 12—Statesville High, here.
April 16—Statesville High, at Statesville.
April 17—Rutherford College, here.
April 19—Blue Ridge Institute, here.
April 23—Duke Fresh, at Durham.
April 24—State Fresh, at Raleigh.
April 26—Wake Forest Fresh, at Wake Forest.
April 30—Belmont Abbey, there.

Varsity Track
April 12 and 13—Tech Relays, at Atlanta.
April 20—Clemson, here.
April 27—V. M. I. at Lexington.
May 3 and 4—State meet, at Greensboro.
May 9—High Point College, here.

Varsity Tennis
April 10—Furman College, here.
April 12—Erskine College, here.
April 17-20—State Meet, at Chapel Hill.
April 22—Duke or Carolina, undecided.
April 24—V. P. I. at Blacksburg.
April 25—University of Virginia, at Charlottesville.
April 26—William and Mary, at Williamsburg.

One College Man's Experience (Told by Himself)
I remember my first day at college. I strolled across the campus, proud to be a freshman. Some upperclassman spotted me and hazed me. That's when I lost a dollar bill yesterday.

Pap Timmerman—I don’t know. How old are you?
Doctor Daniel—Why did you put quotation marks at the first and last of your paper?
Cadet—I was quoting the man in front of me.

Noise—Knock-knock-knock.
Col. Faulkenberry—Who is it?
Rat (Wake-up orderly, a bit griped for having to awake him every morning)—6:30 o'clock, sir, and all is fair.
Faulkenberry—The Lord and I know it, you may go.
Rat—You and the Lord are two wise guys.

One—I've lost my new car.
Two—Why don't you report it to the sheriff?

Most of the girls of today are more interesting tonight. A golddigger is a girl who thinks of the sweet buy-and-buy.

Professor Fernow—Blitch, in a vapor refrigerating system there are two concentric pipes, one carrying the vapor and the other water. Can you tell which is inside?
Blitch—The smaller.

Guest (Entering hotel with dog)—May I keep my dog in my room with me?
Hotel Manager—Is it a shaggy dog?

Why did you give up your pipe-organ lessons?
Him—Every time I kiss you I feel better.
Her—Well, don’t try to become an angel all at once.

Ashes to ashes,
Gin to gin—
If I knew when to stop
I wouldn't begin.

She—Do what?
He—Do others before they're done.

Doctor—Where shall I vaccinate you?
Modern Girl—Oh, anywhere; it's bound to show.

Young—I've learned my lesson. I was afraid she'd tip the scales.

ENGRAVED PERSONAL CARDS
$4.64 per 100
Gold Stamped, $5.64 per 100
See Samples at The Davidsonian Office

Girl—How dare you come into my room without knocking! I may have undressed.
Bellboy—That's all right, lady, I always look in the key-hole first.

No man can go completely to the dogs without listerine!a good deal of determin- I thought you said he was a physician. Not at all. I just said he followed the medical profession. 

Heavy Stranger (returning to theatre between acts)—Did I tread on your toes as we went out? 

Seated Man (grimly)—You did, Sir!

Heavy Stranger (to wife)—That's right, Matilda, this is our place.

Jack—I called on Mable last night, and I wasn't any more than inside the door before her mother asked my intentions.

John—That must have been embarrassing.

Jack—Yes, but that’s not the worst of it. Mable called from upstairs and said, “That's not the one, Mother.”

Our drum and bugle corps is no longer a thing to be scoffed at. They have offered a prize of five dollars to any cadet, regardless of rank or sex, who can guess correctly, five times out of ten, what call is being blown. They have just recently adopted the motto: “More and funnier calls” to entertain the cadets. Few of the cadets appreciate their success to this end. They use the most modern methods available. Just the other day Captain “Mingoe” got a set of silver chimes to accompany “Rat” Ingles when he puts the cadets to sleep at eleven with Home Sweet Home or something that resembles it very closely. The Colonel suggested that the State Champion Hog Caller be obtained to assemble the cadets for their meals. This would help the wonderful organization immensely!—West Pointer.

Stewed—Did you ever see me before?

Also—No.

Stewed—Then how do you know it's me?

Patient: “I am continually dreaming of girls running around in chemises.”

Psychoanalyst—“Ah; slips that pass in the night.”

He—"Can I take you home?”

She—"Sure, where do you live?” —Williams Purple Cow.

“Her bad habit tramps in the woods.” —South Dakota Wet Hen.

“Why do you hug your girls so tight?”

“Because temperature increases with pressure.” —South Dakota Wet Hen.

When a man finds he can’t read a girl like a book he shelves her.

“Brudder Perkins, yo’ been fightin’,” said the colored minister.

“Yes, ah wez.”

“Don’t yo ‘member whut de good book sez ‘bout turnin’ de odder cheek?”

“Yass, pahson, but he hit me on mah nose, an’ Ah’s only got one.”

“A little bit goes a long way,” said the sparrow as he pushed a pebble off the skyscraper.

Here lies the body of William Jay Who died by enforcing his right-of-way He was right, dead right, as he sped along But he is just as dead as if he had been dead wrong.

Gentleman friend—How is that chemist case coming on that last stuff I left to be analyzed?

Chemist—Best stuff I ever analyzed—Whoopee!"—Judge.

How did she learn to undress so fast? Playing strip poker at college for four years.

Your face would make a clock stop. Yes, and yours would make one run.

When you throw a match in the air does it light? Why no. Then there's that Scotchman again, he didn’t want his wife to weigh be- fore and after she took a bath.

I am through with women. Not So Young—And I’ve learned mine. I'm through saying I'm through with women.

A girl is as strong as her weakest moment.

I don't care for Jim. Half the time he wants to pet and the other half he wants to be petted.

English Prof—Tell me two things about John Milton.

Ruminating Frosh — Well, he got married and he wrote “Paradise Lost.” Then his wife died and he wrote “Paradise Regained.”

Frosh—Ouch, I just bumped my funny bone.

Great Guns! Bill, what makes that girl shake so—cold or the St. Vitus Dance? Neither, she's the daughter of Hale University’s greatest broken-field football star!

Mother (entering room)—Why Mabel! Get right down from that young man's knees.

Williams—Is this a first-class restaurant?

Waiter—Oh, yes, but we don’t mind serving you.

Hattie—Alice sold her love.

Cattie—Terrible.

Hattie—You don't understand; the dog got the mange.

Oh, look boys, she’s stripped— Now calm yourselves, my dears, She’s driving her new car, And has merely stripped the gears.

You're young only once, but if you work it right, once is enough.

“How dare you swear before me,” cried an indignant lady.

“Excuse me,” said the offender, “I didn’t know you wanted to swear first.”