February 14, 1929 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Journalistic Competition Brought to a Close Tonight

Contest Inaugurated by Delta Pi Kappa

PRIZES TO WINNERS

Papers Submitted Tonight to be Judged Under Special Supervision of Committee

Tonight marks the close of the contest staged by the Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, for the best journalistic efforts of the students. This contest was announced before Christmas, plans and rules were drawn up and it was only on account of the early recess that it was postponed until after the holidays. As has previously been stated in an earlier edition of this paper, this contest is for the purpose of bringing to the front those who have genius in newspaper work, but who have been latent in making the fact known. To stimulate more interest, a total of $15.00 in prizes will be awarded. Five dollars is offered for the best editorial, $2.50 for the second best. The best feature story will win $5.00, and the second best receives $2.50.

The rules governing this contest, as submitted by a committee composed of W. K. Pritchett, chairman, R. F. Jarratt, and F. D. Miller, are as follows:

1. All articles must be handed to Aubrey Brown, editor, in 20 Rumple before midnight, February 14. Winners' names will be announced in the next issue of the Davidsonian.
2. Any student not on the editorial staff of the Davidsonian is eligible to submit stories and editorials. Members of the Reporters’ Club are eligible.
3. Editorials should not be over 400 words long. Features should not be more than 600 words in length.
4. The articles will be judged by some competent man to be selected by the committee.
5. If worthy articles are not submitted, no prizes will be given.
6. The Davidsonian shall have the privilege to publish any article submitted.

AN ENIGMA

The Sub Rosa Club has added a new member.

Freshmen Heartily Greet First Snow

Many Southerners See Snow For First Time

On Tuesday morning, February 5, the student body awoke to gaze upon the first snowfall of the winter. For some, it was the first snow ever seen and was welcomed with delight, while those for whom the spectacle was no longer a novelty greeted with pleasure the return of the familiar coat of white in which the earth was wrapped. Only the Freshmen looked crestfallen, and well they might, for as everyone knows, Freshmen at Davidson do not welcome snow. It soon became evident that any fears which might have been entertained were well grounded. After chapel Tuesday morning, the Freshmen, leaving the building last, were greeted with a shower of snowballs. This continued throughout the morning with the “Fresh,” completely at the mercy of their tormentors, unable to strike back in their own defense. This did not appeal to their idea of the fairness of things, so a challenge was proffered and immediately accepted by the Sophomores. The battle was to begin at 2:30 sharp and at the appointed hour the opposing hosts were to be seen drawn up in battle array, eager to begin the combat. Soon the white missiles began to fly in all directions with first one side and then the other holding the advantage. From one side to the other, back and forth, and in every nook and corner of the campus the battle raged. However, as is usually the case in such matters, neither side was able to force the hand of the other and as neither side capitulated, both left the field claiming the victory. So we may conclude that the battle was a draw. In any case, everyone was well pleased with the event, for a snowball battle at Davidson is not to be listed under the heading of an everyday or commonplace occurrence.

“MUSIC AND FOLKS” (Continued from page 1)

Ave Maria, played by Robert Ambruster; Hark, Hark, the Lark, played by Ignance Jan Paderewski; Turkish March, played by Harold Bauer; Ase’s Death (Peer Gynt) played by Percy Grainger; Day Break, (Peer Gynt) played by Percy Grainger. Mr. Steckel is a resident of Gastonia, where he is a teacher of music in the public schools.

Aircraft Contest

Two Davidson College students, C. R. Lake and John L. Brown, are attempting to win a 4-year university scholarship in aeronautics, or Eagle Rock airplane, offered this spring by the Alexander Aircraft Company to the American undergraduate who reveals the deepest insight and practical imagination in aeronautics. A remarkably close understanding of the industry characterizes papers submitted by students of 183 colleges and universities. Several new novel sales ideas are being used to advantage by the Alexander Aircraft Company. The response indicates that thousands of undergraduates seriously consider the new aircraft industry as their intended vocation. As an added incentive, seventeen Eagle Rock flying courses, worth approximately $300.00, will be awarded free to the college students in their respective territories who make the best efforts to win the awards. Flight instruction manuals will be given to other students who place high. The competition closes May 1. The Alexander Aircraft Company is conducting the contest as a means of interesting more young men and women in flying and in the aero industry as a field of future activity. Within the last year, commercial aircraft factories have virtually scrambled for the services of college-trained aeronautical engineers and executives. The shortage has forced a number of new companies to import engineers from Germany and England.

Students Pleased With New Benches

The students living in West and East dormitories have announced themselves as being greatly pleased with benches that were recently placed in front of each building. The seats are of an attractive style that also blends with the color of the dormitories’ columns. On days when weather will permit, there is now a place to sit without being forced to bring chairs from the lobby inside. This new convenience was taken advantage of tothe utmost last Sunday afternoon, pleased the new Churchman. The benches seem to be part of a general clean-up and improvement campaign that was inaugurated immediately after the snow, by the College. Nowadays, just as soon as you find a way to make ends meet, somebody comes along and moves the ends.

Typical Davidson Fraternity House
Photo by Koop

This interior view is of the Phi Gamma Delta house, located in Fraternity Court and is similar to the other ten houses which were completed last fall. This cut is furnished through the courtesy of Arthur Koop, student and photographic expert.

FUTURE SPEAKERS
(Continued from page 1)

of Charlotte, who is not a stranger to Davidson Students, will speak. Bishop E. A. Penick, head of the North Carolina Episcopal Diocese, will address the students on April 28. Mother’s Day service will be held on May 5, but the speaker has not been obtained for this.

Students To Have Self-Help Bureau
(Continued from page 1)

The self-help department of the local Y. M. C. A., which in former years has been handled by the general secretary, has been turned over to a student committee for further development. This committee will be known as the Self-Help Bureau. The students acting in this organization are: Bob Turner, chairman; R. D. Russell, H. B. Mayo, and J. D. MacFadyen. 

In giving a party for the Senior Class, the Faculty is returning to a custom of years gone by, when the entire class and their friends were entertained by the Faculty for a chosen weekend—generally in February. The occasion is anticipated with pleasure by those who are making preparations for the most entertaining Senior Prom they can devise.

The object of the bureau is to secure jobs, both permanent and temporary, for those students who are working their way through school. Letters will be sent to townspeople and business firms asking that they cooperate with the Y. M. C. A. in placing as many students as possible. And the students who desire work are requested to get in touch with one of the members of the bureau immediately, or report at the general secretary's office and fill out one of the blanks.

A diplomat is one who never talks about himself when his visitor wants to talk about himself—Atlanta Constitution.

STATEMENT OF CONDITION
DAVIDSON BUILDING AND LOAN ASSOCIATION
Of Davidson, N. C., as of December 31st, 1928
(Copy of sworn statement submitted to insurance commissioner as required by law.)

ASSETS
The Association Owns:
Mortgage Loans
Money loaned to shareholders for the purpose of enabling them to own their homes. Each loan secured by first mortgage on local improved real estate. $100,535.00
Stock Loans
Advances made to our shareholders against their stock. No loan exceeds 90 percent of amount actually paid in. $4,449.00
Office Furniture and Fixtures $29.00
TOTAL $105,013.00

LIABILITIES
The Association Owes:
To Shareholders
Funds entrusted to our care in the form of payments on stock as follows:
Installment Stock $7,700.59
Full Paid Stock $511.35
Bills Payable
Money borrowed for use in making loans to members. Each note approved by at least two-thirds of entire Board of Directors as required by law. $1,500.00
Undivided Profits
Earnings held in trust for distribution to shareholders at maturity of stock. $449.81
Adjustment Acct. $105,013.00

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF MECKLENBURG

C. H. Hamilton, Secretary-Treasurer of the above-named Association personally appeared before me this day, and being duly sworn, says that the foregoing report is true to the best of his knowledge and belief.
Sworn to and subscribed before me, this 13th day of February, 1929.
M. W. McGill, Notary Public.
C. H. Hamilton.

BRICKS DE LUXE ICE CREAM
STUDENT STORE
CONES
MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM CO.
CUPS

That’s our story and we stick to it. Have a Camel!

BUILD YOURSELF A CAMEL SMOKE-SCREEN
WE CLAIM, with good evidence to back us, that a cool cloud of Camel smoke is a practically perfect protective smoke-screen. Outside the charmed circle of its mellow fragrance, troubles and worries and sundry pothers hover baffled. Within, all is peace, pleasure, content.
©1929 R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.