THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 12, 1929

Junior At Duke Receives Rhodes Scholarship For North Carolina

Grady Frank, Winner of Award, is Class President

VOWLES ON COMMITTEE

Davidson Has Eight Representatives From Five States as Candidates for Scholastic Honor

The Rhodes Scholarship for North Carolina this year was awarded to Grady Frank of Duke University by the state board of selection which met at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill, December 6 and 7. This distinguished scholarship is one of the greatest honors that can be awarded to American college men, entitling the student to two and usually three years of study at Oxford University, with an annual allowance of about $2000. Dr. Guy R. Vowles, head of the local German department, represented Davidson on the committee which made the award.

Candidates for the scholarship appearing before the board as representatives of Davidson were: three alumni of the college, J. A. Thompson, now a graduate student at the University of North Carolina; T. E. Lothery, Jr., an instructor of the Davidson faculty; and E. R. McConnell, member of the faculty of Woodbury Forest School in Virginia. Other Davidson representatives appearing before their respective state boards are M. C. O’Neal of Montgomery, Ala., Y. M. C. A. executive Secretary; F. W. Johnston, of Jefferson, Ga.; A. M. Frew, of Charleston, W. Va.; W. W. Harrison, Jr., of York, S. C.; and J. B. Knox, of Liberty, S. C. All of these men are outstanding in college work and made very favorable impressions upon the examining committees.

Grady Frank, the winner for North Carolina, is a junior at Duke University. He attended school in Japan, where his parents are missionaries, before coming to Duke. The great number of honors which he has won, and his popularity on the campus are proof of his unusual abilities. He is president of his class, member of the “9019 Club,” honorary scholarship fraternity, and a leading player on the tennis team. He is also a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Frank is specializing in mathematics and shows promise of becoming an outstanding success in his chosen field. He will leave for England in October, 1930.

When you are riding in an auto, you can pass trolley cars and other autos. But when you are riding on a trolley car, about the only thing you can pass is your street.—Judge.

Summer boarder: “But why are those trees bending over so far?”
Farmer: “You'd be bending over too, Miss, if you were as full of green apples as those trees are.”

“Where are you going?” Agee: Malone: “To find where them pigeons live.” Agee: “What for?” Malone: “I want some holes for my desk.”

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

Student Employment

Any student interested in profitable employment selling articles which have proved to be leading sellers on college campuses throughout the country should communicate with us at his earliest convenience inasmuch as we expect to appoint student representatives to sell our various articles on the local campus within the immediate future. Our articles are sold solely through student representatives, and we offer no proposition which has not already proved itself to be a best college seller. Some of our best selling propositions are: (1) class rings, seal rings, class pins, seal pins, fraternity and club keys and pins, and general college jewelry; (2) stationery engraved with any fraternity or college seal or crest, dance programs, invitations, visiting cards, etc.; (3) typewriters including Corona, Remington, Royal, and Underwood portables sold at $5 per month with allowance on old machines; (4) pennants, banners, scarfs, pillows, etc.; (5) belts of any design desired; (6) men’s furnishings including suits, top coats, shirts, ties, underwear, pajamas, socks, shoes, slickers, windbreakers, trench model coats, etc.

In answering this ad advise what experience you have had, give your age, state which of the above propositions appeal to you most, give at least two references, advise what class you are in and how long you expect to attend this college, how many students are enrolled at your college, and how much time you can devote to selling. Any inquiry we may receive which does not give the above information will be ignored, therefore, be sure to give this information in your first inquiry. Write E. C. SHORTT, Mgr., Indian Sales Agency, Williamsburg, Virginia.

DAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAS

F. R. BROWN

Picture of J. B. Knox

A. T. EDELMAN

RECENT PHI BETA KAPPA INITIATES

A teacher who was giving the children written exercises wrote out this “Wanted” advertisement: “Wanted—A Milliner. Apply by Miss Smith, 10 Blank St.” The children had to make application for the position in writing. One youngster wrote: “Dear Miss: I saw you want a milliner. I hate to trim hats. Can't you get somebody? Please let me know at once.”—Ex.

E. E. MARSH

There's a little restaurant not far away from the hill that is kept by a man who prides himself on his cooking. He was shocked to hear a junior criticize his pies the other day. “Why, young feller, I made pies before you was born!” he said to the complainer.

FIVE YEARS BACK

Checking back over the past half a decade of the Davidsonian and Davidson, it seems rather a shot out of the blue to locate an editorial entitled “Bumming.” Apparently this delightful pastime had already been discovered by our scholarly lads and was well pursued: to wit, witness the grumblings of the editor: “the man who rides on others just for the pleasure of gaining free transportation is a social parasite.” Shocking! Very much so, to think that so great a portion of our student body belonged to the same class as the most up-to-date thug and holdup man. In other words, we, who bum, are fit cases for the latest bug coop. Think it over, it was only five brief years ago.

Oh yes, our cat. It seems that even under the careful treatment of Doc Charlie, the then reigning member of the throne had given up the ghost. It was in October when it was decided that a nice pussy would be imported from the Everglades. Is it the one we have now? I don’t know, ask Doc Charlie.

And football, umm—and how. Seven wins, one tie and two losses. Outweighed 22 pounds to a man, a fighting Wildcat team messed up the title aspirations of N. C. State in a close 10-10 score. Our Freshman mentor was then a member of the team. It was by his place kick that the day was rescued, and in the last six minutes to play, with a ten to three score staring them in the face, the ’Cats uncorked a passing attack for 72 yards. And they licked Trinity 21-13, and Clemson 7-0. Good old days.

Then the announcement of the Duke endowment, with Davidson securing the minimum of $75,000 a year. Many a thankful prayer went up on this, and we should remember just what this has meant and will mean to the school. The south wing of Chambers was almost ready for use, and the delightful system of pumping up the D Club was in full swing; column after column of biographical comment, and maybe some autobiographical.

And oh yeah—let me close with the Davidsonian crossword puzzles.

The bandits rushed into the cigar store, felled the clerks with blackjacks and ransacked the place leisurely. Then they leaned against the counter and waited for the clerks to regain consciousness. Presently the head clerk regained his senses. He peered up at the bandits and said, “Well, what are you waiting for?” The head bandit looked down with scorn, “Coupons!” he replied with a sneer.

You look tired!
Yes, I've had a bad day. That office boy of mine came in with the old story of getting away for his grandmother’s funeral, so just to teach him a lesson I said I would accompany him.
He took you to the baseball game I suppose?
No such luck!He told the truth for once. It was his grandmother’s funeral! Two Irishmen stood in front of a drugstore in Dublin. In the window was a display of rubber gloves. “Now I wonder what is them things for?” asked one of the Irishmen. “Oh,” replied the other Irishman, “ye can put them things on and wash yer hands without gettin’ ye hands wet.”

She (tearfully): “You know I feel dreadfully responsible about losing the football game.”
He: “Why so?”
She: “I cheered once at the wrong time.”

And listen, you rats. If you don’t know the difference between a girl and a traffic cop, you’d better stop when a traffic cop tells you to.

You're quite an amateur at kissing.
Think so? Well, it took a lot of practice to get that ‘first time’ effect.

Army, was assigned to the mission of capturing and mopping up the villages of Bellecourt and Naurcy in the attack of September 29, 1918. Lieutenant-Colonel Scott, having been promoted and relieved from command of his battalion, asked for and received permission to lead his former battalion during the attack. With disregard for his own personal safety, Lieutenant-Colonel Scott personally directed the battalion in the attack so that this organization succeeded in capturing the network of trenches and taking about 1,000 prisoners. The splendid leadership, gallantry, and devotion to duty displayed by Lieutenant-Colonel Scott in leading this battalion assisted materially in the successful operations of the 120th Infantry.

“Well, why sell ’em now?” asked the student.

TEN YEARS BACK
“Down where I live,” said the man from Texas, “we grew a pumpkin so big that when we cut it, my wife used one-half of it as a cradle.”
“Why,” smiled the man from Chicago, “that’s nothing. A few days ago, right here in the city, two full-grown policemen were found asleep on a beat.”

A big year in the history of the school was 1919. A record-breaking enrollment of 429 students. The “Y” was showing Mary, Doug, Wallace Reed, and Dustan Farnam, all celebrities of our youthful hearts. It was Doctor Martin's eighth year in the president's chair.

Sandy, Jr.: “Papa, I saved ten cents today. I ran all the way to school behind a streetcar.”
Sandy, Sr.: “Why didn't you run behind a taxi and save a dollar?”

Students subscribed $11,025 during one brief week in the Million Dollar campaign then underway. Davidson got $400,000 in the windup. This makes us think of the Duke memorial fund, why not subscribe a little to this? If Davidson students could raise that much in that year, why can’t we?

And the R. O. T. C. Department wore the chokers and blouses, now commonly called under the misnomer of blouses.

Col. Don Scott Has Been Cited For War Bravery
Davidson Alumni of 1907 Recognized for Gallantry Eleven Years After the War

Order Of Platoons, Wednesday, Dec. 4
First—2nd Platoon, Company C
Second—3rd Platoon, Company C
Third—2nd Platoon, Company D

Col. Donnell Everett Scott, graduate of Davidson College in the class of 1907 and commander of the 120th Infantry during the World War, has been cited by the United States War Department for gallantry in action at Bellicourt on September 29, 1918, in orders issued from Washington, D. C., on September 22 of this year. A news dispatch from Graham tells something of Colonel Scott’s heroism that day as follows: though the heroism of Colonel Scott, who resides at Graham and is a prominent manufacturer and civic leader, is known generally through this section and in state military circles, the citation came to him as a complete surprise—eleven years after the famous battle in which he led a section of the attack upon the famous Hindenburg line.

“Colonel Scott recalls vividly enough that early morn when the boys stepped forward in the smoke and fog to an objective they could not see but knew was ahead of them. Just before the attack was begun Colonel Scott had been promoted from major to lieutenant-colonel. As a major he was a battalion commander. As lieutenant-colonel he was relieved of his battalion command. But his boys—the boys he had soldiered with as one of them through the training period—had to go up. He wanted to go with them. He prevailed upon his superiors to let him lead them forward, disregarding his promotion. He was permitted to move forward as their leader.

The citation: “Don E. Scott, colonel, Infantry Reserves, then Lieutenant-colonel 120th Infantry, 30th Division, American Expeditionary Forces. For gallantry in action at Bellecourt and Naurcy, France, September 29, 1918. The 120th Infantry, as part of the Fourth British Army, was assigned to the mission of capturing and mopping up the villages of Bellecourt and Naurcy, in the attack of September 29, 1918. Lieutenant-Colonel Scott, having been promoted and relieved from command of his battalion, asked for and received permission to lead his former battalion during the attack. With disregard for his own personal safety, Lieutenant-Colonel Scott personally directed the battalion in the attack so that this organization succeeded in capturing the network of trenches and taking about 1,000 prisoners. The splendid leadership, gallantry, and devotion to duty displayed by Lieutenant-Colonel Scott in leading this battalion assisted materially in the successful operations of the 120th Infantry.”

It will be recalled that another Davidson alumnus, Henry Fletcher Martin, ’15, of Jacksonville, Fla., likewise received a belated citation last fall.

Dr. C. W. Edwards Speaks To Students On “Matter At Lower Temperatures”
Noted Physicist Performs Remarkable Experiments in Illustrated Lecture
CO-AUTHOR OF TEXT

Duke Professor Lectures on Light and Development of Vacuum Tubes, Wednesday Morning

On Tuesday evening, December 3, Dr. Charles William Edwards, head of the Physics Department of Duke University, made an interesting talk here on “Matter at Lower Temperatures.” The talk centered chiefly on matter that had been cooled to a temperature of 150 to 200 degrees below zero. In the course of his talk Doctor Edwards brought out the fact that for the past few decades physics had been dealing chiefly with minute things but that now the field has almost been exhausted until more powerful instruments can be developed, and most of our prominent physicists are turning their attention to the study of matter as we ordinarily see it. Thus the talk was chiefly on common things and during the evening several interesting experiments were performed by subjecting everyday material to liquid air which is 195 degrees below zero. The good number of Davidson students who attended the lecture were surprised to see grapes, beef-steak, and other common things cooled to such a degree that they became so brittle as to be readily shattered when struck. Doctor Edwards also ran a steam engine when frost coated the boiler and “boiled” a teapot of liquid air on a block of ice. The manner in which most of our vacuums are made was also clearly demonstrated.

On the morning following the lecture Doctor Edwards spoke to a large number of students and professors on light and its relation to the development of vacuum tubes; later in the day he made another interesting talk. Doctor Edwards has become famous as a physicist and a lecturer and incidentally is a co-author of a textbook on physics that is used at Davidson and forty or more other colleges and universities throughout the United States. We feel sure that during his stay here he accomplished the chief aim of his visit, that is, he aroused a greater interest in science in the Davidson students.

Notice: Don't invest your money in mercury. It is sure to go down this winter.

A Minister of the Gospel SHOULD BE A MASTER OF THE BIBLE TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS ONE OF THE AIMS OF UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

For Catalog and Information, Address,
Rev. R. B. Lacy, Jr., President
Richmond, Virginia.