Beat Clemson FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON THE DAVIDSONIAN Help Raise Band Fund Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL
18, 1929 No. 25

NEW “Y” PRESIDENT AND HIS CABINET INSTALLED SUNDAY
Succeeding Members to Take Charge at an Early Date
DR. RICHARDSON SPEAKS
Student Body Urged to Co-operate With Program for Next Year’s Work

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. Cabinet for 1929-30 was announced and installed at the “Y” vesper services on Sunday
evening, April 14th, conducted by Dr. Donald W. Richardson. These men were appointed by President Frank Reid Brown and will
take charge immediately.

Chapel services, R. M. Christian. This member of the cabinet is in charge of getting leaders for the morning chapel
services and providing music for the Sunday evening vesper services.

S. R. Coker was appointed in charge of Boys’ Work. His duties include the organization of Clubs in the community.

A. M. Frew was placed in charge of Weekly Meetings. He has charge of the Sunday evening vesper services held
in Shearer Hall and also the revival services held in the spring and fall of each term.

Attendance, with W. Hill in charge, looks after the important work of advertising the “Y” services and caring for and
keeping a record of the attendance at these services.

A new cabinet position has been added. This is Social Center with F. W. Johnson in charge. His duty is
the promotion of a building to be used for a social center of the college.

Freshman Work, one of the most important positions on the Cabinet, is headed by Z. V. Long. He has charge
of greeting the freshmen and of the freshman reception.

Arranging for the social life of the students, entertainment of visiting teams and organizations from other colleges and other such
activities is placed under W. G. McGavock.

Vocational Guidance plans for next year include branching out into many other lines of occupation than those formerly presented. This
work will be handled by W. B. McGuire.

F. D. Miller has charge of all “Y” publications. This includes the Y. M. C. A. Handbook and a column
each week in The Davidsonian.

R. T. Nunan is in charge of Student Life. His duties are the arranging of interviews with visiting speakers and
ministers who conduct Y. M. C. A. meetings.

Sunday Schools, which are conducted by the students under the direction of the “Y”, are in charge of J. C.
Lawrence. Eight Sunday Schools are conducted in Davidson or near Davidson.

An effort is made to interest Davidson students in World Evangelism. This year the Y. M. C. A. is supporting
Frank Price, a former Davidson student, in China. J. F. Preston, Jr., heads this department.

As president of the Student Body and Cabinet member in charge of Student Life, Carl R. Pritchett works for the
upbuilding and unifying of student life on the campus.

Deputations are made by the “Y” to various places during the year. During the past year twenty deputations were sent
out. This important work has Dean Rusk in charge.

While these men are in charge of this work, they must rely on the Student Body to help them. A
call is sent out to any men who are interested in any phase of this work to see the man
in charge and help him do his work better.

Following is the program of the installation service:
Prelude—Paul Fry
Song No. 136
Prayer—John Melton
Scripture Reading, Isaiah 6:1-8—Frank Brown
Prayer
Solo—Mrs. G. R. Vowles (Accompanied by Miss Hattie Thompson)
Charge to the New Cabinet—Dr. Donald W. Richardson
Song No. 135
Benediction—Dr. Richardson

WRESTLING TITLE GOES TO TOM HILL
Davidson Captain Gains National Recognition in Richmond
AMATEUR MEET
165 Pound Class Won by Hill Over Charleston Boy in Finals

Tom Hill, Senior at Davidson, and retiring Captain of the Wildcat Wrestling Team, brought wide recognition to the college last
Saturday night by winning the 165-pound class of the Amateur Athletic National Federation’s Wrestling Meet held in Richmond, Va. By
virtue of his win over Eugene Walpole, Charleston, S. C., Hill gains the national amateur title in the 165-pound class.
A handsome medal was awarded the Davidson representative, the following words being inscribed upon it: “Amateur Athletic Federation Wrestling Championship—1929,
Richmond, Va.”

The meet at Richmond was the first ever attempted by the Federation. All college men, Y. M. C. A. men,
and members of the Army and Navy are eligible to enter the competition, which is expected to become an institution
in amateur athletics of the country. There were some thirty entrants for this initial meet, and bouts were held in
all weights. Preliminaries began Thursday, with the finals being run off Saturday night. The Richmond Y. M. C. A. was
the scene of the matches.

Hill met Tom Black, crack wrestler of the Richmond “Y” in the preliminary. The bout went into extra periods, but
Hill showed marked superiority in the final stages, getting falls over his opponent in both extra sessions. Saturday, in the
finals, Hill opposed Eugene Walpole of Charleston. The Davidson wrestler gained a time advantage of a little over six minutes
on his man.

Throughout the past season, Captain Hill was one of the most reliable men on the mat squad, and, although wrestling
out of his weight on many occasions, he never failed to make a good showing.

“Vision”: Main Topic At Vesper Service
Richardson Stresses “Youth” and “Volunteer” in Talk

“An old-time Vision and Volunteer” was the subject upon which Dr. D. W. Richardson, former missionary to China and now
occupying the chair of Missions at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, addressed the Davidson Y. M. C. A. Sunday evening in
Shearer Hall. The Scriptural basis for the talk, found in Isaiah 6:1-8, gives a description of Isaiah's vision in the
temple and of his response. It was the deciding factor coming at a crisis in the young man’s life when
he was undecided as to his life work.

The first important element in the vision was that he saw God. This vision of God gave him a new
and right start in life; it impressed upon him God's greatness and purity. Moreover, he felt that now was the
time for a fresh start in obedience to this heavenly vision, that if he followed the old way of living
after this experience, he was guilty of sacrilege.

What was equally important, the young prophet gained a new vision of himself. His own imperfections were thrown into sharp
relief when exposed to the blinding radiance of God's purity and holiness. This new standard of comparison removed the smug
satisfaction that was his when comparing himself with his fellowmen.

Then there was the vision of cleansing, needed in any change of life. The angel took the coal from the
altar and touched his lips as a symbol of forgiveness. Jesus Christ, in like manner, has cleansed our lives and
delivered us from the power of sin through his death on the cross.

Finally, there was a new vision of power that took the place of the old feeling of incapacity and insufficiency.
Like Paul, he could then say, “I can do all things through Christ that strengtheneth me.” One fully consecrated soul
along with Christ’s power has unlimited potentialities. We must not proceed in our own strength, but must look to Him
and then do things with and for Him.

JARRATT ELECTED CHAMELEON EDITOR
Last Issue of Magazine to Appear Soon

Wednesday morning, April 10th, the student body elected by acclamation, R. F. Jarratt, member of the Junior class, to editor-in-chief
of “The Chameleon,” the college literary publication, for the coming year. Jarratt was recently nominated by the staff of the
magazine for editor-in-chief, and before his election, held a position on the staff as assistant editor. In addition to being
a member of Delta Pi Kappa, local journalistic fraternity, Jarratt is a wearer of “the Golden Quill,” a member of
Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary fraternity, a member of the Reporters’ Club, and is on the literary staff of the
Chameleon. Jarratt is a member of Phi Gamma Delta.

A new issue of the Chameleon, edited by Frank Hill, will be published the first part of next week, which
edition will feature articles written by more different writers than have previously contributed. This edition will consist of short stories
written by J. W. McCutcheon, W. F. Gaffney, and R. F. Jarratt; a long poem written in blank verse, by
Frank Hall, together with a variety of short verse of rather higher caliber than usual. A feature of this issue,
which will be the last for this year, will be a rhymed satiric criticism, published anonymously, on the various contributors
of the magazine. Included among the new writers for the publication are Gene Clark, Frank Gaffney, and Tom Prier. As
this will be the final edition, every effort is being manifested in order to make the issue not only interesting
but a successful one.

JUNE 3 SET FOR SENIOR CLASS DAY
Monday afternoon, June 3, at five o'clock will be the time for the annual Senior Class Day exercises. Those who
have been nominated as Class Day speakers include the following: R. O. Flinn, H. A. Knox, W. L. Dumas, R.
R. Kane, W. K. Pritchett, and R. C. Grady. Of the six named, Flinn has been elected as Class Day
Valedictorian; Knox as Class Day Salutatorian; and Dumas as Orator. Those chosen as above, however, should not be confused with
those selected on the basis of grades for the year. In addition to the names mentioned above, a fourth member
of the class, Frank Hall, will take part in the program. Hall, who was elected by the Senior class as
poet several months ago, will read the class poem during the exercises. If the weather permits, the exercises will in
all probability be held in the open as usual.

Dr. Hill To Speak At Commencement
Richmond Pastor Secured as Y. M. C. A. Speaker

Rev. W. E. Hill, D.D., pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Richmond, Va., has accepted an invitation of the
Davidson College Y. M. C. A. to deliver the annual “Y” sermon at the ninety-third commencement of this institution. Dr.
Hill will be the second speaker on the program of four days and will preach this sermon on Sunday night,
June the second.

This Richmond pastor is a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1900. He is a distinguished scholar and a
great speaker, being rated as one of the best platform men of the Southern Presbyterian Church, and is considered by
many to be among the first three. Dr. Hill is a graduate of Union Theological Seminary and was awarded his
D.D. degree by Davidson College. He graduated among the first in his class and was recently issued a bid by
Phi Beta Kappa, honorary scholastic fraternity. While at Davidson Dr. Hill won many honors for himself and distinguished himself as
a campus leader.

Before accepting his call to the pastorate of the Second Presbyterian Church at Richmond, Va., he held charges at Hot
Springs, Va.; Gadsden, Ala.; Atlanta, Ga.; and Fayetteville, N. C. Just previous to going to Richmond...On page 5:

BOB KELL ELECTED AS CHIEF MARSHAL
Junior Assistant Marshals Not Yet Decided Upon

At the meeting of the Senior Class held during the past week, Bob Kell was elected to the position of
Chief Marshal for the coming commencement exercises over Tom Hill and Bob Grady—the other nominees for this post. Grady was
eliminated on the first ballot, and Kell elected on the second. For the first time, the task of choosing a
Chief Marshal was decided by a popular vote of the Senior Class. Formerly the campus literary societies had complete charge
of this duty, and it was through their efforts that arrangements were made for commencement functions. The change this year
comes about as the result of a movement to restore to the office of Chief Marshal some of its former
prestige and glory as a high honor, and it is very probable that in the future it will be left
entirely to the class to choose the man for the honor.

The Junior Class will elect assistants to the Chief Marshal within the next few days, if plans work out as
now proposed.

MINSTREL TO HELP RAISE BAND FUNDS
Black, Clark, Flynn, and Lawther Are End-Men

Tomorrow night, April 19, at 7:30 p.m., the Glee Club and Concert Band will present a minstrel show in Shearer
Hall. The primary object of this minstrel is to raise money to provide uniforms for the Davidson College Band. The
Sunnyland Serenaders, Davidson's own jazz orchestra, will take an important part in the night of merriment. This group of musicians
will render some of the more popular jazz hits of the season. An “all-star cast” of end-men have been secured
for the performance; among these are Dick Flynn, Sam Black, Slick Lawther, and “Major Hoople” Clark. These men are sure
to add not only variety but also the best of black-face comedy in their part of the program. The Glee
Club will render a program which it has given all season and will also sing several popular numbers including “Weary
River,” the theme song of the movie by that name, and others. As this is a most worthy cause it
is hoped that a large crowd will attend this minstrel and thus help equip our band. The admission price is
thirty-five cents for students and fifty cents for townspeople.

Davidson To Debate Birmingham Tonight

The Birmingham-Southern team, touring North Carolina, will meet Davidson tonight at 8:00 in Shearer Hall. Their next two engagements are
with Duke University and N.C. State College. Those debating for Birmingham-Southern are: Elbert Wallace, of Sapulpa, Okla., and Ted Hightower,
of Birmingham, Ala. The members of Davidson's team are: Carl Pritchett, of Reidsville, N.C., and Lewis Marsh, of Marshville, N.C.
The subject of the debate, with Davidson taking the negative side, is: Resolved, That expert jurists, three or five in
number, should be substituted for the present system of trial by jury.

Converse Singers Present Concert

On Saturday evening, April 13, the Converse College Glee Club gave a concert in Shearer Hall. The presentation, sponsored by
the Junior Class, was well-attended, a large number of students being present. The program, consisting of seven acts, was given
under the direction of Mr. Glenn C. Stables. Songs by the entire Club, violin solos, and individual selections by members
of the organization, were included in the entertainment. Following the concert, the members of the Club were entertained at a
reception given jointly by the Junior Class and Y.M.C.A., during which refreshments were served.

“Y” Speaker

Dr. Donald W. Richardson, of Union Seminary, who brought inspiring messages to Davidson students during his stay on the campus.

GLEE CLUB ELECTS ORR AS PRESIDENT
Other Officers Chosen from Rising Senior and Junior Classes

At a recent meeting the officers of the Glee Club were elected for the coming year. C.C. Orr, of Asheville,
N.C., was elected President, Jack Ramseur, of Lincolnton, N.C., and J.A. Cannon, Jr. of Concord, N.C., were chosen as Vice-Presidents.
R.W. McDermid, of Charleston, S.C., was elected Business Manager. Orr is at present active as Vice-President of the Club. He
has been violin soloist for the past two years in the orchestra besides playing the saxophone and trumpet. He plays
the trumpet in the band. He is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. The officers for the past
year were: Paul B. Fry, President; R.S. Abernethy, Business Manager; and J.A. Orr and C.C. Cannon were the Vice-Presidents.

O.D.K. Circle Holds Tap Day on Monday
Initiation to be Featured by Talk by Dr. Gaines

Annual tap day exercises for Omicron Delta Kappa will be held on Monday, April 22, during the chapel period in
Shearer Hall. At this time the men to be bid will receive a tap on the shoulder and after which
they will come forward to the rostrum, which act will signify their acceptance of the bid. The names of the
men are kept in absolute secrecy until the minute they are tapped. The initiation will take place on the following
night, Tuesday, April 23. This will happen immediately following supper, after which a talk will be made in Shearer Hall
by Dr. F.P. Gaines, President of Wake Forest College. Dr. Gaines is an interesting and well-known speaker, and his talk
will be a feature of the program. Following Dr. Gaines’ talk the members of the fraternity will attend a banquet.
It may be interesting to note that invitations have been sent out to the various alumni, whom it is hoped
will be in full attendance. Omicron Delta Kappa is a national honorary fraternity which recognizes leadership. A bid to this
fraternity is an honor which is much coveted by all men and is among the highest recognitions which one may
receive. Tap day is an outstanding exercise in all colleges.

RICHARDSON ENDS STAY AT DAVIDSON WITH TALK MON.
Speaks on “The Christian Church in China Today”
FAIR CROWD HEARS TALK
Tells of Vast Possibilities for Future Work in China by American Missionaries

Dr. Donald W. Richardson, of Union Theological Seminary, brought his stay at Davidson to a close with a stirring message
on “The Christian Church in China Today,” at the open meeting held Monday evening in Shearer Hall. The inclement weather
kept down attendance somewhat, but a fairly good crowd of students and townspeople were thrilled and inspired as Dr. Richardson
told of his own experiences during the recent trouble in China, and painted a glowing picture of the power and
influence of the Master on the hearts of the Chinese. Sam Coker was in charge of the music for the
service, and Dan LaFar read the scripture.

Dr. Richardson compared the promise of Christ to the Smyrna Church to His promise to the Chinese Christians of today,
“Be faithful to death, and I will give you a crown of life.” The speaker related countless incidents of heroism
and sacrifice on the part of believers in China who were faced with a renunciation of their faith or death.
The Church in China, he said, is by no means a perfect church, any more than the best church we
have in America is perfect, but it is just now coming up from the dark ages of heathenism, and its
achievements thus far are remarkable, giving evidence of the vast possibilities for human work in China. The fact that the
Chinese Church is a poor one in material resources, but rich in the graces of God, a persecuted church, a
loyal church, and a hopeful church were all brought out very forcefully by the speaker. He closed with a thrilling
narrative of his own experience in the war zone and his narrow escape with his life. Dr. Richardson said that
it would be useless to return to China with the idea of teaching philosophy, education, or ways of living, since
the Chinese have ways of thinking that are as deep and as natural as are our own, but as long
as the great message of the saving powers of Christ was needed in men’s lives, so would there be a
vital call to China.

CHANGES MADE IN CLASS SCHEDULES

Some very decided changes have been made in the schedule for next year. Breakfast hour will be five minutes earlier.
On Monday the schedule will be the same as this year with the exception that the recitation periods will start
ten minutes earlier. For the other days of the week chapel has been changed from 10:15 to 10:40 thus breaking
the four morning periods so that no student will have more than two straight recitation periods. This, together with the
changing of the dinner hour to 12:30, are perhaps the most important changes. The three R.O.T.C. periods have been changed
to the seventh periods on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. Laboratory periods will end at 3:05 on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Thus
with the exception of drills most of the students will get off their classes an hour earlier than they do
this year, as there will be only a few lecture courses in the sixth period. It is not yet determined
whether the new schedule is a success. Its success is based upon the approval of the students, and their ability
to take any course desired without a conflict. So far the students have been able to smooth out their conflicts
very nicely.

DR. LITTLE TO BE “Y” SPEAKER

Announcement has been made that Dr. Luther Little, pastor of the First Baptist Church, Charlotte, will be the speaker for
“Y” Vesper Services next Sunday evening. Dr. Little is one of the most noted and most eloquent pulpit men in
the Baptist Church. This is not his first visit to Davidson, as he has conducted services here prior to this
time. Many students will remember his last appearance with pleasure and a full house will be assured. In addition to
being well-known in his state and church, Dr. Little has gained a nation-wide reputation in his weekly sermons which are
broadcasted from Station WRBT, Charlotte. He is particularly noted for his illustrations and examples, with which his talks are replete.
Many have classed him as one of the most interesting and inspiring speakers in the entire South. Dr. Little is
the latest of a group of especially effective speakers, which the “Y” has procured for its Sunday night services on
the campus. His message will be clear, concise, brief, yet containing a depth of meaning which will require hours to
give it proper thought.

Soph Day Postponed

At the last minute all plans for Soph Day were postponed until a later date. A conflict has arisen in
the form of the freshman track meet here today, and in the execution of some plans which the Sophs had
in mind. Bob King, chairman of the Soph Day Committee, announced the change to the first-year men at chapel Wednesday.
There is no information as to the date to be chosen.
