Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN March 22, 1929

Wilmington Pastor “Better Than One’s Best” Topic of Dr. Gilmour’s Address

“An invasion will take place in America in which every minister, every legislator, and every doctor will be supplanted,” said
Dr. A. D. P. Gilmour, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Wilmington, Sunday night at “Y” Vespers. “That invasion,”
he continued, “is the invasion of the coming generation.”

Dr. Gilmour’s topic was “Better Than One’s Best,” and his text was taken from the story of Caleb, who in
his eighty-fifth year asked Joshua for the hardest work of driving the Canaanites from the Promised Land, and said, “If
so the Lord be with me, I shall drive them out.” Caleb was, Dr. Gilmour said, better than his best
at that time, because he did not count on his own strength.

In speaking of the rising generation, Dr. Gilmour said that since they are soon to take over the work of
the world, there is nothing so important as young boys and girls. Except for young people, he said, enthusiasm would
be almost entirely lacking in the work that is going on in the world today. The speaker brought out the
strong effect that our lives have on the lives of others. He said, “It’s good to know, better to do,
and best to be,” and because of this he said that we should try each day to make our lives
better.

Dr. Gilmour stressed the need in the rising generation of the spirit of doing better than one’s best, and in
closing gave an example of a college baseball player, who pitched better than his best for the memory of his
dead father. Dr. Gilmour said that each person should remember that the eyes of his Heavenly Father are upon him.

ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (Continued from page 1)

so one of the vice-presidents of the student body this year. Brohard is from Grafton, W. Va. He is a
member of the Phi Gamma social fraternity. W. B. Goodson is from Lincolnton, N.C. During his freshman year he made
his numerals in both basketball and baseball, serving as captain of the freshman quintet. This year he showed up well
on the varsity basketball team and was awarded a letter. Goodson is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social
fraternity. W. L. David proved his ability during his freshman year on the football team. This year David made his
letter as a varsity end, being rated as among the best in the state. His home is in Wilmington, N.
C.

“I am going down to the Adam and Eve Place. Want to go?” “Don’t know where it is.” “281 Apple.”
“Oh Henry, my back,” “Aw shut up—those jokes were all right before we were married.”

I've got a bug down Pictures Views and Events Satisfaction Guaranteed CALL KOOP 185-J Williamson House N. Main St.

Speaks at Vespers

Fry McConnell Receive Scholastic Honor

The above men recently accepted Phi Beta Kappa bids, when the spring bids were issued. A picture of L. D.
Kirkland, who also accepted a bid, was not available. These seven men, in addition to the fall elections, make thirteen
members of the student body that Phi Beta Kappa has elected this year.

Alumni Marriages

Miss Ruth Arrowood and Mr. Hugh G. Miller, Jr., both of Shelby, were recently married at the home of the
bride's parents, Rev. H. N. McDiarmid, ’11, performing the ceremony. Mr. Miller attended the Shelby High school, and came to
Davidson College in the class of 1928. He remained here until 1927. He is now connected with the First National
Bank in Shelby. After a wedding trip they will be on South Washington St., Shelby.

Andrews Speaks On Topic of Education Stresses the Value of a Vocation to Society

“We are all fellow workers in the field of inquiry,” said Mr. T. W. Andrews, in addressing a group of
students on “Education as a Profession” in Shearer Hall on March 11th. Mr. Andrews, a graduate of the University of
North Carolina, and member of Phi Beta Kappa, is superintendent of the city schools at High Point, N.C. He was
secured by the Vocational Guidance Institution to speak on the above subject. The substance of Mr. Andrews’ talk is as
follows:

The business of everybody is to get ahead in the world. In choosing a vocation one should consider three main
things. First, the value of your vocation to society. It is possible to choose a profession like that of “Shipwreck”
Kelley, the flagpole sitter, or it is possible for your profession to really be worth something to the world, as
that of Thomas Edison. Second, the value of your vocation to yourself. The financial gain, the pleasantness, and the distinction
it affords. Third, the chances it offers to get ahead in the world. Education amply fulfills these needs. Without it
we would have no society. Though it does not pay excessively high salaries, on the average it is a better
paid profession than law or medicine. The fact that some of the most outstanding men of the nation are college
professors shows that it also offers a chance for greatness. Education is a growing profession and one not overcrowded with
men. Formerly its sole purpose was sound scholarship. Now five other important items have been added: sound health, worthy home
membership, good citizenship, wise use of leisure time, and development of character. In conclusion: the ideal teacher should have the
four following qualifications: aptitude for putting oneself in another's place, an already accumulated wealth of knowledge, the power to invigorate
knowledge through his personality, and a willingness to be forgotten.

Good Showing Made By Rifle Team

The Davidson Rifle Team has shown up remarkably well in the competition of the past three weeks. The result of
the correspondence matches for the past four weeks is also good, nine matches being won and six lost. Considering the
competition, Davidson did well. Beginning this week, the five men having the highest scores will compete in the Hearst Trophy
Match. The five men selected hold the highest scores ever recorded for any five Davidson men.

Competitor Davidson Score Score Won Lost
February 23, 1929
Washington University 3392 3426 34
University of Illinois 3650 3426 224
Georgetown University 3411 3426 15
Lafayette College 3377 3426 49

March 2, 1929
Mississippi A. & M. 3640 3515 125
Rutgers University 3438 3515 77
Pennsylvania Military College 3714 3515 199
University of Idaho 3515 16
North Carolina State 3636 3515 121

March 9, 1929
University of Washington 2672 2673 1
Massachusetts Agricultural College1772 1849 77 Virginia Polytechnical Institution 3614 University of California 3534 3614 80 University of Kentucky 3614 March
16, 1929 Connecticut Agricultural College 1786 1874 88 Scores of the men who fired in the Hearst Trophy Match: 382
376 375 371 370

Professor Beatty Talks On “Luke’s Method” Ministerial Band

The subject of Prof. Beaty’s talk before the Ministerial Band on last Sunday afternoon was, “The Apostle Luke’s Method of
Dealing with Intellectual Difficulties in His Gospel.” The talk was of a practical nature, as have been other recent addresses
before the band. Many people these days pride themselves on their not reading the Bible and they leave it up
to the preacher to read it to them. This is the wrong attitude, for everybody should look for the facts
in the Bible for himself. Luke, in addressing his gospel to Theophilus, was writing to an immature Christian and one
who needed aid in confirming himself in Christianity. Luke undertakes to write to him a connected narrative that he might
be able to know the truth of the things he has heard. Luke’s aim was for Theophilus to get the
right knowledge. The worst enemies of Christianity are not out and out anti-Christians but those who think that it makes
no difference what a person believes. The former type can be fought straight from the shoulder but the latter cannot
be so treated. Some time ago some Anglican clergymen sought to throw out of the Scripture the stories which seemed
absurd to them. However, if we throw out what seems absurd to our minds we will throw out the best,
because to a rational mind the thought of the Resurrection is an absurdity. We have to take the Scripture on
faith. Luke also stressed a careful investigation as giving the self-evident facts. It takes a thinking man to get the
scientific facts. And in order for the congregation to really understand there must be an orderly account of facts. This
is the place where the importance of the preacher comes in. It is the object of the preacher to give
facts and along with these facts knowledge. Another point in Luke's method was an impartiality of facts. The Bible is
truth and truth cannot change. We must be true Christians to be real Christians; the Lord hates lukewarm ones. Mere
teachers in schools cannot give the ways of life. Mere learning is only fragmentary. It is the preacher who really
brings the way of life to the people out of the Bible.

Senators Learn

Columbus, O.—(CNA)—Senator V. D. Emmons of Akron, will be a member of a large party of junketing legislators who will
start on a trip January 31 to the University of Michigan and University of Illinois to study the educational systems
and programs there. The chairman of the education committees of the House and Senate, the chairman and vice-chairman of the
two finance committees, Allan G. Aigler, floor leader of the Senate; Speaker O. C. Gray and Lieut. Gov. John T.
Brown also will make the trip. The trip is to be financed by Ohio State University.

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There” Cars to Rent Special Rates for Long Trips HENDERSON AUTO CO. DAVIDSON,
N. C.

Alumni Deaths

John McDowell, member of the class of 1881, died at his home on the York road, near Charlotte, Saturday afternoon,
February 22nd, at the age of 70 years. Rev. J. M. Walker, '07, officiated at the funeral the following day.
Mr. McDowell was born in 1859 and entered Davidson from Charlotte in 1876. He was a member of the Philanthropic
Literary Society while here. The length of his stay at Davidson is not known, but he did not graduate. He
returned to his old home near Charlotte, where he remained until his death, taking a prominent part in the community.
He was an elder in the Steele Creek Presbyterian Church for 40 years, and clerk of the session for 30
years. He was at one time a member of the County Board of Education and had served as local school
committeeman. Friends throughout the South regretted to learn last week of the death of Mr. Ben R. Lacy, Sr., honorary
alumnus of Davidson, and father of Dr. Ben R. Lacy, ’06, of Richmond, Va., and Dr. T. A. Lacy, '23,
of Moyock, N. C. Relatives of other Davidson alumni who have died recently were C. R. Tuttle, brother of Dr.
R. G. Tuttle, ’09, (N. C. State College), of Winston-Salem; E. White, father of Ben White, '21, of Concord; and
John A. Hunter, brother of Dr. Wm. B. Hunter, ’07, of Gastonia.

King Arthur: “Pray, what is that horrible clanking?” Page: “Please, sire, 'tis only Sir Lancelot and the Queen on the
parlor sofa.”—Octapus.

Brown Bilt Shoe Store R. E. DeLapp, Mgr. Where Comfort, Style and Economy Meet MOORESVILLE, N.C.

EASTER GREETINGS SEND CANDY--IT IS ALWAYS APPRECIATED Drop in and Select From Our Supply We Will Take Your Order For
Flowers WHITE DRUG COMPANY MAKE OUR STORE YOUR STORE Sundries Soda
