x<« |THE DAVIDSONIAN “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” HAPPY NEW YEAR Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 12,
1929 No. 13

Dean Carroll of U.N.C. Advises Sound Business And Not Soft Sentiment
Tells of Problems Confronting Capitalist, Operator, and Wage-Earner

STOCK HOLDERS GREEDY
Loosening of Anti-Trust Laws to Force Co-operation May be Solution of Problem

“Sound business and not soft sentiment” is the most probable solution of the present period of unrest in the industries
of North Carolina and the South according to Dean I. D. Carroll, of the School of Commerce of the University
of North Carolina. Dean Carroll addressed an audience composed largely of economics students of Davidson at the Chambers auditorium Monday
night. He painted a vivid picture of the mill operator, a mere salaried man, squeezed on one side with a
desire to treat the laborers fairly in all ways and on the other side with the “bread and butter” proposition
of small stock holders clamoring for larger dividends, and the ever powerful problem of the consumers wanting the cheapest product
without scruples as to how and why it is so cheap.

Dean Carroll struck close to the heart of the whole problem. We, the consumers and the small stock owners in
our greediness and disregard, are in the large measure responsible for the trouble, while the fly-by-night pirates and buccaneers of
the industrial field with their exploitation of human labor under our noses complete the picture. It is a period of
unrest.

Delving into the sound economics of the proposition, he attempted to show the exact stages through which the rather critical
situation has arisen in the mills of our section. “We are now,” he stated, “going through a period of transition
from agricultural to industrial economy. It is a change from personal contacts to impersonal ones. No longer may the owner,
a man, or family be moved by the condition. Now, it is a time of wide ownership. The cold impersonal,
dividend-seeking ownership, is distant and cold to the condition of the wage earners, the laborers. Against this kind of ownership
there has grown up a feeling of unity in a common understanding of the risks of the wage earner. The
protection of the wage earner is negligible; he is merely a tool to be cast aside in times of bad
business conditions.

Coming back to the problem of the consumer, he said it was a well-known fact that without a market an
industry cannot exist. This market is a very competitive one. The man who gets the best goods on the market
at the cheapest price is sure to monopolize it. It is for this reason that, though some mills would render
the conditions more favorable for their employees, they cannot because their competitors will not do the same thing. It is
a matter of business and not sentiment. A slip, and bankruptcy would be the result.

To meet the ever-present demand for dividends and low-priced goods, the production costs must be lowered. The cost of raw
materials is fairly stable. It is the wages that suffer. Again, some factories will run longer shifts; a price saving
for them, yet a great hindrance toward any halfway settlement of the situation. A possible suggestion for such a situation
would be that of a slight loosening of the anti-trust laws to allow honest producers to form some sort of
a system of production, something to allow and practically force cooperation. This was once suggested by President Hoover. Even at
that the situation would not be especially bettered. Indeed the producer needs sympathy as does the wage earner. He is
being gradually squeezed by the small owners for bigger dividends and the consumers for lower prices. In the squeeze, unfortunately,
the wage earner gets the pressure. In brief, the producer and, indirectly, the wage earner are at the power of
the market.

CHRISTMAS HOUSE PARTY SPONSORED
College Program Heard Over WBT

On last Monday evening between 7 and 8 o'clock the Davidson glee club and orchestra presented its second program of
the year over station WBT of Charlotte. The program began at 7 o'clock, and was interrupted for fifteen minutes by
the National Broadcasting program, but was resumed at 7:30 and continued until 8 o'clock. Besides several selections by the glee
club the orchestra played a few popular numbers and a solo was sung by George Pardington. A feature of the
program was a comedy sketch by Joe McCall and Bruce “Sugg” in which they sung “Mississippi Mud” and “A Little
Bit More.” They also told a very amusing “bedtime story” for the benefit of the boys back at Davidson.

The following is the program which was given:
1. Every Day Away from You—Sunnyland Serenaders.
2. Vagabond Lover—Sunnyland Serenaders.
3. College Ties—Glee Club.
4. Creations Style—Beethoven—Glee Club.
5. Little Mother of Mine—George Pardington.
6. Comedy Sketch—Joe McCall and Bruce Sugg.
7. Winter Song—Bullard—Glee Club.
8. Miss Lucindy—Glee Club.
9. The Sand Man—Wildcat Quartet.
10. Satisfied—Sunnyland Serenaders.
11. Oh Davidson—Glee Club.

Plans are being formed for making direct connections between the station in Charlotte and the college making it possible for
programs to be broadcast directly from the main auditorium of Chambers. Many telegrams were received from alumni and friends of
the college, and numerous phone calls came in from various sections complimenting the College on its program. The Davidson College
Orchestra will broadcast on next Tuesday night, December 17, from seven to eight o'clock, from station WBT.

“Y” to Give Banquet For Freshman Class

The Freshman Class will be guests at a banquet and Christmas party given them Monday evening, December 16 by the
Y. M. C. A. in conjunction with the college administration. The affair will be held in the banquet hall of
Chambers Building and will begin promptly at eight-thirty o'clock. A program of many attractive features has been arranged, and it
is felt by those in charge that the entire evening will be a new and pleasurable experience in the social
life of Davidson.

It is the purpose of the Y. M. C. A. in its field of Freshman work to set a precedent
with this year’s banquet, so that in years to come the Christmas Banquet for first-year men will be an institution.
The plan is to weld the class as a body more closely to Davidson by providing this occasion for real
fellowship and display of college spirit. Christmas-tide seems to be the logical time for the banquet, since a meeting of
this nature coming just before the journey home for the holidays will no doubt leave a great feeling of attraction
for the college and for the students, and will give the participants something of definite college spirit to keep in
their thoughts.

The whole “Y” Cabinet is lending aid to the particular department of Freshman Work, headed by Zeb Long, and the
various committees for social work in the college faculty are in full cooperation with the project.

BY JUNIORS
Evening Entertainment in Chambers Auditorium to Feature Greensboro College Glee Club

As an act of initiating the holiday festivity period with a program conveying the Yuletide spirit, the Junior class of
Davidson College has elected itself as host to the rest of the entire student body in making elaborate preparations for
a brilliant Christmas weekend House-party, to be given on Saturday, December 14. C. H. “Dan” Goodykoontz, president of the Junior
class, and chairman of the committee arranging the entertainment plans, is asking the cooperation of every man in making this
party a success. “May I urge everyone to make plans to attend this festival. We are hoping to make it
an interesting one, and I wish to make an appeal to every student to invite his girl and to be
present at every phase of the program, which we hope to have made replete with enjoyment in every respect,” he
said.

President Goodykoontz also announced that the party will start with an entertainment, scheduled for Saturday afternoon, but not fully decided
upon. At 7 p.m., the evening ceremonies will begin with a performance to be given by the Greensboro College for
Women Glee Club, in the auditorium of Chambers building. Following this diverting entertainment, the audience will immediately convene in front
of the building at the Christmas tree, where “Santa Claus” will bestow upon each young woman, a Yule gift. The
program will conclude with a reception for the guests at the “Y” Social Center, at which time refreshments will be
served and more entertainment offered, Mr. Goodykoontz explained. Walter Fraley, F. M. Pridgen, R. M. King, and R. W. McCullough,
all Juniors, are assisting the chairman in preparing for the forthcoming party.

Football Schedule Announced| For 1930

At a meeting of the Athletic Council on last Monday afternoon, the football schedule for 1930 was announced and approved.
With the exception of one date, October 4, the schedule is complete. This game on October 4 will be played
on Richardson Field against a team of Davidson's own class. It will be noticed that there are five Southern Conference
teams and five smaller teams on the schedule. Four of these games will be played on Richardson Field, two in
Charlotte, and four at places farther away from the campus. Moreover, there is a slight possibility that Carolina will again
come to Davidson for the third consecutive year to make five home games. The 1930 schedule follows:

September 20—Elon, here.
September 28—N. C. State, Greensboro.
October 4—Pending, here.
October 11—Duke, Durham.
October 18—Citadel, Charlotte.
October 25—V. P. I., here.
November 1—V. M. I., Lexington.
November 8—Wofford, here.
November 15—U. N. C., Chapel Hill.
November 29—Wake Forest, Charlotte.

Phi Beta Kappa Men Honored At Banquet

Immediately following the Phi Beta Kappa lecture on last Friday evening, December 6, a most delightful banquet was given in
the banquet hall of Chambers in honor of the new men who were elected to this honor society. There were
thirty-five other guests attending the banquet including members of the faculty, their wives, and several others, among whom was Doctor
McGlothlin who delivered the lecture which preceded the banquet. Professor Erwin acted as toastmaster and short talks were made by
Dr. J. W. MacConnell, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gignilliat, Mr. Frank Brown, and Mr. Alexander. Mrs. E. W. Kimbrell was hostess
of the banquet.

N. C. Gamma of Phi Beta Kappa Takes In Eight New Men

Dr. McGothlin, President of Furman University, Delivers Feature Address on “Vital Scholarship”

On Friday, December 6, Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa held its annual public initiation rites in the auditorium of
New Chambers. It was also the occasion of the 153rd anniversary of Phi Beta Kappa, which was organized in 1776
at the College of William and Mary. Dr. J. W. MacConnell, of Davidson, opened the ceremony with a brief outline
of the history of Phi Beta Kappa and also of N. C. Gamma Chapter. Prof. K. J. Foreman then introduced
the four seniors and four alumni to whom bids had been issued. Those received into Gamma Chapter were: Frank R.
Brown, A. T. Edelman, J. B. Knox, and E. E. Marsh of the Class of 1930; the Rev. Frank Price,
U. S. Alexander, Prof. G. W. Gignilliat, and Rev. Norman Johnson of the Class of 1915.

Doctor MacConnell next introduced Dr. W. J. McGothlin, President of Furman University, and one of the great educators of the
South. Doctor McGothlin chose as the subject of his address “Vital Scholarship.” In beginning his address Doctor McGothlin paid quite
a tribute to Davidson, although this was his first visit on Davidson's campus. “Davidson is known as a strong, manly,
and aggressive institution. Davidson is recognized as a cultural college. I congratulate her.” Doctor McGothlin lamented the fact that in
a growing democracy, culture is giving way to materialism in all classes. “Men and women go to college not to
secure culture but to receive instructions in all vocations. From one side, culture seems to be fleeing; from the other
side it indicates great rise among the masses.” He also deplored that many are on the campuses of American colleges
only to enjoy the life and “prestige” which a college gives; yet the leadership of the nation of tomorrow is
on the campuses of the universities and colleges of America. “Perhaps,” he continued, “cultural colleges may be on the eve
of a great revival and expansion, for today men in all lines of work are demanding graduates of cultural colleges
rather than specialized students.”

“Our age has an undue number of critics. And,” said Doctor McGothlin, “we should let all research men have our
sympathy, as they suddenly might find something of vast importance.” In concluding his address Doctor McGothlin returned to Phi Beta
Kappa men. “They should have the disposition to appreciate the beauty and the truth. Phi Beta Kappa men face great
responsibility in their leadership of men.” Before the address of Doctor McGothlin a violin solo was given by Horace Erwin,
accompanied at the piano by Paul Fry.

Professor Davis Receives Degree

Prof. J. H. Davis, of the local Biology Department, passed the examination for his Ph.D. degree at the University of
Chicago last Saturday. He has been absent on leave for the purpose of standing this final test. Professor Davis received
his degree at the fall term convocation held at the University, December 10, and hence will return to Davidson a
full-fledged doctor of philosophy in Biology. Last summer, Professor Davis spent the school session in study at Chicago University, and
before the period was ended, had assumed a position as instructor in one of the departments there. Much of his
preparation for the degree was made at this university during the past two years. Professor Davis is a graduate of
Davidson in the class of 1924.

Nineteen Letters Given To Varsity Football Men For Past Season’s Work

McLean and Jonas Elected Varsity and Freshman Manager Respectively for Next Year

Nineteen varsity letters were awarded last week by the Davidson College Athletic Association. The nineteen letters included sixteen which were
given to regular playing members of the squad, one service letter for three years service on the squad, one letter
to the varsity manager, and a minor letter to the Freshman manager. Of the varsity letters awarded, five were given
to Seniors, six to Juniors, and five went to the Sophomore Class. This leaves the 'Cats with eleven letter men
back for next year.

At a recent meeting of the football lettermen, Walter Fraley was elected captain of the 1930 Davidson Wildcat football team,
and “Hub” Covington was elected alternate captain. At the same time Archie McLean was named varsity football manager, while Jas.
A. Jones was appointed Freshman manager for next year. Fraley calls the signals for the Wildcats on the offense and
backs up the line when on the defense. The Barium Springs boy is not of the flashy type of player
but is highly consistent at all times. Fraley ran the team in fine style all season and his work in
diagnosing plays and plugging up holes that might open in the forward wall was of the highest order. “Hub” Covington,
regular tackle, and alternate captain, was one of the mainstays of Tex Tilson's fighting line.

Those receiving the varsity letters were: Capt. Thad Brock, Barium Springs; Steve Brown, Mt. Ulla, and Jim Proctor, Lincolnton, ends;
Borneo Baker, Stoney Point, Bud Raker, Lexington, and “Hub” Covington, Red Springs, tackles; A. L. DeCamp, Boontown, N. J., Lad
Mills, Greenville, S. C., and Doc Mathis, Rural Hall, guards; Bill Mason, Kings Mountain, and Wilbur Milton, Thomasville, Ga., centers;
Walter Fraley, Barium Springs, quarterback; Red Parrish, Badin, Tom Brohard, Grafton, W. Va., and Joe McCall, Salisbury, halfbacks; and Don
King, Bristol, Tenn., fullback. Murray Christian, Mobile, Ala., was awarded a service letter; E. C. Close, Chattanooga, Tenn., was given
a varsity letter as manager, and S. Y. Cassells, of Montgomery, Ala., was awarded a minor letter as freshman manager.

Y. M. C. A. to Offer Christmas Theme

According to an old Davidson custom, the “Y” uses a Christmas theme for its Sunday night vesper service just before
the students leave for the holidays. This is planned to be the most beautiful program of the year with its
primary view of spreading over the campus the true Christmas spirit, that during this season the Christ came into the
world. It will be entirely a worship program with no speaker, but an impressive devotional service. Much special music will
be used including the Glee Club, which will render several Christmas songs; and a brass quartette, which will also add
to the interest of the service. It has been customary for the Davidson students to attend this vesper service en
masse and this year it should be of special interest, because this is the first Christmas service to be held
in New Chambers. This is the one Christmas service held in Davidson for the college students principally. Much effort has
been spent in making this program interesting as well as constructive and it is urged that all boys make especial
effort to attend. The townspeople are invited to join in this service and it is hoped that many of them
can be there.

WILDCATS VS. CATAWBA INDIANS

Students will have their first opportunity of seeing Monk Younger's varsity basketeers in action next Tuesday night at the local
gym when the Wildcats meet (Continued on page 4)
