Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN February 21, 1929

SUCCESSFUL TRIP MADE BY ‘Y’ GROUP
Seven Students Take Charge of All Sunday Services in Hickory Church

On Sunday, February 10, one of the most successful “Y” deputations that was ever sent from Davidson College held church services at the First Presbyterian Church of Hickory, N. C. This deputation consisted of seven Davidson men including the following: C. H. Mauzy, Jr., Aubrey Brown, Z. V. Long, Charlie Pratt, Bill Archie, Paul Fry, and C. C. Orr. These men were given complete charge of the church services for the day.

The deputation left Davidson Saturday and were very cordially received at a social given especially in their honor the same night. At Sunday School on the following morning, classes were taught by the Davidson men, talks were made before the congregation when they had assembled after classes, and special music was played. In the morning service, Z. V. Long and Aubrey Brown spoke. Two solos, a vocal and a violin, were rendered by Bill Archie and C. C. Orr, respectively.

In the afternoon, the classes of Sunday School Missions were taught by the Davidson men. The Christian Endeavor or Young People’s meeting at night was turned over to Charlie Pratt and Paul Fry, who made interesting talks and led the entire meeting.

On Monday morning the whole deputation went to the Hickory High School and conducted chapel services before the entire student body. Zeb Long led in prayer while C. C. Orr and Bill Archie played and sang some special musical selections. The speaker of the morning was C. H. Mauzy, Jr.

Wildcats Downed by U. of Va. Cavaliers
Virginia Keeps Lead Throughout Game; Calhoun Davidson High Scorer

In the fifth contest of their northern invasion, the Davidson Wildcats were defeated by the University of Virginia, 38 to 27. Having won two games and lost an equal number, the Wildcats opened the game with a rush and a determination to win. Calhoun sank a basket in the first two minutes of play to start the scoring. Virginia quickly took the lead, however, and held it throughout the remainder of the contest despite several rallies on the part of Davidson. Calhoun was the high scorer for the Wildcats, piling up a total of nine points. The game was rather slow as the “Cats” were too worn out to play their best brand of ball. Many substitutions were made on both sides.

Summary:
Davidson GF P
Pritchett, f 1 0 2
Sipe, f 0 0 0
Matheson, f 0 0 0
Calhoun, c 4 1 9
Shepherd, g 0 0 0
Rusk, g 2 0 4
Crawford, g 0 0 0
Vornholt, g 0 0 0
Moore, g 0 0 0
Goodson, g 0 0 0
Totals 7 1 15

Virginia GF P
Ely, f 3 0 6
Kops, f 1 0 2
Goldsmith, f 0 0 0
Millen, c 3 1 7
Belaval, c 0 0 0
Vogel, g 0 0 0
Stoudemire, g 2 1 5
Roberts, g 0 0 0
Boyton, g 0 0 0
Hancock, g 2 0 4
Totals 11 2 24

My, you need a haircut. Stop at Norton Bros. and get a real College haircut. He has three real barbers.
NORTON BROS. in Postoffice block—Three first-class workmen

Millen led for Virginia with 7 points.

Cats Outclassed by Washington and Lee
Generals Swamp Visitors in Largest Davidson Defeat—55-26

In a hard-fought contest on February 14, the Washington and Lee Generals ran wild to defeat the Davidson College Wildcats, 55 to 26. This came as the second and most disastrous defeat that the “Cats” experienced on their Northern invasion. The game, which was played in Lexington, Virginia, was the fourth of a series of six games—three of which the Wildcats won and three of which went to their opponents.

At one time early in the game, the Wildcats were on even terms with the Generals and at the end of the first period, the score was 10-10. But the half finished with the Generals on the front end of a 22-10 count and from then on they were never headed. Lowry, Cox, and Williams led the scoring for the Virginians, tallying, respectively, 22, 14, and 12 points; while Rusk, Calhoun, and Pritchett were the leading scorers for the invaders.

The Wildcats fought gamely throughout the contest but their guarding and teamwork could not withstand the victorious onslaught of the Generals.

Summary:
Davidson GF P
Calhoun, c 3 0 6
Pritchett, f 2 2 6
Shepherd, f 0 0 0
Rusk, g 4 0 8
Goodson, g 0 1 1
Vornholt, g 0 0 0
Watson, g 0 0 0
Totals 9 3 21

W. and L. GF P
Lowry, f 10 2 22
Cox, f 7 0 14
Williams, c 0 0 0
Bippin, g 0 0 0
Hinson, g 0 0 0
Wood, g 0 0 0
Mann, g 0 0 0
Totals 17 2 36

WILDCAT BASKETEERS (Continued from page 3)
Moore, 4
Goodsoll, 0
Lynchburg GF P
Clark, f 3 0 6
Nus, f 3 1 7
Twine, g 0 0 0
Portnoy, g 0 0 0
Damon, g 0 0 0
Harding, g 0 0 0
Totals 6 1 13

Volleyball Tourney To Be Held Feb. 24
Only Six Men to be Allowed on Each Team

The volleyball tournament, which is part of the interclass athletic competition, will be held Wednesday afternoon, February 27 at 4:00 p.m. Captain N. G. Pritchett will be in charge of all of the inter-class contests. The games will be played according to official rules. A copy of these regulations can be seen at Captain Pritchett’s office. In an official game, only six men are allowed on a team. It has been requested that the president of each class urge the students to get up a team and that the president be responsible for a team on the court Wednesday afternoon.

Boxing Tournament To Start Tomorrow
Finals Will be Run off on Monday Afternoon

Now is the time for all good men to come to the aid of their classes in the inter-class boxing tournament. Tomorrow is the date of the tournament. On Monday, the finals will be held. The winners will score ten points for their classes and receive a metal charm with the figures of two boxers superimposed on them. The second place winners will score five points for their classes, the third placers, three, and the men who come in fourth will score one point for the honor of their classes. All bouts will last three one-minute rounds.will be run on the official intercollegiate rules with the exception of the length of the rounds. These rules differ from the professional rules in several things, a few of which are the barring of the “rabbit” punch and the kidney punch, a clause which permits a man to move out of striking distance instead of sending him to a corner after he has floored his opponent, and the weight of the gloves. The bout will be fought with the official 12-ounce gloves. The fighters will be weighed in on Thursday, and any that fail to make their weights will be allowed to weigh in on Friday. 

Lambert, Wabash, will be the referee. 

In preliminary bouts, Davidson Frosh defeated Lynchburg Frosh 31-17.

JUNIOR SPEAKING
(Continued from page 1)

the Entertainment Committee. Saturday afternoon, March 23, there will be the annual Davidson State High School Track meet. Teams from all parts of the state have already signaled their intentions of entering this competition, which should be great. Immediately following the track meet, the Junior Class will entertain the entire student body at a picture show in the Davidson Theatre. This show will be one of the latest out and will be the first time shown in this section of the country. Saturday night, starting soon after supper, the “Junior Follies” will be staged. It will be remembered that this show was postponed before Christmas on account of the influenza epidemic. The talent for the show will come in great degree from the Junior Class, assisted by the Glee Club and orchestra. Immediately after the Follies in Shearer Hall, the orchestra will stage an entertainment in Mooresville. This program will be subject to change by any one of the committees but is the present arrangement for Junior Speaking.

Dr. Brown Talks on International Debts
Club Discusses Advisability of Sending Delegate to World Conference

On Friday night, the International Relations Club held its regular meeting at which the feature of the evening was a talk by Dr. C. K. Brown on the subject, “Foreign Loans Between the United States and England.” Basing his entire address on England’s financial standing in comparison with that of the United States, he admitted that Great Britain surpasses this country in making loans and added that there is no reason why she should not pay her war debt. Following the program, the matter of the International Conference of the International Relations Club was discussed. This will be held in Europe and there is a possibility that the local club will send a delegate.

RIFLE TEAM
(Continued from page 1)

Support from the student body will help Davidson to prove its right to the distinguished rating among other R. O. T. C. units. Members of the present team in the order of their scores as made in the Gallery Match ending February 16, are as follows: Greyer, C. P.; Long, W. M.; Bradley, J. E.; Thompson, W. C.; Brock, J. L.; Calder, D. G.; Russel, R. D.; Hughes, J. G.; Hall, T. H.; Wiley, S. S.

LEARN THE PIANO IN TEN LESSONS
TENOR-BANJO OR MANDOLIN IN FIVE LESSONS

Without nerve-racking, heart-breaking scales and exercises. You are taught to play by note in regular professional chord style. In your very first lesson, you will be able to play a popular number by note.

Send For it on Approval

The “Hallmark Self-Instructor” is the title of this method. Eight years were required to perfect this great work. The entire course with the necessary examination sheets is bound in one volume. The first lesson is unsealed which the student may examine and be his own “JUDGE and JURY.” The later part of the “Hallmark Self-Instructor” is sealed. Upon the student returning any copy of the “Hallmark Self-Instructor” with the seal unbroken, we will refund in full all money paid. This amazing Self-Instructor will be sent anywhere. You do not need to send any money. When you receive this new method of teaching music, deposit with the Postman the sum of ten dollars. If you are not entirely satisfied, the money paid will be returned in full, upon written request. The Publishers are anxious to place this “Self-Instructor” in the hands of music lovers all over the country and are in a position to make an attractive proposition to agents. Send for your copy today. Address The “Hallmark Self-Instructor” Station G, Post Office, Box 111, New York, N. Y.

Faith in the economic future still points the way. Right now men in the Bell System are planting the seeds of vast possibilities for even better communication. Out of the belief that the public needs a broader use of the telephone is growing a constantly improved long-distance telephone service. Like the railroads of an earlier day, this service is now tapping and helping to develop rich new territories of commerce.

BELL SYSTEM
A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones

"Our pioneering work has just begun."