Page Four > THE DAVIDSONIAN

Examination Schedule Season 1928-29 Second Semester

NOTE:—No Classes after 11:30 A.M. Examinations Begin 9:00 A.M. May 23rd. P.M. Examinations Begin 2:00 P.M.

MAY

FRESHMAN | SOPHOMORE | JUNIOR

A.M. English 1 | English 2 | English 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
P.M. Biology 2 | Biology 2 | Biology 3, 4, 5, 6

A.M. R.O.T.C. 1 | R.O.T.C. 2 | R.O.T.C. 3, 4; Psychology 4
SAT. Chemistry 1 | Chemistry 2 | Chemistry 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
P.M. Business 1 | Economics 1 | Psychology 3

MON. A.M. History 1 | History 2 | History 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7
P.M. German 1 | German 2 | German 3, 4

TUES. A.M. German 1; Greek 1 | Greek 2 | Greek 3, 5, 6
P.M. Physics 1 | Physics 2 | Physics 3, 4, 5; Philosophy 3

WED. A.M. Economics 2; Education 2 | Bible 4, 5 | Math. 2; Math. 3, 4; Polit. Sc. 3; Psyc. 2; Education 1; Business 1; Geology 4; App. Math. 1, 2
P.M. Spanish 1 | Spanish 2 | Spanish 3, 4, 5, 6, 7

THURS. A.M. Phys. & Hygiene | Public Speaking | Philosophy 13; Business 23
P.M. Polit. Sc. 4; Economics 4; Psychology 1 | Geology 3; Polit. Sc. 1

FRI. A.M. French 1 | French 2 | French 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
P.M. Latin 2 | Economics 3; Geology 2; Education 4; Philosophy 2; Psychology 1

SAT. A.M. Bible 1 | Bible 2 | Astronomy; Geology 1; Bible 3; Pub. Speak. 2; Philosophy 4

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE—SENIORS ONLY Second Semester Season 1928-29

P.M. Examinations Begin 2:00 P.M. A.M. Examinations Begin 9:00 A.M.

MAY

SAT. A.M. Economics 3; Geology 2; Education 4; Philosophy 2; Psychology 1; Math. 4
P.M. Geology 3; Political Science 1; Education 3

MON. A.M. Philosophy 1; Business 2; Political Science 4; Economics 4
P.M. Political Science 3; Psychology 2; Education 1; Business 1; Geology 4; Applied Mathematics 1, 2

TUES. A.M. Astronomy; Geology 1; Bible 3; Public Speaking 2; Philosophy 4
P.M. Philosophy 3; Political Science 2; Public Speaking 3; Sociology

WED. A.M. Economics 2; Education 2; Mathematics 3; Bible 4, 5
P.M. Spanish; French

THURS. A.M. History; Chemistry
P.M. English; Physics

FRI. A.M. Biology; German; Greek
P.M. R.O.T.C.; Psychology 4

SAT. A.M. Business 3; Economics 1; Psychology 3

NOTE: Courses not shown on schedule to be arranged by conference.

Foreman Speaker At Senior Smoker On Friday Night

Refreshments Served and One-Act Play Presented by Dramatic Club

To the accompaniment of yells for the class of '29, the Seniors had a smoker at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel last Friday night. Besides a majority of the members of the Senior class, there were three visitors present: M. C. O'Neal, Prof. K. J. Foreman, and W. E. Milton. Camper O'Neal gave the invocation and the Class sang "College Ties." For refreshments, sandwiches, cakes, and punch were served, and cigars were passed around. A number of songs were sung by the entire class and P. B. Frye gave some special selections at the piano. W. C. Archie completed the musical part of the program with a solo. R. Z. Johnson, J. D. McCall, and J. S. Meacham, members of the Dramatic Club, presented a one-act comedy skit which was very amusing. Professor Foreman, the speaker of the evening, was then introduced. He took for the subject of his talk the familiar Mother Goose rhyme:

"Peter, Peter, pumpkin eater,
Had a wife and couldn't keep her,
Put her in a pumpkin shell,"

Professor Foreman explained the theme of the rhyme and its different applications. He gave a very interesting and amusing talk on this unique subject. With the singing of "O, Davidson," and "College Ties," the smoker ended. One more informal gathering is planned for sometime before commencement.

Heefner President Of Reporters Club

At the meeting of the Reporter's Club at seven p.m. last Monday night, the newly elected members went through a solemn initiation and new officers were elected. The new members were initiated unanimously, while Heefner won over C. H. Dubose and R. W. McDermid. The retiring officers were J. L. Ely, President; R. W. McDermid, Vice-President; and E. S. Heefner, Secretary and Treasurer. Fourteen freshmen and two sophomores were initiated into the club. As there was no business, the meeting was adjourned at 7:30.

McGavock Selected As Senior Officer

W. G. McGavock was elected Secretary and Treasurer of next year's class on the first ballot last Friday morning. The candidates nominated were W. G. McGavock, D. E. Yow, R. W. McDermid, J. W. Moore, and S. R. Coker. McGavock is a very active and popular man on the campus. He is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity and is a very active member on the annual staff. McGavock is also a member of the Davidson track team. This completes the election for next year’s Senior class. The following men have been elected as the officers for the Senior class next year: W. B. McGuire, President; A. H. Whittle, Vice-President; and W. G. McGavock, Secretary and Treasurer. The other officers were elected at earlier dates, the election for Secretary and Treasurer having been postponed until last Friday.

394 Students Have Now Re-Registered

Up to the present time, only 394 men have re-registered for next year’s courses. According to Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, a total of about 430 of the old men are expected.to sign up. As yet, there are still fifty-one undergraduates who have failed to re-register. Some of these are away on the baseball team while there are others who will not return to school this fall. A few more are coming in daily and arranging their courses for the next term. Already there have been 120 new men whose applications as members of the Freshman class have been accepted. If the expected number of old men sign up, only about a hundred more new men will be admitted or approximately 225 in all. This will make a total of around 650 men at Davidson next fall.

CURRENT COMMENT

In Czechoslovakia, the tariff on autos is already about 41 percent and efforts are being made to raise the tariff even higher to make it harder for foreign producers to compete with domestic factories. The principal American cars imported there last year were Packard, Cadillac, Chrysler, Ford, and Chevrolet trucks.

In Mukden, Manchuria, a large factory will soon open for the production of “Chinese Dragon” and “Baby Dragon” automobiles. These cars will probably correspond closely to the British Austins and Baby Austins. The factory will be the largest of its kind in the East.

The Leaning Tower of Pisa, which has for centuries rested on a rather unstable base, will soon have a safer foundation. It is planned to inject cement through tubes to the foundation of the tower to prevent it from sinking any more.

Airplane production is beginning to become more specialized. There are now four general classes of planes: (1) small planes for short trips, and slightly larger sport planes, (2) larger closed planes, coupes, sedans, etc., (3) limited commercial planes, and (4) great transports.
—J. L. Brown.

STUDENT

At the beginning of the meeting, the constitution was read to them. The new officers who were elected are E. S. Heefner, President; W. C. Ragin, Vice-President; and J. V. D. Middleton, Secretary and Treasurer.

BRICKS MOORESVILLE DE LUXE ICE CREAM at CONES T STORE CUPS ICE CREAM CO.

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There” Cars to Rent Special Rates for Long Trips HENDERSON AUTO CO. DAVIDSON, N. C.

’Twas always thus: “The children now love luxury, they have bad manners, contempt for authority, they show disrespect for elders, and love chatter in place of exercise. Children are now tyrants, not the servants of their households. They no longer rise when elders enter the room. They contradict their parents, chatter before company, gobble up dainties at the table, cross their legs, and tyrannize over their teachers.”—Socrates.

Youth ends when the sons of classmates start coming to college. One means to be bright and cordial, but receiving these young gentlemen is quite as depressing as finding tucked away in the attic an old belt that in days gone by used to go all the way around.
—Wesleyan University Alumnus.

The benefit of a college education comes to light through the Chicagoan who executed a football tackle on a hold-up man and turned him over to the police.
—Pittsburgh Post-Gazette.

The latest educational venture in Southern California is a “commuters’ school.” Several educational institutions in that region have combined to offer courses to suburbanites for study while traveling to and from their work. The next logical step in this direction is the institution of college professors as conductors on these trains.
—The Daily Maroon, Chicago.

The human brain is a wonderful organ. It starts working the moment we get up in the morning and doesn’t stop until we get to class.
—Anonymous.

Among all the accomplishments of youth, there is none preferable to a decent and agreeable behavior among men, a modest freedom of speech, a soft and elegant manner of address, a graceful and lovely deportment, a cheerful gravity and good humor, with a mind appearing ever serene under the ruffling accidents of human life.
—Isaac Watts.

Friend—What did you do when you found out your husband was leading a double life?
Wife—I redoubled.

First Cook—What do you do with yourself now since the ice man is out of a job?
Second ditto—Well, the man who collects installments on the electric refrigerator ain’t such a bad sort.

An all-seeing Providence has come to humorists. Just as Coolidge retired to private life, a Mexican revolution started.

Captain (in shipwreck)—Women and children first.
Mate—Yes, but which are the women?

Call me a doctor.
Why?
I’ve just graduated from medical school.

A dad writes: When better money is made, my son at college will write home for it.

Game Warden—Huntin’?
They—Nope—golfin’!

Old Mountaineer—I never thought Steve’s boy would amount to nothin’ but he shot a revenuer today.

Aristocracy

Hi-hat (just back from shooting in Scotland)—We had some wonderful shooting!
Dim-wit—Oh, yes! What’d ya shoot?
Hi-hat—Mostly pheasants.
Dim-wit—They certainly do give the lower classes a rotten deal over there.

Och, Aye!

Haughty English Lord—I should think it sufficiently significant that in Scotland, oats are eaten by men, while in England they are fed to horses.
Young Scotch—Right. An’ that accounts for the fine horses in England and the fine men in Scotland, no doubt.

There Ought to be a Law

Store-keeper—How many times have we kissed tonight?
Her—Twice. Remember when I had to answer the door-bell.

Service

The Baron—Tell the sliding trombone player to blow in this direction—my soup is too hot.

TENNIS BALLS - 50 cents each $9 per dozen
GOLF BALLS - 50 and 75 cents each

The Students’ Store

IT’S YOURS, WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT? Make This Store Your Headquarters

And there he kept her very well.

CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE S&W Cafeterias are catering to you ATLANTA ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

Printed and Embossed ENGRAVED PERSONAL CARDS Reverend Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. Charlotte, N. C.

STATIONERY Brown Stationery Note Books New Records Every Week Fountain Pens Magazines Superior Soda Service W. S. HENDERSON Davidson, N. C.