THE DAVIDSONIAN, AUGUST 30, 1929

SIDE LINE SHOTS: How Monk Younger’s Gridpot Looks
By “Felix”

As the wheel turns round to another fall of the year, expectant eyes of hundreds of Davidsonians, past, present, and
future, focus themselves upon the turf of Richardson Field and eagerly watch the developments there. The reason for this intense
interest is easy to explain. Once again, that veteran of many battles, the one and only Monk Younger, is drilling
his gridmen in an effort to shove the Red and Black a little higher up the ladder of collegiate football
fame. Monk explains the mysteries of the forward pass, the side step, and the punt to his prospective backs, while
at the other end of the field his colleague, “Tex” Tilson, line coach extraordinaire, encourages his aspiring cohorts to hit
’em low. And supporters everywhere wait to see just what that Red and Black machine will do to uphold the
fighting traditions of the past.

Nobody expects Monk or Tex to say anything about their footballers, and the “touchdown twins” have run true to form
this season by hiding away at mountain camps and saying less than a cigar store Indian. Monk did break down
last week and confide that he thought the morning was the cream of the whole day; to wit: football practice
at 8 a.m., beginning September 2. And Tex admitted that the Carolina hills had given him some brand new ideas
for grass drill, which is such an attractive feature of his early training period. Beyond these two declarations—nil.

Pre-season dope broadcast by that eminent columnist, Mr. Ernest Milton, has thrown many followers of the Wildcat into a state
of nervous agitation, and well it might, for the sad tale of four letter men only is nothing to consider
lightly with Clemson, Army, and others in the offing. However, there is always sunshine to a dark cloud, and in
this case, the reference is to a large crop of very promising sophomores, all of whom tip the beam at
considerably more than the average Wildcat of the past two seasons. As things look now, the line of this 1929
eleven will be heavy enough to stand considerable shock, and we believe that it will gain strength with every contest.
To be brief, we prefer to cast our lot with the prophets of optimism and say that things are not
so bad as they seemed at first.

Fortune took occasion to smile upon her Davidson interests when she sent Captain Arthur Baker, tackle and captain of last
year’s eleven, back for another campaign, and then close behind came Andy Hewlette, one of the old guard for fair.
Both are better men, and therefore become objects of curiosity on the local campus. So Monk now can boast of
six bona fide veterans. Carolina has only seventeen this fall, a really pitiful number to Chuck Collins, Tar Heel mentor.

Dame Fortune smiled again when she sent Captain Arthur Baker, tackle and captain of last year’s eleven, back for another
campaign, and then close behind came Andy Hewlette, one of the old guard for fair. Both are better men, and
therefore become objects of curiosity on the local campus. So Monk now can boast of six bona fide veterans. Carolina
has only seventeen this fall, a really pitiful number to Chuck Collins, Tar Heel mentor.

Younger’s Wildcat Team Facing Heavy Schedule
Five Clashes to Take Place on Richardson Field—Wildcats Meet Army

With the meeting of Elon in the opening tilt of the grid season on September 21, the Wildcats will begin
a card containing some of the most strenuous assignments ever faced by Davidson gridiron warriors. No one of the ten
contests scheduled can be classed as a setup, while several of the outfits that mix with the Cats are slated
as real contenders for southern and national honors in this fall's football scramble. With five southern conference teams to be
met, two S.I.A.A. outfits, and one intersectional tilt in New York, the Red and Black machine will be facing a
schedule that is extremely hard. Clemson, V.M.I., N.C. State, N.C., and Duke University are southern conference teams, and U.S. Military
Academy furnishes the intersectional clash. The Wildcats are expected to handle the Elon warriors, but the early date of this
opening game makes the engagement anything but an over-confident manner from the Wildcat's standpoint. Last season Davidson was triumphant by
52-0, but Younger is not letting his men take this as any manner of omen, and the team will trot
onto Richardson Field in anything but an over-confident manner.

Pre-season dope from the camp of Josh Cody’s Clemson Tigers indicates that a football team comparable to the powerful Tiger
aggregation of last season will represent the South Carolina school. Davidson’s 6-0 defeat at the hands of Clemson last year
was the outstanding performance of the local team. Clemson is dated to meet the Cats on Wearn Field at Charlotte
on September 28.

The Wofford Terrier, next on the Davidson calendar, is expected to be slightly weaker than the speedy

Monk Younger
He is head coach at Davidson and directs the backfield maneuvers.

HOME-COMING DAY CROWD
Davidson-Carolina—Nov. 17, 1928

1929 Football Schedule
Sept. 21—Elon at Davidson.
Sept. 28—Clemson at Charlotte.
Oct. 5—Wofford at Spartanburg, S.C.
Oct. 12—Army at West Point, N.Y.
Oct. 19—The Citadel at Davidson.
Oct. 29—Wake Forest at Greensboro.
Nov. 2—V.M.I. at Davidson.
Nov. 9—N.C. State at Raleigh.
Nov. 16—Carolina at Davidson (Home-Coming).
Nov. 28—Duke at Davidson (Thanksgiving).Wofford outfit that meted out a 7-0 defeat for the Cats a year ago. This game
is played in Spartanburg, S.C. The most optimistic followers expect them to hold the powerful Army team in subjection to
the extent of winning a victory on October 12 at West Point. The Cadets are always a dangerous contender for
national honors, and this year’s eleven, led by the redoubtable Cagle, is ranked high among leaders. This clash will mark
the first time the two teams have met on the gridiron.

Last year, both The Citadel and the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest romped over the Wildcats to win by unexpectedly
high counts. Little information has leaked out of either camp as to their football prospects and the Cats' ability to
retaliate for last year’s defeats. Citadel comes to the local field, while the Baptists are met in Greensboro at the
Memorial Stadium.

Report has it that V.M.I. will again be represented by a strong team. Although the Flying Squadron will be minus
the invaluable services of Ab Barnes, the Phantom Halfback, the V.M.I. followers are not losing any sleep over prospects for
the coming season. Playing on a wet field last fall, the Cadets eked out a 13-0 win over a scrapping
Davidson bunch. Richardson Field is the scene of action this year.

N.C. State, Carolina, and Duke will be met on successive weekends to wind up the season. Each of these conference
teams is admitted to have the material to cause lots of trouble in the conference. The Carolina-Davidson mix-up will again
be the big attraction for the Davidson Homecoming crowd. The annual Thanksgiving clash with Duke will terminate the Wildcat season.
The Blue Devils come here.

Capt. N.G. Pritchett
Davidson Director of Athletics and Physical Education

Thad Brock New Leader For Davidson Gridmen
Barium Springs Boy Elected When Harper Fails to Return to College

It will be Capt. Thad Brock when the Davidson College Wildcats open their 1929 football season. This end, who developed
a state-wide reputation during the 1928 football playing, was chosen alternate captain by his teammates this spring, Henry Y. Harper,
guard, being selected to lead this eleven this fall. However, Harper will study medicine at Vanderbilt University and will not
be back in a Wildcat uniform. He graduated from Davidson last June but had played only one year as a
varsity member and would have been eligible this season. Therefore, it will be Captain Brock.

Although this Barium Springs boy made his debut as a varsity player last fall and will be playing his second
year this season, his outstanding ability on the gridiron won the admiration and confidence of his colleagues, and they conferred
upon him the honor of alternate captain. Incidentally, it will be the first time in many years that a junior
has led a Davidson College eleven. Brock’s stellar performance in 1928 led to his selection by a number of sports
writers as an all-state end. His most effective work was done on the defense, though he shows tendencies on the
offensive. Last fall, he was called upon to perform in the backfield when punting was to be done, and he
frequently hurled passes to ends or backs.

Charlie’s Old Luck To Help Wildcats

Charlie, the colored trainer and guardian angel of Wildcat teams for many years past, dropped into the office of The
Davidsonian with a message of cheer and good wishes for the new football machine of Coach W.L. Younger. Davidson men
have watched with keen interest the efforts of “Doctor” Charlie to promote winning Davidson teams. He is a leather-lunged rooter
at all athletic contests, his lusty yells and shouts of exhortation resounding to all corners of the field, and it
is no secret that Charlie places a great amount of faith in his beloved rabbit feet. Tradition says that Charlie
must bury the rabbit feet under the goal posts before every football game if victory is to visit the camp
of the Wildcat.

“Yes, suh, we is bound to have a real team this fall—in fact, we jest got to have a good
team with Army and the rest of ‘em coming on. Some folks thinks we ain’t got so much, but I
know better—fact is, I wouldn't be surprised if we turn up as good a team as won the championship. They
say you got to get rabbit feet from every corner of the country to make your luck hold out, an’
believe me, I has been to every fork of the roads—people has even been sendin’ ’em to me, an’ everything
looks dandy. I’ll be right in there rubbin’ the boys down after practice and pullin’ harder than ever. Jest trust
Mr. Younger and Mr. Tilson.”

Freshman Coach

Flake (Red) Laird, Former Davidson Star, Will Assume the Responsibility of Training the First Year Men.
