THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 5, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

ZEB V. LONG, Jr. .................. Editor-in-Chief
H. McCALL .......................... Managing Editor
B. BUAGG .......................... Managing Editor
J. W. McCUTCHAN ................. Feature Editor
W. C. RAGIN ....................... Feature Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN .................. Associate Editor
J. F. PRESTON ..................... Associate Editor
R. F. JARRATT ..................... Associate Editor
C. M. PRATT ....................... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. A. CANNON ..................... Asst. Bus. Mgr.
L. L. BOYD ......................... Subscription Mgr.
J. B. BAKER ....................... Solicitor
J. H. CONWAY ..................... Solicitor
J. H. SEVIER ....................... Solicitor
E. S. RUNYAN ..................... Solicitor
W. C. RAGIN ....................... Vice-President
D. MIDDLETON .................... Secretary-Treasurer
J. G. BERRY
C. G. PEPPER
C. MATTHEWS
J. G. DUNKLIN
W. S. LE
C. W. F. S
D. O. STEPHENSON
W. T. HANCOCK
A. H. WHITEHEAD
JOHN M. BROWN
R. F. NORTON
G. P. PARDINGTON
N. B. DICKS
MATTHEWS, W. H.
BIRD, A. R.

DECEMBER 5, 1929

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

It’s hard to find anything but football to talk about these days. Seldom has Davidson been so stirred as by that smashing, thrilling, dope-scattering victory over Duke’s Blue Devils. That game was a tonic to the entire college and all its connections. All history is not made in the halls of Congress. That fact was shown in amazing fashion by Captain Brock as he streaked down Richardson Field on his 102-yard dash. Brock is All-Southern material if any exists at all. Davidson extends her appreciation to her fighting football team—a squad with spirit unequaled and unchallenged.

Now is the time to study. Those low grades must come up, and the task is one for the individual alone. The new social center room in Phi Hall is a wonderful place for student gatherings. Why not go down and get that old feeling of “Hail, Fellow, Well Met”? Remember that real enjoyment of Christmas will be enhanced by a feeling of college duties well done. Bear down.

FRESHMAN SEATING

It seems to us that a very good improvement could be made with regard to the present seating restriction of the freshmen in chapel. For years it has been the custom for the first-year men to keep their seats until all upperclassmen have cleared the room. This rule has been followed with varying degrees of attention.

When chapel services were held in old Shearer Hall, the inconvenience of the seating and the lack of space made it advisable to require the freshmen to retain their seats for a few minutes. Much disorder was avoided in this way. Now, however, no such restriction of space is evident, the new auditorium affording ample room for the efficient conduction of chapel. The rule remains in force merely as a measure designed to place restriction upon the new men, and its practical value is to be questioned.

During the present year, there has been a very noticeable tendency on the part of the freshmen to begin leaving before the upperclassmen are even well on their way. In this respect, the rule is not strictly enforced. Every morning, there are numerous meetings of classes or of clubs which are hampered by waiting for the freshmen to leave. Often the familiar shouts of “Out frosh” resound through the hall, and nearly every day there is a useless uproar in connection with the freshman exodus.

Just to bring about a little more order and to facilitate the conduction of the business matters which always follow chapel proper, we would suggest that the new men be allowed to arise and depart along with the rest of the student body. If the need of some restriction is still felt, then let them be required to pass out the north aisle, leaving the hall by means of the double door directly behind the freshman section. Such a provision as the latter would retard the movement of the body enough to prevent a stampede and consequent obstruction of the exit of the older men. At any rate, the hall could be cleared much more quickly and all business of students concluded with much more dispatch and convenience.

Y. M. C. A. DEPUTATIONS

The Y. M. C. A. at Davidson College has always played an important part in the lives of students here, some of the evidences of which are more tangible than others. By sponsoring the Vesper service and various evangelical services, the “Y” has become a vital element in the makeup of Davidson and all its many phases. More and more the student body as a whole is realizing this fact and contributing in different ways to the advancement of this organization on the campus and in neighboring communities.

One phase of the local “Y” that is more recent in nature and which bids fair to be one of its outstanding features is that one embodied in student deputations. This department has been in existence for quite a while and has not failed to render much active and well-directed service here and in adjoining towns and cities, but only in the past few years have leaders in this realized the vast field that lies open for work of such a nature. As this fact has become more and more in evidence, steps have accordingly been taken to develop this branch and give it a place of equal or greater rank among the other activities of the “Y.”

Students have really made the “Y” here the Davidson College Y. M. C. A. The great majority of the student body will have taken some active part in this kind of work when they finish at Davidson; this may have been in Vesper services, Chapel exercises, or many other similar activities. However, even with such a development of the student element in this organization, there is room left for furthering this and making it very easy for each and every man in the student body to benefit from such a service, and this possibility lies in the progress of student deputations.

The opportunity for service in this field is open to all because of the varied nature of different deputations. Scarcely ever will a week pass that at least one deputation will not go out, offering a chance for several boys to work in young people’s meetings, church services, musical programs or some form of meeting similar to these, and if these chances are taken advantage of a mutual benefit will be reaped by all that will not be forgotten in a long time.

Davidson offers to all a wonderful chance for mental, physical, social and moral betterment, with sufficient stress laid on all, but there is a tendency to take advantage of the first three before earnestly considering what we have done for our moral uplifting. A well-rounded education will embrace all four of these elements, but to take advantage of the opportunity to develop only some of them will sometimes be a deep regret in the lives of all who do this. In considering and attending the advancement of deputations to a place of importance here at Davidson, the Y. M. C. A. is doing something which, with the co-operation of the students, has unlimited and unforeseen possibilities of the greatest importance. Let’s back the “Y” up and make these deputations something to be doing now and something to always remember as one of our most cherished experiences at Davidson.

P. R. Alderman.

STUDENT EMPLOYMENT

“I have never known a time when so many students were faced with the necessity of securing outside employment,” stated H. E. Stone, dean of men at West Virginia, Ohio, recently. “There is the danger that students will work too many hours and neglect their scholastic work, so I am urging every new student who can do so to wait at least until mid-semester grades are received before attempting to work.”

A large number of letters and personal appeals for help from students seeking part-time employment were received by Dean Stone during the summer. As a result, he enlisted the co-operation of the Rotary, Kiwanis and Lions clubs of Morganton and made use of the local newspapers in an appeal to local “merchants, manufacturers and householders” to make use of college men and thereby prevent the necessity of worthy young men withdrawing from the University.

“It is poor economy to earn a few dollars each week if by so doing it results in scholastic failure,” Dean Stone continued. “On the other hand, the exceptionally able student can generally assist himself financially if he does not participate in too many outside activities or devote too much time to social life.”—Exchange.

Cosmic Chaos
J. W. McCutchan

Several years ago, speaking from the standpoint of the average student, TheodoreRoosevelt took an active part in diplomatic discussions between Japan and Russia. Last week China turned in its distress to the only country which she feels that she can trust, the United States of America. With the active advance of Soviet troops, the Eastern Republic sent an urgent note requesting that instant measures be taken to dissuade Communist activity. In answer, our nation has appealed to 53 countries to join in a declaration of peace. World Peace is one of the most-to-be-desired estates. Yet few men today possess the activity, the initiative, and the personality of a Roosevelt. Let the United States act with caution. There are many who are mourned at their death by the funeral services of a Foch, a Good, or a Clemenceau. There are many more, and these constitute a majority, who die as a matter of course in their regular line of duty. Captain Alexander T. Young, master of a Great Lakes freighter, was the last. He perished in the attempt to save four members of his crew. Few trains wreck to have their detritus surveyed by the man who was at the throttle. And there have been men, they are not found in histories, who have worked themselves to their graves—for sons and daughters.

The following paragraph is not printed as news; it is in the nature of congratulating a noble achievement. Commander Richard Evelyn Byrd was the first man to fly across the North Polar Axis of the World. Very recently he crossed the South Pole, likewise in a heavier-than-air machine. He is to be placed, along the side of Peary and Greeley, among the list of the great explorers of the World. (He is from Virginia.) Only two adventurers have seen both poles; Byrd is one of them. The other was the gallant Roald Amundsen, whom it will be recalled vanished in quest of the ill-fated Nobile expedition.

Many students have doubtless remarked on the peculiarity of an empty flag-pole on the campus, if a flag-pole can be called empty. Allegations are not made at the feet of any particular department. It is better to have no flag than to have one which is not treated strictly in accord with the proper courtesies due it. Still, the flag-pole remains. In remembrance, or in hope? No one ever saw a totem pole without a totem. Seriously, however, few things inspire a more reverent feeling for one’s country than to see its flag raised and lowered with respectful ceremony.

Some wise man once said that the weather served as a universal topic of discussion because it was one topic which seldom raised a ruckus. Slickers, stiff as a board, and top-coats express themselves ably. That famous mouse, deeply plotted against in the neighboring column, will, no doubt in the course of time, become inured to an Arctic climate, sans radiators.

One will recall “Brotherly Love” in connection with the announcement that Sing Sing inmates have petitioned a post of the American Legion. There are over three hundred ex-sailors, soldiers, and marines known prison. There are points both pro and con. Assuredly those who fought through the Meuse-Argonne and Chateau-Thierry should in this well-organized comradeship. How many of these “veteran” criminals were forced out of employment by “wheat-grab” and other profiteers who sucked the little man dry during and after the War?

OPEN FORUM

The purpose of this is more to congratulate Mr. Wharton on his perspicacious plan, by means of which the fallacy of the existing method of cuts might be remedied. The present system is an old one and not well adapted to the needs of modern college students, for it does not give the students enough freedom. University methods prescribe a certain number of cuts for each class. These cuts do not continue from one semester to the other. I would like to suggest a plan whereby each student would be allowed three cuts from each class, and from chapel and church. More than three cuts would make the student liable for expulsion from that class, subject to the will of the professor. More than three cuts from church or chapel, then, would put the student on probation, or campus, or suspension, subject to the will of the Absence Committee. I do not admit that three cuts from any class would greatly impair the students’ capacity for passing their work. Nor do I believe that three cuts from chapel or church in one semester would greatly undermine the student life on the campus. What do you think of the present cut system? Have you any plan to remedy it? Let us hear from a few others.

_R. E. Witt.

Smokehouse Saga
By W. C. Ragin
(Published Weekly)

Ho hum! We beat another Big Five team. And with those few kind words was born the idea of presenting a picture of an ideal football game to the Student Body at large (and also to those who have been captured). I apologize.

THE GALLOPING GUST or I’d simply die for deah ole Beef State

Well, folks, the Beef State warriors have just come out on the field. The cheerleaders are preparing to give three cheers and an overstuffed settee for the big team. Here it is: Beef State, blah, blah, Beef State, blah, blah, Who blah? Who blah? Beef State, blah, blah!

Now, the rangy gridiron heroes from old Moidersboig are taking the field (and incidentally, everything else that isn’t bolted down or under heavy guard). Listen to the corps roar out their choice yell: Geef a yell, Geef a yell, Geef a good substantial yell, Izzy, Ikey Jakie, Sam, We’re de boys vot don’t eat ham, Football, baseball, swimming in de tank, We haf moneys, but we keep it in de bank, Moidersboig! Moidersboig! Moidersboig!

The referee called the two captains out into the center of the flooded field (it was flooded by the local fire department just to add interest to the game) to choose goals. He flipped a two-bit piece high into the air. For a moment it glistened in the light and then was lost forever in the watery depths of the field. Time was then called while the field was bailed out. “Well, this won't work,” said the referee taking the quarter out of the pocket of the Moidersboig captain (he had had a pocket put in his suit for just such an emergency), “choose a color.” “Blue,” stated the captain of Moidersboig. “Azure,” snapped the captain of Beef State. “Wrong,” said the referee, “indigo was the color.” So he gave the decision to Moidersboig just to show his school spirit.

Now, the two teams are lined up at opposite ends of the field, testing their water-wings, and champing their bits. The ball is kicked. A beauty! Moidersboig was at last downed on the 35-yard line. From there, a speedy back advanced the ball ten yards by impersonating a whale and floating placidly around end. Moidersboig then gained fifteen more yards on a cold plunge. However, the teams could not make enough speed on the soggy field to satisfy the coaches. Suddenly, time was called and both teams rowed out on the field in racing shells. From then on the playing was fast and furious. But alas, the speedy shell of deah old Beef State was broken in half in the scrimmage. However, the Beef State captain, undaunted, stood up and said, “That’s all right, boys. We'll win on the half shell.” At this, the cheerleaders shouted, “Now, everybody fight!” The crowd immediately took them at their word and did so, but the militia stopped the riot in time.

From this point until the last five minutes of the game, the ball zig-zagged up and down the field, and the score remained 0-0 in favor of the common people. At last, good ole Beef State dropped anchor on the 50-yard line and made their last determined stand. In fact, they made the stand so well that they were awarded first prize at the local carpenter’s exhibit. On the first play, one of the star half-backs disappeared and was found nearly drowned under the murky depths where a Moidersboig man had held him. He was pulled ashore looking like something Fido found in the ash-can, and Moidersboig was penalized half the depth of the field. The teams lined up again. The ball was snapped, the Beef State back heaved it, one of the ends caught it, and naturally began to run. He reeled off ten, twenty, thirty yards and soon he too began to reel. At last with a gasp, “For Beef State and you!” he fell across the goal line and sank in twenty fathoms of water.

On the next kick-off, the ball slipped from the brawny arms of one of the sons of old Moidersboig, and was lost in the jumble. (Yes, pard, it’s awful to be lost in the jumble with all of those wild animals hanging around). A week later, when the field dried off, a Beef State player was found lying on the ball across the goal line and clutching the emaciated carcasses of a couple of sea-serpents in his arms, thus making the final touchdown of the day. And thus, my public, another gridiron classic passed into Never-Never Land.