6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 12, 1929

Geneva Paper Publishes An Article On Davidson

Monsieur Charles Gos, Prominent French Lecturer, is Author

In an edition of a Geneva, Switzerland, paper, dated November 10, 1929, there appeared an article entitled “Davidson College.” This article, edited by Monsieur Charles Gos, should be of special interest to all the students and friends of the College in view of the fact that it shows something of the spread of the fame of Davidson throughout the entire civilized world. During the past year, Monsieur Gos made a speech in his native tongue before a large number of Davidson students. The translation from the original French was made by staff reporters expressly for use by The Davidsonian. Following is the translation, complete:

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

“Underneath the broad slate-colored sky of late autumn across the vast stretches of North Carolina with the brick-red soil, the automobile had run since morning. There was the monotonous alternation of fields of corn and wheat with that air of abandonment of the soil which was stripped by the cold of oncoming winter. At long intervals, a cotton field sprinkled with late down seemed to retain a short-lived snow of night. Illusive frosts by which the South announces itself, with a whiteness as delicate as the blue indentations of the Appalachian mountains which appeared on the horizon. The winds which blew over the high uplands of Carolina have already the savor of the winds of the mountains.

It is in this severe region that the Puritans, who came from Scotland and Ireland, established themselves; it is in this austere scene, between Charlotte and Winston-Salem, isolated on the heights and surrounded by forests, that the old Presbyterians founded, in 1837, Davidson College. In 1873, Woodrow Wilson, a youth, entered there. From Virginia where he was born, and from Georgia from whence he came, the transition was not great. But the young Wilson left his family for the first time and this new discipline weighed on the young dreamer. It is true that in this epoch, the life at Davidson College was not stuffed with luxuries and comforts. The students, in order to get warm, had to go to the forest and cut their own wood, make their own fire, pump the water in the yard for their morning baths. I love this description, picturesque like Dickens, whose elements permit us to evoke without difficulty the future founder of the society of nations with an axe in his hand felling a sapling, or in his small room enveloped in a cloud of smoke, or blowing on an obstinate fire.

Woodrow Wilson, at Davidson College, was an average student. His biographers show him to us more intellectual than athletic, more delicate than robust, tranquil, sensible, and of a both philosophical and positive mind, clearly superior to that of his comrades. However, one is happy to know that the young man elected to such a high destiny was not “a wet chicken” and played baseball. Badly, perhaps, but indeed, he played. Robert Glenn, later governor of North Carolina, has even placed on him the severe judgment of the captain of the team, “Tommy Wilson would be a good player if he were not so lazy.” From the very first, was he not infinitely sympathetic with us?

In 1875 Woodrow Wilson left Davidson for Princeton, but he remained during his life faithful to his old Presbyterian school. The last visit that he made there was in 1916. To this a legend is attached: Wilson, who wished to see his old room again, knocked on the door, which he had struck so many times with force when he returned from the forest with his wood on his shoulder. “Enter,” replied a juvenile voice. Wilson, who had not heard, knocked again. “Enter!” insisted the voice, “but who is it?” “President Wilson.” “Fine, my old man, enter—Here, I am Christopher Columbus!”

Davidson College, in its essential features, has not changed very much since the distant time when the young Wilson crossed the campus and descended from a carriage before the large colonial steps. Without a doubt, the students no longer go in joyous bands to cut wood in winter (the central heating plant has replaced the cast iron stoves and the shower rooms the pump in the yard), but the spirit of the place is there always which attests the profound spirituality of pioneers. Alenda lux ubi orta libertas! Woodrow Wilson seems to have taken this motto of his school and dedicated it to humanity. Each time that I go along the docks I am pleased to read again the inscription engraved in the wall of the Societe des Nations. This thought consecrated by the people of Geneva to the memory of the former President of the United States commands respectful silence. And how, across these sovereign words, can I not see again to surge in the background of my memories the serious country where Davidson College erects in the verdure, on the edge of the woods its walls of red brick, its gables and its room.”

Local Golf Rules Made For Use of Students Special Attention Called as Regards Care

Positions Are Open For Camp Workers

Students who desire work in a boys’ camp will be interested to know that several jobs as counsellors are available at the Y. M. C. A. Boys’ Camp near Winston-Salem, for the coming summer. According to a recent letter to M. C. O'Neal, Secretary of the Davidson Y. M. C. A., from H. W. Long, Director of Physical Education, the camp would like to have Davidson men for the work. Mr. Long hopes to come to Davidson before Christmas, if possible, and select several men for the different positions. In the way of qualification, a man should be experienced in some line of boys’ work, as swimming, bird study, supervising merit made competition, and the like. This camp takes in 100 acres, partly woods, with the camps cleared. The lake is nine acres, and shaped like a V, the two arms running along both sides of the campus. The buildings include a headquarters building, and ten cabins. The camp has six tennis courts, a baseball field, four row-boats, and two canoes. It is believed to be one of the finest camps in the south. Anyone interested is requested to see N. C. O’Neal for further particulars.

Lawrence Leads Ministerial Band

Speeches by Professor Foreman and Mrs. Williams Feature Banquet

At its regular weekly meeting Sunday, the Ministerial band elected J. C. Lawrence of the Senior Class as its President for the coming term. C. E. Kraemer was chosen as Vice-President, and S. B. McLean as Secretary-Treasurer. The retiring officers are F. D. Miller, President, A. B. McClure, Vice-President, and Roscoe Prince, Secretary-Treasurer.

Thursday night the band met in its annual banquet. Forty-five of the seventy-one ministerial candidates were present. The main features of the program were talks by Prof. Kenneth J. Foreman, and by Mrs. John P. Williams, his sister. Mrs. Williams spoke on the minister as seen by the woman in the pews. Professor Foreman followed with a picture of the ideal mistress of the manse, concluding with the statement that the perfect girl would never be found but the right one can be had. The president made a short talk.

Barium Springs Down Fighting L. M. I. Team

Mountain Boys Show Plucky Spirit Against Well-Trained Eleven

Barium Springs defeated Lees McRae Institute on Richardson Field last Friday, 20-0. But the score does not signify the closeness of the conflict. The plucky Lees McRae eleven gave the larger Barium boys a great fight. In the first period Barium Springs opened the scoring with a touchdown. After driving the mountaineers almost to their own goal line, they took a muffed punt and soon pushed King across for a score. King also hit the line for the extra point. Shortly before the end of the third period, Lee of Barium Springs recovered a punt on his opponents’ 20-yard line. Four plays later Brown plunged through to score. Again King hit the line for the extra point. In the last quarter J. West completed a 30-yard pass to L. West. In an effort to break it up, a Lees McRae back knocked it into the hands of West, who was over the goal.of Greens and Tees

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle and the members of the Davidson Golf team request those who use the local golf course to observe carefully the following rules:

Players looking for a lost ball should allow other matches coming up to pass them. They should signal to the players following them to pass and, having given such a signal, should not continue their play until these players are passed and out of reach. No one should stand close to or directly behind the ball, move, or talk when a player is making a stroke. On the putting green, no one should stand behind the hole in line of a player’s stroke. No one should allow his caddie to use his clubs to play. Do not drive the ball off the putting green. Always call “fore” before making a stroke. Tee up the ball within one club length, not nearer the hole. No player should play from the tee until the party in front has played their second stroke and are out of range, nor play up to the putting green till the party in front have holed out and moved away. Players should see that their caddies do not injure the holes by standing too close to them. No player should beat down the cups with his club. Caution caddies to keep quiet. Caddies should keep off the course at all times, except while caddying. A maximum price of 10c has been agreed on to pay for balls bought from caddies, regardless of condition. The following caddie rates have been decided: Twenty-five cents for nine holes; forty cents for nine holes when the caddie carries two bags. If these rules are closely adhered to and everyone enters into their spirit, the course will be a source of pleasure to all those who enjoy the game.

Language Aptitude Tests Show Ability

This fall, for the first time in the history of Davidson College, first-year classes in modern languages were given an opportunity to try language aptitude tests. These tests, in this case known as the Iowa Placement examinations, are not designed to test accomplishment in any given language, but to indicate probable ability, and may be taken even by students who have had no work in any foreign language. As in the case of psychological tests, there are standard norms which make it possible to classify students according to linguistic ability with considerable accuracy. The record made by Professor Truesdale’s classes in German A, for instance, compares very favorably with the record made by hundreds of students elsewhere, whose scores have been tabulated. The highest score in the tabulated results, out of a possible 150, was 138, and the highest at Davidson (made by W. Caligan), 134. The lowest score at Davidson, 23, deviates from the norm by only one point. The following figures give the scores made by 1790 students elsewhere and those at Davidson in parallel columns:

| Elsewhere | Davidson |
| --- | --- |
| Number of cases | 1790 | 41 |
| Possible score | 150 | 150 |
| Highest | 138 | 134 |
| Lowest | 22 | 23 |
| Mean (average) | 78 | 79.5 |
| Median | 78 | 81 |
| Upper Quartile | 97 | 101 |
| Lower Quartile | 57 | 52 |
| Standard Deviation | 27 | 28.5 |
| Percentiles | | |
| 99 | 138 | 134 |
| 90 | 114 | 117 |
| 80 | 102 | 107 |
| 70 | 93 | 99 |
| 60 | 85 | 94 |
| 50 | 78 | 84 |
| 40 | 73 | 76 |
| 30 | 62 | 67 |
| 20 | 54 | 48 |
| 10 | 42 | 36 |
| 1 | 22 | 23 |

The girl on the front seat says the reason she refuses every Tom, Dick, and Harry is because she has always wanted to marry Jack.—Ex.

Near the end of the game, Dickerson of Lees McRae pulled a Brock stunt, faking a kick and gaining 35 yards before he was downed. The play of Lees McRae was featured by Dickerson, Delaney, and Green.

One Act Play, “Release” Presented Last Friday

Is Second of Plays to be Given at Regular Weekly Meetings

On Wednesday night, November 4, the Red and Black Masquers and visitors were entertained by a one-act play, entitled “Release,” given in Shearer Hall by a cast of five Freshmen. This was the second program of its kind here this year, the first being the dialogue, “Manikin and Minikin,” presented before the group by Misses Moffet and Currie. These are typical of the programs which the Club expects to put on at each of its regular Friday night meetings. The play to be given next Friday in the auditorium of Chambers building is called “A Dear Little Wife.”

“Release” is the story of a group of gangsters who have been caught and who are about to be convicted of a murder which one of them has done. It is agreed that they shall toss a coin to see which one will confess the crime and bear the punishment for the rest. The lot falls on the real murderer who refuses to assume his duty. Enraged by this, one of the gang kills him and climaxes the scene with his tragic words, “Now we have something to die for!” The cast was composed of Billy Wade, F. M. Preston, Reeves Pope, L. G. Sanford, and J. W. Fulton. After the play, there was a short try-out and a discussion of business. Plans were made for the construction of better stage settings and a vote passed, setting the time of the regular meeting as 6:45 on Friday night. There are about fifty men out trying for parts this year. This makes the competition keen and the outlook very promising for a great year in Davidson dramatics.

Freshman Football Numerals Awarded

Twenty-Three Wildkittens Rewarded for Services on Gridiron During Past Year

The Freshman Football team closed the 1929 season with a 26-6 loss to the Freshmen from Duke University. The season’s record shows two wins, two losses, and one tie. In the first game of the season, they traveled to Oak Ridge to battle the strong Oak Ridge Military Institute. The game there ended in a 6-6 tie. The Freshmen next journeyed up to Morganton, N. C., where they encountered the Rutherford Football Team. This game ended in a 19-0 victory for the Wildkittens, with Fred Fleagle scoring the three touchdowns. The next game for the Wildkittens was the N. C. State game which was played on Richardson Field. This game ended in a 6-0 loss to the little Wolfpack from State. The latter was a very hard-played game and was not decided until the final whistle blew. The Wofford Terriers were the next victims for the Kittens. They were licked by the score of 18-13, in a game which was marked by the fierce playing of both teams. Then finally the Duke game in which the Freshmen were downed by the score of 26-6. This contest was played at Durham. Much credit is due to Coach Laird who coached the Wildkittens through this season in which a great many regulars were injured at the most critical moments.

Freshmen Numerals were awarded to the following men: Captain U. “Buddy” Gardner, D. E. Hunt, F. W. Ogden, A. G. Little, R. R. Mauzy, J. S. Mackorell, R. K. Gregory, J. M. Wagner, N. L. McFayden, L. Mullins, D. M. Bernard, T. E. Barrier, Alt. Captain L. S. Pierce, S. V. Brooks, J. B. Clarke, E. B. Peabody, F. B. Fleagle, Charlie Pearce, A. L. Mills, Jr., A. M. Manson, S. M. MacFie, H. Cavan.

Worse Than A Fire For A Going Concern

Fire usually calls when men and machinery are working at top speed—when profits are largest. Should your plant be damaged or destroyed by fire tonight, would you pay dividends and meet continuing fixed expenses—without using your reserve? Let us explain how Business Interruption Insurance will fill the breach in such a situation and leave untouched your reserve. It’s safer to have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Co. Insurance Dept. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

FELLOWS! You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station DAVIDSON, N. C.

$29.50 STETSON “D” STORE

Wishing You a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. Very Truly Yours, RAY HARRISON.

$34.50

Stationery Printed and Embossed Best Quality and Prices ANY TYPE OF PRINTING Earnest H. McCall 108 Watts Representing Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. Charlotte, N. C.