Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN February 7, 1929

Literary Frat May Publish a Davidsonian Anthology of Verse

Sigma Upsilon Hopes to Complete a Collection Made by Two Former Members

If certain plans of the Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity are carried through, though they are held only tentatively now, there
will soon be placed on sale the first volume of Anthology of Davidson Poetry. Finances are holding up the publication
at present; but if sufficient interest is shown by students and the general public, the book will be published shortly.

A first compilation of verses thought to be of sufficient literary merit to be worthy of publication, was made by
P. F. Jones and H. L. Shelby, both of the class of 1927. The poetry was chosen from among that
printed in the Davidson College Magazine; and magazines covering a period of about forty years were read with the purpose
of a selection of verses from their contents. Jones and Shelby made no attempt to have the poetry which they
collected published, but were content to have them read in meetings of Sigma Upsilon.

The present chapter of Sigma Upsilon hopes, however, to make the anthology up to date, selecting such poems from the
Chameleons of the past two years worthy of publication. It is estimated that there will be in all, some hundred
or more poems chosen from students’ writings, from forty years ago to the present time. No definite statement can be
made at this time as to the probable date of publication, due to the uncertainty of financial backing.

Jones and Shelby, the fathers of the idea, were both very active along literary lines while at Davidson. Jones was
a staff member of the Davidsonian, and was the regular critic of the Magazine, at which he gained no little
reputation here on the campus. Shelby was the last editor of the Peanut Parcher, the humorous section of the Davidsonian,
for many years. At his departure, since no one was found who could compare favorably with him in ability, the
department was dropped from the columns of this sheet.

Work from the pens of two of the present members of the college faculty is said to be in the
present copy of the Anthology which is yet in manuscript form. The above-mentioned authors are H. T. Lilly, and Dr.
K. J. Foreman.

Politics As Career For the Collegian

“Politics never used to be considered a gentleman's game,” says Leo. A. Borah, “College folk looked down on the whole
business with disdain. They wouldn't give it a minute’s consideration. But the attitude of the college student is changing today;
he recognizes politics as a real force in the country. If the students who really feel an active interest in
government will consider politics as a career and enroll in the courses intended to prepare them for it, the United
States will be able to mix in world politics without fear. It will no longer be the tenderfoot sitting in
the other fellow’s game.

“The student who would go in for politics needs to obtain first a thorough cultural education. At the same time
he must learn how to put his knowledge to work, how to get out of the academic rut and talk
in the language of the electorate. A charlatan with a full complement of campaign tricks can beat the most brilliant
theorist in the world if the theorist does not know how to put his stuff over.

“The trouble with most American college students today is that they know nothing about public affairs. In an examination in
current events in a certain university, one student identified George Washington English as a famous negro educator. Another thought Maxfield
Parrish was the headquarters of the Ku Klux Klan. With that sort of knowledge how can college students expect to
do anything at politics? Fortunately not all students are like that. With the coming of professors of practical politics has
come a growing interest of students in the business of government.

“Politics is not a crowded profession. It gives you a chance to use your personality and your education and at
the same time to be a regular human being.” —College Humor.

Ann Arbor, Michigan—(CNA)—The resignation of Dr. Clarence Cook Little, for three years president of the University of Michigan, was accepted
unanimously by the board of regents of the university very recently. Motivated by principles he would uphold “be they right
or wrong,” Dr. C. C. Little tendered his resignation as president. His letter giving his reasons for leaving the helm
of Michigan was in the hands of every regent prior to the special meeting. Before going behind closed doors to
consider the resignation, the majority of the board members had expressed views that acceptance of the resignation would be unanimous.

Dr. Little’s reasons for resigning are as follows as contained in his letter:

“Dear Regent: For some time two things have been increasingly apparent. First, that my methods of handling situations dealing with
interests of private donors, political interests, ‘local’ interests and alumni interests, are not consistent with policies which the board of
regents deems wise. Second, that I shall, I hope, be more effective in scientific research and teaching than in administration.”

Pennsylvania Finds Change Creeping In

“That Pennsylvania has found it necessary to accomplish a complete metamorphosis from aristocracy to democracy in the last quarter century,”
says W. Thorn-Martin, “is the whole explanation of her present status with the high-hat sisterhood, who formerly admitted her to
second cousinship but now gaze rigidly over lorgnettes at her declasse appearance.

“There is something grand in the large-hearted way she dispenses learning to Back Bay and back alley alike, and if
you are not awfully careful she will make a man of you in spite of juvenile coddling or any false
ideas of caste and snobbishness. Whether we like it or not this sort of school is closer to being a
real approximation of life post-collegion than the so-called ‘rich man’s college’ wholly proficient in teacup balancing.

“Pennsylvania was once rich in traditional institutions. The most highly cherished affair of the kind was the Rowbotham. The story
goes that somewhere adown the misty corridors of the past a bibulous chap (whom we shall call Joe Nightowl) lived
in an eyrie high above the Big Quad with a roommate by the name of Rowbotham. Nightowl fell into the
regrettable habit of returning in the wee sma’ hours from the Normandie, tummy distended with copious potions of the demon
rum. On one such night with a fine disregard for the comfort of Rowbotham sleeping above, he lifted up his
voice in stentorian supplication requesting his roommate to ‘throw down the key.’ Rowbotham wearied of the din and leaping to
his feet hurled every movable object within reach out of the window in the general direction of the pest below.
From such a tiny acorn grew the noble custom of ‘rowbothaming.’ For after years at the sound of the rallying
cry ‘Yo Rowbotham,’ every inhabitant of the dormitories rushed madly to the window and cast forth electric light bulbs, chairs,
towels, paper weights, inkwells and pillows.

“There was something pagan and reckless about the thing that appealed irresistibly to the childish student mind, and only by
dint of suspending whole dormitories at a time was the practice broken up.” —College Humor.

(Continued from page 2)

But spirituality may be benefitted more by the continuation of scientific advance than by a holiday. And it would be
very dangerous to civilization to attempt such a halt of progress. It might be beneficial to stop some lines of
progress for spiritual development if it could be carried out, but by such a hesitation of progress the spirituality of
the people would tend to decrease rather than increase.

Paul Heuze, writing for Le Journal recently made a few experiments to expose some of the tricks of the Hindu
fakirs. He had himself lowered in a coffin into a lake and found that by remaining motionless he could stay
in the coffin 65 to 85 minutes without suffering much discomfort. One of the Hindu fakir’s favorite tricks is to
permit himself to be buried alive in a coffin, and then after an hour or so an accomplice secretly digs
him out. After a few days or weeks he is secretly buried again, and within an hour he is publicly
dug up.

The Boulder Dam bill was passed by Congress and signed by the president last month, but before it can be
carried out six of the seven states concerned must ratify the Colorado River compact which apportions their respective rights to
water from the Colorado. Five of the states have approved, but of the remaining two, Arizona is definitely opposed and
the other state is doubtful.Young Man: “Eh—Oh sir—I—er—that is—I came to say that your daughter tells me that she—er—loves me—”
Father: “Oh! and you have come to ask my permission to marry her?”
E. Y. M.: “Oh no sir! I come to ask you to make her behave.”
—American Legion Monthly.

Passing Review

The Old Gold and Black of Wake Forest comes out strongly for the Student Government. Although no trouble is given,
it is implied that the students are not cooperating with the council members of that school. The paper states that
the main trouble is that the students regard the council members like spies to wander around and see that the
students behave themselves. This conception the paper repudiates and brings forth the idea that the whole idea of Student Government
is for better cooperation between students and officials, and to make the school a better place to live.

“Spring Holidays to Be Omitted,” such is the case at P. C. as reported by the Blue Stocking. So much
time was lost down there by the Sandlappers, due to the flu, that the college authorities decided to eliminate the
cuts allowed the students for the spring holiday. The proposition was placed before the student body. Figuring out the advantages
on paper, the P. C. students found out that they could get a longer holiday by using their cuts, so
by vote the spring holiday was omitted.

The Twig, of Meredith, says that all of the girls down there were very much delighted when the President of
the college announced at chapel that from now on the college will offer a degree in music and will also
expand the home economics department. From the Twig also comes the news that the Hon. Max Gardner excelled in athletics
when at college, served as a teamster in the Spanish-American war, and has had a public career for over twenty
years.

Two major problems face Emory as reported in a recent issue of the Emory Wheel. Dancing is on the table,
defended by the students and condemned by the faculty and the powers that be. It is not hard to guess
who will win the fight. Since when have students gotten their way? Another item that faces the campus is what
to do with the banjo and ukulele players. One of them the other day went on playing for twelve hours.
Ten minutes of strumming up here is enough. Wonder who stood it long enough to time the tireless wonder.

APPENDICITIS OPERATION

Sage Upshaw of the Freshman Class had an attack of appendicitis Saturday. He was sent to Raleigh and was operated
on and is doing well and hopes to be back at school in a week or ten days.

What Constitutes A Call to the Ministry?

ANSWER No. 7

If you have an overwhelming desire to prevent the loss of souls it may be this is an element in
your call. If so, you would be only following your Lord, for “Christ Jesus came into the world to save
sinners.” Union Theological Seminary has helped many men to a happy and achieving life; perhaps we could help you.

University of Pittsburgh—(CNA)—A 10,000-mile journey to far-off Sumatra, an island in the East Indies, to view an eclipse of the
sun that will last just five minutes and six seconds on May 9, is planned by Dr. Heber D. Curtis,
in charge of the Allegheny Observatory of the university. Forty to fifty astronomers from universities all over the world will
see the moon pass in front of the sun and cut off its brilliant rays from ringside seats at Sumatra.
This event is gigantic in astronomy as only 54 minutes of solar eclipses have been available for observation since astronomy
became a science, and not until 1937 will there be another phenomenon of as long duration as the one scheduled
for May 9.

Dr. Curtis will make the trip to Sumatra with an expedition sent out under the direction of Dr. J. A.
Miller, Swarthmore College. The party will probably be located at a little village called Takendon, which is 60 miles from
the north tip of the island, and at an altitude of about 4,000 feet above sea level. The delicate instruments
for observation have already been shipped to the island. Takendon is 250 miles from the equator and almost exactly halfway
around the earth from Pittsburgh.

University of Texas (CNA)—"One-third of one percent of the population of the United States and eleven percent of the defects
observed among the people come from the preceding generation and could be eliminated by the prevention of marriage among delinquents,”
declared Dr. H. S. Jennings, leading geneticist and professor at Johns Hopkins University. Two major problems face the geneticists, Dr.
Jennings believes, are the discovery of a method whereby it would be possible to recognize a defective gene and eliminate
it before it can cause further damage and suffering. Another is the elimination of the corresponding bad influence of the
environment. “It will take thousands of years to eliminate the defective people from the human race, unless some far-reaching discovery
is made within the next century or so that will enable the eugenicists to make rapid progress in the scientific
elimination of defectives,” he said.

To Learn if Stage in True Light

George Washington University (CNC)—Does the typical collegian have socks but no garters? Is his shirt and collar rumpled and his
suit habitually wrinkled? Is there any connection between the attempt to be collegiate and such problems as drinking, necking, and
neglect of class work? Henry Grattan Doyle, dean of men at George Washington University, thinks the answer is no, but
he wants information on the subject and to that end has sent out questionnaires to contribute something toward the correction
of what he believes is an erroneous public opinion.

Going Under

(CNA)—What is believed to be the largest number of women bankrupts in this country for one year is shown by
the annual bankruptcy report for 1927, issued by the Board of Trade recently. During the year there were 435 failures
of women, the majority of whom were in business as drapers, milliners, and dressmakers. Evidence of the effect of trade
depression is shown by the figures for total insolvencies under bankruptcy and deeds of arrangement acts. There were 6,170 insolvents
during 1927, an increase of 163 over 1926.

Whoopee!

(CNA)—When classes are out, professors will play. And how! Gazooks, whistles, musical cats, and horns added din to chatter as
professors made merry at Heidelberg College at a potluck supper held Monday evening in the Commons. Tables were arranged in
a hollow square decorated in keeping with the Valentine season. After the two-course supper, the evening was passed socially by
the exceptionally large group of faculty who was present.

First Listener: “Can you see what the card says the band is playing? It sounds like something from Wagner.”
Second Listener: “No, I think it’s the ‘Toreador Song from Carmen,’ but I’ll go look—No, we’re both wrong, it’s the
‘Refrain from Spitting.’”
—Farm Journal.

Girls when they went out to swim,
Once dressed like Mother Hubbard;
Now they have a bolder whim,
They dress more like the cupboard.
—Skull and Bones.

A jolly bunch of our young people from the Baptist Church went on a kodaking expedition Sunday that resulted in
many exposures and a very good time.
—Nicholasville News.

Bill: “I’d like to paint a portrait of my late Uncle.”
Painter: “Bring him in.”
Bill: “I said my late Uncle.”
Painter: “Well, bring him in when he gets here then.”
—University of Delaware Review.

Dad: “Lucille, this disappoints me terribly, seeing you smoke. You are no daughter of mine.”
Lucille: “Well, cheer up Dad, I won’t tell a soul.”

You will find here a group of shoes assembled especially to meet the college man’s ideas of style and good
taste. They are the result of a 30-year acquaintance with well-dressed college men’s preferences.
John Ward MEN’S SHOES
See them on display By Bill Bailey and Dean Rusk 208 Watts, Davidson, N. C.

MAKE THIS STORE YOUR HEADQUARTERS
STUDENTS SUPPLIES OF ALL KINDS
Get Your Valentine Cards Here
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE
W. S. HENDERSON Davidson, N. C.

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY “Fugitive”
TUESDAY “Hard Boiled” With Edmund Lowe
WEDNESDAY “All at Sea” With Karl Dane
THURSDAY “Wild Orchids” With Colleen Griffith
FRIDAY “Captive Women” With Milton Sills
SATURDAY “Love in the Desert”
