NS THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 13, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Z. V. LONG, Jr. Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCALL Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
J. B. BLACK Managing Editor
W. W. SMUGULOPRAN Managing Editor
W. G. CRAGIN Managing Editor
P. BREVARD DORMAN Athletic Editor
J. V. D. MIDDLETON Assignment Editor
J. F. PRESTON Feature Editor
W. I. BROWN Feature Editor
R. F. JARRATT Associate Editor
F. D. MILLER Associate Editor
C. M. PRATT Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. A. CANNON Business Manager
L. L. BOYD Solicitor
A. J. BAKER Solicitor
P. S. Solicitor
H. Solicitor
G. M. Solicitor
A. R. Solicitor
W. G. Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
B. ISHERMER President
W. CRAGIN Vice-President
J. V. D. MIDDLETON Secretary-Treasurer
G. BERRY
G. DUNKLIN
C. MATTHEWS
S. LEA
G. MARTI
C. W. F. SPENCER
J. R. SMITH
W. T. HANCOCK
D. O. STEPHENSON
JOHN M. BROWN
G. P. PARDINGTON
MATTHEWS
W. H. BIRD
DWELLE
E. C.

FEBRUARY 13, 1930

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

Davidson is to be congratulated on obtaining Dr. Harry Rimmer for a second visit. Sunday evening he will speak again, and a great audience should hear the message. Dr. Rimmer is one of the most inspiring lecturers we have ever heard. Another treat is promised with the visit of Doctor William Ellsworth in connection with the English Department. Doctor Ellsworth is billed as a fascinating speaker.

Some game—that scrap with Duke. Don’t think we ever saw a better one. Still tougher to drop it, and in the way it came about. The Wildcats are due all the praise in the world for that exhibition. Monk Younger must have enjoyed that Virginia jaunt more than anyone else. Licking all his old cronies and doing it in such decisive style must have tickled the Wildcat center a lot. Elon is sure to give the Cats a real battle Saturday night. The Christians never fail to have a fighting quint. Pull hard for that win. It may be hard to get.

A GYMNASIUM FOR DAVIDSON

Davidson’s crying need of a new and better gymnasium was set forth in definite terms this week, when the thorough inadequacy of the local plant necessitated the removal of the all-important game with Duke University to a Charlotte court. The change of place was unfortunate from several viewpoints, but could hardly be avoided in consideration of many elements which would have rendered the contest unsatisfactory if played in Alumni Gymnasium here.

Last year Davidson’s memorable defeat of the Blue Devils was completed in the local gymnasium before a crowd which taxed the place to capacity, and even rendered the building absolutely unsafe. The largest crowd ever to see a basketball game at Davidson filled the small building far above its normal capacity, making it impossible for local authorities to handle the situation successfully. It was noticed on that occasion that the balcony sagged under the tremendous weight of the throng which filled every available inch of space. Downstairs the crowd was so great that it constantly flowed onto the playing court, bringing forth justifiable complaints from the visiting players, and greatly hindering the progress of the contest. Hundreds of people were turned away from the gym that night without even glimpsing the court when the crowd became so large as to necessitate the locking of doors and refusal to sell a single ticket.

The prospect of the repetition of this experience caused Davidson athletic officials to move Monday’s game to Charlotte. Every game of interest evokes a similar state of affairs, the complete inadequacy of Alumni Gymnasium becoming more evident with each passing day. Erected some fifteen years ago, the building was good enough for the small student body of less than three hundred men, but the builders failed to provide for the complete transition in college life which brought about the doubling of the student body, intensified interest in sports, and rendered athletic equipment of other days almost useless. This upheaval has come within the last decade, and is being met by colleges everywhere as a problem vitally connected with the welfare of the institution.

Davidson’s gymnasium can barely accommodate the present student body. Practically no room is left for visitors and supporters who want to be present at athletic contests. Even if every major game should be transferred to a Charlotte court, and this seems entirely unfair to local interests and to the students, the situation here will not be satisfactory. Some four hundred fans were turned back at the box office Monday night when the greatest crowd ever to witness a basketball game in that city stormed the gates to see Wildcat and Blue Devil in action. One man traveled one hundred and fifty miles only to find the door the limit of his journey. Not a view of the court did he get.

It is not to be questioned that coming years will see growing need along this line of handling the crowds which flock from far and wide to see the college teams perform. No college without adequate equipment can hope to keep in line. It is doubtful if any sizable institution has a more inadequate gymnasium than Davidson. The time is ripe for the erection of a gymnasium which would embrace not only suitable basketball facilities, but would also provide space and equipment for the extensive program of intramural athletic competition which Davidson is now undertaking. Indoor tracks would be included, arrangements for indoor gridiron practice, and methods of handling every form of sport to the best advantage. Davidson’s athletic future depends to a very great degree upon some step of this nature. Other colleges in this vicinity are filling their needs. Davidson is falling behind.

SCIENCE AND CIVILIZATION

Undoubtedly one of the most crying needs of present-day civilization is the need of a social development in keeping with the high standards of mechanical perfection which have been attained throughout the scientific world in recent years. With the great inventions of Edison, Bell, Marconi and countless others, there has come an era of mechanical superiority which according to present indications is only the forerunner of the “Golden Age of Mechanical Supremacy.”

Paralleling the purely mechanical inventions of an objective nature, great strides have been taken to the front in physical, chemical and biological research. Discoveries have been made which have literally startled the world. Radium has opened the way for a rapid advance in the field of medicine and new discoveries every day clear the field for extended speculation as to the advances which will be made shortly.

The great danger today lies in the fact that man is not essentially the highly cultured man that he should be. The social graces have been sadly neglected and an actual retrogression toward a more basic stage of human civilization may be perceived by a close study of past and present conditions. Shall the new-born industrialism impinge upon the standards of social elegance developed so painstakingly throughout the centuries? Shall we allow ourselves to become so highly automatized that we may neglect the very essence of civilization? Startling challenges like these are flung at us from the very face of the situation.

Today man pretends to be more highly civilized than ever before. Everywhere the land is dotted with teeming industrial centers where labor is oftentimes organized nearly to the maximum, yet on closer inspection the “center” all too often proves to be a hothouse peopled with uncouth, unclean, uneducated people. True, such conditions have always been the lot of the working mass, but in these days of super-mechanics in which science has seemingly triumphed there should be evidence of decided social improvement on the part of the industrial worker.

With the advance of scientific knowledge man has shown himself intent only on diverting his attainments towards an end based primarily on a lack of higher civilization as evidenced by the great war within the last two decades. Here again man was not big enough culturally to countermand an inherent desire that an uncontrolled past has bequeathed him. And so on and on instances may be cited to prove that man needs to lend serious attention to the development of a social condition consonant with his present-day scientific attainments.

—J. B. Black, Jr.By the time this column is in print, the United States will doubtless have come to a decision regarding the appointment of Charles Evans Hughes to the bench of the Supreme Court. Senators Blease, of South Carolina, and Norris, of Nebraska, have formed opposition as this is being written. It is possible for one to appreciate Mr. Blease’s attitude toward William Howard Taft, who recently resigned on account of ill health. Senator Norris appears to have taken an honest and deliberate stand, but his motives are somewhat harder to understand. It is much more difficult, however, to tolerate an objection hinted at by the gentleman from South Carolina. It would seem that a man who has attained the age that Mr. Taft has should be capable of judging the limits of his physical energy. Furthermore, President Hoover is expected to be sufficiently astute in such matters. Perhaps an investigating committee will be appointed!

To those who believe that war is a glamorous affair, we would suggest a glance at a booklet published by authority of war officials, which pamphlet is entitled “The Absolute Truth.” It shows by actual photographs, many of them taken by the United States Army Signal Corps, the true nature of war. It was not printed to provide horrified incredulity and amusement to the reader, nor is it a collection of extremes. There can be few people who will read the titles beneath the pictures and who will look at the scenes themselves without realizing the grim reality of war. It is no more pleasant to be gashed and ripped with a sword or to have one’s head cleaved in twain with a broadaxe. It is no more pleasant to be scattered by shrapnel or to be asphyxiated with stifling gases. War has ceased to be the playground of kings, the profitable occupation of men, and the passionate love-winning pastime of boys: Sherman’s definition does not exaggerate.

Newspapers compare the skillful driving of a motorcycle policeman in New York to the well-known journey of a famous driver of dog teams to Nome a few years ago. James McNally risked his life by carrying serum to a hospital at breakneck speed through the heavy traffic of the city. He saved the life, in all probability, of Condra Perlowitz, aged two and a half years. This column does not desire to detract from his praise for a service which was not in his regular line of duty. The comparison seems a bit impertinent, however. It is one thing to speed along crowded city streets. It is another to face the freezing peril of temperatures ranging from forty to fifty degrees below zero; to plod into winds of high velocity carrying dagger-like particles of sleet that cut quicker than a sharp razor blade; to go alone with a savage team of dogs into a barren waste where the turning of an ankle means a slow lonely death.

Lindbergh is not the only man to make a noteworthy trip. Arthur Brisbane, a man who at least gets paid for his column even if it isn’t read, deplores the so-called recklessness of Lindy. It appears to the casual observer that the American idol should be given the liberty of the air, out of common courtesy if for no other reason. Lindbergh works hard at his profession of aeronautics; he needs recreation. It is impossible for him to engage in “ground activities” to any extent, because he is immediately surrounded by a multitude of curiosity seekers who attempt to selfishly profiteer on a reputation, the maker of which has sought only to pursue his own way. We would guess that the only reason that the Flying Colonel does not retire to enjoy quiet home life with his comely wife is because he is ambitious and does not wish to be remembered by one feat alone. Popularity is one of the most insidious weapons of character, and he has been making a successful effort to conquer it.

Babe Ruth has demanded a salary contract of $85,000.00 per year for three years. The club officials of the New York Yankees have offered him a contract of $75,000.00 per year for two years. It is a staggering sum in many respects. Economic students would doubtless explain it by supply and demand. We can sympathize with the prizefighter who demands a large sum for being “pummeled” about for half an hour, but it is different if one is to “pummel” a baseball. We like to see a good game, and we would probably yell if the Babe “slammed one,” but we still think that there are underpaid scholars and scientists who have done more for the world than all the baseball players placed in a row.

Through various remarks, we have been led to believe that the paragraphs of this effort which are printed in small black or bold-face type are read in preference to the others. We are sorry if we are unable in three paragraphs to say something which will lead to the reading of the other three. The idea came that all of the column might be printed in black letters, but that would make the column unique... it’s enough that way now! (In its way). Let it suffice that the device is used chiefly for aesthetic effect, rather than as a diabolic scheme with which to entice readers. This is not a steel-trap however much it may resemble one.

This week, I shall attempt to write a column dedicated to the Business Man of our country—the man who does big things in a big way. In it, I shall attempt to show just how to run an office and to illustrate the value of hiring educated men. Here goes:

The play’s the thing.

WHAT'S IN A NAME or HOW TO HANDLE YOUR CHILDREN

THE CAST
Singer Hyitin .......................... the new man
The Visitor ............................ the boss
Iannior Wate ......................... the stenographer
Ar Nohmow .......................... the clerk
Opbr Sthat ............................ a clerk
I. Wonder Whigh .................. the salesman
122) Watt ............................... the office boy

ACT THE FIRST—AND LAST
Scene (the only) One

The scene is laid (Carefully) in a sumptuous office. The door has just burst open and the office force is rushing in. You must remember that fools rush in where angels fear to tread.

Door: Crash! Splinter! Etc.
Voice: Say! Who are you shoving?
’Nother Voice: I dunno. What's your name?

The force sit down to rest and assume a comfortable position for the day. The new man is given a few instructions and stationed near the door to receive all visitors. A visitor enters to use the telephone.

Visitor (over phone): Hello. I want to talk to Sis.
Voice (ditto): Sis who?
Visitor: Sis me! That’s who!
Slam!

This visitor leaves in a huff and another comes up in a Ford.

Visitor: Where’s the boss?
New Man: No, Ware's the stenographer.
Visitor: You’re smart aren’t you?
New Man: No, Smart hasn’t come down yet.
Visitor: Who’s the boss?
New Man: Yes, Hoo’s the boss.
Visitor: Who is he?
New Man: No, Izzy is the office boy.
Visitor: Is he here?
New Man: No, Izzy Watt.
Visitor: What’s his name?
New Man: Yes, Watt’s his name.
Visitor: How’s the boss today?
New Man: No, Howe’s the clerk.
Visitor: Well, who’s the boss?
New Man: Yes.
Visitor: Say, have you heard of Santa Claus?
New Man: I’m very glad to meet you.
Visitor: Listen, where’s the boss now?
New Man: Ware can’t be the boss, because Hoo’s the boss.
Visitor: Is he?
New Man: I told you that Izzy is the office boy.
Visitor: Is the boss here?
New Man: No, the boss is Hoo.
Visitor: Well, can I see him?
New Man: Yes, I’m Hymn.
Visitor: Oh, you’re the boss.
New Man: No, Hoo’s the boss.
Visitor: I give up. Who’s the boss?
New Man: Yes.
Visitor: Oh! He is, is he?
New Man: No, he is not Izzy.
Visitor: Why isn’t the boss here?
New Man: No, Whigh isn’t the boss. Hoo’s the boss.
Visitor: Well, who’s the boss?
New Man: Yes.

The visitor at this point drinks a mixture of prussic acid and ground glass, cuts his throat, shoots himself through the head, sets fire to his clothes, ties a rope around his neck, and jumps from a window on the top floor. They all live happily ever after.

FINALE

Do your Christmas shopping early.

One Girl: “And then I told him I didn’t want to see him anymore.”
Another: “What did he do?”
One Girl: “Turned out the light.”

College Prof. (leaving street car): “This is rotten service!”
Conductor: “What’s the matter? Couldn’t you find a seat?”
Prof.: “Sure, I got a seat, but the trouble is my wife had to stand up all the way.”