THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1930

Two Games Will Test Strength of Unknown Wildcat Baseball Club

Batting Power and Fielding Are Unknown Quantities This Year

OUTFIELD IS WEAK SPOT

Few Veterans Return—Mound Staff is Strong With Three Regular Pitchers

The showing of Monk Younger’s Davidson College Wildcats in their two opening tilts today and tomorrow is going to be watched by everyone interested in them, for these two games will answer a number of anxious questions concerning the 1930 aggregation. No one knows definitely how the team is going to be this year. So many changes have been necessary to form a club that no advance dope is likely to hold.

The first question that will come up is how are they going to hit. Last year the hitting of the team as a whole was the weakest department of play. An excellent pitching staff, and an air-tight infield kept the scores of the opponents down to a very low average, and yet games were frequently lost because of a missing punch at the plate. This lack of hitting was especially noticeable in the pinches, when men would die on the paths for the lack of a little bingle to send them home.

If this year’s team is counting on putting the games in the win column, they are not only going to have to hit harder and more frequently than was the custom last year, but they are going to have to bunch their clouts where they will do the most good.

The boys who are patrolling the outer gardens are giving Monk Younger more trouble this year than usual. Whiz Miller is the only veteran outfield on hand, and he has been placed in center field. John McInnis can be used when he is not in the box, but from present prospects, it looks like he is going to be so much in demand as a hurler that he will not be able to work in the field. “Hub” Covington seems likely to draw one of the flanks, and Doc Mathis may get the other. However, these two men are not up to the standard set by last year’s fielders, either in hitting or fielding, and will have to improve a lot to reach that plane. If the fly-chasing problem could be settled satisfactorily, the club would have a bulwark to fall back on in case of weakness in other departments.

In the infield, Bill Goodson is the only veteran on hand. The hard-hitting keystone sacker had a successful season last summer in semi-pro ball, and bids fair to be one of the most valuable men on the team this year. Jimmy Proctor has been moved in from the field to take Pat Crawford’s place at first base, and these two Lincolnton products seem able to take care of the right side of the infield in a suitable manner. But moving over on the left side, it is a very different story. Here is where the weakness, if any, is going to crop out. Bub Bernhardt, of the diminutive size, is making a strong bid for the shortstop position. But his size is a distinct handicap. His work last year on the Fresh team shows he has overcome this to some extent. However, line drives are apt to go over him, and he may not be able to cover all the ground around his place a man half a foot taller could take in. If he comes through in spite of his size, he will make a good shortstop, because he can handle the ball, once he gets his hands on it. Red Parrish has been working out most of the time at the hot corner. He has been on the squad for the last two years, but has been unable to win a permanent place. He bids fair to letter at third base this year, appearing to be the best of the lot of contestants. McMillan is pushing both Bernhardt and Parrish for positions, being able to play either place in more or less accepted style.

The pitching staff presents still another enigma. Capt. Doc Kugler gives Coach Younger one dependable hurler, McInnis can generally be relied upon, and Lefty Thompson is expected to come through to make a third hurler. Henderson, Curdts, and Croker have not yet shown the stuff to become regulars. This gives a three-man pitching staff to work with, which is hardly as large as could be desired for safety. However, if each pitches the brand of ball expected, they will be enough. The games on successive days this week will be the acid test for the pitchers. If they stand up under it, the hurling staff will cease to become a major problem.

The catchers seem tobe the one spot to cause the cockles of a coach’s heart to glow. Armfield held the position all right last year. Gladstone has improved a good deal in hitting and is pushing him harder this year.

Seminary Staff Has Four Davidson Men

The Faculty of Union Theological Seminary is composed entirely of graduates of Hampden-Sydney and Davidson Colleges, and the division between the two groups is almost even, an associate professor being the unbalancing quantity. There are four professors from each institution. These men have been chosen as Union instructors because they have distinguished themselves as pastors, preachers, authors, and scholars, and have withal qualities which make seminarians eager to become students with them.

From Hampden-Sydney are: Dr. Thomas Cary Johnson, Professor of Theology, eminent as teacher and author; Dr. Eugene C. Caldwell, Professor of New Testament Exegesis and Interpretation, scholar and inspiring teacher; Dr. E. T. Thompson, outstanding thinker and leader of the church, Professor of Church History; and Dr. J. Gray McAllister, former president of Hampden-Sydney, distinguished teacher and scholar, Professor of the English Bible.

Davidson graduates are: President Ben R. Lacy, Professor of Homiletics, distinguished preacher and executive; Dr. Edward Mack, one of the greatest Old Testament scholars in this country; Dr. W. T. Thompson, Professor of Religious Education, an authority and leader in this field; Dr. Donald W. Richardson, Professor of Christian Missions, former president of the Presbyterian Theological Seminary in China; and Rev. D. Rolston Bitzer, associate professor of Hebrew and Greek, who, in an adept and sympathetic manner, explains to Juniors the meanings of various symbols in an ancient and mysterious language.

The added competition has apparently raised the grade of Nab’s work and has made the backstop place the best cared-for of the nine. The Wildcats present a big question mark to the dopester at present. Their work this weekend will shed lots of light on the season’s real prospects. The fielding should improve as the season grows older. If the pitching and hitting come up to the standard hoped for, Davidson will be a big dose for any teams they may meet by midseason.

Golf Team Determined By Elimination Contest

Eight prospective candidates for the college golf team journeyed to Charlotte last Tuesday and played 36 holes, 18 in the morning and 18 in the afternoon, in competition for qualifying for the four places on the team. The four men making the lowest scores were: Captain Jack Pepper who led with 160, Jack Wagner followed closely with 161. John Thompson was next with 178, while W. Lewis Hart made 182. The first three named have been assured places on the team while the fourth position, which is held by Hart, will be open to challenge until the first match. The men eligible to challenge Hart for the fourth place are Tom Bowles with 186, Tom Caldwell 194, John D. McConnell 196, and N. C. Hodgin with 201. Very unfavorable winds and unusually fast greens gave the golfers no little trouble in their elimination play.

FELLOWS! You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station DAVIDSON, N. C.

Assistants To Lead Cheers This Spring

According to a report from George E. McClenaghan, newly elected varsity cheerleader, the Sophomore assistant cheerleaders will be given their first chances to perform at the baseball games which will begin here Thursday. The freshmen will have their opportunities at the freshman baseball games.

The following men have been having practice each evening at the gymnasium under the direction of McClenaghan: Henry McKinnon, Bryce Robinson, Ed Goreham, Benny Mosely, Rosser Elkins, John T. Walsh, Bob Torrence, Robert Davis, Norman Raies. As this will be the first appearance of these men, the sympathetic cooperation of the entire student body will be appreciated. Elections of the assistants will probably be held immediately after the first football game next fall.

A Minister of the Gospel SHOULD BE Acquainted with God and His ways, and know how to represent Him. TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS ONE OF THE AIMS OF UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. For Catalog and Information, Address, Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., President Richmond, Virginia.

In a cigarette, merit is sure to rise. Make a cigarette of better quality, of richer aroma and finer fragrance—and all the world will find it out. Witness Chesterfield’s popularity, growing every day. No flash in the pan, but enduring popularity—earned by giving smokers the one thing they want: “TASTE above everything.”

© 1929, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

MILD . . . and yet THEY SATISFY

Chesterfield

FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobaccos, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED