DAVIDSON 7 CAROLINA 6

"ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS"

WAKE FOREST NEXT ON THANKSGIVING

Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 20, 1930 No. 10

Davidson Triumphs Over Carolina, 7 - 6

Religious Services Here Will Be Led By Seminary Students This Weekend

Caligan, McCutcheon, Hamilton, Gray, Flinn, and Cunningham Are Members of Deputation

FIVE ALUMNI IN GROUP

Was Postponed From Last Week Because of Previous Engagement

The deputation from the Union Theological Seminary from Richmond, Va., was unable to come last Sunday on account of a previous engagement, but will be here this Sunday. Last year four men from Union came down and there were two Davidson alumni in their quartette. This year six are coming and five of them are former Davidson students. They are as follows: James Caligan, Leighton McCutchen, Tom Hamilton, James S. Gray, and R. O. Flinn. John Cunningham is the other member of the deputation. All these Davidson men were prominent in campus activities. Caligan was a member of the Glee Club for three years and was on the magazine staff. Hamilton took an active part in the musical organizations. He was a member of the R. O. T. C. Band, Glee Club, and Symphony Orchestra for three years, being vice-president of the Glee Club and director of the orchestra. McCutchen was the captain of the tennis team and winner of the state doubles tennis championship cup. He also took an active part in debating. Gray was a member of the Classical Club and a member of the Glee Club for four years. Flinn was on the Freshman and varsity squad in track and football. He was vice-president of the Y. M. C. A., member of the “D” Club, secretary-treasurer of the student body, and associate editor of the “Chameleon.” These men will take charge of different services. Caligan will have charge of the (Continued on page 6)

“The Yowl!”

In answer to many and constant inquiries, it becomes our solemn and binding duty to announce that “The Yowl” will positively be out at the end of this week unless delayed until next week. This specially revised edition, beautifully engraved and embossed, has been in the hands of the printers for an entire week, so some little hope is being expressed that it will eventually appear. Hence, in the absence of such natural phenomena as earthquakes, chain lightning, sudden death, and bad train schedules, the magazine will be in the hands of the student body at an early date. After that, the staff will probably plead insanity and throw themselves on the mercy of the court.

Because of the fact that there are very few extra copies, the magazine will not be put in the various rooms on the campus, but the students and other persons attending Davidson College may get their old “Yowls” at a place to be designated by an announcement in chapel. We hope that this move will not prove too radical for the more conservative members of the student body. However, this is neither here nor there. Seriously speaking, we hope that the student body will be behind us. In fact, we hope that they will stay about three miles behind us until we can find some refuge. Just remember that the magazine was edited during the depression.

Editor of “The Yowl.”

Frosh Meet Duke Yearlings Tomorrow

Tomorrow will find the Frosh closing their 1930 football season, meeting the Duke yearlings in their annual encounter. The season has not been anywhere near a success for the Freshmen and since their bad defeat by the State Wolflets they have been drilling every afternoon either on the Freshman field or in the gymnasium with the one concentrated effort to beat Duke and thereby improve the record of this season. It is a known fact that Duke has the best record of any Freshman team in the state, with the Baby Deacons running them a very close second. Therefore the Wildkittens will enter the game as the underdogs and with a determination that will be hard to overcome. The Duke Imps have won practically every game that they have played this season and are looking forward to the Davidson game with the hope of annexing another victory. Duke's most impressive win was over Oak Ridge, whom they defeated by the score of 13-0. The Wildkittens have only been able to tie one team this fall but that was a team that was doped to beat them by a margin of several touchdowns. The Imps are doped to win also, but maybe the Frosh can spring another surprise and hold this powerful team; they will be playing on their home field and will have every advantage. The line-up for the Frosh will probably have a few changes but will be practically the same that have started the majority of the previous games. As to the Duke line-up, nothing much is known except that it is composed of former North Carolina high school and prep school stars.

Brock Directs Practice of Davidson Rifle Team

Open Match to be Held Soon to Determine Team

As stated in a previous issue of this paper, work has commenced on the Davidson rifle team. Under the direction of Lieut. J. L. Brock, about 20 or 25 Freshmen are being instructed in the fundamentals of rifle shooting. There is some very likely looking material among the Freshmen and these combined with the old men who are back, including J. L. Brock, captain of the team, and R. D. Russell, both of whom made excellent records at Camp McClellan last summer, should make a very formidable team. The team will be chosen by a Davidson open match and will consist of about 20 men, being those men that have the highest score in the open match. It will be some little time before this match is held, however, in order to give the men going out ample time for practice. The correspondence matches will not start until about February 7. Quite a few contracts have already been signed with colleges and universities all over the United States and Canada. Enough will be signed so that from five to seven matches will be fired each week. Shoulder-to-shoulder matches will probably be fired with Gastonia, N. C. State, Clemson and The Citadel. The team may go on a trip into Virginia to fire matches with V. M. I. and V. P. I. The Davidson rifle team has always made a good record and great things are expected from it this year. Several Davidson men were on the Camp McClellan team last summer which won the R. O. T. C. rifle matches at Camp Perry. R. D. Russell, in addition to belonging to this team, won individual honors in placing far toward the forefront in an individual match.

MASQUERS SCORE HIT IN “THE PERFECT ALIBI”

Stewart Meacham and Miss Letitia Currie Play Leading Roles in Successful Production

DRAWS LARGE CROWD

Tong and Ervin Also Brilliant as Crooks—Support is Excellent

Not to be outdone by the great athletic triumph of the day, drama made its appearance last Saturday night in the college auditorium, in the cast and title of The Perfect Alibi, a three-act detective comedy, presented by the Davidson Red and Black Masquers, to constitute the second entertainment feature of a happy weekend. After an organ prelude by Ernest Emurian, including, among other selections, Lemare’s Andantino, The Bells of St. Mary's, and a part of Il Trovatore, the curtain rose at 7:05 for the first act.

The story enacted deals with the murder of one Arthur Ludgrove, a convinced and retired bachelor of 60, by two supposedly genial weekend guests, but in reality, old enemies of his; the conclusion drawn by the police that it was a case of suicide; and the final, and true solution of the mystery, by the ward of the deceased, and her fiancé, nephew of the deceased. In the first scene, Jimmy Ludgrove, nephew of the deceased, and one of those charming but apparently not very intelligent young men, emptied so hopefully and so regularly into the world by large universities, is seen laboriously attempting to write a letter. This character is portrayed by Stewart Meacham, in a way that evidenced careful preparation, and considerable dramatic ability. Across the desk, snugly reclining on a sofa, his fiancée, Susan Cunningham, just 20, ward of the senior Ludgrove and mistress of the household, is observed absorbed in one of the latest detective “screams.” This stellar feminine role is portrayed by Miss Letitia Currie, with marked histrionic talent. After a few trivialities between the two, other members of the household, andGuests arrive, one by one; and Jimmy and Susan, with Jane West, flippant girlfriend of Susan’s, and represented by Carolena Moffet, decide to drive out and play tennis, agreeing to take Major Fothergill, elderly friend of the older Ludgrove, as far as the station, whence he is to depart for town. The part of Major Fothergill, so well executed by Steve White, is that of a 60-year-old man, spruce, nevertheless, and, he hopes, still eligible, despite his advancing years. This leaves the scene of action to the remaining three occupants of the house: the host, Arthur Ludgrove, acted by James Black, with the appearance of a rather shabby, unkempt man, a natural result of his favorite hobby of gardening, yet one who has an authoritative demeanor, and a noble aspect that commands the utmost respect, and his two guests, a Mr. Laverick, and a Mr. Carter. Mr. Laverick is a small, neat man, with a large Van-Dyke beard, and rather restless eyes that never stay on any person or any object too long. He is stiffly and laboriously polite, as though on his guard.

(Continued on page 5)

Julian West Injured in Fresh Scrimmage

Captain Julian West will be out of the Davidson line-up Friday when the Wildkittens meet the strong Duke Frosh, due to a serious ankle injury received Monday afternoon in the scrimmage. The injury came when West, carrying the ball on a line play, was downed by McElrath, Freshman tackle. West is the third first-string backfielder that the Freshmen have lost this season due to mishaps, Reid Brown and Mill Hornsbarger having been disabled by leg injuries.

“Y” Vespers Led By Queen Deputation

The “Y” vesper service Sunday night was held by a deputation of six students from Queens-Chicora College of Charlotte. The service was opened with a prayer by Miss Vinson, the leader. Following the prayer, Miss Brice gave a beautiful vocal solo, entitled “Holding Thy Hand, Dear Lord.” She was accompanied at the piano by Miss McQueen. Miss Hogue gave a short talk on “Adventures With Christ.” She treated this subject in relation to beauty and knowledge. “There are two things under this subject,” said Miss Hogue, “beauty and knowledge. These are interwoven; you must have knowledge to understand beauty and beauty is essential to gain knowledge. If people have a good understanding of beauty and have plenty of knowledge they usually have a good influence on others.

“Everybody has some kind of influence, either good or bad,” remarked Miss Hogue. “Your friends at school have a great influence on you and if you do not choose the right kind of friends, you will be led the wrong way. Be more careful in your remarks to others. Do not do anything intentionally that you know will offend someone else. You must have a fine personality to say some things and get by with them.

“The teaching of Christ is like unto a potter’s wheel. One flaw in the clay will mar the looks of the pot after it is finished; one defect in the living of a life will spoil its beauty forever. The teachings of Christ add beauty to everything and only through Christ can one gain knowledge and understand beauty.” After this talk, Miss Graham rendered a beautiful solo on the violin, accompanied by Miss McQueen. Miss Bell gave an interesting talk on “Service” as concerned with adventuring with Christ. She asked a question that concerns every student, “What is your idea of service?” Citizenship is the most essential thing to service. Respecting the rules, upholding the traditions, honoring the laws and regulations and giving everything you can to the school, is as much as anyone can do. “Are you going to be a leader or a follower? Are you going to have ideals and convictions of your own or are you going to rely upon others for them? Whatever you be, be a good one, and put all that you have into it. When you see that you can do something evil and get away with it, do not do it. You might slip something over on your fellow...

(Continued on page 6)

Quadwranglers’ Officers Are Selected For Year

At a recent meeting of the Quadwranglers Club of Davidson College, the following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Prof. S. C. Lyon, president; Prof. H. T. Lilly, vice-president; Prof. G. B. Watts, secretary. Professors A. V. Goldiere and W. L. Porter constitute the executive committee. In the way of entertainment, an examination was made of the family album, in which several of the illustrious members of the families of Quad and Wrangle were shown. The ladies attending presented a clever musical comedy entitled, “Why Faculty Wives Leave Home.” Original programs full of wit and humor are typical of this organization. The club, composed of faculty members and their wives, meets once a month in the attractive assembly room on the third floor of Chambers Building. One of the chief attractions of the hall is a beautiful solid oak table, made especially for the club by Drs. Raynal and Hood. According to tentative plans, Dr. Guy R. Vowles, head of the German Department of Davidson, is to be the speaker of the evening, and the belief has been expressed by more than one of the members that a rare treat is in store for those who attend.

Wildcat Rise To Superb Strength in Conquering North Car. Tar Heels

Fraley, McCall, and Branch Feature With Spectacular Plays Throughout the Game

5,000 at the Game

Both Teams Show Brilliant Offensive Strength Despite Rain-Soaked Gridiron

A truly great Davidson eleven rose to magnificent heights Saturday to defeat a dazed and helpless University of North Carolina team, 7 to 6, on Richardson Field. The score does not show the superiority that the Wildcats held throughout all the game with the exception of part of the first quarter when the Tar Heels made their only score. From the opening kick-off when Joe McCall ran 63 yards through the entire Carolina team, excepting Branch, till the final whistle blew with Davidson in possession of the ball after intercepting one of Carolina’s frantic heaves, the game was replete with thrills. Every Davidson player was at the height of his game, and the bewildered University eleven could neither halt the lunging drives of Brohard, Fraley, McCall, McQueen and others, nor make impressions against a line playing inspired ball, led by Brock and Brown. To Captain Walter Fraley much honor should be given. For it was he who plunged seven yards through the big N. C. line for a touchdown, and then place-kicked perfectly for the extra point and a great victory. It was he, also, who led his team so wisely, picking out the weak places in the Tar Heel defense for his fellow backs to tear through. However, almost every place looked weak when the fighting Wildcat line tore open large holes for their slippery backs. The Davidson Wildcat saw his first game of the year Saturday, being an interested spectator from his cage on the sidelines. However, he went back to his regular cage next to the gymnasium after the game, content in the realization that his namesakes had well lived up to the family name. Chuck Collins’ Tar Heels were a real threat at all times, but except on one or two occasions they were not allowed to rage. The first of these occasions resulted in a score. After gaining on an exchange of punts, and successive first downs by Captain Nash and Magner, the ball rested on the Wildcats’ 30-yard line. After three plunges had gained little against the stalwart Davidson line, Magner stepped back and threw the slippery ball straight into the arms of Nash, who cut sharp to his right and raced 24 yards for their only score. The second occasion came when Johnny Branch, diminutive quarterback, who has been poison to so many teams already this year, received a punt on his own 17-yard line and raced down the sidelines to the Wildcats’ 14-yard line where he was overhauled by McCall and downed in a beautiful flying tackle.

(Continued on page 5)

Debating Tryouts

A very extensive schedule has been planned for this year’s debating team. The team will debate against approximately twenty of the leading colleges and universities during the months of March and April. The tryouts for the varsity team will be held on Tuesday night, December 16. The question for debate has not yet been decided upon but will be announced later. The freshman tryouts will be held as soon as possible after the mid-year examinations. The topic for freshman and varsity tryouts will be the same.