LECTURE ON THE DAVIDSONIAN

"ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS"

Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 8, 1930 No. 28

Dr. W.J. Martin Chosen Pres. Of Presbyterian Institution at Richmond

Doctor Martin is Graduate and President Emeritus of Davidson

LEADER IN CHURCH WORK

Is to Take Position Formerly Occupied by Dr. W. L. Lingle

Dr. William Joseph Martin, president-emeritus of Davidson, was named president of the Presbyterian Assembly Training School on May 2. He was chosen by the board of trustees of the institution. Dr. Martin has long been associated with Davidson. He was president from 1912 to 1929 and is nationally known as a chemist of high rank. Dr. Martin fills the position left vacant by Dr. Walter L. Lingle in coming to Davidson. For many years he has been a prominent figure in the Southern Presbyterian Church, having been named Moderator of the General Assembly in 1914 and also a member of many important committees in the Church work.

The Assembly Training School is doing a great work in the training of lay workers, both men and women, for every department in the Church work. Large numbers of graduates have gone to foreign mission fields and home mission training is one of the chief assets of the school. Dr. Martin was unanimously elected by the committee to take the president’s chair because he was the most logical man to capably fill the position.

Life of Wilson To Be Presented Here

On Friday night, May 9th, at 7:30, through the modern miracle of the motion picture, Woodrow Wilson, who, at Davidson laid the foundation of his great career, will return and give a true report of that career in detail. The scenes depicted include: the two inaugurations, the President’s private life in the White House, his official duties, his efforts “to keep us out of war,” the declaration of war in Congress, bona fide scenes of actual battle, his several trips abroad in negotiation for the establishment of world peace, his return and welcome in New York, his collapse and relinquishment of office and last public appearance, as well as many other scenes. Each State may get a permanent copy of the film by buying it for $5,000. Many institutions and States have already secured copies, and several North Carolina institutions are seriously considering getting them. Reports from people who have already seen the film say that it is only comparable to a visit from the President himself. It has been shown in New York, Chicago and other large cities to capacity audiences at prices ranging from five dollars down. The admission here will be only thirty-five cents.

New Members of Board Of Control Are Chosen

Professor Schenck, Sisson, Martin, and McKinnon Are Chosen

Elections for the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control were concluded last week. Professor Lewis B. Schenck was elected faculty member over Prof. J. P. Williams. Charlie Sisson, of Winona, Miss., was elected Senior member over A. R. Jackson, of Williamsport, Pa., on the second ballot. Grier Martin, of Covington, Ga., and Jack McKinnon, of Jacksonville, Fla., were elected Junior members over Horace Erwin, New York City; J. D. McConnell, Davidson, and Nat Spier, of Charlotte. Martin was elected on the first ballot and McKinnon on the third.

Professor Schenck, associate professor of religious education, came to Davidson in 1927. Since that time he has become one of the most popular professors on the hill. Sisson, a member of Phi Gamma Delta, social fraternity, is a member of the Court of Control, and an advertising manager of the 1929-30 Quips and Cranks. Martin, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, is a managing editor of The Davidsonian for 1930-31, and a member of Le Circle Francaise. McKinnon is a solicitor on The Davidsonian business staff, and a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity.

This election completes the memberships for the Board of Control. The old members who will retain their office are as follows: Faculty, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle and Mr. F. L. Jackson; Senior members, Jas. A. Jones, and S. S. Wiley, and Rev. H. M. Moffett member ex-officio. The new “Y” president, Dean Rusk, becomes a member by virtue of his office. C. R. Pritchett, the new secretary, will succeed Camper O'Neal as the other (Continued on page 4)

Julian Miller, Charlotte Editor, Speaks To Newly Elected O.D.K. Members

Dangers of Machine Age Enumerated by the Speaker

FIVE HONORARY MEMBERS

Old and New Members of O. D. K. Entertained at Banquet in Chambers

“The social suppression brought on by mechanics in industry is at the root of much of today’s industrial discontent,” tonight declared Julian Miller, editor of The Charlotte News, in speaking before the Davidson College members of the Delta Chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, at their annual spring initiation ceremonies. Mr. Miller added that “when one yields the creative instincts, as one is forced to yield it under the mechanic compulsions of our civilization, one unconsciously drifts into the state of a robot, pulseless, lifeless, conscienceless.”

In beginning his address, the speaker pointed out that 75 per cent of the leaders of our nation are today coming from that one-half of one per cent of educated men, and whether they realized it or not, “the imprimatur of leadership which has been laid upon them by common sanction and experience is irremovable. The concrete issues that are calling for distinctive leadership and issuing their challenge to the mightiest capacities of our cultured manhood are three, namely, the mechanism, the materialism, and the humanism of modern life.”

The Charlotte editor stated that “the mechanizing of our civilization has intrigued us so, that mechanical emphasis threatens to become a Juggernaut over which its creators have lost control. Life has become a matter of standardization, of grooving itself within hollow empty channels to the loss of initiative, to the subjection of personality, and to the utterSubservience of qualities of individualism.” To combat this is “one of the insistent challenges to leadership of this generation.” The value of education has come to be measured in its dollar and cents value, and the culture which the old Greeks put about their young men can no longer be given in our American colleges, he continued. “Education for education’s sake, knowledge that serves to enrich life, a culture that is lifted far above the low levels of mere mercenariness—these things have passed out of our experiences.”

“The all-sufficiency of the human power—power of will, power of mentality, power of physical prowess—is resulting in the polite bowing of the supernatural out of the equations of life. God is being diminished and the place of spirituality in life is questioned under the tremendous gains in knowledge which have been registered in the last decade.” The condition was characterized as the “humanism that pervades our intellectual thought.” Mr. Miller stated that in these three things lay the challenge to the leadership which is emerging from colleges and universities, the leadership of men upon whom is being placed the mark of supremacy.”

The address of the Charlotte editor followed a private initiation when five honorary members and eleven students were inducted into the fraternity. The former were Julian Miller, of Charlotte; Dr. Robert W. McKay, of Charlotte, alumnus of Davidson; J. Caldwell McDonald, of Charlotte, also an alumnus. After the public exercises, the new and old members of Omicron Delta Kappa were (Continued on page 4)

Correction
Instead of being on Friday afternoon, May 30, as was given in the examination schedule, the examination in French A, 1, and 2 will be on Saturday morning, May 31. The mistake was due to a typographical error by the printer. The remainder of the schedule is unchanged.

Handbook for 1930 To Appear Aug. 1st
An announcement was made recently by Paul Alderman, editor of the “Wildcat Handbook,” to the effect that next year's book would possibly be out by August 1, and not later than August 5. R. W. Gorrell is the business manager and the editorial staff is as follows: Journal Information, P. S. Knox; Y. M. C. A., C. F. Myers; Fraternities, N. B. Dicks; Student Activities, N. Raies; Athletics, W. H. Matthews, and Songs and Yells, B. W. Mosely. The Journal Information will include the faculty members and also the tips to Freshmen. This section is very important, because it gives the Freshmen their first impression of Davidson and in some way helps to create that famous Wildcat spirit. The Y. M. C. A. section is concerning the organization and work of that institution. The Fraternity section includes both social and honorary fraternities. The Student Activity section gives the names of the different campus activities and the leaders of each. The Athletic section gives last year’s scores and other information about the athletic teams. The last section, Songs and Yells, is very important, since the Freshmen are supposed to know some of the songs and yells before they arrive on the campus.

The handbook will be essentially the same as last year, but there will be a few changes. For one thing, there will be a few more cuts than in the last edition.

German Fraternity Has First Meeting
German Music is Feature of Program at Doctor Vowle’s Home
The first meeting of Epsilon Chapter of Delta Phi Alpha was held on Wednesday night, April 23, at the home of Dr. G. R. Vowles, thus inaugurating the German honorary fraternity at Davidson. No formal initiation or inaugural rites will be held until there are ten chapters included in the national order. At present there are six chapters which are Wofford, the Alpha Chapter, Central College in Missouri, Bates College in Maine, Berea College in Kentucky, and Davidson. The first meeting was an enjoyable one which started off with the business and ended up with refreshments. The business for the most part was an election of officers, who are H. A. Cox, president; W. W. Beatty, vice-president, and J. N. Truesdale, secretary-treasurer. Following the business a delightful and unique program of music was furnished by Dr. Vowles in the form of victrola records of famous German songs. At the close of this entertainment refreshments were served.

The purpose of this fraternity is to cooperate in an effort to stimulate an interest in the German language in American colleges and to revive it as a course of study as it was in pre-war days. This national organization was started recently and has already gained six chapters. There are two faculty members and fourteen student members of the local chapter. The faculty members are Dr. G. R. Vowles and J. N. Truesdale of the German department. The fourteen students are as follows: W. W. Beatty, J. B. Black, H. A. Cox, W. M. Croker, N. B. Dicks, W. W. Franklin, J. H. Henderlite, W. A. Howard, Zeb V. Long, W. A. Mason, H. S. Munroe, H. F. Nichol, James Watt, J. W. Williams.

Local Girl Appears In Amateur Drama
Miss Elizabeth Thompson, of Davidson, a student at North Carolina College, will appear in the Play-Liker production, “After Dark,” by Dion Boucicault, which will be given in Aycock Auditorium, Greensboro, Saturday night, May 10, at 8:30 o'clock. This is Miss Thompson's first appearance with the Play-Likers. She will play the role of a London singer and dancer. The Play-Likers Association is the dramatic organization of the State School for (Continued on page 5)

Awards For Distinction Given Outstanding Men In Annual Athletic Night
Trophies, Certificates, and Souvenirs Presented to Outstanding Athletes
DOUGHERTY MAKES TALK
Three Special Trophies Presented Including Richardson Cup and Distinction Cup
On last Tuesday night, May 6, the Davidson College Athletic Association sponsored “Athletic Night,” an annual event dedicated to the recognition of outstanding achievement in the field of athletics. After the invocation by Dr. H. M. Moffett, college pastor, and the singing, in unison, of “O Davidson,” Lt. Col. W. R. Scott, head of the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit, presented gold footballs to those men meriting such distinction for their stellar playing on the gridiron last fall. Then followed the award of athletic certificates in football, wrestling, basketball, tennis, track, baseball, and the cheer leader. These were presented after a short presentation speech by Prof. Fred K. Fleagle, dean of the Summer School.

Following these awards, Mr. F. L. Jackson, college treasurer, presented three special trophies. The first was the Lunsford Richardson Cup, given annually to the student showing the greatest increase in physical measurement. This went to W. J. Davis, ‘33, of Rome, Ga. The second trophy, given each year to the high point man in the open gymnastic competition, was won by F. R. Brown, ‘30, of Greensboro, N. C. The third, and probably the most highly prized, was the Athletic Distinction Cup, awarded to that athlete who brings the greatest distinction to the college during the current year. This went to Thad Brock, ‘31.

Thad Brock, retiring grid captain, then presented three footballs to the college. Two of these were victory footballs, one from N. C. State and one from Duke University, while the third was given Davidson by Army for the “fighting sportsmanship displayed in the Davidson-Army game.” Next followed the presentation by Dr. J. M. McConnell of an alumni gold football to H. P. Graham, '08, Cooleemee, N. C., a member of the Alumni Athletic Council.

Following this, and comprising the feature of the evening, was a stirring speech by Prof. N. W. Doughtery, chairman of the Athletic Council at the University of Tennessee. “Despite the evils attendant to football,” said Professor Doughtery, “the game will continue to be played because it is an excellent public spectacle and because the students want it.” The speaker, who is a prominent leader in southern athletics and is connected with the National Intercollegiate Association, chose as his subject “Football in American Colleges.” He ably presented both sides of the debated question as to the good and evils of the gridiron game, which has come to occupy a pre-eminent place in the life of colleges and universities, and (Continued on page 4)

Business Staff of Davidsonian Chosen
According to an announcement made by J. A. Cannon, recently appointed business manager of The Davidsonian, ten men have been appointed to the business staff of the paper. Four of these, Conway, Baker, Stevens, and Montgomery, will be assistant managers, having been selected from the rising Junior Class.

P. M. Conway is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He is captain-elect of the wrestling team and a member of the varsity football squad. A. J. Baker is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. He is on the varsity football squad and a member of the Student Council. J. B. Stevens is a member of Beta Theta Pi. A. G. Montgomery is a member of Phi Gamma Delta.

The following men have been appointed as solicitors of the staff and were chosen from the rising Sophomore Class: W. R. Morrow, A. L. Mebane, A. M. Manson, P. M. Brown, R. W. Falls, and B. C. Parks.