THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 9, 1930

Extension Courses Now to Be Offered

For the first time in the history of Davidson College, the institution is offering extension courses off the campus to
public school teachers. In the past several years, they have offered a class at Davidson, and in addition to the
same procedure during the coming year, two of the Davidson professors are conducting extension courses at Statesville.

Drs. C. K. Brown and P. H. Gwyn to Start Classes at Statesville for School Teachers

Dr. C. K. Brown and Dr. H. Price Gwyn start a class in the Mulberry High School at Statesville next
Saturday at 10:30 a.m. Dr. Brown will give a course in labor problems, and Dr. Gwyn’s field will be educational
sociology.

The Davidson class will be held each Wednesday afternoon at 3:30, and will be taught by Prof. Ernest J. Cullum,
who offers a course in “Methods of Teaching Appreciation of Art,” and Prof. W. L. Porter.

West Elected Captain of Freshman Team

The evening before the game between Oak Ridge and Davidson’s Freshmen, Julian West, of Fayetteville, N. C., was elected captain
of the Freshman team, and Reid Brown, of Goldsboro, N. C., was elected alternate captain. Both of these boys attended
Barium Springs last year, where they were outstanding in football and other athletics. West is a quarterback and Brown holds
down the fullback’s position. Because of the type of men that Barium Springs has given Davidson in the past, and
because of these men’s splendid records there, they are counted upon to be the mainstays of the Freshman team this
year.

Davidson Orchestra Organized for Year

The Sunnyland Serenaders, an orchestra at Davidson College, has completed its organization for the coming year by the selection of
three new men. Those chosen were Middleton Hines, saxophone, of Warsaw; John Best, of Shelby, trumpet, and Oscar Norman, of
Key West, Fla., pianist. The club consists of nine men. The six members who are still students at Davidson and
will play with the orchestra this year are Jack Ramseur, of Lincolnton, saxophone and director; Reeves Pope, of Talladega, Ala.,
saxophone; Woodrow Caligan, of Wadesboro, banjo; William Hayes, of Fremont, sousaphone; Brice Robinson, of Talladega, Ala., drums, and Robert Orr,
of Asheville, trombone. The Sunnyland Serenaders are growing in popularity each year, and fill many engagements in this territory. These
students also accompany the Davidson Glee Club on all of its trips, lending a light feature to the program of
songs.

DAVIDSON FIVE AND TEN YEARS AGO

Davidson 1920

The student body agreed to subscribe three dollars to the 1921 Quips and Cranks. Insufficient funds was the reason given
for asking this subscription. C. W. Long, editor-in-chief, brought the proposition before the students and they gave their hearty approval.

Davidson Five Years Ago

The Wildcats tie Wake Forest, 7-7, at Charlotte. A 21-0 victory had been predicted for the Baptists and they had
already been given, unofficially, first rating in the state. Although the line was outweighed 17 pounds to the man and
the

EXCELLENT GLEE CLUB

(Continued from page 1)

Schubert's old English ballads. Also, a negro spiritual is being considered. With the somewhat strenuous practicing of three nights a
week now being undergone, indications are that the Glee Club will shortly be rounded out and in excellent shape.

The Davidson Wildcats were overcome by the Washington and Lee Generals. The Davidson goal was threatened several times but the
Red and Black succeeded in putting up an effective wall to block the advances. The only scores were two field
goals by the Generals, Silverstein doing the booting. Mattox, later a Wildkitten coach, then a W. & L. halfback, was
the only man to make appreciable gains through the ’Cat defense. The game ended 6-0 in favor of Washington and
Lee.Backfield five pounds to the man, the Presbyterians showed their Scotch grit and fought it out, gaining a tied score.
“Little Lucian Wells,” as the papers had it, was the outstanding constellation in a team of stars. The Deacons scored
in the first five minutes and for several plays thereafter had it as they wanted. The ’Cats then tightened up
but could not score before the third quarter, when Wells took the ball across and Red Laird kicked the extra
point.

Students have enrolled in Columbia University’s 1930-31 correspondence school. Ten thousand will teach either “social geography” or “educational biology,” which
will be determined by the demands and needs of the public schools enrolling here. Prof. F. K. Fleagle, under whose
direction these classes are conducted, announced that the courses at Davidson and Statesville are open to public school teachers, and
that six hours of college credit will be given to any person taking them. He also stated that the executive
committee of the college had agreed to try extension courses off the campus for one year. “The Statesville class is
in the nature of an experiment,” he said, “and was only authorized after repeated insistence of teachers in the adjoining
county.”

... the idol of them all. Ball two! Be deserved.

COACH YOUNGER’S BROTHER (Continued from page 1)

Younger was notified, he went to Lynchburg as soon as possible, and stayed there until Friday, when he returned to
Davidson to take up his coaching duties again. A wreath was sent by the Davidson student body as a symbol
of their deep sympathy for Coach “Monk” Younger and his family. Rawley Younger is survived by his mother and six
brothers besides Coach W. L. Younger.

WILDCATS FACE BLUE (Continued from page 1)

Will have only five men leaving them this year, however, leaving a big number of regulars that will return next
year. DeHart is depending solely on how his Sophomores fill in the vacant places and claims that if they turn
out well, he will have a hard team to beat. There are still sixteen men left on the Blue Devils’
team that know how a Younger-coached team performs, so they will know very well what to expect. Rosky and Hayes,
ends; Rupp, a center; Captain Davis, guard; and Murray, fullback, are the only Seniors in Duke’s line-up. The remaining men
that played against Davidson are: Hyatt, end; Carpenter, tackle; Bryan, tackle; Hughes, tackle; Taylor and Rankin, guards; Adkins, Friedman, centers;
Brewer, fullback; Russ, half, and Robeson, half.

Going through the personnel of the Duke regulars we find Kid Brewer, the human battering ram of the Blue Devil
squad, starting at fullback. Brewer is a smart player besides being tough, and carries 185 pounds around with him. Bill
Murray, 175, is starting at one of the half positions and seems likely to get the call against Davidson. Murray
is a strong, well-built back with a great deal of speed and goes good on quick off-tackle plays. Abbott, 146,
a slippery streak from Pennsylvania, who played but little Frosh ball last year, will probably run from the quarterback post.
Mullen, who put up a neat performance against Virginia, seems likely to start opposite Murray. Mark Rosky has been calling
them from the end position. Rosky is back this year heavier than ever, weighing 180, and runs at right end.
Bob Hayes, Charlotte boy and acting captain while Red Davis is laid up, is holding down left end with his
180 pounds of fight and brawn. Don Carpenter, 200, will either start at tackle or will see a great deal
of service before the game is over. Other tackles are Bryan, 205; Alley, 204; Deichman, 191; Gold, 176; Horton, 215,
and Daugherty, 215. Captain Red Davis reported for practice back in September so far underweight that he has been kept
out of the game, but it...

Thirty thousand welcoming shouts as he steps to bat. Ball one! ...and cr-r-ack! he’s done it again. Popularity to be
lasting must...

LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.

ONE will always stand out. HOME RUNS are made at the plate — not on the bench! Likewise, what counts
in a cigarette is what a smoker gets from it — not what is said about it. Chesterfield has a
policy — give smokers what they want: MILDNESS — the wholly natural mildness of tobaccos that are without harshness or
bitterness. BETTER TASTE — such as only a cigarette of wholesome purity and better tobaccos can have.
