EVERYBODY MAKES PLANS TO he Davidsonian

DOCTOR HARRY RIMMER BE MAKES HIS SafunoAy myo Tne

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

Volume XVIII No. 5 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 16, 1930

Harry Rimmer to Speak Again at Y.M.C.A. Vespers

Versatile Minister Will Speak to Students in Detail on Authenticity of Bible

WAS PRIZE FIGHTER

Now Located at Kansas State Teachers’ College

Announcement has been made to the effect that Dr. Harry Rimmer, the famous archaeologist, scientist, physician, pastor, and former prize
fighter, of Los Angeles, Calif., will speak at Davidson next Sunday afternoon and the following Sunday at 5:30 p.m. At
these two times, the supper hour will be moved to 5 o’clock. Dr. Rimmer will come here from the Second
Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, where he is holding a series of services from October 12 until November 2. His messages range
mostly, as many students will recall, in the proving of the authenticity of the Bible in every detail. As an
evidence of his popularity among Davidson men, it might be stated that several students have been going over to Charlotte
to attend the night services, and they never come back disappointed. Due to his varied interests and qualifications, the “Y”
wishes to extend a special invitation to all townspeople to attend the services as well as to urge that no
student miss the opportunity to hear this man, who has caught the interest of the entire student bodies of Emory
University, Agnes Scott, and many other schools of note.

The Atlanta Journal says: “Doctor Rimmer is just the sort of man you would like to have to make a
pep talk to your football team before it takes the field. We would say that he is between the ages
of 25 and 38 years, and has a punch and keen wit that makes his talks fascinating even when he
is discussing skulls and skeletons, and bones, of long-departed brethren.”

Dr. Rimmer’s biography is of intense interest. From welterweight boxing champion of the Pacific Fleet, he was converted and gave
his life to the cause of Christ. Since that time he has become pastor of one of the largest churches
in Los Angeles, Calif. He is also a physician, and many noted doctors and surgeons have remarked that he never
uses a scientific term incorrectly. At present he is Curator of the Museum of the State Teachers College of Kansas.
His time is now divided between scientific research, direction of the affairs of the Museum, and lecturing and preaching in
churches and colleges throughout the country. To hear this man is to hear a scientist and a minister discuss in
a new light the age-old question of science and religion. Bearing this out, Mr. Tom Glasgow said in his vesper
talk last Sunday afternoon, “In my upholding of the Bible, Doctor Rimmer has, in his wonderful proofs of the authenticity
of the Bible, changed me from an offensive to a defensive policy. I urge you not to miss the great
opportunity to hear him.”

Actors to Present Play at Home-coming

First Offering of Red and Black Masquers is Rehearsed

In their first appearance of the school year on the night of Saturday, November 15, the Red and Black Masquers,
Davidson College dramatic club, will present “The Fourth Wall” or “The Perfect Alibi,” in Chambers Auditorium. The curtain will rise
at 7:30. This will form a part of the program for Home-Coming Day.

Consisting of three acts, with a total of five scenes, the play supposedly takes place at the Sussex country home
of Arthur Ludgrove. Clothed in an English atmosphere, the drama presents a combination of comedy and mystery effects, in which
the facts of the dilemma are known to the audience. In brief, Arthur Ludgrove is murdered by Edward Carter and
Edward Laverick in revenge for a sentence which Ludgrove had formerly passed on them. The crime has all (Continued on
page 5)

College Conference Convenes in Durham

Dr. E. C. Brooks was elected president of the North Carolina College Conference at their meeting at Durham on October
11. Dr. Brooks is president of the North Carolina State College at Raleigh and is widely known throughout the state.
His many friends rejoice with him in his recent election because this is quite a distinctive position. The conference feels
that with Dr. Brooks’ varied experience that he is thoroughly capable of discharging the duties connected with this office.

The other officers named were: Dr. W. H. Frazer of Charlotte, president of Queens-Chicora College, vice-president, and Prof. N. W.
Walker, of the University of North Carolina, secretary-treasurer. Professor Walker was re-elected.

Three new members of the executive committee were chosen, as follows: Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of Davidson College; Dr.
A. T. Allen, State Superintendent of Public Instruction, and Prof. Holland Holton, of Duke University. These three new men are
sure to prove most valuable in their new capacities.

The conference voted to invite the Association of Southern Colleges and Secondary Schools to meet at Duke University next year.
This association discusses problems that confront the modern college. Through the suggestions that are offered, solutions are reached, and many
puzzling problems are solved.

Registrar Releases Student Statistics

As is shown by the following statistics, supplied by Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, registrar, Davidson College has an unusually cosmopolitan
student body this year, twenty-three of the forty-eight states being represented and five foreign countries.

In comparing the courses the members of the student body are taking, it is found that the B.S. in commerce
leads all others, with the A.B. 2 coming second, and the B.S. 1, A.B. 1, Special, and Pre-Med courses following
in order.

The list of occupations of parents of the students, and the occupations the students intend pursuing for their life work
also shows interesting variations.

States represented:
North Carolina 385
South Carolina 42
Georgia 38
Virginia 38
West Virginia 37
Florida 25
Tennessee 22
New Jersey 21
Mississippi 12
New York 6
Louisiana 5
Texas 5
Iowa 4
Kentucky 3
Connecticut 2
Maryland 2
Ohio 2
California 1
District of Columbia 1
Pennsylvania 1
Michigan 1
Minnesota 1
China 2
Brazil 1
New Zealand 1
Mexico 1

Degrees being taken:
B.S. 221
A.B. 2 183
A.B. 1 166
Pre-Med 21
Special 17

Vocations of students:
Medical 99
Business 105
Ministry 63
Law 62
Teaching 35
Engineering 33
(Continued on page 5)

Dr. H. E. Kirk to Give Series of Talks in Dec.

To Speak on “Man’s Place in Nature and Beyond”

Dr. Harris E. Kirk, pastor of the Franklin Street Presbyterian Church of Baltimore, Md., will come to Davidson College in
December to deliver a series of five lectures to the Davidson student body. Dr. Kirk has already announced his subject
to be “Man's Place in Nature and Beyond.”

The appearance of this prominent southern religious leader is made possible through a fund established in 1893 by the late
Dr. J. M. P. Otts, who specified that the fund “should be used from time to time in securing and
publishing courses of lectures at Davidson College in defense of Christianity against current heresies, especially such as may seem directed
against the foundations of the Christian faith.”

Four series of lectures have been delivered, the last one by the late Dr. Walter W. Moore, president of the
Union Seminary at the time of his death. Upon recommendation, the Board of Trustees decided to let the fund accumulate
until it totaled $10,000. This sum was reached last year, and the trustees authorized the giving of them again, and
selected Dr. Kirk for the task. His lectures will be published in book form after they are delivered here.

Lingle and McConnell Attend Synod Meet

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, and Dr. J. M. McConnell, dean of instruction and head of the
History Department, are now representing Davidson College at simultaneous meetings of the Synods of North Carolina and Florida. Dr. Lingle
will attend the session at Wilmington, beginning on Tuesday, while Dr. McConnell will go to DeFuniak Springs, Fla., for the
meeting in that state. Dr. Lingle is chairman of the ad interim committee of the North Carolina Synod. Associated with
him are Dr. C. M. Richards of Davidson,Z. V. Turlington of Mooresville, and Dr. W. B. McIlwaine and Dr. R.
H. Lafferty of Charlotte. This committee will make a report and recommendation that the appointment of ten standing committees be
abolished, and that the Synod’s work committee be the central unit of activity for this state. In explaining the recommendation,
Dr. Lingle pointed out that these various subcommittees overlap the work of the larger group known as the “work committee”
and that considerable time was lost in getting matters before the Synod for consideration. Included in the recommendation, provided it
is adopted, is the suggestion that “any time which may be saved by this more direct method” will be utilized
“in educational and inspirational services.”

Robert Maynard Hutchins, president of the University of Chicago, and Frank Porter Graham, president of the University of North Carolina,
will be the principal speakers at the third annual Southern Conference on Education at the University of North Carolina, October
30, 31 and November 1 and 2.

MR. JACKSON TO SPEAK OVER WBT

Mr. F. L. Jackson, Treasurer of Davidson College, will deliver a fifteen-minute address on “The Development of Public Accounting as
a Profession” over station WBT, Charlotte, Friday night. This talk will be in conjunction with the banquet of the North
Carolina Association of Certified Public Accountants, which will hold a two-day session, Friday and Saturday, in Charlotte. The hour has
not been definitely decided upon, but it is believed that it will be between eight and nine.

Active Work Begun on New Publication

News concerning the humor magazine to be published at Davidson this year for the first time in several years is
at last available. W. C. Ragin, editor of the humorous publication, announced last Monday that the name for the magazine
would be “The Yowl.” This name was chosen after considering several other names that it was thought would not be
suitable. The contract for the printing of the magazine has been let to the Queen City Printing Company of Charlotte,
and already nearly enough material has been gathered for the publishing of the first issue. The Yowl will be published
three times a year, the approximate dates of its appearances being on November 1, February 1, and May 1. It
will contain cartoons, humorous plays, stories, and jokes; it will have a two-color cover and will have from thirty to
thirty-five pages of printed matter. The staff of The Yowl will be chosen from the result of the work on
the first issue, and any members of the student body who feel that they are either artistically or humorously inclined
will be given an opportunity to write or draw as the case may be. Henderlite has been chosen business manager
of the publication and is at work trying to finance the cartoons of the magazine. Work is going forward on
The Yowl very rapidly and Ragin expressed an optimistic opinion that it would be a “yowling” success.

Red Cross Workers Hold Meeting Here

N. C. Chapters Hold Meeting in Chambers Auditorium

North Carolina chapters of the American Red Cross have a tremendous field of service open to them in the United
States Veterans’ Hospital at Oteen, according to Miss Mabel Boardman, of Washington, D. C., executive secretary to the national board
of directors of the American Red Cross, who made the principal address here Thursday before the regional conference of the
Western North Carolina Division of this organization. Two sessions were held, the one in the morning being devoted largely to
brief talks by Red Cross workers of this section, while the afternoon’s meeting was featured by Miss Boardman’s address. William
C. Hunt, also of Washington, D. C., and assistant manager of the eastern area, closed the morning program with a
comprehensive discussion of the financial outlook of the national body. Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson, extended a cordial
welcome to the 84 visitors who attended the conference. A luncheon in the banquet hall of Chambers Building, at Davidson,
was presided over by Geo. E. Wilson, Jr., of Charlotte, this executive officer also occupying the chair in the afternoon.
Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, of Davidson, presided in the morning.

In her address Miss Boardman also stressed the importance of the approaching Red Cross roll call. “The business depression will
send back to us disabled veterans for which we must provide, and the outlay of $550,000 to distressed people in
23 states who have suffered from the great drought are outstanding reasons why the Red Cross membership should be increased,”
she said. Miss Boardman announced that unless American people responded to this roll call, 26,000 persons on the regular staffs
of hospitals throughout America would have to be released. As a contrast, she pointed out that 20,000,000 Americans were members
of the Red Cross during the war, and that now there are 4,000,000. The address of Mr. Hunt was largely
devoted to the operations of the disaster relief funds: “On the average there are one hundred disasters a year in
the United States,” he said, “but no individual chapter has been asked for more than one or two contributions.” He
traced in detail the expenditure (Continued on page 5)

Citadel Meets Wildcats In Charlotte Saturday

Cadets’ Veteran Team Out to Avenge 7-6 Defeat of Last Year

EVENLY MATCHED TEAMS

Coach Floyd in His First Year at Citadel Produces Good Team

The Cadets of Citadel meet Davidson Saturday afternoon in Charlotte at the Central High Stadium in a battle for revenge
of last year’s stinging defeat, administered by the toe of Thad Brock, who kicked for an extra point to beat
Citadel, 7-6. The Cadets return this year with virtually the same line-up that was cheated out of a hard-fought victory
last year. This battle in Charlotte will draw the attention of the majority of the state, as it is the
only engagement of a Big Five team playing at home on that afternoon. State and Wake Forest are scheduled to
have their tussle on Thursday.

Very few Sophomores have broken into the Citadel line-up this year as a team composed of Juniors and Seniors has
taken the field against every foe. This veteran team has won three tilts and lost one to Clemson by the
close score of 13-7, which is a record most any team would like to make. Both Davidson and Citadel have
played about equally well in their first games this fall, giving the dopesters nothing to choose from. With two fighting
teams that are playing on a par with each other, a real battle is bound to ensue.

In her first game of the season Citadel looked ragged to eke out a meager victory over Stetson 13-7. A
Charleston crowd looked on dazed as the game went into the last quarter with Stetson leading the way in scoring,
but just about two minutes before the whistle, Red Whittington caught a pass and fell over the goal line for
the winning marker. Following this game Citadel has used passes as one of its chief weapons and they have proved
formidable with this attack. Against Erskine the next Saturday the Cadets showed a versatile attack, a stiffer defense, which was
totally lacking in the first game. Sweeping around end and cutting sharply through the line, Red Whittington and McIntosh carried
Citadel to a two-touchdown victory over Erskine. The third game resulted in the Bulldogs’ first defeat, at the hands of
a big team from Clemson by the margin of one touchdown only. Citadel displayed a great amount of fight in
this game to hold the Tigers to two tallies and then mark up one themselves. This game, along with the
Erskine game, are the only ones that give any indication of the strength of the two teams. Citadel beat Erskine
by two touchdowns while Davidson defeated the same team by three markers, but in the meanwhile Clemson beat Citadel by
only one touchdown and then romped on N. C. State for four touchdowns. This, if you will figure it up,
makes both teams even so far as comparative scores go, since Davidson defeated State by only two markers.

Last Saturday in a hard-fought contest the Bulldogs, again using a pass in the closing minutes of the game, overcame
the lead which V. M. I. held, to down them by one point, 7-6. During the first half both teams
fought to a standstill, neither team gaining any headway over the other. The Flying Squadron opened up the second half
to march to a touchdown, only to be overhauled by the hard-fighting Bulldogs in the closing minutes of play. The
Bulldogs’ terrific tackling soon wore the V. M. I. backs down and that together with the outstanding play of Carlisle,
end, and Wilson, quarter, spelled defeat for the green team from Virginia.

Captain “Pop” Wilson will lead a thoroughly seasoned team onto the field Saturday afternoon that has had plenty of experience
and has seen many large teams opposing them. Most every man from end to end has played against Davidson before
and some have played twice against the Wildcats. In the starting line-up last week, Ryan started at left end with
Brown at right end. Ryan is a light, heady player and played in practically every game last year. Brown was
(Continued on page 5)
