THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 16, 1930

Davidson Alumnus Listed In Asheville’s Who’s Who

Rev. R. P. Smith, D.D., ’73, Has Made Tremendous Contribution to Western North Carolina

Last December, The Asheville (N. C.) Times conducted a series of articles on “Who’s Who in Asheville” and among those
listed with a lengthy personal write-up was Rev. R. P. Smith, D.D., graduate of Davidson College in the class of
1873. It was a glowing tribute to one who has contributed immeasurably to the life of Western North Carolina and
is reproduced, in part, below:

Few educators have been responsible for as much educational progress in any section as has Rev. Robert Perry Smith, 78
years old evangelist of the Presbyterian Church and for almost thirty years superintendent of home mission work in this section.
For Doctor Smith has been responsible during his 33 years of service in this section for the founding of the
Mountain Orphanage caring for sixty children at Swannanoa, for the establishment of 32 mission schools, most of which have become
state and county schools, and for the erection of forty church and school buildings, debt free. Doctor Smith has been
superintendent of eleven mountain counties and under his administration seven thousand persons have affiliated themselves with the church. Offerings for
benevolent purposes have increased 500 per cent, and 14 churches were organized.

Doctor Smith was born March 24, 1851, in Spartanburg County, South Carolina. He was left an orphan at twelve years
old. His father had been a ruling elder, as had his grandfather, so the boy was assisted in obtaining an
education by his teacher and his Sunday school superintendent. After two years of preparatory study he entered Davidson College, where
he graduated with the A.M. and A.B. degrees in 1873. He then taught for one year at the Reidsville Male
Academy, at Reidsville, S. C., before studying theology at the Columbia Seminary at Columbia, S. C. His eyes prevented study
for a while so he left the Seminary to accept the presidency of the Reidsville Female Academy, where he remained
for nine years. He then became president of the Presbyterian College at Clinton, S. C.

In 1887 Doctor Smith resigned the presidency of the college, and accepted the pastorate of the church at Bullock’s Creek
and Mount Pleasant. From 1890 to 1893 Doctor Smith served as pastor of the Blackstock church. In 1893 he became
pastor of the Presbyterian church at Gastonia, where he remained until 1896, when he came to Asheville as evangelist and
superintendent of home missions of 11 mountain counties. From then until 1924, when he retired from active service on account
of failing eyesight, Doctor Smith was active superintendent. From 1905 to 1909 he served as superintendent of home mission of
the Synod of North Carolina. When he offered his resignation, Doctor Smith was elected “superintendent emeritus and advisor and treasurer
of the committee at the same salary” by the Presbytery.

Perhaps Doctor Smith’s most valuable, certainly his favorite accomplishment in this work, is the Mountain Orphanage which began in 1904
with a modest little four-room cottage, which accommodated a matron and six children. The home now accommodates sixty children. Most
of the four hundred children who have gone out from the home have made excellent and respected men and women.

The schools begun by Doctor Smith were established as mission schools in isolated coves and in communities where the people
were too poor to hire a teacher and where the state did not send a teacher. Most of the teaching
was done by volunteers who gave three and four months each summer to the task of establishing classes. Often the

Chosen Dean

DR. REED SMITH

The above is a photograph of Dr. Reed Smith, '01, who last summer was chosen dean of the graduate school
of the University of South Carolina. The picture is used through the courtesy of The Columbia (S. C.) State.

Personal Notes

W. B. Garrison, ’20, and Mrs. Garrison, of Charlotte, announce the birth of a son, W. Barnette, Jr., on January
9.

E. P. O'Connor, ’26, and Mrs. O’Connor, of Charlotte, announce the birth of a son, Kent Coleburn, on January 1st.
Mr. O’Connor wrote that the physician had said the baby had the “biggest pair of shoulders he has ever seen
on a youngster,” and as a personal statement he added, “I’m hoping some day he can put them in a
red and black jersey and rip open holes in a Carolina line big enough to drive a twenty-mule team through.”
(Can’t be did, brother—Parker)

It was announced last week that twins were born to Rev. J. Lee McLean, ’24, and Mrs. McLean in December.
A card, however, corrected this by stating they arrived on October 28. The young man is named John Lee, Jr.,
and the young lady, Elizabeth Anne.

Dr. Rae H. 134 Morris, has begun anParents, unable themselves to read or write, attended with their children. Later, the
schools were turned over to the state as the public school program was expanded to the poorer mountain counties. Doctor
Smith is enormously interested in the natives of Appalachia. “The mountain people are the finest on earth,” he said. “They
have their own code and follow it, and their hospitality is unexcelled. I have traveled considerably in Europe and elsewhere
and I believe that in native intelligence they outrank other strains. They may be illiterate, but they have brains.” Dr.
Smith is writing a book about his work among the mountaineers.

Prof. A. C. McIntosh Writes Important Book
Davidson Graduate Writes Book of Perpetual Benefit to Lawyers and Judges

News dispatches from the University of North Carolina in December told of a new law book which had been published
by Prof. A. C. McIntosh, graduate of Davidson in the class of 1881, but now a member of the faculty
at this state institution. The book was hailed as the most important which had been published by a member of
the law faculty of the Carolina faculty since the university was founded in 1845. The article is quoted in full
as follows:

“Copies have just been received from the publisher of ‘the most important book which has issued from a member of
the faculty of the law school of the University of North Carolina since the school was founded in 1845,’ according
to announcement made today by Dean Charles T. McCormick. Prof. A. C. McIntosh is the author of the volume, which
is entitled, ‘North Carolina Practice and Procedure in Civil Cases.’ The volume deals with the courts and their jurisdiction and
with the various steps in a lawsuit, including the pleadings, the trial, and the appeal.

“It will probably take rank as the most authoritative exposition of this subject which is available to North Carolina lawyers
and judges. The volume is 1,200 pages in length, including an elaborate and detailed index which will greatly facilitate its
use for quick reference in the courtroom.

“Professor McIntosh is unusually well qualified to write on the subject of North Carolina procedure. After graduating as the valedictorian
of his class at Davidson, he studied law and then engaged for 16 years in active practice. Since that time
he has been a professor of law at Trinity College and at the University of North Carolina for 25 years,
during most of which time he has been actively teaching the subject of civil procedure.”

Boarder on farm: “Is this milk from contented cows?”
Farmer: “Well, to be honest with you, several of them were a little annoyed at the questions city people ask.”

Protect Your Pocketbook.
For owners who occupy their own premises, but who would have to pay rent elsewhere if ousted by fire, etc.,
RENTAL VALUE insurance is a safeguard. It provides rent-money for living quarters in the event of fire. For owners who
rent their premises to others and rely on their tenants’ rents for maintenance, income, etc., RENT INSURANCE is a necessity.
Let us tell you more about pocketbook protections. It’s safer to have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Co.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The New See Chem
At tm SEE > HEAR VICTOR MICRO-SYNCHRONOUS RADIO AND RADIOLA
PARKER GARDNER CO.
16 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Victor & Brunswick Records
Furniture And Draperies

A Minister of the Gospel SHOULD BE CONVERSANT WITH THE VARIOUS CURRENTS OF THEOLOGICAL THOUGHT. TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS
STUDENTS IS ONE OF THE AIMS OF UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. For Catalog and Information, Address, Rev. R. B. Lacy, Jr.,
President, Richmond, Virginia.
