‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 24, 1930

Business Classes Hear Lecture on Success by Insurance Co. Director

Dr. James Giffin Points Out Ways to Attain Success in Business World

INSTRUCTIVE LECTURE

Concludes by Advising Indifference to All Disappointments

The members of the business classes heard a very instructive talk last Friday afternoon, given by Mr. James Giffin, education director of the Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York City. Several of the ways in which a man might attain success in the business world were pointed out by Mr. Giffin. The principal ideas which he conveyed to those students here who intend to engage in business for their future life work are as follows:

We wonder what it is that makes a man successful. There are three chief points that need to be considered: first, insistent desire is necessary. Much of the problem that you are going up against is centered around the word “choice.” Certain things that you do now may determine definitely what you will do later on. Those who are at the head of organizations now are those who have taken their handicaps and capitalized them efficiently—this is true in modern industry, for a man has to plow and work in his particular field. The second quality can be seen in the words “confident expectation.” You should be confident of yourself, then should visualize yourself doing the job. The man who realizes that his pay check will come quite a long time after he has gone into it is the confident business man. Another point is the fact that a man must have “persistent purpose.” It may be that we cannot pick just the job that we want, but we can be patient if we do get into the right job and let the men at the top have confidence in us. We are living in a world in which we tend to get into an organization and in this way we get that strong feeling to “stick to it.” The miracle takes place when a man obtains self-confidence. There is a great deal in ability to live in the present—the thing we do today is the cause of a lot of things we do tomorrow—there is a long road to this life and the business man must make the best of it. You will notice in business today that there is a spirit of service.

PICK UPS AND PASSES

(Continued from page 3)

and two with Duke, one here, and one in Durham. The game with the Blue Devils will close the schedule for the Wildcats here on May 15. Duke has not been met yet this year. The other two games are with Lenoir-Rhyne.

A word in a Georgetown paper states that the Georgetown team has not lost a single game since they dropped their opener to Monk Younger’s men. Their string of victories now numbers 10 out of 11 starts. Poole, the hurler who started the game here for the Hilltoppers, but had to be relieved, has not had to be taken out of any more games, and only one other pitcher has had to be relieved. Their competition has been some of the best that the East has to offer this spring, and consideration will have to be given the Capital City boys in naming the Eastern champions this year.

Pat Crawford, one of the best men who ever played on a Davidson baseball team, is at present captain and manager of the second string team of the New York Giants. Recently the hard-hitting first sacker continued the good old habit started by his Alma Mater last fall of giving Uncle Sam’s soldier boys up the Hudson lots of trouble. In a game between West Point and the Giant Yannigans, Crawford knocked out four hits in six trips to the plate, besides turning in a perfect game in the field. Crawford, who joined the Giants last spring, coached for a year or two after leaving Davidson, then went into professional ball, rising rapidly to the major league class. John McGraw says he is one of the sweetest playing and smartest prospects to come up in some time, and keeps a firm hold on him, even though the Giants have one of the best first basemen in the majors in Bill Terry. Were it not for the brilliance of Terry, Pat would be doing a lot more for the Giants than warming the bench, or getting in to pinch hit occasionally.

Crowds at the Wake Forest and Carolina games were awfully good during the first five or six innings, but began to thin out after that. Stick with ’em, men, STICK!

Biblical Art, Theme Of Dr. Derendinger

Dr. Ernest Derendinger gave a very interesting and instructive lecture here April 16 on “The Way of the Cross as Depicted in Art.” Many beautiful slides were shown throughout the talk and gave those attending an excellent insight into the way medieval artists conceived the crucifixion of Christ. Dr. Derendinger was born in Switzerland and has studied in the leading universities of Germany. He is a much-traveled man and is now professor of German and art at Catawba College.

The first slides shown were scenes from present-day Jerusalem, illustrating the Church of the Sepulchre as built by the mother of Constantine. Pictures were also shown of the garden of Gethsemane and the Mount of Olives. The scene was then changed to Bethlehem, which is almost as it was in the time of Christ. Next, after showing a few of the characters which take part in the Passion Week as presented today in Oberammergau, George Pardington, accompanied by Paul Fry, sang “The Holy City.” Then Dr. Derendinger pictured the last week in Christ’s life on earth as depicted by the great artists of all ages. These slides brought clearly before one’s eye that fearful time of the trial and crucifixion of our Lord. The final scene was a picture of “The Light of the World,” who knocks at the door of every man’s heart. This lecture was under the auspices of the Fine Arts Department.

Local Girl Editor Of Converse Paper

Miss Sarah Withers, of Davidson, who is a Junior at Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C., has been recently elected next year’s editor of the “Parley Voo,” weekly newspaper of Converse. Miss Withers has been an outstanding member of the Junior Class, taking a prominent part in all forms of class activities. She has played a large part in the publication of “Parley Voo,” acting first as circulation manager, and this year as managing editor. Miss Withers is a graduate of Davidson High School and is the attractive daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Withers, of this city.

PLANS FOR BANQUET

(Continued from page 1)

enlist every member of the Student Body in support of this project designed to promote the welfare of the institution. The small sum charged for tickets is necessary to cover banquet expenses. Further information will be given at chapel Tuesday morning. Until that time, all hands are working under a veil of secrecy.

College authorities and alumni are in hearty accord with this attempted project of the Senior Class. They feel, as do the Seniors, that a real service can be rendered to Davidson through this common meeting of the students, and it is expected that a precedent will be set which will be highly regarded in future years. In conclusion,Mr. Giffin explained that in the face of all the disappointments that the businessman has to face, he should look at it from the viewpoint that “This doesn’t make any difference. It makes no difference what happens. Is it going to get the best of me?”

Track Team Scores Victory Over State
’Cats Come From Behind to Win Close Meet

In a track and field meet held at Raleigh on Friday, April 18, Davidson, with Whittle as high point man, nosed out N. C. State by a score of 65½ to 60½. State held a two-point lead at the last event on the program, the broad jump, and the Wildcats needed six points to win or five points to tie. They stepped out and clinched the matter by scoring eight. McCall leaped 22 feet 2 inches and took first place, while Whittle jumped 20 feet 10 inches for second. In the preceding event, the javelin, Davidson took all three places to come within two points of the State total at the time. The Techmen were out in front practically all the time until the last two events. In addition to taking second in the broad jump, Whittle was first in the 100-yard dash and in the high and low hurdles, and placed third in the 220. Dean Patterson, with the first in the shot and javelin, was high point man for State with 10 points, while Whittle scored 19. State made a clean sweep in the half-mile, which was won by McGinn in two minutes flat, and placed one-two in both the 220-yard dash, the quarter-mile, and the mile. Alexander, Tech distance runner, with a fast time, won easily from Brannon, the Davidson entry, in the two-mile event.

Summary:
100 Yards—Whittle (D); Stout (S); Brohard (D). Time, 10 2-5 seconds.
220 Yards—Stout (S); Ottinger (S); Whittle (D). Time, 22 3-5 seconds.
440 Yards—Ottinger (S); Floyd (S); Brohard (D). Time, 50 3-5 seconds.
880 Yards—McGinn (S); Floyd (S); Ricks (S). Time, 2 minutes.
Mile—Johnson (S); Ricks (S); Lafferty (D). Time, 4:38 4-5.
Two Miles—Alexander (S); Brannon (D); Brock (S). Time, 10:20.
Low Hurdles—Whittle (D); George (D); Swain (S). Time, 27 seconds.
High Hurdles—Whittle (D); George (D); Griffin (S). Time, 15 2-5 seconds.
Pole Vault—Black (S), and Brock (D), tied for first; Johnson (S), and Smith (D), tied for third. Height, 11 feet.
High Jump—Wilson (D); Allen (S); Black (S). Height, 5 feet 8 inches.
Shot—Patterson (S); Boyle (D); Hall (D). Distance, 41 feet 3 inches.
Discus—Patterson (S); Boyle (D); Hall (D). Distance, 124 feet 11 inches.
Javelin—Coble (D); McCall (D); Brock (D). Distance, 161 feet 1 inch.
Broad Jump—McCall (D); Whittle (D); Stout (S). Distance, 22 feet 2 inches.

Total scores: Davidson 65½; N. C. State 60½.

Hill Attends Meeting Of Military Order
Left Tuesday for Scabbard and Blade Convention

Cadet Lieut-Col. Hill, of Statesville, highest ranking cadet officer in the Davidson College R. O. T. C. unit, left here Tuesday to attend the biannual convention of Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity, which was held at Minneapolis, Minn., April 24-26. Hill is a member of the local chapter of Scabbard and Blade, and is being sent as the delegate of the local group. The convention will celebrate the 25th anniversary of the founding of the society. The purpose of Scabbard and Blade is to recognize military proficiency among the cadet officers, to raise the standard of military training in American schools and colleges, and to promote a closer feeling between the officers of the various units. Membership in it is based upon purely honorary grounds, only senior officers of each school being eligible.

Lanning Pitches Great Game as ‘Deacons’ Win

Capt. Tom Lanning, star hurler of the Wake Forest Demon Deacons, sent the Davidson boys back to the benches with only five scattered hits and no runs, while his teammates were rolling up six counters to give the Baptists their second victory over the ’Cats this season, 6 to 0, on Richardson Field Friday. Lanning struck out eight men and allowed only one Wildcat to go as far as third base. Considering the dampness of the field and a slight drizzle toward the end of the game, it was excellently played. Mills, Deacon second baseman, played an exceptionally good game, making five outs and three assists without an error. Parrish and Goodson together obtained four of the five Davidson hits, while Allen, Cobb, and Reynolds all got two safe bingles.

Box score:
Wake Forest AB R H O A
Foust, ss 5 1 2 2 0
Mills, 2b 5 0 1 3 2
Parrish, cf 5 1 2 2 0
Gillespie, G., lf 5 1 1 2 0
Reynolds, 1b 5 1 2 8 0
Bell, rf 5 1 1 0 0
Benton, 3b 4 0 0 2 2
Gillespie, J., c 4 1 1 10 0
Lanning, p 4 0 0 0 2
Totals 42 6 10 27 6

Davidson AB R H O A
Parrish, cf 4 0 1 2 0
Mills, 2b 4 0 0 3 2
Goodson, lf 4 0 2 1 0
Cobb, rf 4 0 1 0 0
McGinn, 1b 4 0 0 12 0
Gladstone, c 4 0 1 7 0
Barnhardt, ss 2 0 0 0 2
McMillan, 3b 4 0 0 2 0
Kugler, p 3 0 0 0 2
Morrison, ph 1 0 0 0 0
Totals 34 0 5 27 6

*Batted for Barnhardt in 9th.

Score by innings:
Wake Forest 000 301 002—6
Davidson 000 000 000—0

Summary: Errors—Foust, Coble, Barnhardt, McMillan, Kugler. Three base hit, Bell. Two base hit, Foust. Sacrifices, Mills, Benton, Lanning, Miller, McInnis. Double play, Gillespie to Reynolds to Allen. Stolen bases, Cobb, Goodson. Left on base, Wake Forest, 11; Davidson, 7. Base on balls, off Lanning 1; Kugler 4. Struck out, by Lanning 8; Kugler 4. Hit by pitcher, by Lanning, Gladstone 2; by Kugler, Gillespie. Passed balls, Gladstone 2. Umpire, Brandon. Time—2:08.

A Minister of the Gospel SHOULD BE A Man of prayer. TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS ONE OF THE AIMS OF UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY For Catalog and Information, Address, Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., President Richmond, Virginia.

“DRUGS” CANDY WHITE DRUG CO. “PRESCRIPTIONS” “SODA” FLOWERS

SENIORS NOW IS THE TIME TO HAVE YOUR ENGRAVED CARDS MADE. SEE ME. Best Quality and Prices Any type of Printing ERNEST H. McCALL 108 Watts Representing STANDARD PRINTING CO. Charlotte, N. C.

Student Body Votes Letter to Anderson

At chapel exercises Wednesday morning the Student Body voted to send a letter of thanks to Dr. W. M. “Bill” Anderson, of Dallas, Texas, expressing their appreciation of his service rendered here. Besides his talks to different groups, Dr. Anderson held personal interviews with various students with especial regard to choice of life work; and according to several of them, his counsel has been most invaluable. Current opinion on the campus marks Doctor Anderson as a wonderful, valuable and helpful man, and he carries with him the best wishes and hearty support of the Student Body. Doctor Anderson will be especially remembered for his virility and versatility, as well as the vivid analogies and illustrations he blended so well with his messages.

NEW MEN INITIATED (Continued from page 1)

The following officers for the coming year were elected at the meeting: President, S. S. Wiley; Vice-President, D. G. Stevenson; Secretary and Treasurer, A. H. Whitehead. Ned Heefner, President; W. C. Regin, Vice-President, and J. V. D. Middleton, Secretary-Treasurer, were the retiring officers. After the initiation ceremony, a generous feed was held in the Davidsonian office.