DAVIDSON-ELON HEAD AVID DOCTOR SATURDAY NIGHT SOKeue Ar | “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” | Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 13, 1930 No. 17

WILDCATS DEFEATED 33-30 BY DUKE FIVE IN THRILLING BATTLE

Strong Duke System Proves Slightly Superior to Davidson’s Five-Man Defense

CROSON IS HIGH SCORER

Brilliant Floor Work of Goodson is High Spot

In a nerve-racking game whose outcome was not decided until the last shot, the Duke Blue Devils added Davidson's fighting Wildcats to their string of state victims and maintained their undefeated standing in the Big Five race. The final score was 33 to 30, and the narrow margin of the score indicates the close nature of the game.

The game lived up to, and even surpassed, the advance notices. Even the wisest scribe could not have predicted the narrow margin and the breaks that finally decided the contest. It was by far the most thrilling game in which Davidson has participated in many a day. The crowd that jammed the Central High gym, that took up every inch of standing room, that was so large that approximately three hundred people were turned away, was not allowed to draw a calm breath throughout the entire contest. From the moment that Johnston dropped in a goal for Davidson to give the Wildcats a two-point lead that was soon lengthened to four points before the Duke team could score in the opening moments, until Rogers dropped in a field goal a scant fifteen seconds before the closing shot, the entire audience was kept on their feet.

The lanky Croson, Duke center, was high point man of the game. He was death on crip shots under the baskets. His great height enabled him to get the tip-off from the Wildcat center most of the time, and thereby put Davidson in a hole from almost every start. The five-man defense of Younger's men was able to stop the Blue Devil thrusts some of the time but the smooth passing attack developed by Duke worked the ball into the goal or enabled them to take long shots that finally gave them the verdict.

Goodson, Davidson guard, turned in the best game of any man on the floor. The way he would weave and sidestep in carrying the ball down the field was phenomenal. His dribbling, guarding, and shooting were some of the mainstays of the Davidson attack. Although his play was slightly hampered by a bad shoulder and leg which he had hurt recently, these injuries had no apparent effect on his stellar play.

Pritchett was guarded closely the first period, getting only two free shots, but came back in the second half to score nine points, and lead his team in scoring. Although he was not able to loop any field goals in the first stanza his work was of such high caliber that Davidson was able to keep within striking distance of the Blue Devils, and for a while to lead them. Proctor played one of his best games of the year, Rusk and Johnston also kept pace with Goodson and Pritchett. Jimmy Moore, sent in as a substitute, played well.

The victors presented a fast passing, close guarding team. On defense the two forwards had an annoying habit of meeting the Davidson guards under their own basket and not giving them much chance to get a well-organized attack underway. It was a kind of a hybrid defense, showing marks both of the accepted five-man and man-for-man system. The way in which the Duke boys had the system working was especially effective. On offense, the plan was to pass the ball until it could be passed in to Croson, or someone else under the basket. Several long shots were tried, with Croson under the basket following the shots. The entire offense was fashioned around the tall pivot man, and he carried out his part of the plan well.

Davidson jumped into an early lead when Johnston took the opening tip-off and looped up two points before the game was a minute old. Goodson added another goal to make the count four to nothing. Duke then tied the count at four all, then later at eight-all. The (Continued on Page 6)

Russell Wins Rifle Trophy In Contest

R. D. Russell, of the Junior Class, won the Davidson Rifle Marksmanship Trophy with a total score of 375 out of a possible 400. Curtis of the Sophomore Class and Ralph Arlington of the Freshman Class tied for second with a score of 363. Russell fired 100 in the prone position, 97 in the sitting, 92 in the kneeling, and 86 in the standing. All these scores were out of a possible 100 in each position. Last year the trophy was won by C. P. Greyer with a score of 360 out of a possible 400.

In the correspondence matches fired so far this year the team has about broken even. Several matches have been won by very close scores. The schedule for this week includes matches with Presbyterian College of South Carolina, Texas A. & M., Wofford, Cornell, DePauw University, the Universities of Delaware, Maine, Georgetown, Lafayette, and Mississippi A. & M. College. It has also been announced that a meet with a team in the Philippine Islands is being planned. This will, of course, be a correspondence match. One of the chief advantages with the system used by the rifle team is that it is possible to hold matches with marksmen over the entire country and never meet them shoulder to shoulder.

Complete Disarmament is McConnell’s Topic

Varsity Debaters Hear Enlightening Discussion of Current Problems

“Complete disarmament will not be possible during our generation,” stated Dr. J. M. McConnell, professor of history, at a meeting of the Alpha Phi Epsilon, national honorary forensic fraternity, last Thursday night in Phi Hall. He explained this by the fact that he believes that England will be slow to give up her traditional supremacy of the seas.

The meeting was for the special benefit of the varsity debaters whose subject for debate this year is, “Resolved, That the nations should adopt a plan of complete disarmament except for police purposes.” As to the present peace conference now in session in London, Doctor McConnell thinks that many of the projects proposed will not be carried out. The two main proposals at the conference, the abolition of submarines (Continued from Page 5)

First Issue of Magazine To Appear February 20

Several New Writers to Have Work in Chameleon

“The Chameleon,” Davidson College's literary magazine, is now in the hands of the printers, and probably will appear on or about February 22. The same general plan of last year’s magazine will be followed, although there will be some few changes. The most important change will be in regard to the color. Previously the color of the cover has changed with each issue, but from now on the cover will remain green. The cover design, which has been used for the past three years, has been changed also.

This year, or at least in this first issue, there will be no poetry section. There will be a few poems scattered about in the book, but not grouped in one section as formerly. The contents will be divided about equally into plays and short stories. Heretofore there has been a decided lack of dramatic works, and attempts in this type of literature will be welcomed. Among those contributing to this issue are: R. F. Jarratt, editor, R. A. Royland, R. E. Witt, J. W. Williams and C. M. Pratt.

Rimmer To Speak Again Sunday

Davidson students will again have the privilege of hearing Dr. Harry Rimmer, of Los Angeles, Cal., noted scientist and evangelist, speak from the platform. Doctor Rimmer, who is holding a protracted meeting at the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, has agreed to visit Davidson for the second successive Sunday, and, accordingly, will be the Y. M. C. A. speaker Sunday evening at 5:30 o’clock. The service will be held in Chambers Auditorium. Doctor Rimmer is preaching to tremendous audiences in Charlotte every day. He is said to be one of the most forceful and magnetic personalities in the field of religion. His reception at Davidson last Sunday was a good one, and indications are that an even greater throng will hear his message at the coming service.

Dr. Rimmer Proves All Wonders of Holy Bible According To Scientists

Talk is Interspersed With Numerous Concrete Illustrations Drawn From Practical Fields

Dr. Harry Rimmer, a noted scientist, archaeologist, and lecturer in the churches and colleges throughout the country brought the Davidson student body a very interesting and convincing message proving the absolute validity of all the scriptures, at the Vesper service, Sunday evening. He is a man well fitted to bring such a forceful line of argument. One-time welter-weight champion of the Pacific fleet, he was converted and became the pastor of a LosAngeles Presbyterian church. Today he is a well-informed physician, curator of a large museum, and actively interested in archeological research in addition to his capacity as lecturer. “Jeff” Garrison, a popular alumnus of the class of '28, led the singing. W. B. McGuire had charge of the service. Dean Rusk and J. A. Jones offered prayers, and special music was furnished by a violin trio composed of C, C. and R. B. Orr and H. W. Ervin. “We have the word of prophecy made more sure; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn and the day star arise in your hearts,” was Doctor Rimmer’s chosen text from II Peter 1:19. “Peter means here,” he said, “that prophecy has been made more sure through the coming to pass of that which was prophesied. Isaiah in the last of the 44th and first of the 45th chapter of his book prophesies that there shall come one named Cyrus to whom God shall give all power and who shall build a temple for Him in Jerusalem. Two hundred years later in the little province of Elam there was a prince born and named by a name not previously found in the records of his ancestors, a strange departure from their custom. At twenty, this young prince was king of all Media and nine years later had united the two great kingdoms of Media and Persia. When Zerubbabel showed him where he had been prophesied about in the Hebrew book of the law, he sent out a decree over his empire that the Lord God of Heaven had given all the nations of the earth and charged him to build Him a house in Jerusalem and told all the people of this God to go and build that house. We find a record of this in the last few verses of II Chronicles. “All twentieth-century science and discovery is throwing new light on the scriptures. The latest theories and discoveries disproving the ‘evolution theory’ find that their principles were stated way back in I Corinthians 15:39 when Paul said, ‘All flesh is not the same flesh.’ Today the scientists tell us the flesh of fishes, of animals, and of man is all radically different and think they have discovered something new. The field of archeology is constantly shedding new light on the truth of the word of God. “Moses couldn’t have written the books (Continued on page 6)

WILLIAM ELLSWORTH TO DELIVER LECTURE SERIES AT DAVIDSON

Bulletin Announces Entrance Changes

Several important changes have recently been made in the language requirements for entrance to Davidson College. These changes will in no way lower the standards of the work presented, but will only change the number of units which must be offered for entrance to the college. These changes have recently been made public through the monthly Davidson College Bulletin. The most important change effected is the reduction of the entrance units that must be presented for entrance into the B.S. group. Heretofore, the new student has had to offer four units of French, German, Spanish, or Latin for unconditional entrance into that group. Now the requirement is only two units of one of these languages. This reduces the number of units required for entrance to the B.S. courses from eleven to nine. This means that the new student can now offer six units in elective courses instead of only four under the present requirements. Another change has been made in the requirements for entrance to the A.B. courses. Two units of Latin or Greek and two units in some other language can now be offered, instead of the four units of Latin or Greek previously required. This was done in order to make entrance to this course somewhat easier than at present. No changes were made in the requirements for other subjects, the faculty considering the present standards to be of high enough quality to be maintained.

Rumor Contradicted By Statement of Registrar

Enrollment of Student Body Larger Than Last Year

Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, registrar, through the request of the administration, announced today that, contrary to rumors prevalent among students on the campus concerning a decrease in the college enrollment, the student body is larger this year than that of last year. “In spite of the fact that we try to restrict our enrollment to 600 men which is our capacity, our total registration this year has exceeded that of last year by five students, the entire enrollment for the session 1928-29 being 611 men, and the number for the 1929-30 term totaling 616," Mr. Hengeveld revealed. To accentuate his announcement, Mr. Hengeveld emphasized the fact that out of the whole student body, 595 men are candidates for degrees. The registrar concluded with statistics which indicated that the enrollment by classes was increasing in each rising class, there being 220 men in the freshman class, 169 in the Sophomore class, 116 in the Junior class, 108 in the Senior class and three working for Master's degrees.

V.P.I. Defeats Davidson In Wrestling Meet 19-11

Captain Christenbury, Conway, and Warren Win for Wildcats

Last Saturday night at Blacksburg the wrestling team of Virginia Polytechnic Institute defeated the grapplers from Davidson by a 19 to 11 score. The meet was featured throughout by very close and thrilling matches. In the early stages V. P. I. rolled up a commanding lead only to see it swept away by a great Davidson spurt in the heavier classes. The Wildcat team took the 155 and 165 pound bouts by time advantages and the 175 pound event by a fall. The Gobblers annexed the 115, 135, and the 145 matches by time advantages. They also took the 125 pound and unlimited events by fall. (Continued on page 3)

First of the Series of Four Addresses Will be Made During Chapel Exercises

BEGINS ON FEBRUARY 20

Former Publisher is Great-Grandson of Noah Webster

Mr. William Webster Ellsworth of New Hartford, Connecticut, great-grandson of Noah Webster the famous lexicographer, retired publisher, and former president of the Century company in New York, will speak before Davidson college audiences four times, when he appears here this month for a series of lectures, in concordance with the program of the faculty committee on lectures. The committee, which seeks to bring forceful speakers before the student body from time to time, who bring inspiring educational messages, has chosen Mr. Ellsworth because his talks will deal with the vital and interesting times and prodigies of literature. The former publisher's first lecture will be given in chapel on Thursday morning, February 20, at which time he will speak on the English Bible. The executive committee has decided to reduce the time of each class period five minutes on Thursday morning, in order to give the speaker more time than the regular allotted chapel period. On the same night, at 7:30 p.m., the second of the series of lectures will be delivered on, “The Times of Queen Elizabeth,” and this will be illustrated. The following day, on Friday morning, the lecturer will speak to all the English classes which will meet en masse at a time not yet determined, and in some spacious classroom. His subject will be, “The Joy of Writing,” and all students, other than those taking English, are invited to attend, if no conflict arises in their schedule. The concluding discourse will be made Friday evening, February 21, at 7:30 p.m., on the topic, “Milton, Bunyan, and their times.” All lectures will be delivered in Chambers auditorium, except that to be given to the English classes. That Mr. Ellsworth, who comes highly recommended through numerous testimonials of college audiences, is a versatile speaker is indicated in the fact that he gets repeated requests for return engagements from the majority of those who have heard him. An example of his popularity among college men is revealed in the following excerpt from the college paper of Virginia Polytechnic Institute: “Mr. Ellsworth’s lectures were most thoroughly enjoyable. The times of Queen Elizabeth were made to live again. . . . His discussion of the English Bible filled us all with new reverence. . . . That nearly a thousand students gave close attention to his exposition of the ‘Joy of Writing,’ is a wonderful tribute to his magic power . . .”

Spring Elections In April

Election of all Student Body officers for the new school year will take place in the period from April 2 to April 15. The constitution of Davidson College Student Body provides for the election of all student government officials by April 15. Class elections will probably be completed before April 24. First will come the election of the student body officers, then of the Y. M. C. A. officers, then the editor of “The Davidsonian,” athletic association officials, and editor of “Quips and Cranks” will be chosen in order named.