THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 9, 1930

Side Line Shots At How the Wildcat Cagemen Look
By P. R. Alderman

Along with another New Year’s day, the 1929 grid season becomes a thing of the past. The Pitt Panthers also vanished. King Basketball reigns in the world of sports now after being reluctantly granted the throne by the gridiron.

It’s good to see Coach “Monk” take charge of the cagemen since the holidays. He’s got some good material to work on. The Catawba game proved that the Wildcats have at least a potentially powerful quintet this year. Ex-Captain Carl Pritchett looks like he’s going to be a strong contender for the title of high-scorer again this year. He can still drop ’em in from most anywhere.

The ’Cats aren’t a finished product as a team yet. They didn’t show mid-season form against the Indians but should before long. Monk’s choice so far for his first-stringers is Captain Johnston, Pritchett, Rusk, Goodson, and Proctor. Four of these are regulars from last year with Proctor taking Calhoun’s place. Moore, Gilbert, Mathis, Martin, and Milton have been acting as the first-string reserves. With the exception of Moore, they are all Sophomores.

With “Sleepy” Goodson and Jim Proctor holding down the guard positions, it’s going to be tough-going to pile up a large score against the ’Cats. The Red and Black cagers have a tough schedule ahead of them, but the odds aren’t against them like they were toward the football men last fall. Barring unforeseen setbacks, the Wildcats have a mighty good chance to cop the state cage championship. Monk has plenty of reserves and that counts.

“Red” Laird has had his hands full with both Varsity and Fresh practices in charge but will now work with only the first-year men. There is about as much lack of really green material among the Fresh as with the Varsity. Several candidates for the Kitten squad are former prep school stars. Johnston and Rusk have both been handling the forward position lately in practice. With Pritchett certain for one of the forwards, one of these two will hold down the center’s job.

“Tex” Tilson isn’t having much trouble finding candidates for wrestling this year. It won’t be long before the matmen will be seen in action. Everybody hates to see the football season end, but there is still plenty in store for us here at Davidson. Monk and Tex have some more fighting Wildcats. Let’s back them like we did the gridders!

Wildcat Quintet Faces Tough Schedule During Current Basket Season
~~ Trips to be Made Into South Carolina and Virginia ~~

SIX BIG FIVE GAMES

Davidson Team Will Play Over One-Half of Games on Opponents’ Courts

The Davidson Wildcat schedule, recently completed and announced by Allan Wilson, Varsity Manager, is one of the hardest that a Wildcat quintet has attempted in several years. It calls for sixteen games, nine of which will be played away from home. Seven of the tilts will be played at the Alumni Gymnasium, one on a neutral court, and eight on the opponents’ floors.

Three trips will be made by the team this year. At present, they are in South Carolina, where they played the Wofford Terriers last night, meeting the Furman quint this evening. After exams, Coach Younger will take his boys to the Old Dominion for three games. After a two weeks’ stay at home, in which four teams will be met, the Wildcats again take the road for a state jaunt, in which three Big Five opponents will be encountered. The game with Carolina on February 24th will close the season for Davidson.

Six games will be played with Big Five opponents, giving the Wildcats a good opportunity to make a strong bid for State honors. Wake Forest and N. C. State will be encountered once each, while Duke and Carolina are played twice. V. M. I. and V. P. I., Southern Conference members, are also on the list. Counting the games with the members of the S. I. C. in the State, this will give Davidson seven meetings with members of that body.

The complete schedule is given below. The first three games have already been played, and the fourth will be played tonight.

Dec. 17—Catawba, here.
Jan. 6—Charlotte Y, here.
Jan. 8—Wofford, Spartanburg, S.C. Jan 9—Furman, Greenville, S. C. Jan. 11—Carolina, Charlotte. Jan 29—Maryville College, here. Feb. 5—V. M. I., Lexington, Va. Feb. 6—Roanoke College, Roanoke, Va. Feb. 7—V. P. I., Blacksburg, Va. Feb. 10—Duke, here. Feb. 12—Wake Forest, here. Feb. 15—Elon, here. Feb. 18—Erskine, here. Feb. 21—N. C. State, Raleigh. Feb. 22—Duke, Durham. Feb. 24—Carolina, Chapel Hill.

STOP that COLD and COUGH
take Poid
The “QUICK RELIEF” Cold Remedy for College Students, sold by a College Student
YOUR DRUGGIST

Jim Galloway HAS COLDEX
U. of S.C. Stationery
Magazines
Sundries
Superior Soda Service
W.S. HENDERSON
Fountain Pens
Books
Records

basketball
Fresh Cagemen To Meet Strong Foes

The schedule for the Davidson Freshmen was recently announced by Manager V. A. Milton. The card for 1930 gives the first-year men a series of difficult assignments, most of which will be played on the road, in Virginia and North Carolina. There will be thirteen games, nine on foreign fields and only four on the home court. The yearlings will take two long road trips, both of which will be with the Varsity. From February 5 to 7 they will be in Virginia for a series of three games, then they close the season against Freshmen teams of N. C. State, Duke, and Carolina on February 21, 22, and 24, respectively.

The complete 1930 schedule is as follows:
Jan. 7—Charlotte High at Davidson.
Jan. 14—Charlotte High at Charlotte.
Jan. 30—Belmont Abbey at Davidson.
Jan. 31—Greensboro High at Davidson.
Feb. 3—Wake Forest Fresh at Davidson.
Feb. 5—Washington and Lee Fresh at Lexington, Va.
Feb. 6—Roanoke College Fresh at Roanoke, Va.
Feb. 7—V. P. I. Fresh at Blacksburg, Va.
Feb. 11—Belmont Abbey at Belmont.
Feb. 12—Oak Ridge at Oak Ridge.
Feb. 21—N. C. State Fresh at Raleigh.
Feb. 22—Duke Fresh at Durham.
Feb. 24—Carolina Fresh at Chapel Hill.

Fifty Candidates Report For Wrestling Practice
Nine Lettermen of Last Year Report For Varsity Squad

Varsity and fresh wrestling practice began this week when fifty men responded to Coach Tilson’s call for candidates. Of this number, thirty men are out for the varsity team and twenty for the fresh. The following men from last year’s squad have reported for practice: Cowan, 115 lb. class; Brown, 125; Hansel, 135; Brock, 145; Brohard and Christen- burg, 165; Baker and Warren, 175; Marrow, unlimited. Gorham, Preston, Houston, Russell, Yow, and Baker are showing up well in practice. With this unusually large number of lettermen back and other promising material, prospects are bright for a fair wrestling season. The first meet of the season will be held on Friday night, January 10 at the gym at 8:00.

Other Losses Follow a Fire.

A prosperous concern that is burned out suffers money-losses which insurance covering physical damage cannot repay. Interruption of business by Fire, etc., incurs other more serious losses: to profits and through continuing fixed charges. To safeguard completely your business from Fire, etc., you need Business Interruption Insurance. No obligation incurred in having us explain this protection. It's safer to have insurance and not need it!

Independence Trust Co.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Acceleration, rather than structural changes, is the key to an understanding of our recent economic developments.
—From the report of President Hoover's Committee on Recent Economic Changes

JOIN US IN THE GENERAL ELECTRIC HOUR, BROADCAST EVERY SATURDAY AT 9 P.M., E.S.T. ON A NATION-WIDE N.B.C. NETWORK

GENERAL ELECTRIC

YESTERDAY, the rumble, creak, and plod of cart and oxen. Today and tomorrow the zoom of airplanes. Faster production. Faster consumption. Faster communication. Significant of electricity’s part in the modern speeding-up process is the fact that during the last seven years, consumption of electric power increased three and one-half times as fast as population. General Electric and its subsidiaries have developed and built much of the larger apparatus that generates this power as well as the apparatus which utilizes it in industry and in the home. The college-trained men who come every year to General Electric take a responsible part in the planning, production, and distribution of electric products, and at the same time receive further technical or business training.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK