V. M. I. IN LEXINGTON SATURDAY A. M. GIVE THE TEAM A GOOD SEND OFF

The Davidsonian
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

HONORARY FRATERNITIES EXTEND BIDS TO NEW MEMBERS ON MONDAY

Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 30, 1930 No. 7

WILDCATS WILL MEET V.M.I. ON SATURDAY IN MORNING GAME
Flying Squadron Expects a Hard Fight from Davidson in First Morning Game

TEAMS ARE KEYED UP
Papers Predict a Large Crowd for the Game Saturday

Davidson's Wildcats journey to Lexington this weekend to engage the Flying Squadron of V. M. I. in a morning game
at 11 o'clock in a battle which is likely to give the ’Cats their first victory over the Cadets since
1917 when Davidson licked V. M. I. 23-7, the largest score made by either team since their first encounter in
1904. Since that date, the two teams have played eleven games, V. M. I. winning seven and Davidson taking four.
Since 1917 only five games have been played, all five going to the Flying Squadron. Davidson will probably enter the
game Saturday morning as the slight favorites to take the pigskin back home, as far as comparative scores go, and
as far as the previous showing of the two teams is concerned. In the six games that Davidson has played,
four are in the won column and two in the lost column while V. M. I. has lost three and
won two. The Wildcats have scored 96 points to their opponents’ 32 for the season so far, while the Cadets
have countered 26 points to their opponents’ 45.

V. M. I. opened their season this year against the University of Richmond. Coach Bill Raftery had one of the
greenest teams to take the field that he has ever coached at the Virginia school since he first took over
the reins as chief mentor four years ago. Despite the drought of material, the Flying Squadron fought through the Spiders
for a 12-0 win. Brilliant work by Captain Roy Dunn, stellar line plunger and veteran of two seasons, Lefty Williams
and Gilly Laughorn in the backfield, was matched by the Cadet line which strengthened in the pinches to stop the
sensational Spider quarterback, Henry Dohrman. The Cadets’ defense was an impregnable wall which towered above the Richmond backs too high
to (Continued on page 6)

Former Professors Now in Varied Work
New Year Finds Former Faculty Members in Many Varied Positions

Five members of last year’s faculty, including three professors, one assistant professor, and one professor of military tactics, are now
located at five different places—some studying and others carrying on their teaching profession. Professors Weaver and Davis are teaching elsewhere;
J. N. Truesdale and J. T. Kerr are studying, while Captain John Elkins goes to Hawaii to resume governmental duties.

Professor W. R. Weaver, a professor in the Modern Language Department of Davidson last year, is now acting head of
the Spanish Department at Hampden-Sydney in Virginia. Professor J. H. Davis, of the Biology Department here last year, has been
appointed head of the Biology Department at Presbyterian College, Clinton, S. C. Professor J. N. Truesdale, popular young assistant Greek
professor last year, returned to Duke University where he was graduated two years ago to resume studies and work toward
a Ph.D. degree. In addition to his studies, Truesdale is teaching classes in Greek. J. T. Kerr, an assistant in
the Science Department last year, is studying medicine at the University of North Carolina this year. Captain Elkins sailed from
New York to San Francisco this past week and it is expected that he and his family will sail to
Honolulu within the next two or three days. Captain Elkins will be located either in Honolulu or in the outlying
districts, but his official duties will not be known until his ship approaches Hawaii.

Annual Pictures
The Annual Staff announces that the photographer from White Studio will be in Davidson again the first of next month
for the purpose of finishing all individual pictures for this year’s annual and urges all students to take advantage of
this last visit of the photographer. Since the merit of an annual depends largely on the individual pictures shown, the
best setting and lighting arrangements that could be effected in an impromptu studio were made and it was hoped that
more students would have their pictures taken for the publication during this last series. The photographer will return in the
spring to take pictures of the campus, but no individual pictures will be taken at that time.

Twelve To Try For Rhodes Scholarship
Davidson's faculty has recently recommended for the Rhodes Scholarship from this district seven undergraduates and five alumni. These twelve men
are to appear before the various state committees on December the 5th and 6th. At this meeting two are appointed
for each state and then the two appointed from each state meet a district committee which will select four men
out of the twelve candidates from six states. The state committee is composed of six men, one of which is
Dr. G. R. Vowles of the German Department of Davidson.

The undergraduates appointed were Dean Rusk, A. R. Bird, Jack Pepper, J. Wilson McCutchan, Gene DuBose, Roger P. Enloe, and
E. S. Bettis. Rusk, who is president of the “Y,” major of the battalion, a member of the Omicron Delta
Kappa honorary fraternity, a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and manager of the student store, will represent the
State of North Carolina. Bird, editor of Quips and Cranks and member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, will apply from
the District of Columbia. Another representative of North Carolina will be Jack Pepper, who is captain of the golf team,
a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. J. Wilson McCutchan, who is editor of The Davidsonian, a member of
the Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity, will represent the State of Virginia. The representative from South Carolina will be Gene
DuBose, who is a member of the tennis team, a member of the Honor Roll, and a member of the
Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. R. P. Enloe, another member of the Honor Roll, will represent the State of Georgia.
E. S. Bettis, who is a member of the Sigma Pi Sigma honorary fraternity (Continued on page 6)

Pardington Wins Fourth Atwater Kent Contest
To Represent State in Dixie Contest Held in Nashville

Davidson College students were pleased to learn that George P. Pardington, student at Davidson, had won the men’s division of
the North Carolina contest in the Fourth National Radio Audition, and would represent this state in the “Dixie” District contest
to be held in Nashville, Tenn., in November. Mr. Pardington was declared winner of the tryouts staged in the studios
of Station WBT, Charlotte, on October 18. Pardington is a member of the Junior Class of Davidson, and last year
participated in the tryouts, winning second place. His home is at Scotdale, Ga., but he went to high school in
Winston-Salem, where he won first place in the North Carolina state high school contest in 1926. He is a member
of the Davidson College Glee Club, and for the past two years has been presented to the public as one
of the feature solo singers. He sings baritone.

Of interest to people of this state and section was the disclosure made here that Miss (Continued on page 6)

Faculty Members Speak To Returning Graduates
Loyalty, Traditions, and Co-operation Brought to Attention of Alumni Assemblage

At the annual Home-Coming exercises, held Saturday, October 25, at 12 o'clock, the alumni, students, and many friends of Davidson
College heard, with great interest and pleasure, three addresses made by as many prominent members of the Davidson faculty. The
subjects brought to the attention of the assemblage included Loyalty, Traditions, and Co-operation.

Dr. C. R. Harding, professor of Greek at Davidson for the past forty-two years, and known to practically every returning
alumnus, held up loyalty as the virtue of virtues. Asserting that high ideals and lofty aspirations have been the watchword
of Davidson College, whether the category of thought and activity be physical, social, mental, ethical, or spiritual, Dr. Harding said
that he “made bold to assert that the college is richly worthy of your whole-hearted loyalty; worthy by reason of
what she is in herself, and worthy by reason of what she has done for you.”

“You chose Davidson,” said Dr. Harding to the alumni, “as your Alma Mater, and Davidson accepted you as a mother
would a little child. In your student days she urged you, coaxed you, led you, and thrust you, sometimes in
accord with your will, and sometimes against your will, until you had attained the end at which you aimed. She
did this at an outlay and expense of which you paid a mere fraction.” Dr. Harding did not point out
the needs of the college; but suggested to the alumni that Dr. Lingle, President of Davidson, “will be glad to
tell you of them.”

The Deep Rooted Tradition
“If, by traditions, one means practices or customs never written in the laws, but passed from one generation to another
by word of mouth, then Davidson is rich in“Them,” said the second speaker, Dr. C. M. Richards, former Davidson College
pastor, and now a member of the Bible Department, who cited traditions which were the very foundations of the college.
Dr. Richards contended that the fighting spirit of Davidson’s athletic teams is lost sight of in the fact that the
(Continued on page 6)

Junior Class Wins Stunt Night Award

Davidson's annual Stunt Night was held last Saturday evening in Chambers Auditorium under the auspices of the Glee Club. W.
R. Rule, of the Junior Class, acted as the master of ceremonies.

The first number on the program was a short skit by the Sophomores, entitled “The Auction.” Bruce Sugg had the
lead and carried out the part of the auctioneer well. The Sophomore members of the band provided the music for
the occasion and the bidders were five farmers: Patton, Seymour, Steadman, Smith, and Lake. The auctioneer sold Rumple, Watts, and
Chambers in order named, but when he attempted to sell the Barracks, the farmers refused to bid and left the
stage in disgust.

Next was “The Affairs of the Seniors,” presented by the Senior Class. It started out quite humorously when the delicate
flower girls, Joe McCall and Bill Mason, came tripping down the aisle, gently tossing cabbages to the audience. Pat Boyle,
the girl, and Bill McAlpine, the boy, were joined together by J. A. Jones, who performed the ceremony with a
good deal of humor in it. The others in this stunt were Boots Wilson and Hub Covington, two attendants; L.
F. Wood, the mother of the girl; Walter Fraley, the father of the bride, and Skinny Hall, who protested because
his affections had been played with.

Following the Senior program was that of the Freshmen. This was a short dialogue of two blackfaces, Scotty Akers and
Bradford McLean, who pulled a number of good jokes. Then McLean gave an excellent exhibition of tap-dancing. (Continued on page
6)

Love O. D. K. Tap Day

Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa will hold its annual tap day on Tuesday morning, November 4. This service is
very impressive. In it, students of the Senior class will be tapped by the present members of O. D. K.
It is the custom of the O. D. K. to have a member of the faculty speak to the audience
on some phase of Omicron Delta Kappa. After the faculty member speaks, the president of the society taps the gavel
on the altar and a member of the society rises and goes to the student who is to be tapped
and taps him on the back. Then the one designated rises from his seat and follows his tapper to the
platform. This form of the public ceremony signifies those to whom bids have been extended by the society.

Mr. Rimmer Speaks In Defense of Bible

In the second of his two addresses given to the students of Davidson College at the vesper services, Mr. Harry
Rimmer spoke on the second division of his subject, “The Relation of Science and Religion.” This enumeration and elaboration of
the discoveries which bear upon and substantiate the Scriptures. Mr. Rimmer stated that the strongest point of the case which
critics have built against the credibility of the Scriptures is the mystery about the “Three Silent Centuries.” These are the
first three centuries of the Christian era, of which, critics contend, nothing has been found to indicate the existence of
written Scriptures at that time. “But,” stated Mr. Rimmer, “the science of archeology has come to the aid of the
Bible by its discoveries of manuscripts which prove beyond question that there did exist at that time written Scripture.” The
paper used at that time was found to be made of the pithy center of reeds. This was not very
durable so copies had to be made of the manuscripts. So, while possessing no original manuscripts, we have copies which
have been dated as far back as 120 A. D. So if the original manuscripts existed then we must certainly
have had the written Scriptures. “But,” said Mr. Rimmer, “the science of archeology has gone farther back than the second
century.” Aristides, a Greek philosopher, in his book in defense of Christianity, said to Hadrian (76-138 A. D.): “Having been
born of a Hebrew virgin and having completed his wonderful dispensation, he was pierced by the Jews, and after three
days revived and went up to heaven... and the glory of his coming again thou canst learn, O king, from
that which is called among (Continued on page 5)

Seven Men are Issued Le Cercle Francais Bids

Extensive Program is Planned by French Club for Year

In a meeting of the Le Cercle Francais held last week, seven men were bid to the club, which is
affiliated with the L’Alliance Francaise. Those receiving bids were H. L. Carr, R. P. Davis, L. N. Hand, J. V.
D. Middleton, C. F. Myers, Roscoe Prince, J. T. Welch. These men were chosen for excellence in French and interest
in French courses offered on the campus. The badge by which they were pledged was a tri-color ribbon. An extensive
program is being planned for the coming year, including talks by professors and students on topics of current interest in
France. Also, one or two French plays will be staged during the year by the club. Several speakers from the
L’Alliance Francaise and other lecturers will be engaged in collaboration with the faculty committee on lectures.

The present officers of the club are: S. S. Wiley, President; D. G. Martin, Vice-President; E. C. Dwelle, Secretary-Treasurer.

SENIORS AND ALUMNI HONORED BY ELEVEN PHI BETA KAPPA BIDS

The Alumni Comprise a Cosmopolitan Group Coming From All Parts of the Country

INITIATION ON DECEMBER 5

Prominent Educational Leader Expected for the Initiation

On Monday, October 20, bids were issued by the North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, honorary scholastic fraternity,
to the following men: J. B. Black, M. Jackson; H. S. Munroe, Jr., W. C. Ragin, Jr., and J. I.
Preston. The following alumni were also issued bids: Dr. W. H. Mills, '92, Clemson College; Prof. W. H. Morton, ‘09,
Washington and Lee; Dr. H. S. Turner, '13, Staunton, Va.; Major Harlee Morrison, '16, Dallas, Texas, and T. R. McNeal,
‘16, Niagara Falls, N.Y. A bid of honorary membership was issued to Dr. Frazier Hood of the Davidson faculty. Two
elections are held each year, and the next election will probably be held in May, 1931. Bids are issued by
the Gamma Chapter of North Carolina at Davidson College, of which Dr. W. L. Porter is president, and Prof. Archibald
Currie, secretary.

An unusually high scholastic average during four years at college is the main requirement for a bid to Phi Beta
Kappa. It is a much coveted and highly prized honor. The public initiation of these men will be held on
or around December 5. This initiation is an unusually important and interesting event, and is looked forward to with keen
interest. Negotiations are being made with one of the outstanding educational leaders in the South to speak at the initiation
ceremonies, but as yet, formal notice of his acceptance had not been received.

Eminent Actors to Present Play Here

“The Merchant of Venice” Will be Given in Chambers Auditorium

On Wednesday, November 12, at 8:15 P.M., “The Merchant of Venice,” one of Shakespeare's plays, will be presented in Chambers
Auditorium by Mr. and Mrs. Pierre Pelletier and their Elizabethan Players. Special admission rates will be given to Davidson students.
Mr. Pelletier is a young actor of personality and ability. He was formerly associated with Sothern and Marlowe in their
Shakespearean productions. He was also with Mrs. Fiske, Leo Dictrichstein, Mr. Wilton Lackaye, Burr McIntosh, Mrs. Stuart Robson, and Miss
Virginia Harned. He has had extensive experience both as leading man and director of many stock companies in New York,
Boston, Philadelphia, and other cities. For four years he was one of the principal members of “The Man of the
Hour,” having toured the United States and Canada from coast to coast with the great New York success, and also
one of the original members of “The Prisoner of Zenda” Company. Mr. Pelletier is a graduate of the New England
Conservatory of Music, College of Oratory, Boston, and also a graduate of the American Academy of Dramatic Arts, New York
City.

Mrs. Pelletier has had an extensive professional career. Upon graduating from the American Academy of Dramatic Art, of New York,
a very high-class school connected with Columbia University, also with Mr. Charles Frohman’s Empire Theater on Broadway, she served her
road experience as leading woman with companies playing “Madame X,” and afterwards was promoted to stardom. Then followed seven years
of success under Mr. Pelletier’s management, playing from coast to coast on the B. J. Keith and Orpheum circuit of
theaters in all the largest cities. Space will not permit us to give in detail the successes of each of
the supporting members. However, all are ladies and gentlemen of culture, personality, and training.
