THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 16, 1930

Home-Coming Day Plans Are Announced Today

Davidson Alumni Planning Homeward Trek to Alma Mater

Dr. C. R. Harding, Dr. C. M. Richards, and Capt. Norton G. Pritchett Have Been Selected as Speakers

ALUMNI LUNCHEON Beginning at 12 o’Clock Alumni Start Program That Occupies Most of the Day

Another year has passed, and Davidson College alumni throughout the country are thinking during the next ten days in channels
of a homeward trek to their Alma Mater. Many letters, voluntarily saying that Home-Coming will mark the day of a
visit, have been received in the alumni office; advanced registration for the football game between V. P. I. and Davidson
had indicated that others are returning, and throughout North Carolina many another alumnus has verbally asserted that he will be
here on October 25th.

A program has been designed for the entertainment and enjoyment of the alumni. From the opening exercises at noon, until
the curtain falls on the last event of the stunt night program, the day will be full of almost consecutive
happenings which center about the return of Davidson men to the campus, many of whom will visit here for the
first time in many years, besides the large number who make frequent pilgrimages to the college that nurtured them, and
which they now cherish.

Feeling that Davidson alumni would be interested in what faculty members had to say to them, it was decided this
year to confine the speakers to local selections, and to choose men that represented different eras. With this end in
view, Dr. C. R. Harding, Dr. C. M. Richards, and Capt. Norton G. Pritchett were invited to make ten-minute addresses,
and each one has accepted the invitation. These three men will speak at exercises that will be held in the
auditorium of Chambers Building. The program will probably be preceded by an organ recital, giving the earlier arrivals, and others
who have not had the opportunity, a chance to hear the beautiful strains of the organ. Dr. Walter L. Lingle,
president of the college, will greet the returners in a cordial welcome, and a pause will be made in the
hour's exercise to honor those alumni who have died since last Home-Coming Day.

Immediately at the conclusion of this program, the alumni and friends will adjourn to the banquet hall below for the
alumni luncheon. This luncheon will be served as it has since its inception three years ago, i.e., in somewhat of
a cafeteria style. Nothing elaborate is planned. It is simply a time when the alumni can intermingle with one another,
walking about the spacious dining hall to whatever group some of their friends might be attached. This luncheon is different
from that served at commencement, for ladies are invited to this affair.

The cynosure of all eyes in the afternoon will be the V. P. I.-Davidson gridiron struggle on Richardson Field, which
will begin at 2:30 o'clock. In the interim between lunch and the time of the referee’s whistle, the alumni will
stroll about the campus, or will inspect the new Chambers Building, which will be open for their eyes on that
occasion.

Concluding the day’s exercises will be a stunt night program, sponsored by the Glee Club. This entertainment is participated in
by each class, which offers its best in the way of dramatic talent, and is gratis to those who care
to remain over for the affair.

Added to the general Home-Coming of all Davidson alumni are other special features which affect a limited number. These include
the reunion of Davidson’s 1910 state championship football squad of approximately 25 members, and the semi-annual gathering of the Alumni
Council of 15 members, who start their session at 10 o'clock in the morning.

Alumni Personals

Hinton James, '06, of Laurinburg, has been nominated as United States Congressman, to fill the unexpired term of the late
Congressman W. C. Hammer, of Asheboro. Other Davidson men in the House of Representatives are J. Bayard Clarke, '05, of
Fayetteville, and W. F. Stevenson, '85, of Cheraw, S. C.

W. C. Alexander, ’27, who has been teaching in Gaston County since his graduation, has entered the theological department of
Erskine College.

M. M. King, ’29, has returned to his home in Bristol, Tenn., and is connected with H. P. King Co.
Since June, 1929, he has been located in Florence, Ala.

In the November issue of Holland's Magazine is an article written by Alexander Sprunt, Jr., '18, of Charleston, S. C.
It is a short story, entitled, “The Silver Stranger.” On page 79 of this same issue is a photograph of
Mr. Sprunt and a brief account of his life. This Davidson alumnus has developed as a writer of authority on
bird and animal life, and frequent features written by Mr. Sprunt have appeared in the newspapers of this section of
the South.

W. T. Davis, '27, who has been in the life insurance business for the past four years, has entered the
School of Medicine at the University of Arkansas. He is a student assistant in the Physiological Chemistry Department, and makes
up all the solutions for laboratory work.

Rev. L. R. Scott, '08, of Valdosta, Ga., was elected moderator of the Synod of Georgia at its recent meeting
with the South Carolina Synod at Presbyterian College, Clinton, S. C. He succeeded Rev. D. P. McGeachey, D.D., '96, of
Decatur, Ga., as moderator. Rev. John McSween, ‘08, president of P. C., retired as moderator of the South Carolina Synod.

Dr. R. H. Lafferty, '99, of Charlotte, is today speaking before 300 members of the Fifth District Medical Society, meeting
in Fayetteville. Dr. Lafferty, an authority on X-ray, is speaking on “Types and Uses of Rays in X-ray Treatment.”

H. C. Lawson, ’26, student in the Medical School at the University of Arkansas for the past two years, is
now studying in the Physiology Department of the University of Chicago.

WEEK-END TRIPS Can be made economically in a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford from— HENDERSON’S FILLING STATION

Program Outlined

The following is an outline of the program that will be observed on Home-Coming Day, October 25th:

10:00 A. M. — Meeting of Alumni Council.
11:30 A. M. — Assembling of 1910 Football Team.
12:00 M — Exercises in auditorium of Chambers Building. Addresses by Dr. C. R. Harding, Dr. C. M. Richards, and
Capt. Norton G. Pritchett.
1:00 P. M. — Alumni Luncheon, Banquet Hall of Chambers.
2:30 P. M. — Football Game, V. P. I. vs. Davidson, Richardson Field
6:30 P. M. — Dinner for 1910 Football Team.
7:30P. M.—Stunt Night, in Auditorium of Chambers. Diligent efforts on the part of leaders in the movement to have Davidson's
first championship football team return for a reunion after 20 years without a concentrated gathering of these men have brought
the plans to completion, and an announcement was made to those involved through the office of the alumni secretary this
week. Last-minute reports had not been received when The Davidsonian went to press Monday night, but from preliminary acceptances, it
is thought that every living member of the squad in this country will be at Davidson on Home-Coming Day, October
25th.

Members of this famous team will start arriving Friday night, and by Saturday morning at 11:30 o'clock, when they assemble
at headquarters, which have been designated in the vacant house in the fraternity court, the entire squad, the coach, and
manager are expected to be at Davidson. The squad will go in a body to the auditorium of Chambers Building
to listen to brief addresses by Dr. C. R. Harding, Dr. C. M. Richards, and Capt. Norton G. Pritchett. As
a unit, they will attend the alumni luncheon an hour after the exercises open, and together they will also witness
the V. P. I.-Davidson football game in the afternoon at 2:30. Special seats in front of the stadium will be
arranged for the team, and throughout the day they will wear badges which have been especially designed and bought for
them.

At 6:30 they will assemble for an elaborate dinner, and a special guest will be Mrs. Booe, with whom the
training team had headquarters when at Davidson. The menu calls for the kickoff, line plunge, touchdown, safety, forward pass, extra
points, and the yelling and shouting afterward. The latter will be in the form of informal talks by each member,
with Coach Simmons acting as toastmaster.

Thirteen items which distinguish the reuniting football team have been prepared, and the following facts will probably be of interest
to those hundreds of alumni who see these men at Davidson on October 25th.

(1) First reunion of varsity and scrubs in twenty years.
(2) One member of the squad deceased.
(3) Squad now claims five ministers, two physicians, one teacher. All of the remainder are in business enterprises.
(4) Eight games played; five games opponents failed to score. Total points, Davidson 213; Opponents 36.
(5) The first team in the South to utilize the forward pass as a regular offensive weapon on first down
anywhere in the field outside its own 25-yard line.
(6) The first team of record in the South which used any one of its four backfield men to make
forward passes.
(7) The only team of record in the South which ever used an onside kick play in which the kicker
did not touch the ball with his hands in making the kick. It was executed from regular formation, the snapper-back
passing the ball direct to the kicker’s foot.
(8) One of the first teams in the South to utilize the “hidden ball,” which is now in disfavor with
the rules committee, but quite eligible in 1910.
(9) One of the lightest teams which ever represented Davidson, the average weight of (Continued on page 6)

Alumni Council Holds Meeting on Home-Coming

The semi-annual meeting of the Davidson College Alumni Council will be held in the Quadwranglers club room of Chambers Building
on October 25th, in conjunction with the Home-Coming exercises for Davidson alumni. This meeting will start at 10 o'clock, and
in the two hours’ time elapsing between then and the program in Chambers Auditorium, the business of the Council should
be transacted.

For the past year or two, a plan has been evolving to increase the interest of Davidson alumni, which largely
centers around an enlargement of the present Council, with various sub-committees working through an executive committee. A discussion of this
proposal, and a proposed constitution and by-laws for the association will be the principal business to be transacted. Copies of
the proposed changes of the constitution and by-laws are already in the hands of the Council for their deliberation and
comment before the meeting on Home-Coming Day.

The alumni secretary will also make a report to the Council on his work since the last meeting in June.
Included in this report will be a statement of the financial condition of the association. Other matters may be brought
to the attention of the Council by its various members.

Associated with H. Smith Richardson, '06, New York, as president of the Alumni Association and Council are Dr. R. H.
Lafferty, '99, Charlotte, vice-president; F. L. Jackson, '06, Davidson, treasurer; Dr. G. M. Maxwell, '96, Roanoke, Va.; J. D. Woodside,
'98, New York; W. S. Royster, '99, Norfolk, Va.; S. Clay Williams, '05, Winston-Salem; Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, '06, Dr.
Oren Moore, '08, and L. H. Wilkinson, '13, all of Charlotte; Henry T. Mills, '06, Greenville, S. C.; J. Edward
Johnston, '14, Baltimore, Md.; John W. McAlister, '19, and Lunsford Richardson, '14, both of Greensboro, and Irwin P. Graham, '08,
Cooleemee.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia
The oldest and largest Southern Presbyterian Seminary
Both sound in the faith, and alert for new methods.
For Catalogue and information, address Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President.

Practically All Members of 1910 Football Team to Return

Complete Program of the Initial Re-Union of This First Davidson State Championship Football Eleven Was Mailed to the Members This
Week—Headquarters Will Be in Vacant House in Fraternity Court

ELABORATE DINNER HAS BEEN ARRANGED

List of Thirteen Items That Will Distinguish This Team From Other Aggregations Representing Davidson Has Been Prepared

Record: A Complete Service for School Publications
Annuals, Magazines, Catalogs, New Books
McNally Printing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

The English
Recommended by Davidson College

WEBSTER’S COLLEGIATE
The Best Abridged Dictionary because it is based upon WEBSTER'S NEW INTERNATIONAL—The “Supreme Authority”.
Here is a companion for your hours of reading and study that will prove its real value every time you
consult it. A wealth of ready information on words, persons, places, is instantly yours. 106,000 words and phrases with definitions,
etymologies, pronunciations, and use in its 1,256 pages. 1,700 illustrations. Includes dictionaries of biography and geography and other features.
See It at Your College Bookstore or Write for Information to the Publishers. Free specimen pages if you name this
paper.
G. & C. MERRIAM CO.
Springfield, Mass.
