4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 6, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

ZEBE V. SEONG -------------------- Editor-in-Chief
E. G. H. McCAULEY ---------------- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
J. W. McCUTCHAN ---------------- Managing Editor
W. C. GINN ------------------------ Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN ------------------ Athletic Editor
J. V. D. MIDDLETON --------------- Assignment Editor
J. F. PRESTON --------------------- Feature Editor
J. L. BROWN ----------------------- Feature Editor
R. F. JARRATT --------------------- Associate Editor
F. D. MILLER ----------------------- Associate Editor
C. PRATT --------------------------- Associate Editor
A. Y. CANNON ---------------------- Asst. Bus. Mgr.
T. E. BOYD ------------------------- Subscription Mgr.
A. S. BARKER ---------------------- Solicitor
F. M. CONWAY --------------------- Solicitor
J. H. McKINNON ------------------- Solicitor
J. L. SAYRE ------------------------ Solicitor
E. S. HEARNER --------------------- Solicitor

OFFICERS
E. S. HEARNER --------------------- President
J. G. DUNKLIN --------------------- Vice-President
W. S. LEA -------------------------- Secretary-Treasurer

NEWS STAFF
G. MARTIN
C. W. F. SPENCER
J. R. SMITH
W. T. HANCOCK
M. O. STEPHENSON
JOHN M. BROWN
G. P. PARDINGTON
DICKS MATTHEWS
W. H. BIRD
E. C. DWELLE

FEBRUARY 6, 1930

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

Busy days ahead in the athletic realm. The feature event will be the clash on the court with Duke’s “Finest.”
Some test for Johnston’s Wildcat crew. Did you say they’d been through tough assignments before? Right you are! How about
moving that game to Charlotte? Hate to say it, but it looks like our best chance to win went with
the removal. There’s a different brand of play when Davidson teams are at home. Then too, the student body is
losing out on that deal. What support to lose!

Another chance tonight to hear that golden-voiced organ in action. Make the opportunity good. It'll be worth your time, and
considerably more artistic, at least, than the screeches of the local sound palace.

A brilliant speaker for “Y” Sunday evening. Preacher, prize-fighter, scientist, student’s man—that’s Doctor Rimmer. You can’t afford to miss him.
And bring somebody along to help the cause.

In event of future snows, why not keep fights away from Chambers Building? Pretty likely to smash windows over there.
Remember the numerals—(x marked the spot where they were found)—33?

An appreciation of that fighting freshman team Red Laird has turned out. Class is there, you know. Maybe a championship—who
knows?

TAKE DAVIDSON WITH YOU

The inimitable Chico of “Seventh Heaven” used to appeal to his world: “Always look up; never look down.” The simple
but beautiful philosophy of good cheer expressed by that optimist might be carried a little deeper and viewed in the
light of the finer consideration to be seen with an upward glance. Here at Davidson, for instance, we fall into
the habit of fixing our gaze and our hearts upon the noble ideals of manhood and the worthy traditions which
are so vital a part of the great old college, and we naturally think of them as being on an
exalted plane, of being far above the average level of ordinary thinking and action. We guard these spiritual entities jealously,
and are quick to refute any hint that they are not real.

Wherever Davidson men go, whatever they do, let them remember that with them, wrapped in their actions, goes the reputation
of a college. One man can easily shatter someone’s respect for that college. If he looks down, the finer qualities
fade from the range of vision, and old conceptions or habits are prone to creep in with their frequent tendencies
to corrupt. Keep worthwhile things in the foreground. Take Davidson with you when you leave the campus. Remember that the
responsibility for a glorious name and a living honor rests on every person who partakes of the college life which
we know as the best. Look up to the spirit which is Davidson. Bear it cleanly in your hands.

DEAD LIMBS

There is a tendency to look with pride upon the organization of the modern college, and to congratulate the student
that he is able to partake of a system with apparent qualifications for the accomplishment of a higher type of
work, thereby enjoying privileges and touching opportunities quite unknown to the Tom Brown of earlier days. Particularly do college men
and onlookers alike lay emphasis on and do honor to the honorary societies which occupy such an interesting field of
undergraduate activity. That these bodies are instituted to serve and instruct, and that it actually lies within their power to
fulfill this purpose, a few authorities deny. The fact is, however, and it is becoming more evident each year, that
most colleges and universities are seriously over-stocked with honorary fraternities which base their existence on the significance of a few
Greek letters, and which make it their chief aim to initiate a large number of men so as to replenish
the treasury of the order and to maintain a respectable status in the ranks of other campus organizations.

The situation explained above has been a growing problem at Davidson for several years, and it is high time some
concerted action was taken to arouse the circles which are dragging out an inactive life. It is not our intention
to condemn the entire group of fraternities supposed to recognize achievement in extra-curricular or scholastic departments, for several of them
are realizing their possibilities fairly well, and to these, which are well known by their works, only praise is due.
But the sleeping majority, resting peacefully on their names, should be reminded of the duty vested in them, of the
obligation to the college and students. They are weakening the general conception of the honorary fraternity. They are thwarting its
alleged purpose of increasing knowledge and efficiency in the respective fields of college endeavor and of meeting the challenging tasks
which ever spring into reality as the growing college advances with the spirit of the times.

Each head of an honorary fraternity on Davidson campus ought to take stock of his group immediately, study the ideals
and aims of his order, and launch it into a process of rejuvenation. If the leader of each circle does
not assume the first responsibility, it is difficult to imagine who will supply it. If no business is worth considering,
then use the given period in a study of the organization’s history, of its work in other institutions, of its
possibilities for tangible service here. If the views of the various clubs were tapped and their product kept at work,
the result would surprise the most pessimistic critic. Every phase of college activity represented by an honorary fraternity would receive
new interest and more appreciation. More capable writers for publications would be developed. Leaders would really learn something of the
work they are supposed to direct.

In a small college there are difficulties which will never be wholly overcome, the principal one at Davidson being that
so many hold membership in more honorary organizations than they can honestly support with time and interest. Even this condition,
however, is no excuse for the number of dead limbs which mar the tree of honorary fraternity. If the problem
should be taken up seriously and considered earnestly there is hardly a limit to the satisfaction which could be obtained.

COMPLIMENTS RETURNED

It was an unusual snow in one respect. For the first time in many winters the freshmen met the pelting
on the part of upper classmen with determined resistance, and the hitherto proud monarchs of dormitory row were hard pressed
to retain their prestige. Pitched battle raged on several occasions, with the honors more or less even, superior leadership enabling
older hands at the business to eke out doubtful honors of war in most cases. After all was over, both
forces seemed very well satisfied, and the general feeling was that the most spirited snow battles of years had been
experienced.

A trivial matter, perhaps—this snow fighting—but it may signify that the old days of non-resistance from freshmen are past, and
that a better element of sportsmanship between classes will be forthcoming as a result of the mutual attitude of give-and-take
manifest last week. Freshmen used to be subject to rather merciless treatment during time of snow, and, while little actual
harm was done, the policy of subjugation practiced by the upper men did give rise to bad feeling as well
as an injured class pride. The usual challenge for a fight on the freshman field was chalked up by enterprising
sophomores, and a disorganized

Late Monday afternoon, William Howard Taft, Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court, tendered his resignation. Although this action
hadbeen expected in better-informed circles for some time, yet it came as a distinct surprise to many. No comment, except
that of praise, can be made on Mr. Taft’s judicial term. Having completed a popular regime as President, he quietly
assumed a position which, in many respects, requires the utmost ability in tact, diplomacy, and dignity. Taft was an ideally
perfect Chief Magistrate, never spectacular but always alert and energetic. We cannot pass without the old story which claims that
he was the politest man in the country. It is said that “he could arise and offer his place on
the divan to two ladies, one being the popular limit.”

While discussing the Supreme Court and its personnel, it is wise to give a thought to the appointment of Charles
Evans Hughes, who has accepted the position. Hughes has many public honors and long terms of service to his creditable
record. It is recalled that he was narrowly defeated for the presidency while running against Woodrow Wilson, and that he
has served as Secretary of State. Although there are probably many men qualified to fill the vacancy, Hughes is as
good as any Republican statesman on the horizon. Let it be said here, however, that we always did have a
weakness for Dwight Morrow, and not because he is Lindy’s father-in-law, either.

It is heartening and encouraging to many followers of current events to learn that one woman, at least, has failed
to win an “alienation of affection suit.” It has been a hackneyed expression to say that “the woman pays and
pays,” but since Reno was played on the map, few men escape “scot-free.” Many of our pre-historic ancestors would turn
over in their graves if they could see the hen-pecked husbands of today. No doubt these same ancestors’ grandsires maintained
that the generation was going to perdition and ruin because their grandsons engaged in domestic quarrels and conflicts. Moral codes
and ethics change with centuries and climes, but the opinion of the older generation for the younger remains about the
same.

This column does not want to overwork the courts, but what is to follow is more for the defense of
the “press.” There have been noteworthy examples in the past few weeks of editors and newspapers who have been fined
and damaged by irate judges who have claimed that flagrant contempts of their courts have been voiced. Justice should and
must be respected. However, freedom of speech and of the press is one of the most prized traditions of the
United States. Our forefathers fought for the right; we should have it! From all available information, nothing untrue was printed
concerning the court procedures. In England, all agitators, bolsheviki, and what-not are referred to Hyde Park, where they may shout
“To Blazes With the King,” or what they please, and those who do not want to listen do not have
to.

All of which brings us to the question of KWKH, Shreveport, Louisiana. We certainly do not wish to congratulate Mr.
Henderson on his choice of words, which usually indicates a rather small vocabulary. But, we care little what he says
about the chain stores, radios commission, or the price of eggs in Wigwam. If he doesn’t like these subjects, he
has a right to his aversion. Maggie may be able to keep Jiggs from going to another station in life,
but we have seen few radios with fixed dials. It appears like the lady who forbade the small boys to
swim in the old swimming hole, sans suits, because she took a horseback ride there every Thanksgiving afternoon. Nothing compels
the radio fan to listen to “Hello Wor-r-l-Id!”

A bunch of new men had no chance of redeeming or protecting themselves. Let the game be open to both
sides, with a spirit of clean fun prevalent, and keep down the idea that there’s any personal grudge to be
settled. Some fellows seem to let that principle get the best of them. If there’s going to be a real
scrap, the freshmen must resist; else a farce results, with the upperclassmen playing the leads. There is a deadline, however,
even in snow fights. Somebody is sure to carry things a little too far, and serious injury is a likely
consequence. Blows in the face are dangerous to eyes, to say nothing of the chance of inflicting needless pain. We
ought to watch slips like that. And, although we paid for damage to the dormitories in entrance fees, it would
be much better to have that sum returned than to see it all go flying away in bits of shattered
window-pane. Good sport, clean fun, excellent class competition if taken in moderation.

After floundering around in the snow for so long, and incidentally losing a shoe and my umbrella in the drifts,
I feel more or less bloodthirsty, so here’s my effort at a story of the days when pirates sailed the
bounding main. The bounders!

UNDER THE SKULL AND CROSSBONES

You may be a skull to all the world, but you're a bonehead to me. For weeks, the pirate crew
had sailed their ketch “The Four Pound Trout” on the high seas without sighting a single merchant vessel. The pirates
became restless, because all work and no prey makes a dull pirate. However, there was little danger of a mutiny,
as all of the men lived in mortal terror of their chief, “Peg-leg” Nubb. Accompanied by his Scotch sergeant-at-arms, McTruck,
Nubb tirelessly walked the deck and did his best to cheer up his disgruntled crew. As twilight fell, Nubb called
his men around him for their evening grog. “How will you take your rum?” he asked of Hassan Ben Sober,
his Assyrian look-out. “I'll take a rum with a bath,” replied Hassan hopefully. “Here’s a rum with a board,” snarled
Nubb, knocking Hassan in the scuppers with a belaying pin. The Assyrian lay in the scuppers and howled, “Scupper scoffee!”
“Another crack like that,” drawled Nubb with deadly emphasis, “and you'll be like the egg in Ul ralela astery—out of
the frying pan into the friar.”

Nubb and McTruck again began their monotonous pacing up and down the deck. Nubb pulled out a pack of cork-tipped
cigarettes, selected one, and offered one to his Scotch aide. “No thanks,” remarked McTruck, “I never smoke cork-tipped fags, because
I hate to smell cork burning.” At this, Nubb fell and measured his length on the deck. He measured five
feet eleven inches and not a yard over. McTruck immediately let out a wild shriek, a loud guffaw, and the
cat. Nubb and McTruck then slouched over to the rail—to talk. Nubb snorted, “That Hassan certainly is dumb. I asked
him if he had read ‘The Three Musketeers’ and he said that he didn’t like books about insects.” “Gee,” replied
McTruck, “where can I get that book? I like books about insects.”

Early the next morning, the pirates gathered on the deck and prepared to spend the day as usual in boredom,
wherever that is. But lo and behold, the look-out spied a speck on the horizon. “What is it?” asked McTruck,
as Nubb trained his telescope on it. “Why, it’s a speck on the horizon,” replied Nubb disgustedly. However, the speck
turned out to be a revenue cutter, so the crew all lined up at the rail and watched them cut
revenue. The moment that the revenue cutter saw the pirate ship, it set out in pursuit. As the two ships
drew near each other, they opened fire, and a battle royal ensued. The pirates might have been victorious, but by
an unlucky chance, pandemonium broke loose on board the pirate craft and knocked the men to the deck. Before they
could arise, the government men had boarded the ship and tied them hand and foot. They were carried to land,
tried, and sentenced to be hung. As they were lined up at the gallows, the executioner asked if they had
any last request to make. “Hang us in chains,” begged Nubb, “It looks like rain. I always put on chains
at the first drop.”

Listen, Artaxerxes, if you don’t stop playing train, Papa’s gonna wreck your train.

“Whither away, stranger? And what do you want?” asked St. Peter as he leaned over the pearly gates. “Gosh, let
me in,” pleaded the wandering soul of convict 9986, just released from the electric chair, “I just had the shock
of my life.”

Minister: “See how the bride is blushing.”
Bridegroom: “Blushing nothing! That is the first flush of victory.”

Therefore, why all the commotion? Personally, we have heard much better programs from other cities.

Examinations are over! We imagine most of our readers have discovered this, including our neighboring columnist. But faint not, Iphegenia,
more will come! Meanwhile, there are a few daily recitations ahead. The basketball team has struck its stride, and anyone
who can possibly be in Charlotte Monday night, and isn’t... well, we have our opinion!

It may be painful, but recreation can be turned to thoughtful advantages. Those who saw “Mexacali Rose” may have seen
a subtle philosophy. There was more there than the mere plot! Think it over!
