‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 24, 1930

Alumni Personal Mention

Rev. W. C. Smith, ’20, of Chinquapin, N.C., is recovering from a serious accident suffered several weeks ago. For three
weeks he was unconscious in a Wilmington hospital. Complications also developed. He is now improving, however.

W. K. Pritchett, '29, and Glenn A. Fry, ’29, who are doing graduate work at Duke University in Greek and
psychology, respectively, were among the men who were given scholarships for the term 1930-1931.

Among the Davidson alumni who have been selected as speakers at various commencements this spring are Rev. A. A. McLean,
D.D., '06, of Lenoir, to deliver the baccalaureate sermon at Mitchell College; and Rev. B. R. Lacy, D.D., '06, of
Richmond, Va., to preach the baccalaureate sermon before the Gastonia High School. Many members of the Davidson faculty, alumni of
the college, are making addresses before high schools in this section.

Chase Brenizer, '90, chairman of the Charlotte School Board, has resigned from that post because of other business duties. Among
the men mentioned as a possible successor are J. P. Quarles, '99, and Dr. Oren Moore, 1908.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of M. M. McKeithen, father of L. B. McKeithen, ’19, of Cameron,
and Dr. A. M. McKeithen, '16, of Louisville, Ky.; also of the death of J. D. Hall, brother of F.
P. Hall, ’87, and Rev. J. K. Hall, '87, both of Belmont.

Davidson alumni, who have recently been elected moderators of Presbyteries are Rev. C. N. Morrison, ’21, of Glenwood, Orange Presbytery;
Rev. S. A. Ewart, ’13, of Blackstock, S.C., Bethel Presbytery, and Rev. C. J. Hollandsworth, ’20, of Raleigh, Granville Presbytery.

Dr. J. T. Burrus, '98, of High Point, is an unopposed candidate for the State Senate.

Rev. McKendree R. Long, ’10, of Statesville, recently conducted a revival campaign at Lumberton, in which there were approximately 500
who united with the church on profession of faith. In newspaper dispatches, the revival was described as one which had
“entered the class of campaigns conducted by Billy Sunday and other widely famous evangelists.”

Among the recent alumni visitors on the campus were Dr. Everard A. Wilcox, '07, of Rome, who was initiated into
Phi Beta Kappa while here; D. B. Wharton, ’25, of New York; Proctor Thompson, ’28, of Gastonia; S. L. Black,
'29, of Albemarle; Wick Black, ’26, of Salisbury; Rev. Geo. Robertson, D.D., ’78, of Mt. Holly; F. S. Wearn, ’28,
of Boston, Mass., and E. A. Holmgreen, '29, of San Antonio, Texas.

Letters are being received from Davidson alumni, signifying their intention of attending the approaching commencement of Davidson. Among some of
them are W. F. Milburn, '10, of Atlanta, Ga.; Rev. Norman Johnson, ’15, of Blacksburg, Va.; Monroe T. Gilmour, ’29,
of Princeton, N.J.; Nelson Myers, ’29, of Nashville, Tenn., and S. Y. Brown, ’29, of Atlanta, Ga.

W. B. Taylor, Jr., '08, who is in the Alumni Marriages

Mauney-Gould

It was recently learned through the Salisbury Post that Robert L. Mauney, Jr., '28, was married to Miss Margaret Gould,
of Long Island, N.Y. The date of the ceremony was not given. Mr. and Mrs. Mauney are now making their
home in Durham, where the former is connected with the Coca-Cola business.

Franklin Fricker, '21, who has been located in Atlantic City, N.J., for the past several months with the General Motors
Corporation, is moving to Baltimore within a week and will be located at 101 West 39th St. He wrote that
he expects to visit Davidson on a trip south this summer.

Alumni are using their office for many purposes, and during the past several weeks the secretary has been busy fulfilling
requests. Some samples are a letter asking the price of the 1930 annual by a former member of that class;
another wanting the names and addresses of his classmates in New York; another asking for a list of all Davidson
ministers between the classes of 1919 and 1924; another asking for a photograph and information about Dr. Lingle; another requesting
the 1930 football schedule; another asking that the secretary order Easter flowers for a designated party; another wanting the schedule
of baseball games to be played at Davidson the remainder of this season; another asking for an individual address; four
letters asking for the entire list of their classmates so that they might be written individual letters about the approaching
commencement and reunions; several requests from newspapers on special coverage of events; and probably others that do not occur offhand.

Rev. D. G. Stewart, ’27, and his work at the Dixon Memorial Church in Tarrant City, Ala., near Birmingham, was
the substance of a long feature article recently appearing in a Birmingham newspaper.

W. H. Bailey, '29, is temporarily located in New York, having been sent to the home office of the Equitable
Life Assurance Society.

Jack Miller, ’26, of Winston-Salem, recently wrote: ‘Lastnight I became very much engrossed in the alumni catalogue. You might suggest
that if there is interesting reading to be found one may take this catalogue, begin with the class of 1840,
study the men and feel very proud of his Alma Mater. I could hardly lay it down. It would do
all alumni of the institution good to read it in this manner.”

F. P. Morton, Jr., ’23, is now located at the Skyland Hotel, Hendersonville, N. C. M. S. Beall, ’25, is
now located in Cleveland, Ohio. His address is care of The Hollenden Hotel. He wrote that he expects to be
there for the next few months.

Within a week’s time, the alumni secretary received letters from alumni located in Japan, Greece, Turkey, and Spain. Two of
these came on the same day, one the following, and the other three days later.

GOLFERS’ TOURNEY (Continued from page 3)

The freshman members of the Wildcat team are ineligible for the State competitions, and the absence of Wagner, Thompson, and
Caldwell will lessen Davidson’s chances to finish with the low scores in the eliminations. The team which will represent Davidson
is composed of Captain J. K. Pepper, N. C. Hodgin, W. L. Hart, and either R. D. Croom or J.
D. McConnell. Captain Pepper and Hart are the only members of the squad who have seen action in tournament play.

Important Meeting of Alumni Council, May 10

The Davidson College Alumni Council will hold its first meeting since last June when they gather together at Davidson on
Saturday, May 10th, for a lengthy session. H. Smith Richardson, '06, president of the council and the Alumni Association, issued
a letter to the council last Friday, setting the date and place of the meeting, and enclosed to each individual
member a list of the important matters which are to come up before that body for discussion and action.

Among the items which will receive consideration are plans for the annual meeting of the Alumni Association on Tuesday of
commencement, consideration of the report and recommendations of the alumni secretary and treasurer of the association, nomination of alumni trustees
and officers of the association, which will later be submitted to the alumni constituency by a mail ballot, and several
other important matters.

The Davidson Council is composed of Mr. Richardson, as president, and J. D. Woodside, '98, of New York; Dr. Hamilton
W. McKay, '06, of Charlotte, 1928-1929 president of the association and council; S. Clay Williams, '05, of Winston-Salem; John W.
McAlister, '19, of Greensboro; Henry T. Mills, ’06, of Greenville, S. C., and J. Edward Johnston, ’14, of Baltimore, Md.

New Addresses

Prof. C. W. Williams, ’27, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, Ala.
Rev. A. C. Ray, ’25, 1661 N. Claiborne Ave., New Orleans, La.
Dr. C. R. F. Beal, '18, Bellevue Drive, E., Atlanta, Ga.
Dr. W. J. Martin, Jr., '23, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn.
Willard Keerans, ’27, 1558 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, Mass.
S. T. McCloy, '18, 216 W. 56th St., New York, N. Y.
Dr. C. A. Dunn, '22, 375 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.
H. M. Morris, ’23, 909 Farragut St., N. W., Washington, D. C.
Dr. N. G. Patterson, ’25, Tsingkiangpu, Kiangsu Province, China.
R. F. LeFevre, ’29, 17 N. Fourth Ave., Coatesville, Pa.
T. T. Jones, ’28, 826 Broadway, Baltimore, Md.
Dr. J. C. Leonard, Jr., '24, Tennessee Coal & Iron Hospital, Birmingham, Ala.
L. P. Hornthal, Jr., '29, 247 W. 72nd St., New York, N. Y.
B. H. Thurman, ’10, care The Glidden Company, 82 Corona Ave., Elmhurst, Long Island, N. Y.
E. V. Ramage, ’29, Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur, Ga.
M. A. Morrison, ’28, Barbeton City Club, Barbeton, Ohio.
A. M. Hillhouse, ’24, 17 E. 42nd St., New York, N. Y.
W. M. Cox, ’24, 802 W. 32nd St., Baltimore, Md.
Dr. H. H. Smith, ’23, Strong Memorial Hospital, Rochester, N. Y.
W. R. Washam, ’11, Woodlawn, Md.
Rev. M. A. Boggs, ’15, care First Presbyterian Church, Hot Springs, Ark.
Rev. A. L. Currie, ’21, Moore Memorial Presbyterian Church, Nashville, Tenn.
M. D. Thomasson, ’25, 1105-08 James Bldg., Chattanooga, Tenn.

Births

Mr. Vardell Williamson, '27, and Mrs. Williamson, of Greenville, S. C., announce the birth of a son, William Vardell, Jr.,
on April 16, 1930.

Improving transmission business. System made this service worthy, and the public has recognized this by its greatly increased usage.

The Bell Laboratories improved the quality of sound transmission by modifying existing apparatus and designing new. Western Electric manufactured the
necessary equipment.

Speeding up service and reducing rates. Encouraging the long-distance habit.

An interesting example of organization is the development of long-distance telephone service. Men and women of the Bell System made
this service of the highest standards. Operating telephone companies, working with the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, shortened the time
for completing calls and reduced the rates.

In all, a coordinated work, bringing together many and varied activities, and typical of the way in which telephone service
is constantly being made a better tool for the nation’s needs.

BELL SYSTEM
A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones
PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN
