THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1930

Nine Alumni Meetings In As Many Days Is Plan For Northeastern Tour

Captain Pritchett and Mr. Jackson Have Reported Successful Alumni Meetings

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, and Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, will leave here next Monday for an
extensive and intensive series of alumni meetings, dinners, and luncheons that will include stops at nine different points in as
many days. Since the original schedule of seven meetings was planned, invitations have come from alumni in New Haven and
Princeton to visit them, and these have been added.

Beginning at Greensboro next Monday night with a dinner-meeting at the King Cotton Hotel, the two Davidson representatives will follow
an itinerary which will be concluded the following Tuesday week. Visits will be made to Washington, Philadelphia, Princeton, New York,
Boston, New Haven, Baltimore, and Richmond in the order named.

Davidson alumni during recent years have gone to northern institutions or northern points in unusually large numbers. The largest group
is located in and about the city of New York, to which meeting over 100 Davidson alumni are being invited.
This will be the largest meeting of all. Richmond and Greensboro are expected to be second in numbers, while Washington,
Baltimore, Philadelphia, and Boston are expected to assemble approximately the same number of Davidson men to greet Doctor Lingle and
Mr. Milton. At New Haven and Princeton, there are smaller groups. These will be met at an informal luncheon.

This annual trip will be an informatory one and will serve to disseminate the latest happenings of the campus and
to acquaint the alumni with the plans of the future. They will also be the first meetings of Davidson men
which the new president of Davidson has had the opportunity to visit, and this fact is expected to be a
big drawing card in bringing the alumni together. With one or two exceptions, the time and place of the meetings
have been selected by local representatives. The itinerary is as follows:

March 10, Greensboro, King Cotton Hotel, 7:00 p.m.
March 11, Washington, National Club, 7:00 p.m.
March 12, Philadelphia, Southern Tea Room, 6:30 p.m.
March 13, Princeton, luncheon at 1 p.m.
March 13, New York, dinner-meeting.
March 14, Boston, Faculty Club, 6:30 p.m.
March 15, New Haven, luncheon at More’s at 1:00 p.m.
March 17, Baltimore, Baltimore Club, 8:30 p.m.
March 18, Richmond, Seminary Training School or Chamber of Commerce dining room at 6:30 p.m.

JUNIOR PROGRAM (Continued from page 1)

... them, since every minute of the weekend will be taken up with some enjoyable entertainment. The tentative schedule of
the weekend follows:

Saturday afternoon, 2:30—Football game.
Saturday evening, 6-8—Cabaret dinner.
Saturday evening, 8:30—Minstrel.
Saturday 10-12—Festivities in Mooresville.

Up goes another building. Another gas blow-out. Contrary to popular belief, explosion damage is unrecoverable under the Fire policy, except
when fire ensues, and then for only the fire damage. To be fully protected, you need Explosion Insurance, too. Let
us show you how little Explosion protection costs. It's safer to have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Co.

VIEWS AND OBSERVATIONS By Capt. Norton G. Pritchett

The safest course of action to be followed by any traveler who is unfamiliar with the territory in which he
finds himself is to “Stop, Look, and Listen,” whenever and wherever conditions may warrant his doing so. Failure to do
this may not prove disastrous in every case, but it tends to prevent the possibility of enlightenment. The only personal
disappointment resulting from our recent visits with Davidson College Alumni Chapters in Rome, Thomasville, and Atlanta, in Georgia, as well
as in Jacksonville, Orlando, Tampa, and Miami, in Florida, may be attributed to the fact that we failed to discover
a single specimen of the famous Mediterranean Fruit Fly or of the so-called Pestiferous Alumni, a well-known bug that shares
equally with the former in whatever execration the general public delights to heap upon these two evils.

Not being an alumnus of Davidson College, and knowing that I might be subjected to direct as well as enfilade
fire from any disgruntled caviler who might choose to enjoy such pastime, I felt that the best I might offer
in the way of information or enthusiasm would fall far short of what I should like to say in behalf
of the present generation of Davidsonians. Furthermore, knowing of the destructive hurricanes that somewhat recently swept over the southern peninsula
known to natives as “The paradise of flowers,” I shared the feelings of the small boy who, as he looked
for the last time upon his homesite in Carolina in anticipation of his moving to Florida, called out his goodbyes
to the cow, the horse, the chickens, etc.; then, realizing that he had overlooked a social as well as a
personal duty, he looked up into the heavens and said, “Good-bye, God, I'm going to Florida.”

Viewed in retrospect, now that all my misgivings have been dissipated by cordial receptions at every meeting, I do not
flatter myself into the belief that there was anything in my personal message to our alumni that could account for
their kindness; the same reception would have been given to the lowliest janitor from the college, so intense is the
loyalty of a Davidson man to his Alma Mater. Had I written this weeks ago, I might have felt such
expression to be mere romantic rot—but I have seen, have experienced, and am personally convinced that there is that intangible
something about your “Davidson Spirit” that goes deeper than the larynx and that binds old men to youthful ideals that
have grown even stronger with the years.

Space does not permit to offer any detailed account of our experiences. It is enough to say that we could
not have been more cordially received by any alumni than by those living in Georgia and Florida; we are almost
willing to confirm the superlative accounts of our students who speak of Florida in glowing terms, for Ponce de Leon
really found the fountain of youth there. As for Georgia, there is no need for comment; ask any student who
lives there.

If there is any truth in the old statement that “circulation is weakest at the extremities,” then Georgia and Florida
are located in the geographical center of the United States. It was an inspiration to me, the entire trip and
all our contacts, and if all Davidson alumni are as genuinely interested in their college as are those whom we
met, there is but one suggestion we have to make to...our present student body—Davidson spirit was alive long before you
arrived; it will live long after you are dead; you have a challenge to meet, and your best must be
given. You can do little to strengthen the reputation your alumni have gained for your college, but you can easily
do much to weaken it. The alumni are backing you heart and soul, and they are proud to leave the
immediate future in your keeping.

GEORGE McCLENAGHAN

(Continued from page 1)

For many years this office has carried with it a great deal of recognition. The varsity cheerleader is usually a
recognized campus leader. His chief duty is to lead the student body in organized yells at all athletic contests. In
addition to this, he organizes and leads pep meetings before the more important contests. Frequently he arranges for the students
to be transported in a body to and from big games played at small distances from the campus. Lastly, his
most important duty is to keep up that great Davidson Spirit which is so well known the country over. This
is essentially his greatest task, for it is this which gives the teams a morale to overcome all obstacles.

By Frank L. Jackson

A trip through Florida at this season of the year is most interesting. At all the resort places it is
said that there are more tourists in Florida now than at any other time in the past. The interest of
our trip, however, centers not in that which attracts the tourists to Florida, but in the alumni of the college.
In addition to the formal meetings held at Jacksonville, Orlando, Tampa, and Miami, we stopped at numerous other towns for
a few minutes’ visit with alumni whose names had been furnished us by the Alumni Secretary. The alumni with whom
we came in contact would naturally be those most interested in the college. One man drove 60 miles to attend
a meeting. Several others drove more than 40 miles. Some of the alumni were members of recent classes and asked
questions about the completion of the Chambers building, grading on the campus, the new professors, student activities, prospects for our
football team next year, and other phases of college life that were uppermost in their thoughts. There were others who
inquired about the janitors and were interested to know whether Holtzclaw and Uncle Hiram, Baxter, and Walter were still living.
They seemed to remember that Holtzclaw had the important function of carrying notes from the President’s office. Almost everywhere we
went we got a rehearsal of some of the standing jokes of the college. About the student, for instance, who
being caught in the professor’s pear tree and asked what he was doing there,

(Continued on page 6)

Representatives Have Returned From Florida

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, President of Davidson, and Ernest Milton, Alumni Secretary, Will Make Trip

MANY WILL ATTEND

Luncheons at New Haven and Princeton Have Been Added to Original Schedule

Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, director of physical education, and Mr. Frank L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, returned last Saturday
night from a trip through Florida, attending four different alumni meetings in that state. Captain Pritchett had attended three gatherings
of Davidson men in Georgia prior to the time when Mr. Jackson joined him in Jacksonville for the Florida tour.
Accounts of the Rome and Atlanta meetings have already been published on this page. Both have reported enthusiastic meetings of
the Davidson men, and an intense interest on the part of the alumni to learn something of their Alma Mater.
The attendance at some of the meetings was not as large as it might have been had it not been
the height of the winter season in Florida when many of the men were involved in business from which they
could not get away.

Before all of the associations Mr. Jackson talked of the “Service of an Alumnus to His College,” and touched upon
the various means of expressing their loyalty. He cited the power of the alumnus in the influence he exerts for
the college, the contacts that he can make for the institution, both with high school students and other people, and
declared the alumnus to be the life of the institution. Captain Pritchett told of his impressions of Davidson since he
came here in the fall of 1928. He is not an alumnus of the college, and could more clearly present
to them the opinion of an outsider. He expressed his appreciation of the fine student body with which he worked
and of the spirit that is manifest on the campus. In the course of his remarks he outlined his plan
for physical education for the entire student body, and showed its possibilities. After the talks of these two men, the
meetings were thrown into an informal open-forum discussion, with the questions being propounded by the alumni. They showed no hesitancy
in seeking the information they desired, according to the report of the two representatives, and not only asked about individual
professors and others connected with the institution, but queried them regarding the policy of the college in many respects.

Association officers are as follows:

SGNF (South Georgia-North Florida), W. Hampton Jennings, ’28, Thomasville, Ga., president; and R. K. Shaw, ’22, Quincy, Fla., vice-president.

Northeastern Florida, Dr. W. McL. Shaw, ’15, president; Geo. D. Green, II, ’21, vice-president, and T. S. Baker, ’26, secretary-treasurer—all
of Jacksonville.

Central Florida—R. M. Wetherell, ’08, president, and Sidney Ives, III, ’24, vice-president, both of Orlando.

Southwestern Florida—Dr. J. Frank Cranford, ’07, St. Petersburg, president; Paul B. Price, ’24, Tampa, vice-president, and Chas. G. Baskerville, ’28,
Tampa, secretary-treasurer.

Davidson alumni meeting at Coral Gables, near Miami, did not attempt an organization. The number in that section is particularly
small, and it was thought best to merely call them together when Davidson representatives are in that state and can
attend the meetings.

IS A HIGH-SPOT OF PLEASURE

Camels are either a solitary pleasure or a companionable custom. As you pass from one activity to the next or
meet one friend after another, let Camels mark the transitions and lend their cheerful aroma to each new circumstance. To
punctuate each day with high-spots of pleasure to yourself, say “Have a Camel!” Camels are mild, mellow, and smooth... refreshingly
cool... an expert blend of the choicest tobaccos grown. That’s why they bring you an extra measure of pleasure... why
they never tire your taste, nor leave an unpleasant aftertaste, no matter how often you smoke them.

© 1929, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.
