THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 16, 1930

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

WILSON McCUTCHAN Editor-in-Chief
AL CANNON Business Manager
E. C. DWELLE Managing Editor
W. S. LEE Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS Sports Editor
V. M. BELL Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN Associate Editor
W. BLACK Associate Editor
PARK RAGIN Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF:
P. M. CONWAY Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BAKER Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY Subscription Manager
PEEK BROWN Solicitor
R. W. FALLS Solicitor
A. M. MANSON Solicitor
A. L. MEBANE Solicitor
W. R. MORROW Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB:
S. S. SWINDELL President
D. T. GILCHRIST Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
BROWN
J. G. BERRY
BAILEY
A. R. BIRD
E. BOYD
N. B. DICKS
A. DUNKLIN
E. O. GUERRANT
W. T. HANCOCK
J. C. LAKE
R. L. McCALLIE
M. C. MATTHEWS
C. F. MYERS
V. F. MULLISS
H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
C. W. F. SPENCER
B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR
W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH
D. D. McBRYDE

OCTOBER 16

"I believe the ant is far less unhappy than the happiest of men."
—Maurice Maeterlinck.

SUGGESTIONS

Cast your votes of appreciation for the action of the two men who came through in a pinch at Durham.
Henry McKinnon and Norman Raies displayed fine spirit in an unavoidable emergency. When a man falters between the events of
not knowing what to do or not doing anything, neither scheme appears preferable.

There is still a chance for the Wildcats to win the State Championship. Keep rooting for it. A man doesn’t
often get something he doesn’t continue to try for.

An old Chinese proverb says something about it being futile for men to try to change the direction of the
wind. Still, one cannot refrain from wishing when the soft coal smoke from the laundry is blowing toward the dormitories.

Every man should get inspired for Home-Coming. Nothing would appeal quite as much to the alumni as a victory over
V. P. I.

An article in THE PARLY-VOO, Converse College news organ, proclaims the fact that that organization has procured an office in
which to do its editorial work. One cannot help wondering how the staff managed things this long without one.

THE COURT MEANS BUSINESS

Thad Brock, as Judge of the Court of Control, has demonstrated the fact that he intends to enforce Freshmen rules
and regulations. Appointed to the office by the Student Council, he has shown that he recognizes the duties invested in
him. Many men, the majority of whom are Freshmen, do not realize that the Court of Control is a branch
of student government and has been given its power through not only the sanction of the students, but it has
also been given a direct commission by them.

Even the most offended man will admit that there is no purpose in having rules if they are not enforced.
As in law, Brock’s duty is to give sentence, not to change the entire scheme of regulations. His is not
an easy task. There seems to be some dissatisfaction that Freshmen should be reprimanded for failure to do something which
they, through their own volition, voted to do. The fact remains that the class voted in a body. One of
the biggest principles which a man has to learn in a democratic form of government is to abide by the
rule of the majority. Some first-year men have remarked that they sensed the true circumstances and deserved the reward given
them. We wish to commend them in their attitude. Especially do we commend those who stood by the vote of
their class. It is a big and helpful job that they undertook. In a year’s time, they will appreciate its
value more than they do now.

To Brock and his fellow members on the Court, we extend congratulations. They are handling an unpleasant matter in a
way that is certain to gain the admiration of upperclassmen and Freshmen alike.

AMONG OTHER THINGS

It would doubtless be considered presumptuous on the part of a college editor to attempt to define or interpret newspaper
ethics. It is an intricate, complex, and, at times, a disputed science. Experienced men connected with large dailies have found
themselves accused of more or less technical breaches.

Nevertheless, it is both possible and permissible for a school paper to take an individual stand on some matters. Whether
this point of view coincides with that of the profession or whether it does not is a matter of conjecture.

Particularly do we fail to approve of the position recently taken by a leading newspaper in the state. Not only
did it throw personal criticism in no uncertain manner, but it also accomplished its purpose in words which were inclined
to be obnoxious, to some persons at least. Criticism is a dangerous mode of comment. Be it just or unjust,
it often wounds the feelings of the object toward which it is directed. As we have stated before, there is
always room for constructive observance. Satire has wended its way into literature, and it has occasionally won the approbation of
every person concerned. Censorious satiric criticism is something entirely different, especially when its author appears to be taking pride in
a few “catch phrases.” To use a cliché, “It is a horse of another color.” For years the public has
been condemned because of its evident fickleness to its idols. Many papers cater to public opinion. The result is self-evident.

SUPPLY AND DEMAND

All those who saw a new screen version of “The Spoilers” will doubtless remember “Herman” with his “economic pressure of
supply and demand.” The early days in Dawson, Nome, and Skagway provided excellent examples of the theory. It evidently furnishes
the fundamental foundation for a statement made by The Cleveland Plain Dealer, “One of the worst features of college training
in the United States is that it is so cheap that large numbers, a majority perhaps, do not appreciate it.”

Hamilton Holt, president of Rollins College, must think of the same problem when he begins his article in The Nation
for October 8, “To make the process of learning as vital to young people as the quest for a news
story to a good reporter, or as intensively gripping as football to the members of the college team, is the
Rollins idea of education. It is not a new idea. Every real teacher since time began has had the same
desire.”

Some years ago, throughout the states of the South, a Chautauqua entertainer expressed the identical idea in simpler words. “A
man wants what he wants when he wants it. When he gets what he wants, he don’t want it.” As
it stands, it may prove a little dangerous if applied to some of the greater problems and emotions of life.
As a comedy skit, it “went over great.” Basically, the idea is found to consist of the most human of
traits. A man who industriously performs a task with willingness and pleasure will eventually approach it with abhorrence if he
thinks that he is being forced to do it. The kid who plays hooky from school to play baseball on
the sandlot would be much less inclined to do so if his father forced him to go there regularly between
the hours of three and five each afternoon.

Due to the fact that the majority of college students have been, at times rather sternly, requested to attend public
school and high school by their parents, they group higher education in the same class. We do not deny that
there are men who devote their entire lives to a profession in which they endure countless hardships. That involves countless
other considerations, and it concerns the psychologist more than the observer. Perhaps the main difficulty is that the average man
finds difficulty in knowing whether he really wants a college education or not. When the average Freshman is about seventeen
years of age, it is impossible for him to separate distinctly the advice of his parents from their demands. Therefore,
it would appear that the main object is not to make youth want advanced education, but to enable it to
see that it does want it. Many people have performed actions and been swayed by emotions which they did not
understand, with the result that they eventually recognized that they were doing the best thing and the desired thing all
along.

No doubt the average student says that he wants to go to college, yet if asked for a definite reason
he immediately becomes indefinite. It is “the thing to do.” In this instance, it is a case of misinterpreted desire.
He knows what he wants, but he is confused.

Albert McClure is doing a great work in the Davidson mill village church and should be highly eulogized. Almost totally
ignored by the student body as a whole, the little settlement across the railroad is veritably another world. Its population
rarely ventures across the tracks though there might be some 300 people.Inhabiting the section, the majority of whom are employed
in the two factories established there. The church, called the Davidson Chapel, which was founded some forty years ago by
Dr. J. P. Monroe, grandfather of Stokes Monroe, is not a regular church but is a union of faiths in
which are included at least six denominations. From the three score families living there, about a third of them attend
regularly, since the church has a Sunday school, regular young people’s meetings, a weekly Sunday evening sermon, and the mid-week
services, the average attendance of the first named being more than 100 since June. Last year the money for a
$1,300 structure was raised and the building dedicated on September 21st of this year. Albert not only acts as the
pastor of the church, but makes frequent visits to their homes, calling on the sick, and attending their funerals, sacrificing
much of his time which could be spent on the campus enjoying the various phases of college life. He is
ably assisted by Don Brandon and John Howard, whose efforts are so successful that their value is incalculable. Many others
have demonstrated their intense interest in the work by assisting McClure, among whom are Miss Daisy Caldwell, Mrs. Glasgow, Mrs.
Grey, Mrs. Gwynn, Miss Nora Thompson, Mrs. Schenck, Ernest Emurian, Billy Hunter, and Jake Mackorell. There is a feeling among
the people there that we are haughty and there really is some ground for this. Many people on this side
do hold themselves aloof, possibly deliberately, feeling that they are better than other folks. Many will remember Professor Foreman’s impressive
speech last year at a Vesper service, in which he discussed our “Moral Blind Spots,” an emphatic intimation of our
wrong-doing in ignoring these people mentioned above. As Davidson gentlemen, it behooves us to make friends with all the people
in the neighborhood. We are most fortunate in being able to secure forceful and dynamic speakers to deliver addresses to
the student body. Last year, we heard in the two semi-annual “Y” evangelistic services, Dr. Sam Glasgow, and Dr. Bill
Anderson, two of the most powerful preachers in the church. We shall never forget their messages.

Last week, we had the privilege of hearing Dr. Ben Lacy whose achievements require no mention, and he gave us
six sermons that will live vividly in our memories forever. He has captured our hearts and inspired us to greater
heights. We appreciate immensely the influence Dr. Moffett, Carl Pritchett, and the “Y” Cabinet had in bringing us this man.
Last year many other outstanding speakers featured other college programs, among whom were Rev. Harry Rimmer, well-known archeologist and minister
who is expected to return soon, and Sol Huebner, America’s most noted insurance authority. Professor Cullum recounts an interesting experience
he had a few years ago, at West Point, while there on a visit. It happens that Major General George
W. Cullum, famous Civil War officer, once superintendent of the United States Military Academy at West Point, donor of the
$250,000 Cullum Memorial at the army institution, military author, and a classmate of Edgar Allen Poe there, is a great
uncle of the Davidson instructor. In view of this fact, Professor Cullum was requested by the officials at the Academy,
to review the regiment, and as a guest of honor, was given the regular army courtesy, offered only to distinguished
guests. The idea of having hundreds of West Point cadets pass in review for him, gave the Glee Club director
quite a thrill, he asserts. On behalf of the student body, may we extend our heartiest greetings to the Rev.
W. H. Lingle, and may he enjoy his visit here on the campus with his younger brothers, Drs. W. L.
and T. W. Lingle, the first reunion of the three distinguished brothers in a quarter of a century. We fully
appreciate his great work as a missionary in China, where he has been stationed for forty years. During the past
summer, Mr. Lingle was included in many Associated Press dispatches from the Orient and was featured in the leading American
dailies for several days, even requesting a picture which Dr. T. W. Lingle procured for them. All articles carried news
of his hazardous experiences with the communists and bandits infesting his territory, and commented on his forced escape to an
American ship, after a courageous stand against all odds. Our admiration for his bravery cannot be justifiably expressed.

MUSINGS

Once there was an old man who lived on a bluff. What his bluff was nobody knows. But he was
a very kind man. In the immortal words of Shakespeare, he was “too full of the milk of magnesia.” Well,
one day he was out in his apple orchard and he saw a man stealing his apples. He said, “Didn't
I tell you what I was going to do if I caught you in my apple orchard again?” The man
said over his shoulder, “Well, you ain’t caught me yet,” and started to run but the old man being very
young for his age caught him immediately. “Old Bill!” he exclaimed. “What are you doing now?” Old Bill dug a
toe in the sand and said bashfully, “I’m running a laundry at Sixth Street and Jones Avenue.” The kind old
man—we'll call him Jake, I don’t dare call him by his right name—said, “Aha, dirty work at the crossroads, eh?”
It was just such little touches like this that made him loved by the children and dogs of the neighborhood.
Every town has a character such as Bill, however. You may even have one in your own home right now
under the bed. If not, fill out the coupon and with your little scissors (or with your little brother’s scissors)
clip out the coupon and mail it to us and we'll send you one without cost. This amazing offer is
made because we send out so many characters like old Bill. Then won't you be glad when you can step
up to the piano amid the jeers and pull an old Bill out of your piano. With this we also
send a bill-fold. But to get back to our story: Jake had not seen Bill for a long time so
they began to talk over old times. Jake asked, “Do you like Richard Cobb?” “Why he is the lowest bum
I ever heard of,” replied old Bill. “Then you wouldn’t care to know that they struck oil on his place,”
retorted Jake with gusto. “What?” said old Bill, “Dear old Dick!” And with this Jake remembered that he had caught
old Bill in his apple orchard, “Bill, how is it I find you eating my apples? How is it, I
say, how is it?” Bill quickly changed to his morning clothes and said “Jake, it’s just great, just great!” Old
Jake, though being a kind old man forgot his qualms and said, shooting a glance across the room, “Have you
seen my new race horse?” At first it looked like old Bill was going to kick the bucket but he
only turned a little pale and said “No. Is she fast?” “Fast? Haw, haw. Why even at this very minute
she’s fast asleep.” Old Bill was very indignant at such an insult and said “This is some place. I'll bet
that there has never been a great man born here!” “Well, Bill, to tell you the truth, you're right.” Bill
smiled. At last he had him where he wanted him. “Yes, you’re right. There never has been in the history
of this place, a great man born here. Only babies.” With that Jake pulled out his gat and surrounded the
house. No one must leave here tonight! Time passes—with a low average. Jake and old Bill meet again. They are
rivals now. Jake plays for guard on the University of Smoky Center. He plays guard. Old Bill plays often for
the W. O. W. and how he plays it! He met Jake on the field and they exchanged glances and
shoulder-pads. Jake said: “Are you still running that laundry?” Bill answered: “Yes. What are you doing now?” “I’m studying at
a correspondence school. By the way I want you to be down at the Post Office when I graduate.” “Certainly
old pal. I appreciate that.” By this time the game was over and everybody was on their way home. Bill
and Jake were collecting their wages. Jake said: “Bill will you mail this envelope for me? I’m playing hookey from
my correspondence school today.” Bill answered: “But you can’t play hookey from a correspondence school.” “Oh, yes I can too.
That's an empty envelope you have in your hand.” Plainly Bill did not understand. What was life anyway but a
dream? We are here today struggling for our daily bread and gone tomorrow. Bother the expense! Jake was also worried
now. Suppose something had gone wrong! But he said, “Bill, have you seen my son's fiancée?” “No, Jake, I ain’t.
I’m almost positive it ain’t been in the wash this week.” “Well, goodbye. If you forget my name you can
find it in the telephone directory.” And with this parting sally, he was gone. Old Bill stood there for hours,
saddened by the departure of his old friend who owed him two dollars. And then a terrible thought smote him
fair between the eyes: Suppose the operator was busy when he looked up Jake’s name in the telephone directory!
