THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 8, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN - Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

WILSON McCUTCHAN ............ Editor-in-Chief
RHO MCCA ............ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. C. DWELLE ............ Managing Editor
W. S. WEAVER ............ Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN ............ Managing Editor
W. A. ODELL ............ Sports Editor
N. O. PERRY ............ Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES ............ Feature Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN ............ Associate Editor
J. BLACK ............ Associate Editor
G. GINN ............ Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. CANNON ............ Assistant Business Manager
D. BOND ............ Subscription Manager
J. BAKER ............ Solicitor
J. CONWAY ............ Solicitor
H. McKINNON ............ Solicitor
J. MANNING ............ Solicitor
W. LANE ............ Solicitor
J. SEVIN ............ Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
S. WARD ............ President
D. O. STEPHENSON ............ Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD ............ Secretary-Treasurer
G. BERRY
J. G. DUNKLIN
C. MATTHEWS
C. W. F. SPENCER
J. R. SMITH
W. B. HANCOCK
R. F. NORTON
J. M. BROWN
N. B. DICKS
G. P. PARDINGTON
A. R. BIRD
R. E. WITT
G. E. BAILEY
R. H. ALDERMAN
E. O. GUERRANT
J. E. BOYD
D. D. McBRYDE
J. E. LAKE
GEORGE MILLER
R. L. McCALLIE
C. F. MYERS
W. F. MULLISS
S. P. PRESTON
H. F. NICHOLS
B. B. SUGG
NORMAN RAIES
W. B. WARD
B. B. TAYLOR

MAY 1, 1930

SUGGESTIONS

Speaking of weather, it hasn’t rained for some little time. Something unusual at that! Here’s the point; tell your friends
to be considerate of the dust they raise as they drive up and down dormitory row. A minute or two
doesn’t make much difference with the temperature as high as it is.

When you go in to “bull” with your Senior friends, remember that their exams start on the 16th.

Several of the members of the student body and faculty are planning trips abroad during the summer. Bon Voyage!

Courtesy is an essential factor in tennis. Be thoughtful of the man who happens to be playing on the court
next to your own. Everybody hits a wild one now and then.

After the cushioned chairs have been pulled from the parlors onto the porches it wouldn’t take much exertion to put
them back. Dust doesn’t do them any good, and, if it should rain, a damp chair is none too pleasant
for the next man to sit in.

With all due respect to her stamina, it is hard to see the benefit derived by Lady Dolores’s endurance run
in Charlotte. There are harder tests for both human and machine.

FAITH DISCIPLES

Last week, reference was made to the laudable efforts of Mu Beta Psi, without the knowledge that it was a
forerunner of the celebration of National Music Week. We still commend that body, both for its past services and for
its selections this week. However, there are other organizations of a similar nature that have done much for the reputation
of the college, here and elsewhere.

As far as uniformly good presentation goes, the Glee Club probably ranks among the first in the group of extra-curricular
activities. Although its many members make it a cumbersome body to transport and provide accommodations for, yet, with the possible
exception of the football team, the Glee Club trips are farther extended than any other large Davidson envoy. The program
presented in the auditorium was representative of the type offered in other places. The club stands for a good grade
of light classical music, with popular numbers thrown in for variation.

Peculiarly popular, for the last few years, have been the Sunny Land Serenaders. Appearing on the same program with the
Glee Club, the orchestra has made its appeal to both students and the general public. It is doubtful if there
is another group of musicians, specializing in this line, that can compare with the local “music-makers.”

Lastly, not because of its rank but because of its youthfulness, must be mentioned the Violin Quartette. Known chiefly through
their renditions in chapel and at vesper services, these four men are to become better recognized to the public through
weekly broadcasts from WBT. Music can and should play an important part in college life. These men, and others, are
doing their part to advance the campus along musical lines.

GLORY OF THE PAST

Tomorrow night there will be an illustrated lecture in the auditorium on Woodrow Wilson. Possibly no one man has ever
been gifted with the combined powers of educator and statesman as he was. We urge our readers to do homage
to his memory, not as a former student of Davidson, but as a champion of democracy.

Anecdotes of his school days have been told and retold on the campus. Tomorrow night there will be offered an
opportunity to learn something of his personal life. After all, the most interesting information about a famous personage is that
he acts in most particulars like any other human being. Perhaps he is a little more methodical, or slightly more
concentrated in his endeavors.

It is peculiarly significant to observe the religious history of the great statesman from the South. Woodrow Wilson must be
placed in the same list as Robert E. Lee, Stonewall Jackson, and William Jennings Bryan. Simple in his habits and
desires, President Wilson proved an enigma to many political enthusiasts. There have been few leaders of the country who have
been misunderstood in their intentions as was the former President of Princeton. In a short space of time he was
tossed from the role of the protector of his country to the popular conception of a well-meaning pacifist who desired
a world-wide federation. Students are urged to take advantage of the opportunity to become more cognizant of the man himself
and the forces which motivated his ideals.

ADVANTAGEOUS ADVERTISING

There is a rule of the college which deals with the conduct of all bodies and organizations which officially represent
Davidson, wherever they may be. This is justly correct and proper, and it is well that a regulation has been
placed in regard to it. Despite the publicity concerning an institution of higher learning, the general public is more inclined
to pass judgment from first-hand observation and opinion. And, from this, there arises a new viewpoint.

Undergraduates are approaching the summer vacation, some for the first, others for the last time during their scholastic careers. Home
beckons with many possible releases from the routine of study. There will be a joyful reunion with old acquaintances, old
environments, old habits. However, in addition to these, there will be new situations and new people awaiting. Davidson will be
introduced to them through every student who is in school now. Scholastic rating means a great deal to any college
or university. Athletic showing provides a continuous and colorful means of advertising. Yet, neither of these two equal personal contact
in their effect. No one bases a definite conclusion on the showing made by a group of picked individuals; it
is the average that tells the tale. Alumni and other people have no better way in which to determine the
progress and ideals of a college than through its students.

There are few men who can act sufficiently clever to throw off the habits, acquired during nine months’ life on
the campus, in the summer. To speak in plainer words, college life is the training camp; summer is the parade
ground.

We do not mean to imply that students should cover themselves with a blanket of self-righteousness, but we insist that
they should be fair to themselves and Davidson. They should not be afraid to admit the good points of the
college, nor should they shun the less agreeable ones. Davidson life is such that perfect honesty will add to the
opinions already formed in the minds of many. There will be some alumni encountered who have remembrances that are glorified
with the passing of years. No student should blast his memory for the mere sake of gratifying a personal grudge.
There will be others who have allowed rumor to form a basic ground for antagonism. It is necessary that these
be courteously and tactfully corrected. It is only through personal testimony that the highest type ofHere is the cleaned OCR
text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

A high school graduate can be induced to enroll at any institution. The outlook of college confronts him as a
serious proposition; it is the culmination of twelve years of preparation and is not a joking matter. He and his
parents make their choice by the aid of catalogues and bulletins, but chiefly do they decide through the boys whom
they know personally. No mention has been made of the impression reflected upon people who do much to support the
college in a financial way. It is well recognized, however, that considerable sums have been donated to the endowment fund
because of a personal acquaintanceship with a Davidson undergraduate. In the words of another, “What you do speaks so loudly,
that I cannot hear what you say.” Because of the fact that a man is a student, he is a
self-appointed advertiser.

DAVIDSON -- WEEK by WEEK
By-Nor

MUSINGS of the MATADOR
Vereen Bell

Captain Norton G. Pritchett, our popular director of physical education, during a “pep” meeting last fall, made what many believe,
the best speech delivered on the campus this year concerning Davidson’s athletic activities. Its essence may well be repeated here
because it concerns every man in the student body. Every Davidson man learns to appreciate the fact that the teams
representing his college do so because of their vital interest and love for the school. The greatest incentive that this
institution offers to high school stars is the prospect of four wholesome years of clean living and hard work. What
could be more ideal? This is the manner in which the never-say-die Wildcat spirit is thoroughly instilled into each man.
Captain Pritchett’s speech, in part, emphatically states the following:

“There are two ways of developing athletic teams. One is by going out and ‘getting’ athletes, and the other, by
taking advantage, as far as possible, of the material in college, in the hope that every man will contribute his
share whole-heartedly.

“Davidson’s spirit is known wherever Davidson College is known, and the two are inevitably linked together. This spirit should be
exemplified by all men who can make themselves potential candidates for any of the seven teams participating in intercollegiate matches:
Football, Golf, Basketball, Track, Tennis, Baseball, or Wrestling. It is necessary to support your team by cheering, but it is
still better to do more.

“Regardless of your previous experience in athletics, select one or more sports, and give your energy and determination in contributing
the best you have to that sport. As an indication of what may be done by men without previous athletic
experience, it is worth noting that many such men have starred on Davidson teams, without past training. About half of
the present track team are virtually novices who have made good, and this is more or less true in every
sport.

“One thing is certain: NO MAN KNOWS WHAT HE MAY BE CAPABLE OF DOING UNTIL HE HAS REALLY TRIED.”

The personal challenge to be met by every student interested in Davidson’s future is just this: “A quitter never wins;
a winner never quits.”

John Ballenger Knox’s desire to go abroad and begin his career in the world seems to be contagious. It will
be remembered that some time ago there appeared in this column a description of John’s future job—that of being an
instructor in the American college at Beyrouth, Syria, where he is to remain three years. Now it seems that seven
other Davidson men have decided to leave the United States to start their professional lives. Neill McGeachy has signed up,
also for three years, to be a supervisor in a teachers’ training school in Khartum, Egypt. Bob McDermid has procured
a position as a South American agent for the United Fruit Company, with offices in Buenos Aires. “Rut” Nunan, although
his contract is yet unsigned, plans to do virtually the same thing as Neill does, except that he will be
located in Turkey. John Alden and Bob Witt are planning on spending some time in Guatemala, working with archaeologists, in
a part of the country where there is no water whatsoever. Bill Henry Morrison and John Zenas Preston have also
decided to go to South America to accept the challenge of the so-called heartless world, and these two men will
be employed in medical research work in Argentina.

Davidson College, it is very interesting to note, has sent seven men to the Major Leagues since the American and
National loops have been organized. Each man was a real star while in college, and some even continued their good
work in the Majors. Although the following list may be subject to error, it is believed to be correct. They
are: Everett Booe, ’11, Philadelphia Athletics; J. C. Cashion, ’14, Cincinnati Reds; Lloyd Christenbury, ’17, Washington Senators; “Pat” Crawford, '23,
now with the New York Giants; Buck Marrow, ’31, Detroit Tigers, who is being trained in a minor league subject
to recall; and Bobby Vail, ’05, Chicago Cubs. Perhaps Pat Crawford at present is the best known in the group
because of his well-known pinch-hitting prowess, and especially since he has been playing as McGraw’s utility infielder of late. He
is one of the National League’s most colorful players.

A Davidson man’s idea of a model philanthropic alumnus—one who will supply each dormitory shower room with new sprays.

Scene: Unusual.
“Good morning, Judge.”
“Haven't I seen your face before?”
“Before what, Judge?”
“I thought I told you I didn’t want to see you again.”
“That’s what I told the officer, but he brought me on anyhow.”
“Do you brush your teeth?”
“Religiously, sir, every Sunday morning.”
“Officer, what is this man charged with?”
“Hitting a man with a croquet mallet. I thought that was wicked. He also stole a man’s wallet, watch, fountain
pen, and overcoat.”
“Prisoner, why did you steal these things?”
“Money alone cannot bring happiness, your honor. I’m not the same man I was ten years ago.”
“Who were you ten years ago?”
“By the way, do you know anything about chemistry?”
“What’s her first name?”
“What do you know about nitrates?”
“Much cheaper than day rates.”
“What about oxides?”
“Thinner than regular cow hides.”
“Prisoner, I can tell your fortune.”
“How much?”
“Twenty-five cents.”
“Correct, judge. I don’t think I’ll be back here any more.”
“Why?”
“Well, I am beginning to write songs. I sang this one the other night and everybody cried, ‘Fine,—fine!’”
“And did you have to pay it?”
“Tsk, tsk, judge. I am going to try to sell this one.” (Sings)
“Well, how much should I get for it?”
“Three months at the least.”
“Say, your honor, is a paradox a couple of physicians?”
“ORDER!”
“Ham and eggs!”
“Has your nose ever been broken?”
“Yes, sir, in three places.”
“Why don’t you stay out of those places? Your sentence is three months on the chaingang or $50.”
“I’ll take the fifty dollars and thank you kindly, sir.”
“No, I mean you’ll have to pay the fifty. Do you want to borrow any money?”
“Can you loan me seventy-five dollars?”
“Well, you can let me have the fifty dollars and owe me twenty-five.”
“Do you realize that, in your words, you are in contempt of court?”
“Sir, words cannot express my contempt for this court.”
“My man, you are a vagabond and a tramp.”
“My dual personality!”
“Are you content to walk from one town to another the rest of your life?”
“No, many’s the time I have wished I had an automobile.”
“You aren’t such a bad sort. I expect my wife would like to have you for dinner.”
“Oh, so your wife is a cannibal.”
“Prisoner, you are also charged with hitting a man with a croquet mallet. Did you do this?”
“Yes, your honor.”
“Why?”
“Because I was mad with him.”
“Oh, I know that. But why were you mad with him? He is a perfectly respectable telegraph operator.”
“I gave him a telegram to my girl and he read it—right in front of me, too.”
“Well, that man died. You are going to sit in a nice, new electric chair. You have a minute to
live. Is there anything you want?”
“Yes, sir. Can I have a three-minute egg?”
“Sorry. The only two eggs we have are rotten.”
“Well now isn’t that just too bad!”

Small Boy (just home from school): “Papa, what does ‘gozinto’ mean?”
Father: “I don’t know, my son. Where did you hear that word?”
Boy: “At school, I heard the teacher say: ‘Six gozinto twelve twice.’”

Bride: “I would like to buy an easy chair for my husband.”
Salesman: “Morris?”
Bride: “No, Clarence.”

Lady (in pet store): “I like this dog, but his legs are too short.”
Clerk: “Too short! Why, madam, they all four reach the floor.”
