® THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1930

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE—SESSION 1929-30

A. M. EXAMINATIONS BEGIN 9:00
Second Semester
P. M. EXAMINATIONS BEGIN 2:00

May

Freshman
Sophomore
Junior and Senior

24
SAT. A. M.
R. O. T. C. 1
R. O. T. C. 2
R. O. T. C. 3, 4; Psychology 4

P. M.
Latin 1
Latin 2
Economics 3, Geology 2, Education 4, Philosophy 2, Psychology 1 A, B

26
MON. A. M.
History 1
History 1
History 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7

P. M.
Biology 2
Biology 2
Biology 3, 4, 5, 6, 7

27
TUES. A. M.
English 1
English 2
English 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8

P. M.
Chemistry 1
Chemistry 2
Chemistry 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, Economics 2

28
WED. A. M.
German A, 1
German 2
German 3, 4; Greek 3, 5, 6

P. M.
Greek 1
Greek 2
Business 3, Economics 1, Psychology 5

29
THURS. A. M.
Pub. Speak. 2, Astronomy, Geology 2B

P. M.
Bible 1
Bible 2
Physics 2, 3, 4, 5; Philosophy 3, 4

30
FRI. A. M.
Pub. Speak. 3; Sociology; Spanish 3, 4, 5, 6, 7

P. M.
Spanish 1
Spanish 2
Geology 3; Political Sc. 1; Education 3

31
SAT. A. M.
Pub. Speak. 1
Philosophy 1; Business 2; Polit. Sc. 4; Economics 4; Psychology 1C

P. M.
French 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
Math. 3, 4; Polit. Sc. 3; Psychology 2; Education 1; Business 1; Geology 4; Applied Mathematics

NOTE:
(1) No Classes after 12:30 May 22nd.
(2) Conflicts to be arranged by conference, the course of the class to which you belong taking preference. All who have conflicts see Professors at once.

All Books We Have Read

Exploring the Bible—By Frank E. Gaebelein. Harper & Brothers. New York, 1929.

“This book is for youth,” says the author in his preface, “It should find its greatest usefulness among those in the upper grades of high school or in the first years of college. The adolescent mind has a tendency toward rationalization. Along with marked idealistic impulses is a persistent demand for proof, often expressed in an attitude of doubt. Through their insistence upon the principles of structure and their emphasis upon design as seen in the Bible, the following pages are planned to meet the needs of the growing mind.”

Writers like Mr. Gaebelein who realize the modern demand for intellectual proof and who know that the Bible can be defended rationally are prepared to meet the onslaught of doubts and questions arising in adolescent minds. On the other hand, religious writers who dogmatically affirm that so-and-so is true, no matter what you think about it, and that a text under discussion can admit of no other possible interpretation, are likely to be associated with radicals. However, Mr. Gaebelein’s treatment of his vital subject is marked by sanity and restraint; the style is positive but not dogmatic.

The volume opens with a chapter on “Knowing the Bible,” in which the author points out that many people have studied certain portions of the Bible in Sunday School or have acquired a general knowledge of it elsewhere, but that a systematic and comprehensive knowledge is the exception rather than the rule.

The origin of the Bible and the meaning of inspiration are dealt with under separate chapter heads. Mr. Gaebelein details the dispensations and groups them as God’s plan for the ages, while the covenants are classed as God’s immutable promises. In emphasizing the order and harmony of the Bible, the author lists the symbolical meaning of numerals throughout the Scriptures. In the last chapter are given seven laws of Scripture interpretation which are intended as guides in studying the Bible.

—Reviewed by H. W. Erwin.

She: “My brother has a lot of talent, but he can’t seem to find himself.”
He: “Why doesn’t he call himself and see if he is home?”

Mootch: “Doc, why don’t you study surgery? I’ve always planned to marry a great surgeon.”
Doc: “Not for me. Too much inside work.”

Honorary Fraternities Bid Many New Members

Thirty Students Are Given Recognition by Seven Honorary Societies

Once again the laws of tradition at Da-Davidson College have been discarded in favor of just recognition for attainment and knowledge. The first occurred early this year, when two of the seven co-eds at this Presbyterian institution were among the 29 students making the honor roll. The second took place this week, when one of these honor roll co-eds was elected to an honorary fraternity, Miss Lucy Martin Currie having the distinction of being the first young lady to break through the ranks. She was chosen a member of Eta Sigma Phi, honorary classical fraternity. Others selected for their meritorious work in the classical languages were D. C. Hunter, Clio, S. C.; G. P. Pardington, Scottdale, Ga.; A. R. Jackson, Williamsport, Pa.; W. B. Hancock, Bluefield, W. Va.; R. P. Enloe, Buchanan, Ga.; and Spencer McCallie, Chattanooga, Tenn.

Five other honorary societies chose Davidson students for membership this week. They are as follows:

Mu Beta Psi (musical)—R. B. Orr, Asheville; E. B. Robinson, Jr., Talladega, Ala., and Hugh McMillan, Atlanta, Ga.

Alpha Phi Epsilon (forensic)—R. P. Enloe, Buchanan, Ga.; J. S. W. Hartsell, Bost’s Mills; J. A. Jones, Laurinburg; P. S. Knox, Jr., Thomson, Ga.; E. D. Kuykendall, Jr., Greensboro, and William Rule, III, Knoxville, Tenn.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon (chemical)—J. S. Alden, Bluefield, W. Va.; H. A. Cox, Hazelwood; A. L. DeCamp, Boonton, N. J.; W. W. Fraley, Barium Springs, and A. J. Thompson, Badin.

Scabbard and Blade (military)—Thad Brock, Barium Springs; A. R. Bird, Jr., Washington, D. C.; J. L. Brown, Hendersonville; J. S. Meacham, Birmingham, Ala.; J. L. Smith, Dunn, and Dean Rusk, Atlanta, Ga.

Sigma Pi Sigma (physics)—W. E. McAlpine, Clarkesville, Ga.; A. M. McLaughlin, Jr., Chester, S. C., and E. S. Bettis, Morristown, Tenn.

Delta Pi Kappa (journalistic)—E. G. Dwelle, Charlotte, N. C.; W. S. Lea, Knoxville, Tenn.; D. G. Martin, Covington, Ga.; W. H. Matthews, Marlin, Texas.

Campus Novel Prize Made Annual Award

Three Thousand Dollars is Offered to Winner for Publication Rights

Editors of the College Humor—Doubleday, Doran Campus Prize Novel Contest have recently announced their purpose of making the Campus Novel Prize of $3,000 an annual event. Miss Betty White, a co-ed at Northwestern University, was the first student to win the contest. Her publication, “I Lived This Story,” will appear in serial form, beginning in the June number of College Humor.

Rules for those who wish to compete are rather detailed. However, the prize money of $3,000.00 includes only the serial and book rights of the novel. All motion picture and dramatic rights remain with the author. Any students who are interested are invited to write to the Campus Novel Contest, College Humor, 1050 North La Salle Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Lucille: “Where do you think I'd be if I had a million dollars, Joe?”
Joe: “On my honeymoon.”

SENIORS

NOW IS THE TIME TO HAVE YOUR ENGRAVED CARDS MADE. SEE ME. Best Quality and Prices Any type of Printing

ERNEST H. McCALL 108 Watts Representing STANDARD PRINTING CO. Charlotte, N. C.

BELL SYSTEM

A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones

“OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN”

The telephone looks ahead. Even as you are putting through your daily telephone calls, groups of Bell Telephone experts are calculating your telephone needs for five years, ten years, twenty years from now. It is their work to discover from all available facts—not fancies—how each state, city, and community will probably grow. These facts are reduced to forecast charts, precisely as an astronomer plots the course of a comet. Thus central offices are planned years before they are actually built. Underground and overhead lines are laid out to fit future as well as present needs. Expansion of service is provided for. Bell System planners virtually live in the cities of the future. They play a vital part in providing the best possible telephone service for the least possible cost.