THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1930

After Graduation --- Medicine?

Surgeon Advises Liberal Education For All Before Choosing Vocation

Dr. Hubert A. Royster Urges Students Not to Rush Into Choice of Surgery

The letter inviting me to present to the students of Davidson College some remarks on surgery as a profession contained
the following suggestion: “You will be doing a great service to the many fine boys here who are still ‘in
the dark’ as to their life work.” Congratulations are due these boys, and also the College. Choosing one’s “life work”
too early is responsible for many of the misfits in the world today. I have never had much sympathy for
so-called “vocational education,” but I do believe heartily in education for a vocation. First, let us become educated, then we
can think about a vocation. A well-rounded education in the arts and sciences, which inculcates the love of learning and
keeps forever alive the student instinct, is the one thing essential for the young man entering any profession.

But someone may ask—and very properly: Is not a certain amount of preparatory instruction necessary before taking up the study
of a profession? Are there not definite subjects which a student must master before being admitted to a professional school?
Yes. To begin the study of medicine the student should have a working knowledge of chemistry, biology, and physics. But
are these not parts of a real training for life? And they are not to be over-emphasized, even by the
prospective medical student, to the neglect of the humanities—language, philosophy, history, and appreciation of artistic and spiritual things. Hours, units,
courses, requirements are no more important, it seems to me, than a thorough grounding in methods of study, learning to
think, discipline of mind and spirit.

The majority of students in an academic college will decide in their junior year what profession they prefer. At that
period if the decision points toward medicine the student will be able so to arrange his work as to comply
with standards set up by the medical schools. If any among you have a strong desire to become a surgeon,
let him not be in too quick haste to make up his mind. Surgery is only one branch of medical
practice. Almost every medical student decides at least once in his course that he will be a great surgeon. Worthy
ambition! Surgery to him is more spectacular and its results more certain, prompt and evident than those of internal medicine.
As the student becomes the practitioner and sees more intimately the different phases of medicine, he may observe that there
is more behind the scenes than he knew of, and that surgery is heavenly when all goes well, but the
very opposite when adverse things occur. Some who have gone further along the road, if not of stout heart, may
actually capitulate or wish they had had a chance to take in the whole medical field.

If there should be no narrow conception engendered in the college work, certainly for a stronger reason the student ought
not to “specialize” during his medical school days. Mastering every subject, giving as much time to one as another, endeavoring
to excel in all—such is the way of the successful man. No one can become a skillful surgeon unless he
is first a good doctor.

Specifically I should recommend that upon graduation in medicine a young physician should serve at least one year of a
rotating internship in a general hospital, that is, taking his turn on all the services—medical, surgical, obstetrical, etc. Then if
he still has an ambition to be a surgeon, he may elect a surgical fellowship of three years in a
first-rate clinic, or attach himself to some high-class surgeon as assistant, remaining with him three to five years or longer.
Either or both of these arrangements will present the opportunity; it is the duty of the individual to show the
stuff he is made of. But unless the young man possesses brains, culture and character, unless he is endowed with
a strong constitution, unless he seeks knowledge along with experience, he will fail to measure up to the mark of
his high calling. No matter how long he may be associated with a superior surgeon, there will come a time
when he is not the assistant, but the operator—and it makes a deal of difference on which side of the
table he is standing. How he comes through will depend upon whether or not he has cultivated conscientiously every strip
of ground which Nature has given him to till. If he has been educated, academically and technically, he will lead;
if he has taken short-cuts or barely managed to “get by,” he will be one of the herd.

A vision of the future surgeon brings to light one who believes that he is not a “born surgeon,” but,
if so, he “must be born again;” who is surcharged with love for his profession, knowing that ardent desire is
the one constant element of success; who realizes that he needs to be grounded in medicine and its allied sciences;
who finds as he goes along that good judgment is rather to be chosen than great mechanics; who learns that
keeping fit is an asset to be sacredly nurtured; who recognizes his dependence upon training, first, last and all the
time; and who, being conscious of his glorious heritage, presses on with optimistic courage to the outlook stretching on before
him.

Study of Medicine Discussed By Mayo

Noted Physician Calls Work Arduous But Wonderful

The study of medicine is arduous, but it is wonderful in accomplishment and its varied interest. If you can but
forget its rewards, in the worry over whether you are doing what is expected of you and what is best,
and strive to do it, rewards will come until you wonder whether you really deserve them, and being but human,
are stimulated to make greater effort. Come with us into medicine, the study of which will give you possession of
more knowledge of the world than any other study, as you will learn nature in botany and zoology, and of
the birds and animals, also the science of the earth’s structure in geology, and of the waters with their fish,
and other life, and above all, chemistry and physics, knowledge of structure that you can take down and rebuild combinations
of elements.

Medicine was always the learned profession. When medicine was developed by the Greeks to a high standard it then and
since was the source of scientific progress. What was known of Botany, Chemistry, Astronomy and Physics accumulated through all the
ages was a great part of the training of the physicians of each period. In the sixteenth century life averaged
but twenty years, in 1850 it was forty years, but with the appreciation of the causes of disease it has
now advanced to fifty-eight years by public health control, i.e., preventative medicine. It was the death of babies and children
that held the averages low. We hear of big game hunters, but their work and danger were as nothing to
that of microbe hunters who studied disease and its cause, often falling a victim to the disease themselves, but others
carried on.

Bulletins

Catalogues of the leading eastern schools of Medicine may be obtained on the Vocational Guidance table in the entrance of
the “Y” rooms. Anyone interested is urged to read these catalogues, butPlease use them in the “Y” rooms and return
them to the table as there will probably be others who will want to read them.

GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (Continued from Page 1)

The team this year and an old Davidson alumnus, has been helping Coach Younger smooth out some of the rough
spots in his players. Booe has been in professional ball for fifteen years or more, and at one time played
for the Pittsburgh Pirates. He has been working especially with the outfielders, for it was in that position that he
spent most of his time in the majors.

The probable Wildcat batting order for the games this week will have Bernhardt, shortstop, in the leadoff position, Parrish, third
base, and Goodson, 2nd base, get to hit next. The rest of the order will be as follows: Proctor, first
base; McInnis, left field; Miller, centerfield; Covington or Mathis, right field; Armfield or Gladstone, catcher; and Kugler or Thompson, pitcher.
Thompson, McInnis, or Henderson will go to the box against Oak Ridge, and shifts will be made in the outfield
to cover McInnis’ position when he is on the mound.

The work of the Wildcat nine has been improved a great deal in the last two weeks of practice, and
they are beginning to function more smoothly now. The men who have been shifted to new positions have gotten on
to the knack of handling the ball at their new posts, and prospects for the season are looking better now
than at any time this spring. The pitchers have come around slowly, but are bearing down now with all they
have in their pitching arm. There have been very few complaints about any soreness after the first week of practice,
and Doc Charlie has rubbed out all the little kinks and charley horses that have cropped out. He says that
his Wildcats are in better condition now than ever, and it's going to take a mighty good ball team to
beat them, if they are ever beat.

The building of the Panama Canal to modern engineering methods. The French had good engineers and wonderful machinery. We take
out of the Minnesota iron mines each year more pay dirt than the entire diggings of the canal involved. Our
medical men under General Gorgas made the work at the canal possible by stopping the stalk of death from yellow
fever and malaria; it is now one of the most healthy places in the world as the government medical men
still have charge of this area. Medical investigators have found the causes of the many diseases which decimated the people
of former times and by prevention, made community health possible. We are now dying from our individual poor health from
neglect or disease in inherited conditions, which are often acquired from ignorance concerning their causes and prevention. Health is not
necessary to happiness, congenial work with pleasant associates is happiness; in fact, happiness is a state of mind, it may
be often found in the insane as vision of grandeur. Happiness may be cultivated by the sane to advantage and
then may be found in doing good to others; to an extraordinary extent it is cultivated by the unfortunate blind.

The medicine man today stands in a curious position. Responsible for making life longer, he becomes morally responsible for making
old age worth living and must help avoid senility or the result is but an added burden upon community life
in general as the sick and injured hamper more than the dead. Come with us as medicine is just in
its infancy, and here is a place for all who will work in it to plan for the man of
the near future.

Weight to suit you in HANES. SATISFIES YOUR EVERY UNDERWEAR NEED SHIRTS and SHORTS ATHLETICS and RIBS Nobby Shirts in
cotton or rayon. White, solid colors or pastel trims. Shorts in fancy patterns and what will you have? 50c, 75c,
and $1.00. The famous SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suit with the patented “Tug-of-War” belt in checks and fancy materials—$1.00. If you
like Ribs, there’s a style and P. H. HANES KNITTING CO. Winston-Salem, N. C.

Dr. A. J. Crowell Discusses Field From Mental, Moral, Physical, and Mercenary Standpoints

Every person should invest his life in such a way that it will bring greatest returns, not alone to himself,
but also to his fellowman. No one lives up to his greatest opportunity who does not strive daily to benefit
those with whom he associates. I know of no profession or occupation, and certainly outside of the ministry, in which
such opportunities are offered as that in the medical profession. However, it is not without its trials and tribulations. It
means self-sacrifice, physical hardship, and nervous strain to those who enter its domain, but the reward is a thousand fold
if entered into with the desire to serve suffering humanity.

There is no profession in which one has such an opportunity to exemplify Christianity as that of the medical profession.
They come in contact with saint and sinner at a time when deepest impressions can be made and crises in
their lives easiest secured. Not even the ministry comes in such intimate relations with the individual or the home as
the physician and his influence for good or evil is in proportion to his Christ-likeness. This much from a moral
standpoint.

Now from the standpoint of physical helpfulness. No man should enter the medical profession with the view of having an
easy time physically or mentally. Competition in both are acute and it offers nothing to the lazy man, mentally or
physically. If he attains great success, he must deny himself many pleasures and apply himself diligently in an effort to
keep up with medical progress or he cannot compete with his alert competitor. There is plenty room at the top,
but the bottom is crowded.

Now as to the field from a mercenary standpoint. There have never been greater opportunities for commensurate compensation, and especially
in the rural districts and small towns. The family doctor has largely disappeared as a result of the tendency of
the physician to specialize. This soon will be overdone. The general practitioner is becoming more and more in demand. Graduates
in medicine have been reduced greatly during the last ten years and our population greatly increased, thus offering greater opportunity
for medical men. Preventative medicine is the watchword of the hour and great opportunities are offered in public work throughout
the United States with a reasonable compensation. No greater field for usefulness in the profession can be found than to
prevent the occurrence of the preventable diseases.

As to the advisability of specializing in any line of work, I would urge that everyone so doing should do
a general practice for several years first. I feel I can speak with some authority, having done a general practice
for eight years before specializing. After such experience, one should thoroughly prepare himself for the specialty he proposes to follow
before locating.

SENIORS NOW IS THE TIME TO HAVE YOUR ENGRAVED CARDS MADE. SEE ME. Best Quality and Prices Any type of
Printing ERNEST H. McCALL 108 Watts Representing STANDARD PRINTING CO. Charlotte, N. C.

Monday and Tuesday, March 24 and 25 “Montana Moon” with JOAN CRAWFORD

Wednesday and Thursday, March 26 and 27 “Girl of the Port” Davidson Theatre

Friday, March 28 “Seven Days Leave” with GARY COOPER

Saturday, March 29 “Battle of Paris”
