THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 30, 1930

V.M.I. Grapplers Win Over Davidson ’Cats
Conway’s Defeat of Parker Feature Match of Evening

The Virginia Military Institute wrestling team defeated the Davidson matmen Saturday night by a score of 18 to 6. V.M.I.
presented one of the strongest teams that they have had in several years and won decisions over the Wildcats in
all but the 175-pound and the unlimited classes. In the 175-pound class, Warren, of Davidson, won over Marklis, of V.M.I.,
with a time advantage of one minute and thirteen seconds. Conway’s defeat of Parker, V.M.I., was the feature match of
the evening. It is unusual that out of the eight matches not a single fall took place. All the matches
were won on time advantage. Following is a summary of the meet:

115-pound class—Forsyth, V.M.I., won over Cowan (Davidson) with a time advantage of six minutes 18 seconds.
125-pound—Will, V.M.I., won over Gorham, (Davidson) with a time advantage of 7 minutes 34 seconds.
135-pound—Fields, V.M.I., won over Russell (Davidson) with a time advantage of 7 minutes 43 seconds.
145-pound—Noble, V.M.I., won over Brock (Davidson) with a time advantage of 3 minutes 53 seconds.
155-pound—McCrary, V.M.I. won over Brohard (Davidson) with a time advantage of 8 minutes 48 seconds.
165-pound—Tallman, V.M.I., won over Covington (Davidson) with a time advantage of 5 minutes 25 seconds.
175-pound—Warren (Davidson) won over Marklis, V.M.I., with a time advantage of one minute 12 seconds.
Unlimited—Conway (Davidson) won over Parker, V.M.I., with a time advantage of 3 minutes 45 seconds.

Three Hard Games On Fresh Schedule

With three wins and no losses on their slate at present, the Davidson Wildkittens Basketball tossers will attempt to keep
up their winning streak against Belmont Abbey on Thursday, January 30, Greensboro High School on Friday, January 31, and Wake
Forest Freshmen on Monday, February 3.

Belmont Abbey will bring a strong team against the Kittens. They hold a 31 to 28 decision over the team
from Steele Creek, which the Freshmen downed Steele Creek 26 to 22. Belmont Abbey also has defeated Wingate and other
strong teams.

The Greensboro High School game, also to be played at Davidson, is expected to be fast and hard-fought. The Freshmen
hold two wins over Charlotte High and Charlotte has defeated Greensboro, but, in spite of this, a close game is
predicted.

On Monday night, the Kittens will take on their first Big Five Freshman opponents when they meet the Wake Forest
Freshmen at Davidson. Little is known of the strength of the invader, but a good game is expected. The probable
line-up for the Belmont Abbey game is: Forwards, Rogers and Manson; Center, Pierce; Guards, Wagner and Peabody.

Are you majoring in Military Science? Nope, just Second Lieutenanting.

“Hey, your lights are out.” “I know it. I just put some of this prohibition alcohol in the radiator and
they went blind.”

ADVENTURES IN CONTENTMENT
By David Grayson
Garden City Publishing Co., Inc., N.Y.
(Reviewed by H. W. Ervin)

David Grayson is a farmer. Eight years ago he was not a farmer. He was a businessman in the city
ceaselessly striving to attain a “vague success” along with innumerable other money-chasers. He was always in a mad rush, he
never thought nor reflected, he never sensed pleasure, though he pursued it fiercely during vacation time, he hurried as though
every moment were his last, as though the world held but one prize which would be seized by another if
he stopped. But one day he did stop in the mad race for success, felled by fever. And then he
reflected. He suddenly had a sympathy for those who had dropped out of the race before and could not understand
why he did not regret having stopped. Golden memories of his boyhood life on a farm thrust upon him an
indescribable longing to be back there, sitting in quiet thickets, drinking in the pure air, and sweating in the hay
fields. And so he goes back. First, he rents a farm, and finding it perfectly suitable, buys it. Here at
last he finds success; not the success of glittering gold fought for in overcrowded cities and overstuffed offices, nor that
of social prominence coveted by superficial dandies wallowing in wealth, but the success of contentment, the joy of living, the
perfect peace of mind, the independence of honesty, which he finds in farm life and as his own master. Here
in the country, a man deals with an individual man; he does not address him as a mere machine, but
studies and enjoys his personality, and makes a friend of him. Little things are big things. The making of an
axe-helve demands patience, skill, and a week of time. And when it is made, the author describes himself asbeing possessed
with a childish impatience to try it out. One day he has an argument with a millionaire, who contends that
it is best for a young man to spend his time acquiring a fortune so that he can retire later
in life. Grayson answers that he cannot afford to do that. “Let us say,” addressing the millionaire, “that you are
willing to invest twenty years of your life in a million dollars. You have it where you can put it
in the bank and take it out again, or you can give it form in houses, yachts, and other things.
Now twenty years of my life—to me—is worth more than a million dollars. I simply can’t afford to sell it
for that. I prefer to invest it, as somebody or other has said ‘unearned in life.’ I’ve always had a
liking for intangible properties.” Yes, David Grayson is a philosopher. Or at least he is philosophical enough to appreciate that
the greatest joys of life come not from the acquisition and possession of wealth, but from contentment with life. In
like manner he tells of experiences with a tramp, conversation with an infidel, who can talk about little more than
a pamphlet he has written, death of the old beloved country doctor, and the trend in politics as observed by
the patrons of Baxter’s shop.

“What I am seeking,” he says, “is something as simple and as quiet as the trees on the hills—just to
look around me at the pleasant countryside, to enjoy a little of this passing show, to meet (and help a
little if I may) a few human beings and thus to get more nearly into the sweet kernel of human
life.” And if we are to believe his writings, that is precisely what he gets.

If you have wearied of technical reading and of abstruse textbooks and feel as though you have become saturated with
fact and formula, this is a book I recommend for your diversion and relief of mind. Or if you have
had an overdose of fable and fiction and have despaired in the contrasting sameness of real life, “Adventures in Contentment”
will reveal to you the romance of plain living. It is a book to pick up early on a delightful
spring afternoon and to lay down as the rays of the setting sun redden the western sky.

Nobby Shirts in cotton or rayon, weight to suit you in HANES. SATISFIES YOUR EVERY UNDERWEAR NEED. SHIRTS and SHORTS
ATHLETICS and RIBS. Shorts in fancy patterns and what will you have? 50c, 75c, and $1.00. The famous SAMSONBAK Athletic
Union Suit with the patented “Tug-of-War” belt in checks and fancy materials—$1.00. If you like Ribs, there’s a style and
weight to suit you in HANES. P. H. HANES KNITTING CO. Winston-Salem, N. C. White, solid colors or pastel trims.

BOOKS WE HAVE

Freshman Basketball
HOW THEY SCORE
Rogers 24
Peabody 10
Menten 9
Ere 5
WII 2
68

Freshman 20—City High 9
January 27
Freshman 26—Steele Creek 22

Varsity Basketball
HOW THEY SCORE
Davidson 50—Catawba 26
Davidson 33—Charlotte Y 18
Davidson 29—Wofford 15
Davidson 20—Furman 33
Davidson 22—Carolina 20
Davidson 39—Lenoir Rhyne 25
Davidson 38—Charlotte Y 39

Davidson 231—Opponents 176

A Minister of the Gospel should be immersed and grounded in the truth. To accomplish this for its students is
one of the aims of Union Theological Seminary. For Catalog and Information, Address, Rev. R. B. Lacy, Jr., President, Richmond,
Virginia.

A PLEASANT LITTLE BREATHING SPELL — CAMEL

If life is just one thing after another, let Camels fill the little gaps between with pleasure. Each Camel means
a pleasant breathing spell, a brief interval for the enjoyment of rare aroma and fragrant cheer. Salute each twist and
turn in your busy day by inviting yourself to have a Camel! You can smoke Camels as often as you
like and enjoy an extra measure of pleasure every time because Camels never tire your taste nor leave any after-taste.
They are mild, mellow, and smooth, cool and refreshing, an expert blend of the choicest tobaccos grown.

© 1930, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.
