THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1930

Side Line Shots At the 'Cats as Spring Sports Begin
By P. R. Alderman

Tryouts and practices are still the order of the day as far as sports are concerned on the campus. After
so long a period without such, an intercollegiate contest becomes a highly-anticipated treat for everyone with any tendency at all
towards athletics. Thus the game today with Georgetown University and the one tomorrow with Oak Ridge should not fail to
give all lovers of America’s most popular sport quite a bit to look forward to. This category probably includes all
at Davidson. Moreover, as has been stated before, a nine that has heretofore not been seen in action will be
on exhibition for all critics, favorably and unfavorably inclined.

As will be remembered by those who were here last year, the Georgetown nine was more or less easily defeated
by the Wildcats, which makes things look rather optimistic for the opening game although it does not necessarily spell a
Davidson victory. On the other hand, the Oak Ridge Cadets should prove a stiffer trial for Coach Monk’s men. They
were a little too strong for the ‘Cats last year and there are no indications that they won't try to
repeat past deeds.

It has been asserted that the 1930 wrestling team was one of the best turned out by the Wildcats in
recent years. This statement is warranted by the fact that practically all of the Wildcats’ matches were either won or
if not, were lost by very close scores. Injuries were evident drawbacks to the ’Cats throughout the season. The matmen
will feel the loss next year of those graduating in June. Pi Conway, captain-elect, will have quite a bit of
work on his hands, being aided by comparatively green mates. Brock, Raker, Cowan, Gorham, and Boyles complete the lettermen returning.

Likewise in basketball—only three lettermen will be on hand next year around which to build a five: Goodson, Rusk, and
Proctor. Rising sophomores and this year’s substitutes brighten the outlook considerably, however.

With a game next Monday, the Wildkittens have some stiff workouts ahead of them in order for Coach Laird to
round out a nine. The brunt of the work will probably fall on former prep school stars in the first
games. Davidson seems to be assured of a winning golf team for the next few years.

Junior Class Team Wins Intramural Track Meet
Freshmen Win Second Place With 35 Points—Sophomores and Seniors Third and Fourth
WHITTLE HIGH POINT MAN
Bad Weather Makes Running Time Slow

The Juniors splashed their way to a decisive victory in the Interclass track meet Monday afternoon, amassing a total of
55 1-4 points to show their heels to the Freshmen who followed with 35 3-4 points. The Seniors and Sophomores
followed with 31 and 19 points respectively. The meet was run off in a cold drizzle which did not let
up during the afternoon and prevented some of the speedsters from opening up and showing their wares. All of the
track events were cut down in distance as this was only a conditioning meet held early in the spring and
no particular attention was paid to the timing. The first four places were counted.

High point honors went to Heath Whittle who amassed a total of 15 points by taking first in the 70-yard
dash, first in the 70-yard high and low hurdles. McCall followed with 10 points, winning the broad jump and the
javelin throw. Both Whittle and McCall have been showing up well lately, the former in the low hurdles and the
latter in the javelin throw. In this event, McCall has been reaching around 175 feet continually. Among other varsity men
showing up well were Brannon in the two-mile, Brohard in the 440 which was cut down to 300 yards in
this meet, and Allen who gave Gardner quite a battle in the high jump.

The Freshmen showed up well in the meet with Fleagle taking the leading role by winning the 170-yard dash and
placing second in the 70-yard dash. Earle also pulled a surprise by winning out over “Pete” Lafferty in the 3-4
mile after running a beautiful race. The Freshmen have been showing up well inThe sprints have been sadly neglected by
some husky weight men, and the distance men are scarce. This meet still leaves the Seniors ahead in the Intramural
sports contests with 82 1/2 points, a slim margin over the gaining Freshmen who have 80 points to their credit.
The Juniors and Sophomores follow close behind. There still remain, however, four events to decide the winner of the shield:
tennis, golf, Sigma Delta Psi Athletic Fraternity competition, and the physical improvement competition. Sigma Delta Psi will award a special
trophy cup to the winner, and certificates of membership will be given to the next two high scorers.

Of the four first-ranking candidates, one is a junior—Capt. Jack Pepper—and two are freshmen, Wagner and Thompson. Lewis Hart, the
fourth member of the quartet, is the only senior on the team. There will be no more football now until
next fall—spring practices ended last Saturday with Army victorious over Navy. If nothing happens, the Wildcat eleven of 1931 will
start the season with prospects as bright as they’ve ever been for a Davidson grid team.

$29.50 Spring furnishings.
STETSON “D” STORE

The Spring Holidays are near. Place your order for that Spring Suit. Complete Line of Sincerely, RAY HARRISON $34.50

Kittens Show Good Baseball Prospects

Under the skillful leadership of Coach Flake Laird, the Wildkitten baseball squad began regular practice about the middle of last
week. A squad of approximately thirty men answered the first call. According to Coach Laird, the prospects appear to be
very promising for the Frosh to maintain their fine athletic standing on the diamond as in other fields of sport.
At present, there are thirteen games on the schedule, with the probability that others will be added later. Only two
of these will be played before the Spring Holidays. Belmont Abbey opens the season here on March 24th. The Kittens
will then go to Mt. Pleasant on March 26th, where they will meet the Mount Pleasant Collegiate Institute. A complete
schedule may be found in the last issue of the Davidsonian.

Although nothing definite about the probable line-up can be determined at such an early date, some of the aspirants for
berths have made very good showings. In the pitcher’s box, Rogers, Pearce, Baily, and Barrier have shown up well. It
is probable that these men will bear the brunt of the burden, with Brown and Mackorell to complete the staff.
On the other end of the battery will probably be Whitley or McFie. Pierce will hold down first base according
to present indications, with Morrison giving him a good run for the position. Richards is leading in the struggle for
second base, closely followed by Stuart, Howe, and Peabody. Either Moore or Mills will probably play shortstop. At present, Thomason
is the only man out for third. In the outfield will probably be Bradsher, Morrison, Howard, or Moseley.

Athletic Night To Be Held

The Athletic Association decided to again have the annual Athletic Night, as has been customary for some years. This decision
was reached after a vote taken in chapel showed the student body to be in favor of its continuance. Certificates
will be awarded to the men making letters during the year, and gold footballs will be presented to the members
of the football team. Prominent speakers will also be engaged for the program.

BOOKS! Just received a shipment of popular books. Latest movie titles, mystery and detective stories. W.S. HENDERSON

A world-wide marketplace

Eighty-five percent of the world’s telephones can be reached from any telephone of the Bell System. This includes those of
Canada, Cuba, Mexico, and—by the new radio-telephone link spanning the Atlantic—most of the countries of Europe. Already, many American businessmen
are using this service to expedite the transaction of foreign business and are finding it quick, convenient, and profitable. The
future possibility of talking directly with almost anyone in the world who has access to a telephone is enough to
stimulate any man’s thinking—not only from an engineering standpoint but because of its significance to American industry.

BELL SYSTEM
A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones
“OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN”
