The Davidsonian
Published Weekly "For a Better Davidson"
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina. Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDITORIAL STAFF
F. C. DWELLE........Managing Editor
L. ........Managing Editor
........Managing Editor
........Sports Editor
M. ........Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES....Feature Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN...Associate Editor
J. B. BLACK........Associate Editor
W. C. RAGIN........Associate Editor
V. M.

BUSINESS STAFF
J. AL CANNON........Business Manager
A. R. JACKSON........Review Editor
P. M. CONWAY...Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BAKER...Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS...Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY...Subscription Manager
P. F. BROWN........Solicitor
R. W. FALLS........Solicitor
A. M. MANSON........Solicitor
A. L. MEBANE........Solicitor
W. R. MORROW........Solicitor
D. G. STEPHENSON...Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD...Secretary-Treasurer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
S. WILEY........President
O. STEPHENSON...Vice-President
H. WHITEHEAD...Secretary-Treasurer
J. M. BROWN
G. F. BAILEY
S. D.
R. L. McCALL
F. MATTHEWS
C. F. MYERS
M. MULLISS
H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON
S. I. PRESTON
C. W. F. SPENCER
B. B. SUGG
B. TAYLOR
W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH
D. D. McBRYDE

SEPTEMBER 18, 1930

SUGGESTIONS
A good way to keep grass green is to walk and romp where there isn’t any. Strolling across it is a different proposition from making it a habitual path. Co-operate with the coaches in their effort to keep the playing fields clear of spectators. It is as important to support the teams in practice as it is on Saturday afternoons. Paper napkins are not quite as bad as paper towels. The taste for them can be acquired. Get behind the Hoosier addition to the coaching staff and make him feel at home. Many students would like to know the selections played as preludes in the morning chapel services. An up-to-date bulletin board might fill the bill. If anybody wants anything let him tell somebody else about it. No one person knows as much as two or three others put together. Because someone has said that life should not be taken too seriously don’t turn it into a farce.

IN THE WAY OF GREETING
There may be some close observers who will note that certain changes have been made in The Davidsonian by its staff. It is not that body’s purpose to proclaim or to point out the few differences between the present issue and that of last year. They are there, and they stand by themselves. There is no apology. It is the hope of the staff, however, that there may be a more perfect functioning between the paper, the students, and the various types of organizations on the campus. In no other way can the student body approach the Utopia of college life which every student has longed for, at one time or another. Davidson’s “traditional future”! Doubtless there will be certain features which will not meet with universal approval. When this is true the staff wants the dissenter to dissent openly. Constructive criticism is to be encouraged. The men who have been chosen to control The Davidsonian own no larger part of it than every other man in school. It is a common servant. Through this brief observation a cordial welcome is extended both to those who have been here in past years and to those who have more recently enrolled. Veterans of past conflicts like to be together again, and recruits are gladly received. The staff will try to satisfy everybody, but it desires that everybody try to be satisfied.

“If I should meet thee
After long years,
How should I greet thee?”
—Lord Byron.

Son—Pa, what are ancestors?
Father—Well, my son, I’m one of your ancestors. Your grandpa is another.
Son—Oh! Then why is it that people brag about them?

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 18, 1930

THE FULL WEEK PROGRAM
No student, whether he be freshman or upperclassman, has failed to notice the institution of Saturday afternoon classes. No small number of men have had occasion to come into even a more intimate contact with them. It cannot be truthfully said that they meet with approval. At no time in the history of United States business has Saturday afternoon been as generally regarded to be a holiday as it is today. There are few banking houses and commercial concerns, especially in the larger cities, which do not grant their employees one afternoon off during the week. This is usually Saturday. It was not so very long ago that the majority of colleges and universities rested two days a week, counting Sunday. The six-day routine was found and accepted as fitting most schedules in a better way. Even then Saturday afternoons were held inviolate. Especially poignant at this season of the year is the question of football games. Five contests on the varsity schedule are to be played on Richardson Field. It is admitted that one of these will be on homecoming day. However, four still remain, and there are four more games, excluding the Thanksgiving classic, to be played away from home. The support which Davidson students are known to give their teams at all times must suffer as a consequence. Those men who have one afternoon class in the first period after lunch should be able to get to the field in time for the kickoff. Those who have to meet the second period class will find this impossible. It applies a blanket to most people’s emotions when they arrive late at such a contest. We do not intend to appear unaware of the difficulties which attend the framing of a curricular schedule. With the large number of electives offered for Juniors and Seniors it is well-nigh impossible to arrange a program void of conflicts. However, this has been done in the past without having to conduct classes on Saturday afternoon. There must be a solution to the problem. It is not our intention to favor regular weekend trips on the part of the majority of students. They have distinct and effective disadvantages. However, there are times when such hegiras become practically necessary. In the last named event every hour can become precious. With the schedule, as recently arranged, it is not only necessary to meet these afternoon classes, but, also, the man desiring leave must wait through the dinner hour whereas he could formerly leave without waiting for his lunch. We are willing to admit that there may be peculiar advantages to everyone concerned which have escaped our attention. Let it suffice that they appear rather elusive. The scientific theory gains power from the laboratory experiment which renders it practicable. Time must, in the last analysis, determine the merits of the new arrangement. No one can foretell the conclusion. In justice to its originators it should be given a fair trial.

BEGGING FROM GUESTS
Sports followers all over the world are pulling for Shamrock V to come through. Sir Thomas Lipton, as sportsman and gentleman, has endeared himself to the hearts of all those who have known him or read about him. At the present writing it does not seem likely that he will be successful in his quest of the “old mug.” It seems a pity that his venture should be sullied by the advances of one James Henry Clay, at present an inmate in a Virginia poorhouse. As a boy Sir Thomas worked on a plantation with Clay. Today one has millions and the other is penniless. Human sympathy must be aroused by any poverty-stricken old man. But, there are those of us who opine that both men had an equal start in both education and finances. In many ways Clay had the advantage. Not only was he a citizen of the United States, so frequently referred to as the “land of opportunity,” but he must have had some capital. Now, he and his friends are literally begging from Sir Thomas. A good many Freshmen have started to college at Davidson. They all have an equal chance to make good. Yet, before their Senior years some of them will be begging others to help them with their studies. Anyone is glad to give a man a start, but he hates to see that man stop. Natural talent and ability mean a great deal, but greater than that are pluck, industry, and plain old stick-to-it-iveness.

OH DAVIDSON!
Freshmen are quickly grasping Davidson's spirit this year. At the first pep meeting last Friday, almost every yell was effective. Cheerleader Geo. McClenahan was elated, but is not yet satisfied. Freshmen, you must beall “cats” these first few weeks, so that you may acquire all that a freshman should know. You will be so impressed that you will never forget your first few days here. Davidson is virtually filled with traditions, whose time-honored presence we must all learn to respect in order to appreciate this great college. Uppermost is our spirit. It is an invisible inspiration that inevitably and permanently enters our hearts, almost immediately after matriculation.

Tom Brohard’s return as a graduate student greatly augments the wealth of material that Coach Younger has on hand. Tom was followed by an injury jinx last year, which abruptly curtailed his football activity, but which he has overcome, and now has recovered his old form. He is eligible for another year. Heath Whittle and E. I. Lafferty, whose unheralded return was not generally known, but who have been enthusiastically welcomed, have been retained as members of the faculty, Heath as an assistant in the department of physical education, and Lafferty as assistant in Chemistry. These two men, with Frank Brown and Carl Pritchett, all prominent campus figures last year, total four who have been chosen from the Class of 1930, to assist in the college curricular activities.

Ed Robinson, ‘30, doesn't know whether to leave, take a post-graduate course or start in as a freshman again. He has been a frequent visitor on the campus here, and just naturally can’t leave. And that is the way 99 out of every 100 Davidson men always feel, after they have been graduated. Other members of the class who came back for a visit, and who we were glad to see were Murray Christian, Ned Hefner, Ellis Marsh, Whiz Miller, Charlie Ritchie, and Louis Roberts.

Sparrow Mills’ return to Davidson not only increases the interest in chapel exercises, but gives Jack Pepper’s golfers another good linksman. Davidson has emerged successfully from the world-wide business depression, as is evidenced by the present enrollment, which is about the same as last year. According to statistics from many other colleges and universities, the enrollment has suffered drastic decreases, in all probability caused by the poor financial conditions throughout the country. The situation is very grave, but as Arthur Brisbane encouragingly remarks, “We have had genius enough to create our past prosperity, so we will have enough genius to lead us out of the impending crisis.”

Many familiar faces are lacking from the student body this year, and we certainly do miss them. Such well-known men as Dick Hall, Bob Norton, Bill Poole, Bob Witt, Bob Overman, Bill Ratchford, Charlie Coble, Rick Bradshaw, Newt Dicks, Buck Marrow, Spencer McCallie, Barrier, Hendry Cavan, Moon Mullins, and Allen Rogers, a tremendous loss to many activities in which these men figured. Then too, we regret the loss of many others who did not return, including T. W. Bethea, Jake Hambright, Bill Bacon, Jack Boyd, Rosser Elkins, Ed Grady, Paul Hudgins, Bonner Jones, Frank Kennerly, Clarence Kerfoot, Bill Lane, the Moody brothers, Ralph Artinton, Jim Bagby, Bill Bedell, Jim Campbell, Nelson Byerly, Al Ellington, Lamar Howe, Dick Kibler, George Miller, Dave Pardington, Ben Parks, Johnny Reich, Felix Ballard, John Angus Smith, and Doc Wilson.

Now is the time for every able man in the student body to respond to Captain Pritchett’s appeal, which he made in an epochal speech last year, and which challenged every man in college to go out for some sport, especially in those which are played in intercollegiate competition.

The city of Davidson has at last become modernized. A Davidson alumnus is constructing an “immature” golf course between the drug store and the Stetson “D.” For the “tired college man,” no doubt! Perhaps, there will soon be agitation for it to be added to the college sport schedule. Just be patient and we'll see what we can do about getting some croquet and checker teams together, and just eliminate wrestling and football altogether.

The Freshman reception Monday night was better than ever. A splendid medium for getting new students acquainted with the faculty. Every student should visit each of his professors at least once during the year. Not necessarily because it is his duty, but because he is cordially welcome.

Boarder—Say, janitor, it’s down to zero in my flat.
Janitor—Down to zero, is it? That’s nothing!

Musings of a Matadore
By Vereen Bell

Well, back to the old grindstone. I had looked forward to a pleasant year but my dreams were shattered when some old tease came up to me right off the bat and cracked this one:

There was a lady who went down to the railroad station to leave for a vacation. She went up to the ticket office, and believe it or not, she went to buy a ticket.
“I would like to buy a railroad ticket, please,” she said.
“Certainly, madam,” replied the agent. “Where are you going?”
“That’s none of your business,” replied the lady.
“Well, I've got to know where you are going.”
“I shan't tell you.”
“But, madam, I can’t sell you a ticket until you tell me where you want to go.”
“All right, if you want to act that way, I'm going to Jacksonville.”
“That’s fine. Here’s your ticket and there’s the train on track No. 3.”
So the lady got on the train and just as it was pulling out she screamed back to the agent: “Ha, ha, Fooled you, goody. I was going to New York all the time.”

I didn’t think much of the joke so I heh-hehed a couple of times to be polite and then said, “Well she certainly fooled him, didn't she?” Then the narrator of the tale gnashed his teeth and pulled out a few locks of hair. He said the joke was on the lady and went off to chase butterflies. I pondered that joke over and over and this morning it came to me that the lady must have left her suitcase at the station. It pays to watch out for things like that. I always see to it that a redcap puts mine safely on the train before I make ribald remarks to station agents.

Another thing I don't like about spaghetti is the way it will hit you on the nose if you suck it in too fast. Have you ever heard the Joist Song? Joist a Song at Twilight. Since Modernistic poetry seems to be the order of the day (it used to be ham and eggs, you know) we will quote a verse or two from Memory and conclude with the Refrain from Swearin':

Wherever you go,
Whatever you do,
More mileage in a Six,
Poo Poo Pudue.
The west is calling me again,
That makes it Monday in France
I'll have pie, if you please:
Look at the crease in my trousers.
(Pants, see? Heh, heh).
Eva's out tonight
Listen to the train
A shriek rents the night for twenty-five dollars a month,

It is always good to end a literary work with a little nature study. Now for this week my children we will take up the Kuke. The Kuke is a native of the Wa Wa Islands. They are born at an early age and live until late in life. Their formation is peculiar in that they have three legs (probably giving rise to the three-legged stool idea), two eyes, a double chin, a two-car garage and an extra pair of pants. Their breath even comes in pants and their tongues are coated. They are famous for their enmity with the Jitnys (who, by the way, are no relation to the buffalo nickel) and their scraps are masterpieces of military strategy. A Kuke will see a Jitny in a distant tree and in tone with a quiet nasal enunciation: “I spy”; whereupon he immediately begins to sneak up on him. When a sufficient nearness is acquired, he springs up and screams in a multitude of voices. Repeating the latter he surrounds the Jitny and then jumps on his horse and rides off in all directions. And that, dear ones, is absolutely not to be sneezed at.

Pat was visiting the house of a friend who was the proud owner of a parrot. Pat had never seen one before.
“Hello!” exclaimed the bird, as the visitor walked past the cage.
Pat turned in amazement and, after staring at the parrot for a moment, raised his cap in salute. “Good morning to yez,” he said politely. “Sure, at first I thought yez was a bird!”

An Irishman was telling his friend of a narrow escape in the war.
“The bullet went in me chest and came out me back,” said Pat.
“But,” answered his friend, “it would go through your heart and kill you.”
“Me heart was in me mouth at the time,” came the quick reply.

An Irishman was seated in a train beside a pompous individual, who was accompanied by a dog.
“Fine dog ye have,” said the Irishman. “What kind is it?”
“A cross between an Irishman and an ape,” came the answer.
“Sure, an’ it's related to both of us,” the Irishman rejoined.