DAVIDSON-N. C. STATE NIGHT

The Davidsonian

PLAN TO HEAR DR. LACY GAME DURING HIS SATURDAY OCTOBER GREENSBORO SERVICES

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 25, 1930 No. 2

Wildcats and Wolfpack Clash Under Arc Lights In Greensboro Saturday

Most Important Game of Early Season Between Members of the Big Five Tests Night Football

Davidson Plays Under Lights for First Time

Saturday night at 8 o'clock in the Greensboro Memorial Stadium, Davidson College and N. C. State meet in the most important football game of the early season, the game which will attract more state-wide attention than any other contest before the middle of October. It is unusual that such an early season game should hold such an important place in the eyes of the football world, and yet the reasons are obvious. First, it will be played at night, and will offer the first major test of the fast-growing popular method of playing football—under lights. Last week, the first night football games were played, and all the comments were favorable. But now we come to the game that will really attract attention, due to the caliber of the teams, and thereby present the most evidence either pro or con on the subject of football beneath the Kleig lights. Then, every follower of both teams is anxious to know how their favorite will show up during their schedules which follow, and this game will be the first real test for both Davidson and State. The Wildcats have the best prospects in four or five years, maybe more. The Technicians have a new coach, whose team is made up largely of sophomores, comparatively untried. The coming encounter will really prove the merits of the two squads. Finally, it is considered by many that second place in the state race will rest with one of these two teams, and the winner will be the odds-on favorite for the place. Thus the final standing of the Big Five as concerns State and Davidson may rest largely in the outcome of the tilt Saturday night. These factors, taken all in all, make the game the outstanding feature of the early season menu.

During the long gridiron relations of the two schools, State has decidedly had the edge in games won and lost, getting the decision in 10 of the 19 games played. Five went to Davidson, and four were ties. But the loss of last year is what rankles in the hearts of the Wolves. For they have the feeling that their game last year was simply taken away from them. Evenly matched in yardage gained and first downs, the two teams might have battled to a scoreless draw had it not been for two breaks which went to Davidson, both of them intercepted passes. Ledyard DeCamp, guard for Davidson, caught one throw and ran 40 yards to the two-yard line, before being brought down. The ball was put over in two more plays. Joe McCall repeated the feat a few moments later when he intercepted another pass, and traveled 70 yards for a touchdown. These two scores represented Davidson's margin of victory.

This year State comes back with a powerful, though green, squad. Their team will average 180 pounds, about 10 pounds more than Davidson. A line of five or six sophomores is built around Captain Mack Stout at guard, considered one of the best linesmen in North Carolina circles. The backfield will have at least two men playing their first year of intercollegiate football. Coach John Van Liew has whipped the squad into a powerful defensive unit. They held High Point Saturday to no first downs. The line moved the Panthers around like ushers at a wedding. In the meantime, Chief Gurneau, Indian star, and Jeffery, led their mates to six touchdowns and 16 first downs. The Wolfpack is inclined to keep its feet on the ground, and not to pass the ball. They were successful in completing only one toss against High Point but gained almost at will through the line. In spite of their impressive total of first downs and strong defense, we believe that Davidson has slightly the better team. (Continued on page 6)

Changes Evident In 1930 “Y” Handbook

Various changes in the Wildcat Handbook, Y. M. C. A. publication for assisting in acquainting new men with Davidson traditions, customs and activities, are evident throughout the recent edition. It is dedicated to Mr. F. L. Jackson, whereas last year the honor was conferred on Camper O'Neal, past secretary of the “Y.” The addition of a welcome message from President Lingle is another feature. Pictures of new members of the “Y” Cabinet are included in this issue. In the athletic section, intramural sport activities are given prominent space for the first time. A letter of greeting from Coach Younger is another outstanding addition to the handbook contents. In the list of track records, six changes were made, one in the world’s record, and five in Davidson College records. Eddie Tolan, Michigan Midnight Express, replaced the old 100-yard-dash record held by George Simpson, Buckeye flash. In Davidson's records, E. S. Brannon broke Penn's old record in the two-mile run, Heath Whittle broke both of his previous track titles in sensational style last year in the low and high hurdles. Joe McCall broke a 34-year record held by Wooten, '96, in the broad jump, and Charlie Coble set a new record by eleven feet more than the previous mark in the javelin throw.

In the song and yells section, a detailed discussion explains the newly-initiated method of choosing assistant cheer leaders. The new “Fight” yell, introduced last year, which has met unanimous approval, is included among the yells. There are also two blank pages reserved for the new yells that George McClenaghan is about ready to introduce to the student body. Every Freshman should study the handbook thoroughly, so that he may learn everything possible about the college, which will be a great help to him. Paul Alderman edited the booklet, while Bob Gorrell worked in the capacity of business manager. Those assisting in its compilation and production are as follows: N. B. Dicks, P. S. Knox, W. H. Matthews, B. W. Moseley, C. F. Myers, Norman Raies and G. G. Slaughter.

Serenaders Start Practice Sessions

Only Two Positions Left Vacant From Last Year

The long series of practice sessions of the Sunnyland Serenaders began last week with last year’s director, A. J. Thompson, and three of the mainstays of last year’s brilliant group missing. Charlie Orr, trumpeter, and Bill Poole, pianist, are expected back, but haven't put in their appearance yet. Jack Ramséur, director of the 1930 edition of the Sunnyland Serenaders, will take his old position as one of the saxophonists together with Reeves, Pope and Hines. A Freshman is trying out for third saxophonist. Bruce Robinson will be behind the drums this year again, with Calligan and Hayes playing the banjo and sousaphone, respectively. Bob Orr, half of the great Orr team of trumpeters in last year’s orchestra, is back again and will be one of the mainstays of this year's group. Johnny Best is expected to fill Charlie Orr’s shoes at the other trumpet position left vacant.

The slang term “racket” meant shady business more than a century ago, and was not invented by the Chicago underworld.

State-Davidson Past Scores

N. C. State and Davidson College, whose elevens clash in a night football game at World War Memorial Stadium in Greensboro next Saturday at 8 o'clock, have played 20 contests since 1899. The Technicians have won 11, Davidson has been victorious in five, and a quartet have ended in knotted scores. In the 20 tilts the State Wolfpack has scored 225 points to an even 100 for the Davidson Wildcats. The all-time record follows:

Year State D.C.
1899 0 0
1900 0 17
1901 27 6
1902 20 5
1903 0 0
1908 0 0
1915 26 6
1916 0 0
1917 3 0
1919 6 0
1920 0 3
1921 3 0
1922 0 6
1923 6 10
1924 9 0
1925 0 3
1926 25 6
1927 14 7
1928 0 13

Totals 225 100

New Device Records Pulsations of Heart To Help in Study of Drug Effects

Princeton, N. J.—(AP)—A disembodied heart not only still beating steadily, but writing as it throbbed a permanent, minutely precise record ofIt pulsations, was exhibited here in a demonstration of new instrument developments by science for the advancement of medicine and psychology. The device, invented by A. L. Loomis, of Tuxedo Park, N.Y., in collaboration with Dr. Edmund N. Harvey, professor of physiology at Princeton University, is the Loomis chronograph. Dr. Harvey said it will facilitate the study of the effect of drugs on that vital organ, the heart, while alive. The demonstration here was of a turtle heart, removed from the reptile, freed of all extraneous tissues, and suspended in a physiological salt solution exactly duplicating body conditions. In this state, the organ continued to beat for 36 hours, at the same time setting down by means of the chronograph a graphic history of approximately 72,000 pulsations in that time.

Rushing Season Will Close Friday Night

Tomorrow brings to a close one of the most intensive rushing seasons ever known on the Davidson campus. The shortened period of exactly two weeks has forced the fraternities and rushees to devote practically all their time to rushing. Not since about 1926, when the rushing season was drawn out over a period of three months, have the fraternities been limited in time for conducting their rushing. Thus, all the fraternities and the men in the chapter have been forced to spend all their time getting to know the Freshman well enough to offer him a bid, and the prospective Freshman has had to spend all his time getting to know the fraternity men rushing him. When two or more fraternities are rushing a man, it is hard for him to make up his mind when he has not had time to know all the fraternity men in each house rushing him. House parties and similar events have been given, and rushees have been given every possible opportunity to meet the fraternity men.

Davidson's system has undergone many drastic changes in the past few years, and fraternity conditions here are totally different from practically all other colleges and universities. For instance, in comparing Davidson and Carolina, where the rushing season begins at Davidson on the opening day of school, at Carolina a period of silence lasting a week is taking place. Fraternity men and Freshmen are not allowed to be together for any length of time. This is quite different from Davidson, where all Freshmen are given a cordial welcome by the fraternity men. Then, too, at Carolina, not only are invitations to visit a fraternity issued by mail, but the Freshman must visit each fraternity from whom he receives an invitation at least once, and the accepting and receiving of bids is handled by the administration of the college.

At Davidson, bids are mailed directly to rushees, and it is possible for a Freshman to know from what fraternities he received bids. The Freshman expecting a bid or bids writes his preferences down in order and is told if he received a bid from the fraternity of his choice.

Many States Are Represented in Student Enrollment

Since the official opening of the college, the number of students has been steadily climbing, until the total number now reaches 619. This is the highest enrollment the college has experienced in recent years. In October last year, there were 605 students at school, while in the same month of the year before, there were 603. The attendance this year is an increase of about two and one-half percent, which is considerable when the country is experiencing such a nationwide depression in business and financial circles.

There is a well-rounded delegation of Freshman members of that class coming from New York, Ohio, Michigan, New Jersey, and Minnesota, as well as the Southern States. Naturally, the largest number comes from North Carolina. South Carolina, Virginia, Tennessee, Georgia, and Alabama make up the bulk of the remaining part of the student body. Although Davidson is one of the smaller institutions in the state, she has one of the most diversified student bodies from the standpoint of states from which the students come.

Head of Union Seminary To Conduct Evangelical Services Here This Fall

Dr. Ben R. Lacy, Jr., Noted Minister and Educator, to Open Services October 5

WAS RHODES SCHOLAR

Services to be held in Chambers Auditorium beginning October 5 and continuing through October 8, the annual fall Y.M.C.A. Evangelical Services will be held. The speaker at these services will be Dr. Benjamin Lacy, Jr., from Richmond, Va. On Sunday, there will be two services, one at 11 a.m. at the church, and one at 8 p.m., while weekday services will be held in Chambers Auditorium. Then, on Monday and Tuesday, services will be conducted at the chapel hour in the morning and at 8:00 each night.

Reared in Raleigh, N.C., Dr. Lacy entered Davidson at the age of 16 and graduated in 1906. Since that time, he has established a name for himself in many localities, leaving an indelible impression of geniality and sincerity on his hearers. Winning, at the age of 20, a Rhodes Scholarship from the district of North Carolina, Dr. Lacy attended Oxford University in England for two years, distinguishing himself for his brilliance and versatility. Following his attendance at Oxford, he came back and took up religious studies at Union Theological Seminary, where, in 1913, he was granted the Hoge Fellowship, at that time the highest distinction given to Seminary students. After his studies were completed, Dr. Lacy began his life as a pastor in his hometown, Raleigh. However, his career was destined to undergo a change, for with the embarkation of troops during the great war, he went over as a chaplain. His rank was Captain, 113th Field Artillery, 30th Division. Again, he left in his wake distinctions of the highest caliber. With the controversy overseas terminated, Dr. Lacy returned to take up the life of Christian endeavor he had once led before.

Funds Appropriated To College Library

Through the efforts of Dr. Rice and a committee, the Davidson College Library has been given an appropriation of five thousand dollars a year for five years, for the purchase of new books from the Carnegie Foundation. The Carnegie Foundation had some of the best librarians in America prepare what they believe is an ideal list of books for twenty-four college departments. Our librarians are busy now checking the contents of the Davidson Library with these lists to see how many of these books we already have. As soon as this checking has been completed, we can order our first installment on this Carnegie fund. The librarians report that it is gratifying to see how many books on this ideal list we already have in the Davidson College Library.

This Carnegie fund is not to take the place of the fund which Davidson College set aside to be used year by year by the library, but it is to supplement this fund. This means that we will have about seven thousand five hundred dollars a year, for the next three years, for the purchase of new books and periodicals. Although the fall orders have not been made, some new books have come in. Among these are: “A Servant of Sahibs,” Ghulam Rassul Galwan; “Lone Cowboy,” Will James; “Freighters of Fortune,” Norman Beasley; “Masters in Art,” an encyclopedia in ten volumes; “Complete Sherlock Holmes, Memorial Edition,” two volumes, A. Conan Doyle; “Doctor Serocold,” Helen Ashton; “The Shepherd of Guadaloupe,” Zane Grey.