THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1930

Side Line Shots At the Prospects for Baseball and Track
By P. R. Alderman

With the exception of a few scrimmage football games on the weekends, there won't be much in the way of
athletic contests for the next two or three weeks. Practices will furnish most in the line of sports. The Sagers
started and closed their season in good form, but Dame Luck chose the important games to look with disfavor on
the Cats. We would certainly like to see more of the breaks come our way against “Big Five” teams, even
at the expense of some hard luck against minor foes.

With the graduation of Pritchett and Johnston, Davidson is going to lose two men that will go down as two
of the best basketball players in the history of the college. They played a large part in making the 1930
quintet one of the best in many years and will leave places that are going to be hard to fill.
To take a fleet glimpse of the future, however, does not tend to make one feel pessimistic about a cage
team next year. The Freshmen of ’29-’30 are sending up some great material to aid in building up a Five
around Goodson, Rusk, and Proctor next year.

But, in spite of the weather, spring is about here and the baseball bug is beginning to find many an
easy victim. Varsity and freshman practice will be in full swing before very long and then in a couple of
weeks the nines will be seen in action. As has been previously mentioned, Coach Monk is going to have practically
an entirely new combination for his nine this year, with the exception of the batteries, which will remain about the
same as last season. Veterans are going to be sorely missed in the infield and outfield as well. It will
probably take several games to determine who will make up the regulars for this year although several, with a year
or two experience behind them, seem to warrant placing their names among the first-stringers now.

As usual, no very accurate predictions can be made as to the Fresh nine. Except in the cases where an
aspirant has been outstanding in some prep school, it is impossible to forecast even with a slight degree of confidence
who will compose the regulars. However, the prospects in general are unusually bright so far.

Lettermen are going to be missed in the ranks of the trackmen also, but not as badly as on the
diamond. Judging from practices, Capt. Heath Whittle and his men are going to prove pretty strong opposition for all foes
on the schedule. With tryouts in order for tennis and golf either at present or in the near future, there
should be enough activity on the “Hill” in the realm of sports to suit everybody. Let’s try to overcome the
letdown that always seems to follow the closing of a season for any particular sport and help carry these other
Wildcat teams to the success that they deserve.

He: "So you think it would be foolish for me to marry a girl who is my mental inferior?”

Wildcats Rally To Beat Wofford Five

A belated rally in the closing minutes of the last half enabled the Davidson Wildcats to defeat the Wofford Terriers,
29 to 10, and close their season with an impressive victory. The game, played last Thursday night, closed the basketball
careers of Capt. Frontis Johnston and Carl Pritchett.

The Wildcats got off to an early lead, after which Monk Younger jerked most of his regulars and ran his
substitutes for the remainder of the first half. Neither team could do much in that period and it ended with
the Terriers leading 10 to 6. The first team came back strong in the second half and played perfect defensive
ball throughout the entire period, not permitting the Wofford team to score a single point. In the last five minutes
of play, Pritchett and Johnston led an attack that quickly ran the total up to 29 as the game ended.
It was one of the most spectacular rallies that the Davidson team had staged all season.

Davidson (29) Wofford (10)
Pritchett (6)Hix Forward Johnston (12): ceesenceres ceuseS King (4) Forward Rusk (4): ces coseeseeee eee Johnson (3) Center Goodson (5):
escccesesesccec eos Koon (1) Guard Proctor: ccucccccecsceeuecesca Jefferies (2) Guard Substitutes: Davidson — Moore, Martin.

Final Varsity Scores
Davidson, 50, Catawba 26.
Davidson 33, Charlotte Y 18.
Davidson 29, Wofford 15.
Davidson 20, Wofford 33.
Davidson 22, Carolina 20.
Davidson 39, Lenoir-Rhyne 25.
Davidson 38, Charlotte Y 39.
Davidson 33, Maryville 20.
Davidson 35, V. M. I. 27.
Davidson 49, Roanoke 16.
Davidson 38, V. P. I. 20.
Davidson 30, Duke 33.
Davidson 33, Wake Forest 17.
Davidson 44, Elon 30.
Davidson 27, Erskine 32.
Davidson 10, Carolina 19.
Davidson 21, Duke 45.
Davidson 17, State 43.
Davidson 29, Wofford 10.
Davidson 597, Opponents 488.

Johnston: 2fcue Sccuceccccaeeuee eS 147
Rusk: 134
Goodson: 115
Koon: 99
Proctor: 25
Moore: 21
Martin: 18
Jefferies: 14
Wilson: 1
Gilbert, Mathis (2).
Wofford: Park, McLeod.
Referee—Rawson.

Wildkittens Close Season With Wins
The Davidson Wildkittens won the last games of the 1930 season by defeating Wingate Junior College Wednesday, 34 to 17,
and by overcoming Porter Military Academy Thursday, 49 to 29. The games were featured by poor shooting of both teams,
neither of them seeming able to find the range. However, in the Porter game, the Wildkittens shot a great deal
better than they did in the Wingate game. The results of the season show eleven victories and six losses for
the little 'Cats, giving them a percentage of .647 games won.

In the Wingate contest, three stars of the Wildkittens, Rogers, Manson, and Pierce, were taken from the game by Coach
Laird, who sent in Boucher, Enochs, and Bernard to replace them. They played the Wingate five off their feet and
completely overwhelmed them, aided by the good work of the two guards, Wagner and Peabody, who had five points apiece.
The high point man for the Wildkittens was Bernard, substitute for Pierce, who had nine points to his credit. The
Wingate five played a fine game against heavy odds, but were not able to stave off defeat. Their high point
man for the night was Williams, flashy forward.

The Porter game was a comparatively easy victory for the Wildkittens, as shown by the final score of 49 to
29 in favor of the Little 'Cats. Davidson completely outplayed Porter throughout the entire game. The high scorer of the
night was “Skinny” Pierce.

Tentative Baseball Schedule Announced
Formidable Opponents Point to a Strenuous Season
The tentative baseball schedule, recently announced by Manager Lad Mills, shows eighteen opponents for the Wildcats, and one of the
most ambitious schedules ever tackled by a Davidson nine. The season will open on the 20th of March when Georgetown
University of Washington is met on the home diamond, and will close May 8, when the U. of South Carolina
journeys up to Davidson. Several of the following games are pending, but the tentative schedule follows:

March 20—Georgetown U., here.
March 21—Oak Ridge, here.
March 25—Catawba College, there.
March 28—Elon, there.
March 29—N. C. State, there.
March 31—Wake Forest, there.
April 4—N. C. State, here.
April 5—N. C. State, Concord.
April 8—V. P. I., there.
April 9—V. M. I., there.
April 10—W. & L., there.
April 16—Ursinus College, here.
April 17—Wake Forest, here.
April 21—U. of N. C., (place pending).
April 22—U. of N. C., (place pending).
April 26—Duke U. (pending).
May 6—Elon, here.
May 8—U. of South Carolina, here.

She: “No, impossible.”
ON A NIGHT LIKE THIS! wailed NELL
“But father, with his slick city ways and perfumed hair, he turned my head...”
“Out ye go!” roared the irascible old yeoman... “any gal of mine that gives away the last of my smoother
and better OLD GOLDS suffers the consequences. Down to the corner store with ye, and bring back a fresh carton
or never darken my doorstep again!”

FASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE IN HISTORY... NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD
On your Radio... OLD GOLD—PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR. Paul Whiteman and complete orchestra... every Tuesday, 9 to 10 P. M., Eastern
Standard Time @ P. Lorillard Co.
