THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 9, 1930

Davidson Professor To Conduct European Tour Party

Under Dr. Watts to Spend Entire Summer Abroad—to Witness Passion Play

Dr. and Mrs. Geo. B. Watts are making plans for next summer's tour of Europe. As has been his custom
for several years, the Davidson professor will be in charge of a group of tourists, under the management of Temple
Tours, Inc., of Boston. This will be his tenth trip to European lands. Sailing on the steamship Stavangerfjord on June
28 from New York, the party will land at Bergen, Norway on July 9. Ten days will be spent in
the Scandinavian countries with visits to Oslo, Stockholm, and Copenhagen, with many excursions to points of beauty and interest.

Crossing the Baltic to Germany, where Berlin will be the headquarters for the next two days, an excursion by motor
will be made to Potsdam. A few days will be spent in Dresden before visiting Czechoslovakia, Austria, and Hungary. In
these lands, Prague, Vienna, and Budapest will be the chief points of interest. One day will be devoted to a
river trip on the Danube from Vienna to Budapest. Salzburg and Munich will be reached on August 1 and after
two days in the Bavarian capital, the party will motor out to Oberammergau where two nights will be spent. Here
the party will witness the world-famous Passion Play.

In 1922, Doctor and Mrs. Watts saw Anton Lang play the role of Christus in the Passion Play for the
last time, and this year the leading part will be taken by the younger Alois Lang, who will be coached
by Anton who has given such masterful interpretations at previous performances. The party will be housed in the homes of
the peasants, the whole interest of the town being devoted to the entertainment of the visitors from all over the
world.

After a day of motoring in the Bavarian Highlands, the party will go on to Switzerland where Luzerne and Interlaken
will be visited. The stay in the Alps will be featured by trips on mountain railways and on the Swiss
lakes. On August 9, Paris will be reached. Here a week will be spent with excursions to the battlefields of
the World War and to Versailles. From August 16 to 23, the party will be in England, during which time
a three-day motor trip will be enjoyed to Stratford-on-Avon, Warwick, and Windsor. Doctor Watts plans to leave London for Paris
for research work in the National Library. He will return on an express liner in time for the opening of
college in September. Any students interested in making this trip can gain more information by seeing Doctor Watts.

Col. W. P. Sloan Dies at Home Here

Col. Walter Pharr Sloan, aged eighty-four, a Confederate veteran, and for many years a part of the life of Davidson
College campus, died at his home here on December 26, 1929, at three o’clock. His death was caused by a
stroke of paralysis. He is survived by his wife, three daughters, and one son. Of his daughters, one, Mrs. E.
F. Bohannan, is well known to Davidson students. Colonel Sloan was beloved by thousands of students and alumni of Davidson
College. He served throughout the Civil War, enlisting in Company “F,” 37th North Carolina Regiment, and later being transferred.

Monk Younger Again Coaches Basketball

Varsity Squad Has Made Progress Under Coach Laird’s Leadership

On Thursday, January 2, immediately after the Christmas recess, Coach Monk Younger took over the reins of the varsity basketball
squad. Coach Younger for the past few weeks has been unable to be at practice sessions because of frozen nerves
on one side of his face. This development took place just after Thanksgiving. During Coach Younger’s illness, the squad was
ably led by Flake Laird, Freshmen Coach. Under Coach Laird’s skillful hand, noticeable progress has been made by the varsity
quint.

Practices began soon after Thanksgiving, and have been held regularly since that time. With five letter men back this year,
in addition to a wealth of new material, Coach Younger will undoubtedly produce an exceptional team.

Post Notices!

Due to the loss of time in chapel caused by the reading of “lost and found” notices, the officers of
the student body advise that such notices be posted on the bulletin board. R. F. Norton, the secretary of the
student body, will receive all notices of lost and found articles and will place them on the bulletin board. This
system will give time to more important announcements and discussions of the student body.

’Cats Easily Defeat Catawba In Opener

Pritchett Leads Scoring With Fourteen Points—Johnson and Milton Follow With Ten Each

Displaying a remarkably smooth passing attack and at times an excellent defense, the Davidson College quintet opened the basketball season
by decisively defeating the Catawba Five on the home

DAVIDSON FIVE AND TEN YEARS AGOcourt, December 17. The score of 50 to 26 hardly does justice to the marked
superiority of the Wildcat cagers, for at no period throughout the game were they seriously pushed and never did the
lead pass from their hands. Carl Pritchett, star forward and last year’s captain of the Wildcats, led the scoring with
a total of 14 points, closely followed by Wiegel, elongated center of the visitors, who amassed 13 points. Capt. Frontis
Johnson and Milton were the next high men, each with 10 points.

Acquiring the lead from the very beginning, the fast teamwork of the ’Cats gave them a 23-10 lead at the
end of the half. In the second half, the eyes of Pritchett and Milton were unerringly on the basket, each
garnering 10 points. Numerous substitutions were made by both teams, for as this was the first contest of the season,
both coaches were feeling around for a winning combination.

Davidson grapplers returned from their first trip of the season with a divided record. After downing the matmen of N.
C. State in true Wildcat fashion, they journeyed northward and were defeated by the strong team of the U. S.
Naval Academy.

A vote of thanks was extended by the entire student body to Mr. J. B. Duke for his gift to
the college. This gift, amounting to about seventy-five thousand dollars, has been of great service to Davidson during the past
five years.

On December 16, the first Freshman banquet to be held at Davidson was given in the banquet hall of the
Chambers building under the auspices of the Y.M.C.A. Tinseled evergreens and red and black streamers added Christmas spirit and a
suitable atmosphere to the festivity. During the delightful turkey dinner, the hundred and seventy-five Freshmen in attendance, together with their
visitors, were charmingly entertained by the Davidson Sunnyland Serenaders, and Misses Nina Cranford and Martha Dulin, from Queens College. The
speakers of the evening were Mr. F. L. Jackson, college treasurer, and Capt. N. G. Pritchett, athletic coach. R. T.
Ellett acted as Santa Claus, and Zeb Vance Long, chairman of Freshman work in the Y, as toastmaster.

Mr. Jackson briefly sketched the standing and accomplishments of Davidson College, giving a number of interesting statistics and comparing it
with other colleges. Captain Pritchett discussed the attitudes a Freshman might take towards his past and future at Davidson. He
counseled application and determination for the future with a disregard for former failures or successes. The attractive visitors from Queens
added greatly to the program with their stunts and songs and were called back again and again to give encores.
Another feature was the novelty selection which Charles Orr played on his violin. As his donation to the frolic, Santa
Claus distributed jumping-jacks and amused the crowd with significant gifts to certain members of the Class. The program closed with
the singing of “Oh Davidson.” The preparation and serving of the meal was under the supervision of Mrs. Gaffney, of
the College Inn. The guests, besides those mentioned, were Dr. W. L. Lingle, Mr. J. P. Williams, Camper O’Neal, Ernest
Milton, G. P. Henderson, and Frank R. Brown.

FIVE YEARS BACK
The Davidson basketball team opened the season of 1925 by winning the first five games of the season by large
scores. Three of these games were with Duke University and the others were with the Durham Elks, the Charlotte “Y,”
and with Georgia Tech.

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO.
Winston-Salem, N.C.
SATISFIES YOUR EVERY UNDERWEAR NEED
SHIRTS and SHORTS
ATHLETICS and RIBS
Nobby Shirts in cotton or rayon. White, solid colors or pastel trims. Shorts in fancy patterns and what will you
have? 50c, 75c, and $1.00. The famous SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suit with the patented “Tug-of-War” belt in checks and fancy
materials—$1.00. If you like Ribs, there’s a style and weight to suit you in HANES.

A Minister of the Gospel SHOULD BE CONVERSANT WITH THE VARIOUS CURRENTS OF THEOLOGICAL THOUGHT. TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS
STUDENTS IS ONE OF THE AIMS OF UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. For Catalog and Information, Address, Rev. R. B. Lacy, Jr.,
President, Richmond, Virginia.

Telephone lines must cross natural barriers. This means construction methods must be flexible, readily varied to peculiar local conditions. Special
problems arise, too, in telephone laboratory, factory, and central office. How to protect poles from insect attack? How to develop
more compact equipment for use in manholes? How to assure a sufficient number of trained operators? How to build long
distance business? Telephony knows no barriers. It takes resourcefulness to surmount the barriers. There is no stereotyped way to find
the answers. PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN.

BELL SYSTEM
A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones.
