THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6, 1930 — Alumni Deaths

J. D. Williams, '97
Joseph DeLeon Williams, member of the 1897 class at Davidson, died at his home near New Bern last Friday, October 24. Mr. Williams was 55 years of age. The deceased was a prominent farmer of that section, and was at one time sheriff of Craven County. He had been in ill health for many years, though his illness became critical only a short time before he died.

Fitzhugh Rowe, '29
Members of the Davidson student body were shocked to learn Monday morning that Maurice Fitzhugh Rowe, who graduated at Davidson in 1929, had been instantly killed in an automobile accident near his home at Fredericksburg, Va., last Sunday night. He was a second-year medical student at the University of Virginia. According to Associated Press dispatches from Fredericksburg, the car in which he was riding with a fellow student and a Fredericksburg girl, collided with another car, ran a hundred yards out of control and crashed into a telegraph pole. Other than this, no details were obtainable when The Davidsonian went to press Monday night. Among the survivors are Alvin Rowe, '25, and Carter Rowe, '28. The former is in the consular service at Nicaragua, and the latter is a student at the University of Virginia.

Alumni Personals
Dr. Everett L. Bishop, '12, pathologist to the Steiner Cancer Clinic at Atlanta, Ga., will read a paper before the Southern Medical Association at its meeting in Louisville, Ky., on November 11.

Rev. Murphy Williams, '94, of Greensboro, was elected moderator of the North Carolina Synod at its recent meeting in Wilmington.

Roland B. Parker, '26, member of the Darlington School faculty, of Rome, Ga., was unanimously re-elected president of the Dixie Interscholastic Press Association at its annual meeting in Knoxville, Tenn.

Dr. A. P. Hudgins, '24, on the staff of Hinton Hospital, at Hinton, W. Va., is temporarily studying under a specialist at Roanoke, Va., and next week will go to New York for special work. He will return to Roanoke for a short time, and then go back to Hinton, W. Va.

Donald E. Brown, '13, cashier of the Carolina National Bank of Anderson, S. C., has been elected president of the Kiwanis Club of that city.

Dr. A. R. McQueen, '03, of Dunn, is the new moderator of Fayetteville Presbytery.

Davidson Alumnus Is In Role of Fire Hero
Rev. Smiley Williams, of Welch, W. Va., Visiting in Charlotte, Makes Rescue

Rev. Smiley Williams, '14, of Welch, W. Va., who was visiting in Charlotte recently, and who was at Davidson Home-Coming Day for the reunion of the 1910 football team, played a heroic part in the rescue of a mother and her two-year-old son in a fire while in Charlotte. Extracts from The Charlotte Observer account of his bravery follow:

“A mother and her two-year-old baby son, who were trapped in their burning apartment, owe their lives to two men who pushed through smoke and flame to drag them to safety.

“Mrs. Samuel T. Thorne and her husband were badly burned in the fire that started from some unknown source in their five-room apartment, but the baby, found crawling on the floor near the prostrate form of his mother, who had fainted, was unharmed.

“Rev. Smiley Williams and Chris Pappas, who were sleeping on the ground floor, heard the woman’s screams and reached the stairs leading to the burning rooms almost together. Bounding up the steps the two men got to the door just as Harry Leon, who lives on the second floor, had broken open the glass with his bare hands and had been forced back by the flames.

“J. A. Williams, father of the minister, handed the latter a key to the locked door. When Mr. Williams unlocked the door, Mr. Pappas got hold of the limp form of Mrs. Thorne just inside the room, and the minister crawled on hands and knees to the middle of the room where the baby was crying. He picked up the child and soon had him down the steps behind Mr. Pappas and the mother.”

Rev. J. H. Carter, '09, of Anderson, S. C., and Rev. McK. R. Long, '10, of Statesville, are conducting evangelistic services at North Wilkesboro and Belmont, respectively.

Dr. J. A. Shaw, '18, who has been taking special courses in children's diseases at Cincinnati and St. Louis hospitals for a year, has returned to his home in Fayetteville, resuming practice there.

George Mallison, '91, LL.B., George Washington University, and Commander U. S. Navy, retired, has recently published a book, “Color at Home and Abroad.” The book has been favorably reviewed in The Boston Transcript, Army and Navy Register, both of the Charleston (S. C.) newspapers, The Daily Press of Newport News, Va., the Methodist Quarterly Review, and a number of smaller papers in several different states. The book is an extensive study of the race.Problem: When soft, long-lived. Made, go take a look at heavy, the handspun both trunk and chest. 2 ing styles, rich materials and many and- HANES Shirts and Shorts. —, SS H HANES PROVIDES REAL UNDERWEAR LUXURY AND SERVICE AT LOW COST :) You button up in HANES, you button out all the underwear grief you've ever known. HANES always fits you—never bunches or binds. The reinforced cuffs don’t pull off—buttons stay! The materials are HANES. HANES is a man’s underwear. Dungarees couldn’t ask for more masculine company, yet smarter or more up-to-date underwear isn’t; y the Gold Label Elastic-knit Lightweight Union Suit. It’s really luxurious and, as in all HANES garments from light to extra- cotton, is knitted and cut to careful measurements. If you wear summer weights all year round, be sure to see the special features in HANES Athletics.

HANES Fire Hero
Used by Courtesy of The Charlotte Observer

G. T. Preer, ’29, who was at Columbia Theological Seminary early this year, has decided to continue his study of philosophy at Brown University, and is working on his Ph.D. degree to prepare himself for the teaching profession. He is at 343 Thayer St., Providence, R. I.

M. W. Trawick, ’25, and D. H. Howard, Jr., ’28, are again at Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., this fall. Mr. Trawick is studying physics, and Mr. Howard is continuing his work in the chemistry department.

A. M. Hillhouse, ’24, who obtained his law degree from New York University last June, is in the trust department of the National Loan and Exchange Bank, of Columbia, S. C.

Alumni Marriages and Engagements

Groves-Reynolds
Information has been recently received at the alumni office of the marriage last May 15 of Rev. John Woodson Groves, of Lexington, Miss., to Miss Ella Reynolds, of Pyeng Yang, Korea, the marriage taking place in Korea. Mr. Groves graduated from Davidson in 1922, and following his seminary work he accepted a pastorate at Jackson, Miss. Mrs. Groves is a graduate of Peace Institute, at Raleigh.

Wharton-Tilley
“Mrs. Emma Stone Tilley announces the marriage of her daughter, Mary, to Mr. Lacy Donnell Wharton, Jr., on Saturday, November 1, Greensboro, N. C.” Mr. Wharton graduated at Davidson in 1927, became connected with The Greensboro News, and left North Carolina to study for a master’s degree at Harvard. In June, 1929, he joined the staff of The New York Herald-Tribune, but resigned in September to become associate editor of The Outlook and Independent. Mrs. Wharton obtained her education at N. C. C. W. Mr. and Mrs. Wharton will reside in New York City.

Edwards-Biggers
George Davis Edwards, 1928 alumnus of Davidson, and Miss Mildred Jeannette Biggers, both of Charlotte, were married at the East Avenue A. R. P. Tabernacle in Charlotte on October 29. Mr. Edwards attended Davidson for two years, later going to Centre College, in Kentucky, from which he was graduated. He was captain of the baseball team of Centre and a leader in other activities. Mrs. Edwards attended Queens College and later graduated from East Carolina Teachers College at Greenville, N. C. She taught at the latter institution for one year.

Cooper-Price
“Dr. S. E. Cooper, of Water Valley, Miss., announces the engagement of his daughter, Alice Gordon, to Mr. John Kauffman Price, of Alexandria, La., the wedding to take place in the early part of November in the First Presbyterian Church, Water Valley.” Mr. Price graduated from Davidson in 1922, and later studied at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He worked for a while in Boston, later going to the Far West. For the past year or two he has been in the banking business at Alexandria, La. Miss Cooper was graduated from the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music, and has recently returned from France, where she studied at the American Conservatory of Music at Fontainebleau.

Chamness-Hunter
Announcement was recently made of the engagement and approaching marriage this fall of Miss Christine Chamness, of Blenheim, S. C., to Charles R. Hunter, of Maxton. Mr. Hunter was graduated from Davidson in 1925, and is a native of Blenheim. Since finishing at Davidson he has taught at Elizabethtown and is now connected with the Maxton Junior College. He has also studied at the University of North Carolina. Miss Chamness is a graduate of Chicora College, now combined with Queens, and for the past year taught in the schools at Kershaw, S. C.

Union Theological Seminary
Richmond, Virginia
Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia. The oldest and largest Southern Presbyterian Seminary. Both sound in the faith, and alert for new methods. For Catalogue and information, address Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President.

© 1930, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
Less talk and more taste—
ONE will always stand out!