8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1930

After Graduation --- Salesmanship?

BOND BUSINESS ATTRACTS MANY COLLEGE MEN TODAY

Complete Survey Made for Information of Men Contemplating Entrance into this Field

The bond business has many characteristics that appeal to the young college graduate. These are substantial and worthwhile, but they should not be confused with the fictitious qualities sometimes erroneously attributed to investment banking. It is not a business of large returns for little work, of easy hours, continued golf, abundant leisure, and automatic entree to companionship with the rich and great. Men who have entered investment banking with this romantic illusion have been painfully awakened.

No business excels investment banking in agreeable surroundings and associations within the business. The personnel of almost all bond houses is of educated, likable individuals. Externally, the bond man’s contacts are chiefly with intelligent persons, with the wealthy and successful, both in the selling of securities to investors and in the financing of corporations and governmental bodies. Investment banking rewards the able man generously. Its work is largely constructive and so varied that it can rarely become uninteresting or stale to an active mind. But the price it demands for success is, as in any other worthwhile vocation, that a man be interested and persistent in his work.

Probably the greatest thing the bond business has to offer the colleges is Independence in Opportunity. The average bond house embraces so many different activities and departments that it affords a wide choice of jobs. Although, usually but not always, promoted to partnerships and the highest positions, such as buyers, branch office managers, syndicate managers, etc., are men experienced in selling. Most houses do a great deal of research work. Economists, statisticians, analysts, and various specialists are employed for this important work. Moreover, there is much responsible accounting and record work in the cashier's, the bookkeeping, the listing, auditing, control, fiscal agent's, purchasing-and-sale, and other departments, or combinations of departments. Many houses have trading departments where men keep close tab on the prices of and deal in the securities in which their house and its customers are interested. From the foregoing, it should be apparent that there is a position in the bond business for almost every degree of ability, temperament, or imagined temperament.

Practically all bond houses put a beginner into training. It is difficult to cite figures, because conditions vary widely, but beginners commonly receive from $75 to $150 a month during this preparation period, which may run from one to three months, or a year or so. Here is opened a wide and, in many respects, a new field to young college men. Investment banking is one of the most varied of all vocations. It is both a business and a profession. It enters into virtually every kind of major business and governmental enterprise, since it finances great national governments, and small school districts, huge public utility and railroad systems, industries, and farm loans. It is one of the largest merchandising businesses in the world. On one hand, the business of investment banking is financial adviser to the businesses and governments whose securities it buys; on the other, to the millions of large and small investors to whom it sells those securities. It must constantly study every form of business and government that seeks long-term credit, and, as a consequence, it is one of the most varied and interesting of vocations. Above all, it is an essential and honorable business.

This article is an extract from the bulletin, “An Analysis of Investment Banking for Vocational Guidance,” published by the Investment Bankers’ Association of America. On the Vocational Guidance table at the “Y” room can be found a pamphlet taking up the branches of Investment Salesmanship.

By Charles M. Schwab

A man educated in a great college or university is ten times the man who has not been educated if he will learn that the education in a college or university is not different from education in a workshop. You cannot be aristocratic unless you earn the right to aristocracy. And the aristocracy of the future is not one of wealth or university education, but the aristocracy of the men who have done something for themselves and their fellow men. And that is what will make the real men. That is the lesson that you have to learn, and that is the lesson so many of our college boys do not learn. They go into a great industrial or other establishment and they imagine because they have a diploma from Davidson or Princeton or Georgia Tech or Yale, or some other college or university, that they are on a different plane from other men. Unless you get this idea out of your heads, you are going to learn the sorriest lesson you ever learned because it won’t succeed.

Now to be more practical; go at your work. You may not “find” yourself the first year. You may start at work that you think will not be agreeable to you. Do not hesitate to change. If you find that it is not according to your tastes and ultimate ambitions, then change and go into something that is more pleasant. No man can be successful if he does not find the work he is doing pleasant. No man can ever do a thing well that he is not interested in. In your classes, you find that you do best in the things you like. When you start in life, if you find you are wrongly placed, don’t hesitate to change, but don’t change because troubles and difficulties arise. You must meet and overcome and conquer them. And in meeting and overcoming and conquering them you will make yourself stronger for the future.

Let us suppose that you become a crane-man. Suppose you become a clerk in a lawyer's office. Give the best that is in you. Let nothing stand in the way of your going on.

Advertising Is Popular Field

By Stanley Resor, Who’s Who in America, 1926-1927

In any section of the advertising business, the novice will start at a nominal salary, comparable to that paid for similar work in any business. This is equally true whether the beginner starts by selling space for a publisher or by working in the advertising department of a department store or of a manufacturer, or as an apprentice in any department of a general advertising agency. To rise to the highest position in any of these forms of work it is...necessary to do more than develop any specialized talent one may possess (such as writing or illustrating). In addition, one must acquire wide business knowledge and sound business judgment—qualities developed only by a serious study of every business problem with which one comes into contact. Representatives of publications or of firms dealing in other forms of advertising such as street-car cards, painted bulletins and so forth may rise to become branch managers or directors of the concerns with which they are associated with salaries ranging from $2,500 to $25,000 a year. Ultimately they may become executives of these companies with a financial interest in them.

In the general advertising agencies, the salaries of beginners will climb as they advance through the various departments to work of a less routine nature and of greater responsibility. The incomes of the ablest members of the largest agencies are comparable to the professional earnings of the leaders in law and medicine. They are not so large, on the other hand, as the earnings of leaders in finance and manufacture. The advertising business, however, is growing rapidly in both the volume and the importance of its work. Opportunities are steadily multiplying. And no large and successful advertising agency can afford to be a “one-man” concern in rewards any more than in work. It tends rather to become an association of men sharing the fruit of their co-operation. Consequently, although advertising does not offer the opportunities that manufacturing does to build great fortunes, it does offer in proportion to the moderate size of the industry, an unusually large number of attractive and reasonably lucrative positions.

This article is an extract from an article in “An Outline of Careers” published by Geo. H. Doran Co. For more detailed information a copy of this book is available at the Vocational Guidance table at the “Y” rooms.

FELLOWS! You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station DAVIDSON, N. C.

RECORD CLEARANCE SALE
Victor, Brunswick and Columbia Records going at Reduced Prices until stock is reduced.
75c Records, 3 for $1.00
W.S. HENDERSON
“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

SPECIAL
One pound College Seal paper and envelopes—Only $1.00
A complete drug store at your service,
WHITE DRUG Co.
Make Our Store Your Store
“SODA” “SUNDRIES”

Banking in detail.

THE SERVICE OF LIFE INSURANCE TO THE COMMUNITY
By S. S. Huebner, Ph.D., Professor of Commerce, Wharton School of Finance and Commerce

In choosing a life’s vocation, two considerations of outstanding importance present themselves, namely (1) assurance of a decent remuneration for industry and ability, and (2) the opportunity for real service to the community. Mere remuneration, in the absence of a constant feeling that a fundamentally useful service is being rendered to the community, cannot but lead ultimately to a feeling of dissatisfaction on the part of a university-trained man. Fortunately the Life Insurance vocation combines both opportunities to an unusual degree. I have been invited to comment briefly on the service ideal only, and I am happy to do so. To my mind, there are few vocations, if any, which offer to the practitioner a greater opportunity for service to the American home—the cornerstone of Society—than Life Insurance.

More specifically, Life Insurance deals with the appraisal of life values for business and family purposes, and the capitalization of that value with a Life Insurance bond. In business, Life Insurance serves the purpose of creating and maintaining credit, and of protecting the business undertaking against loss through death of the galvanizing life force that makes the capital assets productive. With respect to the home, it constitutes the very foundation for the future in the great majority of instances. It inculcates, systematizes and enforces thrift. It gives absolute investment security to the savings. It frees the mind of the family head from the greatest source of economic worry and fear, and thus increases his vocational initiative. It represents the most convenient as well as the most systematic and secure sinking-fund method whereby to provide regularly out of current income for the great obligations of the future. Were Life Insurance universally and adequately used, the harrowing problems dealt with by sociologists would be largely solved. The gold-brick specialist would also be largely deprived of the vast mass of victims on whom he now so freely feeds.

But the main thought I wish to convey to those who may be contemplating the Life Insurance vocation is the fact that few persons buy Life Insurance on their own initiative. It has always been that way, and over-the-counter Life Insurance has proven a dismal failure, in the absence of compulsion, so far as a widespread application of the beneficent influence of Life Insurance is concerned. Here is where the great opportunity for service presents itself. It requires a salesman to create the desire for Life Insurance, or to bring the matter to a speedy and wise decision where some desire already exists. The Life Insurance salesman, therefore, supplies an incomparable service to the average home. He who writes five or ten millions of Life Insurance in the course of a life’s work, and always in a strictly ethical and well-informed manner, has performed a creative service.

This article is an extract from an article published in March, 1928, issue of the Lantern, Evening School publication of the Wharton School of Finance.

COLONEL SCOTT (Continued from page 1)
On the 4th of July a swimming meet will be held in which there will be various aquatic sports and contests. Visitors Day will be on the 16th of July, at which time there will be a track meet and several other field events. Later on in the period there will be a two-day outing, when the students sleep in tents and engage in night maneuvers. During the summer the 12 best marksmen will be chosen and sent to Camp Perry in Ohio to compete with similar teams from over the whole United States. Besides the Davidson men who are going to Fort McClellan, B. M. Drake will spend a part of his summer at Edgewood Arsenal to study the gases used in fighting.

$29.50
The Spring Holidays are Near. Place your order for that Spring Suit.
Complete Line of Spring furnishings.
STETSON “D” STORE
Sincerely, RAY HARRISON $34.50

Monday and Tuesday, March 10, 11
“The Love Parade” with Chevalier
Wednesday, March 12
“Vagabond Lover” with RUDY VALLEE
Davidson Theatre
Thursday, March 13
“A Lady to Love” with VILMA BANKY
Friday, March 14
“Let’s Go Places”
Saturday, March 15
“Vengeance” with JACK HOLT