THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1930

Books We Have Read

Brothers Karamazov. Dostoyevsky, Fyodor. Modern Library, Incorporated, New York.

Springing from the remains of a decayed noble family with few possessions other than a country estate, like its author,
Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Brothers Karamazov still rises to make its appeal to the emotional reader. Although it was printed in the
latter part of the preceding century, the book has experienced a peculiar revival. To one who has eagerly threaded his
way through The Idiot and Crime and Punishment no allusion need be made concerning Dostoyevsky’s finesse of human feeling and
psychology. It is expected of him. His every word displays depth of thought; one cannot read his words without thought.
Russian life is here in all of its bare ugliness and simple magnitude. The evildoers occupy themselves with vice; the
priests busy themselves with the malefactors. To complete the cycle the sinners laugh at the priests, and one rather suspects
that the last named worthies expect to be laughed at. Everybody laughs and then cries.

A master of thought portrayal, Dostoyevsky employs contrast to its fullest extent. The reader is led, in a few pages,
from the philosophic beauty of Alyosha and Father Zossima to the unsavory presence of Lizaveta. Supposing that he has not
been struck with the salient characteristics of the first, he is startled upon contact with the second, whereupon he reviews
the first, and will probably re-read it. He is daring who would attempt to interpret the Russian master’s intent in
writing the book. Perhaps one is inclined to read too much between the printed lines. In the final analysis, whether
it was intended or not, the three brothers (one cannot count Smerdyakov), coincide too neatly with three passions which overwhelmed
the life of the creative artist. Dmitri, the rough, the uncultured, fails like his father in any attempt to gauge
his temper. Unrestrained in love, in benevolence, in hatred, this eldest son rages on his way. No one can avoid
seeing his love for the beautiful, but at the same time must admit his unrestrained license. Russia is untamed! Ivan,
the second son, bows with European elegance; it would have mortified his Tartar ancestors! Moody as the rest, he is
in the predicament of the man who finds his heart in one place and his habits in another. Scarcely is
he happy. He recognizes sorrow as a necessity, but through foreign associations he is not mentally capable of bearing it.

News From Other Hills

College Calendar

Friday, November 28—
The Third Annual Convention of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association will meet here.
3:00 P. M.—General Assembly in Chambers Auditorium.
4:00 P. M.—Departmental meetings.
8:00 P. M.—Meeting in Chambers Auditorium.

New Brunswick, N. J.—(IP)—That teachers are due to receive the same rewards given research workers, is the opinion of Professor
Parker H. Daggett, dean of the School of Engineering at Rutgers University here. “The latter,” he says, “not infrequently makes
the front page of the newspaper; the former is all too often damned with faint praise.”

Philadelphia, Pa—(IP)—Strip film photography has been adopted by the School of Medicine at Temple University here as the best method
of teaching medicine. Strip film photography is different from motion pictures in that it consists of the making for projection
purposes of single photographic exposures, usually in series, on strips of standard motion picture film. The camera used at Temple
is small enough to be carried in a man’s coat pocket, and yet it takes perfect pictures, according to university
authorities.

New York—(IP)—New York University co-eds were the manikins at a fashion show given at the University’s Little Theatre, in co-operation
with a large New York department store. The show was the idea of Miss Elizabeth Burris-Meyer, director of the university's
division of costume design, who chose this direct method of teaching her students the facts concerning a proper and tasteful
selection of attire.

Tuscon, Ariz.—(IP)—The widespread belief that students are now entering college at an earlier age than in the past is not
substantiated by the available facts, according to Dean Emil R. Riesen, of the University of Arizona. Although comprehensive figures never
have been compiled, the trend in many universities appears to indicate, he says, that freshmen are as old, and in
some cases older, than in college generations past. At Harvard, Dean Riesen points out, the average freshman of 100 years
ago was 16 years and 3 months. Fifty years later, in 1880, the average freshman age had advanced to 18
years and 7 months, which is not far from today’s figures at Harvard and most other institutions of higher learning.

Paris.—(IP)—The cost of living for students at the University of Paris is not to bequest, provided for in the will
of the late Henry Clay Folger, of New York, provides that the trustees of Amherst College shall administer the new
Folger Shakespeare Memorial Library in Washington, D. C, and shall pay the college one-quarter of the annual net income of
the fund of $10,000,000 left for the maintenance of the building. A clause in the will provided that if Amherst
did not accept the gift, it should be transferred to the University of Chicago. Amherst already has appointed a committee
of distinguished alumni to formulate plans for the operation of the new memorial library. Included on this committee is Senator-Elect
Dwight W. Morrow, former Ambassador to Mexico.

Saturday, Nov. 29—Business session of the Language Association at 9:00 A. M.

Sunday, Nov. 30—Thanksgiving Service at Vespers at 6:00 P. M. Professor Beaty will speak. Special music.

Tuesday, Dec. 2—Literary Societies in respective halls.

Wednesday, Dec. 3—Student Sunday School Teachers meeting.

Miss Ruth Siler Is New Voice Teacher

Voice lessons are being given at Davidson College by Miss Ruth Siler, who comes to Davidson every Friday and holds
classes which last between forty-five minutes and an hour. Miss Siler, who is on the faculty of Queens-Chicora College, is
very well equipped for teaching. Besides studying intensively and extensively, she has directed glee clubs and was for a while
a professor at Erskine College. At present Miss Siler is teaching the fundamentals of voice development. She is stressing breathing,
enunciation, vowel sounds, and the reading of notes. She is unusually good in developing voices which have had no previous
training, and she brings out the best that is in the voice. This class is also very helpful to those
intending to be speakers, since it emphasizes breathing and enunciation. There are about six pupils enrolled at the present time.

Aurora, N. Y.—(IP)—For the purpose of bringing literary artists, editors and critics of national and international reputation to Wells College
here, the English Department of the college has organized a literary club. Several free lectures already have been arranged. The
first will be given on November 17 by Mary Ellen Chase, essayist and short story writer, who won the Pictorial
Review prize last spring. Her subject will be “Thomas Hardy.”

Chicago—(IP)—Princeton University alumni, meeting here, appointed a committee to find out if Princeton’s scholastic standards are too high, and if
they are keeping football material away from the school.

THANKSGIVING CLASSIC (Continued from page 3)

been of the highest type, and he has devel-Lae into not only a good field general and excellent passer, but
also into a line plunger. Russia is Europeanized! Like millions of his countrymen, Alyosha, the disciple of Zossima, would lose
himself in the realms of the supernatural and metaphysical. It is impossible for a saint to escape the petitions of
earth folk. With heart bound in love for the aesthetic, Alyosha meets the call of lust and passion, for since
he is a Russian, they call strongly to him. Forsaking his pilgrimage for good in celibacy, he must cast his
lot in a home of his own. His problems and those of his neighbors await solution. There is a great
work to be done; a wonderful work will be done. Russia looks to the future!

It is true that the average reader is too lazy to enjoy Brothers Karamazov. The book is not pleasant; it
is far from joyful; it is never hilarious. Like Russia, it oftentimes moves with a preponderance and heaviness that betides
disaster; disaster comes, many times. One is glad when he has finished the book, but he immediately wants to pick
it up and start it anew. Its nine hundred and seventy-five pages were read at two sittings. Only one regret
comes when the work is completely digested. That Dostoyevsky might see the Russia of today! Only one person could appreciate
with him the emancipation of his people, and that individual is Alyosha, the pure in heart!

Norman, Okla.—(IP)—Because a heavy enrollment has placed classroom space at a premium at Oklahoma University here, officials are considering making
use of the large space underneath the seats in Memorial Stadium as extra classrooms. It is believed that a wall
may be built along the outer side of the big athletic plant, and the 50x250 feet thus enclosed may be
divided into smaller rooms.

New York—(IP)—That William S. Porter, who wrote under the pen name O. Henry, was known to have a “yellow streak”
is the statement made here recently by Miss Blanche Colton Williams, head of the English Department at Hunter College, who
is a short story critic, and who annually conducts a survey of the earnings of more than 1,400 professional and
business women, which was made by the University of Wisconsin in cooperation with the National Federation of Business and Professional
Women’s Clubs. College graduates were found to earn an average of $346 more a year than their less educated sisters.

London, England—(TP)—The uproar with which England received the Labor government’s move to discontinue wreathing the tomb of the Unknown Soldier
as an aid to “eradication of war memories” was brought to a climax when Rudyard Kipling published a poem bitterly
criticizing the move, and charging the government with treason.

Ann Arbor, Mich—(IP)—A survey of the earnings of more than 1,400 professional and business women, which was made by the
University of Wisconsin in cooperation with the National Federation of Business and Professional Women’s Clubs, has revealed that a college
education is worth a considerable monetary value to women who intend to engage in careers. College graduates were found to
earn an average of $346 more a year than their less educated sisters.

Thad Brock, guard, had the honor of captaining a Davidson football team as a junior, and that year won honors
as unanimous choice for All-State end. This season he has been shifted to guard in order to fill a gaping
hole there, and his work in that position has earned him a likely berth on many All-States. He won nationwide
fame in “Believe It or Not” when he ran 102 yards against Duke last Thanksgiving but failed to score. Besides
playing his position in the line, he drops back to do much of the punting and some passing.

Joe McCall, halfback, is one of the fastest halfbacks in North Carolina circles, and is at present leading the Davidson
ball-toters in total yards gained from scrimmage. His speed and side-step make him a dangerous man in a broken field.
He has turned in at least one scintillating run every game this season except in the Duke fracas. It is
likely that he, too, will receive wide All-State mention.

After supposedly finishing his intercollegiate career last Thanksgiving, Tom Brohard came back to take advantage of another year of eligibility
and became a member of Davidson’s famous four-letter backfield. He has shown more drive consistently than just about any back
on the squad and hits a line like the proverbial pile driver.

Hub Covington has played tackle this year in the same hard-hitting fashion which has characterized his work before. He has
been in the starting line-ups in nearly every game this year, and has always seen plenty of service.

Jim Proctor, ideally built for an end, has taken full advantage of his build and has developed into a fine
all-around wingman. As running mate of Brock last year and Brown this year, his work has been as consistent as
that of either, and he has more than upheld his share of the work.

Bill Mason, center, was likewise blessed by nature for taking care of his position. His play in the Carolina game
was all that could be asked of a pivot man and played a fine game against Lipscomb, Tar Heel center,
who has received prominent mention for Southern honors.

Charlie Parker, guard, is the only member of the octet who had not previously won his letter, but his work
in the N.C. State game cinched him a starting berth, which he has proceeded to fill and hold against strong
competition. He is built low and has speed enough to come out of the line and get in the interference,
as required by the Davidson style of offense.

F. M. Pridgen, Jr., who completed his course in three years this summer, is located in Nashville, Tenn., with the
Equitable Life Assurance Society.

Seventeen Eastern colleges took part last spring in a poetry reading contest, the latest of intercollegiate “sports.”

Literary Societies
There will be an interesting program given by the Eumenean Society on Tuesday, December 2. A talk on principles of
parliamentary law is the first thing on the program. This will be given by Marmaduke Norfleet. Following this, current events
will be discussed by Roger Enloe. The program will be closed by a book review by Bill Ward. The address
on parliamentary law will be of particular interest to the members of the society and should prove to be of
great value.

The newly elected officers of the Philanthropic Literary Society will be installed at its meeting on December 2. The following
officers were recently elected: President, Charles Kraemer; vice-president, Horace Ryburn; secretary, Duncan McBryde; first supervisor, Stuart Noblin; first critic, Wiles
DuBose, and second critic, J. O. Mann. These men will serve until the first of March.

Davidson Theatre
Monday and Tuesday, December 1, 2
“DuBarry’s Woman of Passion” with NORMA TALMAGE
Wednesday, December 3
“Lottery Bride” JEANETTE McDONALD
Thursday, December 4
“Laughter” with NANCY CARROLL
Friday, December 5
“Remote Control” with WILLIAM HAINES

NINE MEN INITIATED
(Continued from page 1)
Various colleges and universities of the country and ranks high among honorary fraternities and, as it is so constructive in
its policy. It furnishes the college men of the United States a means of finding out about the foreign powers
of the world. In this matter, a more friendly feeling will be fostered between the United States and the other
nations of the world through the medium of greater knowledge.

America rapidly is taking from Italy the reputation for being the home of the manufacture of macaroni. Importations of the
food products from Italy are being reduced a million pounds a year, and our exports of macaroni are now six
times our imports of that commodity.

“DRUGS”
“PRESCRIPTIONS”
“SPECIAL”
One-dollar Fraternity and College Seal Paper
“SODA”
“SUNDRIES”
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

SHIRTS
SHOES
STETSON
“D” STORE
PHONE 206

FEATURING for The Christmas Holidays
TUXEDOS Ready-to-Wear at $25.00
TIES
CLOTHES
