2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 6, 1930

Sixth Annual Oratorical Contest on Constitution To Be Held on June 19

Selection of Winner Will Be Made at Los Angeles

CHANGES MADE IN RULES

Orators Have Choice of Any of Fourteen Subjects—All College Students Eligible

The Better America Federation of California is holding its sixth National Intercollegiate Oratorical Contest on the “Constitution” this year. The finals of this contest will be held at Los Angeles on June the nineteenth. Several changes have been made in the rules of the contest since last year. The former time limit of ten minutes has been changed to a word limit of fifteen hundred words. This will permit the speakers to speak as slowly as they wish and will thus allow them to improve the delivery of their speeches. The old ten-minute limit caused many of the orators to rush, in order to get in all they wished to say and still remain within the limit. This made it unfair for the speakers who spoke slowly. These reasons caused the directors of the contest to make the new rule. Under this rule, all the contestants are permitted to give the same length speech no matter how slow or how fast they may speak.

Although the total amount of the prizes remains the same, the amount of the lowest prize has been raised from three hundred and fifty dollars to four hundred dollars. The first prize, however, remains at fifteen hundred dollars. This change in the amount of the prizes should stimulate more interest in the contest. In addition to the above changes, there has also been a new selection of subjects made. These subjects are more in keeping with the maturity of college men and women than the old ones were. The subjects for 1930 are:

Davidson Fresh Defeat Quintet From Belmont

Pierce Scores Eleven Points and Intercepts Many Passes for Wildkittens

Last Thursday night the Davidson Wildkittens overcame the Belmont Abbey team to win their fourth straight game of the season, 20-14. The game was featured by the fast playing of both teams both offensively and defensively. Both teams committed many fouls but no one was put out of the game on four personal fouls. The high scorer of the game was “Skinny” Pierce with eleven of the Wildkittens’ twenty points. He was closely followed by Diamond of Belmont Abbey and Allen Rogers with ten and seven points respectively. Besides being the high scorer of the night, Pierce was probably the star for Davidson. He intercepted many passes from the Belmont Abbey men and dribbled down the court and shot the basket for two points. Early in the game, he wrenched his knee but he stayed in the game and played a brilliant game. Starring with him was Allen Rogers, the diminutive forward of the Wildkittens, who shot seven points for the Freshmen and was very fast on the floor especially on the offense.

No individual star could be picked from the Belmont Abbey team, they all played well, both on the defense and on the offense. They showed that they have a team that will give any Freshman team in the South a good battle. The strong Freshman team showed the fans that they are going to be strong contenders for the state crown. The line-ups of the two teams are as follows:

Davidson Belmont Abbey
Rogers, f (7) Diamond, f (10)
Wiles, f (2) Campbell, f (2)
Brigham, f (0) Madigan, f (0)
Pierce, c (11) Warren, c (0)
Reynolds, g (0) Manley, c (0)
Wainwright, g (0) Doris, g (2)
McDonough, g (0)

The Constitution of the United States.
Constitutional Ideals.
Constitutional Duties.
Constitutional Aspirations.
The Constitution and the Supreme Court.
The Place of Constitutional Law in American Life.
The Constitution and National Progress.
The Constitution and Contemporary Executive Practices.
The Constitution and American Economic Policies.
Constitutional Initiative.
Constitutional Guarantees to All American Citizens.
The Constitution and International Affairs.
American Youth and the Constitution.
The Constitution and its Founders.

This contest was inaugurated and is conducted by the Better American Federation of California. Its object is to createinterest in the Constitution. Last year, 542 colleges and universities entered this contest and this number is expected to be much larger this year. It is hoped that in the near future all the colleges and universities of this country will take part in the contest. Every college student in America is eligible to compete. The entries close March 25 and each college or university should have selected its orator by April 15. The finals of the contest will be held at Los Angeles on June 19. Allan Frew won honor for Davidson by winning third place in the 1928 contest. Anyone desiring additional information may obtain it by writing to P. Casper Harvey, Contest Director, Liberty, Mo.

Incentives to Individual

More National Champs!

Soccer
Eastern College—Penn State.
Eastern Amateur—First German, Newark, N. J.
Western Amateur—Heidelburg, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Swimming (Men’s Outdoor Individual A. A. U.)
100 Meters—Walter Spence, Penn A. C., Philadelphia.
440 Yards—Clarance Crabbe, Outrigger Club, Hawaii.
880 Yards—Clarance Crabbe, Outrigger Canoe Club, Hawaii.
One Mile—Clarance Crabbe, Outrigger Canoe Club, Hawaii.
220 Yards Backstroke—Frank Walton (Unattached), Hollywood, Cal.
440 Yards Breaststroke—Walter Spence, Penn A. C., Philadelphia.
880 Yards Relay—Holly A. C.
Long Distance—Raymond Ruddy, New York A. C.
Water Polo—New York A. C.

Chapel Devotionals
Pastor of Hawthorne Lane Church, Charlotte, Takes Text From Ecclesiastes

Wednesday morning, January 29, Rev. R. S. Truesdale, D.D., pastor of the Hawthorne Lane Methodist Church of Charlotte, conducted the devotional exercises during the chapel period. He selected as a basis for his talk a part of the ninth chapter of Ecclesiastes, which reads: “All things come alike to all, there is one event to the righteous, and to the wicked; to the good and to the clean, and to him that sacrificeth, and to him that sacrificeth not; for to him that is joined to all the living there is hope; for a living dog is better than a dead lion.” Following is the essence of Doctor Truesdale’s talk:

Pay too much for our lives. A man may pay too much for his money and for his fame, and maybe sometimes for his life. A man who lives righteously while he can live may be a good example for all men who will follow in the right path. Sometimes we recognize a great man’s worth after he is dead, and more so after he is dead than when he is living. We can often live too long and can often...

Ice Hockey
National (Professional) and Stanley Cup—Boston Bruins.
Canadian-American (Professional)—Boston Tigers.
Canadian Professional League—Windsor Bulldogs.
Canadian Amateur—Port Arthur.
Eastern Intercollegiate—Yale.

Polo
National Open (Indoor)—Brooklyn Riding and Driving Club.
National Open—Hurricanes.
Eastern Intercollegiate (Indoor)—Harvard.
Eastern Intercollegiate (Outdoor)—Harvard.

Basketball
American Professional League—Cleveland Rosenblums.
Men’s National A. A. U.—Cooks, Kansas City.
Women’s National A. A. U.—Schepps, Dallas, Texas.
Eastern Intercollegiate—Pennsylvania.
Western Conference—Michigan and Wisconsin (tie).
Big Six Conference—Oklahoma.
Southern Conference—North Carolina State.
Southwest Conference—Arkansas.
Rocky Mountain Conference—Montana State.
National Interscholastic (Boys)—Athens, Texas High School.

Wrestling
112 lb. Intercollegiate—George Shoemaker, Lehigh University.
118 lb. Intercollegiate—Thomas McCrary, Okla A. & M.
126 lb. Intercollegiate—George Campbell, Cornell College.
135 lb. Intercollegiate—John Earckson, Portland, Oregon.
147 lb. Intercollegiate—Ben Sherman, University of Michigan.
160 lb. Intercollegiate—Kaare Knogh, University of Chicago.
175 lb. Intercollegiate—Ed George, Baltimore.
Heavyweight, Intercollegiate—Artie Tomlinson, Sand Springs, Okla.
World’s Heavyweight (Professional)—Gus Sonnenberg and Richard Shikat, rival claimants.

What's good for my wife’s fallen arches? Rubber heels. What shall I rub ’em with?—Ex.

Yesterday the natural course of telephone expansion was to penetrate the nation’s frontiers, building new lines and adding new subscribers. Today finds many new “frontiers” for telephone expansion—among them the homes of present subscribers. Upstairs and downstairs, wherever needed, additional telephones are being installed. People are learning that there is added utility in convenient communication. This new field of activity was conceived by commercial development men of the Bell System. Just another example of forward planning to make telephone service more valuable.

BELL SYSTEM
A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones
“OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN”