THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1930

Pickups and Passes
By W. H. Matthews

The outstanding sport event of the weekend is the State track meet Saturday at Greensboro. Carolina stands the outstanding favorite to run their string of eight consecutive victories in the annual affair to nine, and there seems little chance of stopping them. They pack enough power to win a large number of the afternoon’s events and place in practically all. We look for Davidson to come through with a second place again, and State, Wake Forest, and Duke to finish in the order named. Don’t hold it against us if we miss it.

The Wildcats should win two places in both hurdle events, with Whittle certain to win both of them. The javelin may produce a first, but it is not likely. Following McCall’s nice work last Saturday in the broad jump, he rules a favorite to defeat Kinzey again. Boots Wilson has cleared five feet, 8 inches this season, and that height will come close to winning the high jump, with the great dearth of real jumpers in the state.

Charlie Farmer, Carolina’s ace sophomore sprinter, practically has the dashes sewed up, and it is not likely that Davidson will enter either Whittle or Brohard in those events. Brohard may win the 440, but he will encounter much opposition from State’s entry. Neither of the Wildcat runners were able to place in the half-mile at State two weeks ago, and there is little chance of their doing so this time. Lafferty has not broken four minutes, forty seconds in the mile this year, and it will take better time than that to win the event, we believe. If Soup Brannon is pushed, he should be able to turn in a better time than even his record-breaking mark against Wake Forest, and it seems certain that he will place.

The weakness in the shot put and discus precludes any possibility of amassing any points in those events. Pat Boyle may place in the shot, but no one on the team has been able to hurl the discus far enough to hold much chance there.

The performance of the track team as a whole last Saturday against Wake Forest was as good as any turned in this year. The heavy wind made conditions anything but favorable for record-breaking times and distances. Nevertheless, three college records were bettered, and Whittle set a personal record of scoring more points in one meet than at any previous time in his college career. With firsts in both dashes and both hurdles, Whittle ran up 20 points, to better his mark of 19 made against State last week. His times in the 100-yard dash, 10 seconds flat, and in the highs, 15.3 seconds, were both exceptionally good. He also negotiated the 220-yard dash in 22.1 seconds, which was also rather fast for the distance. Joe McCall bettered his broad jump record with a leap of 23 feet, 1-2 inch. His mark beats the present state record.

Wildcats to Meet Elon In Second Game Tues.
Lefty Briggs Will Go to Mound for Christians

Rounding into the home stretch of the present baseball season, the Wildcat sluggers who have won seven games and lost six, have only five more scheduled to play, two with Duke, one with Carolina, one with the University of South Carolina, and the other with Elon. All are to be played at Davidson except the game with the Tar Heels, and one of the Blue Devil encounters.

Davidson has experienced a fairly good season, considering the fact that two of Coach Younger’s leading stars have been out with injuries. Nab Armfield has not seen service for the past three weeks and has missed several games. However, he is improving rapidly and is expected to play the latter part of the schedule. Jim Proctor, who has fully recovered, played in the Carolina game last week.

Elon is bringing a powerful nine to play at Davidson next Tuesday. The Christians have been having a splendid season, led by their pitching ace, Lefty Briggs. The port-side hurler, who is considered one of the best in North Carolina, helped his mates a few days ago to defeat Wake Forest, twice the conquerors of Davidson. Clark and Harrington are a real threat with the bat, and may prove a menace to the Wildcat hurlers. The fact that Davidson has already defeated Elon once this year—in a close game, by no means makes the Wildcats an overwhelming favorite.

Today Davidson is playing the concluding game of a series with Lenoir-Rhyne at Hickory.Record of 23 feet, 1-4 inch, held by Kinzey of Wake Forest, but the distance will not stand as a new mark, unless made in the state contest. Brannon ran an exceptionally good two mile, considering the bad wind, and turned in a new record of 10 minutes, 20.8 seconds. This breaks the old mark by almost five seconds. Coble got off a long throw of 180 feet, 2 inches, in the javelin to break the old record and to complete the new records made for the day. 

Johnston and Halverstadt redeemed in some measure for the three defeats of the tennis team in their matches of the past two weeks by their excellent (Continued on Page 5)

A Minister of the Gospel SHOULD BE A Man of prayer. TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS ONE OF THE AIMS OF UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY For Catalog and Information, Address, Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., President Richmond, Virginia.

Varsity Batting Averages
AB R H Avg.
Marion ------- 1 0 1 1.000
Goodson ------ 53 7 19 .359
Parrish ------- 56 8 17 .304
Covington ---- 41 7 12 .293
Proctor ------- 26 7 7 .269
McInnis ------- 45 6 11 .244
Armfield ------ 32 6 8 .243
Miller -------- 49 7 11 .225
Mathis ------- 23 4 5 .218
Bernhardt ---- 23 4 5 .218
Henderson ---- 62 1 1 .167
McMillan ----- 27 4 3 .111
Gladstone ---- 23 1 2 .088
Kugler -------- 26 2 2 .078
Totals ------- 440 64 104 .231

Pepper Wins State Golf Championship
Defeats Willis of Carolina, Defending Champion, to Win

Captain Jack Pepper, versatile leader of the Davidson College golf team, added another honor to Davidson's athletic laurels, when he won the intercollegiate golf tournament of North Carolina at Sedgefield last Saturday. Winning medalist honors cinched for him the individual collegiate championship of the State. His score was 160 for 36 holes, which was played against a very unfavorable wind. Captain Pepper, who was runner-up in the tournament a year ago, defeated Meade Willis, of Carolina, the defending champion, who also hails from Winston-Salem, and whose best score was 167. Captain Pepper received a beautiful gold medal.

In the morning round, Pepper led the entire field, but was closely pressed by Captain Chatham of Carolina, who was only one stroke behind. But, in the afternoon battle, the Wildcat golfer shot 37 in the first nine holes, and 45 in the next nine, to win the meet. On Friday, another match was collected by Carolina at Davidson's expense by a score of 15-3. Captain Pepper furnished a high spot in this encounter when he came from behind, took a birdie two on the sixteenth hole, par four on the seventeenth, and an eagle three on the long par five eighteenth hole to win the last nine holes against Captain Chatham of Carolina. Chatham, however, won the match.

Shadows of Coming Events
THURSDAY, MAY 1
Baseball: Lenoir-Rhyne at Hickory (Var.)
Mt. Pleasant at Mt. Pleasant (Fr.)
Golf: N. C. State at Charlotte.

FRIDAY, MAY 2
Golf: P. C. at Clinton (pending).
Tennis: P. C. at Davidson (pending).

SATURDAY, MAY 3
Track: State Meet at Greensboro.
Golf: Furman at Greenville (pending).

TUESDAY, MAY 6
Baseball: Elon at Davidson (varsity).

WEDNESDAY, MAY 7
Baseball: Carolina at Davidson (varsity).

That statement was on the first package of Camels manufactured and has been on every one of the billions of Camel packages sold from that day to this. When it was first written, other cigarette manufacturers were giving away flags, pictures of actresses, pictures of ball players—almost anything that would make the smoker think he was getting something extra for his money. The makers of Camels believed the smoker wanted a cigarette sold strictly on its merits, with all of its cost put into quality—a cigarette made of such excellent tobaccos—so perfectly blended—so mellow—so fragrant—that it would win its own way. The vast popularity of Camels is a tribute to that four-square policy.

CAMELS for pleasure
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.

Turn this package over and read the back

THE WORDS on the back of the package still mean what they say. No “extras,” which do not contribute to the quality of the smoke, are included in the price of Camels. Just the utmost smoke-enjoyment that modern science can put into a cigarette. Don’t look for premiums or coupons, as the cost of the tobaccos blended in CAMEL Cigarettes prohibits the use of them.

MANUFACTURED BY R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO. WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.