THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 20, 1930

After Graduation---Then What?

CHOICE OF VOCATION MOST IMPORTANT THING IN LIFE

Editor’s Note: This is the first of a series of articles which are being published in “The Davidsonian” under the auspices of the Davidson Young Men’s Association’s Annual Vocational Guidance Program.

Scientific Choice of a Vocation Necessary

No step in life, unless it be the choice of a husband or wife, is more important than the choice of a vocation. The wise selection of the business, trade, or occupation to which one’s life is to be devoted and the development of full efficiency in the chosen field are matters of the deepest moment to young men and to the public. These vital problems should be solved in a careful, scientific way, with due regard to each person’s aptitudes, abilities, ambitions, resources, and limitations, and the relations of these elements to the conditions of success in the different industries.

If a man takes up a line of work to which he is adapted, he will achieve far greater success than if he drifts into an occupation for which he is not fitted. An occupation out of harmony with the worker’s aptitudes and capacities means inefficiency, unenthusiastic and perhaps distasteful labor, and low pay; while an occupation in harmony with the nature of the man means enthusiasm, love of work and high economic values, superior product, efficient service, and good pay. If a young man chooses his vocation so that his best abilities and enthusiasm will be united with his daily work, he has laid the foundations of success and happiness. But if his best abilities and enthusiasms are separated from his daily work, or do not find in it fair scope and opportunity for exercise and development; if his occupation is merely a means of making a living, and the work he loves to do is sidetracked into the evening hours, or pushed out of his life altogether, he will be only a fraction of the man he ought to be.

Efficiency and success are largely dependent on adaptation. A man would not get good results by using his cow to draw his carriage and his horse for dairy purposes; yet the difference in adaptability in that case is no more emphatic than the differences in aptitudes, capacities, powers, and adaptabilities of human beings. Men generally drift into some line of work by chance, proximity, or uninformed selection; and the high percentage of inefficiency and change experienced by many employers in their working force, and the cost it entails in employment expense, waste of training, and low-grade service, are largely due to the haphazard way in which young men drift into employments, with little or no regard to adaptability, and without adequate, organized preparation, or any definite aim or well-considered plan to ensure success.

The building of a career is quite as difficult as the building of a house, yet few ever sit down with pencil and paper, with expert information and counsel, to plan a working career and deal with the life problem scientifically, as they would deal with the problem of building a house, taking the advice of an architect to help them. No person may decide for another what occupation he should choose, but it is possible to help him so to approach the problem that he shall come to wise conclusions for himself.

Whatever doubts there may be of the practicability of giving expert vocational counsel, there are certain truths that cannot be denied.
1. It is better to choose a vocation than merely to hunt a job.
2. No one should choose a vocation without careful self-analysis, thorough, honest, and under guidance.
3. The young man should have a large survey of the field of vocations, and not simply drop into the convenient or accidental position.
4. Expert advice, or the advice of men who have made a study of men and of vocations and of the conditions of success, must be better for the young man than the absence of it.

Vocational Guidance Trends

FROM ARTICLES By Dean F. F. Bradshaw, U. N. C.

The great amount of unrest concerning the processes of higher education is the source of the personnel work at the present time. These source areas are complicated by the following contributions: The great increase in the size of the student bodies; the development of modern psychology which gives a scientific method of attack on human problems; the experiences of the war in developing placement service and a technique for placing men in their place of best service; and the great mortality among students raising the question of the validity of their choice in regard to a college education, and involving the question of their abilities and motives. The whole thing takes place in a social situation that is in a constant state of change, especially in the south, which calls for choices of life work from students with a minimum of experience from which to draw.

All this calls for an attempt in the educational process to guide students in their life choices. In the beginning, it must not be thought that this attempt is an attempt to weigh, measure, and catalogue students for their respective pigeonhole in society as an exact science, but that the process of guidance is an attempt to apply scientific process to the whole problem of life choice. A sound attack is the assumption that a counselor can help the student determine some fields of work in which his ability and interest might lead him to invest his life with the understanding that after all it must be the student who makes the real choice. The whole process might well be called a vocational self-guidance process, which takes into consideration...the work and the leisure interest of the student and which is not a single operation but is a continuing process. Any man who is living and growing has not completely decided his entire future career. Our philosophy of life must take into consideration the idea of growth and the need of a continuing adjustment of the growing individual to his changing environment, and the changing needs of the world as they appeal to his changing abilities. A sound vocational philosophy involves three elements in union: the capacity of the individual, the opportunities in the world of work, and the attitude of the individual to work. This then gives us three problems. The first problem is that of capacity, calling for some sort of analysis of the individual. In the past, there have been many ways in which this has been attempted, some of which have been the ways of the quack, the fortune teller, the phrenologist, the pseudo-psychologist, etc. It is impossible to forecast success in business or profession or to tell whether a man ought to be a wood chopper or a doctor by the color of his eyes, hair, the shape of his head, the length of his nose, whether his chin is receding or protruding, etc. At the same time, the advice of well-meaning parents, teachers, that because a youth copies the Minister in preaching a sermon, he ought, therefore, to be a preacher, is as unsafe as that of the quack. A rule that is almost safe is that there is no test that will tell a man what he ought to be. There are some tests of interest, mental ability, and physical powers that will tell that probably he ought not to be a doctor, because that profession calls for some capacities which he does not have. But this will leave many occupations open for which he does have ability. Fortunately, there are thousands of things to be done and there is no one who cannot find honorable work that will suit his ability and interests. Kitsen, of the University of Columbia, says that probably 50 percent of the people can fill 50 percent of the jobs with 50 percent efficiency. The thing for each man to do is to find the thing that he can do with approaching 100 percent efficiency. So in making an analysis of an individual through interest and self-analysis tests, it is possible for each person to isolate a group of things, any one of which he might be able to do with a fair chance of success and happiness. Before making the choice of his life work, the individual should know what kinds of work there are to be done, so that he can make an intelligent choice from among them. There are a number of good books such as Bernays’ “Outline of Careers” that will not only tell you what kinds of work there are available over the world, but also what is done in the job and the training that is necessary. Articles will be run in the Davidsonian during the spring which will tell of opportunities in the different professions and in business in the United States. These articles will be written by leading men from each field. A glance at the United States Census report will show classifications of work which men are doing. Also, there are specifications made by many companies that are complete analyses of the activities in which a man engages in that particular field of service, so that an applicant may know just what he will have to do if he chooses that certain profession or work.

FELLOWS! You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station DAVIDSON, N. C.

Stationery Books Magazines Superior Soda Service W.S. HENDERSON Fountain Pens Felt Goods Sundries

DAVIDSON FRESHMEN Wingate used ten men in an effort to stem the tide of defeat but it was in vain. During the past week, the Wildkittens lost two games and won one. They lost to Oak Ridge and Belmont Abbey, and defeated Wingate. The lineups of the two teams are as follows:

Davidson (45) Wingate (19)
Rogers, f (10) .......... Williams, f (5)
Greechy, f (20) .......... Morgan, f (0)
Manson, f (5) .......... Clark, f (2)
Enochs, f (2) .......... Funderburk, f (0)
Pierce, c (16) .......... Gaddy, c (6)
Peabody, g (2) .......... Tucker, g (2)
Bettis, g (0) .......... Baker, g (3)
Bernard, g (1) .......... Conner, g (0)
Walker, g (1) .......... Griffin, g (0)

ONE EXPLOSION IS AS BAD AS a Fire or an Earthquake Explosions rip, rend, wreck homes, retail stores, plants, factories, warehouses, mills, and all classes of property. No building is immune from their threat. We shall be glad to explain how your property may be protected against explosion from within and without your property. Better to have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Co. Insurance Department CHARLOTTE, N. C.

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS” SPECIAL One pound College Seal paper and envelopes—Only $1.00 A complete drug store at your service. WHITE DRUG CO. Make Our Store Your Store “SODA” “SUNDRIES”

$29.50 STETSON “D” STORE Opposite Campus Telephone 206 Clothes for the College Boy $34.50

Best Quality and Prices ANY TYPE OF PRINTING Earnest H. McCall Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. Charlotte, N. C.

Monday and Tuesday, February 24 and 25 VICTOR MACLAGLEN in “Hot for Paris” DON’T MISS THIS—It’s A WOW!

Wednesday, February 26 “Night Parade” Davidson Theatre

Thursday, February 27 VAN and SCHENK in “They Learned About Women”

Friday, February 28th “Nix on Dames”

Saturday, March 1 “Murder on the Roof”