THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6, 1930

J.B. Fleece Makes Talk On Spiritual Ownership At “Y” Vesper Service

Appeals to Davidson Men as Sports and Wishes to Leave Verdict With Them Illustrates With Bible Is Prominent Lawyer, Banker,
and Active and Useful Layman

At the “Y” vesper service Sunday evening, Mr. J. B. Fleece, of Louisville, Ky., delivered an interesting and practical address
on “The Ownership of All Things.” Mr. Fleece is a prominent lawyer, banker, and an active and useful layman. The
Scripture text was read by J. W. McCutchan from Hebrew 12:13. Jack Matthews and Don King led the meeting in
prayer. Dr. Moffett then introduced the speaker of the evening.

Mr. Fleece appealed to the Davidson men as good sports, stating that he wished to leave the verdict and conclusion
of his talk to them. “Life is very simple, consisting of two things, and the method and manner in which
we acquire and dispose of the things is all that counts,” stated Mr. Fleece. He went on to say that
it is important that we give some thought to the manner of acquisition and disposition.

Mr. Fleece next brought out God's ownership of all things. “If all my possessions belong to me, what right has
God or anybody else to them?” asked Mr. Fleece. The speaker explained that he had no better right to the
title deed of his home than the one from whom he had secured it. The title started somewhere, and if
we trace it we finally get back to God who created all things. “God who created all things,” continued Mr.
Fleece, “has certainly some right to them. It is a fair conclusion that He owns everything, or else He separated
Himself from everything He created. Nobody has ever claimed a better authority than the Bible. There are numerous quotations in
the Bible that show God’s ownership. ‘Gold and silver are mine, the cattle on a thousand hills are mine,’ sayeth
the Lord; ‘the earth and all that dwell therein.’ There is not a line to bear out the idea that
we should give a small portion to God and take the rest ourselves.”

“Pay day will come when an injunction or obligation is violated,” stated Mr. Fleece. He compared habits of everyday life
to a measuring stick, stating that a wrong measure would often make more mistakes than anything else. “A daily reading
from the Bible with a prayer in our hearts will give us the right measuring stick,” explained the speaker.

Mr. Fleece said in closing, “It is necessary to recognize that everything we have belongs to God, and that we
should do the things that God’s Kingdom may come. Make religion practical in everyday life. If we accept God as
the owner of us, we have nothing to worry about in everyday affairs.”

DAVIDSON WINS FIRST (Continued from page 3)

Singles—Dubose (D.), defeated Vernon (W. F.), 6-4, 6-3; Roddey (D.), defeated Griffin (W. F.), 7-9, 6-4, 8-6; McLean (D.), defeated
Fletcher (W. F.), 6-2, 8-10, 6-4; Poe (D.), defeated Glen (W. F.), 6-2, 8-6; Calder (D.), defeated Brown (W. F.),
7-5, 6-1; C. Spencer (W. F.), 6-2, 6-4. Doubles—Roddey and Poe (D.), defeated Griffin and Glen (W. F.), 6-2, 6-3;
McLean and Spencer (D.), defeated Brown and Smith (W. F.), 6-1, 6-1; Dubose and Calder (D.), defeated Vernon and Fletcher
(W. F.), 6-4, 3-6, rain.

Literary Societies

Eumenean

An all-Freshman debate will feature the program of the Eumenean Literary Society at its next meeting. The men who are
to speak are as follows: Arguing the affirmative of the question, Resolved, That Davidson College should become co-educational, there are
Wm. C. Matthews, R. C. Morrow and J. Williams. Those men who are to take the negative of the question
are John Fitzgerald, Fred Hallegars and Hugh Hawkins. While this will be the first time that these men have appeared
before a Davidson audience, they are not without experience in debating. The question to be debated is not a new
one at Davidson. As the topic chosen for discussion possesses certain elements of humor, it should prove an interesting program.

Philanthropic

At its next meeting Tuesday evening at 7:15 p.m., the Philanthropic Literary Society will offer a program dedicated in entirety
to the distinguished British author, Rudyard Kipling. The first and main address of the evening will be a talk on
the life and works of Kipling by W. L. Fugate. Following this, selections from the Poems and Ballads of Kipling
will be read by H. W. Ryburn. S. E. Robinson will give a number of current events and R. D.
Russell will close the program with a number of humorous selections.

JUNIORS TAKE LEAD (Continued from page 3)

and were on the big end of a 16 to 15 score when the third period ended. Both teams played
evenly in the final period, each scoring two more field goals before the game ended. Smith, Senior center, was high
point man with six field goals, or 12 points, to his credit. Patrick of the Juniors was next with six
points, while Shepherd of the Seniors and Montgomery and Martin of the Juniors each registered five points. Proctor handled the
whistle.

Sophs 34—Freshmen 17

Accurate shooting and good defensive work helped a smooth working Sophomore quintet down an inexperienced Freshman basketball team to the
tune of 34 to 17, in the second game of the 1930 inter-class basketball schedule. The Sophomores took the lead
at the beginning and there was never any doubt as to their superiority.

Hartsell, Sophomore center, started the scoring early when he netted two field goals and a foul shot to put his
team ahead, 5 to 0. The Sophs continued to pile up goals and held an 11 to 3 lead at
the end of the first quarter. At the half they increased their total to 20, while the Freshman brought their
score to 9. Both teams scored freely in the third quarter, but the upperclassmen continued to outscore the first year
men, the third stanza ending 28 to 13 in their favor. With 12 points to his credit, Hartsell led the
scoring. Evans, Freshman guard, was next with seven, while Calhoun, a Sophomore, scored six points. “Skinny” Pierce went in for
the second year men in the third quarter.

Alois Lang, Christus of the 1930 Passion Play, received only $955 as his share of the proceeds of the play.
Dr. Jean Betzner of Teachers College, Columbia University, believes the present methods of teaching English composition to children in primary
grades tends to hinder rather than to develop their creative literary talents. The fossil of a remote ancestor of the
common morning glory, that bloomed twenty-oneMillion years ago, and the feather of a bird of the same period have been
discovered by the Field Museum geological expedition in the vicinity of Florissant, Colorado. In an effort to offset the habit
of becoming “music listeners” engendered in youngsters by the radio and player piano, school authorities in New York are setting
up courses in music to develop “players of music” among children.

Quarter and contributed four points towards his team’s total.

Juniors 24—Sophs 19

In the third game of the inter-class basketball competition, the Juniors took the Sophomores into camp to the tune of
24-19. The contest was marked by good passing and accurate shooting of the entire Junior quintet, enabling them to emerge
the winners. The Sophomores were the first to score, Belcher dropping one in from the court after the game was
three minutes old. The Juniors came back, however, and at the end of the initial stanza had tied the score
at six-all. In the second quarter Montgomery added six more points to the Juniors’ total, while his teammates were holding
the Sophs scoreless, the half ending with the Juniors holding a 12 to 6 lead. The third-year men continued to
run roughshod over their opponents after the intermission and increased their lead 20 to 11 before the quarter ended. The
Sophs came back strong in the final period to score four field goals, but two more for the Juniors, one
by Patrick and one by Arnold, sewed the game up for them. Montgomery and Patrick were high-scorers with nine and
eight points, respectively. Hartsell, of the losers, counted seven times to bring his all-games’ total to 19 points, making him
the leading scorer thus far.

College Calendar

Friday, Nov. 7—Pep Meeting for Student Body at 7 p.m.
Saturday, Nov. 8—Davidson-Wofford football game at 2:30 p.m.
Sunday, Nov. 9—“Y” Vesper Service at 6:00 p.m. Mr. J. B. Johnston, Barium Springs’ Head, to speak.
Monday, Nov. 10—Dr. Gordon J. Laing, Dean of Graduate School of Arts and Literature at the University of Chicago will
deliver three lectures in the Chambers Auditorium, one during the chapel exercises, one in the afternoon, and one at 7:30
p.m.
Tuesday, Nov. 11—Meetings of Literary Societies in respective halls at 7:15.
Wednesday, Nov. 12—“The Merchant of Venice” will be presented in Chambers Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. Meeting of Student Sunday School
Teachers at 9:00 p.m., in the “Y” Reading Room.

Father and Son Will Graduate

Geneva, N. Y.—(AP)—Charles B. Persell, Sr., 58, and his son, Charles B. Persell, Jr., are both Seniors at Hobart College
here this year. Both are majoring in history, although the father already is a teacher and the son is studying
for the ministry.

Glee Club to Make Several Fall Trips

The Davidson College Glee Club, under the direction of Professor Cullom, is fast getting into shape. The number in the
club was cut again recently and most of those in it now are practically assured of a permanent place. The
prospects look unusually good this year and those in charge are predicting great things of it. Work is now going
on on the program for this season and the object of those doing this work is to vary the program,
including some of the lighter numbers as well as the classics. The club is made up of a chorus of
27 men, a quartet, soloists, and the Davidson Orchestra. The schedule is also being made up at this time and
some trips are being planned for before Christmas, as well as after. Those before Christmas will be one-night stands only
and will include performances at Mt. Gilead, Belmont, Lenoir and other nearby places. After Christmas several long trips will be
planned, among them being a trip to Atlanta. This one will include stops at Agnes Scott College, Brenau College, Shorter
College and Converse College.

Directors of the West Texas Chamber of Commerce are reported to be planning to bring a million-dollar suit against publishers
of geographies for making “scandalously damaging and untrue descriptions of West Texas territory.”

One of the latest books is a biography of Al Capone, “A Self-Made Man,” written by Fred D. Pasley, a
Chicago newspaper reporter.

Betas Are Campus Football Champions

Defeat Kappa Sigs in Close Contest

The Beta Theta Pi fraternity team defeated the Kappa Sigs in the finals of the campus football tournament last Friday
in a closely contested match on Richardson Field by the score of 6-0. Not until the last period was the
match finally decided, when McMillan tossed a 25-yard pass to Bill Poe, who went across untouched. The Betas also made
two other serious threats in the first half, one attempt falling short by a scant three yards. The Betas defeated
the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity in the first round by number of yards gained. Then they went on to subdue
the S. A. E.’s by a score of 6-0, and the Phi Delta Thetas by number of yards gained to
reach the final round with the Kappa Sigmas. The Kappa Sigmas defeated the A.’s and the Pi Kappa Phis both
by the score of 6-0, and then reached the final round by a bye. Hugh McMillan, Bill Poe, Shine McMillan
and Halverstadt were the big guns for the winners, while Fleagle, Pepper and Dan LaFar were outstanding for the losers.
The winning team was composed of Taylor, Hall, Stevens, Beacham, Pratt-Thomas, Roddey, Poe, Shine McMillan, Halverstadt, Hugh McMillan, and McClintock.

A collection of 22,000 moths and butterflies, the work of a lifetime, has been presented to Cornell University by Addison
J. Elsworth, a printer, who made a hobby of collecting butterflies on holidays and Sundays.

The banks of G-E floodlights at Georgia Tech's Grant Field can be adjusted to illuminate track meets as well as
football games.

G-E Floodlighting Wins Favor for Football - Hockey - Track - Baseball - Tennis

G-E floodlighting equipment has a winning record. Its victories are counted in terms of pleased spectators, increased attendance, satisfied coaches
and players. The development of G-E athletic-field floodlighting equipment was planned with every consideration for the fundamental and special playing
conditions it must meet. That is why the big Novalux projectors give ample and evenly diffused light over the entire
playing area. The development of General Electric floodlighting equipment has largely been the work of college-trained men in the G-E
organization — other college-trained men are largely responsible for the continuing leadership of General Electric in furnishing the many other
products which bear the G-E monogram.

JOIN US IN THE GENERAL ELECTRIC PROGRAM, BROADCAST EVERY SATURDAY EVENING ON A NATION-WIDE N.B.C. NETWORK

GENERAL® ELECTRIC
