THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 23, 1930

McCall Gets Loose
Used by Courtesy of The Charlotte Observer
Photographer Catches Joe McCall on one of his many lengthy jaunts Saturday

State Collegiate Press Group Meets On Oct. 30
East Carolina Teachers’ College to be Host of Association at Greenville, N. C.

KING IS TREASURER
“Davidsonian,” “Quips and Cranks,” and “Yowl” to be Represented

The annual fall convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will be held in Greenville at East Carolina Teachers’
College, beginning October 30 and extending through November 2. Greenville, the hub of Eastern Carolina, is located in the heart
of the bright leaf tobacco belt, and is the second largest bright leaf tobacco market in the world.

This association is composed of representatives of the different news publications from various colleges and universities in North Carolina, and
meets twice yearly. Each year it convenes in a different city. Two years ago it met in Hickory, and last
year held its meeting in High Point. This year’s convention at Greenville will be the farthest east the association has
met.

The Davidsonian, Year Book, and the “Yowl”—the humorous magazine—will have two representatives, probably the editors-in-chief and the business managers. For
the past two years, Davidson has been represented on the official staff of the Press Association, having been represented last
year by Bob Jarratt as president, and this year by Bob King as treasurer. As has been the custom, the
association will probably hold its meetings in the form of banquets, after which their business will be discussed.

Miss Evelyn Wright, of Greenville, secretary of the association, has written the Davidson representatives informing them of interesting plans for
their entertainment now being made. The following are the present officers of the Press Association: President, Everette Couch, N. C.
State; Vice-Presidents, Betty Brown and Clyde Pugh; Treasurer, King, Davidson; Secretary, Evelyn Wright, East Carolina Teachers’ College.

Seniors Hold Smoker in New Chambers Building
Interesting Program Given, Featuring Calligan, LaFar, Bird and Senior Sextet

Last Friday night at 9 o'clock, the Senior Class had a smoker in Chambers Building. Practically the whole class was
present. This was the first general meeting of the class of ’30 this year. Delightful refreshments, consisting of hot coffee,
sandwiches and salad, were first served. The blessing was asked by Dean Rusk. An interesting program was then presented. A
group of Seniors then sang several selections. This group consisted of Ramseur, McMillan, Covington, Mason, McCall, and Wilson. A short
talk was given by Dan LaFar, president of the class. Afterwards he introduced Andy Bird, who made a talk. Business
matters of the class were next discussed, plans being made for the year. The purpose of these meetings is for
a general get-together of the class and to make plans for the year.

THE DAVIDSON HOTEL
(Successor to the Maxwell Chambers)

Again we would like to announce the Davidson Orchestra entertaining our patrons during dinner and supper hours. Give us a
trial this month and enjoy our excellent food and service under the new management.
W. A. Murray
Don McQueen — Geo. McClenaghan — Bill Moseley
Managers

Calligan played some selections on the banjo, which were greatly enjoyed.

Davidson Is First Team In South to Use Pass
Authentic Record Shows That Wildcats in Defeating Georgia Were First to Pass

As the University of North Carolina prepared last week to visit Athens, Ga., where they met the University of Georgia
Bulldogs, it was recalled through the pages of an authentic writer that another North Carolina eleven went to that same
city 24 years ago last Monday and successfully used a forward pass for the first time in the history of
the South. That team was one representing Davidson College, and the Wildcats, though they were not known as such in
those days, won over the Bulldogs, 15 to 0.

The authority for this assertion is none other than the late Fuzzy Woodruff, for many years one of the outstanding
recorders of sporting events in the South. Before his death, he had completed a “History of Southern Football,” in three
volumes, and it was in the first of these that he made this assertion. To quote him verbatim, he says
on page 187 of volume 1: “The first record of a forward pass being successfully used is on October 13,
1906, when Davidson defeated Georgia, 15 to 0. The reports of the game say that Davidson used a short pass
over the middle of the line with great effect. In fact, the more we read of that year, the more
convinced we become that coaches saw in the forward pass only...a means of making short gains. It had not yet
become a scoring potentiality. Mr. Woodruff's book and the Davidson magazine tell that on October 27, 1906, Davidson was nosed
out by Georgia Tech, 4 to 0, a field goal by a player named Brown deciding the contest. The magazine
of December 1906 also had this to say about the forward pass in the Tech-Davidson tilt: “Hightower of Tech made
25 yards on a forward pass. Davidson attempted but a single pass.” The issue preceding, in November 1906, has further
enlightenment about the “new rules.” It said: “The new rules certainly have added ginger to the plays and as to
the roughness opinions are varied. But one fact noticed is that there are not so many players hurt.” This latter
was probably due to the open game which football started indulging in about that time. Mr. Woodruff, at the opening
of chapter 13, entitled “The Forward Pass Arrives,” had this to say: “In considering the football season of 1906, we
must take into consideration the fact that this was the first year of the forward pass and that the game
was largely one of experimentation. Coaches knew as little about the use of the overhead attack as the players, and
they had made absolutely no progress in arranging a defense against this method of ground gaining. “The passes that year
were almost uniformly rainbow affairs, generally thrown pretty much at random in the hope that some eligible player would get
close to one. Passing was used generally as a last resort or a forlorn hope.”

Cumming Helps in Writing New Book

How would you like to be facing an angry quartet of Alaskan bears, gnashing their teeth within two jumps distance,
with no protection but a movie camera and two cartridges in your rifle? Or dangle over two thousand feet above
floating icebergs below with nothing but a slipping left toe to support you? Or trek through the snow of an
Alaskan blizzard, your trail lost for days, and eight out of eleven of your horses dead of starvation and cold?
Or catch a man red-handed just after he had blown his partner all over a five-acre lot with five and
a half cases of dynamite? Or talk by lone campfires at night with “Old Man Hasselborg,” famous Alaskan trapper, who
has lived the life Robert W. Service writes about? These and a score of other tales are to be found
in the new library book, “The Wild Grizzlies of Alaska,” written by John M. Holzworth with the collaboration of Prof.
W. P. Cumming of the Davidson faculty. The book portrays the high adventure of a hunter-naturalist in the wilderness regions
of sub-arctic Alaska. Photographs of a hundred and fifty bears taken at all sorts of hair-raising close-up ranges, with vivid
accounts of the thrills experienced in making them, make this book a vivid first-hand account of the Alaskan bear, the
biggest carnivorous animal in the world. Mr. John M. Holzworth is one of America’s foremost hunter-naturalists, for whom the new
species Ursus holzworthi has been named and chairman of the committee recently appointed by the American Mammalogists’ Association to preserve
the grizzly bears of Alaska from their present danger of rapid extinction. He has made several expeditions to the bear
country of Alaska, and on his last trip, in company with Dr. Cumming, he made a detailed study of the
habits, customs, and habitat of the big bears. “This book,” says Dr. Hornaday, former director of the Bronx Zoological Gardens
and famous authority on animals, “is a volume of thrilling interest and absolutely permanent value.”

The banks of G-E floodlights at Georgia Tech's Grant Field can be adjusted to illuminate track meets as well as
football games.

G-E Floodlighting Wins Favor for Football - Hockey - Track - Baseball - Tennis

G-E floodlighting equipment has a winning record. Its victories are counted in terms of pleased spectators, increased attendance, satisfied coaches
and players. The development of G-E athletic-field floodlighting equipment was planned with every consideration for the fundamental and special playing
conditions it must meet. That is why the big Novalux projectors give ample and evenly diffused light over the entire
playing area.

The development of General Electric floodlighting equipment has largely been the work of college-trained men. Other college-trained men are largely
responsible for the continuing leadership of General Electric in furnishing the many other products which bear the G-E monogram.

JOIN US IN THE GENERAL ELECTRIC PROGRAM, BROADCAST EVERY SATURDAY EVENING ON A NATION-WIDE N.B.C. NETWORK

95-770DH ELECTRIC
