THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 6, 1930

By Unknown Criminals Large Amount of Goods Stolen Monday Night as Thieves Enter Local Clothing Store Stetson “D” Burglarized

Burglary in Davidson reached alarming proportions Monday night when the Stetson “D” establishment on Main Street was forcibly entered by
unknown parties. Raymond Harrison, local manager for Stetson “D,” reports that nearly one thousand dollars worth of goods is missing
as a result of the crime. Twenty-one suits of ready-made clothing were removed along with a number of minor articles.
No evidence tending to locate the criminals has come to light.

The breaking occurred after twelve o'clock Monday night. Apparently, the thief attempted an entrance through the rear door, since the
glass in that door was found broken. Thwarted at this point, the criminal proceeded to smash the plate glass in
the front door, making his intrusion at this place, and removing the goods through the same aperture to the street,
where it is presumed an automobile awaited him, since the quantity of stolen goods was too great to be easily
carried away on foot.

General alarms were sent to neighboring towns in the hope that the thief might be apprehended, but no results were
forthcoming. At present, the case rests as an unsolved mystery.

Monk Submits His Men To Psychology Wildcat Mentor Practices Science to Save Game

“Silence is golden,” is a trite and oft-repeated saying. Anyone who watched Davidson College's Wildcats in the second half of
their basketball game with Maryville College this week, and who knew what went on between the halves will verify that
statement. For silence brought a golden harvest to Monk Younger that night. The Davidson team had made a miserable showing
the first period, but instead of condemnatory remarks, Monk Younger said nothing—and a lot of it—to his boys during the
rest period. The silence was ominous. They expected something different. But Monk’s silence wrought wonders. Result: Davidson scored 26 points
in the second half, held their opponents to six tallies, and won, 33 to 30.

Or, it might be said that—W. L. (Monk) Younger, head coach at Davidson College, is fast qualifying for a doctor’s
degree. That degree will be doctor of psychology. It might be a further specialized degree and be called doctor of
team psychology. For Monk Younger knows his players and puts into practice, “There’s a time to talk, and a time
to remain silent.” Monk Younger knows when. For reference, see the above paragraph on the effect of his stolid silence
between halves of the Davidson-Maryville basketball game. That’s happened before.

Literary Groups Hear Professor

Entertaining Address Delivered at Combined Meeting

On Tuesday evening, January 28, the Eumanean and Philanthropic Literary Societies met in Philanthropic Hall to hear an address by
Professor Archibald Currie. Practically the entire program was given over to Professor Currie’s message.

Speaking in his characteristic manner, Doctor Currie conducted a rambling discussion based on his own experiences as a public speaker,
and as an instructor of that art. He cited several instances, which showed the value of being able to express
one’s self capably. He lamented the decline in the local forensic spirit as compared with that of the past, and
he made a fertile suggestion, which may possibly lead to a renewal of interest. The attention of the audience was
evident throughout the meeting, and outbursts of laughter were not infrequent as the speaker illustrated his points with humorous incidents
of by-gone years.

TRANS-CONTINENTAL STUDY TOUR

F. D. Miller GIVES RECITAL TONIGHTF. Bennyhoff, brilliant young organist, who offers an organ recital in New Chambers Auditorium tonight,
leaves out the nonessential by quickly enumerating the events in his youth which paved the way for his later career.
This account of his early life pays tribute to his wonderful astuteness and to his ability to train his body
to the maximum degree of dependability in order to withstand the rigor of the polar regions. The book is largely
conversational and descriptive, told in a very simple way, and impresses the reader with a greater appreciation of the hazards
of polar expeditions.

BOOKS WE HAVE READ

STUDENT VOLUNTEERS group will have charge of the program once a month. The Volunteer Band will continue to have a
separate executive committee. The new officers elected are: President, Bill Belk; Vice-President, Billy Rule; Secretary-Treasurer, L. P. Newland.

A Minister of the Gospel SHOULD BE GROUNDED IN THE TRUTH. TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS ONE OF
THE AIMS OF UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. For Catalog and Information, Address, Rev. R. B. Lacy, Jr., President, Richmond, Virginia.

FELLOWS! You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station, DAVIDSON, N. C.

“My Life As An Explorer” by Roald Amundsen
Reviewed by Alan Frew

One of the most interesting books that has recently come into the Davidson Library is Roald Amundsen’s account of his
life as an explorer. In its composition, it is informational, controversial, and autobiographical. Mr. Amundsen eliminates the tedious reading so
often found in biographical works by keeping to the principal theme of his book and clinging to his ideal—to negotiate
the Northwest Passage. The book in the main is very readable, and interesting and thrilling anecdotes are told in a
largely conversational and descriptive style.

He devotes a part of the book to a very pictorial and minute account of the necessary preparations incident to
such a trip as his to the South Pole. Mr. Amundsen, as a college graduate, possessed the rare ability to
tell his story concisely yet fully and at the same time round out the entire account so as to leave
the reader with a satisfactory feeling of completeness. It is not without humor in many parts, and at all times
reserves a simple dignity and idealism for the profession of polar exploration. The book is three hundred pages of delightful,
graphic narration of the life of a man who dedicated his life to scientific exploration in the far-removed polar areas
with the hope that such knowledge would benefit the present and future generations.

JOIN US IN THE GENERAL ELECTRIC HOUR, BROADCAST EVERY SATURDAY AT 9 P.M., E.S.T. ON A NATION-WIDE N.B.C. NETWORK.

STOP that COLD and COUGH. Take de Phe “QUICK RELIEF” Cold Remedy for College Students, sold by a College Student.
YOUR DRUGGIST Jim Galloway HAS COLDEX.

GENERAL ELECTRIC

Books, Over the Horizon

Here they come—the nucleus of an all-electric merchant marine. Yesterday, they were a dream. Today, they are well over the
horizon, linking the ports of the east and west coasts with fortnightly service. The goal of the Panama Pacific Line
is to build three more turbine-electric ships, thus enabling weekly New York-Frisco sailings. Even now, the three liners, California, Virginia,
and Pennsylvania, constitute the largest fleet of turbine-electric commercial ships in the world.

Besides propelling these ships, electricity hoists freight, raises anchors, mans pumps, turns rudders, drives winches, and warps the vessels into
their berths. It lights lamps, spins fans, operates elevators, cools and cooks food. Its magic touch is apparent on every
deck. All electric equipment, above and below deck, is a product of General Electric. The planning, production, and distribution of
such equipment has been largely the responsibility of college-trained men who are working with General Electric and who have aided
in bringing these ships over the horizon.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK
