6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 22, 1930

Reserve Commissions to Be Awarded to Students

Thirty-One Men Who Have Taken Advanced R.O.T.C. Will Receive Lieutenant’s Rank

TO BE IN ARMY RESERVE

Will be Part of Commencement Program on Wednesday

An unprecedented number of Davidson College students who will graduate at Davidson on June 4, will be awarded a second lieutenant’s commission in the United States reserve army, the number totaling 31, which is the high water mark since the R.O.T.C. was instituted at Davidson following the World War. For the last several years 25 or more Davidson students have been awarded commissions following the completion of their course, which is voluntary in their junior and senior years.

The list includes L. L. Barr, Jr., Greenville, S.C.; W. J. Beavers, Atlanta, Ga.; D. J. Black, Wilmington; L. L. Boyd, Charlotte; W. B. Buckner, Davidson; A. H. Calhoun, Laurinburg; E. C. Close, Chattanooga, Tenn.; R. D. Croom, Maxton; C. H. DuBose, Pocomoke City, Md.; A. T. Edelman, Goldsboro; F. S. Erwin, Davidson; W. F. Gaffney, Davidson; S. L. Gant, Greensboro; G. L. Gladstone, Greensboro; C. P. Greyer, Morganton; W. R. Hill, Statesville; F. W. Johnston, Jefferson, Ga.; E. H. McCall, Salisbury; W. B. McGuire, Franklin; E. E. Marsh, Marshville; D. K. Miller, Mooresville; L. A. Mills, Jr., Greenville, S.C.; W. H. Morrison, Laurel Hill; C. C. Orr, Jr., Asheville; C. A. Ritchie, Statesville; L. C. Roberts, Shelby; W. A. Sutton, Candor; Robert Turner, Turnersburg; H. W. White, Rock Hill; E. B. Wilkinson, Jacksonville, Fla.

Dr. Lingle Expects To Be Busy in June

Davidson President to Talk to Five Groups Next Month

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, President of Davidson College, has been a busy man since he came to this institution last fall, and has devoted much of his time to filling speaking engagements all over the country. But perhaps the most strenuous and hardest schedule he has undertaken begins Wednesday, May 21, when he delivers the literary address to the graduates of Flora Macdonald College at Red Springs. This will be followed by his inaugural address at Davidson on June 3, and the baccalaureate sermon before the graduates of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill on June 8. He returns to Davidson immediately, and is scheduled to teach and talk at the Presbyterian Young People’s Conference here, June 10-17. He is to be in Northfield, Mass., June 18-21 for a series of talks, which completes the heavy month of activity on the platforms for Davidson’s President.

Fraternity Rushing Season Lengthened

Fraternity rushing season for next year is to be three weeks, ending September 30, Bid-day being October 1. During the three weeks of rushing each fraternity will be allowed to have one feed and three smokers, or they can have any other arrangement of this schedule so that there will not be more than the equivalent of five smokers. Each feed counts as two smokers.

There is to be one house party on September 20 for all the fraternities. On no other date are they allowed to have a house party during rushing season, so any fraternity wishing to have one will have to do so on the date above, which was agreed on by the Pan-Hellenic Council. The customary reception for the incoming Freshmen during this period will be on a date to be set by the Y.M.C.A. sometime in the near future.

Commencement Marshalls

Four members of the junior class of Davidson College have been selected by their classmates to act as junior marshalls during the approaching 94th commencement of Davidson. They are A. W. McLean, Lumberton; A. B. McLure, Rabun Gap, Ga.; C. E. Kraemer, Bonham, Texas, and J. L. Smith, Dunn. These four students will assist E. S. Heefner, Jr., of Winston-Salem, senior marshall, in the ushering and arrangements for the many exercises of commencement week. It has decided to be a custom that one of

Three Professors Plan Summer Work

Three Davidson College professors have been designated and appropriated funds by the college for further graduate study during the approaching summer months, according to an announcement made here today by Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of the institution. All of them have previously completed their master of arts degree, and will be studying toward a doctorate.

Prof. H. E. Fulcher will attend the University of Chicago, and will be working on his Ph.D. degree in physics; Prof. Ernest A. Beaty will be at Columbia University to continue his doctorate work in Latin, and Prof. A. V. Goldiere will be at Penn State, studying toward his Ph.D. degree in the romance languages.

It was also announced that Prof. K. J. Foreman, of the Bible and Philosophy department here, had been designated by the college to receive a fund for traveling purposes this summer. Professor Foreman will spend most of the summer months in Europe and Palestine.

Doctor MacConnell Returns to Campus

Physician Returns to College After an Eleven Weeks’ Absence

Dr. John W. MacConnell, secretary of the State Board of Medical Examiners, and physician for Davidson College students, has returned to Davidson after an eleven weeks’ stay at the diagnostic hospital for United States veterans in Washington, D.C. Dr. MacConnell spent several weeks in Washington for observation purposes, and later returned for a major operation, which was necessary because of injuries received during the World War. Although Dr. MacConnell is able to walk around and greet his friends, it will be several weeks before he will regain his normal strength and can again assume his regular duties.

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago

Five Years Ago

With this, the last issue of the year for The Davidsonian, the end of ten years of faithful service comes as a milestone along the road to success. The paper was founded by the Class of 1915 and it has lived up to its reputation of being the “livest wire on the hill.”

The Student Council and student body officers for 1925-26 were installed at a special meeting of the student body held after chapel, Friday morning.

The Senior Class has put forth every effort to make the 89th commencement of Davidson College one which will stand out in the minds of those present for years to come.

Harry Price and Lathran McCutchen, representing Davidson in the state tennis tournament last week, won the inter-collegiate championship in doubles.

Ten Years Ago

The classes of ’15, ’10, and ’05 are planning reunions. The trustees, of course, will be here for their meeting. Plans are under way to have the R.O.T.C. band furnish music for the occasion. Commencement this year will be a gala affair indeed, and will be worth the presence of the whole student body.

The General Assembly, which meets in Charlotte, May 20, has been invited to visit Davidson on May 22. This will be the first time that Davidson has had the honor of entertaining the General Assembly in about twenty-five years.

The commencement invitations are out. They are being distributed by five men chosen from the Senior Class.

Books We Have Read

“Escape”—By Francesco Fausto Nitti. Preface by his uncle F. Severio Nitti, former Premier of Italy. 267 pages. Publishers, G. P. Putnam’s Sons. Price $2.50. (1930)

Francesco Nitti tells the story of his detention on Italy’s “Devils’ Island.” This volume of tragic adventure has the distinction of being suppressed in Italy. Recently we read that the manager of Italy's largest chain of book stores has been arrested for selling this book after having smuggled a large number into the country from England.

The author of “Escape” seems to be a writer of considerable literary ability, even of some talent. The first chapter is quite a marvel of rhetorical suspense, a word picture of the escape from the Island of Lipare, in which not a name is mentioned. The story begins: “A man crept stealthily along the narrow jetty thatran out into the sea on the darkest side of the harbor. Along the waterfront, only a few hundred yards distant, blazed the lights of taverns where fishermen were drinking noisily. At the foot of the narrow, winding street leading up into the town, groups of soldiers were lounging and playing cards, their rifles between their knees. The lights from the houses revealed the black outlines of warships lying in the harbor. But the jetty along which the man was crawling lay deep in the shadow of the steep, volcanic rocks, crowned by a huge, old castle that overhung the town. The man is, of course, young Nitti. He drops quietly into the dark waters and swimming softly finally arrives at the appointed rock. After some suspense, the motorboat which is to carry the refugees to safety appears, but his companions are nowhere to be seen. After much anxiety and at the last moment, the two other fugitives arrive and with motors wide open the launch roars away in the darkness. In more detail, we are shown the events leading up to the arrest of young Nitti, his time on the prison island. The dramatic escape was prepared by young Italians, who, to free their companions, face every danger. The elder Nitti states, in the preface, that their names cannot be given, because to do so would expose them, and, much worse, their families, to the most unreasonable and atrocious persecution. Shortly after the war, Benito Mussolini became leader and finally absolute ruler in Italy. At the time, his country was in a pitiful condition. The people were bordering on starvation. The financial foundations of the nation were tottering and banks all over the country were closed because of unhappy failures. The people had wanted freedom; they were getting it. Absolute liberty produced a turmoil bordering upon revolution. Various criminal groups such as the “mafia” were ganging on the unhappy citizens. What was to be done? The new leader stretched out his “mailed fist” and suddenly the outrage ceased. Something had to be done, says Mussolini, to raise this country, the laughing stock of the Peace Conference, to the level of other great nations. Many Italians opposed these drastic actions. Many revolted. Among this number was the Nitti family. However, we are assured by the former premier (in the preface) that the three fugitives are not revolutionists. The nephew, Francesco Nitti, informs us, pages 19 to 23, that he and his family are nothing else, and glories in the fact. Taken at its face value, it is a rattling good story of adventure, comparable in some way, with Casanova’s miraculous escape from the “Leads” of Venice, for from the beginning to the end, young Nitti leads a daring and adventuresome life. It seems unfortunate that so much opposition should arise to the publishing of this book. Such action will prejudice opinion against Fascism from the outset. It will be assumed that the Fascists have something to hide. The sane procedure would have been to encourage the publication of the book, and then try to answer the charges by logical refutation.

“DRUGS” CANDY WHITE DRUG CO. PRESCRIPTIONS FLOWERS

Football
Davidson 20 Wofford 6
Davidson 14 Clemson 32
Davidson 7 Wofford 0
Davidson 23 Davidson 7
Davidson 6 Davidson 0 Wake Forest 6
Davidson 62 Davidson 12
Davidson 13 N.C. State 0
Davidson 7 Carolina 26
Davidson 13 Duke 12
Totals 94 Totals 123

Basketball
Davidson 50 Catawba 26
Davidson 33 Charlotte ‘Y’ 18
Davidson 29 Wofford 15
Davidson 20 Furman 33
Davidson 22 Carolina 20
Davidson 39 Lenoir Rhyne 25
Davidson 38 Charlotte ‘Y’ 39
Davidson 33 Maryville 20
Davidson 0 VMI 27
Davidson 49 Roanoke 16
Davidson 82 VMI 20
Davidson 33 Duke 33
Davidson 33 Wake Forest 17
Davidson 44 Elon 30
Davidson 27 Erskine 32
Davidson 17 N.C. State 43
Davidson 21 Duke 45
Davidson 10 Carolina 19
Davidson 29 Wofford 10
Totals 597 Totals 488

Wrestling
Davidson 31½ Concord ‘Y’ 1½
Davidson 0 VMI 18
Davidson 14 N.C. State 15
Davidson 11½ Furman 19
Davidson 12 Carolina 14
Davidson 0 Duke 17
Davidson 30 Washington & Lee 27
Davidson 14 VMI 14
Totals 104½ Totals 125½

Track
Davidson 83 South Carolina 42
Davidson 87½ Furman 00
Davidson 65½ N.C. State 60½
Davidson 98½ Wake Forest 27½
Totals 163

Tennis
Davidson 4 Carolina 5
Davidson 2 Carolina 7
Davidson 6 William and Mary 3
Davidson 2 Virginia 7
Davidson 6 Presbyterian College 0
Totals 20 Totals 22

Baseball
Davidson 7 Georgetown 6
Davidson 1 Oak Ridge 4
Davidson 5 Catawba 4
Davidson 0 Elon 5
Davidson 5 N.C. State 4
Davidson 2 Wake Forest 13
Davidson 8 N.C. State 2
Davidson 4 N.C. State 6
Davidson 1 VMI 5
Davidson 8 Wofford 4
Davidson 14 Ursinus 4
Davidson 0 Wake Forest 6
Davidson 3 Carolina 9
Davidson 4 Lenoir Rhyne 5
Davidson 8 Lenoir Rhyne 4
Davidson 5 South Carolina 4
Davidson 5 Duke 0
Davidson 3 Carolina 9
Davidson 0 Duke 7
Totals 89 Totals 101

Golf
Davidson 10 Gastonia C.C. 8
Davidson 14 Salisbury C.C. 4
Davidson 22 Wake Forest 2
Davidson 8 Concord C.C. 0
Davidson 29 Wake Forest 0
Davidson 7½ N.C. State 10½
Davidson 5½ Duke 17½
Davidson 3 Carolina 15
Totals 99 Totals 57

ARMFIELD CHOSEN
(Continued from Page 1)
alternately with the Wildcat netters. Poe will have some good material to back him up next year in Gene Dubose, Fain, McLain, and a few freshmen coming up, but the absence of Johnston and Halverstadt will cause a lot of worry. Both Poe and Dubose, however, are flashy players and this diminutive couple should go far in the state next year with Fain stepping along with them. J. L. Hall, who was named manager, and Poe, are both members of Beta Theta Pi fraternity.

PUBLICATION BOARD
(Continued from page 1)
According to Dr. Lingle, they will be announced in the near future. The Publications Board has as its first aim the representation of the student body in matters pertaining to publications on the campus. This board audits monthly financial statements of the three college publications. The board appoints the business managers of The Davidsonian, and Chameleon. The past year’s board was headed by W. R. Hill. Zeb Long and E. L. Roberson were the other two student body representatives. The two faculty members were Mr. Jackson and Professor Fleagle.

Photographer—Your ordered these photographs from me.
Father—They certainly are very much like him. Has he paid for them yet?
Photographer—No, sir.
Father—That’s still more like him.

Clerk—Sir, I’m sorry, but your bill is due. The hotel’s motto is “Pay As You Go.”
Guest—Beautiful motto. But you know I hadn’t intended going yet.

Protect Your Personal Effects. If you are planning a trip of any kind, be sure to have Personal Effects insurance. Do not risk losing your belongings. The cost of insuring them is negligible. While traveling, fire, theft, wreck hazards are many. This protection is also needed after you return home. We will be glad to give information and quote rates regarding Personal Effects insurance. It's safer to have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Co.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Davidson Theatre
Monday and Tuesday, May 26 and 27
“Men Without Women”
“The Big Pond” with MAURICE CHEVALIER
Wednesday, May 28
“The Floradora Girls” with MARIAN DAVIES
Thursday, May 29
“Loving the Ladies” with RICHARD DIX
Friday, May 30
“French Gertie”
Saturday, May 31