6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1930

Davidson Defeats South Carolina in Track Meet

Due to the crushing defeat of the Kappa Sigma basketball team by the Phi Gamma Delta team, the honor now
lies between the Phi Gams and the Sigma Alpha Epsilons. A handsome trophy has been offered to the victors, and
it has been keenly contested for by all the fraternities. The decisive game will be played soon.

Making almost a clean sweep in the track events and taking a large share of honors in the field events,
Davidson defeated the University of South Carolina, 82-43, in the opening track and field meet of the season at Columbia
on Thursday, March 27.

Heath Whittle was high scorer in the meet with 15 points, winning the 100-yard dash, 120-yard high hurdles, and the
220-yard low hurdles. He was also a member of the winning relay team. The feature act of the meet, however,
was McCall's broad jump of 22 feet 8¾ inches. This establishes a new Davidson College record in this event, breaking
the old record which was made in 1896.

The Wildcats are looking strong in the distance events, winning all three places in both the mile and two-mile. Lafferty
and Brannon won these two events in the order named. All three places in the half-mile also went to Davidson.
Davidson's half-mile relay team, composed of Brohard, George, McCall, and Whittle, took this event handily, although it did not count
in points.

Summaries:
100-yard dash—Whittle (Davidson), first; McCall (Davidson), second; Brohard (Davidson), third. Time, 10.3 seconds.
One-mile run—Lafferty (Davidson), first; Goodwin (Davidson), second; Wilson (Davidson), third. Time, 4 minutes 48.8 seconds.
220-yard dash—Fishburne (Carolina), first; Neal (Davidson), second; Gorham (Davidson), third. Time, 24.8 seconds.
120-yard high hurdles—Whittle (Davidson), first; Kennedy (Carolina), second; Meeks (Carolina), third. Time, 53 seconds.
Two-mile run—Brannon (Davidson), first; Murphy (Davidson), second; West (Davidson), third. Time, 11 minutes 2.8 seconds.
220-yard low hurdles—Whittle (Davidson), first; George (Davidson), second; Bostick (Carolina), third. Time, 27 seconds.
880-yard run—Neal (Davidson), first; Norton (Davidson), second; Drake (Davidson), third. Time, 2 minutes 8.2 seconds.
Pole vault—Smith (Davidson), first; Brown (Carolina) and Brock (Davidson), tied for second and third places. Height, 11 feet.
Shot put—Hughey (Carolina), first; Boyle (Davidson), second; Hall (Davidson), third. Distance, 38 feet, 5½ inches.
High jump—Kennedy (Carolina), Bostick (Carolina), and Dupre (Carolina), tied for first place. Height, 5 feet 7¾ inches.
Discus—Lightsey (Carolina), first; Adair (Carolina), second; Regan (Davidson), third. Distance, 112 feet, 2 inches.
Javelin—McCall (Davidson), first; Kennedy (Carolina), second; Coble (Davidson), third. Distance, 165 feet 7 inches.
Broad jump—McCall (Davidson), first; Bostick (Carolina), second; Gardner (Davidson), third. Distance, 22 feet 8¾ inches.
Half-mile relay—(Davidson), Brohard, George, McCall, and Whittle, first. Time, 1 minute 38 seconds.

Informal Tea Given For I. R. C. Speaker

On last Sunday afternoon, an informal tea was given at the home of Dr. T. W. Lingle in honor of
Sir Herbert Brown Ames. Several members of the International Relations Club were invited as guests. During the course of the
afternoon, the former Treasurer of the League of Nations conversed with those present on the principal world issues of today.
Especially interesting were his reminiscences of the early problems and times when the League was in its infancy.

Sir Herbert was earnest in his disappointment of the action taken by the United States as regards a world alliance.
Explaining that it is practically impossible for a world power to maintain a strict state of neutrality, he said, “The
time must come when the United States will be forced to take one of two sides; either she must support
the League in her peace provisions or she must ally herself with combatant nations for the sake of economic profit.”
Delightful refreshments were served, providing a pleasant break in the discussions. Members of the International Relations Club and faculty members
were present.

Dr. Watts Elected Language President

The Modern Language Association of North Carolina met in Raleigh in conjunction with the State Teachers’ Association on March 21.
Professor Algernon Coleman, of Chicago, addressed the three hundred members present on “Some Aspects of Modern Language Teaching.” At the
business session, the following officers were elected for 1930 and 1931: President, Dr. George B. Watts, of Davidson; Vice-President, Miss
Katherine Tighe, of Asheville High School faculty; Secretary and Treasurer, Prof. Hugo Giduz, School of Education of University of North
Carolina. The afternoon sessions were devoted to group meetings of French, Spanish, and German teachers. There was a large attendance
at all meetings.

Davidsonians Prominent At Seminary in Virginia

Richmond, Va., April 8—E. R. Arehart, Hampden-Sydney, has been elected President of the Society of Missionary Inquiry of the Union
Theological Seminary for 1930-31. Other officers are as follows: Tom H. Hamilton, Davidson, Vice-President; Aubrey Brown, Davidson, Secretary; J. Chester
Frist, Southwestern, Treasurer; Drs. J. Gray McAllister and W. Taliaferro Thompson were elected faculty advisors.

In the election of Athletic Association officers, James H. Calligan, Davidson, was chosen President, and Julian Lake, Davidson, Secretary. Vice-Presidents
who will have charge of different sports are: P. R. Shiflet, Hampden-Sydney, baseball; Frank Hall, Davidson, tennis; A. B. Williford,
Davidson, basketball; T. E. Hill, Davidson, gymnasium; John Bright, baseball, and W. B. Passiglia, Bloomfield, volleyball. Control of seminary sports
rests with the Athletic Association, which schedules outside contests with college and club teams as well as numerous inter-class and
inter-dormitory games and contests throughout the year.

Frank Price Speaks

(Continued from page 1)

“Upon my return to America,” he said, “I was struck by many distinct differences. The speed and efficiency of American
life were especially noticeable. The much-talked-of prosperity of this country, however, seemed to be very unevenly distributed and in the
hands of only a few, while many are living in actual want. Especially noticeable were the inequalities in the distribution
of wealth and opportunities.”"Ship of Little," tied for third award, from China here. The eastern man always takes plenty of
time for meditation. The tendency toward secularism is gaining much too much headway in our country today. Another characteristic I
noticed was very strong nationalism evidenced in a feeling of self-satisfaction and security held by many Americans. Also, the interest
of the students due to this spirit of nationalism fails to achieve a worldwide scope. "Japan," he said, "up to
the exclusion act, was very friendly with the United States on account of her aid in the earthquake and other
past relations, but this unfriendly act puzzled the Japanese a good deal. Korea lost her chance to develop and revolutionize
her country to Japan and feels very keenly about it. Much of our work in China during the revolution is
relief work and visiting cities in the war zone. During one of these journeys, we came in contact with a
young writer who was very discouraged about the condition in China and had recently written a book entitled 'The Journey's
End.' He became sick and while in the hospital found the Master. He decided to cease to write on the
art for art's sake principle and started to write something for the uplift of his country. His next book, a
splendid Christian work soon to come out, is entitled 'Going Home.' We are bound to the youth of China with
strong ties. Let us pray for them and let their lives and experiences be of help to us."

McAllister and D. W. Richardson were re- Presbyterian, campus football; C. M. Voyles, King, indoor. Four Davidsonians came off winners
in a creasing distractions. We have much to learn. Between the Phi Gam and the S. A. E. quints is
to be played off next week. The next series of inter-fraternity competition will be one of baseball. This schedule has
not been completed as yet, but is in the hands of W. B. McGavock. An attempt will be made to
get the games underway next week. Special interest is usually manifested in inter-fraternity baseball, and indications are that this year
will be no exception. Fraternities are requested to line up their prospective teams and make other necessary preparations right away,
in order to facilitate an early and smooth start.

Oratorical Contest Will Be Held Soon

Within the next two weeks, there will be held a preliminary contest for the National Oratorical Prize which will be
given at Los Angeles on June 16. At the present time, no candidates have appeared but several are expected. The
winner of the preliminaries here will represent Davidson in the regional contest which will be held here also. The regional
contest involves only the schools of North Carolina. This contest will be sometime between April 24 and May 3. The
regional contest winner will then go to the zone contest, which is the semi-final of the national one. It is
to be held sometime between May 6 and May 30. The prize will be presented June 19 in Los Angeles.
No one who has ever won a prize in the competition before is allowed to compete.

Registration Begins For Year Following Consultation With Faculty Members Necessary Before Registration

The period for registration of courses for next year started last Monday and will last through Saturday, April 19. After
this date, a charge of $2.50 will be made for any further registrations. This does not mean, however, that a
change in course cannot be made. Changes in courses can be made up to September 1, after which a charge
of $1 will be made for any changes. A change in policy of registrations is being made this year. Heretofore
courses have been signed up with the registrar without any consultation with a faculty member. This year every student will
be required to consult his faculty advisor before registering for courses. This consultation will be in the nature of consideration
in choosing the most logical subjects in preparation for a life work. Each faculty counselor is supplied with a number
of cards which are filled out by the students and then in turn presented to the registrar when the student
signs up for his courses for the following year.

NOTICE!
Shoes Half Soled For One Dollar
O.K. SHOP
Second Door From Post Office

To provide telephone service of national scope, to manage properties valued at more than three and three-quarter billion dollars, to
maintain an organization of more than 400,000 people at highest efficiency — such work spurs the creative thought of men
of the highest caliber. Within the Bell System, many have achieved outstanding success. Their work is not only in pure
science and engineering, but in organization and management, in salesmanship, financial administration, economics, and the many other fields vital to
the growth of so great an enterprise. Because of these men, the Bell System is able to furnish the best
all-around telephone service in the world. A progressive policy puts at their disposal every aid that a great organization can
give.
