6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1930

Increase in Attendance Shown in State Schools

Gain of 25,000 Children and an Increase of Three Percent

Raleigh, Nov. 13—"Both enrollment and attendance in the public elementary and high schools of the state for 1929-30 show an
increase over that of the preceding school year," declared State Superintendent of Public Instruction A. T. Allen today in a
statement to the press. "Although this year’s increase did not establish any new records, there are a number of reasons
for the improvement in this respect," he continued.

Last year, there were 866,939 children enrolled, or 11,057 more than the number for 1928-29. This year’s addition is less
than half the increase of 1927-28, when there was a gain of 24,627, a three percent increase, over the 1926-27
enrollment. The present total enrollment is divided, according to the statement issued by Superintendent Allen, into 607,344 white pupils and
259,595 colored pupils. In other words, 70 percent of the total school enrollment is white and 30 percent colored.

School attendance, or the average number of enrolled pupils attending school daily, has also increased. During 1929-30 there was an
average daily attendance of 672,895 pupils, both white and colored. This number represented an increase of 28,140 over the attendance
for the preceding year, and lacked only 714 reaching the record year of 1927-28, when there was an increase of
28,854 pupils in average daily attendance. The annual percentage increases in attendance for the past several years are shown by
Superintendent Allen to be as follows: for 1925-26, 1.6 percent; for 1926-27, 1.0 percent; 1927-28, 4.5 percent; 1928-29, 0.64 percent,
and for 1929-30, 4.36 percent.

Out of every 100 pupils enrolled last year, 77 were in average daily attendance. This record, the highest yet made,
is just four more than in 1924-25, or an average increase of less than half a pupil a year. Among
the schools for white children, the percentage in attendance is 80, and for colored pupils, it is 72; but the
colored improvement in attendance for the five-year period has been slightly greater than that for the white race.

This increase in school enrollment and attendance for 1929-30 is, according to Superintendent Allen, due to several causes: First, during
1929-30, there were fewer epidemics of contagious diseases than in previous years. During 1928-29, contagious diseases were prevalent in many
sections of the state, and consequently, the increase in school attendance for that year was less than for 1927-28. Second,
many counties for the first time operated a split term, closing the schools after running a month or six weeks
to allow the children to help with cotton picking and other work on the farm, and then reopening them again
after this work had been finished. In this way, the number of absences was reduced, and as a consequence, a
higher attendance was maintained. Third, in many systems, a greater emphasis than ever before was placed upon the matter of
improved school attendance. Many superintendents put on attendance campaigns, and the State Board of Charities and Welfare through its division
of school attendance stressed its importance. And lastly, the economic depression began to be felt and many of the older
boys and girls who were formerly employed found themselves without jobs, and so returned to school.

College Calendar

Thursday, Nov. 13—Meeting of Student Sunday School Teachers at 9 p.m., in the “Y” Reading Room. Meeting of Freshmen designated
at 9 p.m. in the “Y” Social Center.

Friday, Nov. 14—Pep meeting for Student Body at 7 p.m.

Saturday, Nov. 15—Davidson-Carolina football game. The Red and Black Masquers will present “The Perfect Alibi,” in Chambers Auditorium at 7
p.m.

Sunday, Nov. 16—“Y” Vespers at 6:00 p.m.

Tuesday, Nov. 18—Meetings of Literary Societies in respective halls.

Wednesday, Nov. 19—Meeting of Student Sunday School Teachers at 9 p.m., in the “Y” Reading Room. Freshmen designated will meet
in the “Y” Social Center at 9 p.m.

WILDCATS SHOW FINE (Continued from page 3)

just missing, getting away entirely. Again when the Wildcats tained drive after this point, and the game ended with many
substitutes seeing action, an entirely new team, with the exception of Captain Fraley and Mathis, wearing the red and black
of Davidson. McQueen, McCall, and Fraley all starred in the Wildcat offensives, while Brown and Mathis were shining in the
line. Willis and Fox proved the most elusive Terriers, while King and Carroll were outstanding in the line.

Wofford Position Davidson
Peake L.E. Proctor
Wilson L.T. Baker
Preston L.G. Brock
Jackson Center Gardner
Reeves R.G. Mathis
Carroll R.T. Covington
Gleaton R.E. Brown
L. Jackson Q.B. Fraley
Fox L.H. McCall
Willis R.H. McQueen

Davidson 7 20 0 0—27
Wofford 0 0 0 0—0

Scoring: Touchdowns, McQueen and Fraley; point after, Fraley.

JUNIOR TEAM (Continued from page 3)

The Freshmen added 10 points in the third period, but the Juniors continued to lead, 18 to 14, by counting
five times themselves. Montgomery and Martin added five more points to the Junior score in the final stanza to make
the victory more decisive.Reappeared at the beginning of the second half, they looked like a championship aggregation. Davidson recovered Fox’s
fumble on the 25-yard line, and on the first play Fraley completed a short pass to McCall, who slipped through
a swarm of Terrier tacklers to reach the one-yard line. Fraley pushed it over from there. His attempted placement was
knocked down, however. Neither team was able to show any sus-

Davidson Men Are Always Welcome At NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Coach Martin, of the Juniors, was high scorer with 10 points. Montgomery and Lafferty were next with seven and six
points, respectively. The play of Martin, Montgomery, and Arnold was outstanding for the third-year men, while Lafferty and Evans played
best for the losers.

Freshmen 21-Seniors 12

Lack of endurance again brought defeat to the Seniors’ basketball team, this time at the hands of a scrappy Freshman
quintet, by a score of 21-12. The first-year men came back strong in the last three quarters after trailing 7
to 3 at the end of the opening stanza. Evans and McLain, of the Freshman team, started the scoring early
with three points, but the Seniors came back with seven before the quarter ended, 7 to 3. The Frosh added
two more field goals in the second period, but Daffin kept the Seniors in the lead with a two-pointer, the
half ending 9 to 7 in their favor. Coming back after the intermission, the Freshmen scored seven points while holding
the Seniors scoreless, to enter the final stanza with a 14 to 9 lead. The fourth-year men tried desperately to
tie the score as the last period began, but the best they could do was to register three points, while
the Frosh clinched the victory with seven more.

McLain, Freshman forward, turned in six field goals to cop the scoring honors with 12 points, while his running mate,
Evans, was next with seven points. The play of these two men with that of Lafferty was instrumental in the
Freshman victory.

Davidson Theatre

Monday and Tuesday, November 17 and 18
“What a Widow” With GLORIA SWANSON

Wednesday, November 19th
“Up the River”

Thursday, November 20th
“Playboy of Paris” With MAURICE CHEVALIER

Friday, November 21st
“On Your Back”

Saturday, November 22nd
“Santa Fe Trail” With RICHARD ARLEN and MARY BRIAN

Washington, D. C.—(IP)—“Coonskin coats, college caps and collegiate slang are remnants of the irresponsible days of adolescence that must be
put aside upon entering college,” Dr. Cloyd Heck Marvin, president of the George Washington University, told members of the Freshman
class here this year. “Don't confuse the burning of gas with the burning of midnight oil,” he said. “You may
go further overland on the former, but it won't get you as far on the road you are to travel
while in college. Loafing is a disease, a malfunctioning of worth-while energy. Choose as your friends those who are going
somewhere, and go with them.”

London, Eng.—(IP)—That another war will break out in the Near East within a decade is the belief of H. G.
Wells, well-known English author and historian. Speaking at a conference on “The Strategy of Peace,” Wells said: “Now is the
time for men and women to organize and to tell their governments that if the governments want war, they can
count them out.” Wells is not of the opinion that a memory of the horrors of the last war will
influence people from entering another one.

“DRUGS” “SODA” Make Our Store Your Store Students’ Supplies WHITE DRUG CO., Inc. “PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”

Furnishings Clothes STETSON SPECIAL $5.00 Friendly Five Shoes PHONE 206 Tailored Top Coats “D” STORE John Ward Shoes
