THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 17, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the College Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Z. V. LONG, Jr. Editor
E. H. McCALL Managing Editor

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. B. BLACK Managing Editor
W. McCUTCHAN Managing Editor
J. C. RAGIN Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN Athletic Editor
V. D. MIDDLETON Assignment Editor
J. F. PRESTON Feature Editor
J. L. BROWN Feature Editor
J. F. JARRATT Associate Editor
F. D. MILLER Associate Editor
C. M. PRATT Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
E. C. CANNON Asst. Bus. Mgr.
J. BOYD Subscription Mgr.
A. J. BAKER Solicitor
P. M. CONWAY Solicitor
J. H. McKINNON Solicitor
J. O. MANN Solicitor
J. A. JAMES Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
E. S. HEEFNER President
V. D. MIDDLETON Vice-President
J. BERRY Treasurer
J. MATTHEWS Secretary
W. H. DWELLE
E. C. MATTHEWS

APRIL 17, 1930

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

Good-bye and good luck to Dr. Bill Anderson from a student body which learned to love him in the few
short days of his visit. It will probably be a long time before his equal in the art of touching
college men comes to the campus.

Easter Monday coming up will find Monk taking the best ball tossers on his roster over Winston-Salem way to open
negotiations with Tar Heels. Chances look mighty good for the "Cats. Follow them over if you can. It just happens
that Salem is the name of a college over there. Does that help you along?

Well, here’s wishing the new boss of the paper all the luck there is. May his staff be a good
one. May the campus just run over with news for him. May his editorials be read more than some which
have gone before. Of course, now, you didn’t skip any of them this year, did you?

We want to see the whole student body get in behind the big installation service and social soon to be
given for it. That occasion will mean a great deal to this old spirit we think so much of, and
will give us a better idea of what Davidson is really standing for.

Senior exams start about a month from today, and others just a week or so later. Since they seem to
be the necessary farewells from the college year, we'd better arrange to take them in good style. Have your secretary
make a few study dates now, so that last few days won't be such a grind.

MAKE IT STICK

Now that Bill Anderson has come and gone, we hope that the principles of straightforward life which he advocated will
not be forgotten. They are far too important to be neglected by a single man on Davidson's campus. If we
can make them stick from day to day, basing our thinking and our decisions squarely upon them, the difference in
happiness will be amazing.

The things Bill said had nothing less than a wonderful virility. They came from a man who was a boy
at heart, who knew the feelings and the problems of boys. He brought his message, based on the great truth
of the ages, straight to the hearts of his hearers, appealing to them, for the sake of the Perfect Man,
to stand for the very best things in life. We believe he reached the depths of the fellows’ intellectual and
emotional natures to a degree which is seldom attained. And sincerely do we thank him for his service.

The point now is to remember the spiritual experience of the days just ended as holding the keys to a
finer and more fruitful life. Whatever we do, wherever we go, the code vitalized by Bill Anderson should form the
background for our little act. Determine that the code for real men shall be ours!

PROHIBITION

In view of the current wave of interest aroused concerning the question of prohibition, we offer the following editorial from
the pen of Dr. Walter L. Lingle. It appeared in “The Presbyterian of the South” for March 26, 1930:

Like Banquo’s ghost, the liquor question will not down. It certainly began as far back as the days of Noah.
It abides to this day and grows in its insistency. For a great many years the temperance forces were busy
educating people concerning the evils of the liquor traffic. One by one the States banished it until a very large
part of the area of the United States was dry. Then came national prohibition and the Eighteenth Amendment. The temperance
forces rejoiced. They thought that the victory was won. But their hallelujahs were a bit premature. The age-long liquor traffic
is not so easily disposed of. The metropolitan newspapers and billions of wealth were enlisted against prohibition. The opposition to
prohibition grew louder each year. In 1928 there was a presidential election. One candidate announced a personal platform, which was
distinctly and even violently opposed to the Eighteenth Amendment. He was defeated by a majority of over six million and
by a majority of the electoral votes that was simply overwhelming. Again the temperance forces rejoiced. They thought that another
victory had been won. They knew that many other factors entered into the presidential election, but they thought that the
liquor question was at least one of the outstanding factors. But again their rejoicing was premature. Today the opposition to
the Eighteenth Amendment is more vocal than ever before. There may not be more people opposed to it, but their
clamor is louder. They are better organized and have a growing power of wealth behind them. Worst of all, the
issue has largely ceased to be a moral one, and become intensely political. There are many politicians who care nothing
for its moral values, but are tremendously concerned about its political values.

We who believe in temperance may as well frankly face this whole question. But what can we do? First of
all, we can remember that the Bible, which is the Christian’s Guide Book, stands for temperance and righteousness. It might
be a bit difficult to prove that the Bible makes it a sin to take a drink of wine or
some other alcoholic drink. However, it does make it a dangerous thing to do. Over and over in the Bible
we are warned against the evils and dangers of strong drink. But it is perfectly clear that the Bible stands
for temperance and righteousness, and that being true, the Christian must stand for them. Not only so, but the Christian
must stand for those measures which he honestly believes will best promote temperance and righteousness.

In the second place, we should realize that the present laws on this subject are not perfect. Nothing that is
human is perfect. There may be a more excellent way of promoting temperance and righteousness than we have yet found.
If there is a better way we ought to try to find it. Any discussion of this question generally develops
more heat than light. It is light that we need. The Christian in discussing the subject ought to be sure
of his facts, and he ought to stick to the facts. Too many of the discussions on both sides are
works of the imagination.

In the third place, our approach to this subject should be constructive and not simply destructive. Those who raise the
loudest clamor against the present liquor laws have no definite plans or laws to take their place. They want the
present laws repealed, but that is as far as most of them can go. Think for a moment where that
would leave us. You ask them whether they want the old saloon back. A few of them will reply in
the affirmative, but the great majority reply with an emphatic negative. Most of those who oppose the present liquor laws
will intimate that they would like to see governmental ownership or control, but they do not suggest any definite plan.
I wonder if we have thought through the meaning of governmental ownership of the liquor business. That would be socialism
on a large scale, and we may well pause and ask ourselves whether we are ready to endorse socialism on
so large a scale. But vastly worse than that, governmental ownership would be setting up a vast political machine of
the worst sort. The old saloon had large political influence. Governmental ownership would have a much vaster influence.

Ask the older people of South Carolina what they think of governmental ownership and control. They tried it twenty-five years
ago. Governor Tillman worked out a scheme for the handling of liquor in South Carolina known as the dispensary plan.
By this plan, the state had control of the liquor trade. Any county that wanted a dispensary could have it.
A commission composed ofHonest and honorable citizens were selected and put in charge of the liquor trade. Within a few
years, it was discovered that some of these honest and honorable members of the commission had been bribed up to
the limit by the liquor interests. Some of them were sent to the penitentiary. The whole plan was honeycombed with
corruption through and through. Ask the Christian leaders what they think of governmental ownership and control in Canada, and they
will tell you that it has resulted in the increased consumption of liquor and in increased drunkenness. The New York
Times this morning contained a condensed statement of the report of the Liquor Control Commission of Ontario. They sold fifty-five
million dollars worth of liquor in 1929. The report also contains this paragraph: “Evils resulting from the abuse of liquor
have been ever present. The sin of drunkenness is still with us, and probably will remain with a host of
other sins.” That is an interesting statement to be found in the official report of a governmental commission. It is
a confession that governmental control has not promoted the cause of temperance. Some who are opposed to our present liquor
laws advocate referring the liquor question back to each individual State, thus allowing each of the forty-eight States to make
its own liquor laws. I would vote for this if each State could confine its liquor within its own bounds,
thus allowing an adjacent State to have its own laws and plans. But this cannot be done. We tried it
for years and it would not work. For example, Virginia voted dry by a large majority and passed stringent laws.
But the liquor trade of Maryland, an adjoining State, declined to observe Virginia’s liquor laws. Under the head of interstate
commerce, which Virginia could not control, the Maryland liquor dealers poured their liquor into Virginia. Liquor dealers have never been
willing for individual States to have their own liquor laws. They violate those laws in every conceivable way. Thus, as
we glance about, it is difficult to find a satisfactory plan, or a better one than we have now. The
truth of the matter is that liquor has always refused to be controlled or regulated. Do not forget that, as
you try to think of a better way than we now have. This is a question on which we need
to do some clear, Christian thinking. Not only so, but we need to do our own thinking. Newspapers tell us
that liquor is everywhere. Our rivers are fairly flowing with it. Friends may tell you that liquor can be bought
anywhere and everywhere in your own city. They tell us that college students are drinking it as never before. What
is your own observation on this question? I have rather large opportunities to make observations. I am often on railroad
trains and in hotels. I walk the streets of our larger cities. I attend college football games. I have seen
only one drunken man in the past five years. He was at a football game but was not a college
student. It is the rarest thing that I see any signs of liquor. Of course, it may be said that
I am an innocent abroad, or that I do not move in circles where liquor is to be found. That
may be true, and yet if it were so abundant, I would certainly see more signs of it and more
drunken men in public places. Back in the days of saloons, I saw plenty of whiskey in public places and
plenty of drunken men. This is a time when we should not let loud talking stampede us. We need to
do some observing and thinking for ourselves. Above all, we who are Christians need to do some praying, that our
heavenly Father may work in us both to will and to do of His good pleasure in this great matter.
Walter L. Lingle.

A new sort of watch winds itself, and if someone will perfect a device to put out the milk bottles
automatically, there should be no further trouble about going to bed.—Detroit News.

“Pat, I am sending your waistcoat; to save weight I have cut all the buttons off. Your loving mother. P.S.—You
will find the buttons in your upper left pocket.”

Teacher: “When was Rome built?”
Boy: “At night.”
Teacher: “Who told you that?”
Boy: “You did. You said Rome wasn’t built in a day.”

The saloon was abolished and the State took over. Kaye Don, an English sportsman, has decided to return home with
his racer, The Silver Bullet. The machine was built by the “Sunshine” people and was probably worth more than twenty
thousand dollars. He aimed for the world’s record speed of approximately 235 miles per hour. Don did not realize that
there are other matters to be considered besides the quality of the machine and the driver. The condition of the
beach, visibility, humidity, and other natural phenomena have their effect; they cannot always produce ideal conditions. It is easy to
understand the advantages of testing stock cars, but it is rather difficult to reconcile the expenditures of large sums of
money for the mere sake of holding a record. That fine aviator, Hawkes, is to be congratulated on his flight
across the United States in a glider towed by a heavier-than-air conveyance. It is the first recent triumph of American
aeronautics. One does not have to read the comments of Arthur Brisbane to know that Germany and other European countries
have surpassed other nations in stunt and endurance flights. It is a wonder that a foreigner was not the first
to pull Hawkes’ experiment. (No, we do not forget Lindbergh, nor do we forget the Graf Zeppelin.) There may be
some altruists who resent the inference that the United States should excel in every phase of such activities, but can
there be a logical excuse for the failure of a country which is the richest and best situated of any
in the world? To use a slang expression, “agitators against the younger generation give us a pain.” An automobile may
go farther and park longer, but it won't run with the reins tied around the whipstock. There is probably little
difference in the morals practiced by succeeding generations. As a concrete example that the youth of today are not growing
physically weaker because of lax practices, a few figures would be in order. Out of fourteen school records of field
and track events, four are held by men now in school. One of these, the broad jump mark, had stood
since the year 1896. Seniors and Juniors now at Davidson have seen no less than nine school records fall, and
this number does not include the times that these men have broken their own marks. Only one record now stands
that was set before 1920, and two weeks ago it came dangerously close to succumbing to the efforts of the
present younger generation.

In a large Eastern city, a hungry man tries to steal a milk bottle and loaf of bread and is
shot in his getaway. It will be recalled that the notorious criminal, pal of Gerald Chapman, George Anderson, was apprehended
in this same manner. When men risk arrest and death for food in this country, the world’s most prosperous nation,
it is not difficult to understand Communist agitations in foreign localities. A starving man with famished children will gladly listen
to a fanatical propagandist who offers any promises at all. Rome’s breadline aided in the downfall of the empire, but
Russia is making a great and interesting experiment.

There is not a concrete argument for the following assertion, however true or false it may be. Yet, it appears
that the campus has been favored with speakers in the past two weeks who have proved unusually interesting. Many names
come to the minds of upperclassmen in connection with lectures and addresses. Doctors “Tolly” Thompson, Ben Lacy, Sam Glasgow, and
Vander Meulen are a few of them. Fresh in the minds of students, however, are the names of Sir Herbert
Ames and Dr. W. M. Anderson. Of a different type and purpose, these two men have been as favorably received
by the student body as any speaker who has ever visited Davidson. No student could hear either one and refrain
from thinking, nor could that student keep from being inspired. And, in a list of popular lecturers, Mr. William Ellsworth
should not be forgotten.

With this effort, Cosmic Chaos makes its final bow or rather, to be poetic, its Swan Song. To its regular
readers, there may be a few, this column offers its appreciation for patient endurance. To the chance reader, we say
that in one more week you would have been safe. Cosmic Chaos is flickering and is out.

Tommy: “There’s a girl at our school, mamma, they call ‘Postscript.’ Do you know why?”
Mamma: “No, dear.”
Tommy: “Because her name is Adeline Moore.”

The man who once wisely said, “Be sure you're right, then go ahead,” might well have added this, to wit:
“Be sure you're wrong before you quit!”
