THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20, 1930

PLAY BY PLAY REPORT

First Quarter:
Branch kicked off to McCall on Davidson's 13-yard line. McCall goes to Carolina’s 29-yard line. King loses two yards around left end. Fraley’s pass is incomplete. McCall made one yard over right tackle, tackled by Houston. Fraley’s pass is incomplete. Davidson is penalized five yards for second incomplete pass, and ball changes hands. Carolina on her own 35-yard line. Magner hit left guard for two yards. Magner tries right end and gets two yards. Branch kicks to McCall on Davidson’s 16-yard line. McCall downed by Walker and Brown. McQueen kicked to Nash on Davidson’s 44-yard line. No return. Houston made one yard over right tackle. Nash fumbled and Brown recovered for Davidson on Davidson’s 45-yard line. McCall hit right tackle for two yards, stopped by Lipscomb. King circles right end for seven yards, tackled by Magner. McQueen kicked to Nash on Carolina’s 40-yard line. He returned to his 45-yard line. Nash made first down on Davidson’s 44-yard line on a left end run. Nash made one yard over guard. Magner made first down on Davidson’s 28-yard line. Branch slipped down and lost four yards. Nash was run out of bounds on long left end run, taking ball to Davidson’s 23-yard line. Proctor substitutes for Pierce. Time out for Davidson. Second down and five to go. Magner lost one yard around right end. Houston hit center and gained four yards. Fourth down and two to go. Magner hits right tackle, and they are measuring for first down. It is first down on Davidson’s 16-yard line. Nash lost three yards on attempted left end, tackled by Covington and Fraley. Magner failed to gain over right tackle. Third down and 14 to go. Brown, of Davidson, threw Magner for no gain. Pass, Magner to Nash, was good for touchdown. Branch’s drop-kick fails. Score: Carolina 6; Davidson 0.

Branch kicks off to McQueen on Davidson’s 15-yard line. McQueen returned to Davidson’s 37-yard line, tackled by Blackwood. Time out for Davidson. McCall gained one over left tackle, stopped by Blackwood and McDade. McCall made one yard over same place, tackled by McDade. Brock kicked to Branch on Carolina’s 20-yard line, Branch returning down the sidelines to Davidson’s 14-yard line, being run out by McCall. Magner gained three yards over right tackle, stopped by King. Magner made two yards over guard, tackled by McQueen. Third down, five yards to go. Nash stopped on Davidson’s five-yard line, tackled by McQueen. They are measuring for first down on Nash’s run. He made it on Davidson’s four-yard line. Houston hit center for one yard. Second and three to go for touchdown. Magner thrown by McQueen for two-yard loss. End of quarter.

Second Quarter:
Carolina on Davidson’s five-yard line, third down and goal to go. Nash lost four yards around left end, tackled by Covington and Brown. Fourth and nine to go. Magner passed over goal line, Davidson’s ball on her own 20-yard line. First and ten to go. Fraley rammed center for eight yards, stopped by Blackwood. McQueen hurdles center for first down on Davidson’s 31-yard line. Fysal is injured. Time out for Carolina. McQueen goes off left tackle to Carolina’s 19-yard line. Fraley was stopped by Lipscomb for no gain. Gilreath replaces Lipscomb at center. McCall made one yard. Fraley’s pass was incomplete. Fourth down and eight to go. McCall circled right end and they are measuring for first down. It was first down on Carolina’s 14-yard line. McQueen made three yards over left tackle. Fraley rammed center for a touchdown. Fraley’s place-kick was good. Score: Carolina 6; Davidson 7.

Davidson substitution, Brohard for McQueen. Brock kicks off to Brown on Carolina’s 18. He returned to Carolina’s 37-yard line. Magner went over right tackle for four yards, tackled by Brohard. Brown threw Nash for a six-yard loss. Branch kicked to McCall on Davidson’s 30-yard line. McCall returned to Davidson’s 46-yard line. Brohard tried left tackle for no gain, hit by Blackwood and Fysal. Brohard stopped for no gain by Fysal. Slusser substituted for Nash. King fails to gain around right end, tackled by Walter and Gilbreath. Mills for McCall. Brock kicked to Branch on Carolina’s five-yard line. Branch returned to his 14-yard line. Slusser lost one yard, thrown by Brown. Parker replaces Mathis at guard for Davidson. Branch kicked out of bounds on Carolina’s 38-yard line. McIver replaces Blackwood at guard. Fraley hit center for two yards, stopped by McIver and Gilreath. Brohard goes over left tackle for first down on Carolina’s 27-yard line. Hodges replaces Thompson at left tackle. Brohard hits the same side and makes another first down on Carolina’s 15-yard line. Time out for Carolina. Fraley makes one yard through left guard, tackled by Gilreath. Brohard fakes over left guard for five yards. Third and four to go. Brohard stopped by Hodges for no gain. Fourth and four to go. King failed to make first down. Carolina’s ball on her eight-yard line. Branch kicked to Mills on Davidson's 39-yard line. McConnell replaces Mason at center. Brohard made one yard through left tackle, stopped by Gilreath. Tabb goes in for Walker at left end. Miller substitutes for Brown of Davidson at left end. Brohard goes to Carolina’s 32-yard line on right end run. Third and two to go. Brohard hit left guard for one yard. Newcombe replaces Fysal. Brock kicked out of bounds on Carolina’s 11-yard line. Conway replaces Brock. Branch gained five, tackled by Conway and Parker. Branch tries right end and gets one, tackled by Raker. Branch kicked to Davidson’s 32-yard line, Carolina man downing the ball. Fraley hits left guard for one yard, stopped by Hodges. Wagner substitutes for Covington of Davidson. Mills goes around right end for five yards. Third and four to go. Mills kicked out of bounds on Carolina’s 21-yard line. McCaskill substitutes for Houston. Magner lost two around right end, thrown by Wagner. Alexander for Brown at Carolina’s right end. Magner passed to Branch for nine yards. Magner’s pass to Slusser fails. Magner passed to Branch for first down on Carolina’s 32-yard line. Fraley intercepted Magner’s pass in midfield and returns to Carolina’s 21-yard line as half ends. Score: Carolina 6; Davidson 7.

Third Quarter:
Brock kicked off to Branch on Carolina’s 26-yard line. He returned to Carolina’s 47-yard line. Chandler, substituted, gained three. Slusser fumbled and Brock recovered on Carolina’s 49-yard line. McQueen made four over left tackle. Fraley stopped by Thompson for no gain. Second and six to go. McCall gained one around right end, stopped by Fysal and Brown. Brock kicked to Branch on Carolina’s 15, who returned to Carolina’s 24-yard line. First and ten. Slusser steps out of bounds for one-yard loss. Slusser came around his left end for one yard. Branch is hurt on the play. Chandler takes double pass and goes to Carolina’s 33-yard line. Branch kicked to King on Carolina’s 43-yard line, who returned to Carolina’s 32-yard line. McQueen hits left tackle for four yards, tackled by Slusser and McIver. McCall faked over left tackle to Carolina’s 24-yard line. McQueen hits left tackle and missed first down by two feet. McQueen hit center for first down on Carolina’s 22-yard line. McQueen off left tackle for five yards. Fraley hits the same tackle and gets three. McQueen rams the same position for first down on Carolina’s 11-yard line. Time out for Carolina. Substitution, House for Houston. King got three over right tackle, stopped by Slusser. Low pass from center to McQueen is fumbled and recovered by McQueen for five-yard loss. Third down and 12 to go. McQueen fails to gain around right end. Time out for Davidson as McQueen is injured. Fraley’s pass incomplete, and ball changes hands. First down and ten on her own 10-yard line. Branch goes around right end for one yard, tackled by King and Raker. Brock threw House for three-yard loss. Brohard will replace McQueen. Branch fakes a kick and makes first down on his own 31-yard line. Brock threw Slusser.

College Calendar:
Sa., Nov. 22—Chapel Services conducted by Caligan, from Union Seminary.
Sun., Nov. 23—Morning service by Cunningham. Grey will speak to Ministerial Band. Vespers conducted by Leighton McCutchen. Tom Hamilton will preach at the Sunday evening service.
Mon., Nov. 24—Dick Flinn will...con- duct chapel. Tues. Nov. 25—Literary Societies meet in their respective halls. Wed., Nov. 26—Student body pep-meeting at Shearer immediately after supper. Meeting of Student Sunday School Teachers at 9:00 p.m., in the reading room of the “Y.” The Freshmen designated will meet in the “Y” society center, at the same hour.

Church for one-yard loss around right side. Branch intentionally grounded a pass as he was tackled, and Carolina is penalized 15 yards. Ball on Carolina’s 14-yard line. Branch kicks to his own 48-yard line, ball being downed by Walker. Brohard made four yards over left guard, tackled by Chandler. McCall gained one yard on fake over right guard, stopped by Fysal and McIver. King takes ball, double passes to McCall, who is stopped on Carolina’s 40-yard line. He was stopped by Gilreath. Brock kicked to Branch on his seven-yard line, who stepped out of bounds. End of quarter.

Fourth Quarter
Magner replaces Chandler. Branch passed to Magner for two yards, Magner being tackled by Brohard. Branch faked a punt, ran and gained two yards. Branch kicked to Davidson on her 44-yard line, Walker downing the ball. Brohard failed to gain over right tackle. McCall fumbled, picked it up and went ten yards for a first down on Carolina’s 47-yard line. Brohard hits left guard for four yards. Fraley fumbled, but recovered on Carolina’s 45-yard line. Third and nine to go. Brohard criss-crosses through for first down on Carolina’s 35-yard line. Brohard hits right guard for three, tackled by Slusser. Newcombe goes in for Fysal. McCall is roughed, and Carolina is penalized 15 yards, Gilreath hitting McCall. Ball on Carolina’s 16-yard line. King got one over left tackle. Brohard fumbled and Slusser recovered on Carolina’s 16-yard line. Nash goes in for Slusser. Magner got six around left end. Magner passed to Nash, but it was incomplete. Magner’s pass to Branch was incomplete. Five-yard penalty. Branch kicked to McCall on Davidson’s 32. McCall returns to his 38-yard line. McCall makes seven over right tackle. Time out for Carolina. Lipscombe for Gilreath. Brohard makes it first down on Carolina’s 48-yard line. Blackwood substitutes for McIver at left guard. King goes around left end for five yards. Hodges for Thompson. McCall makes four yards, downed by McDade. King failed to gain over left guard. Mills for Brohard. Time out for Davidson. Brock is injured. Parker replaces Brock. Mills kicked to Carolina’s 40-yard line, Proctor tried to down it, fumbled, and Carolina recovered on her own 45-yard line. Nash went out of bounds for two yards. Nash fakes and goes over center to Davidson’s yard line. McConnell substitutes for Mason. Magner’s pass incompleted. Branch kicked out of bounds on Davidson’s 33-yard line. Brohard gets one yard over right tackle, stopped by Blackwood. King tries right end, but got nothing, tackled by Lipscombe and House. Davidson penalized five yards for taking out too much time. Mills kicked to Branch on Carolina’s 42-yard line. He returned two yards. Pierce substituted for Proctor. Erickson for Nash. Magner passed to Erickson for first down on Davidson’s 40-yard line. Miller replaced Brown for Davidson. Nicholson replaced Walker of Carolina. Magner’s pass to Branch was incomplete. Carolina substituted McAlister for House. Magner’s pass to Erickson was wide. Carolina penalized five yards for second incomplete pass. Magner passed to Branch for first down on Davidson’s 29-yard line. Magner went out of bounds for no gain. Wyrick for Branch. Magner’s pass was low to Erickson. Magner’s pass to Erickson fails again. Five-yard penalty for second incomplete pass. Moore for Wyrick. Magner passed to Moore and it was good, but failed to make first down. Davidson on her own 28-yard line. Brohard made one over right guard. King circled right end to Davidson's 34-yard line. Brohard is stopped for one-yard gain. Maus for Magner. Mills kicked to Maus on Carolina’s 20. He returned three. King intercepted Maus’ pass on his own 44-yard line to end the game. Final score: Carolina 6; Davidson 7.

WAKE FOREST JINX
(Continued from page 3)
but a fighting Wake Forest line rose to the occasion and threw the Wildcat backs for losses. The ball was punted out to the Davidson 35-yard stripe where Wake Forest battled Davidson on even terms. Johnny Cox, Deacon half, was the dynamite in the Baptist attack. The standing custom of deadlocking with the Deacons was broken in 1928, but by the Baptists, who handed Davidson the worst licking a Wake Forest team has ever given the Wildcats, when they took advantage of all breaks to bury Davidson under a 25-6 score. Davidson received and marched down the field to make three first downs, but then the Deacon line stiffened and from then on the game was Wake Forest’s. The Baptist passing was deadly, completing nine out of 15, which is a good average. Kell was the outstanding star for Davidson with Riggs McConnell doing his share in the line. For the Deacons, Harel and Quillen shone in the backfield, while Captain Weir and Parker were outstanding in the line. Last year in the World War Memorial Stadium at Greensboro, a Davidson team that was favored to win over Wake Forest was turned back by the margin of one touchdown. This game was significant in that it was the first time since 1922 the Wildcats were not allowed to cross the Wake Forest goal line. Davidson threatened to score twice, but was turned back on both occasions by a mighty Deacon forward wall. Wake Forest cashed in on their only threat when a speedy Deacon back sprinted around end for the remaining three yards for a score. A resume of all scores since 1908 is as follows:

Davidson Wake Forest
1908 31 4
1910 32 0
1912 13 7
1913 6 0
1914 6 21
1915 72 21
1917 1
1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929

RELIGIOUS SERVICES
(Continued from page 1)
chapel service on Saturday, while the church service on Sunday will be conducted by Cunningham, since Dr. Moffett has graciously given them his pulpit for the day. McCutchen will give the talk at “Y” vespers, and Hamilton will give the talk at the evening church service. Gray will speak to the ministerial band Sunday. The chapel service on Monday will be led by Flinn. The deputation was selected by the president of the seminary, Dr. Ben R. Lacy, who was the speaker at fall services, and whose sermons were greatly enjoyed by the students.

VESPERS LED BY QUEENS
(Continued from page 1)
low students but the spirit of God is always present. He knows when you are thinking of doing wrong. When you find out that you cannot gain quite as much by doing the right thing, do the right thing anyhow, because in the long run it will get you farther along the road of life. “Smiling is one of the best services anyone can give. It is cheap and takes so little energy, yet it does more good than one thinks that it does. Enter into every phase of life if you wish to be of the best possible service. Start making your plans now and if you are giving your best to Davidson you are sure to get the best from it.”

LOTS OF SPEED ... but no control. That’s the trouble with Lightning. Maybe it never does strike twice in the same place; but, one strike and you're out!—money. (Unless you have enough Fire Insurance.) Don’t forget that since 1913, while building material costs have gone up 96%, Fire Insurance has come down 71%. You need more insurance probably; you get more—for less money than before. Before lightning strikes you out, see us.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McAlister Carson (’13), Manager
M. B. Speir (’26)

STATIONERY
STUDENT SUPPLIES
FOUNTAIN PENS
NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE
W. S. HENDERSON
MAGAZINES
BOOKS
SUNDRIES
Furnishings
Friendly Five Shoes
STETSON
“D” STORE
PHONE 206

SPECIAL
Tailored Top Coats $25.00
Clothes
John Ward Shoes