THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 16, 1930

Freshmen Outshoot Girls Rifle Sextet
Arlington, High Scorer With 270 Out of Possible 300 Points

The Freshman Rifle Team won their first match of the season by defeating a team composed of girls from the
town of Davidson by a count of 1459 to 1195. Only the prone, sitting, and kneeling positions were fired. Ralph
Arlington was high scorer with 270 out of a possible 300. Paul Brown had 264 while Nona Elkins of the
girl’s team had 263. The scores were out of a possible 300:

Girls
Malling .......................... 203
Agnes Brown .............. 127
Billie Elkins .................. 178
Ficistahd Scott ............ 226
Sarah .............................. 198
Nona Elkins .................. 263
Total .............................. 1195

Freshmen
Ralph Arlington .......... 270
Paul Brown .................. 264
Omer Burgess .............. 218
B. R. O. .......................... 235
B. Minne ......................... 256
W. M. E. Rachel .......... 216
Total .............................. 1459

Freshmen are eligible for the Varsity rifle team so there will be no separate team for the Freshmen. The Varsity
will open its schedule February 1, when the first of their correspondence matches is fired. Seventy-one correspondence matches have been
scheduled with several shoulder-to-shoulder matches also. Firing for the Rifle Trophy has begun, and the results of this will be
published as soon as the scores are all turned in. This trophy was won last year by C. P. Greyer,
captain of this year’s team. Among those firing this year are the following members of last year’s squad: Brohard, Calder,
Curdts, Harris, Graham, Kraemer, Russell, and Brock, J.

SERIES OF DISCUSSIONS
(Continued from page 1)

fields have been exploited, and whether they are overfilled or in need of efficient employees. “These articles will also benefit
men who have already discovered their calling, by giving them better knowledge concerning their chosen field.” “Therefore I urge every
man in the student body to read and analyze these helpful guidance discussions, since they will profit every reader,” McGuire
concluded.

WILDCATS GIVE BRILLIANT
(Continued from page one)

Proctor (1) .................. 22
Marpet (4) .................. Guard
Substitutions: Davidson, Moore, Shepherd, Marti (4); Carolina, Edwards (2), Hutchinson (2), Dameron (2); Alexander (1). Referee, Rawson (Ga.).

First Man—I’d like to be cremated after I die, but I’m sure my wife wouldn't like it.
Second Male—Why not?
First Man—She’s always complaining about me leaving my ashes around.

A minister, while passing a group of convicts at work on the county roads, became very much depressed at the
wickedness of the world. “My good men,” he exhorted, “we should strive to mend our ways.” “Well, what in thunder
do you think we're doing,” asked No. 3289, “digging fishworms?”

The difference between a motorman and a conductor is quite strange; The motorman changes the handle, while the conductor handles
the change.

Judge—What was the prisoner’s appearance when he was arrested?
Cop—Well, he had a kind of a pinched look.

Roses are red,
Violets are blue
What is a pawnshop
Without a Jew?

Business Office—I’ll give you just three days to pay your rent.
Freshman—All right, I’ll take the Fourth of July, Christmas, and Easter.

The cow stood on the railroad track
Alooking at the sky;
Down the track came the limited—
Oh, see the pretty butterfly!

“Cap’n Brock” Title Of Poem By Craven

The following poem, or rather ballad, was written by Dr. W. W. Craven, of Charlotte. Doctor Craven’s modesty refused to
allow him to send this in, but it was discovered by Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, class of 1906, and past
president of the Davidson Alumni Association, who immediately sent it to the editor of The Davidsonian to be published.

“CAP’N BROCK”

Toward the Wildcat lair the ball was forced
By Duke men tall and strong
While heated blood thru stout hearts coursed,
Something it seemed went wrong.
The pigskin oval the wildcat held
And growled and howled and hissed
Then back of goal young Brock now fell
And Duke a score had missed.
Light and lithe was this cat in red
As punt he was set to make,
But opposing team on air was fed
And he decided to play on fake.
Thru mass of brown Cap'n Brock now ran
With the ball clasped under his arm,
Then on he went thru Devil clan
But to him there came no harm.
To right and then to left he squirmed
A streak of red and black,
Across the field his way he wormed
But his pace he did not slack.
Two devils, each both fierce and fast
Were giving hot-heeled chase,
And soon all others they had passed
For they set a whirlwind pace.
Then one tall form in white and blue
Was reaching for that jersey red
And to old Duke was he proving true
For on speed he'd been well fed.
Soon fleeing Brock was in his grip
And his frame was seen to bend
’Twas then the cat had cut a flip
And his dash had come to end.
Before staring eyes the goal posts stood
But the captain had shot his bolt
Then other cats who were most as good
Would give Buck Duke a jolt.
They hit the line at first in vain
And then they made a second try
This time on blue was left red stain
As they passed the devils by.

THE EMBEZZLERS
By Valentine Kataev
(Reviewed by W. S. Lea)

Someone has said that of the twelve greatest novels, twelve of them are Russian. No doubt, this statement had reference
to the great Dostoievsky, to Tolstoi, to Gogol, and to the other great Russian writers of the last century. However,
in modern times also, the Russians are producing great works in this field. One of the most outstanding of these
recent Russian books is “The Embezzlers” by Valentine Kataev. The American people, possibly, do not have as understanding knowledge of
the Soviets as they did of the Russians before their revolution. Dostoievsky has shown us the life which existed in
his time. To coin a phrase from Gogol, we have seen the dead souls which were the peasants of Russia.
But who of us knows the Russia of today. Let us listen to Kataev as he shows us this picture
of the present-day Russia. His story moves with much swiftness through scenes which at one time bring us out in
flows of laughter, and at another time puts us in tears. We will be amused by the book, but we
will also be impressed by its depth. “The Embezzlers,” although we cannot call it a political tract, is a real
picture of,

BOOKS WE HAVE READ

Davidson Freshmen Win Over Charlotte Quintet

The Davidson Wildkittens defeated the Charlotte High Wildcats last Saturday night by a score of 20 to 9. The game
was played in Charlotte at the Charlotte High Gym. A small crowd of spectators witnessed the contest, which was featured
by the fast floor work of both teams. The five-man defense of the Wildkittens was another feature of this contest.
Inability to locate the basket when in scoring territory proved costly to both teams, with Charlotte being the worst offender.
The outstanding player of both teams was Bruce Peabody, whose excellent floor work was largely responsible for Davidson’s ability to
work the ball down the floor in the second half, scoring rallies. He was strong on defense. Starring with Peabody
for the Wildkittens was Rogers, who was high scorer of the night with a total of nine points. Both teams
got off to a slow start and the score at the end of the first half was Charlotte High 6,
Davidson Freshmen 4. However, in the second half the Wildkittens flashed a snappy brand of passing and proved superior to
Charlotte in this line of play, thereby adding sixteen points while holding their foes to five.

FINE SPEAKERS TO COME
(Continued from page 1)

Other speakers have been arranged for but no definite dates have been set as yet. Rev. Lloyd Courtney of Lewisburg,
W. Va., will speak at one of the services during the next few weeks. Dr. James Fowle, a Davidson alumnus
and now pastor of the First Presbyterian ChurchIn Chattanooga, Tenn., has consented to lead the service in the near future.
A deputation from Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Georgia, will come and lead the meetings of the various organizations meeting
on one Sunday. The committee is trying to get a deputation from Princeton Theological Seminary also but this has not
been definitely secured yet.

The call of blood Cap’n Brock had heeded
As Davidson to tradition played true
Once more the tide had receded
A tide of big men in blue.
W. W. Craven, M.D.

The Soviet system. The book is a literary achievement. One sees the real Russian of today, with both its tears
and its laughter. Many interesting people come before our eyes—people who we do not know, because they are Russian. The
book centers on the actions of two Soviet minor officials, who unexpectedly make off with the heavy bankroll of their
firm. We follow them through a long series of events, in which they try to elude their pursuers. On this
big escapade, they go through many amusing actions, drink much vodka, and show us much of Russia. Doctor Canby writes:
“Here is news out of Russia—news, not of economics, politics, and proletarianism; but of human nature, at last. It always
seemed that men and women must laugh, weep, and be tender or foolish in the Soviet, but you would seldom
guess it from the books that have been written of that proletarian society.” The writer is a young newspaper man
of Moscow. He is the son of a schoolmaster, but the grandson of a general. He served, and was wounded
in the World War. He also endured eight months of prison life. Another of his works, a drama called “The
Univermag,” will be produced in Moscow this year. We recommend the book very highly. Those who would understand owe it
to themselves to read this book.

Special Designs
DELUXE ICE CREAM
At Students’ Store and Dealers
MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COMPANY
Mooresville, N. C.
Brick Eskimo Pies

Bell Company Seeks Davidson Graduates
I. B. Huie, Davidson graduate of the class of '26, and George W. Wray, who represent the Southern Bell Telephone
Company, interviewed about twenty members of the senior class last Thursday. For the past four years, this company has sent
men to interview members of the senior class at Davidson in regard to their entering the Bell Telephone Company. Already
there are over twelve Davidson graduates in this company. They are connected with three parts of the company: The New
York Telephone Company, The Southern Bell Telephone Company, and the Bell Telephone Laboratories in New York. At the meeting last
Thursday, the men received an outline of the possibilities which lie in the telephone business. They were given pamphlets which
described to a certain extent the work. On January 20, Mr. Charles Weisger, one of the officials of the company,
will be here. He will interview those men who are still interested in the company at the same time, he
will bring assistants with him, and the men will fill out blanks if they wish to go into the Southern
Bell Telephone Company. They will get answers to these applications sometime in the near future.

Sixteen Men From Alabama Form Club
Just preceding the holidays, the men here at Davidson from Alabama organized an Alabama club, consisting of 16 members of
which six were Freshmen. S. Y. Cassels was elected president. Several feeds and smokers have been planned for the near
future. The club is well represented in the several college activities, members being in the band, orchestra, and connected with
literary or journalistic work. Athletics are also indulged in by several Alabamians. Regular meetings are to be held with Sloan
Cassels presiding. The list of members, with their addresses, follows: Sloan Cassels, President, Mobile; Ben Harris, Mobile; Tom Bowles, Decatur;
Bryce Robinson, Reeves Pope, Clifton Pennington, John Arthur Baby, Talladega; Van Middleton, Mobile; Philip Shanks, Selma; Dave Anderson, Birmingham; Murry
Christian, Mobile; J. L. Brock, Florence; Kenneth Jackson, Stuart Meacham, Birmingham; Fred Ogden, Mobile; T. M. Sanderson, Montgomery.

TEN YEARS BACK
During the month of January, exactly a decade ago the campus of Davidson College was literally buzzing with what was,
perhaps, the greatest campaign for money ever put on at the institution. The “Million Dollar Campaign” of North Carolina was
in full swing. Presbyterians of North Carolina were entering upon a project whereby they were to subscribe one million dollars
for the Presbyterian schools of the state. Four hundred thousand dollars of this fund were to go to Davidson, and
the Rockefeller Foundation had promised to add one hundred thousand dollars to this sum, provided the entire million was subscribed.
Mr. C. E. Graham, of Greenville, S. C., had promised the school an additional sixty thousand upon the same condition.
The part of the campaign allotted to the students of Davidson amounted to ten thousand dollars. The campaign was in
the form of a contest between the dormitories. The boys of Georgia Dormitory led the race by soliciting twenty-five hundred
dollars. The first floor of Watts Hall gave more than any other one floor in contributing one thousand one hundred
and fifty dollars. A total of eleven thousand dollars was subscribed in one night.

“Hurricane” Defeats ’Cats in Quint Class
Furman Downs Davidson Team by Score of 33 to 20
In a quintet clash on Thursday, January 9, 1930, the Furman Hurricane defeated the Davidson Wildcats by a score of
33-20. This was the second of two games played in South Carolina territory by the Wildcats and was played at
Greenville. Furman took the lead in the first half and by good floor work, led at the end of the
period by a score of 25 to 8. Davidson was unable to penetrate the defense of the Hurricane while the
Southerners rolled up the score. The second half showed a change of matters. Davidson with that indomitable “fighting spirit” showed
a strong comeback. By good floor work and shooting Davidson led the second half scoring by two points, although this
left Furman still on the long end of the final score. The work of Southern and Ohlsen featured for Furman,
while Captain Johnston showed up best for Davidson.

Furman fg ft tp
Wills 4 0 8
Ranich 0 0 0
Southern 6 0 12
Watson 3 0 6
Moss 3 0 6
Ohlsen 0 2 2
Stawart 0 0 0
Wakefield 0 1 1
Totals 16 1 33

Davidson fg ft tp
Johnston, f 3 3 9
Pritchett 1 0 2
Shepherd, f 0 0 0
McMillan 0 0 0
Burke 0 0 0
Milton 0 0 0
Mathis 1 0 2
Goodson 1 1 3
McLeod 1 2 4
Mathis 0 0 0
Proctor 0 0 0
Totals 7 6 20

FASHIONS FOR SUPERMEN
“Impelled both by their own zeal for victory and promotion, and by the importunities of the manufacturers to take leave
of precedent and obsolete styles,” says Westbrook Pegler in telling about “Fashions For Supermen” in the January issue of College
Humor, “the coaches have transformed the varsity man from a shaggy fearsome figure who breathed through holes in a rubber
mask, into a trim, fleet affair in pants so tight that they seem to be painted on, a shoulder harness
like a prospector’s pack saddle, and a form-fitting, shock-absorbing casque of pliable leather, who looks no more like the idols
of my adolescence than Napoleon looked like old King Cole.

“On wet or extremely warm days, the boys show up with their shins nude, and it is a fact, although
not generally known, that the Harvard and Dartmouth teams of 1927 received issues of scanties, or shorts like Boy Scouts
pants, which disclosed an area of undraped athlete between the shoe-tops and a point well to the north of the
knee-cap. The trend is that daring.”

STOP that COLD and COUGH
take $29.50
Complete Line
Opposite Campus
Valbphous 206
Clothes for the College Man
Bostonian Friendly Five and John Ward Shoes
STETSON
“D” STORE
$34.50 of Furnishings
