THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 11, 1930

Books We Have Read

Iron Man. W. R. Burnett. Lincoln Mac Veagh. The Dial Press, New York, 1930.

Iron Man is a story of a man’s soul. It will delight a reader who likes books that go deep into human stuff unfamiliar to him, and casts upon life a light all the more illuminating because coming from so new a point of view. It is the story of a mechanic’s assistant who went into prize fighting and battered his brutal trail to the middleweight championship of the world. It is built around a trio: Coke Mason, the honest, fearless, incredibly ignorant, incredibly dumb and simple-hearted pugilist; Regan, his manager, and Rose Mason, the champion’s wife. Because of Rose the two men, the closest friends since childhood, part company in a scene that has infinite pathos. The strength of Coke Mason becomes his weakness in his devotion to Rose. Regan is gifted in every trick of the game, but is true to Coke after a fashion until the break comes. In its whirlwind finish, the story takes on the aspects of a tragedy of great forcefulness and dignity. You will come away from the book admiring Coke and with him a new world of people, in a walk of life vastly unknown to you. Iron Man (a Book-of-the-Month Club selection), is truly an epic of the pugilist realm, uncompromising in its realism, powerful, brutal. But there is more than the realist would think, or could see. For here is portrayed an essential decency in men that makes the author’s world just that much more true. According to Mac Veagh, “He has the realism of great art, which does not exclude the ideal as an element of reality.” In this study of the souls of men, and certainly it is such, we see an idealizing of the real, as well as a realizing of the ideal. A slugging champion, dumb but honorable, is seen torn between two alternatives, and besetting temptations hedge him in on every side, but the heart of Coke remains true. True it is that this book has much “unvarnished talk of rough men” in it, as Dorothy Canfield has pointed out, but we contend that in the unspoken affection which united this pugilist and his manager, one will find a moving picture, as it were, of deep-rooted masculine emotion which would be hard to find in any other book. Coke, the honest, honorable, incredibly ignorant, incredibly dumb and simple-hearted pugilist, will walk straight into any heart that has room for primitive personalities.

D. D. McBryde.

Intercollegiate News

Ohio Wesleyan

Delaware, Ohio—(IP)—Delaware police were called upon recently to disperse a class fight between 400 Freshman and Sophomore women on the campus of Ohio Wesleyan University. Freshman girls for several days had refused to appear in their Freshman berets. Then one evening the Sophomores organized and swooped down on the Freshman cottages. The Freshmen likewise were soon organized and a hot battle ensued. Hair was pulled, dresses torn and faces scratched in the melee. Sophomores succeeded in ducking a few of the frosh co-eds under the showers. The first policeman on the scene mistook lipstick, smeared on the faces of the Freshman girls, as blood marks, and sent in a general alarm. The cops soon separated the combatants, and no one was seriously hurt in the conflict.

HOME-OWNERS

When fire drives you out, you'll have to pay rent in a temporary home. If you have Rental Value Insurance, the insurance company will pay that extra, unlooked-for rent while you restore your own home with all the fire insurance money. Let’s show you the extraordinary value of Rental Value protection. Why protect the property and not the investment?

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.

Examination Schedule

Session 1930-1931—First Semester

A.M. examinations begin at 9:00
P.M. examinations begin at 2:00

J. R. McGREGOR (Continued from page 1)

firm, or it may have had only one; this firm of ours has passed through many hands, such as Moses, Joshua, Elijah, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Christ, His disciples, Paul, and many other Christian leaders. Your father’s firm may not promise anything for the future, but this firm promises eternal life to any who will become a member of it. Members of firms today sometimes leave the firm to seek affiliation with another firm which they think is better and where they can get more money; but the Firm of Jesus always keeps its members, once they become affiliated with it.

“Some people say that this firm’s members are not all the best type; this statement is probably true, as some of the members only become affiliated to obtain personal glory, but there is no firm in the world that has more finer men and women than this firm.

“Some of the members of the firm will forsake other firms to serve the Lord and broadcast His Word throughout the world. One of my friends who went to Presbyterian College of South Carolina, was captain of the football team, won the oratorical contest for his school and later went to Union Theological Seminary. He gave up the other professions that he might have followed to serve his Lord in the foreign fields in Africa at the salary of fifty dollars a month. I know of a railroad man who was very high in that business and forsook that business to become a minister of the gospel in Korea.

“A man went into a church to hear the service, but it was not interesting to him until after the pastor had read the scripture and began to pray. The man’s thoughts wandered during the prayer and then there came to him a vision of a man carrying a burden, and back of him his wife followed. This man was a very weak man. These poor people came to a stone and sat down. After they had been sitting there a short time, the prayer ended, and after the service he went home and tried to reproduce the picture, but he could not produce it like he thought it should be painted. He prayed to God and asked Him to let him paint the picture as it should be painted and he would give up his life to the service of God. God granted him this and then the man went to Palestine to reproduce the life of Christ. Now the duty of everyone in the firm is to reproduce the life of Christ.

“Eric Liddell, a great runner, refused to run a 400-meter race, his specialty, because it was postponed from Saturday to Sunday, and his parents had brought him up not letting him compete on the Sabbath Day. He told the officials to withdraw his name and they did. On Tuesday there was to be run the 800-meter race, a race that he had never run. He asked the officials to let him run and they did, and he not only won the race but set the world’s record. People want to know why he was honored when he graduated. The students did not honor him because he won the race, but because he was true to the thing he believed was right.”

The concluding song was “Day Is Dying in the West.” The service was closed by the benediction by Dr. McGregor.appear an honest man it is necessary to be one.—Bolleau.

“What became of your little kitten,” asked the visitor of Fred Morris Sorrell.
“Why haven’t you heard?”
“No, was it drowned?”
“No.”
“Lost?”
“No.”
“Poisoned?”
“No.”
“Then whatever became of it?”
“It grew up into a cat.”

Bystander: “I observe that you treat that gentleman very respectfully.”
Garage Man: “Yes, he’s one of our early settlers.”
Bystander: “Early settler? Why, he doesn’t look more than forty years of age.”
Garage Man: “That may be true, but he pays his bills on the first of the month.”

Is B. Speir ('26)

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia
The oldest and largest Southern Presbyterian Seminary
Both sound in the faith, and alert for new methods.
For Catalogue and information, address Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President.

Jan.
Freshman
Sophomore
Junior and Senior

A.M.
Mathematics 1
Mathematics 2
Mathematics 3, 4.
Polit. Science 3

Thur.
Psychology 2, Business 1, Educ. 1

4 P.M.
History 4, 5, 6

A.M.
Latin A, 1
Latin 2
Latin 3, Economics 3, Geology 2

Fri.
Philosophy 2

16 P.M.
Education 4, Psychology 1

A.M.
History 1
History 1
Applied Math. 1, 2

Sat.
History 2, 3

P.M.
Biology 2
Biology 2
Biology 3, 4, 5.
Business 2

Mon.
A.M.
4 P.M.
Bible 1
Bible 2
Bible 3, 4, 6.
Astronomy, Geology 1

A.M.
Chemistry 1
Chemistry 2
Chemistry 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
Economics 2, Education 2

P.M.
Greek 1
Greek 2
Greek 3, 5, 6.
Business 3, Psychology 4

A.M.
Economics 1, Psychology 3

Wed.
Geology 3

P.M.
English 1
English 2
English 4, 5, 7, 10

A.M.
Physics 1
Physics 2
Physics 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8

Thur.
Political Science 2

P.M.
Spanish A, 1
Spanish 2
Spanish 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
Fine Arts 2
Physical Education

A.M.
Political Science 1

Fri.
Education 3

P.M.
German A
German 1
German 3, 4.
Philosophy 1, Economics 4, Polit. Science 4

Sat.
A.M.
French A, 1
French 2
French 5, 6, 7, 8, Fine Arts 1, 2

P.M.
ROTC 1
ROTC 2
ROTC 3, 4

The unsubdued frosh co-eds later marched through downtown streets in snake dance formation, shouting to the world that they

University of California Finds From Questionnaires That Graduates Do Not Retain Knowledge Gained in College

Berkeley, Calit—(IP)—When the University of California decided to find out how much important information they learned as students is still retained in the minds of its alumni, the results were not so good. Most of the alumni, in fact, don’t even want to recall having seen the questionnaire, which went as follows:

1. Which state was formerly known as Desert?
2. What is the oldest university in North America?
3. When did the Holy Roman Empire go out of existence?
4. What famous American revolutionary leader later served in the Russian navy?
5. For what are the plains of Abraham famous?
6. What famous geographer gave his name to two continents?
7. Approximately when did Buddha live?
8. Who said, “They shall not crucify labor on this cross of gold”?
9. Who were the Boxers?
10. Who were the Shoguns?
11. Who is known as the father of history?
12. What was the Jacquerie?
13. What was the Hundred Days?
14. In what war did the Charge of the Light Brigade take place?
15. What are the ABC powers?

Literary Societies

The last meeting of the Eumenian and Philanthropic Literary Societies before the holidays will be held next Tuesday night at 6:45. The societies have gained a new lease on life this year, having given many interesting and worth-while programs since the beginning of the semester.

The program of the Eumenean will consist of two very interesting features. Calvin Kuykendall will give a detailed account of his numerous experiences encountered while he was employed on a tramp steamer which sailed half-way around the world. The ship for the most part was maneuvering in the Pacific. His sea-faring adventures occurred in a period of six months which began in the summer of 1929. Undoubtedly he has some unique adventures to relate to us; a keen insight of the life of a sailor, the customs of a Filipino, something of the Orient, and some secrets of the great Pacific.

The next thing will be a talk by Bob Lynn, a Freshman, Davidson’s only representative from the State of Minnesota, in which he will reveal to the society all the outstanding features of the great milling state. This will conclude the program schedule for 1930.

The program of the Philanthropic will be devoted to John Greenleaf Whittier, that beloved American poet. There will be fine details as follows: (1) His Life, by Cowan; (2) His Best Work, by Oz; (3) A Comparison of Whittier with Kipling, by Stewart Noblin; (4) Is American Literature Equal to English Literature and Why? by J. W. McCutchan; and (5) Humorous Selections by Steadman, R. This will give those who take advantage of it a chance to become acquainted with some of the finest American literature and one of the most renowned American poets.

Mrs. S. Moore (to boy with two dogs): “Have you licenses on both of those dogs?”
Fred Morris: “No’m, the big one’s all right, but the little one’s just full of ’em.”—Exchange.

Preacher: “No, you must not smoke. Men who smoke too much tobacco get tobacco heart; and people who drink too much coffee get coffee heart.”
Jimmy: “If I eat a lot of sweet things will I get a sweetheart?”

Mildred G., practice teaching: “Words ending in ‘ous’ mean ‘full of’; as joyous means full of joy and vigorous means full of vigor. Now give an example of such a word.”
M. Kate: “Pious.”

Lecturer: “Allow me, before I close, to repeat the immortal words of Webster—”
Jerry (to his wife): “Lan’ sakes, M’ria, let's get outa here. He's goin’ t’ start on th’ dictionary!”

Customer: “A Swiss cheese sandwich on rye bread, please.”
Counter Man (repeating order): “Swiss on rye.”
Customer: “I beg your pardon, I wonder if I could change my order to American cheese?”
Counter Man: “Naturalize that Swiss!”

By means of a new local anesthetic patients may listen in to radio while undergoing a surgical operation. Some, however, firmly demand chloroform.—London Opinion.

HANES PROVIDES
soft, long-lived, masculine company, yet smarter made, both trunk and chest. If you wear summer weights all year round, be sure to see the pleasing styles, rich materials and many special features in HANES Athletics and HANES Shirts and Shorts.

LUXURY AND SERVICE AT LOW COST

When you button up in HANES, you button out all the underwear grief you’ve ever known. HANES always fits you—never bunches or binds. The reinforced cuffs don’t pull off—buttons stay! The materials are soft, long-lived. HANES is a man’s underwear. Go take a look at the Gold Label Elastic-knit Lightweight Union Suit. It’s really luxurious and, as in all HANES garments from light to extra-heavy, the hanespun cotton is knitted and cut to careful measurements of REAL UNDERWEAR. Dungarees couldn’t ask for more or more up-to-date underwear.