THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 27, 1930

Along Side Line Shots At the Last Cage Games of the Year
By P. R. Alderman

Defeats featured the program for the Wildcats last week. Three Big Five teams in succession is a little too much strain on any quintet. The win of the Blue Devils Saturday night gives the latter an undisputed claim to the State championship. Fate seemed to have predicted this in that memorable contest in Charlotte not long ago. The Duke quintet, however, proved its right to such a title. Taking everything in, they have the edge on any five in the State. This edge was slightest over the Wildcats, but it was enough to turn in a win.

Coach Laird’s Kittens also found their trouble with the Duke Frosh. After downing the State Fresh they journeyed to Durham with the varsity where a double defeat was sustained by Davidson. Uncle Sam’s Cadets took the Wildcats’ measure for the second time this scholastic year. The matmen were unable to chalk up but three points against the soldiers last week. Captain Christenbury and his men put up a characteristic fight, however, although the former was the only one able to win his match. “Chris” has had a pretty unlucky season and certainly deserved the win.

Wofford furnishes the last opposition of the season for the varsity tonight. The Terriers were easily defeated by the Cats earlier in the season. Let’s back the team 100 percent tonight and help them show what they really can do.

With the first game only three weeks from today, candidates for the baseball squad are getting down to business which, judging from the weather and large number out, is no bad job. Although several of last year’s regulars are missing on account of graduation, including Fred Ratchford, “Pat” Crawford and Fritz Littlejohn, there seems to be plenty of good material for Coach Monk to work on this spring. “Sandy” Marks’ position at third base and Buck Marrow’s on the pitching staff are going to be hard to fill. Most of the twirling this year is going to fall on Captain Kugler who shouldn’t find the task a very hard one if he’s up to his last year’s form. “Nab” Armfield will probably work behind the plate again. With a season’s experience on the varsity behind him he is well-equipped for this job. “Sleepy” Goodson, one of the most consistent hitters last year and a classy infielder, will be ready for workouts as soon as the cage season closes. He is the most likely infield candidate at present, the rest of the positions being vacated last year. Ratchford’s place in centerfield is a big gap to fill. Proctor, Miller and Covington are last year’s outfielders who will be working for these posts again.

Motorist: “Is it very far to the next town?”
Native: “Well, it seems farther’n it is, but it ain’t.”

She: “Could I try on that blue dress in the window?”

Wildcat Wrestlers Overcome By Army
Captain Christenbury Wins Only Match for Davidson

Last Saturday afternoon the Wildcat matmen met defeat at the hands of the Army squad by the score of 27 to 3. Captain Christenbury, Davidson 165 pounder, was the only Wildcat to win his match. The Cadets won three matches by falls and four by time advantages.

Summary:
115 pounds: Momm, Army, defeated Cowan, Davidson; time advantage, 9:36.
125 pounds: Adams, Army, defeated Gorham, Davidson, by a fall, cradle hold, 2:14.
135 pounds: Fisher, Army, defeated Brown, Davidson, time advantage, 3:55.
145 pounds: Smellow, Army, defeated Morris, Davidson; by a fall, headlock, 4:57.
155 pounds: Packard, Army, defeated Conway, Davidson; time advantage, 5:29.
165 pounds: Christenbury, Davidson, defeated Jamieson, Army, by a time advantage, 5:29.
175 pounds: Hillsinger, Army, defeated Warren, Davidson; by a fall, headlock, 5:39.
Heavyweight: Parham, Army, defeated Boyle, Davidson; time advantage 3:32.

Final score: Army 27; Davidson College 3.
Referee: Gus Peterson.

Baseball Captain
“Doc” Kugler, of Washington, N. C., who will captain this year’s diamond outfit. Kugler was one of the mainstays of the Wildcat moundsmen last season and much is expected of him this year.

Schedule for March Athletics
Mar. 20—Baseball—Varsity vs. Georgetown, Va.—Here.
Mar. 21—Baseball—Varsity vs. Oak Ridge—Here.
Mar. 22—State High School Track Meet—Here.
Mar. 24—Baseball—Fresh vs. Belmont Abbey—Here.
Mar. 25—Baseball—Varsity vs. Catawba College—Here.
Mar. 28—Baseball—Varsity vs. Elon—There.
Mar. 29—Baseball—Varsity vs. N. C. State—There.
Track—Varsity vs. University of S. C.—There.

Three ‘Big Five’ Teams Prove Too Strong For Cagemen On State Trip
State, Duke and Carolina Quintets Overcome Wildcats Successively by Decisive Scores

The Davidson Wildcats’ early season threat to become one of the leading contenders for the state basketball championship received several severe blows during the recent state trip. Davidson started on the trip in second place, and after three disastrous defeats was completely out of the running. The Red Terrors of N. C. State routed the Wildcats on Friday night by the score of 43-17. In this game Davidson showed none of the great offense which they had in the early season games. On the defense they wereequally off form. Duke defeated the Wildcats on Saturday night by the overwhelming score of 45-21. Those who had hoped that the game would be as close as the first game of the season between these two teams were disappointed. The Wildcats could not cope with the brilliance of the Duke attack, and the rigid defense of the Blue Devils kept their shots scarce and their scores few. Captain Farley of Duke, playing his last game for the Blue Devils, was the high scorer of the game. Pritchett, Davidson forward, led the Wildcats in scoring with six points. The final game of the state trip was played with Carolina on Monday night at Chapel Hill. The Tar Heels won 19-10, which victory vindicated an earlier defeat by Davidson. Both teams were badly off in their play, and the game was very slow. Marpet scored five brilliant shots in the first half which, with a crip by Green, gave Carolina a 12-5 lead at the half. The remainder of the game was very slow and the Tar Heels kept their lead until the end.

“What are all those men doing in a circle with their heads together? Is it a football team?”
“No, just a bunch of Scotchmen lighting a cigarette.”

A Minister of the Gospel SHOULD BE ACQUAINTED WITH MEN AND THEIR WAYS. TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS ONE OF THE AIMS OF UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY Richmond, Virginia. For Catalog and Information, Address, Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., President.

Golf Candidates Start Preliminary Rounds To Select Best Prospects
Winners in Elimination Rounds to Contend in Finals on Charlotte Course

Playing in the preliminary to the qualifying round for the Davidson Golf Team was begun last week under Captain Jack Pepper. This preliminary round is to determine which men will play in the finals in Charlotte. Each candidate for the team is to play 36 holes on the Davidson course and those turning in the best scores will play in Charlotte. Captain Pepper is the only player who has turned in his complete score. He shot 149 on the Davidson Course which is several better than any score so far turned in. J. D. McConnell took 82 on the first 18 with other scores reported on the first 18 holes as follows: Wagner, 86; Croom, 83; Caldwell, 83; Hart, 94; Bowles, 95; and Welch, 101. Captain Pepper states that the material in the present Freshman class is exceptionally good this year and that several freshmen will, in all probability, find berths on the team. In a match between the Seniors and the Juniors, the Juniors represented by Pepper and McMillan defeated the Seniors, represented by Hart and Hodgin. Best ball and two points a hole figured in the scoring and the Juniors were victorious by the count of 19 to 6.

SIX THOUSAND DEER A YEAR

For the past three years deer hunters of New York have bagged over 6,000 antlered animals a year, the tags returned for the 1929 season, just closed, numbering 6,620. Most of the deer of New York are in the Adirondack and Catskill Mountains and 22 counties are open to deer hunting of the 62 counties of the state. The total legal kill for the past three years has been 19,977. There has been no open season on does and fawns in New York for 10 years and it is estimated by the conservation commission that there are twice as many does in the state as bucks. As the deer of the state appear from the annual kill to be maintaining their numbers, that proportion does not seem to be too great—American Game Protective Association News Bulletin.

Heath Whittle, of Atlanta, Ga., one of the South’s outstanding hurdlers, who is captain and star of the 1930 Davidson Trackmen.

Baseball Practice Starts For Season
Six Letermen Form Nucleus of Diamond Candidates

With the spring-like weather of the last few days helping to loosen up many a tight muscle, the Davidson College diamond aspirants, headed by the six lettermen of last year’s team, are working out daily in preparation for the unusually hard season that lies before them. Three lettermen compose the battery that will again labor against opposing batters, Kugler and McInnis, pitchers, and Armfield, catcher. Of the three remaining lettermen, two are infielders, and rumor has it that the third who played in the outfield last year may be transferred to 1st base. Bill Goodson is back on 2nd, Whiz Miller on 3rd, and Proctor, who was a right fielder last year, has been working out at 1st. The battery men have been working out every day, and all will start batting practice within the next week or so. Some of the most promising men out for the nine in addition to the lettermen already mentioned are: Bernhardt, Thompson, Kurdts, Henderson, Gladstone, Marian, Mathis, and McQueen.

FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK PUNCH EXHIBITS HERE
At Miss Minnie Scofield’s Wednesday, March 5th
John Howard, Representative
CLOTHES ~ HATS ~ HABERDASHERY ~ SHOES