THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the College Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

WILSON McCUTCHAN .......... Editor-in-Chief
S. H. GILLESPIE ............... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
B. C. DWELLE ................. Managing Editor
W. S. LEA .................... Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN ................. Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS ............. Sports Editor
W. M. BUIE ................... Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES ............... Feature Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN .............. Associate Editor
W. BLACK .................... Associate Editor
C. RAGIN ..................... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. CANNON ................... Assistant Business Manager
T. S. BOYD ................... Subscription Manager
A. J. BAKER .................. Solicitor
D. M. CONWAY ................ Solicitor
J. H. McKINNON .............. Solicitor
O. MANN ..................... Solicitor
E. RUFF ...................... Solicitor
L. SEVIER .................... Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President .................... W. S. LEA
Vice-President ............... S. D. A. MAY
Secretary-Treasurer .......... N. K. L. S.

MAY 1, 1930

SUGGESTIONS
State records, in some events, are better than Davidson ones. Pull for the track team next Saturday; three school marks were bettered in the last meet, Joe McCall exceeding the State record held by Kinsey. There are only a few more games on the home diamond. Go out and help the Wildcats to increase their percentage. Strong teams are listed on the schedule. Members of the “Y” Cabinet will appreciate a good attendance at the Sunday night Vesper services. Follow the example of nations, and don’t disarm for exams. They provide a strong barrier in front of a pleasant summer. Over a hundred students will soon become alumni. Help to make their last month a pleasant one, for they will carry away something every college graduate talks about, memories of school days. Recently the United States mints suspended production of dimes. Rumor has it that the Rockefeller billions are trembling. In China, the people try to “scare the dog away from the sun” (eclipse) with hideous noises. Last Monday a few students peeked through smoked glasses for a minute or two. Nothing important!

CO-OPERATION
In the midst of its effort to provide a Davidsonian that will be full of interest to students and other readers, the staff feels the need of co-operation on the part of the paper’s adherents. The Davidsonian does not belong to the staff or the Reporters’ Club; it is the common property of every man on the campus. It is a part of the college, in the same sense as the athletic teams, the Y. M. C. A., and other extra-curricular activities. However, we believe that the Davidsonian should possess the “news right.” In other words, advances on important and unusual events belong to it. Although every effort is made to cover the field, yet news items occasionally slip by. This can be remedied by the intervention of those who are in the position to hold interesting information. Many articles lose their rightful “news effect” because of public verbal announcement, and we feel that we have a claim on subjects of local interest. Therefore, we hold that the combined effort of every man will tend to produce a better weekly publication. Every member of the staff or any student connected with the Davidsonian will be glad to attend to any item for publication which might be submitted by students or faculty members. “E Pluribus Unum” can be applied to other places than the coins of the United States. It is only through united co-operation that this paper can be representative of the general consensus of opinion.

ARTISTIC APPRECIATION
Can it be that Davidson students are overcoming their traditional aversion to presentations of classical music? Attendance at organ recitals and corresponding programs has been better than was ever expected, although it could still be improved. Many boys have the idea that they display tendencies toward effeminacy when they evidence interest in selections from operas, symphonies, and other compositions which are generally defined as classical. Others are inclined to pine for the presence of jazz, while disparaging the immortal chords of Beethoven and Chopin. No person would be guilty of comparing Shakespeare to vaudeville, though both have their place in entertainment. Likewise in music, both phases serve entirely different purposes. We do not advocate an exchange of one for the other; nor would we abolish one and keep the other. Athletics is not the only place in which a person can “over-train.” Due credit should be given to Mu Beta Psi for the energetic work it has done along these lines. Not only has that organization brought artists of real ability to the campus, but it has practically always thrown its doors open to the public. We feel that attention to truly great music will evolve with a richer appreciation of life. Previously, the college has been somewhat hampered by lack of equipment; there is nothing to retard progress in the future.

THANKS TO THE CLASS OF ’30
Words fail to express the value which it is believed the student body derived from the banquet recently sponsored by the Senior Class. Congratulations are due those men who were instrumental in reviving a ceremony which had been inaugurated in the past and forgotten. It is true that there is nothing new in the actions of man, but a return to former practices often exposes a different aspect of the same object. It must be admitted that there were murmurings of doubt heard before Tuesday night. None have been noticed since then. Everyone who was present was in a good humor and, at the same time, in a serious one... a combination which is rarely achieved successfully. Above all, it was fitting and proper that the host of the occasion should have been the graduating class of 1930. Not only did the retiring individuals of the class tender their posts to the men newly elected, but McGuire also extended the official farewell from the organization of which he is President. He stated that they reluctantly left Davidson its heritage. Davidson equally as grudgingly receives it, but it wishes the soon-to-become alumni every possible success.

We do not deem it necessary to review a program which was attended by a large majority of the student body. That the solemnity of the hour made its appeal is witnessed by the absolute attention paid by the audience. Few Davidson gatherings have been as quiet, or have they paid as rapt consideration for the men who talked to them. Responsibility was transferred through public and official channels. However, students must not overlook the evident fact that their responsibility was neither slackened nor shifted. It is true that there was a change of individuals, but individuals must be forgotten. The Student Government of Davidson College has not tolerated individualism in the past, nor will it do so in the future. Organizations are the units which must be primarily considered, and they in turn blend themselves into the whole life of the student body in its entirety. At times there is a tendency to feel that the subject of “Wildcat Spirit” is overworked or “run in the ground.” Any matter of current interest can become stale, but this same spirit is the underlying force that moves Davidson. It is the power that makes Davidson students give their best for the school, and it is the factor that compels the Senior Class to reluctantly relinquish their campus life. It is necessary that it be revived and reconsecrated. Therefore, again we thank the Class of ’30 for rejuvenating a service to their fellow students which once failed to take its place on the campus calendar. It is sincerely hoped that it will become a regular event which can be looked forward to in the feeling of mutual fellowship and friendliness. The heritage is left with the undergraduate classes.

Sherlock Bronson (slightly delirious): “What did you say my temperature was?”
Nurse: “103, sir.”
Financier: “Right—when it gets to 103.5—sell.”

Exasperated Autoist to Garage Mechanic: “I say, buddy, do you have something to stop knocking?”
G. M.: “Certainly.”
E. A.: “Well, will you kindly pour about a gallon of it down my wife’s throat?”

The football captain won the game,
He heard the bleachers cheer,
But he had to stay behind
To find his missing ear.

DAVIDSON-- WEEK by WEEK
By Nor

MUSINGS of the MATADOR
Vereen Bell

Calvin Kuykendall, who returned to Davidson last January, accumulated a wealth of experience during this past summer and fall, which incidentally kept him from entering Davidson in September. The West Virginia boy, after leaving college for the vacation term last June, together with Albert Cowan, a former Davidson student, procured a job as sailor on an oil tanker, and left the United States for a five months passage. The two prospective “gobs” left New York in early July, and journeyed along the Atlantic to the Gulf of Mexico. From there the...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The tanker passed through the Panama Canal and moved up the west coast, making the great circle route from there around by the Bering Sea to Japan. The adventurers disembarked for a while in the Orient but left after a few days for the Philippines for another short stay, after which the steamer made the same return trip. The young sailors experienced two typhoons and two mild mutinies, one being caused by a rumor that the boat had been condemned as not seaworthy. Cal described the sailors as very rough, and their quarters dingy. The crew numbered thirty-two. The two youths lived in the forecastle but ate with the officers. Both learned enough astronomy and navigation from the mate to qualify for an “able seaman.”

Unfortunately, the edition of Who’s Who in America in the library was not the most recent published, and it will be remembered that last week there appeared in this column a list of men on the Davidson College faculty whose biographies are included in this famous compilation, in brief form. Those men named were: Dr. W. L. Lingle, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, Dr. Frazer Hood, Dr. S. C. Lyon, and Dr. J. W. MacConnell. However, the new edition includes four more faculty members, each having accumulated numerous honors. Dr. T. W. Lingle, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr. C. M. Richards, and Dr. M. E. Sentelle conclude the new group of men. Dr. William Joseph Martin, President Emeritus of Davidson College, is also in this eminent group, which makes about 20 percent of the faculty Who’s Who members. The achievements of each one are amazing, and it is planned to enumerate them in the future.

Prof. Archibald Currie, one of the popular members of the faculty, enjoys telling stories about his old days in college, but not as much as the students themselves like to hear them. Explaining how easily an old college man was deceived, in one of his anecdotes, Doctor Currie relates an incident which occurred while he was in school, concerning a petition which some of the boys took around the dormitories. Nearly everyone became a signatory to the paper without even reading it. When its contents were divulged, it was found that the petition requested that every signer be expelled from college! It is also interesting to note that numerous prominent men are numbered among Professor Currie’s acquaintances such as Josephus Daniels, Henry Louis Smith, Purgles, a Polish leader, and others.

The City of Davidson has a population of 1,445 persons, according to census enumerators who recently gave their completed report of the upper Mecklenburg town. Six Davidson College boys were included, besides those who live here—and these were the men whose parents were missionaries in foreign countries. The census also showed that with the student body included, Davidson has a population of more than 2,000 people for nine months of the year. Census returns have become a predominant feature in national news within the past few weeks and many oddities have been revealed. Besides finding a man who at the age of 103 years was “temporarily out of employment,” the census-takers in Houston, Texas, interviewed a man named A. Vehicle, whose father was born in the town of Wildhorse, his mother in Packsaddle, and he himself a citizen of Muleshoe—and he was not fined for “horsing” the official. Census statistics—a new source of material for the great Ripley!

How the members of the College Humor Hall of Fame are chosen has not been revealed, but if Davidson is given the opportunity soon, it seems that the census on the campus for the selection of a man for this honor would indicate that Frontis Withers Johnson, with many distinctions including Phi Beta Kappa, O.D.K., Scabbard and Blade, former captain of the Varsity tennis and basketball teams, would be the logical choice of the Davidson students.

History Teacher: “What is the greatest thing about George Washington?”
Anne: “His memory. They erected a monument to it.”

My sympathy certainly goes out to the poor Englishman I saw in the restaurant the other day. The man was eating alphabet soup and dropping his ‘aitches.’ When he asked the waiter what else he had to eat, the answer was: “Roas’ bif, ros’ poak, strom-berry pie.” The Englishman said: “Strawberry, eh wot?” “Yessir, stromberry pie wit’ real stromberries in it.” The Englishman, after half an hour, broke into a smile and said: “Bring me some cottage cheese.” I got up and went over to his table and began conversing with him. He told me that he was a vegetarian. It seemed that his daughter was in love and her name was May O. Naise. The boy she was in love with was X. Sparrow Gass. He said to her one day: “May, lettuce go down to the parsnip and get married. You are the apple of my eye.” May retorted: “Why you big potato, you know you don’t ’peel to me. Anyway, we couldn’t live on your celery.” “May, doughnut refuse me. We can elope and send your fodder a western onion letter. If you carrot all for me you will say yes.” This visibly affected May. “But I cantaloupe. Fodder is away now, but he will probably turnip just in time to stop us. Even if we did get away and get married it would simply squash me when he asked me where we had bean. I wouldn’t ever want to leaf you though.” However, they did decide to run off to the parsnip and get married. But Mr. Naise came in and caught May O. Naise ready to leave, so it was all off.

There were once two colored men sitting underneath a spreading shade tree. They were motionless, eyes closed. But then one of them wiggled his toe. The other one immediately protested: “Sam, can’t you keep still? Dat’s de second time you moved dat toe dis mornin’.” The other, some twenty minutes later, answered, “Well, I ain’t the kind dat can sit around all day an’ do nothin’.” “Niggah, how did you ever come out in dat case dey had you in court ‘bout? De one where de train wrecked whilst you was night watchman.” “Oh, I got out o’ dat all right. De man axed me did I swing de lantern in front of de train. I tol’ him, Yassuh, I waved de lantern for ‘bout ten minutes fo’ de train got to me. He said that let me out then, and tol’ me to go on home. I sho was glad he didn’t axe me did I have the lantern lit.”

Voice over phone: Hello, Bary, I heard you hab a gold. This old sprig weadder sure does gib dem to one, doesn’t it? Well, now led me gib you some advice. Take a big dose of gastor oil. Then ged some hot wader and pud some mustard in it. Soag your feet in it for aboud an hour and then go do bed. This method will gure it righd up. It gured mine. Goo-by, Bary.

“Abe, do you mean to say that you are really selling your goods below what you pay for them?”
“Oh, ebsolutle, ebsolutle.”
“But you have been doing this for years. I don’t see how you make a living doing that.”
“Oh, det is easy to oxplain. You see, I have so veery much beesiness.”

Madam, I wish you would come and get your child before he finishes licking all the stripes off our barber pole.

“Mr. Postmaster, is there any mail for me?”
“I don’t know, young man. What is your name?”
“Oh, you'll find it right on the outside of the envelope.”

Central, if I can’t get 500, gimme 499.

’Twas the night of the Grand Opera. Hundreds of people were gathered to hear the famous baritone. He was singing with a vehemence that knew no bounds. Suddenly he stopped and silence reigned. The spell of the music held the mighty crowd spellbound. Then a voice from the rear cried, “Is there a doctor in the house?” A portly man stood up and answered, “I am a physician.” “How are you, doc?” returned the voice.

We will now have a relapse into the field of poetic fancy.

Oh, for the wings of an ostrich!
Ashes to ashes,
Rust to rust,
Birds in flight,
Sears and Roebuck.

As sure as the vine grows ’round the stump,
I'll sue the wooden leg company.

A motorist was held up by a traffic policeman.
“What’s your name?” demanded the cop.
“Abraham O’Brien Goldberg,” replied the man.
“What’s the O’Brien for?” asked the officer.
“For protection,” returned Abraham.

“How did it feel to drop four miles and a half hanging onto a parachute?”
“Madam, if you must know,” replied the border aviator, “I had a sinking feeling.”

Cityman (returning to home town): “What became of Percival Splash, the lazy kid who spent all his time building castles in Spain?”
Old Timer: “He’s making a fortune now.”
Cityman: “What’s he doing?”
Old Timer: “Designing filling stations.”

He: “Yes, I’ve been married seven years today.”
She: “Gosh, you must have broken a mirror.”

---