WAKE FOREST-DAVIDSON IN CHARLOTTE ON THANKSGIVING

The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

Y STARTS ANNUAL CANVASS OF STUDENT BODY

Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 27, 1930 No. 11

E.W. SYKES TO SPEAK AT PHI BETA KAPPA INITIATION EXERCISES

Is Eminent Southern Educator—President of Clemson College

Ceremonies December 2

Professor Hood Given Honorary Membership

Announcement was made here today that Dr. E. W. Sikes, president of Clemson College and eminent educator, had accepted the
invitation of the North Carolina Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa to deliver the principal address at the annual fall
initiation exercises at Davidson College on December 2. Dr. Sikes will speak at public exercises at 8 o'clock, following a
private initiation of several alumni, an honorary alumnus, and five students, who will be inducted into the society at private
exercises an hour earlier. The address of the Clemson president will be followed by a banquet for local members of
Phi Beta Kappa, alumni visitors, and the new initiates. Officials of the local chapter stated today that all alumni who
had been invited had accepted, with the exception of one who has not yet been heard from. They were withholding
the names of the others until his letter had been received. Dr. Fraser Hood, member of the Davidson faculty, will
be initiated into honorary membership.

These annual exercises represent one of the highlights of the fall calendar of Davidson College, and is the occasion for
the return of numerous alumni in this section, whose scholastic record as students of this institution warranted their selection into
this organization. Davidson officials consider themselves fortunate in having obtained Dr. Sikes for the evening’s program. He is one of
the most popular speakers of the South, and is frequently in demand because of his oratorical ability. Dr. Sikes is
a native of this state, and was formerly a member of the North Carolina State Senate, and for many years
was connected with Wake Forest College. He left the Baptist institution in 1916 to become president of Coker College, and
since 1925 he has been head of Clemson. His education was obtained at Wake Forest and Johns Hopkins University.

Members of the Senior class who have been invited to affiliate themselves with the North Carolina Gamma chapter and who
will be initiated on December 2 are: J. B. Black, Jr., Red Springs; Kenneth M. Jackson, Birmingham, Ala.; H. S.
Munroe, Jr., Charlotte; W. C. Ragin, Wilmington, and J. F. Preston, Korea.

Student Poems are Selected for Book

In response to a request that three or four of the best poems written by Davidson students within the past
year be selected and sent to authorities at Washington and Lee University, who are composing a volume of collegiate verse,
the Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternity appointed a committee of three who selected “Renunciation,” by J. S. Alden, “Hands,” by R.
E. Witt, and an anonymous poem submitted to Professor Lilly last year. This committee was composed of Jim Black, Professor
Lilly, and Paul Alderman.

Recently a need was felt for a book in which the talent of college men could be given due recognition
and also through which an incentive might be given that will bring about a revival of literary writings among college
students, more especially the writing of poetry. Realizing this need, a group of men connected with Washington and Lee University
have started work on the compilation of an anthology of American college poetry. A majority of the universities and colleges
of America have been invited to contribute to this first edition. This first edition will only include poetry turned in
by students last year and the first semester of this year. All of the poems may be written by one
man or several as was the case in the Davidson contribution.

Harry Goodykoontz Gives Vesper Talk

The “Y” vesper service last Sunday evening was led by Mr. Harry Goodykoontz, an old Davidson man and a member
of the class of '27, who is now attending the Union Theological Seminary. The service opened by the Union quartet,
who beautifully rendered two selections, “Crossing the Bar,” and “I Want My Soul to Tell for Jesus.”

Most people feel that they would like very much to become a minister, but also feel that they are not
worthy to preach the Lord’s word, that they are not well enough prepared. The greatest preacher ever known was the
Apostle Paul. Paul thought himself unworthy to preach the gospel but he turned out to be the finest minister ever
known. People outside think the ministry only have to prepare sermons for Sunday, get up a talk for the week's
work is done. “I have not known a single person who can do the work to its fullest,” said Mr.
Goodykoontz. “It is a big work. There are three things that a minister must be, an ‘administrator,’ a ‘pastor,’ and
a ‘preacher.’”

An administrator must make plans and carry them out tactfully. He must have objectives and an organization to carry them
out. He deals with all kinds of people, the intellectual and the illiterate, the poor and the rich alike. Plans
therefore must be made wisely, carefully and patiently. Administrators are also educators, they must have knowledge and keep up with
everyday things and have new methods for teaching. They work exceedingly hard and many of them are liable to breakdown.

The pastor deals with the two types of people, the happy and the sad. There is no monotony in the
work because they are always doing new and interesting work. Their work is usually with joyful people, but sometimes they
attend a funeral and a marriage in the same hour. The biggest work is realized when dealing with the unhappy.
The pastor’s two essential qualifications are psychology of religion and the knowledge of God.

A preacher must give immense thought to his work for he has to express great and noble theology. He must
think of science and religion, that is, Christ-like principles and daily living. To give the right attitude toward Jesus, are
many thoughts of a preacher. They must do their best to convince people of their sin, as sin is more
insidious now than ever before and a hard thing to tackle. There are many discouragements in the ministry, such as
small salaries and the difficulties. It is a challenging work and if a person wishes to do big tasks he
will do well to join the ministry. One must serve with a bleeding heart, a great love and wonderful patience;
brilliance is no great part in preaching. The fellowship in the ministry is a great thing. There is also pleasure
in studying for it, but the most inspiring thing about it is the fellowship with Jesus Christ.

The service was closed with the hymn, “Seal Us O Holy Spirit,” sung by the Union quartet.

Professor Beaty To Give Vesper Address

The regular Y. M. C. A. vesper services this Sunday, November 30, will be conducted in accordance with the Thanksgiving
spirit, this being the vesper service nearest Thanksgiving. Professor E. A. Beaty will be the principal speaker at this meeting.
Professor Beaty is a member of the Davidson faculty in the departments of English and Latin. He is a graduate
of Davidson, and has done graduate work at the University of South Carolina. The talk of Professor Beaty will be
on the general theme of Thanksgiving and its influence and meaning in the lives of the American people. His talks
have always received much favor among the Davidson students. Included on the program of the vesper service will be several
selections of music by the Davidson quartet.

Amplifiers to Be Used at Wildcat-Deacon Game

Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, professor of physical education at Davidson, announces that amplifiers will be used on Charlotte High Field
Thursday in the game between Davidson and Wake Forest. The use of amplifiers at the Davidson-Carolina game caused many appreciative
fans to write letters commending the officials on this service. This new feature gives the public a running account of
the entire game. It furnishes a means of knowing who the man is back in position that makes the play,
the nature of the play after it is under way, and the man who makes the tackle, or completes the
pass. Furthermore, the penalties and questions that arise are explained that otherwise might not be understood by the average spectator.

“Y” Sponsors Campaign To Aid Orphanage Fund

To Make Annual Drive for Barium Springs Orphanage

As has been customary in past years, the Y. M. C. A. is this fall sponsoring the annual campaign among
the student body for a fund to be given to some institution that deserves and needs it. Heretofore it has
gone to causes which, although worthy of such a gift, have not been any too familiar ones with the student
body as a whole. And that is the outstanding difference between past campaigns and the one of this year—practically every
man in the student body knows something about the recipient this time—the Barium Springs Orphanage at Barium Springs, N. C.
The reason for this is two-fold: It is near Davidson, being only about 20 miles north on the Statesville road,
and, in the second place, has for many years had the most friendly relations with Davidson. These relations have varied,
but the outstanding one is probably the selection of Davidson by an increasing number of Barium Springs’ graduates as their
college. Davidson graduates havein turn, served at Barium on the faculty, and Mr. Joe Johnston, an old Davidson graduate, and
now manager of the Orphanage, is another strong link between the two institutions. The nature of this campaign is wholly
student body—it is their gift to Barium. The amount that will be aimed at is $1,000, and will be given
by means of each student pledging a certain amount when someone goes to his room on Friday night, December 5,
at about 9 o'clock. That will be the first canvassing of dormitories and others will be made so as to
give every man in the student body a chance to give. That does not mean that those making the canvass
will revisit each man until he gives, thus becoming more or less a nuisance, but the canvassers will return to
each room where the occupant was absent and give him a chance to make his gift.

No matter what appeals are made, how strong they may be, or how generous they may make some of us,
the success of the campaign will not be at all insured unless every student contributes toward the fund. The times
are hard, it’s true, but authentic reports show that the student body as a whole is spending more money this
year than ever before. Can’t we direct just a small amount of this to 360 orphans at Barium, where a
dollar will mean what several dollars mean here?

The Orphanage was established at Barium Springs on January 11, 1891, in a two-story wooden structure, with about a dozen
orphans. The building burned in November but, through the courage of those in charge and the generosity of friends, a
new cottage was erected and the work resumed. Through persistent work and benevolent friends the Orphanage has continued to grow
until it now consists of 16 brick, eight frame dwellings.

(Continued on page 6)

Language Assembly Meets at Davidson

The third annual meeting of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association will be held at Davidson College next weekend, November
28 and 29, and during the two days of discussion and addresses, this Presbyterian institution will play host to many
professors of modern languages located in North and South Carolina, Florida, Georgia, and Virginia. This week an announcement was made
of the program for this gathering. It calls for a general assembly early Friday afternoon, after which the visitors will
break up into four different divisions for a discussion of problems attendant to their special subjects. These groups will be
made up of English, French, German, and Spanish professors.

Friday night, the public exercise will consist of musical numbers, a play, and an illustrated lecture, and a business session
is scheduled for Saturday. Heading the English section of the conference will be Dr. Jay B. Hubbell, of the English
department of Duke University; Dr. W. S. Braney, of the North Carolina College for Women, will be in charge of
the Spanish conference, and Dr. G. R. Vowles, Davidson College, heads the German group. Dr. E. V. Gage of the
Florida State College for Women, will be in charge of the Spanish conference.

Friday night the delegates will be formally welcomed to the college in an address by Dr. J. M. McConnell, dean
of instruction at Davidson. This is preceded by a supper at 6:30 p.m., when the visitors are guests of the
college. After the welcome, vocal selections will be rendered by Mrs. Ernest J. Cullum and Mrs. G. R. Vowles, of
Davidson; a one-act play, translated from Spanish into English by Prof. F. K. Fleagle, of Davidson, will be staged, and
to close the evening’s program, Dr. John N. Ware, of Shorter College, gives an illustrated lecture on “Villon in Paris.”

Saturday’s business session will be presided over by Dr. F. W. Bradley, of the University of South Carolina, president of
the association. Reports from departments and an election of officers for the ensuing year is included on the program. Dr.
C. F. Hamff, of Emory University, is secretary of the organization. Some speakers before the English group include Prof. Geo.
C. Taylor, University of North Carolina; Prof. C. H. Davis, University of South Carolina, and Prof. Leon R. Meadows, East
Carolina Teachers College. French section—Prof. Rene Stephen, University of South Carolina; Mrs. Norma Gerry, Curry High School, N. C. C.
W.; Dr. Carlton C. Rice, Catawba, and Prof. John Pons, Rutherford College. German—Prof. Conrad Lahser, Greensboro College for Women.

Nine Men Initiated Into I.R.C. Nov. 18

Linemen from the Junior and Senior classes, notified recently of their acceptance in the International Relations Club, were initiated Tuesday
night, November 18. These men are C. W. Kuykendall, W. H. Matthews, Jr., F. G. Jenkins, N. G. Speir, J.
H. McKinnon, F. M. Hoge, F. W. Zuckner, H. F. Nichol, and Norman Raies. Membership in this national honorary fraternity
is based on interest shown in history, political science, and forensics. Certain tendencies like these subjects. Men who are leaders
in this field of activity are asked to write papers on some subject of international interest. Each man is permitted
to choose his own subject in this matter. Then only the men who write the most outstanding papers are chosen
for membership. Some of the subjects developed by the men who have just been taken in are: “Bolshevik Foreign Relations”;
“British American Friendship”; “Chemical Warfare”; “Communism in China”; and “Benito Mussolini and Italy.”

This club has many chapters in the various colleges and universities of the country.

(Continued on page 5)

CATS WILL BATTLE DEMON DEACONS IN ANNUAL GRID CLASSIC

Team That Held Duke Blue Devils Will Prove Hard Foe for Davidson

GAME IN CHARLOTTE

’Cats Are Outweighed in Line and in Backfield

The 1930 edition of the annual classic battle between Wake Forest and Davidson will be re-enacted tomorrow afternoon at the
Central High School stadium in Charlotte before what is expected to be one of the largest football crowds ever to
turn out in Charlotte. The fact that the Duke Blue Devils is bound to pack them in down in Charlotte
for a real battle. The Deacons, with their steam-roller line and their recent reversal of form to tie a powerful
Duke aggregation, will probably take the field slightly favored by the majority of the fans. But the strenuous fight that
the Deacons had to put up last Saturday might tell on them, while the Wildcats’ schedule was fixed so that
they could enjoy a well-earned rest that weekend.

The Demon Deacons will bring a team to Charlotte which will outweigh the Wildcats anywhere from 10 to 15 pounds
in the line and about 10 pounds in the backfield. The heaviest men are Webb and Williams, tackles, who weigh
around 220 pounds apiece, and Benton, quarterback, who tips the scales at 200 even. Supporting these heavyweights are fast and
shifty backs, such as Mills and Quillen.

Comparative scores show up quite a bit on the relative powers of the two teams. Both Davidson and Wake Forest
outclassed N. C. State, the former by two touchdowns and the latter by only one. But Duke outplayed the Wildcats
to win by one touchdown while the Deacons outplayed Duke, according to many writers present, to gain an even verdict
with them. Then again when we look at the outcome of the Tar Heel games when Davidson won by a
one-point margin and Wake Forest lost by two markers, we can say correctly that comparative scores show the two teams
to be evenly matched.

The Deacons have turned in some masterful performances this fall and are hailed as one of the greater Wake Forest
teams, piloted by a great coach in Pat Miller. Heading all of their performances are the two tussles, one with
Carolina at the beginning of the season, and the other with Duke last Saturday. The whole impression that spectators received
at the Tar Heel-Deacon fracas was not the speed of Carolina’s hundred backs nor the perfect mechanism of a great
Southern Conference team, but was the absolute stone wall defense that a mighty Deacon line put up. Against Duke the
Deacon line again came into their glory, staving off again and again the ferocious thrusts of Murray and Brewer, whose
off-tackle runs have proved to be the downfall of many great teams this fall, including Kentucky, Navy and Villanova. Duke
took the lead in the opening minutes of play when Mason shot a pass to Hyatt for the score. Not
to be dismayed by this, the big line went into action and smothered Duke plays all afternoon. The afternoon showed
up such men as Sammy Levine and Captain Parker in the line, Quillen, Mills, Benton and Covington in the backfield.
It was Benton’s brains, Mills’ speed and Quillen’s ability to snare a pass that were shining lights in the afternoon's
play.

Not since 1920 have the Wildcats taken the measure over the Deacons, so they will be out fighting for the
first decision a Younger-coached machine has ever made over Wake Forest. Playing such a brand of football as they showed
against Carolina, the Wildcats will be undefeatable, but if they play as they have done in some games this fall,
they will probably be in for a drubbing.

In this game a few All-State candidates will be pitted against each other, most prominent of which are Steve Brown
and Ray Gregson, both of whom are right ends. Gregson turned in a great performance against Duke last week, while
Brown rose to heights.

(Continued on page 6)
