THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 15, 1930

Several Recommendations Accepted By Alumni Council Last Saturday

Office of Alumni Secretary Will Be Moved to Chambers Building Next Year

MILTON RE-ELECTED

Davidsonian to Be Sent to All Davidson Alumni Who Pay Dues

Holding their first meeting since last June, the Davidson College Alumni Council met at Davidson last Saturday for an extended
and important session, listened to a financial report of the treasurer and a report from the alumni secretary, discussed recommendations
offered, re-elected Ernest Milton as alumni secretary, and heard a report from the Davidson Alumni Athletic Council.

With H. Smith Richardson, ’06, presiding, there was a joint meeting of the Athletic and Alumni Council, members attending including
H. T. Mills, ’06, Greenville, S. C.; Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, '06, Charlotte; John W. McAlister, ’19, Greensboro; Lunsford Richardson,
'14, Greensboro; I. P. Graham, ’08, Cooleemee, and L. H. Wilkinson, ’13, Charlotte. Dr. Walter L. Lingle, '92, president of
Davidson; F. L. Jackson, '06, treasurer of the college, and Ernest Milton, ’26, alumni secretary, also attended.

Since the alumni work was started at Davidson, the office has been located in the south end of Elm Row,
separate from the main building. It was recommended to the Council that the office be moved to Chambers, which recommendation
was accepted. Many reasons were advanced for this change, one of which was to make part-time stenographic assistance available to
the secretary.

It was also decided by the Alumni Council to send The Davidsonian free to all Davidson alumni who subscribed a
minimum of $5.00 to the Alumni Association. Arrangements have been made with the business staff of this publication to make
this possible. The Davidsonian mailing list will be considerably increased because of this, and the alumni will be given the
latest news of the college and alumni through this newspaper.

Engagements

Mr. and Mrs. John Nicholas Page, of Charlottesville, Va., announce the engagement of their daughter, Rosalie Nelson, to Rev. Ray
Montanya Carr, of Keswick, Va., the wedding to take place in June. Rev. Mr. Carr graduated at Davidson in 1925,
and after teaching school for a year or two he attended and graduated from

Discussion of a plan to increase the interest of Davidson alumni was considered, which involves an enlargement of the Council,
with a Board of Directors doing the work of the present organization of seven men. The plan was referred back
to the alumni secretary, with suggestions for further revision before adoption. This was likewise true of a constitution and by-laws.

Alumni trustees were nominated by the Council, and the names will be sent out on a mail ballot within the
next ten days. Four are to be elected this commencement, three of the terms expiring in June, and the fourth
to fill the unexpired term of Dr. Walter Lingle, now president of Davidson. The names have not yet been made
public.

An informal report was heard from the Alumni Athletic Council, which showed the financial standing of the Athletic Association to
be fair. It was also stated by the chairman of the committee that the present coaching staff would remain intact.
Future plans were discussed within the circle of the group, and advice and assistance of the various members wereasked in
carrying this out. The Council, as a body, sent a message of sympathy to Lawrence H. Wilkinson, of Charlotte, who
had attended the morning and early afternoon session, but who was called to Charlotte on account of the death of
his father. Dr. Henry Louis Smith, former president of Davidson and now president-emeritus of Washington and Lee, was a luncheon
guest of the Council at 1:15 at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel.

“DRUGS” CANDY -:- WHITE DRUG CO. “PRESCRIPTIONS” “SODA” FLOWERS

Many Alumni to Attend The General Assembly

Whenever the General Assembly of the Southern Presbyterian Church meets in the spring, it is usually the time when between
fifty and seventy-five Davidson alumni assemble as delegates, speakers, and other visitors. Last May the conference met at Montreat, and
approximately 65 Davidson alumni were present. A meeting was called at 10 o’clock one night, when Dr. Walter L. Lingle
and others spoke to over half that number. The General Assembly this year meets at Charlottesville, Va., convening for its
first session on May 22nd. Through Rev. Dwight M. Chalmers, ’20, who is now located at Charlottesville, a luncheon or
dinner is being arranged for the Davidson alumni, when a representative of the institution will be there to speak to
them. The exact date has not yet been decided upon.

According to the lists recently published in the church papers, Davidson alumni who are principal delegates include Rev. N. G.
Stevens, ’08, Huntsville, Ala.; Rev. J. G. Patton, Jr., ’16, Abington, Va.; Rev. J. I. Knight, ’22, Holston Valley, Tenn.;
Rev. S. L. McCarty, ’18, Cornelia, Ga.; Rev. E. G. Clary, ’16, Smyrna, Ga.; Rev. Neal L. Anderson, D.D., ’85,
Savannah, Ga.; Rev. W. A. Ramsey, ’09, Beuchel, Ky.; Rev. C. E. McLean, ’08, Stanford, Ky.; Rev. J. C. Rowan,
D.D., ’04, Concord; Rev. J. E. Flow, D.D., 1900, Davidson; J. B. Johnston, ’01, Barium Springs; Rev. B. R. Lacy,
D.D., ’06, Richmond, Va.; Rev. J. R. Walker, ’21, Raleigh, N. C.; Rev. C. H. Little, ’98, Charlotte; T. B.
Spratt, ’09, Charlotte.

Special Designs DELUXE ICE CREAM At Students’ Store and Dealers MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COMPANY Mooresville, N. C. Brick Eskimo Pies

HE TORE OFF HIS FALSE WHISKERS — AND IT WAS JACK!

John Held Jr. ENGRAVER

“Lucinda, my love, I knew you would be true. ’Tis I... your own Jack Delavere!”

“Jack,” replied Lucinda, blushing prettily, “must I confess? I recognized you from the first. That honey-smooth voice... those golden tones...
that perfect throat-ease can belong only to a man who smokes OLD GOLDs. You wag... you thought to confuse me,
but nay! The mild and mellow queen-leaf tobacco sets its OLD GOLD mark upon you as sterling upon silver. There’s
not a bark in a billion.”

A Minister of the Gospel SHOULD BE A Man of PEACE. TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS ONE OF
THE AIMS OF UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

FASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE IN HISTORY

For Catalog and Information, Address, Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., President Richmond, Virginia.

Listen in... OLD GOLD—PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR, every Tuesday, 9 P.M., Eastern Time
