6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1930

Rev. William Lingle Back at Davidson

How Davidson’s Future Opponents Played Last Saturday

Citadel 13; ERSKINE 0.
South Carolina 22; DUKE 0.
V. P. I. 9; Roanoke 0.
V. M. I. 12; Richmond 0.
Clemson 32; WOFFORD 0.
NORTH CAROLINA 13; Wake Forest 7.

Has Been a Missionary in China for Forty Years

Rev. William H. Lingle, who barely escaped with his life the latter part of July when the Chinese city, Changsha,
in which he was residing was raided and looted by the communists, has arrived in Davidson to spend some time
with his brothers, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, and Dr. Thos. W. Lingle, member of the Davidson
faculty.

News From Other Hills

Wellesley, Mass.—(IP)—What is to be the largest map in the world, to cost more than two million dollars, is under
construction here. It will measure 63 feet from east to west and 46 feet from north to south. The map
was begun about five years ago, and is expected to take 50 years more to complete. When finished it will
be a perfect likeness of the country which makes up the United States and Canada. A gallery, 15 feet high,
will encircle the map, and viewed from this any section reproduced on the work will appear just about as it
would if actually seen from an airplane at a height of 12 miles.

Ohio State

Columbus, Ohio—(IP)—If the despised house fly is a dirty creature, it is not his fault but that of his surroundings,
according to Miss Marian McIlhenny, of Dayton, Ohio, who earned her master of science degree at Ohio State University here
by making a study of the fly. It was when the pretty co-ed began to take up entomology here that
she stopped swatting house flies, and began to eye them through microscopes. During the past year she studied the individual
habits of some 3,018 of the “musca domestica,” and not once did she find one that failed to make an
honest attempt to keep himself clean. The cleaning process is accomplished by rubbing the body vigorously with the legs, the
co-ed reports.

Urbana

Urbana, Ohio—(IP)—Not more than 24 undergraduates were expected to register at Urbana University when it opens here this fall. The
university boasts the smallest student body of any higher educational institution in the United States. The size of the student
body was swelled somewhat by the institution of a new course in music.

California

Berkeley, Calif.—(IP)—Bacteria believed to be millions of years old have been found to be alive and to be able to
multiply rapidly, it was reported here by Dr. C. P. Lipman, of the University of California, who spoke before the
National Academy of Sciences, in convention here. Professor Lipman found the creatures in Pennsylvania hard coal believed to be 200,000,000
years old.

Antioch

Yellow Springs, Ohio—(IP)—Accident instead of aptitude is shaping the careers of far too many college students, according to Dr. Arthur
E. Morgan, president of Antioch College here. “In practical administration of our colleges,” he said recently, “far too little attention
is paid to the nature and significance of student interests. They are commonly looked upon as being determined by nature,
like the color of the eyes.”

Columbia

New York—(IP)—Milton H. Thomas has announced plans for an endowment fund of $100,000 to provide important additions to the Columbian
collection of books, manuscripts, maps and other memorabilia now in the possession of Columbia University, and to make these available
to students, alumni and scholars in all parts of the world.

Oberlin

Cleveland, Ohio—(IP)—R. W. Harold Mark, son of Dr. Robert Wilson Mark, pastor of Old Stone Church here, is only a
Junior at Oberlin College, but he didn’t hesitate the other Sunday to climb into his dad’s pulpit, on the Public
Square here, and preach a straight-from-the-shoulder sermon. “No man can be properly adjusted in life,” preached Junior Mark, “until his
spiritual nature becomes as important as his intellectual and physical natures.” Young Mark contemplates entering the ministry.

A candidate for the Nebraska State Legislature this summer included in his campaign expense account one item of “Joshing the
Ladies.”

Notre Dame

Hamilton, N. Y.—(IP)—With Notre Dame scheduled to stay at home once in a while in its new stadium, it appears
that Colgate University’s football squad will be a leading contender for traveling honors this year. In all, the Maroon team
will travel 3,800 miles to play eight games. Distant opponents who will be met on their own fields by Colgate
include Michigan State, Brown University, Penn State, and Columbia.

Cleveland, Ohio—(IP)—A new system of instruction, whereby one teacher will be able to handle a class of as many as
250 pupils, is to be tried out in one local high school this fall, and if the experiment proves a
success, it will be used in all public schools here. The new system involves the broadcasting of lectures by wired
radio to various rooms in the school.

Florida

Gainesville, Fla.—(IP)—The University of Florida will dedicate its new stadium, seating 50,000, on November 8, in a game with the
University of Alabama. The stadium is now nearing completion. Heretofore the university has been able to provide seats for only
about 15,000 spectators.

Lehigh

Bethlehem, Pa.—(IP)—After a careful study, Dean Max McConn, of Lehigh University, has found that only one in eight of the
lower half scholastically at high school manages to complete his college course. The dean believes that admission to college should
be as highly selective as the circumstances of each particular institution will permit.

HONORARY FRATERNITY SCHEDULE

Hours

MONDAY
7:00 P.M. Glee Club
8:00 Glee Club
9:00 Band

TUESDAY
7:00 Eu and Phi Lit. Societies
8:00 Court of Control
9:00 Band

WEDNESDAY
7:00 Glee Club
8:00 Sigma Pi Phi
9:00 Delta Sigma Pi

THURSDAY
7:00 Glee Club
8:00 Sigma Pi Phi
9:00 Delta Sigma Pi

FRIDAY
7:00 Sigma Pi Phi
8:00 Delta Sigma Pi
9:00 Band

Alternate Weeks
7:00 Eu and Phi Lit. Societies
8:00 Court of Control
9:00 Band

College Calendar

Friday, Oct. 3—Pep meeting forEntire student body in Shearer Hall at 7 p.m. Sunday, Oct. 5—Vesper services in Chambers auditorium
at 6 p.m. Dr. Ben Lacy of Richmond, speaker. Sunday night church will be merged with this service. Sunday night
from 8:30 till 10, open house for students at faculty homes.

Monday, October 6—Dr. Ben Lacy will speak in Chambers auditorium at 7:30 p.m.

Tuesday, October 7—Dr. Ben Lacy will speak in Chambers auditorium at 7:30 p.m.

Wednesday, October 8—Smoker for group of Freshmen at 9 p.m., in Social Center. Twenty-five Freshmen are especially invited each Wednesday
night.

Thursday, October 9—The annual meeting of the Western North Carolina District of the American Red Cross Society will be held
here, beginning at 10 a.m. and continuing till 3 p.m. Luncheon will be served to delegates in the Banquet Hall
at noon. Interviews will be held with Dr. Lacy throughout the days Monday and Tuesday.

Debreczin, Hungary—(IP)—A resolution was recently adopted by the local university students urging the national government to provide more severe punishments
for government officials of all categories who accept bribes or who defraud the government in any way.

Washington, D.C.—(IP)—Advancement of Dr. F. W. Reeves, of the University of Chicago, is the purpose of a new position which
has been created within the Office of Education in the United States Department of the Interior. Secretary Wilbur has appointed
to this position Dr. Ambrose Caliver, the first negro in the United States to receive the degree of Ph.D. in
the field of education. Dr. Caliver, former dean of Fisk University in Nashville, is a native of Virginia, and a
graduate of Knoxville College and the University of Wisconsin.

The highest temperature during the past summer season was recorded in Death Valley, Eastern California, where the thermometer registered 130
degrees one day.

The following countries have a lower percent of illiteracy than the United States—Japan, New Zealand, Germany, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Scotland,
Netherlands, Ireland, Switzerland, England, Canada, and Wales.

Freshmen women at the New Jersey State College for Women last year voted that they prefer marriage to a career.

WEEK-END TRIPS can be made economically in a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford from—HENDERSON’S FILLING STATION.

Minneapolis, Minn.—(IP)—Tests made by students of the University of Minnesota in cooperation with Radio Station KSTP have proved that students
can do their best studying when listening to jazz music on the radio. Less distraction was found to prevail when
the loudspeakers were vibrating than when absolute silence reigned in the student's room.

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS” Make Our Store Your Store Students’ Supplies WHITE DRUG CO., Inc. “SODA” “SUNDRIES”

Gold several centuries old is possessed by a strange band of gypsies in Rumania.

Waring’s Pennsylvanians Originated at Michigan U. Famous Orchestra Organized Into Present Personnel Through Fraternities at Ann Arbor

Ann Arbor, Mich.—(IP)—Waring’s Pennsylvanians got their start at a university, and it wasn’t Pennsylvania, either. It came to light here
just recently that the famous jazz orchestra was so broke back in 1921 that the members decided to bust up,
and would have done so, had not Fred Waring been invited to come up and play at the University of
Michigan. Here’s how it happened: One of the boys went to Ann Arbor, where a friend told him that the
University of Michigan committee was looking for a small band to play in an old gym for the overflow crowd
at the annual Jay Hop. The committee already had two famous bands for the main dance. The orchestra member telegraphed
to Fred; Fred wired the committee and the band assembled. “That was the greatest night ever,” Fred tells the story
himself. “We stole the crowd right away from under the Big Names. All our success started in that old gym.
And we didn't even have hotel money. A fraternity put us up on condition that we play free for their
house party the next night.” From there the band went to a Detroit theater and radio station and after one
night they got an eight-week stage contract. They've been going ever since.

REPORTS ON 1930 GRADS

New String Quartet Is Being Organized

A string quartet has been organized and is gradually getting into form. Last year the violin quartet underwent quite a
successful season. Programs were broadcast over WBT every Sunday afternoon for the last few weeks of school, besides other engagements.
This is an entirely new combination. The instruments available and their players are as follows: First and second violin, Bob
Orr and Horace Erwin; viola, Dillon; violin-cello, Bob Lynn. The violin quartet may also be continued. If so, the players
besides Bob Orr and Horace Erwin will be Don Leper and Charles Reed. Music by the violin quartet is supposed
to be the most perfect that can be obtained. This is because of the very high and low notes that
can be obtained from the violin. Much of the original classical music was written for the violin quartet. New music
has been purchased and practices are being held regularly—about twice a week. Most of the music will, of course, be
classical, but some light and more popular music will be given, however. No engagements have been made up to this
time. There may be some programs broadcast later on. The quartet will probably play at vespers and chapel and may
be used on Y.M.C.A. deputations.

Booth Tarkington, well-known American novelist, is believed to have been cured of his partial blindness.

MICE AND MEN (Continued from page 4)

Rain often upsets the “best laid plans of mice and men.” It keeps down the attendance of Davidson Theatre. Washes
away expected profits. Causes money loss. But there’s a “rainbow” after the rain and maybe, a “pot of gold” at
the end of it for you. That is, if you'll let us plan your Rain Insurance protection. It sheds losses
from rain like a duck’s back sheds water.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO. Insurance Department McAlister Carson ('13), Manager M. B. Speir ('24)

Dr. F. W. Reeves, of the University of Chicago, predicts that half the independent arts colleges now in existence will
go out of existence in 50 years because of the dwindling interest in the degree of bachelor of arts.

Davidson Theatre Monday and Tuesday, October 6, 7 “Animal Crackers” with THE FOUR MARX BROTHERS

Wednesday, October 8 “The Spoilers” with GARY COOPER

Thursday and Friday, October 9, 10 “Follow Thru” with NANCY CARROLL

Saturday, October 11 “Last of the Lone Wolf” BERT LYTELL
