THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1930

SIX MEN WHO END GRIDIRON DAYS

WALFGACK Bie MASON HUB COVINGTON - TACKLE CHARLIE PARKER - GUARD 3eo0VARO £12. BACK JIM PROCTOR - END CENTER

WILDCATS WILL BATTLE

(Continued from page 1)

against Carolina. Joe McCall will find opposing him one of the best defensive backs in the state, as well as being one of the fastest, in Mills. Mills has starred in every game this year, is gifted with a great deal of courage, and has proved to be one of the main cogs in the Deacon offense. At the center position, it is probable that Gardner and Parker, two of the greatest centers in the state, will face each other.

Wildkittens Conquered By Duke Freshmen 52-0

Wildkittens Unable to Withstand Fierce Attack of Blue Imps, New State Champions

Last Friday afternoon the Davidson Wildkittens closed their 1930 football season by losing to the Duke Blue Imps by the one-sided score of 52-0. The Davidson team was literally smothered by the powerful Duke eleven, which scored almost at will and crashed through the light Freshman line easily. This win gives the Duke Freshmen the undisputed state championship in Freshman circles, having defeated all Big Five Frosh teams.

Duke’s superiority was easily seen in that they were able to chalk up a total of fourteen first downs while the Wildkittens were able to obtain but four. The Imps presented a varied attack and they were able to gain consistently. Their best play was a troublesome triple pass which netted considerable yardage every time it was run; twice this particular play resulted in touchdowns. They also presented a forward wall that was impregnable to all the Davidson thrusts.

For the Blue Imps, it is practically impossible to pick any certain star but Wilson and Smith were the luminaries.

Lineup:
Duke Fresh Position Davidson
F. Hudgins L.E. Dye
Kennedy L.T. Lynn
MacIntosh L.G. T. Thompson
Means C. Baggett
Davis R.G. W. Thompson
Crawford R.T. Wilson
James R.E. Okeefe
Raper Q.B. Blanton
Laney L.H. Curlee
Edwards R.H. Adcock
Cook F.B. Harrison

Score by period:
Duke 12-12-13-14—52
Davidson 0-0-0-0—0

Scoring summary: Touchdowns, Cook, Edwards, Marcoux, James 2, Raper, Laney, Rossiter. Extra points, James 2 (dropkicks), Blue (line plunge), Hendrickson (pass).

Officials—Causey (South Carolina), referee; Mattox (Washington and Lee), umpire; Dearmon (Davidson), headlinesman.

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago

Davidson Five Years Ago

With the state championship cup safely in the hands of a third party, the Blue Devils and Wildcats will today enact the final scene in an eventful season of “Big Five” football history of North Carolina. The third consecutive Thanksgiving Day meeting of the two teams promises to be one of the grandest fights ever staged upon Richardson Field.

Davidson Ten Years Ago

Mrs. Otto Feichtl’s Tyrolean Yodlers delighted a responsive audience in Shearer Hall last Tuesday evening. Mrs. Feichtl's company appeared as the fourth number of the Redpath Lyceum course, and is the last one that will appear before Christmas.

Death rates calculated on the basis of the new census indicate that in healthfulness among cities of the world, New York ranks first, Chicago second, Berlin third, London fourth, and Paris fifth.

SOPHS AND JUNIORS

(Continued from page 3)

only two men having been benched because of fouls. Only two more games, one between the Seniors and Sophomores on Monday and the other between the Juniors and Freshmen on Wednesday, are to be played on the schedule. However, it appears that a series will have to be played between the Juniors and the Sophomores to decide the championship.

Sophomores 23—Juniors 17

Accurate shooting in the second and fourth quarters enabled the Sophomores to defeat the Juniors, 23 to 17, and thereby go into a tie for first place in the class basketball race. The game was close and the winner was in doubt until the last few minutes of play when the Sophomores clinched victory with four straight field goals.

The Juniors were the first to score, Montgomery and Martin each dropping one in from the court. Five points by the Sophs kept them in the running as the quarter ended, 5-5. The second-year men added seven points in the next stanza while the best the Juniors could do was to count once and that by the free route, the half ending 12-6. In the third quarter, the Juniors came back strong with three field goals and a foul shot to hold the short end of a 14-13 score. Three free throws at the beginning of the final stanza enabled theJuniors to take the lead, but the Sophomores came right back with four shots from the court and one from the foul line to win the game. Hartsell again led the Sophomore attack with ten points. Manson, his running mate, scored eight times to take second honors, while Martin, of the Juniors, led his team with seven points.

Juniors 31—Seniors 20

By scoring almost at will in the first two quarters, the Juniors were able to coast into victory over the Seniors last Thursday evening, the final score being 31 to 20. The victory kept the third-year men in the championship running while it marked the fourth straight defeat for the Seniors. In the first quarter, the Juniors scored eight points while holding the Seniors to a lone field goal. They added eight more points in the second stanza to hold a 16 to 2 lead at the half, the Seniors being unable to score a single point during the quarter. After the intermission, the Seniors tried hard to overcome the large lead, but the best they could do was to score nine points in each of the last two quarters. The Juniors added eight points in the third and seven in the fourth quarter to retain victory. Montgomery and Patrick of the Juniors turned in six points apiece.

Seniors 24—Freshmen 14

Led by the defensive play of Hoge and the accurate shooting of Smith, the Seniors won their first game in the 1930 inter-class basketball race, taking the Freshmen into camp Friday evening, 24 to 14. Smith and Hoge accounted for 22 of the Seniors’ 24 points. Little scoring marked the first quarter, which ended 3 to 2 in favor of the Freshmen. The Freshmen continued to lead, 9 to 6, at the half. In the third quarter, however, Smith added eight points to enable the Seniors to come to the front and take the lead as the quarter ended, 16-12. The Seniors scored four more field goals in the final stanza while the Freshmen counted twice from the foul line. Smith tied the season’s record for points scored in a single game by netting the ball for sixteen points. McLean, of the Freshmen, led his team in scoring with eight points. The play of Smith and Hoge of the Seniors, and that of McLean, Evans, and Rowan of the Freshmen, featured the game.

“Y” SPONSORS CAMPAIGN (Continued from page 1)

ings, numerous barns, etc., over 400 acres of land, 40 or more workers and 360 children. Such a large institution of this nature naturally depends on gifts from the church and other organizations, to a great extent. Barium has a support budget of $140,000 per year, 75 percent of which comes from these gifts. There has been a deficit in this each year until now the sum of $70,000 must be raised in the very near future to keep from curtailing the work. In other words, the future of this great institution is imperiled. Is it not our privilege and even duty to give added zeal and courage to those carrying on such a noble fight? It is interesting to know that every boy and girl at Barium works—on the farm, in the dairy, printing office, shoe shop, master mechanics’ shop, etc. They are a busy but happy lot from morning until night, finding time for work, school, and play.

An appeal on the grounds that these children are starving and ragged might increase the fund because of its sentimentality. But, as it would be entirely untruthful, it cannot be made. However, there is an appeal that should be equally as strong. These 360 orphans are a happy, well-fed, well-clothed lot of boys and girls who are as human as we are. That fact sometimes seems to be overlooked when an institution of this kind is under discussion. They are not merely at Barium doing nothing but being fed and clothed; their activities are as varied as ours and their spirit as live as that in any college. They have been unfortunate to a far greater extent than we have, it is true, but now they have a chance to live, as every real American boy or girl ought to live. They are being taught how to live at Barium, to get as much out of life and put as much in it as we do. Let’s do our small part towards helping them carry on in such a battle and send them our check for $1,000 as a token of our appreciation of their grit and as a declaration that we are behind them!

Forbid them not, these little ones,
But let them come unto Me,
For they alone in Heaven’s home
My Father’s face shall see.
Their childish hearts are full of faith;
Their souls are free from sin.
Each one must have such trust as these
If he the Kingdom win.

HANES PROVIDES REAL UNDERWEAR LUXURY AND SERVICE AT LOW COST

When you button up in HANES, you button out all the underwear grief you’ve ever known. HANES always fits you—never bunches or binds. The reinforced cuffs don’t pull off—buttons stay! The materials are soft, long-lived. HANES is a man’s underwear. Dungarees couldn't ask for more masculine company, yet smarter or more up-to-date underwear isn’t made. Go take a look at the Gold Label Elastic-knit Lightweight Union Suit. It's really luxurious and, as in all HANES garments from light to extra-heavy, the hanespun cotton is knitted and cut to careful measurements of both trunk and chest. If you wear summer weights all year round, be sure to see the pleasing styles, rich materials and many special features in HANES Shirts and Shorts.