THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 16, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

ZEB V. LONG, Jr. .......... Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCALL ............ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
B. BLACK ............... Managing Editor
J. W. McCUTCHAN ....... Managing Editor
J. C. RAGIN ............. Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN ......... Athletic Editor
J. V. D. MIDDLETON ...... Assignment Editor
J. F. PRESTON ........... Feature Editor
J. L. BROWN ............ Feature Editor
R. F. JARRATT .......... State Editor
F. D. MILLER ............ Alumni Editor
C. M. PRATT ............. Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. A. CANNON ............ Asst. Bus. Mgr.
J. L. BAKER ............. Subscription Mgr.
P. H. SEON .............. Solicitor
V. R. McCREERY ......... Solicitor
O. M. RUFF .............. Solicitor
E. L. SEVIER ............ Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
J. V. D. MIDDLETON ...... President
J. F. PRESTON ........... Vice-President
P. R. ALDERMAN ......... Secretary-Treasurer
G. C. MATTHEWS
W. F. SPENCER
J. R. SMITH
W. T. HANCOCK
C. M. SORENSON
JOHN M. BROWN
G. P. PARDINGTON
W. H. BIRD
A. DWELLE
E. C. WITT
R. MATTHEWS

JANUARY 16, 1930

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

The History at a glance:
Davidson licks Carolina.
Exams begin tomorrow.
Freshman class organized.
Seniors exempt from chapel.
Doctor Charlie vows the Wildcats are right at last.

What a game that was in Charlotte Saturday night. A great victory for Monk Younge. Just keep it up, Monk!

Doctor Dingle’s report of a “satisfactory year” received by Davidson Trustees of '30 holds more promise than any passed. Be
a worker for your college!

Glad to see the class of '33 off on its certified career. Congratulations to the officers and best wishes for
the future of the class.

The less said about exams (except on Dixie pads) the better. So here’s luck to you—student body!

Fine things promised by extensive intra-mural competition. Support Capt. N. G. Pritchett in his great program.

Remember to write home this semester for something other than checks. Keep the folks posted as they would like you
to do.

For most of us, the “dread” period rolls around to catch us napping or ready to sport our acquirements of
the past semester, as the case may be. Examinations are seldom so difficult as anticipation would have us believe, and
concentrated three years of them without weakening, but it does seem fair that seniors who can prove their efficiency in
a subject even to the concrete extent of numerical grade should be exempt. Underclassmen will appreciate this feeling as they
advance in their college career.

CHALLENGE OF THE TIMES

PERSONAL DUTY TO ATHLETICS

Whether we like it or not, it is an established fact that the popularity and to a great extent the
ultimate and successful existence of a college today depends on its rating in the realm of athletics. Not only does
it count whether it wins a majority of its contests or not but also the type of athletes it puts
out, how they play the game if they win or lose. There is, however, a comparatively small amount of “dirty
work” committed in intercollegiate athletics at present so the main yardstick for determining a college’s standing with reference to athletics
is how many games they win.

A good high school athlete is not very apt to choose a college that loses consistently in athletics. He naturally
wants to go where his ability and achievements will be worth more to him, where he will have a chance
to make a name for himself, and so nine times out of ten he won’t choose a losing school. The
final result in the case of such a school is, therefore, an inevitable decrease in rating and student body.

There are various reasons for which a prep school graduate may choose this or that college: his forefathers may have
gone there ever since it existed; it may offer special courses that he wishes to take; expenses, location, and many
other factors come in. One of the chief of these is in the nature of friends that the graduate has
at the college he picks and that’s where we get a chance to do something really worthwhile for our school—by
getting boys here who we know will make good athletes as well as co-students that we can be proud of
in other ways.

No one can truthfully say that Davidson is a losing college as far as athletics are concerned. It is far
from that but at the same time it is fighting against great odds, just as other comparatively small schools are.
The larger universities and colleges, as well as some of the smaller ones, are offering many inducements in a financial
way to high school athletes; practically all that can afford to do this in some form or other. It is
an obvious fact then that the schools which do not offer such advantages are getting the tough end of the
proposition. These small institutions have, therefore, got to rely upon faithful alumni and students to get athletes for them.

It’s not much trouble for us to write or speak to a friend who has made good in athletics in
high school and who will soon be going to college. If every man in the student body here would assume
this obligation it would be a different tale about the Davidson Wildcats in the next few years. They do all
they can physically now but one or even two teams can’t withstand the attacks of several elevens on the gridiron
or the fresh strength of reserves in other sports. There must be reserve to go up against reserve for victories
to be consistent. That old Wildcat spirit may be at stake if we fail in our discharge of this duty,
but if we fulfill it nothing can stop those Wildcats! It wouldn’t be at all a bad idea to assume
this responsibility as a New Year’s resolution and then stick to it.

P. R. Alderman.

Intelligent public opinion for more powerful nations. Perhaps the best path to follow in this search for a vital understanding
of the ages and their significant actions is that offered by the times in which we live. Let us remember
that fifty years from now, historians will look back to these days as probably the most outstanding in the whole
record of man’s existence. The things which we read in every newspaper and see in the trend of the time
are working together to carry man farther along on his eternal journey. Never in so few years has so much
happened as in the brief span of the present generation. And furthermore, additional problems are rising every hour, sweeping the
world in their scope, which will revolutionize the thinking and acting of all people. By striving for a complete knowledge
and honest interpretation of the present times, we may fulfill the trust of good citizens and equip ourselves for a
finer service.

The gate to knowledge stands open, for no race ever enjoyed the privileges of self-advancement which are within our grasp.
Cast aside the mantle of contentment and of tradition, and be alive to the challenge of the New World, a
universe which is going to need every sound thinker as a willing servant, as a leader in the moral, economic,
and political progress of the masses. World peace, famine-stricken lands, flood-swept plains, crying need of prohibition enforcement, struggling candidates for
election, moral regeneration, religious sincerity—all are problems before the world at large. They transcend localisms because they are setting precedents,
because they are the very life of the people as they battle the forces which would wreck human achievement. How
can we meet the conflict and hope to survive unless we are educated in the real sense of the word
concerning the events and the motives constituting the world of today? Study the present. Comprehend the present. The reward will
be great.Friends will miss “When A Feller Needs A Friend.” Claire Briggs, famous comic sheet artist, has passed beyond the
river. As a man, he was loved and respected; in his profession, he was admired; in the public eye, he
was laughed with, not at. His work certainly caused no harm, and it gave pleasure and eased the heartache of
thousands of readers. A man’s vocation need not be directly philanthropic in order to give something valuable to those who
need it.

Announcement comes that two million people have died of famine in China. That republic, teeming with restless millions, will never
miss the relatively few unfortunates. Likewise, in our own country, although there has been no actual loss of life, the
Mississippi River reaches flood stage. Farmers evacuate the rich lowlands with their families and livestock. Whatever the life of an
ignorant Chinese may amount to, and however the trekking of the farmers may affect us, nature proves rather inconvenient to
the afflicted ones. Yet more readers are interested in the fact that Arthur (The Great) Shires was freed from all
charges by the Illinois and Michigan Boxing Commissions. The public is funny that way!

Prof. Douglas Clyde MacIntosh, a professor of Yale Divinity School, has been refused the right of naturalization papers. His associates,
as well as the dean of the department, are strong in their contentions that Professor MacIntosh has been shamefully wronged.
The difficulty arose when he declined to sign the clause stating that he declared himself subject to draft into the
armies and navies of the United States in the event that the occasion arose. Professor MacIntosh maintains that he has
the right to judge whether a war is fought justly, and that he will not bear arms in a cause
that does not coincide with his religious beliefs. He is a Scotch Presbyterian. It is not doubted that he would
make an admirable and peace-loving citizen. But what is his right to claim citizenship, at the same time desiring a
privilege which native-born citizens do not have? There are millions of United States citizens who have not had the opportunity
nor the right to sign such papers. They are happy in their estate!

Many students doubtless saw and enjoyed “Dynamite,” recently portrayed at the local theatre. Those who witnessed it, as well as
those men who have at any time been in a coal mine, will appreciate the possibility, horror, and continual presence
of danger. A short time ago, a mine shaft through solid coal was ignited from burning gasoline. Two men were
trapped within the inferno. Within twenty-four hours after the fire started, Inspector Powell, Federal Bureau man in charge, ordered that
the entrance to the mine be sealed tight. He states that it was impossible for the victims to be living
at that time. The fire, lacking oxygen, will extinguish itself in the course of two or three weeks; the mine
owners will have a considerable amount of coal. This column does in no way attempt to pass as an authority
of mine engineering or safety, but there is a motto of a leading weekly magazine which runs, “Where there’s life
there’s hope.”

Senator Furnifold M. Simmons’ declaration that he will be a candidate for re-election in the Democratic primary elections in this
state gives opportunity for much political debate. Mr. Simmons is to be congratulated in not breaking away as an “independent.”
Evidently, the dean of North Carolina senators intends to rejoin the party whose presidential nominee he repudiated in 1928. If
he wins the Democratic nomination, it will be interesting to see if the majority of the party adherents think that
the “man or the party is most important.”

Most students in the Junior and Senior classes will recall an article which was published in the Charlotte Observer during
the year 1927-28. It dealt with a leading attorney’s opinions of the so-called practice of “bumming.” On page four of
the Charlotte Observer of Monday, January 13, appears another news article giving another side of the question. This column does
not take arms for or against the habit. It does persist in saying, however, that in two and a half
years at Davidson College, it has never seen any motorist waylaid and forced to yield transportation. Furthermore, this column has
been unaware of any attempt on the part of the students to break down, ruin, or destroy any business which
pertains to that of transportation. Many good upright citizens buy merchandise at chain stores, simply because oftentimes a higher quality
of goods is procured at a more reasonable cost.

By the time that this paper comes out, the tocsin will be sounding, calling us to prepare ourselves for exams.
A goodly number of the less fortunate students will doubtless be wishing for an anti-tocsin to prevent the spread of
this dread malady. With all due apologies to Douglas Fairbanks, a little story might be written about exams entitled “The
Mark of Zero.” However, don’t let a little thing like examinations worry you. It’s all in the game, as the
hunter remarked while he picked the buckshot out of the bear. Anyway, as a little help on exams, I thought
that I would attempt to give you all a general idea of that classic of Shakespeare’s “Macbeth.” Don’t let any
unusual noises disturb you, they will be caused by the Bard of Avon turning over in his grave—or was he
cremated?

MACK BETH

ACT I
Scene 1
(Enter three witches)
Witches: Double, double toil and trouble; If we dilute it enough, we can sell it for double.
(Enter Prohibition Officers, Exeunt witches hurriedly.)
(Enter Mack Beth and his brother, Next Beth.)
Mack: Here’s two-bits. Now, don’t you dare tell Lady Mack Beth that I’ve got a date with those witches.
Next: O. K., Mack. Money may talk, but I won’t.
(Enter the three witches with an Ouija board.)
Witches: We see by today’s reading that you will be King.
Mack: Who me?
Next: Don’t mind him, ladies. He’s so dumb that they call him the Great Devoid.
(Enter same Prohibition Officers. Exeunt witches in a cloud of dust.)
Mack: So I’m to be King. I’d better dust off my campaign cigars.
(Strikes an attitude. Casualty—one attitude.)
(Exeunt all.)

ACT II
Scene 1
(Scene is laid at Mack Beth’s home. There’s no place like it. Enter Mack and Lady Mack.)
Lady Mack: So the old King will spend the night here? Here’s your chance, Mack.
Mack: Oh, yeah? (Apologies to the talkies.)
(Enter the old King, and Mack Duffer, his Yes-man.)
Lady Mack: Howdy, King.
Mack Beth: Howdy, King.
King: Howdy, folks.
Mack Duffer: Yes.

Scene 2
(Scene is laid in the old King’s bedroom. The King and Mack Beth are talking over old times.)
King: Where are you from?
Mack Beth: Chicago. Where are you from?
King: Chicago.
Mack: Well, what are you waiting for?
(Bang! Bang! The old King drops.)
Chorus: The King is dead! Long live King Mack Beth!

ACT III
Scene 1
(Enter Lady Mack with a bottle of Energine and a soiled dress.)
Lady Mack: Out dog-gone spot! Out I say! What, will these hands ne’er be clean?
(Enter local pressing club hound.)
Hound: Any ironing or washing for—(no room for ads.)

Scene 2
(Enter Mack Beth and Mack Duffer quarrelling.)
Mack Beth: You will, will you? Lay on Mack Duffer!
(Exeunt fighting.)
(Re-enter Mack Duffer with Mack Beth’s head.)
Chorus: The King is dead! Long live the King!
(Mack Beth goes off to pose as the Headless Horseman, but can’t find a horse, so he dies of a
broken heart while murmuring, “My kingdom for a horse.”)

CURTAIN, EGGS, ETC.

THE POETS’ CORNER

Persistence
My hopes retire my wishes as before
Struggle to find their resting place in vain:
The ebbing sea thus beats against the shore;
The shore repels it; it returns again.
Walter Savage Landor.

Hidden Strength
The gods in bounty work up storms about us,
That give mankind occasion to exert
Their hidden strength, and throw out into practice
Virtues that shun day, and lie concealed
In the smooth seasons and the calms of life.
