6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 6, 1930

What Ought To Be Done With College Textbooks?

Illinois Dean Advises Undergraduates to Keep Old Books For Library

Do college students sell their textbooks? This is a timely question concerning an unfortunate custom which seizes many undergraduates in January and June. Thomas Arkle Clark, Dean of Men of the University of Illinois, gives two reasons for these seasonal outbreaks: first, the student’s indifference or lack of interest in his work, and second, his need to get out of a financial difficulty. Dean Clark’s further statement that “a college student is always broke” and “anything that will immediately add to his bank account seems to him justifiable” will not be challenged. But immediate cash is not always forthcoming from the sales of textbooks, and the sums obtained are negligible in comparison with the value of the books.

The rush to dispose of textbooks at less than real value is swelled by the thought that now, examinations being over, those old books will never be needed again! Perhaps they'll not be needed for classroom work; but how often graduates moan that they wish they had kept their textbooks, to brush up on a language, to find a certain formula, to locate that line of poetry. The reasons for missing books hastily disposed of are many, but the regret is recurrent that the books are gone, with all the precious notes that added value to them, at least in sentiment.

Again, where will you ever get accepted authorities so economically? The truth is that once you have sold a textbook, you will never replace it, you will even tramp to a library for the required information. Which is not quite as clever as keeping the books in the first place, and gradually acquiring a personal reference library that may save much time and money for you in the future.

It is a recognized fact that textbooks on technical or professional subjects constitute the basis of a professional library. In many cases these professional books are very expensive, and to resell them at the popular low rates would not augur well for a technical career. In general, textbook formats are becoming more attractive yearly, and do not detract in the least from the charm of well-filled bookcases. Who would have a library composed only of novels? A choice as limited as that would indicate an uninteresting owner; even a calculus textbook on your bookshelves would catch the eye and hint of a many-sided character!

These are points, in passing, for consensus of opinion suggests that you keep your textbooks for sentimental reasons. President John Grier Hibben, of Princeton University, suggests “Every undergraduate leaving college should take his textbooks with him as a reminder and record of a past chapter in his life and as a nucleus of a library.” Perhaps it isn’t fashionable to be sentimental. Yet books have become a recognized budget item; and now in many colleges is heard the cry of “Keep Your Textbooks.”

There is no library or reference book as handy as the worn and scribbled textbook, which has been your companion, on and off campus. Can you think of anything which would be as graphic a commentary on your college life as the notes and names you have jotted on the margins and covers of these books? To what other books have you granted such intimacy of thought? Provost Josiah H. Penniman, of the University of Pennsylvania, follows this thought with his remark, “I know of no book that can be more properly valued as an ‘association book’ than the textbook which represents many hours of work and brings to mind some teacher of the past.”

Davidson Pennants Offered By Store

The Students’ Store has just received a large order of new and attractive pennants, and, owing to the large and unexpected demand for these, has ordered another large shipment. The pennants, while being considerably cheaper than those formerly offered for sale, are no less attractive than the higher-priced ones. There are two different styles offered, both of which are, in shape, triangular and bear the same inscription, “Lux alenda, ubi orta libertas.”

The Town News

Prof. and Mrs. E. H. Cullum and Dr. and Mrs. G. B. Watts spent ten days in Florida during the examination period.

The “Twentieth Century Club” met at the home of Mrs. O. J. Thies last Friday afternoon.

Miss Mary Hamilton had Misses Helen Shuler and Dot Solomon from Converse College as her guests the past weekend.

Misses Daisy Caldwell, Susie Jackson, Elizabeth Potts, from N. C. C. W., were at home recently for a few days during their examination period.

Miss Charlotte Hunter, who is teaching in Winston-Salem, visited her parents the past weekend.weekend. Mrs. Bob Garth has returned to New York after spending some time in Davidson with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle. Dr. Claude Goodrum has been confined to his home the past few days with an attack of influenza. The “Twentieth Century Club” entertained their husbands at dinner at Rozzell’s Ferry last Thursday night. About forty people were present. Prof. and Mrs. Oscar Thies and small daughter, Colleen, spent about ten days in Florida recently. 

The plain, block style letters, “Davidson,” are on them. The others have the same background, but old English style of lettering. These pennants make unusually beautiful and artistic decorations for a room, and students are urged to take advantage of the cut-rate prices and purchase pennants now.

DAVIDSON HAS TWO MEN AT PRINCETON
(Continued from page 1)

They are Hassell Norwood Alexander, of Brandon, Miss., who took his degree here in 1910, and William Everett Phifer, Jr., of Port Jervis, N. Y., of the class of 1929. The Seminary is one of the schools of the Presbyterian Church, U. S. A., a sister organization of the Southern Presbyterian Church to which Davidson belongs. The enrollment at Princeton includes representatives from practically every leading college in the country as well as fifteen foreign ones. Among the outstanding American colleges represented there at the present time are Princeton, Columbia, Harvard, LaFayette, Lincoln, Colgate, Wooster, Westminster, Washington and Jefferson, Pittsburgh, Wheaton, Richmond, Maryville, Lebanon Valley, Asbury, and Davidson. Six foreign seminaries in addition to the fifteen colleges have sent students to Princeton. There are seventeen foreign countries with a total of thirty-seven students represented at Princeton Seminary this year, as against fifteen foreign lands last year.

Co-ed (at the end of the quarter)—Now that you have kissed me, professor, what do you think?
Prof.—You'll fail. I need you in my class next quarter.

Uncle Tom was jollying his little niece, trying to make believe that the moon was made of green cheese. But Dorothy was not to be taken in. “It can’t be made of green cheese, Uncle Tom,” she said convincingly, “because God made the moon two days before he made cows.”

DAVIDSON FIVE AND TEN YEARS AGO

Five Years Back
Displaying brilliant basketball mixed with that Wildcat spirit, Davidson turned Duke back again for the third time straight during the season. The game was a hot contest from beginning to end and very fast. It was not until the closing minutes that the game was decided when the whistle blew, shutting off a Methodist rally and gave the game to Davidson with a score of 22-18. Much feeling was connected with the contest since a verbal battle between the two school papers had prevailed previous to the game. The sports editor of The Davidsonian, in an eloquent article entitled “Last to beat Trinity; first to beat Duke,” raised the ire of the same dignitary on the Trinity Chronicle who replied—“Last to beat Trinity; first to beat Duke, raves the sports editor of The Davidsonian. We let him rave on in his bliss and give all the glory to Old Davidson, and then settle back with satisfied ease to await his howls of despair when the overbold Wildcats venture into the cage of the Blue Devils at Durham.”

Ten Years Back
The gamely fighting Cats journeyed to Raleigh only to be snowed under by State’s quintet of six-footers. The first half was a toss-up with Davidson playing far over their heads, but in the second half nothing was heard but a continual swish as the ball entered the State basket. The game ended 30-10 in State’s favor. It is interesting to note some of our present faculty members occupying a notable position in the activities of the campus ten years ago. In looking over the pages of Davidsonian of 1920, there is seen among the even dozen that made the first semester honor roll the name of C. K. Brown, who had the highest average of any man in school with 98.83. On the same list and in the same class was W. P. Cumming with an average of 96.33. On the editorial page is seen L. B. Schenck on The Davidsonian staff.

SPECIAL SALE GOLF CLUBS
Macgregor Golf Clubs Now Offered at One-fourth Off Regular Price
W.S. HENDERSON

The cheapest types have a black background.

Judge a tree by its fruit. The tale of aging tobacco, blending and cross-blending, the standard Chesterfield method, is not what interests you. But its “fruit”—keener, spicier aroma, true mildness with unmistakable tobacco “character”—is just the one thing that smokers can judge by—“TASTE above everything.”

TASTE
MILD... and yet THEY SATISFY
Chesterfield
FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobaccos, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED
© 1929, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.