Pe THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 17, 1930

Anderson Delivers Talk To Students at Chapel Taking Faith as Theme

Third Talk Makes Stirring Appeal to Entire Student Body

STRESSES FOUR POINTS

All Services Maintain Capacity Attendance as Doctor Anderson Addresses Attentive Audience

Monday morning, in chapel, an inspiring service was led by Dr. W. M. Anderson, assisted by members of the student body. Murray Christian was in charge of the singing and Carl Pritchett read the Scripture. Bill Beavers and Charlie Sisson were called on for short prayers. After the last prayer, Dr. Anderson gave a very interesting and illuminating talk on the subject of faith, particularly in the next ten years of our lives, which constitute the most formative period in our religious lives. He stressed the fact that an intelligent desire to strengthen one’s faith will cause one to ask himself, “What will life require of you if you are going to get away with it best?” With four simple things, this question may be answered: (1) The best one can give from one’s mind is essential; (2) Also the best in one’s heart, the love of finer things; (3) One must use his will to the best advantage. Each time a temptation is yielded to, one’s resistance is weakened to one of the same kind. The little things count. (4) The best there is in one’s faith should always be uppermost. This is the very biggest thing in anyone's life. Leaving these important thoughts in the minds of his hearers, Dr. Anderson closed the service with prayer.

Fresh Team Begins With Loss and Tie

Wildkittens Get Off to Bad Start But Improve in Charlotte Game

The Davidson Wildkittens fared rather badly on the diamond last week, losing to Belmont Abbey and being tied by Charlotte High School. The game with Charlotte High was played on Richardson Field, April 8, and was called in the tenth inning on account of darkness. The Davidson nine got off to a good start and led until the sixth, 5-1, but in this frame, the Charlotte lads scored three runs on a single, a triple, and two Davidson errors. In the eighth, they added another to knot the count, 5-5. Again in the ninth, it looked pretty bad for the Kittens when four more runs were added to the Charlotte tally. In the last frame, however, the Wildkittens came back strong and succeeded in touching Gadd, relief pitcher, who had baffled them for four innings, for four runs to knot the count once more. No runs were scored in the tenth and the game was called with the score 9-9. Pierce and Bradsher led the batters for the day, each getting two hits in four trips to the plate. For the visitors, Morris got two in five. Errors were frequent throughout the game, fifteen being made in all. Score by innings: Charlotte 000 004 014 0—9 10 6 Davidson 201 200 004 0—9 11 9 Batteries: Charlotte—Moser, Gadd and Beam, Daniels. Davidson—Rogers, Bailey and Whitley.

The following day, the nine journeyed to Belmont for a game with the Abbey. This tilt was lost by the close score of 11-10, after a nip-and-tuck battle in which each team had its big innings. Belmont errors gave the Wildkittens frequent undeserved scoring opportunities. Doris and Manley led in hitting, each getting two in three times at bat. Pierce got two in five to lead his teammates. Hits were evenly divided, each team getting nine. Score by innings: Davidson 200 310 400—10 9 1 Belmont 003 104 03x—11 9 7 Batteries: Davidson—Bailey, Pierce, Barrier and Whitley. Belmont—Manley and Campbell.

Bell: “What didja do last summer?” Buckus: “I worked in Des Moines.” Bell: “Coal or iron?”

Nancy: “I didn’t get any chicken with my chicken sandwich.” Ayon: “Well, you don’t get any dog with a dog biscuit.”

Ho: “So you graduated from the Barbers’ University? What was your college yell?” Bo: “Cut his lip, Rip his jaw, Leave his face Raw! Raw! Raw!"

Professor Huebner To Deliver Address

Noted Insurance Authority is to Revisit Davidson

Dr. S. S. Huebner, professor of insurance at the University of Pennsylvania, will speak to the business classes in the auditorium of Chambers Building at 4 P.M. Friday, April 25th. His subject will be some phase of insurance and will be of particular benefit to those interested in any form of business. However, the lecture will be of general interest to all, and the whole student body is cordially invited and urged to attend. Professor Huebner, who is making a special visit to Charlotte, has very kindly consented, at the invitation of Professor J. P. Williams, to come over to Davidson and speak to the students. The college is very fortunate in having him come. He visited Davidson once before several years ago. Professor Huebner is one of the pioneer men in insurance education. He graduated from the University of Wisconsin and in 1908 became professor of insurance in the University of Pennsylvania, which position he has held ever since. He has written nine books on insurance and commerce and is a nationally recognized authority on these subjects. He is a member of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, and has been an associate editor of the Annals of the Academy since 1909. As a speaker, Professor Huebner has had wide experience, being a special lecturer at Columbia and New York University, and having traveled extensively. It is said he is very interesting and possesses a strong personality which makes him an unusually pleasing speaker.

Davidson Professor Appointed Reviewer

Watts, Head of French Department, is on Staff of Modern Language Journal

An invitation has been issued to Dr. George B. Watts, of the French department, by Prof. James B. Sharp, of Ohio State University, review editor of the Modern Language Journal, to become a member of the staff of contributing reviewers of this publication. In the current number of the magazine, there are two reviews by the Davidson professor. The new edition of Corneille’s Tragedy, Polyeucte, by Professor Graham of the University of Virginia, is subject to adverse criticism. On the other hand, the edition of Henriot’s novel, Aricie Brun, by Professor Rockwood, of the University of Ohio, is adjudged an excellent reading text for advanced students. The review editor makes regular assignments of new works, appearing in French, to his corps of assistants, several reviews appearing in each number of the Journal. Dr. Watts is a graduate of Dartmouth, University of Michigan, and has taken graduate work at the University of Montpelier in France. Dr. Watts has been for some years professor of French at Davidson. He now holds the position of head of the French department.

He: “Here comes a friend of mine. He’s a human dynamo.” She: “Really?” He: “Yes, everything he has on is charged.”

“Please ma’am, may we borrow your phonograph?” “Do you want to dance?” “No, we want to sleep.”

Davidson Dramatic Club Presents Pirate Comedy

Tentative Plans Are Being Made For Trip to Include Rock Hill

The Red and Black Masquers presented a very entertaining comedy, ‘Wapping Wart,” last Tuesday evening in Shearer Hall. A comparatively large crowd was present to see this three-act pirate play. Charles S. Brooks is the author of the play, which was taken from the volume, “Frightful Plays.” Stewart Meacham took the part of “Duke,” John Z. Preston as “Patch Eye,” Wilson McCutchan as “Captain,” Duncan Calder as “Red Joe,” Horace Erwin as “Darlin’,” Susan Moffett as “Betsy,” Gaither Sanford as “Mag,” John D. McConnell as a “Sailor Captain,” and Billy Wade and William McAlpine as “sailors.” The first act opened with Duke, Patch Eye, and Darlin’ reminiscing on the history of their pirate band. The group had been formed by Duke, Patch Eye, and Captain. Darlin’, whose part was portrayed splendidly, was the cook for the pirates in their cabin on thecoast. Betsy, a pretty orphan girl, had been taken in and she made her home with them. Patch Eye and Duke both fell in love with her at once, but she refused them. Red Joe joined the party, but suspicion was raised about him for various reasons which pointed toward the possibility of his not being a true pirate. The plan of the band for obtaining booty was a very crafty one. There was a lighthouse situated near their cabin. The keeper of this was in league with them and so helped them with their activities. Whenever a ship was reported to be due, they had the light in the lighthouse put out and placed a ship’s lantern at another place so that the ship would go on the rocks. Thereupon, the pirates rushed from their lair and took possession of all available plunder. In the course of the play, Red Joe falls in love with Betsy and it seems that it is a mutual affair. The members of the band are still suspicious of him, though, and they try to get rid of him, all to no avail. Finally, however, they openly accuse him of being a spy and tie him to a chair. The ship, “Royal Arrow,” is due to come at this time and the lantern replaces the regular warning as usual. Betsy, however, spoils the plans of the band and releases Red Joe, who immediately procures a gun and shoots out the lantern so that the “Royal Arrow” is not wrecked. The captain and two sailors of this ship appear at the den of the pirates where Betsy has re-tied Red Joe. They identify the supposed spy as the Prince of Wales who has acceded to the throne at the recent death of his father in France. As the play ends, the new king introduces Betsy, who has returned his love, as his queen, and pardons the ruffians. The Red and Black Masquers are planning to take one or two trips in presenting the play and a tentative engagement has been made for a presentation at Rock Hill, S. C.

John, I hope I didn't see you smiling at that creature we just passed.”
“I hope you didn’t, m’dear.”

Wife: “When we were married I thought you were a brave man.”
Husband: “So did a good many other people.”

“I refused Jack time and time again and now he’s saved me from drowning.”
“I suppose you succumbed at once?”
“No, I had the presence of mind to pretend it was attempted suicide.”

Disgusted Diner: “You can’t expect me to eat this stuff. Call the manager.”
Waiter: “It’s no use—he won't eat it either.”

$29.50 CLOTHES

STETSON “D” STORE
Opposite Campus
COLLEGE MAN
COMPLETE LINE OF FURNISHINGS
$34.50

Books We Have Read
A Farewell to Arms—By Ernest Hemingway
Reviewed by W. S. Lea

A Farewell to Arms, New York, $2.50.

In A Farewell to Arms, Ernest Hemingway has produced one of the finest, if not the finest, novels which has been produced in America in the last decade. After reading Men Without Women, we thought he was a fine writer, but with this book, his reputation among the truly great American writers is made a certainty. “By all odds the best of the American war books,” says Heywood Broun. At least we can say that it is a real picture of life during the great war—a different life from that pictured in All Quiet on the Western Front, or should I say, a different view of the same life. There is the pathos, the terrible hardship of war life, and the utter abandonment of morals—the awful deadening of the spirit.

It deals with the story of a young American who has enlisted in the ambulance department of the Italian army, and his love for an English nurse. It is a story of life which few of us understand who did not go through it. They meet, they are not married because of the complications, and tragedy inevitably comes. The end is disappointing, but we cannot but have the feeling that it could not be otherwise. A Farewell to Arms is a piece of art. Not only has Hemingway given us a great plot, but he has shown a wonderful style and finesse in his writing. The story runs smoothly to a natural climax and closes with an inevitable tragedy. The characterization is excellent—the Italian officers, the English doctors and nurses, the common soldiers, and the Italian innkeepers are all very faithfully pictured to the reader, as very human beings. It is another protest against war, and the effect which it has upon the people of the world, exciting them to actions which would have never happened during times of peace. The writer speaks from first-hand knowledge, otherwise the book could never have been written. In its realism, it is superb. It is a true picture of things as they were, during those days toward which everyone looks with sorrow, those of the great war. Scribner’s (1928).

“Joseph, if your father could save a dollar a week for four weeks what would he have then?”
“A phonograph, a new suit, a refrigerator and a set of furniture.”

Use a Blotter
The Wife: “Henry, baby has swallowed the ink. What shall I do?”
Professor: “Write with pencil, my dear.”

She: “My, how hard your heart is beating. It sounds like a drum.”
He: “Yes, that’s the call to arms.”

South Carolinians!
All professors and students from South Carolina are requested to attend the smoker at the Kimbrell House, Friday night, April 18th, 9 p.m. Election of new officers for the South Carolina Club.

Fresh Team Starts State Trip Tuesday
Davidson's fresh baseball team faces a stiff schedule for the coming week with games with all of the other “Big Five” colleges of the State. To begin with, they play tomorrow the Charlotte High nine in the high school’s lair in Charlotte. Two weeks ago the fresh played Charlotte to a 9-9 tie in a ten-inning game played here. On Tuesday of next week, the team begins its State-wide trip, meeting the Carolina fresh the same afternoon. The next day will find them in Durham, battling the Duke fresh. On the twenty-fourth, they will meet the Baby Deacons of Wake Forest. The last game scheduled for this trip will take place in Raleigh with the fresh of State. This trip will witness the first games played with other college freshmen for the 1930 season.

Pierce Is Elected Sec.-Treas. of A. A.
L. S. (Skinny) Pierce, of Spencer, N. C., was recently elected secretary-treasurer of the Athletic Association. Pierce defeated Buddy Gardner, Bruce Peabody, and Dus Enochs in the second ballot to win the office. Pierce is an outstanding athlete of the Freshman Class. He won his numeral in football, and was captain of the basketball team. He is also playing first base on the freshman baseball team, and has the highest batting average so far this season with a percentage of .667. Pierce is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

Passing the Buck
“Would you believe that I have a lot in Florida worth fifty times what I paid for it?”
“No, but maybe somebody will.”

Most women are satisfied with fifty break. Both parts of it, that is.

Tom: “Was it a big wedding?”
Tim: “Yes, I got in line twice to kiss the bride, and nobody noticed it.”

I still don’t believe the story about the absent-minded professor who hung up his stockings and then discovered he had forgotten to take them off.

Stationery
Books
Magazines
Superior Soda Service
W.S. HENDERSON
Fountain Pens
Felt Goods
Sundries

SENIOR’S

NOW IS THE TIME TO HAVE YOUR ENGRAVED CARDS MADE. SEE ME.
Best Quality and Prices
Any type of Printing
ERNEST H. McCALL
108 Watts
Representing STANDARD PRINTING CO.