WILDCATS TAKE VIRGINIA TRIP THIS WEEK

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

TRACKMEN ENTER TECH RELAYS IN ATLANTA

Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 10, 1930 No. 24

W. B. Goodson Is Elected Athletic Association Head

New President is Outstanding Athlete Being a Two-Letter Man and a Star in Each

THREE BALLOTS NECESSARY

Raker and Brown Are Vice-Presidents—Secretary-Treasurer From Freshman Class

W. B. Goodson, of Lincolnton, N. C., was elected President of the Davidson College Athletic Association last Friday, April 4, after three ballots had been cast to determine the winner. All nominees were letter men from the rising Senior Class. McCall and Brock stayed with Goodson until the semi-final, the final vote being cast between Brock and Goodson.

The new President is an outstanding campus leader, an athlete, having distinguished himself on diamond and court for two years, and being the captain-elect of the Wildcat basketball team. He is also Vice-President of the “D” Club for next year. Bud Raker and Steve Brown, the former of Lexington, N. C., and the latter of Mount Ulla, N. C., are the Vice-Presidents for the coming year, these two men having beaten a large field of candidates from the rising Junior Class.

The election of a Secretary-Treasurer was still in process as The Davidsonian went to press. This man comes from the present Freshman Class.

Davidson Graduate Leader in Seminary

Richmond, Va., April 8—Chas. F. McRae, Davidson ‘28, was recently elected President of the Student Body of the Union Theological Seminary here. John B. Cunningham, Hampden-Sidney ‘20, was elected Vice-President, and M. L. Daugherty, Washington University '29, is the new Secretary-Treasurer. Retiring officers are: Jno. N. Thomas, of Washington and Lee, President; W. A. Christian, Davidson '27, Vice-President; and Ben M. Persinger, Randolph-Macon, Secretary-Treasurer.

McRae, the new President, was a student leader at Davidson while there, being President of the Y. M. C. A., a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. His home is at Maxton, N. C. John Cunningham was editor of the Hampden-Sidney annual in his student days. The home of this musical theologian is at Pamplin, Va. Daugherty is from St. Louis, Mo., and holds a degree from Washington University in that city.

The student body of Union Seminary is drawn from 22 states and foreign countries and 50 colleges and universities are represented in its membership. Most of the graduates from this institution go out to work in their ministry in the South but some are found in far-distant stations of the world. Through summer work undergraduate theologs get their first taste of the ministry and are enabled to better prepare themselves to meet the experiences which they find actually existing in their fields. At this season of the year they are beginning to make their plans for work from May 7th to September 20th.

Roger Enloe Chosen Vice-President of Y

R. P. Enloe of the rising Junior Class was elected Vice-President of the Y. M. C. A. to be running mate with Bob Norton, chosen on a previous ballot. The voting was exceptionally close in the entire “Y” series, and Enloe’s choice over Arnold, King, and Speir was close. Enloe is an Honor Roll student. He is very active in campus activities, especially those of the Y. M. C. A. Buchanan, Georgia, is the home of the newly-elected Vice-President.

Bill Goodson Lincolnton boy, newly elected Athletic head of Student Body—Basketball and Baseball Letter Man.

Frank Price Speaks To Undergraduates

Rev. Frank Price, a prominent Davidson alumnus and an outstanding mission worker in China, brought a challenging message from the East to the youth of America during his four-day stay here, April 4th to 7th. He spoke both to the classes concerned especially with his work and at the church and vesper services on Sunday.

Political Outlook for China

In speaking to the classes in Political Science he said that the outlook politically was bright under the Nationalist Government. He enumerated the improvements and reforms this party is organizing and bringing about for the good of China despite the disorganized condition of the country and discord even within the party itself.

At the Bible and Philosophy classes Mr. Price spoke on Christianity’s great opportunity in China at this critical stage in her history when she is laying aside her old religions and searching after truth. Along the line of philosophy he said that China is the Greece of the Orient and that she has many fine qualities in her philosophical systems which may serve as a splendid background for Chinese Christianity and many of which we would do well to take over. He called it to our attention that China at present is going through an economic, literary, political, social, and religious revolution all at the same time. The rest of the world took several centuries to pass through these changes and it is only natural that an upheaval should result in China under the circumstances.

At the church service Sunday morning he emphasized the challenge of the Far East to America today to make our Nation more Christian as they look to us as a model. He vividly refuted the statement that the romance and adventure of the mission field in China was dying out. As he sees it at present he said the object of the missionary is not to impose the ideas of his particular denomination on them but to awaken in them the need of God. Sunday evening at the vesper service he painted another challenging picture. ‘As I (Continued on page 6)

Ames Gives Interesting Lecture on Subject of Changing Times in Europe

Gives Viewpoint of League of Nations, as Former Treasurer

LARGE ATTENDANCE

Has Been Prominent in Affairs of League

Sir Herbert Brown Ames of Canada spoke in Chambers Auditorium last Tuesday evening on “The Changing Times of Europe, 1919-1920.” The large numbers of students, faculty members, and town people who attended this lecture were all impressed by the vivid personality of the speaker and his thorough knowledge of the subject. For seven years Sir Herbert was the first treasurer of the League of Nations from 1919 to 1926, and since that time, while lecturing in America, he has kept in touch with the affairs of Europe, twice visiting Geneva.

Sir Herbert began his talk by showing the conditions under which the League was formed; every nation, it seems, was suspicious of every other in Europe. There was a great deal of difficulty connected with the admitting of France, who could not forgive the war, and the deciding of whether or not Germany would be admitted. In its infancy, the League accomplished nothing of striking importance, but gradually won the assurance of the people. In 1924, however, a treaty was drawn up providing that if one nation was attacked, the others would defend it. This would probably have been signed had not a new government in England opposed it.

In 1925 seven of Europe's principal countries drew up seven arbitration treaties which stated, virtually, that all disputes arising between these nations would be settled by peaceful means. These treaties, however, did not hold until Germany joined the League of Nations. As she refused to enter unless she could have a permanent seat, some trouble ensued. Brazil, the chief trouble, withdrew shortly, and on September 10, 1926, the twelfth anniversary of the Battle of the Marne, Germany was welcomed into the group by the Foreign Minister of France. Sir Herbert, who was a delegate at this meeting, described vividly the stirring events which attended this important occurrence. Since that time, Sir Herbert Ames thinks, Europe is taking long strides toward peace.

“Europe is like a man that has his arm in splints and he must keep it there or the second break will be worse than the first.” The speaker then pointed out the friendliness between the Ministers of countries that he told.the guarantee treaties and break he worse have been great enemies of ninety arbitration and that have been made among different nations. (Continued on Page 5)

“Quips and Cranks” Almost Complete

The 1930 edition of Quips and Cranks is almost ready for the press, according to C. M. Pratt, editor. All of the engravings have been sent in, and the proof is being read on most of the copy. According to the specifications of the printers, all of the copy must be back to them by the tenth of April. Only the athletic section remains to be completed, and prospects are that this will be complete by the set date. According to W. R. Hill, business manager of the annual, the edition this year will not be quite as large as the one last year, but it will require a little more expense, due to some new features which are in the new book. For many years the Davidson annual has been considered one of the finest college yearbooks in the country. Not infrequently it has won great distinction in contests with other schools. The 1927 edition of the book was voted the best yearbook in the United States for colleges which have an enrollment under 1,000. According to the editors, the Quips and Cranks will be issued about one or two weeks before the end of school.

Pyramid Club Installed As Sigma Phi

Dr. W. M. Anderson, Texas minister of wide renown, who starts services here on April 13.

Dr. Anderson To Be Leader Of Revival

Dr. William M. Anderson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Dallas, Texas, the largest church in the Southern Assembly, will open the semi-annual evangelical services here Sunday, April 13, and will continue through Monday and Tuesday, the 14th and 15th. Dr. Anderson will preach at the morning services in the church Sunday, at the “Y" vesper services Sunday evening, at chapel services on Monday and Tuesday, and in Chambers Auditorium Monday and Tuesday nights. SRO et KdeKane, of Greensboro, Winner of the National Atwater Kent Radio Contest, will sing sometime during the progress of the meetings. Kane sings regularly at the First Presbyterian Church and plans to do special study in opera work soon. Interviews with Dr. Anderson will be cared for by Russell Nunan, and anyone wishing to talk with Dr. Anderson about personal problems will hand their name and possible hours to Nunan at chapel or in 414 East. From Greensboro, receiving testimonials as to the personality and power of Dr. Anderson. Bill Rembert, a member of his church for more than ten years, says that he possesses a greater appeal and attractiveness for young people than any other speaker he has ever heard. Bill says his sermons are “so interesting, thought-provoking, and peppy that anyone who hears him once will come back to hear the rest.” W. W. (Nick) Carter, Class of '21, and former member of the Board of Trustees, writes from San Angelo, Texas, that he has seen Dr. Anderson and rejoices that he is coming to Davidson. He says that Dr. Anderson has just completed a ten-day meeting at San Angelo, and that to say he created a profound impression does not do him justice. He was, in fact, a sensation. A number of Davidson students had the pleasure of hearing Dr. Anderson at the Young People’s Conference at Montreat last summer. Ed Roberson says that it is a tribute to Dr. Anderson that the young people sent him a letter of appreciation and urged that the program committee secure his services for the coming summer. Bob Glasgow, Jr., testifies that those who hear Dr. Anderson once will become one of his ardent admirers. J. Allan Wilson urges that no one miss a single one of his powerful and appealing messages. Dr. Walter L. Lingle makes an interesting statement on the informality of Dr. Anderson. His comment is here quoted: “Dr. ‘Billy’ Anderson, as everybody calls him, is (Continued on Page 5)

Epsilon Chapter

W. L. Phillips, National Secretary and Dr. W. L. Lingle Are Main Speakers at Banquet

INITIATIONS HELD SATURDAY

Ten National Social Fraternities Are Now on Davidson Campus

After years of work and untiring effort, the dreams of the Pyramid Club, a local social fraternity at Davidson, were realized on Saturday afternoon, April 5th, when the formal presentation of a charter to the newly-formed North Carolina Epsilon Chapter of the Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity was made by Mr. William L. Phillips, Grand Secretary of the national fraternity. This granting of a charter to the Pyramid Club raises the number of chapters of Sigma Phi Epsilon to sixty-three and brings the total of national fraternities at Davidson to ten. There are three other chapters of the fraternity in the State of North Carolina: Beta, Gamma, and Delta at North Carolina State, Duke University, and University of North Carolina, respectively. Mr. W. L. Phillips was in charge of the installation and was ably assisted by delegations from nearby chapters. Many visitors among the Sig Ep Alumni in North Carolina were present for various parts of the installation. Among these were Taylor Bledsoe, Asheville; Harold Burke, Taylorsville; Frank Whitaker, Elkin; William Dodderer, Charlotte; and Richard Query, Gastonia, all of the N. C. Delta Chapter, and John Thompson, Charlotte, of the N. C. Beta Chapter. The installation ceremonies were opened Thursday morning and seventeen men, including six alumni, were initiated before 7:00 P.M. After the evening meal, Mr. Phillips showed a group of very interesting moving pictures, describing graphically the houses of a large number of the chapters of Sigma Phi Epsilon. No more business was carried on that evening but on Friday morning work was resumed, ten active members and four alumni being initiated before 3:30 P.M. A large number of the visitors attended the baseball game between North Carolina State and Davidson. Entertainment was provided in Charlotte Friday night and three more alumni were initiated Saturday morning before noon. Immediately after lunch, the formal presentation of the charter was made accompanied by a talk by Mr. Phillips. The charter was received on behalf of the chapter by Hamlet Pettus, retiring President. The following officers were elected for the coming year: Frank Pilcher, President; Calvin Kuykendall, Vice-President; Newton Dicks, Secretary; Emmett Shackelford, Historian; Frank Wilson, Comptroller. The baseball game in Concord drew a large gathering of the visitors Saturday afternoon. Saturday night at 6:00 o'clock the last official function of the installation was held in the form of a banquet in Chambers Building. Besides the members of the active chapter and the visiting Sig Eps, several other guests were invited to the banquet, including Dr. H. B. Arbuckle and Dr. T. W. Lingle, who were instrumental in the founding of the Pyramid Club; Dr. Walter Jackson, Ernest Milton, Porter, a representative of the Pan-Hellenic Council, and a representative of each fraternity at Davidson. Hamlet Pettus acted as toastmaster at the banquet and introduced the speakers. He gave a short talk welcoming the guests and then introduced Mr. Phillips, the main speaker of the evening. Mr. Phillips spoke of three achievements of the Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity, two of which are already a great success and the third, although a new venture and entirely original with this fraternity, seems on the eve of being the greatest accomplishment of all. The three mentioned were the Sigma Phi Epsilon Plan of Finance, the loan fund for building chapter houses, and the last the Student Loan Fund which will go into operation to help worthy students in the near future. Dr. Walter Lingle was next introduced and he gave a welcome to the new national fraternity to (Continued on page 8)