A ya ee dL 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1930

New Plan For Managing Local Golf Course Will Facilitate Conditions

Comprehensive Rules to be Perfected and Rigidly Enforced

SPECIAL GOLF COMMITTEE

Burden of Upkeep Taken From One Man and Placed in Hands of Group

The Executive Committee of the Trustees at a recent meeting approved a new plan for the management of the Golf Course at Davidson. The care and upkeep of the course was put under the supervision of the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the College which is composed of the following members: Prof. W. W. Wood, Mr. F. L. Jackson, and Drs. W. R. Grey, J. M. McConnell, and Walter L. Lingle. Mr. Hobart, the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, will have the immediate oversight of the Golf Course in co-operation with the above Committee. It is the purpose of this Committee to keep the course and greens in as good order as possible with a very limited amount of money at their disposal.

There is also a Golf Committee composed of the following members: Prof. H. E. Fulcher, and Drs. G. B. Watts and H. M. Moffett. The President of the College is an ex-officio member of this Committee. It is the duty of the Golf Committee to formulate and enforce the rules which are to govern the playing of golf on the course. This Committee hopes to formulate these rules in the near future and to have them published in The Davidsonian.

Any student who desires to play and will observe the rules of the course may play free of all charge. Any member of the faculty or college staff is eligible for membership upon payment of such fee as the Golf Committee may decide as fair and equitable. The Golf Committee shall also have the power to decide whether anyone who is not connected with the college shall have the right to play, and to decide what fees such persons should pay.

One difficulty in keeping the course in order has been that the course is often used in wet weather and this ruins the greens. The Golf Committee has the power to close the course when the greens are too wet for use. It is hoped that all those who love golf will co-operate with the Buildings and Grounds Committee in keeping the course in good order, and will co-operate with the Golf Committee in observing and enforcing all the rules which the Committee may deem wise. It is hoped that the new plan will result in the improvement of the course and in the improvement of golf at Davidson. It certainly distributes responsibility. Heretofore, Doctor Arbuckle has had to bear the brunt of the responsibility and do most of the work. All golf players at Davidson, past and present, are under lasting obligations to Doctor Arbuckle for making a golf course at Davidson possible and for the upkeep of the course from its beginning to the present.

Fresh Track Squad To Leave For Meet

Freshmen Will Compete With Many Strong Teams

At the first indoor track meet of the Southern Conference, Davidson will be represented by freshmen only, as Varsity men are ineligible because Davidson does not belong to the Southern Conference. Only four men will go. Bob McCallie and Alex Little will run the high hurdles; Alex Earle will be our one representative in the three-quarter mile, and Fred Fleagle will run the sixty-yard dash. This meet will hardly be a fair test of the abilities of these freshmen because it will be the first time they have had any indoor work. Captain Pritchett expects to take these men to Chapel Hill with him Saturday, as he has to go as an official anyway. Spring football has interfered with both Little and Fleagle in their track work. Neither has had the opportunity to do much work. This trip should act as encouragement for all Freshmen to come out and do some work for the squad. Much material is needed at present, so if possible, come out.

FIVE YEARS AGO

SOCIAL FRATERNITIES

Occupied the present editorial offices of The Davidsonian. The scene above is reminiscent of the days before clicking typewriters and busy reporters moved into the ancient homes of the Campus Greeks.

BEETHOVEN

Horace W. Ervin

In The World Of Music

Just at the time when the free-minded colonies of America were seething with unrest and were fomenting a spirit of rebellion which would in less than ten years precipitate them into a war with the mother country—a war that was to culminate in the liberation of the common people and which was to spread revolutionary ideas throughout Europe—a revolutionary figure in the world of music first saw the light of day on December 16, 1770, in a little cottage in the German town of Bonn. As Shakespeare is revered in literature, Newton in science and mathematics, Plato in philosophy, so Beethoven is heralded in music. Ludwig von Beethoven! The name, itself suggestive of romance, is familiar to all peoples. For his influence on both masters and amateurs in music is overpowering.

The child Beethoven was early instructed on the violin and piano by his musical father. Such symptoms of genius did he evince in his infancy that his father compelled him to practice long hours. Some say that he was cruel in his exactions from the child and often locked Ludwig in a room with his instruments. Others have it that the boy was often awakened at an early hour, a violin shoved into his hands, and a peremptory command given to apply himself zealously. Whatever the case, the young Beethoven appears at the age of six an infant prodigy playing before the nobility of cultured Europe. His avaricious father attempted to increase the bewilderment of his patronizers by misrepresenting Ludwig’s age by two years, advertising him to be four (a fact later confirmed by Beethoven himself)! Brought before the celebrated Mozart, his performance was disappointing; but perceiving the apparent unconcern of his listener, Ludwig demanded a theme upon which to improvise, which, when supplied, he treated with such skill and beauty that Mozart's eyes were opened, whereupon he exclaimed, “Watch that boy. He will make a noise in the world some day.” Little did Mozart realize that Beethoven’s noise was to surpass his own, that the young genius, whom he willingly took as a pupil, would outstrip him, continue his work, and develop it to an extent which has never been excelled. He little dreamed, perhaps, that his pupil would alter musical form and pattern, which he was then teaching Ludwig, to suit himself, and commute the purpose of music from a mere outlet of artistic thought to the expression of emotion and life itself. This was Beethoven’s achievement. His early compositions bear deeply the influence of his two illustrious teachers, Mozart and Haydn.Latter the renowned “father of the symphony” or “Papa Haydn.” His real self had not yet been thrown into his art, he had barely learned to live and express his life in music. But when he did attain complete mastery over his field and did look ahead to the progress of music, then he overstepped his teachers’ instruction, and came forth the mighty Beethoven to dominate and to create. What a creative genius was here! Think of expressing one’s soul, one’s longings, passions, despairs in a “concord of sweet sounds.” Imagine the welcome to a music which fit into the lives of people and made them feel and understand the expressions of the soul; made them recognize in a language other than speech their own emotions; brought to them joy, sorrow, happiness, and love, such as reading and telling did, but in a way far more personal, far more impressive. Here was no mere man: here was a superman. Beethoven was a tragic figure. To be afflicted with deafness was to him the loss of life itself. The symptoms of its oncoming startled, terrified him, so that he would not reveal his state to friends. Yet irresistibly it came, sent by inexorable fate to despoil him of his one great joy. He recognized the fate of it in his famous C Minor Symphony. Indeed he constantly lays bare in his music the realization of his impending deafness, bold rebellion against it, and even a hopeless resignation to it.

(Continued in next issue)

Football Training Holds Large Squad
Tilson Gives Stiff Workouts Covering All Fundamentals

Spring football training has assumed all the traits of the real thing now after some three weeks of intensive work and Tex Tilson, a great advocate of pigskinning in the spring months, is very well satisfied with the progress his charges are making. Four teams are running through their paces each afternoon, but the advent of track and baseball will cut something of a swath in the ranks of prospective gridders. Captain Fraley is assisting Tilson in directing the workouts, and these two are putting their men through a stiff program of tackling, blocking, passing and kicking, intermingling enough plays to enable new players to become accustomed to varsity methods. Great stress is being placed on punting. From present indications, the Wildcats will be well fortified in this important particular when the coming season gets under way. Mills and Clark, freshmen backs, are booting the oval far down the field at every practice. The linemen sent up by Red Laird give promise of developing into future Wildcats who will be able to add much heft to the forward walls. MacFadyen, Mullins, Barrier, and others are among the big boys who will try to push present letter men out of their hard-won places along the line. Practice will probably continue until the latter part of this month, ending when the annual Spring Holiday begins.

Changes Recently Made In Entrance Regulations Meant To Help Students
Two Units Foreign Language Now Admit New Men
CHANGE IN MAJORING
Eighteen Hours Will be Required on Students Major Subjects—Faculty Committee Reports

The Executive Committee of the Trustees, at its recent meeting, approved of certain changes made in the entrance and graduation requirements at Davidson, as recommended by the Faculty after careful study. Hereafter only two units of foreign languages will be required for entrance into the B.S. courses, instead of four units as heretofore. This does not in any sense lower the requirements for entrance. Fifteen units will still be required. This change was made because some of the best graduates of the best accredited high schools have not taken four units of languages. They have taken other things which they considered of equal or greater importance. No changes were made in the entrance requirements to the A.B. courses. Beginning with September, 1930, only twelve semester hours of foreign languages will be required for graduation in the B.S. courses. Heretofore 18 hours have been required in B.S. 1, and twenty-four hours in B.S. 2. These changes were made in order that students may have larger liberty in choosing what they want in the B.S. courses. No changes were made in the A.B. courses. Beginning with September, 1930, only eighteen hours will be required on a student’s major subject. However, no freshman course will count on these 18 hours. Heretofore, twenty-four hours have been required on a major. In addition to the eighteen hours on the major, twelve additional hours will be required on one or two minors which are closely related to the major. These new rules concerning majoring apply to the A.B. courses as well as to the B.S. courses. These changes in reference to majoring were also made in order that the student might have larger liberty in choosing the subjects he wishes in his junior and senior years. Of course, those students who plan to do graduate work in universities should take many more than the required hours on their majors. The total number of semester hours and points required for graduation have not been changed. It might interest the students to know that there are some members of the Faculty who believe that these should be increased. The above changes were not made in any off-hand way, but only after months of careful study. At the request of the President, a strong committee of nine from the Faculty, representing every department, was appointed in October to study the whole question of requirements for entrance and graduation. The committee reported to the Faculty from time to time. The report of the committee was finally revised and adopted by the full Faculty in the latter part of January, and by the Executive Committee of the Trustees in February. We believe that the changes made constitute a forward step. Other changes may be made from time to time, as they may seem necessary in keeping step with present-day progress in education.

W.R. Hill To Attend R.O.T.C. Conclave
Scott and Blanton Make Talks at Last Meeting

The main features of the Scabbard and Blade meeting, held at 8:00 o’clock on Thursday, February 20, were the appointment of Cadet Lieutenant-Colonel W. R. Hill as representative to the National R.O.T.C. Convention with Cadet Captain W. H. Morrison as his alternate, and the talks by Colonel Scott and Captain Blanton. The National R.O.T.C. Convention will be held this year, at Minneapolis, Minn., on April 22, 23 and 24. Davidson expects to be represented as in former years. Colonel Scott chose as his subject the inspection which is to take place on April 22 and 23. Captain Blanton interestingly discussed the development of the Hawaiian Islands from a historic, economic, and military point of view. After the regular program had been concluded, those present were served with light refreshments.