THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1930

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager
E. C. DWELLE, JR. Managing Editor
W. S. DEAN Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN Managing Editor
W. C. MATTHEWS Sports Editor
W. M. BELL Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN Associate Editor
J. B. BLACK Associate Editor
L. G. GUERRANT Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
P. H. CONWAY Assistant Business Manager
A. L. BROWN Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY Subscription Manager
P. F. BROWN Solicitor
W. R. MORROW Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
R. H. ALDERMAN President
P. F. BROWN Vice-President
G. E. BAILEY Secretary-Treasurer
R. BOYD
J. G. DUNKLIN
E. O. GRANT
W. T. HANCOCK
J. E. LAKE
R. L. McCALLIE
C. C. MATTHEWS
C. F. MYER
V. F. MULLISS
H. F. NICHOLS
S. P. PRESTON
C. W. SPENCER
B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR
W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH
D. D. McBRYDE

NOVEMBER 13, 1930

“Quoth Friar John, ‘what kind of voyage are we making?’” —Rabelais.

SUGGESTIONS

Doctor Laing gave every student a better impression of the nature and purpose of the classics. Aeschylus and Euripides are not boring if one really gets to know them. Few people are! After seeing the Elizabethan Players we cannot help but think that the average student would appreciate the Master of the Avon much more if they could see his plays before reading them.

Every student in North Carolina should congratulate Duke on its victory over Kentucky, Shipwreck or no Shipwreck!

William and Mary College recently presented Governor Pollard of Virginia two original Latin verses in payment, as an annual quitrent, for its 20,000 acres of land. A rather convenient relic of an antiquated feudal system! The land was granted by King William and Queen Mary; the verse is composed in elegiac distich.

Captain Frank Hawkes seems to be stealing Lindbergh’s glory. For some reason we do not believe Lindbergh will harbor any jealousy; he has had a perpetual fight with reporters.

We wonder how many people in this day and time would prefer hearing the strains from Ole Bull’s violin to listening to Rudy Vallee.

JUST AS A MATTER OF COURSE

Davidson men are gentlemen; there has never been any question of that statement. As such they naturally form friendships among people who are not students at the college. Occasionally they like to have these friends visit them. Likewise, there are men who make a distinct effort to have their parents and relatives come to see them on the campus. That is as it should be. However, it must be rather disconcerting to a guest to be greeted with all manner of cries, shouts, together with a general uproar. The average student does not give his own friend such a welcome; why should he turn right around and treat the friend of his friend in a different manner? We believe it is the result of thoughtlessness and not the design of premeditation. It is a law among many uncivilized tribes that a stranger must be given every mark of hospitality, especially after he has eaten with his host. After three days’ enmity, if such exists, may assert itself. Few visitors remain on or near the campus for more than three days. It would require very little effort on the part of every individual student to completely alter a rather annoying atmosphere which sometimes exists. Granting that particular guests are not greeted in this manner, consider their reaction and impressions when they hear another so hailed! We do not desire to cast the impression that a major sin exists because of this attitude. But, we do deem it to affect a few of the smaller points of etiquette which every student knows, but which he sometimes unintentionally forgets.

PREPARE FOR CAROLINA

“Wildcat Spirit” and its component parts have long been a subject with which the editors of past Davidsonians have delighted to conjure. Like any other factor it can become overused and even hackneyed if mentioned often enough. We do not wish to be considered lacking in appreciation of this universally admitted feeling on the campus, just because it has been lauded only in scattering comments. Because of its omnipresence in the minds of students it did not seem fitting that it should be continually thrust in their faces. Recently, just cause has been given why it should be again discussed. It would seem that a public expression of doubt as to the potency of that “spirit” would be sufficient reason to wonder if there is not some evidence of a letdown. In addition to this, there have been individual conversations in which the same fear played a prominent part. It should be evident that, regardless of whether there is due proof for such a dwindling of psychological confidence or not, there will soon be just reason to fear the results if they are continually considered and discussed. Possibly casual evidence of such a tendency could pass unnoticed if there was one iota of justification for it. However, we cannot find, either in athletics or in general policy of the campus, a real fact which would admit such doubtful reaction on the part of even a few of the student body. Compared with many previous years, the present football season has been peculiarly gratifying. Few Davidson teams have ever before amassed a like proportion of points scored to their opponents’ counters. Mentally and logically the cause cannot lie there. It would be difficult for any person to attempt to place the blame for such mental reaction, if it exists, at any one door. If we were forced to blame anything, however, the following would be our decision: The student body of the college is not as closely knit together as it once was. Modern methods of transportation have made it possible for a much larger number of men to absent themselves temporarily during weekends and through the week. Individual interests are taking the place of those formerly entertained by the group. Because he goes other places the student thinks of other things rather than the affairs of his school. This may or may not be wholly true. If it is, it is only skin deep; it has not yet become a chronic disorder.

On Saturday the Carolina Tar Heels come to Richardson. Considering the contest from every point of view, it will probably be the toughest which the Wildcats have had to face or will have to face this season. It has been a precedent and tradition that Davidson teams always play their best game of the year against the University of North Carolina. There is no reason to believe that this year will prove an exception. Any skeptical doubter who may wonder as to what steps the team and coaches are taking in preparation for the contest are invited to go down to the practice field and observe. The entire squad is giving everything it has to pull down a victory. Last year Davidson was somewhat hampered by lack of reserves; this year the bench is filled with men who are ready and capable. While the team is working there is no argument why the students should not be doing the same thing. We have heard stronger support from the stands than was forthcoming on last Saturday. There are still a few new yells which the cheer leaders hesitate to use, because they are afraid that the student body does not know them. There are few things that take the pep away from the cheer leaders, the team, and the other rooters more than a half-hearted yell. Since we have thrown ourselves into the subject, there is yet another thing! Occasionally yells have been started at the same time that a backfield man has started around end or through the line. The usual fate of this yell is to dwindle completely out and die about the time the tackle is made. The effect is not exactly inspiring. Teamwork should consist not only in cooperation between members of the team, but also in connection with the team and student body. We do not intend to use any illustrations of rotten spots in apples and the like. We will even admit that we may be wrong in our belief; we hope we are. Again, it is possible that we are not entirely mistaken. At any rate, we believe that Davidson men are capable of better support than they gave last Saturday. As we have said before, the Carolina game should be the best contest seen here this year. There should be little doubt but what the yelling and cheering should also be the best of the season. It will take the united effort of every man in the student body to achieve victory. We are waiting to hear the “bell ring.”

What Do You Know About?
1. The National Elections?Capone’s Coup? 
3. Buy Now, Not By and By? 
4. Dangers of Lawful Wedlock?

On Tuesday, November 4, all America went to the polls to cast their votes for the rightful representatives of the American people in Congress, and to choose those men who will make our laws during the next two years. The campaigns had been devoted solely to telling the people how badly the Republicans had mismanaged the government and had put the country where it is today; or in telling these same people that the Democrats would have left things in twice as bad shape if they had been in. The words of the song depended solely on which party you were a member of. When the smoke of battle cleared away and all votes had been counted two or three days later, it was found that the G.O.P. had a lead of one in the Senate—holding 48 out of the 96 seats—47 went to the Democrats and one was off-color. The lead of the Republicans in the House is about the same. Listing what general observers take the results find that: Democrats knocked G.O.P. leadership into a cocked hat. Legislation can be tied into all sorts of knots now. A coalition of insurgents who switch their votes will decide which way many important questions turn. Hoover will be practically powerless for the rest of his administration, which seems destined to end in two more years. Little change in tariff likely. Wets seem to think they have gained a great deal. Europe jubilant over outcome, to mean, we “Marconi has a mind like my own.”—Thomas A. Edison.

Al Capone, power Scarface boss of Chicago's racket world, behind many thrones in that city, came forward recently with a startling offer, one that shows just how the government of the metropolis of the Middle West stands. He offered to give himself up on a charge of vagrancy and leave the city permanently on two conditions: The first was that charges be immediately dismissed against him when he gave himself up. The second was that police promise to let his business go on without molestation or interference on the part of the authorities. What Al really is saying is that he will move his residence to some other community if the city will let his business alone. He acknowledges that he has no intention of retiring just yet, but will run things by long distance through his henchmen. Chicago has no statements to offer on the proposal. Incidentally, a biography of the East-Side gangster is one of the leading books of the present day, based on sales. The last line reads: “The trigger-finger writes—”

“My way of joking is to tell the truth. That is the funniest joke in the world.”—George Bernard Shaw.

In an effort to help America snap out of her present business depression, community leaders are sponsoring a “Buy Now” campaign all over the United States. The backers of the movement contend that if everybody spent 15 cents per day more than at present, it would soon have over 1,000,000 unemployed men back at work, and that with these men, who at present are idle, back on the payrolls of the nation, prosperity would soon return. The unemployment is at present what is holding back the recovery, leaders say, and when that is removed, things will be well on the way to a speedy recovery. The difference between depression and normality in the United States is said to be one dollar per week per capita.

“I have been arrested in better towns than this (Philadelphia).”—Jack (Legs) Diamond.

A danger of married life that we had hitherto failed to realize was brought to light recently. Mrs. May Brin recently died in a New York hospital from blood poisoning. That in itself is not especially startling, but the cause of the poisoning is. It seems that one night while she was asleep, she inadvertently stuck her finger into her husband's mouth, which happened to be open. He suddenly closed his mouth and bit the finger badly. Blood poisoning soon set in in the injured member, with the fatal result above mentioned.

“Words are beautiful, but rifles, machine guns, ships, airplanes and cannon are better.”—Benito Mussolini.

The funniest advertisement we have noticed this week is one of the International Correspondence Schools, showing a halfback dashing headlong through a broken field. We did not know until then that the I.C.S. boasts a football team—perhaps they don't. But if they do, we admire their stand in coming out openly and advertising for bigger and better athletes, instead of taking more round-about methods in getting them.

MUSINGS
by MATADOR VEREEN BELL

Old Jim was getting along in years and did not realize it until he felt something pull in his back as he was moving the piano. Nobody ever told him that a cat had jumped up on his back, but he really was getting old, so he decided to go see a doctor and be worked over. The first thing the doctor did was to give him a physical examination. The man liked to have thrown him out of the office when he was weighing him, because he cheated by putting his hands in his pockets. Imagine! Then he began questioning him.

“Jim, when is the last time you were inoculated?” asked the medico with venom in his peepers.

“When have you been vaccinated?”

“Oh, I see what you mean. I guess I was fascinated pretty much at the Air Circus.”

“Listen, you are hopeless.”

“No, I’m Jim. Who are you?”

“I promised I wouldn't tell. Do you want to be operated on or do you not?”

“Well, it would open up a new line of thought, wouldn't it?” said Jim eagerly.

And so they rolled him into the room where they prepare people for operations. Then they called the ambulance to take him down to the hospital. They found, however, that the ambulance was out on a call, so they sent the hearse around. A neat little inscription was on the side of it, saying in a low voice, “This is the buries.” They put Jim in this and went down to the hospital. Then they wheeled him to the operating room and he wasn’t a little stiff from wheeling either. Then they gave him ether, chloroform, or something else. The doctor began to hack away and pull old shoes and tin cans out of Jim. When he got through he said:

“That will be about enough out of you.”

Now all this time Jim’s little boy and his friend were waiting outside the door to find out whether the operation was successful.

“I’ll bet you don’t know what the doctor does when he finishes the operation on your father,” said the little friend.

“No, I don't.”

“Sews your old man.”

Now in the days that ensued, Jim began to get well rapidly. He found that his nurse was very beautiful and decided that it would be very annoying for him to get well and have to leave his pleasant haven. One day the doctor came in and looked him over. Jim was reading the paper.

“Jim,” said the sawbones, “I'll let you go tomorrow.”

“Oh, don’t do anything rash now, doc.”

“It will be all right, I think. What does the weather forecast say?”

Jim, grasping at this straw, said: “Rain, hail, snow, thunderstorms and possible tidal waves and cyclones.” He had decided that it’s a great life if you weaken.

Now don’t get the impression that all hospitals are like this. And it may be said with a good deal of accuracy that all nurses are not pretty. One of the greatest needs of this country is a five-cent box of cigars and another is universally pretty nurses in hospitals. Of course, there are several attitudes one can take about this. For instance, when you ask the nurse where she has been all your life and she answers, “Where I ought to be now,” there must be some other more proper remedy to the situation. If pretty nurses get in the habit of wise-cracking their patients like that there will soon be fewer people in the hospitals, which of course means that there is less sickness, which means that people are being better fed and clothed; all of which points to the fact that the economic depression is at an end and that we are managing to get along in spite of Hoover’s obvious efforts to starve us into submission.

However, the Republicans still have a chance in this big issue. Suppose the nurse is beautiful but dumb. You have fallen out of your bed during a nightmare and you call the nurse in for assistance. The nurse, seeing your plight, takes this opportunity to try to burn you up, thus: “You fell out because you slept too near where you got in,” leaving you the chance to make her take her own medicine (which is rarely done in hospitals even though they get it wholesale), by saying, “It wasn’t, either; it was because I slept too near where I fell out.” When people can do this there will be more patients in the hospitals, more money paid out in doctor bills, thus more money in circulation and more prosperity, and the Democrats won't have any more chance of realizing their objective than did the former German Emperor, Geyser Bill.