THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1930

Varsity and Freshmen Harriers Run Saturday

Varsity Meets South Carolina, While Freshmen Run Winston-Salem High

Saturday morning will find both the varsity and the Freshman cross-country teams in action, the varsity running against South Carolina and the Freshmen competing with Winston-Salem High School. The varsity race will start first and will be run over a three-mile course, starting beyond the gulleys and ending in front of the stadium. The five men who will represent Davidson are Brannon, Neil, Murphy, Earle, and Drake. The race will start at 11 o'clock.

The Freshman race will start a few minutes after the varsity race has been run from the same place and will be run over a two-mile course, ending in front of the stadium. There will be five point men on the Freshman team, but there will be seven men running. The point men are Morrow, Lafferty, Pratt, J. Drake, and Woodside. The other two men running are Blair and Gilmer. These races are being held in the morning so that the two visiting teams may have an opportunity to see the Carolina game Saturday afternoon.

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago

(Taken from the “Million Dollar Campaign Issue” of January 15, 1920.)

There is no one thing which would stimulate the Presbyterians of North Carolina to be liberal when asked to contribute to the Million Dollar Campaign for their institutions than a big gift by the students of these institutions. To that end, the campaign managers have asked the students of Davidson to subscribe $10,000. This subscription is not a cash proposition but is to extend over a period of four years, and that ought to be ample time for those in financial difficulties to recover and get into a position enabling them to help out.

The $10,000 campaign will be started next week on the night of Monday, the 19th, and the subscriptions will be taken by dormitory. This is entirely a student affair, and the managers of the campaign have sent a graduate down here to superintend it. We are going to do it ourselves, and it behooves us to go over the top a long distance, for the more the students give, the more will be given by those who support the college, and the greater the benefit thereby.

The following is the list of managers by dormitories. They will select their teams who will make the rounds Monday night. When they come around, just remember that this is not a cash subscription, and that $25 apiece will do the work. Georgia—D. M. Chalmers; Watts—J. R. Boulware, Jr.; Rumple, right side—L. G. Calhoun; Rumple, left side—A. L. Wilson; Chalmers, south wing—J. R. McKeldin; Chambers, north wing—L. B. Schenck, and Louisiana—A. L. Currie.

(Taken from files of November 12, 1925)

The Davidson Wildcats and the Carolina Tar Heels will meet Saturday afternoon on Emerson Field, at Chapel Hill, in the annual gridiron clash between the two rivals. The game will be a great struggle between two valiant teams. As to comparative scores, the Wildcats seem to have the edge, since they tied Wake Forest, who had defeated Carolina the week preceding the Baptists’ clash with Davidson. But this was weeks ago, and the Tar Heels have developed wonderfully since that time. The showing of Carolina against Maryland and V. M. I. indicates that the Chapel Hill men have a great team, and one to be feared by any eleven in the South.

This is only the second time the two teams have clashed on the home grounds of the Tar Heels, the first time being the year before last, when the Wildcats lost to the tune of a 14-3 score. Last year on their home grounds the Presbyterians lost by the margin of two field goals. Davidson has only won three since the first back in 1891. Thus far this season, Carolina has lost only one game, that being the first of the season with Wake Forest. Since then the Tar Heel aggregation has materially improved, while the Wildcats have remained about the same. Comparative scores are interesting, but to predict the outcome of a game such as this by them is utter folly. Many upsets have happened in less time than two minutes and there is always a chance for an upset in a Wildcat-Tar Heel fray. If Davidson wins it will clinch the state title, but if Carolina wins the issue will be a toss-up, since Carolina has been beaten by Wake Forest in an early season game.

Books We Have Read

The Mystery of 31, New Inn. By R. Austin Freeman. 311 pp. Dodd, Mead & Co. New York. 1930. Available at the Civic League Library.

Dr. Jervis, while making the rounds for his friend, a Dr. Stillbury, is lured, in answer to a mysterious note, over a zigzag and obviously misleading road to the abode of an old sick gentleman who is under the care of a rather obscure and reticent Mr. Weiss, and a middle-aged lady with a squint in her eye, named Mrs. Schallibaum. His diagnosis of the case is poison by morphine. Mr. Weiss’ positive insistence upon the impossibility of such a theory, together with his strange and retiring manner, convinces Dr. Jervis of foul play. He is powerless, however, to do anything but report the matter to his warm friend and future employer, Dr. Thorndyke, an eminent authority on medical jurisprudence. By him, Jervis is advised to construct a rough map of the next journey he makes in the locked carriage, by compass indication, and to confirm, if possible, his theory of morphine poisoning.

According to instruction, Jervis does accordingly on his next summons. On this call, he is more than ever convinced of foul play. Mr. Weiss, though crafty and shy, evidently thinks Jervis suspects too much, for he does not again call him. Dr. Stillbury then returns to his business and Jervis is released from his duties on that round, whereupon he is engaged as Thorndyke’s junior. Meanwhile, an unusual case involving a change in a will is brought to Thorndyke's attention by a client whose uncle, Jeffrey Blackmore, testator, has recently died. In the first will, executed two years before this time, Jeffrey Blackmore had made his nephew Stephen, the present client, executor and sole legatee, to which he added in a few months’ time a codicil with the sum of 250 pounds favoring his brother John. On the fifteenth of March, Jeffrey was found dead in his chambers and a more recent will was then discovered, which practically duplicated the first in all except a provision naming John Blackmore executor and residuary legatee. This in itself was not startling, but for the fact that two days before the decease of Jeffrey, their sister, Mrs. Edmund Wilson, died, leaving her entire estate to Jeffrey. By the terms of the new will, this property would go to John, whereas by the first will, Stephen would have been the recipient by Jeffrey’s order. The question then arises as to whether the second will is genuine.

John Thorndyke, the author’s Sherlock Holmes, working on the case with the assistance of Jervis, arrives at a solution which identifies Jeffrey Blackmore as the dying man visited by Jervis and John Blackmore as the strange Mr. Weiss, a malicious and unscrupulous scoundrel who, having obtained Jeffrey’s signature to the second will while the latter was under the influence of morphine, cruelly disposes of him by frequent overdoses of the poisonous drug. Mrs. Schallibaum turns out to be John’s wife who commits no greater crime than assisting at Jeffrey’s slow murder and attempting Jervis’ life in a tearoom. The story closes with the reported suicide of John and his wife, fugitives from justice.

One might be inclined to wonder that the book bears the title of “mystery,” so obviously identical is Jervis’ case of the poisoned man with Thorndyke’s enigma of two wills, at least to the reader, if not to Thorndyke and the flabbergasted Jervis. The author risks too much of the suspense element by having the one case so easily identifiable with the other. The reader, who is “in” on the mystery almost at the outset, must be content with reading Thorndyke's methods of procedure and Jervis’ amazement at them. The conversation is good, but the author at times dwells too lengthily on insignificant facts.

H. W. Erwin.

SCABBARD AND BLADE

(Continued from page 1)

The following men were issued bids: J. F. Preston is captain-adjutant of the battalion and his home is in Davidson. H. S. Covington is captain of Company “B” and is from Red Springs, N. C. R. D. Russell is captain of the band; his home is in Graham, N. C. C. A. Sisson is a cadet first lieutenant and lives in Winona, Miss. J. W. McCutchan is a cadet first lieutenant and is from Warm Springs, Va. J. L. Brock is also a cadet first lieutenant and...lives in Florence, Ala. A. R. Jackson is a cadet pities lieutenant; his home is in Williamsport, Pa.

Big Five Standings
Played Won Lost Pct.
2 0 1.000
1 0 1.000
1 1 .500
Wake Forest 2 1 1 .500
State 0 2 .000

TAR HEELS MEET STRONG
(Continued from page 1)

as a whole, however. The greatest margin of victory over the Wildcats was made by Duke in their two-touchdown win, while Georgia rung up four touchdowns over the Tar Heels. Carolina trimmed Virginia Poly by six touchdowns to three, while the Gobblers and Davidson made three apiece. But Davidson takes State into camp by a margin of two scores, a thing which the Tar Heels could only do by a one-touchdown margin. State was a greatly rejuvenated team, though, when Carolina met them.

Carolina began her season by being held to a surprisingly low score by a strong Wake Forest team. This game proved to be a battle between a veteran Deacon line and an untried Tar Heel forward wall. The defense was featured by the play of Lipscombe and Parsley and the offense by the Tar Heels, completing 10 out of 18 passes. Passes rained the next Saturday up in Virginia as the Tar Heels scored more than Virginia Poly to beat them, 39-21. The same was true for the Maryland game the next weekend, with Branch fighting through the whole Maryland team for 94 yards and the deciding score. The Old Liners outpointed Carolina in first downs, the count being 13 to 8.

Georgia was too strong for the Tar Heels the next Saturday, to snow them under to the tune of 26-0. For three quarters the Carolina line fought off every scoring threat except one, but no sooner had the last quarter gotten under way than the bottom fell out from under the Carolina defense and the Georgians, led by the famous Jack “The Ripper” Roberts, added three more tallies to their lone survivor of the first three quarters.

Tennessee, the second of those three stiff foes on Carolina's grid card to appear in a row, barely nosed out a fighting Tar Heel eleven by a two-point margin, the result of a safety early in the game. The game was featured by the spectacular return of punts by Branch, the line play of Fysal and Lipscombe, and the dashes of Slusser.

The Golden Tornado was next met by the now waning Tar Heels in a fight, one to avenge the stinging defeat of the year before, the other to break a growing losing streak. Carolina outplayed Tech, but nevertheless was tied by some unexplainable trick of the game. The Tar Heels rained passes as was their custom, and they were successful to a great extent. Tech’s two powerful tackles, Maree and Speer, were much in evidence throughout the whole battle.

Playing on Friday in order not to conflict with the Kentucky-Duke scrap on Saturday, N. C. State threw a scare into Carolina followers by fighting the Tar Heels an even battle most of the way. Carolina won, 13-7, but it was State who supplied the thrills of the game, with big Sam Gurneau leading the way. State was an absolutely changed team from that which met Davidson early in the season, playing heads-up football and also presenting a well-oiled machine.

PRESENT DAY EDUCATION
(Continued from page 1)

appointment. However, as it is recorded, he did come to find the real meaning of self-education in evidence at the Chicago World Exposition.

Elementary Education
“Education of this sort,” said Dr. Laing, “I would define as the sum total of all the experiences which aid in the development of latent talents.” “And,” he added, “certainly we all have some talent.” “Find what the child's faculty is,” urged Dr. Laing, in pointing out the real basis of elementary schooling. “Of the 120,000,000 people in the country,” he added, “there are thousands and thousands of children with vast resources of talent. But much of it remains undiscovered, and therefore undeveloped, and drifts away into the work-a-day world, and oblivion, and is never heard of again.”

College Years
According to Dr. Laing, the first two years of college should portend to basic principles, while the last two years should be broadened in scope to allow students the greatest possible choice in special fields of individual interest. “However all this,” says Dr. Laing, “is only a foundation for subsequent activity, for the greatest period of all that follows the four years of academic work.” In it, the speaker maintained, extensive reading of good literature should be developed and cultivated, as well as attempts made to develop the ability to write. “There are many people in the country today,” he affirmed, “who could have been great writers but aren't; while there are also many who can't write well, but do.”

Cheap Literature
One of the greatest evils in the reading field of today, Dr. Laing pointed out, is that of cheap magazines, wherein one finds attempts at dazzling (?) sports write-ups by amateurs “from the bushes,” who know less than nothing about the subject; and, revelations of love experiences, featuring the inevitable “girl with penciled eyebrow, and golden hair,” etc., and the “handsome, dauntless hero,” and so on, all for monetary gain alone, and totally unfit to read. “Some, nevertheless,” added the speaker, ironically, “seeing the truth of this, do even extend their reading level up as far as Harold Bell Wright and Zane Grey!”

“Exploitation of the Ephemeral”
Another reason given by Dr. Laing why high-brows are so rampant today, and why such signs as “Don’t let your studies interfere with your college education” are seen in students’ rooms, is the cheap theater. “A cheap play,” he pointed out, “now requires only a little jazz, and it is proclaimed a success.” And he further added that the “follies” of today, as staged by Ziegfeld and others, are scientific experiments, pure and simple, to determine the minimum amount of clothing that can be worn by performers. The programs are, all in all, silly, sentimental, and suggestive.” He held up for comparison to these the standards of the theater in Athens many long years ago, when a play of Sophocles, for instance, or some portrayal of the fall of Pride, or some familiar legend was being enacted, “accompanied by the solemn chants of a robed chorus,” which gave its spectators “something to carry home,” “an abiding impression of the merits of their fellow man, and God.”

Reading With a Purpose
For constructive reading, Dr. Laing recommended a habit of “reading with reference to the style of the book, the occasion of its origin, and its effect on subsequent literature, and not for the contents alone.” “Read for ideals, as well as for ideas,” he urged. He gave instances of different men who found different phases of literature especially appealing and helpful to them in their work, among them Walter Lee, who became a great Greek scholar in spare moments between banking hours; and how he made important discoveries about the Trojan war, the truth of which had lain hidden for centuries. Others, he said, are attracted by the works of Italian artists, as Raphael, Michelangelo, and Dante; not for their sensuous appeal, but for their compelling technique and dexterity, which offers a world of inspiration.

Value of Self-Education in Professions
According to Dr. Laing, a young clergyman should have something more than the expression of his faith to offer his audience. His message will never go further than the pulpit railing. “There will be,” he said, “ears that hear not, and eyes that see not; then, before anyone is aware, the sermon is over, the deliverance past, the message futile.” Lawyers, as well, need outside expansion, claims Dr. Laing, for one never knows what the next lawsuit will deal with, nor where it may carry him, and knowledge acquired from outside, constructive reading and literary broadening, affirmed the speaker, will always keep him “one step ahead.”

Engineers need self-education, and as an illustration Dr. Laing used a brilliant young engineer who, although wealthy and successful, felt there was something lacking and upon the advice of a friend read Andrew Lang's “Odyssey,” became fascinated, and took up the study of Greek and came to find real happiness and satisfaction in the golden appeal of ancient expression.

In conclusion, Dr. Laing urged each and every student to choose some author, group of authors, or some literary period in which they were most interested, and “in the end it will yield you a ‘castle of enchantment,’ a different aspect of the richness of human experiences.”

CHESTERFIELD CIGARETTES are manufactured by LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.