THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1930

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago

1925
The Wildcat eleven defeated Duke University, 26-0, in the final game of the year. Six men played their last game
for the Wildcats and aided the Davidson team in beating the Duke Blue Devils. By beating Duke, Davidson tied with
Wake Forest for state honors. Dick Grey and Jim Hendrix, Davidson backs, brought many cheers from the 3,000 spectators by
their great playing. Griggs was the outstanding player on the Duke eleven. Davidson scored a touchdown in each of the
first three quarters and made an extra one in the second period. The Methodists threatened in the last part of
the first period, but were unable to push the ball over for a marker. This was the only time during
the game that the Blue Devils came near scoring. Davidson outplayed their opponents in every department of the game and
made it a day of celebrating on the campus. The game will always remain in the minds of the few
that witnessed it.

1920
The Davidson Wildcat Band gave their first concert in Monroe, N. C., at the courthouse there before a very large
audience. The director was Mr. D. R. Freeman, who was a very capable leader and who made a wonderful success
of the band. The first part of the program, the band featured classical music. In the last part of the
concert, they rendered many popular numbers. Mr. White, accompanied by W. B. Nesbit, sang Spanish folk songs. That night being
Davidson College Night, the band came home to present the music needed for the occasion.

Literary Societies

Philanthropic
The Philanthropic Literary Society will meet December 9, and promises members an unusually interesting evening with Dr. Price H. Gwynn
as the speaker of the evening. Dr. Gwynn will speak on “The Value of a Literary Society,” and will stress
the advantages which may be derived, after college as well as during one’s stay at school, from membership in an
organization of a literary nature. Second on the program will be a debate, “Resolved: The United States should not enter
naval disarmament.”

Eumenean
Tuesday evening, December 9, the Eumenean Society will offer three features on its program. Marmaduke Norfleet will speak on “The
Principles of Parliamentary Law,” which should prove well worth one’s while. Following this, Roger Enloe will give a summary and
discussion of current events and the program will be closed by a book review by Bill Ward.

Psychology cannot classify fossils, nor can theology extract aniline dyes from coal tar. Botany can’t solve cross-word puzzles, and etymology
can’t drive nails into a board.—Ted Robinson, columnist.

The American college man, especially if he be clever and courageous enough to enter one of the professions, is being
sweated and coerced into bachelorhood with a vengeance.—Henry R. Carey, in The North American Review.

Forty alumni of the University of Nebraska were listed on the Nebraska state ballots at the election this year. The
majority of these were graduated from the College of Law and are now practicing law in the various municipalities throughout
the State.

There is a risk in marrying the man who says he will turn over a new leaf—Edith.

College Calendar
Friday, Dec. 5—“Y” Campaign for Barium Springs Orphanage will begin at 9 P.M.
Sunday, Dec. 6—Vesper Services at 6 P.M. J. R. McGregor of Lexington, N. C., will speak.
Tuesday, Dec. 9—Literary Societies in respective halls.
Wednesday, Dec. 10—Meeting of Student Sunday School Teachers in the reading room of the “Y”.

Dr. Harris E. Kirk will speak in chapel December 8th to 12th inclusive. His general subject is “Man’s Place in
Nature and Beyond.”

Former Student Is Chicago Dramatist
Grandson of William J. Bryan Becomes Member of Shakespearian Company in “Windy City”

Davidson people will be interested to learn of the recent announcement that John Bryan, grandson of the “Great Commoner,” and
son of the representative, Ruth Bryan Owen, is now a member of a Shakespearian dramatic company in Chicago. Young Bryan
was at one time a student at Davidson, having entered with the class of 1926 and remaining here slightly more
than one year. It is an odd fact to note that while a student here, Mr. Bryan did not participate
in any kind of dramatic endeavor, but devoted most of his time to the writing of poetry. It is reported
in a dispatch from Asheville that a book of Mr. Bryan’s verse has been published which was in the making
while he was studying here. Prof. E. J. Erwin, of the English Department, gave Bryan considerable assistance in his writings
and criticized his works extensively at the request of the young author.

In connection with this, it should be of direct as well as indirect interest to students to hear of John
Kirkpatrick, who has written two Broadway hits which have met with quite a degree of success. Mr. Kirkpatrick is the
grandson of Dr. Kirkpatrick, who was at one time president of this institution.

Juniors Leading in Volley Ball Series
The first round of the competition in the intramural volley ball has been completed with the Junior class leading the
pack with three wins and no losses, followed by the Seniors who have two victories and one defeat. The Freshmen
are third with one game won and two games on the wrong side of the ledger. The Sophomores, who won
the volley ball competition last year, bring up the rear with no contests won and three lost. The only game
that the Seniors lost was to the Juniors and the only victory for the Freshmen was over the Sophomores. It
was the intention of Captain Norton G. Pritchett that there be only one round played, but the players liked volley
ball so well that he decided to run two rounds off. The second round started last Thursday and will probably
be completed some time today or tomorrow. The captains of the various class teams are as follows: Seniors, Charlie Kraemer;
Juniors, Bennett Moseley; Sophomores, Waite Fulton; and the Freshmen, Tom Lawther. These captains were appointed by Heath Whittle, captain of
last year’s track team and now assistant to Captain Pritchett. Whittle has charge of the volley ball competition this year.

Volley ball is the third sport that has been played between the classes. Football, won by the Juniors, and basketball,
now undecided as the Sophomores and Juniors are tied with five wins and one loss apiece, have practically been run
off. This deadlock between the Sophs and the Juniors in basketball will be played some time this week.

Do we have to be mad at somebody before we can even begin to appreciate the

That Wildcat Offense (Continued from page 3)

Juniors 46—Freshmen 25
After being held on even terms for two quarters, the Juniors cut loose in the second half of their final
game to score 34 points and swamp the Freshmen, 46 to 25. The Juniors’ 46 points were by far the
best score that has been turned in by any team during the series. The Juniors were the first to score,
and, by caging the ball for six points early in the quarter, held a 6-3 lead when the first period
ended. Four field goals by McLain and Marsh kept the Freshmen in the running during the second quarter. The Juniors,
by scoring three field goals, continued to hold the lead, however, as the half closed, 12-11. After the intermission, Martin
and Montgomery put the Juniors far ahead with seven more field goals, but McLain, who seemed to be about the
only Freshman that could get through the Junior defense, managed to keep the lead down a little by caging the
ball four times from the court. The Juniors held the long end of a 26-19 score as the third period
ended. Martin and Arnold, at the beginning of the finalStanza, went on a scoring spree that netted them 20 points
before the period ended. The Freshmen were able to make only six points during the excitement. Martin, Junior center, took
first honors in scoring with 22 points. McLain, of the Freshmen team, was next with 15 points to his credit.
The entire Junior team played good basketball, especially in the last half, while for the Frosh, McLain, Marsh, and Evans
were luminaries. Martin, by scoring 22 points, set a season record for individual scoring.

DR. SIKES ADDRESSES PHI BETA
(Continued from page 1)
be molded to fit the masses for a happy, contented, comfortable life. This will never happen while progress and poverty
go hand in hand.” Immediately preceding the public address, the private exercises of the initiation were held. A banquet honoring
the new initiates and the many visiting members of the national honorary scholastic society was held after the address. Five
members of the Senior class of Davidson were initiated at this time. The new members are J. B. Black, Jr.,
Red Springs; Kenneth M. Jackson, Birmingham, Ala.; H. S. Munroe, Jr., Charlotte; W. C. Ragin, Wilmington, and J. F. Preston,
Korea. Alumni initiates present at the initiation included Rev. H. S. Turner, D.D., '13, Staunton, Va.; Prof. W. H. Mills,
'92, Clemson College, S. C.; Dr. W. W. Morton, '09, Lexington, Va., and Dr. Fraser Hood, of the Davidson faculty,
honorary member. Two other alumni, Major Harllee Morrison, '16, Dallas, Texas, and Mr. T. R. Neill, '16, Niagara Falls, N.
Y., were also elected to the society, but were unable to be present at the exercises.

Sitwell sad lot of the unemployed?—Heywood
If democracy is to continue we must educate for it—Prof. C. C. Peters.

Davidson Men Are Always Welcome At
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

New Mail Schedule
A new mail schedule has been worked out that has been in effect since last Monday, December 1, which is
worthy of note. The only radical change in the schedule is in the time of departure of the night mail,
which formerly left at 7:55 p.m., and took all mail left at the post office up to its closing time.
Under the new schedule, however, the evening mail has to be in the post office by 4:45 p.m. in order
to make the last train which leaves the station at 5:25 p.m. Mail left at the post office after 4:45
p.m. thus loses a whole day, so this notice is being published for the benefit of those students and members
of the faculty who are accustomed to dispatch letters after supper.

J. Reuben Clark, appointed as successor to Dwight W. Morrow as United States Ambassador to Mexico, is a graduate of
the University of Utah. He is a member of the class of 1898. He taught school in Utah for a
number of years, took special graduate work at Columbia University in New York, and was assistant professor of law at
George Washington University, Washington, D. C. Since 1906 he has been actively identified with government affairs, holding many positions of
importance on special national commissions.

Because of the large demands for financial aid this year on the part of college students, loans to students by
colleges are being put more and more on a strictly business basis this year, reports from colleges and universities throughout
the country indicate. From 20 to 25 percent of the Freshmen who entered American colleges and universities this year will
drop out during their first year, according to cumulative information obtainable from the various institutions of higher learning.

This fifth estate (the truly educated) is composed of those having the simplicity to wonder, the ability to question, the
power to generalize, the capacity to apply.—Poster in Cleveland Public Library.

Art is an expression of type. The Anglo-Saxon type leans, in music, toward the saxophone, hymns, and the male quartet.—Percy
Grainger.

Education, whether within or without the home, must impart knowledge specifically useful to the individual according to his peculiar nature,
if it is to accomplish results ethically valuable—Howard Madison Parshley.

It is far easier to be busy than to be thoughtful—Dr. Hugh Black.

We scrawl experience on our brain and, although we wash its memory in fresh adventure, the ink has sunk indelibly
to mark our character forever.—Charles S. Brooks.

The average Russian and the average American speak a fundamental language and appreciate the same wisecracks.—Vice-President Mooney, of General Motors.

Jack Crickard, Harvard, brought the first Crimson score in the 13-13 tie between Harvard and William and Mary by scampering
85 yards across the goal line.

Sam Rovinsky, Holy Cross, grabbed Grossman’s punt and sprinted 60 yards down the sidelines to score his team’s final touchdown
in a 32 to 20 victory over Rutgers.

Jack Wallace, Rice Institute, galloped 80 yards from scrimmage for a touchdown against Sewanee in a 12 to 0 victory.

Bill Risk, Purdue, in the game as a substitute back, cantered 50 yards around end in the first few minutes
of play to score a touchdown as the Boilermakers walloped Illinois, 25 to 0.

Jim Moore, Alabama, tossed a 50-yard pass to Suther over the goal line in his team’s defeat of Kentucky.

Reports from colleges in localities as far apart as New York and Arizona, indicate that far from being the gathering
places of pallid intelligentsia, college campuses are now practically health resorts.

With the objectives of “a progressive program for the children in the kindergarten and the first six grades, and activities
broadening the lives of young adults in the evenings,” a demonstration school, supported by both the state and the local
board of education, has been opened at Georgetown, Delaware.

The University of California has established two new aviation departments, one offering courses in aeronautical engineering, and one dealing with
the principles of commercial aviation.

Davidson Theatre
Monday and Tuesday, December 1, 2
“DuBarry’s Woman of Passion” with NORMA TALMAGE
Wednesday, December 3
“Lottery Bride” JEANETTE McDONALD
Thursday, December 4
“Laughter” with NANCY CARROLL
Friday, December 5
“Remote Control” with WILLIAM HAINES
