THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 13, 1930

Georgia and Florida Alumni Meet In Seven Cities

Capt. Norton G. Pritchett Attending First Meeting Tonight at Rome; F. L. Jackson Joins Him At Jacksonville

The Meetings Will be Held in Succession at Atlanta, Thomasville, Jacksonville, Orlando, Tampa, and Coral Gables

LARGEST ITINERARY

Talks Will be Made at High Schools and Prospective Students Interviewed

With the first of seven alumni meetings scheduled for tonight at Rome, Ga., Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, director of athletics
at Davidson College, started one of the most auspicious itineraries ever planned by the alumni office here at Davidson. The
trip which he has started will include several gatherings of former Davidson students, three of the meetings to be in
Georgia and four in Florida.

It was originally planned to stage gatherings at six points, but an examination of the lists of alumni in and
near Miami showed that there was a sufficient number of Davidson men in that section to warrant an additional meeting,
and this was added to the schedule. Captain Pritchett had also planned to attend all of the meetings alone, but
F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, will join him in Jacksonville and accompany him on the Florida tour.

Over four hundred Davidson alumni will have access to the meetings. They have been arranged at strategic points, and with
the exception of a few alumni in isolated places, most of them will be able to attend if business or
other affairs do not interfere. The complete trip will be approximately three thousand miles long and will consume two weeks
or more in making it.

In addition to attending the alumni meetings, Captain Pritchett will make a number of talks before the high schools of
Georgia and Florida, and Mr. Jackson will also speak at several of the Florida secondary schools at the daily exercises.
These two Davidson representatives will also spend much time in Florida interviewing prospective students for Davidson, and whenever the opportunity
arises, Captain Pritchett will talk to seniors in the Georgia high schools.

Five of the cities where meetings are scheduled have local chapters already established. Dr. W. M. Dunn, '03, is president
of the Atlanta association; Rev. J. E. Ward, ’99, of Bainbridge, Ga., is president of the S. G. N. F.
(South Georgia-North Florida) group; Dr. W. McL. Shaw, ’15, of Jacksonville, Fla., is president of the Northeastern Florida Alumni chapter;
R. S. Abernethy, '99, president of the Central Florida group, and Dr. J. Frank Cranford, '07, president of the Southwestern
Florida Association. Roland B. Parker, '26, is in charge of the Rome meeting, and Emery Flinn, '19, has made arrangements
for the Miami gathering.

After several weeks of preparation on the part of the alumni office and the cooperation of association presidents or individuals,
all of the meetings have been definitely arranged, the time and place of the dinners chosen. Without a single exception,
the alumni will have a dinner or banquet preceding the regular meeting when Captain Pritchett and Mr. Jackson will make
talks about the college. The itinerary follows:

Feb. 13, Rome, Ga., Hotel General Forrest, 7 p.m. (Central Standard Time).
Feb. 14, Atlanta, Ga., Henry Grady Hotel, 6:30 p.m. (Central Time).
Feb. 17, Thomasville, Ga., Rosemary Inn, 8:00 p.m. (Eastern Time).
Feb. 20, Jacksonville, Fla., George Washington Hotel, 7:00 p.m. (Eastern Time).
Feb. 21, Orlando, Fla., Angebilt Hotel, 7:00 p.m. (Eastern Time).
Feb. 24, Tampa, Fla., Hillsboro Hotel, 7:30 p.m. (Eastern Time).
Feb. 25, Coral Gables, Fla. (Miami), San Sebastian Hotel, 7:00 p.m. (Eastern Time).

Personal Notes

W. I. Knox, ’22, has recently been promoted by the Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad Company, and has been transferred from
Huntington, W. Va., to Charleston, W. Va. His address in the latter city is 27 Monongalia St.

W. C. Mills, ’28, was recently commissioned a second lieutenant in the air corps of the regular army. “Knute” Mills
entered the flying school immediately after graduation, and has been under instruction since the summer of 1928. He is on
active duty at Fort Crockett, Texas.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of Mrs. J. U. Long, mother of Dr. Fred Long, ’01, of
Catawba, N. C.

Rev. J. A. Boyd, '13, who has been pastor of a group of churches near Henderson, has accepted a call
to a group in Bladen County, the chief church of which is at Atkinson.

W. L. Bell, '26, and Mrs. Bell, of Cornelius, announce the birth of a daughter, Bettie Lou, on January 24th.

Henry T. Powell, Jr., ’28, of Henderson, now a law student at the University of North Carolina, recently passed the
state bar examination.

New corporations in which Davidson alumni are interested are the Payne Motor Company, of Henderson, John R. Kugler, ’28, and
Frank C. Kugler, ’26, being stockholders; Alfred Mills, Inc., of Durham, of which F. L. Fuller, Jr., '14, is a
stockholder, and Five Oaks Farm, Inc., of Charlotte, of which Sam W. Smith, ’29, is a stockholder.

Friends are sorry to learn of the death of R. L. Dick, father of R. L. Dick, Jr., '23, of
Concord, and of the accident to Arch Wakefield, brother of Dr. H. A. Wakefield, '07, and Dr. R. F. Wakefield,
'16, both of Charlotte.

W. T. Covington, ’27, was among the 29 University of North Carolina law students who last semester made the honor
roll. This means that he averaged between 90 and 95 percent. Covington was an honor student while at Davidson and
a member of Phi Beta Kappa.

Rev. A. L. Currie, '21, formerly pastor of Paducah, Ky., has accepted a call to the Moore Memorial Presbyterian Church
at Nashville, Tenn.

Judge R. A. Nunn, ’98, of New Bern, present superior court judge of that district, is a candidate for re-nomination
and re-election.

Rev. W. A. McIlwaine, ’15, will sail on February 27th for Japan, returning to his missionary field in that country.
He will go via Europe and the Suez Canal, sailing from New York on the S. S. Berlin.

Among the recent visitors on the campus for a short time were Scott Brown, '30, now a student at the
University of Washington.read by a tremendously large constituency. On the other hand, the objections arise, and these are the ones
which will have to be overcome in inaugurating this feature. The handling of the finance would have to be considered
and meticulously watched, for there would be a tendency on the part of business managers to use the fund that
would be immediately obtained for emergency expenses, and this would lead to a deficit in the future. Each succeeding graduating
class would probably subscribe almost one hundred per cent, which would always be a source of income. A large mailing
list, too, would mean that more than students would be necessary to getting out the newspaper weekly to the alumni,
but this phase could be handled by the alumni office. Voluntary suggestions, both from the students, the faculty, and the
alumni who are already subscribers to The Davidsonian, would be appreciated by the alumni secretary during the next few weeks.
Arguments pro and con are wanted, for the issues involved are not merely temporary, but involve the future editorial and
business staffs of this publication.

Tennessee; J. B. Gallent, ’25, teacher and student in the chemistry department of the University of North Carolina, and P.
J. Garrison, ’28, a student at Louisville Presbyterian Seminary.

DUKE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
Durham, N. C.
On October 1, 1930, carefully selected first and third year students will be admitted. Applications may be sent at any
time and will be considered in the order of receipt. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.

Alumni Secretary Is Now Working On Trip Which Will Include Seven Main Alumni Marriages

Bell-Walter
Mrs. R. R. Martin, of Pine Bluff, Ark., has announced the marriage of her daughter, Miss Isy Walter, to Kenneth
Bell, formerly of Brunswick, Ga., but now of Columbia, Mo., the marriage occurring on Christmas day. Mrs. Bell is a
graduate of the University of Missouri, and has been teaching music in the Arkansas schools during the past two years.
Mr. Bell attended Davidson with the class of 1927 for two years and then went to the University of Missouri,
where he graduated. For two years he has been advertising manager of the Brunswick (Ga.) News, but was recently chosen
a member of the school of journalism faculty at the Missouri institution.

Garrison-Meeker
The alumni office learned only a short time ago of the marriage of Pinkney Jefferson Garrison, graduate of Davidson in
the class of 1928, to Miss Erma R. Meeker, formerly of New York and later of Columbia, S. C., the
marriage occurring on September 22, 1929. Mr. Garrison is a second-year student at the Presbyterian Seminary in Louisville, Ky., having
attended Columbia Theological Seminary at Decatur, Ga., his first year.

Welborn-Lindsey
Mr. and Mrs. A. L. Lindsey, of McIntosh, Fla., have announced the marriage of their daughter, Lucy Burnette, to Joseph
Duckworth Welborn, of Pelzer, S. C. Mr. Welborn graduated from Davidson in 1928, and has the unusual distinction of being
mayor of his town, this honor coming to him but a short time after he left Davidson. He is perhaps
the youngest mayor of any town in America. Mr. and Mrs. Welborn are now at home at Pelzer.

New Addresses
E. H. Denny, ’23, care Addressograph Co., 301 Boling Jones Build., Atlanta, Ga.
A. T. Reeves, ’27, care Chatellan Mills, Rome, Ga.
Dr. J. S. McGeachey, ’99, Lynn Haven, Florida.
J. G. Johnston, Jr., ’29, Fourth and First National Bank, Nashville, Tenn.
S. W. Morris, ’30, care Prairie Oil and Gas Co., Independence, Kansas.
Rev. H. R. Poole, '22, Rocky Mount, North Carolina.
Rev. W. A. McIlwaine, ’15, 37 Aoi Cho, Higashi Ku, Nagoya, Japan.
R. L. Thomason, 1900, Astor, Fla.
G. D. Fleming, Jr., ’23, 168 W. 53rd St., Miami, Fla.
Frank Worrell, Jr., ’31, 217 N. E. 36th St., Miami, Fla.
J. L. Ely, Jr. '29, 518 John Jay Hall, Columbia University, New York, N. Y.
W. H. Lynch, Jr., ’26, Box 445, Salisbury, N. C.
Rev. E. H. Hamilton, '17, Suchowfu, Kiangfu, Kiangsu, China.
T. F. Marrow, Jr., ’25, 606 W. 115th St., Apt. 1-W, New York, N.Y.
R. G. Garrison, ’26, Screven, Ga.
R. R. McIlwaine, ’22, 824 Ponce de Leon Ave., Atlanta, Ga.

R. R. McIlwaine, ’22, who has been located at Bristol, Va., for several years, has recently accepted a position with
Reeves’ Studio, in Atlanta, Ga., and is now located in that city.

Cities Along The Eastern Seaboard
Dr. Walter Lingle Will Attend Gatherings in Greensboro, Richmond, Washington, Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York and Boston

IN ANNUAL TRIP
Tentative Dates Have Been Set and Officers of Local Chapters Written

Now that the alumni secretary has completed his arrangements for the alumni meetings in Georgia and Florida, he is turning
his attention to an itinerary that will include another seven gatherings of alumni, this time the trip to be in
the opposite direction, and the meetings to be attended by Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of the institution. During the
past few days he has written to presidents or others who have been asked to arrange the meetings in Greensboro,
Richmond, Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York, and Boston, and has made a suggestion for the dates. During the next ten days
he should have received replies and will have a definite announcement to make regarding the acceptance of the dates if
satisfactory, or some other arrangements for the meetings on the trip. Should his plans work out, this will be the
third time that such an itinerary has been undertaken. The original one included five meetings and extended as far as
New York. The one last March went as far as Boston, where Davidson has many representatives enrolled in the graduate
school at Harvard. The first meeting this year would start nearer home, at Greensboro, and would mean that meetings would
be held in six different states and the District of Columbia. Several hundred alumni would be available to attend the
gatherings. The suggested dates are:
March 10, Greensboro, N. C.
March 11, Richmond, Va.
March 12, Philadelphia, Pa.
March 13, New York, N. Y.
March 14, Boston, Mass.
March 17, Baltimore, Md.
March 18, Washington, D. C.

Alumni Deaths
W. S. Legare, ’24
The citizens of South Carolina received a tremendous shock last week when it was learned that two of its state
senators had been killed and a member of the house of representatives had been seriously injured in an automobile accident
near Orangeburg, S. C., on February 7. One of the state senators was an alumnus of Davidson College—William Storen Legare,
entered with the class of 1914, but later left Davidson to attend the law school of the University of South
Carolina, from which he graduated. He became interested in politics after graduation, and while he was serving his first term
in the state senate when death occurred, he had previously been a member of the House of Representatives, an unusual
distinction for one of his age. At the time of his death Mr. Legare was only 29 years of age.

Had Not Met Them
Son: “Am I descended from a monkey, Ma?”
Mother: “I dare say, but I’m not sure. I’ve never met any of your father’s people.”

“A woman driver,” says Eddie, “forgets to hold out her hand unless she’s a gold digger.”
