2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 25, 1930

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

WILSON McCUTCHAN.................... Editor-in-Chief
A. CANNON .......................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. C. DWELLE, JR.................... Managing Editor
W. S. LEA........................... Managing Editor
D. M. EMELLING...................... Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS..................... Sports Editor
V. M. BELL.......................... Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES....................... Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON....................... Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN..................... Associate Editor
H. B. BLACK......................... Associate Editor
V. C. RAGIN........................ Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
P. M. CONWAY....................... Assistant Business Manager
L. MEBANE.......................... Assistant Business Manager
MONRO.............................. Solicitor
J. B. STEVENS...................... Assistant Business Manager
W. G. MONTGOMERY.................. Subscription Manager
R. O. BROWN......................... Solicitor
R. G. VAUGHAN....................... Solicitor
M. MAINMON.......................... Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
S. S. WILEY........................ President
D. G. STEPHENSON................... Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD.................... Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
J. BROWN
J. G. BERRY
G. E. BAILEY
A. R. BIRD
H. BOYD
N. B. DICKS
J. G. DUNKLIN
K. O. GUERRANT
W. T. HANCOCK
J. E. LAKE
R. L. McCALLIE
V. C. MATTHEWS
C. F. MYERS
V. F. MULLISS
H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON
S. Z. PRESTON
C. W. F. SPENCER
B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR
W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH
D. D. McBRYDE

SEPTEMBER 25, 1930

“A pessimist is one who makes difficulties of his opportunities and an optimist is one who makes opportunities of his difficulties.” 
Vice Admiral Mansell, R.N.

SUGGESTIONS

Freshmen could be a little quicker in baring their heads when “Oh Davidson!” is played at football games. Faculty members and upperclassmen never hesitate to do this, even if it is raining.

At the cost of repetition a word is again spoken for the grass, especially that directly north of Chambers.

Chapel services should not be substituted for reading periods. Let the newspapers and letters go until afterwards.

Davidson men could be a little more considerate of their feminine guests on the campus. Put yourself in the place of the man who is fortunately accompanied.

Kro-Flite “seconds” are not the only “bargain price” commodity in the world. Yet, the same materials are used in their manufacture as are found in the “firsts.” Just a question of finished product!

Emerson had not heard of Bolshevism and Communism, as they are known today at least, when he wrote his much-quoted statement about “a foolish consistency.”

WORDS OF WARNING

Among students’ topics for the day, the new absence rules and regulations are playing an important part. Satisfaction is universally expressed, and in its wake we desire to offer a little advice, whether it be heeded or not.

When a man’s grade was diminished on account of an excessive number of “cuts” he was consciously aware of the fact. Within one semester he was able to clearly see the effect which he brought down upon himself. Failing to pass a subject, he knew the reason, and there was no justification for his failure to rectify this trouble the next term.

Many men, particularly those in the two lower classes, pay little attention to their number of semester hours. They have a vague idea that if they take the required number of subjects each year they should encounter no difficulty upon graduation. Hours of credit are as important as grades, in many ways more so, and there can be no re-examination for an hour that is lost because of sixteen absences. Each man must guard his own record for his own benefit.

Because grades are capable of erasing absences to some degree there will be students who will rely on their self-felt ability to make “A’s.” It is a recognized fact that either an excused or an unexcused absence means that one has missed either class work or a lecture. If it were possible for the student to learn his work without attending classes there would be no need for them. A small minority of Phi Beta Kappa men have been irregular in attendance. This clause in the new regulations is there to enable a good student to remove a possible blemish from his record, not to grant him an indefinite period of leave.

FRATERNITY BIDS

Tomorrow, approximately three-eighths of the Freshman class will be asked to join the ten national fraternities on the campus. Fraternity influences go far in moulding a man’s life, both in college and in after life. Therefore the one who receives a bid should consider seriously all angles of the situation before accepting any invitation. It is of great importance that the new man be congenial with the members of the chapter he is considering, and that his ideas and ideals are in harmony with those of the fraternity. Another thing to be seriously considered is whether he can conveniently bear the financial obligations which will be incurred in his connection with the fraternity. No chapter wants a man to accept its bid unless he is financially able to do so.

In the event a man receives two or more bids his choice between them should rest on several things. Although the character and standing of the national organization are very important in the selection, the most important factor is the character of the local chapter. A man’s fraternity life is composed principally of his four years on the campus, so his decision should rest mainly on his like or dislike of the members of the local group. Freshmen are naturally influenced in their choice by friends and relatives at home. These are the people with whom he will associate in after life, so their advice should be given some consideration.

Some Freshmen have the idea that they should accept any bid received, regardless of whether they like the men or not. Many men in the past have done this, only to regret it later. A student is open for a bid at any time during his stay at Davidson, provided he passes the required three majors. In case a Freshman does not receive an invitation from the fraternity he prefers, he will do well to decline a bid from one which he does not especially like, and wait for one from the fraternity of his choice.

It might be well to note that five-eighths of the men in the student body are not fraternity men. A man should not feel bad because he does not receive a bid to a fraternity. The probable reason is that he has not been recommended by some member of the fraternity at home. Every man who is expecting to join a fraternity should realize before accepting the bid that he is to be very closely associated with the men making up the group; that these students are to be his closest friends for the next four years; that the formation of his character during his college life depends to a large extent on these men.
D. G. Martin.

THE NEW LIBRARY

There have been few programs undertaken by the Y. M. C. A. which appeal more to us than the scheme for a boy’s library. It should undoubtedly benefit those whom it is intended, and it gives every man on the campus an opportunity to take a direct part in “Y” work.

Some of the more curious may inquire, now that they list themselves among the intelligentsia, what good can be found in “Tom Swift,” “The Rover Boys,” and other such series. On first consideration it is acknowledged that, because they appeal to the boyish mind, they keep that same mind from wandering where it should not. Of still greater importance, though, is the mere habit of reading which these books promote. An adventurous series eventually becomes hackneyed. Its value lies in the fact that each book is more or less similar, and, because he has learned to read, the reader will want something better and different. His taste for books follows a process of evolution. In a short time Zane Grey and Booth Tarkington will be abandoned for Scott, Cooper, Hugo, and others.

Books are probably the greatest requisite in self-education. It stands unquestioned that they must be good ones, but those of a recreational type are essential to the desire for others. No book can be choked down anyone’s throat with appreciable success. Contributions to this cause need have no fear that their gifts will be discarded or misplaced. An efficient system has been worked out to prevent the loss or abuse of books. Because the patrons of this library remove the books of their own volition, and expressly due to their yearning for something to read, they will return them to get others if for no other reason. It is a sane proposition.

A POEM

Seniors were born for great things,
Juniors were born for small;
But no one has ever discovered,
Why Sophs were born at all.

What Do You Know About?
Coast to Coast in Reverse.
Junking the Old Cars.
The Lindbergh Beacon.
Bicycle Staging a Comeback.
Long Distance Gassing.

One of the most unique advertising schemes attempted by a national corporation was recently...Completed by the Texas Company to advertise their new lubricating oil, two men drove a Ford from New York to Los Angeles and back again, using nothing but the reverse gear the entire distance. The car used was a stock model, having headlights placed on the back for night driving. Officials of the company, in their newspaper ads, pointed out the great strain on a car when it is run so far in reverse, and thereby hoped to impress the public with the quality of their oil, which was all that kept the car from falling to pieces before the end of the trip, according to the drivers.

“I have been called a menace — in a humorous way, of course.” — Rudy Vallee.

While speaking of Fords, it is proper to mention that several of the larger motor corporations have set up systems whereby they take old used cars off the hands of their dealers and junk them, turning all the parts to some other use. Following Chrysler's lead in the matter, General Motors and Ford have followed suit, and now wreck old cars that their dealers have taken in on trades. By doing this, the motor magnates hope to stimulate the sale of new cars by taking old ones off the roads, and to help out their dealers who are forced to take losses on a number of worn-out automobiles they are forced to accept on trade-ins. Evidently, the new plan hasn't reached all parts of the country. We have seen any number of old wrecks that should have received their well-earned rest some months back, but which their owners have been forcing to carry on far past retirement age.

“Some people are too busy to be unemployed.” — Henry Ford.

The largest airplane beacon in the world was recently put into operation atop the Palmolive building in Chicago. This light, which throws a beam of 2,000,000,000 candlepower, was presented in honor of Col. Charles A. Lindbergh and his transatlantic flight by the late Charles A. Sperry, inventor of the gyroscope. To give some idea of the power of the beam thrown, it is easily visible 300 miles away, and aviators 600 miles from Chicago can be guided by the beacon. Astronomers state that with instruments similar to those now in use, the light could be observed on the moon, having about the brilliance of a star of the fifth magnitude. At a distance of 1 meter from the lens of the light, it is 20,000 times brighter than sunlight on the earth, and 8 billion times as bright as a full moon. Fifty-five miles away, the beacon is as bright as a full moon.

“Irishmen fight through necessity, and not through choice.” — Patrick J. Hurley, Secretary of War.

According to manufacturers, the popularity of the bicycle is rapidly increasing, and their sale is greater than at any time in the last twenty years. The automobile first began affecting the bicycles in 1910 when it became a popular-priced means of transportation. At no time since then has the bike been anything but a child’s toy. Now, however, the laboring man is beginning to see the advantages of two-wheeled transportation, the low cost, lack of parking worries, and negligible upkeep being points in its favor with some.

“A burglar is a man who feels he isn’t as rich as he ought to be.” — Struthers Burt.

Natural gas is rapidly becoming the most widely used of all fuels, and with the rapid increase in the number of cities now being served by this gas, it should soon force its way to the top in the list of fuels. Coming into use only recently, its growth in popularity has been as rapid as it has been steady. Only recently have attempts been made to transport it long distances. Recently, a 22-inch pipeline has been completed from gas fields in northern Louisiana to Birmingham and Atlanta, providing natural gas for those two cities, and about ten others along the route of the line. This is the longest pipeline now in use. There is under construction at the present time a 22-inch line which will carry gas from northern Texas to Chicago, a distance of over a thousand miles. When completed, this line will occupy the position of longest in the world. Frequent booster pumps will maintain pressure in the line and in the city mains of Chicago.

---

This is a pre-showing of the great story that is to come to this publication; in fact, it is not so “pre” at all because this eighth wonder of the world starts in this very issue—I started to name it “If Morning Comes” by Dawn, but recovered. This is the story of a man and his pup. The dog’s name is Moiety because he is so small. The man’s nickname is Fend because he used to peel potatoes for a living. The name of the story is “Fend and Moiety.” Now on with the story. We're off:

Ed’s Note: You said it.

FEND AND MOIETY or Hamlet (Small Ham)

It is a cold night. The wind is whistling “Keep the Home Fires Burning” at a slight off-key. The snow is very, very deep and icicles are hanging from every garden gate and green gable. An uninterested observer, casually taking in the scene, might even go so far as to say it was winter. We go up and look into a window that is shining through the blizzard. By a roaring fire sits a man with a book in his hand. Between his toes, he holds another book. He is a Superman, or One Who Knows. He is reading both books at the same time. Most people can't do that. Right this minute he is planning a Great Adventure I'll betcha. He is probably going to dig to the center of the earth tomorrow and is reading up on it. On the floor is a small dog. This is Moiety. Moiety is a very smart dog. He is also a very quiet dog. Almost taciturn. He very seldom says anything. An occasional “woof” and that is all. Right now he is not saying anything. But you can depend on Fend to break a silence:

“Moiety, we are leaving for Mars tomorrow on our skyrocket that we had left from last July the Fourth.”

Moiety makes no sign that he has heard except to give a quick nod and expectorate into the roaring fire. Care-free scooter, eh?

“Yes,” said Fend, “If our tires hold out, I expect to be in the upper strata by noon tomorrow. And when we get to Mars we shall see if we shall see what we see.”

The dog now responded: “Woof.”

“Ah, I knew you'd like that. Well, let’s go to bed and get some sleep before our departure on the morrow.”

So they got up, Fend put on a tuxedo and top hat, and they went to bed.

It is now morning. The birds are shining and the sun is singing at the top of its voice. Fend and Moiety are seated in the rocket. Only a few more minutes and they will be off to search for the Fountain Pen of Use! The High Chief Igniter is striking the match that will send our heroes on their journey. Ah, it is lit; an explosion, Fend primes it once and THEY'RE OFF! Up, up, upity up they go. Inside the rocket, it is quite comfortable. The travelers entertain themselves by playing conductor and taking up each other’s ticket. This is quite proper when one is making a trip to Mars. When it is the conductor’s birthday, however, one must dash up and say “Happy birthday, Conductor” or he will be disqualified and find two strokes and a yard.

The wind was rushing by the window but stopped long enough to pass the time of day with Fend and Moiety. As they continued up they began to see enormous birds following them. Moiety was worried but Fend explained their presence. These birds are known as English Hounds. They will travel for miles and miles to eat the crisp remarks that are thrown out and maintain their existence by these and scraps of conversation that drift back. About this time Fend noticed Moiety swallowing hard as if he ate too much at one time.

“What is the matter Moiety?” he asked, anxiously—not expecting an answer. No one ever expects an answer from Moiety.

“Just a minute and I'll tell you,” said Moiety very distinctly.

A look of mild surprise crossed Fend’s face. He was not astonished by this sentence because you never could tell what Moiety would do next. He had once eaten seventeen bones at one sitting. Moiety looked as if he was all right now. He said (plainly enough), “We dogs have never been able to talk because of the pressure on our vocal cords on earth. But now we are high enough for the pressure to decrease enough to relieve the vocal cords and enable us to talk. By the way, I overheard a good one the other day. It seems there were two bricklayers who—”

“I've heard that one. How fast are we going now? We ought to be near Mars before long,” said Moiety, not well.

“Well, I'll declare! Moiety can talk. Now that’s a smart dog for you. It’s not every little dog that can talk. Watch for Fend and Moiety next week and learn further about their thrilling adventures!