THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1930

After Graduation --- Education?

Education Offers Promising Field To College Men In Choosing a Life Work

Returns Large to Well-Equipped Teachers, Both in Money and in Personal Satisfaction

By Joy Elmer Morgan, Editor Journal of the National Education Association

Since educational workers hold positions of large responsibility in the various communities, all are expected to have a good general
education. The National Education Association, which consists of more than 160,000 of the Nation’s best teachers, has taken the following
stand upon the matter of training for the profession:

We believe that the ends which we seek demand, above all else, an immediate and thoroughgoing improvement of the agencies
for the preparation of teachers. We commend and endorse the conviction, now rapidly gaining favor in our profession and the
public mind, that those who enter the public school service, whether they are to teach in rural schools or in
urban schools, in elementary or in high schools, should have had a minimum of four years’ planned preparation, following upon
graduation from a four-year high school.

Teaching is now passing through a period of transition, so that conditions vary widely in different sections of the country.
There are still thousands of schools in rural communities where teachers have had only an eighth-grade education and less, while
on the other hand some school systems, such as the high schools of California, prefer teachers with a master’s degree.
One should always get all the training that his circumstances will permit, for the opportunities in education are limited only
by the energy and skill at one’s command.

Considering the large opportunities and responsibilities that come to educational workers, the period of apprenticeship is short. The careers of
some of our best educational leaders show a record that runs something like this—a year or two as a teacher
in a rural school, a few years as principal of a small village school, a term as superintendent of a
town school leading on up to some State school office, or an important position in an institution of higher education.

The most numerous branch of the profession is classroom teaching, which may further be subdivided into rural schools, city schools,
and into elementary, junior high school, senior high school, junior college, college, and the professional school. While teaching is not
so highly paid as administrative work, it is probably the most satisfying branch of the profession, for persons naturally adapted
to it. All through the history of education the names that have been greatest are those of teachers. The teacher
in direct contact daily with young people eager to learn has an opportunity to perpetuate ideals and to build and
beautify life that is rarely found elsewhere.

There has long been an impression that the best teachers should be in the higher schools. It has been a
common practice to pay more to teachers in the grammar grades and high schools than to teachers of the younger
children. This is changing as the importance of the early years is more appreciated. Lord Fisher of England remarked, after
a recent trip through our country, that great service could be rendered by endowing a few elementary schools so that
they might employ at large salaries men and women of unusual energy and outlook. This would give an opportunity for
experiment in the development of the art of teaching which would profoundly affect schools everywhere.

Next to teaching, in the number of positions afforded, is the elementary school principalship. He must know how to select
teachers and direct their work, create school spirit, make contacts between the school and the life around it, and at
the same time direct the management in a general way. Next comes the superintendency of schools in a city, district,
or county. The modern superintendent is a trained executive and professionalist of the highest order, combining unusual insight and working
technique with large responsibility and opportunity for guiding the growth of teachers and the development of children.

A growing branch of the profession is research. Persons who have the scientific attitude of mind combined with an interest
in people will find no better place for their talents than in the research bureaus that are growing up in
connection with city and State school systems where human problems will more and more be studied in a scientific, objective
way.

The need of public recreation in both city and country is developing a group of special workers known as playground
directors or superintendents of recreation. It has been estimated that were this field fully developed it would demand one full-time
worker for each two thousand people to obtain the best results.

Librarianships should attract persons who have a love of books combined with a love of people. This branch of education
is still young. The American Library Association is but fifty years old. The field is expanding rapidly as the schools
create a demand for higher intelligence in the community. Just now this field especially needs men who have the personal
qualities that will enable them to win from the community larger appreciation of the library and more financial support for
it.

Salaries for teachers still leave something to be desired, although there has been large improvement during recent years. The figures
gathered by the Research Division of the National Education Association for the year 1924-1925 show median yearly salaries for elementary
teachers in one-teacher rural schools, $755; for elementary teachers in cities of 2,500 to 5,000 population, $1,129. The median salary
paid supervising elementary principals in cities of 30,000 to 100,000 population was $2,484 and for superintendents of schools, $6,000. These
averages are, of course, greatly lowered by the salaries paid in sections of the country where educational conditions are still
primitive. Salaries in the better communities are much higher and there is always room at the top. There are now
scores of positions that pay over $10,000 a year, and a few which pay considerably more.

Education offers unusually rich opportunities just now to young persons of energy, ideals, and training. Discussions of education are on
every tongue. Popular appreciation of education is indicated by the crowds of young men and women clamoring for admission to
high school and college. That there is room for improvement is shown by criticisms of various phases of public education.
No institution holds a higher place in modern life than the school. No profession is growing more rapidly than education.
It will be at least twenty-five years before there will be an adequate supply of teachers fully trained to meet
the needs of the schools. There is some advantage in it. So rapidly are conditions changing that almost any statement
based on today’s situation will need enlargement tomorrow. The whole spirit of the school is changing. The old school placed
much stress on formal discipline and verbal types of learning. The new school builds its curriculum around live pupil activities.

(This article is an extract from “An Outline of Careers,” published by George H. Doran Co.)

Bulletins

Catalogues of the leading schools of Education may be obtained on the Vocational Guidance table in the entrance of the
“Y” rooms.One interested is urged to read these catalogues, but please use them in the “Y” rooms, and return them
to the table as there will probably be others who will want to read them.

PYRAMID CLUB (Continued from Page 1)

the campus. Taylor Bledsoe was next introduced as the outstanding politician at the University of North Carolina while he was
in school there. He made a very interesting talk, emphasizing the former relations of the Pyramid Club to the Sigma
Phi Epsilon Fraternity. Charles Orr said a few words on behalf of the Pan-Hellenic Council, welcoming the new chapter to
this organization.

The following were initiated into the North Carolina Epsilon Chapter of the Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity: Active members H. Pettus,
Jr., President, Asheville; S. C. Booker, Clayton; E. C. Close, Chattanooga, Tenn.; J. B. Knox, Liberty, S. C.; J. F.
McInnis, Concord; W. A. Howard, Raeford; C. W. Kuykendall, Charleston, W. Va.; F. R. Pilcher, President-elect, Charleston, W. Va.; F.
L. Wilson, Montreat; W. M. Belk, Lancaster, S. C.; E. S. Bettis, Morristown, Tenn.; R. P. Davis, Lancaster, S. C.;
N. B. Dicks, Chattanooga, Tenn.; C. E. Bettis, Morristown, Tenn.; C. M. Howard, Raeford; J. W. Lee, Ronceverte, W. Va.;
H. Morrison, Mooresville; C. B. Moseley, Staunton, Va.; A. Patton, Jr., Greenville, S. C.; J. W. Reich, Elkin; E. W.
Shackleford, Durham.

Alumni—S. J. Allison, Glade Springs, Va., ’29; D. H. Howard, Jr., Cornell University, '28; J. T. Kimbrough, Davidson, ’26; R.
W. Lackmond, Georgia Tech, '32; W. T. Lasley, Burlington, '32; W. A. McAulay, Jr., Louisville, Ky., '25; J. L. McGee,
Pittsburgh, Pa., '28; J. C. McNeely, Charlotte, ‘29; M. R. Patrick, Belmont, ’25; E. H. Solter, Huntington, W. Va., '28;
W. M. Strong, Jr., Charlotte, ‘29; J. M. Trotter, Charlotte, ’25; W. E. Wilkinson, University of North Carolina, '28. Several
other alumni of the Pyramid Club found it impossible to come for the installation but will be initiated by chapters
near them or will come to Davidson later.

WAKING CHANCES.

While traveling you can watch your baggage—some of the time. While your effects are away from home being laundered, pressed,
repaired, etc., you cannot watch them. When losses occur, save annoyance and delay in recovering therefor by having Personal Effects
insurance. We should appreciate an opportunity to explain this protection. It's safer to have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Co. Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

NOW IS THE TIME

Any type of Printing
SENIOR’S ENGRAVED CARDS MADE. SEE ME.
Best Quality and Prices
ERNEST H. McCALL
108 Watts
Representing
STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

TO HAVE YOUR EN-

Successful College Teaching Requires Many Years In Preparation For Work

William L. Bryan Urges Young Men Not to Rush Into Active Professorship

A teacher in a college or university should be a master in his field. If he is to accomplish his
work satisfactorily and rise in the profession he must have training of a very expert kind. After his high school
course, he should spend four years in college securing a broad general education. Then he should spend three years more
in a university devoting his major time to the field in which he desires to specialize. During this three-year period
of post-graduate work he should choose some problem and investigate it thoroughly. He must survey the entire literature upon the
problem. This requires the perusing of foreign publications and so he should be able to read foreign languages, preferably French
and German. After a long period of study upon his problem this advanced student should make some contribution of his
own, that is, he should discover some fact not already known.

In addressing a young man who contemplates a life of teaching in an institution of higher learning, President William L.
Bryan counsels: “I advise you to distinguish yourself from nearly all your fellows in the graduate school by the length
of time you take for preparation.” Some years ago a professor in the School of Medicine at Johns Hopkins University
spoke to me upon this point. He said that in his own case he had avoided assuming much work as
a teacher during the first ten years after his graduation in order that he might have most of his time
and strength for the maturing of his own studies. He said that according to his observation most of our young
scholars make a grave mistake at this point. They wish to get through. They wish to get the doctor’s degree
in as few semesters as possible. They wish to get a foot upon the ladder of university promotion. Perhaps they
lack money. Perhaps they wish to marry. The young doctor who has written a promising thesis and has caught a
glimpse of important work beyond finds himself presently drowned in the work of an instructor. He has little leisure, little
energy left. He becomes set on a low level. He becomes a permanent assistant professor. Or, if a nominal promotion
comes, then a professor with arrested development.”

If the teacher is going to be a leader in his field he must constantly engage in research. By this
is meant investigation leading toward the discovery of new facts. The policy held by most university authorities is that a
university should serve as a center for the discovery as well as the dissemination of knowledge. According to this view,
then, the university teacher is not fulfilling his real duty to humanity unless he vigorously engages in research. All apart
from this is the well-established fact that research reacts upon one’s teaching ability. A man is better able to serve
the students in his classes if he is himself prosecuting original investigations. Finally, it behooves everyone to engage in research
and publish his findings because such work best furthers his academic advancement. It is by such signs that the world
can most easily judge concerning his merit.

Objection to this advice is sometimes made by college and university teachers on the ground that they cannot carry on
research activities because they are required to give so much classroom instruction. The answer is that most of the men
who have accomplished research have done so during the early part of their career by forcing it between the periods
of their classroom instruction. After they had demonstrated that they had the ability and the will to do research they
were then given a lighter teaching schedule which allowed them more leisure for research. In some institutions certain men are
appointed to do nothing but research. Their salary is usually about that of a professor. (This article is an extract
from a bulletin published by Indiana University.)

Neighbor: “I am very sorry, old man, that my chickens invaded your garden.”
His Neighbor: “That's nothing; my dog ate your chickens.”
Neighbor: “That's great; I just ran over your dog with my car.”

$29.50 CLOTHES
STETSON “D” STORE

COMPLETE LINE OF FURNISHINGS FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

$34.50

Monday and Tuesday, 14th and 15th
THE GOLDEN CALF
with EL BRENDEL and SUE CARROLL

Wednesday, 16th
DANGEROUS PARADISE
with NANCY CARROLL

Davidson Theatre

Thursday and Friday, 17th and 18th
MONTANA MOON
JOAN CRAWFORD

Saturday
THE LONE STAR RANGER
GEORGE O'BRIAN
