2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20, 1930

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

WILSON A. CANNON - Managing Editor
E. C. W. S. LE - Managing Editor
D. G. MA - Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS - Sports Editor
V. M. BE - Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES - Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON - Review Editor
R. H. ALDERMAN - Associate Editor
B. BLACK - Associate Editor
W. O. RAGIN - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF:
P. M. CONWAY - Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BAKER - Assistant Business Manager
J. - Assistant Business Manager
A. G. - Subscription Manager
P. F. BROWN - Solicitor
R. - Solicitor
A. M. - Solicitor
A. L. MEBANE - Solicitor
W. R. MORROW - Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB:
S. WABEY - President
D. G. STEPHENSON - Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD - Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
J. M. BROWN
J. G. BERRY
G. F. BAILEY
A. R. BIRD
F. E. BOYD
N. B. DICKS
G. D. DUNKLIN
E. O. GUERRANT
W. T. HANCOCK
J. E. LAKE
R. L. McCALLIE
C. MATTHEWS
V. F. MULLISS
H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
C. W. F. SPENCER
B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR
W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH
D. D. McBRYDE

NOVEMBER 20, 1930

“Rude are the wills of princes: yea,
Prevailing always, seldom crossed,
On fitful winds their moods are tossed:
’Tis best men tread the equal way.”
- Euripides.

SUGGESTIONS

Davidson stock has gone up! There is still one more game to be played. No student in college now has
seen a victory over Wake Forest. Remember the Tar Heels and prepare for the Deacons!

Sometimes alibis are indispensable. It looks like we will have to resort to Georgia highways for the comment on the
Elizabethan Players last week.

November seems to be the month for numerous national and international collegiate conventions. The only catch is that if one
is eligible to attend such meetings he generally does not have the time to spare.

All fall the “populus Romanus” have cried for rain; now they wish for sunshine. One does not wonder that emperors,
whom their subjects deemed all-powerful, had their troubles.

O. O. McIntyre has been having his troubles with his mustache. Just by way of helpful advice we would suggest
a “Probak Blade.”

Winthrop’s Johnsonian is the only seven-column exchange which finds its way to our office.

We thank the faculty for the suspension of afternoon classes on Saturday.

A TIMELY VICTORY

Ever since Saturday there has been a common topic on the lips of students, faculty members, and sports followers. The
Wildcats downed the Tar Heels! It is a subject which will not die, for days and weeks to come, nor
should it. To praise the stars of the game would be to praise every man who stepped on the field
in a red and black jersey. Individually and as a team the players played their “big game” of the year.
As time passes possibly five or six events will stand out from the rest in memory. Among others will be
the thought on the seemingly interminable length of the last quarter. Many spectators realized as never before the difference between
a stopwatch and a pocket one. We prefer to think of the entire squad when we look back on the
victory. Every man in uniform had his role to play, and he played it. It was a team triumph.

Neither will words of commendation to the student body be out of place. Not since the autumn of 1927 has
there been a pep-meeting like the one held on Friday night. Seldom has the morale of the entire student body
been as high. A sense of victory was in the air. It was not to be denied.

It would be impossible to give an impression of the reaction on members of the student body, especially Seniors. For
four years they have waited; their desire has been realized. It was a happy weekend.

No comment on this game would be complete without a word for Coaches Younger and Tilson. Once again they have
justified the confidence and responsibility imposed on them. We congratulate them!

LOGICAL PRECAUTION

There are many people, students and others, who will resent a recent implication made in at least two leading dailies,
that “Davidson College has been captured by the War Department.” In the first place, this evident reference to the R.
O. T. C. unit is directly misleading. We know that the department in question would never have established such a
unit here, or in any other college or university, without the desire and consent of college authorities. There have been
too many schools applying for R. O. T. C. units in the past ten years for the government to hand
them out indiscriminately or by forceful compulsion.

Space does not permit a discussion on the advantages of a training which helps to coordinate mind and body. Neither
can we go into the question of whether there will ever be another war in which the United States will
be forced to participate. It is impossible for a man to prophesy! Let it suffice that if this country does
engage in a major conflict it will be for the protection of life and liberty, not for the sake of
a policy of despicable economic imperialism. It has never been a platform of the government to colonize; it never will
be.

Any man who has taken two or four years of work in an R. O. T. C. unit will no
doubt subscribe to the following opinion: it takes very little association with a military unit to make a man hate
war; clean manly living is emphasized and required; disciplinary thoroughness encourages habits which will be of benefit throughout life; the
student learns the fundamental principles of executive administration; and most important of all, the combat principles taught are entirely for
the defense; the offensive is disregarded. At the outset, a Christian officer should be preferred to one who is not.

AN INTELLECTUAL RENAISSANCE

For many years it has been customary to bring to the Davidson campus distinguished lecturers from varied fields of culture.
In the choice of speakers brought here in the past we have been exceptionally fortunate. They have ever been a
powerful factor in the development of the intellectual side of Davidson life. Recently our good fortune was made peculiarly manifest
by the appearance of Dean Gordon J. Laing of the University of Chicago. In him we found one generously endowed
with both profound scholarship and the ability to entertain almost any type of mind. Seldom is a speaker accorded a
more attentive audience than was given Dean Laing in each of his three lectures here. The student body clearly showed
its appreciation of his thought by undivided attention.

Dean Laing made a powerful and very human appeal to us to develop more fully the cultural in our mental
lives. He clearly showed that such development would aid us materially in whatever career we might choose. Even if it
will not help us directly, it will surely add much indirectly to the fullness of our lives. The test of
time is but one of the many indications which have proved that Homer, Vergil, Plato, and the vast hosts of
other classical writers possessed powerful intellects. It is surely of inestimable advantage to come under the influence of the imperial
minds of the race. They challenge every follower to high thinking and lofty feeling. Embodying in themselves the life of
so many centuries, they readily draw our minds into various fields of knowledge, and reveal to us our own times
by unveiling a mighty past.

De Quincey divides literature into “literature of knowledge” and “literature of power.” Most of us do not commonly conceive of
literature as having sheer power. Yet much of it has power comparable to that of a mighty ocean liner crossing
the Atlantic in four days. Of course the power of literature is of a different sort. Nevertheless, through the ages
it has certainly had more influence on the trend of human thought and action than any other agency.

We do not think that moving pictures, cheap periodicals, and radio programs are entirely without value. To the contrary, we
believe they are often of great worth. They are frequently of a definite educational and instructive character; they teach us
much with which every well-informed person should be familiar. We get some knowledge through these channels that we can get
in no other way. It has been said that most things are best in moderation, and so it is with
these. Whatever our interests may be, each of us could very easily and most profitably temper these common forms of
amusement with a bit of classical study and reading.

What Do You Know About?
1. What Do-X is Doing?
2. On Going West?
3. Real Inventive Geniuses?
4. Standard Side-Lines?
5. What is Cruelty?

The Do-X, giant German-built seaplane, which can carry over 160 people at once, began its long-projected trans-Atlantic flight last week.Here
is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

And up to the time of writing, its adventures have been both interesting and exciting. From its home aerodrome across
to England, where the Prince of Wales flew the monster for a while. Then on down the coast of France,
with Lisbon as its goal, the plane was forced down at sea and taxied for almost a hundred miles on
the surface until it got to a harbor. Then it took up its flight again, and then on to Lisbon,
and on out across the Atlantic. The flight is both an experiment of the plane’s airworthiness and the feasibility of
possible transatlantic airplane service for the near future. The length of time lost by the ship in its flight due
to weather conditions would have to be greatly cut down to enable it to show a profit on transatlantic flying
commercially, and it seems that the steamship lines have very little to fear in the near future from this kind
of competition.

"Minds are like parachutes—they only function when they are open."—Lord Dewar.

Seventy-four years ago a rising publisher was preaching the doctrine of “Go west, young man, Go west.” One of the
persons who heard this advice—perhaps he was one of the first to whom Horace Greeley gave this then excellent advice—now
constitutes one of the claims which its hearer had for first page prominence at his death. The other was that
he had been the oldest traveling salesman on the road up to the time of his retirement, having been the
butt of jokes on his kind for 64 years. Charles Terry was the man, and when he died he was
94 years old. Evidently, he didn’t take the advice, because he died in the state of Illinois, where Greeley had
so freely given him those now famous words.

“I’m a bit jaded with golf.” —Bobby Jones, of the four major golf titles of the world.

Thomas A. Edison annually conducts a contest to find a boy worthy to be sent through school by him and
possibly become a successor to the great genius himself. The winner of the first contest, held in 1929, was Walter
Huston, now a sophomore at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Mr. Edison was no doubt gratified to learn that his protégé
has been showing a great deal of real inventive spirit. For during the recent Soph-Fresh rushes at M.I.T., Huston was
captured twice by irate Frosh and each time succeeded in escaping. We call that good ingenuity and a high degree
of inventiveness.

“There is nothing a politician hates more than losing votes.” —Heywood Broun, late Socialist candidate for Senator from New York.

Not content to have itself rather firmly entrenched as the outstanding oil companies of the world, the Standard Oil companies
have branched out and added two sidelines to their filling stations that seem foreign to the gasoline trade. In an
agreement with one of the large tire companies, Standard now sells casings for all cars direct from their numerous outlets,
thereby supplementing their usual gasoline business. Added to this, a motorist can now send a telegram anywhere in the United
States over the Postal Telegraph system, which has made arrangements with the Standard organization to accept telegrams at all stations.
Now it is possible to have the misfortune to blow out a tire and run into a station for a
new casing. While there, send the girl a telegram that you are unavoidably detained and it is best to break
the date. Then go blithely on your way.

“One can be moved more by a puppy of one’s own than by anyone else’s lion.” —Zane Grey.

Just what constitutes cruelty is often subject to conjecture in a lawsuit. Here is a choice morsel: A man in
New York found himself faced with a suit by his wife because he had sold their two cars and bought
a Baby Austin; charges, cruel treatment. (The wife weighed 230 pounds.)

It is probable that Dean Laing’s series of splendid lectures will be influential in stimulating a current interest in classical
study on the campus. It is possible that this influence will be of a more general nature, and bring about
that long-lost enthusiasm for cultural achievement and independent thought which is so needed. We sincerely hope that they will be
the motivating factor in a genuine intellectual renaissance among the students of Davidson College.

E. C. Dwelle, Jr.

SINGS 9 te VMATADO R VEREEN Lyi ve BELL —uam3/eiecmolae

The score made by Carolina last Saturday reminds me of the English football team that always made the touchdown—but never
got the point, which in turn reminds me of the Englishman and the American who were traveling. Try to stop
me if you've heard it:

As previously stated, an Englishman and an American were traveling together with each other all by themselves quite alone. I
would say that they were going to Seattle but I don’t know how to spell Seattle so I'll say they
were going to New York because I know how to spell New York even though they were going to Seattle.
These two (not Seattle and New York but the Englishman and the American) came down a mountain and found that
the road forked. They searched for a sign to direct them on the right road and finally saw an inconspicuous
sign upon the trunk of a nearby tree. The pair read the sign and no sooner had they finished than
the American burst into a fit of laughter. The sign read:

"The left-hand road goes to New York, The right-hand road goes to Boston. If you can’t read, follow the path
up the mountain a hundred yards to the miller’s house and he will direct you to the place you wish
to go."

The Englishman was quite puzzled by his friend’s merriment and could see nothing at all funny about the sign. The
American seeing that his companion did not see the joke laughed all the more. Finally, however, the mood passed and
they drove on to New York in silence, the Englishman all the while in a quandary. (No, Hortense, a quandary
is not where they get marble. You get marbles at the drug store). The travelers, reaching New York and very
much fatigued by their journey went at once to a hotel and retired. After many hours the American was awakened
by the sounds of mirth issuing from his bedfellow. Quite surprised that the man should pick one o’clock in the
morning to laugh, he asked him what had brought all this about. The Englishman between gasps of laughter said: “You
remember that sign back there below the mountain that said if you couldn’t read go ask the miller the way?
Well, I just thought: Suppose you were not able to read and came by there, saw the sign and went
up to the miller’s house and—he wasn't at home?”

This should be a warning to all millers. I certainly wouldn’t have it said about me that I wasn’t at
home when some poor traveler came to find out the way. In my opinion, this is one of the chief
troubles with the human race today. Although he may have learned to fly like a bird, he still can’t sit
on a barbed wire fence; and after all the researches of science, chemistry’s chief contribution to the world is the
peroxide blonde. Thus we learn that the little things in life count most, such as staying at home; however, if
everybody stayed at home the theaters would make no money. To get in a theater, however, you must have a
ticket so to quote from Kipling “If you lose your ticket how you Gunga Din?” We must admit to ourselves
however, that with the talkies being perfected what incentive is there for a child learning to read? A person who
can read and goes to the talkies will be like the mechanic’s nightmare: he thought he was standing in grease
up to his neck and not a single steering wheel on which to wipe his hands. Thus the talking pictures
have lessened the need for reading. Therefore there will be more people who cannot read, consequently the miller will have
to stay at home more in order that he may read the sign to travelers. If the road is crowded
the miller will, like Moses, be rushed to death. If the road is not crowded he will be like a
pawnshop, all alone. We must conclude that the way to keep people on the straight and narrow is to improve
the home life of the miller just like the way to cure insomnia is to sleep it off.

And do you know what the buffalo on a nickel stands for? It would be most unseemly for him to
sit down. Bye!

A surprising portion of young men today are actually incapable of growing mustaches. The admission is deplorable and sinister.—Stephen Langton.

The law of true art, even according to the Greek idea, is to seek beauty wherever it is to be
found, and separate it from the dross of life as gold from ore.—Lafcadio Hearn.

All creative art is magic, is evocation of the unseen in forms persuasive, enlightening, familiar, and surprising.—Joseph Conrad.

Republic or monarchy, it is all the same; what is essential is to work for Spain.—King Alfonso.

For however inspiring a full-blooded American may be, the most distinguishing feature of his character is surely not humility.—W. L.
Phelps.
