THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1930

Davidson Band Has Best Material in Many Years

Appearance on Parade at Greensboro Shows Evidence of Talent and Concentrated Training

COMPETITION IS KEEN

Very Limited Number of Uniforms Available at Present

It seems that the Davidson Band is about to get into full swing now, after its organization shortly after school
opened. The band has high hopes of making this the most prosperous year of its existence. At the opening of
the year, about fifty-four musicians reported to try out for the band. However, it was necessary to reduce this number
to thirty-six and it now seems that this number will again be decreased to thirty. They have achieved uniformity in
sections, this, of course, being of great aid in balancing the music.

The band attended the Davidson-N. C. State game in Greensboro on Saturday night, September 27, participating in the parade which
took place in the late afternoon. The State Band was also in this parade. In both parade and game, the
band showed evidences of talent, and also of constant training under the direction of its officers, R. D. Russell, captain
of the band, and Professor Cullum, director. It is expected that Davidson will have the best band it has had
in several years, and it is hoped that it will be able to attend practically all the football games in
which the team will take part this season. Great interest is being manifested by each individual, and competition is keen,
thereby offering a greater number from which to select the choice musicians. It is also hoped that the band may
be enlarged as soon as additional uniforms may be obtained to accommodate larger numbers. Several appointments have already been arranged
for the band this year other than the football games. Nevertheless, they are handicapped due to the very limited number
of uniforms available at present. Efforts are being made to overcome this difficulty.

DR. LACY

(Continued from page 1)

This visit is not the first that Dr. Lacy has paid the college, for he was here a few years
ago and led a similar service. He was also a student here, graduating from Davidson in 1906. While here he
was a star athlete and student, being a four-letter man and a Phi Beta Kappa man. Later he won the
Rhodes Scholarship from this district of North Carolina and while in Union Theological Seminary he won the Hoge Fellowship and
studied in Scotland. He became a captain in the army during the World War and immediately after he returned to
this country he was called by the Central Presbyterian Church of Atlanta and he accepted the call. After being with
them for seven years he was called to the presidency of Union Theological Seminary where he has been ever since.

’CATS DEFEAT STATE

(Continued from page 1)

Don King twisted and fought his way 24 yards to N. C. State’s nine-yard line. At this stage Coach Van
Liew, new State mentor, rushed in fresh reserves in an attempt to stay the march of the Wildcats. After three
line plunges had failed, Captain Fraley tossed a short pass directly over the line of scrimmage into the waiting arms
of “Skinny” Pierce for Davidson's second and last score of the game. Brock again failed to make good his place-kick.

Both teams offered a fast, hard-charging forward wall that frequently smeared plays before they could get started. The punting of
Thad Brock deserves special mention, for even though rushed by the big Wolfpack line, he got off beautiful and consistent
kicks.

Co-ed Twins Perplex U. S. Civil Service

Jonesboro, Ark.—(IP)—Two co-eds at the Arkansas State College here, who happen to be twins, recently presented the United States Civil
Service Department a perplexing problem, which was ironed out only when the co-eds’ professors came to their support. The twins,
Letha and Leton Adams, took a civil service examination. When their papers were graded there came back from Uncle Sam
a letter, stating that there was “obvious evidence of copying in the examination papers,” and that the twins were barred
forever from again taking a civil service examination. The girls reported the matter to college authorities, who immediately filed a
protest with the civil service authorities. Their professors reported that there was not a possible chance that the girls had
not played fair. The instructors said that the girls’ minds just naturally run in the same channels; that as one
thinks, the other thinks. In college examinations, they said, the girls turn in almost identical papers. Therefore, it was contended,
Uncle Sam shouldn't bar the twins just because they think alike.

SOCIAL FRATERNITIES

(Continued from page 1)

Phi Delta Theta: Junior, A. G. Campbell, Jr., De Funiak Springs, Fla.; J. W. Lafferty, Rome, Ga.; J. M. Goodykoontz,
Bluefield, W. Va.; W. E. Covington, Jr., Rockingham; J. G. Pierce, Bluefield, W. Va.; J. W. White, Bluefield, W. Va.;
M. Best, Shelby; G. B. Morrison, Selma, Ala.; M. H. Ball, Jacksonville, Fla.

Phi Gamma Delta: W. M. Brown, Knoxville, Tenn.; C. S. Caldwell, Talladega, Ala.; D. M. Davies, Detroit, Mich.; B. N.
Hamrick, Rutherfordton; C. H. Finch, Lexington; J. H. Morrison, Burlington; M. Nickey, Jr., Memphis, Tenn.; E. L. Powell, Mobile, Ala.;
J. H. Pratt, New York, N. Y.; C. R. Wright, Knoxville, Tenn.

Pi Kappa Alpha: W. A. Kirkland, Durham; D. H. Wehner, Forest Hills, L. I., N. Y.; C. S. Akers, Charlotte;
E. R. Lineweaver, Jr., Harrisonburg, Va.; A. C. McCall, Marion; Everett Escott, Charlotte; L. M. Huie, Atlanta, Ga.; J. E.
Neal, Jr., Marion; H. L. Curlee, High Point.

Pi Kappa Phi: W. L. Knox, Thomson, Ga.; W. B. Corbin, Fremont; Jack Williams, Jr., Waycross, Ga.; W. G. Stanley,
Lumberton; J. M. Covington, Jr., Wadesboro; F. H. Covington, Wadesboro; A. B. Colwell, Clinton; R. A. Halyburton, Canton; G. H.
Little, Cornelia, Ga.; W. C. Newland, Jr., Lenoir; S. C. Fitzgerald, Albemarle.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Members of the Junior Class: C. B. Lawson, Greensboro, Ala.; I. W. Phifer, Morganton. Freshmen: Alex Schenck,
Charlotte; W. T. Johnson, Charlotte; S. H. Tomlinson, High Point; D. R. Williams, Lancaster; H. E. Barksdale,Jackson, Miss.; A. G.
Manson, Jacksonville, Fla.; L. B. Wooten, Jacksonville, Fla.; W. R. Cely, Greenville, S. C.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Faculty member, Prof. H. E. Fulcher, Davidson. Member of the Senior Class, N. W. Raies, Mt. Hope,
W. Va. Members of the Sophomore Class, A. M. Earle, Jr., Stovall; F. H. Bixler, Stony Brook, L. I. Freshmen,
F. R. Hellegers, Passaic, N. J.; J. A. Hunter, Downer, La.; W. E. Pyburn, Morristown, Tenn.; J. A. Hodges, Kinston;
H. M. Hawkins, Charlottesville, Va.; Odi Casali, Welch, W. Va.

N.C. State Position Davidson
Dike vs Proctor
Cobbs vs Waggoner
Matlock vs Brock
Stout vs Gardner
Mathis vs Brown
Stroupe vs Baker
Adams vs Cook
Dellinger vs Gurneau

Score by periods:
Davidson 6 0 0 0 — 6
N. C. State 0 0 0 0 — 0

H. E. Yancey, Jr., Oxford; J. L. Eskins, Charleston, W. Va.; W. T. Kendrick, Jr., Gastonia; C. F. Gold, Jr.,
Rutherfordton; E. P. Rodwell, Jr., Florala, Ala.; T. J. Britton, Jr., Lakewood, Fla.; W. M. Harnsberger, Mt. Hope, W. Va.;
S. V. Daniel, Jr., Huntington, W. Va.

Theta Upsilon Omega: Members of the Junior Class, W. J. Honeycutt, Denver; E. B. Bolich, Denver. Members of the Sophomore
Class, W. B. McIlwaine, Charlotte; Wayte Fulton, Danville, Va. Freshmen, A. McCall, P. Huntley, King Evans, Youngstown, Ohio; A. S.
Gatewood, Pelham; J. R. Elliot, Oxford, Miss.; F. M. Wilson, Staunton, Va.

Literary Societies
The following are the literary society programs for October 7, 1930:

Eumanean Literary Society Program—
“Woodrow Wilson’s Address to Citizens of Foreign Birth,” Edward J. Humphrey.
“Let's All Speak,” Al Jackson.
Initiation of all new members proposed heretofore. Humphrey has just entered Davidson as a Freshman this year and has a
splendid record in oratorical work, having been awarded two medals in competitive declamation while in high school. Jackson has just
returned from the West where he studied public speaking thoroughly this summer at the University of Colorado and expects to
reveal clearly the fundamentals of speaking.

Philanthropic Literary Society Program—
“Origin of the Modern Short Story,” R. E. Robinson.
“My Favorite Short Story,” G. M. Maxwell, W. H. Matthews, S. E. Robinson.

The oldest practicing attorney in the city of Cleveland is John P. Green, who is 86 years old. He is
a negro.

Arabia, with a population of over five million, has only one public motion picture house.

Senhora Bernardina Conrado da Silva Guimaraes, of Pernambuco, Brazil, died recently at the reputed age of 113. She had 129
direct descendants.

New York State has the largest supply of radium in the world.

J. L. Brock Cited for Good Marksmanship
James L. Brock, Jr., of Florence, Ala., member of the Senior Class of Davidson College, and a first lieutenant in
the R. O. T. C. here, has been awarded a gold medal for the excellence of marksmanship in the national
rifle matches held last month at Camp Perry, Ohio. He showed the best marksmanship of ten men who represented the
Southeast. He was selected with these ten men from a field of 760 at Camp McClellan last summer. Another Davidson
student, R. D. Russell, of Graham, Senior and captain of the R. O. T. C. Band, was a member of
the same team and was making excellent scores in the matches when he had to leave. Col. W. R. Scott,
commandant of the Davidson unit, was of the opinion that he, too, would have been awarded a medal had he
been able to remain for the completion of the firing. Colonel Scott announced that the Southeastern group won the team
prize, which is a statue, “Soldier of Marathon.” This was the first time that this award has come to this
part of the country. The statue is now on display at the Fourth Corps Area headquarters at Fort McPherson, Ga.
The Ohio matches were participated in by 1,100 men, representing the Army, Navy, Marines, National reserves, and civilians.

Girls Pick Leaders From Medium Type
New York.—(AP)—Here’s bad news for fat girls—and for thin girls, too.

Football Programs
The Athletic Association will publish programs this fall for five of Davidson’s most important football games. This work will be
supervised by Ernest Milton, the Alumni Secretary, who plans to issue them at games the Wildcats will play with Citadel,
V. P. I., Wofford, Carolina, and Wake Forest. These programs, modeled after one issued in 1928, will be about twenty
pages in length. Full information about each contest will be given. Pictures of Davidson men and members of the opposing
team will appear in each issue with a complete lineup, giving players’ positions, numbers, and weights. A list of the
results of previous engagements between the two teams will also be included. Advertisements are expected to be a great financial
aid in these publications.

Dr. George C. Bellingrath of Teachers College, Columbia University, has completed a study in which he discovered that girls who
are of either extreme cannot ever become their class leaders. The leadership doesn't apply to studies, however. The professor found
that it doesn’t make any difference what a boy weighs, he can be a leader if other things point that
way. Girls, to be class leaders, must be of moderate height, and must come from prominent and well-to-do families. Boys
who are leaders can come from any sort of family, and can be any size or shape.

Join us in the General Electric program, broadcast every Saturday evening on a nation-wide N.B.C. network.

GENERAL ELECTRIC
Taking Electrical Convenience From Ol' Man River
The total capacity of waterwheel generators built by General Electric in the last ten years is more than enough to
supply light and power for twenty cities of one million population. Installed in power houses along the waterways, these machines
transform the strength of mighty rivers into useful electric energy for homes, for industry, and for transportation. The vision and
skill of college-trained men are largely responsible for the continuing leadership of General Electric in its service of furnishing machines
and devices that provide the swift, sure convenience and the economy of electricity—on land and sea and in the air.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, N.Y.
