THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 22, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

WILSON McCUTCHAN - Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS - Sports Editor
V. M. BELL - Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES - Feature Editor
B. R. ALDERMAN - Associate Editor
P. A. GANDY - Associate Editor
C. RAGIN - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Subscription Manager
President
D. O. STEPHENSON - Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD - Secretary-Treasurer
G. BERRY
J. G. DUNKLIN
C. MATTHEWS
C. W. F. SPENCER
J. R. SMITH
W. B. HANCOCK
R. F. NORTON
J. M. BROWN
N. B. DICKS
G. P. PARDINGTON
A. R. BIRD
R. E. WITT
G. E. BAILEY
R. H. ALDERMAN
E. O. GUERRANT
J. E. BOYD
D. D. McBRYDE
J. E. LAKE
GEORGE MILLER
R. L. McCALLIE
C. F. MYERS
W. F. MULLISS
S. P. PRESTON
H. F. NICHOLS
B. B. SUGG
NORMAN RAIES
W. B. WARD
B. B. TAYLOR

MAY 22, 1930

The Davidsonian and student body wish to express their sincerest sympathy to Bill Barineau in his recent bereavement.

SUGGESTIONS

For the last time this year The Davidsonian goes to press. Next year we may be slightly changed, but we
will be here just the same. May everyone have a happy vacation.

There will be many boys who will be missed after they graduate, in fact all of them. Music will have
a gap in it when Paul Fry and Charlie Orr are gone. Noise in the dormitories lasts far, far into
the nights. Accept our congratulations if you don’t have an examination the next day, but someone else may have.

When Commander R. E. Byrd passed by the Statue of Liberty a true Southerner will have returned home. He has
set a record for somebody else to shoot at.

About two hundred Freshmen will become Sophomores in a few days. It will be a great feeling next year, but
don’t forget the first impressions of Davidson; they are worth a good deal.

Loafing during the summer may be pleasant, but a little work can do considerable for dad’s wallet. Two shoulders at
the wheel push harder than one.

A WORTHY GIFT

It is impossible to recall a class gift which has not proved useful in the years after it was donated.
However, some of them are more applicable to the students than others. We believe that the Senior Class of 1930
has made an exceptionally appropriate choice. Good stages furnished with the right kind of curtains are few and far between,
especially in colleges. Fortunately, persons other than those directly interested in stage work have seen the need of additional draperies
in the new auditorium. The platform was somewhat bare, and, if the remarks of those who have attempted it can
be relied upon, hard to decorate. And, there are times when it must be decorated. In theatre it is possible
to adopt a flowery scenic effect which can be converted into the more common settings ordinarily used, but for a
college auditorium that is daily employed for chapel services, simplicity is a prime requisite. A happy medium is sometimes difficult
to attain. Therefore, although the valance adds to the ornamental view in front of the curtain, we wish to express
our especial appreciation for the draperies on the rear and sides of the stage. Not only does it improve the
general appearance and utility, but it also does much to regulate the acoustics of both speaker and organ.

With the recent gift the platform furnishings become entirely a class affair. The Seniors did well to complete the job
started by the Class of 1929, instead of insisting upon devising a more original plan. Although a present of this
kind does have monumental value, yet its chief purpose is to supply something which both the institution and students can
use daily.

BE PREPARED TO BACK THE COURT

No student can help but take heart at the news that the newly appointed Court of Control is ready for
action and has made full preparations for the Freshman Class of next year. We are heartily in favor of the
policy of few changes but strictest discipline. Headed by Thad Brock, this body is composed of men who appreciate the
true value of Davidson’s dearest traditions, and it understands that Freshman regulation is the only means through which these may
be preserved. Especially does it intend to assure united class attendance at athletic contests. Of all rules and regulations this
is the one which was the most frequently broken during the past year. In fact, it might be said to
have been openly disregarded. The school has been noted for its fighting teams, but the spirit of the student body
has never been far behind. There are few men who learn to give the best support if they have not
practiced it in their Freshman year.

There has also been a movement on the part of the student body to “wink” at violations of the rules
laid down by the Court. We do not see how any thinking student can overlook the important place which Freshman
control plays on the campus. Nor do we intend to argue the issues of its necessity to the college and
to class unity; they are self-evident. More than once in the course of nightly “promulgations of harmony” we have noticed
that one or two Freshmen have hummed the last verse of “College Ties.” They did not know the words. To
be successful the Court of Control must be swift in execution and sure in justice. To attain the latter it
must have the cooperation of every student, and the former can be accomplished only through combined support.

SENIORS—THEIR TRANSITION

As the year passes to its close we are forced to realize that we now see many of our best
friends for perhaps the last time. At first we experienced a sentiment of sorrow and loss, for the faces and
voices of the Class of ’30 have filled a familiar place on the campus. After a little more thinking we
began to take courage. All that commencement does is to change Davidson students into loyal Davidson alumni, and in doing
this makes room for the students who are to come. In reality, as the name signifies, commencement is the beginning,
not the end. Those ties, associations and impressions formed during the past four years will become reinforced with the lapse
of time and will be cemented together.

To the Seniors we would say: While you have been at Davidson you have formed an opinion of the activities
and position of alumni. In two weeks you will have put your undergraduate days behind you. You have often discussed
the failings of alumni and their possibilities for great service. Now it is your time to act. It is true
that the public lays emphasis on the scholastic and athletic reputation of a college; it is equally true that the
demeanor of the active student is closely watched. The graduate stands alone. Everyone looks upon him as the mature man;
he can no longer excuse his pranks as the exuberance of collegiate pep. He is the finished product, and critics
will be only too glad to pick flaws.

When the college attaches its name and seal to a diploma it automatically gives the recipient a boost in the
business and professional world. Most employers regard this certificate as a recommendation rather than as a qualification. They infer that
the man who has had the determination and stamina to stick through four years of intensive work is willing to
apply himself whole-heartedly to the task that confronts him. They will give him a trial. A diploma does not mean
that the holder will be placed on a pinnacle of luxurious ease and will be permitted to draw a salary
without working for it. It means that confidence may be placed in him.

For every seventy-five dollars that a Davidson student puts into his education, the college adds an additional twenty-five, in order
that it may supply the best possible education. No student pays in full for the knowledge that he carries away
with him. When you Seniors have attained positions of wealth and prominence, as some of you will, you would do
well to remember your Alma Mater in a more material way than with kind regards. Especially can you be of
direct service in aiding Davidson to get the finest type of manhood that can be gathered from homes throughout the
entire country.

In return for what it has done for you, Davidson expects you to prove worthy. The records which have been
registered by those who have gone before make it easier for you. There will be more graduating classes in the
future, and their members believe that you will keep the slate clean.

It is only because these things are important that we dare repeat them. You have heard

DAVIDSON -- WEEK by WEEK
MUSINGS of the MATADOR
Vereen Bell

To the Seniors, we wish to express the sincere sentiment of every man in Davidson College in thisLast Davidsonian, by
saying that we wish you the best of luck in your future endeavors, whether it be in graduate work, or
in beginning your careers in business. You are the center of deepest admiration by your fellow students, almost to idolatry,
because you have just finished and conquered four years of hard work. When you are given your diplomas at Commencement,
it will mark the end of your college life here, and silently acclaim you master of your curriculum activities. As
a student, you have learned to love Davidson. But now that the bond is being partially severed, you must make
yourself a model alumnus—don’t forget Davidson and Davidson won’t forget you.

Frank Brown, whose genuine sincerity has won for him the hearty friendship of every Davidson man, has been appointed to
the college faculty for next year, in the capacity of Biology assistant. Frank, who is undoubtedly one of Davidson’s most
popular students, is enthusiastic about his new position, but hardly as much as we who are so glad to see
him remain.

Another honor was recently bestowed on Dr. Frazer Hood, when he was chosen on a committee of three, which includes
President B. F. Finney of Sewanee, and Dr. N. W. Walker, dean of the School of Education, to make an
expert’s survey of St. Mary’s Junior College, of which institution the Board of Trustees wish to make a four-year college
for women.

Travel abroad has not been completely confined to our faculty. As far as could be ascertained, twelve Davidson men have
made trips to European countries within the past few years, not including graduates. The majority included Paris and London in
their journeys, and many went to Scotland on family visits. Nab Armfield, George Sherrod, Fred Poag, Tom Bowles, Archie Cannon,
Bob Rowland, Charles and Anderson Little, Mac Manson, John Stephens, Charlie Orr, and A. J. Thompson are the Davidson men
who have crossed the “pond,” the latter two touring Europe with an orchestra. Eight more are planning to go this
summer. Carol Pitts, Bill Poe, and Mutt Roddey will make an excursion together late in the summer. Fred Poag is
expecting to make a second trip, while Al Halverstadt and Marmaduke Norfleet are also planning to go. Don Mower and
Cal Kuykendall too, will go across in July. The majority of these men are planning to include Oberammergau in their
tours, where they will see the famous Passion Play.

A most peculiar incident occurred in West dormitory about two months ago. Bob Davis, Wallace Tinsley, and Bill Thomason were
engaged in a so-called “bull session” (Davidson’s favorite extracurricular sport) one afternoon, on the subject of dirigibles. Bob and a
fourth student in the room said that, in view of the fact they had never seen a dirigible, it would
be one of their greatest wishes to get an opportunity to see one of the giant airships. Immediately after this
last remark had been uttered, a deafening whirl of motors was heard above them. Everyone rushed out of the dormitory,
where they saw the gigantic Los Angeles dirigible, America’s largest zeppelin and the second largest in the world, directly over
them. As has been divulged since, Commander Wiley of the Los Angeles had made a special trip over Davidson, in
a tribute of friendship to his old high school pal, Professor John P. Williams.

Marmaduke W. Norfleet has given Davidson and himself nation-wide distinction in educational circles. When Marmaduke entered Davidson three years ago,
he took the Stanford Revision test of the Binet-Simon group of intelligence tests for college freshmen, and made the highest
score ever recorded in a test of this nature. His score was nearly perfect, making 216 of a possible 220
points. So far as known, the record has never been broken.

Did You Know: Phil Menzies is wearing a signet ring which bears the family coat-of-arms, and which has been the
family emblem for nearly one thousand years... Bob Erckman is the direct descendant of the first governor of South Carolina...
Wilson McCutchan was the organizer of his high school paper, despite the fact that only 50 pupils attended, and as
its first editor-in-chief, secured a circulation of 300, and the paper is still prospering... Rosser Elkins, who has been in
three minor airplane mishaps, is going into the air service at Kelly Field in Texas this summer, something that is
really hard to do. Many college graduates have been rejected... Frank Pilcher was elected the most popular boy at a
Young People’s Conference in West Virginia two years ago, with over 300 delegates in attendance... Bob Witt has written a
volume of poetry and short stories... Heath Whittle has collected ten gold and silver medals during his three years in
Varsity track competition, all won in big intersectional meetings—and never ran a hurdle before he came to Davidson... DeWolfe Miller
is a nephew of the late author, Charles Egbert Craddock.

As an official farewell, The Davidsonian extends its best wishes to all those men who graduate. It is our one
sincere wish and trusted hope that they will never forget their Alma Mater; Davidson will always cherish their memory and
records.

Beings as how exams are so close in the future and General Motors has gone down through two points, we
will proceed to expound a literary discourse on famous animals. The most famous of these birds and animals is the
Hunkeydory bird which flies and flees and other insects from cliff to bluff crying in a low coloratura soprano voice,
“Hunkydory, hunkydory,” when pleased, and “Keerchoo, keerchoo,” when sneezed. This little bird is very useful in the home as it
will put out the cat, wind the clock, wash the dishes, mind the baby, wash the car, and burn holes
in the rugs when smoking the long, black cigars for which it is notorious. In the great outdoors, it is
also famous as a help in the great game of golf as it will help lose golf balls, break nice
new clubs, and properly insult the caddies. If your local dealer can’t supply you with one of these wonderful household
helps, write us and we will see to it that you are stuck plenty for one. Don’t shout, I can
hear you perfectly.

The Wild Kazookus
The wild Kazookus is a small insect which inhabits the lower third of Gaul and feeds its young by stealing
empty milk bottles off its neighbors’ doorsteps and painting them white. They then tell the young Kazookasies that “There is
breakfast (dinner or supper, as the case may be),” and the young ones immediately drain the empty contents all out
of the bottles. If there is a sufficient lack of emptiness to increase their cute little appetites, they proceed to
protest by their weird cries of “More, more”; which, if heard in the middle of the night, is very, very
unusual, as the young Kazookasies seldom get enough of nothing as to be insufficient in the middle of the night;
but—if the young Kazookasies cry “More, more” at any other time, the older Kazookasies exert all in their power to
find More. If they do find More, the young ones are entirely pleased and go to sleep softly murmuring “Beep,
beep,” much after the fashion of an old Ford with a new horn. On the other hand, if More cannot
be found, the little ones cry as an alternate “More or Less, More or Less.” Then the elder Kazookus instigates
an extended search for Less, and as Less is always willing to be done by everyone, it is soon found
to completely fulfill the old adage, “There is no present like a new watch.”

The Curly Billiard
The Curly Billiard is a trite animal with several peculiarities which distinguish it from the Pool Table. The Billiard wanders
aimlessly through the swamp crying in a dismal voice: “Rack, Rack,” while the Pool table cries “Cue, Cue.” The Billiard
is lined inside and out with felt and its beautiful ivory teeth convince you at once that it is the
fifth one in the toothpaste ads. A notable feature of the Curly Billiard is its leather pockets. In these pockets,
it keeps pocket editions of the Encyclopedia Britannica. This rare specimen of fauna, flora, or what have you? (Make mine
a double choc malt, Zenobia, and don’t spare the hosses) was conducted to this land of the glee and home
of the brave via first-class mail in a special eiderdown container lined with fur. What fur? Don’t ask, remember the
old maxim: you can’t drive a nail with a sponge, no matter how hard you soak it. Well, to make
a long story more compact, it was drug in at frightful expense by John Doe and his only and favorite
son and heir Vododie O. Doe. This Curly Billiard was the inspiration for the song “I Miscue.”

The Celestial Tripe-Dodger
The Tripe-dodger is a denizen of the deep, dark tarns which were once so prevalent in this country before the
war, suh. The tripe-dodger is a cute lil’ trick with neat, though not gaudy plumage. However, the head of this
critter is where its tail ought to be, and its tail is where its head ought to be. In other
words, it can’t tell heads from tails. The cause of the peculiar bodily conformation of this lil’ bugger is that
it doesn’t give a whoop and holler where it’s going, but is no end interested as to where it has
been. Nerts!
