THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 9, 1930

TWELVE ALUMNI DEATHS

Since Last Issue of This Paper Was Published in the Spring Twelve Alumni Have Died

Since the last spring issue of The Davidsonian, 12 Davidson College alumni have been claimed by death. Below is given a short resume of their lives:

Rev. J. R. Jacobs, ’73

Rev. James Ripley Jacobs died at his home in Marfa, Texas, May 23rd, after a lingering illness of many months. He was 82 years old when he died, and had not been active for several years. The deceased was in the 1873 class at Davidson, and completed his ministerial training at Columbia Theological Seminary, Columbia, S. C. With the exception of one period in his life when he held a pastorate in South Carolina, he was connected entirely with churches in Texas.

Rev. James Lapsley, ’80

Rev. James Lapsley suffered a paralytic stroke on July 29, and died the following day at the home of his son in Craigsville, Va. The day before he was stricken, he attended a meeting of the Presbytery in that section, and appeared as well as usual. Mr. Lapsley was in the class of 1880 at Davidson, and after leaving here attended Union Theological Seminary at Richmond. He had held pastorates in Alabama, Kentucky, North Carolina and Virginia, his last charge being at Williamsville, Va.

J. K. Glasgow, ’90

Joseph Kennedy Glasgow, 1890 Davidson graduate, died in a Charlotte hospital June 13, at the age of 75 years. His home was in Davidson. After completing his work at Davidson, he taught school for a number of years in South Carolina, but returned to his native home and operated a dairy adjoining the campus. Among his survivors is B. W. Glasgow, ’91, of Dallas, Texas.

Rev. T. H. Newkirk, ’90

Rev. Timothy Haywood Newkirk, aged 74, member of the 1890 class at Davidson, died in a hospital at Hannibal, Mo., on August 30th. His home was at Perry, Mo. He left Davidson and went to Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., graduating there in 1891. The deceased held several pastorates in North Carolina, and later went to South Carolina and Georgia as a minister. In 1912 he went to Corder, Mo., remaining there until 1927, when he became pastor at Perry, Missouri.

J. E. Thompson, ’98

Joseph Evans Thompson died in Wilmington on July 6th, after a brief illness. He was in the class of 1898, and leaving here, he went to Wilmington, where he entered the newspaper field as a reporter, and rose to be vice-president and general manager of The Wilmington Morning Star. In 1919, he sold his interest in the paper and entered the insurance business, where he remained until he was chosen city commissioner of finance in 1921. He was re-elected in 1925, but retired in 1929, becoming editor and part owner of The News-Dispatch, now known as The Wilmington News.

G. E. Hughey, ’03

George Elbertus Hughey, 1903 alumnus of Davidson, died at his home in Statesville on October 1st, at the age of 50. Mr. Hughey entered Davidson from Statesville, and when he was a banker most of the time. He was assistant cashier of the Commercial National Bank at Statesville for many years, and three and a half years ago resigned. Since then, he had managed the Dixie Motor Company, of Taylorsville, but maintained his residence in Statesville.

Dr. R. T. Gillespie, ’04

Rev. Richard Thomas Gillespie, D.D., died suddenly in Charlottesville, Va., on May 30th, following a two-day illness. He had been attending the General Assembly meeting there. Dr. Gillespie was 50 years old at the time of his death, and was virtually in the prime of his service to the church. Graduating at Davidson in 1904, he attended Columbia Theological Seminary at Columbia, S. C. Completing his work there, he held pastorates at Florence, S. C., and Louisville, Ky., and when his seminary Alma Mater called him to the presidency in 1925, he accepted the offer. He was active in church endeavor throughout the South, and stood high in the estimation of the General Assembly.

(Continued on page 6)

1910 Football

For 20 years the football used in the 6-0 victory of Davidson over the University of North Carolina in 1910, has been stored away. But through the kindness of the one who had it in his possession, the football has been sent to Davidson College athletic authorities, and it is being prepared for exhibition to all of the Davidson alumni returning here on Home-Coming Day, October 25th, and particularly for the covetous eyes of members of that famous state championship team. “Doc” Charlie, the Wildcat trainer, is shellacking the football and stuffing it so that it will have the appearance of an inflated football. Some students at Davidson will be asked to print upon it the score of the game, and the date of the contest. It will perhaps be on display in the alumni office, except when the 1910 team has its banquet, when it will no doubt be a centerpiece. Lunsford Richardson, ’14, right end, picked up a fumble in the opening minutes of the second half, and raced for the lone touchdown of the game.

Dr. Neal Anderson

Used by courtesy of The Winston-Salem Journal

Dr. Neal Anderson Has Retired From Ministry

His Serious Illness of the Past Summer is Direct Cause of This Action

Of universal interest to Davidson College alumni, and to the Southern Presbyterian Church, was the announcement made through The Winston-Salem Journal last week that Dr. Neal L. Anderson, ’85, pastor of the Independent Presbyterian Church at Savannah, Ga., had resigned his pastorate after 13 years of labor in that city. Dr. Anderson was seriously ill during the summer months, and while his improvement, according to his letter of resignation, “has been steady, progressive and most satisfactory,” he hadbeen advised by his physicians not to return to active service in the immediate future. His resignation was to take effect immediately. This well-known minister graduated at Davidson in 1885, and after teaching at Clinton, N.C., he entered Princeton Theological Seminary, where his ministry preparation was completed. He returned to Clinton, N.C., as a pastor, later going to churches in Winston-Salem and Montgomery, Ala. He served one year as president of Austin Theological Seminary, Austin, Texas, and resigned to accept the call to the Independent Presbyterian Church in Savannah. As a member of the Board of Trustees of Davidson for many years, he made valuable contributions to his Alma Mater and was largely instrumental in the fashioning of a new constitution for the board. Dr. Anderson is also an inventor, having perfected the Anderson electric return carriage on the Underwood typewriter. For the time being, Dr. Anderson will not be very active in church endeavor. He has accepted an invitation, however, to speak before the joint meeting of the Synods of South Carolina and Georgia at Presbyterian College, Clinton, S.C., at its sessions to be held there soon.

WEEK-END TRIPS
Can be made economically in a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford from—
HENDERSON’S FILLING STATION

The Most Up-to-Date Cleaning Plant in the Two Carolinas At Your Service
ZORIC CLEANING by DOMESTIC LAUNDRY
“Poon” Hancock Representatives
210 Watts “Dus” Enochs

Fifty Nineteen Different Classes Over Period of 26 Years Are Represented by the 63 Students
TEN PER CENT OF ENROLLMENT
One Alumnus Has Two Sons and a Daughter Here—Several Have Two Sons

With each succeeding year, the number of alumni sons attending Davidson College increases. Several years ago, a check-up revealed that approximately 45 sons of former students of the college were enrolled at the institution of their fathers. A new zenith was reached, however, this year, when the compilation made in the office of the alumni secretary showed that 62 sons and one daughter of 55 alumni were in the 1930-1931 student body. This is over ten per cent of the enrollment. Nineteen different classes are represented over a period of 26 years, extending from 1883 to 1909. The class of 1901 leads with the greatest number, nine sons and a daughter in Davidson; the class of 1899 is next with seven; 1905 and 1900 have five each; while the classes of 1895, 1896, and 1908 have four each. The remaining number are scattered over the fathers’ classes of 1883, 1893, 1894, 1897, 1898, 1902, 1903, 1904, 1906, 1907, and 1909.

J. R. Caldwell, ’01, has the honor of having three children in Davidson—two sons and a daughter. Alumni having two boys here are Dr. J. M. Covington, 1900; Rev. C. S. Matthews, D.D., ’95; Rev. J. K. Parker, ’08; Rev. W. T. Thompson, D.D., ’05; Rev. C. H. Little, ’96, and the late Rev. S. W. DuBose, ’97. Ten of these men have had 12 other sons who attended Davidson. Dr. J. M. McConnell, ’99, and John D. Baker, ’86, have already had two sons graduate besides the one now in college, and others who have had boys at Davidson include Rev. J. W. Lafferty, ’83; R. S. Steele, ’98; Rev. P. C. DuBose, ’02; Dr. C. C. Orr, ’95; E. T. McKeithen, ’06; Rev. W. M. Hunter, ’93; R. S. Abernethy, ’99, and the late Rev. S. W. DuBose, ’97. The alumni secretary does not guarantee that the list below is absolutely accurate. The compilation was made upon his knowledge of Davidson alumni, and not through an individual survey of the student body. Whatever errors occur, or what omissions are made, will be rectified and included in later editions of The Davidsonian. His findings are as follows:

1883—Rev. J. W. Lafferty, Rome, Ga.
1886—John D. Baker, Jacksonville, Fla.
1893—Rev. W. M. Hunter, Davidson.
1894—Dr. G. A. Brown, Mt. Ulla, and R. H. Rusk, Atlanta, Ga.
1895—Rev. C. S. Matthews, D.D. (2), Lumberton; Dr. C. C. Orr, Asheville, and Dr. A. G. Little, Valdosta, Ga.
1896—Rev. C. H. Little (2), Charlotte; Judge John W. Dodge, Jacksonville, Fla., and Dr. G. M. Maxwell, Roanoke, Va.
1897—The late Rev. S. W. DuBose (2), and E. H. Harrison, Salisbury.
1898—R. B. Sanford, Mocksville, and R. S. Steele, Lafayette, Ga.
1899—J. M. Harris, Rome, Ga.; Dr. A. A. McFadyen, China; Dr. J. M. McConnell, Davidson; Rev. A. M. McLauchlin, Chester, S.C.; R. S. Abernethy, Winter Haven, Fla.; Dr. H. S. Munroe, Charlotte, and S. A. Robinson, Gastonia.
1900—Dr. J. M. Covington (2), Wadesboro; Rev. E. B. Robinson, Talladega, Ala.; Fred L. Smyre, Gastonia, and Rev. J. E. Flow, D.D., Davidson.
1901—J. R. Caldwell (3), Davidson; W. B. McClintock, Charlotte; R. T. Faucette, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Rev. E. W. Phifer, (Continued on page 6)

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia
The oldest and largest Southern Presbyterian Seminary
Both sound in the faith, and alert for new methods.
For Catalogue and information, address Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President.

Recommended by The English Department of Davidson College
WEBSTER’S COLLEGIATE
The Best Abridged Dictionary because it is based upon WEBSTER’S NEW INTERNATIONAL—The “Supreme Authority.”
Here is a companion for your hours of reading and study that will prove its real value every time you consult it. A wealth of ready information on words, persons, places, etymologies, pronunciations, and use in its 1,256 pages. 1,700 illustrations. Includes dictionaries of biography and geography.
See it at Your College Bookstore
Write for information to the publishers. Free specimen pages if you name this paper.
G. & C. Merriam Co.