THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 16, 1930

Kim’s Kolumn

CHAMPIONS OF 1929

Baseball
World Champions—Philadelphia Athletics.
National League Pennant Winners—Chicago Cubs.
American League Pennant Winners—Philadelphia Athletics.
Leading Batsman (National)—Frank J. O’Doul, Philadelphia, average .400.
Leading Batsman (American)—Lew Fonseca, Cleveland, average .369.
Leading Pitcher (National)—Charles Root, Chicago, won 18, lost 6.
Leading Pitcher (American)—Tom Zachary, New York, won 12, lost 0.
Most Valuable Player (National)—Rogers Hornsby, Chicago.
Most Valuable Player (American)—Lew Fonseca, Cleveland. (Unofficial).
Western Conference (College Team)—Michigan.
Eastern Intercollegiate—Holy Cross. (Best record).
Eastern Intercollegiate League—Dartmouth.
Quadrangle Cup—Dartmouth and Pennsylvania (tie).
Home Runs (American)—George H. Ruth, Yankees, 46.
Home Runs (National)—Charles Klein, Phillies, 43.
Little World’s Series—Kansas City.
Junior World’s Series—Buffalo.

Boxing
World’s Heavyweight—Open. (Leading American contender, Jack Sharkey).
World’s Light Heavyweight—Open. (Tommy Loughran, retired).
World’s Middleweight—Mickey Walker.
World’s Welterweight—Jackie Fields.
World’s Lightweight—Sammy Mandell.
World’s Junior Lightweight—Benny Bass.
World’s Featherweight—Christopher Battalino.
World’s Bantamweight—Panama Al Brown.
World’s Flyweight—Frankie Genaro.

Football
National League (Professional)—Green Bay, Wis., Packers.
Eastern College Teams (best records)—Pittsburgh and Colgate.
Middle West (best records)—Purdue and Notre Dame.
Western Conference—Purdue.
Big Six Conference—Nebraska.
Southern Conference—Tulane.
Rocky Mountain Conference—Utah.
Southern Conference—Texas Christian University.
Pacific Coast Conference—California, Southern California, Oregon, and Oregon State tied.

Golf
National Open—Bobby Jones.
British Open—Walter Hagen.
National Amateur—Harrison R. Johnston.
British Amateur—Cyril Tolley.
National Women’s—Glenna Collet.
British Women’s—Joyce Wethered.
National Professional—Leo Diegel.
National Intercollegiate—Thomas Aycock, Yale.
National Intercollegiate (Team)—Princeton.
National Public Parks—Carl Kauffman, Pittsburgh.
Western Conference—Lester Bolstad, Minnesota.
Western Conference (Team)—Minnesota.
Canadian Open—Leo Diegel.
French Open—Aubrey Boomer, Great Britain.
French Professional—Horton Smith.

Track and Field
100 Yards—Ed Tolan, University of Michigan.
220 Yards—Ed Tolan, University of Michigan.
440 Yards—R. F. Bowen, University of Pittsburgh.
880 Yards—Phil Edwards, New York University.
One Mile—Leo Lermond, Boston A. A.
120 Yard Hurdles—Stephen Anderson, University of Washington.
220 Yard Hurdles—Stephen Anderson, University of Washington.
440 Yard Hurdles—Gordon Allot, Denver A. C.
Running High Jump—Henry Lassalette, Los Angeles A. C.
Running Broad Jump—Edward Gordon, University of Iowa.
16-Pound Shot Put—Herman Brix, Los Angeles A. C.
16-Pound Hammer Throw—Jack Merchant, Olympic Club, San Francisco.
Pole Vault—Frederick Sturdy, Los Angeles A. C.
Discus Throw—Erick Krenz, Olympic Club, San Francisco.
Javelin Throw—Jess Mortensen, Los Angeles A. C.
Decathlon—Ken Doherty, Detroit.
Marathon—John C. Miles, Olympic Club, Hamilton, Ontario.

Tennis
Davis Cup (world’s team championship)—France.
Wightman Cup (United States-Great Britain team championship)—United States.
National Men’s Singles—William T. Tilden, 2nd.
National Clay Court Men’s Singles—Emmett Pare, Chicago.
Wimbledon Men’s Singles—Henri Cochet, France.
French Men’s Singles—Rene Lacoste, France.
Canadian Men’s Singles—Jack Wright, Canada.
National Men’s Doubles—George Lott, Chicago, and John Doeg, Santa Monica, Cal.
National Clay Court Men’s Doubles—J. Gilbert Hall, South Orange, N. J., and Fritz Mercur, Bethlehem, Pa.
Wimbledon Men’s Doubles—John Van Ryn, East Orange, N. J., and Wilmer Allison, Austin, Texas.
French Men’s Doubles—Rene Lacoste and Jean Borotra, France.
Canadian Men’s Doubles—Jack Wright and Willard Crocker, Canada.
National Women’s Singles—Helen Wills, Berkeley, Cal.
Wimbledon Women’s Singles—Helen Wills, Berkeley, Cal.
French Women’s Singles—Helen Wills, Berkeley, Cal.
Canadian Women’s Singles—Olive Wade, Canada.
National Women’s Doubles—Mrs. Phoebe Watson and Mrs. Peggy Mitchell, England.
Wimbledon Women’s Doubles—Mrs. Phoebe Watson and Mrs. Peggy Mitchell, England.
National Mixed Doubles—Betty Nuthall, England, and George Lott, United States.
Wimbledon Mixed Doubles—Helen Wills and Jean Borotra, France.

Chapel During Exams
During examinations, Chapel will be held for undergraduates at 8:25 a.m. A request from the Seniors that they be exempted
during this period was granted by the executive committee of the college. Seniors will also be excused from church attendance
Sunday.

Davidson Spanish Club Has Important Meeting
Tuesday night at 8:30, the Spanish Club held a very important meeting in Shearer Hall. After all business had been
settled, delightful refreshments were served to the members. W. L. Hart presided over the meeting. Most important among the matters
discussed was the possibility of affiliating the organization with a similar society of national standing. Despite the fact that no
definite move has been made to this end, it is very probable that such an affiliation will take place. It
is highly desired by most of the members and would surely mean much to the college in general. In the
very near future, a new set of officers will be elected for the coming term. The present officers are: W.
L. Hart, President; J. K. Pepper, Vice-President; and A. G. Randolph, Secretary-Treasurer.

Varsity Basketeers Not Unusually Tall
None of the players on the varsity basketball team are endowed with unusual heights, the tallest man being “Boots” Wilson,
center, who is 6 feet 3 inches tall, but he is not one of the regular first stringers. Captain Johnston
is the only starter in games who is over 6 feet, and he is 6 feet 1 inch, which fact
has proved itself to be a great help in the games.the recent contests. Gilbert, who is frequently substituted, is of
a similar height to Johnston, while the only other 6-foot members are Rusk and Milton. These two men alternate as
regular center for the Wildcats. Pritchett, high scorer so far this season, and top-notcher in the scoring column last winter,
when he was captain, is the smallest man on the squad. Several of the aspirants hover around the 6-foot height,
such as Goodson, Proctor, and Martin, but the remaining number are well under that. Mathis is another small man on
the team, being approximately the same height as Pritchett, while Moore and Shepherd come in between these men.

Francis T. Hunter, United States. French Mixed Doubles—Eileen Bennett, England, and Henri Cochet, France. National Intercollegiate Singles—Berkley Bell, University of
Texas. National Intercollegiate Doubles—Benjamin Gorchakoff and Arthur Kussman, Occidental. National Professional Singles—Karel Kozeluh, Czecho-Slovakia. National Professional Doubles—Karel Kozeluh, Czecho-Slovakia and
Vincent Richards, United States.

FELLOWS
You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Best Quality and Prices
ANY TYPE OF PRINTING
Earnest H. McCall
Representing Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

Wildcat Cagers Win Over Wofford Quint

Wednesday, January 8, 1930, saw the Davidson Wildcats sweep the Wofford Terriers aside in a 29 to 15 victory. The
game was played in the new Andrews Memorial field house at Wofford College, and was witnessed by a large crowd—this
game being the dedication of the field house. Davidson took an early lead in the game and kept ahead throughout
the remainder of the contest. Although Wofford played an extraordinarily good defensive game, the Wildcats were not to be stopped.
The battle was featured throughout by well-timed and well-directed shots from Pritchett, who piled up a total score of fifteen
points. On the whole, Wofford showed up best in defensive tactics, while Davidson was undoubtedly at her best in the
offensive. Neither team was able to break through the opposing defense with any consistency and the marksmen of both teams
were forced to depend upon long shots for a good part of their scoring. The floor and defensive play of
Captain Jeffries of Wofford, and Proctor of Davidson, featured.

Davidson Position Wofford
Johnston (2) Forward McLeod
Pritchett (19) Forward Hix (8)
Rusk (3) Center King (2)
Goodson (3) Guard Adams (2)
Proctor (2) Guard Jeffries (3)

Davidson: Milton (4) for Rusk. Officials, Berry (Spartanburg Y. M. C. A.) referee.

Duke University
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
Durham, N. C.
On October 1, 1930, carefully selected first and third year students will be admitted. Applications may be sent at any
time and will be considered in the order of receipt. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.

Lingle Reports To Board of Trustees

At a meeting of the executive committee of the board of trustees held last Thursday in Charlotte at the office
of Mr. R. A. Dunn, Dr. W. L. Lingle gave a “very satisfactory” report of the year’s work. Only “routine”
matters were discussed. The meeting was called earlier than is customary in order to attend to matters of business. Plans
for the mid-winter meeting of the board of trustees were made at the gathering. The board is due to meet
here February 19. The executive committee usually meets the day before the trustees meet, but it was held more than
a month earlier this year in order to discuss financial matters and to hear Doctor Lingle’s report. Plans for a
new athletic building and training house for the college were discussed, but nothing definite about it was made public.

Old Gold Features New Series of Ads

John Held, Jr., Wields a Wicked Pen For Old Gold Cigarettes

Those of our so-called student body who fancy themselves in the roles of Lotharios, handsome ne’er-do-wells and old-fashioned heroes of
romance, will do well to study the helps and hints contained in Mr. John Held, Jr.’s series of Old Gold
advertisements now appearing in this paper. The inimitable Held object lessons in successful courtship are among the funniest things we
have ever seen in print. That they should appear as sales persuaders for Old Golds subtracts nothing whatever from their
funniness. We make no bones about the fact that any advertisement in our columns gives us something of a thrill.
Business is business even to a college newspaper—but when an advertiser gives us his money and a hearty laugh to
boot, we feel like we are playing the game on the velvet. Long may John Held continue to portray his
melodramatic villains and touch-me-not maidens of long ago. And may his heroes and heroines never find a cough in a
carload!

Rastus: “Here is a telegram from de boss in Africa. He says he is sending us some lions’ tails.”
Circus Owner’s Wife: “Lions’ tails, Rastus? What are you talking about?”
Rastus: “Well, read it yourself. It say plain: ‘Just captured two lions. Sending details by mail.’”

Eat LANCE’S Eats

Monday and Tuesday, EVEN 20 and 21
“Sunnyside Up”
CHARLES FARRELL and JANET GAYNOR

Wednesday, January 22
“Their Own Desire” with NORMA SHEARER

Davidson Theatre

Thursday, January 23
“Tanned Legs” ANN PENNINGTON

Friday, January 24
“No So Dumb” A METRO-GOLDWYN PICTURE.

Saturday, January 25
“Mexicali Rose”
