THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1930

Week-End Guests

Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Lucy Follin, Margaret Gorrell, and Ida Clinton Galloway, of Winston-Salem; Anne McLaurine, Edith Cochran, Sally Cothran,
Adeline Wooley, and Alice Cowles Barringer, of Charlotte; Kitty Moore and Alice Caldwell, of Salem College; Lucy Coleman and Lib
Monteith, of Columbia, S. C.; Mary Brandon Vaughn, of Statesville; Clellie Lucas, of Salisbury; Mary Draughn, of Dunn, N. C.;
Dorothy Self, of G. C. W.; and Julia Reed Roseborough, of Jacksonville, Fla. Messrs. John Foster and Charlie Creech, of
Winston-Salem, N. C., and Paul Boucher, of Carolina.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Misses Edna McCoy, Catherine Gossett, Ida Bell, and Sissy Stokes, of Charlotte; Mary Stringfield, Askins Ivey, Flora
McNeill, and Angie Ray Bryant, of Converse, and Fay Cox, of Duke; Messrs. Bill Flow and Frank Cannon, of Concord,
and Bill McCuen, of Laurens, S. C.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Misses Johnsye Eastwood, of Red Springs, N. C.; Virginia Kelley, of Charlotte; Eleanor Hottenstein, of Sweetbriar; Delia
Merrimen, of N. C. C. W.; Kathleen Gibson, of Laurinburg, S. C.; Mary Lee Lindsay, of Taylorsville, N. C.; Marie
Moriaty, of N. C. C. W.; Helen Brawley, of Statesville; Mary Craig, of Charlotte; and Wilna Slow, of Greensboro; Messrs.
Buster Mathews, Charley Harrison, John Akers, Carson Ford, and Clement Penn.

Kappa Alpha: Misses Martha Morrison, of High Point, N. C.; Eleanor Hayes and Jean Marion, of Charlotte; Lucy Currie and
Susan Moffett, of Davidson; Pat Miller, of Sedgefield, N. C.; Sarah Erkman, of Hendersonville, N. C.; Lib West, of Spartanburg,
S. C.; Hattie Scarborough, of Columbia, S. C.; and Mary Paterson, of Charlotte; Messrs. Bud Guthrie, Brandon Smith, and Dutch
Wearn.

“Duke” Overpowers “N. C. State” 6 To 0

Duke was again victorious last Wednesday, when they defeated N. C. State by the score of 6-0. The game was
very well played by both teams but it lacked the pep and fire that was shown against Carolina. Duke had
the advantage from the opening whistle, keeping most of the play in State territory, but once in the shadow of
their goalposts the Wolfpack seemed to take on new life and push the fighting Blue Devils back.

The score came in the final session when Duke carried the ball to State’s 11-yard line by a series of
off-tackle plays. State took the ball on downs but fumbled the ball on their first attempt to advance. Duke recovered
the ball and Mills tried an end run but gained nothing on the play. After an unsuccessful off-tackle play, Fleagle
took the ball around left end for the touchdown.

Fleagle played a good game for Duke, while McQueen and King were not lacking in their support of the Blue
Devils’ standard. Clark and Fraley were outstanding in the stubborn defense that the Wolfpack put up.

The lineup was as follows:

DUKE Position N. C. STATE
Steele L. E. Peabody
Craig L. T. King
Gardner L. G. Flynn
Parker C. Wilson
Ross R. G. Cannon
Copje R. T. Clark
Fraley R. E. McQueen
Fleagle L. H. B. Fraley
McQueen F. B.

DOCTOR McALLISTER (Continued from page 1)

to God, and you will be surprised how quickly your faith increases.

“If faith is the foundation of Christianity, we might say that love is its cornerstone. If we would have more
love, we must practice what we have. The trouble with most of us is that we keep it bottled up.

“The thing above all others that most men need to develop is Christian activities. The man who says he can't
teach Sunday School, can't lead in prayer, can't do personal work will find that if he goes ahead and tries
he not only can do these things but gets great pleasure from them. Once a young man who was asked
to teach a Sunday School class declined saying that he did not have any talent along that line, but later
after continued insistence he agreed to try. He became interested in Christian work and soon became superintendent of the Sunday
School. Then he resigned his job and became “Y” secretary for the railroad. Soon he was Y secretary for all
the railroads in West Virginia, then chief Y. M. C. A. secretary for the Pennsylvania Railroad in their New York
office.

For that COLD and COUGH take old Phe “QUICK RELIEF” Cold Remedy for College Students, sold by College Student Jim
Galleway.YOUR DRUGGIST HAS COLDEX York Terminal. This man was none other than Jim Rice, written up in the American Magazine
because of his splendid services to the doughboys during the war. He was no extraordinary man, only after great persuasion
he tried to use what talent he had. There are many just like him or even with greater possibilities who
never amount to very much because they never make the first attempt. But we must not forget the last part
of Christ’s warning. Neglect means loss! You don't have to cut and bruise your muscles to make them useless; just
neglect them. It is not necessary for a man or his enemies to actively destroy his trade for his business
to fail; just let him neglect it. A father doesn't have to actually lead his son into wickedness to ruin
his life: just neglect him. The surest way to rob fine character of all its goodness is neglect. Neglect means
certain death to all a man’s opportunities. Must we be followed around for the rest of our lives by the
ghosts of buried opportunities, or will we hear the welcome words of our savior: ‘Well done, thou good and faithful
servant. Thou hast been faithful in a few things. I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into
the joy of thy Lord.”

Davidson Ten Years Ago
The North Carolina State Volunteer Conference opened last Friday night with a downpour of rain calculated to dampen the spirit
as well as the garments of any except the indefatigable delegates. Most of the visitors reached Davidson on the eight
o'clock train and waded from the station to the church where the conference started at eight o'clock.

We are able to offer you, for a limited time, a “Two for the Price of One,” on Jergens preparations.

Beta Theta Pi: Misses Mary Emma Hearst and Lila Steele, of Statesville; Mamie Hines LaRoyne, of Converse; “Dee” Hall, of
Queens; Jane Morrison, Brantley Nichols, and Catherine Tucker, of Charlotte; Anne Faysoux Johnson, of Statesville.

Phi Delta Theta: Misses Sally Couch, of Charlotte; Annetta Robertson, of Sweetbriar; Bessie Hall, of Queens; and Pat Somerset, of
Converse.

Kappa Sigma: Misses Lib Padgett, of Columbia, S. C.; Lou Best, of Warsaw, N. C.; Frances Hamilton, Elizabeth Thompson, Lucy
Dunn, and Ethel Hall, of N. C. C. W.; Messrs. Gene Hoover, “Peanut” Ridubon, Ben DeOrmond, and A. H. McGurk.

Pi Kappa Phi: Misses Grace Cowles, of N. Y. C.; Alice Carr, Louise Melchor, Margaret Melchor, and Nancy Howard, of
Mooresville; “Teen” Thompson, of Bessemer City; Frances and Sophie Marshall, of Rock Hill, S. C.; Dorothy Skinner, of Charlotte; Betty
Roberts, of Savannah, Ga.; Mary Neale Hobbs, of Statesville; Eleanor Best, of Fremont, N. C.; Sallie Green, of Columbia College;
and Edwina Williams, of Salisbury.

Theta Upsilon Omega: Ellen Hawkins, Kitty Brown, Eileen Brown, Natalie Emery, Janis Heidacher, and Mildred Beasley, of Charlotte; Harriet Berry,
of Griffin, Ga.; Sarah Graves, of Salem; Helen Flowers, of Hickory, N. C.; and Louise Ruff, of Converse.

Pyramid Club: Misses Dorothy Wooley and Elizabeth Howe, of Charlotte.

Misses Ruby Brantley, Mitchell College; Eleanor Sherrill, Gastonia; Sally Snyder, Flora Macdonald College; Blanche Purcell, N. C. C. W.; Mary
Gaffney, Davidson; Lois Wimbish, Danville, Va.; Margaret McCoy, Charlotte were also guests of Davidson men during the past weekend.

Engraved by JON HELD JR.

Misses CRIED the ice-pack. Automobile Afire. Driving along... you smell smoke... you investigate... engine afire... later the remains. However, if
you have fire insurance, the policy remains, too, to indemnify you for the loss of your investment. Let us quote
rates and cover against FIRE, THEFT, COLLISION, PROPERTY DAMAGE losses. It’s safer to have insurance—and not need it!

On your Radio... OLD GOLD—PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR, Paul Whiteman, every Tuesday, 9 to 10 P. M., Eastern Standard Time.

Independence Trust Co. Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
