DAVIDSON-DUKE MONDAY NIGHT CHARLOTTE

THE DAVIDSONIAN | “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

EVERYBODY’S GOING TO BACK THOSE WILDCATS

Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 6, 1930 No. 16.

Dr. Harry Rimmer, Able Minister and Scientist Will Speak Here Feb. 9
Is Famous Lecturer, Pastor, and Archeologist of Los Angeles, California

TOWN PEOPLE INVITED
Will Conduct Y. M. C. A. Services Sunday Night

The Y. M. C. A. has announced that Dr. Harry Rimmer, famous archeologist, scientist, physician, pastor, and former prize fighter,
of Los Angeles, will speak at the Vesper Service Sunday night, February 9. Owing to the many varied interests and
qualifications of Doctor Rimmer, the “Y” wishes to extend an invitation to all townspeople to attend the service as well
as urge that no student miss the opportunity to hear a man who has caught the interest of the entire
student bodies of Emory University, Agnes Scott, and many other schools of note. Dr. R. O. Flinn, of Atlanta, said
last year that he would consider Davidson exceedingly fortunate to get Doctor Rimmer here. Doctor Gillespie, President of Columbia Seminary
also recommends him very highly as do also several other leading men of Atlanta. The Atlanta “Journal” says, “Doctor Rimmer
is just the sort of fellow you would like to have make a pep talk to your football team before
it went on the field. We should say that he is somewhere between the ages of 25 and 38 and
he has a punch and keen wit that makes his talks fascinating even when he is discussing skulls and skeletons
and bones of long departed brethren.” Doctor Rimmer comes to Charlotte to conduct a series of lectures in the First
Presbyterian Church, which has kindly consented to allow him to come to Davidson for the Vesper Service. This man’s biography
is one of intense interest. From welter-weight champion in boxing in the Pacific Fleet, Doctor Rimmer was converted and gave
his life to the cause of Christ. Since that time he has become pastor of one of the large Presbyterian
churches in Los Angeles, California. He is a physician and many noted doctors and surgeons have remarked that he never
uses a scientific term incorrectly. At the present time he is Curator of the Museum of the State Teachers College
of Kansas. His time is now divided between scientific research, direction of affairs of the museum, and lecturing and preaching
in churches and colleges. To hear this man is to hear a scientist and a minister discuss in a new
light the old question of science and religion.

Southern and Frew To Represent Davidson In Contest
Allen Frew will be Davidson’s entrant in the annual American Legion oratorical contest which will be held in Raleigh, February
22. “Our Flag” will be the subject of Frew’s oration. All North Carolina colleges are sending representatives to the contest,
according to reports. The preliminaries will be held in the afternoon, and the five best speakers will enter the finals
that evening at eight o'clock. The first prize is fifty dollars and a gold medal, and the second prize is
twenty-five dollars. Frew is the outstanding orator in Davidson College and one of the foremost college speakers in the south.
He won first place in the southern district of the national constitutional contest at Atlanta last year. His oration on
the Constitution won third honor in the national competition in Los Angeles.

Davidson Has Two Men At Princeton Seminary
Alexander and Phifer Represent College in Graduate School

Two graduates of Davidson College are students at Princeton Theological Seminary, Princeton, N. J., this year, according to recent announcements
from that in- (Continued on Page 6)

Capt. F. M. Cochran To Replace L. S. Pierce
Fresh Cagers Make Pierce Captain

Just before the Belmont-Abbey game, “Skinny” Pierce, of Spencer, N. C., flashy center of the Freshman team, was elected captain.
This year's Freshman team appears to be one of the best in recent years, and its success has been due
in a large part to the brilliant playing of Pierce. Pierce is one of the most prominent men in the
Freshmen Class. He came from Oak Ridge Military Institute where he was very active in baseball, football, and basketball. This
fall Pierce was one of the mainstays of the Freshman football team. He played end in a very capable manner,
and won praise from all who saw him in action. Aside from leadership in athletics, Pierce has shown that he
has the qualities of a leader in other fields, by the fact that he was one of the candidates for
the presidency of the Freshman Class. His work in the basketball team this winter has been excellent. Besides handling the
position at center very well, he is high point man on the team. His shooting and floor work has been
consistent the whole year.

Glee Club Arranges For Extensive Tour
Orchestra Will Accompany Glee Club on Trip

The Davidson Glee Club has made definite dates for their tour through Virginia and North Carolina. They are scheduled to
appear at Mary Baldwin College, at Staunton, Va., February 13; Greensboro College for Women, Greensboro, February 14; and Mitchell College,
Statesville, N.C. February 15. Also they have possibilities of getting dates at Roanoke, Va. Ned Heffner has been sent as
advance agent to make further arrangements. The Glee Club will begin its tour February 12 and fill its final engagement,
February 15. The program of the Glee Club will include songs by the entire group, several selections by the two
quartets, and special numbers by the orchestra. The Glee Club and Orchestra will travel by bus during the North Carolina-Virginia
trip. The club will make a southern trip soon, taking in Atlanta. They also have many one-day trips pending which
they expect to fill.

Scout Organization To Be Formed Soon
Last Monday morning, immediately after Chapel, a meeting was called to set on foot an organization for men who are
interested in boy-scout work and other clubs or organizations for boys. This council which is now being formed is sponsored
by the Cherokee Council which includes a number of northern counties in the state, according to Carl Pritchett. At this
first meeting a nominating committee was appointed, and it is expected that they will present their selections at the next
meeting. Joe McCall, Steve and Frank Buckner composed this committee. A constitution will be drawn up in the near future.
This organization is open to all Davidson men, and any student who is at all interested or would like to
enter Scout work is urged to acquaint himself with this council here at Davidson. The Council plans to invite a
number of famous scout leaders and workers to visit Davidson and lecture on the organization and administration of the Scout
movement, including the financing and leadership required by such an organization.

Captain Elkins Expects to Enter Foreign Service
Capt. Franklin M. Cochran, now stationed in the Philippine Islands, has recently been ordered by the United States War Department
to report here in September to replace Capt. John Elkins, who is completing his fifth year here. The usual term
of service here is four years, but Captain Elkins obtained special permission to remain an extra year. Though Captain Elkins
has not yet received his official orders from the War Department at Washington, he has been informed that he will
be assigned to foreign service, the particular point being undecided. He expects to hear definitely next month. The new member
of next year's staff is a native South Carolinian, having been born in Greenville. He is a graduate of the
infantry school in Georgia, and he was a member of the national guard in that state from 1904 to 1917.
When America entered the World War, he went overseas, and during the three years in which he was serving he
became a lieutenant colonel. Since his return to the States he has been an executive officer at Camp Gordon, and
for the past year and a half has been stationed at the headquarters of Uncle Sam's forces in the Philippines.

Debaters Tryouts Will be Held Soon
Final Selection Will Be Made February Fourteenth

Tryouts for the debating teams that will represent Davidson this spring will be held on February 14, according to the
announcement of R. M. Christian, of Mobile, Ala., President of the Forensic Council. At this time, the varsity candidates and
all others who are interested in the art of debating will appear before Davidson judges. It is probable that four
teams will be chosen. The query which has been chosen as the subjectFor the tryouts is “Resolved that the nations
should adopt a plan of complete disarmament, excepting such forces as are necessary for police purposes.” This question has been
selected as the subject for debate with opponents in a number of the spring engagements, and of the present world
conference in London. Material for the debaters is already available in the library.

Six veterans of the platform will be among the more students who are expected to speak on February 14. They
are R. M. Christian, Mobile, Ala.; Zeb V. Long, Jr., Statesville; W. B. McGuire, Jr., Franklin; I. I. Marsh, Jr.,
Marshville; Carl R. Pritchett, Reidsville; and J. C. Matthews, Lumberton.

Course in Coaching To Be Offered Soon

Sometime during the spring semester a simple course in coaching will be open to those students considering teaching positions after
they leave Davidson. Each of the major sports will be dealt with and instruction relative to group training and calisthenics
will be given. Capt. Norton G. Pritchett will be in charge of this work and all men interested should either
give him their names or see Chester Arnold sometime in the very near future. The course which is to be
offered will be the equivalent of that offered in a summer school session, but will be extended over a period
of about two months. While not, in itself, sufficient to prepare a man for a coaching position, the course will
give a firm foundation in that field which would be invaluable to any preparatory or high school teacher.

Clark and Enochs Elected

At a recent meeting, the Freshman Class completed its election of officers. Jerome B. Clark, Jr., of Fayetteville, N. C.,
was elected Vice-President and J. D. Enochs, of Bluefield, W. Va., Secretary and Treasurer. This election completes the organization of
the Class of '33, the President, Bruce Peabody, having been elected several weeks ago.

Talented Organist To Appear Tonight

Mr. Paul F. Bennyhoff, talented young organist of New York City, will give a concert in the Chambers Auditorium, Thursday,
February 6, at 7:30 p.m. Mr. Bennyhoff recently made a very successful debut in New York and is now making
a tour of the Southern States. He is rendering selections at different cities and colleges in the South. Mr. Bennyhoff
studied music abroad for several years under such teachers as Dupre, organist at Notre Dame Cathedral, and Nidor, also organist
at Notre Dame. These two men are among the most noted organists in Europe. Included in his experiences are several
years of service at the American church in Paris, France. Mr. Bennyhoff is a very versatile young organist and will
give difficult renditions which demonstrate his skill. The greater part of the program presented will consist of classical music. Following
is the program of the recital:

1. Piece Heroique (Heroism), Cesar Franck.
2. Spring Song, Will C. MacFarlane.
3. Finale, Cesar Franck.
4. In Summer, Charles Stebbins.
5. Prelude and Fugue in A Minor, J. S. Bach.
6. The Answer, W. Wolstenholme.
7. The Chimes of Westminster, Louis Vierne.

Mooresville Pastor Speaks at Vespers

“Open Windows” is Subject of Inspiring Address

Dr. R. A. White, pastor of the Mooresville Presbyterian Church, brought a very inspiring message on the topic, “Open Windows,”
to the “Y” Vesper Service Sunday evening. Ed Close read the scripture and Sam Coker and Jack McKinnon led in
prayer. Dr. C. M. Richards, of the faculty, introduced the speaker as an excellent preacher, a splendid pastor, and a
fine presbyter, a combination hard to find in one man.

“And his window being open in his chamber toward Jerusalem,” part of Daniel 6:10, was Doctor White's chosen text. “Daniel,”
he said, “held a great amount of power in this foreign king’s court; and as is the case with any
man who stands up for his convictions, he had many enemies. A crisis had arrived in his career, and the
way he turned revealed the true trend of his heart and mind. He opened the window toward Jerusalem which stood
for God and religious traditions. May we always remember under similar circumstances to open our windows toward Jerusalem.

“Daniel couldn't see Jerusalem, yet he still looked. He especially needed a vision of God and the spiritual influences on
his life at this time. There are the unseen things. The unseen spiritual realities are what young men are looking
for today. We can lay hold of them by faith in Jesus Christ alone, and thus the unseen will become
real. Jesus set us the example of ever looking heavenward whence he derived more strength and power to face the
great obstacles and disappointments he overcame.

“Another lesson we can learn from Daniel in this case is the right attitude toward the unattainable. He had no
hope of ever seeing what he was looking for. To human sight this was unattainable. God has given to each
of us many talents by which we may attain many splendid things. But the man of (Continued on Page 8)

Wildcats Meet Powerful Duke Blue Devil Quintet On Feb. 10, In Charlotte

Duke Team This Year is Considered One of Strongest in the Country

HAS DEFEATED NAVY

Cats Are Wild and Determined to Win

The Davidson Wildcats will face the supreme test of the season when they meet the powerful Duke Blue Devils in
the Central High gym at Charlotte, Monday night, February 10. If Duke can push Davidson back, then it will have
a clean record in the state, having previously defeated Wake Forest, N. C. State, and the U. of N.C. Davidson,
on the other hand, has had but one Big Five contest, defeating Carolina by two points.

Duke undoubtedly has one of the strongest teams in the country this year, having been defeated only once, then by
a strong Southern Conference contender, W. & L., during its triumphant march through North Carolina. After the trouncing the Blue
Devils had given the previously undefeated Navy five, the Navy coach is quoted as saying that Duke possessed the fastest
quintet ever to play on the Navy court, and that in particular, Werber, stellar guard, was the fastest and flashiest
man he had ever witnessed on any court. Everyone on the Duke quintet has played together as long as two
years, and some even more. Therefore, they have a team that knows how to work together, and therein lies the
secret of their success. Croson, a giant six-foot three-inch center, has been a big factor in Duke's many triumphs so
far, and two sharpshooting forwards, Rogers and Councillor, are equally good. Captain Farley and Werber complete a team of excellent
quality.

Against this dangerous five, Coach “Monk” Younger has to offer a team somewhat inexperienced but undoubtedly the best to represent
Davidson in years. If the ‘Cats expect to win, it’s up to Goodson and Proctor to cramp the style of
Chalky Councillor and George Rogers, while Johnston, Pritchett, and Rusk are slipping through the defense Webber and Farley have to
offer. The mere fact that the ‘Cats are playing against overwhelming odds will tend only to make them stronger, and
therefore, Davidson and Duke fans are forecasted a splendid game for Monday night. Two nights later, on February 12, the
Wake Forest five will be met at Davidson. Little is known of the visitors, except that, as yet, they have
not won a Big Five contest, and will be fighting hard to slip one over on the Wildcats to upset
the dope.

Gridmen Presented Sweaters In Chapel

In chapel on the morning of January 31, Bruce Peabody, President of the Freshman Class, presented the varsity football lettermen
with sweaters. This has been the custom for several years, but heretofore it has been an undercover activity—so to speak—for
there was no public presentation or announcement made thereof. But this time it was different. The gifts were presented before
the entire student body, with the statement that “this is an evidence of the loyalty and a demonstration of their
appreciation of the efforts of the football men.” As the name of each letterman was called out by the Freshman
president, he went forward to receive his gift amid the applause of the assembled student body. It was impressive. Besides
those who received the gifts in person were Borneo Baker, E. Close, and Wilbur Milton who were not present. The
following men received sweaters: Don King, Tom Brohard, Walter Fraley, Bill Parrish, Joe McCall, Murray Christian, Thad Brock, Steve Brown,
Jim Proctor, Ledyard DeCamp, Lad Mills, Doc Mathis, Hub Covington, Bud Raker, Bill Mason.
