THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Z. V. LONG, Jr. Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCALL Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
J. B. BLACK Managing Editor
W. McCUTCHAN Managing Editor
W. C. RAGIN Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN Athletic Editor
J. V. D. MIDDLETON Assignment Editor
J. F. PRESTON Feature Editor
F. L. BROWN Feature Editor
F. JARRATT Associate Editor
F. D. MILLER Associate Editor
C. M. PRATT Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. A. CANNON Advertising Manager
A. J. BAKER Solicitor
P. M. CONWAY Solicitor
J. H. McKINNON Solicitor
J. O. MANN Solicitor
J. E. RUFF Solicitor
J. L. SEVIER Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
S. HEEFNER President
W. C. RAGIN Vice-President
J. V. D. MIDDLETON Secretary-Treasurer
G. G. DUNKLIN
C. C. MATTHEWS
S. S. LEA
G. G. MARTIN
C. W. F. SPENCER
J. R. SMITH
W. T. HANKINS
J. S. STEPHENSON
JOHN M. BROWN
G. P. PARDINGTON
W. H. MATTHEWS
E. C. DWELLE

MARCH 13, 1930.

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

The usual excitement, or perhaps it would be better to say intense interest, which accompanies elections at Davidson, will be in evidence tomorrow morning as ballots are cast for next year’s student body president. Then for several weeks the “body politic” will be occupied. Freshmen will undoubtedly get the greater thrill out of the proceedings, for it will be their first attempt to influence student government.

Junior Speaking has lost every attribute except its name, and gone are the days when orators and refreshments, served under the trees, captivated admiring throngs. Those forms of entertainment were superlative then; perhaps the sort indulged in this week is merely the natural evolution of college life. Anyhow, Junior Speaking always means a high spot in the year.

Golf courtesy is coming into strict observance at Davidson, and the player who disregards the regulations announced by the faculty’s committee will find himself in “dutch.” Of course, they are going about a worthwhile matter in a worthwhile way, and golf “bugs” won’t find anything to complain about in the new rules.

We'd like to recommend these “Y” Vespers to your attention. It’s seldom that the speaker fails to strike his mark of an inspirational address. A lot of fellows here would miss that service more than they think if it should be taken away.

Track prospects look fairly good. We won't be too glowing about the team right here at the start, but it’s a safe bet that it will be capable of stirring up a good deal of commotion with competition afforded by this section. Keep ’em in the running—to say nothing of the jumping, hurdling, and so on—by good strong support.

Tex Tilson’s grin Saturday was a mile wide, and there seems to be a reason this time sure enough. If something doesn’t break the wrong way before September first, you will see one of the best Wildcat grid teams ever to take the field in action. We figure the games dropped next year will be few and far between.

ELECTIONS

As the student body goes into its annual spring elections tomorrow morning, it undertakes a task calling for the utmost care and discrimination. Any minor considerations which might influence the casting of a vote should be laid aside, and the proposition faced with the determination to register a desire, at least, for what appears to be greatest good in respective fields.

There are many elements which appertain to leaders fit for guiding student affairs. Some men display one characteristic prominently, some another, and when the ideal is sought it is often very hard to find. That ideal is a good thing to keep in mind, however, for it may aid one in making the wise decision, which we believe every voter honestly wants to make.

Davidson student bodies, as a rule, go about their elections in a very sensible manner, omitting many of the objectionable features which are found in numerous colleges, and which tend to make the selection of candidates a mere farce, based on anything but the true capability of the nominee. That they do so is a credit to the institution, and a guarantee that, in most cases, the elections will turn out for the best.

Another factor which contributes to the effectiveness of the system here is the good fortune enjoyed by the school in having such a large number of really capable men at its disposal. It is doubtful if another student body in the country can offer as many candidates who meet the requirements of good leaders. That sometimes makes the choice hard, but it also makes it sure. We are not worrying very much about the men who will soon be chosen to handle things next year, or about the important matters with which they will have to deal.

FRIENDS AGAIN?

Duke University and the University of North Carolina are engaging in an interesting series of maneuvers at present. They are trying to find out just what they must do to close the gap which has made relations between the two institutions so unpleasant in years gone by. Students of the respective duelists make so much of the enmity which exists, that the state at large has come to expect a scrap when the two are mentioned in the same breath. Probably the state of affairs has been exaggerated. We hope it has. However, bad blood does stand between the student bodies to mar any measure of co-operation.

Apparently weary of flaunting one virtue or accomplishment against another to no avail, the student governments of the universities have taken steps to bring about mutual understanding and good fellowship. Joint meetings have been held, and peace speeches made by leaders from each place. Suggestions for improving relations were soon forthcoming, among them being reciprocal admission to athletic contests, joint meetings of various societies, and most interesting of all, joint meetings of the two faculties to study problems of mutual concern. Dean Bradshaw, of U.N.C., has expressed confidence in the possibilities of the latter method. Another idea advanced was for the formation of a college conference within the state for discussion of student life. This would embrace Davidson, N. C. State, and Wake Forest.

It is mighty fine to see these enemies-to-the-death make a start in the right direction. Any sort of progressive spirit calls for it. But—we want to see how it works at the next football game the Blue Devils and Tar Heels play. They should have begun overtures before the one last fall. Nobody who saw the antagonism which extended beyond the playing field that day would doubt the need for a change.

“THINK THIS OVER”

We clip from one of our exchanges a short article with the above heading. We earnestly commend its sentiment and re-echo its warning. Here is the article:

Youth is proverbially thoughtless. And the tendency of the passing age inclines to small consideration of results. Conflicts with college authorities or with the officers of the law are taken lightly as something to be smiled at. “What’s the odds?”

“The odds” are sometimes greater to parents and relations than they are to those who ask the question. A leading lawyer and beloved citizen of Derby, New Hampshire, has just gone to his death by suicide after the sudden collapse of his mind. His long and useful life showed not the slightest stain. He enjoyed the confidence and esteem of his fellows. His married life was happier than the ordinary. Two boys and a girl brightened the home and gave promise to parents of a serene evening of life in the companionship of children.

But one of the sons, lately a student at the University of his native State, did not follow in the steps of his father. He fell into evil ways and finally engaged in a series of thefts and dynamitings that brought him into conflict with the law. He was found guilty and sentenced to the State penitentiary. The term was three to five years.

The heart and mind of the father were crushed. He seemed to be unable to rise from the blow. A son whom he fondly loved and whom he had proudly watched grow to manhood had wrecked his life. His mind gave way and he went to his death at the very hour when he had been scheduled to deliver a dedicatory address at the new library in his city.

Does the thrill of the riotous excitement of one kind or another balance up against the possibility of wrecking the lives of thosewho have cared for one tenderly from infancy to manhood? Think it over, son! There are six citizens who are intensely happy at the present moment... or we miss our guess. They are members of the Byrd Antarctic Expedition which has been in the frozen South for some time. On Monday they arrived at Dunedin, New Zealand, and reported all of the personnel well and safe, if not exactly thriving. Peary, Nansen, Scott, and others would look with amazed scorn on the modern equipment and transportation used in polar exploration. There are few hours at which a modern party cannot get in instant touch with civilization. We cannot refrain from mentioning the tale rumored about Washington several years ago concerning the Greely trip into the Far North. It was reported that, in desperate straits, the body of a cabin boy was used as food. Lieutenant Greely became exceedingly angry and offered to duel with the man who originated the story. It may or may not have been true. In times of perishing hunger men often forget the things they do or say. It is best so.

Tales of medieval torture come from the sordid crime belt surrounding Chicago. Theodore Kopelman, an insurance man, was seized, carried to a deserted cottage on the lakes, and threatened. He asserts that the kidnappers actually heated irons red-hot in preparation to torture him. It would appear that blackmailing and its accompanying arts have failed to keep pace in the rapid advance of civilization; the Chicagoans fail to show originality at any rate. Such instruments were employed as late as the time of Ivanhoe and the Spanish Inquisition, but have fallen into disrepute since that date. Chicago means little to us, for we have no desire to beard Al Capone or any of his associates. However, it would be a pity if a stray bullet would hit any of the “Original Nighthawks.”

One is inclined to sympathize with the efforts of the Piedmont and Northern Railway. For quite a number of years, the directors of this independent traction company have been endeavoring to establish a trunk-line system along the Atlantic Seaboard. Opposed to this plan are the Southern, the Norfolk and Western, the Atlantic Coast Line, and other roads. The only important effect which the writer can foresee is that there will be renewed competition, which in turn will probably bring about lower freight rates. The Southern farmer will be fortunate if he can have easy access to the Virginia ports. The Southern Railway System “Serves the South,” and evidently intends to keep right on serving it, itself.

Health officers are alarmed at the news that 103 citizens of Tennessee are suffering from an unknown malady supposedly incurred by the drinking of “white mule.” Other evidence tends to place the blame on “Jake,” or Jamaica Ginger. Less than a week ago, more than a score of the residents of Oklahoma City were stricken with the identical trouble. Efforts of medical experts to fully diagnose the cases have proved fruitless. It is possible that the presence of a malignant danger to physical health will prove equally effective with prohibition. Many people regard themselves as more important than the law.

In many ways England has a more perfect democracy than does the United States. In our country, the voter has little or no part in the diplomatic affairs as conducted with foreign powers. The representatives of the United States at the recent disarmament conference, in London, had the power to agree to any proposal which might be pleasing to them or to the political power behind them. England’s attitude was clearly shown by the narrow margin with which Premier MacDonald passed a bill through their legislative channels. If the bill had not gone through there would have been a new election immediately. It is an admirable scheme. The heathen natives of Britain’s colonies look upon the King as the great white guiding spirit; the Englishman cherishes his position as an Englishman. Royalty is generally less dangerous to the proletariat than the politician who runs on a Democratic ticket in one state and a Republican ticket in another.

Student: “Hey, I wanna exchange this book.”
Doc.: “Too late; you’ve had it a whole term.”
Student: “But I just found out that every other page is missing.”

First Doc: “In all my experience I’ve never seen so many scars on one man.”
Second Doc: “War veteran or husband?”

And there’s the Scotsman who bought a lifetime fountain pen in his baby’s name. She was only a multi-millionaire’s daughter, but what chex appeal!

I will attempt to run a series of articles about the important events in the lives of famous men. Now, my only difficulty is to find the famous men to write about. All wishing to apply as subject matter please remember that the line forms on the left. No shove—no push. I will now begin with the first article.

Harry the Hobo or They Called Him Caesar, Because He Was Always A-Roamin’

CHAPTER I
Doing the Bum-Bum

Although Harry was the scion of one of the noblest families of the Bowery, he failed to show any intention of keeping up the good name of his people. Even at an early age, he began to show traits of being a tramp at heart. He was soon nicknamed “Flannel,” because he used to shrink from washing. However, he was a friendly little fellow, and was very fond of helping Mama. One day, his Papa came home and found him puttering around on the front porch. He batted him affectionately on the head and went on in the house. Later, he called to Harry and said, “Son, what are you doing?”
“I’m painting the front door, Papa,” piped the lad.
“What color are you painting it, my dove?” asked the doting parent.
“Black, Papa,” was the angelic reply.
At this the father roared, “Get out of my house and never darken my door again!” And so, Harry was on the bum again.

CHAPTER II
Tramp, Tramp, Tramp

Came the yawn. All went well with lil Harry until one dark day when he fell in with a dull, sickening thug. This brute was very cruel to him, and would beat Harry until he was black and blue, just because blue was his favorite color. However, Harry managed to escape and went to Mexico. He went to the first house that he saw and knocked on the door. A lady came to the door and demanded what he wanted.
“Kin I cut your grass for my dinner, ma’am?” he asked.
“Of course,” replied the kind old lady, “but you don’t need to cut it. You can eat it just as it is.”
“What kind of weather do they have here in Mexico?” asked Harry.
“Oh, just Chile today and Hot Tamale,” replied the good woman as she slammed the door in his face.

Harry then began to wander about the town looking at the various points of interest. On one of the street corners, he saw a silver plate inlaid in the sidewalk.
“What is this for?” he asked a passer-by.
“Why, that’s where our last president fell,” he explained.
“No wonder,” said Harry, “I nearly slipped on it myself.”

About that time, a very intoxicated citizen approached Harry and said, “Shay, fellow, where am I?”
Harry looked up at the sign and replied, “You're at the corner of San Jose and Chihuahua Streets.”
“Hey,” said the drunk, “nev’ min’ the details. What town ish it?”

Naturally, after this, Harry could not remain in Mexico, so he hopped a rattler for parts unknown.

CHAPTER III
The Count of Hobo Kin

Harry arrived in a little mining town late one night tired and hungry. He had the extreme good fortune to wander right into the midst of a pie-eating contest. “Food,” cried Harry and dipping his mug into a slab of pie. However, as the contest waxed furious, the favorite began to forge ahead. As dawn broke, the favorite came in first, while Harry came in sickened. The sheriff found Harry walking around town pie-eyed and threw him in the gaol. He spent the rest of his miserable existence playing tit-tat-too on the walls of his cell.

Moral: Do not calculate upon your juvenile poultry until the proper process of incubation has fully materialized.

Marriage may be the road to happiness, but there’s much more fun traveling in detours.

She: “I spent my time up in the mountains this weekend.”
He: “Did you have a guide?”
She: “Well, only my conscience.”

THE POET’S CORNER

CHALLENGE

The quiet and courageous night,
The keen vibration of the stars,
Calls me, from morbid peace, to fight
The world’s forlorn and desperate wars.

The air throbs like a rolling drum—
The brave hills and the singing sea,
Unrest and people’s faces come
Like battle-trumpets, rousing me.

And while Life’s lusty banner flies,
I shall assail, with raging mirth,
The sco and untroubled skies,
The cold complacency of earth.

Louis Untermeyer.