THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1930

New and Retiring Secretaries

Carl Pritchett, retiring President of the Student Body, will succeed Camper O’Neal as “Y” Secretary for the coming year. O’Neal
is to study psychology at Columbia University.

Eastern Trip Completed By Varsity Tennis Team
Johnston and Halverstadt to Go to Semi-Finals in State Tourney

The Davidson varsity tennis team returned Thursday from a tour through North Carolina and Virginia. On this trip, matches were
played with Duke University, the University of North Carolina, William and Mary College, and the University of Virginia. While on
this trip, the members of the team also competed in the North Carolina Inter-Collegiate Tournament at Chapel Hill.

The first match was played at Duke, and the Wildcats were defeated in a close match by the score of
5 to 4. The six singles matches were split, 3-3, and Duke’s superiority in the doubles won the match for
her. Halverstadt, McLean, and Fain in the singles, and Captain Johnston and Halverstadt in the doubles turned in wins for
Davidson.

At Chapel Hill, Carolina’s strong team turned back the Cats by the score of seven matches to two. Halverstadt and
Poe won singles matches while all three doubles matches and four singles matches went to Carolina.

At William and Mary, the only win of the trip was chalked up. Johnston, Halverstadt, Poe, and McLean won in
singles and doubles, and the final score was Davidson 6, William and Mary 3.

At the University of Virginia, another strong team was met, and Davidson ended up on the short end of a
7 to 2 count. Halverstadt and McLean won singles, and Halverstadt and Johnston put up a magnificent fight in the
doubles, only to lose, 12-10, 6-8, 6-1.

At the State Tournament, a much better showing was made than in the team matches. Johnston advanced to the finals
in the singles play before he was finally defeated by Hendlin, of Carolina. The scores for the match were 6-1,
6-1, 6-2. Johnston was slated to play Yoeman, also of Carolina, in the semi-finals, but the Tar Heel withdrew from
the tournament, and Johnston entered the finals by default. He and Halverstadt were the only members of the Davidson squad
to advance beyond the second round in the tourney. Hendlin and Liskin, U.N.C. doubles team, downed the Davidson No. 1
doubles team in the semi-finals, and in straight sets. Johnston and Halverstadt carried the first set to 8-6 before dropping
it, but could not withstand the play of the Tar Heel aces, who later won out in the doubles, and
dropped the next two sets 6-0, 6-2.

The record for the team as a whole for the trip shows a win over William and Mary, and losses
to Duke, Carolina, and the University of Virginia. These are the first matches that a Davidson tennis team has lost
in three years. Playing under the six-man team system handicaps the Wildcats a little, but this is not...offered as an
alibi for the record. In the first round, McLean was defeated by Phillips, Duke ace, and Poe was eliminated by
Vernon from Wake Forest. In the second round, Phillips eliminated DuBose and Fain also dropped out, being defeated by Grady
Frank, Duke No. 2. Halverstadt fought his way to the semi-finals only to go down in a four-set match before
Hendlin, the winner of the tournament. Captain Johnston also went to the semi-finals, where a default gave him the right
to enter the finals and battle Hendlin of N.C. for the championship. He was defeated in this match.

In the doubles, DuBose and Fain were eliminated in the first round by Rogers and Frank from Duke, ultimate runners-up
in the tournament. Poe and McLean won their first-round match but defaulted in the second in order to return to
school at the scheduled time. Johnston and Halverstadt went to the semi-finals only to be eliminated by Hendlin and Liskin
of U.N.C., the winners of the tournament.

Two home matches have been scheduled, one with Carolina on May 6, and the other with Duke, the date not
having been set for this match.

SESSION 1929-30
A.M. EXAMINATIONS BEGIN 9:00
P.M. EXAMINATIONS BEGIN 2:00

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE FOR SENIORS
Second Semester

SAT.
A.M. Business 3; Economics 1; Psychology 3
P.M. Geology 3; Political Science 4; Education 3

MON.
A.M. Philosophy 1; Business 2; Political Science 4; Economics 2
P.M. Polit. Sc. 3; Psychology 2; Education 1; Business 1; Geology 4; Applied Math. 1, 2

TUES.
A.M. Astronomy; Geology 1; Bible 3; Pub. Speaking 2; Philosophy 4
P.M. Philosophy 3; Polit. Sc. 2; Public Speaking 3; Sociology

WED.
A.M. Economics 2; Education 2; Mathematics 3; Bible 4, 5
P.M. Spanish; French

THURS.
A.M. English; Physics
P.M. R.O.T.C.; Psychology 4

FRI.
A.M. Mathematics 4; Economics 3; Geology 2; Education 4; Philosophy 2; Psychology 1
P.M. History; Chemistry

SAT.
A.M. Biology; German; Greek

NOTE: Courses not shown on schedule to be arranged by conference. Conflicts to be arranged by conference, the Junior and
Senior courses taking preference. All who have conflicts should see their professors at once.

Virginia: Hatchett: "I've changed my mind."
"Well, does it work any better?"

STETSON "D" STORE
$29.50 $34.50
Opposite Campus
Telephone 206
Complete Line of Summer Materials
Nurotex and Linens
COMPLETE LINE OF FURNISHINGS

...IN a cigarette, taste must speak for itself... and Chesterfield’s refreshing, spicy flavor, its characteristic fragrance, do just that. Making
Chesterfields, making them right, making you like them, requires only this: "TASTE above everything."

"TASTE is more powerful than twenty texts." Two puffs tell more of a cigarette’s taste than any two-hour speech.

Chesterfield
FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobaccos, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED
© 1929, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
