THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 15, 1930

Wilson’s Life Depicted In Remarkable Picture

Film Shows Many Scenes From His Life Before and After His Presidency

WAS MAN OF VIGOR

Scenes From His Public and Civilian Life Are Shown

On Friday night, May 9th, the students, faculty members, and townspeople of Davidson were privileged to see an excellent motion picture representation of the life of Woodrow Wilson in his later years of public activity and renown, beginning with scenes of his life as governor of New Jersey, and concluding with scenes of his death and burial. This remarkable film, now obtainable by the state for $50,000.00, has been widely rated by observers as comparable only to a visit from the President himself.

Following the scenes of his life as governor of New Jersey, his first presidential campaign, election, and inauguration were depicted. Then excerpts were shown from his life at the White House, his reelection, and some of his numerous public engagements which called him to many places and which constituted so large a part of his public activity.

Next were shown some of the preparatory steps taken in the World War, following the vain efforts of the President to keep the United States out of the conflict and strife then raging in Europe. These included the public speeches, the clamor, and the mobilization of the American forces, all so vivid and so vibrant in their appeal to the Americans of the present day. Consistent with the completeness of the film, other aspects, even actual battle scenes were shown, portraying the bloody struggle of the nations in all its horror and gruesomeness. Bloodshed, gaunt privation, despair, and depraved mental conditions were ever apparent, but ever offset by the urge of patriotism, the spirit of “those who went over,” as they considered the welfare of “those back at home,” for whom they were fighting.

Armistice scenes then followed, bringing into light the great relief experienced by the nation after such heartrending scenes as had preceded the final cessation of hostilities. Following these were portrayed the President's trips to Europe in the interest of peace, and his endeavors, while there, to create and stabilize international goodwill.

Concluding the picture, but in no way less stirring than the rest, was a representation of the declining years, the death and burial, of the President, followed by commentaries, or attestations to the greatness of the President, written by members of his cabinet, leaders of the allied forces, and other contemporaries. It is remarkable how so many and such stirring events can be reviewed through the medium of the life of this one man; yet after seeing the picture, the reason becomes very obvious. President Wilson was a man of stamina, of vigor; he personified a continual stream of energy, combined in all its latent power, dedicated to the service of America and mankind.

Property

You park on hill . . . returning, find no car... see crowd below .. . you go down ... behold, your car... jauntily lounging in store window ... the irate storekeeper . . . threatened suit. You must pay—unless you have Property Damage Insurance. For rate quotations on all phases of Automobile insurance telephone, write or call. ‘It’s safer to have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Co. Insurance Department CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Cabinet of Science Meets at Durham

Last Friday and Saturday, May 9th and 10th, the Cabinet of Science was held at Duke University. This meeting was attended by a great number of professors from the colleges in the state. Davidson's representatives were O. J. Thies, Jr., W. N. Mebane, H. E. Fulcher, J. H. Davis, Jr., and W. L. Porter. The program consisted of several reports of scientific papers. Professor Davis gave a report on the sub-alpine flora in the western part of the state. This paper made a very favorable impression on the scientists who were there. Friday night the whole party was given a picnic supper on the new Duke campus. After the picnic the party was taken throughthe new buildings, which will in all probability be occupied by the Duke students at the opening of school next fall. The professors learned that the old building would be used to accommodate the girls who attend the university next year. Profs. Porter and Davis visited the Davidson alumni there at Duke University taking graduate work. The program at this meeting was unusually good this time and all the professors had a wonderful time there.

Flagpole Painted For Commencement

Last Friday afternoon after supper the flagpole, which is situated between the Alumni Office and the Davidsonian Office, was painted in preparation for the graduation of the Senior Class of 1930. The graduating class receives their diplomas, the members march out of the Davidson Church and proceed to the flagpole where they sing “College Ties” for the last time together. Before the flagpole could be painted, the man had to scrape all the rust off of the pole. This rust had accumulated through many years of rain, hail, and snow. After this, the pole was painted, starting from the top and coming down. The painter had an audience to watch his performance, about fifty students of the college witnessing the painting. The pole is now a great deal more attractive than it was before it was painted. The pole was given to the school by the Class of 1917. This is the first time that it has been painted since it was put up. Its height is about 135 feet.

Class Elections Marked By Closeness of Voting

Men Are Chosen to Hold Class Offices Next Year

The elections of class officers, which were completed recently when the rising Sophomore class cast its last vote for a secretary and treasurer, were marked by their closeness and also by the number of ballots necessary to determine the class's choice. In almost every position, the candidates were narrowed down to two for the last ballot. Dan LaFar was elected president of the Senior class of 1930-31 after three ballots had been cast. Jas. A. Jones was eliminated on the last ballot. LaFar, an outstanding leader of the campus for the past three years, has acquired many honors capped by his recent bid to O. D. K. Along with LaFar, George Williams was chosen vice-president and R. G. Wilson secretary and treasurer. Those nominated for the presidency were R. M. King, A. B. McClure, W. W. Fraley, J. A. Jones, and Dan LaFar.

In the elections for the rising Junior class, Nat Speir and Bob Gorrell were carried to the last ballot. Speir emerged victorious in an exceedingly close count. L. S. Raker and Jack McKinnon were chosen vice-president and secretary and treasurer respectively. Those nominated for the presidency were Raker, Gorrell, McConnell, Speir, and Norton, who was forced to withdraw.

Charles Norfleet was elected president of next year’s Sophomore class after three ballots had been cast. Norfleet eliminated Enochs on the last ballot by a narrow margin. The other two officers were W. A. Mebane, vice-president, and J. R. Howard, secretary and treasurer. Flinn and Clark were eliminated on the second ballot in the vice-presidential election.

STUDENTS COUNCIL (Continued from page 1)

Next year they will control the Freshmen and issue “yellow caps” whenever they deem it necessary. Thad Brock, judge, has become well known on account of his participation in college athletics and other campus activities. This year he was vice-president of the Student Body, vice-president of the Athletic Association, and a member of Sigma Delta Psi.

BARGAINS - Students’ Store

Felt Goods, Shoes, Sweaters, and Belts, Greatly Reduced
REAL VALUES
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday
May 15, 16, and 17
Exam Pads, 3 for 25c - BARGAINS

First Annual Profit - Sharing Stock
$29.50 now $19.50
Suits $34.50 now $24.50
ALE STETSON
Stock Trousers and Knickers $4.95
All Furnishings Greatly Reduced

STETSON D. SAYS:
This has been a great year for us, and we can think of no better way to express our appreciation for your past business than by letting you share our profits with us.