BASEBALL EASTER MONDAY TENNIS STARS WINS DAVIDSON STATE TOURNEY “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.
C., APRIL 17, 1930 No. 25

Dr. Anderson Explains Purpose And Means of Prayer in Talk to Crowd of Students Monday

The Four Vital and All-Important Features of One Are Pointed

Dr. W. M. Anderson, delivering his first main lecture of this year’s Life Service Series Monday night, chose as his
subject, “Prayer.” He gave as the background of his talk the misconceptions that many people have of prayer and rounded
it off with saying: “Prayer is a supreme privilege which God has given and the function of this privilege is
man’s, and God wants him to exercise it.” He said that it was God’s will that man should always pray
and not think. “What is the process of a real prayer?” he asked his interested audience. “Prayer is making known
to God the wants and impulses of man, and leaving them to the will of God.” “Many people,” said he,
“seem to pray only in rotation and when a trial comes and the need of prayer is essential, they are
found lacking.”

He gave four points that every man ought to carry out when he goes into communication with God. These four
points are as follows:
(1) You cannot pray for anything without first taking your hands off the thing entirely and turning it over to
God, asking Him to take complete hold of it.
(2) Pray in Jesus’ name, but do not use this name as a hook by which you seek to catch
God and therefore be sure of an answer. We stand in God’s presence without the claim of a single thing
except that, through Jesus, we can meet the Father. In order to pray in Jesus’ name, we must first belong
to Jesus and stand in His name as we pray.
(3) When you have submitted the entire situation to the care of God, stand in Jesus’ name and ask for
anything you want. Prayer has no limit; you can ask God for anything and should ask Him for what you
want. “There is no need to beat around the bush,” he said, “for God knows what you want and what
you need and He wants straightforwardness. Can a man pray about a sport he is interested in?” he asks. “If
a man cannot pray about a clean sport he is interested in, he cannot know God's will and what God
thinks of his undertaking.
(4) Be content with whatever the answer may be, whether it satisfies or not, for God knows best. Men of
college age are not easily contented, but as they advance in years they will realize the value and peace of
being content with God’s answer.

“Does God answer prayer?” he placed as his last query. “Emphatically yes. The answers to prayer have been evidenced at
all times. By a score of inexplicable facts, answers to prayer have come from God to prayers for definite things.”

Cats Place In Five Events At Atlanta

Team Obtains Thirteen Points at Tech Relays, While Captain Whittle Gets Eight

Davidson’s track team, represented by Captain Whittle, Brohard, McCall, Lafferty, Norton, George, and Neal, proved to be one of the
dark horses in the Georgia Tech relays, held in Atlanta last Saturday, tying for fourth place in the meeting by
unofficial scores and placing in five separate events, taking one first, two seconds, and two thirds. They piled up a
total of thirteen points. This was a remarkable showing for the Wildcats, especially considering the small number of men competing
and the quality of the teams opposing them.

Whittle, taking eight points, was high scorer for the ’Cats and one of the high scorers of the meet. He
took first in the high hurdles, breaking the college record, which he held before, with the time of 15.5 seconds,
by running them in 15.02 seconds. The Wildcat captain also took second in the lows, and broke the previous college
record of 25 with a time of 24.7. George took third in the highs, giving Davidson two out of three
places in this event. (Continued on page 6)

Retiring Editor

Zeb V. Long, who retires from the Editorship of The Davidsonian with this issue.

Long Ends His Term As Editor-In-Chief

Davidsonian Carried Through Successful Year by Statesville Man

With this issue of the paper, Zeb V. Long, Jr., of Statesville, retires as Editor-in-Chief of The Davidsonian. Students will
recollect that Long took charge of the weekly directly after his election last spring. He succeeded A. N. Brown, of
Mineral Wells, Texas. During his term of office, Long made some decided, although not drastic, changes in the style and
general make-up of The Davidsonian. Chief among these was the difference in size of the sheet. The paper at the
present time has a five-column page in contrast to the six-column one of last year. This deviation resulted in a
corresponding contrast of headlines which permitted better balance and a more uniform appearance.

Two outstanding policies were adopted under the editorship of Long, and they are as follows: First, athletics were given more
consideration than they had received in former years. Not only was there the usual sports page, but athletic items were
scattered throughout the paper. All major contests were given positions of prominence on the front page. Second, the entire publication
was sub-divided into distinct departments or sections. Sports, alumni, and features, all claimed their own rights as far as space
and expense would permit.

Several more detailed ideas were introduced, some of them mechanical and others of a more noticeable nature. The motto, “Alenda
Lux Ubi Orta Libertas,” was substituted for the former inscription, “For a Bigger and Better Davidson.” Attractive title captions for
columns were instituted as well as the streamer entitled “The Wildcat Lair” for the sports page. These were designed by
a local artist.

In his editorials, Long has allowed himself a considerable degree of freedom. Not only has he dealt with campus problems,
but he has also gone farther afield into national and international affairs. While not (Continued on page 6)

Lingle To Deliver U.N.C. Baccalaureate Sermon

Dr. Walter Lingle has accepted an invitation to deliver the baccalaureate sermon at the commencement of the University of North
Carolina on June 8 at 11 A. M. Dr. Lingle made his first contact with the University in 1892, when
he was a Senior at Davidson. He was chosen as the man to represent Davidson in deputation work, and as
a result, was the speaker in the Y. M. C. A. vesper service.

In addition to his engagement at the University of North Carolina commencement exercises, Dr. Lingle will speak at various colleges
and high schools during the latter part of May and the beginning of June. On May 21 he will go
to Red Springs to deliver an address to the graduating class of Flora Macdonald College, but because of previous engagements,
he was forced to decline an invitation for the Auburn commencement.

“Y” Cabinet Installation Services Will Be Held In Chambers Sunday

Newly Elected Officers Are Dean Rusk, Robert F. Norton, and Roger P. Enloe; VESPER HOUR IS TIME

Fifteen New Cabinet Members to Take Part in Ceremonies

Installation of the officers of the Y. M. C. A. and the members of the “Y” Cabinet will be held
at the vesper service next Sunday evening at 6 o'clock in Chambers Auditorium. Dean Rusk, newly elected president, and Robert
F. Norton and Roger P. Enloe, next year’s vice-presidents, with fifteen newly appointed cabinet members will take part in the
ceremonies. This service will be the annual Easter vesper service of the Y. M. C. A. and will feature special
music, greatly resembling the Christmas program. Members of the Glee Club with several talented ladies of the town will render
an impressive song service somewhat along the line of the one presented last year at this season, stated Fred Poag,
who is in charge of the program.

Passages of Scripture will be read, followed by special songs, to portray the Triumphal Entry, LastSupper, Crucifixion, and Resurrection of
Jesus Christ. The Consecration will conclude the program, at which time next year’s officials will be installed. This is one
of the outstanding vesper programs of the year and an unusually large crowd is expected to attend the meeting.

Seniors Promoting Students Ceremony Impressive Installation of New Leaders Planned

Plans have been discussed by the Senior Class and will soon be presented to the student body whereby a mammoth
student body meeting, featuring an impressive ceremony, inspirational addresses, and a complete banquet will be observed as the installation service
for new officers and leaders of college activities for the ensuing year. As soon as the remaining elections are run
off and the new student council chosen, the entire project will be submitted to the members of the student body.
It is the purpose of the Seniors to make this meeting a great time of reconsecration to the ideals that
are a part of Davidson. The spirit of the Wildcat will be emphasized and the elements of the honor system
will be brought before the students again. It is felt that such a gathering, suffused with the real spirit of
Davidson, will be most effective in drawing men into a closer relationship with the college and with each other, and
it is for this reason that the outgoing Seniors wish to promote such an enterprise. They feel that the occasion
will long be remembered as a time when Davidson's best qualities were vitalized. Similar student programs have been executed in
years gone by with tremendous success, but (Continued on page 6)

Senior Class Nominations

Election of President for the Senior Class for the coming year was officially started Monday morning with the announcement of
nominations made by the committee. Those nominated by the committee were R. M. King, Albert McClure, J. A. Jones, D.
S. Lafar. W. W. Fraley was nominated from the floor. Other classes were expected to follow the example of the
rising Senior Class, by running off their election this week. As the election had not been completed when The Davidsonian
went to press, the results of the balloting cannot be given in this edition.

J. Wilson McCutchan Elected Editor of Davidsonian for Coming Year After 3 Ballots are Cast

Next Year’s Editor J. Wilson McCutchan, newly elected Editor of The Davidsonian

Mu Beta Psi Brings Organist To Campus

Miss Nella Sharpe, of Statesville, postgraduate student at Queens College, will present an organ recital at Davidson this evening at
8:15 o'clock. The program will be rendered in the auditorium of new Chambers. She will be assisted by Miss Miriam
Murphy, violinist, and Dr. J. R. Ninniss, accompanist. The appointment of Miss Sharpe to an assistantship in music at Queens
was very recently announced by Dr. J. R. Ninniss, head of the music department at the college. She was graduated
at the institution last year, with both A.B. and B.S. degrees. This year she is studying post-graduate work there. The
program will be as follows:

Prelude and Fugue in D Major - Bach
L’Allegro - Miss Sharpe
Concerto in D Minor - Tartini
Miss Murphy
(a) The Rippling Brook - Gillette
(b) Stoughton
(c) Minuet Antique - Watling
(d) Concerto Gregoriano - Yon
Introduzione ed Allegro
(e) Adagio
Scherzo
Finale
Miss Sharpe
(a) Canzonetta, Opus 6, d’Ambrosio
(b) Oberto - Wieniawski
Miss Murphy
American Rhapsody - Yon
Miss Sharpe

The recital is being sponsored by Mu Beta Psi, musical fraternity here, and is free to the public.

Reporters Club Issues Bids To Sixteen Writers

The “Reporters’ Club” held a short, but important meeting Monday evening at 8 P.M. and issued bids to a number
of Davidsonian workers whom they thought worthy to become members of their group. The new members were chosen because of
their journalistic ability, and because of their consistent and unselfish work in the publishing of the college paper. They will
be formally initiated on Friday night at 9 P.M. in the Scabbard and Blade Hall. This initiation will be followed
by the election of next year’s officers and the serving of refreshments. Those who received bids were as follows: R.
H. Alderman, G. E. Bailey, J. E. Boyd, E. O. Guerrant, J. E. Lake, D. D. McBryde, R. L. McCallie,
G. Miller, W. F. Mulliss, C. F. Myers, H. F. Nichols, S. P. Preston, N. Raies, R. B. Sugg, B.
B. Taylor, and W. B. Ward.

New Publication Head is Prominent in Campus Literary and Dramatic Activities

J. Wilson McCutchan, of Warm Springs, Va., has been elected Editor-in-Chief of The Davidsonian for the coming year. He is
well known through the prominence he has attained in the campus literary activities, being a managing editor of the publication
this year. He has contributed his column, “Cosmic Chaos,” for the past two years. He has been also the Short
Story Editor of the Chameleon, and last year wrote one section of the Wildcat handbook. Many will remember McCutchan on
account of his work in the Red and Black Masquers. He took a prominent part in “Wapping Wharf” and his
play, entitled “Octoroon,” was recently presented here, and well received. He is a member of Delta Pi Kappa, the honorary
journalistic fraternity of the campus. Among the other honors he has attained are: Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, I. R.
C., and wearer of the golden quill.

Three ballots were cast to determine the Editor-in-Chief. On the first ballot, W. C. Ragin, of Wilmington, N. C., was
eliminated. Ragin was vice-president of the Reporters’ Club, Delta Pi Kappa, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, the honorary chemical fraternity, Le Cercle
Francais, honorary French club. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He was also on the honor
roll. J. B. Black was the next eliminated. He is a member of the Davidson College Dramatic Club, Delta Pi
Kappa, Sigma Upsilon and Eta Sigma Phi. He was also on the honor roll and a member of the Pi
Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Finally, on the third ballot, Paul Alderman, Alcolu, S. C., was eliminated. Delta Pi Kappa, junior
basketball manager, and Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity are among the honors that he has attained.

Tenn Squad Plays In Carolina Tourney

Chapel Hill is Scene of Annual Net Clashes

On the University of North Carolina’s campus at Chapel Hill today and tomorrow the North Carolina State Tennis Tournament will
be continued. There will be five teams of the State represented at this tournament. They are Davidson, Duke, Carolina, State,
and Wake Forest. Each one of these teams with the single exception of Wake Forest will send six men to
the meet. This tournament is held yearly at Chapel Hill to determine the best college player and players in the
State. The first and second rounds of the tournament will probably be played on Wednesday; the quarter-finals and the semi-finals
on Thursday; and the finals on Friday afternoon. Davidson has entered in many of these meets but in the last
few years they have failed to break through and win the finals. Last year and the year before last Davidson
won every one of its matches up to the time of the tournament, but failed to win it. Last year
Carolina won both the singles and the doubles, while the year before they won the doubles while Duke was capturing
the singles. Last season Frontis Johnston, the captain of this year’s team, reached the semi-finals only to lose out in
a hard-fought battle to the ultimate winner of the tournament. In 1927, J. T. Roddey, captain of last year’s team,
went to the finals in both the singles and the doubles. He lost in the singles only after a very
hard-fought match. In the doubles he was paired with Carr and they were overcome in a heart-breaking match. As a
whole Davidson seems to have been very successful in its attempts on the court in the past years and it
is hoped by its followers that they will be as successful this year. Before the tournament, however, the team played
two matches, one with Carolina. The (Continued on page 6)
