THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 20, 1930

Side Line Shots At the Final Big Five Clashes

The Cagers were far from their best form against the Wake Forest Deacons, but they did manage to come out
on the long end of a one-sided score to keep their record down to one loss to Big Five teams.
The loss to the Blue Devils had about the same effect on the team as it did on the Red
and Black supporters—the disappointment was very great, although this doesn’t mean there were any complaints about the playing of the
Wildcats. However, there was a noticeable letdown in the Wake Forest game which probably resulted for the most part from
the Duke contest and which was not overcome by the Cats until the game with Elon last Saturday.

From the start of the game with the Christians, it was seen that the quintet was in its old form
and had the same old fight that has brought it this far through a very successful season. And so instead
of fearing a series of losses against State, Duke, and Carolina on the State trip this week and the first
of next, it seems that everything should be as optimistic as they were the first of the year. With the
Cagers in their old form again, all that is needed to give us three straight wins over these Big Five
opponents is for the team to know that the student body is still 100 percent behind them and expecting them
to win.

State won and lost to Carolina by two points each time, Duke beat Carolina by only one point on one
occasion, we beat Carolina by two points and lost to Duke by three points. Draw your own conclusions.

Coach Tilson’s matmen are having their share of tough luck too, it seems. Some mighty close matches have been lost
in recent meets, and only after wonderful fights have been put up by the Wildcats. It was up to Poe
Conway and Alex Warren to come through the season with no losses in the State in their classes, thus giving
them claim to championship honors. They’ve been the mainstays of the Cats in all their meets this year.

Prospects for the Kittens in the State look brighter than they did for a while. After starting off the season
in great style, they slumped to lose four straight, breaking this streak by a one-sided win over Wingate. Unless they
experience another such off-period, they will have to be reckoned with before the State Fresh champions are picked. Their record
is clean so far with a win over the Baby Deacons to their credit.

Erskine Seceders Beat Wildcats in Fast Game
Long Shots of South Carolinians Feature—Erskine Forwards Great

In one of the most thrilling games seen upon the home court this season, the Erskine College five nosed out
the Davidson Wildcats last Tuesday night by the score of 32-27. Erskine scored in the first minute of play. From
this time on, they displayed one of the most brilliant attacks which the Wildcats have encountered this season. With almost
uncanny accuracy, they scored shot after shot from the center of the court. These brilliant shots, accompanied by stellar guarding,
enabled them to finish the half in the lead, 16-15.

The second half opened with both teams showing more caution than in the first half. However, in the first five
minutes of play, Goodson scored for Davidson, and from then on the outcome of the game was never certain. The
Wildcats showed brilliance in passing but were unable to counter with sufficient shots, and the game ended with Erskine five
points in the lead.

Score:
Pritchett, f (1) --------- McMackin, f (10)
Johnson, f (10) --------- Hambright, f (12)
Rusk, c (10) --------- Reid, c (7)
Goodson, g (3) --------- Beamguard, g (2)
Proctor, g (0) --------- Petty, g (1)

J. W. McCONNELL WILL (Continued from page 1)

sities and colleges in the United States and Canada. This gives him an opportunity to find out the exact entrance
requirements for medical work, more ably fitting him for his duties as an adviser. Dr. Lyman Wilbur, secretary of the
interior, is president of this congress on medical education.

After the Varsity and Fresh squads have completed their journey against Big Five quints, the cage season will be about
gone again. The Cats will meet the...Wofford Terriers here on the 27th and the Kittens battle Wingate to finish their
card. In other words, it’s just about time for the Diamond season to start and, while no very accurate statement
can be made yet as to the prospects for this year, judging from the regulars back there’s going to be
some good material for Coach Monk to take charge of as he whips a varsity into shape.

A Minister of the Gospel SHOULD BE ACQUAINTED WITH MEN AND THEIR WAYS. TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS
ONE OF THE AIMS OF UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. For Catalog and Information, Address, Rev. R. B. Lacy, Jr., President, Richmond,
Virginia.

Davidson Wrestlers Meet Army Matmen
Virginia Grapplers Met on Return Trip

Tonight a Davidson athletic team will leave for West Point to do battle with an Army team for the second
time this year. Last fall the Wildcat football eleven gave a brilliant exhibition to hold the Army eleven to a
very close score. Now the Davidson wrestling team will attack the “Point” with an array of talented matmen. The match
will be staged Saturday afternoon. On the return trip, the Wildcat squad will stop off at Charlottesville to meet the
University of Virginia grapplers. Those men making the trip to participate in both encounters will probably be Cowan, Gorham, Brown,
Brock, Conway, Christenbury, Warren, and Raker. These will represent the various classes respectively.

This will not be the first time that the teams of Davidson and Army have wrestled. Several years ago, Army
defeated the Wildcats by a small margin. This season they have an unusually strong team. Many of the most representative
Eastern teams have met defeat at their hands. Only last week they defeated the University of Pennsylvania.

Carolina Men Outpoint Wildcats To Win Meet
Tar Heels Defeat Varsity 14-12 in Wrestling Match

Last Wednesday, the University of North Carolina wrestling team won a very close decision over the Davidson matmen at Davidson.
The final score was 14 to 12. Not until the end of the last match was the victory taken by
the Tar Heels, for a fall for Davidson in this match would have tied the score. In each of the
matches won by time advantages, the Wildcats narrowly missed getting falls. Summary: 115 pound class—Cowan, Davidson won over Bell, Carolina,
time advantage three minutes, three seconds. 125 pound class—Stallings, Carolina, threw Gorham, Davidson, in three minutes, 25 seconds. 135 pound
class—Albright, Carolina, won over Brown, Davidson. Time advantage, one minute, 54 seconds. 145 pound class—Tsumas, Carolina, won over Brock, Davidson.
Time advantage, four minutes, 40 seconds. 155 pound class—Conway, Davidson, won over Moore, Carolina. Time advantage, five minutes, four seconds.
165 pound class—Cowper, Carolina, won over Christenbury, Davidson, in extra period. Time advantage five minutes, 54 seconds. 175 pound class—Warren,
Davidson, won over Ferguson, Carolina. Time advantage, one minute, twelve seconds. Unlimited—Raker, Davidson, won over Houghton, Carolina. Time advantage, two
minutes, 32 seconds.

The University of Virginia has a very strong representation, having defeated several S. I. C. members.

Kittens Depart On Trip Through State
Powerful Frosh Quints to be Played

On Friday morning, the Davidson Freshman basketball squad will leave with the varsity on a trip through the state. On
this tour, the Wildkittens will encounter the three strongest Freshmen quints in the state: State, Duke, and Carolina. This series
of contests will decide the winner of the state championship, Davidson and Duke both, as yet being undefeated. The Freshmen
have a good start on the road to the title, having defeated Wake Forest Freshmen 32-14.

TO FLAVOR A MOMENT OR MARK A THOUGHT—HAVE A CAMEL

Let Camels accent your little intervals between this and that. Thoughts requiring pleasant punctuation, moods asking for emphasis, things accomplished
which merit a bit of jubilee—couple these with Camels and flavor them with pleasure. Each time your day’s activity takes
a twist or a turn, have a Camel! Camel brings you an extra measure of pleasure simply because it is
a better cigarette. The choicest tobaccos grown are blended with expert care into a mellow-mild smoke, cool and refreshing, which
never tires your taste nor leaves an unpleasant after-taste.

© 1929, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
