4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1930

Four Wildkittens Show Up Well at S.I.C. Meet At University Saturday

Track Men Schedule Difficult Meets For 1930 Season

Inter-Class Meet

Continuing the intra-mural sports, which have been in progress for the past several months, an inter-class track meet will be held tomorrow afternoon.

PROSPECTS ARE GOOD

First Clash Will be Here With Elon | Freshmen Cinder Men March 26

At a meeting of the Southern Conference Indoor Track teams, held on Saturday, March 8, in the University of North Carolina gymnasium, the “Tin Can,” Davidson was represented by four freshmen, all of whom showed up well. Alex Little won third place in the 60-yard high hurdles, while Bob McCallie placed fifth. In the 60-yard dash Fleagle won his heat in the semi-finals, but did not place in the finals. Alex Earle placed seventh in the three-quarter mile run.

The following Freshman meets have been scheduled: On March 26, Davidson will oppose Elon Fresh at Davidson. The strength of the invaders is unknown, but due to the fact that they are coached by “Hardrock” Simpson, who competed in C. C. Pyle’s notable Bunion Derby, they are looked upon with some premonitions. April 5, will witness a joint meet between Davidson and Wofford varsity, and Davidson and Wofford Freshman teams—this also to be held at the Wildcats’ lair. The New Hanover High team of Wilmington, N. C., will journey to Davidson on April 12. This is expected to be one of the most formidable foes of the year. It is possible that meets may be held with Catawba College, R. J. Reynolds High, of Winston-Salem, N. C., and Greensboro High. Nothing definite has been arranged, however, concerning these last three meets. The Davidson Freshmen will probably hold one meet on foreign territory, although no definite plans have as yet been made. Prospects are for a very successful season this spring. The Freshmen are showing better form this year than previously and much is to be expected of them. They seem to show up better in the sprints and short runs than elsewhere.

Students of all classes are eligible for competition, and as many as possible are urged to compete. The events will include all of the events of a regular track meet, individual prizes being awarded for excellence in the several events. Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, athletic director, will be in charge of the meet.

New Golfing Rules Given To Players

Davidson College Golf Club

The Privileges of the Course are Extended to the Following:

1. All students of Davidson College who observe the rules of the course are eligible on the basis of fees already paid to the College Treasurer.
2. All members of the Davidson College faculty, and administrative forces, residents of the town of Davidson, are eligible provided the annual fee of $5.00 is paid to the Treasurer of the College.
3. Complimentary privileges are extended to all ladies connected with the College.
4. Residents of surrounding communities are eligible, their application being subject to the approval of the committee. Fee of $10.00 to be paid to the Treasurer of Davidson College.
5. Guest privileges will be extended as follows: Students, faculty, and local members may obtain cards for guests at the rate of 25 cents per day, other members at the rate of 50 cents per day.

Rules of the Course

1. Solo players have no rights and shall always give way to matches.
2. Faster moving groups have the right to go through slower moving groups, who are to invite them to play through.
3. Groups without full complement of clubs shall not hold other groups.
4. Cutting in front of other players is forbidden.
5. Players taking the short course shall give way to those playing the entire course.
6. Putting practice on any green is forbidden when a match is approaching the green.
7. Proper shoes must be used. No shoes, such as high-heeled shoes, baseball, track, or football shoes, which will harm the greens, are allowed.
8. No playing is allowed on days when the sign “Course Closed” is displayed at the first tee.
9. Every precaution must be taken to avoid hitting players ahead. No shots may be taken without calling “Fore” and waiting until others are out of range.

Rules for Caddies

1. Caddies are to keep off the course at all times unless employed.
2. Caddies are not allowed on the greens, but shall stand on the edge until the match is ready to proceed.
3. Caddies are forbidden to use clubs on the course.
4. Any member of the golf committee may invite a caddy or groups of caddies to accompany him in order to hunt for lost balls.

Non-observance of any of the above rules is punishable by withdrawal of privileges, penalty to be in effect until reinstatement is given by the committee.

H. E. Fulcher, Chairman.
H. M. Moffatt.
J. K. Pepper, Jr.
G. W. Watts.
W. L. Lingle.

Faculty Team Loses To Varsity Golfers

Varsity Try-Outs Held at Charlotte Country Club

A team composed of Davidson students and led by Captain Jack Pepper, defeated a group of golfers representing the college faculty 13 to 5, in a match held last Monday afternoon on the college golf course. The teams played 18 holes, counting one point for each nine holes, and one point for the 18 holes, in individual and team play. Pepper defeated Dr. G. B. Watts 16 up and 5 to play, Dr. H. M. Moffett won over W. Lewis Hart 1 up, R. D. Croom beat Prof. H. E. Fulcher 6 up and 5 to go, and Dr. Walter L. Lingle was victorious over N. C. Hodgin 4 up and 3 to play. In the foursome play Pepper and Hart won over Drs. Moffett and Watts 6 up and 4 to go, while Croom and Hodgin defeated Dr. Lingle and Professor Fulcher 4 up and 2 to go. Scores for the two rounds were as follows: Pepper 78, Croom 88, Dr. Watts 90, Dr. Moffett and Hart 93, Dr. Lingle 94, Professor Fulcher 102 and Hodgin 107. The match was played against a strong wind and in cold weather, which partly accounts for the high scores.

The try-outs for the Davidson College golf team were held at the Charlotte Country Club Wednesday afternoon, and its members were selected by virtue of the fact that they made the lowest scores in 36 holes, medal play. The names of the successful candidates have not been divulged. According to Captain Pepper, arrangements are being made for matches with Georgia Tech, University of Georgia, Oglethorpe and Furman, all to be played on a southern trip to be made this spring. Plans have also been completed for state matches with Carolina, Duke, N. C. State and Wake Forest, to be played on their respective courses, and the return engagements to be held in Charlotte. The dates for this tentative schedule have not been established as yet. A Davidson team will also probably be entered in the Intercollegiate Golf Tournament to be held at Sedgefield on the 26th of April.

Duke Downs Carolina In Spring Practice Tilt

Blue Devils Win Close Victory from Tar Heels, 6-0

Before a shivering crowd estimated at 250, the Duke Blue Devils defeated the Carolina Tar Heels in the first game of the Big Three Davidson conference by a 6 to 0 score. The game was closely played from whistle to whistle, providing many thrills for the crowd of visitors that had come for the game.

In The World Of Music

BEETHOVEN
By Horace Ervin
(Continued from last week)

Beethoven's whole life was one of sadness. Not only ever-increasing deafness but also difficulty in love affairs, in which he was never successful, saddened him. Whatever proposals he made were rejected, and at one time he was jilted by a countess. Pock-marked, ugly, and intolerant of society, Beethoven became a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and gave his whole life to his art. He could not stand the vanities of nobility. He did not respect it. Once whenSophomore weekend, he was walking in the street with his friend, the poet Goethe, the royal carriage. The only threat of the first quarter passed. The throngs, of course, bowed as it passed, and so did Goethe; but Beethoven, on about the 20-yard line, after Mills had placed a punt deep into Carolina territory. Mills got off many long punts and usually got the advantage of Bradshaw, who punted for Carolina. When home in his dark room, he would work unceasingly on his compositions. And he would sit down at the piano to play what he had written—but as his deafness increased, he had to bang on keys, very often striking dissonant chords, while children stared in at the doorway. Bending his head lower to the keyboard, he would strike again and again, but to no avail, for he would throw his arms above his head and cry out in despair. He could not understand why he, of all people, should become deaf. It seemed like Fate's cruel face. He wrote to a friend that it made him sad to think of such a tragic absurdity.

With the full realization of his deafness comes a final dedication to his music. During this time, he undergoes a spiritual development, climbing to greater heights. He has left the earth and mundane art to commune with the gods. This communion he translates to us in his music, revealing mysteries never before shown. Toward the close of his life, he never heard a note of what he composed. Perhaps it is better that the character of his music was never brought to human level by the imperfections of the human ear, but came straight and untainted from a noble soul. Knowing Beethoven’s life adds greatly to the appreciation of his music. Thus, we understand that a certain love affair in his life motivated his Fourth Symphony, the tragedy of life his Fifth, a profound feeling of sadness his “Moonlight” Sonata, and so on. Knowing, too, that he was constantly harassed by financial difficulties, that his subsidizers fell short of payment, and that it was impossible for him to get along with his servants for very long, reveals that his domestic life was one of unhappiness. He struggled hard to rescue his nephew from the influence of a profligate mother and sent the boy to school. His brothers misunderstood him, perhaps because he was temperamental and impatient, until his will was disclosed, wherein he expressed his affection for them. He was an ardent admirer of Napoleon and inscribed his “Eroica” Symphony to him, thinking that the emperor was the great liberator of the human race; but when he perceived that Napoleon’s plan was to set up a world empire under his own rulership, Beethoven, in a rage, tore off the inscription. He is held as the greatest instrumental composer of all time, and his piano works are highly praised. His greatest works are his late string quartets, nine symphonies, Missa Solemnis, and various sonatas. The greatest of these were written after his deafness had commenced. His development, as we have mentioned, was constant; his greatest works came at the end of his life; there was no aftermath. And so he could look back upon his life, a constant ascent to higher peaks, and be assured that it was triumphant. It is said of him on his death bed that his dying words were, “Plaudite, amici, comedia finita est.”

One cannot help believing that Beethoven must have been divinely inspired, for his music is surely the language of the angels. It holds a grandeur and sublimity which human pen never before had revealed, and one might imagine Beethoven saying, “Behold! I show you a mystery.”

Raker played a good game in the line. The starting lineup was:
Carolina
Punts: Bradshaw
W. R.: Raker
L. G.: Ogden
Howard: McConnell
Currie: Wilson
L. G.: Ross
L. T.: Cannon
R. H.: McFee
L. H.: McQueen
F. B.: King
DeCamp, Referee; Mills, Umpire; Christian, Time Keeper.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle announced recently that the administration would award any selected advertisement for use in advertising Davidson College with five dollars. Any Davidson student or faculty member is eligible to submit any number of ads. These ads, according to President Lingle, are limited to only five hundred words. From those handed in, the college will select about twenty, which they deem worthy of publication to be used mostly in church papers or religious magazines. The college feels, said Doctor Lingle, that the students would be the best creators of such advertisements since they are more capable of writing ads that would attract young men, because of their thorough acquaintance with Davidson student life. The ads may be very brief. However, all ads must be in by April 1. The college urges all students to compete.

Victor, Brunswick, and Columbia Records going at reduced prices. RECORD CLEARANCE SALE: 75c Records, 3 for $1.00. W.S. HENDERSON.

Now is the time to have your engraved cards made. See me. Best quality and prices. Any type of printing. ERNEST H. McCALL, 108 Watts, representing STANDARD PRINTING CO., Charlotte, N.C.