THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1930

Thirty-Two Alumni In New York Recently Attended Annual Smoker

Reports Received at Davidson Indicate That This Affair Was Tremendous Success—One of Largest Smokers

DR. REESE WAS HOST

Greetings From Davidson Officials Were Read and Other Matters Discussed

Thirty-two Davidson College alumni, living in the vicinity of America’s metropolis, New York, on Tuesday night, November 25, took advantage of the hospitality of Dr. A. B. Reese, '17, president of the New York chapter, and met at the home of Dr. Reese at 50 W. 52nd Street, for the annual smoker of one of the oldest of Davidson's local alumni chapters.

Reports coming to Davidson from individuals in New York told of the remarkable success of the gathering, which was described as one of the largest smokers ever staged. However, more alumni attend the annual dinner on March 15 of each year, for last March there were a total of 51 New York alumni who met at the Fraternity Club. In regard to the smoker Tuesday, the secretary wrote that those attending “extended heartfelt sympathy to the unfortunate alumni who could not come.”

Among matters coming before the chapter were the reading of greetings from three officials at Davidson, Dr. W. L. Lingle, ’92, president of the college; Dr. J. M. McConnell, ’99, dean of instruction, and Ernest Milton, '26, alumni secretary. All three of these men have met with the New York chapter on previous occasions, Dr. Lingle speaking last March, and Dr. McConnell the year before. Brief discussion of plans for the annual Founders’ Day banquet next March claimed some of their attention. The chapter voted and instructed the secretary of the organization to send a telegram to Coaches Younger and Tilson and to the Davidson Wildcats, wishing them success in their game with Wake Forest Thanksgiving.

As reported to the alumni secretary, “the rest of the evening was delightfully spent in renewing friendships and in doing full justice to a delicious buffet supper offered by our host.”

Alumni attending the smoker were: (Unless otherwise designated, the alumni listed below reside in New York City.)
1898—J. D. Woodside.
1903—Henry Alan Johnston.
1905—A. S. Dennison.
1907—W. P. Anderson, Dr. R. T. Reid.
1911—C. S. Mattison.
1912—Dr. R. E. Watkins, Belmar, N. J.
1914—Dr. C. A. Hart, Dr. W. R. Norris, Long Island, N. Y.
1915—J. E. Faw.
1917—Dr. A. B. Reese.
1919—Emery Flinn, Prof. R. C. Garth.
1921—Hadley A. Hill.
1922—Dr. C. A. Dunn.
1924—Dr. W. Z. Bradford.
1925—R. W. Oeland, Long Island City.
1926—J. C. Barrington, C. E. Houston.
1927—E. E. Lingle, R. L. Mitchell, Newark, N. J.
1928—John M. Andrew, D. Dwight Douglas, E. R. Houston, M. C. O'Neal, D. O. Westbrook, Jr., B. A. Wilson.
1929—John Ely, Jr., G. H. Green, W. N. Middleton.
1930—S. Y. Cassells.
Honorary—Fred L. Dendy.

Bryan University, a memorial to the man who was the United States’ foremost exponent of fundamentalism, opened its doors this year at Dayton, Tenn., where Bryan died while engaged in his last great fight for his beloved cause.

J. B.: “Has Claude begun takin’ music lessons yet?”
“Shine”: “He's takin’ somethin’ on th’ piano, but I can’t tell yet whether it’s music or typewritin’.”

Alumni Personals

R. W. Graves, ’26, who studied for three years in the physics department of Princeton University, became interested in biophysics and has decided to return to his “first love,” medicine. He is now a student in the medical department of Duke University.

Visitors to the alumni office during the past week have been Rev. W. A. Murray, '96, of Black Mountain; Geo. D. Green, II, '21, Jacksonville, Fla.; J. A. Lake, Jr., ’25, Greenville, Miss.; Ed Patten, '29, Calypso; W. M. Regen, '29, Franklin, Tenn.; E. C. Close, ’30, Chattanooga, Tenn., and A. L. DeCamp, '30, Philadelphia, Pa.

Other alumni who have been at Davidson during the past several days include C. L. Grey, '92, Hendersonville; Rev. Roy Smith, '10, Callaway, Va.; Rev. McDowell Richards, ’22, Clarksville, Ga.; Joe H. McConnell, ’27, Charlottesville, Va.; J. W. Grey, '28, Charlotte, and W. R. Grey, Jr., '28, New York.

C. R. (Pat) Crawford '23, who is now at Kinston, has been sent to the Pacific Coast League by the Cincinnati National League club. Mr. Crawford this fall went to the Cincinnati club from the New York Giants.

Rev. J. E. Thacker, D.D., '90, one of the South’s most prominent evangelists, conducted services at the Presbyterian Church in Selma, N. C., last week. Dr. Thacker’s home is in Norfolk, Va.

Rev. W. T. Thompson, D.D., '05, member of the Union Seminary faculty, preached at the First Presbyterian Church in Greensboro Sunday.

R. B. Evans, Jr., '27, of Fayetteville, was in a Fayetteville hospital for a short time following a recent accident. No bones were broken when an automobile he was driving struck a tree. He was severely bruised, however.

Judge E. McA. Currie, '16, will be interlocutor for the “Jollies of 1930,” a minstrel to be presented at Charlotte Friday night.

Geo. E. Wilson, Jr., ’10, Mayor of Charlotte, positively announced last week that he would not be a candidate for re-election.

Rev. W. A. Nicholson, ’12, of Pineville, member of the 1910 football state champions, has written some poetry following the reunion here on Home-Coming Day, a copy of which will be sent by the alumni office next week to all members of the 1910 squad.

Rev. W. K. Blake, ’16, formerly of Miami, Fla., is now at 1525 E. Lake Boulevard, Tarrant, Ala.

LOOKING ’EM OVER (Continued from page 3)

Our guess, the biggest upset of the day would be for Georgia Tech to beat Georgia. We pick the University to win 21 to 0. Notre Dame plays Southern California.

Old Chambers
By Rev. F. J. Hay, ’14

Old Chambers Hall,
Thine ivied wall
In mem’ry holdeth fast
An image clear,
From year to year,
That aye and aye shall last.

Old Chambers Hall,
Thine echoing hall
With phantom medleys ring
Of hastening steps,
And joyous lips,
And carefree hearts that sing.

Old Chambers Hall,
Thy columns tall
In fancy stand guard still,
Their watch to keep
While students sleep
And northwind howls at will.

Old Chambers Hall,
We love thee, all,
And hold thy mem’ry well;
Each legend loved,
Each myth unproved
Forevermore we'll tell.

Old Chambers Hall,
Woe worth thy fall!
How fell the mighty then!
No dearer home,
Nor statelier dome
Shall stand where thou hast been.

Alumni Deaths

Dr. H. H. Cauble, '08

Dr. Harold Hartley Cauble, member of the 1908 class of the North Carolina Medical College when it was in existence at Davidson, and prominent physician of Kannapolis, was found dead in bed at the Yadkin Hotel, in Salisbury, on November 20. Heart trouble was the cause of his death.In addition to attending the North Carolina Medical College at Davidson, Dr. Cauble was at one time a student of Lenoir-Rhyne. For many years he practiced medicine at Faith, near Concord, before he went to Kannapolis, where he became prominent as a drug store owner and physician. Out on the Pacific Coast to cinch its second successive national title if it wins. This game is a poser. The Irish seemed to have been seriously weakened by the loss of Savoldi, and the sharp change of temperature between South Bend and Los Angeles may be too great a handicap on them. But we look for them to come through with their 19th win in two years, with a score of about 14 to 7.

DAVIDSON SELECTS (Continued from page 3)

Johnny Branch will likely be the only man to get unanimous choice. This Carolina quarter was just about the most valuable man any team in the State possessed, and is a triple threat man deluxe. Against Davidson he was just about the whole Tar Heel backfield. He punts, passes, and runs in a sensational manner. Benton gets the other quarter position with practically no opposition. Murray gets one of the other backfield positions easily, being one of the outstanding ball-carriers on the Blue Devils’ team. The other two are hard to fill. Magner’s passing gives him a slight edge, perhaps, but his ball-carrying has not been what it was last year. Mills has shone all fall and has stood out in a backfield of three other good men. McCall is one of the fastest men in the State in a broken field, but has had difficulty at times in getting into the open when his line has failed him. Brewer and Slusser are the best of the remaining lot, and not far behind the rest chosen. This first string backfield contains two triple threat artists. Two of them can throw passes like baseballs. Two are fine punters. All four of them can carry the ball in a fashion to please the heart of any coach.

When You’re Hungry Let Z Helper Help You HELPER’S RESTAURANT Next Door to Telephone Office

EDITORIAL

Davidson College has already been enriched through the thoughtfulness of her alumni, and friends of the institution, whenever a will was made. These people remembered what the institution had meant to them, or knew of the invaluable contribution this almost century-old institution was rendering mankind in giving to the citizenship of the land Christian-trained men whose educational preparation and religious leadership were beacon lights to their associates. Those of you who have read advertisements from Davidson recently, both in the secular and religious press, are aware that the college has been placed in the wills of alumni or others interested in the college for considerably large sums. For instance, one will contains $100,000 for Davidson, and another $20,000. These individuals have already informed college authorities of this step. An alumnus wrote to a Davidson official some time ago, saying that he was making a will, and asked if there was any special department, or any particular fund, to which the college would desire the money to be designated. Two other alumni of classes that graduated from Davidson within the past five years have likewise made their wills, and though their estates are comparatively small, the college has been remembered for a portion of them. This idea is gradually permeating the entire alumni body of Davidson. It is thought by some that in the next half-century, Davidson will be materially benefited by the sums of money that come into the treasury through the channels of wills. It is believed that the financial future, which is generally a future of every department of the college, is going to be assured through this medium. Many people, during their lifetime, are not able to follow their heart’s desire and contribute sums of money to the college. However, their estates may permit this, through the insurance that alumni carry, and the men are happy in the thought that they are rendering a valuable service to the institution which nurtured them. Since the establishment of the alumni office, the urging of alumni to make wills has been adopted as a part of the office’s program. Most of its endeavor will be through publicity, and in a general way at local alumni meetings by making this suggestion to the alumni to think about and act upon. Anything said or written in promoting this program will always be done in the best interests of the institution, with the belief that this offers the alumni a means of showing their regard, where otherwise it might not be possible. Or, if you are unable to do this; if your estate is such that your family needs it, perhaps you might be able to influence your friends to take this step. There are several instances on record where alumni have done this, for they have pointed out to wealthy parties the service that Davidson is rendering, and those able to leave large sums of money have left a portion of it to Davidson. We believe that alumni influence, not only in reference to the above, but in many ways, is of intrinsic value, and we hope that you will always avail yourself of this opportunity.

Alumni Marriages

Hunter-Chamness

Charles Richards Hunter, 1925 graduate of Davidson, and Miss Christine Chamness were married at the Blenheim Presbyterian Church in Blenheim, S. C., on November 26. Dr. C. M. Richards, ’92, of Davidson, uncle of Mr. Hunter, performed the ceremony. J. E. Hunter, '23, of Charlotte, was best man; groomsmen were Brown McCallum, ’25, and Thomas McSwain, '25, both of Dillon, S. C., and Conray Clarke, ’27, of Elizabethtown. Ushers included D. C. Hunter, ’30, of Belmont, and Marion Hunter, ’31, of Davidson. Since graduating from Davidson, Mr. Hunter has been teaching. For some time he was at Elizabethtown, and when the Maxton Junior College was formed, he accepted a position with that institution. He has done graduate work at the University of North Carolina. Mrs. Hunter is a graduate of Chicora College, and for the past two years has been teaching in the Kershaw (S. C.) High School. Mr. and Mrs. Hunter are at home at Maxton, N. C.

Johnston-Washam

Robert Irvin Johnston, of Davidson, and Miss Sara Day Washam were quietly married on November 21 at the home of the bride in Cornelius. Mr. Johnston attended Davidson in the class of 1925, and since leaving school has been in the employ of White Drug Company at Davidson. Mrs. Johnston is a graduate of Long’s Sanatorium, at Statesville. Mr. and Mrs. Johnston are now at home in Davidson.

Garland Court Printing and Engraving of Every Description J. A. CANNON 311 Watts STANDARD PRINTING CO. Charlotte, N. C.