THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 23, 1930

Alumni Marriages

Norris-Ketchin
William Ruggles Norris, ’14, of Long Island, N.Y., and Miss Priscilla Ketchin, of Winnsboro, S.C., were married in Winnsboro on
September 22, and are now at home at 3546 81st Street, Jackson Heights, Long Island. In addition to graduating from
Davidson, Dr. Norris obtained a Ph.D. degree from Johns Hopkins University. For the past three years, he has been in
Russia with the Standard Oil Company of New York, and is still with the concern as a chemist. His headquarters
are in New York City. Mrs. Norris graduated from Winthrop College, obtained a master of arts degree from Columbia University,
and has been on the faculties at the Women’s College of Erskine, and of Winthrop.

Boulware-Radcliffe
Dr. James Richmond Boulware, Jr., of Lakeland, Fla., was married to Miss Katharine Radcliffe Asher, of Rhinebeck, N.Y., on October
1. Dr. Boulware taught at Woodberry Forest before taking his medical work at the University of Virginia. His internship was
served at Bellevue Hospital. At present, he is practicing in Lakeland, Fla.

Horton-Murdock
Leighton Thornwell Horton, ’22, and Miss Nellie Murdock, both of Mooresville, were married in that city on October 8. Mr.
Horton was in the insurance business in Washington state after his graduation from Davidson, but returned to Mooresville several years
ago, and is now secretary-treasurer of the Mooresville Shirt Corporation. Mrs. Horton is a graduate of Pierce’s Business College of
Philadelphia.

Hunter-Weaver
“Mrs. Elizabeth F. Weaver announces the marriage of her daughter, Gemma, to Dr. John B. Hunter, New York City.” Dr.
Hunter and Miss Weaver were married in September, and are now in New York, where he is practicing medicine at
114 E. 54th Street, New York, N.Y. After graduating from Davidson in 1924, Dr. Hunter took his medical work at
New York University, and interned at Bellevue Hospital.

Patterson-Hallum
Dr. Norman G. Patterson, ’25, and Miss Athale Hallum were married at Sutsein, Kiangsu, China, on August 28. Dr. Patterson,
who came to Davidson from China, took his medical work at Virginia Medical College, at Richmond, Va. For the past
year, he has been connected with the Presbyterian Hospital at Tsing Kiang Pu, China, and is now superintendent of the
hospital at North Kiangsu mission. Mrs. Patterson, who went to China a year ago from her home in Davidson, is
a graduate of Chicora College.

Trotter-Guy
James Morris Trotter, ’25, and Miss Charlotte Margaret Guy, both of Charlotte, were married October 18. Since his graduation from
Davidson, Mr. Trotter has been connected with the trust department of the Independence Trust Company. Mrs. Trotter was educated at
Queens College.

Cater-Williams
Howard William Cater, ’26, of Anniston, Ala., and Miss Irene Williams, of Huntsville, Ala., were married on July 8. Mr.
Cater has been with the George Cater Furniture Company, of Anniston, since leaving Davidson, and is now secretary of the
company.

CHAMPIONSHIP FOOTBALL TEAM OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
Above is Davidson College's first championship football team, which reunites at Davidson on Home-Coming Day, next Saturday. Reading from left
to right, the following are shown in the photo:

Top row: E. L. Booe, Kennedy, Texas; Lunsford Richardson, Greensboro; Rev. J. T. Pharr, Cass, W. Va.; B. T. Neal,
Chicago, Ill.
Second row: J. N. Van DeVanter (deceased), Coach Floyd Simmons, Charlotte; J. C. Cashion, Huntersville.
Third row: S. F. Erwin, Jr., Florence, S.C.; J. Roy Barron, manager, Charlotte.
Fourth row: D. M. McQueen, Jacksonville, Fla.; Rev. J. R. Phipps, Pollocksville; Rev. E. S. Currie, China.
Bottom row: E. H. Graham, Goldsboro; Rev. W. D. Wolfe, Tellico Plains, Tenn.; Dr. DeWitt Kluttz, Washington, N.C.; Rev. Eugene
Alexander, Manchester.

Others of the squad not shown in the picture include P. McK. Williams and W. M. Shaw, Fayetteville; Rev. W.
A. Nicholson, Pineville; D. A. Biggers, Rock Hill, S.C.; Dr. C. R. Wilcox, Rome, Ga.; J. Max Hendrix, Greensboro; R.
C. Hamer, Eastover, S.C.; Dr. C. S. McCants, Winnsboro, S.C.; Quay Williford, Gastonia, and S. H. Kerr, Catonsville, Maryland.

WELCOME TO ALUMNI
From Ernest Milton, Alumni Secretary

Today is one of great significance. Not only is it the annual Home-Coming of Davidson alumni, but it is a
time when Davidson’s first championship team—that of 1910—comes back for a reunion for the first time. The Alumni Council is
also meeting today. Today is a day when we hope all of you will feel perfectly at home, will enter
the exercises with the enthusiasm of your student days.days, and will leave Davidson with a warmer feeling of loyalty and
a greater sense of devotion to the interests of your Alma Mater. We welcome you. We welcome you in sincerity.
We welcome you with a wealth of cordiality. Our hearts are made glad that you have seen fit to honor
us with your presence today. It is a pleasure to meet you over the southland and in other parts of
the United States, but we are far happier when you come back from points, near and far, to the scene
of your early manhood, giving us an opportunity to make you feel at home and make you feel again the
days of yore. May this day be one replete with continuous happy events for you. May you be glad that
you come. And may the ties that have been dear to you in the past become even dearer because of
the hours you spend in treading the same pathways, and in meeting again the friends of your collegiate life.

From W. L. Younger, Head Coach

The Davidson College Athletic Association as a unit and as individualists happily joins all other departments of the college in
greeting you most heartily and in voicing the hope that the days elapsed since you were last at Davidson have
been filled with success and joy. May the renewal of your contact with the college today be maintained indefinitely, and
may your interest in her grow ever stronger as the years pass.

You have returned for many events at Davidson today, most of which have been especially arranged for your entertainment. We
are glad that the athletic department can have a part in the program for Davidson alumni, and we truly hope
that the contest today may be satisfactory to you. The game this afternoon will give some of you the first
opportunity of seeing the 1930 football team in action. As that team takes the field, remember that they are fighting
for you, as well as for the members of the present student body, and for their love of the game.
Only as you lend your support to them can they attain success. Back the teams of your college to the
limit and take pride in them as your own. I know that the boys will do their best for you,
and will appreciate the loyalty that you manifest from time to time.

AN APPRECIATION

The Davidsonian is a medium through which you can learn of the happenings on the college campus, the prowess of
your football team, and events occurring to your friends among the alumni. A public appreciation and acknowledgment is being made
today of the kindness of the business and editorial staffs in permitting the alumni office to have a weekly page.
It is a pleasure to garner together the alumni news and disseminate it to all parts of the globe. Through
an arrangement made last spring, approximately 350 alumni, who have paid their alumni dues of $5.00, are weekly receiving this
periodical, and the many favorable expressions received by the alumni secretary are conclusive proof that this was a wise step.
Once again an appeal is made to individuals to make this page more valuable by keeping the alumni office informed
of what they are doing.

Mrs. Cater is a graduate of Vanderbilt University, where she was a member of Phi Beta Kappa.

Reid-Dunlap

John Edward Reid, Jr., ’26, and Miss Betty Dunlap, both of Rock Hill, S. C., were married on October 2.
Mr. and Mrs. Reid are at home on East Main Street, in Rock Hill. Since leaving Davidson, Mr. Reid has
been connected in business at Rock Hill. Mrs. Reid is a graduate of Winthrop Training School and Winthrop College.

Thompson-Brengle

Mr. and Mrs. C. G. Brengle announce the marriage of their daughter, Elizabeth, to Robert Fisher Thompson, Jr., on October
4, at Cumberland, Md. Mr. Thompson graduated from Davidson in 1926, and has been working for the past several years
in Cumberland, Md., with the Celanese Corporation of America. Mrs. Thompson is a graduate of Western Maryland College.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia. The oldest and largest Southern Presbyterian
Seminary. Both sound in the faith, and alert for new methods. For Catalogue and information, address Rev. B. R. Lacy,
Jr., D.D., President.

©1930, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

You can bet your bottom dollar — ONE will always stand out!
