THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1930

DUKE AT DURHAM NEXT BIG 5 GAME

THE SPORTS PARADE

FRESHMEN OPEN SEASON WITH OAK RIDGE CADETS

Hard Fight Expected in Davidson-N.C.S Saturday Encounter as Wildcats Face Seceders

Davidson State Serious Early Season Injuries Have Been Disappointing to Erskine Supporters

First downs ------- 4 2
Yards gained from scrimmage ---- 121 yds. 39 yds.
Passes attempted -- 18 12
Passes completed -- 4 2
Yards gained from passes ---- 36 yds. 23 yds.
Total yards gained 157 yds. 62 yds.
Average length of punts and kick-offs ---- 41 yds. 39 yds.
Average return of punts and kick-offs ---- 18.6 yds. 12.3 yds.
No. punts and kick-offs ---- 17 15
Fumbles ------- 1 2
Fumbles recovered 3 0
Penalties ---- 50 yds. 25 yds.

Davidson’s Wildcats will run up against one of the hardest fighting teams in the Carolinas Saturday afternoon when the Erskine
Seceders take the field against them, but it will be a team weakened greatly by graduation and serious early season
injuries. Despite these injuries, Erskine has shown much in her two previous contests to dispel any hopes Davidson backers might
have of the Wildcats having an easy afternoon.

Reports from Due West were to the effect that Old Man Gloom held sway in the Erskine camp. Many disappointments
have faced Coach Todd since fall training started in the first of September at Bon-Clarken. First, his veteran center Pressley,
on whom he had counted for much, developed a bad leg and was not able to start the season. Then
his second-string center, Lambo, went down with an attack of appendicitis, leaving the pivot position wide open.

Pressley has since returned to the lineup and was enabled to start against Citadel last Saturday. On top of all
this, Harvey Ferguson, a fullback hailed by Coach Todd as another Dode Phillips, former Seceder star, broke his leg in
an early scrimmage, incapacitating him for any further play this season. Todd was grooming Ferguson to be the main cog
in the Seceder offensive when he was hurt.

Erskine held South Carolina to a comparatively low score, the Gamecocks taking a three-touchdown win. Last Saturday, Citadel trimmed Erskine
by a score of 13-0, in a game in which Erskine was said to have looked pretty good. Erskine put
up a stubborn defense, allowing the Bulldogs very little ground and but for the brilliant play of Whittington and McIntosh,
star Bulldog backs, there might have been a different story.

Erskine will bring a team to Davidson which ought to be greatly improved over the team which met South Carolina
and Citadel. Her first two games were harder than Davidson’s first two, which might not help her general condition at
all, but will certainly add to her experience.

Erskine is expected to spring a strenuous passing attack, as she has shown herself to be more adept in this
department than in any other. Erskine’s air-tight defense will offer Davidson's offense a supreme test and unless the Wildcats get
their running plays better than heretofore, this game Saturday afternoon is going to be tight.

Freshmen Open Season With Oak Ridge Cadets

Traditional Rivals of Yearlings Bring Strong Team Here

Davidson’s Freshmen will make their bow on the gridiron Friday afternoon, when they tackle Oak Ridge Military Academy on Richardson
Field. The contest climaxes three weeks of preparation by the Wildkittens. Oak Ridge has furnished the opposition for the Freshmen
in their initial contests for the past few years, and her teams have always been tough for the yearlings to
conquer. Last year the Cadets presented a well-balanced team that held the Wildkittens to a 6-6 tie. Friday they bring
a team that has played together for several seasons, in fact, practically the same team they had last year, only
stronger.

The visitors will enter the contest favored over the Kittens due to their 42 to 0 victory over Hargrave Military
Academy last Saturday. Their complete line-up is not known, but they will have a well-developed team built around such stars
as McCoy, Captain Gold, Walton, Swishert, Ray, Gilkey, and Slayton.

Coach Red Laird is uncertain as to who he is going to start, but he hopes to put a team
on the field that will show the visitors a pleasant afternoon. His team will be much lighter and not as
experienced as the Oak Ridge eleven, but judging the Freshmen from appearances against the varsity eleven, the visitors will have
their hands full.

Davidson vs. V.M.I. To Play in Morning

On the morning of November 1, Davidson is to play V.M.I. at Lexington, Va., to avoid conflict with the Washington
and Lee-V.P.I. tussle on the adjoining campus in the afternoon. Both games are to be home-coming affairs, so large crowds
are expected. Every year W. & L. and V.M.I. plan their home-comings for the same day in order to have
a full schedule of activities for their alumni. The Wildcats and Cadets meet at 11 o'clock and the W. &
L.-V.P.I. tilt starts at 2:30, giving the spectators time between games.

This will be the second irregularity in the Wildcat football schedule, the other having been the night game in Greensboro
with N.C. State. Now it can be said that Davidson plays football morning, afternoon, and night.

Intra-fraternity competition in athletics will be held again this year, it was decided at a meeting of the Pan-Hellenic Council
last week. Captain N.G. Pritchett, head of the Physical Education Department, instigated the movement, and it was readily accepted by
the fraternity representatives at the meeting.

Contests in campus football, basketball, and baseball will be played, with all members of fraternities eligible for the competition. Although
no ruling will be made to the effect that a player who takes part in intra-mural sports will not be
eligible for play in the same sport for his fraternity, the officials prefer that the athlete refrain from playing in
the same sport for both his class and fraternity.

Captain Pritchett announced that a schedule was being prepared and would be posted within a few days. It is his
desire that the fall competition start early next week. A beautiful cup is to be awarded next spring to the
fraternity that has the highest number of points. The trophy will be the property of that organization until the following
spring when it will be re-awarded to the winner of that year’s competition. Should a fraternity win three years out
of five, the trophy will become its permanent possession.

Points will be credited to each fraternity that wins a place in the three sports. Consideration will also be given
to the fraternities having the greatest percentage of men out for varsity sports.

Wrestling Schedule Complete for Year

Six meets, one of which is tentative, will compose Davidson’s 1931 wrestling schedule.of the meets will be held at home
and three away. The season opens on January 31 when the N. C. State grapplers come here.

On the following week, they travel to Lexington, Va., where they meet Washington & Lee on the fifth, and V.
M. I. on the seventh of February. V. P. I. closes Davidson's season in a meet here on February 23.

Training will start soon after the end of the football season. The team this year will be led by F.
M. Conway, who won the North Carolina State wrestling championship in his weight last year.

The complete 1931 schedule as announced by Manager G. N. Burch follows:
Jan. 31—N. C. State, here.

When You’re Hungry
Let Helper Help You
HELPER’S RESTAURANT
Next Door to Telephone Office

LOOKING ’EM OVER
With W. H. Matthews

It was midnight on the gridiron; Not a wolflet was in sight. The score was 12 to 0 In favor
of Davidson.

The varsity plays its first out-of-state opponent this weekend, engaging the Erskine Seceders at Richardson field. Erskine has been pretty
hard hit by graduation, and then to top that off, has had more than its share of injuries. They present
a green team which has been beaten by a much more decisive nature than even the most rabid alumni had
hoped. The offense failed to click at times, but the Wolfpack could not gain regularly through the Wildcats' line either.
Brock’s punting kept Davidson well out of danger all the time, and no passes were completed by the Technicians until
in the fourth quarter when the damage had already been done.

The showing of his line must have gratified Tex Tilson. They smashed into the vaunted State forwards in a most
business-like manner, rushed the State passers off their feet, and smothered every line thrust. Not a single first down was
negotiated on plunges by State. Gurneau and Jeffrey never got off a gain of more than six yards, and that
happened only once.

While speaking of linemen, a word about Captain Stout and Milo Stroupe, State guard and tackle, would not be amiss.
These two men made fully half the tackles of their team and strengthened the right side of the Wolfpack line
in such a manner that the absence of a capable end there was not as glaring as it might have
been. The man who picks an all-state eleven in December must keep an eye on these two.

We picked four games last week, and three of them went true to the guess. Duke bowed to South Carolina
in a more decisive manner than was generally guessed, the game being considered a tossup. We strung along with the
North Carolina team, and the Blue Devils weren't as strong as we thought. Our average so far is five correct
guesses out of six tries.

In this week's games, Davidson should take Erskine about 20 to 0. Carolina should do the same to V. P.
I. Duke is apt to strike a snag again in Virginia. Virginia is favored about 13 to 0. Wake Forest
should have a margin of four or five touchdowns over Guilford. The Florida Gators should hand State another lacing, and
by a score one or two touchdowns more than that which forced the Wolves to take. Pat Miller and his
Deacons have been perhaps rated too low when they were relegated to the cellar in the preseason picks. Nor does
it seem that Carolina will have the breeze into first place which they had hoped for. The Big Five race
may tighten into a dog fight before the last days of November. But of Saturday’s games, Carolina still rules as
the favorite to repeat.

Coaches Laird and Unger for the 1930 freshman team will present their squad in perfect shape.

Davidson Men Are Always Welcome At
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

WEBSTER’S COLLEGIATE
The Best Abridged Dictionary because it is based upon WEBSTER’S NEW INTERNATIONAL—The “Supreme Authority”. Here is a companion for your
hours of reading and study that will prove its real value every time you consult it. A wealth of ready
information on words, persons, places, is instantly yours. 106,000 words and phrases with definitions, etymologies, pronunciations, and use in its
1,256 pages. 1,700 illustrations. Includes dictionaries of biography and geography and other features. See it at Your College Bookstore or
Write for Information to the Publishers. Free specimen pages if you name this paper.
Springfield, Mass.
