THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1930

Dr. Charles G. Vardell Resigns as President Of Flora Macdonald College—He Will Continue as Member of the Faculty

Dr. Charles G. Vardell, ’88, pioneer in the life of Flora Macdonald College at Red Springs, and President of that institution since its organization in 1896, resigned as President of that college the latter part of February. Contrary to newspaper reports published at that time, Dr. Vardell did not resign because of ill health, but because he felt that a younger man should assume the head of Flora Macdonald. His connection with the institution was not completely severed, for he will continue as a professor in that college. Several times before Dr. Vardell had offered his resignation to the board, but upon their urging, he continued as the President. This time, however, he was firm in his insistence that his resignation be accepted, and the trustees of that institution acted accordingly, drawing up a set of resolutions expressing regret that Dr. Vardell felt that this step was necessary.

Commenting editorially under the caption, “Inseparable Names,” The Charlotte Observer declared that “No doubt there will be an inclination on the part of the Board of Trustees of Flora Macdonald College to induce Doctor Vardell to reconsider his determination to relinquish the Presidency of that institution, which he has served so faithfully and efficiently through many past years. The public has regarded the two names as inseparable, for Doctor Vardell has advanced the fortunes of that institution from a small beginning to its present status as one of the finest in the land... Flora Macdonald would not seem the same with Doctor Vardell not there.”

Under Doctor Vardell’s leadership, Flora Macdonald has become a nationally-known institution and students from every State of the Union and several foreign countries have been educated there. Over 200 are enrolled this year, and it has a faculty of 25 members.

Births

During the past several months a number of announcements of births have been received by the alumni office, a few of them occurring some time ago. Information was obtained here and there, and the belatedness of some of the announcements was through lack of knowledge. They are as follows:

1909—Dr. and Mrs. P. J. Chester, of Fayetteville, a daughter, Carolyn Elizabeth, on April 2nd.
—Mr. and Mrs. Hugh A. Query, of Gastonia, a daughter, Margaret Wallace, on March 18th.

1912—Mr. and Mrs. J. O. Cobb, of Durham, a daughter, Virginia LeGrande, March 5th.

1916—Mr. and Mrs. K. A. MacDonald, of Hope Mills, a son, Milton Laughlin, on March 28th.

1922—Dr. and Mrs. A. P. Ormond, of Stow, Ohio, a daughter, Elizabeth Anne, on November 30, 1929.

1924—Mr. and Mrs. C. M. Davis, of Winston-Salem, a son, Charles M., Jr., on March 19th.
—Mr. and Mrs. J. C. McDiarmid, Jr., of Constantinople, Turkey, a son, James Cowling, Jr., on March 7th.

1925—Dr. and Mrs. L. P. Cox, of Mobile, Ala., a son, L. P., Jr., on September 3, 1929.

1926—Mr. and Mrs. C. K. Marshall, Jr., of Baltimore, Md., a daughter, Mary Holt, on February 22nd.

The ladder of success is full of splinters, but they hurt worst when you are sliding down.

By leaving a party early you give others someone to talk about.

He: “Come on, just one kiss.”
She: “I’m not a retailer.”

ALUMNI PERSONALS

D. F. Martin, Jr., '29, has been awarded a fellowship at the University of North Carolina in the Department of Economics and Science for the second successive year.

The Woman's Auxiliary of the Asheville Presbytery is endowing a scholarship at the Montreat Normal School in honor of Rev. R. P. Smith, D.D., ’73, of Asheville.

Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, ‘06, and Dr. Oren Moore, ‘08, both of Charlotte, were this week on the program of the First District Medical Society at its meeting in Laurinburg.

Buck Marrow, ‘31, has gone to Evansville, Ind., to join the Three-I League. He is the property of the Detroit Tigers.

Everett Booe, ‘11, formerly of Kennedy, Texas, is manager of the Greensboro Patriots, of the Piedmont League, this season.

Ernest Graham, ‘13, of Red Springs, is a candidate for the North Carolina House of Representatives; Hon. J. Bayard Clark, ‘05, of Fayetteville, is an unopposed candidate for re-election to the United States House of Representatives.House of Representatives; W. B. Garrison, '20, and Davis Robinson, '23, both of Charlotte, are candidates for the Mecklenburg Board of County Commissioners. Dr. M. H. Wyman, '08, of Columbia, S. C., is Vice-President for South Carolina of the Tri-State Medical Association. T. T. Allison, 1900, of Charlotte, has been unanimously chosen a member of the School Board of that city. Rev. B. R. Lacy, D.D., '06, of Richmond, will preach the baccalaureate sermon at Raeford this commencement; Rev. W. T. Thompson, D.D., '05, of Richmond, will preach a similar sermon at the Lexington High School. Dr. John Walker Moore, '06, dean of the Louisville (Ky.) Medical College, is working on some research, studying the output of the heart. He has been doing this for two years, and he might work ten in making his calculations, which would give definite data that would be of value in studying heart conditions. Friends will regret to learn of the death of A. C. Ray, father of Rev. A. C. Ray, Jr., '25. Mr. Ray was run down and killed by an automobile. Friends are also sorry to hear of the death of W. I. Howell, father of W. I. Howell, Jr., '26, now a student at Union Seminary in Richmond. Mr. Howell's death followed close on that of his wife. C. R. Vance, '21, who has been in Nashville, Tenn., has returned to Greensboro and opened offices for Caldwell and Company. Rev. James T. "Tim" Pharr, '12, pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Cass, W. Va., recently completed evangelistic services of two weeks in his church. "Prayer Changes Things" was the slogan of the revival. There were 53 professions of faith, a number of people united with the church by re-statement and church letter, and 225 reconsecrated their lives. This pastor is well remembered as a prominent football and baseball player. James A. McRae, '09, has been made Treasurer of Flora Macdonald College at Red Springs. Judge E. McA. Currie, '16, is Chairman of the Mecklenburg Democratic Executive Committee. Rev. Edgar Woods, '19, who has been studying at the Biblical Seminary in New York, is filling the pulpit of the First Presbyterian Church at Greensboro for a month, while Dr. C. F. Myers is recuperating from a breakdown. George W. Ragan, Jr., '26, is in Johns Hopkins Hospital, where he recently underwent an operation. S. Clay Williams, '05, of Winston-Salem, is a delegate to the 18th annual meeting of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States, representing the Winston-Salem body. Frank P. Morton, Jr., '23, for the last two years manager of the O. Henry Hotel in Greensboro, has been transferred to the general headquarters of the Southeastern Hotels Company, and is now located at Charleston, S.C. Alexander Sprunt, Jr., '18, who is curator of the museum in Charleston, S. C., and has developed an extensive reputation as an authority on birds, wrote an article which appeared in the April issue of the Ladies Home Journal. Mr. Sprunt has had another article accepted by the American Magazine. He has done much feature writing for the newspapers of North and South Carolina. Best wishes for you on your vacation. WHITE DRUG CO. Captain John S. Moore, '15, now stationed in the Philippine Islands, recently won the Fort McKinley golf championship, and also the amateur championship of the Philippine Islands, getting a cup for second low medal. Captain Moore will return to America in August, and will be stationed at Alexandria, La.

"PRESCRIPTIONS When Small Machines Were Big More than a quarter century ago, the Commonwealth Edison Company, prophetically alive to the immense possibilities of the future, ordered from General Electric a 5000-kilowatt steam turbine—in those days a giant of electric power.

5000-kilowatt turbine-generator installed in 1903 at the Fisk Street station of the Commonwealth Edison Company, Chicago. Today, a General Electric turbine-generator of 208,000-kilowatt capacity sends out its vast energy to the Chicago Metropolitan District. College-trained men played a responsible part in the engineering and manufacture of both machines—just as they serve in important capacities in the engineering, production, and distribution of all General Electric equipment, large or small.

208,000-kilowatt turbine-generator installed at the State Line generating Station. JOIN US IN THE GENERAL ELECTRIC HOUR, BROADCAST EVERY SATURDAY EVENING ON A NATION-WIDE N.B.C. NETWORK. GENERAL ELECTRIC