THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1930

Side Line Shots At the Outlook for an Untried Nine
By P. R. Alderman

With the diamond candidates getting more in form each day under the vigilant tutelage of Coach “Monk” Younger and the
first game one week from today with the Georgetown University nine, the campus has become the abode of many and
various speculations as to our 1930 baseball prospects. Just as with football a couple of years ago, there are many
vacant berths that are going to be hard to fill, which means that there is a lot that will not
be known until the Cats have played their first few games. Some seem rather optimistic as to the formation of
a new team out of untried material while others regard it as a forecast of a losing squad. It's encouraging
to note that the majority are of the former opinion, however.

Judging from the practices so far, which are characterized by strong competition resultant from the large number of vacancies to
be filled, there is going to be forthcoming one of the scrappiest nines seen in quite a while. A lot
will depend on the condition this year of last year’s veterans. If they continue their present tendencies, Coach Monk will
have a strong, although small, nucleus around which to build a new team; whereas any serious drawbacks suffered by them
will tend to impair the morale of the entire squad. But there’s no need to look for trouble in advance,
especially when there is such a lack of indications toward it as exists now. The old men seem to be
in even better form than last year, while the new candidates are measuring up to all expectations.

The outcome of the season is pretty apt to be determined by the first games. A successive number of bad
breaks in these contests will be hard to overcome, especially if the student body fails to back the squad as
a result of some defeats. On the other hand, with the rest of us behind them to give them a
good start, the future is about as optimistic as if there were nine veterans taking the field instead of a
minority of such. Let’s give them the support that they deserve, especially at the first of the season, and then
a real Wildcat team will be seen in action!

The tennis team this spring is going to have a pretty tough time living up to last year’s record, which
was one of the best ever sustained by Wildcat racketeers. The loss of John Roddey, last year’s captain and star,
is going to be sorely felt this year. However, his is the only vacancy to be filled, and so prospects
could be much less optimistic. Frontis Johnston, captain of the varsity netmen this year, will probably be the mainstay of
the team with Halverstadt and Poe, lettermen, completing the regulars. Several sophomores who showed up especially well last year on
the fresh team will make strong bids for the vacant position.

Tubbs: “What would you give for a voice like mine?”
Hyde: “Chloroform.”

Baseball Season Begins With Georgetown Game
Five Vacancies From Last Year’s Team to be Filled With New Men
SEVEN VETERANS RETURN
Kugler and Armfield Will Probably Make up Battery

When the 1930 Davidson Wildcat baseball team takes the field Thursday against the powerful Georgetown team in the opening game
of the season, it will be a team much different from that which observers predicted at the close of last
season. Instead of an outfield patrolled by three veterans, there will be an outfield with only one letterman regularly placed
there, and with perhaps one more regular there part of the time. The infield will have three new men in
it; only Bill Goodson at second base will be a veteran. The pitching burden will rest largely on one man,
Captain Doc Kugler, while the receiving behind the plate will go to either Nab Armfield or “Happyrock” Gladstone.

The withdrawal of Sandy Marks, third baseman of last year's squad, and Buck Marrow, stellar pitcher, left a gaping hole
in Monk Younger’s forces. Graduation took three men, and therefore five places were left vacant, to be filled by new
men. In attempting to find men to hold down the infield berths, it has been necessary to bring Jimmy Proctor
from the field and place him at first base. John McInnis played in the field a great deal last year,
but this spring will find him in the role of regular pitcher, and so he will not get much time
off for the outer garden work.

The left side of the infield is still in the experimental stages. Bub Barnhardt, diminutive sophomore, is making a strong
bid for shortstop. Despite his handicap in size, he covers a great deal of ground and handles the ball well.
Added to that, he is a very hard man to pitch to. On third base, Red Parrish is doing most
of the work. Although he has not made a letter in baseball, he has been on the squad and seems
to have a goodChance of becoming the regular hot corner man to replace Sandy Marks. McMillan and Cox are furnishing
plenty of competition, however. The infield should show more batting power than that of last year, but will not likely
be as smooth a fielding combination. Goodson and Proctor both wield wicked war clubs, and Barnhardt stands a good chance
of getting lots of walks. Parrish has been hitting better than last year. Whiz Miller has been switched to center
field to replace Fred Ratchford, stellar captain of the club last year. McInnis will see some service in the outer
gardens when not in the box. Mathis and Kraemer, both unknown quantities, hardly seem to have as good a chance
as Hub Covington for filling the other berth. There is certain to be a good deal of experimenting before the
best trio is found. Most of the pitching will be done by Captain Doc Kugler. McInnis will also take his
regular turn on the mound. Thompson, a port sider, was troubled with a sore arm last year and didn’t see
any service. However, his work this year has been very good and he will be on hand whenever a relief
hurler is needed. Henderson, Curtis, and Croker complete the pitching staff. Nab Armfield held a permanent lease on the catching
last spring, but Gladstone has come forward rapidly as a backstop, and is making a stronger bid this year. Armfield’s
hitting was rather weak, and this may give Gladstone a better chance for the position.

Freshman Baseball Schedule:
- Belmont Abbey—Here—Mar. 24
- M. P. C. I.—There—March 26
- Darlington—Here—April 3
- Charlotte High—There—April 8
- Belmont Abbey—There—April 9
- Wake Forest—Here—April 15
- Campbell College—Here—April 17
- Charlotte High—Here—April 18
- U. N. C.—There—April 22
- Duke—There—April 23
- Wake Forest—There—April 24
- N. C. State—There—April 25
- M. P. C. I.—There—May 1

Indoor Baseball Results:
- Seniors—Won 3, Lost 0 (Bert Wilkinson, Capt.)
- Sophomores—Won 2, Lost 1 (Henry McKinnon, Capt.)
- Freshmen—Won 1, Lost 2 (C. Pennington, Capt.)
- Juniors—Won 0, Lost 3 (French Cowan, Capt.)

The baseball and bat and other equipment will still be available during the afternoons, and all who will, are at
liberty to play with them. They are kept in the physical director’s office.

Davidson Trackmen To Enter Big Meet:
Wildcats to Meet Strong Competition

On March 22, the University of West Virginia is holding an invitation indoor track meet in which schools from all
parts of eastern and southern United States will compete. Eighteen colleges and universities have accepted invitations to enter the meet.
Davidson is to be represented in at least one or two of the events. The only man who is sure
of going now is Captain Heath Whittle, who will compete in the hurdle events. The other men to go will
be selected by tryouts in the next two weeks. Whittle will have plenty of competition. Sol Furth, Intercollegiate low hurdle
champion, is one of the many track notables who are to attend the meet. The following men are showing up
well in the events listed: Whittle—Hurdles; Smith—Javelin, Broad Jump; George—Dashes; McCall—Pole Vault, 440 Dash; Frank Brown—Half Mile; Neal, Norton—Mile; Lafferty,
Drake—Two Mile; Brannon, Beavers—High Jump; Allen, Gardner—Shot Put; Boyles—Discus.

Frank Brown Wins Gymnastic Contest:
Junior Class Takes Group Honors

Following the termination, Wednesday, March 5, of the intramural gymnastic competition, a count of the points showed that Frank R.
Brown, of the Senior Class, was the winner of the Sigma Delta Psi Trophy offered to the highest scorer; and
that the Junior Class led in collective class competition. The class totals are: Juniors, 572; Fresh, 384; Sophomores, 382; Seniors,
342. Individual scoring was closely and keenly contested, and the winner of the trophy was altogether in doubt until the
last day. The highest individual scores are as follows: Brown, F. R., 177; Carter, W. V., 164½; Bost, H. F.,
149; Stroud, Ed., 132; Carr, H. L., 109; Pennington, C., 101; Brown, J. L., 99; Ramseur, J. H., 97; Taylor,
Benjamin, 90; Currie, D. S., 79; Preston, J., 76; Nichol, H. F., 69; Smith, E. W., 66; Neal, T. S.,
59; McKeithan, L., 58; McBryde, D. D., 56; Rice, J. B., 46; Groseclose, 40; Rembert, W. H., 37; Munroe, H.
S., 32.

FOR A FRAGRANT INTERLUDE—HAVE A CAMEL

Let Camels help to make your day by breaking it with pleasant interludes. Call a halt now and then and
accent the intervals between one thing and another with little pauses given over to cool fragrance and rich aroma. You’ll
find Camels always give you a little more pleasure because the choicest tobaccos grown are blended with expert care. Camels
are mellow and mild, cool and refreshing. Their fragrance is always pleasant, indoors and out. They never tire your taste
nor leave any after-taste.

© 1929, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.
