THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 16, 1930

DIAGRAM OF DUKE-DAVIDSON FOOTBALL GAME BY QUARTERS
Used by Courtesy of The Raleigh News and Observer

The above is a diagram of how Duke defeated Davidson in Durham Saturday. This was drawn by Reynolds, on the staff of the News and Observer, sent to The Davidsonian for use this week. It clearly shows every detail of the game, and anyone who failed to witness the game can get an idea as to how the ball was booted back and forth, and how Duke’s two touchdowns were scored.

“Little Tex” Shows Good Aptitude for Cheering

Tex Tilson, of Davidson, may be planning for his three-year-old son to be a football player, but he has shown indications of being a cheerleader. At the pep meeting staged at Davidson College Thursday night before the team left for Durham, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of the college, was making a talk. He told a few jokes. The students responded with laughter. When they subsided, and Dr. Lingle was upon the verge of reopening his talk, “Little Tex,” who was attending the meeting with his father, cackled forth in the dead silence of students awaiting Dr. Lingle’s resumption of his talk. (More laughter by students.) Dr. Lingle told another joke. The students laughed. Silence reigned. And then “Little Tex” started off again. (And still more laughter.) The three-year-old youngster, admired by all the Davidson students, almost broke up the meeting. An observation is advanced that “Little Tex” is either thinking of the delayed buck he will pull in the backfield several years from now; or else hehas a streak of English blood in him. Which is true will be determined by time.

LOOKING ’EM OVER
(Continued from page 3)

ment, but we believe that the Wildcats will not have to take the short end of the score again until the Carolina affair, at least. We withhold prediction until later for results after that. Our average as dopester received a severe jolt last week, and Duke again contributed its share towards doing it by making Davidson take the score we had planned for the Blue Devils to receive. Georgia failed to halt Albie Booth completely, but trounced Yale anyhow to furnish the other upset. Our other four guesses turned out satisfactorily. Our mark so far is 13 correct out of 17 predictions.

Davidson meets Citadel this weekend in what the Cadets regard as a grudge fight. Davidson looks like they have a one to two touchdown advantage. 13 to 0 is our guess. Wake Forest is due to beat State about 14 to 0, and may make it more this afternoon. Georgia and Carolina should pull off a free-scoring contest where both teams are apt to run rife. The score should be Georgia 21, Carolina 13. Duke has the winning idea, and may take the Navy. About 13 to 7, we say, in favor of the Blue Devils.

Davidson Theatre
Eyes of the World
Monday and Tuesday
Wild Company
Wednesday
Monte Carlo
Thursday
JEANETTE MACDONALD
Man Trouble
Friday
Last of the Duanes
Saturday

PRACTICALLY ALL 1910 TEAM
(Continued from page 4)

the varsity squad being 143 pounds.

(10) A team that in eight contests were on two occasions only matched against teams of approximately equal weight. V. P. I, W. & L., Wake Forest and Carolina possessed much advantage in weight, and Carolina particularly, according to the records, outweighed this midget aggregation by approximately 40 pounds to the man.

(11) The team played its schedule of eight games with a first string of fifteen players; all visiting games with a squad of thirteen players.

(12) The team was equipped with light shoes, no stockings, pants and jerseys with very little padding; however, no casualties except minor ones. The team which started the first game of the season started the final game on Thanksgiving Day.

(13) The only two games lost were those to V. P. I. and Washington and Lee. Both of these opponents had marvelous place-kickers in Hodgson of V. P. I. and Miller of W. & L. Both of these players were positively deadly within their opponents’ 40-yard line. The kicking from placement of these two players defeated Davidson single-handed. The W. & L. game was lost and won in the last minute of play.

Bahia, Brazil, built in two sections, at the foot and at the top of a tall cliff, has installed two American elevators for the 10,000 people who daily climb up and down the cliff.

“Shall I Insure?” That’s been settled long ago. The question now is: “How much insurance do you need?” The answer is: “Enough Fire Insurance to provide money to replace fully your household goods and furniture.” Not forgetting that since 1913 replacement costs have increased 101%. Be sure you have enough. Let us check up your policy. You incur no obligation.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McAlister Carson (’13), Manager
M. B. Speir ('26)

FURNISHINGS
Friendly Five Shoes
STETSON
“D” STORE
PHONE 206
Clothes For The College Man
CLOTHING
John Ward Shoes