THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 13, 1930

Week-End Guests

The following guests were entertained during the week-end by the various social fraternities:

Beta Theta Pi: Misses Frances Whitman, Converse; Anna Whitman, Hollins; Martha Anne Wells, Concord; Caroline Hardin, Decatur; Frances Lineberger, Belmont; Lucy Cunningham, Welch, W. Va.; Louise Spangler, Peterstown, W. Va.; Ruth Spangler, Peterstown, W. Va.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Misses Helen Brawley, Charlotte; Louise Harrison, Greensboro; Christine Hudson, Salisbury; Mary A. Craig, Charlotte; Elizabeth Fraley, Statesville; Caroline Highsmith, Gastonia; Babe Taylor, New York; Johnnie Babbet, Knoxville. Visitors: Dick Royal; Jim McNair, U.N.C.; Dick Marshal, U.N.C.; Sonny McCoy, U.N.C.; Ed Purdy, Dunn; Billy Huntinback, Dunn; Charley Harrison, Greensboro; H. R. Smith, Greensboro; Boyd Morris, Greensboro; Lloyd Luttz, State; Murphy Judd, Fayetteville.

Kappa Alpha: Misses Sarah Nolen, Franklin, Tenn.; Susie May Ayers, Spring Hill, Tenn.; Pat Miller, Greensboro; Martha Morrison, High Point; Penelope Cannon, Concord; Ann F. Johnson, Barium Springs.

Kappa Sigma: Misses Romaine Clark, Converse; Cappa Eagles, Converse; Catherine Fulghum, Converse; Peter Whitehead, Converse; Vera Keller, Chatham Hall; Elizabeth Keller, Randolph Macon; Julia Marsh, High Point; Elizabeth Thompson, Davidson; Fritz Hamilton, N.C.C.W.; Loraine Davis, N.C.C.W.; Ruth Davis, Wilmington; Hattie Johnson, Wilmington; Brantley Nichols, Charlotte; “Teen” Thompson, Dunn; Nell Hill, Spartanburg; Bebe Hyde, Salem. Visitors: Elmore Bellingrath, Montgomery, Ala.; Prof. Hugh T. Shockley; Joe Cranford; Sam Black, Albemarle; Wick Black, Salisbury; John Davis, Chapel Hill; Jimmy Gray, Chapel Hill; Henry Rankin, N.C. State; Hoot Gibson, Pennington Gap, W. Va.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Misses Rockie Prince, Laurinburg; Margaret Blue, Fayetteville; Elinor McKinnon, Hartsville; Louise Melchor, Mooresville.

Pi Kappa Phi: Misses Margaret Manson, Greenville; Margaret Laurence, Rome, Ga.; Nancy Cox, Raleigh; Betsy Lee, Freemont; Elizabeth Triplette, Pine Bluff, Ark.; Elizabeth McClary, Roanoke, Va.; Mildred Davis, Richmond, Va.; Estelle Mangum, Marion; Virginia Hamer, Baltimore, Md.; Louise Salomon, Greenville, S.C.; Sylvia Woods, Marion, S.C. Visitors: Scott Brown, Rooney Boone, Greensboro; Billy Mills, Chattanooga; Mooresville.

Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Margaret Gorrell, Winston-Salem; Mary Sammons, Knoxville; Barbara Lou Carden, Knoxville; Mary Moses, Knoxville; Rosalie Wiley, Salisbury; Mary Cannon, Concord; Nancy Watts, Charlotte; Martha Irvin, Franklin; Mrs. Wm. Rule, Knoxville.

Theta Upsilon Omega: Misses Natalie Emory, Charlotte; Edith Storm, Charlotte; Kitty Brown, Charlotte; Eileen Brown, Charlotte; Ellen Hawkins, Charlotte; Sara Turner, Atlanta; Elizabeth Gatewood, N.C.C.W.; Casey Ingram, High Point; Katherine Lyerly, Salem; Mary Boyd, Macon, Ga.; Sarah Keith, Macon, Ga.; Janis Herdicher, Charlotte.

Pyramid Club: Misses Jane Morrison, Charlotte; Dot Wooley, Charlotte; Ruth Stikeleather, Converse; Elizabeth Lowe, Charlotte; Doug Rankin, Charlotte; Emily Fraser, Charlotte.

Alpha Omega: Misses Christie Maynard, Winston-Salem; Carolyn Jerney, Tryon; Jean McFadyen, Winston-Salem.

Phi Delta Theta: Misses Vivian Wallser, Randolph Macon; Mary Jane Whuton, N.C.C.W.; Elizabeth Wilson, Salisbury; Helen Knight, Greensboro; Eleanor Kincaid, Charlotte; Mary Beach, Queens; Anna Preston, Salem; Sarah Lee, Augusta, Ga.; Anita Murphy, Atlanta.

Davidson Five Years Ago

On its Eastern trip, the Wildcats won eleven to six from N.C. State and lost on Saturday, two days later, to the powerful Naval Academy team by a score of twenty-seven to nothing. The victory over the Techmen marked the opening of Davidson’s intercollegiate season on the mat, though having won two matches previously from the Concord ‘Y’ team.

With intermittent showers of rain falling all Monday afternoon, the pitchers and catchers of the school answered Coach Younger’s call for the first practice of the season. “Dutch” Hengeveld will have charge of the few weeks of extra work that the Davidson coaches are planning to run the batteries through.

The attention of the entire Sophomore class is now being centered on arrangements for the annual class banquet. Plans began to take a definite form when President Bill Covington called a meeting of the class Monday morning and the real steps were decided on that are to be taken in arranging this important event.

For Vesper services last Sabbath evening, the ‘Y’ meeting committee secured as the speaker one of the best-known workers in the state Y.M.C.A. work. Mr. J. Wilson Smith, of Charlotte, gave a concise discussion of the workability of the Christian religion in individual lives. Mr. Smith is the state ‘Y’ secretary and is prominent in Y.M.C.A. activities among the men and young men of this entire section.

From all reports, the fourteenth annual conference of the N.C. Volunteer’s Union, to be held at Chapel Hill, February 20, 21, and 22, will be one of the best in the history of the organization. It commences Friday evening and lasts through Sunday evening. The conference was invited to Chapel Hill by the University ‘Y’ and they are putting forth every effort to make the meetings a marked success. As this is the only time of the year the Volunteers have a “get together” and on account of the interesting programs that have been arranged, a record-breaking conference is expected.

Davidson Ten Years Ago

Like a thunderbolt out of a clear sky came the flu epidemic upon Davidson last Monday. Within twenty hours after the first case, there were twelve victims at the infirmary, and within forty-eight hours the infirmary was full and Louisiana dormitory was turned into an emergency ward. Forty men had reported and were found to have Spanish Influenza before the course of the epidemic was abated. It ceased almost as quickly as it had started for only three new cases had been reported since last Friday. The type of Influenza has proven to be very mild and little danger is anticipated.

The Wildcats failed to shake the hoodoo in the cage clash with Clemson Tigers, and went down by a score of 28 to 26. The game was clean and some streaks of fast play were noticeable at certain stages, especially at the beginning of the second half, when Davidson opened up with a terrific offensive.

On last Thursday evening at 7:30 o'clock at the Selwyn Hotel, Charlotte, N.C., the management and the staff of “The Davidsonian” gave their annual banquet for the year 1919-20. Under the management of C.J.

Freshmen Overcome W. & L. Yearlings

Last Period Rally Wins For Laird’s Quint

In the first game of the Virginia road trip, the Wildkittens from Davidson defeated the Washington and Lee Freshmen by the score of 35 to 23. The game was played in Lexington, Virginia, on Wednesday, February 5. By this victory, the Wildkittens increased their winning streak to seven straight games while they broke the long winning streak of the little Generals. The game was featured by the last half rally of the Wildkittens who scored eight baskets in the last five minutes of play. This rally was led by Davidson's diminutive forward, Allen Rogers, and his running mate, ‘Mac’ Manson. The stars for the Wildkittens in this game were Allen Rogers and ‘Mac’ Manson, forwards for the little Cats. Together they shot twenty-four of Davidson's thirty-five points. Rogers captured sixteen points, while Man-

Attention Seniors

Get your girl’s name in to Cecil Lawrence before Saturday, February 15. Only ten days before the big week-end. Do your part to put your class over.

V.P.I. Fresh Defeat Wildkittens, 26-21

Last Friday the Wildkittens ofDavidson lost their second straight game of the season to the V. P. I. Freshmen in Blacksburg, Virginia, by the score of 26-21. The game was featured by the close guarding of both teams in the first half, the score at the end of the first half being: Davidson Freshman 11, V. P. I. Freshmen 9. The high scorer of the game was Hall, brilliant guard of V. P. I., who had fourteen points to his credit. Manson of Davidson was second with eight points. All the Wildkittens worked together fine in this game and clearly outplayed the little Generals, who were favored to win. Despite their defeat, the Washington & Lee team played a fine game. The rally of the Wildkittens, however, was too much for them and they had to be contented with a defeat from a better team. Their star was Jarratt, running guard, who collected twelve points of his team's twenty-three. He was a constant menace to the Davidson forwards and to the Davidson guards. The lineup of the two teams is as follows:

Davidson
Rogers, f (16)
Manson, f (8)
Cummings, f (2)
Hoch, c (0)
Holebrooke, c (5)
Jarratt, g (12)
Bethard, g (2)
Violet, g (2)
Peabody, g (2)
Wagner, g (1)

Referee: Smith.

W. & L.
Crowl, f (2)

COMPLETE DISARMAMENT (Continued from Page 1)

and a parity on cruisers, will not be passed according to his belief. Although the cruisers may be cut down, Doctor McConnell feels sure that France, Japan, and Italy will not consent to the abolition of submarines. These latter countries depend on submarines too much for naval protection to their nearby possessions, and France, not a principal naval power, finds submarines an economical means of naval protection, he pointed out. Doctor McConnell strongly advocated the United States joining the League of Nations, saying, “Since the time when we refused to become a member of the league, we have resorted to indirect methods to do what we would have done in the league. We have attended conferences, entered into the Kellogg-Briand Peace Pact, and have taken a leading role in the effort to gain world peace.” The machinery that the leading nations of the world have used for maintaining peace was discussed in detail. He explained how the countries had made alliances, held conferences, and made peace pacts in an attempt to realize world peace.

There were no individual stars for the Wildkittens, but the whole team played a brilliant game despite their defeat. This is the first time this season that the V. P. I. Freshmen have failed to score at least 42 points in a game; it can well be seen that the Wildkittens put up a great fight against heavy odds. V. P. I. is considered by many the best Freshman team in the state of Virginia and one of the best in the South. The star for V. P. I. was Hall. He was a constant threat to the whole Davidson team by reason of his brilliant guarding and his more brilliant shooting. The whole V. P. I. team played a wonderful game, clearly outplaying the Wildkittens, and deserving to come out of the fray with a win. The Freshmen and the Varsity are now about even on the season’s record. The Varsity has lost two games, won by one point; the Freshmen’s record shows the same result. The Charlotte “Y” defeated the Varsity, 39-38, and Furman defeated them. Roanoke College defeated the Freshmen 22-21; and the V. P. I. Freshmen beat them by the score of 26-21. The lineups of the two teams are as follows:

Davidson
Rogers, f (5)
Palmer, f (0)
Manson, f (8)
Wolfe, f (5)
Pierce, c (3)
Seamon, f (3)
Peabody, g (5)
Bosley, g (4)
Wagner, g (0)
Hall, g (14)
Bernard, g (0)

Score at the end of the first half: Davidson Fresh 11, V. P. I. Fresh 9.

Referee: Blair.

Matthews, business manager, and with the aid of the staff, one of the most delightful and successful banquets ever given by a Davidson College organization was staged and carried out in every detail. The dinner was excellent in preparation and service, constituting ten courses in all.

The “QUICK RELIEF” Cold Remedy for College Students, sold by a College Student.

YOUR DRUGGIST HAS COLDEX

Jim Galloway U.S.C.S.

A Minister of the Gospel SHOULD BE ACQUAINTED WITH MEN AND THEIR WAYS. TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS ONE OF THE AIMS OF UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. For Catalog and Information, Address, Rev. R. B. Lacy, Jr., President, Richmond, Virginia.

Freshman Scores
Fresh 22, Charlotte High 18.
Fresh 20, Charlotte High 9.
Fresh 26, Steele Creek 22.
Fresh 20, Belmont Abbey 14.
Fresh 25, Greensboro High 21.
Fresh 32, Wake Forest 14.
Fresh 35, Washington & Lee 23.
Fresh 21, Roanoke 22.
Fresh 21, V. P. I. 26.
Fresh 222, Opponents 169.

HOW THEY SCORE
Pierce (22) 73
Rogers 63
Manson 39
Peabody 28
Wagner 6
Bosley 5
Wolfe 5
Seamon 3

Russell Recovering In Raleigh Hospital
Davidson Matman to be Confined for Some Time

H. E. (“Jeb”) Russell, varsity wrestler, who was seriously and painfully injured in the State-Davidson match of February 1st, still remains in the Rex Hospital at Raleigh, N.C. At the time of the accident, it was believed that Russell was only slightly injured, but a later examination showed that his eighth vertebra had been fractured. Russell, who is of the class of 1930, won his freshman numerals in wrestling, and has been a varsity member ever since. He is in the hundred and thirty-five pound class. At the hospital, it is said that Russell still suffers a great deal. It will probably be two weeks before he will be able to leave the Raleigh hospital, and can hardly be expected to be completely recovered before six weeks. Russell is from Winder, Georgia.

Freshmen Wrestle Barium Team Again
The Fresh wrestling team will complete its schedule when it meets Barium Springs in a return match on Friday, February 14. The Yearlings will be out for revenge, because Barium handed them a neat licking in their last engagement. Although beaten once by the same team, it is not safe to assume that the Wildkittens will be defeated again. The former match was very close and exciting and it is safe to say that the next match will be a better one. The Fresh wrestlers have been improving steadily under the leadership of Tex Tilson and an excellent match is predicted.

“You look tired!”
“Yes, I’ve had a bad day. That office boy of mine came in with the old story of getting away for his grandmother's funeral, so just to teach him a lesson I said I would accompany him.”
“He took you to the baseball game I suppose?”
“No such luck! He told the truth for once. It was his grandmother's funeral!”

$29.50 STETSON
“D” STORE
Clothes for the College Boy $34.50

A Complete Drug Store in a Good Town—Make Our Store Your Store
WHITE DRUG CO.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”