THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 30, 1930

PARDINGTON WINS

Play by Play Report of D.C.-V.P.I. Game Given

First Quarter

Hooper of V. P. I. kicked off to King, who returned to V. P. I.’s 43-yard line. McCall and Brohard
got two, then Brock passed to McCall for a first down on the 30-yard line. Brohard made another first on
the 17. After a pass and a run had failed to make the required distance, Huntley intercepted Fraley’s pass on
the 10-yard line. V. P. I’s ball.

Davidson Clan of Highlanders had on the clan escutcheon the figure of a wildcat, and underneath the legend, “Touch not
the Cat, but the Glove.” “These Highlanders are comparable to fighting wildcats. Small wonder that to so fight is traditional
with Davidson men,” he continued. “Does not this traditional conduct have its beginning in the fact that the college holds
what she has for service, having never lost a dollar of endowment?” “Another reason this is true,” Dr. Richards remarked
humorously, “probably lies in the fact that Davidson was founded by the Scotch-Irish, who kept the Sabbath, and everything else
they could get their hands on.”

The speaker said that the old Chambers Building was redolent of tradition, and that, from now on, even the building
itself will be only a tradition. He added that it must never be the tradition of the college that she
measure up to the highest standards of learning and culture as may be set by educational authorities. He closed by
asserting that Davidson’s great tradition is not only turning out educated men, but turning out educated men who are Christ-like
in principle and conduct.

Co-operation Urged

Captain N. G. Pritchett, who came to Davidson several years ago, told of his happy experiences and contacts with Davidson
alumni, and commended them for their spirit of co-operation. He then asked for further co-operation, by calling for suggestions. Captain
Pritchett also spoke of the consideration that will always be given students, and promised, whenever possible, five football games will
be scheduled to take place at Davidson.

JUNIOR CLASS WINS STUNT

The last stunt on the program was presented by the Juniors. This was awarded first prize by the judges. The
play, “Who Killed Ann McNann?” was a parody on the show, “Animal Crackers.” The detective from Scotland Yard, Horace Erwin,
was an excellent imitation of Groucho Marx and he deserves much credit. The story opens with Ann McNann, Grier Martin,
being shot by some person in the story. The detective accused everyone on the stage of killing Ann, but finally
he found the guilty party in the Mystery Man, played by Sam Wiley. The other players in this stunt were:
Bob Roland, who was the Chinaman; Bill Franklin, who took the part of Watson; Charlie Spencer, the butcher; the girl
was George O’Hanlon, and Bob Orr was the bugler for the act.

The Sunnyland Serenaders, led by Jack Ramseur, concluded the program with several popular selections of music. They are well organized
and seem to be as good as they were last year. The audience seemed to enjoy this part of the
program, the amount of applause being indicative of its pleasure. Between the different stunts, the Glee Club Quartet sang several
selections. The members of the quartet are Jack Ramseur, Bill Rule, Gene DuBose, and Koonts.

The 165th anniversary of the founding of the School of Medicine of the University of Pennsylvania—the oldest on the continent—is
being celebrated this year. Oberlin College students of Zoology were treated recently to the rare sight of fresh water jellyfish,
discovered by Dr. R. A. Budington, head of the department, in the Vermilion River, west of here. Dr. Budington told
his classes this was the sixth time in zoological history that jellyfish, regularly found in salt water, had been found
inland.

Vachel Lindsay, well-known poet, wrote and recited a poem especially for the occasion of the installation of Dr. Kenneth Irving
Brown, 34, as president of Hiram College. Dr. Brown is next to the youngest college president in the world. Tests
made at the New Jersey College for Women indicated that sophomores are less liable to believe untruths than juniors.

Second Quarter

Hooper kicked to Davidson’s 15-yard line and McCall ran it back to the 28-yard line. Davidson sub. Wagner for Raker.
King makes first down on Davidson’s 43-yard line. Brohard made three and Fraley made 14 on end runs, having ball
on V. P. I’s 40-yard line. V. P. I. sub., Grimes for Hite. Davidson on three attempts failed to gain
and Brock kicked to V. P. I.’s five-yard line. Hooper made six yards, Hall made one; Hooper kicked to McCall
on Davidson's 39-yard line. McCall and Brohard failed to gain. Brock kicked to Hall when on V. P. I.’s 20-yard
line, who returned 11 yards. Two line plays and a pass failed to gain. Gardner blocked Hooper’s punt, and Wagner
recovered for Davidson on V. P. I’s 23-yard line. McCall and King made first down on V. P. I’s 13-yard
line. After three plays had been smeared, Hooper intercepted Fraley’s pass and reached his own 15-yard line. Hall made first
down on V. P. I.’s 20-yard line. The half ended with the ball in V. P. I.’s possession and 13
yards to go for first down.

Third Quarter

V. P. I.’s line-up, same as at half, Brock kicked off to Hooper on V. P. I.’s nine-yard line and
it was returned to the 32-yard line. Hall made a first down on V. P. I.’s 42-yard line. After two
losses Hall passes to McIntyre who was downed on Davidson’s 30-yard line. Howard made it first down. Davidson sub., Mathis
for Parker, Hooper and Howard make first down on Davidson’s 10-yard line, Hall and Hooper bring ball to six-yard line.
Hooper makes three, and Hall makes three and touchdown, Hooper's placement was blocked. Score: V. P. I., 6; Davidson, 6.

Hooper kicked off to McCall, who ran the ball back 29 yards to Davidson's 44-yard line. On a fake, McCall
carried the ball to V. P. I’s 23-yard line. After two plays had failed, Fraley passed to King for a
touchdown. Brock’s placement was good. Score: V. P. I., 6; Davidson, 13. Brock kicked off over goal line.it first down
on the Cadets’ 36-yard line. Davidson sub., Raker for Wagner. V. P. I. failed to gain. Hooper kicked out of
bounds on Davidson’s 31-yard line. Davidson failed to gain and Brock kicked to Hall, who was downed on his own
27-yard line. V. P. I. failed to gain as the quarter ended.

Fourth Quarter

Hooper kicked off and McCall, after receiving, ran out of bounds on his own 32-yard line. Brohard and Fraley made
it first down on Davidson’s 49-yard line. Fraley made four yards but Grimes blocked Brock’s punt, the ball being recovered
by Brock on his own 15-yard line. Brock kicked to Davidson’s 49-yard line. Howard and Hooper made it a first
on Davidson’s 37-yard line. Howard and Hooper were constant gainers. V. P. I. was penalized 15 yards for illegal use
of hands, ball on V. P. I.’s 49-yard line. After two plays had failed, Hall passed to Spear for touchdown.
Hooper’s placement was good. Score: V. P. I., 13; Davidson, 13.

Swart kicked over the goal line. McCall made five yards. Brock kicked on second down to his own 45-yard line.
Davidson was penalized 15 yards for holding. First down on Davidson’s 27-yard line. Owens made another first down on Davidson's
15-yard line. Davidson sub., McQueen for Brohard. Owens and Hooper carried ball to six-yard line. Davidson penalized five yards for
excessive time out. This placed the ball on Davidson’s one-yard line. After the Wildcats had held for three downs, Owens
went over for the score. Hooper’s placement was good. V. P. I., 20; Davidson, 13.

Davidson sub., Mills for King. Swart kicked off to Pierce on Davidson’s 42-yard line. A pass, Mills to McCall, brought
the ball to V. P. I.’s 36-yard line. Mills and McCall took it to the 20-yard line. The Davidson Theatre
are.

WOOPEE EDDIE CANTOR Monday and Tuesday HER WEDDING NIGHT Thursday and Friday SCOTLAND YARD Saturday

CATS MEET V. M. I. (Continued from page 1)

climb. V. M. I. also annexed her second game of the season against St. Johns from Washington, 6-0. Citadel ended
the Cadets’ winning streak in the third game by lucking out a meager victory by a one-point margin in the
last two minutes of play, when Pop Wilson, Bulldog quarter, flung a pass to Jennings, who crossed the goal line
untouched, and then booted the needed point for a 7-6 victory. This is the only game that can give any
dope on the comparative ranking of the two teams. V. M. I. outplayed the South Carolina Cadets for three periods
and then let up in the final period to let the ever-fighting Bulldogs win out. Davidson defeated Citadel 6-0, but
it was clear that the Wildcats completely outclassed Citadel on that afternoon. One team lost by one point, the other
won by six points, but the showing of both teams were almost on a par with Davidson having a slight
edge.

The Flying Squadron then took on the Virginia Cavaliers before a homecoming crowd in Lexington. Again the Cadets outplayed their
foe, but were defeated by the score of 13-0. According to press dispatches, the Flying Squadron outgained the Cavaliers two
to one, but were unable to cash in on their chances which is probably due to their lack of experience.
Virginia took advantage of a good break in the third quarter when they recovered a fumble on the 15-yard line
and then Sipply crashed over center for the first tally. In the last quarter Bill Thomas punted 70 yards to
put V. M. I. in the hole, and after the Cadets had punted out on their own 29-yard line, Thomas
carried the ball five out of six times to push over another marker. V. M. I. made two serious bids
to score, one drive lasting to the one-yard line.

Led by Perry Berger, the Old Liners of Maryland flashed a running and passing attack in the first half of
the Cadets’ last game to triumph, 20-0. In the last half, the game became tighter as V. M. I. fought
Maryland to a standstill and threatened seriously to score in the final period after advancing the ball on a strong
passing attack. No matter who is doped to win or who enters the game as favorites, this game is going
to be a toss-up, because V. M. I. has been improving with every game and as the underdogs they will
put up their usual fight, which will be aggravated a little more this year. With Captain Roy Dunn, the backfield
battering ram, leading the Flying Squadron, a good offense ought to have been formed, and with a first-rate Frosh team
coming up, Bill Raftery should have some reserve power, but sixteen veterans are missing and these places are impossible to
fill with men as good as the ones going out.

The Cadets lined up against Virginia as follows: Left end, Gill; left tackle, Kaylor; left guard, Rochelle; center, Shell; right
guard, Marklis; right tackle, Ford; right end, Gregory; quarterback, Laughorn; left half, Wright; right half, Travers; fullback, Dunn, captain.

Cadets were penalized 15 yards for roughness. McQueen went through the line five yards for touchdown. Brock’s placement failed. Score:
V. P. I., 20; Davidson, 19. Game ended soon after with ball on Davidson’s eight-yard line. Final score: V. P.
I., 20; Davidson, 19.

TWELVE TRY FOR RHODES (Continued from page 1)

and a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, will represent the State of Tennessee. The alumni of Davidson
who were appointed were: Zeb Long, W. B. McGuire, Frank R. Brown, Munroe Gilmour, Tom E. Hill. The representatives of
North Carolina are Long, McGuire, and Brown, all of the class of 1930. Long is a teacher at the Virginia
Episcopal School at Lynchburg. McGuire is a student at the Duke University Law School. Brown is an assistant professor of
biology at Davidson. Munroe Gilmour and Tom E. Hill, both of the State of Virginia and at present students at
Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, will represent the State of Virginia.

Three hundred and seventy-eight students at the New Jersey College for Women who worked during the past summer, earned a
total of $44,500. The average length of employment was eight and a half weeks.

1910 STATE CHAMPIONS (Continued from page 4)

Attending the reunion were Floyd M. Simmons, of Charlotte, coach; J. Roy Barron, ’11, Charlotte, manager; Dr. DeWitt Kluttz, ’11,
Washington, N. C., captain; B. T. Neal, ’12, Chicago, Ill.; Rev. J. T. Pharr, ’12, Cass, W. Va.; Rev. J.
R. Phipps, ’13, Pollocksville; E. L. Booe, ’12, Kennedy, Texas; Lunsford Richardson, ’14, Greensboro; Rev. Smiley Williams, ’14, Welch, W.
Va.; Rev. W. A. Nicholson, ’12, Pineville; W. M. Shaw, ’12, Fayetteville; J. C. Cashion, ’14, Huntersville; R. C. Hamer,
’12, Eastover, S. C.; S. F. Erwin, Jr., ’11, Florence, S. C.; Rev. Eugene Alexander, ’12, Manchester; D. A. McQueen,
’13, Jacksonville, Fla.; E. H. Graham, ’13, Goldsboro; J. Max Hendrix, ’14, Greensboro; Dr. C. S. McCants, ’12, Winnsboro, S.
C.; Quay Williford, ’12, Gastonia; Dr. D. A. Bigger, ’13, Rock Hill, S. C., and Rev. W. D. Wolfe, ’11,
Tellico Plains, Tenn.

MAY— a Fire Insurance policy is a good investment. If fire comes, you will be promptly repaid for your loss.
If it does not come, you have “peace of mind”— that feeling of security from loss by fire. Come our
way and get a Fire Insurance policy that is correctly written as to coverage and amount. So that, come what
may, you'll be properly and fully protected.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO. Insurance Department CHARLOTTE, N. C. McAlister Carson (’13), Manager M. B. Speir (’26)

COME WHAT MAY

“DRUGS” “SODA” Make Our Store Your Store Students’ Supplies WHITE DRUG CO., Inc. “PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”

FURNISHINGS Friendly Five Shoes STETSON “D” STORE PHONE 206 CLOTHES FOR COLLEGE MEN CLOTHING John Ward
