THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6, 1930

DAVIDSON WILDCATS vs. WOFFORD TERRIERS SATURDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

WILDKITTENS TO PLAY FIRST BIG FIVE OPPONENT

Cadet Flying Squadron Wins Hard Fought Game From Wildcats Saturday

Fraley, McCall, King, Brown and Raker Are Stars for Wildcats

CADETS SCORE EARLY

Small Crowd Witnesses Disappointing Game for Davidson Fans

The Davidson Wildcats found a cold welcome waiting for them at Lexington, Va., and were forced to leave the field
after a bitterly contested and bitterly cold morning game, losers by six points to Virginia Military Institute. Lefty Williams, Cadet
halfback, crashed off tackle for three yards and a touchdown early in the first period for the only score of
the game.

The Virginia Flying Squadron started off with a bang. Towards the middle of the first period they came into possession
of the ball on their own 35-yard line. With Captain Dunn making a speedy jaunt of 22 yards and Lawhorn
completing a pass to Gill for 27 yards, the Cadets were able to bring the ball to Davidson’s one-yard stripe.
But here Dunn fumbled and Proctor recovered for Davidson. Brock kicked to his own 35-yard line and another V. M.
I. drive was on, this time, successful.

Lawhorn made good another pass, this time to Williams, for a gain of 20 yards, and Williams and Dunn alternated
in four tries to make it a first down on the Wildcats’ four-yard line. Dunn added two but then fumbled
and Williams recovered for a one-yard loss. At this juncture, Williams slashed off right tackle for three yards and a
touchdown. Lawhorn’s pass to Gill for the extra point was incomplete, making the score V. M. I., 6; Davidson, 0.

The Wildcats seemed to be able to gain fairly easily through the fighting Cadet line, but the Cadets had the
Wildcat passes spotted. Davidson attempted 19 passes, completing only four, for a gain of 26 yards. Davidson made several long
drives, but as soon as they were deep in enemy territory they resorted to the air with scarcely any success
at all. McCall, King, and Captain Fraley bore the brunt of these attacks, with the latter especially outstanding. Raker and
Brown looked best in the Davidson line. Captain Dunn and Williams were the offensive and defensive stars of the Cadet
backfield; while Ford, tackle, and Gill, end, were outstanding in the V. M. I. line. V. M. I. made eleven
first downs to ten for the Wildcats.

Davidson vs. V. M. I. Statistics
First downs: 11 10
Yds. gained by rushing: 167 132
Forward passes attempted: 9 19
Forward passes completed: 3 4
Forward passes intercepted: 1 0
Yds. gained by passes: 42 26
Yds. gained by passes and by rushing: 209 158
Average length of kickoffs: 28 22
Yds. kickoffs returned: 50
Avg. length of punts: 30.7 33.1
Yds. punts returned: 13 15
Total yardage gained by rushing, passes, and returns of kicks: 222 221
Penalties (yards): 75 50

Davidson Men Are Always Welcome At NORTON’S BARBER SHOP.

Wildcat Leader

Capt. Walter Fraley, who proved himself to be not only an accurate passer but also one of the hardest driving
ball-toters in the Davidson backfield. His play against V. M. I. was one of the highlights of the game from
Davidson’s viewpoint.

Juniors Take Lead In Class Basketball

Third Year Men Win Two Straight Games to Take Early Lead

Inter-class basketball got off with a successful start here last Wednesday when the Juniors defeated the Seniors, 20 to 19,
in a hectic game. Since that game the Juniors have emerged to the front by defeating the Sophomores, 24 to
19, after that team had downed the Freshman quintet, 34 to 17.

The three contests so far have been marked by the clean sportsmanship displayed by all four teams, not a single
player being benched on fouls or roughness. Good passing, accurate shooting and hard playing were also evident in these contests.

The Juniors, coached by their center, Grier Martin, appear to have the best team. In Patrick and Montgomery, forwards; Martin,
center, and Arnold, McGehee and Potts, guards, they present a good working machine that has skill and endurance—and this means
a lot in winning games.

The standings thus far are as follows:
Team W. L. Pet.
Juniors 2 0 1.000
Sophomores 1 1 .500
Seniors 0 1 .000
Freshmen 0 1 .000

Juniors 20—Seniors 19

Scoring at every opportunity in the second and third quarters enabled the Juniors to come from behind and defeat the
Seniors, 20 to 19, in the first game of the 1930 inter-class basketball schedule. The losers outplayed their opponents in
the first quarter, holding a six to one lead at the end of the stanza. Led by Martin, Patrick and
Montgomery, the Juniors scored 15 points in the next two quarters while holding the Seniors to nine;

(Continued on page 5)

Frosh Play State Yearlings Tuesday

Game is Slated to Be One of the Toughest on Wildkittens’ Schedule

The Davidson Freshmen will make their fourth appearance of this season next Tuesday when they meet the State Freshmen in
Raleigh. In years gone by this game has always been watched with a great deal of interest and always an
excellent game has been the outcome. For the past two years the games have been exceedingly close and interesting; in
the 1928 season the Wildkittens were the victors by the score of 20-7; last year the Wolf Cubs brought a
team to Davidson that on paper should have beaten the Frosh by a margin of at least three touchdowns, but
in actual playing it was a different story, for the Freshmen really played football and the score was 7-0 in
favor of State. This was not an earned touchdown, for in the final moments of the game a State man
intercepted a Davidson pass and ran for the only touchdown of the game.

This season the State Freshmen have an excellent team, having held the powerful Oak Ridge team to a 13-0 score
and defeated the Carolina Frosh by the score of 12-7. In Rafferty, Rice, Wilson, and McQuage, the Wolf Cubs have
a hard driving backfield and they have an equally good line. The Wildkittens have not found it easy sledding this
year and they have only been able to tie one team, having lost the first two games to Oak Ridge
and Wofford, respectively.In each one of these games, the Frosh have shown a steady improvement over each succeeding game, and
they should give a good account of themselves next Tuesday, which is Armistice Day. The probable line-up will be the
same as the one that started the Rutherford game, with changes. The team will probably leave for Raleigh Monday to
have a short workout Monday afternoon.

Davidson Wins First Tennis Tournament

The Davidson tennis team won its first match of the season Tuesday, October 28, defeating Wake Forest, 8 to 0.
The final doubles match was called off on account of darkness, with the Wake Forest team leading. Davidson easily won
all the other matches to make a clean sweep of the meet. A steady drizzle, which kept up during most
of the afternoon, handicapped the play and almost caused a complete postponement of the engagement. Both of the doubles matches
that were won by the Wildcats were won by more or less impressive scores, showing the complete superiority of the
Davidson team. The one match in which Davidson was outclassed was one that, as far as it had gone, was
very interesting, but it was easy to see the Wake Forest men were getting the best of the encounter. The
summary of the matches is as follows:

(Continued on page 5)

FOR SALE
A Mandolin in case. Practically new. Address Box 454, Davidson, N. C.

STATIONERY
STUDENT SUPPLIES
FOUNTAIN PENS
MAGAZINES
BOOKS
SUNDRIES
NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE
W. S. HENDERSON

LOOKING 'EM OVER
With W. H. Matthews

After taking two defeats in as many weeks from Virginia teams, the Davidson Wildcats will this week try to run
their string of victories over South Carolina teams to three straight. Neither of Davidson’s two Palmetto opponents have been able
to even score on the Wildcats, but it will take playing such as held the Citadel Bulldogs, which is just
about the best that Davidson has shown this year, to turn back the current threat to the good name and
record of the Wildcats. For Wofford will bring a sure-enough team here Saturday. At the top of their form, they
held Duke to a 12 to 0 score, which was the same dose Davidson had to take. But Duke took
Wofford when the latter were playing over their heads before a Home-Coming crowd, and Duke was in the throes of
a let-down following their previous tilt with Navy. Davidson, on the other hand, was hardly at its best against the
Blue Devils, who were doing everything in their power at that time to show the world in general and the
opponent of the moment that they had been highly underrated. (They were). As we see it, Davidson should win by
about two or three touchdowns if they hit their real form. They have been off of it for a while
now, and we think they are due to return. It will take form and real fight to convince these Terriers
that they don’t deserve the game.

The result of the V. M. I. game probably was somewhat of a surprise to the stay-at-homes as it was
posted quarterly on the drug store window. But to anyone who saw the game, it was all unfolded as it
came. In our own opinion, V. M. I. can credit its victory to four men—its backs. Two of them almost
ran and rammed Davidson ragged during the first half, but all four combined to give the Wildcats a taste of
a real pass defense. And that same pass defense was what beat Davidson. For only four of Davidson’s attempted 19
heaves were completed, and none of them for a gain of more than ten yards. The pass was the play
to use at times, but it would have taken about seven eligible receivers at times to have completed over half
of the Wildcat attempts. Our hats are off to those four, even though we do hate to do it.

Out of that defeat, however, shone a ray of hope. For Capt. Walt Fraley carried the ball often, and when
he did, it was pleasant to see. For he could somehow ram right through a good Keydet line and gain
consistently. He almost single-handedly gave Davidson a touchdown once or twice with his hard driving.

Davidson has tried out football at all hours of the day this season and a goodly portion of the night,
and we still like for the kickoff to be at 2:30 p.m. Not attempting an alibi or anything, but it
was somewhat of a handicap to have to play at eleven o'clock. For one thing, it was a good deal
colder then than it would have been along about three. And somehow or other, it didn’t seem right watching a
football game when you should have been running down to get the mail and then going on to dinner. We
hope it can be avoided in the future.

Duke and Davidson still continue to be the snags in our doping stream. A rejuvenated V. M. I. team handed
Davidson its fifth defeat in five years in somewhat of an upset. The Blue Devils turned on the Villa Nova
boys and stamped themselves as a truly strong team by plastering on a 12 to 6 defeat, Brewer and Murray
starring. Carolina and Georgia Tech went to no decision to give us our only tie game of the fall. Wake
Forest lost worse than expected—much worse—but P. C. had lots of trouble in subduing N. C. State, whom we would
have liked to have seen get a better fate. Two bad weeks in succession give us a season's count of
24 right out of 31 attempts, with one tie.

As we said, Davidson should make it 13 to 0 over Wofford. Carolina will have no trouble with N. C.
State and will win as they want to. 26 to 0 is conservative. The two best games of the week,
from the prospects of real fights, are the Wake Forest-P. C. game and the Duke-Kentucky engagement. We are playing a
hunch to pick both North Carolina teams: Wake Forest 10, P. C. 7. Duke 13, Kentucky 7.

Complete Service for School Publications
Annuals, Magazines, Catalogs, Directories, Books
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

BOYS
When You’re Hungry
Let Helper Help You
HELPER’S RESTAURANT
Next Door to Telephone Office

Garland Court
Printing and Engraving of Every Description
J. A. CANNON
311 Watts

STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Charlotte, N. C.
