THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 8, 1930

After Graduation --- What?

Medical Missions Offer Large Field To Students Interested In Missions

Letter Reveals Wonderful Work of Doctor Morgan in China

Letter from Rev. John W. Vinson, of Haichow, China, in which he describes the work of Dr. L. S. Morgan,
missionary doctor at that place:

“Dr. Morgan’s name would be written high on the list of the medically famous in any land. Out here his
name is enshrined in the hearts of one and three-quarter millions of Chinese. All men instinctively trust him; women and
children adore him. He is something more than just a fine doctor. He is a MAN; always gentle, considerate, patient,
kind; on the job day and night. I have never known him to turn down a call either because of
weariness or unpropitious weather.

“So varied are the cases in our daily clinic, that only a partial report of each would furnish material for
a rather bulky copy of the ‘Medical Journal.’ I was in the clinic today. These are some of the cases.
Here is a man with a tubercular back. That one is infected with hookworm. This young man, with blood streaming
down his face, has just had a quarrel with his brother and his head has come into violent contact with
the business edge of a butcher’s cleaver. That old graybeard, with the look of misery in his eyes, has a
carbuncle between his shoulders. None of the modest tiny carbuncles, such as one sees at home, but a full grown-up
one covering some twenty-five or thirty square inches. Here is a mite of a baby with his HEAD ON ONE
SIDE and a huge ABSCESS on the OTHER. These two men, by the door, have badly infected hands. Their white
blood corpuscles have been waging war with streptococci and pus is abundant. This man has leprosy. The one next to
him, cancer of the face. These two soldiers have syphilis; that boy has scabby-head. Several have malaria; five have kala-azar.
That middle-aged man has trachoma and is almost blind. That man just leaving has dropsy. The nurse has just taken
something like a gallon of fluid from his abdomen. This boy has a large stone in the bladder.

“There were 72 patients in the clinic today. The above list are only illustrative cases. Several will go to the
operating room tomorrow afternoon. Three or four operations in the afternoon after a busy morning in the clinic make rather
a full day for our one doctor-surgeon. But his day’s work is not finished until after he has inspected his
average of 75 in-patients after supper. It’s a lucky night for him, too, when he is not called up in
the middle of the night to usher a new-born child into the world or to make life more bearable for
some one of his acutely suffering patients.

“Our doctor is a genius in more ways than one. That soldier, limping along yonder on crutches, will soon be
walking again. He was wounded three months ago in a battle with a robber band. The thigh bone of his
right leg was so badly fractured that the bones had to be spliced together in order for them to knit
properly. Our hospital has little in the way of equipment for meeting such an emergency, but our doctor was equal
to the occasion, having much mechanical skill in his make-up. Taking a strip of steel hooping from an old packing
case, with file and drill he fashioned it into a coupler to suit his purpose, attached it to the broken
bones with a couple of nickel-plated stove bolts and did as neat a job of bone-splicing as was ever turned
out at Hopkins or the Mayos. Our hospital is not only a place where broken bones are mended, bullets extracted,
and dozens of other seemingly marvelous things are done to broken or diseased bodies; there is also a clinic for
wounded souls and broken spirits. That man, with the sparkling eyes and the smile, which is so broad that he
seems to be hiding behind it, is Mr. Liu Hsiu-ting, our hospital evangelist. His is more of an up-hill job
than that of our doctor, for, with the exception of a would-be suicide every now and then, ALL of the
doctor’s patients are INTERESTED in having SOMETHING DONE to their bodies. But these who are sick of soul—in whose breasts
the torch of the Spirit burns but feebly—WHY should they be INTERESTED IN SOULS, being ignorant that they possess one?
Yet, through Mr. Liu’s faithful efforts, there are some who make this interesting discovery and go out of the hospital
new creatures in Christ Jesus, with a new thirst and a deep longing for the fullness of the LIFE that
is to be.

“So, taking it altogether, our Ellen Lavine Graham Hospital is quite a wonderful institution. It’s the only one in this
wide parish of 1,750,000 people. You young doctors who desire experience and plenty of practice, either in medicine or surgery,
or those of you who wish to invest your lives where human needs are greatest, come out to China and
lend OUR DOCTOR a helping hand.”

SPLIT PAIR OF GAMES (Continued from page 3)

AB R H O A
Ratrish, 3b .......... 2 2 2 7 2
W. Miller, cf ........ 0 0 2 2 0
Goodson, 2b ......... 1 1 2 0
Proctor, 1b .......... 2 2 3 0
McInnis, p, lf ........ 0 0 0 0
Covington, c ......... 3 2 2 0
Kugler, lf, p ......... 1 1 2 2
Gladstone, rf ........ 4 0 0 0
Barnhardt, ss ........ 0 0 0 0
McMillan, ss ......... 0 0 0 0
Totals ............. 8 8 13 27211 LENOIR-RHYNE AB RH O A
Hager, 3b ----------- 2 2 2 2 2
Kiser, ss ------------- 2 2 0 2 0
Pentz, cf -------------- 4 0 2 3 0
Miller, lf -------------- 4 1 1 3 0
Bittle, 1b ------------- 4 0 1 3 0
Troutman, 2b --------- 3 0 1 0 0
Hughes, c ------------- 4 0 1 2 0
Wincott, rf ----------- 1 0 0 0 0
Mauney, p ------------ 1 0 0 0 0
Erdley, p ------------- 1 0 0 0 0
Smyre, p -------------- 1 0 0 0 0
Totals ---------------- 38 4 10 27 11
x—Batted for Erdley in 6th.

Score by innings:
Davidson -------------- 200 401 001—8
Lenoir-Rhyne --------- 000 011 200—4

Errors: W. Miller, Barnhardt, Kiser 2, Lemon. Two base hits: Hager, Goodson, McInnis. Three base hits: Hager, Parrish 2. Sacrifices:
Proctor, Lentz. Stolen bases: G. Miller. Struck out by Mauney 2, by Smyre 3; by McInnis 6; by Kugler 1.
Bases on balls: off Erdley 1; off McInnis 2. Hits off McInnis 10 in 6 1-3 innings; Mauney, 8 in
3 1-3 innings; Erdley, three in 2 2-3 innings; Smyre, two in 3 innings.

Davidson Theatre
Monday and Tuesday
Caught Short
MARIE DRESSLER and POLLY MORAN

Wednesday
Strictly Unconventional
with LEWIS STONE and LULA HYAMS

Thursday and Friday
LANCE TIBBET The Rogue Song

A Corner on the Business! To Control Wealth
By W. D. Weatherford, President Y. M. C. A. Graduate School

It is said the United States has accumulated three hundred and twenty-five billions of dollars. That amount of laid-up wealth
is a tremendous challenge to the leadership of our time. If we do not control this wealth, it will control
us. The biggest task of this generation, therefore, is not to produce more wealth but to generate enough of social
and moral dynamic to control the wealth already produced. Here is a task big enough, complicated enough, difficult enough to
challenge the finest brain and the boldest heart on any college campus.

The one way of controlling wealth is through persons whose ideals are refined and chastened to see persons as ends
and not things—such spirits must be developed from youth. The adult who is caught in the toils of business never
has time to look beyond his task to the persons for whom the task is done. It is this fact
which gives such tremendous significance to work with boys and students. Here we have plastic persons—those who can be brought
to see the ideal life of mankind. To help a boy or a student to think in terms of persons
and not of things, to help them play for sport and not for winning, to help them play fair instead
of cheating, to help them think clean rather than unclean, to help them live for others rather than for self—this
is a chance which even an angel would enjoy. All this and more the worker with boys can do. Ask
any boys’ work secretary of the Y. M. C. A. or any student secretary of the Y. M. C. A.
if he is working for money or for men. And if he is worth a fig, he will tell you
he works for men.

If I had fifty lives to live, I would invest all of them in producing in college men and boys
that dynamic character which will help control an enormous wealth, and if each of my fifty lives was capable of
such work, I would not invest a single one in producing mere material wealth. In so doing, I would add
infinitely to the real wealth of the world.

Medira: “Why is the National Biscuit Company financing an African expedition?”
Toodles: “They want to get some new designs for their animal crackers.”

“Where are you working now?”
Emmy: “A & P.”
Allie: “Oh, you're one of the chain gang.”

Take a Scotchman’s tip: Stay at school over the weekend and let your mind do the wandering.

Etta (in Coffee Shop): “I thought you were told not to park here. Why do you do it?”
Margaret: “Because of my belief.”
Etta: “Nonsense. What do you mean?”
Marg.: “I believed that you would never come in here.”

A Power in the Lodge
Boss: “Rufe, did you go to your lodge meeting last night?”
Rufus: “Nah, suh. We dun have to postpone it.”
Boss: “How was that?”
Rufus: “De Grand All-Powerful Invincible Most Supreme Unconquerable Potentate dun got beat up by his wife.”

Too Fresh
Traffic Officer: “Hey! What’s the idea? Didn't you hear me whistle to you?”
Sweet Young Thing: “Certainly I did, and if you try it again I’ll report you.”

Light is the first of painters.
—EMERSON

GENERAL ELECTRIC
BUILDINGS in Which You Take Pride

On THE CAMPUS, where class buildings are so often distinguished by their noble form, floodlighting equipment serves to prolong the
enjoyment of their beauty and to enhance pride in the institution. Such an application is made for the new 165-foot
campanile at South Dakota State—a magnificent gift of an alumnus. Electrically operated chimes sound the hours and are heard in
concerts. At night, shafts of light from General Electric floodlighting projectors effect a picture of superb beauty done in the
school colors and white. From the air, the tower is identified by the beam from a G-E airway beacon surmounting
the floodlighted dome.

Thus, G-E equipment plays its part in promoting progress and fine appreciation. Back of every G-E product is an organization
in which college-trained men are largely responsible for the teaching, production, and distribution.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, NEW YORK
