THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 27, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Z. V. LONG, Jr. .................. Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCALL .................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
B. B. BLACK .................... Managing Editor
J. W. McCUTCHAN ............ Managing Editor
J. C. RAGIN .................... Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN ............ Athletic Editor
J. V. D. MIDDLETON ........ Assignment Editor
J. F. PRESSLY .................. Feature Editor
W. L. BROWN .................. Feature Editor
R. F. JARRATT ................ Associate Editor
F. D. MILLER .................. Associate Editor
C. M. PRATT .................... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. A. CANNON .................. Asst. Bus. Mgr.
W. L. LYON ...................... Subscription Mgr.
A. J. BAKER .................... Solicitor
P. M. CONWAY ................ Solicitor
J. T. GIBSON .................... Solicitor
J. L. SEVIER .................... Solicitor

REPORTERS CLUB
B. H. BRENIZER .............. President
J. V. D. MIDDLETON ........ Vice-President
J. V. D. MIDDLETON ........ Secretary-Treasurer
J. G. BERRY
J. DUNKLIN
J. C. MATTHEWS
J. S. LEA
J. G. MARTIN
C. W. F. SPENCER
J. R. SMITH
W. T. HANCOCK
D. O. STEPHENSON
JOHN M. BROWN
R. F. NORTON
G. P. PARDINGTON
W. H. MATTHEWS
E. C. DWELLE

MARCH 27, 1930

NOTICE
The Davidsonian will not be printed the week college work is resumed, following the holidays. It will appear as usual
the next week.

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Another spring vacation at hand brings acute cognizance of the truth that the old school year 1929-30 is speedily rounding
itself out. We expressed the hope last fall that it would be a great year for every man at Davidson,
and we echo this wish now. Drive, Wildcats, Drive. Make these closing days count for the best.

Well, to some observers it would seem that the baseball team went from the sublime to the ridiculous last week,
whipping Georgetown and dropping a mean one to Oak Ridge. As a matter of fact, the Cadets don’t bow to
many ball clubs of any class. Judging from those snappy Cleveland uniforms they sported, the Oak Ridge boys must be
supporting a training camp for Roger Peckinpaugh’s American League entry.

We want to express appreciation to the faculty committee on lectures for bringing Mr. Bucher to Davidson for his wonderfully
fine entertainment of Friday evening. Seldom does a lecturer present such beautiful pictures or accompany them with such an interesting
discourse.

Davidson debaters are splitting even at present writing, winning from Richmond and losing to William and Mary. The team in
the South evidently hasn’t had much luck. Wins usually bring forth telegrams, which are welcome even if sent collect. The
argument for disarmament is hard to uphold in the debating forum. If any bright boy from the rank and file
has a plan for it, see the varsity arguing force at once.

“Pete” Whittle gets our palm for his remarkable showing against Sol Furth, Columbia’s intercollegiate hurdle champion, in the indoor meet
at West Virginia Saturday. According to eyewitnesses, you couldn’t have slipped a feather between the two at the finish, Furth
led by that tiny margin. Barring accidents, Whittle stands an excellent chance to cop the lows at the Tech Relays
later on. Brohard’s third in the half-mile event was splendidly done also. Remember that twenty-five leading colleges of the land
were entered.

WORK FOR THE HOLIDAYS
With members of the student body scattering today and tomorrow for all parts of the southeast, they will be coming
in close contact with hundreds of high school students who might be influenced to choose Davidson as the seat of
their higher education if someone just boosted the stock of this institution a little. It seems to us that fellows
already living the undergraduate life that is Davidson’s, carrying as it does manifold privileges and pleasures quite unknown to many
colleges, would find it impossible to refrain from exerting all their powers in the constructive task of bringing new men
to the campus.

The general topic has been discussed in these columns earlier in the year, but it will not be amiss to
drive it home this final time. Davidson is needing men of athletic prowess to keep her teams up to the
mark set by competitive colleges. A drag-net designed to catch all promising athletes is systematically thrown out by rivals, and
unless Davidsonians take it upon themselves to conduct personal work with prospective students, little chance for ultimate success can be
seen. What wonderful results would be attained if every man in the student body would pledge himself that at least
one good addition should be made to the college roster through his efforts. The percentage realized would certainly justify the
wholesale campaign for prospects.

The fact must be remembered, however, that Davidson wants men of high character. She wants men who will bring honor
to her name by gentlemanly conduct and clean living. She wants men who will take their scholastic work seriously. She
wants men who will absorb the ideals of student life which make Davidson the unique institution she is. You say
that such a combination is hard to find. So it is. But such men are worth shooting for, and it
is evident that student bodies of past and present measure up fairly well to the standard mentioned.

Now that you are going home, make it a point to do some “rushing” for the college. It’s amazing what
contact and earnest effort can accomplish. Start now to be a booster for a better Davidson. Spirit, ideal, achievement, all
depend upon the type of man in the ranks of the student body.

And, incidentally, you can tell your prospect all about the changed language requirements, which put entrance to Davidson in a
very different light for many high and prep school graduates. We feel that the revision is one of the most
forward steps taken by the administration. It has probably been on the way for some time, and is just coming
into actuality at this juncture. In any event, we think it will mean much more satisfactory results in registering students.
Such a change was necessary, and is thoroughly in accord with the progress shown by higher places of learning the
country over.

HALF-WAY FANS
We hate to comment upon the fact that the same old trouble of boys getting up and leaving the baseball
games before the contests are over seems to be cropping up again this season. That is a pretty bad practice
for Davidson supporters to evince, in view of the fact that we boast of an extraordinarily fine athletic code. Baseball
should receive the same interest and loyalty which other sports get in season, the intercollegiate rivalry which it represents entitling
it to whole-hearted backing from every man here.

College baseball has suffered a decline in popular favor. Time was when it ruled the sport kingdom and brooked no
interference, but with the capitalization of football, the rapid ascendancy of track, and the popularity of minor sports such as
tennis and golf, the “national game” has been greatly reduced in the eyes of the modern collegian. With a great
many people, it still holds the major position, and many athletes still turn their chief efforts into diamond work. The
major leagues continue to run successfully, and for the brief period of the World Series baseball eclipses everything else. But
then comes football, with all its glamor and collegiate flavor, dominating not only the fall months, but the spring too
for early training. Such is the situation which the decade since the war has brought to light.

If it’s worthwhile to Davidson to win her baseball games, and we don’t believe anybody will argue negatively on that
question, then surely it behooves the students to change their indifferent attitude to one of loyalty. As far as the
actual game goes, baseball is a sport which depends upon the spirit of the crowd as much as any other.
If the onlookers are listless, the team is apt to be. If the folks in the bleachers are on their
toes, pulling hard for a win, their enthusiasm will be a tonic to the men on the field. It is
poor spirit to leave your team in the lurch. Takes a mighty good excuse to justify it. We’d like to
see Davidson men stick out the nine innings of play, at least showing their appreciation of the team’s work.

The idea of united support for any intercollegiate activity of Davidson’s representatives is a vital one for the school. Don’t
let it fade to any degree.

This writer hates “I told you so’s” as much as anybody, but it is hard at times to refrain from
reminding a person of a correct prophecy which one has made. The present attitude of France and Italy would seem
to lend strength to the opinion advocated in this space some time ago, namely, that little benefit would be derived
from theirpresent conference in London. E. Phillips Oppenheim’s story, “Up the Ladder of Gold,” was probably written before the conference
convened, but it is strangely correct in many of its oppositions to world peace. World peace is much to be
desired, but it will never be realized until education has become much more general than it is today. Big men
fear keen minds anyway. Will Rogers, possessing one of the best brains in London, was sent home early in the
game because of his terse, and all too true, comments on supposed diplomats. What the United States needs in the
year 1930 is a greater number of Benjamin Franklins, John Jays, and Henry Clays; she has none at present. All
of the state of North Carolina should be glad of the appointment of Judge Parker to the Supreme Court bench.
It is an honor to any political party, or to any state. There are few positions in this country which
last for the duration of life. Let the Southland beware, however! Does this appointment not show that President Hoover, observing
the ancient principle “to the victors belong the spoils,” has no intention of allowing this state and others to forget
that he was elected with a majority in the South? Having once gained it, the G. O. P. will not
let a voting majority slip by without an attempt to hold it. People can forget party platforms when moral issues
are thought to be at stake, but under normal conditions, the democratic contingent must be preserved. Republicans, in their attempt
to temporarily unite with the anti-Smiths, utterly failed in Virginia. In closing, let it be said that this column congratulates
Judge Parker, and that the inference made here in no way applies to him.

Situations surrounding the recent high school track meet held here are interesting. The members of one team, from Raleigh, were
forced to provide their own transportation to and from Davidson. Leaving the capital on Friday morning, they eventually reached the
campus in time to catch a few hours’ sleep before the next day. The boys missed both dinner and supper
on Friday. Despite this tremendous handicap, they made a creditable showing. It is hard to understand why students who are
willing to train and work should be forced to pay their own expenses to and from events of this nature
in a state which is supposed to be as progressive as North Carolina. However, denunciatory elders would find little to
criticize in the younger generation if all of the youth of today kept training as track men must.

Charles Francis Coe, who has written many stories and studies of crime in leading periodicals, maintains that law should be
fitted to suit the crime. He argues that some murderers are professional bad men, while others, who are often better
shots, commit one crime, are not sorry, but would never commit another. The right of capital punishment involves a discussion
which will never be successfully decided. The law has demanded and still asks an eye for an eye and a
tooth for a tooth. But does it have the right to demand two eyes for one? Not only does the
law require one scapegoat, but as often as possible sacrifices an entire herd of them. Complicity in crime is a
peculiar thing. Sometimes the greatest of men are neither recognized in their own day nor thereafter. Hogarth might well come
under this category. Little is known of the man by the average student, the majority of men passing through their
entire college course without hearing him mentioned. Copies of his work, especially his original engravings, are very rare. Yet to
this artist, the modern scholar is indebted for much of his knowledge of the customs and habits at that time.
Hogarth does not attain the position of a Raphael, but he does picture real life. Different men, at different times,
have written their Utopias, or pictures of life as they would deem it perfect. Everybody’s ideals are different. A famous
platform artist once sang a ditty which included the words, “You want what you want when you want it, but
when you get what you want you don’t want it.” It is hard for Americans to realize that millions of
people in other parts of the world look upon this country as a Utopia. Is it? Men may come and
men may go, but I go on forever. However, be of good cheer, I can’t last so terribly many more
years. It seems to me that it would be just the proverbial thing for me to write another little gem
from real life. The subject for this week’s digression will be:

MARMADUKE THE MYSTIC

First Installment

AH, SWEET MISERY OF LIFE

A true mystic is born and never made. In this respect, Marmaduke was the genuine article because there was something
mysterious about him from the very start. He had the delightful flop ears of a faithful bloodhound and a nose—oh,
what a gonker! In fact, until he was two years old, it was a great mystery around the town whether
he would walk or fly. Marmaduke thrived and chewed his foot in peace until the day of his baptism arrived.
The preacher turned to Marmaduke’s father and asked, “What is the name of this child?” The beaming parent swelled with
pride and carefully enunciated, “Marmaduke Percival Athelstane Cruikshank, Junior.” The preacher then turned to his assistant and whispered, “A little
more water, please.”

Little is known of Mommie’s childhood until he entered college as a Freshman with an abundance of ambition, an impediment
in his speech, and about three hundred other boys. When he went home for his first holidays, his father asked
him what kind of grades he was making. “Oh, I’m getting Jules Verne,” he answered lightly. “What do you mean
by them thar words?” asked his father, who didn’t catch on to the lingo. “Why, about twenty thousand leagues under
the ‘C’,” replied the young scamp as he purloined a fistful of the old man’s Havanas.

As his college career progressed, Dukie became an awful boaster. One beautiful spring morning, he was entertaining a group of
his cronies with an account of some of his experiences. “I went out with a nurse last night,” he confided.
“Aw, cheer up,” remarked his pal, “maybe when you grow up, your mother will let you go out without one.”
Poor Marmaduke immediately sank in thirty fathoms and came up in Squedunk, where he was playing in the small time.

Second Down

CAN AN INDIA RUBBER MAN GUILTY OF BURGLARY BE SENT UP FOR A STRETCH?

Now that Marmaduke had fully made up his mind to follow the insidious calling of the footlights, he set his
heart on becoming a first-rate magician. However, he was not, as is so frequently expressed in the common everyday vernacular,
so hot. His public called him “Iron Man” because he was so rusty when it came to exhibiting his ability
as a sleight of hand artist of no mean parts. Mommie was not the least down-hearted about it, though, but
purchased a handsome book entitled “How to Saw a Woman” in two parts. He memorized this and then set out
to set the good old world, dog-gone, afire. His first act was to hire an assistant. He gave this job
to a young girl that everyone called Mussy Lena, because she was the fastest girl in town. And this, gentle
reader, was the beginning of that famous act known to the world at large and small as “Marmaduke the Mystic,
the Mystifying Master of Mephisto.”

Third Strike

PUTTING VINEGAR ON YOUR FOOD IS JUST AN OLD SPINACH CUSTOM

Pardon the reminiscences of an old stage hand, my public, but well do I remember the first performance of Mommie’s
act. He and Mussy toddled out on the stage and engaged in some snappy patter while Mussy blindfolded him. Sez
Mussy, “How did you find the weather in Chicago?” “Easily,” sez Dukie, “It was just outside the door.” He then
tested the blindfold and remarked that he couldn’t see Mussy. “You don’t need to see me, big boy,” replied she,
“what you want to do is to saw me.” She then crawled in a big box like a casket, closed
the lid, and hoisted a tiny Armenian flag to prove that she was really in it. Mommie bolted down the
lid and hauled out a huge rip saw, or maybe it was a cross-cut. Anyway, he sawed the whole contraption
right smack in half. At this, the audience brought down the house and the state militia. As for Marmaduke, why
he just smiled like a toothpaste ad and opened the box. He looked in again and yelled, “Pull yourself together,
gal.” But Mussy didn’t do a thing to help him. He then turned to the audience and explained, “I’ve plumb
forgotten how to get the lady back together.” Naturally, the curtain came down with a roll and a pat of
butter, and the people rushed home to read all about it in the morning paper.

Marmaduke now sits in his palatial cell (well padded) and cuts little figures out of beaver-board with a scroll saw.
The footlights still beckon, but he answers them not. He’s busy practicing an escape from a straight-jacket.
