6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1930

Mr. Frank W. Price Will Visit Davidson

Former Davidson Student Will Spend Four Days Among Students on Local Campus

IS VERSATILE SPEAKER

Was Outstanding Student While in College Here

For four days, beginning April 4, Rev. Frank W. Price will be a visitor to the Davidson campus. Mr. Price,
a Davidson man, is a missionary to China whose support has been aided by the Davidson Y. M. C. A.
Frank Price’s record as a student and campus leader at Davidson is almost without parallel. Among his many honors were
the presidencies of the senior class, the “Y,” the Student Volunteer Association, and of the North Carolina Intercollegiate Debaters Organization;
he was also founder and first Editor-in-Chief of the Davidsonian, editor of the annual, business manager of the college magazine,
and an honor roll student whose average for his four years at Davidson was 97.56 per cent.

Upon leaving Davidson, Frank Price spent three years in China assisting his parents in their work as missionaries. He then
returned to the United States just in time to enter the “Y” work in France during the world war. The
next three years of his life were spent in further preparing himself for his life work. He took his B.D.
at Yale Divinity School and his M.A. at Columbia and in 1923 he sailed for China with his bride. His
letters, which have been received frequently here at Davidson, have been full of interest and show an unselfish devotion to
the work which he has chosen. Mr. Price has served as professor in both the Nanking Theological Seminary and Hangchow.
When he was driven from his work by a rebellion he spent the time in Korea translating several books from
Chinese to English and from English to Chinese. Practically every member of the student body will have an opportunity to
hear this versatile speaker. He will speak at the chapel exercises and at “Y” vespers as well as to various
classes and in personal conferences. His general subject will be that of missions today.

CONVERSE GLEE CLUB

(Continued from Page 1)

be a well-rounded out one, and both the Glee Club and the director, Glenn C. Stables, are to be commended
for an excellent performance. The program, with a few variations, follows:

The Green Cathedral—Carl Hahn.
Hear Thy Lover’s Cry—Thurlow Lieurance.
A Birthday—Charles Manney.
Glee Club.

Selections by Miss Amelia Bruns.
Will O’ the Wisp—Charles G. Spross.
Mighty Lak a Rose—Ethelbert Nevin.
Yesterday and Today—Charles G. Spross.
Glee Club.

La ci darem la mano—Mozart, Amelia Bruns and Glenn C. Stables.
Time of Youth—G. Donizetti.
Sleepy Hollow Tune—R. Kountz.
On Wings of Song—Mendelssohn, Glee Club.
La Fille Aux Cheveux de Lin—Debussy, (Transcription by Hartman).
La Plus que Lente—Debussy, (Transcription by Roques), Mary Lou Kirby.
Blow, Blow, Thou Winter Wind—Richard Kieserling, Amelia Bruns, Soloist.
Glee Club.

DAVIDSON MARKSMEN

(Continued from page 1)

Davidson
Russell 49 48 39 44 180
Arlington 47 43 44 40 174
Brock 48 49 48 29 174
Graham 48 45 37 42 172
Curdts 48 39 40 42 169
Total 869

On Thursday the team fired a shoulder-to-shoulder match with the Gastonia Rifle Club Team at Gastonia. This match was fired
on a 75-foot range instead of the 50-foot range as is used here. In this contest Gastonia fired a score
of 897 to 836 for the Davidson Team. Up to date the team has fired 33 correspondence matches and has
won 24 of them. A score of 3653 was fired in last week’s matches and while none of the schools
in this match have been heard from, this score is almost certain to win the majority of the matches. One
of the matches fired last week was a Freshman match with the University of West Virginia. Other matches were with
teams from U. of Porto Rico, U. of Washington, Norwich University, Rose Poly, South Dakota Agriculture College, State University of
Iowa, U. of Oregon, North Dakota Agriculture College, North Georgia Agriculture College, and U. of Nebraska.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

(Continued from page 1)

versity of Richmond), Richmond, Virginia, in November, 1901, by six members of an organization called the “Saturday Night Club.” There
are sixty-two active chapters of the fraternity at the present time. The chapter at Davidson will be the Epsilon Chapter
of North Carolina, there being three other chapters located at North Carolina State College, Duke University, and the University of
North Carolina. A chapter was reinstated at the University of South Carolina within the past few months.

Two members of the Davidson College faculty, Profs. W. L. Porter and J. T. Kimbrough, Jr., are members of the
Pyramid Club. D. H. Howard, who was assistant professor in Chemistry last year and is now studying in Cornell University
for his Master’s Degree in Chemistry, is also a member of the Club. Prof.James Truesdale is a member of the
North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Sigma Phi Epsilon at Duke University.

CUMMINGS REVIEWS
(Continued from page 1)

"Sorrow" is built upon an excellent simile; but two or three phrases mar the total effect of the poem. On
the whole, Mr. Witt’s writings show distinct power and promise.

"For the Glory of the Lord?" is a tragedy after the Chaucerian definition—"the fall of man of grete estat." The
fall of the Hon. (and colored) Dr. Lemuel Daniels into the river while he was impressing his followers with an
apostolic power in walking on the waters is the climax of a delightful fantasia. The poem by W. Wharton and
the play by J. W. Williams are contributions which merit praise, for though not pretentious, they are well done. The
above review was contributed to the Davidsonian by Dr. W. P. Cummings.

VIEWS AND OBSERVATIONS
(Continued from Page 5)

replied that some of the pears had fallen off and he was trying to put them back on. The alumni
of the classes from about 1910 to 1915 were concerned as to whether or not the scholastic standards of the
college were being upheld and how Davidson compares in this respect with other colleges. They wanted to know about the
working of the honor system and the upholding of campus ideals and traditions. It seemed to be universally agreed that
these are the things that are distinctively Davidson. We were frequently asked whether Davidson expects to remain a college of
approximately the same size we are now, or whether it is the plan of the college to grow larger. All
alumni were interested in some statement with reference to the growth of the physical plant and material resources of the
college. We tried to point out some of the various ways in which an alumnus can best serve his college,
one of which was to put us in touch with persons of means who might be induced to make contributions
to the college, either as gifts at this time, or by annuities on which the college would pay a fixed
sum semi-annually during the life of the donor; or by including Davidson in their wills. We learned of persons, of
whom we did not know before, who have Davidson in their wills for substantial sums. A trust company has just
written to ask for the corporate name of the college, stating that an alumnus has requested them to prepare his
will and include a sum for Davidson. The alumni seemed unanimous in their opinions that an obligation rested on them
to seek out for Davidson the best graduates of the high schools in their communities. They seemed to feel that
Davidson ought to have the best equipped students, physically, mentally, and morally.

A Minister of the Gospel SHOULD know how to win men, both by public sermons and through individual contacts. TO
ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS ONE OF THE AIMS OF UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. For Catalog and Information, Address, Rev.
B. R. Lacy, Jr., President, Richmond, Virginia.

Final Freshman Scores
Freshmen 22, Charlotte Hi 18.
Freshmen 20, Charlotte Hi 9.
Freshmen 26, Steele Creek 22.
Freshmen 20, Belmont Abbey 14.
Freshmen 25, Greensboro Hi 21.
Freshmen 32, Wake Forest 14.
Freshmen 35, Washington & Lee 23.
Freshmen 21, Roanoke 22.
Freshmen 21, V. M. I. 26.
Freshmen 18, Oak Ridge 32.
Freshmen 16, Belmont 32.
Freshmen 45, Wingate 19.
Freshmen 32, N. C. State 25.
Freshmen 14, Duke 31.
Freshmen 19, Carolina 24.
Freshmen 34, Wingate 17.
Freshmen 49, Porter Military 29.
Freshmen 449, Opponents 378.

NOW IS THE TIME TO HAVE YOUR ENGRAVED CARDS MADE. SEE ME.
Best Quality and Prices
Any type of Printing
ERNEST H. McCALL
108 Watts
Representing
STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

Typing by wire—an adventure in Communication
The telephone typewriter, a new Bell System service, has commercial possibilities as yet barely realized. For example, a business house
can typewrite a message over telephone wires, and this is retyped instantaneously and simultaneously in any number of branch offices.
The advantage is obvious—in knitting together far-flung organizations and in quickening the pace of business. Here is still another extension
of telephone service, which has already proved its value. The telephone typewriter promises even greater things as industry discovers new
uses for this instrument of convenient communication.

BELL SYSTEM
A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones
"OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN"
