FINAL BASEBALL COMMENCEMENT GAME WITH DUKE PROGRAM SATISFACTORILY FILLED TODAY.

"ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS"

Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 15, 1930 No. 29

Quips and Cranks of 1930 Appears on Campus Today
New Book, Smaller in Size, is More Expensive and Colorful Than its Predecessors
DEDICATED TO DR. MARTIN
Pratt and Hill Head Able Staff in Producing Book

In accord with an announcement made Monday by C. M. Pratt, Editor, and W. R. Hill, Business Manager, the 1930 volume of Quips and Cranks makes its appearance today. This terminates the banner week for Davidson literary publications. Although the new yearbook is a few pages smaller in size, yet it is the most expensive annual to be produced here up to this time. Consequently, it is somewhat smaller in appearance. It is dedicated to Dr. W. J. Martin, former president of the college and who has recently accepted the presidency of the Assembly Training School in Richmond.

Chief among the features noticed in the Quips and Cranks is the colorful display presented. Barring none, it is the most tinted number that has ever made its debut at Davidson. Second only to the color is the artwork which is more varied than heretofore. A new idea was presented in the fraternity section with “life-size” pictures of the respective pins. These will be at the disposal of future editors. Those few who have seen a copy declare that it lacks a great many smaller errors, chiefly of a typographical nature, which frequently mark a work of this nature. Altogether there are fewer mistakes than usual. It will also be noted by students that there has been room provided for fraternity sponsors in addition to the customary ones. Last year’s collegiate beauty section was omitted. All printing and engraving was done by the Queen City Printing and Engraving Company, Charlotte, while White Studios, New York, were responsible for the photographic work. Those students interested in procuring extra editions should see either W. R. Hill or R. M. King.

Davidson Violinists To Broadcast Soon
Will Give Weekly Performances on Sunday Over Station WBT

On Sunday evening, May 18th, the violin quartette will broadcast over WBT, Charlotte, the first of its series of Sunday evening programs. The fifteen minutes allotted to the quartette, from 7:15 to 7:30, will allow four or perhaps five light classical selections, among which are likely to be a Song of Spring, Two Finnish Folk Songs, Romance and Tambourine, and perhaps a heavier number, such as a selection from a Tschaikowsky symphony, all specially arranged for a quartette of violins. Although the quartette will not play over the air more than twice or three times this school year, they hope to continue their radio work next year more extensively, with the same members, who are: first violin, Charles Orr; second, Robert Orr; third, Horace Ervin; fourth, Don Leeper. Continuance of the same playing combination will be made possible by the return of Charles Orr, a senior, for graduate work. It is planned that a great deal more music, varied moods and rhythms, will be purchased and that opportunity will be afforded them to play at teas, dinners, and other social occasions. The violin quartette is a recently revived combination designed to substitute for the regular string quartette (which includes two violins, viola, and ’cello). It is indeed a fortunate arrangement for communities lacking either a viola or a ’cello, which parts are taken by the third (Continued on page six).

Mothers Eulogized In Vesper Address
“A mother’s love is the deepest of all earthly loves,” Mrs. Ramsay, popular president of Mitchell College stated last Sunday evening at the Mother's Day services held in Shearer Hall. This was one of the most impressive and helpful of all the mother’s day exercises and took its place among the leading vesper services of the year. Both red and white roses were much in evidence scattered among the large crowd of students that attended this vesper service. Mrs. Ramsay went on further to say that in ancient times, especially in the oriental countries, women were not respected much but were suppressed and kept on a lower level than man, but now in the Christian countries they were looked up to and idealized by mankind. Women owe their present status to Christianity. She voiced an earnest appeal that women everywhere would rededicate their lives to Christ and to bringing up a new generation fearing the Lord. And then in appealing that the students as sons rededicate their lives to their simple loving service to them she had her audience repeat the Fifth Commandment. She also cited Christ’s care and thought for his mother even in a dreadful but glorious moment as an example of the allegiance and love due mother. Every day of every year should not differ in a showing of love and respect for our mothers but the setting aside of one special day calls us from our worldly cares to an exhibition of our esteem which is so joyful to mothers.

Twenty-six Men Expect To Go To R.O.T.C. Camp
Instruction at Camp is Required of All Advance Students

From June 10th to July 21, inclusive, the annual R. O. T. C. training camp will be held at Fort McClellan, Anniston, Ala. Lieut. Col. W. R. Scott, now in charge of the Davidson unit, will be the commanding officer. The purpose of the camp, as stated in the Camp Bulletin of General Instructions, is: “To supplement the military and technical training received by members of the Reserve Officers Training Corps at institutions, with the further practical training in the tactics and administration of troop units which will qualify them for commissions of the Officers Reserve Corps.” Instruction will be given to each student along the lines of Physical Training, First Aid and Hygiene, Administration and Supply, Inspections and Ceremonies, Drill and Command, Marksmanship, Musketry and Combat firing, Scouting and Patrolling Combat (Continued on page six).

Ten Leading Freshmen Chosen for Beaver Club
At a meeting of the members of O. D. K. last Tuesday evening the following men in the rising Sophomore class were elected to the Beaver Club: P. F. Brown, J. B. Clark, J. D. Enochs, W. A. Flinn, J. R. Howards, J. E. Lake, R. L. McCallie, W. A. Mcbane, C. M. Norfleet, and E. B. Peabody. The Beaver Club is a Sophomore honor society which is composed of ten of the outstanding men in the Sophomore class. Twenty men are recommended by the members of the preceding Beaver Club, and O. D. K. selects ten of these. It is the duty of these men to entertain the members of the visiting athletic teams. Their work is especially prominent in the affairs of Homecoming Day, and other such occasions of the year.

English Professor Gives Criticism of Magazine
All of the Varied Fields of Literature Covered by Contributors to Chameleon
EXCELLENT TALENT
Each Article is Reviewed Separately By Professor Lilly

Those undergraduates who are engaged in literary work at Davidson have not forgotten the old motto that “Variety is the spice of life.” A perusal of the stories in the May issue of The Chameleon acquaints us with life on a ranch and in a prison in the Northwest, with tavern and garden experiences in Bagdad, with a love affair in the mountains of Arizona, with the intimate family of an aristocratic group in Ye Merrie Olde England, with degraded conditions in postwar Russia and with a love affair among the collegiates which has its incipiency in Fair Harvard and bursts to full blossom in the Midwest. The poetry portion of this issue does not lag behind in monotony in that we have in more or less proper proportions the easy cadence of free verse, the finished metrical polish of the sonnet and the rollicking abandon of a narrative verse in the manner of Kipling or Masefield. There is only one lack of diversity in this copy. One finds the meat of fiction and the drink of poetry but when one wishes to round off a full meal with an essay — well, the cupboard is bare. The short story and verse have joined hands and have driven off (for the nonce) this other member of the trilogy of literary composition. This edition of our magazine seems to concernitself with some of the eternal problems of youth and age. Love and terror constitute the major interests of our authors and remain there to beguile or to frighten the gentle reader. “If I Were King” achieves distinction in the latter portion of the story with an able study of the beauty of nature without the (Continued on page 6)

Fourteen Members Initiated By I.R.C.
Members Come from Rising Junior and Senior Classes

The International Relations Club of Davidson held their annual Spring initiation last Monday night, May 12th. At that time the following students became members: Chas. Harrison, Ed Kuykendall, Jack Pepper, J. W. Williams, C. C. Kraemer, Ned Dwelle, Bill Lea, W. C. Ragin, J. A. Jones, Al Jackson, Kenneth Jackson, G. R. Fain, D. S. LaFar, R. P. Enloe, and Grier Martin. These men are all of the rising Junior and Senior Classes, since only men of the two upper classes may be elected. The new members were elected on the basis of written papers on international questions. Twenty-two men were asked to write papers. Of these, fifteen were judged worthy of membership.

The International Relations Club as a national organization was formed in 1923. It is backed by the Carnegie Peace Foundation. Their aim is to acquaint themselves with international affairs and relations. The Davidson Club was responsible for the recent visit of Sir Herbert Brown Ames of Canada to the campus.

Those men who have made pledges in the annual campaign of the Y. M. C. A. and have not yet paid them are requested to look into the matter at once. Work has been started, and the remainder of the pledges should be paid. Checks can be made payable to A. B. McClure.

Dedication of Chambers To Be Commencement Feature
Fraternity Council Chooses New Heads

At a meeting of the Pan Hellenic Council on Wednesday, May 12th, George Williams was elected President for next year, and J. A. Cannon, Secretary and Treasurer. This Council is composed of representatives from each fraternity on the campus, whose purpose is to regulate and control matters which may come up between the fraternities. Williams is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, and Cannon of Beta Theta Pi. They were elected to succeed C. E. Orr, president for this year, and W. B. McGavock, Secretary.

Members for next year in the Council will be: G. W. Williams, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; J. A. Cannon, Beta Theta Pi; C. H. Goodykoontz, Phi Delta Theta; A. R. Bird, Phi Gamma Delta; R. M. King, Kappa Alpha; C. T. Parker, Theta Upsilon Omega; A. H. Whitehead, Pi Kappa Phi; G. W. George, Pi Kappa Alpha; Frank Pilcher, Sigma Phi Epsilon; and J. K. Pepper, Kappa Sigma. The retiring members are: C. E. Orr, Kappa Sigma; W. B. McGavock, Kappa Alpha; O. D. Anderson, Theta Upsilon Omega; R. G. Wilson, Pi Kappa Alpha; R. M. Christian, Phi Gamma Delta; C. H. Goodykoontz, Phi Delta Theta; J. A. Cannon, Beta Theta Pi; H. E. Russell, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; E. B. Kugler, Pi Kappa Phi.

Members of Year Book Staff Chosen Recently
Men Rewarded for Constant Work During Previous Years

According to an announcement made by A. R. Bird, Jr., newly elected Editor of the Quips and Cranks for the Class of 1931, the following men are elected to serve as members of the staffs of that publication. These men have achieved these positions as a result of untiring labor which began during their freshman year and has continued unceasingly ever since. They are as follows:

Literary Staff: A. R. Bird, Editor-in-Chief; P. R. Alderman, Athletic Editor; J. V. D. Middleton, Fraternity Editor; Norman Raies, Activities Editor; S. S. Wiley, Literary Editor; W. R. Rule, III, Photographic Editor; Assistant Editors: E. C. Dwelle, Jr.; R. P. Enloe; W. T. Hancock; W. B. Hawkins; W. S. Lea; D. G. Stevenson.

Business Staff: Business Manager, R. M. King; Advertising Managers, D. G. Martin, S. J. McCallie, N. B. Dicks, C. M. Miller; Solicitors, H. E. Hall, J. G. Dunglin, W. W. Franklin; Circulation Manager, M. W. Norfleet; Assistant Circulation Managers, N. G. Speir, R. K. Morton, J. H. Boyd.

Student Council Elects New Court of Control

Last Thursday morning the Senior members of the Student Council elected the Court of Control for the coming year. Trad Brock was made judge, to fill the place of the retiring Heath Whittle. It is the privilege of the Junior and Sophomore classes to have two members each, while the Senior class has four members, including the judge. The Senior representatives are: George McClenagan, A. R. Jackson, and Norman Raies. The Junior members are: D. G. Martin, G. L. Mathis. The Sophomore representatives are: J. B. Clark, and J. D. Enochs. It is the duty of this court to make out the regulations and restrictions for the incoming Freshman class. Throughout (Continued on page 5)

List of Speakers for Occasion is Nearly Completed According to Dean J. M. McConnell
LINGLE TO BE INSTALLED
Diplomas Will Be Presented Wednesday, June 4

Five hundred invitations are being mailed out from Davidson College this week, inviting college presidents, seminary presidents, officials of many institutions and other special guests to the inauguration of Dr. Walter L. Lingle as the eleventh president of Davidson College, and to the dedication of Chambers Building of the General Alumni Association. Commencement of Davidson will be held June 1-4. Both of these important and historical events, which are considered the highlights of the commencement week, are to occur on Tuesday, June 3rd, the inauguration of Davidson's new president taking place in the morning at 11 o'clock, and the dedication of Chambers in the afternoon at 3 o'clock. Interspersing this will be the annual alumni luncheon and meeting of the General Alumni Association. On this same day, the board of trustees will meet in semi-annual session, a reception will be tendered by the faculty on the lawn of the college at five o'clock, the class reunion dinners are scheduled for the early evening, and a dramatic presentation as the closing event of the intensive day's program.

Dean J. M. McConnell, who has been in charge of the arrangements for these two exercises, stated today that practically all the speakers had been obtained for the occasions, but withheld the information until the entire program had been completed. He felt that this would be ready for announcement later in the week.

According to the program, Davidson's commencement will begin Sunday morning at 11:15 o'clock, when Rev. Stuart Nye Hutchison, D.D., of Pittsburgh, Pa., will deliver the baccalaureate sermon. In the evening, the annual sermon before the Y. M. C. A., in its last meeting of the session, will be delivered. All during Monday, Alumni and visitors to the college will be arriving and will be assigned rooms in the “alumni dormitory.” The first event of the second day of commencement will be a Y. M. C. A. reception at 4 o'clock in the afternoon, immediately followed by the class day exercises, when students who have been selected by their classmates as salutatorian, valedictorian, and orator, will make addresses. The literary program Monday evening closes the day.

Davidson's commencement concludes Wednesday, June 4th, when the academic (Continued on page 6)

Foreman To Leave For European Tour

Dr. K. J. Foreman, professor of Bible Philosophy, will sail from New York May 24th on the S. S. Leviathan for an extensive tour of Europe and other foreign countries. He will remain abroad practically the entire summer, returning home about the last of August. Professor Foreman has planned a very complete itinerary which will carry him to many points of interest. He will be in Europe during June and August, while he will spend the intervening month in Palestine and adjoining countries. In the first part of his journey he will attend the Passion Play in Oberammergau. Other countries which he will visit are France, Belgium, Switzerland, Italy, and England. He will spend most of July in Palestine, also visiting Egypt, Greece, and other points along the Mediterranean Sea. On his way back in August he plans to be present at the International Christian Endeavor Convention at Berlin. He will also attend the music festivals at Salzburg, Austria, and at Bayreuth, Germany.