‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 27, 1930

After Graduation --- Journalism?

Journalism Discussed Pro and Con By One Of The Nation's Biggest Publishers

Roy W. Howard of Scripps-Howard Newspapers Writes on Subject

EXACTING PROFESSION

Newspaper Work Pictured as One of Most Trying Fields—Much Depends Upon Candidate’s Will

With the same modern tendency toward specialization manifesting itself in newspaper work as in most other lines, the would-be journalist is at the outset forced to elect one of two courses—the business office or the editorial department. Opinions differ widely as to which is the more desirable avenue of entry for the beginner. The personality, the ambitions, and the objectives of the beginner of necessity furnish the best, if not the only, guides.

Twenty-five or thirty-five years ago there were probably more editor-owners than otherwise. More recently, as advertising has become more and more of a national habit, and the economic factor in production has become a greater consideration, business brains have become an increasingly important element in success. Under the stress of competitive conditions, the improvident editor has lost his control, or been forced to share it with men of practical ideas and methods.

However, there seems to be a pendulum swing in journalism as in many other changing forces. If it would seem at present that the direct road to ownership and control lies through the business office, there is reason to believe that a change is in order and that as competitive conditions over the past three decades have forced business office brains into commanding positions, so, in like manner, will the demands of competition again bring the editorial brains to the top. An editorial renaissance is overdue. Newspapers have not been improving their standing in the public esteem as they should and as they must. The demands of the times and the needs of the situation are certain to produce the men who will raise American journalism, already the most efficient in the world (excepting possibly a certain small element in the British press), to the high level of efficiency and service which is possible of attainment.

If quick attainment of a comfortable salary and fairly regular hours be a primary desire; if these be backed by a flair for salesmanship; and if organization and executive problems incidental to money-making constitute attractive inducements for the prospect, first consideration should unquestionably be given to a business office connection. If a young man visualizes newspaper production as a business, he should certainly knock for admission at the business office door.

To the man for whom journalism spells something far removed from the counting room; to one for whom the term suggests action, romance, adventure, contact with the most interesting people in the community, the state, or the world; to one with imagination straining at the leash; to one with an ability to extract a thrill of satisfaction from service to others; to one blessed with an observing eye, a logical mind, and the power of transcribing thoughts and impressions into simple direct English—for such the first port of call on life’s vocational voyage is certainly that noisy, cluttered scene of organized confusion, the city room.

If quick and easy acquisition of a comfortable salary on which to “settle down” be a young man’s immediate objective, he should avoid the career of a reporter. This may, and, for the properly equipped, will come along in time, but in the days of his novitiate, a budding journalist is very apt to be a liability to his city editor and his newspaper, rather than an asset. For the first six months or a year, he will be fortunate if his pay envelope is fat enough to be even a factor in the weekly interview with his boarding-house landlady. For this reason, the earlier a young man can get at the job of serving out his “sub days” the better. Seventeen to twenty is none too early to begin to utilize the vacation months for this service—even if, as will probably be the case, the effort be solely for experience and carries with it nothing else in the way of compensation.

Good advice to every young man who asks it, is to stay out of newspaper work. Instead of arguing himself into it, he should try to argue himself out of it. Unless it appeals more strongly than any other vocation, it should be avoided. There are many reasons why it should be avoided unless the urge is too strong to be denied. It is hard work. Hours mean nothing. Social and family considerations must be absolutely put aside—at least during the early years when a man is seeking to get himself established. The profession is a jealous mistress and smiles only on those who literally live for it. Until a reputation has been acquired and the particular qualifications of a man established, he must, in his own best interest, be absolutely foot-free and able to go where opportunity beckons. A dependent wife these days is a handicap, not a help.

Nothing can remove the gamble involved in the question of adaptability. An ability to write or to use good English is but a small factor. A good city editor can teach most anyone able to use simple English the actual technique of newspaper writing. But no one can supply that prime essential—a “nose for news.” This ability to sense what is of news value, i.e., of wide popular appeal or informative, is as much a natural gift as the ability to paint a great portrait, model a masterpiece of statuary, or compose a symphony. No one can fabricate “a nose for news” or teach anyone how to acquire one. Nothing but experience will reveal its presence or its absence. Once possessed, it never ceases to function. Its possessor will be dependent upon it in every subsequent development of editorial technique, whether he evolves as a reporter, a special correspondent, an editorial writer, a critic, a feature writer, or an editor-publisher.

Be certain whether you belong in journalism at all. It is quicksand for mediocrity. If you doubt that the heights are attainable to you, get out—and stay out. It is bad enough to start on the wrong track, but it is worse than stupid to continue on it. Determine whether you want to strive for recognition and reward as a writer or as an executive. Determine whether you prefer the small city or the metropolis. The capital prizes are more numerous, if smaller, in the lesser cities. The competition is stiffer and the chances of failure greater; with the honors and the thrills of success greater, in the major cities. If your nerve is good (and your talents justify your nerve) hitch your wagon to a star and hold onto your seat.

A little time devoted to pre-consideration is better than a lot of time devoted to vain regrets. Even while considering its possible financial returns, it is well for the would-be journalist to remember that in this profession, as in most of the other worthwhile endeavors of life, he who figures only on what he is going to take out is most certainly to be disappointed, while he who gives most thought to what he can put into his endeavors in the way of creative effort and service, is likely to be surprised at the magnitude of his dividends—both in satisfaction and in material rewards.

DR. WM. M. ANDERSON (Continued from page 1)

...of being the world’s largest radio Bible Class. He is a member of some very prominent social and fraternal orders. Doctor Anderson attended Vanderbilt University and after his first year was elected as the most popular man in his...class. He received his B.S. degree from the University of Texas, later taking his theological training in Austin Seminary. Dr. Sam Glasgow, who won his way into the heart of the student body in his evangelistic services of last fall, writes the Y. M. C. A.: “I feel that you have secured a royal mind and heart for your spring series. Be prepared for a most alluring personality and a clear-cut message. “Doctor Anderson is quite informal, entirely fascinating, and continually lodges great vital thoughts with his audience. He was outstanding at Montreat last summer.”

J. G. BUCHER

There were slides of the magnificent Cologne cathedral, the Royal Palace of Berlin and other public buildings, and of the picturesque German landscapes. The lecture was closed with slides of the world-famous Passion Play held every ten years at Oberammergau.

Davidson—Week by Week
By Gosh
(With all due apologies to O. O. McIntyre)

Diary of a college Pepys—Up at the first sound of the rising bell, much against my will, and dressed hurriedly. To breakfast at a college boarding house and eagerly devoured several warm wheat cakes, followed by an intermittent quaffing of hot java. Why is breakfast so bare of conversation? Rushed down to the Post Office and knifed my way through the milling group, only to find a dusty and empty mailbox. Although disgruntled, the last bell seemed an impetus to forget my luck, and I trod the lane to Chambers. A last glance at the text saved me in my first class, but I got “shot” in the next two albeit I had studied both thoroughly the night before. To lunch and was gratified with some hot potatoes and beef stew, what with heapings of slaw, was the best meal I have had in a fortnight, and so loitered about bulling with a group of students, and so tiring of the fusillade, made way to the dormitory where I very quickly hid Mrs. Smith’s reports of the condition of my room, ere a taunt should spy it. Studied, slept, a set of tennis, and then to supper. Came a friend who carried me to a literary society meeting; enjoyed a fine program. To my room where I read parallel and so to bed.

Wiehe

If one wishes to spend a pleasant evening listening to an interesting narrator, they should seek Neil McGeachy. Last summer Neil went to Los Angeles to attend a Kappa Sigma conclave, and spent two months for the round trip which almost thoroughly covered the United States, and extended into Canada and Mexico. Of course, his stay in the movie center proved to be an active one, and he had several glimpses of the leading cinema stars. It seems that his favorite story concerns Mary Brian, whom he claims “sort of horsed” him. Neil was just commenting to the actress while dancing with her, about how much he enjoyed the dance. “Oh well,” she sighed, “I guess it’s my job to dance with everybody.”

After a rapid survey of the student directory, it seems that we have only four aristocrats enrolled in Davidson. J. V. D. Middleton and R. E. C. Roane caught my first view and then it was revealed that C. W. F. Spencer and J. S. W. Hartsell conclude the sophisticated group.

Thad Brock, diminutive captain of last year’s football team and who is considered one of the best ends in the south, has been revealed as an unmerciful object of “fan mail.” After his famous 103-yard run in the Duke game last Thanksgiving in which he failed to tally only by a few feet and for which he received national mention, Thad has been receiving mail from unknown fans continually. Brock was forced to admit that Davidson has plenty of feminine fans, but he asserted that the majority of the correspondents were alumni and friends. Possibly Thad is a probable contender to the position for which Roy Reigels of California has been acclaimed—the greatest receiver of “fan mail” in college this year.

To the Journalist

Those who are interested in Journalism will find on the Vocational Guidance table at the “Y” rooms a most helpful and interesting booklet, “The Work of the Journalist.” This discusses in detail every phase both literary and business, from the bottom to the top, giving opportunities and salaries. It also outlines a recommended plan of preparation. This booklet is highly recommended to the prospective journalist. Also, catalogues of leading Schools of Journalism are available at this table.

Books We Have Read

The Return of the Native—By Thomas Hardy. Harper and Brothers, Publishers, New York City—1922.

With so many new novels coming from the press at the present, there is an inclination on the part of a few to neglect the older ones of established merit. In reviewing the novels of the past few decades, Thomas Hardy’s “Return of the Native” should not be overlooked. It deals with life as found in Egdon Heath, in south England, a country called by the name of Wessex by Hardy. In the novel, the author, as in most of his other works, adopts a pessimistic attitude towards man’s relation to nature. He is influenced greatly in this attitude by the philosophy of Schopenhauer. Man cannot fight against fate; it will conquer, subdue, overwhelm him in the end. So the characters in this novel are governed by fate, which is embodied in Egdon Heath. Back of them lies the Heath, in which they live. From its influence they cannot escape, and into its harsh hands they finally resign themselves. All their actions and thoughts are colored by the hand of this oppressor. The characters are simple folk, who speak the dialect of their country, which Hardy has so well reproduced. Their life is spent in digging peat, and the cultivation of the shallow soil. They are isolated and retain many of the customs and practices of their forefathers.

The story runs as follows: Thomasin Yeobright, in love with Damon Wildeve, after much difficulty, due to the disinclination of the prospective bridegroom, is married to him, due to the tactful assistance of Diggory Venn, an admirer of Thomasin’s. Thomasin’s cousin, Clym, returning to the Heath from Paris, where he has seen the life of a gay world, falls in love with Eustacia Vye, who, prior to his coming, has carried on an indifferent affair with Wildeve. In spite of the many protestations on the part of his mother, he marries Eustacia and establishes himself in a home where he can study, preparatory to opening a school. Eustacia, his wife, possessed with a dislike for his mother because of her opposition to their marriage, and Damon Wildeve, the husband of Thomasin, finding married life not what they expected, start the trouble that leads to the outcome of the novel. The novel has a pessimistic attitude. It has as its unifying feature the “Heath,” which, described as directing the lives of those who live in it, produces a powerful effect. A story told in simple language of simple people, yet grasping a vital problem of life.

P. B. Fry.

$29.50
$34.50

The Spring Holidays are Near. Place your order for that Spring Suit. Complete Line of Spring furnishings.

STETSON
“D” STORE
Opposite Campus
Telephone 206

Sincerely,
RAY HARRISON

Stationery
Books
Magazines
Superior Soda Service
W. S. HENDERSON
Fountain Pens
Felt Goods
Sundries

Monday and Tuesday, March 31 and April 1
Happy Days
Wednesday and Thursday
Montana Moon
with JOAN CRAWFORD
Davidson Theatre
Friday
Free and Easy
Saturday
Why Bring That Up
with Moran and Mack