6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 18, 1930

Several Changes Made In Method of Applying For Rhodes Scholarship

States Divided Into Districts With Each Containing Six States

TOTAL NUMBER SAME

Appointments Will Be for Two Years Unless Scholar is Desirous of Continuing Work

Word has just been received from the American Secretary of the Rhodes Scholarships that all applications for appointment must be
in the hands of the various state secretaries before October 18. This means that each college must name its candidates
several days before that time.

In the past, thirty-two men have been appointed every year from as many states, in such a way that two
appointments were made for each state every three years. This year, for the first time, a new plan goes into
effect. The 48 states will be divided into eight districts of six states each. The third district consists of Virginia,
North and South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and Tennessee. In each of these states, there will, as before, be a state
committee, before which will appear men appointed by their various colleges as candidates. But instead of selecting one Rhodes scholar,
the state committee will in each case select two, who will appear before a district or regional committee. Of the
twelve thus named, four Rhodes scholars will be selected to represent the district of six states. As there are eight
districts, the total number any one year will be the same as under the old plan, 32, but with the
difference that they will represent districts rather than states, and that all four men in a district might be from
two states, while there might be no appointees from the other four states.

From now on appointments will be for two years instead of three, but scholars who wish to stay a third
year will in most cases be allowed to do so. A further and somewhat radical change is as follows: “Beginning
in 1930 Rhodes scholars may be allowed to postpone their third year, returning to Oxford for it after a period
of work in their own countries, or may spend their third year in post-graduate work at any university of Great
Britain, and in special cases at any university on the Continent of Europe, the overseas Dominions or in the United
States, other than the country of their origin, on conditions approved by their own college (at Oxford) and by the
Rhodes trustees.”

Some of these changes are so radical that an act of Parliament was necessary to change the conditions of the
will of Cecil Rhodes. But they were deemed wise by the Rhodes trustees, and by those who administer the scholarships
in the United States and the British Dominions.

The Rhodes Scholarship is the greatest academic prize generally open to undergraduates in the United States. The stipend is 400
pounds (nearly $2,000) a year. The candidates this year must have been born between October 1, 1906, and October 1,
1912, and must have completed at least two years of college work in America. They may appear as candidates in
the state of their legal domicile or in the state in which they attend college. A Davidson man from North
Carolina may appear only in North Carolina, but a Davidson man from any other state may offer himself in the
state of his residence, but in any case only with the endorsement of the college. Of the five Davidson men
who have been appointed as Rhodes scholars in the past, two were from North Carolina, two from South Carolina, and
one from Arkansas.

Prof. G. R. Vowles is the “institutional representative” of the Rhodes Scholarships at Davidson. All students interested, particularly Seniors, are
urged to consult Dr. Vowles at as early a date as possible. He will be glad to furnish application blanks
and give information.

Students of geology classes have plenty of food for thought in two rather recent occurrences. A civil engineer in Cabarrus
County, North Carolina, found rock formations which he took to be the lava from an extinct volcano. Following close upon
this unofficial discovery came the news that Stromboli is in violent eruption. Displayed to hundreds of Mediterranean tourists as the
model of dormant quiescence, it suddenly exploded and poured a fiery death toward the peaceful villages lying on its slopes.

More people were omitted than included in the recent list which named the men who actually controlled the affairs of
the world. President, who was omitted, has an abundance of passengers in the same boat with him.

CADET OFFICERS CHOSEN (Continued from page 1)

Harris, B. H.—Personnel Adjutant.
Russell, R. D.—Command Band.

Cadet First Lieutenants
Jackson, A. R.—Company “B.”
Sisson, C. A.—Company “C.”
Brock, J. L.—Company “A.”
Thompson, E. F.—Company “D.”
McCutchan, J. W.—Company “A.”
Wilson, R. G.—Company “B.”
Hall, R. S.—Company “C.”
Drake, B. M.—Company “D.”
Hall, J. I.—Band.

Cadet Second Lieutenants
Kuykendall, C. W.—Company “A.”
Sugg, W. G.—Company “B.”
Lowrance, B. R.—Company “C.”
Kraemer, C. E.—Company “A.”
Bost, H. F.—Unassigned.
Severance, J. I.—Unassigned.
Chamness, F. I.—Unassigned.

Cadet First Sergeants
King, D. S.—Company “C.”
Conway, P. M.—Company “D.”
White, S. A.—Company “A.”
Raker, I. S.—Company “B.”
Orr, R. B.—Band.

Non-Commissioned Officers
Cadet Sergeant-Major
Wiley, S. S.—Battalion Commander Staff.

Cadet Sergeants
Martin, D. G.—Company “B.”
McKinnon, J. H.—Company “A.”
Enloe, R. P.—Company “D.”
W. S.—Company “C.”
Graham, A. J.—Company “A.”
McConnell, J. D.—Company “B.”
Harris, H. H.—Company “C.”
St. Clair, A. A.—Company “D.”
Robinson, E. B.—Band.
Brohard, M. L.—Company “C.”
MacQueen, D. M.—Company “B.”
Montgomery, A. G.—Company “A.”
Washam, J. N.—Company “C.”
Carr, H. L.—Company “D.”
Wilson, H. M.—Company “A.”
Calder, D. G.—Company “B.”
Cashion, W. W.—Company “B.”
Morton, R. K.—Company “A.”
Mann, J. O.—Company “D.”
Harrison, C. W.—Company “C.”
Knox, P. G.—Company “A.”
West, F. H.—Company “D.”

Of more importance to the R.O.T.C. students, the uniforms have been changed. Instead of the short pants with the wrapped
leggings, there are long pants which will probably be much more comfortable than those of last year. Besides this, the
officer's hat is replaced by the more comfortable cap. The coat this year will be worn with the lapel; on
the lapel, there is a blue cloth so as to make the uniform look a great deal better. The rifles
have not been issued as yet, but will probably be issued within the next two or three weeks. Before the
rifles are issued, the Freshmen will be taught how to march and face; this duty will fall on the commissioned
officers, the non-commissioned officers, and the corporals. The formations this year will be back of East Dormitory and in front
of the laundry instead of on the road in front of the gym as last year. Parades will again be
on the Freshman football field. At the lecture last Friday, Colonel Scott announced that the battalion would have to march
on Home-Coming Day but the students would have a choice of one day in the year for “no drill.” Last
year the battalion paraded on Home-Coming Day and it made a very good impression on the people who came to
Davidson for the celebration. The battalion looks very good now and it is hoped by everyone that Davidson will again
have a banner year, as she has had in the past years.

Professor Vowles’ Book

The publishers of Prof. G. R. Vowles’ annotated edition of Ibsen’s “Terje Viken” have announced that a second edition of
that text book is going to press this month. It is used in colleges and high schools of the west,
in which Norwegian is one of the modern languages in the curriculum.

Five Changes Made In Davidson Faculty

Davidson College opened this term withThe fewest changes in the faculty that it has known in several years. One professor
returns from a leave of absence; there are two new instructors and two new assistant instructors.

Dr. Price H. Gwynn will occupy the chair of Education formerly occupied by the late Dr. L. B. Henderson. Dr.
Gwynn received his A.B. and his M.A. at the University of North Carolina and recently he received his Ph.D. at
the Department of Education of Yale University. Dr. Gwynn also spent two years at Union Theological Seminary. For ten years
Dr. Gwynn was teacher, principal, and superintendent in the North Carolina public schools. His home is in Reidsville.

Capt. I. M. Cochran, the new military instructor, will replace Captain Elkins, who has been military instructor at Davidson for
the last five years. Captain Elkins has been stationed in Hawaii. Captain Cochran comes to Davidson from the Philippine Islands
where he has been stationed for the past few years. He is a graduate of the School of Infantry at
Fort Benning, Ga. Captain Cochran's home is in Greenville, S.C.

Prof. F. L. Blythe, who has been on leave of absence for the past year, has returned from Spain where
he has been studying. Since his return to America, Blythe has been studying at Middlebury College in Vermont, and he
will soon be the recipient of a Ph.D. degree in Romance Languages. Prof. W. R. Weaver, who substituted for Professor
Blythe last year, is at Hampden-Sidney where he is the acting head of the Spanish Department.

Frank Brown, of Greensboro, has been made assistant instructor in Biology and I. Linwood Lafferty has been made assistant in
Chemistry. Both of these men are graduates of last year's Senior Class.

Literary Societies Hold First Meeting

For the second time this year, the Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary Societies will meet in their respective halls Tuesday night
at 7:15. The programs of the two societies follow:

Philanthropic Debate: Resolved that the chain store is a menace to the prosperity of our country. Affirmative, A. B. McClure
and Jack Mann. Negative, Lon Carr and Henry Nichol.

Eumenean Current Events, Charles Moore. Debate: Resolved that the chain store is a menace to the prosperity of our country.
Affirmative, J. W. Fulton and Jim Ward. Negative, Billy Ward and Jack Matthews.

Davidson Theatre

Monday and Tuesday, September 22 and 23
“Anybody’s War” With MORAN and MACK The Two Black Crows

Wednesday, September 24
“The Sea God” With RICHARD ARLEN

Thursday, September 25
“Let’s Go Native” With JACK OAKIE

Friday, September 26
“Queen High” With GINGER ROGERS

Saturday, September 27
“Men of the North”

Freshmen Pep Meeting Held in Shearer Friday

New Men Vote Unanimously to Put Up Bleachers

Old Shearer resounded with the shouts from two hundred new throats once again last Friday night when the Freshmen held
their first pep meeting. The yells were familiar and the songs seemed old to these new men who are just
now beginning to catch the spirit of Davidson. It was a successful meeting but much practice is needed, according to
George McClenaghan, varsity cheer leader, who urges all Freshmen to familiarize themselves with the yells and songs to a greater
extent.

Flake Laird was also present at this meeting and talked briefly, after which the matter of erecting the bleachers was
taken up and passed unanimously. In addition to this first meeting, two more were held Tuesday and Thursday for Freshmen.
The Freshmen seem to be progressing fairly rapidly in learning the yells and songs. “They must become conscious of the
fact,” McClenaghan says, “that they will bear the brunt of the cheering section.”

The first student body pep meeting will be held tomorrow night, at which time a few new yells will be
introduced to the student body. In connection with this, McClenaghan urges that all boys living at a distance from Davidson
who know of good yells to hand them in to him. These will be revised and tried out.

A great number of men are trying out for cheer leader this year, including fourteen Juniors, which list must be
dwindled down to two after the Elon game, and seven Sophomores. A call will be made for Freshmen shortly after
the Elon game. Their duty during this football season will be ushering at games. The list of cheer leaders follows:
Varsity cheer leader, George McClenaghan; Juniors, Tom Carr, Bob Davis, Ed Gorham, John Hughes, Ed Kuykendall, Henry McKinnon, Ben Mosely,
Riley Powell, Norman Raies, McKoy Southerland, Alex St. Clair, Bob Torrence, John Welch, and Sam Wiley; Sophomores, Bob Alderman, Tom
Bowles, Joe Bryant, Bill Hayes, John Lake, Charlie Myers, and Bruce Sugg.

“Why does the woman take the name of the man when she marries?”
“Well, she takes everything else, so she might as well take that too.”

“How do you get along with your wife?”
“I wonder sometimes, myself.”

Smith: “I lost my identity for two whole weeks last summer.”
Jones: “How did it happen?”
Smith: “Spent my vacation among my wife's relatives, and I was simply known as Anna’s husband.”

Professors Study In Summer Months

With only a few exceptions, the members of the Davidson faculty either spent the past summer teaching in summer schools
during the three months’ vacation, studying in various institutions in the United States, or traveling in foreign countries. Among those
traveling outside the States this summer were Prof. K. J. Foreman, who spent most of his time in Palestine and
Southern Europe; Dr. Geo. B. Watts, who conducted a tour, and Professors W. L. Porter, W. P. Cumming, and J.
T. Truesdale, all of whom made tours of Europe.

Dr. Frazer Hood taught at Ohio State during the second session, and Dr. J. S. Davis, Jr., at Teachers’ College,
Johnston City, Tenn. Those connected with the summer session at Davidson were Prof. F. K. Fleagle, director; Dr. J. L.
Douglas, Dr. T. W. Jingle, Prof. A. Currie, Dr. C. M. Richards, Dr. J. M. Douglas, Dr. E. F. Shewmake,
and Prof. E. J. Cullum. Dr. C. K. Brown substituted from the 28th of June till the close of the
session for Prof. A. Currie, who underwent a major operation in Charlotte at that time.

Prof. H. T. Lilly studied at the Harvard University summer session, and Professor Cullum was also at that institution for
six weeks, after concluding his work at Davidson. Prof. F. L. Blythe, after returning from Spain, attended Middlebury College, Vermont,
for six weeks. Prof. A. V. Goldiere attended Penn. State; Prof. E. A. Beaty, Columbia University; Prof. W. N. Mebane,
at Cornell, and Professors H. F. Fulcher and T. E. Lothery, Jr. at the University.

Four Davidson leaders were connected with Camp Carolina, Brevard, N. C. These were J. M. McConnell, Prof. N. G. Pritchett,
Prof. J. P. Williams, and Coach Monk Younger. Coaches Tilson and Laird were at Camp Mitchell, Burnsville. Three of the
military officers were at Camp McClellan, Ala. Lieut.-Col. W. R. Scott, commandant, assisted by Captain Otto, and Captain Elkins started
on furlough before sailing for Honolulu, his new station. Captain Blanton has...

NEW SECTION OF STADIUM (Continued from page 1)

...son's athletic facilities as good as those of other schools. Up until 1926, the college was forced to get along
with the wooden bleachers—which incidentally had and still have their advantages, but now, in proportion to its size, Davidson has
ample athletic facilities.

The original concrete stadium has the following inscription on a bronze plate near the under-stadium entrance: Presented to Alma Mater
in Memory of Lunsford Richardson, 1854-1919. Class of 1875, In the Days when Athletics were not. By his sons H.
Smith Richardson—’06. Lunsford Richardson—'14.

When You’re Hungry Let Helper Help You
HELPER’S RESTAURANT
Next Door to Telephone Office

“DRUGS” “SODA”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”
