«Tuesday night, April 8

STATE TRACK AT GREENSBORO SATURDAY

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWLY ELECTED POSITIONS ACCEPT

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 1, 1930 No. 27

New Officers Installed At The Student Body Banquet

New Student Council, Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, Athletic Association, Editors of Davidsonian and Annual Take Charge

LARGE ATTENDANCE

Buffet Supper Was Served in Banquet Hall of Chambers

The second Student Body Banquet in the history of Davidson College was held on April 29th, memories of which will long remain in the hearts of Davidson students. In one of the most impressive ceremonies ever held in New Chambers, the officials of the student body during the past year made short talks and turned over the helm of the good ship, “Student Body,” to the newly elected leaders for next year.

Peculiarly significant of the event, the ceremonies began by assembling in the auditorium of New Chambers at 6:30, just as the last rays of the sun were fading in the west. With Bill McGuire leading the services, the installation of officers was begun, and the old and new Student Councils marched upon the stage, the old council on the right, the new one on the left. In a few words, Carl Pritchett, student body President for this year, gave his charge to the new council, which was followed by a short talk from the new President, Dan Goodykoontz, in which he accepted the charge. As each officer marched upon the stage, the old one on the right, the new one on the left, the clear note of a gong rang out.

Following the Student Council, the new “Y” President was installed. Frank Brown, “Y” President during this year, made a short talk in which he charged the new President and his Cabinet, after which Dean Rusk, new President, replied in a few words. Following the same order as the first two officers, the President of the Athletic Association and the editors of the Davidsonian and Annual were installed. As Tom Brohard, President of the Athletic Association this year, gave his charge to Bill Goodson, President for next year, he read out the names of the captains of the various sports during the last year, after which Bill Goodson accepted the charge and read the names of the captains-elect for the different sports next year. Next in order, Zeb Long, editor of the Davidsonian this year, gave his charge, which was answered by Wilson McCutchan, editor for next year. And lastly, Charlie Pratt, editor of the Annual this year, gave his charge, to which Andy Bird, next year’s editor, replied.

Then, the most beautiful part of all, as Bill McGuire made the address of farewell in behalf of the Class of 1930, the beautiful chimes of the organ pealed forth. And as the gong again rang out, Dr. Lingle spoke in behalf of the administration of the college. This concluded the installation services, and the students adjourned to the large banquet hall on the first floor where a barbecue supper was served buffet style. Music was rendered by the Sunnyland Serenaders. The whole student body was in attendance, and it is hoped that this year’s banquet will establish the precedent of having a similar banquet each year.

Three Records Fall In Cat-Deacon Meet

Davidson Trackmen Overwhelm Wake Forest 98 to 27

Three Davidson records were broken in the track meet here against Wake Forest Saturday, April 26th. Brannon ran the two miles in 10 minutes 20 4-5 seconds, the previous time being 10 minutes 25.7 seconds, held by Penn of the Class of ’28. Coble threw the javelin 180 feet 2 inches, breaking the record set by McCall last year by 10 feet 10 inches, and McCall jumped 23 feet one-half inch to break his own record of 22 feet 11 3-4 inches set at the Tech relays.

(Continued on page 6)

Press Convention Held At High Point College

R. M. King Elected Treasurer of Association for Coming Year

The semi-annual meeting of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association was held from Thursday through Saturday, April 24-26, at High Point. There were representatives sent from practically all the colleges in North Carolina, and for three days they were entertained by different organizations in and around High Point. The delegates from Davidson were as follows: J. B. Black, W. S. Lea, W. C. Ragin, R. M. King, P. M. Conway, A. J. Baker, C. M. Pratt, E. L. Roberson, and R. F. Jarratt.

Most of the business was done on Friday at the First M. P. Church. At this time the following officers were elected: E. Couch, N. C. State, President; B. Brown, N. C. C. W., First Vice-President; Pugh, High Point, Second Vice-President; E. Wright, E. C. T. C., Secretary; B. King, Davidson, Treasurer. Those who went out of office follow: R. F. Jarratt, Davidson, President; P. Roberts, N. C. State, First Vice-President; M. Blanton, Queens, Second Vice-President; E. Covington, Meredith, Secretary, and G. MacPherson, Carolina, Treasurer.

Some of the delegates spoke and other business was carried on in individual groups, but besides the regular routine work, there were different kinds of diversions. On Thursday from 4 to 6 p.m., the registration was carried on in the Woman’s Hall. During this time there was an informal tea. At 8 p.m., dinner was served at the High Point Country Club. The next day business was started at 10:30 a.m. at the First M. P. Church, after breakfast at the George Washington cafe. The business session lasted till 12:30 p.m., at which time luncheon was served at the Sedgefield Manor. The delegates were then entertained with sightseeing and a picture show till dinner at the Sheraton Hotel at 8 p.m. The last day was started with breakfast at the Princess cafe after which there was a business meeting at High Point College, followed by luncheon at the Elwood Hotel. The Reverend T. A. Sykes spoke on “Journalism and Citizenship” at this luncheon. The whole convention went off very well, and it was a complete success. This was due in a large part to the work done by the different committees, which are as follows: General Chairman—J. Clyde Pugh. Housing Committees — Anne Robbins,

(Continued on page 6)

College Oratorical Tryouts To Be Held May 2

Winners in Regional Eliminations Go to California

Regional eliminations for the National Oratorical Contest will be held at Davidson College May 2, announced Jas. A. Jones, President of the Davidson Forensic Council, and director of the eliminations. Eight universities and colleges from this district, which comprises the State of North Carolina, have already entered speakers, and entries from one or two other schools are expected before the closing date for entries. Institutions entering speakers are High Point College, N. C. State, North Carolina for Women, Catawba, Asheville Normal School, Duke University, University of North Carolina, Wake Forest College, and Davidson.

The winner of the elimination here will later speak in one of the seven zone contests, and the speaker who places first there will go to Los Angeles for the final contest. The general subject of the talk must be on the Constitution of the United States, as prescribed by the National Oratorical Association, which is sponsoring the contest. A prize of $1,500 goes to the winner of the final contest.

A representative of Davidson has not yet been chosen, but will be determined in local tryouts on April 30. Allan Frew, of Davidson, won third place in the national finals of a similar contest held in 1928. Because of his high placing in the previous event, he will not be eligible to enter this year.

Bus.-Mgrs. Appointed By Publication Board

At a recent meeting of the Publication Board to determine the business managers of next year’s publications, the Annual, the Davidsonian, and the Chameleon, the following men were appointed: R. M. King for the Annual, J. A. Cannon for the Davidsonian, and Jim Henderlite for the Chameleon. All of these men are representative men in the Junior Class and have been doing consistent work all year. J. A. Cannon, of Concord, is a member of Mu Beta Psi, honorary musical fraternity, the Pan-Hellenic Council, the Glee Club, and a member of Beta Theta Pi, social fraternity. R. M. King, of Nashville, Tenn., is a member of the Beaver Club, is assistant manager of football, and is a member of the Kappa Alpha, social fraternity. J. H. Henderlite, of Gastonia, is assistant track manager.

These men take the places of the following:

(Continued on page 6)

Many Awards To Be Made On Annual Athletic Night

May 6 is Date Set for Athletic Night

Athletic night at Davidson College has been set for May 6, when an outstanding speaker will be brought to Davidson to deliver an address, and when many awards will be made individually and collectively to students and classes, respectively, for their performances in collegiate and intramural contests during the spring months. Track letters will be presented to the varsity athletes, and the “D. C.”Monograms will be awarded to the Freshmen. A trophy will be awarded to the athlete who, in the opinion of the students, has reflected the greatest distinction upon Davidson College the past year. Individual cups will be awarded to men for their indoor gymnastic work, for the individual who has most improved in physical development, and to the class which predominates in the scoring column of a series of events which have been staged from time to time since last fall. Although officials have no definite announcement to make regarding other features, it has been intimated that this occasion will far surpass the two former ones held. Nearby alumni, wearers of the “D,” are to be invited to Davidson for the evening’s entertainment.

Fresh Tennis Team To Play Darlington

The Davidson Freshman tennis team, composed of the following men: 1, C. S. Spencer; 2, Dus Enochs; 3, C. F. Myers; 4, W. A. Mebane; 5, W. F. Mulliss; 6, Robert Morrow; the doubles teams were No. 1, Myers and Enochs; 2, Mebane and Spencer; 3, Morrow and Mulliss, will play the Oak Ridge team today and the Darlington School for Boys on May 3rd. The Oak Ridge team has already been met and defeated at Oak Ridge. Darlington, which is located at Rome, Ga., has not lost a match this year. The personnel of the team includes the following men: 1, James Halverstadt; 2, John Lafferty; 3, Wade Hoyt; 4, Robert Nixon; I. M. Sulzbacher, and Roland Parker, coach, who graduated from Davidson in the Class of 1926. Halverstadt is the third ranking player in Dixie, only Wilmer Hines and Lefty Bryant are placed above in the ranking. The doubles team of Lafferty and Halverstadt has not lost a match this year. These two boys, who have brothers here at Davidson, will attend Davidson next year as members of the Class of ’34. Hoyt and Dixon, the other doubles (Continued on page 6)

Omicron Delta Kappa Taps Prominent College Leaders

Beatty’s Vesper Talk Is A Message of Progress

Communion With God Stressed as Means of Building Character

“Progress is the law of all life; arrested physical development is a sad thing, but arrested spiritual development is saddest of all,” Professor Beatty said in striking the keynote of his message of progress in the weekly vesper services held at Shearer Hall last Sunday evening. Professor Beatty had the honor of being the first vesper speaker after the installation of the new cabinet officers. He opened his informal talk by eulogizing Camper O'Neal on his work as the past “Y” secretary and congratulating the student body on having Carl Pritchett for the new “Y” secretary. In his talk Professor Beatty covered much ground, saying that God had given us both external and internal resources and that because of our college education we would be held accountable for the development of our resources more than anyone else. He went on further to say that God had given us an internal resource in our will, which we have all failed in developing. We have allowed our wills to grow flabby and weak through lack of exercising until now they are entirely out of our control. He defined our conscience as the conscious approval or disapproval of God. In closing he said that the greatest of all resources was the soul which no one knew anything much about but which was by far the most precious of all our resources and that conscious communion with God is the greatest means of building up our talent.

Plans For Summer Session Complete

Advance preparations for the Davidson College Summer School, to be held at Davidson from June 9-July 19, are being pushed to completion, and indications point that the session this year will be the largest ever held by the college, according to Prof. F. K. Fleagle, director of the summer session. Interest is higher now than at this time in any years previous, and the excellent course of study which has been prepared insures a large attendance. Special emphasis will again be put on the education courses to be offered. Dr. L. B. Henderson, professor of education at Davidson, will be in charge of this department, and two extra teachers have been obtained for these courses. Miss Estelle Rawls, supervisor of the grammar school work in the Charlotte Public Schools, will again teach special courses in grammar school methods, and Miss Peedin, supervisor of primary work in the Gastonia Schools, will be in charge of the classes dealing with primary teaching. Both of these teachers are well fitted for their work, and have been expressly selected for their particular assignments.

Besides the courses in education, members of the regular Davidson faculty will teach courses in English, Bible, mathematics, physics, geology, music, political science, French, and Spanish. This is one of the most inclusive curricula that has been offered during the summer session by the college. All work done in the Summer School will be honored for credit toward graduation, either at Davidson, or in other institutions in the State, and no distinction will be made between credits obtained in summer or during the regular session. Negotiations are under way with Miss Beulah Haines, talented reader, of New York, to come to Davidson some time in the summer for a recital. There will probably be several concerts by talented organists on the $20,000 Skinner pipe organ in the New Chambers Auditorium, and addresses by lecturers brought here under the auspices of the faculty committee on lectures will be an additional feature offered.

Thirteen Men Chosen for Membership in National Honor Society at Chapel Service Tuesday

TAP FACULTY MEMBERS

Julian Miller to Speak at Initiation Ceremony

Seven members of the Junior Class, and four members of the Senior Class at Davidson were Tuesday morning tapped by the Omicron Delta Kappa fraternity, national order recognizing leadership as the outstanding qualification for membership. They will be formally initiated into this society on the night of May 1st, when Julian Miller, Editor of The Charlotte News, will come to Davidson to deliver the main address of the occasion. Juniors honored were C. H. Goodykoontz, Bluefield, W. Va., President of the 1930-1931 student body; Dean Rusk, Atlanta, Ga., President of the Y. M. C. A.; J. W. McCutchan, Warm Springs, Va., editor of The Davidsonian; W. B. Goodson, Gastonia, President of the Athletic Association; A. R. Bird, Jr., Washington, D. C., editor of Quips and Cranks; W. W. Fraley, Barium Springs, captain-elect of the 1930 football team, and D. S. LaFar, President of the rising Senior Class. Seniors selected for membership were E. C. Close, Chattanooga, Tenn., 1929 manager of the football team; C. C. Orr, Jr., Asheville, President of the Glee Club and Pan-Hellenic Council; Alan Frew, Charlestown, W. Va., debater and orator of national fame, and Russell Nunan, Atlanta, Ga., general leader in many fields.

Zeb V. Long, Jr., of Statesville, President of the local circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, presided at the impressive exercises this morning, and first introduced F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the college and member of the circle, who gave a brief history of the founding of the order and the principles for which it stood, such as leadership, character, and scholastic attainment, with emphasis on the first.

At the conclusion of Mr. Jackson's remarks, the President tapped his gavel. A member of the society arose, went out into the audience, and tapped one who had been selected by the chapter. All eyes followed the tapper, anxious to see the honored one of their number, and an intense interest and excitement centered in the student body as each tapper arose. This procedure continued until every one of the eleven men were on the platform, and had been pinned with the colors of the fraternity, signifying their intention to accept the invitation. In addition to the members chosen from the student body, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, of the Department of Chemistry, and Professor Norton G. Pritchett, of the Department of Physical Education, were elected to membership in the society. Several honorary members were also chosen, but no announcement has yet been made public. When the tapping had ended, Z. V. Long, Jr., announced that the date of the official initiation would be Thursday, May 1st. This will be followed by a banquet, attended by the old members, the new members, and visiting alumni of Omicron Delta Kappa.

White Sox Player Sets Freak Record

When Clancy, White Sox first baseman, recently played an entire nine-inning game without an assist or a put-out, he equaled a record that has existed for 39 years in organized baseball. Furthermore, no chances were offered Clancy as no errors were charged to his record. The game was played with the Browns in St. Louis, Mo. This feat rivals with such freaks as a triple play unassisted. Perhaps the most famous of these was that of Wambsganss, Cleveland second baseman, in a world’s series game. Padgett, former shortstop of the Charlotte Hornets, duplicated the play while with Boston.