, ~ MAKE THE TRIP TALKS IN MIND TO DEFEAT: THE REST OF DUKE THE YEAR “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA
LIBERTAS” Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 9, 1930 No. 4 Wildcats Face Blue Devils In Annual Battle
Saturday ~ Duke’s New Stadium at Durham is to be Scene of Keen Rivalry DUKE FAVORED TO WIN Brewer, Murray,
and Company Present Heavy Line and Fast Backfield Davidson's Wildcats, by three straight victories, will invade the Blue Devils’ lair
Saturday afternoon to attempt to make it two straight over DeHart’s rejuvenated eleven. This game for a long time was
annually a Turkey Day tilt, but last year Duke officials decided to change the Davidson game to an earlier date
in the schedule. So the Wildcats, as a fitting memorial to the age-old custom of playing Duke on Thanksgiving, fought
their way to victory over a highly rated Blue Devil squad by a one-point margin, winning, 13-12.

The renewing of this ancient rivalry this year has been looked forward to by the supporters of both teams after
such a hard-fought battle last year, and a great throng of ardent fans is expected to gather at Durham for
this great epic. Up until last Saturday Davidson was granted a bare margin over the Blue Devils in the world
of dope, but following Duke's impressive showing on that afternoon, Duke will probably be favored by the majority for this
week’s tilt, which will make the game all the more interesting.

After a poor showing against South Carolina in her opening game, Duke made a complete reversal of form to outclass
the Virginia Cavaliers last Saturday. In this game the Blue Devils uncorked a smashing attack led by Kid Brewer which
completely annihilated any defense that Virginia could put up. Bill Murray, Moon Mullen, and Abbott gave Brewer brilliant support both
in progressing the ball and in interfering for their big teammate. Murray was especially successful in ripping off tackle for
the needed amount and at one time got away for 22 yards. With the backfield men working in perfect coordination,
beautifully executed double passing and fake cross-back plays really accounted for the downfall of the Virginians.

Coach Jimmie DeHart has built a formidable team out of a large number of green candidates who have to fill
the places of 17 regulars missing from this year’s squad. Duke (Continued on page 5)

Home-Coming Exercises Arranged for Old Grads Reunion of 1910 Championship Team Marks Program of October 25th

Some outstanding events carded for Home-Coming Day, October 25th, at Davidson College include the reunion of the 1910 state championship
team of Davidson, the semi-annual meeting of the Davidson College Alumni Council, a morning program featuring the return of Davidson
alumni, a luncheon in the banquet hall of Chambers Building at noon, the V. P. I.-Davidson football game in the
afternoon, and a stunt night program in the evening to round out a full day's activity. This is the most
auspicious schedule arranged for such an occasion at Davidson.

According to Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, the alumni attendance will exceed that of former years. Notification has already been received
from alumni scattered throughout America that they will direct their footsteps toward their Alma Mater on October 25th. Representation of
a dozen or more states is generally contained in the registration in the alumni office. Should the Davidson football team
continue its successful work on the gridiron, this will constitute an added drawing card to former students of this Presbyterian
institution.

Within the next two weeks, complete details of this annual gathering will be sent to the alumni, and notifications will
start pouring into the office of the alumni secretary.

Sins Of The Body Discussed By Lacy

On Monday evening Dr. Lacy made one of his strongest appeals to Davidson men. His topic of the morning having
been the sins of the mind, he talked that night on the sins of the body. He talked on the
three greatest of these sins: gluttony, any overstimulation of the body, and sexual transgressions.

The first, gluttony, is one of the most common and less thought of of all the sins of the body.
One should eat enough for the good of his body, but the great sin of gluttony is the fact that
one sits down and loses sight of everything but of his desire to eat. This is not only a sin
against God, but is also a sin to oneself.

Another very frequent sin that one has is that of overstimulation of the body. Men have the idea when they
take intoxicants or stimulants for the first time that they can stop any time that they choose. This, however, is
not the case, and Dr. Lacy showed by many illustrations that once intoxicants or stimulants have a hold on a
man it is very, very seldom that he breaks away from them. Many homes have been wrecked, many lives have
been ruined, because men thought that they could master these habits, when the habits really mastered them.

The last sin that Dr. Lacy talked on was that of sexual irregularities. This is one of the most pernicious
sins and its penalties are the most severe.

A.B. McClure is Chosen Officer of Senior Class McClure Wins Close Race Over Pepper on the Last Ballot

In the recent Senior Class elections to name a vice-president, which office was left vacant, Albert McClure was elected on
the third ballot. Six men were nominated, including Jas. A. Jones, of Laurinburg, N. C., Charles Kraemer, of Texarkana, Texas,
Jack Pepper, of Winston-Salem, N. C., Charles Sisson, Winona, Miss., Stewart Meacham, Birmingham, Ala., and McClure. The deciding ballot was
cast between Pepper and McClure, the latter winning out in a close race.

McClure, from Rabun Gap, Ga., has become a well-known figure on the campus in his three years here, and has
given his time and talents to many activities. He is Chairman of the Student Life Committee of the Y. M.
C. A., President of the Ministerial Band, after holding practically every office among the ministerial students, a member of Eta
Sigma Phi honorary classical fraternity, and a member of Le Cercle Francais. At the present time McClure has just finished
a serviceable job of handling the interviews with Dr. Ben Lacy in the fall evangelical services held here.

Jack Pepper, who lasted to the third ballot with McClure, is a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity, captain of
the golf team, a member of the Spanish Club, was on the Freshman tennis team, and a member of the
I. R. C. Jas. A. Jones and Charlie Sisson went out on the second ballot. Jones, a member of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, is prominently connected with the Y. M. C. A., being a member of the “Y” Board
of Control, and treasurer of the Y. M. C. A., besides many other honors. Sisson is a member of Phi
Gamma Delta social fraternity, advertising manager of the Quips and Cranks, is a member of the Beaver Club, manager of
the track team, a member of the Court of Control.

Students from twelve countries are registered at the Princeton Theological Seminary.

Sensational Runner Joe McCall, brilliant back, whose 74-yard run was the feature of the Erskine game

Men are Announced to Coach Class Teams for Intramural Competition Pritchett, Goodson, Martin, and Rusk Will Lead Basketball Teams for
Coming Year CLASS OF ’30 CHAMPIONS No Varsity Men Are Eligible for Competition

In continuing the program of intramural athletic competition, the next sport following football will be basketball. Competition is expected to
run unusually high this year, as none of the classes now in school had a hand on the basketball championship,
the class of 1930 having held this honor for the past three years. Although there will be at least two
more weeks before the tournament swings into action, no definite date has been set, as yet, but the coaches for
the various classes have been chosen. Carl Pritchett, “Y” secretary, one of the stars of last year’s varsity team, will
be the Freshman coach; Bill Goodson will be in charge of the Sophomore team; Martin will coach the Juniors, and
Rusk will lead the Seniors.Sophomore team; Grier Martin will lead the Juniors, and Dean Rusk will coach the Senior team.
No members of the varsity basketball squad will be eligible, but all other members of the several classes are urged
to take part in the practices which take place each evening. Each class will play two games, the winner receiving
a certain number of points toward the award of a beautiful bronze plaque which will have the numerals of the
class winning the entire program of intramural sports for the year engraved upon it. The classes will also compete in
track, volleyball, golf, tennis, gymnastics, Sigma Delta Psi competition, and physical improvement. Last year the plaque was won by the
class of 1933.

In connection with the inter-class basketball, there will also be an inter-fraternity tournament. The fraternities will compete in the same
events throughout the year as do the classes. This will be exactly the same as last year with the exception
that, for the first time, a cup will be awarded to the winning fraternity.

Work on Quips and Cranks Progresses

Work on the Quips and Cranks is now in full swing. The editor, Andy Bird, and business manager, Bob King,
have worked the past summer getting things ready to start on the yearbook as soon as school started. The contracts
for the printing, engraving, and photography have been signed, the Queen City Printing Company printing the book this year, while
the Charlotte Engraving Company will do the engraving. White Studio, of New York City, has sent its best photographer here
to take the pictures, which will be superior to previous work, having a more effective setting than in years past.
There were about 260 pictures taken when the photographer was here, and proofs of these pictures will be here the
last of this week. The second photographer will be back on the campus about the first of the year, to
finish up the individual pictures, and to take the group pictures. The business staff met last Tuesday night making plans
for getting advertisements, this phase forming the nucleus of the book's financial income. There are several new features in the
make-up and content of the book, which will be revealed in the near future. Work on write-ups and Junior and
Senior honors will also begin soon. Last year the book was rated as excellent, but not All-American, so the staff
has something to work for. Both editorial and business staffs are working hard to make the Quips and Cranks of
1931 the best annual ever put out by Davidson.

Excellent Glee Club is Forecast for This Year

Twenty-Seven New Men Have Been Chosen for Coming Year

With the best material on hand in several years, the 1930 edition of the Davidson College Glee Club bids fair
to surpass the excellent Glee Club of last year, not only in quality but in variety of entertainment to be
offered. Approximately fifty candidates responded to the call for tryouts, and since the first of October, twenty-seven new men have
been chosen, most of them from the Freshman Class. Together with the remaining men from the Glee Club of last
year, this number, altogether too large, will be reduced to about thirty men, and with the necessary “survival of the
fittest,” only the best material will be chosen. Fortunately, the usual scarcity of first tenors does not prevail, there being
about twelve candidates out for this position, among whom are some very likely prospects. Several short trips for the club
are being planned for before Christmas, probably in the latter part of November, and a six-day Southern trip in the
vicinity of Atlanta is expected. This trip, which was to have been taken last year, will include Agnes Scott, Brenau,
other girls’ schools, and several larger cities. Plans are now being made for the Glee Club to sponsor the annual
Stunt Night to take place on Home-Coming, October 25th. There is also the possibility that the members of the winning
stunt will accompany the club on its trips, thus giving incentive to the various groups to put out good stunts,
and also the prospect of a more than usually good program for Stunt Night. As usual, the college orchestra, known
as the Sunnyland Serenaders, will accompany the Glee Club. The program for the Glee Club will be composed of the
lighter compositions, among which are the following: “Little Cabin of Dreams,” made famous by the well-known John McCormack, and to
be arranged for quartet and chorus, a vocal arrangement of Rachmaninoff's prelude in C sharp minor, and an arrangement of
(Continued from page 5).

Prominent Churchman Points Out Essential Value of Faith at All Times

ANNUAL FALL SERVICE

Unreserved Sacrifice Motivated by the Love of Jesus Christ

“In the eyes of God, man’s cardinal sin is impairment of faith,” said Dr. Ben R. Lacy, president of Union
Theological Seminary, of Richmond, Va., speaking before the students of Davidson College in the annual fall evangelistic services which he
is conducting here. “Unless we have faith in our teachers, we can learn little; without faith in our physician, we
stand little chance of being healed; with no faith in Christ Jesus, we ever lose touch with Him.”

“Lack of faith,” continued the speaker, “is often caused by intellectual pride, which prevents our subordinating anything to the intellect
and closes the door of our hearts to God. Insincerity breaks the contact with God, and some hidden sin preventing
our coming to Him in prayer can bring a break in our faith in Him. Perhaps we continually lay aside
those things for our everyday life that lead to a fuller faith, and our belief in our Savior is quickly
lost.”

Dr. Lacy brought out that a loss of faith in God led to a misdirection of that faith into superstition
and idolatry. “History shows us,” he said, “that whenever a nation comes to a crisis, they turn away from God
to superstition; they leave Him to search for something where they think they can find a higher power, be that
thing a golden calf or a wooden image.”

“Coming to a phase of lost faith which we meet often,” Dr. Lacy said, “insincerity of our belief is what
is most prevalent in everyday life. God abhors this sin of mankind more, perhaps, than all others. Christ often denounced
the people of His day for their hypocrisy, or the insincerity of their belief. It is the same today in
our modern life. Those crimes, such as forgery and counterfeiting, which tend to destroy trust in the good article, are
punished more than mere robbery. Our faith must be pure to stand before God.”

“We must maintain, develop, and hold to our faith,” the speaker said in conclusion, “Take Christ as your friend and
trust Him. Take Him as a teacher and follow Him. We can venture far on faith, and perhaps can trust
to Him our all.”

In his morning sermon, Dr. Lacy used as a topic, “The Perfect Presentation.” He emphasized an unreserved sacrifice in making
this presentation, and told his hearers of a method whereby this could be accomplished. Dr. Lacy contended that it was
through “thinking God's thoughts.” He did not appeal to a motive of self-interest in making such a presentation of one’s
body, mind, and soul, but said that any such action ought to be motivated by the love of Jesus Christ.

Coach Younger's Brother is Accidentally Killed

Rawley Younger Meets Death by Train in Lynchburg Early Last Week

The accidental death of Rawley Younger, of Lynchburg, Va., last week, was a great shock to his brother, Coach Younger,
and to the Davidson student body, who felt deeply for him. While he was walking down the railroad track with
some friends at about 1 p.m., having just finished his lunch, he was struck by a slowly moving passenger train
and hurled into a canal alongside the roadbed. The persons with him happened to be on the opposite side of
the track from the canal, and as a result of this, they could not get to the canal to help
him out. A passenger from the train, however, leaped into the water and brought him out. He was taken immediately
to the receiving hospital in Lynchburg, but died at 4:30 p.m. the same day, from severe injuries. When Coach (Continued
on page 5).
