6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 15, 1930

Rifle Team Makes J. L. Brock Captain

In a recent meeting of the rifle team, J. L. Brock was elected captain for next year. S. S. Wiley
was chosen manager, and Captain Otto or Captain Blanton will have charge of the Marksmanship department of the R. O.
T. C. The rifle team this season had the most successful year that it has had since its beginning at
Davidson, having fired against schools in forty-six states and three foreign countries. Out of the total of seventy-three correspondence matches
engaged in, Davidson’s rifle team won fifty-six and lost only sixteen. This is a remarkable record considering the fact that
the matches were fired against many of the country’s foremost military schools.

During the recent inspection, the following men were decorated because of their excellent work on the rifle team: R. B.
Russell, D. G. Calder, J. L. Brock, M. L. Brohard, F. S. Curdts, and Captain Payton Greyer.

ENGLISH PROFESSOR: (Continued from page 3)

prison wall contrasted with the squalor and the drabness of the prison cell. The reader feels some of the “pity
and terror” which should dominate every tragic situation. Aesthetics in this case emerges as the final victor over Ethics.

“The Quest of a Dream” transports us to that magic city of the Arabian Nights where Haroun Al Raschid walked
the streets. This story deserves honorable mention because of the way in which the plot is constructed. Mr. Jarratt has
cleverly balanced the conceptions of an opium-like vision with that of an apparently actual experience. All the king’s horses and
all the king’s men, with Monsieur Dupin and Sherlock Holmes in the background, would have difficulty with this mystery.

The story, “Meant for Tragedy,” has romanticized pathos and a slight tinge of the melodramatic but has the saving strength
of a dexterous plot of an O. Henry type of ending. The next bit of fiction is by Mr. McCutchan,
who, consciously or unconsciously, achieves a satirical attack on the English aristocracy who are made to appear bally stupid despite
their blood, their culture, and their facetiously brilliant conversation. There may be a question as to whether the psychological reactions
would be as depicted, but this seeming lack of reality gains for the story a certain amount of humor and
makes it for pure reading enjoyment one of the best in the offing.

Mr. Witt has done some very excellent writing in this issue in the descriptive passages which create atmospheric color and
background. Those temperamental Slavs would be all the more depressed after reading how sordid is their daily existence. Those same
Slavs would probably like the type of plot which the story “Circle” has.

“After Graduation” as a story has correctly mixed the ingredients of youth, love, jealousy, and despair in a story of
young collegiates. One rejoices that there is a dignity here in the actions of these young bloods which should be
very assuring to the older generation. Although the story follows fairly closely the pattern of the pre-nuptial eternal triangle, Mr.
Overman deserves some credit for the creation of the character of John Churchill, who seems satisfyingly three-dimensional.

Athletic Fraternity Begins Competition

Seventy-Five Students Try for Notable Honor

For the past two weeks, students aspiring to become members of the Sigma Delta Psi, national athletic fraternity, have been
trying to meet the requirements of this organization. Under the guidance of Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, about seventy-five students have
been attempting to gain this great honor. Davidson is one of the forty-eight schools in the United States that has
a chapter of this fraternity, and is only one of the three schools in the South that has gained this
recognition, as most of the chapters of this fraternity are in the middle Western and Western colleges and universities.

Sigma Delta Psi was first brought to Davidson by three men who qualified. These men were Kell, Dumas, and Brock,
the last being the only member at Davidson at the present time. Captain Pritchett expressed the opinion that probably six
men would qualify this year, but nothing is definite as yet. The qualifications of this fraternity are by no means
easy; a man who has satisfactorily passed all the requirements will have, when he is through, accomplished something that every
man cannot accomplish. To become a member, one must run the hundred-yard dash in a certain required time, likewise the
hurdles, the mile run, and he must meet certain requirements in the high and broad jump, the pole vault, the
football punt, the shot put, and other events.

No college magazine is complete without the writings of poesy of the undergraduates. The Chameleon is to be congratulated that
the amorous ditty, usually crowned as King of the May when the young sun hath in the Ram his half-course
run, is not found in profusion here. Such sincere but occasionally inartistic attempts in praise of Cupid and his Court
deserve every generous consideration but the one of hasty publication. The poems in this issue are distinctly above the average
found in a college magazine.

The managers of the magazine are to be congratulated on the attractive appearance of The Chameleon. An appropriate green cover
and a campus sketch form a fitting background for the contents. The general arrangement and typing have dignity and taste
and deserve commendation. This issue, from practically every standpoint, should be considered a good one.

H. T. Lilly.

HOW ABOUT YOUR COLLEGE EXPENSES NEXT YEAR

Write us immediately for a good money-making proposition selling (1) college and fraternity jewelry including class rings, (2) attractive high-grade
individual stationery printed to customer’s order, (3) complete line of felt and leather goods, and (4) all styles of college
belts carrying buckles with or without your college colors. In your letter, state which of theabove four interests you, and
be sure to give two references and your summer address.

INDIAN SALES AGENCY
Williamsburg, Virginia

Davidson Theatre
Monday and Tuesday, May 19 and 20
“Lady of Scandal”
RUTH CHATTERTON

Wednesday, May 21
“Wings of Eagles”
BUDDY ROGERS

Thursday and Friday, May 22 and 23
“Honey”
with NANCY CARROLL

Saturday, May 24
“Prince of Diamonds”

Our Theatre is now equipped with the same sound equipment as the large cities, and we think we get the
best reproduction we have heard in any theatre.
THE MANAGEMENT.

Davidson last year when three men quali-
N. C. State Is to Be Met in Golf Match

The North Carolina State College golf team will form the opposition for the Davidson College linksmen next Monday at the
Charlotte Country Club, where the concluding match of the season will be played. State defeated the Wildcat team at Raleigh
in a previous match this year, so that the local team will be seeking to avenge this with a victory.
The golf team has enjoyed a successful season under Capt. Jack Pepper, state intercollegiate champion. Every member of the Big
Five group has been played, and out of eight matches, Davidson has won five. Senior members of the golf squad
who will be lost through graduation are: N. C. Hodgin, R. D. Croom, and W. Hart. However, since Captain Pepper
has another year, and the three other members of the team John Thompson, Tom Caldwell, and Jack Wagner, will only
be sophomores, a good team is in prospect. “Sparrow” Mills, another star golfer, who did not return to Davidson this
semester, will also be here next year.

DAVIDSON VIOLINIST
(Continued from page 1)

and fourth violins. The increasing popularity of the violin quartette as a musical ensemble is attested by the increased publication
of arrangements of various music for this combination, which now include in its galaxy many selections from the masters. The
second of their radio programs, unless changed, will be played on the following Sunday evening, May 25th, at the same
hour.

TWENTY-SIX MEN
(Continued from Page 1)

Principles, and Practice March and Maneuver Camp. The following members of the rising senior class who are taking the advance
course in R. O. T. C. are expecting to be at camp, the six weeks’ course being a prerequisite to
the granting of an O. R. C. commission: Bird, A. R., Bost, H. F., Brock, J. L., Brock, T., Chamness,
F. E., Covington, H. S., Drake, B. M., Hall, J. L., Hall, R. S., Harris, B. H., Jackson, A. R.,
Kraemer, C. E., Kuykendall, C. W., Lowrance, B. R., McCutchan, J. W., Meacham, J. S., Preston, J. F., Rusk, D.,
Russell, R. D., Severance, J. L., Sisson, C. A., Smith, J. L., Suggs, W. G., Thompson, P. F., Wilson, R.
G., Mixon, H.

DEDICATION OF CHAMBERS
(Continued from page 1)

procession forms at 10 a.m., and the actual graduation exercises start at 10:30 o'clock. Included in the day’s program will
be the presentation of the class gift, addresses by the salutatorian and valedictorian, the award of college medals, and the
presentation of diplomas.

R. O. T. C. Exhibition Winners Announced

The winners of the competition drill in the R. O. T. C., and the winners of the Scabbard and Blade
trophies were announced recently by these organizations. The drill was held Wednesday, May 7. “C” Company, commanded by Cadet Capt.
W. B. McGuire won the Company drill in the competition and also gained the distinction of being color company for
next year by accumulating more points than any other company this year. The second platoon of “C” Company commanded by
Cadet First Lieutenant C. P. Greyer, Jr., won the platoon drill in the competition. The squad which won the best
rating was commanded by Cadet Corporal T. S. Morrison of “D” Company. The individual drill was won by Private John
R. Howard, “B” Company. Other awards were also given to different platoons for having the best lines during the year.
Two platoons tied for first place in this particular. They were the second platoon of “B” Company, commanded by Cadet
First Lieutenant C. A. Ritchie and the second platoon, “D” Company, commanded by C. P. Greyer, Jr. Awards were also
made to the rifle team which was composed of the following men: Lieutenant C. P. Greyer; Sergeant J. L. Brock;
Sergeant R. D. Russell; Corporal D. G. Calder; Private M. L. Brohard; and Private F. L. Curdts. The trophy which
the Scabbard and Blade fraternity offered was given to Cadet Sergeant R. D. Russell, and a regulation United States Army
saber was presented to Cadet Colonel W. R. Hill.

A milestone of Telephone progress

This marker is used to show the position of a new type of underground cable line. It is also a
monument to the Bell System policy of constantly improving established methods and developing new ones. For years underground telephone cables
have been laid in hollow duct lines especially constructed for the purpose. By this newly developed supplementary method they can
be buried directly in the ground without conduit—and, under many conditions, at a saving of time and money. To do
this it was necessary to develop a new type of cable, many kinds of special equipment including labor-saving installation machinery,
and to work out an entirely new installation procedure. Progress means change. The Bell System holds no procedure so sacred
that it is not open to improvement.

A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones
“OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN”
