THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the College Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Athletic Editor
Assignment Editor
Feature Editor
Feature Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Advertising Mgr.
Subscription Mgr.
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President
Vice-President
Secretary-Treasurer

APRIL 10, 1930

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

Capt. Norton Pritchett is running out new and promising candidates for cinder path honors right along, and the Wildcat seems to be heading toward something he hasn’t boasted in long years, said acquisition being a really well-balanced track squad. Davidson looks good to finish high in South Atlantic circles this spring.

The spring Y. M. C. A. services under the inspiring leadership of Dr. “Bill” Anderson should do a large part toward filling a busy year with worthwhile things. When it comes to getting men who can bring a human message to students, Davidson authorities bow to none. It’s a gift to have two such Christian workers as Frank Price and “Bill” Anderson on the “hill” within a few days of each other.

The great wheel of election is still slowly turning, and there are a good many positions of leadership yet to be awarded to the men who have been worthy. It's a long process, during which affairs seem to be in more or less of an upheaval. Then for the last month of the year will come the readjustment and the orientation of those who will bear the brunt of activity for next year.

All Davidson men will now be turning their attention to a little sport series which soon begins, namely, a three-game baseball scrap with U. N. C. If the ’Cats can pull the majority number out of the fire, their sticks will be recognized as among the best in collegiate ranks. And, as you know, baseball isn’t like football. One team usually ends what it starts.

It is interesting to observe reactions here and there to the ever vital question of prohibition and the eighteenth amendment. People are watching the Literary Digest’s poll with concern, hoping to see signs there favorable to their own convictions or desires. And those who laugh that poll off, claiming its inability to reach the masses of the voters, find it hard to get around the fact that previous polls conducted by that worthy magazine have come remarkably close to the truth. Can there safely be a retraction of the dry laws? We think not. And we'll hope the Digest Poll slips up this time.

TO THOSE WHO SERVED

Within the next few days the student body will elect a new editor for The Davidsonian, a new staff of editors will go to work and the publication of North Mecklenburg’s largest newspaper goes into other hands. Whatever the choice from the available group of candidates, we feel sure that it will be a good one, for the efforts exerted during the year gone by have not been unproductive of capable journalists. They have given a real conception of the needs, difficulties, and solutions of collegiate newspaper activities to the men who have been connected with the paper.

It is to these men who have served on the staffs, editorial and business, under the outgoing regime that we wish to extend sincere appreciation on behalf of the entire student body, for whose interests The Davidsonian exists. Their work has been, for the most part, efficient and earnest, and it has made possible the vitality of one of the most important departments in college circles. We believe the members of the student body do realize and appreciate the activities of such men, and, in this belief, we voice our thanks to the retiring staffs.

WINGS TAKE THEIR TOLL

Death is riding high these days as man’s struggle to completely conquer the air takes on greater proportions. Every front page tells the story of some fatal plunge from the heights, and the Sunday morning sheets become perfect casualty lists when the results of flying for the holiday, as many regard it, are made known. The toll price is increasing with every week. Automobiles and trains still claim their share of victims, but the mechanical monarch of the air is fast out-distancing them in the traffic with lives.

A century from now another story can be told. Perhaps something else will be toying with human life, even as the wings of the present are doing, but it is doubtful if the comparative sacrifice of life ever has been or ever will be as great as it is now. Progress must continue. It has challenged man to chart the air for the use of future generations and surely he has been successful. At a fearful cost is he meeting the responsibility, but gladly, for his genius is put to the test, and he knows that in times to come the suffering of the hour will be forgotten, the accomplishments remembered. Because men of strong hearts felt this spirit long ago we enjoy our modern privileges, and, mindful of that eternal sequence, who can say a discouraging word to the races today as they seek new perfections.

Steps should be taken, however, to curtail and safeguard flying on the part of civilians who are incapable and irresponsible, for the great majority of accidents in the air arise from such sources. So-called “thrill flying” holds dangerous possibilities, and the amateur who indulges prematurely will soon constitute as big a menace to the public as the drunken driver. The next ten years or so will undoubtedly see restrictions made which will promote better flying, and, to be sure, improvement will be steady all along. We hope the experimental days are drawing to a close, and that, with the advent of a practical flying era, the appalling loss of life will cease.

ENLIGHTENMENT ON THE LEAGUE

The visit of Sir Herbert Ames to the college afforded folks of this vicinity a rare opportunity to set their minds right with relation to international affairs, especially, of course, in the matter of The League of Nations. Consistently large audiences which heard him testified to the fascination of his subject and to the skill with which he presented it, and the interest shown was indeed well repaid as Sir Herbert authoritatively dealt with the Europe come at last out of bitter conflict into a human understanding which promises to be one of the greatest forces for right the world has ever seen.

As he tours the country in behalf of peace, the ex-treasurer of the League will speak from personal experience and contacts to eager thousands, making a hitherto nebulous conception of the Geneva organization come into the spotlight of reality, clearing up many doubts, and inspiring public opinion in favor of the League. The actual facts will be given to great numbers of the younger generation who were not impressed with them a decade ago. All hearers will be better educated in terms of international association, will be more efficient in criticism of foreign policies, will be more useful in the cause of world peace.

Credit is due the International Relations Club and any other participants in the service of bringing Sir Herbert Ames to Davidson. A more informing and attractive lecture has not been here in recent years.

Prohibition note: It is always risky to give a man who cannot control his own manpower fifty or seventy-five horsepower to control—Boston Herald.

Jimmy was in the habit of coming to the table with a dirty face, and, of course, had to be sent away. At length his mother lost patience. “Jimmy,” she said severely, “why do you persist in coming to the table without washing? You know I always send you away.” “Well,” said Jimmy, meekly, “you forgot once.”

But of course, Oscar, one naturally would expect a young lady geologist to marry some old fossil—Ex.

First Scout: “I saw a groundhog this morning.”
Second Scout: “Where?”
First Scout: “Sausage,”—Ex.

It is difficult for Arthur Brisbane's readers to understand why this famous editorial writer heartily endorses Secretary Wilbur’s plan of oil reservations. It is the present endeavor of the Cabinet to completely close some of the most productive...oil fields of the country. Brisbane declares that the great companies are heartily in favor of the scheme. Why shouldn't they be? Gas will cost more per gallon; but what about the farmer who has to get his product to market? There is only one reason that diamonds are as costly as they are; the Diamond Trust has millions of stones stored in its vaults, but only a stipulated number can be placed on the market every year. Would it not be wiser to find and develop new oil production than to place the fatal knife in the heart of the average citizen who is already struggling for his property? Moreover, it is equally hard to see the viewpoint taken by many well-meaning pacifists. It is surprising how often an adequate defense, preserved as a safety measure, is mistaken as being an indication of war. There is no comparison between the active military policy of Bismarck and the National Defense Act of 1920. There has been no indication in the past that will tolerate the theory of an eternally peaceful Utopia. No businessman would risk his firm’s millions of dollars on a purely theoretical investment. Therefore, is it wise to gamble the lives and honor of millions of dependent women and children, the liberty (economical and physical) of posterity, and the property of the state on a problematical supposition? There has never been a war which was not accompanied by rapine and ravage; nor will there ever be one in the future. Even in this industrial whirlwind of the present day, lives are still held at more value than dollars!

This column does wish, however, to stand in favor of world-wide peace. In all minds, there can be but one practical solution suggested, namely, education of all peoples to the extent that war will be recognized as a too expensive means of solving problems of international relationship. If this point can be gained, well and good! This column does insist, though, that education precedes any drastic move for complete naval or military disarmament. If the cart goes before the horse, someone is obliged to get left, even if it is the horse.

Recent action against John J. Rascob only goes further to prove that real issues are obscured. This column does not intend to endorse the present Chairman of the National Democratic Committee, for it is felt that there are many men who are better suited to fill the position. But, it was recently the writer's lot to sit in the gallery at a session of the United States Senate. The majority of the time was taken up by the boisterous gentleman from South Carolina, a Democrat, maligning a proposal submitted by Senator Hugo Black, of Alabama, also a Democrat. Nothing was accomplished! Thus it appears that the members of this good old southern party are more concerned with internal disruptions than they are with the platform for which the entire party stands. As a staunch Democrat, this writer would like to suggest that the party representatives forget personal aggravations within the party and apply themselves to the problems which are of national importance to both political organizations.

Sir Herbert Brown Ames proved to be a popular visitor on the campus. It is seldom that Davidson has the opportunity of listening to a man who is not hampered by lack of knowledge on certain points which he chooses to discuss, and who is not worked up to a fanatical zeal over his subject. Every man who listened to him during his stay here will be ready to admit that Sir Herbert looked on world affairs from a calm and deliberative standpoint. He was able to relate his personal observations freely and flavored them with a certain degree of mild humor. The student body is glad that the former member of the Canadian parliament could visit the college. He is to be especially complimented for not wearing a monocle.

Mike: “Well Pat, what did you do toward gaining the victory?”
Pat: “I walked up boldly and cut off his feet.”
Mike: “Why don’t you cut off his head?”
Pat: “That was already off.”

Pat: “How is your husband?”
Mrs. O'Regan: “He’s underground now.”
Pat: “Shure I didn’t know it, poor man.”
Mrs. O'Regan: “He's got a good job in the subway.”

This is just a line or so to let everyone know definitely that the Spring Holidays really are over, and that life has begun again in earnest. You all know that life really is Earnest, so just be Frank, and everything will be Jake. After several days of being halt and lame, I have become terrifically morbid, so prepare yourselves for a heart-wringing story with pathos oozing from every pore. This, my public, is the account of the life of:

WALL-EYED WILLIE, THE VILLAINOUS WOOD-CUTTER

Willie was tough, there's no getting around that fact. As a mewling babe, he was often hung on a clothes-line all night in the midst of a mid-winter snowstorm, so that he’d grow up to be a big strong man like his Papa. And so we find him as a young man working in the lumber camps. He would go to work singing his favorite song:

“And we'll maple leaf that you love me,
And I'll maple leaf that I love you,
Etc.”

All was well with Willie until a beautiful day in Spring when love entered that tough mass of muscle that pumped Willie’s blood (commonly called the heart in all of the leading medical encyclopedias). A little soft music, Millie. Try that new piece “Clove, thy magic smell is everywhere.” Now, where was I? Oh yeah, Willie had just fallen down and gone booey (or as they say in Paris “Eiffel Tower and go boom”). It all happened in this manner: Cora, the boss’s daughter, had come down to the lumber camp to bring Papa his dinner-pail and to take back the parrot-cage that he had grabbed up in his haste. Willie saw her, he knew that it must be love at first sight—he hadn't even had time to aim. So he walked up to her and they held their first conversation in the curious dialect of the woodsman.

Sez she, “Whatcha doin’ over here?”
Sez he, “I thought I cedar fair lady in distress so I came on over.”
Sez she, “I could beech ye over the dome for that crack.”
Sez he, “Of course, you're the most poplar gal around here, but I pine fir you.”
Sez she, “Anything you say is Oak-A with me, big boy.”

Well, it was pitiful what love did to Willie. It changed him from a big, husky brute to a pathetic, mooning, calf-eyed person. His appetite fell off, and he lost interest in his work. One morning, as he was working at the top of a big pine tree, he saw Cora pass by. Willie immediately waved frantically. Well, sir, about that time he heard something fall. He looked all around, and I'll be doggoned if it wasn’t himself. A big crowd gathered around him and everything got real quiet. There wasn't a bit of fuss, not even the fuzz that peaches make. He lost his left arm as the result of this accident, so his right arm was left. Of course, his right arm was right, but as his left arm was not all right, it was not left, but his right arm was all right and was left. If his left arm had been all right, it would have been left, and if his right arm had not been all right, it would not have been left—however, things being in the condition that they were, the result was that his right arm was left.

While Willie was in the hospital losing weight, Cora began to go with a city slicker who sold gold bricks. He lent her his sample to have a front tooth made, and as she had buck teeth, he had to marry her. Well, as you can doubtless imagine, Willie was a complete wreck when he learned the sad news. He lost his voice, so he began to hang around nasty old speak-easies. One day, he went up to one of these DENS OF VICE and knocked on the door. The head man stuck his head out and politely inquired, “Whatcha want.” Willie kicked up a section of pavement, blushed, and said, “I’d like to see a fellow inside.” “Who?” bellowed the head. “Me,” said Willie in a wee sma’ voice. Well, finally things came to such a pretty pass that Willie got out his old man’s best clothes line, went out in front of his house, and hung himself. A little more soft music, Millie. Try “Hanging on the Garden Gate.”

I’ve lost my best character, so I'll have to end my story about the lumber camps. That's what I get for lumbering around on crutches this week.

Minister (Calling on a prisoner): “Remember, Mr. Kelly, that stone walls do not a prison make, nor iron bars a cage.”
Prisoner: “Well, they must have me hypnotized.”

Beggar: “Please give a poor old blind man a dime.”
Citizen: “Why, you can see out of one eye.”
Blind man: “Well, give me a nickel then.”

First doctor: “Tell me, doc, have you ever made a serious mistake in diagnosis?”
Second doctor: “Yes, once, I told a man he had a touch of indigestion, afterwards I found out that he was rich enough to have had appendicitis.”