THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1930

After Graduation --- Ministry?

Work Of Present Day Minister Is Fivefold, Duties of Preacher, Pastor, Religious Educator, Executive, and Leader of Worship Combined

The work of a minister is really fivefold. He is a preacher. Despite the radio and the flood of books
that deal with religious problems, there is a larger place than ever for the living voice. Men sorrow today, as
of old, and need comfort; they are tempted and need encouragement; they are overborne by sin and need the assurance
of a Saviour’s forgiveness; they are woefully perplexed about religious and ethical questions and need guidance; they are bruised and
beaten in life’s struggle and need inspiration. No one, quite so clearly and certainly as the preacher, can strike the
note that the members of the community need to hear if they are to respond to their responsibilities to God
and man, and are to live joyous and fruitful lives.

He is a leader of worship. Increasingly emphasis is being put here, as people turn hungry-hearted from all that this
age, marvellously rich in material things, can give. Men desire to know God, to feel that He is near—in touch
with them. The minister who has entered into fellowship with God himself, and can lead his people into communion with
Him, will find in his church many who have come not chiefly to hear him preach, but to join him
in his successful quest for God through what we call the worship part of the service.

He is a religious educator. The child has been set in our midst today, and we have seen that the
future of the race is dependent upon what we can do for him. We are being told, too, that adults
can be educated, and that parents must be trained for their fundamental work. The church, keeping pace with the spirit
of the age, has begun to stress its teaching function, and the minister is responsible for its school. He may
not serve as superintendent, he may not teach; but he must inspire and direct.

He is an executive, or administrator. The church must be organized, its members set to work, its power harnessed and
made effective. The congregation is not simply a field to be cultivated, but a force to be used. The minister
seeing the task steadily and seeing it whole must put each member into that office, or on that committee, or
into that place where he can and will serve best.

He is a pastor. There are many people who do not come to church, there are more whose problems cannot
be solved from the pulpit. These the minister must seek out; or fling wide a study door, and so inspire
in them confidence in his wisdom and love that they will seek him out. He is a shepherd of souls,
who through his personal association with people will guard them from wrong-doing, will sustain them in trial, will lead them
when the way becomes rocky, or sun-smitten, or obscured.

Ministers have gifts differing, and some excel in one phase of the work, others in another. But all of these
functions belong to the minister's office, and open doors into the hearts and lives of people through which he can
enter to help them know and serve God better. Of course some ministers become evangelists; some serve as directors of
religious education in the local church; some become superintendents of home missions; some, as secretaries of the Assembly’s causes, serve
the whole denomination in a large way; some are called to teach in our colleges and seminaries; some occupy the
editor’s chair; but the foundation of the work of the church is the regular minister, who, in a small or
large parish, serves in the ways I have indicated.

There are not so many vacant churches in our denomination now as there have been in the past; but there
is a crying need today for the strongest men Davidson, or any other college can produce, to dedicate themselves to
the full work of the ministry. For such men pulpits are open, congregations are waiting.

Says Dr. Thompson

Winning of America Rests On Christians

By S. L. Morris, D.D.

The empire of Christ is a spiritual kingdom—more extensive, more compelling, and more enduring than that of Alexander the Great,
or of the Roman Empire—embracing all worlds in the spiritual universe, righteous in its purpose, blessed in its end and
eternal in its duration. The marching orders of its King are imperative, “Go ye into all the world;” and the
order of the march, “Beginning at Jerusalem;” and the ultimate reach, “Unto the uttermost part of the earth.” Christianity is
the active principle of the kingdom; and the agency for bringing it to pass is the Church, whose mission is
Missions, whose prayer and program is “Thy kingdom come,” whose aim is to make men like Christ, and earth like
heaven, till a redeemed universe shall “bring forth the royal diadem and crown His Lord of all.”

“Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it;” but from the human viewpoint the success
of the world-kingdom depends upon using its means and resources to the best advantage. The resources of the individual are
possessions—material things—and personality—spiritual endowments. In the business world men strive to invest their holdings to the best advantage for yielding
the largest dividends. In the spiritual sphere men of vision seek to invest life—the greatest of all possessions—where it will
count most for self, for the kingdom and for Christ.

America occupies the most valuable strategic position calculated to hasten the triumph of the kingdom. Almost overnight the leadership of
the nations—inseparable from service—has been thrust upon America; and she has discovered her soul in her altruistic mission. The spiritual
conquest of herself looms larger than any other task today—especially in view of her unique position, holding the destiny of
the world in her hand. The distressing religious condition of our country, the battle with paganism which has been transferred
to America, the menace to vital Christianity and the influence upon the destiny of nations—all demand the spiritual conquest of
America as the most vital and far-reaching task of the Church today. To lose the battle in America today, is
to postpone the spiritual conquest of the world for generations; to win America for Christ and the kingdom now, is
to guarantee the triumphant sway of the cross, in its spiritual influence, “To the uttermost part of the earth.”

The winning of America today is largely the task of the Home Missionary—second to nothing in importance and in the
far-reaching sweep of its influence. Dr. Henry Collin Minton bears testimony to theCharacter of his work and its relative value
in the spiritual conquest of the world: “The Home Missionary is the peer of those who are carrying the gospel
to the far-away heathen. There is a romance of the work in either case. They are all empire-builders alike. They
bring to their work richer tribute than even Cecil Rhodes could command. They build themselves into their work. It is
the romance of faith and heroism, and trial and self-sacrifice, but it is also the romance of promise and patriotism
and service and of the crown at last.”

Exceptional groups, entrenched behind obstinate prejudices, impenetrable environments or vexatious conditions, make them almost inaccessible to Gospel influences. The highlander,
tossed by the surging waves of restless humanity and left stranded on mountain height or in isolated cove, requires all
the skill and adventure of a missionary “life-saving station” to rescue him from his peril, undertaken ordinarily without his cooperation
and frequently against his strenuous opposition. The Indian, brooding sullenly over past wrongs or smarting under fresh injury, withdraws within
the solitude of his proud spirit and declines with thanks spiritual aid from the hand of the white man which
robbed him of inheritance and inalienable rights. The Negro, behind a barrier of race prejudice and under the ban of
a superior race by reason of racial traits and faults fastened upon him by heredity and strengthened by unfavorable environment,
may be geographically near to the kingdom and very dear to Christ, but is not in a specially receptive attitude
toward sorely needed help extended by the more sympathetic element among his white brethren. The immigrant, “a stranger in a
strange land,” suffering from nostalgia, disappointed in his expectations of America’s sympathetic attitude, misunderstood in his acts and purposes, drifting
into evil environments, difficult of approach on account of foreign speech, is practically beyond the reach of church and gospel
influences. Is Christianity equal to the overwhelming task of Christianizing them? If it halts, balked by the impossibility, it cannot
evangelize the world—unless America is eliminated from its commission.

Wanted—Men, to invest their lives for God, who are deaf to every call except the service which will yield the
richest fruit for the kingdom. They will attract little attention and wear no halo for long and trying periods of
toil and patient endurance, but in the end they will rear superstructures on more enduring foundations than granite, which will
eventually lift them into the limelight where they will shine “as the stars forever and ever.” Wanted—Men! Who will answer
God’s call to unique and unequalled service—“Also I heard the voice of the Lord, saying, Whom shall I send, and
who will go for us? Then said I, ‘Here am I; send me.’” Atlanta, Ga.

Catalogues
Catalogues of the following Southern and Eastern seminaries may be found on the Vocational Guidance table at the “Y” rooms:
Union, Columbia, and Princeton. Also catalogues from Medical schools and social science departments of various universities are available to those
who may be considering Foreign and Home Mission work in these particular fields. Please return these catalogues to the table
when you finish using them.

Opportunities For Missionary Still Great In Foreign Field
Dr. James I. Vance Brings Out Many Interesting Facts Concerning Missionary Work

Somehow the idea has become current that opportunities for service in the Foreign Mission fields are at low ebb. Many
are saying that the heroic days of missionary adventure are behind us. There is an impression that the national churches
which have been organized in non-Christian lands are sufficient for the work of propaganda, and that from now on, the
missionary himself must become a diminishing force. This idea seems to have been strengthened by events which have recently transpired
in China. The fact that the Mission Boards and Committees have kept candidates waiting, being unable to send them out
for lack of funds, may also have had something to do with the impression that service in the foreign field
is coming to be a closed door. Nothing could be farther from the facts. Missionaries were never more needed. They
are occupying a little different position in relation to the indigenous churches. Leadership is passing over more and more into
the hands of national Christians. This is the result of the missionary’s success. But to jump to the conclusion that
the missionary is not needed is wholly unwarranted. All the lines of service that have been open to him are
still open, and with increasing urgency. There is no doubt a higher estimate of the values of the non-Christian religions
is being held, but this instead of depreciating, enhances the values of Christ. For these non-Christians are seeing more clearly
than ever that Christ alone can meet their needs. The troubles in these countries instead of closing the door, create
Christianity’s opportunity. The hour is ripe for a great advance. The Kingdom of God movement in Japan, the effort to
add a million new converts to the church in China, are symptomatic of what is going on in all fields.
The big era of missions is not behind; it is ahead. It begins to look as if it might be
just ahead. With conditions so favorable for a missionary crusade, it would be nothing short of tragedy for the church
at home to waver and retreat. What China needs is Christ. What India needs is Jesus. What Japan needs is
the Christian religion. And so we might go down the whole line. It is a great time for gifted youths
to invest life in missionary service. The best are needed. They will find the challenge ample. There is no open
door for racial superiority or creedal intolerance. But those who go in the spirit of Calvary, suffused with the passion
of service, ready to lay down their lives for the brethren, will find their enlistment has swept them into an
advance that Paul might envy.

A Minister of the Gospel SHOULD BE Acquainted with God and his ways, and know how to represent Him. TO
ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS ONE OF THE AIMS OF UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. For Catalog and Information, Address, Rev.
B. R. Lacy, Jr., President Richmond, Virginia.

FELLOWS! You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station DAVIDSON, N. C.

Monday and Tuesday
“The Girl Said No”
WILLIAM HAINES and ANITA PAGE

Wednesday
“The Laughing Lady”
Davidson Theatre

Thursday
“The Song of Love”

Friday
“Lord Byron of Broadway”

Saturday
“Officer O’Brien”
