BASEBALL TEAM | SOPHOMORES IN STAGE BANQUET FIRST WORKOUTS SATURDAY NIGHT

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 6, 1930 No. 20

Sigma Phi Epsilon Plans Installation of Chapter On Campus During April

Efforts of Pyramid Club Crowned With Success After Five Years’ Strenuous Endeavor

CLUB FOUNDED IN 1923

Constitutes Fourth Chapter to be Organized in North Carolina

The Pyramid Club, local social fraternity, has been granted a charter by the Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity, after petitioning this fraternity for a period of almost five years. The chapter will be officially installed April 3, 4, and 5, the weekend after the regular spring holidays of the college. The installation team will be composed of officers and members of the chapters of Sigma Phi Epsilon in North Carolina.

In December, 1923, Dr. T. W. Lingle conferred with friends in the student body relative to organizing a local fraternity, which would meet with the approval of the faculty and the other fraternities in its personnel and methods of working. With the help of Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, a group of nine men were selected for this organization. The men who thus founded the Pyramid Club were: W. H. Cromwell, Jr., J. M. Trotter, W. A. McAuley, M. R. Patrick, H. M. Alexander, H. D. Burke, J. J. Earnhardt, H. C. Lawson, and E. D. Witherspoon.

On October 15, 1925, the first letter was sent to the Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity in regards to placing a chapter at Davidson. The members of the Club have worked toward this goal and in April, 1929, a formal petition was issued. This has been under the consideration of the national fraternity and they have given their favorable decision within the past few days.

At present there are thirty-seven men in the Alumni Association of the Pyramid Club. The active members of the Club are: C. H. Pettus, Jr., Asheville, N. C.; S. C. Booker, Clayton, N. C.; E. C. Close, Chattanooga, Tenn.; J. F. McInnis, Concord, N. C.; J. B. Knox, Liberty, S. C.; F. R. Pilcher, Jr., Charleston, W. Va.; C. W. Kuykendall, Charleston, W. Va.; W. A. Howard, Raeford, N. C.; F. L. Wilson, Montreat, N. C.; E. S. Bettis, Morristown, Tenn.; N. B. Nicks, Chattanooga, Tenn.; R. P. Davis, Lancaster, S. C.; W. M. Belk, Lancaster, S. C.; C. E. Bettis, Morristown, Tenn.; C. M. Howard, Raeford, N. C.; J. W. Lee, Ronceverte, W. Va.; H. L. Morrison, Mooresville, N. C.; C. B. Moseley, Staunton, Va.; A. Patton, Jr., Greenville, S. C.; J. W. Reich, Elkin, N. C.; E. W. Shackelford, Durham, N. C.

The Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity was founded at Richmond College (now the University of Richmond) (Continued on page 6)

McAllister Carson Is Vesper Speaker

Mr. McAllister Carson gave a very interesting and instructive talk at the Y. M. C. A. Vesper Service last Sunday evening. Mr. Carson is a business man and he gave a simple practical discourse addressed directly to students. He took as his subject the answer to the first question in the Westminster Shorter Catechism: “Man’s chief aim is to glorify God and enjoy Him forever.”

The speaker told of his conversation with Dr. Harry Rimmer on the night after he spoke here the first time. Some felt, according to Mr. Carson, that Doctor Rimmer would be undertaking too much to come to Davidson the following Sunday as it would necessitate his speaking five times that day. Doctor Rimmer, however, was anxious to come as he was very favorably impressed with Davidson.

During his talk Mr. Carson showed how a man in college can glorify God in his daily life. He stated that everything in a student’s college life is useful in preparing him for his life work. Not only his scholastic work but also work on the gridiron, diamond, track, literary publications, and in other college activities, help to fit him for his chosen vocation.

There are four types of students who come to Davidson, said Mr. Carson. These four groups are divided into those who have chosen their life work before coming to college, those who have not chosen it but do so after getting into college, those who have a life work chosen but decide to change it after having been in college a while, and lastly the group which have not chosen their vocation and who do not choose one while in college. Of this last group he said he hoped and believed there are very few.

Mr. Carson stated that he became alarmed a few years ago when he heard that conditions were crowded in Davidson and sent in an application for each of his two sons—in the class of about ’41 and '44. This shows strikingly his faith and interest in Davidson.

Stressing the importance of not waiting till after graduation to start glorifying God, he emphasized that each man has an opportunity of advancing toward “man’s chief aim” in every branch of his college life. J. A. Jones presided at the service and introduced the speaker.

Three Sophomores Placed As Debaters

Eighteen Men Take Part in Tryouts

Faculty Judges

Tryouts for the varsity debating team were held in Shearer Hall on the evening of February 26, with eighteen men contending for positions. The following men were selected to represent Davidson this season in the scheduled contests: R. M. Christian, of Mobile, Ala.; Carl Pritchett, Reidsville; E. D. Kuykendall, Jr., Greensboro; J. A. Jones, Laurinburg; William Rule, Knoxville, Tenn.; and P. S. Knox, Jr., of Thomson, Ga. The alternates chosen were: Z. V. Long, Jr., Statesville; A. R. Bird, Jr., Washington, D. C.; and E. E. Marsh, Jr., of Marshville.

Christian and Pritchett, of the Senior Class, are the only two veteran debaters to win posts on this year’s team. Both of these men have represented Davidson on the platform for two years. The other four men are making their initial appearance on the varsity team. Kuykendall, Rule, and Knox are sophomores, and were all members of last year’s freshman team. Jones is a member of the junior class. The six men chosen will comprise three teams, but they have not yet been paired.

The judges at the tryouts were Profs. C. K. Brown, A. Currie, H. B. Arbuckle, W. P. Cumming, and L. B. Schenck. Among the institutions to be met by the Davidson teams this season are Emory University, The University of Alabama, Birmingham Southern College, The University of Florida, Richmond College, William and Mary College, Wake Forest College, and the University of South Carolina.

Soph Week-End Program

Davidson will experience something new in the way of class festivities this weekend when the Sophomore Class entertains the first house party instead of the customary banquet. The Class of ’32 will have a banquet, however, and after this banquet there will be a minstrel. The members of the class and their girls are invited to attend this festival.

2:00 P. M.—Football game—Richardson Field.
4:00 P. M.—Picture Show—“Lord Byron of Broadway.”
7:00 P. M.—Banquet—Banquet Hall of Chambers.
8:30 P. M.—Minstrel—Chambers Auditorium.

Colonel Scott Selected Commander Of Summer Advanced R.O.T.C. Camp

Men to be Instructed in Athletics as Well as in Military Exercises

CAPT. OTTO ALSO TO GO

Twenty-Five Davidson Students Taking Advanced R. O. T. C. to Attend

Lieut.-Col. W. R. Scott, of Davidson, has been elected commander of the R. O. T. C. camp at Fort McClellan, Ala., for this summer. This camp will have enrolled about 900 advanced R. O. T. C. students from North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Tennessee. The period of instruction lasts from June 10 until July 21, but Colonel Scott and Captain Otto will go down a week in advance.

Twenty-five Davidson students taking advanced R. O. T. C. will attend this summer camp. Upon arrival each man will undergo a thorough physical examination, and is then instructed in calisthenics, first aid and hygiene, army administration, drill and command, scouting and patrolling, combat principles, and marksmanship with rifles, machine-guns, mortars, automatic rifles, and small cannon. The military exercises will occupy the mornings while the afternoons will be devoted to athletics such as baseball, tennis, swimming, and boxing. In the evenings some social event in town usually engages the students. On Sunday church is held at 10 a. m. (Continued on page 8)

President Of Queens College To Be Vesper Speaker Sunday

Special Music Will be Given by Queens Girls

Another of the high spots of the Y. M. C. A. Vesper services comes Sunday evening, at which time Dr. W. H. Frazer, president of Queens College, will speak to the student body in the auditorium at 6:00 p. m. Doctor Frazer is bringing through the courtesy of Miss Starr of the Music department of Queens, some of the Queens girls who will offer a special musicalPractically every year, Doctor Frazer comes to Davidson under the auspices of the “Y” and has proved to be one of the most popular speakers of the year. Full of fun and humor, he is in very great demand throughout this section as an after-dinner speaker. Doctor Frazer has made a close study of the negro in the South and is famous as a collector and publisher of many stories of the Southern darky. A native of Alabama, he received his college and divinity training at Southwestern, formerly located at Clarksville, Tenn. Since that time, Doctor Frazer has been pastor of prominent churches in Alabama, and of the First Presbyterian Church of Anderson, South Carolina.

Junior Program To Feature S.C. Follies

The plans for Junior Speaking are now complete, and a great weekend is expected. The gym will be decorated like a real cabaret, and with the South Carolina Co-eds performing, and great music by the Davidson orchestra, one will think that he is right on Broadway. The cabaret is scheduled for six o'clock, coming right after the football of the afternoon; a regular dinner will be served along with the above entertainment, so make your reservations early.

Plans for the minstrel, which will follow the cabaret dinner, are underway and promise to be good as the best talent in school has been picked to be in it, including the banjo playing of Caligan, the crooning of Enochs, Pardington, and Pridgen. The orchestra will work along with the minstrel, furnishing all the music. It is the earnest hope of the Junior class that every man in the student body has asked a girl to share these good times with.

(Continued on Page 5)

Cummings Reviews Literary Magazine

The February issue of the “Chameleon” maintains a high general level in quality of content. Less than usual with a college literary magazine does the reviewer have to take as his guide the words of Browning’s “Saul”: “... ‘tis not what man does which exalts him, but what man would do.” It possesses at least one play and one short story of genuinely high merit, and others of intrinsic value. While the format of the magazine is new and pleasing, the number of typographical errors and grammatical solecisms in the articles themselves give a distasteful impression to the meticulous reader. In such matters, a literary magazine should be like Caesar's wife.

For originality, excellence of character portrayal, and power of dramatic suspense, R. F. Jarratt’s three-act play, “At the End of the Road,” wins easy pre-eminence. Fred Johnson, the mulatto who has successfully concealed the stigma of his blood, and Mattie Carlton, who revenges his neglect of her by betraying his identity, and the other characters in the play, have life and tragic reality; the impression of inevitable and well-motivated catastrophe is excellently developed.

For pure artistry and finesse of wording, R. A. Rowland’s “Rendezvous by Moonlight” deserves its place of distinction at the beginning of the magazine. This dreamy love story snatched from the edacious tooth of the obscuring past reminds one by its beauty of phrasing and pictorial power of that masterpiece of Keats: “And there are gone; ay, ages long ago These lovers fled away into the storm.”

The most fecund contributor to this number of the “Chameleon” is R. E. Witt. His writings on the whole show promise rather than fulfillment. Ability is evident; versatility of literary power and innate artistry are present in “Ethical Crime,” “Live Hair,” and the poem “Sorrow.” The first story is a closely knit and excellent study of psychological realism after the manner of Dostoevsky. While the first half of the second story is well motivated, the story rambles on into the second generation and toward the end sounds like the synopsis of a novel. There is not enough unity in the narrative for the rigid specifications required by such a short story. The writer has constructed a plot which requires fuller development than he gave it, or treatment in a different manner.

(Continued on Page 5)

Converse Glee Club Gives Performance

Girls Score Big Hit With Davidson Students

On Friday night, February 28, the Converse College Glee Club, under the directorship of Glenn C. Stables, presented one of the most enjoyable concerts that has been given in the New Chambers Auditorium. The largest crowd that has ever attended a performance of this nature was present, and that they enjoyed and appreciated the music was shown by the vigorous applause, to which the Glee Club and individual soloists responded generously with encore numbers.

The program, consisting of Glee Club numbers, solos, a duet, and one instrumental number, was attractively arranged and varied. The beautiful numbers rendered by the Glee Club showed considerable work, as did the rest of the program. Perhaps the most enjoyed part of the program was contributed by Miss Amelia Bruns, soloist, who sang several classical numbers, after which she sang many popular numbers of the day. Again and again she was encored, to which she smilingly responded with popular numbers. Aside from possessing a very appealing voice which stirred the audience noticeably, her whole being radiated with a most charming personality. Other especially attractive parts of the program were the duet by Miss Bruns and Mr. Stables, and several violin numbers by Miss Mary Lou Kirby. As a whole, the performance proved to be a great success.

(Continued on page 6)

Geo. McClenaghan Made Cheer Leader For Next Season Over McAlister

New Cheer Leader Will Take Over Duties at Once With Beginning of Baseball

E. S. HEEFNER RETIRES

Office Carries With it Many Responsibilities and Important Duties

George E. MacClenaghan, Jr., of the Junior class, was elected varsity cheer leader for the school year 1930-31 at an election held in Chapel last Tuesday morning. He received a good majority of the 482 votes cast. MacClenaghan was elected over H. M. MacAlister, the other Junior assistant cheer leader. Among other activities, MacClenaghan is an assistant manager of the Varsity Wrestling Team, assistant manager of the Chameleon, and a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. MacAllister is a member of the International Relations Club and the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. The new cheer leader will take over his duties with the start of the baseball season.

It is customary each year to elect two Junior assistant cheer leaders from the Sophomore aspirants to the office. These will be selected at an early date. Usually these Sophomores have had previous experience in leading cheers at various freshman athletic contests. The election was run off by E. S. Heefner, retiring cheer leader. There was an unusually large vote cast, 482 students making a choice one way or the other.

(Continued from Page 5)

Davidson Marksmen Are Victors In V.P.I. Match

The Davidson Rifle Team barely nosed out the team from Virginia Polytechnic Institute in a close and interesting shoulder-to-shoulder match held here last Saturday. The final count stood Davidson 869, V. P. I. 866. Until the last round was fired the score was in doubt and only excellent shooting on the standing position by the last group of Davidson Riflemen saved the day. R. D. Russell, of Davidson, led the way and was high scorer of the day with a score of 180 out of a possible 200. He was pushed by Washam of V. P. I., who turned in 174. Washam shot the highest score turned in on the hardest position, the standing, a 45 out of a possible 50. Parsons of V. P. I. was the only man to shoot a “possible” or 50 out of 50. He shot this score on the prone position. The five high men on each team who counted in the scoring were:

| Prone | Sitting | Kneeling | Standing | Total
---|---|---|---|---|---
Washam | 49 | 46 | 37 | 45 | 177
Waddell | 49 | 45 | 44 | 35 | 173
Davis | 48 | 46 | 39 | 41 | 174
Parsons | 50 | 46 | 41 | 36 | 173
Carper | 48 | 46 | 41 | 34 | 169
Total | | | | | 866

(Continued on page 6)

To the Faculty and Their Wives

One hundred and three members of the Senior Class feel that to you, we owe the appreciation for one of the most enjoyable weekends ever spent in our years at Davidson. Because it is not possible for every senior to express his appreciation individually, we wish to take this means of letting you know that we shall always remember the events of the past week as one of the lasting memories of the days spent in college. With every detail so perfectly taken care of, and a program arranged so that it was wonderfully entertaining from beginning to end, we cannot fail to see the work it necessitated. With a feeling of sincere appreciation, we thank you.

Class of ’30.