WOFFORD-DAVIDSON SATURDAY NEXT TO THE LAST GAME AT HOME

The Davidsonian
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA TAPS
MEN STUDENT BODY

Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 6, 1930 No. 8

WOFFORD TERRIERS BATTLE WILDCATS HERE SATURDAY
Wofford Hits Stride Two Weeks Ago by Holding Duke 14-0
ALWAYS GIVE FIGHT
Terriers Present Stellar Performer in King, at Right Tackle

Wofford’s Terriers will invade Richardson field Saturday afternoon to tangle with the Wildcats in another one of their traditional battles
which ought to turn into a hard-fought match before the evening is over. Bringing practically the same line-up which fought
the ’Cats last year down in Spartanburg to hold them to one touchdown, the Terriers are expected to put up
a stiff defense. The Terriers have undertaken one of the stiffest schedules ever arranged for a Wofford team, including such
formidable foes as Clemson, William and Mary, P. C., Duke, Auburn, and Furman. Although Wofford has been successful in only
two out of the past seven encounters, she has proved herself to be anything but a set-up, as shown in
the hard-fought battle with William and Mary and by holding Duke to a 14-0 win. The Terriers specialize in upsetting
the dope bucket by either defeating bigger teams or holding them to a comparatively low score.

After getting off to a flying start by smothering Newberry under a 43-0 avalanche, Clemson struck them before they had
hit their stride and trounced them, 32-0. Wofford was something of a disappointment in the Clemson game, but according to
Coach Tommy Scaffe, Josh Cody had the greatest team since coming to Clemson, so he did not consider it such
a disgrace to be defeated by such a team. Returning with renewed fight and a never-say-die spirit, the Terriers bounced
back into the Panthers from High Point College to the tune of 12-6, despite the stubborn fight put up by
High Point. Following this game, Wofford journeyed to Virginia to give the William and Mary team the fight of their
lives under the arc lights. The line, it is said, slightly outplayed the Indian line and if it had not
been for long runs, William and Mary might have been defeated. By playing heads-up football, Presbyterian College converted Wofford mistakes
into a victory the next weekend. In the first quarter, a Terriers punt was blocked and Cheatham picked it up
on the five-yard line and scampered across for the first score. Then in the second quarter, a long pass and
a 15-yard run netted 50 yards and a touchdown.

(Continued on page 6)

Masquers Present First Play on 15th

“The Red and Black Masquers,” Davidson’s dramatic club, has already begun active work in preparation for what promises to be
a very successful season. A reorganization of the club has taken place, which is expected to make it a more
serviceable organization, with a broader scope of activity. The requirements for membership have been raised, and only those who have
decided talents in the different phases of dramatics will be admitted. Thus a smaller and more compact group will be
formed, having no idle members. In the past, with a large membership, the club has not realized its full possibilities.

On November 15, “The Masquers” will present as their first play, “The Perfect Alibi,” written by A. A. Milne. Work
on one-act plays will be begun in the near future. An extensive schedule has been made for presentations which will
be given both here and in other places. Professor E. J. Erwin is the faculty adviser of the organization, and
the following men are officers: Stuart Meacham, president; Johnny Marvin, secretary; Horace Ervin, business manager. At the present time the
other members are: Harry Moffett, Jim Black, Ed Hancock, Gaither Sandford, J. W. McCutchan, Bill McKnight, John Brown, and Duncan
Calder.

Plans for Library Improvements Made

It has been a recognized fact for the past few years that the Davidson College library has been far too
small for the size of the student body. President Lingle and the library committee have also recognized this fact and
for the last few months have been trying to solve this difficult problem. The problem was first announced to the
public when last spring the Carnegie Corporation of New York awarded to Davidson College a sum of fifteen thousand dollars
to be paid in three annual installments for the improvement of the college library. It was at this time that
the problem became more acute for the library is now full to overflowing with the best of books, the books
of lesser importance having been culled out at different times, so that now only the best remain. The new plan
will make it necessary for the library to have more book shelves, more reading tables, and a better lighting system
than is now available. It must be remembered that the Davidson library as it now stands is approximately twenty-five years
old and was made for a student body of three hundred rather than one of six hundred. Already the shelves
are crowded with books. In order to solve this plan, the library committee thought it advisable to consult someone who
really knew libraries; the Carnegie institution recommended three men, one of whom was Dr. Louis R. Wilson, librarian of the
U. N. C. library. Dr. Wilson has been here and inspected the library. He returned last night to make his
report, which will be announced in a later issue of The Davidsonian.

The study of this problem will be carried on with two ends in view. The first is to arrange the
shelves and books so that the (Continued on page 6)

Twelve Honorary Frats Issue Fall Invitations

Represent Achievement in Certain Lines of College Life

Many students have received bids to the twelve honorary fraternities on the hill in the last few days. The Honorary
Fraternity Council designates two dates each year, one in the fall and the other in the spring, on which the
fraternities extend bids to all those who they think have distinguished themselves in their respective lines of activity. A man
is not restricted to the number of honorary fraternities to which he may belong. Honorary fraternities exist on the campus
as an acknowledgment of achievement in various lines of college endeavor in order that groups of men, including both faculty
and students, may be able to associate more closely with other men of mutual interest. The following are a few
of the honorary fraternities on the campus and the men they bid:

Sigma Upsilon: A. R. Jackson, M. W. Norfleet, J. G. Knox, J. S. Meecham, W. C. Ragin, R. C. Rowland,
E. C. Dwelle, Jr., W. S. Lea.
Sigma Pi Sigma: T. J. Dunn, N. Johnston, D. M. McQueen, W. E. Potts, J. A. Ward.
Delta Pi Kappa: V. M. Bell, J. G. Cannon, E. C. Dwelle, Jr., J. H. Henderlite, A. R. Jackson, R.
M. King, W. S. Lea, D. G. Martin, J. C. Matthews, W. H. Matthews, N. Raies.
Delta Phi Alpha: Prof. H. T. Lilly, D. G. Caldwell, W. W. Fraley, D. H. Leeper, C. M. Miller, W.
C. Ragin, F. L. Wilson.
Gamma Sigma Epsilon: D. G. Caulder, Donald Leeper, W. H. Matthews, J. F. Preston, James Watt.
Eta Sigma Phi: H. S. Covington, E. Z. DuBose, E. K. Eumurian, L. N. Hand, Kenneth Jackson, J. H. McKinnon,
S. B. McLean, T. W. McLean, H. Nichols, H. S. Robinson.

Yowl To Appear Soon

“The Yowl,” Davidson's new humorous magazine, after having suffered some little delay, will appear within the next two or three
weeks, according to W. C. Ragin, editor. All of the material has been handed in and made up, and will
be sent to the publishers by the end of the week. How long it will be after that before it
appears cannot be definitely estimated. Any student wishing to have extra copies sent off may obtain them at student rates
by seeing J. H. Henderlite, the business manager of the magazine, by the end of this week. Some very good
talent appeared when the call was issued for tryouts, and the editor expects to put out several of the best
issues the college has seen in several years. Some of the members of the editorial staff are as follows: Crosswell
Ragin, Jack Mathews, Vereen Bell, Allen Whitehead, Bill Monroe, Duncan McBryde, Alex Little, Woodrow Caligan, Reeves Pope, Riley Powell, Don
Davies, and Jimmy Bryan. Several contributions have also been made by Bob Covington, of the class of ’29.

Deputation Goes to Banner Elk

This past weekend nine Davidson men, Roger Enlow, Stuart Meacham, Fergie Wood, Charlie Sisson, Lawrence Smith, Mac McClure, Johnnie Preston,
Nat Spear, and Carl Pritchett, of “Y” work, went to Banner Elk to hold services as a deputation from this
school. And they did more than hold services: “Boy, we surely had a big time,” said Carl Pritchett when interviewed.
The deputation left here Saturday morning for that school, comparatively small in numbers but great in its influence and work,
andarrived the same afternoon at about 3 o'clock. Banner Elk is situated on a river in Avery County in the
Northwestern mountains in a most beautiful section of the country, but in a place where until lately education and Christianity
have had little chance. But now, through the admirable work of those in charge there, both are making great headway.
The deputation’s first act upon arriving was to get into their bathing suits, break the ice from around the edge
of the lake, and go swimming. Rather a queer action on the part of sensible, cultured men, but it was
done nevertheless. It seems that it grew out of a dare given on Wednesday night after the weekly Freshman reception
had been held. Carl Pritchett, feeling warm and comfortable by the fire, and perhaps imagining that it was as warm
outside as it was in, was suddenly seized with inspiration. He dared anybody to go in swimming with him at
Banner Elk the following weekend. The rest, being prone to show their fearlessness, took him up. And so it was
that 4 o'clock Saturday afternoon found the above-mentioned gentlemen swimming gently along with the icicles, and with their knees so
stiff that “we didn’t know we even had joints there.” It's lucky, though, that they went in Saturday, because on
the following day the river was completely frozen over.

On Saturday night the entertainment consisted of a Hallowe'en party. Fergie Wood and Mac McClure were the chief storytellers, and
a hilarious evening was enjoyed by all. Next morning, Sunday, the more serious work began. All the boys had Sunday
School classes, and then at the church hour Mac McClure preached. That afternoon the members of the deputation scattered out,
going to all the different mountain missions in that section and holding services. One of the most interesting missions was
at Arbordale. Here, according to Carl Pritchett, he heard some of the finest singing in his life. There were only
twenty members present, but they sang with that feeling and simplicity that is so often lost in some of the
ultra-civilized city churches. Mr. Pritchett added that after the service the song leader, who he had noticed had a tremendous
voice, came up and (Continued on page 6)

SIX MEN TAPPED FOR O.D.K. AT FALL TAP DAY SERVICE

Freshman Cake Race Will be Held Friday

Tomorrow the Athletic Department of Davidson will hold a cake race for the Freshman class. All Freshmen who are not
out for football and who are not physically disabled are eligible to participate. This race will be a two or
two and a half mile race which will start from the stadium, go to the fourth tee on the golf
course, then will follow the road leading to the Concord road, and will take the Concord road back to the
stadium.

This race is the first of its type that has ever been run at Davidson for Freshmen. The object of
this is to find some men in the Freshman class who have the ability to run and who will make
the college good track men, but who have never known their ability to do so. These races will be held
annually for Freshmen and the coaches urge that all the Freshmen not out for football or not physically disabled to
come out for this race. There will be fifteen prizes given for the winners of this race, the winners to
have their choice of the prizes. The prizes given are as follows:

Smith’s Boarding House—1 cake.
Hallum's Boarding House—1 cake.
Hotel—1 cake.
Bohannan’s—1 cake.
Kimbrell’s Boarding House—1 cake.
Thompson's Boarding House—1 cake.
College Inn—1 cake.
Johnson's Barber Shop—4 haircuts.
Norton’s Barber Shop—2 haircuts.
Britts—1 pair of silk socks.
Globe—1 necktie.
White Drug Co.—$1.00 in trade.
Stetson “D” Picture Show—1 week of tickets.

Large Number Report to Call for ’31 Rifle Team

Men From Last Year to Form Nucleus of Team

The first steps in the formation of the R.O.T.C. 1931 rifle team were taken this last Monday, November 3, when
a meeting was called by Colonel Scott and Cadet Captain Brock for all members of the R.O.T.C. who were interested
in trying out for the team. Ninety-two men reported at this meeting, from which number twenty men must be selected.
A good many men from last year’s team are back in school this year, but they will have no better
chance than Freshmen, as each year’s team is chosen from the ten highest scores. From these, fifteen will shoot each
week and the ten highest scores are taken. From these, twenty men are chosen and the scores are sent in.

The matches for next year have not been definitely settled yet, but forty-five contracts for correspondence matches have been sent
out. In this type of match, the teams fire at their respective schools and the pledged scores of the matches
are exchanged. The first of these matches will begin the week of January 31, and five or six matches will
be completed that week, and every other week until March 28. These matches are with organizations from Cuba to the
Philippines and all over the United States. One match is scheduled with the New York Stock Exchange. Several shoulder-to-shoulder matches
have been scheduled with N.C. State, Clemson, and Gastonia Rifle Club.

Dr. Herman Schneider, president of the University of Cincinnati, hopes to eliminate many of the complexities of university organization by
providing for five major university divisions: liberal arts, economics, or engineering and commerce, human adjustments, physical and mental health, and
fine arts, the last four corresponding to the divisions of mankind’s professional activities.

Brock, King, McCall, McClure, McLean, and Sisson Constitute New Additions to Circle

ARE ALL SENIORS

Dr. Currie Delivers Brief Address at Initiation

On last Tuesday morning, in Chambers Auditorium, students witnessed the observation of fall tap day by Omicron Delta Kappa, one
of the most impressive ceremonies offered during the college year. Six men were tapped, thus being signified of the invitation
to them to join the circle. These men were: Thad Brock, R. M. King, J. D. McCall, A. B. McClure,
A. W. McLean, and A. Sisson. They are all members of the Senior class.

After the devotion, led by Dean Rusk, Dr. Currie, of the Department of Political Science, gave a short history of
Omicron Delta Kappa and told of its purposes. W. W. Fraley presided over the actual ceremony. As he struck the
gavel, a member of the circle rose, went into the student body, and tapped the initiate. The man tapped signified
his acceptance by following the old member to the rostrum. There he was welcomed and decorated with the colors of
the fraternity.

Thad Brock, from Barium Springs, N.C., is an active athlete, and is judge of the Court of Control. He was
captain of the 1929 football team, and he has won varsity letters in wrestling and track. He belongs to Kappa
Sigma social fraternity, as well as Sigma Delta Psi, honorary athletic fraternity.

R. M. King, business manager of Quips and Cranks, comes from Nashville, Tenn. He is a member of Kappa Alpha,
was an assistant football manager, and served on the class committee for Junior speaking. He is also treasurer of the
North Carolina Collegiate Press Association.

J. D. McCall, of Salisbury, N.C., is captain of the track team for this year. He has won his varsity
letter in football, and has played class basketball. McCall belongs to Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

A. B. McClure, vice-president of the Senior class, has his home in Rabun Gap, Ga. McClure is a member of
the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet and active in welfare and evangelistic work both on and off the campus. He is a member
of Eta Sigma Phi and Cercle Français, honorary fraternities. (Continued on page 6)

Press Convention Held in Greenville

The twentieth semi-annual convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association was held in Greenville at East North Carolina Teachers’
College last Thursday, October 30, extending through November 2. Greenville, the hub of Eastern Carolina, is located in the heart
of the bright leaf tobacco belt and is the second largest bright leaf tobacco market in the world.

This association is composed of representatives of different news publications from various colleges and universities in North Carolina. It convenes
in a different city each year, being held in High Point last spring. The first meeting was in the form
of a banquet which began at 8 o'clock Thursday night. Speeches were made welcoming all the delegates, and sponsors from
many colleges were also present.

Friday morning a business meeting and a discussion group was held. Annuals, papers, and magazines were discussed first. An exchange
of ideas and suggestions was made by editors from various schools. In the afternoon a theatre party was given which
was greatly enjoyed by all present. That night, delegations from different colleges put on stunts. Saturday morning the final business
meeting was held, at which plans were made for (Continued on page 6)
