CHAPEL AT 8:25 DURING EXAMS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

SENIORS ARE EXEMPT FROM CHAPEL

Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 16, 1930 No. 15

DAVIDSON DEFEATS NORTH CAROLINA QUINTET 22-20

Y.M.C.A. Adopts New Plan for Vocational Guidance Work

Series of Discussions By Eminent Men To Be Published In February

Schwab, Huebner, Sloan, and Vance Among Most Prominent Contributors

McGUIRE IS IN CHARGE

Church Work, Business, Law, Medicine, Engineering, Journalism, and Salesmanship Among Subjects Treated

A series of vocational discussions in the form of newspaper articles with such eminent men as Charles M. Schwab, head of the United States Steel Corporation; Dr. S. S. Huebner, Professor of Insurance and Commerce at the Wharton School of Finance, University of Pennsylvania; Geo. A. Sloan, President of the Cotton Textile Institute, New York; and Dr. James I. Vance, of Nashville, Tenn., included among the authors, will be published in the Davidson each week, beginning in February, W. B. McGuire, Jr., Member of “Y” Cabinet and in charge of Vocational Guidance, announced today.

Heretofore, the annual Vocational Guidance Program, which is sponsored by the Y. M. C. A., has been in the nature of talks made by men representing different professions. However, as a variation from the past, these discourses will appear in written form. Each edition of the college paper will include an elaboration on one of the major professions, both as a whole and on its chief branches, written by men nationally known in their respective fields.

Eight outstanding professions will comprise the program as indicated in the following list: Church work, Business, Law, Medicine, Engineering, Journalism, Salesmanship, and Education.

“The purpose of this campaign is to help those undecided students, by giving information pertaining to various occupations, which may definitely help some undergraduate to find which one he is best suited for.” The main thought in these vocational themes, McGuire said, is to enlighten men on such facts as the income derived from certain professions, possibilities and opportunities open to the college man, chances of advancement, extent to which the respective (Continued on Page 5)

Graduates of Davidson Are Given Fellowships

Awards Provide for Additional Year of Study at Union Theological Seminary

Richmond Va., Jan. 16—Fellowship awards at Union Theological Seminary here which were recently announced by President Ben R. Lacy show that three of four appointees are graduates of Davidson College. L. M. McCutchen, ’27, of St. Charles, S. C., is the Moses D. Hoge Fellow; R. S. Wilson, ’27, Charleston, W. Va., will hold the Charles D. Larus Fellowship; W. A. Christian, Jr., ’27, Mobile, Ala., was declared the Salem Fellow; and J. N. Thomas, Washington and Lee graduate of Bedford, Va., is the Walter W. Moore Fellow. A. J. Kissling, St. Louis, Mo., was reappointed the Thos. Cary Johnson Fellow for a second year of study.

The Hoge and Larus Fellowships are resident fellowships, providing for a year’s additional study in the Graduate Department of Union Seminary. The Johnson, Salem and Moore Fellowships provide for graduate work either at Union or at some approved institution in this country or abroad.

Peabody Chosen As Head of Freshmen

Bruce Peabody, of Charlotte, N. C., was chosen President of the Freshman Class by a popular vote of the class Friday morning in chapel. Peabody is quite an outstanding man in the class, being on the Freshman football and basketball teams, and a member of the Dramatic Club. He is a pledged member of Pi Kappa Alpha, national social fraternity.

Hailing from Charlotte High School, Peabody shows outstanding prominence, as evinced by his enviable achievements. Among his honors, while there, are: President of the Mathematics Club; President of the Latin Circle; Vice-President of the Senior Class; President of the Hi-Y; Letterman in basketball, football, and baseball.

Monday morning, following his election, Peabody called a meeting of the class to elect a Vice-President. Out of five men nominated, two were eliminated in the first ballot. Those now in order for election are: U. B. Clark, Jr., Fayetteville, N. C.; J. D. Enochs, from Bluefield, W. Va.; and W. A. Flinn, from Atlanta, Ga. As yet, no date has been set for selection of a secretary-treasurer.

Gaston Solicitor Talks At “Y” Vesper Service

John G. Carpenter Asks Students’ Co-operation in Keeping Youth of Nation From Prison

Solicitor John G. Carpenter, of Gastonia, N. C., made a most eloquent plea at the “Y” Vesper Service Sunday night that those of us who have the advantages of attending such an institution as Davidson with its many uplifting associations should do our utmost to keep those of our age, brought up amidst less fortunate surroundings, out of our prisons and institutions of correction.

R. D. Russell read the scripture and introduced the speaker, and Bill McGavock and Alec Warren led in prayer.

“I am happy to say tonight,” said Mr. Carpenter, “that during the past week not one white boy or girl has been brought to our court in Gastonia for breaking the law. One of the things that is most distressing in my occupation is to see never-ending columns of young men and women coming up before our judges to be sentenced to terms in the penitentiary because the call of sin was so sweet to their ears. You men who have had opportunities so much greater than theirs can help these less fortunate brothers and sisters to see life in the right light. They are part of the responsibility Christ has given you as one of his followers. What are you going to do about it?”

Mr. Carpenter, out of his rich experiences with young men and women passing through the Gastonia court, gave us many examples of the “fine stuff” that was in many of these boys which he was able to bring out in them when he set them going again in a different environment with the ideals he gave them from the buckram-bound Bible he always kept in his office. He said that many people had criticized him for being too soft and easy for a prosecuting attorney, but that he was more than repaid by the letters he got from the boys he had helped. Almost all of them were going straight and leading successful lives in many different occupations. Several had taken extra schooling, entered the seminary, and are now splendid young ministers.

“There will always be men all around you who have not had the chances and influences you have had, who may either be strong useful citizens, or convicts on the chain gang, according as you discharge responsibility towards them. Will you bring them to the white path of hope in Jesus Christ?”

Notice to Seniors

The Senior Class Party given by the Faculty has been postponed from the weekend of February 22 until that of March 1. All Seniors are requested to turn in the names of the girls to be their guests for this occasion to Cecil Lawrence, who will arrange for the placing of girls in faculty homes.

Class of 1930 To Give Furnishings For Stage Of Memorial Auditorium

Gift Will Complete Stage Equipment Since Other Curtains Were Given Last Year

The gift of the class of 1930 has been chosen. A gift committee placed their recommendations before the Senior Class Tuesday morning and they were accepted by the class. The gift will consist of a valance, which is a short ornamental curtain hanging in front of the main curtain. In the middle of the valance will appear the Davidson seal. Including this gift will be a cyclorama, which is the rear curtain, and will hide the back wall of the stage. This gift will complete the furnishings of the stage in the new Chambers Building, present curtains having been given by the Class of 1929. The gift committee, which is composed of Bob Erckman as chairman, Frank Brown, Frank Gaffney, and FrontisJohnston and Bill McGavock considered several things which they thought would beautify and improve the campus. Among some considered were lights for the entrance to Chambers, a sidewalk leading to Chambers, and a number of others, but after lengthy consideration, they finally agreed on the gift mentioned above, feeling that it was necessary to complete the furnishings of the stage before starting external improvements.

Gridders Participate In Other Forms Of Sport

Members of the Davidson College football team are participating in many of the sports now in progress at Davidson, being candidates for the different teams according to their several abilities. The major sport of basketball claims but three of the lettermen—Proctor, Milton, and Mathis, while those out for the early track practice are McCall and Boyle. Coach Tilson is trying to use as many linemen as possible in wrestling, developing their alertness and strength; and an imposing array of gridiron players are daily drilling on the mat. The list includes Brock, Baker, Brohard, Christenbury, Warren, Conway, Baker, and Wilson. Of this number, the first five named have already won their letters in wrestling, and it seems likely that Conway will add his name to the roster before the mat season ends. A good number are also going out for baseball. Mathis, Proctor, Bradshaw, Milton, McQueen, Covington, and Parrish will try their skill on the diamond this season. Of this number, Proctor was on the team last year.

Famous Frenchman To Speak In March

Davidson College will have its part in the celebration of the hundredth anniversary of Romanticism in France, according to Doctor Watts of the Department of French. Arrangements have just been completed to bring to the college on March 26, Monsieur Marcel Bouteron, librarian of the Institut de France and well-known authority on Balzac and French Romanticism. In accordance with its plan to join the French in celebrating the anniversary of this literary movement, the Alliance Francaise, with which is affiliated the local Cercle Francais, has invited M. Bouteron, “le Prince des Balzaciens,” to spend three months in the United States and Canada. Davidson College considers itself very fortunate in being able to have this distinguished visitor. A great admirer of Balzac, M. Bouteron has literally devoted his life to a study of his work, and to a determined effort to uncover documents dealing with the life and works of this great author. The results of his researches have been published in several volumes. M. Bouteron is also the co-editor of a new edition of the author’s works. Not only is he well known for his writings, but also for his talent as a lecturer. He has been in demand often at Paris before different learned societies, and has also lectured in Germany, England, Holland, and Poland. His lectures are illustrated. He will speak on his favorite subject: Balzac. This is the third lecturer that the Cercle Francais has brought to Davidson within the last two years. Last year Monsieur and Madame Daniel Michenot of Strasbourg spent two days here, and later in the season Prof. Rene Hardre, of N. C. C. W., spoke to a large number of students in Shearer Hall. The Cercle Francais has the cooperation of the faculty committee on lectures in its efforts to have these outstanding figures visit the college.

Fine Speakers To Come Soon To Local Campus

Davidson Ministerial Band to Have Charge of Program Next Sunday

The committee which has charge of securing speakers for the regular Y. M. C. A. Vesper Service has been in communication with a great many speakers and organizations in an effort to get the high type of leaders for these services as there have been in the past. Davidson’s Ministerial Band, made up of those men in college who have dedicated their lives for full Christian service, will have charge of Vespers Sunday, January 26.

(Continued on Page 5)

Editor’s Announcement

The Editor of The Davidsonian wishes to announce that due to Mid-Term exams, which begin Friday and continue through the following week, there will be no issue of The Davidsonian on January 23. However, there will be a Davidsonian published January 30th, which is the week following exams. In view of the fact that the students will be busy during the next week, and also because members of the staff will have most of their time taken up with exams, it is thought best not to have an issue of the college paper during that week.

Wildcats Give Brilliant Exhibition To Overcome Powerful Tarheel Five

Pritchett Leads Davidson Scoring While Harper Leads for Carolina

BILL GOODSON STARS

Wildcats’ Five-Man Defense Proves Superior to Carolina’s Man-for-Man System

A stubborn five-man defense and a fast attack enabled the Davidson Wildcats to down the North Carolina Tar Heels and come out on the not-much larger end of a 22 to 20 score in Charlotte last Saturday night. The Wildcats had things pretty much their own way during most of the first half, but the Tar Heels came back during the second stanza with a fight that was not to be denied and were stopped only two points short of victory. It was a game that kept the Central High gym rocking as the large crowd alternately cheered one team, then another; and in the last minutes of the game when Carolina had crept up to within one point of the leaders, the structure seemed almost ready to burst from the excitement and heat of the contest.

Both offensively and defensively, Bill Goodson, flashy Davidson guard, played a game you read about but seldom see. Time and again he would take the ball away from the Tar Heels and then carry it back down the court almost singlehanded. His dribbling was beautiful and the way in which he eluded man after man and still maintained control of the ball was almost uncanny. Then in the last minute of play when he had been fouled and given a free shot that would probably cinch the game if made, he stood on the foul line and, as cool as though in practice, dropped the ball through the hoop. Carl Pritchett played as good a game as he has turned in this year and led his team in scoring. This he did in spite of the fact that he had two men guarding him whenever he got close to the goal. His floorwork matched Goodson’s and he was quite successful in locating the basket. He was forced out of the game near the last by a bad foot which had been hurt in the Wofford game.

Carolina got off to a one-point lead when a free shot was sunk, but the Wildcats came back to put in three field goals and take a lead which was not relinquished for the rest of the game. They lengthened it to 16 to 10 at half time. Carolina came back strong in the last period and with four minutes left to play, had carried the score to 21 to 20. Goodson made a foul shot to bring the count to 22 to 20 and a few minutes later the gun shot ended the melee. “Puny” Harper, giant Tar Heel center, was high point man, getting eight points to lead Pritchett by one point. His work under the basket was good and he generally was able to get the tip-off at center, thus giving his team a distinct advantage. Marpet played a good game also. The real story of the contest was the superiority of Davidson’s five-man defense over the Tar Heels’ man-for-man system. The five-man, as worked by the Wildcats Saturday, was practically flawless while Carolina’s defense leaked at times. This defect was especially evident during the first half.

Davidson (22) Position Carolina (20)
Pritchett (7) Forward Cleland
Johnston (c) (3) Forward Neiman (1)
Rusk (2) Center Harper (8)
Goodson (5) Guard Brown

(Continued on Page 5)