THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1930

Winston-Salem Alumni To Meet December 15

Dr. Walter L. Lingle Has Accepted Invitation to Speak—Editorial Comment From The Journal

William H. Neal, ’17, president of the Winston-Salem Davidson alumni chapter, has called a meeting of Davidson men in and near Winston-Salem for the night of December 15th, and has invited Dr. Walter L. Lingle, ’92, president of Davidson, and Dr. Oren Moore, ’08, of Charlotte, as speakers. Both have accepted the invitation. Details of the dinner-meeting have not yet been announced, but the officers, Mr. Neal, R. S. Haltiwanger, '14, vice-president, and M. E. Miller, '26, secretary-treasurer, plan to exert considerable effort between now and December 15th. This chapter met last year for a reorganization, and approximately 45 alumni attended the meeting.

The Winston-Salem Journal commented editorially upon the approaching meeting, and with the caption, “Doctor Lingle Coming,” had this to say:

“Alumni and friends of Davidson College are looking forward with considerable interest to the coming here on December 15 of Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of that well-known institution. Since this will be his first visit here since he assumed leadership of the Presbyterian College, he will be greeted with all the more enthusiasm. Already he has demonstrated in splendid manner his ability to discharge the duties of his position capably and constructively.

“Davidson College has approximately one hundred alumni in and around Winston-Salem. And besides this number of graduates, the college has a host of friends and supporters here. Davidson’s fame for scholarship, prowess in athletics, and distinction in all-around college work have given the institution front rank in academic circles.

“Alumni and friends of Davidson will be eager to hear from President Lingle himself about the plans in mind for the further development of the college. The college owes no little of its success to a happy blending of conservatism with substantial progress.”

Engagements

“Mr. and Mrs. Morgan B. Speir, of Charlotte, announce the engagement of their daughter, Mary Coley, to Dr. Williamson Zeigler Bradford, of New York, the wedding to take place in January.” Dr. Bradford is a 1924 graduate of Davidson, took his medical work at the University of Pennsylvania, and after doing part of his intern work at the Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn, became connected with Bellevue Hospital in New York. Dr. Bradford is a native of Charlotte, and later will come to that city to practice.

10 Faculty Members In 1930 “Who’s Who”

Ten members of the Davidson College faculty and administration are listed in the 1930-1931 edition of “Who’s Who of America.” This number, however, includes the name of Dr. W. J. Martin, former president of Davidson, and now president-emeritus of the institution and president of General Assembly’s Training School in Richmond, Va. Eliminating his name, there are nine Davidson people in the latest edition, which is the same number appearing in 1929-1930.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson, is the only addition to the roster. In addition to Dr. Lingle and Dr. Martin, others listed are Dr. Frazer Hood, Dr. Thomas W. Lingle, Prof. Scott C. Lyon, Dr. John W. MacConnell, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr. C. M. Richards, and Dr. M. E. Sentelle. Of the list of ten, seven of them are alumni of Davidson. The three Davidson faculty members from other colleges are Dr. Arbuckle, of Hampden-Sydney, and Dr. Hood and Prof. Lyon, both of Southwestern.

Alumni Marriages

Speir-Wilson

Morgan Brower Speir, Jr., of Charlotte, 1926 graduate of Davidson, and Miss Marjorie Elouise Wilson, of Champaign, Ill., were married in the First Congregational Church of Champaign on Saturday, November 22. Mrs. Speir is a gifted musician and is a graduate of the University of Illinois, where she was an active leader. Since graduating from Davidson, Mr. Speir has been connected with the Independence Trust Company, and has a responsible position in the insurance department. After January 1st Mr. and Mrs. Speir will be at home in Charlotte. Edwin Speir, ’29, of Greenville, S. C., and Nat Speir, ’32, student at Davidson, were in their brother’s wedding.

Crosland-Armstrong

“Mrs. John B. Armstrong, of Barnwell, S. C., announces the marriage of her daughter, Lavinia Moore, to Robert Moseley Crosland, of Charlotte, on June 15th, at the Presbyterian manse, York, S. C.” This announcement was just made Sunday. Mr. Crosland was in the class of 1928 at Davidson, and since leaving here has been playing in numerous tennis tournaments and is now connected with a sporting goods house in Charlotte. Mr. and Mrs. Crosland are at home at 4 Hertford Road, Myers Park, Charlotte, N. C.

New Addresses

Davidson alumni are constantly changing their addresses, and during the course of a year’s time, well over 700 corrections are made on the records of the alumni secretary. Some of the recent ones, not mentioned in the “Alumni Personal” column, include:

Hadley A. York, N. Y.
R. M. Williams, '94, 152 Cleveland St., Fort Myers, Fla.
J. M. Williams, Jr., ’25, 7716 Buffalo Ave., Niagara Falls, N. Y.
H. L. Shaw, Jr., ’26, 900 Riverside Drive, New York, N. Y.
P. H. McAlpine, ’22, 1609 Euclid Ave., Charlotte.
A. F. Black, '10, 1353 Peacock Ave., Columbus, Ga.
A. J. Cox, '29, 2834 Whittier Road, Los Angeles, Calif.
A. S. Rose, '28, 170 Kent St., Brookline, Mass.
J. A. McIver and W. T. McIver, both of ’25, 22-42 Ketchum St., Long Island, New York.
Rev. R. D. Dodge, ’09, Ocala, Fla.
R. G. Sparrow, ’88, 1170 5th Ave., New York, N. Y.
R. H. McMillan, Knoxville, Tenn.
J. I. Yohannon, ’11, The Receiving Ship at N. Y. Navy Yard, Brooklyn, N. Y.
W. C. Knight, ’31, Palace Hotel, Volo, Greece.
D. P. Douglas, ’20, 510 N. 21st St., Birmingham, Ala.
L. C. Wadsworth, ’29, Live Oak, Fla.
C. C. Carson, Jr., ’28, Aetna Life Insurance Co., Capital Bank & Loan Bldg., Topeka, Kansas.
E. Hill, ’21, 38th St., New York.
24, Arnold Hotel, Cambridge, Mass—(IP)—Democracy, an unknown quantity on the Harvard campus for many a year, is about to be introduced on that campus, if efforts being made by President Lowell and the other administrators are successful. The administration is seeking to bring an end to the exclusive cliques at Harvard, and to have the undergraduates of all classes and degrees of wealth mix more freely.

Davidson Represented In Special Editions

Both Charlotte Papers Published Unusually Large Papers Last Week—Alumni Photographs Used

A hurried glance through the two large editions last week of The Charlotte Observer and The Charlotte News, known respectively as “The Progress Edition,” and “Junior League Edition,” shows that Davidson College and her alumni were well represented throughout. Any omissions of names below is unintentional, but is because the alumni secretary missed these in his rapid survey.

In the “Progress Edition” of The Observer, there were two pictures of Davidson’s buildings, Eumenean Literary Society hall and the Old Chambers Building.Photograph of Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson, an article by Dr. Lingle telling of the beneficent gift of the late James B. Duke and the benefits derived therefrom, and an article about Dr. Lingle’s first year at Davidson were included. Davidson's alumni, whose photographs were used, were Mayor Geo. E. Wilson, Jr., '10; Rev. H. G. Bedinger, ’11; Dr. W. S. Rankin, '01; J. Caldwell McDonald, ’15; and Spencer R. Crawford, ’16. An article told about Mayor Wilson’s presidency of the Wilson-Pettit Motor Company, another about Mr. Bedinger’s new work as president of Flora Macdonald College, another about Dr. W. S. Rankin’s direction of the hospital benefits of the Duke fund, and another by Dr. Rankin, outlining the future program. An article told of the growth of McDonald’s Service Stations, headed by Mr. McDonald, and one told of Mr. Cranford’s managership of the Lowell Roller Covering Company. In The Charlotte News’ “Junior League Edition,” Mayor Wilson congratulated the organization on its good work and extended best wishes; F. T. Cansler, Jr., '10, wrote a poem entitled, “Husband’s Prayer at Midnight,” and S. T. Henderson, ‘17, wrote a humorous article, which has a head, “League’s Husband Like Bruise on Gnat’s Heel.”

Births
Mr. Alexander E. Cook, ’21, and Mrs. Cook, of Fayetteville, announce the birth of a son, Alexander Eugene, Jr., on November 18th.

Olympia, Wash.—(IP)—It is thought possible that a constitutional amendment may be submitted to Washington voters in the near future, calling for the permission to use the Bible as a textbook in the public schools of the state. Since Washington became a state, religious education in common schools has been forbidden by the constitution. The question has been taken through the courts by interested individuals and organizations.

Alumni Personals
Rev. J. H. Grey, Jr., ’23, who studied last year at Edinburgh University, is now at 202 McDowell St., Lexington, Va. Dr. L. P. Cox, ’25, is now practicing medicine in Des Moines, Iowa. He is at 417 Bankers’ Trust Bldg. Dr. Cox interned at a Mobile, Ala., hospital. Rev. J. B. Sloan, Jr., ’23, is studying for a Ph.D. degree in theology at the Yale Divinity School. He is living at 490 Orchard St., New Haven, Conn. Paul B. Price, ’24, is teaching at Marianna, Ark. J. H. McEwen, ’14, has been elected president of the Kiwanis Club of Burlington. Friends will be glad to learn that R. J. Alderman, father of B. G. Alderman, ’28, of Alcolu, S. C., is recuperating from a heart attack suffered at Fayetteville, en route to New York. J. P. Harmon, ’28, of Oxford, is on the executive committee to make plans for the north central North Carolina conference basketball play. Dr. Henry Louis Smith, ’81, of Greensboro, president-emeritus of Washington and Lee and former president of Davidson, will speak at the commencement exercises of Greensboro College. Augustus Leazer, ‘11, who has been in charge of the airport at Raleigh, has been promoted to the managership of the Atlanta airport. An account of this promotion and a photo of Mr. Leazer recently appeared in The Raleigh News and Observer. John R. Jones, Jr., '18, of Albemarle, is president of the Stanly County Relief Association. Rev. J. S. McFall, ’26, will go to Aliceville, Ala., December 1st, to become pastor of three churches. He has been located at Morven, N. C. Dr. John Q. Myers, '06, of Charlotte, is one of the stockholders in the newly formed corporation, Tranquil Realty Co., and E. H. Graham, '13, of Goldsboro, is a stockholder in the Goldsboro Box Company, recently granted a charter. A. K. Goodman, '04, of Mt. Ulla, was a visitor in the alumni office last week. C. E. Houston, ’26, B. A. Wilson, ’28, and E. R. Houston, ’28, are all residing together at 65 Morton St., New York. Mr. C. E. Houston obtained his law degree from New York University last June, and is now with a law firm in that city. Campbell W. Ansley, '17, is with the Union Realty Company, of High Point. Mr. Ansley was in Davidson for a short while Monday morning.

Garland Court
Printing and Engraving of Every Description
J. A. CANNON
311 Watts
STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

Rome, Ga., Is Included On Four-Day Itinerary
Meeting in Atlanta Postponed Until Later Upon Advice of Chapter President—Davidson People to Attend

Plans have necessarily been altered for one of the series of meetings planned for Georgia, Tennessee, and Alabama. Upon the advice of the president of the Atlanta chapter, a meeting of the Davidson men in the Georgia metropolis has been postponed until sometime in January. Although no definite acceptance of December 1st as a meeting time for the Rome, Ga., alumni has been received, this has been suggested, and may possibly replace the Atlanta gathering. Alumni or officers in Chattanooga, Nashville, and Louisville, have all agreed upon the suggested dates of December 2, 3, and 4, respectively, for their meetings, and arrangements are now being made for all of them. The alumni secretary has recently sent out to each alumnus in and near those cities a list of the Davidson men thereabouts, and additions and corrections are being received this week. Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, professor of physical education, and Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, will attend this series of alumni meetings. Both of these men have had experience before alumni gatherings. Capt. Pritchett attended several last spring that included Rome, Atlanta, Thomasville, Jacksonville, Orlando, Tampa, and Miami, and Mr. Milton has visited more than one time most of the 25 chapters Davidson has in existence. It is also the plan of the alumni secretary to have Captain Pritchett appear before the student bodies of several preparatory schools located along the route, particularly in the cities on the itinerary.

Washington—(IP)—The American Council on Education has undertaken the development of a new system of standardized tests for college students which it is believed may revolutionize methods of higher education. The plan is to have a student’s advancement depend on actual achievements in learning rather than in spending a certain time, such as a semester, in a certain study. It is proposed to construct a graduated series of standard knowledge tests for every subject commonly studied in colleges. The council is working under a grant of $500,000 from the Rockefeller Foundation.

Moscow—(IP)—A plan of universal compulsory education, which Russia has been unable heretofore to carry out because of a lack of teachers, schools, and textbooks, has been put into operation this year after these important gaps in the system were filled.

LANDLORDS
After the fire drives out your tenants and stops your rent income, where are you going to get the money to pay taxes and other fixed expenses during the time your property is being repaired and rebuilt with your fire insurance money? Rent Insurance will offset the income loss during the period of forced untenantability. Let us tell how it protects your investment and insures your rent income.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McAlister Carson (’13), Manager
M. B. Speir (’26)