+ - 2 + ane EE “ae DECEMBER 16 Bai “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON,
N. C., DECEMBER 11, 1930 No. 13 DEAN RUSK AND TOM HILL NOMINATED FOR RHODES SCHOLARSHIP Announcements Made Monday by
Rhodes Scholarship Committee as to Winners of Semi-Finals ARE OUTSTANDING MEN Awards to be Made December 10th and 11th to
Four Men Davidson College scored another triumph in the intellectual field last Monday, December 8, when simultaneous announcements were made
to the effect that two Davidson men from as many states had been selected by the Rhodes committees of their
respective states, as candidates for the four Rhodes scholarships that are to be awarded by the regional committee at a
meeting in Atlanta on December 10 and 11. These two men are Dean Rusk, ’31, of Atlanta, Ga., and Thomas
E. Hill, ’29, of Richmond, Va. Hill will be remembered here not only for his high scholastic standing, but for
his versatility and leadership in religious, social, and athletic circles as well. Among his distinctions while at Davidson were: Omicron
Delta Kappa, Alpha Phi Epsilon, Phi Beta Kappa, captain of wrestling team, International Relations Club, Court of Control, secretary and
vice-president of the Ministerial Band, and secretary-treasurer of the Senior Class. His enviable reputation as a wrestler is one of
his outstanding achievements, and will not soon be forgotten. Rusk, with one more semester of college work ahead of him,
has already achieved distinction of the highest calibre, ranking high in the social, religious, athletic, scholastic and military phases of
student activity. Besides this, he has earned all of his college expenses, partly by working in the Davidson Bank, partly
by work in the Student Store, of which he is one of the student managers, and by other means. He
holds the rank of major in the unit of the Reserve Officers Training Corps here, is a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa, president of the Y. M. C. A., outstanding in varsity basketball and tennis, and in many other phases
of endeavor. Dr. G. R. Vowles, the Davidson member of the North Carolina Rhodes committee, has expressed his gratification at
the outcome of the men of Davidson thus far, and says that Davidson has an unusually good chance to be
represented at Oxford next year. J. R. McGregor is “Y” Vesper Speaker Contrasts Business Firms With the Firm of Our
Lord, Jesus Christ Last Sunday the “Y” vesper services were conducted by the Rev. J. R. McGregor, pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church of Lexington, N. C. Dr. McGregor spoke on the subject: “The Firm of the Lord Jesus Christ.”
Billy Rule was the song leader for the service, and led the gathering in two songs, “The Son of God
Goes Forth to War,” and “The Church’s One Foundation.” Dan LaFar read for the scripture, Ephesians 1:15-23, and following this
Nab Armfield and John Howard made short prayers. A violin solo was next given by Don Leeper to conclude the
preliminaries to the service. Dr. McGregor spoke on the advertisements of various cities and towns. He told of how the
city of Atlanta spent $700,000 for advertising and the citizens claim that this advertising pays. Four hundred and sixty million
dollars were expended for the Firm of Jesus Christ last year, but nevertheless the population grew a great deal more
than the firm. In Davidson County where I live, the population has grown three times as much as the church
has since 1916, he said. “Your father’s firm may be twenty-five, fifty, or seventy-five years old, but this firm that
we are all members of, the age of it is not known. Then, too, your father’s firm probably had several
hands to lead the (Continued on page 5) Campaign Initiated for Barium Springs The Barium Springs campaign, under the leadership
of Carl Pritchett, Y. M. C. A. secretary, has gotten off to a unique and auspicious start. Two days before
the solicitations started, Mr. Pritchett went down to the post office, opened his box, and there found a letter addressed
to the Y. M. C. A. Inside it was an anonymous gift of thirty dollars in cash. Thus the campaign
was started, and it has progressed in just as encouraging a manner, according to Mr. Pritchett. The first solicitation was
made on Friday night at 9 o’clock. At this time the members of the “Y” cabinet and a few others,
comprising a group of about twenty, went around to the different dormitories and afforded the Davidson students the first opportunity
to make their contributions. The cabinet will continue to make these solicitations until everyone has had an opportunity to contribute
to this cause. At present about two-thirds of the students have contributed, and the figures show that if the other
third do as well proportionately, the goal of $1,000 will be reached or perhaps surpassed. Mr. Pritchett expressed the appreciation
the Y. M. C. A. feels for the way in which the student body has responded to this cause and
further stated that we have every reason to be optimistic about the outcome of the campaign. Dr. W. L. Lingle
Attends Many Church Meetings Presides Over Meeting of Federal Council of Churches Dr. W. L. Lingle attended the annual meeting
of the executive committee of the Federal Council of Churches, held in Washington last week. Dr. Lingle also attended the
American Congress of Home Missions which met in Washington December 2 to 5. The Federal Council met in the New
York Avenue Church. This church is noted for the fact that seven presidents have been regular attendants, including Abraham Lincoln.
Dr. Lingle is chairman of the executive council and acted as presiding officer during the meeting. He also acted as
chairman of a committee of three that laid before the President of the United States some resolutions in reference to
the United States’ entry into the World Court. The President received them very graciously and seemed to appreciate the resolutions
a lot. On Thursday Dr. Lingle presided over the meeting of the Home Mission Congress. It may be mentioned that
Dr. Lingle also went to New York, where he had a very satisfactory conference with the Carnegie Corporation (Continued on
page 6) Mr. Unger’s Death News was received here at Davidson last Monday morning to the effect that Coach “Doc”
Unger’s father had died. Coach Unger was at his father’s bedside at his death. No particulars were available as to
the cause of Mr. Unger’s death. On Wednesday night, December 3, Coach Unger received a telegram which stated that his
father was very ill and was not expected to live. He left immediately for his home in West Point, Mississippi,
and no word was heard concerning the condition of his father until the message last Monday, telling of his death.
Coach Unger came to Davidson this year to act as assistant Freshman football and as head coach of wrestling, and
in his brief stay here he has become very popular with the students with whom he has come in contact,
and it is with great sorrow that we hear of his recent bereavement. Program Arranged for “Y” Christmas Vespers To
Climax a Year of Most Inspirational Vesper Services Davidson Has Ever Known GLEE CLUB WILL PLAY Impressive Stage Decorations, Special
Music, and Student Officiation Planned Davidson's annual Christmas vesper services will be held in Chambers Auditorium on Sunday, December 14,
bringing to a climax a year of the most inspirational vesper services Davidson has ever known. This service, following up
the series of lectures by Dr. Harris E. Kirk, will be the last which Davidson students will attend during the
year 1931. For many years it has been one of Davidson’s most cherished and traditional customs to hold a sacred
vesper service before the Christmas holidays, and those who have witnessed this Christmas vesper service testify that it is one
of the most beautiful of all held during the year. As has always been the custom, the college glee club
and the violin ensemble, together with the organ, will furnish music for the occasion. The stage of the auditorium will
be decorated as the occasion demands, and though the speakers and music will be hidden from the audience, all can
be clearly heard. There will be no special speaker, and it is planned to have a scripture reading followed by
responsive readings. Also, the several students participating will read selections from the Bible, including the well-known story of the “Three
Wise Men,” etc. Programs will be printed for the occasion, and it is expected that visitors from Charlotte and elsewhere
will be present, for this service has come to be widely known as one of the most impressive ones held
anywhere. Sophomore Banquet to be December 17 Informal Affair Will Be Given as a Buffet Supper TheSophomore Class is planning
to hold its annual banquet Wednesday night, December 17, the night before the holidays begin. We have been hearing much
about it, and, according to Charlie Norfleet, president of the class, we shall hear still more about the banquet after
it has taken place. The banquet hall in Chambers Building is to be the scene of this festive occasion, and
the class is planning for this to be truly festive. The banquet will be an informal affair, of course, and
will be given in the form of a buffet supper. There will be a short program consisting of songs by
the class, and by a quartet, and probably a solo or two. A short comedy skit is also being planned.
It has been announced that Stumpy Sugg is to be the toastmaster, therefore an especially good time is assured. The
whole class is behind the banquet as is shown by the fact that almost the entire class has already bought
tickets for it. Charlie Norfleet wants it understood that this affair will not take the place of the Sophomore house
party. That event will occur in the spring as usual. This banquet is given with the plan of stimulating in
the entire class a better feeling of friendship and of class spirit, and to send the entire class off for
the holidays with a bright outlook for a merry Christmas and a good start for a happy New Year.

Wildcats Complete 33 Forward Passes
Davidson Gains 444 Yards on Aerials Completed During Season

The Davidson Wildcats were outpassed by their opponents during the past football season, statistics for the season recently compiled show,
and they completed one more forward than did the Wildcats. Davidson’s (Continued on page 6)

Juniors Entertain at Xmas Week End

Many interesting features have been planned for the entertainment during the Christmas house party to be held this weekend, including
a free show, vaudeville, a Christmas tree reception and possibly another interesting feature. Following the precedent of last year’s class,
the Junior Class of this year will sponsor the house party and all the details of the program, which promises
to be one of the most interesting Christmas entertainments ever held here. The Y. M. C. A. has been called
on to collaborate with the Juniors and help in any way possible. All boys have been urged to have girls
up this weekend and from present indications a large number will be here. A free show, beginning at 4 o'clock
on Saturday afternoon, will start off the long series of programs which will last far into the night. The next
program in the nature of a vaudeville will begin at 7:15. Some real headliners feature the vaudeville program. The Davidson
College Orchestra will present an act of their own originality to start the program off. A few of the other
features will be entertainers from the Burkhimer School of Esthetic Dancing in Charlotte, who will present two acts, one a
tap dancing act and the other an acrobatic dance. “Mutt” Bruns, a member of the Converse Glee Club last year
and remembered for her much enjoyed rendition of popular songs here in the glee club program, will be present to
entertain once more. Vereen Bell and Horace Ervin, the Juniors’ talented artists of humor, will entertain also in this vaudeville
program. In addition to this galaxy of star performers, four more numbers are arranged which promise to provide as much
fun as those named. (Continued on page 6)

Debating Team Tryouts To be Held December 16

To Be Held in Shearer Hall December 16th

Tryouts for the debate, “Resolved: That the United States should adopt the policy of free trade,” will be held in
Shearer Hall December 16, Tuesday evening, at 8:30. The judges will consist of three of the faculty of Davidson College.
Only upperclassmen will be eligible for the debate. Eight men are to be chosen together with four alternates, making a
total of twelve men. Jas. A. Jones will have charge of these tryouts. A definite schedule has not been arranged,
but it is believed that the Davidson debating team will have about twelve meets with some of the other leading
colleges of the country.

Christmas Seals

The Christmas season is here once more, and with it the sale of Tuberculosis Christmas Seals. To make this sale
of seals produce funds at all adequate to what is waiting to be accomplished will require a sympathetic understanding on
the part of the public. Seventy-five per cent of the proceeds are for community use and are used largely in
correction of conditions of undernourishment. “Despite the fact that tuberculosis is fifth on the roster of diseases in toll of
human lives among all ages, it is first among those in the first decade of maturity.” Persons may have active
tuberculosis unknown to themselves or anyone else, as a result of the childhood form which was never recognized, but allowed
to develop into activity.” The funds realized from the sale of seals supply the “ounce of prevention” in our war
on tuberculosis. DO YOUR BIT! BUY TUBERCULOSIS CHRISTMAS SEALS!

FIRST OF SERIES OF OTT’S LECTURES GIVEN HERE BY DR. H. E. KIRK

“Man’s Place in Nature” is General Theme of Whole Series of Talks

TO GIVE FIVE LECTURES

Names Three Common Obstacles to Students’ Acceptance of Christianity

On Monday morning, December 8, in Chambers Auditorium, Dr. Harris E. Kirk delivered an inspirational lecture on the subject, “The
Insignificance of Man's Abode.” This was the first of a group of addresses provided for by the Otts fund on
the general theme, “Man's Place in Nature.” The speaker is a native of Tennessee, a graduate of Southwestern University, and
has been pastor of the Franklin Street Church, Baltimore, for the past twenty-five years.

Dr. Kirk expressed his pleasure in being at Davidson for his series of addresses, saying that he had always wanted
to visit the school which sent such fine young men to Baltimore. “Of all the colleges in the United States,”
said the speaker, “I know of none which has exerted a more uplifting influence in fields of post-graduate study than
has Davidson.” In presenting his themes for the week, Dr. Kirk said that there were three objections to religion in
the hearts of people today which he would like to approach and discuss briefly. The first was that the controversy
that exists today makes it impossible to place Christianity on a religious plane above other religions and Christ above other
great religious teachers. The second was that modern knowledge and Biblical criticism made it impossible to attach as much importance
as our forefathers did to the supposed truths of early Christianity. The third was that the early ideal of Christian
life, when expressed in lives today, tends to make them somewhat effeminate and out of tune with those of modern
society. “The subject is too broad to be taken up fully,” said Dr. Kirk, “therefore, I can only break it
into parts, leaving it in a simpler form for you to ponder upon.” At this point, the speaker entered upon
his first subject, “The Insignificance of Man's Abode.” “It takes courage to look into the eyes of a star as
it looks down upon us in an air of aloofness and cold haughtiness,” he said. “In the Psalms, David expressed
his reactions as he sat and looked up into the heavens better than anyone else has ever done. Modern man,
with all of his knowledge, cannot answer as well as that shepherd did as he wrote, ‘When I consider thy
heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained; what is man, that thou
art mindful of him, and the son of man that thou visitest him? For thou hast made him a little
lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honor.’” Dr. Kirk gave illustrations showing the immensity of
the universe in which the earth is like a mere particle of dust in a sunbeam, pointing out the fact
that it takes millions of years for a ray of light to reach the (Continued on page 6)

McConnell Attends Meeting in Atlanta

Dean of Faculty is Delegate to Association

Dr. J. M. McConnell, dean of the faculty, attended a meeting of the Southern Association of Schools and Colleges that
was held in Atlanta, Ga., this past week. There were about four hundred delegates at the meeting, representing southern colleges
and higher schools of learning. The delegates were addressed by Dr. Laing of the University of Chicago, and Commissioner Cooper
of the United States Bureau of Education. The main topic of discussion before the association was the suspension of the
Mississippi State University and higher schools of learning in the state, due to prejudiced political control of the schools.
