THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 30, 1930

DAVIDSON vs. V. M. I. SATURDAY MORNING LEXINGTON, VA.

THE SPORTS PARADE

CLASS BASKETBALL GAMES GET STARTED THIS WEEK

Wildcats Bow to Gobblers 20 to 19

Led by Hall and Hooper V. P. I. Scores Three Touchdowns in Last Half

KING IS DAVIDSON STAR

Toe of Hooper Marks Close Margin of Victory

A rejuvenated band of V. P. I. Gobblers came back into the game in the second half, scored three touchdowns,
and two extra points, to down the Davidson Wildcats 20 to 19 in as thrilling a game as any football
fan should ever want to see. The Wildcats seemed to be able to gain at will through the V. P.
I. line during the first half, only the excellent kicking of Hooper preventing freer scoring. After driving up the field
to within the shadow of the Virginia team’s goal, they were denied what looked like an inevitable score when Huntley
intercepted Fraley’s pass. But the Wildcats came right on back up the field after Hooper had kicked out of danger
and Don King took a neat pass from Captain Fraley to cross the V. P. I. goal line standing up.
This concluded the scoring for the first half, although Davidson threatened constantly and had V. P. I. well under control.

The second half presented a scoring melee, five touchdowns being made, three of which came in the last quarter. V.
P. I. got its first score soon after the opening of the half. Hall made 29 yards to bring the
ball to Davidson’s 32-yard line. Hall and Hooper hammered the Wildcat line for consistent short gains, with Hall going over
from the three-yard line. Hooper’s placement was blocked, leaving the score tied. The Wildcats became thoroughly aroused at this and
aided by two long runs of McCall were able to bring the ball to V. P. I.'s 23-yard line. After
two plays had failed, the reliable combination of Fraley to King gave Davidson its second touchdown. Brock made the extra
point. The Gobblers, not to be outdone, came back and scored their second touchdown. With the ball on their own
49-yard line, Hall shot a pass to Spears for the score, tying it at 13-all. A moment later, aided by
penalties and some hard running by Owens, V. P. I. made its last score and Hooper made good the extra
point, that turned out to be the winning margin. With but a few minutes left to play, Mills was sent
in for King. With the latter throwing accurate passes and McCall doing some pretty running, Don McQueen, substitute for Brohard,
rammed the line for a touchdown from the five-yard line. Brock’s placement was wide.

Davidson-V. P. I. Statistics

| VaR | DiiG |
|-------------------------|-------------------------|
| First downs | 9 | 12 |
| Yds. gained by rushing | 152 | 189 |
| Forward passes attempt | 4 | 16 |
| Forward passes comp’d | 2 | 5 |
| Forward passes inter’d | 0 | 2 |
| Yds. gained by passes | 61 | 90 |
| Yds. gained by passes and by rushing | 213 | 279 |
| Av. lgth of kickoffs | 44.2 | 46 |
| Yds. kickoffs returned | 66 | 77 |
| Av. lgth. of punts | 44.2 | 28 |
| Lgth. punt returns (yds.) | 12 | 28 |
| Total yds. gained: by rushing, by passes, and return | 291 | 384 |
| Penalties (yards) | 40 | 25 |

One Too Many

V. P. I. (20) | Position | D.C. (19)
|-------------------------|-------------------------|
| Seamon | LE | Proctor |
| Ritter | LT | Covington |
| Stank | LG | Brock |
| Brown | Center | Gardner |
| Pate | RG | Parker |
| Green | RT | Baker |
| McIntyre | RE | Brown |
| Hooper (c) | Q.B. | (C) Fraley |
| Ottley | LHB | McCall |
| Spears | RHB | King |
| Howard | FB | Brohard |

Score by periods:
| 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | Final |
|-------------------------|-------------------------|
| Wildcats | 0 | 0 | 7 | 13 | 20 |
| Davidson | 6 | 0 | 7 | 6 | 19 |

Scoring summary: V. P. I. — Touchdowns: Hall, Spear, Owen. Point after touchdown: Hooper (2). Davidson—Touchdowns: King (2), McQueen. Point
after touchdown: Brock. Substitution: V. P. I.—Hardwick, Hall, Grinus, Swart, Owen. Davidson—Pierce, Wagner, Mathis, McQueen, Mills, Miller, Mason, Conway. Officials:
Mafoffin (Michigan), referee; Carrington (Virginia), umpire; Kirkpatrick (N. C. State), headlinesman.

Wildkittens Battle Rutherford to Tie

The Davidson Wildkittens started things off in fine shape last Friday for the homecoming events of the past weekend by
tying the strong Rutherford College Ramblers in a game packed with thrills from beginning to end. The score was 6-6.
The game was one of much ground gaining and little scoring. Rutherford started the fireworks early in the game when
they took the opening kickoff on their own 30-yard line and began a 70-yard march that ended in their only
marker. Led by Bronson and Tanner, the Ramblers marched down the field for three consecutive first downs and then a
30-yard pass from Johnson to J. Bumgarner resulted in the first score of the game. Bronson’s place-kick was wide. In
the second quarter Davidson lost the ball on the Ramblers’ one-foot marker, lacking the punch to put it across. Davidson
again went on a 58-yard march only to lose the ball on a fumble which Johnson recovered. The third period
was uneventful but the Freshmen, after having lost the opportunity to score, were not to be denied, for in the
fourth quarter they started a 59-yard march which ended in the tying score of the game. The feature of this
drive was a 20-yard pass, West to Curlee. Harnsberger plunged over for the touchdown. West's attempt to place-kick the extra
point failed. For the visitors, J. Bumgarner, Tate, Johnson, and Randall were the shining lights. For the Freshmen, West, O’Keefe,
and Wooten were the stars. Wooten, the Davidson pivot man, was the feature of the entire encounter.

Inter-Class Basketball Schedule Is Under Way

Seniors and Juniors Met Last Night

With all their kinks ironed out the four basketball teams closed their three weeks of practice Tuesday and are now
looking forward to the scheduled games with each other. The schedule opened last night when the Juniors met the Seniors
in the first contest. Tomorrow night at 7:30 the Sophomores engage with the Freshmen five for their first game. Thus
far the Sophomores seem to have the best team. Most of them, members of last year’s Freshman team, have developed
their true form under the tutelage of Bill Goodson, and to go far winning the championship. Coach Carl Pritchett has
developed a fine team from the thirty reporting practice for the Freshman squad. Harlan, McLain, and Morris, forwards; Evans, a
guard, and Lawther, a center, look best among the first year men, and will probably start Friday night against the
Sophomores. Besides Coach Martin, Montgomery, Patrick, Arnold, and McGhee loom as the best prospects for the Juniors. Among the twenty
men who have been going out for the Seniors, Coach Rusk, Wilson, Smith, Hoge, Shepard, Corbett, and Caldwell look best,
five being possible starters. The schedule calls for three games a week, which will be played on Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays of each week until every team has played each other twice. All games will start at 7:30 o'clock. The
complete schedule follows:

Wed, Oct. 29—Juniors vs. Seniors.
Fri., Oct. 31—Sophomores vs. Freshmen.
Mon., Nov. 3—Juniors vs. Sophomores.
Wed., Nov. 5—Seniors vs. Freshmen.
Fri., Nov. 7—Seniors vs. Sophomores.
Mon., Nov. 10—Juniors vs. Freshmen.
Wed., Nov. 12—Juniors vs. Seniors.
Fri., Nov. 14—Sophomores vs. Freshmen.
Mon., Nov. 17—Juniors vs. Sophomores.
Wed., Nov. 19—Seniors vs. Freshmen.
Fri., Nov. 21—Seniors vs. Sophomores.
Mon., Nov. 24—Juniors vs. Freshmen.

Ten Wrestlers Answer First Call for Practice

Ten men answered Coach “Doc” Uncen's first call for wrestlers last Wednesday. Among those toReport were: French Cowan, 115-pound class;
Ed Gorham, 125-pound; Thad Brock, 145-pound; Captain Pie Conway, 155-pound; Bud Raker, 175-pound, and Pat Boyle. All the above are
lettermen back from last year, while Captain Conway was state champion in his weight. Workouts will be held three times
a week at present, including only light workouts and skull practice for the grapplers not out for football. Strenuous workouts
will not begin until after Thanksgiving to afford the matmen out for football an equal chance for the team. Coach
Unger, who will have complete charge of wrestling this year, is a former Indiana University grappler. He represented that school
for two years, winning the Big Ten heavyweight championship his senior year. Unger is also coaching Freshman football along with
Flake Laird. This year’s schedule begins January 31 and includes meets with N. C. State, Washington and Lee, V. M.
I., Duke, Carolina, and V. P. I.

The game ended soon after with the ball in V. P. I.’s possession. Davidson made eleven first downs to V.
P. I.’s nine and gained 82 yards on five passes, while the Gobblers were making 47 on two.

STATIONERY MAGAZINES STUDENT SUPPLIES BOOKS FOUNTAIN PENS SUNDRIES NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE W. S. HENDERSON

LOOKING 'EM OVER With W. H. Matthews

It has been said no less than ten times by every Davidson man since Saturday, we suppose, but we will
say it again: “That was a tough game to lose.” Seldom has a Davidson team shown so much offensive power
against a strong opponent, seldom has it so thoroughly outclassed a team during a first half and then had a
seemingly comfortable lead wiped out by a last-period comeback.

We think that the Wildcats could have licked any team on their schedule, playing the way they did at times
Saturday. Then again, they looked like a good high school aggregation. We are not overlooking the fact that V. P.
I. came back in the second half with a different team, with a totally different spirit. They scored three touchdowns
and two extra points, making the score 20 to 19. At times, Davidson showed the most powerful offense that has
been displayed this year. They swept up the field for 56 yards and a touchdown in four plays after the
Gobblers had gotten their first marker and the score was tied. They marched unstopped for 58 yards and their third
touchdown in six plays. It was a hard defeat to take, and yet it had to be done.

Vergil Hooper, captain of the team, perhaps given his name soon after birth, has been both nicknamed and baptized with
the wrong moniker. Anyone who can kick the way that young gentleman can boot a ball should by all rights
be called “Mule.” You will go far and look often before seeing a better exhibition of punting than he staged
for the benefit of Davidson’s customers. The Wildcats take on their second Virginia foe in as many weeks when they
go to Lexington to engage V. M. I. We look for Davidson to hang up their first win over the
Cadets in many moons of gridiron relations. If they play as well offensively and as consistently on defense as they
did the first half last week, it should be no trick at all, for V. M. I. doesn’t seem to
have their customary strength this year and has had all sorts of trouble hanging up their few victories. They took
Richmond in tow 13 to 0 and beat St. Johns 6 to 0 in their first two games but have
been unable to win since. A nice decisive win Saturday would atone to some extent for this last battle.

The Wildkittens showed plenty of offensive power on their hook and played their best game of the season against Rutherford.
Coaches Doc Unger and Red Laird have certainly worked a transformation in their charges since their initial appearance here some
four weeks ago. Off-tackle slants and end runs worked fine, netting gains nearly every time, but when they began threatening
the Rutherford goal, they seemed to prefer the center of the line and could get nowhere. They do not play
again until Armistice Day when they tangle with the State Frosh at Raleigh. But any squad that holds a rival
to 14 to 0 in the first half and then has two touchdowns and two extra points scored on them
must have looked bad at times. After two years of losing ways, Davidson should again hit its stride against V.
M. I. If they play the ball of which they are capable, they should win 20 to 7.

South Carolina has a good team this year and should stop N. C. State at Asheville about 7 to 0.
Duke and Wake Forest both have games in Philadelphia. The Blue Devils have a return affair with Villanova, which helped
make Duke’s trip last season a drab affair, and the Deacs tie up with Temple. The handicap both squads face
is not to be coughed at, so it looks bad for the North Staters. Duke may bow to Villanova by
a score of 13 to 7 (and again they may not). Wake Forest is due to lose to Temple. If
you want a more accurate guess on these two games, throw a nickel up in a dark room and take
your choice whether it ought to be heads or tails before you look, then pick the team you want. That’s
all both of them are, mere tossups.

Big Five Standings
Team W. L. Per.
Duke 1 0 1000
Davidson 1 1 500
Wake Forest 1 1 500
N. C. State 0 2 000

Davidson Men Are Always Welcome At NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

HANES PROVIDES LUXURY AND SERVICE AT LOW COST

When you button up in HANES, you button out all the underwear grief you've known. HANES is a man’s underwear.
The reinforced cuffs don’t pull off. The buttons stay! The materials are soft, long-lived. HANES is always masculine company, yet
made for underwear. Dungarees couldn't ask for more. Go take a look at the Gold Label Elastic-knit Lightweight Union Suit.
It’s really luxurious and, as in all HANES garments from light to extra-heavy, the hanespun cotton is knitted and cut
to careful measurements. REAL UNDERWEAR always fits you—never bunches or binds. If you wear summer weights all year round, be
sure to see the pleasing styles, rich materials, and many special features in HANES Athletics and HANES Shirts and Shorts.
