THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 27, 1930

Charlotte Winner Over Wilmington By Narrow Margin In Annual Meet

Fifth Straight Victory for Charlotte Boys in as Many Years

MULLIS GIVEN UP

Wildcats Will Make Trip Through State

The Davidson College baseball team goes on the road for the first time this season, with games scheduled with Elon,
N.C. State, and Wake Forest, all on the home diamonds of those schools.

Annual Soph Day Closes With Large Celebration

(Continued from page 1)

Instead of flying away it seemed perfectly content to stay there among the chickens and peck at the corn. When
the boys told their father of this, he took them to the top of a high peak nearby and held
the little eagle up. The eaglet looked around for a minute, filling his heart with the grandeur of the boundless
blue expanse about him, then he soared off into space and out of sight.

With New Hanover High School, of Wilmington, leading the field by an advantage of one point, Nick Laney, Charlotte High
School boy, jumped twenty feet, four inches to win the broad jump event and the meet for his school. The
meet was the fifth annual high school track meet sponsored by Davidson College and was held here last Saturday. Charlotte
High’s victory was their fifth in succession, Captain Mullis carrying off the silver cup. This was presented by Capt. Norton
G. Pritchett, Davidson athletic director, who officiated at the contests. Up until the final events, the meet was a three-cornered
affair, the winner lying between Charlotte, Wilmington, and Greensboro. The latter was nosed out in the last few events. The
scores were as follows: Charlotte, 38.5; Wilmington, 36; Greensboro, 31.7; High Point, 19.4; Raleigh, 12; Barium Springs, 5; Statesville and
Gastonia, 2 each; Hickory and Salisbury failed to score.

Charlotte took four first places, Wilmington, three, and Greensboro and High Point, two each, Charlotte and Greensboro dividing honors on
the remaining first place. Brittain, of Wilmington, and Goodwin, of Greensboro, tied for high scoring with twelve points each. Captain
Mullis of Charlotte took second with ten points, being trailed by Robinson of Wilmington with nine.

WHAT WE TOLD THE ALUMNI

(Continued from page 4)

...worth of pledges to cover this. We hope that they are all good. We wish that the debt could be
paid before the dedication at Commencement.

5. The Curriculum—Certain changes have been made in the B.S. courses. Fifteen good units are required for entrance into Davidson.
Of these, only two units are required in a foreign language to enter the B.S. courses. Only twelve hours of
college work in foreign languages will be required in the B.S. courses for graduation. Eighteen hours on a major will
be required above the Freshman Class. These changes were made in order that students in the Junior and Senior years
may have larger liberty in choosing what they wish from the comprehensive curriculum which Davidson offers. The President and the
Dean of the Faculty have been requested by the Faculty to study each department of the college through the eyes
of alumni, especially those doing graduate work in universities, and through the eyes of experts, to see if each department
is offering the best possible curriculum for that department. Such a study will take a year or two.

6. Needs—Some of the needs of the College are as follows: A new Library, a new Infirmary, a Field House,
a Social Center, a new Church, larger scholarship funds, and larger endowments.

7. Gifts, Annuities and Wills—Davidson offers a fine opportunity for investments that will yield rich dividends. These investments can be
made by direct gifts in amounts that are large or small. We could use at once a million dollars in
supplying the needs that are mentioned above. Or, the investment might be made as an annuity. By this process, the
donor gives to the College a sum of money, large or small, and the college in turn promises to pay
the donor a certain percent of interest each year so long as he lives. Or, the investment might be made
by a will. It would mean much to the College as the years go by if its friends would remember
the old College in their wills. There is no finer investment which will be used for the development of the
minds, bodies, and souls of young men. Jesus tells us to lay up treasures in Heaven. The only way we
can do it is to invest our money in something that is going to Heaven.

DAVIDSON ATHLETES

(Continued from page 1)

...great hurdler and is a deserving record holder. Tom Brohard ran a splendid half-mile to take third place in another
record-breaking spring holiday meet on Monday. None of these games can be regarded in any way as a setup. Elon
has always given the Wildcats lots of trouble on the diamond and has taken their measure more than once in
the last few years. The contests with State and Wake Forest will offer the first Big Five competition of the
season and will serve as a yardstick to judge how Davidson’s nine really stacks up against the “big league” competition
of the Old North State.

FRANK W. PRICE

...of it, as it was in Nanking that the first missionary was killed. He was forced to withdraw into Korea
and while there he translated Dr. Sun Yat Sen’s “Three Principles of the People.” He was supported for several years
in his work by subscriptions raised from the Davidson student body. His was a large part in the founding of
the “Church of Christ in China,” a new indigenous church of the Chinese people. It will be worth anyone's while
to go to vespers Sunday night, both for an interesting talk and in support of Frank W. Price, a true
representative of Davidson ideals and Davidson Spirit.

...stars, and which was timed at two minutes and three-fifths seconds, a new field house record. Brohard’s regular race is
the 440-yard sprint but since this was not scheduled, the Davidson trackster entered this run and made a speedy getaway
to leave the rest of the strong competition behind him, with the exception of the preceding runners. It is possible
that we may account for Tom's fine endurance by stating that his father was an interested spectator at the meet.
He received a bronze medal. Bob Norton and Joe McCall, although failing to place in the prize-taking division, gave a
good account of themselves in the half-mile and broad jump respectively. Other prominent men in the track meet included two
more intercollegiate champions, Nelson of Butler in the high jump and Sexton of Georgetown in the shot-put. Both won their
events handily, each establishing a new field house record. The Davidson athletes were well-received by the University officials who observed
the fact that Davidson College was the most distant entry of all those represented in the meet. The field house,
which seats approximately 5,000 people, was filled to capacity in the finals, which were held Saturday night.

NOTICE! ShoesHalf Soled | For One Dollar
O.K. SHOP
Second Door From Post Office

All day Tuesday Freshmen were re- needed the right vision to call out his latent instincts. In the same way,
we need to get a bird’s eye view of life in a big sense and then we will see that
the life of service is the one for which we were made and in which we will be the happiest.
On the lapel of their coats, the Freshmen wore the green fresh buttons. Monday night a small tree was hidden,
and the Freshmen were allowed till four p.m. Tuesday to find the tree. Of course, the tree was found in
a secluded spot, and it was dug up and carried to Don King, president of the Sophomore Class, and at
four o'clock, the “tree of '33” was planted behind Phi Hall, members of both classes being present. Short addresses were
made by presidents of both classes, and by Dr. Walter L. Lingle. The finding of the tree, however, enabled the
freshmen to take off their caps, which, had the tree not been found, would not have taken place till Easter.
After the tree planting, the Freshmen in a body went to Richardson Field for the baseball game, during which they
showed their ability to cheer and “pull shines.” After supper, there was a parade to the Drill Field, at which
time there was a bonfire, and the caps were burned. After the burning of the caps, all joined in singing
“O, Davidson.”

I. R. C. TO BRING
Secretary General of the Canadian Patriotic Fund, an organization which raised and distributed nearly fifty million dollars for the support
of the wives and dependent relatives of Canadian soldiers. In 1919, Sir Herbert Ames assumed the post of Treasurer of
the League of Nations. This position he filled from 1919 to 1926, living at Geneva, the seat of the League.
During the past three years, Sir Herbert has twice visited Geneva, keeping up-to-date on all League activities. At present, he
is touring America at the request of the Carnegie Endowment for World Peace. He has visited and lectured in all
the Canadian Colleges and in more than thirty American educational institutions. He speaks with authority and knowledge on the work
of the League of Nations.

A Car for Every Family is virtually the point at which we have arrived in this country. More cars, more
accidents, daily reports of fires, thefts, collisions, property damage increase. More reasons for Complete Automobile Protection. It is as necessary
today as tires. Accidents will happen! Telephone, write, or call here for information. It's safer to have insurance—and not need
it!

Independence Trust Co.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

“DRUGS”
Best wishes for you on your vacation
WHITE DRUG CO.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SODA”

Christ’s great sacrifice for us places an obligation upon us for service to God. If we would be in God's
service, we must live clean lives. Our influence has more effect on the lives of others than we ever hear
about. Are we leading those who are following us closer to Christ? Are we living that life of service our
mothers would have us live, according to the example they set for us? “Will you say to God, such as
I have, give Thee for thy glory and the good of mankind?”

Frank Brown spoke on “The Happiness that Service Brings to Self.” He took as his text, the verse, “All that
joy would win must share it; Happiness was born a twin.” “We cannot live a happy life to ourselves,” he
said. “If we would be happy, we must share our lives with others. A boy came to me on the
campus a few days ago to talk about some work that he was doing. While he was there, I asked
him about some little boys that he was teaching in Sunday School. ‘You know,’ he said, ‘that class is one
of the best things that has ever come into my experience. It makes my whole life sweeter and more worth
living.’”

“One of the happiest boys on the campus was down at the physical training building practicing for the coming contests.
Some of us were unable to turn the front handspring and he took his valuable training time to come down
to the jumping pit and teach us how, although he could already easily pass that particular test. There was the
secret of that boy’s happiness, unselfish service in everything he did.”

“The president of his senior class, captain of the football team, and one of the most popular boys in school
recently wrote back from the place he was preparing to go to teach the boys in a mission on the
Yangtse river in China, to his roommate, a senior at his old college, telling him he had never been so
happy in his life and that he would be waiting for him over in China. His roommate, as well as
some of the other boys, were rather surprised that he had become a missionary and especially at his suggestion that
he come, too. However, the letter closed with these words: ‘Remember, Gus, nothing you've got is too fine or too
rare to lay down in service to Jesus Christ.’ Let’s keep this in mind when choosing your life work. ‘Happiness
was born a twin.’”

The “QUICK RELIEF” Cold Remedy for College Students, sold by a College Student
YOUR DRUGGIST

Jim Galloway HAS COLDEX

A Minister of the Gospel SHOULD BE Acquainted with God and His ways, and know how to represent Him. To
accomplish this for its students is one of the aims of UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. For Catalog and Information, Address, Rev.
B. R. Lacy, Jr., President, Richmond, Virginia.

HANES SATISFIES YOUR EVERY UNDERWEAR NEED
SHIRTS and SHORTS
ATHLETICS and RIBS
Nobby Shirts in cotton or rayon. White, solid colors or pastel trims. Shorts in fancy patterns and what will you
have? 50c, 75c, and $1.00. The famous SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suit with the patented “Tug-of-War” belt in checks and fancy
materials—$1.00. If you like Ribs, there’s a style and weight to suit you in HANES.

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO.
Winston-Salem, N. C.
