6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 25, 1930

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS FOR ELON GAME

| Total yards advanced | 69 | 71 | 21 | 12 | 42 | 39 | 29 | 1 | 46 | 3 | 333 |
| Times carried ball | 6 | 16 | 15 | 2 | 18 | 4 | 5 | 2 | 4 | 1 | 50 |
| Average per play | 11.5 | 11.8 | 4.2 | 6 | 2.8 | 9.8 | 5.8 | 5 | 11.5 | 3 | 6.6 |
| Passes attempted | 2 | 2 | 4 |
| Passes completed | 2 | 4 |
| Passes caught | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 4 |
| Yards gained on passes | 20 | 125 | 6 | 10 | 48 |
| Length of punts | 38 | 20 | 35 | 35.5 |
| Yards punts returned | 25 | 10 | 38 |
| Length of kick-offs | 40 | 46 | 10 | 44.2 |
| Yards kick-offs returned | 18 | 18 |
| Total yards gained | 94 | 91 | 133 | 12 | 42 | 39 | 39 | 1 | 64 | 3 | 434 |
| Touchdowns | 1 | 1 | 1 | 6 |
| Points after touchdown | 2 | 2 |
| Field goals |
| Safety |
| Points scored | 6 | 16 | 12 | 6 | 6 | 2 | 38 |

Davidson President Will Speak in Three States

Dr. Lingle to Participate in Installation of Rev. Woodson at Salisbury

During the next month, Davidson College will be represented by its President, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, in a number of churches and in two Synodical meetings. In order to fill these engagements, he will travel to various cities in North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia.

On Sunday, September 28, Dr. Lingle will participate in the installation of Rev. Marshall Woodson as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Salisbury. That evening, he will preach in the Myers Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. The following Sunday, October 5, he will return to his old pastorate in Rock Hill, S.C., where the First Presbyterian Church is conducting a homecoming for its former members and former pastors. This is being held in connection with the Kings Mountain celebration.

On October 12, Dr. Lingle will hold the pulpit at the Davidson Church. The President will then attend the meeting of the Synod of North Carolina, being held at Wilmington, October 14. From there he will go directly to Richmond, Va., for a meeting of the General Assembly’s Committee of Religious Education and Publication. On the 22nd, Dr. Lingle will deliver two addresses at the meeting of the North Carolina Synodical Auxiliary at Belmont.

Upperclassmen to Take Physical Exam

The physical examination for upperclassmen begins this week in the basement of Chambers under the direction of Dr. J. W. MacConnell, head of the College Medical Department, and Professor N. G. Pritchett, director of physical education. Beginning with the football men of the Sophomore, Junior, and Senior classes, Dr. MacConnell will examine and take measurements. The measurements will be kept and at the end of the year, a cup will be given to the student who shows the most improvement. The Freshmen have already been examined.

This examination, which is required of all men entering the college, is primarily to determine the student’s condition and to find out if he is physically fit to participate in athletics and other strenuous pastimes. Special attention is paid to the man’s heart action in this respect.

Student Store Has New Organization Completed

Rusk and Smith Head Staff to Operate Store

The Student Store, run for the purpose of raising funds to build a swimming pool for the use of students of Davidson College, is operated by two Senior managers and eight clerks chosen from the Student Body. The two managers, Dean Rusk and Lawrence Smith, act as buyer and bookkeeper, respectively. As this store is run for the benefit of the students and on the Honor System basis, the students are permitted to get anything they wish and pay the clerk as they go out. The management asks that everyone pay before leaving, as this will save a return trip and facilitate the bookkeeping.

All foodstuffs and practically everything else that a student will need may be obtained there at the same prices as at the stores downtown. It is desirable that everyone buy as much as possible there because the swimming pool is wanted as soon as possible. Work on this pool is to be started as soon as enough funds are available.

STUDENT DIRECTORY (Continued from page 5)

O'Keeffe, John G., 410 West.
Ormand, Benjamin F., 14 North.
Parker, William A., Home.
Phillips, Angus P., 9 North.
Pierce, W. Frank, 410 West.
Powell, Edward L., 8 Georgia.
Pratt, James H., 408 West.
Pratt-Thomas, Rawling, 107 East.
Pratt, Lanier W., 306 West.
Purcell, D. Craig, 314 East.
Rachal, Adolphe S., 3 Rumple.
Rankin, Thomas P., Jr., 5 North.
Ravenel, B. Owen, 206 West.
Ray, Arnold, 9 North.
Reed, Charles H., 2 North.
Reid, William M., Jr., 22 Georgia.
Rhyne, Henry H., 401 Watts.
Rice, Albert W., 306 East.
Robbins, George C., 207 West.
Rodwell, Edward P., Jr., 409 East.
Rosenbaum, D., Robinson, La.
Rowan, Robert L., 109 Watts.
Ryburn, William F., 407 West.
Schenck, Alexander, 12 Georgia.
Scott, Francis H., 3 South.
Shapard, Henry C., 7 North.
Shaw, A. W., 312 East.
Sikes, Oscar J., 309 East.
Slaughter, J. F., Home.
Smith, Ralph H., Jr., 25 Rumple.
Smyre, Frederic L., Jr., 306 Watts.
Snead, Frederic C., Fulchers.
Spencer, Dale K., 7 North.
Stanley, Wm. G., 210 East.
Steele, John S., 10 Rumple.
Stevens, W. Richard, 312 West.
Strange, John M., 301 East.
Thompson, W. McIlwaine, 312 East.
Thompson, W. Taliaferro, Jr., 208 East.
Thrower, Woodrow W., 11 North.
Tomlinson, Sidney H., 410 East.
Tong, Alfred, 15 Rumple.
Walker, John H., 5 North.
Walser, William T., 214 West.
Wehner, Dallas H., 308 East.
West, W. Julian, 4 South.
White, James W., 211 Watts.
Whitener, Olin M., 1 Rumple.
Williams, Archibald, A West.
Williams, Jack, Jr., 405 Watts.
Williams, Joseph C., 313 East.
Williams, W. Marshall, 402 East.
Wilson, Hugh A., Jr., 15 Rumple.
Wilson, James S., 8 South.
Wilson, Samuel C., 114 East.
Woodside, Robert E., 5 Rumple.
Wootton, Lucius B., Jr., 22 Georgia.
Yancy, William T., Jr., D West.

Last year there were more college students in the United States than in all the rest of the world combined. There were 1,237,000 students enrolled in colleges and universities in this country.

The first book from the Hunter College Press, just established, is a Latin textbook for adults.

Every person in the United States is on average $2.32 poorer than he was a year ago.

There are only 27 moving picture theaters in the province of Szechwan, China, although the province has a population of sixty million people.

Social Fraternities Are Week-end Hosts

In addition to the swarms of spectators that came to Davidson Saturday for the Elon game, came the largest group of girls for the fraternity house parties that has been seen on the campus in many months. A number of the girls were entertained at the fraternity houses while quite a few were taken to the entertainment at Mooresville. The following girls were guests of the following fraternities:

Beta Theta Pi
Dee Hall, Belmont, N.C.; Elizabeth Johnson, Charlotte; Margaret Montgomery, Charlotte; Frances Stowe, Charlotte; Katherine Tucker, Charlotte; Penelope Cannon, Concord; Mary Holland, Gastonia; Dorothy Dillon, Raleigh; Willa Walker, Burlington; Louise Galloway, Winston-Salem; Anne Hoover, Concord.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Frances Webster, Charlotte; Frances Craig, Charlotte; Louise Harrison, Greensboro; Ella McPhail, Red Springs; Caroline Highsmith, Gastonia; Mary Alice Coyle, Hickory;Virginia Baily, Hickory; Sylvia Steele, Statesville; Edith Sherrill, Statesville; Mary Sherrill, Statesville.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Louise Thompson, Lexington; Sara Walser, Lexington; Vera Webb Oates, Charlotte; Bebe Hyde, Salem College; Kathryn Stokes, Charlotte; Dorothy Montgomery, Charlotte; Betty Webb, Concord; Nancy Watts, Charlotte.

Phi Delta Theta
Ruth Spurrier, Gastonia; Louise Spurrier, Gastonia; Kathryn O'Farrell, Kings Mountain; Martha Dulin, Charlotte; Peggy Stephens, Charlotte; Eleanor Spencer, Charlotte; Evelyn Erwin, Olive Singleton, Shelby; Sally Couch, Charlotte; Katherene Couch, Lincolnton; Martha Matheson, Charlotte; Irma Edmonson, Charlotte.

Kappa Alpha
Carolyn Kirkpatrick, Charlotte; Alice Davis, Atlanta, Ga.; Virginia Miller, Sedgefield; Pat Miller, Sedgefield; Lucy Currie, Davidson; Daisey Calwell, Davidson; May Marion, Charlotte; Dot Dimmand, Charlotte; Natalie Emory, Charlotte; Eleanor Hays, Charlotte; Jane Patterson, Jacksonville, Fla.; Mary Patterson, Charlotte.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Grace Sessum, Charlotte; Sarah Math, Charlotte; Sarah Cunningham, Clarksville, Tenn.; Sarah Spratt, Charlotte; Katherine Crowell, Charlotte; Dorothy Woolley, Charlotte; Minna Caldwell, Charlotte; Adeline Woolley, Charlotte; Louise High, Whiteville, N. C.; Marie Turnipseed, Emory, Ga.; Mary Smith, Marlin, Texas; Virginia Knee, Charlotte; Mary McNinch, Charlotte; Emily Frazer, Charlotte; Irene Long, Concord.

Kappa Sigma
“Babe” Jones, High Point; Frances Marshall, Rock Hill; Nancy O'Hanlon, Winston-Salem; Brantley Nichols, Charlotte; “Fuzzy” Boyken, Charlotte; “Kitty” Dangerfield, Virginia Beach.

Theta Upsilon Omega
Ruth Lowrance, Statesville; Claudia Barrett, Charlotte; Julia Josephs, Charlotte; Ellen Hawkins, Charlotte; Nina Cranford, Albemarle; Jean Porter, Charlotte; Evelyn Sherrill, Statesville; Mildred Beasley, Charlotte; Beaty Josephs, Charlotte; Elizabeth Hatch, Charlotte; Hallie Talbert, Albemarle; Mary Caldwell, Charlotte; Irene Belk, Charlotte; Edith Storm, Charlotte; Kathryn Brown, Charlotte; Josephine Dietrich, Charlotte.

Phi Gamma Delta
Lucy Follin, Winston-Salem; Margaret Gorrell, Winston-Salem; Mary Neil Hobbs, Statesville; Margaret Kimbrell, Charlotte; Minihyl Davies, Concord; Virginia Goodman, Salem College; Eleanor Willingham, Winston-Salem; Martha Sapp, Concord; “Babe” Hatcher, N. C. C. W.

Pi Kappa Phi
Mary Scott Johnston, Charlotte; Edna Rowe, Hickory; Billie Tucker, Charlotte; “Eb” Johnson, Charlotte; Margaret Melchor, Mooresville; Olive Gregory, Columbia, S. C.; Lillian Kendall, Charlotte; Virginia Melchor, Mooresville; Frances Matheson, Charlotte.

Magazines Books Stationery New Records Every Week Superior Soda Service

W. S. HENDERSON
Watches Clocks Fountain Pens

WILDCATS AND WOLFPACK (Continued from page 1)
Experience is on the side of the Wildcats, and it seems that the Wildcats will be able to put a more diversified offense on the field. Offsetting these will be the weight advantage resting with State. The line from tip to tip will outweigh Davidson even more than ten pounds to a man. The final advantage resting with State is the fact that they will be more familiar with night conditions. They have played one game under the arcs, and practice regularly under them. Davidson will be new to the entire proceedings, and this will certainly handicap their play. The starting line-ups will probably be much the same as that which took the field for each team last Saturday. These will be:

Davidson Position State
Proctor ---------------- Duke
Covington -------------- Cobb
Brock ------------------ Matlack
McConnell ------------- Espey
Mathis ----------------- Stout
Benard ----------------- Stroupe
Brown ------------------ Greason
Fraley ----------------- Adams
McCall ----------------- Watt
Rite ------------------- Cook
Bradshaw, Brohard ----- Guerney

NEW DEVICE (Continued from page 1)
With each beat the tiny organism pulled down a little lever that dipped a fine filament into a drop of mercury and made a contact that transmitted an electric impulse to the chronograph. There it was translated in a fraction of a second into a record inked on a chart. Introduction into the solution of nicotine—one part in ten thousand—and of adrenaline one part in a billion—was immediately noted by a marked retarding of the heart tempo in the first case and a swift acceleration in the second.

HEAD OF UNION SEMINARY
and service. His new location was the Central Presbyterian Church, Atlanta, Ga., where he served from 1919 to 1926. Since that time he has served as president of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. During this period he was honored by a degree of Doctor of Divinity by Davidson College, and a Doctor of Law degree from Hampden-Sidney University. It will probably be of interest to the students also, that Dr. Lacy’s grandfather, Rev. Dr. Dewey Lacy, was president of Davidson College from 1855 to 1860, and that his father, for whom he was named, was treasurer of the State of North Carolina, as well as a member of the board of trustees of Davidson. His record has been marked by distinguished success, whether as a missionary to country churches, brilliant chaplain and captain in the World War, as pastor of a large church, or as president of a great theological seminary. And, as Dr. Walter Lingle says, “Although he has filled all these distinguished positions, his manner is marked by the utmost simplicity and charm, whether in the pulpit or out of it.”

WEEK-END
Can be made economically in a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford from—

HENDERSON’S FILLING STATION

College Calendar
Friday, Sept. 26th—A pep meeting for the entire student body will be held in Shearer Hall immediately after supper.
Sunday, Sept. 28th—“Y” Vespers in Chambers auditorium at 6 o’clock p.m. Dr. Edgar G. Gammon, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, will speak.
Tuesday, Sept. 30th—Literary Society meetings at 7:15.
Wednesday, Oct. 1st—Prayer Meeting, Presbyterian Church 7:30 p.m.

A DREAM COME TRUE
Philadelphia Ledger. The appointment of John D. Clark to a professorship in the University of Denver may not be extraordinary in itself, but it points to a dream fulfilled in a way that will strike a sympathetic chord in many hearts. For Mr. Clark two years ago gave up his job as a high-salaried executive and returned to college, an independently wealthy man, who wished to study things he had missed in his early efforts for financial success. In 1928, after twenty-one years in the business world had seen him rise to the presidency of a great refining company, Mr. Clark retired to Johns Hopkins University to study economics and allied subjects. He will complete his three-year post-graduate work this year and then will enter the leisurely life of teaching the subjects he enjoys. That any man should so cherish his dream of academic life that he would give up the presidency of a big corporation to achieve that dream will amaze and perhaps hearten others whose dreams have been deep buried in the whirl of day-after-day business.

J. H. Gentry, ’13, is head of the public schools at Advance, N. C. For the past ten years he has been connected with the Statesville public schools.

The most densely populated body of land in the world is Java with a population of 690 persons per square mile.

Seventy per cent of the English-speaking people of the world live on the North American continent, and 60 per cent of them in the United States.

It costs the City of New York $930,000 a day to operate its public school system, and the figure is expected to reach a million dollars in the near future.

Davidson Men Are Always Welcome At NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Davidson Theatre
The Davidson Theatre has entirely new sound equipment and the managers are doing everything in their power to bring to you the best pictures made.