THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

J. WILSON McCUTCHAN - Editor-in-Chief
J. A. CANNON - Business Manager
B.C. “DWELDE” - Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS - Sports Editor
V. M. BELL - Feature Editor
NORMAN GRATES - Feature Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN - Associate Editor
J. B. BLACK - Associate Editor
W. RAGAN - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
P. M. CONWAY - Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BAKER - Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS - Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY - Subscription Manager
PITKY BROWN - Solicitor
R. W. FALLS - Solicitor
A. M. MANSO - Solicitor
A. L. MEBANE - Solicitor
W. MORROW - Solicitor

SENIOR CLASS OFFICERS
W. W. BYARS - President
D. G. - Vice-President
A. H. - Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
J. M. BROWN
J. G. BERRY
G. E. BAILEY
A. R. BIRD
J. E. BOYD
N. B. DICKS
J. G. DUNKLIN
E. O. GUERRANT
W. T. HANCOCK
R. L. McCALLIE
C. MATTHEWS
C. F. MYERS
V. F. MULLISS
H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
C. W. F. SPENCER
B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR
W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH
D. D. McBRYDE

NOVEMBER 6, 1930

As far as the battle for learning goes, we were pacifists—or conscientious objectors.
—Christopher Morley.

SUGGESTIONS

Ras Tafari has been crowned in all of his semi-Oriental splendor. He claims descent from King Solomon. Interesting, if true!

Students who quake at the thought of reviews should remember that in life problems come up day after day; much
less do they conform to schedule.

It will not be long before the Senior blazers will make their bow on the campus. Whether their appearance is
pleasing to the eye or not they represent four years' work.

Let no one forget the coming performance of the Elizabethan Players. They should provide special entertainment for English students.

Now that some students have been duly “honored” by various organizations let them get down to work for those groups.

FOR A BETTER PAPER

Delegates of the four publications have attended a meeting of the N. C. C. P. They have brought ideas, plans,
and solutions of problems back with them. They have listened to the opinions of other editors and business managers. For
the most part, open discussion was the order of the day.

While it is admitted that the affairs of the Press Convention are of great benefit to those members who attend,
the observer must not think that there will be a revolution in either theory or practice. Many schemes are discussed
which are never put into actual application. There has been much query in times past as to the true worth
or value of conventions of any nature. We are inclined to agree with most critics that if there is one
new and original thought expressed during the entire session, it has not been without value. In these times of specialization,
it is a rare occurrence when something really original is introduced. The Harvard Library considers a book to be worth
its shelf space if it is read once in three years; one convention should be valuable if it can alter
a defect long unnoticed.

Readers of The Davidsonian must not expect a complete rejuvenation, as might be expected from the enthusiastic reports of local
delegates. Neither should they think that the campus organizations work and move in a sphere all their own. As has
been stated in this column before, the staff of The Davidsonian is at all times open to suggestion or criticism,
whether it may come from reader or specialist. It is a student body publication.

TWO FRIENDS OF STUDENTS

It is unusual to find lady members of the faculty or administration of a boys’ school. Nevertheless, there are two
ladies who will always claim a large share of the thoughts of Davidson men, both before and after they have
graduated. It is impossible to mention one without the other. Possibly the reason that these ladies appeal as strongly as
they do to men on the local campus is because their work is of a more personal nature than that
which falls to the lot of most administrative officials. Mrs. N. T. Smith and Mrs. A. B. Robson jointly share
the responsibility of mothering six hundred men who are away from home, many of them for the first time. One
meets students when they are in all moods, when they are “at home” in their rooms; the other sees them
when they are distinctly “blue” and sick. It is likely that as much comfort and consolation has come to Davidson
men from the lips and example of these two officers of the college as from any other source.

As falls to the lot of any person in an official capacity, Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Robson have occasionally had
to raise the restraining hand, but their part in the progress and comfort of the student body far exceeds their
portion in the restriction of so-called “personal liberties.” Many students fail to appreciate the care and interest taken in them
by these two ladies. One thing is certain: both of them have a large place in their hearts filled with
the love for young men. Nothing else could impel them to spend the time they have with administering to the
welfare of hundreds of energetic, and at times headstrong, college men.

THERE ARE OTHER WAYS

It is somewhat difficult to discuss this subject without creating the impression that we are encroaching on the rights of
vocational guidance or spiritual leadership. Still, because it deals with a problem frequently discussed, we do not believe that it
will be out of place.

A goodly proportion of Davidson students are candidates for the ministry. There is probably no profession which is more deserving
of respect and which is more exacting as regards character and tact. No profession, and it is distinctly a profession,
requires a wider knowledge and appreciation of human nature, a more eager willingness to mingle with people of every class
of life, a broader desire to live what one believes, a better all-rounded man than does the ministry of the
gospel. In the same category comes that group of men who have signified their intention to do mission work. We
feel that these men all recognize the road they have chosen to be one with ruts and narrow places. We
do know that they deem it a course which repays finally with the better things of life. The most that
the rest of us can do is to admire and respect them.

However, it is possible to be engaged in Christian work without definitely entering the ministry or engaging in mission work.
There is a distinct place for the layman. Whether he chooses business, medicine, law, journalism, or any of a hundred
other phases of work, a man has the opportunity to help the condition of his neighbor. A true hermit is
the only character who has no social contact, and we cannot say that he is without his obligations. There should
be very few who could doubt this statement that laymen can be of direct service. To dispel their doubts, however,
we could mention numerous men who have been noted for their active religious work. Perhaps Wade C. Smith was one
of the best-known laymen in the church. He was recently ordained by a special act of Presbytery. Those who heard
the vesper talk on last Sunday will recognize another.

We are old-fashioned enough to believe that every man is cut out for a particular work. The reason for this
is that he can accomplish more in his profession than he can in another. Businessmen can go far toward controlling
labor and financial conditions in the country; lawyers should be instruments of justice; journalists have a great influence in formulating
public thought and opinion. It is impossible to estimate the influence which any man may have as a leader in
his community or professional field. Society demands that men devote themselves to different interests, but it also demands that they
give these interests all. A half-hearted worker accomplishes little for the good of himself or anybody else. The motto, “Start
at home,” can be applied to more subjects than travel.

In the final analysis, we would leave every man’s choice to his own will. But, in the light of what
has been said, we defy anyone to show us a minister who is not a man, and a man who
does not have the best interests of other people at heart. “A man’s a man for a’ that.”

Investigation carried on by Louis I. Dublin, statistician for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, has led to the discovery that
college-bred men live longer on average than other men.

Five thousand delegates will represent half of the teachers in the world at the convention of the World Federation of
Education Associations, to be held at Denver, Colo.In July 1931, these delegates will come from sixty nations and from all
the races of the world.

President Lingle, in a speech to the alumni last Homecoming day a year ago, presented to them the many necessities
of our college and appealed to them to choose at least one of them soon, namely, a new infirmary, field
house, or social center through contributions. Thus far, if any definite progress toward any of these has been made, it
has not been revealed. However, regardless of the lack of outside impetus, the Social Center, created two years ago by
the Y. M. C. A. and located on the first floor of the Eumanean Literary Society building, has been the
object of vast improvement this year. Much credit for this must be given to Maraduke Norfleet, whose position on the
“Y” Cabinet is to supervise the activities of the Social Center, and whose tireless efforts have really brought the campus
rendezvous to the heyday of its existence.

On this past Homecoming day, hundreds continually swarmed the Social Center. The majority of Davidson men who had their girls
or relatives here entertained them at the popular meeting place. Numerous visiting alumni, who realized the importance of such an
addition to Davidson’s many extra-curricular features, commented favorably on the newly-revived “Y” project. The two main rooms of the Social
Center are very attractive, having been exquisitely furnished during the early fall. In the first year of its establishment, all
the furniture for one room was provided. Last year, a radio was purchased after funds were procured from the proceeds
of a show held here on the campus. During the past summer, a hardwood floor was laid in the east
room, which was also papered. This fall, two new rugs were donated by a Winston-Salem friend whose name has not
been made known. Shepherds, Inc., of Winston-Salem gave two tapestries, a number of parchment light shades, and several lamp fixtures.
A prominent member of the student body donated the material for the curtains, which were designed and made by Mrs.
Watts and Mrs. Schenck. Mrs. Watts made the upholstered cushions for the long window seat in the west room.

Most every man has a girl he would like to bring to Davidson on the weekend when the social calendar
indicates a program of activity. Many are hesitant because, since they do not choose to affiliate with campus social organizations,
they feel that the prevailing facilities for the entertainment of guests are seemingly inadequate. This attitude must be quashed, especially
since it has been announced that the Social Center will be open to everyone, every day of the college year,
and certainly on every weekend, regardless of whether any athletic attraction is or is not scheduled for appearance here. On
next Saturday, November 15, Carolina plays here—the biggest game of the year. This day is also recognized on the college
social calendar, providing for such events. Be sure and invite someone up. The Social Center has been established for YOU
and its adequacy will serve very well until some understanding philanthropic alumni build for us a greater and better-equipped building
which will automatically enrich Davidson's social life.

Reflections: Croswell Ragin is the keenest wit in the student body, undoubtedly. It is the consensus of students that his
column, which appeared in The Davidsonian last year and was known as “Smokehouse Saga,” was the most humorous collegiate attempt
up to that time ever read by a Davidson man. We really and sincerely believe that Croswell is the most
brilliant writer of humor in any southern college publication, and the students demonstrated their appreciation for his talent a few
weeks ago by unanimously electing him editor-in-chief of the new comic magazine which succeeds the Chameleon. Who could have a
more pleasant personality than John Ashcraft or Walter Fraley? Joe and Lock Houston are members of the same family which
includes the venerable Texan—General Sam Houston. And so it is with Taylor Marion and the immortal “Swamp Fox”—General Francis Marion.
In 1927, Harry Moffett was president of the student body of Phillips High School in Birmingham, Ala., the largest of
its kind in the South and one of the best-rated high schools in the United States. Zeb Russell, who graduated
here last June, has an older brother who was recently nominated for Governor in Georgia on the Democratic ticket, which
is tantamount to election and is declared to be the youngest man ever to be elected the state executive in
the pine tree state. Joe McCall’s beautiful running form on the gridiron has won the admiration and popular fancy of
thousands of football fans this year. Jack Matthew’s father was once a member of the faculty here at Davidson College.
Student speeches are an interesting feature of the chapel exercises. Dean Dusk and Larry Smith have managed the Student’s store
exceptionally well this year. It is probably in the best condition and has more variety now than at any time
since its inception.

MUSINGS

Circus day! Big parades! Stand back there little boy, you might get hurt. Here comes a man wanting some dye.
What? Oh, he doesn’t want dye, he’s hunting for his tints. They are putting up the tents now and before
very long they are going to drill the clowns. You know, the eternal Pagliacci. Left, clown, left!

“Here yer go, getcha tickets fer tha big show. Getcha—what’s that ma’am? No, I ain’t seen a man with one
leg named Joe—getcha tickets right here.” The crowd surged and milled about the box wagon. “Hey, mister, this man stole
my pocketbook!” “Oh, so he stole yer pocketbook, did ’e?” said the circus policeman. “Yessir.” “Well, young man, I ain’t
gonna arrest you, but you may leave the tent right now!” “I may and I may not,” said the thief,
“but you had better keep a close eye on yer lions and tigers.” And he ran off into the crowd.

On with the show! Us actors must go on. “Say, mister, I wanna buy a ticket and my finances amount
to exactly zero,” whined a lad as he edged up to the window. “Kid, that’s nothin’ in my young life.
Heh, heh.” “It’s very little in mine,” retorted the lad, and slouched off.

Let’s go in the side show where all the ferocious animals are. A little boy goes up to a cage
where a lady is battling with a snarling lion. The little brat is very much disappointed by the display. “Hey,
lady, make him bite cha once,” he screamed. The boy’s mother came up and said: “Now don’t you let that
lion bite you until Willie says ‘Please’!”

Ah, here come the clowns. They’re just tearing around and jumping on each other’s necks. One of ’em says: “How
you feel tonight, not much?” “I feel like a dumb owl, nothing more.” “How’s that?” “I don’t give a hoot!”

Oh, look! They’re gonna have a wedding. No, not “wetting,” wedding! All the clowns are lining up for the big
march and little Eva is up ahead breaking the ice. Her eyes are blue. But anyway, the grand march is
on. The bride wore a lovely bib of oil-cloth and her gown was of the most gorgeous chamois. Her train,
including two Pullmans and a diner, is looked after by two red-caps. She is the picture of lovely womanhood, not
being a bit over six feet seven. Her bouquet is of fragrant Jimson weed. The groom, a masculine fellow weighing
at least ninety pounds, is clad in blue denim overalls and spats. The band is softly playing, “On, Chicago.” The
justice lays violent hands upon the groom and intones:

“Eenie, meenie, minie, moe,
Why he’s marrying her, I don’t know,
Unless it’s to get her (Sel je)
Eenie, meenie, minie, moe.”

Then with water in his eyes (from eating onions), he turns to the bride and continues:

“Hit him in the collar bone,
Soak him in the beezer,
Crack his head between your palms,
Like a lemon squeezer,
Rah rah rah, Liverpool, Liverpool, Liverpool.”

And with these words, the happy couple jumped into their old Ford and were off, stopping only at the monkey
cage where the groom got a monkeyshine.

Don’t burn your bridges before you have one in the hand. Selah.

Alas, and woebetide! Henry Martyn Mackay, dean of the faculty of applied science and professor of civil engineering at McGill
University, Montreal, Que., died in his sixty-third year. A tale of being thrown four feet into the air when a
bolt of lightning struck near his feet while he was at work was told by Alex Fox, 22, of Billings,
Mont. Official registration figures make the Detroit Municipal Colleges the largest collegiate entity in the State of Michigan. With a
total registration of 9,654, the Detroit Colleges’ enrollment exceeds that of the University of Michigan by exactly 301 students, figures
from both institutions show. Strained economic conditions have greatly reduced the number of fraternity houses on the campus of Detroit
College, a canvass of fraternity houses shows. Many brotherhoods which maintained rooms last year have postponed such activities until next
year.
