: 4 3 7 : “a Che Davidsonian

SATURDAY AUDITORIUM

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 23, 1930 No. 6

WILDCATS TROUNCE BULLDOGS AFTER HARD-FOUGHT BATTLE

Joe McCall Scores Solo Touchdown Within First Five Minutes of Action

PRESS FAVORED CITADEL

Gardner, Center, Brock and Brown, Linemen, Were Outstanding Men in Classic Struggle

Eleven men that justified their team name of Wildcats pushed over a touchdown before the game was five minutes old, and thereafter held their opponents scoreless to down a fighting band of Bulldogs from Citadel, 6 to 0.

Brock kicked off to open the game, and after Citadel was forced to kick, it was the Wildcats’ ball on their opponents’ 42-yard line. At this juncture the only real fireworks of the game began. Joe McCall, halfback, Davidson's pride and joy, cut his way 23 yards nearer the Soldiers’ goal on a spin play. One play later Fraley tossed a short pass to that same half, and he, fighting to keep from being run out of bounds, slithered his way to the only touchdown of the game. The try for extra point fell short.

The Bulldogs became thoroughly aroused after this score, and launched their most sustained threat of the game. Jennings, Wilson, and McIntosh, Coach Johnny Floyd's powerful trio, pushed the ball up to the Wildcats’ 14-yard line by pretty running and passing work. Here the redoubtable ’Cat showed his claws and the Bulldogs beat against a stone wall for four downs with no gain.

The ball see-sawed up and down the field for two quarters after this, with neither team able to make any sustained drive. In the third quarter, however, a serious Davidson threat went up in smoke when Ryan, substitute Citadel end, intercepted a Wildcat pass on his own 14-yard line. Previous to this, Fraley had passed to Pierce for 23 yards and the ever-elusive McCall had made 21 yards off tackle.

Both teams resorted to the air after hard charging and alert lines had smeared run- (Continued on page 6)

Glee Club Sponsors Annual Stunt Night

Attractive Cash Prize to be Given to Class Presenting Best Program

On the night following the Home-Coming game, the annual Stunt Night program and other festivities will be held in Chambers Auditorium under the direction of the Glee Club. Stunt Night on Home-Coming Day has become an institution of the Davidson campus, and in years past it has contributed largely to the success of that day and to the entertainment of the alumni and visitors who are with us then.

This year, as usual, the four classes in competition with each other will be responsible for the bulk of the entertainment, and the class which is judged to have the best stunt will receive a cash prize. Last year the stunts were all good, and as many men of the upperclassmen will again be in the stunts, there is great promise of having an unusually brilliant performance.

Aside from this, the Glee Club Quartet, composed of J. D. Koontz, W. Rule, E. Z. DuBose, and J. H. Ramseur, will give a few selections during the evening, and the Davidson Orchestra, which gained a great deal of attention last year, will make its first appearance of the season.

From each class the following men will be in their respective stunts. Seniors: “Hub” Covington, Joe McCall, Bill Mason, and “Boots” Wilson. Juniors: Charlie Spencer, “Mick” Bradshaw, Billy Franklin, John B. Regin, Sam Wiley, Bob Orr, Bob Roland, and Horace Ervin. Sophomores: Bill Monroe, Oscar Norman, John Marvin, Bruce Sugg, Woodrow Caligan, George Vick, Bill Hayes, and Charlie Norfleet. Freshmen: Al Tong and Brad McLean.

College Anthologies Are to be Published

Two new anthologies of college verse have sprung up recently and offer the college men of poetical tendencies a large opening. Miss Jessie C. Rehder, Randolph-Macon, '29, Columbia University, '30, is editor of the one to be published by Harper & Brothers in May, 1931. The other anthology is to be gotten up by two W. & L. men at the university.

Harper & Brothers, under the editorship of Miss Rehder, has written The Davidsonian requesting this news organ to publish the rules and regulations of contribution. Any poem written this year or last by a student may be submitted, provided the work does not exceed 50 lines. The work will be selected solely on literary merit, and if the first anthology is a success, it is planned to make it an annual affair. All contributions must be in the hands of the publishers not later than December 10, 1930.

J. W. McCutchan has consented to handle all efforts, but requests that they be in his hands not later than December 1, 1930. Students wishing to send their work direct to the publishers will address: “Anthology of College Verse,” Care E. F. Saxton, Harper & Brothers, 49 E. 33rd St., New York City.

The other anthology is sponsored at Davidson by Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity. This fraternity has appointed three of its members, Professor Lilly, Paul Alderman, and J. B. Black, chairman, to act as a committee to pass on the material submitted, sending the choicest of the works to the co-editors at W. & L. Any Davidson student is eligible to submit material, not only of this year but also of last. The co-editors at the Virginia institution feel confident that if they receive co-operation, this anthology can become a great and annual success. No limits in the length of the poem have been set forth in this anthology.

Competition of Classes and Frats Now Going On

Campus Football Now Holding the Interest of Students

The first round of the campus football championship has been played on the Davidson intra-mural schedule and as a result five teams have advanced to the second round. The second round schedule is as follows: Kappa Sigma vs. Pi Kappa Phi, Beta Theta Pi vs. Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and Phi Delta Theta, bye.

The captains of the surviving teams are: Jack Pepper, of the Kappa Sigmas, Pete Knox, of the Pi Kappa Phis, Hugh McMillan of the Beta Theta Pis, Ed Gorham, of the Sigma Alpha Epsilons, and Bill McGhee, of the Phi Delta Thetas. In the semi-finals the winners of the Beta Theta Pi-Sigma Alpha Epsilon game play Phi Delta Theta with the winner of the Kappa Sigma-Pi Kappa Phi game drawing a bye. The finals of the tournament are to be played on the varsity field some time the first of next week.

At the same time that the inter-fraternity competition in football is being run off, the inter-class football teams have been in competition with each other and have nearly finished, with one more game to be played between the Juniors and Seniors. The captains of their respective classes are: H. F. Bost, Seniors; A. G. Montgomery, Juniors; G. C. Neal, Sophomores, and J. W. Lafferty, Freshmen.

The standing of the teams with the exception of the Junior-Senior game is as follows:

Team W. L. Pct.
Juniors 2 0 1.000
Seniors 1 1 .500
Freshmen 1 2 .333
Sophomores 1 2 .333

(Continued on page 6)

Three Short Talks to be Given by Prominent Members of the Faculty

ORGAN RECITAL IN CHAPEL

Luncheon for Alumni to be Given in Banquet Hall

Another year has joined the ranks of those past, and Davidson College alumni throughout the country are contemplating their return to their Alma Mater with great enthusiasm. Many notices, written and verbal, have been received by the alumni secretary, giving him good reason to expect a large attendance, and advance registration for the Davidson-V. P. I. football classic gives indications that many others will be here on October 25.

A program has been designed for the entertainment and enjoyment of the alumni. From the opening exercises at noon, until the curtain falls on the last event of the Stunt Night program, the day will be full of almost consecutive happenings which center about the return of men tothe campus, many of whom will visit here for the first time in many years, the large number who make frequent pilgrim- (Continued on page 6)

29 Students Make Honor Roll in 1929
Names on the Honor Roll Include a Good Representation from Each Class

According to an announcement made from the office of Mr. Hengeveld, 29 of the student body made the Honor Roll of Davidson for the 1929-1930 session. To win this honor, students had to have an average of 95 per cent in their subjects. Those successfully doing this are as follows:

Seniors (1930 graduating class): J. L. Brown, Hendersonville; A. T. Idelman, Goldsboro; F. W. Johnston, Jefferson, Ga.; J. B. Knox, Liberty, S. C.; E. L. Lafferty, Rome, Ga.; W. G. McGavock, Franklin, Tenn.; W. B. McGuire, Franklin, N. C.; J. R. Marks, Acme, N. C.; E. E. Marsh, Marshville; F. V. Poag, Fayetteville; R. H. Reid, Reidville, S. C.; H. W. White, Rock Hill, S.C.

Juniors: J. B. Black, Jr., Red Springs; J. R. Caldwell, Jr., Davidson; E. K. Emurian, Suffolk, Va.; M. W. Norfleet, Jr., Winston-Salem; H. S. Monroe, Jr., Charlotte; J. W. McCutchan, Warm Springs, Va.; K. M. Jackson, Birmingham, Ala.

Sophomores: R. P. Enloe, Buchanan, Ga.; C. W. Harrison, Davidson; L. N. Hand, Jr., East Spencer, N. C.; T. W. McLean, Charlotte; J. T. Welch, Jr., Mount Holly.

Freshmen: P. F. Brown, Jr., Atlanta, Ga.; R. L. McCallie, Chattanooga, Tenn.; W. E. McNair, Atlanta, Ga.; Susan Moffett, Davidson; W. F. Mulliss, Martinsburg, W. Va.

MR. HARRY RIMMER SPEAKS AT SUNDAY

1910 Football Team Will Hold Reunion

Davidson’s renowned football team of twenty years ago will meet here for their first reunion since they played together. From Georgia, Illinois, Texas, West Virginia, Tennessee, Florida, Maryland, South and North Carolina, these one-time Davidson Wildcats will trek here for the Home-Coming game with V. P. I. and also their big reunion. Not since this famous team defeated all teams in 1910 have they had a real reunion, and plans have been underway for the past few months to bring the remaining part of the team back to its Alma Mater. Death has been lenient with the members of this team, for only one member has passed away since they ended their magnificent season twenty years ago. That one was J. N. Vandevanter, who died last year in Albuquerque, New Mexico, after suffering for some time with tuberculosis.

The gathering of this team has been greatly influenced by Coach Floyd Simmons, mentor of the team, and a committee of co-workers who have been planning this event since early summer. As a result of their work, it is thought that every living member of the squad will be present, with the single exception of one member who is in China. From the time that they arrive, they will be entertained by addresses, luncheons, and the football game that afternoon, where they will occupy seats of honor immediately behind the players’ bench.

As to the football record of this championship team, it is one to be greatly envied. The team played eight games with a total squad composed of only fifteen men and took only thirteen on trips. (Continued on page 6)

Y.M.C.A. To Furnish Place to Entertain Guests
Social Center Will be Headquarters for Week-End Guests

The Senior Class will sponsor the homecoming activities and reception for non-fraternity men and their guests this weekend. Immediately following the Stunt Night program in Chambers Auditorium, a reception lasting for a very short period will be held in the Social Center of the Y. M. C. A., by the Seniors for these boys and their guests. During this time, refreshments will be served, and in the general gathering, an effort will be made to have all the guests become acquainted with each other.

The “Y” Social Center will present a unique place to hold such a function, being one of the oldest buildings on the Davidson campus and one full of many traditions. It was in this building that Woodrow Wilson spent many hours in his activities in the literary society work of Davidson. The first floor has been handsomely furnished and decorated for these occasions. Two new rugs with curtains were bought recently, and together with one or two new pieces of furniture, the room will be very attractive.

The Senior Class and the Y. M. C. A. urge all non-fraternity men, who are having girls up this weekend, to make their headquarters and use this room as much as they desire. It is also suggested that this will be a good place to bring a girl while waiting to go to Charlotte for the festivities. Convenient places to which boys might escort girls are almost totally lacking in Davidson, so the Y. M. C. A. is to be commended on providing such a place. All men who have guests coming and who are looking for places for them to stay should see Albert McLure. These places will be secured by him, as he is in charge of this particular phase of the entertainment.

VESPER SERVICE
“The Relation of Science and Religion” is Subject of Famous Scientist-Evangelist’s Address
DEFENDS TRUTHS OF BIBLE
Modern Science Shown to Prove the Bible Historically True

At the vesper service Sunday evening, Mr. Harry Rimmer, Los Angeles, Calif., delivered a most interesting and enlightening address on “The Relation of Science and Religion.” This address constituted an introduction to his next talk, “The Light of Archeology Bearing Upon the Bible.”

Mr. Rimmer stated that the Bible was not defending the fact that it needs defense. Rather, he was revealing the bare fact that scientific discoveries act as a beacon, throwing light upon the pathway to God. “Today, there is little understanding between science and religion,” stated Mr. Rimmer. “Scientific truths being uncovered are in absolute harmony with the Bible. However, an unbridged gap remains between the two.”

“I spend six months of the year preaching throughout the United States. The other half I spend in scientific research and devote my entire time to preaching. One group of my friends urge me to give up my scientific work. The other group contends that it is folly to devote half my time to anything other than archeology.”

“Religion is being strengthened by science,” stated Mr. Rimmer, giving an illustration bearing on this point. A friend, Dr. George Van Amber Brown, was present at the examination of a mummy which proved to be that of the Pharaoh of the oppression, in the wrappings of the mummy. The speaker explained that such a condition would exist had the deceased been drowned in salt water, recalling to mind the destruction of Pharaoh and his hosts in the Red Sea. It was also brought to light that the ruler had suffered from hardening of the arteries around the heart. “A condition (Continued on page 6)

Terriers Gushacne Davidson Frosh 6-0
Wofford Scores in First Few Minutes of Play and Holds Lead Throughout

The Wildkittens journeyed to Spartanburg to play the Wofford Frosh last Friday and came back with the short end of the score, the Terriers having won by a score of 6-0. Wofford scored in the first few minutes of play by a series of wide end runs. They started their drive for the goal on their own 40-yard line and by two or three center plunges, pushed the ball to Davidson's 15-yard line. Then, by two end runs, they made the only score of the game. Their kick for the extra point went wild.

After this, the Terriers only threatened once. In the last few minutes of play, they began a drive from Davidson's 45-yard line and by a series of running plays brought the ball almost to the Kittens’ five-yard line, when the final whistle checked their attack. Davidson had no opportunity to score and with the exception of the two advances of Wofford, most of the playing was done in midfield.

During the first quarter, Captain West was recovering a fumble when he was tackled and his knee injured. He was not able to enter the game again and thus the passing attack of the Kittens was broken up. The two outstanding players for the Terriers were Bauknight and Funderburk. These men both played in the backfield. For Davidson, the line showed up well with Wilson, O'Keefe, and Pratt as the luminaries. The kicking of Blanton, Freshman back, was a feature of the game.