The Davidsonian

"ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS"

Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 4, 1930 No. 12

Dr. Sikes Addresses Phi Beta Kappa Members in Formal Initiation Here

Five Students, Three Alumni and One Faculty Member Initiated Into North Carolina Gamma Chapter

The statement that “all cotton mills, or all farmers, deserve a fair profit” sounds good, but is it not truer to say that “Some do and some don’t”? asked Dr. E. W. Sikes, president of Clemson College, in speaking at the annual initiation of the North Carolina Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. “Is it not better to say,” continued Dr. Sikes, “that it depends upon the mill, and upon the management, foresight and skill?”

Dr. Sikes took as his subject, “Progress and Poverty.” He brought out the fact that although America had made much progress, the bread lines in our cities are now longer than ever before. “Does this not seem to bear out the theory put forward by Henry George that ‘With progress comes poverty’?” he asked.

“New doctrines are being taught in America that are inconsistent with former creeds,” pointed out the speaker. “Among these are Henry Ford's doctrine of spending. It is directly opposite to Scotch thrift, and to the teachings of Benjamin Franklin. But if spending leads to spendthrift, the individual will suffer. Is not much of the restlessness of America, much of the lawlessness, due to the development of the spending habit beyond the capacity of earning?”

“The economic productivity of the world is efficient enough to feed and clothe every human being on earth; and its transportation systems can carry it wherever it is needed,” pointed out the South Carolina educator. “But consumption thwarts all other efficiency. Political and economic barriers thwart all movements. There is where the economic Gordian Knot lies, and who will cut this knot?”

“Today commerce and industry are expected to meet the needs of the world; to this end, it must labor. If it does not, then some new system will supplant it,” said the speaker. “It is a reflection upon the intelligence and moral fibre of the world to pile up wealth on one hand, and distress on the other. Distress means the decay of man.”

“American educational ideals were brought over from England, designed to meet the needs of pure intellectualism, and unfitted to an economic age. They have educated men away from the farm and industry,” said Dr. Sikes, in conclusion. “Mass education must (Continued on page 6)

Sophs Plan To Hold Class Banquet Soon

Informal Supper With Interesting Program to Be Held Night Before Holidays Begin

At last the Sophomore banquet that we have been hearing so much about is to materialize. C. M. Norfleet, president of the Sophomore class, stated last Monday that plans were under way to have the banquet Wednesday night, December 17, in the banquet hall in Chambers Building.

The banquet will of course be an informal affair and will be given in the form of a buffet supper. There will be a short program consisting of songs by the class and by a quartet and probably a solo, or two; a short comedy skit is also being planned.

There seems to be a great deal of interest being taken in this entertainment, for already nearly the whole Sophomore class have made known their intentions of attending the banquet by buying tickets for it.

This banquet is being given with two main ends in view. First, with the plan of stimulating in the entire class a better feeling of friendship and of class spirit. The second end in view is to send the entire class off for the holidays with a bright outlook for a merry Christmas and a good start for a happy New Year.

Dr. Kirk to Deliver Series of Lectures

Beginning Monday, December 8, a series of lectures of spiritual nature will be delivered at Davidson College by Dr. Harris F. Kirk, pastor of the Franklin Street Presbyterian Church in Baltimore, and former Moderator of the Southern General Assembly.

The appearance of this prominent religious leader of the South is made possible by the fund established in 1893 by the late Dr. J. M. P. Otts for the purpose of securing lecturers to come to Davidson College, speaking in defense of Christianity. The Otts fund has been allowed to accumulate and has now reached a total of $10,000. The Davidson College trustees recently authorized the use of these funds, and Dr. Kirk was selected to conduct the lectures.

Dr. Kirk will be the fifth to lecture at Davidson since the establishment of this fund, the last series of lectures having been delivered by the late Dr. Walter W. Moore of the Union Seminary. During the five days he is here, Dr. Kirk will speak upon the following subjects: “The Insignificance of Man’s Personality,” “The Spiritual Trends of Science,” “Jesus Christ, the Historical Manifestation of God,” and “The Christian Conception of Man’s Place in Nature and Beyond.” These lectures follow the general theme of “Man’s Place in Nature and Beyond.”

Since the establishment of the Otts fund, four series of lectures have been delivered, one by Dr. Otts himself on “Unsettled Questions.” Dr. R. L. Dabney has lectured on “Christ, Our Penal Substitute.” Dr. J. B. Shearer has lectured on “Modern Mysticism,” and Dr. Walter W. Moore has lectured upon the “Permanence of the Christian Ideal.”

Davidson feels itself fortunate in securing Dr. Kirk to deliver this fifth series of lectures, and it is expected that visitors from Charlotte and elsewhere will come to Davidson to hear this noted lecturer. It is also expected that Dr. Kirk will talk at the student chapel services at Davidson each morning while he is here.

STEVE BROWN-END

Davidson End Honored by Mention on Coaches’ All-American

CAMPAIGN TOMORROW

Friday night, December 5, at 9 o'clock, has been set by the “Y” as the time for the first and biggest canvass of dormitories in behalf of the $1,000 fund for Barium Springs Orphanage, gift of the Davidson student body. The nature of this institution, its present financial difficulties, and the challenge that it offers our entire student body to give liberally and willingly, have all been discussed in detail in a previous issue. To insure a successful campaign, every man must give. Will you do your part?

Davidson Stopped 13-2 By Heavy Wake Forest Team Thanksgiving Day

Two Passes Give Demon Deacons Margin of Victory Over Fighting Wildcat Eleven

10,000 FANS AT CLASH

Gardner Crashes Through Line to Block Kick and Give Wildcats Score

The vaunted mammoth line of the Wake Forest Demon Deacons were able to stem every attack of their lighter foes, the Davidson Wildcats, while their backfield cohorts were throwing two passes, both of them good for touchdowns and a 13 to 2 win. After every running attack had been stopped by the valiant Red and Black forward wall, the Baptists took to the air, the first from Benton to Mills and the second from Bradley to Brogden. The lone score for Davidson came in the third period when Gardner crashed through the Deacon line to block Benton’s kick and give a safety.

Ten thousand loyal and cheering fans left their Thanksgiving tables and warm homes to watch these two ancient rivals battle it out in freezing weather. Every available space was taken up in the Charlotte High School Stadium, the bestField the Queen City can offer, and many hundreds stood crowded into the end zones and along the sidelines. It was the biggest crowd the Wildcats have played before this season. The Wake Forest line turned out to be all that advance dope had given it, and although the Wildcats made more first downs than their opponents, they were always halted.

(Continued on page 5)

Davidson counter his team a All-American Selection Mention Two Wildcats Names Appear in McGugin, Roper, Jones, and Zuppke Nabene Wide Choice

In the list of America’s best football players of 1930, picked by Dan McGugin, Bill Roper, Howard Jones, and Bob Zuppke, four of the nation’s prominent coaches, there appeared the names of two Davidson men, Steve Brown and Joe McCall. Both Brown and McCall received honorable mention on the All-American selection.

Brown, before coming to Davidson, had never played football before, but under the guidance of the Davidson coaches has developed into one of the best ends in this section. His great defensive work was outstanding in all the Wildcat games this fall. As a Freshman, Brown won a berth on the yearling squad, and last fall as a Sophomore he showed much promise at end. This season, when Thad Brock was moved from the wing position to guard, Brown replaced him and has duplicated to a large extent the spectacular play of Brock last year. Brown is a Junior and still has another year of collegiate football.

McCall, a halfback, first won notice for himself last year by his great broken field running. Again this fall his broken field runs were instrumental in several Davidson victories, and distinguished him as one of the best ball-carriers in this section of the country. He also was the leading ground-gainer of the Wildcats this year. McCall, a Senior this year, has played three seasons on the varsity eleven.

Prof. E. J. Erwin Elected Head of South Atlantic Modern Language Group

Davidson Places 50 Grads in Who’s Who

Davidson College was one of the institutions surveyed by Donald B. Prentice and B. W. Kunkel, in their comparative study of the 28,805 men in Who's Who of the United States. The surveyors found that Davidson had fifty graduates ranked in Who's Who, this giving Davidson seventy-second place out of the total number of five hundred and six colleges represented. The only other colleges or universities in the State of North Carolina to surpass Davidson were the University of North Carolina with ninety-four of their alumni selected, thus giving them a rank of thirty-seventh, and Wake Forest, who has fifty-six graduates in this select group of distinguished men of America. Wake Forest is ranked sixty-third in the nation. There were seven members of the faculty of Davidson who are alumni and are included in the fifty graduates.

Davidson College's percentage of her living graduates is considerably higher. There were seventy colleges taken into consideration and Davidson was rated as twenty-ninth with a percentage of 2.15. The University of North Carolina was the only institution in the State of North Carolina to surpass Davidson; it was ranked twenty-fourth place in the list with a percentage of 2.35.

Last week The Davidsonian mentioned that there were seven members of the alumni of Davidson who are members of the faculty and who were selected in Who's Who. They are Dr. William J. Martin, former president, but now president of the General Assembly’s Training School at Richmond, Va.; Dr. Walter L. Lingle, present president of Davidson; Dr. Thomas W. Lingle, of the French and history departments; Dr. John W. MacConnell, college physician; Dr. J. Moore McConnell, dean of students and head of the history department; Dr. C. M. Richards of the Bible department, and Dr. M. E. Sentelle, dean, and also of the Bible department. Three other members of the Davidson faculty were selected for Who's Who. They were Dr. Howard Bell Arbuckle, head of the chemistry department, who attended Hampden-Sidney; Dr. Fraser Hood, head of the psychology department, who was a student of Southwestern; Prof. Scott C. Lyon, head of the biology department, who is an alumnus of Southwestern.

Davidson is Host to 75 Delegates From 20 Colleges in Sectional Meet

Selection of the University of South Carolina as the next meeting place brought to a close Saturday the third annual convention of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association, which was in session at Davidson for two days. Approximately 75 delegates from about 20 colleges in four states attended. Prof. E. J. Erwin, of Davidson College, was chosen as new president, and Prof. C. P. Hamff, University, was re-elected as secretary and treasurer. Four vice-presidents for the four different states included: Florida, Prof. E. V. Gage of the Florida State College for Women; Georgia, Miss Iola Kay Fastburn, Brenau; North Carolina, Prof. G. C. Taylor of the University of North Carolina, and South Carolina, Prof. A. Vermont, Converse. The new president succeeds Dr. F. W. Bradley of the University of South Carolina, who presided over the assembly.

The separate departmental divisions met in assigned quarters, where talks were made and different problems were discussed. Dr. Jay B. Hubbell, of Duke University, led the English Group; Dr. W. S. Barney, of N. C. C. W., French; Prof. E. V. Gage, University of Florida, Spanish, and Dr. G. R. Vowles, German. On Friday night, Davidson College hosted a dinner in the banquet hall of Chambers Building, followed by a public meeting, when Dr. J. M. McConnell, dean of instruction, formally welcomed them to the institution.

After considerable discussion, the question of inviting educational institutions in Kentucky, Virginia, and Tennessee to align themselves with the association was voted down. It was deemed impracticable because of the widely separated institutions. The counter proposal of inviting certain individuals from these states was adopted, however.

Personality was upheld as the determining factor of the success or failure of any English teacher in high schools, in a paper prepared by Prof. R. Meadows, of (Continued on page 5)

Candidates Try For Rhodes Scholarships

Five Davidson Men in Competition With Others From Carolina, Wake Forest, and Duke

On Friday and Saturday of this week, five men will represent Davidson College as candidates from North Carolina for the Rhodes Scholarship. This group, which will appear before the state committee, is composed of Dean Rusk, J. K. Pepper, Zeb Long, Frank R. Brown, and W. B. McGuire, the last three being alumni. Rusk and Pepper are members of this year’s Senior class. Besides these Davidson men, there will be representatives from Chapel Hill, three from Duke University, and two from Wake Forest in the state competition. Of these fifteen, two are chosen to represent North Carolina in Atlanta the following week. There they will meet with ten men from five other Southern States, and it is from these twelve men that four Rhodes scholars will be chosen.

The North Carolina committee which will select the representatives from this state is composed of the following men: Hon. Josephus Daniels, chairman; Prof. Harvie Branscomb, Duke University, secretary; Prof. G. R. Vowles, Davidson College; Dean W. C. Davidson, Duke University; President H. S. Hilley, Atlantic Christian College, and Professor C. P. Spruill, Jr., University of North Carolina. All the members of this committee are former Rhodes scholars with the exception of Mr. Daniels.