THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Z. V. LONG, Jr. ........ Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCALL .......... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
J. B. BLACK ............ Managing Editor
W. C. RAGIN ........... Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN ....... Athletic Editor
J. V. D. MIDDLETON .... Assignment Editor
J. S. BROWN ........... Feature Editor
W. T. BROWNING ...... Feature Editor
F. D. MILLER .......... Associate Editor
C. M. PRATT ........... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
S. LEA ................. Asst. Bus. Mgr.
W. SPENCER ........... Solicitor
W. DWELLE ............ Solicitor
E. C. DUNKLIN ......... Solicitor

MARCH 20, 1930

DAVIDSONIAN NOMINATIONS
Following are the nominations to be presented to the Student Body for Editor-in-Chief of The Davidsonian:
Alderman, P. R.
Black, J. B.
McCutchan, J. W.
Ragin, W. C.

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Congratulations to the next student body president and the two vice-presidents whose elections have been completed as we go to press. May their terms be characterized by a greater realization of established ideals, and by fine new accomplishments for Davidson.

And still we vote and vote. It will last until the middle of April.

Needless to say, most fellows around here will hail the opening of the diamond season this afternoon with keen expectation. Every sport is fine in its season, but baseball surely has a place all its own. If the Wildcats can salt that game today into the old win bag, they will be off to a great start. Oak Ridge is going to be a tough one, too. Don’t make any mistake about the athletic prowess of the Cadets.

For the first time in four or five weeks, the “hill” can settle down to enjoy a normal rest, beginning Saturday noon. No house parties for this one—just the campus in springtime. And what more could a fellow want?

An interesting lecture should be in store for Davidsonians tomorrow evening. Mr. Bucher is a globe trotter and student of some renown, and his illustrated discourse on Central Europe bids fair to throw a colorful spotlight on that much discussed and much misunderstood section of the world. It’s free as can be.

With debating season in the immediate offing, we'd like to see the student body show a little better support of its forensic representatives than it has in the years just gone by. Debating is one of the most difficult of all college activities, and those who think it dull have a surprise coming, if they will give themselves half a chance to enjoy it.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle and Ernest Milton returned last night from a prolonged swing through Davidson alumni strongholds in the Northeast. Their plan was to put over the best trip yet, and you can be sure that those two livewires came very close to accomplishing their aim.

When this high school track meet comes off, every man in the college must be on his toes to meet visiting athletes and introduce them as best he can to the real Davidson. Impressions made at that time will probably exert a big influence in sending some of those boys on to the Wildcat’s Lair.

Not many fellows were aware that a celebrity of other days and of older Wildcat battles came back to the campus last week to look over the old scenes as they remain. Everett Booe was one of Davidson's greatest athletes about the good year 1911. He accumulated four major letters, excelling in baseball and football. Professional baseball called him, and he has been busy at it for some fifteen summers. He will manage the Greensboro Patriots for the coming season. Get Doctor Charlie to tell you about him.

REVIVE THIS CUSTOM
Few men in the college are maintaining the fine old custom of calling on members of the faculty Sunday evenings. It used to be taken for granted, and every night after church, the lines of students could be seen on their trek in search of an enjoyable half hour or so. In most cases they got it, and gladly awaited the chance to renew that pleasant contact. Here of late, however, the natural habit of calling in town has gone the way of so many other traditional actions. We are sorry to see it so, we are sure that the men are missing a privilege they ought to enjoy. And, the truth is, the faculty members themselves are anxious to have the association; they welcome the opportunity of meeting the boys in an unofficial capacity. Every new man at Davidson ought to enter now into this habit which will return untold profit to him, and enable him to view the whole proposition of college life in a different way. There is no idea of intrusion connected with the visit, no atmosphere except that of natural friendship and sincere interest. Because Davidson is a small college, comparatively speaking, these personal opportunities are made possible, and they should be exercised for all they are worth. Give it a try Sunday night. Go calling!

BE ORIGINAL—SOPHS!
The proposition of abolishing Soph Day has been discussed pro and con for some time. It is true that the actual value of the activities brought to light on that famed day has been, in most cases, practically nil. The Sophomores have been unable to carry out plans which provided anything other than situations calling forth the ridicule of a large part of the student body, and the effect of Soph Day upon the freshmen can in no wise be imagined as constructive. This opinion is based, of course, upon the results seen in Soph Days of the past. Following the beaten path, the Sophomore Class of the present has gone on record as favoring the celebration again this spring, and, to be sure, that is the natural desire of every second year group. It will continue to be until general sentiment moves the class in question to abolish the time-worn habit. Now that the decision is made, the paramount objective of that class should be the most worthwhile Soph Day they can possibly execute. They have another chance to show the student body as a whole that Soph Day can be helpful, not merely farcical. There is a real challenge for originality.

STATE COLLEGES AND RELIGION
Religion is the most important thing in the world. One does not have to be obsessed with a strange, fanatical sort of evangelistic zeal to make or subscribe to an assertion as broad as that. He is foolish who would take issue with it. That being so, religion ought to be paramount in every sphere and field of human action or aspiration. Especially, we are minded to observe, ought that to be so in the field of education. Why is it that in the State concept of education so little place has been reserved for religious instruction? The teaching of the Bible in the public schools is not allowed; that is, teaching it by means of comment is prohibited. There is still a little incidental, indiscriminate and usually half-hearted reading of the Scriptures in the schools, but the law steps in and raises a club against instruction in spiritual life as such instruction can be secured from the Bible. The State-supported colleges are supposed to put the soft pedal on this instruction, also. Ex-President Dr. W. O. Thompson, of Ohio State University, is reported to have said: “The atmosphere in which a boy is educated counts for much. I am in no way untrue to State institutions when I say that in our day a boy might become a bachelor or master in almost any one of the best of them and be as ignorant of the Bible, the moral and spiritual truth which it represents and the fundamental principles of religion, their nature and value to society, as if he had been educated in a non-Christian country.” And he added the pertinent question, “Who is to meet this lack if not the Christian college?” Is there any valid reason that a State institution should be less “Christian” in a Christian civilization and among a Christian people than the Church college?—Charlotte News.

“Would you object to a little kissing?”
“You know, Bill, that’s something I have never done yet.”
“What, kissed?”
“No, objected.”

Tales of the Spanish Main were revived when the S. S. Bucaramanga went down to a fiery and watery grave. Probably more than a score of passengers and a few members of the crew met a roasting death. In the days of pinnaces and frigates there wereTwo disasters equally feared: fire at sea and a continued calm. Everyone who has read Robinson Crusoe will recall the graphic picture of the burning ship. One is of slow duration, the other presents a lingering torture. There will be an investigation in the case of the Bucaramanga; a belated justice will probably provide a scapegoat, for fires do not start themselves. Fortunately, Capt. Antonio Velez, according to tradition, went down with his boat. It is a noble custom, but sometimes seems a bit useless.

Last week, the story appeared in a well-known daily of the state that will astound many readers. A negro, young in age, was sentenced to life imprisonment for the convicted crime of stealing chickens. It recalls the instance of a somewhat similar enigma in South Carolina when a prisoner, also colored, was given three years at hard labor for pilfering a box of chalk and a Bible from a schoolhouse. This column does not advocate extensive leniency to marauders, but it does make an appeal for comparative equality. Scarface Al Capone is released after a year’s confinement; Leopold and Loeb are in an asylum; where are Sinclair and Falls? If a criminal takes a half-cent stamp from a post office, he brings down federal sleuths on his trail for life, but when caught he does not receive the same penalty as a willful embezzler or assassin.

Filipinos are justly enraged at the stubbornness of the United States. They count themselves to be thinking people; they want their independence; eventually, they will get it. England was none too eager to grant freedom to the thirteen colonies. In fact, it was by the grace of Providence, which ruled that Great Britain should have her troubles on the continent, that we ever won the right to set the Statue of Liberty in New York harbor. The possibility of thirteen weak and impoverished federated states developing into a great democracy was no more probable than is the likelihood of the independence of the Philippines. Many lives might be a generous consideration on the part of the United States government. It is true that, if this should be done, future Filipinos might be unable to establish a D.A.R., but there remain the Lions and the Elks.

Astronomers are stirred by the positive announcement that there is a ninth planet. As yet it is unnamed, but it is exceedingly large in size, and at a tremendous distance from the earth and sun. It is remarkable that its discovery was predicted by a famous scientist who arrived at his conclusion from mathematics several years ago. Who knows but what there may be many more lurking about in various corners of the ecliptic? Will it be named after the Greek and Roman gods, or will it draw a moniker from the more usual names of life? In any event, one would draw the conclusion that it is just “a great big baby.”

Extremes can be found to exist in almost any condition. Drys have been energetic in their attempt to introduce an ancient Arab to this country for the purpose of proving the wondrous effect of total abstinence on age. Wets, on the other hand, produce a Russian who is older and who has drunk large quantities of vodka every day of his life. It would appear that both factions are straining a point. Mohammedans might as well try to establish the true value of their religion by such an argument. Several different factors enter into the reasons for a human’s age, and fanatics should not resort to the use of syllogisms.

Weekends come and go with astonishing regularity, but Junior Speaking comes but once in the student’s career. The combined effort of a group of men to put over an endeavor unites those men closer within their own organization. Few citizens understand or realize the true significance of the inscription placed on the silver coins of the United States. “E Pluribus Unum” and its principle have been the chief causes of the industrial, political, and social success of the country. Dumas came close to it through the words of his immortal “Three Musketeers,” “One for all, and all for one.”

It was the evening after the night before. “How did you find yourself this morning?” “Easy. I just looked under the table and there I was.”

Yep, true to my threat in the last issue, I'm going to try to get by with the second of the series of articles about the lives of famous personages. After sorting the list of famous characters and picking out the most likely looking one, I discarded it entirely and wrote about the one that I’d planned on all along. Here 'tis:

SAM THE CITY SLICKER

Foist Spasm
OILY YIFE

Sam started life as a city slicker, being born in this historical old city of Boston. However, he was run out of town at a very tender age for calling a train a “choo-choo” instead of a “masticate-masticate” as the other Bostonians of the young generation did. He spent the next few years of his life pounding the pavements by day and sleeping on a fire escape by night. It was a very narrow escape, though, so he tired of this and entered a Barber’s College. He was very popular here, and was elected shear leader during his last year. While in college, he conceived the following philosophy of life: “It is better to have loved a short girl and lost than never to have loved a tall.” After he left Barber’s College, he was a cute little shaver, but he cast his career aside and became a nasty old traveling salesman. Thus endeth the reading of the first book.

Second Worse
RUDOLPH VASELINO

Sam was always a very thoughtful lad. For example, one day as he was traveling around and trying to peddle his wares, he saw an opportunity to do his daily good turn. He knocked on a lady's door and when she came to the door, he up and said, “Madam, your child is badly spoiled.” The lady took a deep inhale in three counts and turned green around the gills. “You brute,” quoth she, “I’ll have you know that our child is not spoiled.” Sam winked impishly and sniggered, “Well, if you don’t believe me, come and see what the steam roller did to it.”

Sam then hauled off and buckled down to hard work. While on his way to the next town, he passed the farm of prose and rhyme and observed a beautiful maid on her way to work. He stopped and hailed her. “Hail,” said he, “how’s the milkmaid?” “Idiot,” said she, “the milk isn’t made. The cow gives it.” Sam then concluded her little lecture by saying, “You may be a comfort to your mother, but you're just a wet blanket to me.” Exit Sam.

Third Pot
HIS LAST DAZE

Sam then went to see a very prosperous farmer and tried some high-pressure salesmanship on him, but the farmer got him off of the subject and began to brag about his strawberries. “Why,” the yokel said, “I raise huge luscious berries that just melt in your mouth.” “What do you put on them?” asked Sam, “Fertilizer?” “No,” replied the other, “nothing but cream and sugar.” This wrecked Sam’s life and he quit his job. He spent his declining years as a public idle, and became a great frequenter of dance halls. Once, while he was dancing with a girl, he chanced to say, “When I dance with you, I feel as if I’ve left the earth.” “You should,” replied the gal, “you're standing on my feet now.” At this, the scene rapidly shifted, and we find Sam as a doddering and disappointed old man. When interviewed for the press, he was asked, “Have any of your childhood hopes ever been realized?” “Yes,” Sam replied with a catch in his voice (you might have known that there’d be a catch in this somewhere), “when my mother used to comb my hair, I often wished that I didn’t have any.”

SELAH

A new clerk, dictating a few days ago, was in doubt as to the use of a certain phrase, so he said to the stenographer: “Do you retire a loan?” “No, I sleep with mamma.”

Now that the college students are getting younger each year, it is almost a certainty that the 1940 Junior Prom will be held on a merry-go-round.

“Is this a first-class restaurant?” “Yes, but if you sit over there in that dark corner, we'll serve you.”

She: “I feel like a nice, cool, malted milk. How about you?” He: “I dunno. What's a malted milk feel like?”

Johnny, Jr.: “Paw, why was Adam created first?” Johnny, Sr.: “To give him a chance to say something.”

As Brigham Young said, “Give us this day our daily bride.”

“I’ve rung this doorbell an hour, and my girl won’t answer.” “Make a noise like an ice-man.”

“This pea soup is full of sugar.” “They probably made it out of sweet peas.”