THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 30, 1930

Six Alumni Meetings In Two States Are Planned

Capt. Norton G. Pritchett Will Speak Before Alumni in Florida and Georgia

Davidson College alumni in a number of Georgia and Florida points will have the opportunity of hearing Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, director of athletics and physical education at Davidson, according to Ernest Milton, alumni secretary. Authorities of the college are sending Captain Pritchett to Florida for a tour in the interest of the institution, and it has been agreed that he could also spend a part of his time in Georgia in order to attend local alumni chapter meetings.

Unless the proposed itinerary for the popular director of athletics goes awry, he will meet with Davidson men in Rome, Atlanta, and Thomasville, Ga., and from that point will gather with the alumni in Jacksonville, Orlando, and Tampa. Organized chapters already exist at every city named with the exception of Rome, and at this city, he will be informally entertained by the Davidson alumni of that section. The advisability of a permanent chapter will probably come up for consideration when the Davidson former students gather at Rome.

The cities named are the centralized units of those two states. The Rome meeting would include the Davidson men in northern Georgia who would not be available for the Atlanta gathering. Atlanta contains almost seventy-five alumni alone, while approximately 50 more will be available nearby. Thomasville, Ga., embraces southern Georgia and northern Florida. Jacksonville draws from the northeastern part of Florida, Orlando the central section, and Tampa the southwestern part of the peninsula.

Letters have been written by the alumni secretary to individuals at all of the points named anent the proposed meetings, and at the time that “The Davidsonian” went to press, favorable reports had been received from three of them. The itinerary, as mapped out by the alumni secretary to coincide with Captain Pritchett’s business in Florida, would have the gatherings as follows:

February 13, Rome, Ga.
February 14, Atlanta, Ga.
February 17, Thomasville, Ga.
February 20, Jacksonville, Fla.
February 21, Orlando, Fla.
February 24, Tampa, Fla.

Alumni Deaths

Dr. J. B. White, ’10

Dr. John Bonar White, graduate of Davidson in the class of 1910, died at his home in Atlanta, Ga., early Thursday morning, January 23. Newspaper dispatches gave no immediate cause of his death. This Davidson alumnus was regarded as one of Atlanta’s most prominent medical men, being physician for Georgia Tech, and on the staffs of the Georgia Baptist Hospital and Fischer Sanatorium. He was a member of the Fulton County Medical Society and the American Medical Association, and was connected with medical societies throughout the country.

After graduating from Davidson, Doctor White did postgraduate work at a number of institutions, including Johns Hopkins University, the University of Chicago, and the University of Virginia. He was a veteran of the World War, having served for a time as a lieutenant in the Medical Corps in the Walter Reed Hospital. He is a former president.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

W. L. Roddy, ’21, of Rock Hill, S. C., has been elected president of the First Trust & Savings Bank of Due West, S. C. Although president of a bank in another city, Mr. Roddy will continue to reside in Rock Hill.

John L. Payne, '16, has been chosen president of the Sunday School Superintendents’ Association in Charlotte. Mr. Payne is superintendent of the Myers Park Presbyterian Sunday School.

B. W. Romefelt, ’21, who last spring went to New York to accept a position with the Chase National Bank, has been elected a vice-president of that concern. Mr. Romefelt resides at Scarsdale, N. Y.

Dr. A. J. Crowell, of Charlotte, honorary alumnus of Davidson, has been chosen as one of the lecturers for the Duke University Medical School. He has also been recently selected as president of the State Urological Society of North Carolina.

Hon. Robt. L. Ryburn, ’83, known as the dean of the Shelby bar, has been elected president of the Cleveland County Bar Association. He succeeds Gov. O. Max Gardner in this capacity.

Rev. Geo. I. Robertson, D.D., ’78, of Mount Holly, was recently hit by an automobile in Charlotte, but suffered only minor injuries.

M. L. (Pat) Crawford, '29, is playing basketball with the Cheraw (S. C.) All-Stars, and in a recent game against the Hartsville (S. C.) All-Stars, scored 21 points. He was declared to be the outstanding feature in the news reports.

Vance Huneycutt, ‘29, was recently tendered and accepted the position as secretary.of the Merchants Association at Albemarle. President of the Atlanta Alumni Association chapter. Besides his wife and mother, he is survived by Andrew W. White, '12, of Charlotte.

S. H. Askew, '20

Samuel Horton Askew, a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1920, died in a hospital in Rome, Ga., on Friday, January 3rd, following an appendicitis operation, from which complications developed. His death came rather unexpectedly and was a shock to his many friends in the alumni body, as well as to those friendships he had developed as a teacher in the Darlington School for Boys at Rome. Immediately after his graduation from Davidson, Mr. Askew became connected with the Darlington School, and except for a temporary leave of absence while he was studying at the University of North Carolina, he was constantly a teacher in that institution. He had shown remarkable promise of being a valuable educator in the South, and his loss will be keenly felt over a wide circle. Mr. Askew was a loyal alumnus of Davidson and showed his regard for his Alma Mater in many different ways. He was a frequent visitor to the campus, returning for every important event whenever possible, and when he could not be here, he would always write and express his regrets. A wife and one child survive.

"DRUGS" "PRESCRIPTIONS" "SODA"

A Complete Drug Store in a Good Town—Make Our Store Your Store

WHITE DRUG CO. "SUNDRIES"

Geo. W. Coan, Jr., '11, of Winston-Salem, has been made a vice-president of the Y. M. C. A. there. Mr. Coan is also mayor of that city. His administration is constantly receiving favorable comment on the editorial pages of the Winston-Salem papers.

Query Pharr, '13, and Mrs. Pharr, of Charlotte, announce the birth of a daughter on January 17.

A. L. Bowers, Jr., '28, is a stockholder in the new corporation, Bowers Brothers Company, of Washington, N. C.

Rev. Claude McIntosh, '26, is now pastor of the Irving Place Presbyterian Church at Tulsa, Okla., making the change from New Brooklyn, S. C.

Angle-Blackford Company, of Greensboro, of which Chas. W. Angle, '18, is president, was recently awarded two contracts that totaled one million dollars.

Friends will regret to learn of the deaths of Mrs. J. L. Campbell, mother of Dr. J. L. Campbell, 1900, of Norwood; of Miss Ida M. Pharr, sister of H. N. Pharr, '87, of Charlotte; of Mrs. Julia D. Strohecker, sister of Baxter Davidson, '80, of Charlotte; and of Capt. J. P. Lovelace, father of Logan Lovelace, '26, of High Point.

New Addresses

P. P. Thrower, '28, Louisville Presbyterian Seminary, Louisville, Ky.
T. E. Gray, '25, care Missouri State Life Insurance Co., 416 Professional Bldg., Jacksonville, Fla.
Prof. A. L. Bramlett, '11, Taylor University, Upland, Ind.
Rev. W. A. Nicholson, '12, Pineville.
P. J. Garrison, 949 S. Second St., Louisville, Ky.
Rev. Edgar Woods, '19, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.
John Bouvier, '26, care Institute for Research in Land Economics, 337 E. Chicago Ave., Chicago, Ill.
S. W. Brown, Jr., '26, 136 Dalzell St., Shreveport, La.
Rev. F. V. Long, '21, Harlingen, Texas.
Rev. A. C. Ray, Jr., '25, Era, Va.
Rev. T. H. Spence, Jr., '20, 3415 94th St., Jackson, N. Y.
Dr. Henry Louis Smith, '81, care Mrs. Lunsford Richardson, Greensboro, N. C.
Rev. W. M. Baker, '09, Mebane.
J. R. Earnest, '25, Commercial Credit Co., Roanoke, Va.
Rev. A. R. Howland, '15, Gabbetsville, Ga.
Rev. W. W. Moore, '22, China Inland Mission, Anking, Anhwei, China.
Albert Lyons, Jr., '26, Commercial Credit Co., 308 E. Tenn. Nat'l Bank Bldg., Knoxville, Tenn.

FELLOWS! You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station, DAVIDSON, N. C.

...and a Telephone man brought them together

In the Bell System, research and development are not confined to the engineering laboratory. These methods are applied also to the commercial side of the business, to make telephone service more useful. An example is the classified telephone directory, with its convenient listings by trade and profession, for quick and easy reference. Telephone men analyzed advertising and merchandising. They saw that prospective purchasers of advertised products often did not know where to buy them. They developed a plan for listing these dealers under their brand name in local "Where to Buy It" directories—a genuine service to buyer and seller alike.

BELL SYSTEM
A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones

"OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN"