3 P. M. SATURDAY uc wvidsonian “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” IMPORTANT CHANGES MADE IN ABSENCE REGULATIONS OF ALL STUDENTS Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 18, 1930 No. 1 “Y” Sponsors Reception For Entire Fresh Class _ Class of ’34 Received in Banquet Hall of Chambers Building FACULTY IS PRESENT Plans for Future Freshman Work Outlined by Carl Pritchett On Monday night, September 8, the Freshman Reception, sponsored by the Y. M. C. A., was held in the banquet room of Chambers Auditorium. Half the class was received at 7:30 p.m. and the other half at 8:00 p.m. As in the past years, the receiving line was composed of all the faculty, administration, and other officers connected with the college. Refreshments, which consisted of ice cream, cake, and punch, were served by young ladies of the town. The hall was tastefully and adroitly decorated in red and black. As this work was carried on by the “Y,” Carl Pritchett, the new secretary, had the responsibility of this reception, and due to his wholehearted work it was considered a success. It is fitting that since the “Y” first welcomed the new men to Davidson that the same organization should give them their first taste of social life on the campus. Carl Pritchett was given assistance by Mrs. F. W. Hengeveld and the “Y” Cabinet. Mrs. Hengeveld has offered her services before for other receptions, and it is due largely to her advice and work that this reception, as well as those in the past, ran smoothly. The work of preparing this reception was apportioned out to different committees: invitation, decorating, kitchen, and refreshment. Although the “Y” has taken this opportunity to get the class together, it is not intended that this is the last time the class will meet. Periodically, small groups will meet in the “Y” Social Room to get to know each other and to learn the campus leaders and outstanding men on the hill as well as others who are interested in them. The Y. M. C. A. has always directed personal attention to Freshmen, and it has been proven again this year that its services account for the friendly feeling on the Davidson campus to a large extent. Coaching Staff is Enlarged This Year J. W. Unger, of West Point, Miss., former football star and heavyweight wrestler, has been added this year to the Davidson coaching staff. He comes to Davidson highly recommended by Z. G. Clevenger, head coach of the University of Indiana. Unger first went to the University of Mississippi, where he played tackle on the varsity eleven and was on the baseball nine as well. Later on at the University of Indiana he was considered one of the best heavyweight wrestlers in the Western Conference. At present most of Unger’s time here will be devoted to coaching the linesmen of the Fresh football squad. After the football season is over, he will act in the position of head wrestling coach. Having taken courses in physical education at the University of Indiana, Unger is well equipped to take over these duties as well as offer valuable assistance in other phases of athletics throughout the year. His experience, however, in the line of wrestling and football will very probably warrant his (Continued on page 5) Student Directory The Davidsonian, according to its custom, plans to publish at an early date a complete directory of all students. Because of the usual confusion in final selection of rooms as well as the late registration of a few students, a correct directory cannot be published in this issue. Social Fraternities Issue Bids on 26th The annual rushing season of fraternities on the campus of Davidson College is now in full swing. Each year all fraternities are allowed about three weeks to look over and choose the men whom they wish to take in as members. This year the official rushing season closes on the night of September 25. For this night and the following day fraternity men are not allowed to speak to any Freshman. On the morning of September 26, bids or invitations to join will be issued to those who are to be offered membership by each fraternity. After 7 o'clock of this night, two representatives from each fraternity are allowed thirty minutes to talk with those to whom it has issued bids. After this time the representatives must leave and allow the Freshman the same amount of time to think things over before seeing another fraternity’s delegation. If the Freshman decides to accept the bid offered him, he does so by going alone to the lodge of the fraternity, after waiting for thirty minutes from the time he last talked to by the representatives of that group. The following is a list of the fraternities which will issue bids: Beta Theta Pi, Kappa Alpha, Kappa Sigma, Phi Delta Theta, Phi Gamma Delta, Pi Kappa Alpha, Pi Kappa Phi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Phi Epsilon and Theta Upsilon Omega. Absences Affect Hours In Changed Cut System Doctor Sentelle Explains Departure From Faculty’s Former Absence Regulations In clarifying the complete change in the so-called “cut” system as it appears in the “Rules and Regulations” booklet, Dr. M. E. Sentelle, dean of students, in an interview very definitely explains the newly adopted method. According to Dr. Sentelle, there will not be a permanent record. Absences Affect Hours In Changed Cut System Doctor Sentelle Explains Departure From Faculty’s Former Absence Regulations In clarifying the complete change in the so-called “cut” system as it appears in the “Rules and Regulations” booklet, Dr. M. E. Sentelle, dean of students, in an interview very definitely explains the newly adopted method. According to Dr. Sentelle, there will not be a permanent record. Leaders Of Campus and Faculty Members Speak To New Freshman Class Doctor Lingle and Doctor Wilcox Are Principal Speakers on Orientation Program GIVEN TO HELP FRESHMEN New Men Are Taught Methods and Traditions of Davidson The annual Davidson College orientation exercises were begun on Tuesday night, September 9, and were continued through Wednesday evening, September 10. It is the custom of the college to hold these exercises each year for the special benefit of the Freshman Class. The college officials address the members of the class on subjects which enlighten them as to the methods and functions of college life and the traditions and institutions of Davidson. These addresses give the new men a perspective of Davidson which they could get in no other manner. Tuesday night, Dr. C. R. Wilcox, president of Darlington School for Boys, delivered the initial address of the exercises. Dr. Wilcox stressed the point that the success of the individual depended on the individual himself. In relation to this fact he said that “no one but you can tie the threads of your life together. You must help your teachers as they try to help you do that.” He mentioned three things a student should abide by in his journey through Davidson, “Search out the truth, don’t be afraid, and don’t draw immature conclusions.” The devotional part of the evening's program was led by Dean Rusk, the Y. M. C. A. president. Wednesday afternoon, Dr. Moffatt, pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church, led the devotion and welcomed the new men. Wildcats To Face Elon Saturday In First Game Prominent Speakers Booked for Vespers With an excellent program to show for their enthusiasm, the leaders in the Y. M. C. A. are more than justified in their boasts of a successful year for religious service on the campus. Their speakers’ list to date contains three well-known and liked men, known for their zeal and appeal, not to mention the speaker for last Sunday, Dr. Walter Lingle. On Sunday afternoon, September 21, Mr. W. M. Woodson will conduct the “Y” vesper service. Then in the evening, Dr. Edgar Gammon of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, will conduct the vesper service. Dr. Gammon has been to the campus before, and has found a place in the hearts of all his hearers. No second invitation will be necessary to have a full attendance of students. Beginning October 5, and continuing through October 7, the Fall Evangelical Series will be held. The speaker at these services will be Dr. Ben Lacy, from Richmond Seminary, who requires no introduction, due to his long association with the young men of North Carolina and surrounding states. His geniality and sincerity once felt, there is no forgetting him. On Sunday morning, October 5, services will be held at the church, then in the afternoon at the Y. M. C. A. vesper service hour, and later, at 7:30 p.m., in the church. Then on Monday and Tuesday, services will be held in Chambers Building during regular morning chapel at night.the hour, and again the Freshman Class. He also told the Freshmen about the Davidson Church. A New Section of Stadium talk, which was filled with a wealth of information and sound advice, was delivered (Continued on page 5).

Shakespearian Play Will Be Presented

The lecture program for Davidson College for the fall term has not as yet been completed, but two features have been arranged that should prove of benefit and of quite a little interest to the students of Davidson College. On or about November 3, Mr. and Mrs. Pierre Pelletier, with a supporting cast, will present “The Merchant of Venice.” The company travelling with the couple is called “The Elizabethan Players,” and this is their tenth annual tour. These players specialize in the Shakespearian plays, and the one that they will present here at Davidson is a very popular one and should be enjoyed by all who see it. These players come very highly recommended and it is hoped that there will be no conflicting attractions on that date. Dr. Gordon J. Laing will deliver a series of lectures at Davidson on November 10. He will deliver two addresses during the day to the different classes and will give a (Continued on page 5).

Russell and Brock Win at Camp Perry

Davidson recently received distinction at the rifle matches held at Camp Perry this summer when the Camp McClellan team, including two Davidsonians, journeyed to Camp Perry and to victory in the annual R. O. T. C. rifle matches. R. D. Russell was forced to leave the matches before the finish, leaving his teammate, J. L. Brock, to complete the matches. In this match, J. L. Brock laid particular claim to distinction by his excellent work, being on the Fourth Corps Area team, which won the competitive R. O. T. C. and C. M. T. C. events. In other matches, Russell proved himself an expert with the rifle. He entered the President's match, a 100-yard range contest, and out of sixteen hundred placed 87th, while out of the 150 R. O. T. C. entrants he placed third. This match is one (Continued on page 5).

Cadet Officers Chosen By Military Department

Twenty-five commissioned officers, twenty-eight non-commissioned officers, and seventy-two corporals were appointed for the coming year for the R. O. T. C. unit of Davidson College by the professors of military science and tactics. The following men were appointed as commissioned officers: Cadet Major Rusk, Battalion Commander; Cadet Captains Bird, A. R.—Command Company “A”; Meacham, J. S.—Command Company “C”; Covington, H. S.—Command Company “B”; Smith, J. L.—Command Company “D”; Preston, J. F.—Battalion Adjutant; Brock, Thad—Plans and Training. (Continued on page 6).

Stadium Practically Completed

After approximately three months of labor, the new unit to the Davidson stadium has been completed. This new addition has been erected in juxtaposition to the old stadium, and although approximately the same size as the former, it includes many new and attractive features. The present size of the entire stadium, both old and new parts included, is about sixty-five yards in length and has a seating capacity of three thousand people. This does not include the bleacher seats on each side of the field, which, of course, are now in process of erection. The stadium is divided into six sections with convenient aisles for spectators to reach their seats. It also contains a place for the band, capable of seating thirty people. The main feature of the stadium is the fully equipped, steam-heated dressing rooms and showers. These rooms and baths are among the most modern of their kind in the state. The entrance to the stadium rooms and showers is at the extreme right and left as one enters the stadium, with the visitors’ rooms on the extreme left and the locals on the extreme right via a small hallway leading out to the field. With this additional unit, the entire stadium now faces approximately the center of the field, and the players may be seen clearly from any point in the stadium as well as from practically every seat in the bleachers. This new section, costing approximately twenty-five thousand dollars, was donated to the college by Smith Richardson of New York, and Lunsford Richardson of Greensboro, N. C., brothers, and alumni of Davidson. They bore half the expenses in the erection of the first concrete unit in 1926, and also gave thirty thousand dollars to build a modern athletic field as a memorial to their father, the late Lunsford Richardson, Sr., also an alumnus of Davidson. Davidson College owes quite a bit to the Richardson brothers, who have done more than their share in trying to make Davidson (Continued on page 6).

Much is Expected of “Pete” Williams Plunging Elon Captain and Fullback

EXPECT GOOD ’CAT TEAM

Many New Faces Will Be Seen in Wildcat Combinations

Reports from the Elon and Davidson football camps are very rosy and it seems that Coach Walker, the Christian mentor, will produce a winning eleven. With Captain “Pete” Williams leading the Elonites, a very lively game will be on tap when the whistle blows. Last year’s game with Elon will always be remembered because of the work of one Elon player, “Pete” Williams, the 190-pound fullback, who time after time broke through the Davidson line to throw a Wildcat back for a loss. It was only the steady line plunging of this man that resulted in the touchdown scored by Elon against Davidson. For this reason, the Wildcats will be out for revenge. The Davidson line-up is not definite, but it is said that they will put a team on the field that can take care of itself. The Wildcat line-up is not definite, but last year’s veterans are showing up well. Some of the men who will see service are: Captain McCall, Charley Fraley, Tom Mills, Joe Bradshaw, “Don” Srohard, “Buck” Pierce, “Mickey” King, and several other backfield men. In the forward wall there are several men who are showing up well and will probably see service next Saturday; some of these are Alternate Captain Covington, ex-Captain Brock, “Skinny” Pierce, “Steve” Brown, “Doe” Mathis, “Jack” Wagner, “Mart” Miller, and other linesmen. Coach “Monk” Younger will doubtless be trying several combinations of players and it is supposed that most of the squad will see some service in Saturday's game, so there will be a great many changes in the line-up before the game is over.

Students Selected To Assist Faculty

The following Davidson students have been selected by the Faculty Committee to serve as assistants in the respective subjects:

Latin—T. W. McLean.
French—J. T. Welch, Roscoe Prince, I. N. Hand.
Math—J. D. McConnell, H. S. Munroe.
Psychology—H. S. Covington, J. D. McCall, R. D. Russell.
Philosophy—A. R. Bird.
Bible—R. P. Enloe, J. F. Preston, J. S. Meacham, H. F. Nichol, A. R. Jackson.
History—J. C. Matthews, J. R. Caldwell, M. Jackson.
Physiology and Hygiene—M. W. Norfleet.
Chemistry—R. W. McCullough. (Continued on page 5).

Registration

Last Monday a report from the registrar's office gave Davidson an enrollment for the first semester of 610. A few more were expected to register within a day or two. For the first semester last year only 603 were enrolled. Although small, the administration is pleased with the increase, considering the economic depression of a year’s duration. At this early date no statistical reports, such as number of states represented, number in each class, etc., are available.