6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 13, 1930

Barium Springs Defeats Fresh Wrestling Squad Here By Uneven Score

Barium Springs Takes Two Falls While Davidson Grapplers Get Two Time Advantages

SCORE IS 16½ to 17½, Ogden and King Fight to Draw in Close Match

The Fresh wrestling team suffered its first loss of the season to a capable bunch of Barium Springs wrestlers. The Wildkittens were in there fighting until the finish, but the boys from Barium were just a little too good for them. The score was 16½ to 17½. Barium had three falls to her credit while Davidson had only two time advantages. Morris and Tyack, of Davidson, won their battles on time, and Ogden fought to a draw with King of Barium. The last mentioned match was the best of the meet. Both men showed considerable wrestling ability and were so closely matched that at the end of an extra period, their bout was called a draw. Brown of Barium proved to be a fast and clever wrestler in a tough match with Taylor of Davidson. He threw Taylor after several minutes of nip and tuck wrestling. Gregory lost to Jackins of Barium after nearly six minutes of struggling. It looked as if Gregory were going to win on time advantage, but the Barium wrestler came from behind and threw him in the last few minutes. Tyack, of Davidson, won comparatively easily on time advantage over Shaffer, who proved an adept at the art of keeping on his stomach. Wick lost to Donaldson of Barium by a fall.

Summary:
115 pounds—Morris, of Davidson, won over Vann on time advantage of 4 minutes and 25 seconds.
125 pounds—Donaldson of Barium won by a fall over Vick of Davidson in 2 minutes and 55 seconds.
135 pounds—Tyack, of Davidson, won over Shaffer on time advantage of 7 minutes and 33 seconds.
145 pounds—Brown, of Barium, won over Taylor, of Davidson, by a fall after 5 minutes and 10 seconds.
155 pounds—Jackins, of Barium, won over Gregory by a fall after 5 minutes and 50 seconds.
165 pounds—Ogden, of Davidson, and King, of Barium, fought to a draw after the match had gone an extra period.

BOOKS WE HAVE READ

The Omnibus of Crime, edited by Dorothy L. Sayers, Payson & Clarke, Ltd., New York, 1929. $3.00.

In this country they are commonly called “anthologies,” collections, or accumulations; in England one calls them “omnibuses”! Regardless of provincialisms, Miss Sayers has attempted a very daring piece of work. To choose 62 examples or stories of detection and mystery requires no little portion of acumen. When the critic recalls numerous tales of this nature it is evident that no grouping can be made which will satisfy every reader. Miss Sayers divides her “omnibus” into several distinct sections or groups. To the one who has entertained the idea that the mystery story is a modern institution, particularly in regard to the pure detective sketch, it is a distinct shock to find four stories in this book listed under the heading of “Primitives.” Thereafter, there are two principal divisions, “The Modern Detective Story” and “Macrocosmos” (Stories of the Supernatural).

Peculiarly interesting to note is the list of authors from which Miss Sayers draws her material. The names of Charles Dickens, Joseph Conrad, Edgar Allan Poe, and Robert Louis Stevenson lend the table of contents a decided literary atmosphere. One is also allured by the enticing name of Wilkie Collins which appears in an enumeration on the outside of the cover. Upon closer inspection, however, one finds that the only “Collins” listed in the group of authors is Charles Collins who is given credit for collaboration with Charles Dickens on “The Trial for Murder.” It is not easy to forgive this misleading and obviously incorrect information. Other names are honored, but many of them, such as H. G. Wells and Conan Doyle, have yet to be tested by time.

Something can be said also as to the chosen example of an author's art. For example, “The Mystery of Marie Roget,” by Edgar Allan Poe is the sole representative of that originator’s masterpieces. From a technical point of view this story is excellent, containing few flaws. On the other hand, it is hardly the best known of Poe's stories, nor is it commonly accepted as the best illustration of his intensely appealing style. Which discussion gives proper access to the age-worn question as to the purpose of a detective story. Should it be a piece of pure literary structure, technically correct both from the standpoint of the detective and art critic, or should it impel interest and interrogation on the part of the reader? It is not pertinent to argue the matter here, but it does appear that Miss Sayers would have done well if she had taken a definite stand. As it is, her “Omnibus” contains many selections of each of these two types in addition to a multitude that cannot be properly classified in a hasty criticism.

It is difficult, too, for the American to pardon the editor in her evident omission of American writers. She exhibits a decided preference for Englishmen. In all justice to Miss Sayers, for she is an Englishwoman, it is acknowledged that she is in a position in which it is far easier for her to keep well informed on current English literature... if the majority of it be literature. But, one, who has attempted to edit an “Omnibus,” is expected to have a thorough knowledge and appreciation for all the material which passes under the classification of the work. The book is not entitled “The Omnibus of English Crime,” nor is it “An English Omnibus of Crime.”

One of the omissions which frets American readers the most is the total absence of any acknowledgment of the now-popular writer, S. S. Van Dine. It will doubtless be contended that he cannot be classed as a master of literature, but neither can many of the English authors.

DR. RIMMER PROVES (Continued from page 1)

of the ‘Pentateuch,” they tell us, ‘writing was not even invented in Moses' time.’ Recently letters written between Amraphel, Abraham, Melchizedeck, and others have been found many hundred years before Moses. If Moses couldn't write he must certainly have been an ignoramus. But you know Moses couldn't have lived when he did because he mentioned wine in Egypt and Herodotus says it was unknown in Egypt.’ In tombs excavated within the past few years frescos have been found telling the entire story of wine from the press to the...slaves carrying out their masters after the banquet. Yes, Herodotus said otherwise but Herodotus and Moses lived at two far removed times. “An eminent authority on the Arabic language stated that the Old Testament was full of errors. The most glaring of these he thought were the references to the Hittite Empire which he claimed never existed. But all this time there were many monuments all over Asia Minor written in an unknown tongue. It fell to the lot of this man to discover the key to this language and it turned out that these were the writings of this ancient Hittite Empire. He originally wrote eight volumes to prove the fallacy of the Old Testament and now he has written fourteen to prove its truth. ‘Lack of faith in the Old Testament,’ he says, is a sign of ignorance or semi-knowledge at best.

“Sir Wm. Ramsey found so many mistakes in Luke that he discounted the whole New Testament. In Luke 2:2 he finds Cyrenius mentioned as the Roman Governor of Syria. After looking up the records he could find no mention of Cyrenius. Therefore he thought Luke could not have lived when he was supposed to have or he would not have made this blunder. In Acts 14 he finds that Luke says that Paul and Barnabus fled from Iconium over into Lystra and Derbe, cities of Lycaonia. According to all the old Roman maps he could find, Iconium was also in Lycaonia therefore it would have done Paul and Barnabus no good to flee to two cities in the same province. Later in some archaeological excavations he found in some mummified crocodiles another list of the Roman Governors of Syria. Cyrenius had reigned three months, but had tried to inflict a tax on the Jews when no tax was due, so he had been dishonorably discharged and his name stricken from the roll of governors. In the same set of papers he also found a map of the Roman Empire showing that the boundaries of Lycaonia had been extended to include Iconium in 156 A.D., after this account had been written. After forty years of mistaken belief he states that he has returned to the traditional view that the New Testament is historic, accurate, and the inspired word of God. Forty-one other great critics have recently reversed their opinions in the light of modern sciences.

“A peculiar type of lamp had been found in the old collections the use of which could not be determined. Within the past few years it has been found from excavated pictures and mosaics that they were foot lamps. Due to the unsatisfactory sewage systems, the irregularities of the paths, and the poisonous reptiles that were prevalent in that day when one ventured out at night he always wore a lamp on each shoe. These were the lamps David referred to when he said, ‘Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path.’ If we walk in the light of God’s word in the path Jesus traced we are sure to find happiness through Christian experience.”

Intramural Volley Ball

The Intramural Volley Ball contest has not progressed very far, but some of the games have been played, and the results are as follows: in the first round, the Seniors and the Juniors played, the game being won by the Seniors; in the same round, the Sophomores played the Freshmen, this game being won by the Freshmen. In the second round, the Seniors played the Sophomores, and the Sophomores won. The rest of the games have not been played as yet, but they will be played as soon as possible. The managers for these teams are McGeachy, Senior; Kramer, Junior; McConnell, Sophomore; and Manson, Freshman.

Davidson (30) Position Duke (33)
Pritchett (11) Forward Councilor (6)
Johnston (4) Forward Rogers (9)
Riske (8) Center Croson (12)
Goodson (7) Guard Selle
Fraley Guard Proctor (6)
Werber (6) Guard

Substitutes: Davidson, Moore (2); Martin. Duke: Shaw. Referee: Rawson (Georgia).

To The Home Owner.

Your ordinary Fire insurance will not fully protect you if your home is destroyed by fire. Where are you going to live pending repairs or reconstruction after the fire? You need RENTAL VALUE insurance to pay the cost of renting another home while rebuilding. When may we fully explain the benefits of a Rental Value policy? It's safer to have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Co. Insurance Department CHARLOTTE, N. C.

HANES SATISFIES YOUR EVERY UNDERWEAR NEED

SHIRTS and SHORTS ATHLETICS and RIBS

Nobby Shirts in cotton or rayon. White, solid colors or pastel trims. Shorts in fancy patterns and what will you have? 50c, 75c, and $1.00. The famous SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suit with the patented “Tug-of-War” belt in checks and fancy materials—$1.00. If you like Ribs, there’s a style and weight to suit you in HANES.

P.H. HANES KNITTING CO. Winston-Salem, N. C.

Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 17 and 18 “Street Girl” BETTY COMPSON

Wednesday, February 19 “Jazz Heaven” SALLY O’NEAL JOHN MACK BROWN

Davidson Theatre

Thursday, February 20 “South Sea Rose” LENORE ULRIC

Friday, February 21 “Seven Faces” PAUL MUNI

Saturday, February 22 “Melodie Man”