**THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1930**

The Davidsonian  
Published Weekly  
“For a Better Davidson”  
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915  

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the College year  
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.  
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

WILSON McCUTCHAN  
A. CANNON  

EDITORIAL STAFF  
E. C. DWELLE, JR. Managing Editor  
W. H. MATTHEWS Sports Editor  
V. M. BELL Feature Editor  
NORMAN B. DICKS Review Editor  
Associate Editors:  
D. G. MARTIN  
W. H. MATTHEWS  
V. M. BELL  

BUSINESS STAFF  
P. M. CONWAY Assistant Business Manager  
A. J. BAKER Assistant Business Manager  
A. G. MONTGOMERY Subscription Manager  
P. F. BROWN Solicitor  
R. W. PIVUS Solicitor  
A. M. MANSO Solicitor  
A. L. MEBANE Solicitor  
W. R. MORROW Solicitor  

REPORTERS’ CLUB  
President: W. H. MATTHEWS  
Vice-President: D. G. STEPHENSON  
Secretary-Treasurer: A. H. WHITEHEAD  

Members:  
R. H. ALDERMAN  
J. M. BROW  
J. G. BERRY  
G. E. BAILEY  
A. R. BIRD  
E. BOYD  
N. B. DICKS  
G. DUNKLIN  
E. O. GUERRANT  
W. T. HANCOCK  
E. LAKE  
R. L. McCALLIE  
C. MATTHEWS  
C. F. MYER  
V. F. MULLISS  
H. F. NICHOLS  
G. P. PARDINGTON  
S. P. PRESTON  
C. W. F. SPENCER  
B. B. TAYLOR  
W. B. WARD  
J. R. SMITH  
D. D. McBRYDE  

NOVEMBER 27, 1926

There is an inward fire that is fanned at times into a blaze. Beauty does it.  
—Harry Emerson Fosdick.

SUGGESTIONS

This paper was edited with the intention of getting it in the hands of the students sometime during Wednesday afternoon. Remembering the Elizabethan Players, we make this statement with reservations.

Carl R. Pritchett, Secretary of the Y. M. C. A., has made an announcement to the effect that the annual canvass of the student body will be started at an early date. This is an “all-Davidson” campaign!

Since the volleyball nets have been placed on the former lawn north of Chambers Building, we take back what we once said about the pity of forming paths across the grass.

Every man should be in Charlotte for the game. It is the last one that the Seniors will see before they become alumni. If nothing untoward happens, there will only be two more editions of “The Davidsonian” before Christmas.

WELCOME DELEGATES!

When the Modern Language Institute meets here this week, it will be for its third regular meeting, for it is a comparatively new organization. Delegates will represent various schools and universities throughout North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida.

It is a recognized fact that although Davidson’s enrollment is not as large as those of some of its contemporaries in higher education, and although the college may lack a few branches in technical and specialized training, yet the language school is one of the strongest departments in the local curriculum. It is true that Davidson misses the advantages of a graduate school, but there is a question as to what she would do with one if she had it.

Certainly, the language department is honored in having as its guests the representatives of institutions scattered throughout the South. It would appear that it is a mark of distinction, especially since the organization has not been long in operation. At any rate, Davidson is glad to play the host.

Probably no region of the world has made as rapid strides in progress during a specified time as the South has since the War Between the States. Education has played no small part in the development. It is inspiring that institutions of higher learning have adopted a policy of working together and in unison. It seems to us that universal standards of study are something to be desired, and they will be attained only through the cooperative efforts of men and women who know their respective fields. With all of its misquotations, it would not be out of place to remark “E Pluribus Unum.”

FALLING LEAVES

Most of the trees are bare, and men are taking the leaves. All of nature is hibernating in its preparation for spring. Tree skeletons are exposed to wintry blasts and have the opportunity to show what they are made of. Little is hidden or spared during December’s and January’s blizzards.

At the outset, the life of a leaf is necessarily short; it lasts for six or perhaps seven months. Turning green from its yellowish youth, it eventually achieves a brilliant red or yellow as the case may be. Most of the leaves that are here now will not be seen next year; others will have come to take their places. It is rather sad, this changing of the scene, sad because everything else revolves in much the same manner. Time, friends, matter, all of these come and go. No man has the power to halt this progress; it is monotonous in its routine.

Years, college years, are strangely identical. Each successive session finds another “first class,” another group of Freshmen. One is ripe and mellow with four years’ experience; the other is new and unlearned. In time, the latter will occupy the place of the former by reason of a process that is destined to proceed. Like leaves, some men will drop and fall during the midst of their college life. It makes little difference whether financial emergencies or preference for another school necessitate the man’s withdrawal; he is gone from his class.

The analogy can be carried still farther. Everyone has seen a few dried and withered leaves clinging to a tree after the others have gone. Clearly, they do not belong there. To go to an even greater extreme, an occasional leaf is torn from its branch with the exception of a fiber which holds it as it swings irritatingly in the wind. The observer who is watching it feels like tearing it off, for even a bare tree can be disfigured. Unfortunate as it may be, college men can become the same eyesore to their institution. We say that this is possible; we deny that there are such on the Davidson campus. But, the point is this: winter reveals the actual condition of the tree. Long, hard weeks of study, without athletic contests or other side interests, bare the man. Everyone expects a tree to bring forth new leaves in the new year. The natural conclusion should be self-evident.

THE SPIRIT OF DAVIDSON

Editor’s Note: The following editorial was taken from the ROCKY MOUNT TELEGRAM. It will be of interest to readers to know that the owner, editor, and sports editor of this newspaper are all graduates of Duke University.

Almost superhuman effort on the part of Davidson College athletes when they are defending their own goal has become something of an obsession. We have particular reference to the victory of the Davidson eleven over that of the University of North Carolina at Davidson last Saturday. It never occurred, perhaps, to the average football fan that Davidson had very much of a chance to better the powerful North Carolina team, and when the reports of the game had been spread abroad, there was more doubt at its accuracy than acceptance. But Davidson won the game by the margin of one point, a game in which the strength of every player was exhausted, a game in which the determination of the Davidson men that they should not lose was of more potency than their physical contributions.

To the average fan, there is something inspiring in this victory. Not because it is so much of a surprise, but because of the conduct of the men. Few schools can boast of the spirit that impelled Davidson men to superhuman effort. Since football was introduced in the college, Davidson has been known as a staunch defender of its goals, a team that never admitted defeat until the last whistle sounded. As modern colleges are classified, Davidson College is small. The requirements are that all football players shall have more than a smattering of English and, like football players at Columbia, shall be able to add and subtract. A football player, so the story goes, may be an idol among students at Davidson, but with the professors, he is just another student, and he must pass work to play football. But he passes.

Davidson players gave everything they had Saturday. When they were taken from the game before its end, they came off the field protesting but in a state of practical exhaustion. When the last whistle sounded, the young men, released from the excitement of the fray, were on the verge of collapse. Had there been no end to the game, they might have continued on. But when the end came and the stress of the game was over, the men who were borne from the field on the shoulders of admiring students were sadly in need of rest. They shot the works, so to speak. The spirit is an admirable one. The loyalty of the men goes unquestioned and is something of a tribute to both the college and the game. Davidson won the game from a superior foe, we believe, simply because Davidson determined at the outset that they would not lose and the determination never weakened.

Davidson students are all agog over the Carolina football victory and are pointing anxiously to theWake Forest game on Thanksgiving Day for the concluding encounter of the season. Hence, we should dedicate this column to the glory of our football team, one of the best we have ever had, and more especially those nine men who play their last game for Davidson—Thad Brock, Tom Brohard, Hub Covington, Walter Fraley, Dan Goodykoontz, Bill Mason, Joe McCall, Charlie Parker, and Jim Proctor. Let’s give them a real ovation when they come off the field on Thursday. One of Davidson’s greatest attributes is that she always remains true and loyal to her athletes. Swede Oberlander of Dartmouth, Red Grange of Illinois, George Pfann of Cornell, the two Bennies, Oosterbaan and Friedman of Michigan, Joesting of Minnesota, Ernie Nevers of Stanford, Pooley Hubert of Alabama, Gipp of Notre Dame, Slagle of Princeton, Gibby Welch of Pittsburgh, and numerous other football luminaries whose names blazed the headlines a few years back, are almost forgotten, oblivion being their fate, but the names of many Davidson athletic immortals of bygone days are often mentioned proudly by members of the student body and older alumni. Their names are revered by all men who have some knowledge of their achievements, and when they visit here in person from time to time, they are looked upon in secret admiration. Davidson is singularly appreciative of her football players. The accusation is sometimes made in some colleges that the gridiron candidates, after working and training under rigid rules for three months or more, are undeservingly unappreciated by their student body. That is not true here because we all realize what sacrifices are being made by those men who are depriving themselves of many privileges, and expose themselves to possible injury, just to uphold the name of our traditional institution.

Proof for these assertions is obvious. Almost every day, we hear men speak of at least one of the great galaxy of pigskin stars who have graced the portals of Davidson in the past. Ernest Bohannon and Jim Pinckney, both of the class of ’27, are often considered among our greatest ends. Not a year passes but that someone mentions the versatile Dick Grey, ’28. Hugh Grey, a brother, playing on the 1917 team—called the lightweight champions of the world—and who was prominently mentioned for All-American, is not a strange name to us. Monk Younger, our coach, who played a year at Davidson in 1915 and later at V. P. I., is often spoken of as our most famous four-letter man, and was personally commended by the late Walter Camp who saw him in action. That was the year when Monk was the smallest man on the team, weighing 155 pounds, while the rest of the V. P. I. eleven tipped the scales at over 185 pounds. Who has attended Davidson for a year and has never heard of the four Black brothers? Jack, now an official in some of the big Southern Conference games, was perhaps the greatest of all, and one of the best players Davidson ever had, in Coach Younger’s estimation. Bob, another star, has been producing championship teams at Wilmington High. Wick was a plunger of tremendous power and probably the hardest hitting fullback in a decade of Davidson football. Sam was also a good backfield man. Albert King, a kinsman of the present Wildcat halfback, has not been forgotten as the greatest catcher of forward passes that Davidson ever had. Red Edgerton, ’09, and Buck Flowers, the former, we are often reminded, was Davidson’s greatest center, and the latter the most remarkable broken-field runner in the South. This Albie Booth business is not a novelty, since Davidson all along has abounded in “mighty atoms,” as shown by the fine work of Spratt Moore, ’23, a small but elusive broken-field runner, and by “Tiny” Graham, a member of the champion 1910 team, who weighed but 140 pounds, but who had the tenacity of a bulldog. It is not seldom that we hear others speaking of Dr. Hamilton “Parse” McKay, ’06; Dr. John “Farmer” Moore, ’06; Dr. E. S. Faison, ’24, and C. M. Davis, '24, all splendid football players, and the latter two probably the best pair of ends we ever had. We soon hear about Jim Hendricks, ’25, who was considered the most scintillating halfback who ever wore a Wildcat uniform. Everybody soon learns that Archie Baker’s brother, Tom, ’26, although weighing but 155 pounds, was a marvelous tackle. This sorrel-topped lad, who never wore a helmet, played purely for the love of the game and was always found on the bottom of a heap of players in nearly every play. The faculty, who turn out about 100 percent for every game, sometimes show the Freshmen up in cheering. And, too, Dr. Walter Lingle is often seen on the bench with the players. That is real Wildcat spirit.

The greatest tragedy of the whole season has been Dan Goodykoontz’s inability to play because of his serious shoulder injury. Dan, captaining the Frosh team in his first year, starred so brilliantly that many sports writers predicted a wonderful future for him, which he would probably have fulfilled had not his injury jinx dated from even the latter part of his Freshman year until now. His knee failed him in his Sophomore year; his Junior year was marred by a fractured shoulder which healed only to be hurt again this fall, this last time forcing the West Virginia lad to retire for the season as doctor’s orders. Should not misfortune have befallen him, his addition to the team as a backfield menace might have changed the tide in some of the games that we lost.

MUSINGS

MATADOR

VEREEN BELL

The need for a revised dictionary of modern ideas has so long been outstanding that we hereby submit the following to the general public for approval:

Revised Dictionary

American translated into English

Antic—The part of a house just beneath the roof.

Ash-tray—An article for receiving the refuse from cigarettes, cigars and pipes. This is usually a rug or a new suit of clothes.

Boy Scout—An order of workers, rapidly increasing every day whose motto is “Be Prepared.” A group of swindlers and forgers have taken their other motto which is, “Do a good deed daily,” although very few are apprehended.

Earthworm—A most terrible animal of the species “catchus fishus.” A plague of these creatures will cause a business depression. In fact, the offices of some of our hardest working men will be absolutely deserted as these men do their part in killing the monsters. The most common form of exterminating the life of an earthworm, or the best according to popularity, is to impale him on a hooked piece of steel and drown him in a convenient millpond.

Dust—A protective covering over dormitory rooms. This covering is carefully laid to conceal any articles of value from would-be robbers. See foot-note.

Golf—A disease transmitted with the slightest exposure. As amnesia causes loss of memory, this disease causes loss of religion. While under the effects of golf, a reasonably sane man will insult anybody within hearing, but usually takes his wrath out on the small internes who care for him; the latter are sometimes called caddies, but are often called other more fitting names. Very old residents will remember an epidemic of a disease called “immature golf” which attacked all sexes and ages at one time, but was stamped out quite successfully. Golf was the incentive for the origin of the expression, “It makes no divots with me.”

Gasoline—An apparently harmless liquid that causes migrations and exoduses.

Methuselah—Gentleman who hung around for a while. His descendants will be found in every dormitory room when the inmates want to study for a review. Some of these have already taken the review and often make better grades than you do, and are very loud in their commendation of themselves. They should be hung for a while.

Moniker—Persons who mark unfortunates absent from chapel. Very efficient.

Pretense—State that a person is in when someone tries to borrow money from him.

Silence—Upon considerable research, little was found in this line.

Footnotes:

(Dust)—A lesson in politeness is given by the person who recently died and had engraved on his tombstone the words, “Excuse my dust.”

(Dust)—This can be divided into: He who dusts and he who dusts not. The one who dusts usually leaves school upon order of the Council. Janitors belong in the second class.

The End.

And the candle by which she read, as in a book, the fulfillment of her life work, of its deceptions, its grief, and its torments, flared up with greater brightness than she had ever known, revealing to her all that before was in darkness, then flickered, grew faint, and went out forever—Tolstoi, Death of Anna Karenina.

Not the eye but the spirit furnishes the best proof of theories—Albert Einstein.

I would point out that to cultivate art, to love it and to foster it, is entirely compatible with those qualities which make a successful business man.—Otto H. Kahn.

Civilization is nothing but a conquering of human instincts—William Lyons Phelps.

The American has an intimate love of conversion.—Benjamin De Casseres.

There comes a time—it is the beginning of manhood or womanhood—when one realizes that adventure is as humdrum as routine unless one assimilates it, unless one relates it to a central core which grows within and gives it contour and significance. Raw experience is empty, just as empty in the forecastle of a whaler as in the chamber of a counting house.—Lewis Mumford.

The fear of age blinds us to its beauty.—Kathleen Norris.