2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1930

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

WILSON McCUTCHAN..............-..... Editor-in-Chief
A. CANNON...........-............. Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. C. DWELLE, JR............. Managing Editor
W. S. LEA..................... Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN................. Managing Editor
W. B. MATTHEWS............. Sports Editor
V. M. BELL................... Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES............... Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON............... Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN............. Associate Editor
J. A. BLACK.................. Associate Editor
M. M. RAGIN................. Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
P. M. C...................... Assistant Business Manager
A. P. BAKER................. Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS............... Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY.......... Subscription Manager
P. B. BROWN................. Solicitor
R. W. FALLS................. Solicitor
A. M. MANSON............... Solicitor
A. L. MEBANE................ Solicitor
W. R. SMITH................. Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
S. S. WIGGINS............... President
D. G. STEPHENSON........... Vice-President
A. A. WHITEHEAD............ Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
J. M. BROOKS
J. G. BERRY
G. E. BAILEY
A. R. BIRD
J. E. BOYD
N. B. DICKS
J. G. DUNKLIN
E. O. GUERRANT
W. T. HANCOCK
J. E. LAKE
R. L. McCALLIE
C. C. MATTHEWS
C. F. MYERS
V. F. MULLISS
H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
C. W. F. SPENCER
B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR
W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH
D. D. McBRYDE

DECEMBER 4, 1930

My Dime!

One looks back with a tolerant smile to those days (1848), days when a formula seemed as powerful as a siege gun, when the ballot seemed by itself a guarantee of order and justice in human affairs.
Lewis Mumford.

SUGGESTIONS

Language students should remember the Tower of Babel when wondering the why and wherefore of different tongues.

Will Rogers gave Wrigley’s chewing gum a nice little bit of free advertising the other day. No doubt the Beechnut people will invite him to visit with them.

It is hard for many Seniors to realize that they have witnessed their last intercollegiate football game as undergraduates. Each year passes more quickly than the one before it, and it does not necessarily require an octogenarian to make the statement truthfully.

One good result, at least, of the universal depression is the renewal of football activities between the Navy and the Army. Perhaps one of the most colorful of American classics will be revived through misfortune.

Ice gathers quickly around the fountain presented by the class of '25. Cool drinks seem to be the order of the day.

We believe that more alumni have returned for various events this fall than ever before.

THE OUTSIDE INFLUENCE OF THE Y.M.C.A.

We have only to consider the work which the Davidson College Y.M.C.A. is doing to find out that it is one of the finest influences in the school. Much of their work is personal, and escapes the attention of the average student. Their work, nevertheless, goes on every day, and in a very real way the Y.M.C.A. influences the lives of many people.

One of the finest tasks which the “Y” has undertaken is the Barium Springs Fund Campaign. In this campaign they hope to raise one thousand dollars from the student body which will be sent to Barium Springs Orphanage. This school is situated in the central part of the State, between Mooresville and Statesville, and is a school for boys and girls, who, if it were not for Barium Springs, perhaps would have no chance to attend school at all.

In this campaign, the Y.M.C.A. deserves the support of every Davidson man. The success of the campaign depends upon this, and for this reason, it is our privilege and our duty to support it. No doubt many men will hardly give the campaign a thought. Therefore, we wish to bring it to the minds of the student body. The question is not how much, but with what spirit. In this campaign there is a chance for rendering real service to people who are in need, also a chance to co-operate with an organization which is deserving of the co-operation of every Davidson man. The appeal is to our spirit.

William S. Lea.

THEY ARE USUALLY SQUARE

Off and on during the past two or three years there have been observations current within the student body that the daily press was prone to overlook salient points of Davidson athletic teams. In this same issue there appears an editorial taken from a newspaper, the editor of which is a non-Davidson man. Glaring headlines on both front pages and sports pages greeted readers after the Carolina game. It appears to us that Davidson has been getting a square deal all the way around. As further proof we would point to an All-State selection recently published in an evening paper.

It is difficult for the man who has never written an article to realize the problems confronting the reporter. It makes little difference whether the writer is sports editor of a paper or not; it is hard to keep from “coloring” the report of any game. To those who persist in doubting this statement we suggest that they write an article for themselves and look at it two or three weeks after it has been written.

Newspaper readers are also too ready to forget that the success and reputation of a sports writer depends to a large extent on his prognostications. If he “dopes” a game right, he is good; if he does not, he cannot reach out and grab an alibi. Wanting a certain team to win and believing it is going to win are two vastly different types of thought.

Finally, any sound thinker is obliged to admit that the paper which makes a state-wide appeal cannot afford to express its desires, if it has any. There are hundreds of alumni of other schools besides the sons of Davidson; there are other student bodies. Davidson gets its breaks along with the others.

WHY THE COLLEGE PAPER?

To begin with, this is a discussion, not a defense. It is admitted, however, that the chief reason for such a discourse is that at least half of a college paper’s readers do not appear to be able to distinguish between its purpose and that of the daily news sheet. The other half make every distinction between the two and are not willing to admit the advantages of any resemblance between them.

As has been stated time and time again, every college paper should strive to serve the students of the institution to which it belongs. Occasionally one finds an editor, like the one in a large mid-western school, who defies tradition, custom, and campus sentiment in a tirade of condemnation. His fate is usually certain, swift, and effective. If students fail to reform him there are generally other interests that will.

Few editors attempt to make their appeal with the sensational. Tabloid sheets just “don't go” in collegiate circles. There is only one paper, which we receive regularly, that plays to the dramatic and unusual. We are forced to admit that the result it achieves is enviable, but the institution it represents is noted for its abhorrence of intercollegiate activities. It would seem that even with “modern youth” at the helm the “old timers” hold sway.

A slightly larger percentage of colleges yield to the call of the humorous, or attempted humorous. Much of this is no doubt due to lack of copy and the expected necessity of filler material. The types of wit differ. One publication regularly devotes one full page to jokes; others specialize in columns and exchanges. Once in a while an unexpected result is obtained, as the headline of a technical school’s paper which read, “Agricultural Student Holds Egg-Laying Contest.” Even the best of them make mistakes!

Perhaps nothing is more diverse in the manner with which it is treated than sports. This can be expected, for there are few things which present a more telling problem to the editor than this phase of extra-curricular activity. The only logical solution is to attempt to give athletics the proportional space that they claim in the minds of the students.

Society, music, debating, and other factors vary with individual institutions, and also with incumbent editors. It is not a simple matter to delegate them to their proper places.

Finally, with all of its possibilities for uniqueness, exactly what can the college paper hope to accomplish? A fair example is shown by the recent edition of the Clemson Tiger. It was published immediately after the announcement of Josh Cody that he had resigned as head coach there. There was not an article on any page of that particular edition which did not contain the name of the coach. The entire paper was a continuous plea for that man to reconsider his decision. It is not for us to consider the merits of Cody as a football coach. The important point is that every man in Clemson wants him toStay, and the “voice” of the students used every unit of its power to convince him of his general popularity. The paper was willing to join in the fight, and it would not have done so if it had not considered its possibilities. Finally, the conclusion must be that a college...

What Do You Know About?

Do-X Flop? Rockne as a Broker? A Cut-Throat Merger? The Pope Praises?

The projected trip of the Do-X, a giant aircraft, to America has practically been abandoned, for the time being at least. A series of disasters and misfortunes occurring during the last two weeks have left the German craft virtually a wreck. It is announced that it will take at least two weeks to complete repairs made necessary by a disastrous fire, and by that time the weather over the Atlantic is apt to be so bad that the trip will be impossible. On the flight over to Spain from England, engine trouble forced the craft down and made it necessary to taxi about 100 miles on the surface of the water. Repairs were made, however, and it headed to Lisbon. There, however, things went from bad to worse, and two fires broke out on the vessel. One was only a minor conflagration and produced no serious results. The second, however, almost destroyed the German airplane and caused it to be sent to dry dock for repairs. A spark from an auxiliary motor ignited one of the wings, and an explosion of the gas tank there demolished the left wing surface entirely. Only heroic work by six members of the crew saved the vessel from being completely destroyed by fire. Had the flames reached the main gas tanks, the whole plane would probably have been completely demolished. The series of mishaps and the failure of the vessel to successfully complete its scheduled flight have caused a great deal of discussion as to the advisability of so large a plane. It’s likely that no more giants of the air will be constructed for some time at least. America will have to wait until next spring to see the largest flying boat in the world.

“We should have a five-day week for working men, which means for all of us.”—John J. Rascob.

Having boosted the stock of his wonder teams to the heights of the gridiron world, Knute Rockne of Notre Dame is now entering into the stock market world himself, as a broker. It is reported that he has put in a broker’s office with quotation boards and all the “trimmin’s.” If he is as successful in that field for himself and for his followers as he has been in coaching football teams, the Rock of Notre Dame should be able to almost single-handedly put the stock market back on its feet. That is what he has done to football, through his own work, and that of men who learned the gridiron game under him. Rockne, besides being one of the foremost coaches in the game, has branched out into other fields with equal success. His articles in Collier’s each week are as popular as any feature appearing during the fall in any magazine. He has conducted a number of coaching schools, which have been very successful. He is one man who certainly does not keep all his eggs in one basket.

“The trouble with football today is not so much overemphasis, but rather underemphasis, which only a coach can understand.”—Coach Jim Pixlee, of George Washington University.

One of the most powerful mergers in American business has recently been completed, with Gillette and Auto-Strop Razor companies combining to form the largest safety-razor manufacturing company in the world. It is a combine which should have little trouble in cutting out all competition. Gillette had been forced into a disadvantageous position in a patent litigation over the new Gillette and Probak blades. Probak practically held the patents on the new style of blades used by Gillette and was favored to win the coming suit over these patents. For that reason, Auto-Strop was able to get a good deal more for its stock than it was worth on the market. The merger gives the new company the virtual monopoly on supplying the shaves to the world, and though no cuts in price are to be expected, it is believed that manufacturing costs will be pared a great deal.

Thomas A. Edison was recently presented a medal from Pope Pius XI because of his great inventions. And also, more to the point, the American inventor had presented him a gold-and-ivory decorated dictating machine. Not to disparage the gift of Edison or his inventive work, but we believe he is also one of the shrewdest men in getting his name in print in the United States today. Although the publicity to be derived was certainly not at the bottom of his gift, yet we think his press agents saw the opening. The question which the “Foremost American” publication exists for the main purpose of expressing what it believes to be the current opinion of its campus life. It exposes the candles that are being hidden under blankets.

MUSINGS

“MATADOR”

(Foreword: This article is reprinted in answer to numerous requests. It appeared last year in “Smokehouse Saga” in the November 21 issue of The Davidsonian and was written by the author of that column, aided and abetted by this lowly scribe.)

OF GETTING RID OF MICE

1. Set a trap and label it “Wet Paint.” The mouse will test the trap to see if the paint really is wet and be caught in the trap. The mouse will be fooled, too, because the paint wasn’t wet after all.
2. Sing “Sonny Boy” to the mouse. The mouse will commit hari-kari.
3. Tell the mouse the joke about “that wasn’t no lady, that was my wife.” The mouse will run amuck, be bogged in muck, and starve to death.
4. Confine the mouse’s girlfriend so that she can't keep her date with him. The mouse will become dejected and go off to Africa to shoot lions.
5. Tell the mouse about the famous Wildcat spirit. The mouse will work himself into a frenzy for ole Davidson. Throttle the mouse while he is in a frenzy with you.
6. Spray the mouse with alcohol. The mouse will receive a summons from the Student Council and die of humiliation.
7. Feed the mouse tripe. The mouse will become full of tripe and attempt to write a column. He will be squelched by the Editor. (He’s just the tripe that would.)
8. Chop off the mouse’s tail up to his neck. He will die of exposure.
9. Run pipes from Davidson’s heating plant through the mouse’s house. The mouse will become inured to the frigid climate and go on a polar exploration tour. He will be lost in frozen wastes.
10. Tell the mouse that the eyes of Texas are upon him. The mouse will become self-conscious and flee. Spray the flea with Flit.
11. Tell the mouse about his wonderful possibilities. The mouse will become fired with ambition. Sweep up the ashes in a dust-pan.
12. Tell the mouse he is a squirrel. The mouse will eat nuts. The mouse will think he is the nuts. The mouse will go nuts. Confine the mouse in a padded cell.
13. Tell the mouse how a cat killed his parents. The mouse will rush out to wreak vengeance. The mouse will be found dead in the wreckage.
14. Croon “Mousie, mousie, come out of your hole.” Fool the mouse when he appears and shoot him with a double-barrel shotgun. Remove the mouse with absorbent cotton and a medicine dropper.
15. Show the mouse a Senior in his new blazer. The mouse will become hysterical and tie himself in a knot. Bury him while still in the aforesaid sheepshank.
16. Tie one end of a stout cord around the mouse’s neck and the other end around a brick. Tease the mouse until he becomes infuriated and heaves the brick. Lock the door as the mouse follows the brick out.
17. Grease the mouse well with Staycomb and part in the middle with an axe.
18. Tell the mouse he is a frog. The mouse will croak. Cremate.
19. Leave school.

This new world will be a world based on slavery, but its slaves will be knowledge and the machine. —Frank A. Clement.

By no agency through which society operates can it destroy poverty outright. —President Edgerton, of the Manufacturers’ Association.

One must cease to believe before being able to comprehend either the reason or beauty of belief. —Lafcadio Hearn.

Flying is better for the undergraduate speeder than motoring. If he takes foolish risks in flying he finds he is the chief sufferer. —The Chief Constable of Oxford.

With a cluster of colored petals swaying in the breeze, one may at times bridge centuries or span the earth. —William Beebe.

If the world is ugly, let the critics remodel it so that they may get novels as pretty as their tastes. —Liam O'Flaherty.

’Tis written, gifts persuade The Gods in heaven; and gold is stronger made Than words innumerable to bend men’s ways. —Euripides.

Blessed is that customer who at this time is weighed by merchants and found wanting—wanting more goods. —Foster and Catchings.

Put in his questionnaire on his competitive examination last summer about the party lost in the desert also gained for him many inches of press comment. Edison, besides being a great inventor, probably the greatest in the United States, has surrounded himself with able press representatives, possibly some of the best in the United States.