BASKETBALL: WILDCATS SATURDAY VERSUS CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

Vol. XVII, DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 9, 1930 No. 14

“Make Yourself King” Is Topic Of Orr’s Sermon At “Y” Vesper Services

For Success One Should Strive for Self-Discovery, Self-Mastery, and Self-Expression

DISCOVER YOURSELF

Speaker is Prominent A. R. P. Pastor of Charlotte

At the first “Y” vesper service of the year, Sunday evening, Rev. Ernest Neal Orr of the Tabernacle, A. R. P. Church, in Charlotte, N. C., brought us a most inspiring message for the year on, “The Man Who Would Be King.” Wm. Rule led the singing; Chester Arnold and Don McQueen led in prayer; and Bob Norton read the Scripture and introduced the speaker.

“King,” said Mr. Orr, “is an old English word meaning ‘can.’ The primary requisite of a king is not a crown or a throne but the ability to be equal to the occasion at hand. This is the characteristic you must gain if you would be king. There are three definite things you must do in order to attain kingship.

“First, you must discover what you have to offer—along what lines you are talented. That is the field in which you will win. Scientists tell us that there are no two men alike in the world. We are all different in our likes and dislikes, in our physical and mental powers, in our talents and so in our abilities. No one of us can hope to make the greatest possible success by imitating someone else. Search out your own abilities and train them. Then you are started on the pathway to royalty. Self-discovery is the first essential.

“In the modern civilized world we have the great giants of fire, water, steam, electricity, and others that serve us because they are under control. Without this they are a great menace. As we glance through the pages of history we see countless numbers of men of great ability and genius who made utter failures of their lives because they lacked self-control. Without this quality of self-mastery we can never hope to achieve distinction in any line. Some of the subjects that are especially benefited by control are your thoughts, your temper, and your tongue. Gene Tunney, when asked what the essentials of a good boxer were, gave these: strength, skill, speed, stamina, and most of all nervous control, which last was responsible for his second victory over Dempsey.

“Today the world awaits your own expression. It is not interested in the reproduction of your father or some other great man. It has that already. The man who succeeds is he who can present something new and better, an improvement on the old not a carbon copy. David could not fight Goliath with the armor and approved instruments of war of the time. He won because he used methods suited to his size and experience. Mordecai receives the recognition and good will of the Persian king because he stood out different from the surrounding mass. Be sure to get started right, then use your own way. This, of course, does not mean to disregard lessons learned by others through experience and hard knocks, but remember that most men sink into nameless graves while once in a while a man forgets himself into immortality. Where can a better example be found of this than in Dr. Wilfred T. Grenfell, the promising young English physician who gave his life to improving the conditions along the Labrador coast.

“Would you be king? Then strive for Self-discovery, Self-mastery, Self-expression.”

Gardner Made Head Of French Society

A short business meeting of Le Cercle Francais, honorary French Society of Davidson College, was held at the home of Dr. G. B. Watts, on the evening of January 6. R. M. Christian resigned his presidency, and J. E. Gardner was elected in his place. The other officers of the club are M. E. Love, vice-president and J. F. Preston, secretary. Le Cercle Francais is composed of stu- (Continued on page 6)

Lingle Will Fill Big Speaking Schedule

Six speaking engagements have been arranged for Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, during the month of January. His schedule includes two important addresses and several sermons in this state and Virginia.

Founder’s Day at Queen's College, Charlotte, will be the occasion of one of his addresses, next Saturday, January 11. The following Sunday he will preach at Laurel Hill Church near Laurinburg, North Carolina.

Doctor Lingle will attend the annual meeting of the American Association of Colleges which will be held in Washington, D. C., January 13-16.

On January 19 he will deliver a sermon at the Prospect Presbyterian Church, located twelve miles northeast of Davidson. “It was at Prospect Church that the Concord Presbytery took the original action for the founding of Davidson College more than ninety years ago,” President Lingle stated.

He will make the main address at the graduation exercises of the public schools at Winston-Salem, North Carolina, Friday night, January 24.

Concluding the engagements of the month, President Lingle will preach Sunday, January 26, at the Westminster Presbyterian Church, of Lynchburg, Virginia, of which Rev. R. M. Miles, a Davidson alumnus, is pastor.

Final Effort Made In Y.M.C.A. Drive

Bulk of Money Goes to Banner Elk

The Banner Elk fund, which we have been hearing much about of late, will be brought to a close on January 10. The plans at present are to collect all of the money which has been pledged and to send part of the fund to The Lees-McRae Institute at Banner Elk. The other portion of the fund will be used here in Davidson for the purpose of aiding in the erection of a Sunday School building in the mill village part of town.

Before the Christmas holidays a total of two hundred and thirty-two dollars had been collected; since that time the total has been swelled to four hundred and sixteen dollars. A total of all the money pledged shows that nearly a thousand dollars have been promised by the students and others. The generous gifts of the faculty and townspeople have also been a great factor in the campaign. It is hoped that all those who are called upon to donate to this cause will give freely, because it surely could not go to a more worthy cause. Just before Christmas about two hundred dollars of the fund was sent to Banner Elk as a Christmas gift from Davidson College, and also as a sort of reminder of what is coming later. It should not be misunderstood that the campaign is over for donations will be gladly received. The gifts, it is hoped will be given in the next few days so that the drive will go over the thousand dollar mark.

Junior and Senior Honors

Due

All Seniors and Juniors are requested to turn in a list of their honors for the annual immediately. The following data is requested: Name in full, address in full, degree taken and in what (example: A.B. in English), and all campus honors. This list must be in, complete, before examinations begin in order that the work on these sections of the book may not be delayed. A box has been placed on the porch of Georgia where these lists may be deposited for collection by the proper authorities.

Senior Houseparty Planned By Faculty

All Seniors Are Urged to Bring Girls

On the week-end of February 22, a house party will be given to the Senior class by the Faculty. This custom was begun last year, and to the delight of the present Senior class, will be continued this year. The Faculty committee in charge has not as yet definitely announced its plans but has stated that the entertainment will be even better than the one given last year. All Seniors have been urged to bring girls, and it now looks as if the feminine attendance will be one hundred percent. The girls will be entertained in the homes of the Faculty members by special invitation. The whole student body wishes the Senior class a very pleasant weekend.

Davidson Trustees Meet In Charlotte

The executive committee of the Trustees of Davidson College met in Charlotte today, to consider a number of important matters including the report of the president and plans for the session of next year. R. A. Dunn, vice chairman of the Board of Trustees, presided at the meeting as the office of chairman was vacated on the resignation of Dr. Walter L. Lingle, who resigned to accept the presidency of the college. The chairman will be elected at the February meeting of the board, according to President Lingle.

LOCAL CHAPTER

Gamma Sigma Epsilon is Honored at National Convention

For the chapter showing the most progress during the past two years, the Alpha Alpha Chapter of the National Chemistry fraternity, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, located at Davidson College, received a cup at the NationalConvention held at Columbia, South Carolina. The convention was held November 29 and 30 and was attended by E. L. Lafferty, the Grand Alchemist of the local chapter, and Prof. O. J. Thies, a member of the National Council. The cup has been held by the Wake Forest Chapter for the last few years. It has been customary for the local chapter to hold an open meeting each year in the spring. It is planned, it is understood, to get some chemist of national importance to address this meeting this year, if possible. This fraternity, which was founded in 1919, has the mother chapter at Davidson. It is said to be one of the most active of the honorary fraternities on the campus.

RECEIVES NATIONAL HONORS TROPHY

Local Glee Club Plans Two Trips

The Davidson Glee Club is planning to start its early trip on February 11, which itinerary will include the north-western part of the state. Tentative arrangements have been made for engagements at China Grove, Salisbury, Greensboro College for Women, N. C. C. W., Salem College, and Mitchell College. The Club has created a very favorable impression for itself by its recent radio broadcasts over station WBT at Charlotte, and a considerable demand for the college singers has grown up as a consequence. The Club will be accompanied this year as heretofore by the jazz and concert orchestras. The itinerary for the second trip which the club plans to take some time in April is not yet complete. The tour will be through the South, where concerts will probably be given at Converse, Anderson College, Brenau, Agnes Scott, Shorter College, Lincolnton, Gastonia, and Belmont.

Debaters Announce Schedule for 1930

A preliminary schedule for the Varsity Debaters has been arranged with one Southern trip, which includes Emory University at Atlanta, Birmingham Southern at Birmingham, University of Alabama at Tuscaloosa, and the University of Florida. The home debates are as follows: William and Mary, Wake Forest, and University of Richmond. Neither the dates for the debates nor the date of the tryouts which will take place early in February have been arranged yet, but will be fixed soon.

The Varsity Debaters back this year are Z. V. Long, Jr., R. M. Christian, E. E. Marsh, Jr., C. R. Pritchett, J. C. Matthews, and W. B. McGuire, Jr. There are expected to be many others who will go out. According to a report given out today by R. M. Christian, president of the Forensic Council, everyone who wishes to debate must try out. Those men who were on the team last year are not necessarily on the team this year. The Freshman Debating Team will meet Carolina in a dual debate probably in April. Debaters also have in store for them the Junior and Freshmen Oratorical Contests which are annual events.

Class of '33 Meets To Elect President

Organization of the Freshman class began Monday morning. According to the Constitution of the Government of the Davidson Student Body, a nominating committee from the Student Council submitted the names of five Freshmen to that class to be voted on for President. The names submitted Monday morning after chapel were: J. B. Clark, Jr., from Fayetteville, N. C.; J. D. Enochs, from Bluefield, W. Va.; W. A. Flynn, from Atlanta, Ga.; U. Gardner, Decatur, Ga.; Charlie Pearce, Plant City, Fla. On Tuesday morning there were nominations from the floor. The first ballot was also taken. It will probably be the end of the week before the President is elected. Some weeks after his election, the President conducts the election of the vice-president and the secretary-treasurer.

Wildkittens Open Season with Win

Charlotte High Nosed Out in Close Battle

The Davidson Wildkittens opened their basketball season with a hard-fought victory over the Central High Basketeers from Charlotte on the Davidson floor Tuesday night. The final count was 22 to 18. Charlotte used effective man-to-man defense which kept the Kittens securely covered for the first half, and played safe on the offensive, holding the ball until they were able to get an opening, and then making the play for the basket. This type of play seemed to bewilder the Kittens, and they ended the initial half on the low end of an exceptionally low count, 7 to 5. In the third quarter, however, the red-jerseyed quint found itself to some extent and ran up a short lead which was never headed, although Charlotte rallied in the closing minutes and almost evened things up. The McCachren brothers for the visitors led the field with seven points, while Pierce for Davidson followed with six. Peabody at running guard played a fast floor game and was good for five counters. Alexander was a tower of strength to his team, breaking up many Davidson passes and proving instrumental in his team's attack.

Lineup and summary:
Davidson: Rogers (4) - Forward
Charlotte Hi: Bell (2) - Forward
Davidson: Manson (6) - Forward
Charlotte Hi: Peabody - Forward
Davidson: Pierce (6) - Center
Charlotte Hi: Alexander (1) - Center
Davidson: Peabody B (5) - Guard
Charlotte Hi: McCachren (7) - Guard
Davidson: Wiarnet (2) - Guard
Charlotte Hi: Villas (1) - Guard

Substitutions: Davidson, Enochs, Bernard; Charlotte, Hatcher, McCachren D (7). Referee: Rawson (Georgia).

Wildcats And Tarheels Start Big Five Season In Charlotte Saturday

Coach Younger to Put Experienced Courtmen Against North Carolina’s Seasoned Players

BOTH TEAMS PRIMED

Cats Out to Avenge Last Year’s Defeat

The Davidson Wildcats and the University of North Carolina Tar Heels pry off the lid on the Big Five basketball race in Charlotte Saturday night when these two fast quintets tangle up. Both teams are due to make strong bids for the state championship this year and as neither desires to be handicapped by a loss in the first engagement, a battle that will be nip and tuck all the way is assured. Coach Ashmore has fashioned another strong team this year around two veteran guards and a center. He lost four forwards by graduation last year and has found it necessary to do some experimenting to find a suitable pair for that place. Reports from the Tar Heels’ camp state that Neiman and Edwards looked pretty good at the offensive posts, but were being pushed by Hutchison and Slater. These four men should all see service in the engagement Saturday night. If two of this quartet should come through in real fashion, it is going to be hard to hold the Tar Heels off from a state title. Brown and Marpet, from last year’s championship team, have hit stride. Choate, a reserve from last season, can be substituted without much loss of defensive or offensive power. At center, Puny Harper dominates the position. He stands six feet six in stocking feet—they have trouble finding shoes for him—and is very fast. He is strong both on defense and offense. Dameron, only an inch shorter than Puny, relieves the first-string giant when necessary and can carry on in fine style.

Coach Monk Younger has been having trouble finding the correct combination from his wealth of material, but the games this week have probably determined the first string combination which gives the best results. Pritchett and Johnson are as nice a pair of forwards as there is in the state and probably have that position sewed up. Johnston, however, may be switched to center at times, but with Rusk and Milton making such strong bids for the place, it hardly seems likely that anyone else is needed for that position. Goodson has one guard taken care of very nicely, but Proctor, Mathis, and Gilbert are fighting it out for the other place and which one finally gets the call is still a question open for discussion. Both Carolina and Davidson can put experienced fives on the court Saturday. The majority of first-string men, no matter how they line up, are veterans from last year. The Tar Heels engaged in several games before Christmas, came back early after the holidays, and have been hard at work since. They have played a few games since the beginning of the year, too. The Wildcats have had three games this week, and one just before the close of school, so are no novices themselves. The game should be a fast offensive duel and with a wealth of reserves, neither team will find it necessary to let up on the pace. With the winner getting off to a good start in the State race, both teams will put out to win, and one of the best games of the season may be expected.

Dr. Lingle Recovers Stolen Pocketbook

The last episode in Dr. Walter Lingle’s experience with a pickpocket in Chicago seems to have been completed for the pocketbook was returned to its owner a few days ago. While in Chicago a few weeks ago, where he presided over the executive committee of the Council of Church of Christ in America, Doctor Lingle was relieved of a pocketbook containing about $65. The pickpocket, after extracting the money, dropped the pocketbook, unwrapped, into a mail box in Chicago. The postmaster in that city (Continued on page 6)