THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1930

Side Line Shots At Wildcat Victories Over Strong Opponents
By P. R. Alderman

The Diamond and Track teams took advantage of the holidays to chalk up a string of victories in spite of
being on foreign territory all the time. That loss to Wake Forest surely was an unexpected setback for the baseball
squad after two welcome wins over Elon and State. It was the first time a nine from Elon had been
defeated by the 'Cats in many a moon. There was somewhat of a tendency to credit the first win over
the Wolfpack to Dame Luck, but this attitude didn’t last any longer than the second clash with State when Captain
Kugler and his mates were in great form to turn the visitors back by the decisive score of 8 to
2.

Two South Carolina track teams were able to furnish very little competition to the fast-stepping Wildcat squad. Captain Heath Whittle,
Davidson’s fleet dashman, is rapidly gaining nation-wide recognition, his most brilliant performance taking place a couple of weeks ago when
he gave Sol Furth, national champ, a close run for his title. Joe McCall is still turning in points for
the ’Cats by taking honors in the broad jump against all opposition. He broke the school record against the Gamecocks
at Columbia.

The Fresh nine started off the season like they really meant business. When a team piles up over 20 runs
in one game it’s a pretty good indication that they’re going to be hard to beat. Keep it up Kittens!
Unless the tide turns the outlook is exceptionally bright for the Wildcats both on the Diamond and Track as well.
The latter have no defeats as yet while the former have lost three contests against five wins.

“Sleepy” Goodson, stellar second-sacker, has turned out again to be a tough proposition for any pitcher. His three doubles in
the second State clash had a lot to do with chalking up such an overwhelming victory. “Doc” Kugler, after getting
off to a bad start against the Georgetown squad, settled down to accomplish the difficult task of twirling against the
same team twice in succession. That he did this well is quite obvious. “Red” Parrish and John McGinnis continue to
sock the old apple far away at least once during a game. Judging from past performances it looks like the
’Cats are going to be pretty hard to hold to a low score very often.

Nab Armfield is still playing his usual consistent game behind the plate, besides showing marked improvement over his last year’s
hitting to turn in the high average of .307. It seems that we're expecting a little too much of the
’Cats, especially at the baseball games. They’ve been playing great ball in spite of the fact that comparatively few students
attend the game, many arriving late and leaving before the contest is over. There are some hard games ahead so
let’s be out there 100 per cent to show that we're right behind them. They deserve it and will appreciate
it.

“I’ve taken my fun where I’ve found it.”

Wildcat Nine Divides Two Game Series With State
’Cats Easy Winners in First Game But Drop Second at Concord 6-4

The Wildcats divided a double bill with the N. C. State Wolfpack, Friday and Saturday, the first played on the
home field and the second on neutral territory, Concord. Davidson was complete master of the first contest, winning in easy
fashion, 8-2. A disastrous sixth inning in which the Techmen made five errors and the Wildcats the same number of
hits gave the Wildcats an easy victory. Captain Kugler pitched fine ball, only allowing eight scattered hits and fanning seven
men. Bill Goodson, stellar second-sacker for the ‘Cats, hit three doubles in the afternoon and led both teams in the
batting averages for the day. Turner and Gerock were best for State, each garnering two hits out of four attempts.

N. C. State, however, showed a complete reversal of form at Concord the following afternoon, and sent the Davidson boys
back on the small end of a 6-4 count. Captain Shore did good work on the mound for the Wolfpack,
allowing but five hits. McInnis allowed nine hits to the Techmen and was the only man on either team to
get an extra base hit. Three State men, Brake, Snipes, and Furtado, were successful in base stealing attempts, while Miller
of Davidson was the only Wildcat to pilfer a bag. McInnis and Shore both struck out three men. The State
fielders remained errorless for the day while Parrish and Covington each committed one error.

Drawings in Tennis Tourney Announced

Drawings for the “Ladder” Tournament to determine the Davidson Tennis Team for this year were made public last week by
Captain F. W. Johnston and Manager J. W. Moore. In this tourney each man in the first six can challenge
the man directly above him and if he wins he takes this man’s place. Outside the first six, a man
may challenge two places above him. Playing will take place all this week and those occupying the first six places
at the end of the week will compose the team. Rankings of the first ten were:
1. A. N. Halverstadt.
2. i. 2 DuBose,
3.W. Johnston, 4. W. L. Poe, 5. G. R. Fain, 6. S. B. R. Molva, 7. M. Ia Roddey, 8.
D. O. Calder, 9. Dean Rusk, 10. C. W. Harrison. Since this ranking was made, Roddey has defeated McLean and
advanced to sixth place, and Rusk has defeated Calder and advanced to eighth. Plans for the tennis trip at present
include matches with Duke and Carolina, play in the State Intercollegiate Tournament, and a trip into Virginia. Definite arrangements have
not been made, but the team will probably leave on April 16. Several home matches have also been scheduled. The
tournament is progressing very slowly, and nothing definite has been learned about the possible personnel of the freshman team.

Varsity Batting Averages:
Marion ----- 1 0 1 1.000
Goodson ---- 34 4 13 .350
Armfield ---- 26 6 8 .307
Bernhardt -- 10 1 3 .300
McInnis ----- 28 6 8 .286
Gladstone --- 7 0 2 .286
Proctor ----- 22 7 6 .273
Parrish ----- 36 6 9 .250
Covington --- 24 5 6 .250
Henderson -- 4 1 1 .250
Miller ------- 31 4 7 .226
Mathis ------ 21 1 4 .190
Kugler ------ 13 2 1 .077
McMillan ---- 16 1 1 .063
Thompson -- 0 0 0 .000
Totals ------ 273 44 70 .256

Davidson Trackmen Go to Tech Relays
Seven Davidson Stars Will Make Trip to Atlanta

Saturday afternoon at two o'clock, the Davidson Track Team, represented by Whittle, George, McCall, Brohard, Neal, Norton, and Lafferty, is
to participate in the Georgia Tech Relays in Atlanta, Ga. The team, accompanied by Captain Pritchett and Coach Tilson, will
leave Davidson Friday morning to get to Atlanta by night. The Wildcats must run against some of the finest teams
in the entire country, such as Indiana, Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and many others. There will be approximately 400 of Dixie's
track stars entered in the meet at the Flats at Tech. There are to be 24 events for colleges which
will be run off Saturday. The Wildcats will be represented in the hurdles by Captain Heath Whittle and Graham George.
In the broad jump and the javelin throw, Davidson is to be represented by Joe McCall. In the broad jump,
he will be opposed by Ed Hamm, the great Georgia Tech star, who holds the world’s record at twenty-five feet.
In the javelin throw, Joe will be opposed by Doug Graydon, another great Tech star, who, although only a sophomore,
threw the javelin over 190 feet in the Tech-Carolina meet. In the relays, Davidson's runners will be Tom Brohard, Tom
Neal, Bob Norton, and “Pete” Lafferty, who will run the mile relay.

Cats to Take Rest After Virginia Trip
Only One Game Will Be Played During Coming Week

The Davidson baseball team will get a much-needed rest during the next week, with only one game scheduled. They close
their Virginia trip with the Washington and Lee Generals at Lexington today, then come home for a vacation. The five
games in the past week or so, coupled with the strenuous trip throughout the Old Dominion, have made a respite
necessary. The work of the team as a whole so far this season has been much better than even the
fondest admirer hoped. The boys have been hitting the ball hard and timely, and led by Kugler, the pitchers have
been hurling the old ball across the plate in a manner that has been very satisfactory. If the grade of
play can be maintained for the rest of the season, the Wildcats will finish a whole lot higher in the
percentage column than had been previously conceded. Jim Proctor, hard-hitting first baseman, seems to be having more than his share
of hard luck. Kept out of the opening game of the season by an unfortunate accident in practice, he came
back to prove himself a valuable man. But he was in an automobile accident last week that injured his knee
and gave him a bad cut on the head, and he was unable to make the Virginia trip. His place
was filled by Gladstone, who worked in this position in the Georgetown game and did it very creditably. Gladstone is
a catcher by trade and feels far more at home behind the bat, but even at first, he will go
a long way towards filling up the gap left by Proctor.

“What are all those men doing in a circle with their heads together? Is it a football team?”
“No, just a bunch of Scotsmen lighting a cigarette.”

Standing out as the better cigarette

THE SINGLE IDEA of superlative quality was the inspiration for Camel Cigarettes. From the time when the first Camel Cigarette
was made, that one idea has set Camel apart. A policy of better tobaccos, combined in an incomparable blend, manufactured
with the most exacting care—all to assure the utmost pleasure in smoking. That is the ideal and the practice behind
every package of Camel Cigarettes. It has made Camel the most popular cigarette ever known. More for pleasure, millions have
chosen Camels for smoking pleasure than ever accorded their patronage to any other cigarette.

© 1930, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.
