THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1930

MANY ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Large Number of Davidson College Alumni Are Married During Summer Months or Early Fall

Due to the large number of Davidson alumni marriages which have occurred since the last spring issue of The Davidsonian was published, only meagre facts can be given about each one in the limited space of this page. Some of these announcements are duplicates of those published in the August bulletin, but quite a few additional ones have been added since that time. They follow:

1875—Frank Morgan Burst to Miss Emma Zeller, both of Baltimore, Md., on August 31st.

1909—Rev. Williams Wilson Morton to Miss Frances Wilson Campbell, both of Lexington, Va., on June 25th.

1916—Dr. Archibald Murdock McKeithan to Miss Louise Wheat Buckley, both of Louisville, Ky., on August 15th.

1919—Rev. Edgar Archibald Woods, of Winter Haven, Fla., to Miss Lydia Daniel, of Greensboro, on September 1st.

1921—Franklin Fricker, of Detroit, Mich., to Miss Elizabeth Jane Cossitt, of Conneaut, Ohio, on September 20th.
—William Cowles Gaither, of Newton, to Miss Allie Comer, of Comer, Ga., on June 16th.
—Robert Lee Rogers, of Woodberry Forest, Va., to Miss Mildred Berkley Browning, of Orange, Va., on June 26th.
—Houston White to Miss Alice Ruby Hunter, both of Atlanta, Ga., on September 10th.

1923—Martin Boger Foil, of Concord, to Miss Jean Vardell Martin, of Richmond, Va., on August 23rd.
—Rev. Frank Smith Johnston, of Morehead City, to Miss Helen Thomas Watson, of Wildwood, on August 21st.

1924—Rev. Charles Victor Brown to Miss Margaret Elizabeth Tullock, both of New Haven, Conn., on September 12th.
—Harold Oscar Covington, of Chattanooga, Tenn., to Miss Kobman, of Cincinnati, Ohio, on March 24th.
—Archie China Keels, of Cavalla, Greece, to Miss Courtney Ferguson Peace, of Oxford, on July 14th.

1925—William Campbell Ramsey, of Greensboro, to Miss Josephine Forbes, of Tarboro, in June.
—Harry Bayard Price, of New Haven, Conn., to Miss Elizabeth Louisa Rugh, of New York, N. Y., on June 6th.

1926—John Hammond Booth to Miss Margaret Pegram Hamilton, both of Charlotte, in July.
—Alexander Yancey Bowie to Miss Sara Elizabeth Cunningham, both of Birmingham, Ala., on July 29th.
—James C. Pressley to Miss Minerva Pauline Boekenkamp, both of St. Petersburg, Fla., on September 12th.
—Joe Doy Young, of Mooresville, to Miss Grace Elizabeth Long, of Mebane, on April 16th.

1927—Charley Columbus Winston-Salem, to Miss Troutman, on August 30th.
—Marcus Dean Haney, Jr., of Charlotte, to Miss Margaret Porter, of Rockingham, on August 1st.
—Eustace Everett Lingle, of New York, to Miss Nancy Little, of Greensboro, on September 4th.
—Walter Delbert Turner, Jr., of Greensboro, to Miss Ruth Vaden Blair, of Elkin, on August 28th.

1928—Ralph Anderson Glenn to Miss Margaret Young Barrier, both of Concord, on June 21st.
—Henry Latham Laws, of Columbus, Miss., to Miss Marjie Frances Henley, of Brooksville, Miss., on June 1st.
—Joseph Kirkland Hall, Jr., of Belmont, to Miss Lucille McGowan, of Wie, in June.
—Gordon Henry McSwain, of Boston, Mass., to Miss Llewellyn Best, of Warsaw, on June 12th.
—Leo Kluttz Pritchett to Miss Erline Greene, both of Banner Elk, in June.
—Robert Moffatt Stephenson, of Covington, Ga., to Miss Lois Kyles, of Camden, S. C., on August 5th.

1929—Dan Odell Leftwich, of Rome, Ga., to Miss Helen Marie Wiegand, of Cleveland, Ohio, on May 2nd.
—William Josephs, of Charlotte, to Miss Polly DePass, of Princeton, N. J., on May 8th.
—William Everette Phifer, of Quincy, Fla., to Miss Evelyn Woodward, of Fustis, Fla., in September.

1930—Howard Reid Mobley, of Washington, N. C., to Miss Sara Johnston, of Yanceyville, on June 9th.
—Thomas Murray Richmond, of Greensboro, to Miss Lois Williamson, of Liberty, on August 5th.
—Robert Turner, of Richmond, Va., to Miss Edith Hudson, of Mooresville, in July.

1931—James Henderson Foil to Miss Lucille Baker, both of Salisbury, on August 31st.

Rev. Geo. M. Mathis, '96, has accepted a call to the Trinity Avenue Presbyterian Church at Durham, succeeding Rev. Geo. L. Cooper, '17.

Col. F. H. Fries, '74, of Winston-Salem, president of the Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, who has been ill for the past eight weeks, has been able to return to his office.

J. A. King, '27, has been appointed division manager of the Washington, D. C., division of the Liggett-Myers Tobacco Company, and is now at his headquarters in the nation’s capitol.

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, '81, former president of Davidson and president-emeritus of Washington and Lee, will speak in Charlotte on October 7th at the closing banquet of the State W. C. T. U. meeting. Dr. Smith recently delivered an address at the opening of Mitchell College, in Statesville, and is filling many other minor engagements.

Rev. J. H. Brady, '12, who is a missionary to Japan, on furlough in this country, was recently elected moderator of Concord Presbytery. Mr. Brady is spending his furlough at his old home in Statesville. Other Davidson alumni recently elected moderators of Presbytery meetings were Rev. R. J. Hunter, '93, of Gastonia, Kings Mountain Presbytery, and Rev. W. C. Cumming, '18, of Henderson, Granville Presbytery.

Births

1921—Mr. and Mrs. R. A. McPheeters, of Winston-Salem, announce the birth of a son, Robert Allen, Jr., on September 5th.

1923—Mr. and Mrs. J. V. Hunter, Jr., of Winston-Salem, announce the birth of a son, John Victor, III, on September 21st.

Speaks Here

Dr. Ben R. Lacy, '06, President of Union Theological Seminary, Who Starts a Series of Services at Davidson Next Sunday

Alumni Personals

Dr. R. R. Jones, '24, who was in Strong Memorial Hospital last year, is now at the new Duke University Hospital, at Durham.

Four 1928 alumni are staying together at 135 W. 16th St., New York City. They are W. L. Lingle, Jr., J. S. McAlister, Rod McRae, and Boyce F. Martin. Rev. LawrenceLittle, '25, who was on the faculty of Duke University last year, will be at Yale University the next two years, teaching two courses in the Department of Education, and completing the requirements for his Ph.D. degree. Among others who went to Yale this year were Harry B. Price, '25, who studied at Columbia University during 1929-1930, and S. Wood Brown, '26, who completed the law course at Tulane University in June, and won the Sterling Scholarship to Yale. Elmer E. Brown, '28, has entered the Medical School at the University of North Carolina, after teaching in Greensboro for two years.

School Publications
Manuals, Magazines, Catalogs, New Books
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.
Established 1895
Complete Service

Business, Teaching, Medicine, and Seminaries Claim Majority of the Most Recent Alumni

WIDELY SCATTERED
Thirteen States and Two Foreign Countries Are Represented

While the alumni secretary is not yet familiar with what each member of the class of 1930 is doing this year, he has heard from over fifty percent of them, and is devoting this column to the newest alumni of the institution. Looking back over the distribution of former graduating classes, the opinion is advanced that the 1930 men are more centralized than any others of recent years. Even at that, the preliminary survey shows that they are stationed in 13 states and two foreign countries. Below are reports on seventy of the graduates.

The medical field, the seminaries, the classrooms, and business are naturally the vocations in which the majority of them are now participating. No apology is made for the omission of any name of the 1930 men below, for the secretary has not been able to hear from the men, or learn through their friends what they are doing. An appeal can be appropriately made to those who are familiar with the whereabouts of some of the 1930 graduates, and the work in which they are involved.

D. P. Anderson, Jr., and A. L. DeCamp are studying medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. D. E. Yow is also at Philadelphia in the Medical School of Jefferson. J. A. Moore is continuing his medical studies at Harvard, and H. A. Cox has entered Vanderbilt Medical School. W. R. Hill and C. C. Orr, Jr., are studying medicine at the University of Virginia. L. C. Roberts is pursuing the same course at Duke University; E. L. Roberson is in the Medical School at the University of Maryland, and J. A. Brown and F. R. Lawther are studying in the same field at the University of North Carolina.

At Union Theological Seminary you will find E. H. Clarke and Robert Turner. L. L. Barr, Jr., is at Louisville Theological Seminary, and those who went to Columbia Seminary at Decatur, Ga., are T. R. Nunan, H. E. Russell, and A. M. Warren.

Future lawyers of the class who are studying: E. S. Heefner, Jr., at Harvard; W. B. McGuire, Jr., at Duke University, and E. E. Marsh, Jr., at Carolina.

Among the teachers this year are Frank R. Brown, at Davidson; J. B. Christenbury at Crossnore; R. M. Christian, St. Christopher’s School, near Richmond, Va.; R. T. Ellett is at Porter Military Academy, Charleston, S.C.; J. E. Gardner, at Morganton; G. L. Gladstone at Abbetsburg, N.C.; J. A. Haney, at Danbury, N.C.; G. P. Henderson, Maxton Junior College; A. J. Hewlett, Roper (N.C.) High School; D. C. Hunter, Belmont; F. W. Johnston, Wallace School, Nashville, Tenn.; J. B. Knox, Beirut, Syria; E. L. Lafferty, at Davidson; J. C. Laurence, Smithfield; Zeb Long, Jr., and J. F. McInnis, both at Episcopal School, Lynchburg, Va.; M. E. Love, near Matthews; W. G. McGavock, Branham and Hughes Military Academy, Spring Hill, Tenn.; Neill McGeachey, in Africa; D. K. Miller, near China Grove; F. D. Miller, at Stuyvesant School, Warrenton, Va.; E. W. Smith, Jr., Lumberton, and G. K. Watts at Scotts High School, near Statesville.

Preparing himself for business at Harvard is Lewis Hart. Four are connected with the Equitable Life Assurance Society—R. B. Erckman, at Columbus, Ohio; Frank S. Erwin, at Indianapolis, Ind.; S. C. Booker, at Baltimore, Md., and J. W. Moore, Jr., at Rock Hill, S.C. As some have expressed it, three are working “with” John D. Rockefeller through the Standard Oil Company. W. McDermid, at Charleston, S.C.; L. A. Mills, at Greenville, S.C., and W. F. Gaffney, at Charlotte. R. F. Jarratt is assistant manager of the Medical Arts Building, in San Antonio, Texas. “It sounds big, but isn’t,” he wrote. Henry S. Goodwin is working in the organic research division of the Dow Chemical Company at Midland, Mich. C. H. Pettus, Jr., is working in Philadelphia, and living at Ardmore, Pa. L. L. Boyd is on the circulation staff of The Charlotte News, and H. W. White is working in the reportorial department of the same newspaper. C. M. Pratt is working in New York, and C. H. DuBose is in Washington, D.C. C. H. King, Jr., is in Johnson City, Tenn., and J. M. Ulmer is becoming a banker in Charlotte. A. M. Frew is preaching at the Church-by-the-Side-of-the-Road in Greensboro. Those working in their respective home towns are A. N. Halverstadt, Atlanta, Ga.; E. H. McCall, Salisbury; V. A. Milton, Thomasville, Ga.; L. B. Parrish and A. J.

(Continued on page 6)

Magazines
Books
Stationery
New Records Every Week
Superior Soda Service

W. S. HENDERSON
Watches
Clocks
Fountain Pens

The Most Up-to-Date Cleaning Plant in the Two Carolinas
At Your Service
ZORIC CLEANING by DOMESTIC LAUNDRY
“Poon” Hancock Representatives
210 Watts - “Dus” Enochs

FURNISHINGS
Friendly Five Shoes
STETSON
“D” STORE
PHONE 206
Clothes For The College Man
CLOTHING
John Ward Shoes