THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 16, 1930

IT'S ALL RIGHT GANG FIGHT 'EM!

THE SPORTS PARADE

DAVIDSON vs CITADEL SATURDAY CENTRAL HIGH STADIUM

Duke Blue Devils Down Davidson Eleven 12 to 0 In Hard Fought Battle

Wildcats Hold Powerful Foes Scoreless Until Midway in Last Period

BREWER IS DUKE STAR

Hard Charging Blue Devil Line Smothers Wildcat Backs

The rejuvenated Duke Blue Devils were just too much for a bewildered Davidson eleven, and after being held scoreless for three periods, they pushed over two touchdowns in the closing minutes of play. Far outclassed in gaining power, yet still a fighting band of 'Cats when their goal line was threatened, Davidson repulsed the Blue Devils time after time within the shadow of their own goal.

Duke started off with a rush. Taking Brock's punt deep in their own territory, Duke ran it up to the Wildcats' 10-yard line. Brewer, Mullins, Eshler, and Murray seemed to be able to gain at will through the Wildcat line, and a touchdown seemed inevitable. However, the Wildcats exhibited some of their well-known Wildcat fight and held the Blue Devils for downs.

After this attempt had failed, Davidson made its one and only threat of the game. Proctor intercepted a Blue Devil pass on the Duke 37-yard line, and aided by a 12-yard pass from Fraley to Pierce, the Wildcats took the ball to Duke's 13-yard line. There the Methodists braced and took the ball away.

In the final period, Rosky, Duke's signal-calling left end, broke through to block Brock's punt and his teammate, Hayes, recovered it on the Wildcat 42-yard line. Brewer and Murray alternated with the ball in a touchdown drive, Brewer going across for the score. The Blue Devils scored again a few minutes later, when Mills, sub-back for the Wildcats, misjudged a punt, barely touching it, and the ever alert Hayes recovered for Duke on the Davidson 10-yard line. Aided by a five-yard penalty, Eshler crossed for the second Duke score.

Tennis Tournament Finals Are Reached

In the fall tennis tournament, M. L. Roddey defeated Capt. Bill Poe, 8-6, 6-2. The outcome of this match, played Monday, places Roddey in the finals. Poe, in order to play Roddey, snatched a victory from a tough opponent in W. R. Morrow, the score being 6-2, 8-6. Roddey met and defeated Duncan Calder in the quarter-finals.

Roddey's opponent will be one of the following men: Dean Rusk, Sylvester McLean, and Gene DuBose. DuBose took his last match from J. A. Alexander, thus to enter the semi-finals and the winner of the McLean-Rusk contest will meet DuBose. Whoever comes out victorious in the latter, will clash with Roddey to decide the fall tennis champion. The finals were played yesterday afternoon but the results were not available as The Davidsonian goes to press.

'Cat Reserves Lose To Belmont Eleven

Belmont Scores in First Period on Intercepted Pass

The Davidson reserves were beaten in a game with Belmont Abbey last Friday by a score of 7-0. This game was played while the regular team was on its way to Durham to fight the Duke Blue Devils. The Belmont team made their score on an intercepted pass in the first quarter. Doris, captain of the team, intercepted this pass on his own 40-yard line and ran 60 yards for the touchdown. The extra point was scored on a line buck by Rhodes.

For the rest of the game the play was evenly matched, neither team being able to make any headway. Only eight first downs were made, of which two went to the 'Cat reserves. The outstanding playing of the "All-American" team was done by Peabody, Creech, and Norfleet. The Abbey team's best men were Rodgers, Lentz, Doris, and Boyle.

Intramural Decathlon

Terrier Freshmen Play Kittens in Spartanburg

Wofford Freshmen Defeated 18-13 in Close Battle Last Year

The Davidson Wildkittens will journey to Spartanburg Friday to engage the Wofford Freshmen in what is predicted to be a very good football game. This will be the Kittens' second game of the season and a great deal of improvement is expected over their game with Oak Ridge.

Nothing much is known about the Wofford team, but it is a known fact that it is tradition that they always put a team on the field that can give an excellent account of itself, and a hot game is expected. Last year the Terriers brought a well-trained team to Davidson and before the Freshmen could get to clicking they had scored two touchdowns and one extra point. However, in the second half the Freshmen woke up and scored three touchdowns to win the game, 18-13.

Coach Laird stated that the team would leave Davidson early Friday morning and that about twenty-five men would make the trip. As to the starting line-up, nothing is known. It is the opinion of many that with a few exceptions it will be the same as the one that started the game against Oak Ridge. The only major injury on the squad is that of Reid Brown, who is out with a broken ankle, but Coach Laird has several men groomed for this position and while Brown will be greatly missed, it is assured that the man that gets this position will fill it well.

Big Five Standings

Team W L Per.
University of N.C. 1 0 1.000
Duke University 1 0 1.000
Davidson 1 1 .500
N.C. State 0 1 .000
Wake Forest 0 1 .000

Class Teams Start Basketball Practice

In the hopes of getting started in class competition by November 1, the Senior, Junior, Sophomore, and Freshman classes have begun regular basketball practice sessions. Each group has been working out three times a week.

About fifteen boys have been turning out for practice for the Senior five, which is being coached by Dean Rusk. Boots Wilson, L. Smith, P. Hoge, and Buster Shepard have been showing up well thus far and will probably fill berths on the first five. Chris Cor-...

An intramural decathlon is to be held early in November, open to all Davidson students. This meet will be an opportunity for the demonstration of new talent, and frosh as well as upperclassmen are invited to compete in this decathlon. A prize will be awarded to the winner, who will be chosen...Bettand James Caldwell also have been Guerrant, Lake, Bailey, Ruff, and Whitted. N O R T O N ? S McGallize tee 152 3 E egi cama Murray for the greatest accumulation of points, following promise of making the team. Although a schedule has not been made, McQueen BiB iste ee Eshler following are the requisites for qualification: Although only seven or eight men have turned out for the Junior team, Coach Grier was announced that each team will play Score by periods: LOOE ydi daspeosceoss cco aes 13. seconds expects more to report for the next laying the highest percentage at the end Duke sss soe se 0 0 © 12—12/880 yd, run__--2______- 2 minutes, 30 seconds workout. In the two practices already held, cing the champions. Scoring touchdowns: Brewer and Eshler. Mile run_--------------_----___- 6 minutes Montgomery, Patrick, Arnold, and McGehee Substitutions: Davidson: Covington for 2 mile run_---------- 12 minutes, 15 seconds loom as the best prospects for the Juniors. Raker, Brohard for McQueen, Pierce for 120 yd. low hurdles-.-----------20 seconds Due to the illness of Bill Goodson, their CLEARANCE SALE Brock, Mathis for Parker, Mills for King, High jump-------------------------- 4 feet coach, the Sophomores as yet have not held Victor Brunswick and Columbia Records Wagner for Covington, Mason for Gardner, Shot put-------------------------.- 25 feet workout, but hope to get started as soon offered at Special Low Prices until stock is Miller for Brown. Duke: Abbott for Eshler, Broad jump------------------------ 18 feet as he recovers. reduced. Carpenter for Bryan, Hamrick for Adkins, Discus Eth eo 60 feet For the Freshman team, about fifteen men Carpenter for Davis, Hayes for Hyatt, Short Javelin’ ---------------------------- 75 feet have reported to Coach Carl Pritchett. As for Hayes. Pole Meat as SEes5 Oi a asc 6 feet yet there are no outstanding men out for 75¢c Records, 3 for $1.00 Scoring will be as follows: the team, but Coach Pritchett hopes to have One Lot, 4 for $1.00 In the running events, every fifth of a them in shape soon. second under qualifying time will count one In the jumping events one point is given. SUMMARY point. Every foot more than the required distance W. S. HENDERSON Davidson vs. Duke For each inch over the necessary height in the weight events will be worth one point. D.C. Duke First: downs —------__-__-_-L 5 Yds. gained from te anne Roe Printing and Engraving Passes completed -_-_-------- 2 4 Yds. gained from passes. 19 13 The Most Up-to-Date Cleaning Plant in Av. lgth. of punts --------- 23.7 38.3 the Two Carolinas At Your Service Yds. punts returned _-_-_---- 12. 15 Every Description Av. lgth. of kickoffs ---_--- 50 51.6 ZORIC CLEANING Yds. kickoffs returned --_--- 67 38 J. A. CANNON 311 Watts DOMESTIC LAUNDRY WiC gs oo ne 12. 6 Total yds gained from scrimmage, passes and STANDARD PRINTING CO. Fumbles ames Garland Court Charlotte, N. C. Representatives Fumbles recovered ------__ “Poon” Hancock 210 Watts “Dus” Enochs Penalties =... -- 5225 40 635 LOOKING 'EM OVER With W. H. Matthews A determined Duke team which packed a very powerful wallop in the shape of one Kid Brewer and three other backs whose attainments are not to be sneezed at, knocked Davidson's unscored-on name clear out of a handsome stadium, broke up a series of three consecutive victories, and all but smashed Wildcat hopes of a state championship. To attain that goal now, the pupils of Monk Younger must win from both Carolina and Wake Forest, either of which looms as quite a task the way the two said opponents are looking just now. And on top of that somebody is going to beat somebody else—just who we can’t say—to keep things from being all tied up after December 6. Not a prospect to make smiles creep over the faces of the entire Davidson student body. There is no denying that Davidson fought last Saturday. But it is asking too much of a team to turn back thrust after thrust, drive after drive, of the sort that Duke was constantly threatening with. The Wildcats fought off three attempts to score after the Blue Devils had gained possession of the ball within Davidson's 10-yard stripe, and the manner in which they held brought the Presbyterians’ supporters to their feet. But Brewer's final drive for the initial touchdown was not to be denied, and he crossed Davidson’s goal line for the first time this season. But we could not reconcile ourselves to that last score. It looked like all the breaks in the world happened at once to make that touchdown possible. The fumble would not have been so bad had it been recovered. Even the threat of the score might have been turned back unless Davidson had been penalized. But the fumble, recovery by Duke, and then the penalty were all three too much to fight against. The Duke games of last Thanksgiving and last Saturday are eloquent examples of the part which the breaks not happen once in a million times again. One of these—possibly both—and certainly a number of fumbles and intercepted passes by which Davidson broke up Duke drives could be classed as pure breaks, and aided the Wildcats in winning. At Durham it was slightly different. Duke was better than Davidson—for the day at least but not by as much better as was the team of last year. Yet breaks which went against the Wildcats when they meant scores for Duke—blocked punts, fumbles, penalties, and intercepted passes—enabled the Blue Devils to win by two touchdowns. The breaks provide the thrills no matter how bad they may go against one team or another. Next Saturday will mark the halfway mark in the present football campaign. The important games which will decide the champions are yet to come. But in the Big Five race, a few very salient facts are becoming evident. Carolina has not the team she was expected to have. They still are a high-scoring team, but lack a defense necessary for a consistent winner. Nevertheless, they remain the favorites. Duke is developing rapidly after a shaky start and is going to be a pushover for no man's team along in November. They may stumble then, however, and lose out. State can't win for losing: and unless they change their habits they are very apt to wind up in the cellar. Wake Forest is changing color from a dark horse to what might be called a sorrel or even a gray. They have the heaviest and one of the most powerful lines in the state and two or three backfield men who can carry the mail. We look for them to win from State this afternoon. As for Davidson, we believe that they got a bad game out of their system that was almost bound to come sooner or later, and that they will come along nicely and as expected.