THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1930

Wildkittens Defeat Furman Freshmen

Davidson First Year Men Capture Nine First Places

On Saturday, April 5, Davidson Freshmen met the Furman Fresh track team and defeated them by a 76 to 41
score. The meet was held on Richardson Field. A feature event of the encounter was Earle's winning the mile race,
only to return and win the half-mile a few minutes later. Fleagle showed up well in the 220, while McCallie
and Little were outstanding in the hurdles. For the visitors, Alley and Witcher did well. Alley took first in the
100 and second in the 220; Witcher third in the 100, third in the 220, and first in the 440.

Program Is Altered For Commencement

The annual literary address at the Davidson College commencement will be eliminated this year, due to two important events which
are to occur during the graduation period. The inauguration of Dr. Walter L. Lingle as President of the college and
the dedication of the new $600,000 Chambers Building will be the affairs substituted for the literary address. The Board of
Trustees appointed a joint committee of the trustees and faculty at its mid-winter meeting to plan the program for these
two events. It is headed by Dr. J. M. McConnell, dean of the faculty, and assisting him are Dr. R.
A. Dunn, of Charlotte, chairman of the board; Dr. Byron Clark, of Salisbury; Dr. C. M. Richards, and Dr. G.
R. Vowles, of Davidson. The committee has been working upon its plans since the appointment in February, and the chairman
stated today that an announcement would be made at the earliest convenience.

Skinner Looks Over New College Organ

Master Organ Designer Makes Personal Inspection of $20,000 Instrument

Ernest Skinner, who is considered the most outstanding organ builder in America today, was at Davidson College two days last
week inspecting the $20,000 organ which bears his name, in the auditorium of Chambers Building. He was accompanied by two
assistants, and the three of them spent several hours revoicing some of the stops on the Davidson organ. They were
en route to their Massachusetts headquarters from Alabama, where Mr. Skinner had been inspecting a $50,000 organ recently installed at
an institution in that state. He said that he was in Europe last summer when the Davidson organ was completed
and shipped to the college, and that he had made it a point to stop by Davidson to give the
organ any personal attention which it needed. During his stay, he remarked that in bygone days he always personally inspected
his organs, but that today it was impossible to visit all the places where they had been installed. He also
congratulated Davidson upon having an auditorium that was practically acoustic-perfect. This master builder of organs and musician of world note
was able to get strains from the organ that have not yet been obtained by anyone playing it. Only a
few people were aware that Davidson had such a distinguished visitor, for many of the faculty and practically all of
the students were out of town for the holidays. Consequently, only this few had the opportunity of hearing him play.

DOCTOR ANDERSON (Continued from page 1)

a hail fellow well-met. He will be calling you by your given name or nickname in five minutes after you
meet him, and will give you the same privilege. He is a good golfer and a good athlete along a
number of lines. Above all, he is a good preacher. He knows how to send a good message right from
his heart to yours. If you come to hear him once, you will come again. The Y. M. C. A.
acknowledges the aid of Dr. Anderson’s session, of the First Church at Greensboro, and of Prof. and Mrs. Schenck in
making possible the presence of Dr. Anderson at Davidson.

Some laugh and grow thin, Some laugh and grow fat, If you don’t like our pokes Try handing some in.

Davidson Week by Week By Gosh (With Apologies to O. O. McIntyre)

Thoughts while strolling: the invariable beauty of the campus in all of the four seasons. Though shorn of its verdant
locks early in the winter, it remained sedately beautiful. The oaks, elms, and poplars, which literally fringe the ‘D,’ looked
even prettier the one snowfall when heavy covered their branches. Old Phi and Eu halls, both identically peculiar, but each
singularly rich traditionally, especially the latter which claims Woodrow Wilson as a former member. Frank Pilcher, one of the most
prominent workers in the younger group of the West Virginia Synod. Where can the mill population spend their leisure hours—they
are so rarely seen. The main highway to Charlotte seems to have no speed limit at all, and which some
day may become a frightful hazard for students.And the business district south of the post office, which seems to be
as old as the college. Archie McLean, nephew of the popular ex-Governor. The menace to hurrying agers. Chambers at a
distance appears more effective esthetically than at closer range. Alfred Ellington, champion single-shot archer of North Carolina. John Ballenger Knox
is one Senior who is sure to have a novel experience after graduation in June. John has been appointed to
the faculty of the American college at Beyruth, Syria, a position coveted by many college men, and is the leading
educational institution of the Near East. He is under contract to stay three years and will receive a reasonably good
salary. During vacation periods, he will travel extensively in Europe and Asia, under the college’s auspices.

Heath Whittle received numerous compliments after his splendid showing at the West Virginia track meet where he narrowly missed defeating
the world’s champion in the 70-low hurdles, but it seems that his biggest thrill came immediately after his epochal run.
Heath had just started for the dressing room when he was besieged by a large group of boys who demanded
the track captain’s autograph—and Heath willingly obliged them, much to their content.

Bill Hill and Zeb Long will probably separate at the end of this year since both are planning to attend
different schools to work on professional degrees. It will seem something like a divorce, Bill says, since the two have
been inseparable since they entered the first grade together. So after sixteen years of close companionship, especially the past four
when rooming together, the union will be dissolved, temporarily anyway.

Many know Major Hoople, not better known as Eugene Clark, is undoubtedly the college's outstanding character. Everybody likes Major and
his “orations” as well as his personality. He would rather “orate” than eat, and by the way, is studying for
the ministry. He was nicknamed for the famous character in the popular comic strip, but it appears that the Major
rather than the cartoon figure was created.

She: “Could I try on that blue dress in the window?”
Clerk: “Why, er, that’s the lamp shade.”

I call her my automobile girl because every time I mention going out, she makes me choke her.

The Davidson “Duplex” Quartet will meet tonight at the Y. M. C. A. announcement which was heard recently. This double
quartet, extensively used by the Y. M. C. A. in its deputation work and which also fills invitations from clubs
of various kinds, is composed of H. S. Enochs, of Bluefield, W. Va.; C. F. Amick, of Red Springs; J.
D. Covington, of Burlington; J. A. Myers, Jr., of Greensboro; Russell Nunan, of Atlanta, Ga.; and Peabody, of Charlotte.

AMES LECTURES ON LEAGUE
Valuable to College
(Continued from page 1)

The League has performed its first function of establishing peace and security and now it can turn its entire attention
to some of the other matters. The lecture was ended with a hope that the United States would soon overcome
its present distrusting views and realize that the League of Nations is well-meaning and is carrying on important work. All
those who wished to meet Sir Herbert were given the opportunity at a reception held by the International Relations Club
immediately after the termination of the lecture.

A Minister of the Gospel
Acquainted with God and His ways, knows how to represent Him. Major has gained quite a reputation through the medium
of his unique orations.

TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS AND SHOULD BE ONE OF THE AIMS OF UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
For Catalog and Information, Address,
Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., President
Richmond, Virginia.

“Your voice, sir,”
“SO, MY PROUD BEAUTY, YOU WOULD REPULSE ME, EH?” barked Dalton.
“I would indeed,” said the fairest flower of the countryside. “And how!”
“What is there about me, gal, to bring this disfavor down upon my head?” he demanded.
“The man who wins my heart must smoke OLD GOLDS in kindness to his throat—and to his palate,” she answered
him haughtily.

OLD GOLD
FASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE IN HISTORY... NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD
On your Radio... OLD GOLD—PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR, Paul Whiteman and his complete orchestra... every Tuesday, 9 to 10 P.M. Eastern
Standard Time
Engraved by JOHN HELD JR.
