THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 17, 1930

After Graduation --- Engineering?

Engineering Offers Many Branches To Students Choosing A Life Work

Excellent Compensation is Offered to Men of Marked Ability in this Field

What Would Be My Opportunities as an Engineer?

Your opportunities in this profession lie in many widely different fields and within each field you may ultimately specialize in
production, administration, or selling, according to your interests, abilities, and opportunities. A brief survey of some of the most common
fields is given below:

Aeronautical Engineering
“It is entirely probable that aviation will take its place among the greatest industries of the world,” said Col. Charles
A. Lindbergh, at a St. Louis Chamber of Commerce luncheon. Aeronautical Engineering is the youngest of the specialized branches of
engineering, and it, in turn, is divided into the fuselage division and the engine work division. This branch of engineering
is in an active pioneering stage and offers attractive opportunities to qualified young men.

Chemical Engineering
The chemical industry in the United States has grown rapidly for the last twenty years, especially since 1915; there is
every reason to believe that this growth will continue. The demand in the past for well-trained chemical engineers has been
greater than the supply, except for a temporary setback following the period of abnormal expansion of the industry during the
late war. The Chemical Engineer should be a well-trained chemist, with a knowledge of engineering that will enable him to
install and operate chemical plants.

Civil Engineering
Civil Engineering in its inception embraced all engineering not included under Military Engineering. Today, however, it comprises Municipal Engineering, with
its problems of water supply, sewage disposal, and highway construction; Transportation Engineering, including the building of railways, canals, docks, and
tunnels; Hydraulic Engineering, with its questions of water-power development and irrigation; Structural Engineering, including the design of bridges, steel and
concrete buildings, roofs, foundations, and retaining walls. A choice may be made from these different branches of civil engineering, either
because of personal taste or for reasons of opportunity.

Electrical Engineering
Some electrical engineers specialize in the manufacture of electrical apparatus; others in the application and utilization of this apparatus in
transportation, power plants, illumination, communication by telegraph, telephone, or radio. Those engineers especially gifted in originality and scientific imagination specialize
in research into the future possibilities of the application of electrical energy.

Industrial Engineering
There is a need and growing demand for executives and managers of industrial and commercial enterprises who are trained in
both engineering and business principles and practices. The industrial engineer fills this need. The majority of the successful industrial engineers
today have had previous experience as mechanical engineers. In fact, mechanical engineering training is highly desirable, if not essential, for
anyone going into this field; it should be combined, of course, with a theoretical knowledge of business principles and practices.

Marine Engineering
Marine Engineering has to do with the design and installation of marine equipment. A Marine Engineer must have, therefore, a
knowledge of naval architecture as well as of electrical and mechanical engineering. A liking for sea life is an important
factor in success in this field. The opportunities in this branch of engineering are rather limited.

Mechanical Engineering
American machinery has attained a world-wide reputation. Its invention, design, construction, and use in manufacture and transportation is the work
of the Mechanical Engineer. You may choose between two main fields: the field of manufacture—development and construction of machinery for
producing articles of commerce and for generating the power for their operation; or the field of transportation—the development of the
locomotive, automobile, motor truck, tractor, aeroplane, and motor boat.

Metallurgical Engineering
Metallurgical Engineering is closely associated with Mining Engineering. A Metallurgist extracts metals from ores, refines these metals, and, if necessary,
combines them with other metals or substances to produce alloys. The extensive use of metals or alloys so produced has
been an important factor in the rapid industrial development of this country.

Mining Engineering
The profession of Mining Engineering offers an attractive field for vigorous young men; good health is essential. The work of
the Mining Engineer lies at the very basis of our industrial civilization; he guides the production of coal and of
all the metals, as well as of many other minerals. He may specialize in the extraction of minerals from the
earth and upon the economics of their disposal or in geological work as applied to mining.

What Compensation May I Expect?
An answer to this question is quoted from a 1924 report of the International Labour Office at Geneva on the
status and employment of engineers and chemists: “It is difficult to generalize about salaries, as the workers under consideration occupy
positions of widely varying character, some exercising functions of management, while others are employed in a subordinate capacity; some are
employed in large industrial concerns, others in small workshops; some again are at the beginning of their career, while others
have long experience behind them. It is important to note that all engineers have to undergo probation; during this period
a certified engineer is paid no more than a manual worker and must prove his ability, particularly his power of
leadership. Once he has done this, his position changes rapidly and completely.”

With direct reference to salary conditions of engineers in the United States the report goes on to say: “It is
more difficult to convey a general idea of salaries in the United States than in almost any other country. A
beginner who wishes to obtain training and experience may accept $1,000 a year, while the leading mechanical engineer on a
railway may earn $40,000 to $50,000 a year. The ordinary engineer may earn anything from $5,000 to $25,000.” This report
also discusses sources of income other than salary which are available to engineers, especially the income which may accrue from
patent rights. Some corporations have a policy of employing a cross-section of an engineering school’s graduate body; that is, they
choose graduates with a scholastic standing from low to high and place them in work adapted to their particular abilities
and scholastic record. Such corporations offer an initial salary approximating $1,500 a year, with regular increases for a year or
two, after which the increases depend entirely upon the showing of the individual engineer. Other corporations accept only the “cream”
of the graduate body and offer an initial salary nearer $2,000 a year with regular increases for two or three
years.three years, and increases thereafter according to capacity and ability demonstrated. The higher salaries are paid to engineers who possess
the ability to handle larger groups of men.

LONG ENDS HIS TERM
(Continued from page 1)

Advocating radical movements, yet Long has not been hampered with a foolish conservatism. Long has given the student body a
newspaper which has been peculiarly consistent and steady. Although it has not attracted attention through flashy or spectacular treatment, neither
has it been subjected to letdowns or slumps. The Davidsonian has had a successful year.

In addition to being Editor-in-Chief of The Davidsonian, Long is an active participant in many campus activities. He belongs to
Omicron Delta Kappa, and is a member of Delta Pi Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, the International Relations Club, the varsity debating
team, and other organizations. He is a member of both Student Council and “Y” Cabinet and is a member of
Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

SENIORS PROMOTING
(Continued from page 1)

Never has one been undertaken on such a large scale. Various committees appointed by W. B. McGuire, Senior President, are
at work now on phases of this affair designed to touch every side of student life. The date cannot be
announced at present due to the elections still in progress. Complete plans and time will be made public within the
next few days.

TENNIS SQUAD
(Continued from page 1)

Personnel of the team is as follows: 1. F. W. Johnston; 2. A. N. Halverstadt; 3. E. Z. Dubose; 4.
G. R. Fain; 5. W. L. Poe; 6. S. L. McLean. Johnston and Halverstadt play number one in the doubles;
Dubose and Fain number two, and Poe and McLean number three. The results of these matches are not known as
The Davidsonian goes to press.

“DRUGS” CANDY
WHITE DRUG CO.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SODA” FLOWERS

John Hays Discusses the New Engineering as to Advantages and Shortcomings

After this glance at the achievements of antiquity, it seems a little startling to say that engineering is still in
its infancy. Yet this is undoubtedly true. The development of the profession during the last century is out of all
proportion to its progress during all the preceding ages, and the discoveries made during this period have opened vistas of
infinite length in all directions. The railroad, the wide use of steel, the methods of construction which depend on the
employment of steam machinery, the use of electricity for light, heat, power, and communication, the internal combustion engine, the submarine
and the aeroplane—all are products of an age of unparalleled discovery. Yet no one may assume that any one of
these marvelous devices has attained perfection. With every invention has come the realization of unlimited possibilities as well as of
endless ramifications. The telegraph suggested the telephone, both led to the wireless, the balloon made possible the dirigible, which, in
turn, suggested the heavier-than-air machine, made feasible by the invention of the gas engine. Throughout all this progress we see
a succession of ideas breeding and each multiplying tenfold; of new necessity giving birth to new invention, until today we
are confronted with so many possibilities that we have not anything like the requisite number of engineers to realize them.

The mining engineer now has before him the vast, almost untouched resources of the East—of Siberia, of China, of Korea;
as well as some of the more backward countries of Europe. South America, so little known to most of the
people of the United States, is a vast storehouse of treasure of every sort and description. The opening up of
all this offers, of course, equal opportunity to railroad, civil, marine, electrical and chemical engineers. In South America the railroads
are still in so primitive a state that a standard gauge track has not been adopted and communication between the
various republics is consequently very difficult. Never was an engineer offered a brighter opportunity. Again, reconstruction in the devastated countries
of Europe still demands the work of trained engineers of all kinds. Consideration of the difficult economic problems which confront
European nations has led them to realize that manufacturing must be greatly increased. In France new textile mills, sugar plants,
rubber and automobile factories are being built. All this work requires experts in mechanics and construction. The manufacture of such
new substances as synthetic rubber, the making of dyes and drugs which the late war made necessary in this country,
has created opportunities for the chemical engineer and brought out an entirely new phase in the profession to which there
is apparently no limit of usefulness.

An engineer is thrown into contact with about every type of business and profession and into the comradeship of every
condition of men. Again, engineering often takes a man into foreign lands. Now it seems to me that the engineer,
who has been in charge of public work involving great responsibility, is especially fitted for statesmanship in the broadest sense
of the word. He knows men of every kind. These are a few of the advantages of the profession, as
I see them. Now for the shortcomings. There is a present lack of appreciation of the real service of the
trained engineer. The financial compensation which the engineer has received has been far beneath his deserts. The engineer has hitherto
labored under the disadvantage of a one-sided education. It would be a good thing if every prospective engineer could take
a regular college course first, but as everyone does not have this opportunity, I would urge that the technical schools
meet the problem themselves and endeavor to offset the deficiencies of a one-sided education.

’CATS PLACE IN FIVE EVENTS
(Continued from Page 1)

Joe McCall was bested in the broad jump only by Ed Hamm, Georgia Tech’s world champion jumper, who set a
new relay record with a distance of 24 feet 9.5 inches. McCall followed, jumping 22 feet 11.5 inches. This broke
his previous record of 22 feet 8 inches, which he set at the University of South Carolina.

In the medley relay the Wildcats, represented by Brohard, Norton, Neal and Lafferty, took third place, being beaten by Mississippi
A. & M. and Georgia. In the meet six new southern relay records were set, four of them having been
set by the University of North Carolina’s wonder team. The Tar Heels piled up a total of five first places
to lead in the meet.

Special Designs DELUXE ICE CREAM
At Students’ Store and Dealers
MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COMPANY
Mooresville, N. C.
Brick. Eskimo Pies

Davidson Theatre
THE BEST PICTURES OBTAINABLE
Are Shown FOR YOUR ENTERTAINMENT
