THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1930

After Graduation --- Opportunities For Specialization In Law Offer Large Field To Students

Scant Financial Returns Hold Greatest Objection to Students Entering Practice of Law

What would be my opportunities as a lawyer? The field of law is so extensive that it is impossible for any one individual to master all phases of the profession. Specialization is the natural result and there are a number of fields in which you can do your work. One writer has classified law into six divisions; he explains that this does not necessarily mean that a lawyer’s time is taken up in one particular division to the entire exclusion of the others, but it does mean that most of his time is so taken up.

The general practitioner, who performs various kinds of legal services, any kind, in fact, that may be called for in the community in which he is practicing.

The tort lawyer, who serves as either plaintiff or defendant lawyer in civil actions for damages, such as in cases of trespass, accident or other injury.

The criminal lawyer who spends most of his time in the criminal courts, dealing with offenses against society or the state.

The real estate lawyer, who is chiefly occupied with actions involving real property. He also takes care of such business in connection with real property as examining titles to real estate, serving as trustee of funds for investment, acting as executor and administrator of estates, etc. Along with these various duties he may also be engaged in buying and selling of real estate.

The patent lawyer, who serves as general attorney in patent cases. He also acts as agent in obtaining patents from the national government.

The admiralty lawyer, who specializes in litigation arising from accidents or other causes at sea. This highly specialized division is of growing importance.

In addition to the foregoing major fields in the legal profession, there are also the following opportunities for making use of your law training:

The corporation attorney—In this capacity a lawyer serves as salaried attorney and counselor of a corporation; eventually he may become an official of the corporation he so serves. The legal departments of large insurance, banking, and manufacturing corporations occasionally have salaried positions open to promising law graduates.

The lawyer in business—Practicing attorneys, besides their regular duties, will sometimes act as directors, partners, or associates in various business enterprises. Then again there are young men who will take a law school course as a preparation for administrative work in business.

The lawyer as a teacher—Now and then there are practicing attorneys who, in addition to their regular duties, engage in teaching in law schools, schools of commerce, etc. Still others devote their entire time to education.

The lawyer as a writer—Some law school graduates enter law book publishing houses and become specialists at compiling legal textbooks. Others, along with their regular practice, write for law journals, magazines, the daily press, etc.

What income may I expect in this profession? Because the income of a lawyer will vary according to the locality and the character of the service in which he is engaged, it is difficult to estimate, except very generally, what average yearly earnings may be expected. Unless you are determined and by nature qualified to be a lawyer, you will become discouraged before entering the profession when you read what was said by one who has done considerable research in this field. “The field is greatly overcrowded and the average earnings very small. This is the great objection. Only the more able or fortunate in securing profitable legal practice can hope to win more than a bare competency. Young men may not only be indebted to their families and friends for a course of study covering three or four years in preparation, but after that for a period of five, ten, or even fifteen years consumed in acquiring a competent practice. Many never reach such a practice, and are obliged to turn to some other occupation for part or full income, or to come down to the end of life in straitened circumstances, unable to do for their families what was earlier done for them to place them in the profession.”

Few studies on lawyers’ incomes are available but according to at least one present-day authority the following statistics reflect, fairly accurately, conditions as they exist today. These statistics were compiled by the secretary of the Harvard Law School from answers to questionnaires forwarded to all graduates of the school from 1902 to 1911, inclusive, inquiring as to their net earnings each year since graduation. In studying this tabulation it should be kept in mind...that less than one-half of those circularized responded, and it is reasonable to assume that these represented the more successful. It should be remembered, also, that the graduates of this particular law school are among the best trained legal talent in the country, as

“DRUGS” CANDY -:- WHITE DRUG CO. “PRESCRIPTIONS” “SODA” FLOWERS

Davidson Theatre “Royal”

Monday and Tuesday, May 5th and 6th “Gay Madrid” with RAMON NAVARRO

Wednesday and Thursday, May 7th and 8th “Ladies of Leisure” with RALPH GRAVES

Friday, May 9th “Sarah and Son” with RUTH CHATTERTON

Saturday, May 10th Romance with WM. COLLIER, JR.

The majority had four years of college prior to their three years of law study.

Year Number of Replies Average Earnings
First 694 $ 664
Second 609 1,110
Eighth 112 4,426
Ninth 2 5,321
Tenth 40 5,325

BUSINESS MANAGERS (Continued from Page 1)

ing, who graduate this year: The Davidsonian, E. H. McCall; the Quips and Cranks, W. R. Hill; the Chameleon, Ed Roberson. These men have all done meritorious work and leave the financial condition of the various publications in excellent shape, thereby making the work of their successors easier. The newly appointed business managers will take over their new work in the fall of the coming year.

THREE RECORDS FALL (Continued from page 1)

Whittle was the high point man, having 20 points to his credit, from having been first in four events, the 100 and 220-yard dashes and the high and low hurdles. Dupre stood first for the Wake Forest team with eight points. The final score was Wake Forest 27 2-3; Davidson 98 1-3.

Summary:
100-yard dash—Whittle (D), McCall (D), Brohard (D). Time, 10 seconds.
220-yard dash—Whittle (D), Kinsey (W. F.), George (D). Time, 22 1-5 seconds.
440-yard dash—Brohard (D), McGehee (D), McLaughlin (D). Time, 51.4 seconds.
880-yard run—Norton (D), Neal (D), Fuller (W. F). Time, 2 minutes 7.6 seconds.
Mile—Lafferty (D), Fuller (W. F), Goodwin (D). Time, 4 minutes 43.5 seconds.
Two miles—Brannon (D), Murphy (D), Readling (W. F). Time, 10 minutes 20 4-5 seconds.
High hurdles—Whittle (D), George (D), Cox (W. F). Time, 15.3 seconds.
Low hurdles—Whittle (D), George (D), Byrd (W. F). Time, 25.3 seconds.
High jump—Wilson (D), tied for second King (W. F), Miller (W. F), and Gardner (D). Height, 5 feet 8 inches.
Broad jump—McCall (D), Kinsey (W. F), Gardner (D). Distance, 23 feet one-half inch.
Pole vault—Tied for first, Jones (W. F), Smith (D), Roane (D). Height, 10 feet 8 inches.
Shot put—Boyle (D), Dupre (W. F), Webb (W. F). Distance, 39 feet.
Discus—Boyle (D), Regen (D), Hall (D). Distance, 112 feet 2 inches.
Javelin—Dupre (W. F), Coble (D), McCall (D). Distance, 182 feet 8 inches.

PRESS CONVENTION (Continued from page 1)

Chairman for Women: Edwin Hedrich, Chairman for Men.
Program Committee—C. Mac Mannis, Chairman; T. C. Johnson, Clyde Pugh, Anne Robbins, and T. Olin Mathews.
Speakers—T. C. Johnson.
Feature Committee—T. Olin Mathews, Chairman; J. P. Dosier, Edward Robinson.

FRESH TENNIS TEAM (Continued from page 1)

team, may enter Davidson in 1932. This year Darlington has defeated the following schools: Alabama Military Institute, McCallie School (Chattanooga), Fulton High (Atlanta), University School (Atlanta), Tech High and Boys’ High, both of Atlanta, and Baylor (Chattanooga). The Freshman tennis team went on a trip through the State, playing four matches and winning all of them. The first match was with Charlotte High in Charlotte, the racquetters of Davidson Freshman defeated those boys by the close score of 5-4. At Elon, although handicapped by the meagerness of equipment, the Freshmen overcame their varsity by the score of 6-3. The final victory was over the Oak Ridge team at Oak Ridge. This was won by the score of 5-1, only six matches being played on account of the lack of a sufficient number of courts.

"LOVE LIKE OURS CAN NEVER DIE," MUTTERED MARMADUKE.

"You’d be surprised,” replied the sprightly Sophia. “With a rasping voice like yours, love is likely to fly out of the window and land on the back of its neck. What our love needs is insurance.”

“What insurance?” he wondered.

“The insurance of OLD GOLDS, boy friend. Throat-ease and tender tones caused by the mellow, mild, heart-leaf tobacco; vocal cords that act without a struggle; no tickle, scratch or scrape. OLD GOLD yourself, Marmie, and we shall be inseparable. There’s not a bark in a billion.”

FASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE IN HISTORY

NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD

Listen in... OLD GOLD—PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR, every Tuesday, 9 P.M., Eastern Time