8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 6, 1930

Freshman Victorious In First Big Five Contest By Overwhelming Score

Wake Forest’s Little Deacons Fall Before Powerful Attack of Brilliant Wildkitten Five

Last Monday night the Davidson Freshmen smothered the Wake Forest Freshmen by the overwhelming score of 32-14. The game was
very rough throughout; two guards of the Wildkittens, Peabody and Wagner, were ejected from the game on personal fouls, and
one of Wake Forest’s men was taken out for the same reason. The Wildkittens clearly outplayed the Deacon Freshmen. The
score at the end of the first half was twenty-two to five in favor of the Wildkittens. During the first
half, the Deacons only obtained one field goal and three foul goals. The whole Wildkitten team played a brilliant game
and the Deacons did not have much chance to score against them. The guarding of the Wildkittens was beautiful to
behold, but they were rather rough at times. The two outstanding stars for the Kittens were Captain “Skinny” Pierce and
Allen Rogers who scored twelve and eleven points, respectively. Both were towers of strength on the offense and defense. The
stars for Wake Forest were Green and Earp who shot six points apiece. Both were menaces to the Wildkitten cause.
As a whole, the Deacons played a brilliant game against such a strong foe. The Kittens by this victory won
their sixth straight game and their first conquest over a “Big Five” foe. They went into Virginia with high hopes
as a result of their recent successes.

The lineup of the two teams follows:
Davidson - Wake Forest
Rogers, F. (11) - Barnes, F. (1)
Manson, F. (1) - Bost, F. (1)
Pierce, C. (12) - Green, C. (6)
Peabody, G. (5) - Earp, G. (6)
Wagner, G. (0) - Allen, G. (0)

Substitutes: Davidson—Enochs, Bettis, Boucher (3), Bernard; Wake Forest—Brank, Barham, Owen. Score at the end of the first half, Davidson Freshmen
22, Wake Forest Freshmen 5. Referee: Faul (Charlotte).

Whittle Expects To Make Track Record

Track Captain Shows Form in Hurdles

Heath Whittle, of Atlanta, Ga., captain of the Davidson College track team and hurdler de luxe, will probably break a
North Carolina record in the low hurdles when the competitors gather in Greensboro next May, according to Capt. Norton G.
Pritchett, who has been drilling the fleet-footed Davidson captain. This statement was made with the reservation that provided no unlooked-for
injury occurs to Whittle. This Georgia youth is already holder of the college records at Davidson in both the high
and low hurdles events; breaking them during the 1929 season. He smashed one record that had been standing since 1901,
and in all likelihood, he will lower his own marks in both of these running events. He has been drilling
at Davidson since his return last September and could be seen on the track when others were absent. Capt. Pritchett,
however, will not let him overtrain, being thoroughly familiar with the coaching game.

Comptometers Beat Lenoir-Rhyne Co-Eds

The Charlotte Comptometers staged a comeback in the second half to defeat the Lenoir-Rhyne Co-Eds 31 to 23 here last
Saturday night. At the end of the first period, Lenoir-Rhyne had the advantage of a close 14-13 score, but the
Charlotte sextet was not to be daunted, and, in the second half, ran up a total of 16 points while
their opponents made only 9. Lineberger cinched the game for the Comptometers by shooting the large total of 22 points.
Long’s flashy floor game and a total of 6 points were also largely responsible in determining the victory for the
Charlotte girls. Rudisill and Whitner were the Lenoir-Rhyne stars. The former garnered 12 points, and the fast game played by
the latter was a feature. The game was played in the Davidson gymnasium.

Wildkittens Defeat Greensboro Quintet

Last Friday night the Wildkittens of Davidson defeated the Greensboro High School by the score of 25-21. This game was
probably the best game that the Freshmen have played this year. The feature of the game was the fast playing
and the passing attack of both teams. The whole Freshman team played a fine game and clearly outplayed the Greensboro
Highs. Near the close of the game, the Greensboro team put on a rally that came within four points of
tying the score. This rally started when the score was Davidson Fresh 25, Greensboro High 15. The boys from Greensboro
then scored six points while they held the Wildkittens scoreless. At this juncture, however, the pistol sounded and thus the
game ended with the Wildkittens on the long end of the score. The Freshman team worked together better than they
have at any time this season. No individual star could be picked from the Wildkittens but the high scorer for
them and for the night was Captain “Skinny” Pierce, who had twelve points to his credit. Norman, of Greensboro, was
close behind with a total of ten points. The Wildkittens’ guarding was up to their usual standard. They showed the
fans that they should go well on the trip to Virginia, where they play three games. Greensboro offered probably the
best opponent that the Freshmen have had this season. In their rally, they proved that they had a brilliant team
and would give any High School or Freshman team a good battle. Norman, their forward and high scorer, was the
star for the Gate City men.

Duke Game Changed To Charlotte Court

Because of the inadequacy of the Alumni Gymnasium at Davidson to accommodate large basketball crowds, athletic officials have switched the
Duke University-Davidson game on February 10th from Davidson to Charlotte. The game will be played on the Central High court,
scene of the Carolina-Davidson tilt some time ago. Last winter it was necessary to turn away many of the fans
who flocked to see the Wildcats and Blue Devils clash, and early indications are that even a greater throng will
be anxious to see Duke and Davidson meet this winter. The remarkable team representing the Methodists this season, and the
fast outfit in the Red and Black uniform will attract state-wide attention, and a tremendous crowd is expected to be
in the seats to see the struggle. The Wildcats won from Duke when they played at Davidson last year. The
Blue Devils have almost the same team that succumbed to the onslaught of the Davidson quintet. The Wildcats likewise have
almost the same five who conquered the Blue Devils, and so the contest should be worth seeing from several angles.
This is the second “Big Five” team that Davidson will encounter, having already defeated Carolina, and will thus have a
record of one victory and no defeats in the state when the Wildcats trot upon the floor next Monday night.

How They Stand in Intramural Competition

The Senior Class now boasts a wide margin in the Intramural sports competition on the campus. They have thus far
scored forty points, and have neither lost nor tied a single event. The second place is evenly tied by the
Junior, Sophomore, and Freshman classes, each having twenty points.

Wildcats Overcome Maryville Quint By GreatUphill Battle Beaten in First Half, Wildcats Stage Thrilling Rally

Led by Pritchett, Rusk, and Goodson, the Davidson Wildcats staged a sensational rally in the second half of their game
with Maryville College last Wednesday night and came off on the long end of a 33 to 20 score. After
being outplayed throughout the entire first period by their opponents, the Wildcats came back in the last stanza to overtake
their opponents and pile up a safe lead before the Tennesseans were able to score.

The Maryville man-for-man defense gave Davidson plenty of trouble during the early part of the game. The locals were unable
to fathom it and could drop in only two field goals. Three free shots ran the total for the half
up to seven points, while Maryville was amassing twice as many during the same period. However, what Monk Younger said,
or didn't say, had the desired effect on his pupils, and they came back looking like an entirely different team.
Soon the count had been knotted, passed, and then the Wildcats kept on going. Their defense, which had been looking
like the well-known sieve, tightened up effectively and held their opponents to two lone field goals.

Dean Rusk and Davis, of Maryville, tied for high point honors, each getting ten points. Rusk played one of the
best games he has turned in this year. Carl Pritchett did not start the game but went in during the
first half and got eight points in the second period. Bill Goodson and Jimmy Proctor played their usual good games
at guard, and Frontis Johnston gave his opponents plenty of trouble when they tried to pierce the center of the
Wildcat defense. Davidson proved to be the big gun of his team’s offense. Besides getting half the points made, he
played a jam-up defensive game. Woodard also turned in a nice game.

Box score and summary:

Davidson (33) Position Maryville (20)
White (1) Forward Johnston (C) (4) Davis (10) Forward
Rusk (10) Waddell (C) (3) Center
Goodson (8) Cherry Guard
Proctor (2) Reed Guard

Substitutions: Davidson: Pritchett (8); Martin (1); Gilbert. Maryville: Woodard (6); Lewis. Referee: Rawson (Ga.)

SEE + HEAR The New VICTOR MICRO-SYNCHRONOUS RADIO AND RADIOLA See Them At PARKER GARDNER CO. 16 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C. Victor & Brunswick Records - Furniture And Draperies

Members Of Two Upper Classes Now Privileged To Choose Own Exercise

Captain Pritchett Urges All Men to Take Part in Competitive Gymnastic Exercises

In view of the fact that the old Armory is too small to care for all the undergraduates who wish
to benefit from its facilities, Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, athletic director, has discontinued the bi-weekly exercises which were held for
Juniors and Seniors during the first semester, chiefly because it interrupts the gymnastic performances of other students as well as
the boxing practices, which are now under way. This leaves it optional for the members of the two upper classes
to choose the nature of their exercises as well as the time of their work, so long as they conform
to the two-hours-a-week requirement.

Captain Pritchett had intended to have a 20-minute period of calisthenics daily, but even this project was disrupted because it
was found that the plan would interfere with the work of others. The athletic director also explained that much of
his time from now on will be spent on the athletic field in the interest of the track squad. He
emphasized that he would be glad to arrange a suitable hour for men who are unable to come out and
exercise in the afternoons, because of curricular or other obstacles, if they will come to him with their difficulties.

“Concerning the competitive gymnastic exercises for the individual cup, I would like to suggest that more men come out and
try to win the trophy. A great number of men who have the so-called ‘inferiority complex’ should discard it entirely
and try to compete with the rest. Not only will it give the prospective candidate a chance for the cup,
but will increase the standing of his class at the end of the year, as well as the derivation of
physical benefit for the individual himself,” Captain Pritchett appealed.

MOORESVILLE PASTOR (Continued from page 1)

High ambition is he who hitches his wagon to a star, whose reach exceeds his grasp. “Jesus Christ has set
perfection as our aim. Never be satisfied with anything less. First, look up and out to the ideal. Then, go
down on your knees to God for guidance and strength as did Christ Jesus, the perfect man.

Intramural Events Halted By Weather

Due to exam week and the heavy snow since that time, activity in intramural sports has come to a temporary
halt. However, two events, campus football and basketball, have been completed; the Senior Class emerging with forty points, and the
Junior, Sophomore, and Freshman Classes with twenty each. The remaining events in the intramural series are: volleyball, track, baseball, gymnastics,
tennis, golf, boxing, and Sigma Delta Psi competition.

Should the present bad weather continue much longer, according to Captain Pritchett, a temporary court will be fixed in the
gymnasium for the volleyball event, which is next in order. Several of the gymnastic events will be run off this
week, if possible. In this competition, the twenty highest scores will be taken, and the class percentages will be determined
by the proportion of their respective men representing. The man winning the highest number of points will receive a handsome
cup. Competition in the Sigma Delta Psi events will be run off in like manner. Besides the presentation of a
trophy to the highest scorer, the second and third highest will receive keys and certificates to Sigma Delta Psi, without
having to pay the ten-dollar membership fee. Further details may be had by reference to the bulletin board in the
athletic building. All men interested are urged to get in shape before it is too late.

Why did you kiss me in the dark? Raged homely Sally Lou. Now that I’ve seen you in the light
I sort of wonder, too.

Protect Your Property

You have sufficient Fire and Windstorm insurance fully to replace or restore your properties after a fire or windstorm. You
are not fully protected yet. You need RENT INSURANCE to provide monthly for the rents you would lose because the
premises are untenantable. Ask us to explain how RENT INSURANCE provides income during the “no-rents” period. It's safer to have
insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Co. Insurance Department CHARLOTTE, N. C.

$29.50 STETSON “D” STORE Opposite Campus Telephone 206

SPRING AND SUMMER LINE ON DISPLAY SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE HERE Friday and Saturday, February 7 and 8 $34.50 Monday and Tuesday,
February 10 and 11

“Chasing Rainbows” CHARLES KING Wednesday, February 12 “Pointed Heels” WILLIAM POWELL Davidson Theatre Thursday, February 13 “Grand Parade” Friday, February
14 “Kibitzers” Saturday, February 15 “First Command” WILLIAM BOYD
