THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 11, 1930

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

WILSON McCUTCHAN... Editor-in-Chief
N. N. CANNON... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
B. C. DWELLE... Managing Editor
W. S. LEA... Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN... Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS... Sports Editor
V. M. BELL... Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES... Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON... Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN... Associate Editor
M. O. BLACK... Associate Editor
J. P. McCALLIE... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
P. O. McCONNELL... Assistant Business Manager
J. A. BAKER... Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS... Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY... Subscription Manager
P. F. BROWN... Solicitor
R. W. FALLS... Solicitor
A. M. MANSO... Solicitor
A. L. MEBANE... Solicitor
W. A. MORROW... Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
S. C. SPWIGBY... President
D. G. STEPHENSON... Vice-President
A. I. O. SMITH... Secretary-Treasurer
H. F. PARDINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
F. SPENCER
B. B. SUGG
B. TAYLOR
W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH
D. D. McBRYDE

Sincerest sympathy is extended to Coach Unger in his recent bereavement.

The man capable of growing rich in a year should be hanged twelve months beforehand. — Benito Mussolini.

SUGGESTIONS

Bank failures are gradually drawing a little nearer home. First, it’s in Tennessee, and then it strikes the Old North State. It is not quite as hard to understand the miser who hid his gold in the ground as it once was.

While sports writers, coaches, critics, and others are naming their All-American teams, we are going to take a shot at it along with the rest. The only difference is that we are going to name just one for the team. As we mention his name, we nominate him for All-State, All-Southern, and All-American. That man is Archie McLean as Manager.

Over two hundred Freshmen are going to get their first taste of a real school holiday after they have been away from home for a few months. They still have to experience college examinations. Speaking of holidays brings up the fact that it is only about eight more months until the campus will begin to fill after summer vacation. Merry Christmas! And a happier New Year than the past one!

FORENSICS AT DAVIDSON

There was a time when debating and forensic activities on the Davidson campus claimed a much larger portion of the students’ time than they do at present. For a number of years, public speaking was an honor which many sought but few achieved. Recently, there has been a decided slump along this line of endeavor. It is not hard to trace the evolution of this particular lack of interest. Literary Societies no longer fill their halls with an enthusiastic horde which is ever anxious to arise to its feet on a point of order. Junior Speaking, as far as the speaking goes, has become a thing of the past. Entertainments and social functions occupy the place on the program once devoted to rhetorical eloquence. While we deliberately straddle the fence as regards the advisability of such a course, we do know that the above statements are facts.

Past accomplishments have proved that Davidson is capable of furnishing efficient and effective competition in inter-collegiate debating circles. Her orators have gone afield to gain greater laurels in the realms of speech. At the present time, a particular Davidson alumnus is making a name for himself at Emory University. It would appear that the time is ripe for a revival of forensic interest. The only task which confronts students is to make themselves take an active part in debating. As in most other extra-curricular activities, the quality of the team depends on the number of men that try out for positions. Quality usually increases with quantity.

WHAT ABOUT IT?

Recently a poll was taken of the Junior and Senior classes. The question was: “What books have you recently read?” Incredible as it may seem, three of every four students had read absolutely nothing not required in their daily tasks. Again, for days in a row, we after the evening meal, have wandered through the college library observing the number and type of readers. The average found was five. This does not include, naturally, those perusing the various newspapers and periodicals. Considering that the student body of Davidson numbers something over six hundred, this is rather a shameful figure.

President Hibben of Princeton recently stated that the university student of today is becoming so bored with himself that he seeks no longer a way of escape but rather resigns himself to hopelessness and ends in wasting more time than ever before. Perhaps the so-called “bull sessions” are indispensable. The profound and important questions of life must be settled, but there is an extreme. Unquestionably the majority of us waste a great deal of time. Could not we, instead of utterly throwing away valuable minutes, use some of them in the happy recreation of reading? Whether it shall be poetry, fiction, essay, or drama, depends largely on one’s particular taste. Perhaps a special study of plot, characters, or historical settings will be desired. Well and good, for surely there are many books to be had that are stimulating, instructive, and entertaining.

It is unwise to approach literature from the factual side; rather let it be from the heart side. Seek first for what it has in common with oneself. Read to find and to enrich oneself with a larger knowledge of human nature. For after all, there is a distinct difference between the book-worm and the scholar. The former uses books as a substitute for life; the latter uses them as a help to understand life.

Let us look at the student, for example, who is taking the Arts course. He desires a knowledge of science but is unable to crowd any other subjects into his schedule. Here, surely, is one of the great uses of the library. Books of a technical nature are not required to open up a new and wonderful field, for, after all, one should read with discrimination and should consider quality rather than quantity. Emerson said, “One should never read any book not a year old.” For a general rule, the “old walrus” was not far wrong. Of course, one would by preference read the newest scientific works. However, in literature, it should be the oldest, for the classics are always modern. Bacon reports that Alanso of Aragon was wont to say in commendation of age, that “Age appears to be best in four things: old wood, best to burn; old wine, to drink; old friends, to trust; old authors, to read.”

Mr. Mencken would probably have a wonderful time telling us what depressingly intellectual slums our American colleges are. He would rave for pages tearing down and destroying, but of that side, we have no intent. Probably most of the students here have no private library of their own. Yet one can very easily be started and built up. As graduates, moving into life, we will desire and cherish valuable books, and it is here we must make our first choices and selections. Quite occasionally someone will give a list of twelve or more books, which to him is the most valuable. In a recent copy of the Forum, there was such a group. The library has a list of one hundred books everyone should read, and a particularly valuable list is the choice of John Cowper Powys, as published in the Little Blue Book Series, edited by E. Haldeman-Julius, and available for five cents. (Series number 435).

Nothing pleases one more than to bring readers and critics into a state of violent rage, and nothing is surer to attain that end than to publish a list of best books. The fact that a list-maker can never prove he is right, and nobody can prove him wrong, constitutes an irresistible temptation. Thus, foolhardily, we offer here such a list:
1. Don Quixote—Cervantes.
2. The Scarlet Letter—Hawthorne.
3. Les Miserables—Hugo.
4. Crime and Punishment—Dostoyevski.
5. Ivanhoe—Scott.
6. History of Tom Jones—Fielding.
7. Anna Karenina—Tolstoi.
8. David Copperfield—Dickens.
9. Le Pere Goriot—Balzac.
10. The Idiot—Dostoyevski.
11. Clarissa—Richardson.
12. Madame Bovary—Flaubert.

Finally then, when we find a volume of particular value, we should not only not...

How to spend the summer vacation is no problem to Duncan McBryde and John Rice. Immediately after the school term came to an end last June, Dunc and John went direct to New York and after spending a few days there procured a job on a steamship, through the recommendation of Duncan’s uncle, who was in charge of certain trans-oceanic expeditions last summer. The two Davidson sophomores were assigned to duty on the U. S. S. Harding, a passenger ship and one of the fastest cabin liners afloat, the vessel which they requested in their applications. This pair of travelers made three trips...to Europe in all. During their sailing period, the boat route consisted of such stopping places as Plymouth and Southampton, England; Cherbourg in France; Hamburg, Germany; Queenstown in Ireland; and then back to New York City again. On the first voyage, the Davidson youths worked as assistants to the chef, which proved to be exceptionally hard work. On the second trip, Duncan was changed to bell-boy and John became an assistant to the steward. The concluding journey found both serving as bell-boys, a position which they held until they resigned to return to Davidson late in the summer.

The only place the crew had an opportunity to visit was Hamburg, Germany, since this was the only extended stop, the Harding remaining in port several days. Here, they did much sightseeing although they experienced some difficulty with the understanding of the Teutonic vernacular. The most interesting place the sojourners visited was Carl Hagenbeck’s zoo, reputed to be the largest animal park in the world.

It happened that the Gold Star Mothers’ pilgrimage, an expedition supported by our national government for the purpose of giving mothers a chance to visit the graves of their sons in France, who had been killed during the World War, was taking place at this time, and the two young sailors recall many novel occurrences concerning the elderly ladies, whose heroic spirit the world admires, and who asked several peculiar questions about navigation, this being for the majority of them, the first view of an ocean liner and of the great Atlantic. The innovation of the trip kept the unfortunate mothers in good humor but on their return, they were sad and dejected, Dunc asserts.

The most startling episode of the entire summer came one stormy night in the North Sea, when the steering apparatus of the giant vessel became defective and narrowly averted colliding with another ship. Even though the trouble was overcome after several hours’ work, this unexpected hazardous event gave the youthful seafarers the biggest of their marine thrills. Dunc and John avow that they enjoyed everything tremendously, but were nevertheless elated at the sight of the Statue of Liberty again on their last return to home port.

An emphatic reiteration of the consensus of the student body must here be made, concerning the desirability of retaining the local unit of the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps at Davidson, since recent agitation for its removal has become unavowedly evident. In view of the students, the R.O.T.C. is one of Davidson’s most outstanding features and its virtues are countless, all of which is augmented by the high-type of men in the service who have been assigned to the local post. Those who object to its retention advance only one recognizable argument which is very weak—that military training instills a “militaristic or warlike spirit” into its corps personnel. However, its proponents are few, though their roster includes several prominent figures.

In a recent issue of The Davidsonian, there was presented to the student body a clear and concise editorial, in which was advocated and lauded the work of the local army unit, although it did not enumerate its advantages, because of the lack of space on the page. The Editor of The Charlotte Observer, seeing the value of The Davidsonian’s stand, reprinted on the editorial page of that paper, excerpts from the article, in the issue coming out Friday, December 5, and added to it a powerful argument substantiating The Davidsonian’s contentions, and ridiculing the feeble presentations of its opponents. “After all,” the writer stated, “a Christian soldier is better than any other kind.”

If anything, military training conveys to its students the detestable abhorrence of war, and teaches them the value of peace. However, all will agree that we must be “efficiently” prepared to prevent the wholesale slaughtering of thousands of soldiers because of the ignorance of military tactics which happened during the last world conflict, if another war does occur in the future. Moreover, it is a well-known fact that nearly a dozen educational institutions in the South are dickering for the establishment of R.O.T.C. units in their schools, but Davidson still has the edge.

This English language is something to be pondered over. (French is not to be sneezed at). But when you have something like this in an otherwise good story: “She swept the room with a glance,” it’s time to be up and doing. The vacuum cleaner companies would go out of business completely and advertisements would appear like this: “Wanted: Young person who can sweep large ballroom with a glance,” if people could really sweep rooms with glances. Personally, I don’t think that it can be done, although the dormitory janitors do something of the sort. Imagine how much advantage the girls who sweep rooms with glances would have over the girls who didn’t sweep rooms with glances when it came to getting married. Why, every man would clamor for the ones that could.

One instance when the girls who could sweep a room with a glance would come in handy would be in places where conversation reigned supreme. This would be because people are always dropping remarks and since the Law of Gravity hasn’t been repealed the most natural place in the world for a remark to fall when dropped is on the floor; thus the girl could come in and sweep up the remarks with a glance. Idle remarks would be easiest to sweep up because they just float around idly. When an idle remark falls in the aisle of a theater, an usher could run up and say, “I’ll sweep up that remark with a glance.” However, the ease with which an idle remark could be swept up does not apply to cryptic remarks. These remarks burn little holes in the floor and a hardened old floor is very apt to mutter “That remark just burns me up.” At first thought, you might surmise that it was very cruel for the remark to burn the floor, but did you ever hear of anybody beating a hasty retreat? Now here is something for kindhearted people to worry over. The idea of any human being beating a poor, defenseless, hasty retreat. I, for one, am willing to start a society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Hasty Retreats. Are you willing to join or are you sitting there beside your fire with pipe in hand, smiling complacently as someone, maybe your next-door neighbor, beats a hasty retreat? Muckers that call yourselves men, step forward and assert your indignation at this blow to our very foundation of chivalry! Has a hasty retreat ever done you harm? When you get in trouble wasn’t there a smiling hasty retreat on hand to save you from disgrace or dat John? Be among the first to enlist in this glorious cause! There is no tense like the present! The next time you see a callous old hasty retreat beater, walk right up and show him your badge of the society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Hasty Retreats and he will quake at the sight. If he doesn’t quake, either you have on the wrong badge or you need our six-month course in How to Make Hasty Retreat Beaters Quake. In a short time this country will be full of confirmed quakers. At the start, however, you may have difficulties: A hasty retreat beater is liable to ask, “Say, have you got the gall to tell me what I shouldn’t do?” This query will stump a newcomer to the Society, but an old member will remember the article on page 107 of How to Make Hasty Retreat Beaters Quake and answer quickly, “No, I didn’t get the Gaul to tell you what you shouldn’t do, I told you myself,” thus burning him up. Mary Xmas! S’all.

What the well-dressed college man is wearing—our nerves.

Lightning strikes cow; milk supply gone.

First Freshman: “I'll bet we have a bigger bathtub than your family does.”
Second Freshman: “Maybe so, but I’ll bet ours has the biggest ring.”

Mose: “I see Bob’s got a burn in his hat. How come?”
Ed: “Aw, he’s too hot-headed.”

Would you call an airplane full of Hebrew passengers, “nose heavy?”

To believe with certainty we must begin doubting.—Stanislaus.

It is well for a man to respect his vocation, whatever it is, and to think himself bound to uphold it, and to claim it for the respect it deserves.—Dickens.