THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1930

DAVIDSON vs. CAROLINA
RICHARDSON FIELD SATURDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

TWO MORE LEFT! LET’S GET ’EM BOTH!

Wildcats Show Fine Form Over Wofford And Take Game, 13-0
McQueen Begins Attack With Off-Tackle Plays and Tears Wofford’s Line Apart

THRILLS ARE SCARCE
Fraley, McCall, Brown and Mathis Give Stellar Performances

With Don McQueen leading the way and being ably assisted in his ball-toting efforts by Fraley and McCall, the Davidson Wildcats hung up their first victory in three starts last Saturday by taking the Wofford Terriers into camp, 13 to 0. Davidson counted in the first five minutes of play and shackled the running attack of the Terriers so as to never cause any doubt in the minds of the unusually quiet crowd of the final outcome of the game. Wofford threatened only once during the entire game, and a fighting Davidson line turned this back. A recovered fumble and two hard drives placed the ball within the five-yard line, but there Davidson braced and Brock then punted out.

Except for Davidson's initial drive for a score and their march in the third period, the ball was punted back and forth between the two teams. Brock, McQueen and Mills co-operated to far outpunt the South Carolinians and one or two quick kicks from a fake formation caught the Wofford safety asleep. Davidson passed only three times during the entire game, the smallest number of aerials that the Wildcats have attempted this year. Two of these were completed and the third was incomplete over the goal line to break up one of Davidson’s drives. Seven Terrier heaves brought no completions, six being grounded and one intercepted.

The Davidson team, coming on the field smarting from two consecutive defeats from out-of-state forces, started a hard, unstoppable drive towards the Terriers’ goal, and with Don McQueen, hard-plunging fullback, and Captain Walter Fraley, halfback, doing almost all the running, the Wildcats had pushed over their first score in exactly eleven plays. Fraley’s placement was good for the extra point. After having shown what they could do, the Wildcats slowed down, and Wofford made its most serious threat. A Wofford man recovered a Davidson fumble in Wildcat territory and the visitors started a drive towards the Wildcat goal. Fox slid off left tackle for a first down. Willis made another first with two hard running plays. Three more plays brought the ball to the five-yard line, but here the aroused red jerseyed line held and the ball went over. Brock kicked well out of danger.

The most spectacular play of the day occurred in the second quarter. McCall started off on a long left end run, but soon found himself facing a trio of Wofford tacklers. Stopping suddenly, he completely reversed his field and, behind hastily formed interference, swept around right end for 28 yards.

(Continued on page 6)

SACRIFICED!
Almost five hundred million $$$SSS worth of property was sacrificed last year to Moloch — the Fire Demon. Country-wide, you'll find charred and smoking ruins of homes and business buildings, sad monuments to carelessness, and ignorance of fire prevention methods. Let us prevent your savings going up in smoke, through another's carelessness and ignorance, by providing proper and adequate Fire Insurance. It’s no sacrifice for us to see that you get the protection you need.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McAlister Carson (’13), Manager
M. B. Speir (’26)

Brilliant Back
DON McQUEEN - FULLBACK

Don McQueen, who played an outstanding game against Wofford Saturday. Hitting the line hard he drove the ball over for one touchdown and was a great aid in getting the other. His work in recent games has been one of the high points of the Wildcat schedule this season.

Junior Team Holds Lead In Inter-Class Cage Race
Third Year Quintet Plays Good Basketball to Retain Their Perfect Average

The Juniors continued to hold their lead in the 1930 inter-class basketball championship race by virtue of their 23 to 15 verdict over the Freshmen in their game last week. The third year men at the first of the week had won three, lost none and had only three games remaining on their schedule. The game which was played Tuesday night after the paper had gone to press between the Sophomores and the Seniors did not affect the standing of the Juniors.

The play of the Juniors has been especially characterized by some good basketball. The Seniors got off to a slow start, losing their first two games. Games to be played next week are between the Sophomores and Freshmen on Friday the 14th; Juniors and Sophomores on Monday night, the 17th, and the Seniors and Freshmen on Wednesday, the 19th.

Juniors 23 - Freshmen 15
The Juniors continued their march towards the championship when they won their third straight game defeating the Freshmen, 23 to 15, Friday night. The winners outplayed their opponents in every quarter except the third, and were never in doubt of victory. Montgomery started the scoring for the Juniors with a field goal. They counted twice, added four more points in the quarter, while the Frosh scored twice, the period ending 6 to 2 in favor of the Juniors. The third year men ran up seven more points in the second quarter to lead, 13 to 4, as the half ended.

(Continued on page 6)

Probable Line-up (Davidson vs. Carolina)
Davidson:
L.E. - Brown
L.T. - Covington
L.G. - Mathis
C. - Gardner
R.G. - Brock
R.T. - Wagner
R.E. - Proctor
Q.B. - Fraley
L.H. - McDade
R.H. - Wyrick
F.B. - Nash

Carolina:
L.E. - Johnson
L.T. - Thompson
L.G. - Mclver
C. - Lipscomb
R.G. - Fysal
R.T. - Parsley
R.E. - McDade
Q.B. - Wyrick
L.H. - Nash
R.H. - Maus
F.B. - McQueen| 42-20 | 177 ths. | L.H, R.H. King McCall 29-13 40-12 156 tbs. 167 ths, F.B. McQueen 19-19 170 ths. |

STATIONERY — STUDENT SUPPLIES
FOUNTAIN PENS
NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE
W. S. HENDERSON
MAGAZINES BOOKS SUNDRIES

When You’re Hungry Let Helper Help You
HELPER’S RESTAURANT
Next Door to Telephone Office

Davidson CAN beat Carolina. Duke WILL. A team that won't be beat can’t be beat. If the Wildcats will go out there fighting Saturday, if they have that indomitable will to win, Carolina is in for the worst shock she has had in quite a while.

We are not saying now that Davidson will beat the Tar Heels Saturday. We have a feeling that they will, but we have nothing to base that feeling on except a hunch. But to win, the Wildcats, collectively and individually, are going to have to show more than they have exhibited at any time this year. It is going to take a harder fighting defense than that which held N.C. State and The Citadel. It is going to take an offense more brilliant throughout the entire game than even the scoring drive shown in spots against V. M. I. Above all, it will take a more determined fight than has been even hinted at all during this season.

If Davidson really plays the game of which they are capable, the kind of game that could be glimpsed at times in moments of brilliance, we honestly believe that the Wildcats will slip up on Carolina and hand them a lacing that would be awfully hard for them to take, and one which would put them in a bad hole for the state championship. It would do the Duke Blue Devils a favor, for provided they beat N. C. State, which seems quite likely, it would give them undisputed lead of the Big Five.

To beat Carolina, it will be necessary for Davidson to hold on to the ball a good portion of the game. Carolina has been accustomed to having a stellar line of former years, but still a strong forward wall, in spite of the advance statements. And in Wyrick, Branch, Magner, Nash, Maus, House, and others, Carolina has a collection of backs that is easily the best in the state. As a group, they look better than that put forward by anybody else. All have power, all are threats whenever they get the ball. But in spite of their brilliance, they are not unstoppable, and we feel that they may be stopped.

Before going on to matters of less note, we wish to call attention to anyone who has not noticed it to the fine playing of Steve Brown, an all-State end on anyone’s team this year. Davidson has Hyatt and Rosky, the best pair of wingmen in the state; State has Jimmie Duke, a nice end. But we believe Brown to be the match of any of these, taken however you may look at it. He has gone best wherever the going has been the roughest. Seldom has he been skirted, never consistently throughout a whole game. He was at his best, or just about that, against Wofford, and he dealt the Terrier backs plenty of trouble.

The Wildkittens showed that they had continued to improve by their play against the State Yearlings Tuesday. The race proved to be a success with 45 entries finishing in more or less fine style. Captain Pritchett pleased everyone immensely—Davidson has a good cross-country team and has its first match next Saturday. More of the good work of Captain Pritchett—And to cap his work off, it is rumored that he is trying to schedule six or seven Southern Conference teams for next year. (Two or three of them will be scheduled, if you are surprised they announced it.) He also has another plan up his sleeve which may be announced soon.

The dope behaved wonderfully well last week. Duke vindicated our trust in her and won over Kentucky 14 to 7. We guessed it to be 13 to 7. Davidson won 13 to 0, as doped. Carolina took things easy against State, but won without trouble, 13 to 6. P. C. upset Wake Forest to go against our pick 27 out of 35, with one tie, for the season.

We first like Carolina, but if Davidson fights as it can, it will beat Carolina. We are not picking Davidson, for this time we are noncommittal on this game. The Blue Devils may slip up on Carolina, but it is far from likely. The score, taken conservatively, looks to be 14 to 0.

Going out of the state, Alabama’s unstopped roll should continue at least. In spite of their defeat by Notre Dame last week, Penn should add Louisiana, 21 to 0. The best game in the South for the week is Tennessee-Vandy at Nashville. We stick by the home team, and look for Vanderbilt to win 7 to 0.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia
The oldest and largest Southern Presbyterian Seminary
Both sound in the faith, and alert for new methods.
For Catalogue and information, address Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President.

TRY BOARDING AT THE HOTEL
Excellent Food and Service
Music by Sunnyland Serenaders

ANNOUNCEMENT
To every Wildcat making a touchdown against Carolina Saturday we will credit them with one-half month’s board free.
THE DAVIDSON HOTEL
(Successor to the Maxwell Chambers)
Per W. A. MURRAY, ’26
Bennett Mosely — Geo. McClennigan.