THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 20, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly
“For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Z. V. LONG Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCALL Associate Editor

EDITORIAL STAFF
J. B. BLACK Managing Editor
J. W. McCUTCHAN Associate Managing Editor
J. C. RAGIN Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN Athletic Editor
J. V. D. MIDDLETON Assignment Editor
J. F. PRESTON Feature Editor
J. L. BROWN Feature Editor
J. F. JARRATT Associate Editor
F. D. MILLER Associate Editor
C. M. PRATT Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. A. CANNON Subscription Manager
A. J. BAKER Solicitor
P. M. CONWAY Solicitor
J. O. MANN Solicitor
J. E. RUFF Solicitor
J. L. SEVIER Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
J. S. HEEFNER President
J. W. MIDDLETON Secretary-Treasurer
J. C. MATTHEWS
J. P. MARTIN
J. W. SPENCER
D. S. STEPHENSON
JOHN M. BROWN
R. F. NORTON
G. P. PARDINGTON
N. B. DICK
J. MATTHEWS
W. H. DWELLE
E. C. RISER

FEBRUARY 20, 1930

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

Dr. W. W. Ellsworth deserves a fine audience tonight as he lectures on “The Times of Queen Elizabeth.” Seven-thirty in Chambers Auditorium. It will be worth your while.

N. C. State, Duke, and Carolina—three tough assignments for Gloomy Monk’s Basketeers. We don’t feel like offering any prediction about those games. Best o’ Luck to the Jungaleers.

Glee Club activities in full swing remind us that therein lies a great advertisement for the college. Support these song birds to the limit. It’s real service they’re rendering.

Baseball looming in the days ahead brings joy to many a fellow who just can’t forsake the thrill of feeling willow smite horsehide, despite football and the rest. When warm days begin to roll around, baseball alone gives that satisfied feeling.

THE DAVIDSONIAN FOR LIFE

Last week in the columns of the Alumni Page appeared the suggestion that each outgoing Senior leave behind him his life subscription to The Davidsonian, thereby assuring the fact that student activities and college programs will always be known to him, and that the closest possible bond of association with actual campus life will be maintained despite the limits of time and space.

It seems to us that such a plan should receive the consideration necessary. The cost can be figured very reasonably. Certainly, the comparatively small sum invested in such a thing as perpetuating contact with one’s college should not stand in the way of a single man. It is not difficult to conjecture as to the benefits in future years of such an action. The ideal time to carry the business of forming the connecting link through to completion is at the end of the Senior year.

Many advantages of lining up for a lifetime subscription were given in the article last week, and they are certainly significant ones. Intensified knowledge and interest of alumni, growth in subscription lists of the paper and subsequent incentive to student editors to issue a better sheet, greater publicity for the college, financial aid to business staffs, and general propagation of college principles and spirit were all mentioned as worthwhile considerations. They speak for themselves.

Should the dream of the Alumni Secretary evolve into reality and result in the publication of a regular Alumni Magazine, of course the Alumni Page in The Davidsonian would be discontinued. This fact, however, would in no wise detract from the paper in the eyes of its readers. The news of particular interest in alumni circles would find expression in the magazine, while the weekly newspaper would continue its function as the recorder of all student activities and campus life. This survey should be a source of lasting pleasure to the graduate as well as to the current student. Think it over—Seniors particularly. It’s an idea with fine possibilities.

LASTING TRUTH

Harry Rimmer held his audience spellbound at every service during his two-week stay at the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, while he gave them a firmer basis for their faith and championed the religion of the Nazarene as the only enduring thing of the ages. We disagree with The Charlotte Observer that Mr. Rimmer’s success lies in his ability as “a pulpit entertainer.” His accomplishments throughout the land testify to his gift as a human interpreter of the Scriptures, and the unaffected sincerity of his methods cannot be questioned. People never cease to thirst after the truth. That is just what Mr. Rimmer gave them. His is the task of a crusader in a day of doubt and conflict. His is the task of showing that, in the true light of the inspired writings, the conflicts do not exist. His is the task of facing with imperishable weapons the insidious ideals which threaten to submerge the present generation.

MARSHALLING ALUMNI STRENGTH

For the last seven days Captain Norton G. Pritchett has represented Davidson College at enthusiastic gatherings of college alumni in leading cities of Georgia and Florida. During the coming weeks, Dr. Walter Lingle will journey into the North, meeting Davidson alumni of that section around the table of fellowship. These trips, while by no means new to alumni circles, are fast gaining in favor and in efficiency. They are filling a tremendous need of the institution, and demand hearty co-operation in all quarters.

It is a source of inspiration and gratification to old sons of the college to have the opportunity of hearing the policies of their Alma Mater explained, and illuminatingly, to them. It is with deep satisfaction that they again assemble under the name and spirit of the institution which fostered their undergraduate days. While old ties are being strengthened, new ideals of service and relationship are being comprehended.

Davidson’s contact with her alumni has been none too good in the past. The college has suffered because of it. One of the essentials of any successful college system is complete knowledge of and full co-operation with the men who, having ended their span of personal contact, may now lend aid from their positions in the outside world. It is toward the realization of this end that Davidson’s alumni office is now striving, more than ever before, with the assurance that ultimate results will be of inestimable value to future college plans.

Captain Pritchett will make particular appeals to high and preparatory school boys who have not made their choice of a higher seat of learning at which to pursue their studies. In this way, it is hoped to bring a number of strong new men into the student body from sources which up till now have not been tapped very heavily. There are splendid possibilities in such a phase of the work.

Reports coming in from the initial meetings of the southern tour bear out all predictions that revival of interest and incentive to more definite support from former students would result from the efforts now under way.

SIGNIFICANT DECISIONS

Seniors especially are thinking in serious terms these days of conditions and situations a year hence. Those who have already determined to follow a definite course of preparation for assuming the mantle of the business or professional world after graduation are to be congratulated. They have a cornerstone in position at least. There are many last year men, not only at Davidson but at all colleges, who have been unable, for one reason or another, to make the final decision, are still feeling themselves out and exerting every effort to arrive at the right goal. Men in this class need every possible aid which may contribute to the solution of their problem.

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. has always endeavored to conduct a worthwhile vocational guidance department, hoping that some men from the large group interested would really find tangible good in study and application of the ideas offered by this branch of the student work. Results noted in years gone by have shown the value of efficient systems of the nature mentioned, so, following the custom established and approved, the Y. M. C. A. again is providing useful information and means for the fulfillment of the needs of outgoing men.

Beginning this week, The Davidsonian will conduct a section devoted to various phases of the professional and business fields, and it is hoped that every student will find such features to be of real benefit, as he considers prospective lines of work.

W. McCUTCHAN

Perhaps it is not the most important “scoop” of the week from a national standpoint, but the arrest of John Morgan certainly looms up as a state problem. Extradition papers have been issued, and his return from Florida is expected daily. After thirty-eight years have elapsed he is to face trial for a brutal “axe” murder. Outstanding in the investigation and arrest was a young attorney, J. Allan Austin by name, whose uncle was the murdered man. At the time of the crime, Austin, then a boy, swore to bring theassassin or assassins to justice. His vow has been realized. Such oaths remind one of the “vendetta,” sworn over the shed blood of a close relation. Sometimes, it looks as if thirty-eight years of law-abiding life would be sufficient to blot out almost any offense. A young imposter, passing under the name of Von Benz who is a representative of the Daimler-Benz Automobile Corporation of Stuttgart, Germany, very nearly succeeded in marrying a rich widow in Miami. He was thought to be an entrant in the motor speed trials which are to be held next month in that city. It appears that the husbandless matron was not the only one “taken in.” Fortunately for all concerned he became uneasy and returned to his den in Chicago’s underworld. We do not attempt to pass as a bar of justice, but the official who would sentence him to be strapped in a streamline racer with the throttle open for a few minutes would earn our respect. Such a verdict would doubtless contradict the assertion that “American justice is slow.”

Dr. William Moser Brown, formerly a professor at Washington and Lee University and anti-Smith Democrat nominee for the governorship of Virginia, has our sympathy. We have always doubted Doctor Brown’s eagerness to step forward as a gubernatorial candidate. In most minds he was tricked into believing that his actions were in the form of a duty which he owed to his native state. Now, after the dust from the political dirt has settled, he is offered a minor piece of the pie, being appointed to a minor position in the legal processes which every state has and no man seemeth to know the purpose of. By far the best would have been a plan to give him a chair of instruction either in his former school or in the state university. He knows something about education. Nobody knows much about politics.

Educators will be astonished to learn that there are 121,532 white school children in the state of North Carolina who attend schools which have terms of less than eight months. These figures were recently issued from the bureau of public instruction in Raleigh. Although this is a decided improvement over past years, yet it does not include the number who attend no school whatsoever. A state has a right to boast of its good roads, its civic organizations, its athletic and collegiate facilities, and its revenue to the Federal Government, but the education of its citizens of tomorrow is most important. Recent manufacturing developments have brought an influx of a more uneducated class. Let North Carolina beware lest it lose some of its prestige in other lines.

Fire was on the cry of every lip when the siren, situated over the Students’ Emporium, broke forth in a series of hoots last Monday night. There were no shiny brass poles for the firemen to slide down, nor were there prancing white mountains of equine flesh ready to be harnessed. Still, students managed to slide from their dressing gowns, and in an instant the fire-house was emptied of all equipment. Records were made in rushing to the flames, even a few casualties being reported. No single name could be mentioned as outstanding, nor can anyone be accused of being spectacular. It was all spectacular. Braving fire and smoke the students pressed on with their chemicals. Echoes of the siren could still be heard in the distance. The scarlet flames gave one last effort and began to subside, dying in time to leave a few coals for the firemen to work on. Most fortunately, all the children were out and what was left of the house could never burn. It was over!

Would-be columnists have a hard time. O. O. McIntyre tells of a man who checked up on his (i.e. McIntyre’s) tales of his boyhood days in Gallipolis, Ohio. The native who was questioned pleaded ignorance, and “O. O.” lit a Murad. There is a good reason why we have never returned to our stamping ground. Namely, we do not wish to be bothered by questions which we arouse ourselves. To learn of it, it would be necessary to question a native of the place, and it is... well, it’s a rather small place, and the dwellers there are very rare... not in the sense of beefsteak, however. Ask me another! And then guess.

This week I will present a voice from the past. I received a letter from one of last year’s graduates, J. R. Covington, a member of the illustrious Class of ’29, in which he enclosed the following playlet with the instructions to do what I saw fit with it. Well, I couldn’t find anything to do with it, so I thought that I might as well run it in our local paper. This column is a great argument for a college education, because it shows the deep thoughts that are indulged in by a man who has completed his college career. Here it is:

SALOON SALLIES or HOW RADIO CAME TO THE FROZEN NORTH
A Playful Playlet

Scene: Broadcasting station of the Yeller Dog Herald, whose slogan is, “All the dirt it pays to print.” Yeller Dog Saloon, Yeller Dog in the frostbit North.

Characters: Low if any.

Announcer: Howdy, strangers of the radio public. You are trying to tune out station FROZE, the Yeller Dog Herald Station in the Yeller Dog Saloon, Yeller Dog in the frostbit North, broadcasting on a frequency of thirteen tri-cycles in spite of the authority of associated radio commissions, including the Scandinavian. We are about to bring you the correct time through the courtesy of the Must Rust Watch Co., spelled M-U-S-T R-U-S-T. When the dog yelps it will be exactly Thursday, February 20th, Northern time. Please stand by for thirty or forty minutes till we catch a dog. Are you ready? Waste time. (Dog bark in offing) Exactly Thursday, February 20th, Northern time.

Now ladies, gentlemen, prospectors, bartenders, and Sourdoughs, we present a program direct from the Yeller Dog Saloon. It’s a great crowd we have here tonight. Nome Nellie is entertaining the crowd with a symbolic dance. Listen closely and you may hear the cymbals crash. We have an announcement now of interest to all citizens of the Yukon. A bulletin hot from the Lizzard Gulch Society Sheet reporting the results of the election just held under the auspices of the Yukon Vice and Gold Company. The meeting was the scene of the election of new officers of that ancient and awful society. We take pleasure in announcing the result. The company, as you may or may not know, has only one officer, the vice-president. The vice-president not only promotes vice but automatically gets all the gold. In the election tonight Snake Heart Sam McGillicuddy won out and the funerals of the defeated candidates will be conducted from the Black Eye Saloon in Lizzard Gulch tomorrow.

Well, folks, we have a special treat for you tonight. We have as guest artist, that is we guess he is an artist, Prof. Josephus Ukeepus Long, formerly of Joseph’s college in the states. Mr. Long is a great admirer of our esteemed poet, Mr. Service. We are all great admirers of Service here in the North. You can hear the crowd down in the saloon yelling for service now. In fact, almost any place we go these days we find that service is a by-word, we buy if we can get service. Mr. Long has unkindly consented to recite for us that stirring poem “The Shooting of Dan McGraw,” with words and gestures. (Time passes while Dan is shot.)

Announcer: Thank you, Mr. Long. Now, folks, we give you the official weather forecast for the rest of the night. For February: snow, ice, and cold in the southern portions and in the north: cold, ice, and snow. In Chipmunk Flats the sale of blow torches for thawing hands and faces are unusually high. Sterno Canned Heat is still in demand for breakfast food and now your local bartender says “Look up your nearest barkeeper and he'll make a sot of you.” (Sounds of conflict in offing.)

And now folks we have a real treat for you in the way of a little unplanned fight. Stand by and we will give it to you day by day. Now let’s see who's fighting. There is Black Bear Ben of Red Center and... Pig Iron Paul the Cocaine Canyon Curse. Folks, this is a fight—Ben has landed a couple of nice blows with beer mugs. Paul has come back with a singing sock to his beard—no good there, Paul, too much padding—now Ben is circling around looking for an opening, but there is no chance, all the doors and windows are locked. Now he swings in with his knife and it breaks like a match against Paul’s temple—Paul is mad now he is swinging a bottle against Ben’s head—it’s smashed, that is the bottle, and now Ben swings in with a chair—they clinch—they are out of it, so is the chair—now they are both trying to get the same table, they did—Paul got it first and gave it to Ben—on the head—things are getting confused—Ben comes back with a lamp—he landed—Paul looks fiery—look out, there go the lights. (Voice trails off). Station FROZE signing off at exactly...