THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 18, 1930

Thank You, Messrs. Richardson, for the Stadium

THE SPORTS PARADE

N. C. State at Greensboro First Big Five Game

Looking ’Em Over With W. H. Matthews

Davidson vs. Elon Saturday, Richardson Field, at 3:00 P.M.

The Davidson Wildcat football team, 1930 model, takes the field for the first time Saturday afternoon against Elon, trial-horse for Davidson elevens for a number of years. Roseate boasts and predictions have been issuing from the Christian camp since the first day of practice, and the tilt this weekend should provide plenty of thrills and excitement. Also a stiff test for Monk Younger’s as yet untried team. The visitors will pin their hopes chiefly upon Capt. Pete Williams, hefty fullback. He was one of the best defensive backs to play upon the Davidson gridiron last year. Coupled with this, he hits a line as hard as any man in the state. It is with no enjoyment that the Wildcats look forward to handling him. Loss of Walker, diminutive field general of the Christians, is the only serious setback they have received during their pre-season practice, but the withdrawal of this half-pint quarterback set back the stock of Elon about fifty percent.

The fact that the State game will be played under the arc lights has aroused an unusual amount of interest in the contest, both on and off the campus. The attendance should be as large as any of the games in which the Wildcats play this season. And it’s a great help to those unfortunate students having Saturday afternoon classes, too.

The generosity of Messrs. H. Smith and Lunsford Richardson in giving the second unit of the stadium is greatly appreciated by all friends and alumni of the college. It improves the general appearance of the field and simplifies the problem of handling and seating the crowds, which had become troublesome at some of the big games, notably the Carolina-Duke tilts. With the addition of the bleachers, the seating capacity of Richardson field should be 10,000 or more, which will be large enough to take care of the customers at any of the games here this season.

The transfer of Brock to the guard from end was the biggest surprise of the early season. The removal of a man from a position at which he has won all-state mention for two years to a post at which he has had no collegiate experience was one which required both nerve on the part of the coaches and a confidence that the man would come through in his new position. It was without doubt a wise change on the part of Younger and Tilson. Faced with a wealth of material at end and with a big hole showing at one guard, no matter how you looked at it, the Davidson mentors took a logical, but not obvious way out of their dilemma. We offer the prediction that Brock will reach the same heights as a guard which he held as an end during the last two years.

Addition of Unger and Whittle to the athletic department brings two more well-qualified coaches to Davidson’s coaching staff. In effect, this gives the Wildcats a staff of six men to direct their various athletic activities. Unger starred at both Mississippi and Indiana. The record of Whittle as a track star at Davidson is well known. The work of the physical education department has grown so much during the last two or three years that the addition of these two men had become almost a necessity.

No important games are scheduled for this weekend anywhere in the nation. Most of the teams are waiting to start their 1930 campaigns until next Saturday. Davidson plays Elon and N. C. State meets High Point in the only games in which Big Five members will take part. We pick State and Davidson to win by from three to five touchdowns.

Complete Schedule for Wildcats Announced for Coming Football Season

Schedule is One of Hardest That Has Been Attempted by Davidson

V. P. I. HOMECOMING GAME

Card Includes Five Games With Southern Conference Members

When the Davidson Wildcats swing into action Saturday afternoon against Elon, they will inaugurate one of the hardest schedules of any small college in the country, a schedule which includes five Southern Conference games and only one near set-up. Among the five Conference teams to be met, two are top-notchers while the other three stand high in Conference circles. In addition to the other Big Five members, the Wildcats play two more North Carolina teams, three South Carolina teams, and two Virginia elevens. Davidson travels to three foreign cities and goes to Charlotte twice. Elon, the only supposedly set-up, proved to be no set-up at all last year. Williams, the big fullback, made things hot for Davidson, both on offense and defense. Much is expected of him again this year.

When the Wildcats journey to Greensboro September 27 to meet one of her ancient rivals, they will for the first time play under the glare of bright lights. N. C. State is expected to place on the field a team that will put Davidson to the supreme test and added to the new experience of night football.

Varsity Football Schedule

Sept. 20—Elon at Davidson.
Sept. 27—N. C. State at Greensboro (Night game).
Oct. 4—Erskine at Davidson.
Oct. 11—Duke at Durham.
Oct. 18—The Citadel at Charlotte.
Oct. 25—V. P. I. at Davidson (Homecoming Day).
Nov. 1—V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.
Nov. 8—Wofford at Davidson.
Nov. 15—University of N. C. at Davidson.
Nov. 27—Wake Forest at Charlotte (Thanksgiving).

MEN WHO MAKE THE WILDCATS WILD

“MONK” YOUNGER
“TEX” TILSON

Coaches Younger and Tilson are starting their eighth season as coaches at Davidson. Each year their popularity has increased and their backers have become more and more firm in their support. The spirit of fight and sportsmanship that they always inculcated into their teams has led all opponents to respect them. They start this season with the brightest prospects that have greeted them during their regime as directors of Wildcat athletic teams.

A fast backfield, but nothing would suit Monk better than to give the Gobblers a tumble. The Wildcats will have a strong team.

The Wildcats move on to Lexington November 1 to wage war on the Cadets of V. M. I. Last year’s game ended in a 12 to 6 verdict for V. M. I. But it was a close one, and if V. M. I. is not improved this year they will have a hard time stopping the Wildcats.

Many New Men Try Out For Freshman Football

A squad of 55 men have answered Coach Red Laird’s call for Freshman football candidates, and are now working out daily under the direction of Coach Unger for the yearling eleven.Laird and Assistant

It is stated that this is one of the largest teams that has turned out in a number of years.

Davidson Tackles State In Greensboro at Night
Will be First Big Five Night Game in North Carolina

On Saturday, September 27, the Davidson Wildcats will play their first night football game, meeting N. C. State on that date. The initial appearance of the Wildcats under the floodlights has attracted wide attention, and since this will be the first Big Five game to be played after dark, it is considered by many as a test of the possible popularity of football under the floodlights.

In order to accustom themselves to playing in the limelight, it is planned by Coach Younger to take his entire team to Greensboro Friday before the game and have a short workout. The N. C. State team will enjoy a decided advantage over Davidson in that this will be their second night game, meeting High Point College Saturday night. The lighting system employed throws plenty of light on the field, making it easy for both players and spectators to follow the play. The lights are so arranged that shadows are reduced to a minimum, and high punts and passes will not be lost in the dark. Opponents of night play in general point out that these are the two outstanding difficulties in providing sufficient illumination.

N.C. State has announced that all of its home games, except the Duke contest, will be played at night. The statement brought forth many comments from over the state that the Technicians were the first important school in the state to adopt night play, although Rutherfordton and Lenoir Rhyne had previously made public their decisions to use lights for all their home contests.

Tom Thumb Course To Be Opened Soon

The space between the Stetson "D" store and White’s Drug store has been the scene of much activity during the last few days. A nine-hole miniature golf course will be completed there and opened to students and townspeople by Saturday, September 20, Mr. Olin Hunter, of Huntersville, the proprietor, has announced the admission prices to be fifteen cents for nine holes, and twenty-five cents for two players of nine holes, and twenty-five cents for one player of eighteen holes.

The Wofford Terriers journey up to Davidson on November 8 for their annual tilt with the Wildcats. Wofford almost fought Davidson last year in a slow game down in Spartanburg, but the Wildcats managed to win. Erskine battles the Wildcats back in Davidson the weekend of October 4. Not much is known about the Seceders this year, but it is generally rumored that they have been pretty hard hit by graduation and are not as strong as they were last fall.

The Duke Blue Devils will entertain Davidson in their lair the following weekend, October 11. This will be one of the most important games of the year, with the Wildcats having a chance to break a jinx of eight years’ standing. On November 27, Thanksgiving Day, Citadel will be met in Charlotte. The Cadets will have a veteran machine which will probably be stronger than last year’s eleven. This game will be another dark cloud on Davidson's horizon.

Homecoming will be October 25 this year, with Monk's and Tex's old Alma Mater, V. P. I., furnishing the opposition for that football spectacle before the old grads.

The coaches feel certain that there will be a number of likely varsity prospects sent up for next year's team. No heavy scrimmages have been scheduled, but the linemen have been receiving instruction in the fine points of defensive and offensive line play. Although still green, some likely prospects have been uncovered, and it seems certain that this year’s line will be almost as heavy from tip to tip as that of last year.

Let us protect you against claims for personal injury, damage to property of others, and against damage to your own car by collision.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY

Wife: “What have you there?”
Husband: “Some insect powder.”
Wife: “Good heavens! You aren't going to commit suicide?”

No attempt has as yet been made to split the squad into teams, but with the first game only a little over two weeks off, a tentative arrangement is expected to be reached before long as to first, second, and third strings.

THE DAVIDSON HOTEL (Successor to the Maxwell Chambers)

Announcing that we are now ready to efficiently serve you in our newly decorated and altered hotel. Your patronage will be greatly appreciated.

W. A. MURRAY, JR., Class of ’26

The Davidsonian extends their Hearty Welcome to the Davidson Men

The best of foods and service. Clothes For The College Man