THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1930

New University Founded With No Student Rules

New Institute Founded With $5,000,000 Endowment Fund

New York—(IP)—A university without rules for its students, lacking impressive-looking buildings, and with its entire work centered about a small but distinguished faculty, is to be established here. It is the Institute of Advanced Study, made possible by a gift of $5,000,000 endowment made last June by Louis Bamberger and his sister, Mrs. Felix Fuld.

The aims of the new university, which will bear many of the aspects of the original university of the Middle Ages in its form of organization, were outlined here by Dr. Abraham Flexner, director of the new institution, who gave four general principles on which it will be established.

“The first of these,” he said, “is that there shall be no intrusion of those collegiate ideas and practices that are necessary in a college but hampering in a university. I mean by that that we shall have no room or time for athletics or extra-curricular activities, and no attempt will be made at paternalistic control of the student body.

“Secondly, we will make no attempt at great size. Quality will be the first concern. For example, if we can find no first-rate teacher of mathematics we will have no course in mathematics.

“The faculty will co-operate in the management of the institute and have places on the board of trustees.

“We hope that the remuneration of our faculty members will be more fully commensurate with the importance of the positions.

“Although these principles, in many ways, are the expression of a break from tradition, we intend to imply no criticism of other universities.

“We can hope to do what I have described only because we are starting new and are not bound by tradition. Most of the post-graduate schools in this country were built on colleges. We have the advantage in that we are starting fresh and free. This freedom may result in many mistakes which the older universities have escaped. But that is part of freedom.

“So far as other universities are concerned this is in every way a friendly effort.”

Books We Have Read

“Andrew Jackson, An Epic in Homespun” By Gerald W. Johnson

It must be confessed that the reviewer approached this book as a dilettante, seeking the quaint and colorful. In this mood one likes the unusual, seeks the bizarre. It is generally necessary to gratify such a feeling by turning to the legendary and giving the imagination reign in fancy. The desultory follower of the sensational, then, is not far off the track when he takes up the life of Andrew Jackson. Here is a man, not of fancy, but decidedly of flesh and blood, who was legend while he still lived.

Gerald W. Johnson, Jackson's biographer, gives in this book a portrait of the person which is in reality a panorama of a character of whom a still picture would convey to the reader as little idea of the real man as a snapshot of a bird in flight. Jackson was a restless, stirring person, the embodiment of a spirit, and we can gain an appreciation of that spirit only as we see it move and act from one end of our nation’s frontier to the other.

A man to be great must be consistent. Jackson’s consistency lay in his very inconsistency. His enemies were sure of but one thing, that he would gain the end he set before him, no matter what the means should be. There was in the entire length of his life not one thing to which he set his hand that was not accomplished. A man such as that represents the incarnation of a quality which will rise to power, regardless of the odds of time or place. The detail of events which lay along his pathway to greatness is secondary and non-essential.

Jackson, for all his faults—he had many—appealed essentially to the people of his time because he was human. His humanity was veneered, however, with the theatrical blaze of his vitriolic temper, the defense mechanism of a sensitive nature reared to command a place in a hostile world. To his friends he was known by his fruits; to his enemies by the threats he made to anyone who should cross his will. Jackson had a false front, which to the confounding of his adversaries was backed up by the man behind it when occasion demanded.

Jackson's bravado was fundamentally untrue to his real nature. The sum of all his deeds is, as Johnson epitomizes, characterized by “courage, sentiment, vigor, and resolution—sometimes exaggerated into swashbuckling, sentimentality, presumption, and obstinacy.” Jackson lived his life with more than the average intensity. His passionate earnestness and directness earned for him the respect of a people “who found it easier to forgive iniquity which they understood, than subtlety which might mean anything.”

The power of a character such as Jackson’s is marked by its starkness. From his birth nearly every event which influenced his life accentuated this harshness, and made him stand out in bold relief from a background of frontier life, itself elemental in coloring. Jackson’s life in another time or place perhaps would have been shaded and softened into more delicate halftones, but on the Tennessee frontier, life retained its strong colors, and Jackson's character was intensified into the primary hues. Jackson was a man who lowered his head and charged into his foes. He was explosive, heavy-handed, cutting and slashing his way to power, but he was a man who had a code and lived up to it.

Gerald W. Johnson is a North Carolinian by birth. He is a journalist, having done newspaper work for nineteen years, and it is said that he worked for a time on newspapers in Thomasville and Greensboro, after which he was professor at the University of North Carolina. He is now on the editorial staff of the Baltimore Sun. Johnson has proved himself to be a gifted journalist and, moreover, a brilliant biographical writer. In “An Epic in Homespun,” he is the

Intercollegiate News

Prehistoric Engravings Found by Chas. Dawes

Excavations in Spain Are Made by American Ambassador to England

New Haven, Conn.—(IP)—The story of the trip made to prehistoric regions in Europe during the past summer by General Charles G. Dawes, Ambassador to England, is related in detail by Prof. George G. MacCurdy, of Yale University, in announcing the discovery of two prehistoric engravings on bone excavated in Spain by the ambassador and others of the expedition.

The engravings date from the Magdalenian epoch of at least 20,000 years ago, according to Professor MacCurdy, who is director of the American School of Prehistoric Research and also research associate in prehistoric archeology at Yale University.

In describing the trip, Professor MacCurdy says: “General Dawes asked me, on the occasion of his visit to America last June, if I could not take him with me on a prehistoric pilgrimage in France and Spain.

“Together we studied in museums and in the field, digging also in caves and rock shelters both in France and in Spain.

“We had been fortunate, too, for in caves of El Pendo, in Northern Spain, where we dug as guests of the Abbe Carballo, we found two important engravings on bone.”

Four of the sections of thick paleolithic deposits and their contents, Professor MacCurdy relates, which were seen by the expedition, if superimposed so as to form a chronological sequence, would result in a composite section including every epoch of the stone age and covering a period conservatively estimated at a half-million years.

The Dawes-MacCurdy expedition also studied prehistoric copper and flint mining evidences in Nibela, where impressive piles of prehistoric slag are to be found.

STATIONERY MAGAZINES STUDENT SUPPLIES BOOKS FOUNTAIN PENS SUNDRIES NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE W. S. HENDERSON

New York—(IP)—The world-wide interest which is now being evoked by the twentieth centenary of Vergil’s birth, according to President George Norlin of the University of Colorado, “is in itself a testimony that no poet has had so firm a hold for so long a time upon the minds and hearts of cultivated men.”

Dr. Norlin makes this statement in an article, “Twenty Centuries of Vergil,” in the October issue of The Bookman. President Norlin agrees with Voltaire that if Homer was the creator of Vergil, as many educators comment, then, surely, Vergil was Homer’s greatest masterpiece.

London, Eng.—(IP)—Dr. G. W. James, who has been diagnosing fatal illnesses of kings of England, has made the discovery that Charles the Bold died of an ingrowing toenail which infected his foot. Histories thus far have revealed only that Charles died in 1477. Dr. James also has found that Kings Stephen, John, Henry V and Edward I died of typhoid. Mary I, he declares, was a victim of the “flu.”

New York—(IP)—A new course in airplane design is now being offered by New York University, the first to be given by any college or university in the United States. The course, introduced into the curriculum of the Daniel Guggenheim School of Aeronautics at the university, is attracting universal attention. Fundamentals of airship design and opera-

Week-End Freedom Receives Attention

New York—(IP)—Freeing of students of campus rules on week-ends is favored in an editorial appearing in Liberty Magazine for November 15.

“We get more out of life,” the editorial says in part, “during any period of it, when we live in accordance with our own will. It is fair to assume that a young man at college wants the education the college of-... and this will be chiefly book education. But, having obtained that for which he went to college, won’t the enlargement of his horizon be greater if he decides for himself what he shall do with his week-ends than if he is forced to sit on a fence or look (not play) at a football game? We think it would be better for college boys generally to be away from the campus more than they usually are—always assuming that they keep up in their studies, and that those who don’t will be dropped from classes.

DAVIDSON STOPPED (Continued from page 1)

whenever they threatened seriously to score. Finding going rough through the heavy Deacon line, the Wildcats resorted to the air. However, an alert Wake Forest backfield that had learned its lesson against Duke the previous Saturday, were able to knock down 22 of the 28 passes attempted. It was through the air, however, that the Baptists were able to return home with a victory to their credit. Early in the second period with the ball resting on the Wake Forest 41-yard line, Benton stepped back and shot a perfect pass to Mills, who took it on the dead run and eluded all Wildcat tacklers to cross the goal line standing up. Quillan's drop-kick for the extra point was good. Again in the third period the Baptists used the air route to good advantage.

Students Not Prepared Properly for Politics

American Education is Inefficient in Preparing for Political Life

Portland, Ore—(IP)—American education is inefficient in preparing the student for participation in political life, according to Dr. Edward O. Sisson, head of the Department of Education and Philosophy at Reed College, who is now engaged in a lecture tour throughout the East. In his address, “A Blind Spot in American Education,” Dr. Sisson declares that the trend of education is away from politics. More students are studying ancient history than American history, he holds, and more are entered in Latin classes than in civics classes. Even the civics which is being taught in the high schools, he declares, and the corresponding political science courses in the colleges, are of such a technical and academic nature as to prepare the student poorly for a political career. The really dangerous citizen, according to Dr. Sisson, is not the thug, the criminal, nor the corrupter of politicians, but the apathetic, indifferent citizen who, by his indifference to politics, throws the control of American political life to the criminal element. Less than half the qualified voters of the country, he says, turn out for elections, and the whole nation’s political policy is controlled by a vicious minority. “Chicago,” Dr. Sisson states, “is an example of the failure of education to prepare the average student to take part in his own government.”

New Religious Sect Founded in Hungary

Mme. Fuelop, Founder, Bases New Sect on Laughing and Singing

Budapest—(IP)—A religious sect founded by a Hungarian widow here is based on a creed which can be freely translated in English best by the phrase, “Laugh and the world laughs with you.” Mme. Fuelop, the founder of the new religion, declares that “purification of the soul is possible by merriment alone.” She claims Biblical authority for her new gospel, declaring that Jesus never ordered mankind to be mournful. She gathers her disciples about her every evening, and together they dance the polka of salvation, laughing, singing, and from time to time reading the Bible. The police are watching the new sect but so far have found no grounds for interfering with their form of worship.

I would hate to compile a list of intellectual leaders and continue to live here.—James W. Gerard.

The bitter cold afternoon was filled with the sterling play of both teams. The whole Davidson team was playing good, hard football, but of the lot, Brown, Brock, and Covington, all linemen, were outstanding. The two opposing centers, Gardner of Davidson, and Parker of Wake Forest, turned in beautiful performances. The following eight men closed their football careers at Davidson by seeing strenuous service in the Wake Forest game. They were: Captain Fraley, ex-Captain Brock, Brohard, Covington, Mason, McCall, Parker, and Proctor. Five of these men saw service in the line, while three were in the backfield.

PROF. E. J. ERWIN (Continued from page 1)

East Carolina Teachers’ College, who was unable to be at the meeting in person. The paper was read before the English Department on Friday. “The success or failure of any English teacher in the high school department,” he wrote, “depends not primarily upon his knowledge of the subject, not wholly upon the methods in the presentation, not entirely upon his ability, but almost altogether upon that indefinable, but easily recognizable something which we call personality.” He defined this attribute as including such characteristics as neatness, courtesy, affability, poise, sympathy, optimism, faith in others, the ability to bring out the best in one’s associates, and numbers of other qualities.

A Temporary Home must be rented after the fire ousts you from the house you own and live in. That means paying rent elsewhere—added expense. If you have Rental Value protection the insurance company will provide the money to rent a temporary home of equal rental value, relieving you of that unlooked-for expense and leaving ALL your FIRE insurance money to repair or rebuild. Rental Value protection costs on the average a great deal less than fire insurance, its Siamese Twin.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO. Insurance Department CHARLOTTE, N. C. McAlister Carson (‘13), Manager M. B. Speir ('26)