THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1930

LET’S GET A EIGHT MEN

THE SPORTS PARADE

DEMON DEACON LAST GAME

Thanksgiving Classic Closes Grid Careers For Eight Wildcats

Fraley, Brock, McCall, Brohard, Covington, Parker, and Mason Play Last Game

LOSS WILL WEAKEN TEAM

Five Linesmen and Three Backs Among Seniors Finishing Careers

Eight Davidson Wildcats will be wearing the spangles of Red and Black for the last time tomorrow when Davidson and Wake Forest meet in the final game of the season on the Central High gridiron in Charlotte. These men who will be playing their last game for Davidson include three backs and five linemen, all of whom have contributed a great deal to the success of the team this season. The men who will be starting tomorrow in their last game of intercollegiate football are Walter Fraley, quarterback; Joe Brock, halfback; Tom Brohard, fullback; Bill Covington, guard; Captain McCall, tackle; Thad Mason, center; Charlie Parker, guard; and Jim Proctor, end. The football career of Dan Goodykoontz, also a senior, was brought to an end when he was forced out by a bad shoulder injury. All these men will likely make their letters this year, and upon their graduation will leave the gaps which the Davidson mentors will have to fill in fashioning their first string next fall. Captain Fraley, holder of two varsity letters in football, will start his last game as captain tomorrow. His work all season has (Continued on page 5)

Managers Fight to Tie in Great Game

The football and track managers battled to a scoreless tie last Thursday afternoon in the outstanding grudge battle of the state for the day. Neither team was able to gain consistently through the stone-wall defense presented by their opponents, and offensive efforts for the afternoon were on the whole unspectacular, and failed to produce any thrilling moments for the large crowd of spectators. The football managers held the better end of the decision, especially during the last half, when sweeping end runs featuring Mosely, who came out of the line to carry the ball; McLean, and others kept the ball in Track territory most of the period. A belated passing attack by the Track bosses, featuring Sisson on the hurling end, failed to stem the tide of the advancing Gridders until late in the fourth period. The only real scoring threat of the game came late in the first quarter when Mebane, halfback for the Football squad, leaped high in the air to intercept a pass from Sisson and then streaked down the sidelines until stopped on the five-yard line by a sensational tackle by Sisson. (The tackle stopped Mebane’s efforts for the day, too.) On the next play, however, Jones fumbled and an alert Track forward fell on the ball to break up the threat. It would be unjust to name any man as the star of his team, but Mosely of the Footballers drew loud cheers from the stands by his scintillating runs and sterling line play. Jones’ play as safety man was likewise noticeable. McLean and McKinnon likewise played good football. For the Track Managers, Sisson’s play stuck out like a red nose on a cold day. He shone in backing up the line and in hurling long forward passes. Marsh looked good on the defense, also.

A Complete Service for School Publications

Two Davidson Captains

CAPT FRALEY - QUARTERBACK

Walter Fraley, captain and quarterback of the 1930 football team, and Thad Brock, guard, who as a junior led the 1929 team. These two Barium Springs boys are among the eight seniors who will play their last game in Davidson uniforms when the Wildcats meet Wake Forest in Charlotte tomorrow.

Varsity Cage Schedule For Season Announced

Virginia Trip Replaced by Games With Citadel, Charleston and South Carolina

According to announcements made yesterday by W. B. Hancock, varsity manager of basketball, the basketball season will likely get under way soon after Christmas holidays, with the first game scheduled with North Carolina State in Charlotte January 8. Negotiations are now under way for one or two games which may be scheduled before Christmas. The trip into Virginia which Davidson has been making heretofore has been discarded and several teams of South Carolina will be played in lieu of this. Another swing through North Carolina will make up the other long trip of the season. Most of the Big Five members will be met on this trip. The schedule as it now stands is far from complete, with probably ten more games to be arranged. This will give between 20 and 25 engagements in all, and will present several new teams which were not played last year. These include the University of South Carolina, The Citadel, and the College of Charleston, which will be met on the South Carolina trip. Only two of the Big Five have been definitely scheduled, both N. C. State and Carolina to be met once each in Charlotte and later on the road. Dates with Duke and Wake Forest have not been decided upon definitely at this time. Lenoir-Rhyne, Elon, Guilford, and others have not been assigned definite dates yet, but will likely be on the schedule in its final form. The temporary card is as follows:

Sophs and Juniors Tie for Cage Lead

Second Year Men Defeat Leaders to Move Into First Place Tie

By taking the Juniors into camp Wednesday, the Sophomores went into a tie with the third-year men for first place in the 1930 inter-class basketball race. Each team has won four games and lost one; each defeating the other once. The Seniors came through with a win for the first time Friday by downing the Freshmen, 24 to 14. The standings of the teams are as follows:

Team W. L. Pct.
Juniors 4 1 .800
Sophomores 4 1 .800
Seniors 1 4 .200
Freshmen 1 4 .200

Thus far the Sophomores have presented the best scoring aggregation, who have 142 points to their credit. 

LOOKING 'EM OVER

With W. H. Matthews

The Wake Forest Demon Deacons, whom Davidson would rather beat more than any other team on itsSchedule, excepting possibly Carolina, will furnish the diversion for the Turkey Day fans who jump up from a delightful feed of turkey, cranberry sauce, rice, potatoes, dressing, and lots of other things, to run out to the football field. The Wildcats have not been able to win from the Deacons in ten years, and they feel that now is the time for all good men to rise up and smear them all over the Central High gridiron. That, however, is a much more difficult thing to accomplish than it is to write it down on one’s typewriter. The fight which Wake Forest gave Carolina, the struggle they gave the Blue Devils last weekend, and their general play throughout the season has stamped them as the strongest of the Big Five. Davidson could well have picked a more auspicious year to break a jinx which dates back a decade. We look for the game tomorrow to be a harder game to win, if Davidson does win, than was the Carolina game. We believe, however, that if they put out for sixty minutes and fight as they did against Carolina those last three quarters, the Wildcats can upset this heavy, strong Baptist team. It will take football of the same high quality which upset the Tar Heels to do it, though.

The makeup of the Wake Forest team will make it harder for Davidson to handle them than even the Tar Heels. Boasting a line which averages 190 pounds from tip to tip, 200 pounds from tackle to tackle, the Deacons have one of the most imposing forward walls of any team in the state, and one which is just about the best. At least four men of that line are being seriously considered for All-State berths. A pair of ends second only to those of Duke and two tackles, one a 230-pounder and the other weighing 218, give a well-protected flank on both sides. It will take everything Davidson has to gain consistently through such a line. They will doubtless have more trouble doing it than they did against Carolina. But it has been done; Temple did it enough to score 36 points, and we honestly believe Davidson can and will if they fight.

Davidson's chances of victory were materially enhanced by the fact that Wake Forest had its hardest game Saturday, only five days before their Thanksgiving game. Even if they did come out of the Duke contest in fair shape physically, they are bound not to be in tiptop form mentally for Davidson. Wake Forest had been looking to the Duke game for two weeks; thinking about nothing else, planning for nothing else, and then fighting in the game as if nothing else mattered after that. They cannot possibly be in tiptop shape for the following game and are apt to be in the throes of a severe letdown. On the other hand, the Wildcats have had ample time to prepare for this game and should be in as good shape now as at any time this year. We look for them to play just such a game as they put up against North Carolina, and it will take play of the same high type they exhibited there to win.

Football season over after this weekend, except for a few scattered games, notably Duke-Carolina and Georgia-Georgia Tech. Basketball schedules partially completed and announced in this issue. First call for cage practice soon. Our all-state selections will be made after Duke and Carolina chew each other. That of coaches Younger and Wilson will be announced at the same time. Monk and Tex want this Wake Forest game above all others. They haven't had a victory over the Deacs since they have been here.

In spite of the big names they take on tomorrow, Duke and Carolina have virtual set-ups in Washington and Lee and Virginia, respectively. Neither have very much. Duke should win 13 to 0; Carolina 20 to 7. The classic of the section is Alabama-Georgia. We look for the Tide to engulf Georgia, about 13 to 7. Saturday the feature game of the Nation sees Rockne’s Ramblers hitting the Army. The Cadets are doped to lose before the rush of the Irish. The score should approximate 28 to 7.

Davidson Men Are Always Welcome At

Jan. 8 — N. C. State in Charlotte.
Jan. 9 — Wofford (pending).
Jan. 10 — University of North Carolina in Charlotte.
Jan. 12 — College of Charleston (pending).
Jan. 14 — Erskine in Davidson.
Jan. 24 — V. P. I. in Davidson.
Feb. 12 — University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill.
Feb. 13 — N. C. State in Raleigh.
Feb. 19 — University of South Carolina in Davidson.
Feb. 20 — The Citadel in Charleston.
Feb. 21 — College of Charleston in Charleston.

A remarkable distinction of the games played so far is the clean sportsmanship that has been exhibited by the different teams.

(Continued on page 6)

When You’re Hungry

Let Helper Help You

WEEK-END TRIPS

Can be made economically in a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford from—

HENDERSON’S FILLING STATION

Helper’s Restaurant
Next Door to Telephone Office

STATIONERY
STUDENT SUPPLIES
FOUNTAIN PENS
NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE
MAGAZINES
BOOKS
SUNDRIES

W. S. HENDERSON

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia. The oldest and largest Southern Presbyterian Seminary. Both sound in the faith, and alert for new methods. For Catalogue and information, address Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President.