THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20, 1930

NY Alumni Personals

Several of the alumni came by the alumni headquarters when they were at Davidson for the Carolina-Davidson game, Saturday. Some
of these were Dr. C. C. Orr, '05, Asheville; T. D. Morrison, '03, Asheville; L. H. Wilkinson, '13, Charlotte; R.
B. Cunningham, Jr., '19, Columbia, S. C.; W. H. Fitts, '26, Sanford; W. H. Bordeaux, '27, and R. H. McIlwaine,
'27, both of Philadelphia; J. K. Hand, '27, Charlotte; R. S. Lowrance, Jr., Troy; E. C. Close, '30, Chattanooga, Tenn.;
Zeb V. Long, Jr., '30, Lynchburg, Va.; E. H. McCall, '30, Salisbury; V. A. Milton, '30, Thomasville, Ga.; W. H.
Morrison, '30, Monroe; H. E. Russell, '30, Decatur, Ga., and I. C. Griffin, Jr., '32, Chapel Hill.

Others who have recently visited in the alumni office include Rev. C. L. Crane, '07, of Africa, on furlough at
Hickory; S. V. Daniel, '09, of Huntington, W. Va.; Rev. E. H. Hamilton, '17, of China, on furlough at Atlanta,
Ga.; J. M. Barr, '23, Greenville, S. C., and Glenn A. Fry, '29, of Durham.

Five members of the Union Theological Seminary delegation who will be visiting Davidson next weekend are alumni of the institution.
They include James A. Caligan, '27; T. H. Hamilton, '27; Leighton McCutchen, '27; James S. Gray, '28, and R. O.
Flinn, Jr., '29.

H. Spence, Jr., '22, is professor of religious education at Hastings College, Hastings, Nebraska. Rev. T. John E. Bradley, '29,
is teaching this year at Stovall, N. C. Dr. H. Dabney Kerr, '14, is associate professor and head of the
department of Roentgenology at the University of Iowa Medical School, Iowa City, Iowa. R. W. Oceland, '25, is now with
Anchor Cap Co., 22 Queens Road, Long Island, N. Y. D. R. McEachern, '28, is completing his medical work at
the Medical College of Virginia, Richmond, Va., and A. S. Rose, '28, is doing likewise at the Harvard Medical School.
Both took two years at the University of North Carolina. C. S. Hicks, '07, is connected with the Morris Plan
Industrial Bank, of Raleigh. Julian R. Briggs, '25, is with the branch of the National City Bank of New York,
located in Manila, Philippine Islands. Mr. Briggs recently wrote that he will complete his four-year tour of the Orient in
April, 1931, and will then have a nine months’ leave of absence. Dr. Oren Moore, '08, of Charlotte, was recently
made head of the Kiwanis Club in that city. Rev. Coyte Hunter, '19, of Bessemer City, is assisting in a
series of evangelistic services at the South Broad Street Presbyterian Church in Gastonia.

Twelve men recently met in Greensboro to plan a meeting of the Presbyterian men of North Carolina for next January.
Of these 12, seven were Davidson alumni. These included Rev. H. N. McDiarmid, '11, Shelby; Rev. R. E. McClure, '20,
New Bern; F. L. Jackson, '06, Davidson; Rev. H. G. Bedinger, '11, Red Springs; Rev. T. G. Tate, '10, Gastonia;
Rev. A. P. Dickson, '09, Greensboro, and J. M. Wells, Jr., '16, Winston-Salem.

John Bryan, '26, is appearing as an actor with a Shakespearian company in Chicago. Brian Bell, '11, native of York,
S. C., a newspaper man of wide experience, and for the past several years with the Associated Press offices in
New York, has been made manager of the A. P. office at Los Angeles, Calif. Mr. Bell had the distinction
of being the first Associated Press writer to have a “by-line” over an article from this news.

New York Chapter Will Meet on Tuesday Night

Dr. A. B. Reese, '17, President of Chapter, Will Be Host—Over 100 Invited

Announcement has been received from Prof. R. C. Garth, '19, secretary of the New York Davidson alumni chapter, that the
annual fall smoker would be held next Tuesday night, November 25, at 8 o'clock. Dr. A. B. Reese, '17, president
of the chapter, will be host to the entire alumni body at his home, 50 West 52nd St., New York.
An invitation has already been mailed by Mr. Garth to over 100 Davidson men in or near the American metropolis,
and a notice has also been sent to the same alumni by the alumni secretary at Davidson. The fall meeting
of this chapter is informal in nature, while the spring affair is always a dinner. At the former, the alumni
discuss their Alma Mater, read letters from officials and faculty of Davidson, and offer suggestions to the college.

With the exception of Charlotte, the largest group of Davidson alumni are located in New York. During the past six
years, there has been a great immigration to that city, and the chapter has grown in strength and power. Some
of the largest meetings held by local associations are staged in New York annually, and the attendance jumped from 25
men three years ago to over 50 men last spring.

JUNIORS HOLD LEAD (Continued from page 3)

Sophomores 35, Freshmen 19

Led by Hartsell, their center, the Sophomores defeated the Freshmen Monday, 35 to 19, to keep in the running with
the Juniors in the 1930 inter-class basketball championship. The Sophomores now have won three games and lost only one, that
to the Juniors in the first meeting between these two teams. The second-year men started the scoring and continued until
they had three field goals, then the Freshmen came in with five points before the first quarter ended, 6 to
5. Accurate shooting by Hartsell in the second quarter helped bring the Sophs’ total to 18, while the best the
Frosh could do was to add four points to their total, the half ending 18 to 9 with the Sophomores
leading. Coming back after the intermission, the Sophs continued to run roughshod over their opponents, increasing their sum to 29
as the Frosh scored four more points to make their total 13. The Freshmen came back in the

Odds and Ends

Davidson alumni should keep in mind that commencement, 1931, starts on May 31 and concludes on June 3, and that
the following classes will have reunions: 1930, 1913, 1912, 1911, 1910, 1906, 1894, 1893, 1892, 1891, 1881, 1876. With Home-Coming
over, work has already started toward getting a large representation from all of the above classes at Davidson next spring.

Within a week's time, the alumni secretary received letters from alumni located in Scotland, Mexico, and the Philippine Islands. Within
a period of four days last spring he received letters from alumni in Africa, Germany and Korea. This fall other
letters have come from Davidson men in Roumania, Greece, China, and Japan.

In connection with the above, it can be stated that Davidson alumni are located in 41 different states, the District
of Columbia, and besides the countries mentioned in the above paragraph, in Brazil, Canada, Cuba, Hawaii, Turkey, Syria, British West
Indies, Finland, India, and Egypt. This is a total of 20 countries or possessions.When the term “Wildcats” was first applied
to Davidson College football teams, and how the nickname started. Several requests for this information have been received. If you
know the circumstances, please write Ernest Miltons, Alumni Secretary, Davidson, N.C.

The November issue of “School and Society” contains an article entitled, “Educational Research and Statistics.” This article is a survey
of the “Who’s Who of America,” 1928-1929 edition, and reveals that 16,433 of the 28,805 biographies were of men who
received the bachelor of arts degrees from 506 different colleges and universities of America. Davidson College ranks 72nd in the
506, for 50 of her graduates are in “Who’s Who” of that edition. Davidson ranks 29th in the percentage of
her living alumni in “Who’s Who.” That percentage is 2.16.

Four Davidson alumni are staying in the Phi Beta Pi, medical fraternity, house at the University of Virginia. They are
C. H. Albright, ’29, C. H. Mauzy, ’29, W. R. Hill, ’30, and C. C. Orr, Jr., ’30.

Final to hold their own with the Sophs, each team scoring six points. Hartsell continued to run wild in scoring,
piling up 16 points for high honors. He now leads all others in that department of the game. McLean, of
the Freshman team, counted eight times to come in second in scoring, while Evans, his teammate, and Boucher, of the
winners, ranked next with seven points each.

Four Alumni Meetings Planned For Cities
Class of 1876 Will Hold Commencement Reunion
Five Members of Graduating Class of Fifty-Five Years Ago Are Now Living

One of the most inspiring parts of the 1926 commencement program was to see three members of the class of
1876 sitting on the platform during many of the exercises. These three had returned for the fiftieth anniversary of their
graduation, and at that time seven members of the class were living. Those three were Rev. A. M. Fraser, D.D.,
Staunton, Va.; Hon. W. F. Carter, Mt. Airy, and Dr. E. M. Summerell, China Grove. Since 1926 two of the
seven survivors have been claimed by death, leaving five that are now still living. At the ’26 reunion a resolution
was passed by the trio to hold another assembly at commencement of 1931, to celebrate their fifty-fifth anniversary, and towards
that end, Dr. Fraser has already started working. Last month he sent out a lengthy letter to the other four
of his classmates, giving information to each about the other, and reminded them of the resolution made four and a
half years ago. Dr. Fraser was designated by the three to direct the 1931 reunion, and to make efforts to
get them to Davidson. He intends to follow this with other letters, and recently wrote the alumni secretary that two
replies had already been received. The five men of 1876 now living are the three mentioned and B. F. Watkins,
Philadelphia, Pa., and Duncan Rose, Fayetteville.

Montreal, Que—(IP)—A marble fountain, symbolic of the friendship of the United States for Canada, is to be unveiled on the
campus of McGill University here Saturday, November 1, with elaborate ceremonies. The fountain, designed by Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney, is the
gift of a committee of goodwill composed of about 100 prominent citizens of the United States, including many college presidents,
business men, writers, and army and navy officers. Miss Ellen Ballon, a McGill graduate now living in New York City,
originated the idea of the gift. She is the organizer of the United States Committee of Good-Will in Canada.

In Three States
Davidson Men in Atlanta, Chattanooga, Nashville, and Louisville to Assemble on Successive Evenings in December
Largest Group Located in Atlanta—Over 85 in or Near That City

Efforts are being made by the alumni secretary to arrange a series of four alumni meetings in Atlanta, Chattanooga, Nashville,
and Louisville. The first of these would be in Atlanta on December 1, and on successive nights alumni in the
other cities mentioned would gather together in the order named. Acceptances of dates have already been received from Chattanooga and
Nashville, though the officers of Atlanta and Louisville have not yet replied. Two representatives would attend the dinner-meetings and speak
on behalf of the college. The alumni secretary would be accompanied by a member of the faculty and administration, the
choice of the latter yet to be made. This is in keeping with the recommendation of the Alumni Council that
a faculty member or executive officer attend all local alumni meetings. The largest body of alumni would be in Atlanta.
There are over 85 Davidson men in Atlanta, Decatur, or other nearby towns who would be able to attend the
chapter meeting. In Chattanooga and Nashville there are about 30 alumni, and in Louisville the number is slightly over 25.
Meetings have previously been held in Atlanta and Louisville, but this would be the first occasion when the Davidson men
in Chattanooga and Nashville assembled together.

Births
Mr. W. T. Rankin, ’20, and Mrs. Rankin, of Gastonia, announce the birth of a son, Wiley Theodore, III, on
October 7. Mr. Charles W. McCrary, ’24, and Mrs. McCrary, of Asheboro, announce the birth of a daughter, on November
9. News was recently received of the birth of a daughter, Penelope Jane, to Mr. Frank C. Kugler, ’26, and
Mrs. Kugler, of High Point.

Friends will regret to learn of the deaths of J. E. Reid, of Rock Hill, S.C., father of J. E.
Reid, Jr., ’26, and of R. D. Bain, of Burlington, father of W. E. Bain, ’27.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Founded in 1812, jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, West Virginia, and Appalachia
The oldest and largest Southern Presbyterian Seminary
Both sound in the faith, and alert for new methods.
For Catalogue and information, address
Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President.

HANES PROVIDES REAL UNDERWEAR LUXURY AND SERVICE AT LOW COST
When you button up in HANES, you button out all the underwear grief you’ve ever known. HANES always fits you—never
bunches or binds. The reinforced cuffs don’t pull off—buttons stay! The materials are soft, long-lived. HANES is a man’s underwear.
Dungarees couldn’t ask for more. Yet smarter or more up-to-date underwear isn’t made. Go take a look at the Gold
Label Elastic-knit Lightweight Union Suit. It’s really luxurious and, as in all HANES garments from light to extra-heavy, the hanespun
cotton is knitted and cut to careful measurements of both trunk and chest. If you wear summer weights all year
round, be sure to see the pleasing styles, rich materials and many special features in HANES Athletics and HANES Shirts
and Shorts.

STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Printing and Engraving of Every Description
J. A. CANNON
311 Watts St.
Charlotte, N.C.
