6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 30, 1930

Wildkitten Quint Noses Out Steele Creek Five In Close Battle, 26-22

“Skinny” Pierce Stars for Freshmen While Hoover Brothers Are Visitors’ Luminaries

Last Monday night the Davidson Wildkittens defeated the Steele Creek Quintet by the score of 26 to 22 in a
fast game. The star of the game was L. S. “Skinny” Pierce, the brilliant center of the Wildkittens. “Skinny” shot
14 of Davidson’s 26 points and was also very speedy with his floor work. Starring with “Skinny” was Bruce Peabody,
the alert guard of the Freshmen. Although he only scored three points, he was nevertheless a constant menace to the
Steele Creek forwards. Time after time he intercepted Steele Creek’s passes near their goal. The chief scorers for Steele Creek
were the Hoover brothers, who scored seven points each. They also starred on the defense against the Wildkittens’ passes. Steele
Creek showed the fans that they had a brilliant team, and that they could work together for points. The lineups
of the two teams are as follows:

Davidson
Ervin, F. (6)
Manson, F. (0)
Baugham, F. (0)
Neal, C. (2)
Pierce, C. (14)
Peabody, G. (3)
Wagner, G. (0)
Boucher, G. (0)
Bynum, G. (0)

Steele Creek
H. Hoover, F. (7)
Enochs, F. (4)
Bernard, C. (0)
K. Hoover, G. (7)

Score at end of first half: Davidson 13, Steele Creek 11.
Referee: Hewlett.

IMPORTANT CHANGES (Continued from page 1)

allowed to return to Oxford for the third year after some years of work in their own country, or may
be allowed to spend their third year in further graduate work in any university of Great Britain or on the
continent of Europe on conditions approved by the Rhodes trustees. There is now a tendency to appoint younger men, so
that they may enter Oxford immediately following their American university or college career. In fact, the North Carolina appointee who
was elected in December, 1929, will have completed only three years at Duke University. A further somewhat radical change of
policy has already gone into effect. Students of the United States Naval and Military Academies are now eligible for appointment.
This year the surprising result is that one-fourth of the awards went to representatives of these institutions, six to Annapolis
and two to West Point, a total of eight out of thirty-two. The following is a summary of the institutions
from which the last appointments were made:

United States Military Academy (appointees from Louisiana and Nebraska), two.
United States Naval Academy (Arizona, Arkansas, Nevada, Oklahoma, South Dakota, and Wisconsin), six.
State Universities of Alabama, Colorado, Florida, Idaho, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Montana, South Carolina, Texas, Utah, West Virginia, and Wyoming,
one each, fourteen.
State Colleges of New Mexico and Washington, one each, two.
Other institutions: Bethany (Kansas), Duke (North Carolina), Emory (Georgia), Jamestown (North Dakota), Reed (Oregon), Stanford (California), Swarthmore (Pennsylvania), and Washington
(St. Louis, Mo.), one each, eight.
Total 1929 awards, thirty-two.

Although during the last two or three years no Davidson men have been appointed, we have fared very well during
the twenty-five years of the operation of the scholarships, in proportion to our enrollment. We have had two from North
Carolina, two from South Carolina, and one from Arkansas. Students who aspire to the scholarships should make a study of
the scholarships early in their college career. The stipend is 400 pounds, or nearly $2000 a year. Thus the Rhodes
Scholarship is the largest academic prize open to undergraduates. There are, of course, other awards open to graduate students, but
these are of a somewhat different nature.

The girl on the front seat says the reason she refused every Tom, Dick, and Harry is important.

There are still a number of Juniors and Seniors who have not turned in their honors to Quips and Cranks.
The editorial staff of the annual requests that this omission be rectified as soon as possible. Special attention is called
to the following points: Name (full name); College Degree; Address; Activities and Honors. It is necessary that this matter be
handled quickly and carefully, in order that this publication can appear at the scheduled date.

Town Team Is Host

Miss Elkins is Presented Medal by Freshman Rifle Team

One of the provisions of the recent rifle match between the Freshmen and the local Girls’ Team was that the
losers should entertain the winners at a dinner. The Freshmen were victorious in the match and last Saturday evening at
the home of Captain Elkins the Freshmen team was the guest of the local team. A five-course dinner was served
to the winners while the losers also received five courses, each course consisting of peas, cornbread, and water. A beautiful
medal was presented by the Rifle Team to Miss Nona Elkins of the Girls’ Team. This medal was for the
highest score recorded by any member of the girls’ team in the match. Miss Elkins scored 263 points out of
a possible 300 and was third in the entire scoring of the match. Those attending this affair were Captain and
Mrs. Elkins, Misses Nona Elkins, Billie Elkins, Sarah Jetton, Agnes Brown, Heistand Scott, and Malline Lyon, members of the Girls’
Team. The members of the Freshman Team, Arlington, Flinn, Poole, Burgess, Rachel, and Brown. Other guests were Miss Helen DeVane
and C. P. Greyer.

DIRIGIBLE PASSES OVER (Continued from page 1)

over Davidson on its turn to the north. The ship was making slow time as it reached Davidson, but soon
increased its speed and rapidly vanished from sight. The big ship’s appearance was a reminder of the ill-fated “Shenandoah’s” flight
over Davidson several years ago.

HIGHER EDUCATION

At North Carolina State College of Agriculture and Engineering, Professor William Hand Browne examined his class in electrical engineering. Chagrined
and grieved was he to discover, when he had graded all the papers, that the average mark of the class
was 12½ per cent.When Professor Browne’s students went to his classroom last week, they were surprised to find his door
closed. Fixed upon it was this sign: “The papers from the class are the poorest I ever got in 20
years of teaching. . . . It would be wise not to bother me for the rest of the term.”

“SERVICE” WAS THE THEME

(Continued from page 1)

One day, a man visited a construction site and asked a stone mason working there what he was doing. The
reply was, “cutting stone.” He then asked another stone cutter what he was doing, and the reply was, “making eight
dollars a day.” He proceeded a little further and repeated his inquiry to a third man doing the same job.
He answered, “building a cathedral.” There is not much doubt as to which of these men was of the most
service on this particular construction. He had the vision.

The second necessary characteristic is virtue. Virtue is being a man, and he who would have it, we learn from
the ancient philosophers, must do all that and only that which will make him more of a man. The great
athletes tell us that clean living is one of their essential rules. We cannot hope to be virtuous or wise
without clean living and clean thinking.

The third necessary characteristic we must remember if we would be successful in our service is our vow to God.
If we are in partnership with Jesus Christ, we cannot fail, for we have a partner that always wins. As
we go into the new semester, let’s remember the two men looking from behind bars—one saw mud, the other stars.
Also, we will do those things which will make us men and leave the others out, and finally, we will
stick close to our partner Jesus Christ.

SCABBARD AND BLADE

(Continued from Page 1)

Once the tests are over, the targets are returned to the national headquarters for the score to be totaled. Not
more than seven men, nor less than five, can compose a team. All the shooting is done on a fifty-foot
range. While several members have been practicing, the regular matches themselves have not started.

$29.50 arrived. Grays.

STETSON “D” STORE

STUDENTS OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

We are pleased to announce that our Spring line has arrived. We also want to take this opportunity to advise
that our line consists of the season’s newest styles: Tropical Worsteds, Unfinished Worsteds, Light and Dark Tan, Light and Dark
Grays. Trusting to have the pleasure of showing you this beautiful line, and thanking you for many past courtesies.

Very truly yours,
“RAY” HARRISON.

$34.50

BASKETBALL SQUAD

(Continued from page 1)

Johnston is continuing to display mid-season form, and Goodson and Proctor are playing the guard positions in such a manner
that opponents are having a tough time getting by them. Rusk and Milton are alternating at center, with neither having
a very decided advantage over the other. Rusk has started most of the games, but Milton has always seen his
share of service. The men who will make the trip have not been announced yet, but in all probability, Coach
Younger will take the same men who have been making the other journeys. The substitutes will likely see plenty of
service during every game, as it will be necessary to save the regulars as much as possible.

These matches, however, must be completed by midnight, March 15, and the targets must be mailed by March 19. Records
made by Davidson entries in the past have been exceptionally good and have served to arouse great interest in the
possibilities for better teams. Several competent marksmen are among Davidson’s contestants already, while more are expected to develop as the
year goes on and as interest continues to grow.

It’s a long lane that has no curves.

Your Duty To Your Business.

The fire... the shutdown... directors meet... discuss loss of six months’ net profit... consider continuing expenses... Suddenly, a shrewd director
asks, “Did we carry Business Interruption Insurance?”... questioning eyes fixed on you... If it is your duty to guard against
such loss, we suggest you let us explain the benefits of Business Interruption Insurance.

It’s safer to have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Co.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Reports Out

According to a report from the registrar's office, the reports for the first semester may be expected sometime before the
first of February. These reports will show the results of the work of the entire first semester and will be
issued in the form of figures rather than letters. These figures will represent the general average for the term. A
copy of these grades will be mailed to each student, and one will be sent to his parents.

Seven Promotions Made In R.O.T.C. For Semester

Seven promotions have been made in the R.O.T.C. unit for the second semester, effective January 25, 1930. The cadet appointments
included that of one lieutenant-colonel, one major, one captain, and four lieutenants. Following is the list of men promoted: to
be Cadet Lieutenant-Colonel, William R. Hill; to be Cadet Major, Lawrence L. Boyd; to be Cadet Captain, William H. Morrison;
to be Cadet First Lieutenants, William J. Beaver, Frank S. Erwin, Edward C. Close, and Louis L. Barr, Jr.

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

SPECIAL SALE GOLF CLUBS

Macgregor Golf Clubs Now Offered at One-fourth Off Regular Price

W.S. HENDERSON

Special Designs

DELUXE ICE CREAM

At Students’ Store and Dealers

MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COMPANY
Mooresville, N. C.

Brick Eskimo Pies

because she has always wanted to marry Jack.—Ex.

SEE & HEAR

The New VICTOR MICRO-SYNCHRONOUS RADIO AND RADIOLA

See Them At
PARKER GARDNER CO.
16 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Victor & Brunswick Records—Furniture And Draperies

Monday and Tuesday, February 3rd and 4th
“Halfway to Heaven” with BUDDY ROGERS and NANCY CARROLL

Wednesday, Feb 5th
“Dance Hall” with OLIVE BORDEN

Davidson Theatre

Friday, February 7th
“Rich People”

Saturday, February 8th
“Ship from Shanghai”
