THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 20, 1930

Dr. Cummings Publishes Interesting Book From Early English Records

Work Presents a Deep Study of Old Anglo-Saxon Literary and Religious Peculiarities

"Revelations of Saint Birgitta" is the title of a new book by Dr. W. P. Cumming of the English Department of Davidson College. It was edited from the fifteenth-century manuscript in the Garrett collection in the library of Princeton University. Mr. Garrett, whose home is in Baltimore, is a collector of manuscripts and has some very rare ones. At present, he is the American Ambassador to Italy.

The book, which came out in the latter part of January, was published in London for the Early English Text Society, by Humphrey Milford, Oxford University Press. The book is quite interesting for several reasons. From the philological viewpoint, this book is a careful and comprehensive study of the peculiarities of Midland and Yorkshire dialects in the fifteenth century. In this work, many interesting words appear for the first recorded period in the English language.

Historically, it is also interesting. It is a complete study of the Birgittine Order in England and a literary history of all English manuscripts of Birgitta which have been preserved in different libraries of England. While Doctor Cumming was at Oxford, he spent much time finding this material.

Since it contains valuable information concerning the Catholic saints and medieval mysticism, it is important and interesting from the religious angle. Besides the main content, the volume contains bibliographical information with an introduction and glossary.

Davidson Students Aid Many Churches

Cecil Lawrence Has Well Organized Sunday School Work

Each Sunday morning six men from the local student body: T. R. Nunan, Newton Dicks, William Rule, C. S. Spencer, J. H. McKinnon, and Al Jackson visit the county sanatorium and teach the Sunday School lesson for the week. Realizing the richness of the opportunity for service, Davidson College “Y” leaders made an investigation and found that no one from the outside was coming in regularly for any sort of religious service. The matter was taken up with the Mecklenburg County Presbyterian Ministers’ Association, and its members thought so much of the idea that the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte agreed to finance transportation for the boys that are doing the work.

Another outstanding and distinct work that is being done in this field is at Shearer’s Chapel. This chapel was established by one of the former presidents of Davidson, whose name it bears. Ever since its establishment, Davidson students have been teaching in the Sunday School and conducting their services. Some of the leaders of the Southern Presbyterian Church today have received their first experiences there. For the last two years, Charlie Burch, Herbert Bost, and Pat Boyle have been carrying on the work. Recently, the pastor of the Church has been unable to do any work on account of his health, so these boys have been carrying forward his work. Each Sunday, directly after dinner, they walk out to the chapel, a distance of three miles. After the Sunday School, they visit the homes of the people. At night, a service is held. The attendance at some of these services has been as much as seventy.

Each Sunday, boys from Davidson go to the Mecklenburg Convict Camp, which is situated on the other side of Huntersville, to conduct services. The men of the Davidson Presbyterian Church supply transportation for this work. Fred Poag and Chester Arnold are at the head of this work. Albert McClure is in charge of the work at the Mill Chapel. Helm of last year’s graduating class was the man that placed this work on its feet, and McClure has taken the work with the same high grade of workmanship. Those assisting McClure in the Sunday School of the Mill Chapel are Frank Buchner, Bill Hunter, Sam Coker, D. R. Brandon, and Jim Kennedy.

It will be of interest to know that a new annex is going to be built to the Mill Chapel in order to accommodate the great crowds which attend Sunday School. These new additions to the Sunday School Department of the Y. M. C. A. have brought the total number of men that are teaching to over fifty. Ben Drake, Bob Morrison, Earl Thompson, and Bob Torrence teach at the Davidson Methodist Church. D. F. Murphy, Charlie Sission, Bill Matthews, Charlie Kraemer, and Horace Ryburn are at the Cornelius Presbyterian Church; Archie McLean, Bill Flinn, Heath Whittle, and Harry Moffett are at the Davidson Presbyterian Church; and Andy Bird teaches at the St. Marks Church. Once a month, Bob Norton conducts

Davidson Wildcats Win From Wake Forest

In the poorest display of basketball seen on the local court this season, the Davidson Wildcats added the Wake Forest Deacons to their list of victims last Wednesday night. The score was 33 to 17. Davidson was due for a letdown after their great game against Duke, but not so severe a one as they had. If their opponents had not been “off” to a similar extent, the game might have been much closer.Sunday School at Sherrill’s Ford. Perhaps one of the most outstanding pieces of work in this department is at the Methodist Mt. Zion Church in Cornelius. Eight men are teaching classes regularly every Sunday there: Roscoe Prince, Roger Enloe, F. Wood, M. W. Norfleet, Don Mower, J. B. Knox, F. Cowan, Lon Carr, and Wade DuBose. It is of special interest that F. L. Wood has recently been elected Superintendent of the Intermediate Department of that Sunday School.

Charlotte Library Opens Branch Here
Books are Accessible to Entire Local Township

On February 15, a branch of the Charlotte Public Library was opened at Davidson. Everyone in this township has free access to this library, and it is hoped that the people of Davidson will avail themselves of the splendid opportunity. Mrs. William B. Bates, Jr., has been elected librarian of this branch, which is located in the Knox Building. At present, the library contains between five and six hundred volumes, and the number will be continually increased. The purpose of this movement of the Charlotte Public Library is to make books easily accessible to everyone in Mecklenburg County. This is the second branch to be established. Present plans are to install similar libraries throughout the county. The whole town has cooperated splendidly in making it possible for this branch to be established here, with the Davidson Civic Club and the Town Council being particularly enthusiastic.

The Wildcats were never in any danger. Although the visitors got the first goal, they were quickly overhauled and passed, and their scoring for the first half was limited to the two lone points they got at first. The Davidson boys got 14 points in the first period, and then in the second half proceeded to lengthen their lead. Both teams were hitting the basket more regularly as the game grew older, and the Baptists were able to annex twelve more points in the last half.

Play, “Octoroon” To Be Presented Soon

The Red and Black Masquers of Davidson College will present a one-act play, Thursday, February 27, as the initial performance of this spring. This is the first of a series of plays that will be given during the next three months. There will be no admission charged, the production being presented due to the interest in dramatics rather than for profit. “Octoroon” is the title of the play, which will be held next Thursday in Chambers Auditorium. The situation of a man, part negro and part white, who is not allowed the association of the latter and hated by the former, forms the basis of the plot, and the outcome is such as to hold the audience’s interest. The cast is as follows: Jeb Williams, the Octoroon, J. Z. Preston; Peterson and Laxton, owners of the farm, Bill Flynn and Harry Moffatt; Queen Esther, Rufus, and Dabney, farm hands, J. M. Brown, Charles Moore, and H. C. MacFayden. The play was written by J. W. McCutchan.

Lineup:
Davidson (33) Pos. Wake Forest (17)
Pritchett (10) .......... Quillen Forward
Womack (0) .......... Jones (6) Forward
Risk (8) .......... Brogden (6) Center
Goodson (2) .......... Edwards Guard
Proctor (3) .......... Mills Guard

Substitutes:
Davidson: Martin (2); Wilson, Gilbert, Mathis, Moore (3).
Wake Forest: Allen (2); Webb (3); Martin.

Bradshaw Conducts Wednesday’s Chapel
Student Body Hears Inspiring Message

Dean F. F. Bradshaw, of the University of North Carolina, had charge of the devotional exercises during the chapel period Wednesday morning, February 12. Dean Bradshaw spent three days on the local campus, speaking several times during that time. “If Jesus had founded a church and had put rooms in it, including several social service departments, and a great corps of teachers, He might have made a great stir among the Jews of that day,” Dean Bradshaw explained. “We can measure the worth and power of a man in three ways: First, in horsepower, consisting of the physiological machinery and what it will produce, or the foot-pounds of energy made from day to day; second, in intelligence in seeing the relationship between cause and effect; and third, in heart power. Christ possessed heart power; He contributed to emotional feeling, and was capable of absorbing the fear of the people and radiating love toward them. It is not how much health a man has, nor how much brains a man has, but what kind of a heart he has within him under all circumstances. I'd like to invite your attention to the thought that, after all, the making of a man is his heart power,” Dean Bradshaw told the students, in concluding his talk.

“Easy to say, hard to do.” Easy to claim everything for a cigarette; not so easy to give smokers the one thing that really counts: taste. Hard to do—but Chesterfield does it. Sparkling flavor, richer fragrance, the satisfying character that makes a cigarette—because, in every step, we aim at taste... “TASTE above everything.”

© 1930, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

MILD... and yet THEY SATISFY
Chesterfield
FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobaccos, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED.