THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 6, 1930

Side Line Shots

Helping to Put the Wildcats Over

By “Felix”

Interest in the college is fast reaching fever heat as the cage encounter with Duke's speedy Blue Devils draws near. Monday will see a student body united for the common cause of “Downing Duke.” Davidson has always given the Devils trouble in their basketball aspirations. Last year and the year before, the Cats sprung great upsets to crash the “Money Boys” from Durham.

The 1930 edition of Blue Devil Basketball is riding far and wide. Publicity men claim steadfastly that the Methodists are better than the only team to defeat them, Washington and Lee. They point to the victory over Navy as proof enough of the team’s greatness. True enough, but we note that several quints have taken Navy in tow lately by sizeable scores. In the eyes of many newspapers and coaches, the Devils have already won the conference title. We won't be surprised to see them do it. One thing is sure, though—the Duke men are going to find it easier to win a lot of those tournament games than to beat Monk Younger’s Wildcats next Monday night. Apparently invincible odds make the Wildcats wilder than ever, and we are counting on that fact to give Duke all she can stand.

On paper, it’s hard to see where Davidson has a chance to do anything but put up a fight, but we believe there’s a probable win in view, and the old-time scrap may put that very thing across. Moving that game to Charlotte didn’t help matters the least bit. It hurt the chances of the Cats, for playing on their home court, they would have been a good deal more dangerous. Wish for the best, though. It’s up to the whole student body to turn out for that clash. Boys can always get to Charlotte if they try hard enough, and surely Monday is the time for all loyal sons to run to the aid of their team. Get in there behind them. It may be the means to victory.

Well, if these freshmen keep on winning games, we'll have to get a new scorebook and put it in the memorial room. Red Laird has developed a great little team, and the varsity next year is going to be the gainer when the new men come out. Wake Forest sent a good yearling team up to the Cat Lair. They had previously defeated State and Carolina by good scores and lost to Duke by a few points. The Baptists didn’t seem to be in the class of the young Cats, however. The shooting and passing of Captain Pierce leaves little to be desired. That boy must have been raised on a court. He is one of the best prospects to reach Davidson in years. Peabody is another sterling performer. His floorwork is fine to behold.

N. C. State was rather fortunate to knot the count on Tilson’s wrestlers last week. That injury to Russell was a bad break for the Cats. The chances are that he would have been thrown. In that event, the match would have gone to Davidson. Davidson is piling up points now where she lost them in past years—in the heavyweights. The grapplers will have a Tartar on hand when Carolina sends her mat-men here next week. A win there would boost stock considerably.

Davidson and Wolfpack Wrestlers Fight To Tie In Raleigh Engagement

Russell Receives Severe Spinal Blow in Match—Injury Said Not Serious

In a very close match last Saturday afternoon, the wrestling teams of Davidson and North Carolina State fought to a draw with each team scoring 15 points. The match was held in the Thompson gymnasium at Raleigh. Two of the matches were won by the Tech-men on falls. They also gained five more points when Jeb Russell of Davidson was injured and defaulted in the 145-pound class. The Wildcats won the other five matches on time advantages.

After four minutes of close fighting with Smithwick, Russell received a severe spinal jar. In a quick rally near the center...Of the mat, Smithwick secured a body hold to throw Russell heavily to the mat. Coming down on his head, Russell threw the entire weight of his body on his spine. Dr. Ray Sermon, State trainer, said the injury was not serious. He was immediately taken to the college infirmary. 

Summary:
115 pounds: Cowan (Davidson), won from Karig. Time 7:45.
125 pounds: Eason (State), threw Gorham. Time 9:50.
135 pounds: Perry (State), threw Brown. Time 5:20.
145 pounds: Smith (State), won from Russell, default.
155 pounds: Conway (Davidson), won from Chaplin. Time 8:00.
165 pounds: Christenbury (Davidson), won from Jones. Time 7:40.
175 pounds: Warren (Davidson), won from Crowson. Time 3:30.
Heavyweight: Raker (Davidson), won from Savlock. Time 4:00.
Referee: Gattis (Navy).

VARSITY BASKETBALL
Varsity Scores:
Davidson 50, Catawba 26.
Davidson 33, Charlotte Y 18.
Davidson 29, Wofford 15.
Davidson 20, Furman 33.
Davidson 22, Carolina 20.
Davidson 39, Lenoir-Rhyne 25.
Davidson 38, Charlotte Y 39.
Davidson 33, Maryville 20.
Davidson 264, Opponents 196.

How They Score:
Johnston 70
Pritchett 60
Rusk 39
Goodson 38
Milton 30
Martin 20
Moore 10
Mathis 4

Trackmen Prepare for Coming Season
About twenty-five men have reported for early spring track. These men will try out sometime this week to see who will go to the Virginia meet which is to be held February 15. Captain Whittle was to run the fifty-yard low hurdles and has been working out indoors at night on them, but these have been changed to the fifty-yard high hurdles, so it is not likely that Whittle will go to the Virginia meet. The University of North Carolina is holding a Southern Conference indoor track meet on March 8. The varsity squad was not invited to compete in this meet, but the freshmen were invited to take part. A qualification mark of 5 3-5 seconds for the 50-yard dash and 6 3-5 seconds for the 50-yard low hurdles has been set. Little, Fleagle, and McCallie have been working on these events in an effort to make the qualification time. On March 22, the University of West Virginia is holding a meet to which Davidson has been invited to send representatives. It is planned for Captain Whittle, Brohard, and McCall to attend this meet if they can make the qualifying marks.

The following men have reported for early track: Captain Whittle, Branham, Norton, Lafferty, Neal, Gardner, Allen, McCall, Regen, Boyle, George, Beavers, Moffatt, Goodwin, McGehee, Daffin, Hall, Middleton.

The following freshmen have reported: Earl, Pardington, McCallie, Glasgow, Quinn, Little, Fleagle.

FRESHMAN BASKETBALL
Freshman Scores:
Fresh 22, Charlotte High 18.
Fresh 20, Charlotte High 9.
Fresh 26, Steele Creek 22.
Fresh 20, Belmont Abbey 14.
Fresh 25, Greensboro High 21.
Fresh 32, Wake Forest Fresh 14.
Fresh 145, Opponents 98.

How They Shoot:
Riette 25
Rowe 20
Peabody 19
Maus 15
Johnson 12
Russo 3
Boucher 5

"What's good for my wife's fallen arches?"
"Rubber heels."
"What shall I rub 'em with?"—Ex.

Matt: "Fifty dollars is a lot to spend for my daughter’s doll, but I know my wife will back me."
Hugh: "Into what corner?"

Teacher: "Will, I want you to tell me how you define ignorance."
Willie: "It's when you don’t know something and someone finds it out."—Ex.

"No man shall smoke this honey-smooth cigarette... not a cough in a carload."

"I'll trouble you to use Aubrey Auchincloss," cried Geraldine.
"So? And what’s wrong with my tone, my haughty beauty?" barked Sir Mortimer.
"Everything possible," she answered him unflinchingly. "Your voice is that of a man gargling in an elevator shaft. Change to OLD GOLDS... they protect the throat."

(c) P. LORILLARD CO.
FASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE IN HISTORY... NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD

ENGRAVED BY JOHN HELD JR.