- THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 8, 1930

L. B. Knott of Duke Wins Oratorical Contest Held At Davidson Last Week

Margaret Andrews of North Carolina College for Women Wins Second Honors

RECREATION FOLLOWS

J. C. Matthews, V Davidson Representative, is Awarded Third Place

Last Friday night L. B. Knott, of Duke University, won the regional oratorical contest of the State of North Carolina. This contest was held in the Eumanean Literary Society Hall under the auspices of the National Oratorical Society. Second place in this contest went to Miss Margaret Andrews, of North Carolina College for Women in Greensboro; third place fell to the lot of J. C. Matthews, a member of the Junior Class of Davidson. The other contestants in this debate were: J. H. McKinnon of North Carolina State, Miss Mary Huff of Asheville Normal, H. Hobgood of the University of North Carolina, and W. C. Pope of High Point College.

The debate was on the Constitution of the United States of America. There were three judges for this debate, all of whom are members of the Davidson faculty. These were: T. W. Lingle, Professor of French Language and Literature; Dr. C. K. Brown, Associate Professor of Economics, and Professor E. J. Erwin, Professor of English.

After the debate a reception was held in Eu Hall. At this reception, refreshments were given to the debaters and their guests. Following this regional contest there will be the zone contest which will be held in Asheville on May 16. At this contest Mr. Knott will represent the State of North Carolina. The other Southern States will also send a representative to this debate. The winner of this will then take a trip to Los Angeles in the summer and there compete for the grand prize of $1,500 in the finals.

Davidson students will well remember that last year Allan Frew, of this year's Senior Class, won the regional, the zone, and finally won third place in the national contest in Los Angeles.

J. C. Matthews, who represented Davidson at this oratorical contest, is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, an honorary fraternity recognizing ability in oratory and debating, and a member of the International Relations Club. His opponent, whom he had to defeat before he could represent Davidson at this contest, was M. F. McDavid.

Track Team Elects McCall as Captain

Sisson Elected Varsity Manager, Watt Fresh Manager

At a meeting of the lettermen in track Tuesday morning, Joe McCall was elected captain of the team for the 1931 season, and C. A. Sisson was elected varsity manager. At the same time, James Watt was chosen Freshman manager. Men named by the Athletic Association as Junior managers are T. M. Gignilliat, J. B. Stevens, A. J. Graham, and H. H. Harris, alternate.

McCall holds the college record for the broad jump, having broken the old record this spring which had stood since 1896. He broke his own mark two or three times during the season, his best mark being 23 feet, one-half inch, set in the Wake Forest meet. He also throws the javelin. Besides his letter in track, McCall has also won his monogram in football, being one of the fastest men on the squad last fall. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

Sisson, the new manager, has been prominent in many lines on the campus. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta, the Beaver Club, the Court of Control, and was recently elected Senior member of the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control.

On Short or Long Trips your personal effects should always be protected against fire, theft, and wreck hazards. In fact, your personal effects need protection all the time. Personal Effects Insurance protects your belongings all year round whenever you are away. Let us help.

Independence Trust Co. - Insurance Department CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Davidson Graduates Finish at Seminary

Davidson graduates compose almost one-third of the graduating class of Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, the list of those receiving degrees on May 7 reveals. Their names follow: W. P. Brown, W. A. Christian, John W. Crinkley, T. A. Guiton, W. I. Howell, Leighton M. McCutchen, R. B. MacQueen, G. R. Sims, R. S. Wilson, E. D. Witherspoon, and J. W. Fos. Christian, McCutchen, and Wilson were awarded fellowships and will continue their theological studies for another year.

Rev. Dr. James Porter Smith, president and professor of systematic theology of the Presbyterian Seminary at Campinas, Brazil, has been elected professor of systematic theology at Union Seminary for one year, succeeding Dr. Thomas Cary Johnson, who has been elected professor-emeritus after nearly forty years spent as professor at the seminary. Dr. Smith, who will be on furlough from his work in Brazil, is a distinguished minister of the Presbyterian Church. On his last visit to this country he delivered a series of lectures at Princeton Theological Seminary and at Union Seminary.

Early registrations for the 1930-31 term at Union Seminary show a wide representation of colleges and universities from which the entrants have received degrees. Approximately one-third of the newclass has been enrolled already, according to the registrar's office, and they represent ten institutions in six states. Among these are: Hampden-Sydney, Davidson, Washington and Lee, Randolph-Macon, Presbyterian College of South Carolina, Moody Bible Institute, Boston University, Southwestern, Duke, and the University of South Carolina.

Audition Tryouts to Be Held for Radio Contest
Cullum Names Fifteenth of May for Local Contest

Prof. E. J. Cullum, local chairman of the Fourth Radio Audition sponsored by the Atwater Kent Foundation, announces that the local tryouts for the State Audition will be held on the fifteenth of May. Any boy between the ages of 18 and 23 is eligible to compete in the local tryouts. The boy and girl winning out in the local contest will represent Davidson at the State Audition in Charlotte over WBT in the fall.

The aim of the Fourth National Radio Audition is to discover the best young men and women singers in the United States and to give to those surviving local, state, and district tests opportunities for further training, recognition, and reward. Originated as an altruistic experiment in 1927 and continued in 1928 and 1929 because of popular demand, the Foundation’s aim has been more than justified. As awards to the first ten singers, five boys and five girls, $25,000 has been offered. Winners of first place (one boy and one girl) will receive $5,000 each and two years’ tuition in an American conservatory; winners of second place, $3,000 each and one year’s tuition; winners of third place, $2,000 and one year's tuition; winners of fourth place, $1,500 and one year’s tuition; winners of fifth place, $1,000 and one year’s tuition.

Tens of thousands of young men and women participated in elimination contests in more than a thousand communities during the three Auditions that have so far been held. The winners of these three Auditions are now far on the way to success and fame in the world of music. Edward Kane, of Greensboro, N.C., and Irine Rowe, of Wooster, Ohio, were last year’s winners.

LOCAL GIRL APPEARS
(Continued from page 1)

Women. It has been presenting amateur plays of the highest type for the past nine years under the direction of W. R. Taylor, a member of the English faculty of that institution. Especial attention is given to scenery and theatrical effects, which have added much to realism in the plays. This year, presentations have been made by the Play-Likers at Chapel Hill and Hollins College, Roanoke, Va., and have been acclaimed as genuinely artistic productions.

In “After Dark,” which is a typical nineteenth-century melodrama, the college organization will reproduce after the old manner all the 14 sets of scenery with mechanical effects such as a running locomotive, a railway tunnel, moving boats, and lighted windows in the background. Correct costumes of the period will be used, and orchestral and vocal selections will be a part of the play. In reviving the melodrama, the Play-Likers are opening a new field in amateur play production. The play will be given sincerely and with every effort to reproduce faithfully the original presentation made in London in 1868.

The burning question of the day: “Who gives the bride away in Scotland?” — Collegian.

Father: “Is dey half fares for chillun?”
Conductor: “Yes, under 14.”
Father: “Dat’s all right. We have got only six.”

Dramatic Club Officers

The Red and Black Masquers at a called meeting last Monday night held their annual elections for next year’s officers. J. S. Meacham was elected president; Horace Erwin, director; and John Marvin, secretary-treasurer. The Dramatic Club has presented numerous plays and sketches at each of their meetings during the past year, and have also made several public appearances. One of the plays, entitled “Octoroon,” was written by a member of the club. Due to the lack of time, the Masquers have decided not to work on further productions for this year. Professor Erwin will continue to direct the club.

Dolly: “Has Snooty traveled much?”
Mayo: “Has she? She’s been to half the places on her suitcase labels.”

Dot (going through prison): “And why, Warden, are they all eating yeast cakes?”
Warden: “That’s how we keep them from breaking out, my dear.”

The woman's debating team of some college, it was announced the night before the debate, had changed its mind and instead of taking the affirmative as scheduled decided to take the negative.” — News Item, A Woman's Privilege.

Inspector: “I thought you said your room was spotless.”
Student: “Yes, ma’am. Not a clean spot in it.”

“PROMISES FILL no sack”... it is not words, but taste, that makes you enjoy a cigarette. But you're entitled to all the fragrance and flavor that fine tobaccos can give; don’t be content with less. You can expect better taste, richer aroma, from Chesterfields — because in making them, we put taste first — “TASTE above everything.”

© 1929, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
MILD... and yet THEY SATISFY
Chesterfield - FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobaccos, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED