THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 27, 1930

Davidson Y.M.C.A. Sends Men On Deputations To Churches Of Charlotte

Seven Men Also Go to Maxton to Establish Organization

SPEAKERS SENT TO “HI-Y”

Many Churches in Surrounding Territory Aided in Their Work by Davidson Men.

Davidson men led services at two of Charlotte’s leading churches last Sunday. In co-operation with the Y.W.C.A. of Queens College, several prominent men of the campus had charge of the service at Myers Park Presbyterian Church. Nab Armfield led the service, and J.A. Jones and W.B. McGuire made talks relative to the work of the “Y.” The violin quartette composed of R.B. Orr, C.C. Orr, Horace Erwin, and Don Leeper rendered special music. At the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, W.G. McGavock was the leader, and Murray Christian preached in commemoration of their annual College night.

T.R. Nunan, J.C. Lawrence, J.B. Knox, W.B. McGuire, Z.V. Long, W.R. Hill, J.A. Jones, and F.D. Miller went as a “Y” deputation to Presbyterian Junior College, at Maxton, N.C., for the purpose of organizing a Y.M.C.A. This college is to get students ready to enter Davidson in their Junior year. Because of crowded conditions in the Freshman and Sophomore classes at Davidson, it was found necessary to establish such a school. These members of the “Y” cabinet and the Board of Control explained to the student body of that school the program and functions of the Y.M.C.A.

Last Saturday, Archie McLean spoke before the Hi-Y club of Charlotte. Each Sunday since the beginning of the year, Davidson men have been talking before this group. Some of the leading men of our campus have assisted in this great work. Deputation work of the “Y” has been heavy this year. Many deputations were sent out last fall, and since the summer months are coming on, more and more calls are coming in for Davidson men. Davidson men have assisted in work at Shearer’s Ford, Barium Springs, Oak Hurst, Davidson High, Prospect Church, Providence Church, Johnson C. Smith, Y.M.C.A. vespers.

Some of the future deputations are as follows: The Y.M.C.A. of Greensboro has sent a call for Davidson to work out a full program that they have arranged. Davidson men were called down there last year, and they worked so well that they have invited more men from our school to do this work. Stonewall Jackson Training School just outside of Concord wants to use Davidson men several times in the future. Mount Gilead Church has sent a call for Davidson men to conduct services at their church in the future.

DAVIDSON TRUSTEES (Continued from page 1)

part of the college work, under the direction of the President and Dean of Instruction, and that Prof. F.K. Fledgle be made Director for the 1930 session.

The election of Captain Pritchett as professor of physical education came about as a result of a decision made by the board of trustees in their meeting last May, which provided that physical education be compulsory for four years of a student’s stay here. The board also decided last May to give regular credit for the course, not as a substitute for the regular scholastic units but in addition thereto, and that satisfactory completion of work in the department of physical education be required for graduation. This training will be in co-operation and co-ordination with the Reserve Officers Training Corps.

Among other things, the trustees agreed not to confer any honorary degree at the next commencement. The sessions began Wednesday morning at 10 o'clock and were concluded at 5:00 in the afternoon. A feature of the noon recess was a joint luncheon of the Davidson faculty and trustees served in the banquet hall in Chambers building.

Student: “Hey, I wanna exchange this book.”
Doc: “Too late; you’ve had it a whole term.”
Student: “But I just found out that every other page is missing.”

Rival Pays Tribute To Davidson Spirit

The fine sportsmanship of the Davidson basketball team and the courteous treatment given to opposing teams has received considerable recognition throughout this section of the country. Following is an extract from a letter received by Doctor Lingle, president, from a member of the faculty in one of the colleges which Davidson has recently played.

“Our basketball coach and the members of the basketball team came back to our campus enthusiastic about the fine treatment they had received at the hands of Davidson men on the occasion of their recent visit to your college. They speak of the friendliness of Davidson students towards visitors, and of the high quality of sportsmanship of Davidson players and rooters.”

S.C. Club Will Hold Important Meeting

At a recent meeting of the South Carolina club, it was decided that a banquet would be given sometime before the Spring holidays. All South Carolinians are urged to be present at this banquet, as it will be the high spot of the year for this club. It probably will be the last meeting of the club this year, and as the new officers will be elected at this gathering, it will be a very important one. The business, however, will not be the only part. In fact, it will be a minor part, in so far as enjoyment is concerned, for there will be a varied program with many prominent and interesting speakers present. This assemblage will be held at the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel, and all those from the Palmetto state who miss this certainly will lose the opportunity of having a very enjoyable time.

Literary Societies

Philanthropic

At a meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society, February 8, officers were elected for the spring term of 1930. As is customary, officials of the organization are chosen three times a year, those who serve in the fall being elected immediately before the closing of school in the spring. Voting was spirited and much determination and interest was displayed by the members who were present. H.E. Russell was elected president to succeed F.S. Erwin, retiring. Two positions in the society are held by Seniors, the other being that of First Critic. J.C. Lawrence was elected to this office to succeed E.H. Clark. Other officers, newly elected, are: J.W. McCutchan, vice-president; H.F. Nicol, secretary; second critic. R.D. Russell continues as treasurer of the society, this office being held for the entire school year.

Eumenean

The weekly meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society, held on Tuesday, February 8th, was necessarily a very short one this week on account of a basketball game which was being held that night. All business was dispensed with except the election of officers. The following officers were elected: President, J.L. Brown; vice-president, A.R. Bird; secretary, S.B. McLean; treasurer, A.R. Jackson; critic, T.W. Brohard.

I call her my automobile girl—I like to choke her.

C.M.T.C. Application To Be Due In Near Future

Fourth Corps Area to Have Camps in Seven Stations

Every year Uncle Sam offers about40,000 of his nephews the chance to be his guests at one of over fifty camps scattered throughout his broad domain. And every year the boys are accepting his invitation in greater numbers and filling the available vacancies at an earlier date. It is easy to understand why they do this. Uncle Sam pays all necessary expenses of his guests. Transportation to and from camp, food, camp facilities, clothing, laundry, medical examinations and attendance when necessary, and the service of instructors and splendid athletic coaches are furnished free to all by the government. These could not be duplicated by private enterprise for less than several hundred dollars for each boy, and it is an offer that every live, wide-awake young American who likes to live in the open and work and play with his fellows, finds it hard to resist. Any young man of seventeen years or over in age may apply. If he can pass the required physical examination and is of good moral character as evidenced by a reputable citizen who knows him, he may go to camp—provided his application is received before the vacancies allotted to his home county are filled. Last year, over 4,500 boys in the southeastern states did not get to go because they delayed applying a short time and the quotas were all filled. Attendance at these camps means no obligation whatever for future military service, more than that owed by all good citizens to their country. In fact, military training is not the primary object of the camps.

Briefly put, the mission of the Citizen’s Military Training Camps is to bring together for a month’s training under healthful surroundings, young men from all walks of life on a common basis of equality, and by supervised athletics, military drill, and instructions in citizenship, to develop them physically and morally, to promote a wholesome respect for discipline, to teach the value of teamwork, to fit them for leadership in peace and war, and to impress upon them their obligations and responsibilities as citizens. In addition to the morning drill and study at the camp, each afternoon is devoted to games, supervised and coached athletics, swimming, and every variety of sport. Evening is the time for relaxation and entertainment, for moving picture shows, dances, “stunt” nights, and other forms of amusement. There is never a dull moment during the camp. The C. M. T. C. motto is “LET’S GO.” And the boys are accepting Uncle Sam's invitation and going more eagerly each year. Information, booklets and application blanks may be obtained from the local county chairman, Major Adam Fisher, 112 E. Vance St., Charlotte, N. C., or by writing to C. M. T. C. Officer, Box 683, Charlotte, N. C. Camps will be held in 1930 from June 13th to July 12th at the following stations: Fort Barrancas, near Pensacola, Fla., Coast Artillery. Fort Bragg, near Fayetteville, N. C., Field Artillery. Camp Beauregard, near Alexandria, La., Infantry. Fort McClellan, near Anniston, Ala., Infantry. Fort Moultrie, near Charleston, S. C., Infantry. Fort Oglethorpe (Ga.), near Chattanooga, Tenn., Cavalry. Fort Screven, near Savannah, Ga., Infantry. A man obligates himself to no future military service whatever by attending these camps. An application blank fully filled out and a report of physical examination on the back of the blank (except for previous trainees) is essential. When the blank is completed send it to C. M. T. C. Officer, P. O. Box 683, Charlotte, N. C. Get your application in early. Over 4,000 boys missed camp last year because they delayed applying and the camps were filled up by those who did not wait. Don’t go to camp unless you receive a letter printed in red authorizing you to go. Applicants can only be accepted for attendance at the camp nearest their home. Boys from this District will be sent to Fort Bragg, N. C. The Government pays all necessary expenses. Further information can be obtained from the C. M. T. C. Officer, P. O. Box 683, Charlotte, N. C.

Volley Ball Teams Play Closing Game

Intramural volley-ball came to a very dramatic close last Friday afternoon, when the freshmen trounced the sophomores to win campus championship. It looked like a “wash-out” when the first game ended, 15-0, in favor of the frosh, but the sophomores rallied nobly to take the second game, 16-14. The third and decisive game was evenly contested until the score was 10-10; then Fortune smiled on the freshmen for five points straight. And the victory that at first seemed so near at hand, was won only after much hard work.

An Irishman got in a cable car with a pipe in his mouth and the conductor said: “Don’t you see that sign up there ‘No Smoking allowed?’” He said, “Why don’t you put out the lamps then? How about that sign up there ‘Smoke Virginia Brights.’ It’s enough to make a man bug house.” Then the conductor said, “But you've got your pipe in your mouth.” “Yes, and I’ve got my feet in my boots, but that’s no sign I’m walking.”

Moveland

A colored man was hired as an extra in a picture studio and was told to go into a cage with a lion— “No, Sah!” he objected, “Ah ain't gwine in no cage with no lion, no how.” “But,” said the assistant director, “That lion’s a pet. He was raised on a bottle.” “Yes, Sah, Ah know, Ah was raised on a bottle too. But Ah still eats meat.”

Another notable success of the local station lies in the fact that, several days ago, they “worked,” by direct contact, a remote amateur station in far off New Zealand. They have recently been experimenting with “telephone contacts,” and, just a few days ago, they talked with the operator of station W4HN, amateur station in Columbia, S. C. The members of the club will be glad to send messages, that is, wherever possible and practicable, for students who live in locations that can be reached by such means.

ONE EXPLOSION IS AS BAD AS a Fire or an Earthquake

Explosions rend, wreck homes, retail stores, factories, warehouses, mills, and all classes of property. No building is immune from their threat. We shall be glad to explain how your property may be protected against explosion from within and without your property. It’s safer to have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Co. Insurance Department CHARLOTTE, N. C.

NOW IS THE TIME TO HAVE YOUR ENGRAVED CARDS MADE. SEE ME. Best Quality and Prices Any type of Printing ERNEST H. McCALL 108 Watts Representing STANDARD PRINTING CO. Charlotte, N.C.