MATMEN OFF ON WEST POINT STATE JAUNT

"ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS"

Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 20, 1930 No. 18

Davidson Quintet Faces Very Strong Opposition In Three State Teams
Victories Against These Teams Will Give Wildcats Equal Right to State Championship

TAR HEELS IMPROVED
Cagers Will Then End Season With Wofford on Thursday

This weekend, the Wildcat basketeers will have the opportunity to mend or mar their standing in the “Big Five” race.
Friday night at Raleigh, the N. C. State Red Terrors, last year’s Southern Conference Champs, will be met. On Saturday
at Durham, the Wildcats will meet their only conqueror in “Big Five” circles to date, when they stack up against
the Duke Blue Devils, runners-up in the Conference last year, and this year twice winner over every “Big Five” quint
in the State except the Wildcats. On Monday night, Coach Monk’s charges meet the rejuvenated Tar Heels of Carolina at
Chapel Hill.

Undoubtedly the Duke contest will be the hardest nut to crack. However, each of the other two quintets are of
a high caliber, the Red Terrors and the Tar Heels having split their two-game bill, and the University boys having
been nosed out by only a single point recently by the rampaging Blue Devils. N. C. State has three men
back from their championship team of last year, and around these an unusually strong quint has been formed. This is
the first encounter of the two teams this year, so that no very definite comparison can be made.

On the following night, the Wildcats will be out to reap revenge on their recent conqueror, Duke. All who saw
the Duke five in action against the ’Cats in Charlotte will attest to the prowess of the Blue Devils. However,
if the Wildcats play the same type of ball that they did two weeks ago, and if Lady Luck is
kind, the Devils are very apt to see a black mark go down on their State record sheet.

Resting over Sunday, the Wildcats move over to Chapel Hill for a return engagement with the Tar Heels, Monday night.
According to reports, Carolina has much improved since they lost to the ’Cats early in the season. Last Saturday, they
showed champion class by coming within a point of the Blue Devils, and Coach Monk can expect even more opposition
from that quarter than he got before.

The curtain of the basketball season will be rung down on the 27th when the Wofford cagers will be met
again on the home floor. With this game, the Davidson fans will see the final collegiate appearance of two forwards,
Pritchett, Captain of last year’s quint, and Captain Frontis Johnson, leader of this year’s five.

Scabbard and Blade Frat To Entertain
Interesting Program Planned for Meeting Tonight

Members of the local chapter of Scabbard and Blade military fraternity will entertain the senior R. O. T. C. cadet
officers and the army officers in charge of the unit here in the college at their chapter room on Thursday
night from 8 until 9:30 o’clock. There are thirteen members in the local chapter and thirty-three senior cadet officers. Colonel
Scott will talk about the coming inspection and Captain Blanton will discuss the service of the United States army in
the Hawaiian Islands. Captain Blanton has seen service in the Hawaiian Islands, having come directly from that station to Davidson.

This occasion is expected to be one of the most enjoyable and worthwhile entertainments to be given by Scabbard and
Blade men this year.

Fleagle Again Dean Of Summer Session

Adopting the same plan as that of last year, the trustees of Davidson College have authorized a summer session, beginning
June 9 and ending July 18, 1930. Plans for this session are being conducted by Prof. Fred K. Fleagle. All
the summer courses offered are of college grade and are so recognized by the College, with the exception of certain
courses in the public school arts. Six semester hours represent the maximum credit allowed a college student.

The following courses will be offered in this session: English, Bible 2, Political Science, Mathematics, French or Spanish, Physics, Geography,
Education, and Music. These courses should appeal especially to the following groups: high school graduates who intend to enter college
next fall and have entrance conditions to remove; college students who are deficient in their work, and who wish to
remove this deficiency; college students who wish to advance their college standing by summer work; teachers who wish to raise
the grade of license held; and teachers who are not college graduates and who wish to continue work toward a
degree. Most of these courses are Sophomore, Junior and Senior subjects, with only one or two for Freshmen.

The educational courses should be especially attractive to teachers in the public school system. The course in “Grammar Grade Teaching”
will be taught by Miss Estelle Rawl, Superintendent of Grammar Grades in Charlotte, North Carolina. Miss Minnie Lee Peedin, Primary
Superintendent of Schools in Gastonia, North Carolina will conduct the course in “Primary Grade Teaching.” Professor Fleagle reports that teachers
for other courses have not been selected as yet, but that their selection will take place within the next few
days.

Party Will Replace Sophomore Banquet
New Idea Tried as Sophs Plan Entertainment on Campus

The traditional Sophomore Banquet will follow a different plan this year and take the form of a weekend party on
March 8. The Sophomores will have a number of fair damsels to help them celebrate the glorious occasion, which starts
Saturday afternoon, climaxing in a banquet in the Maxwell-Chambers Building that night, and closing Sunday. Committees are already functioning, preparing
entertainment for the 160 Sophomores and their girls. There will be a number of exciting features to fill the entire
program and to give the visitors the time of their lives. Never before has a Sophomore Class undertaken to have
girls at this annual function and this addition is expected to add enthusiasm, beauty, and enjoyment to an already famous
occasion.

Dean F. F. Bradshaw Talks With Faculty

Dean F. F. Bradshaw of the University of North Carolina last week closed a three-day seminar with the Davidson College
faculty members, during which time the University dean and Davidson professors discussed in detail vocation guidance, and how members of
a college or university faculty can be helpful in assisting the students to choose their life professions. Dean Bradshaw was
invited by a committee of the faculty last fall, and had accepted an invitation to visit Davidson in November. Illness
in his family, however, necessitated a postponement. The object of his seminar was to lend whatever assistance possible to the
Y. M. C. A., which annually conducts a vocational guidance program. The University dean was selected because of his specialized
study and the widespread experience he has enjoyed in this field. During the three days he was here, Dean Bradshaw
met with the Davidson faculty members six different times, and appeared at the chapel exercises.

Honor Roll

According to Mr. F. L. Hengeveldt, Registrar, those who made the Honor Roll, or in other words attained an average
of 95 per cent or over for the first semester are as follows:

Seniors: J. L. Brown, A. T. Edelman, F. W. Johnston, J. B. Knox, E. L. Lafferty, J. R. Marks, E.
E. Marsh, W. G. McGavock, W. B. McGuire, F. D. Miller, J. A. Moore, F. V. Poag, R. H. Reid,
W. A. Sutton, H. W. White.

Juniors: J. B. Black, Jr., D. J. Caldwell, J. R. Caldwell, Lucy Martin Currie, E. K. Emurian, K. M. Jackson,
J. W. McCutchan.

Sophomores: R. P. Enloe, C. W. Harrison, T. W. McLean.

Freshmen: P. F. Brown, Jr., E. O. Guerrant, D. M. McConnell, Susan Moffett.

Wildcats Conquer Elon In Hard Fought Battle
Christians Fail in Last Half Rallies and Lose 44-30

The Davidson Wildcats cleaned up on the Elon Christians last Saturday night by the decisive score of 44 to 30.
Twice the Christian tall boys nearly closed the margin separating them from the Wildcats, but each time their rally fell
just short of the mark, and the lead which Davidson got in the opening moments of play was never relinquished
during the game. Elon presented a team of six footers that threatened plenty of trouble but they could not fathom
the great five-man defense of Younger’s men, and could present no defense to stop Johnston, Pritchett and Co. Kelly, diminutive
guard, seemed strangely out of place with his lofty companions, but he showed he could handle a basketball. His dribbling
and floor work was the mainstay of Elon’s attack.The game was unusually full of fouls. Elon gave Davidson 19 free
throws, and the 'Cats made 14 of them good. The Wildcats only offered eight gift shots, and just half of
these were cashed in. Bill Goodson ran wild to get 13 points and chalk up for himself high scoring honors.
Johnston pressed him closely to get twelve for second honors. Carl Pritchett was so closely guarded that he didn’t get
his share of shots, but his floor work was good. Jim Proctor made good four out of five free throws
offered him.

Davidson (44) Elon (30)
Pritchett (8) Parker (13)
Forward Wolmiein (7)
Caddell (2) Forward
Rollins (6) Center
Goodson (13) Kelly (6)
Guard Proctor (4)
Briggs (1) Guard

Substitutions: Davidson, Moore, Martin, Wilson (1); Elon, Walker, D. Caddell (2). Referee: Faul (Charlotte).

State Champion Wrestlers

At the conclusion of the recent meet with Duke University, it was an undisputed state championship in their classes. Pie
Conway, 155 pounder, and Alex Warren, 175 pounder, have met and defeated the men of their respective classes from N.C.
State, Carolina, and Duke. Wake Forest, the other big five contender, does not participate in intercollegiate wrestling. Congratulations to the
Wildcat matmen.

Glee Club Returns From Virginia Trip

Wednesday morning, February 12, the Davidson Glee Club and Sunnyland Serenaders left for a short tour of Virginia and North
Carolina. The trip included Roanoke and Staunton, Va., Greensboro, and Statesville, N.C. The last engagement was at Statesville on Saturday
night. The entire club was in fine condition and gave creditable performances at all the cities on the schedule. Although
the audiences were never very large, they were responsive and seemed to appreciate the concerts very much. The blackface act,
given by Joe McCall, Murray Christian, and Bruce Sugg, was the bright spot of the program everywhere it was given.
The solos of George Pardington and the music of the orchestra were also hits with the audiences. The trip not
only afforded much pleasure but was also instructive and educational for the Gleemen. The beautiful mountains of Virginia, Natural Bridge,
and other scenic attractions gave ample cause for the admiration of the Davidson men. The Glee Club and orchestra will
take another trip, starting April 11 through South Carolina.

Lingle To Continue Speaking Tour Soon

Davidson President Visits Prominent Carolina Churches

Dr. Walter Lingle has several speaking engagements for the next few weeks throughout North and South Carolina and then will
leave on a trip during which he will visit Davidson Alumni associations all over the country. Doctor Lingle spent the
time from February 2 to February 7 at Bluffton College, Bluffton, Ohio, where he gave two lectures a day. On
Sunday, February 9 he preached at the First Presbyterian in Lynchburg, Va. Last Sunday, February 16, Doctor Lingle spoke at
the Presbyterian Church in High Point. He met with the executive committee of the Trustees of Davidson College in Charlotte
Tuesday and on Wednesday the Board of Trustees met here in Davidson. The Men's Club of the Presbyterian Church at
Hickory has invited Doctor Lingle to speak for them on Friday, the 21st. At this time he will take four
men from Davidson to furnish the music. Rev. J. Hay, class of '10, is pastor of this church. On Sunday,
March 2, Doctor Lingle will speak in the Presbyterian Church at Clover, S.C., of which Rev. W. S. Patterson, class
of '03, is pastor. On March 9, he will go to Thomasville, N.C., to occupy the pulpit in the church
of which Rev. J. K. Fleming, class of '19, is pastor. From Monday, March 10 through Tuesday, March 18, Doctor
Lingle will speak to Alumni Associations largely through the territory of New York and Pennsylvania.

Davidson Freshmen Down Wingate Five

The Davidson Wildkittens broke their long losing streak of four games by defeating the Wingate five in Wingate, Friday night,
by the overwhelming score of 45-19. To win this game the Little 'Cats played up to their usual standard. The
Wildkittens completely ran away from Wingate in the first half, the score at the end of this period being Davidson
Freshmen 24, Wingate 4. The Wildkittens played an exceptionally good game and clearly deserved to beat Wingate. Their shooting and
passing were very accurate and their dribbling was down to a fine point. There were no individual stars for the
Wildkittens; they all played a brilliant game. Their scoring attack was led by Pierce and Rogers with sixteen points each,
and Manson, who collected eight points. There were no stars for Wingate, but the whole team played well against a
much better and faster team. Their high point man was Gaddy, center, who had six points to his credit; he
was closely followed by Williams, right forward, who had five points.

(Continued on Page 6)

Annual Junior Speaking Program To Take Place On March 14th and 15th

University of South Carolina Co-Ed Follies Will Take Prominent Part in Entertainment

TO INCLUDE MINSTREL

Cabaret Supper will Be Held Immediately Preceding Minstrel

March 14 and 15 have been set as the dates for Junior Speaking. Plans for making it the best in
the history of the college are being rapidly pushed to completion by those in charge. The program for this year
is to be an unusually fine one. Among the outstanding numbers will be a big social function to be held
in Charlotte, Friday night, March 14, which will constitute the opening event. A detailed announcement of the program for the
evening will be made at a later date. Other numbers will be a picture show or football game here Saturday
afternoon, and a Cabaret supper in the evening from six to eight fifteen o'clock which will be followed by a
minstrel. Everyone who has any part in the work for this weekend is doing his best to make it a
success in every way. Those in charge of the various parts of the program are: Friday night's events, C. H.
Goodykoontz; Cabaret Supper, J. S. Meacham; Advertising, J. B. Black; Minstrel, R. M. King, J. D. McCall, H. S. Covington,
and W. W. Fraley. In an endeavor to make this minstrel the best yet, lots of outside talent will be
used. The South Carolina Co-Ed Follies will be here through the entire weekend to take part in the minstrel and
other numbers on the program. This is well known as one of the best school organizations in the Carolinas and
has shown in a number of cities including Charlotte, where a three-day stand was made at the Carolina Theatre. This
performance will be remembered as an exceptionally fine one by many of the students who were here at the time
and will be heartily endorsed by them. It is the earnest hope of those in charge that the entire student
body will cooperate with the Junior Class by asking girls up. Junior Speaking is one of the really big events
of the school year and with the program that has been arranged proper cooperation on the part of the students
should make it the biggest. The committee is doing its best to fill every minute of the time with something
worthwhile. In an interview with the Davidsonian a member of the committee made the following statement for the student body:
“It is your own fault if you do not have a girl up and enjoy this event with us. Don't
put off asking that girl—ask her now.”

J.W. McConnell Will Represent Medicos

College Physician Honored by Governor of North Carolina

Dr. John W. MacConnell, secretary-treasurer of the State Board of Medical Examiners and physician of Davidson College, has been appointed
by Governor Gardner to represent the medical profession of North Carolina at the annual congress of medical education, medical licensure
and hospitals, which meets in Chicago on February 17. This particular congress will concern itself with the study of the
administration and enforcement of medical practice laws. This will be the third conference which Doctor MacConnell has attended as a
representative of North Carolina, and at the approaching sessions he will discuss a paper relative to uniform requirements for licensure
in the entire United States. Through his connection with the state medical board of examiners, Doctor MacConnell has been able
to study the question, and will present his paper from first-hand knowledge. Doctor MacConnell is adviser to prospective students of
medicine at Davidson and his attendance at these annual meetings enables him to hold personal conferences with the deans and
presidents of various universities.

(Continued on page 3)
