THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1930

Books We Have Read

Dracula—By Bram Stoker. Doubleday, Page and Company, Garden City, N. Y. Price $1.00.

Since the play was brought from London (where it played four consecutive years) to the American stage, interest in this formerly obscure book and in the subject treated has been greatly augmented. Vampires! We dare say few people have a clear understanding of exactly what the word means. According to superstition prevalent in many ages and countries, vampires are ghosts or spirits of dead persons which issue forth by night and suck the blood of living persons. He may not appear in human form, but can assume the shape of a dog, wolf, bat, or any blood-sucking animal. The victim loses appetite, wastes away, and after a few days expires without any visible disease. The corpse of the destroyer being thus supplied remains pliable and lifelike. When the body of a ghoul is examined in the grave the cheeks are found full, and the white skin appears ruby-red underneath; the mouth is redder than ever, and often one may see on the lips gouts of the victim’s fresh blood. The deep-burning eyes, for such do they appear, seem set in swollen flesh, for the lids and pouches underneath are greatly bloated. It seems as if the whole awful creature is simply gorged with blood.

Such a belief in vampires has existed in various parts of the world for hundreds of years. The belief has been treated by Philostratus and Phlegon of Tralles; has served a literary purpose in Goethe’s “Braut von Korinth,” and the operas of Palma. While seemingly a primitive and savage superstition, it has survived in many forms. It is an established fact that in 1870-71 there were several trials for vampirism in West Prussia and Mecklenburg. During 1730-35 all Europe was filled with reports of these horrible ghouls. Today the superstition continues to exist among the Slavic and other races of the Lower Danube.

Bram Stoker, realizing the existing belief, and general interest in this subject, presents most vividly his novel. It is not a story built by atmosphere as is “The Turning of the Screw” of Henry James, but rather it is a presentation of fearfully definite events portrayed in rapid succession one after the other. A young solicitor, Jonathan Harker, travels into the heart of the Carpathian Mountains of Transylvania to explain to a Count Dracula certain details concerning a recently purchased estate. One has an early premonition of evil, and, on seeing the harrowing experiences Mr. Harker must endure, can easily forgive him when, like Hamlet, he prays for the angels and ministers of grace to defend him. Soon it is that the fiendish deeds of Count Dracula are turned toward London, and one finds the whole human race in grave danger. It is here the attacks and terrible effects of the vampire upon his victim are seen. Slowly, bit by bit, the life of the unfortunate is drained until finally the victim becomes a living dead, becomes an Un-Dead. When he becomes such there comes with the change a curse of immortality; he cannot die, but must go on age after age adding new victims and multiplying the evils of the world.

“We thought her dying whilst she slept, And sleeping when she died.”

Dracula is a superbly constructed novel. Step by step the plot progresses and finally develops into three distinct crises. Mr. Stoker paints many interesting pictures of the peoples and their customs throughout Transylvania. He tells us that there are four distinct nationalities in this principality, namely Saxons, Wallachs, Magyars, and Szekelys. The strangest figures throughout this district were the men, dressed as they were in big cowboy hats, great baggy dirty-white trousers, white linen shirts, and enormous heavy leather belts nearly a foot wide all studded over with brass nails. They wore high boots with the trousers tucked into them, and had long black hair and heavy black mustaches. Picturesque but not prepossessing!

The characters, from the grave and determined Dr. Van Helsing to the delicate but wondrously pretty Lucy Westenra, are all carefully and vividly pictured to the reader. In fact, throughout the story, one is kept in complete accordance with their every whim and thought.

A. R. Jackson.

College Dramatists Present ‘Octoroon’

McCutchan is Author—John Z. Preston Takes Lead

Thursday night the Dramatic Club presented a one-act play, “Octoroon,” in the auditorium of Chambers building. The play was written by J. W. McCutchan of the Junior Class. It opened with three negroes, Dabney, Rufus and Queen Esther, and one white man, Jeb Williams in the single room of a log cabin. Jeb, who was evidently overseer of the farm, was calling the others down for not doing the work they were supposed to have done. This made the negroes angry and they told him that he was not even as good as they were, because he “had just enough white blood to make him mean, and just enough black blood to make him black.” He was infuriated and drove them out.

As soon as they had left, the joint owners of the farm, Ted Laxton and Harvey Peterson, came in and discovered just how much things had been neglected, also that Jeb had tried to put himself above the others and had refused to work with them. Ted got angry and said some very harsh things to Jeb. Harvey Peterson made a list of the things Jeb was to do and they left. After they had gone Jeb...called Indies negroes back but only one came, an Esther. When Jeb told him that all of them would work together he was informed that they did not choose to work with a half-breed. The play ended with Jeb alone in the room, cursing his unknown father and wishing that he were either all white or all black. Jeb Williams was played by John Z.

Dr. Martin Working For Ministers’ Fund

Dr. W. J. Martin, former president of Davidson, has spent the last few months working for the Ministers’ Annuity Fund of the Southern Presbyterian Church. He is under the direction of Dr. Henry Sweets, head of the Committee for the collection of the fund. The Ministers’ Annuity Fund is a fund which is being raised to aid in the support of retired Presbyterian ministers. For the last month, Dr. Martin and his family have been located in Orlando, Fla. Here he is going to spend the remainder of the winter speaking and working for the relief fund.

A reformer said to himself: “Now that we have almost got prohibition, why not start in on tobacco?” So to the first man he met he said: “Old man, you smoke a great deal.” The old man replied, “I do smoke a great deal.” “Do you mind telling me how many you smoke a day?” “No, I smoke about ten cigars a day.” “How much do they cost you?” “Twenty cents apiece.” “My, that is $2 a day! That is an awful lot of money. How long have you been smoking?” “Thirty years.” “Two dollars a day for thirty years. That's a lot of money.” He turned around and said, “Do you see that office building on the corner?”

Preston; Ted Laxton by Harry Moffett; Harvey Peterson by Billy Flynn; Queen Esther by John Brown; Dabney by Henry McFadyen; and Rufus by Charlie Moore.

Medical Missionary Talks To Students

Dr. R. M. Wilson, of Soon Chun, Korea, addressed an audience Monday evening in New Chambers on the topic of Christian progress in Korea, the need of more interest in those fields and especially the support of the work now going on there. For twenty-two years a medical missionary in the Far East, Doctor Wilson has had much experience especially in the treatment of leprous cases. The difficulties under which the missionary labors were briefly placed before the hearers and an interesting contrast of past and present conditions was made. At Soon Chun it is reported that there are approximately 1300 cases of leprosy and at the three southern Korea colonies or hospitals, under the supervision of the Presbyterian Church, there are some 1900. A very interesting group of slides was shown illustrating various sides of Korean life and custom. The pictures were practically all in color and many were very beautiful. Korea, according to Doctor Wilson, has some 20,000,000 inhabitants. In the particular section under our church's care there are some three and one-half million people. We should all make an effort to carry on this work, especially if we are called to do our part to carry Christ’s word into the needed places, Doctor Wilson said in closing.

“Yes, and if you had never smoked in your life, you might have owned that building.” The smoker looked at the questioner and said, “Do you smoke?” “No, I have never touched tobacco in any form in my life.” “Do you own that building?” “No.” “Well, I do.”

Lingle Makes Talk To Clover Audience

Sunday, March 2, Dr. Walter L. Lingle visited the Presbyterian Church at Clover, S. C., and spoke to the congregation there on the subject of “Religious Education.” This church is very closely connected with Davidson College in several respects. The pastor, Rev. W. S. Patterson, is a Davidson graduate, member of the Class of '03, and his wife, who before her marriage was Miss Rosa Whithers, is a native of the town of Davidson, having spent her early years here. Clover is also the home town of Mr. F. L. Jackson, Treasurer of the College. Mr. Jackson has a brother who is an elder in the church there at the present time. The church is a member of the Bethel Presbytery which joined Concord Presbytery in North Carolina in 1837 to help build Davidson College. Doctor Lingle was greatly impressed by the large number of young people and children present in the congregation. He stated that they made up a larger percentage than he has seen in any church for many days. Doctor Lingle was pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Rock Hill, S. C., which is in the same county as Clover, for five years, so he met a large number of his old York County friends while there.

A teacher who was giving the children written exercises wrote out this “Wanted” advertisement: “Wanted—A Milliner. Apply by letter to Miss Smith, 10 Blank St.” The children had to make application for the position in writing. One youngster wrote: “Dear Miss Smith: I saw you want a milliner. I hate to trim hats. Can’t you get somebody else? Please let me know at once.”—Ex.

...on the track

"A BIRD IN THE HAND is worth two in the bush.” Good taste—what smoker would trade it away for any number of cigarette claims? No Chesterfield smoker would. For its mild fragrance, its deeply satisfying character—in short, its taste—has always been the one thing smokers wanted: “TASTE above everything.”

© 1929, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

MILD ... and yet THEY SATISFY

FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobaccos, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED