EVERYBODY GET READY FOR CAROLINA SATURDAY AFTERNOON

The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

DR. KIRK ANNOUNCES INTENTION TO VISIT DAVIDSON

Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 13, 1930 No. 9

Tarheels Meet Strong Wildcat Team Saturday In Annual Grid Classic

Carolina Brings Fast, High-Scoring Team to Richardson Field in Annual Engagement

TAR HEELS ARE FAVORED

Big Crowd is Expected to Witness Contest Between Old Foes

Those fighting Wildcats are out to stave off the invasion of a mighty Tar Heel squad Saturday afternoon on Richardson
Field, as Coach Chuck Collins again brings his machine to Davidson to defend his state championship. Many have been the
queries as to whether Monk Younger’s eleven will be successful in turning the Tar Heels back in defeat on Saturday.
Not since Davidson's famous team of 1926 has such a deed been accomplished. Unless the Wildcats can cash in on
their unusual wealth of material this time, it will probably be quite a while before such an opportunity will present
itself again. Younger is able to put one eleven on the field that will almost equal any one eleven that
Collins can muster, but the latter’s wealth of reserve material is far superior. In a comparison of man-to-man power, Davidson
probably has the slight edge in the wing department, with the tackles on a par with each other, but Carolina’s
guards are mighty strong, due to named Fysal. Their pivot position is due to be superior to the Wildcats’, but
it will be a merry fight between Lipscombe and Gardner, if he is able to play. One eminent sports writer
has said that Carolina and Davidson have about equal backfields, taking only four men at a time out of Carolina’s
“hundred” backs. A comparison of team scores will give some idea as to how the two teams stack up. The
Tar Heels have amassed a total of 86 points to their opponents’ 97, while Davidson has been running up 109
points to their opponents’ 38 over weaker teams.

(Continued on page 5)

Johnston Speaks on “Forming Decisions”

Loyal Davidson Alumnus Leads Service, Sunday, November 9

“Make your own decisions,” was the advice that Mr. Joe Johnston gave to those present at a most interesting vesper
service last Sunday. The ability to decide for oneself, and to decide correctly, is a long step towards the acme
of human quality. He chose as his text these words, “Daniel purposed.” Mr. Johnston, an old Davidson man and still
a most loyal supporter, is the head of Barium Springs Orphanage, and the great work that he is doing there
is apt tribute to his ability. Much of Daniel’s success can be traced back to the fact that he was
able to make his own decisions. However, Barak was forced to make his wife decide for him, and his weak-kneed
indecisiveness led to his downfall. It is much easier to follow the crowd and to leave all hard questions for
someone else to decide, Mr. Johnston reminded, but the results cannot be compared. A habit is very easily formed out
of not deciding for oneself, merely drifting with the crowd. Often we exhibit a tendency to blame others for faults
of our own. In the very beginning of life we have an exhibition of this fact that Adam blamed Eve
for his sin. People of this day are still prone to blame personal faults and sins on others. David is
a fine example of a man who could make up his own mind, Mr. Johnston said, because when he was
presented with the opportunity of fighting with Goliath, he made up his mind immediately, not pondering and delaying it a
long time as did Saul. Jezebel is another good example of the type that can make up their minds with
no outside help. Every man must decide for himself the following question: Whether it is safer to decide for himself
after asking God’s advice, or to follow the crowd.

Masquers Present “The Perfect Alibi”

On Saturday night at 7 o'clock, the Red and Black Masquers will present their first play of the year, “The
Perfect Alibi,” a detective story in three acts. Supper will be at 6 o'clock instead of 6:30 so that the
performance, which is calculated to last something over two hours, can begin exactly at 7. The general admission to this
performance is 50 cents, but student tickets are available at 25 cents. Seats in the reserved section are obtainable in
advance. The leading parts in the drama are taken by Stewart Meacham and Letitia Curry, both veteran performers at Davidson.
Ed Hancock assumes the role of butler, while Horace Ervin and Al Tong are weekend guests under suspect at the
house of Arthur Ludgrove, whose part is taken by Jim Black. Major Fothergill and Jane West, a flapperish female type,
are handled by Steve White and Carolena Moffett, respectively. Johnny Brown is the unknowing and unsuspecting constable, whose son, “Sergeant”
(Bill McKnight), is an efficient officer of Scotland Yard. The direction and stage-setting are by Prof. E. J. Erwin. Johnny
Marvin will be make-up artist. The play has been rehearsed for a month and a half with temporary scenery this
time, negotiations are being made with Salem and Converse colleges. These will be early in December.

Dr. Kirk to Deliver Five Lectures Here

Series of Lectures to be Fifth Created by Otts Fund

Dr. Harris E. Kirk, pastor of the Franklin Street Presbyterian Church in Baltimore, Md., and former Moderator of the Southern
Presbyterian General Assembly, has announced the subjects of his series of five lectures to be delivered at Davidson next month.
The general theme of his talks will be “Man’s Place in Nature and Beyond.” The particular subjects that he will
discuss on five successive days are: “The Insignificance of Man’s Earthly Home,” “The Significance of Man’s Personality,” “The Spiritual Trends
of Science,” “Jesus Christ, the Historical Manifestation of God,” and “The Christian Conception of Man’s Place in Nature and Beyond.”
Dr. Kirk will appear at Davidson through a foundation fund established in 1893 by the late Dr. J. M. P.
Otts. Since the creation of the sum, four series of lectures have been delivered by such notables as the late
Dr. Otts himself, on “Unsettled Questions”; the late Dr. R. L. Dabney, on “Christ Our Penal Substitute”; by the late
Dr. B. Shearer, on “Modern Mysticism,” and by the late Dr. Walter W. Moore, on “The Permanence of the Christian
Ideal.”

Altoona, Pa—(IP)—During the past summer, the Altoona branch of the Pennsylvania State College here opened an unusual trial summer school
for prospective Freshmen. Here, for six weeks, Freshmen tried their wits at college subjects. Those who succeeded gained advanced college
credits. Many of those who failed saw their unfitness for college work, and went to work. It is expected that
the number of men and women who will drop out of the college at the end of the first semester
will be reduced greatly as a result.

Wellesley, Mass.—(IP)—That the American girl is allowed far less liberty in college than the German girl, contrary to the general
impression, is the opinion of Miss Ann de Papp, of Germany, an exchange student at Wellesley College here. American girls
work harder at their studies through the semester, Miss de Papp said, but German girls study harder for the final
examinations, which are very difficult in Germany.

Davidson Center

GUDOY DARONER-CENTE

Star Wildcat pivot-man, who was injured in the Wofford game, and will be out for the rest of the season

Fall R.O.T.C. Scabbard and Blade Bids Issued

Battalion Parade Given in Honor of Newly Chosen Men

The local chapter of the Scabbard and Blade, national R. O. T. C. officers’ fraternity, issued its annual fall invitations
at the drill period last Monday. Eight men were recipients of bids, one of these being one of the army
officers stationed here by the government. The men receiving bids were as follows: Captain F. M. Cochran, D.O.L., Cadet Captains
H. S. Covington, R. D. Russell, and J. F. Preston; Cadet Lieutenants A. R. Jackson, C. A. Sisson, J. L.
Brock, Jr., and J. W. McCutchan. These men will be initiated at a later date.date. When the bids had been
issued, the battalion gave a parade in honor of the newly chosen men. All of the men chosen were of
the Senior class, which is the custom of the fall invitations. Captain Cochran is the member of the army that
was issued a bid and is spending his first year at Davidson as an associate professor of military science. With
regard to the cadet officers that (Continued on page 5)

“Yowl!” to Appear Next Week

“As Ripley so aptly puts it, ‘believe it or not,’ but the eighth wonder of the modern world which is
known in the common vernacular as ‘The Yowl’ will make its debut on the Davidson campus next week. The staff
of the magazine reports that the motto of this first effort is: ‘Blessed is he who expecteth nothing, for he
shall not be disappointed.’ However, if it is able to bring a little ray of sunshine into our otherwise drab
existences, then all has not been done in vain.

“As has probably already been guessed, the keynote of ‘The Yowl!’ will be good, clean, wholesome fun. A fairly constructive
form of humor has been attempted in the form of humorous plays, poems, short stories, etc. A goodly number of
cartoons and short jokes are also included.” —Editor of “The Yowl.”

Dr. W.L. Lingle Fills Many Engagements

During the past several days, Dr. Walter Lingle, President of Davidson College, has fulfilled many and varied engagements, and during
the coming several weeks he has a very extensive program of speaking. On Tuesday night, November 11, Dr. Lingle spoke
over radio station WBT in Charlotte for fifteen minutes on the subject, “How Schools Promote Patriotism and World Understanding.” His
appearance was a part of the celebration of the ‘American Education Week.’ On last Sunday, Dr. Lingle preached in the
pulpit of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. During the next two weeks, Dr. Lingle will speak at the
inauguration of Dr. G. L. Humphreys as President of High Point College, and will speak twice in the First Presbyterian
Church of Spartanburg, S. C., on November 16. Later on in the month, on November 30, Dr. Lingle goes to
Princeton, N. J., to speak in the Princeton Seminary chapel that morning, and to preach in the First Presbyterian Church
of Princeton in the evening. Interspersed with these appearances are a number of minor ones throughout the state. Early in
December, the Davidson President is scheduled to be in Washington, D. C., for a meeting of the executive committee of
the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America, of which he is chairman.

Union Seminary Sends Deputation

Four Men Including Two or Three Davidson Alumni

Coming Sunday, Davidson, in all probability, will again have the pleasure of having a deputation from Union Theological Seminary from
Richmond, Va. As The Davidsonian goes to press, it is not known definitely whether they will come this Sunday, but
it is known that they will come some time in November. Last year, four men from Union came down and
there were two Davidson alumni of this quartette, Jim Appleby and “Shorty” Wilson. This year there are a number of
Davidson men at Union and probably two or three of them will be members of the deputation. This deputation will
conduct four services: the Sunday morning service at church, since Dr. Moffett has graciously given them his pulpit for that
day; the “Y” vesper service at 6 o'clock Sunday evening; the Sunday night service at the church; and the night
service over at the mill chapel. The Davidson students and the “Y” are very fortunate in procuring them for this
year. The deputation is selected by the president of the Seminary, Dr. Ben R. Lacy, Jr., who was the speaker
at the fall services, and whose sermons were greatly enjoyed by the students.

In the event that this deputation comes down, they will more than likely come Saturday so they can witness the
Davidson-University of North Carolina battle on Richardson Field, and they will probably stay until some time Sunday night, and be
back at the Seminary Monday morning.

Philadelphia, Pa—(AP)—A new course of instruction to instill “social poise” in students of Temple University is to be inaugurated, according
to Miss Gertrude D. Peabody, dean of women. Declaring that the poise, which enables both men and women to feel
socially at ease, is as important as any other branch of learning, Miss Peabody has promised to arrange activities which
will assist students in gaining ease of manner. “Many girls,” she said, “complete their college courses without learning what the
college life is all about.” She has outlined a definite program aimed to place girls in their proper vocations and
to familiarize them with the various phases of college activities.

Present Day Education Subject of Chapel Talk By Prominent Classicist

Speaker is Dr. Gordon J. Laing, Dean of Arts and Literature at University of Chicago

URGES SELF-EDUCATION

Calls Attention to Evils of Cheap Magazines and Theatres

Present day education, its faults and needs, and the value of a study of the classics as a component of
the college curriculum, received the attention of the Davidson students and faculty here last Monday during the chapel exercises, when
Dr. J. Gordon Laing, professor of Latin and dean of the Department of Arts and Literature at Chicago University, made
the morning address. By way of introduction, Dr. Laing told how he had come to know several Davidson men who
were taking graduate work at the University of Chicago, and that, seeing their excellent preparation and versatility, he had always
wanted to visit the college where these principles had been instilled into them. As to his address, he expressed the
hope that the audience was not a typical one, the individuals of which he believed were divisible into two categories:
first, the ones who fall soundly asleep forthwith; and, second, those unfortunates who, being victims of incurable insomnia, must be
content to sit and cast envious glances at their more fortunate fellows.

The Field of Education

“Education, in its fullest sense,” asserted Dr. Laing, “covers the entire period beginning at birth, and terminating with the death
certificate, the last diploma received by man on earth.” As an illustration of the possibilities of life-education, or “self-education,” the
speaker cited the autobiography of Samuel Adams; how during his life Adams found, to his disappointment, that there was no
education at Harvard; his trip to London in quest of learning, and how he returned to teach at Harvard, hoping
through teaching to learn, but again bowing to dis- (Continued on page 5)

Morrow Comes In First In Freshman Cake Race

Record Time is Hung up Over Cross-Country Course

The first cake race ever held for Freshmen at Davidson College was run on last Friday afternoon, November 8, and
was won by Rufus Morrow, who, according to Captain Pritchett, director of physical education at Davidson, set a new college
record. Morrow ran the cross-country race in ten minutes and thirty seconds over a one and seven-tenths miles course. The
race began on the field at the Richardson stadium, continued from there to the fourth tee on the college golf
course, from there to the Concord street road, and then was concluded back up the Concord road to the stadium.
Morrow was followed closely by John Lafferty, who finished second. Lanier Pratt, who finished third, followed up a short distance
behind Lafferty. The other Freshman contestants all completed the race, and the next thirteen who won prizes and places in
the race are as follows: Joe Drake, fourth; Woodside, fifth; Boggs Corbin, sixth; Evans, seventh; Blair, eighth; Haliburton, ninth; Fugate,
tenth; Gilmour, eleventh; Gold, twelfth; Scott, thirteenth; Fitzgerald, fourteenth; and Parker, fifteenth. Incentives to extra effort in the race were
provided in the form of cakes, pies, haircuts, picture shows, and various other remunerations offered by the different industrial and
economic organizations in Davidson. It is intended that the first cake race held this year will set a precedent for
future Freshman classes, and that in the future it will become an annual and looked forward to event in the
yearly routine of the Freshman classes.
