FINAL ISSUE OF THE DAVIDSONIAN FOR 1929-30

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

FINAL UNDERGRADUATE EXAMINATIONS - TOMORROW

Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 22, 1930 No. 30

Bishop Penick Talks on Whether Thomas Was an Honest Skeptic or Not

Large Vesper Audience Shows Deep Interest in Charlotte Bishop’s Talk

DOUBTING IS NOT SIN

Thomas Was Earnest Seeker After the Truth

“Except I shall see in His hands the print of the nails, and put my hands in his side, I will not believe.” With these words as a nucleus, Bishop E. A. Penick, of Charlotte, presented the idea in a very clear and concise manner that Thomas really was not a skeptic. He began by saying that although Thomas is considered by most people to have been a doubter, he was not the only one who doubted, for the other ten disciples also were skeptics. When the eleven heard of Christ’s resurrection they said it was just idle talk, crazy women, or an hallucination. The others did not believe until they had proved it for themselves, but according to Bishop Penick, Thomas had that English type of mind which is anxious to believe, but cannot accept facts as facts until proven to be true. He said we all have that kind of mind to some degree and it is a sign we are thinking if we have honest doubts. The point was brought out that honest doubting is no sin. The human mind is so infinitesimal as compared with God's and we can't be expected to grow to maturity unless we have honest doubts to surmount. He said that Thomas was one of the most loyal of the disciples, which statement can be proved by his own statement made at the time Jesus was considering going to the side of Lazarus. All the other eleven apostles said it would be deliberate suicide, but Thomas said that the only course for the disciples to take was to go with Christ if He wanted to go to Bethany. He was not a scoffer and he wanted to have the truth proved to him, because he was still in the vicinity of Jerusalem a week after Jesus was crucified and he accepted the invitation of the other ten apostles to go to the upper room with them so they might be able to see Christ. Bishop Penick also averred that unbelief is not a sign of intellectual superiority, but that the man who says he believes everything in his creed without reservation probably means that he hasn't used his head much. We have many difficulties and troubles which we ought to meet squarely and then surmount them. When we have grappled with a problem and then conquered it and know the truth, then we have faith which is based on solid rock and is unable to be overthrown. In conclusion, he said that we ought to tolerate skeptics and invite them into our circles in order to help them with their problems. They are just in a period of transition and we ought to help them place their faith on firm ground. He stated that life is just a projection which Christ claims to be true and when we have met all our problems and finally convinced ourselves that Christ is, then we have everlasting life.

Stage Curtains are Donated By Seniors

The gift of the Class of ’30 to Davidson has been donated. This gift is a beautiful cyclorama and valance for the rostrum in the Chambers Auditorium. The cyclorama is gold-colored and adds very much to the appearance of the rostrum. The valance is made of red velvet, with the Davidson College seal in black. It is of the same color and material as the curtain. The gift of the present Senior Class is a continuance of a long-established custom for each graduating class to present something to the college as a memorial to that class. Gifts of past senior classes include the fountain by the Class of '25, the gate posts at the entrance to the college by the Class of ’24, the ticket booth by the Class of '27, and the lights at the front of the Library by the Class of '15. The rostrum curtain is a gift of the Senior Class of '29.

(Continued on page 5)

Student Body Votes For Comic Magazine

Next year there will be a magazine, which will be published four times a year, two of a literary nature and two comic magazines. This was decided on by a vote of the student body taken Wednesday morning, May 14. R. F. Jarrett, retiring editor of the Davidson College magazine known as the Chameleon, brought this up before the student body and it was passed almost unanimously by the students. The editor of the literary side of the magazine will be R. E. Witt. He announced his staff for the coming year to consist of the following men: R. S. Overman, short stories; Norman Raies, essays; J. B. Black, dramatics; the poetry editor will be picked later. Overman, who is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, is very talented in short stories. Norman Raies, who is a member of the Eumenean Literary Society, and assistant editor of the Quips and Cranks, has had a large amount of experience along the line of writing essays. J. B. Black, who will look after the dramatic part and is editor of the Chameleon, is well learned in this line as he is a member of the Dramatic Club. Besides these honors, he is also a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, the Golden Quill, Delta Pi Kappa, Reporters’ Club, Eta Sigma Phi, International Relations Club, Sigma Upsilon, and the Junior Stunt Committee. He was also a managing editor of The Davidsonian, was assistant in English, and has the distinction of making the honor roll. W. G. Ragin, who is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, Gamma Sigma Epsilon honorary fraternity, Delta Pi Kappa, another Davidson honorary fraternity, and Cercle Francais, the French club at Davidson, was both a managing editor and the feature editor of The Davidsonian, and won the Alumni Medal. He was unanimously elected head of the comic side of the Chameleon for next year by the student body on May 14. He announced that he had not appointed his staff but that he would appoint them next year at the beginning of school. The feature of the magazine next year will be the essays. There will be a greater number of essays in the literary side of the Chameleon. Another outstanding feature of the magazine for next year will be the beautiful color scheme that will give the magazine a much better looking appearance. Next year the Freshmen will be allowed to contribute their essays, poems, etc., to the Chameleon. The order in which the magazine will be published is as follows: Literary, comic, literary, and comic.

Armfield Chosen to Lead Baseball Team

Bill Poe Also Chosen to Lead Tennis Team

At a recent meeting of the lettermen, captains and managers of two prominent spring sports were elected. Nab Armfield, versatile catcher, was chosen to lead the Wildcat nine of next year and Marion Hunter was elected manager. The tennis lettermen chose Bill Poe, No. 5 on this year’s team, to captain them next year and J. L. Hall as manager. Armfield was first string catcher on this year’s team, playing a steady game at all times. He was not a flashy player, being rather weak at bat, but was without peer when it came to fielding, as his percentage of .987 in this line will show. He boasted a mark of only .250 in batting, which was due more or less to his injury in the latter part of the season resulting in blood poisoning and causing his absence from the line-up, which was greatly felt by his teammates, for three or four weeks. Armfield is well known on the campus, being a prominent member of the “D” Club and also a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. Marion Hunter, newly-elected manager, is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity. The other managers are Dan LaFar, Freshman manager; Allen Whitehead, John Keller, and Jim Abernathy, Junior managers. Bill Poe, listed as No. 5, played No. 4.

(Continued on page 4)

Commencement Program

PROGRAM

Sunday, June 1

11:15 a. m.—Baccalaureate sermon, Rev. Stuart Nye Hutchison, D.D., pastor of the East Liberty Presbyterian Church, Pittsburgh, Pa.

8:00 p. m.—Annual sermon before the Y. M. C. A., by Rev. J. R. Cunningham, D.D., President-Elect of Louisville Theological Seminary.

Monday, June 2

4:00 p. m.—Y. M. C. A. Reception.

5:00 p. m.—Class Day Exercises.
Class Salutatory.
Presentation of Class Mascot.
Class Oration.
Class Poem.
Class Valedictory.

8:00 p. m.—Literary Society Exercises.
Award of Society Diplomas, Trophies, Medals.

Tuesday, June 3

9:30 a. m.—Meeting of Board of Trustees.

10:00 a. m.—Registration of Guests, alumni office.

11:00 a. m.—Inauguration Exercises.
Invocation by Moderator of General Assembly.
Induction of President-Elect into office.by Dr. Robert A. Dunn, President Board of Trustees. Inaugural address by President Walter L. Lingle. Greetings from State educational institutions of North Carolina, by President Chase, University of North Carolina. Presbyterian colleges, by President Eggleston, Hampden-Sidney. Colleges of other denominations, by President-Emeritus Poteat, Wake Forest. Eastern universities, by Dean Metcalf, University of Virginia. Southeastern universities, by President Douglas, University of South Carolina. Theological seminaries, by President Lacy, Union Theological Seminary. Organizations of the Presbyterian Church, U. S., by Dr. Henry H. Sweets, Louisville, Ky. The alumni, Mr. H. Smith Richardson, New York. Benediction.

12:30 p.m. Annual meeting of General Alumni Luncheon, Alumni Association.

3:30 p.m. Invocation, Dedication Exercises. Rev. A. D. Brownlee, representing Synod of Florida. Presentation of Chambers Building, President-Emeritus William Joseph Martin, LL.D. Acceptance of the building, by Mr. S. Clay Williams, Winston-Salem. Address of dedication, Rev. W. Taliaferro Thompson, D.D., Richmond, Va. Prayer of dedication, by Rev. John S. Foster, D.D., Winston-Salem.

4:00 p.m. Reception by Faculty. Class Reunion Dinners. Dramatic Club Presentation.

Wednesday, June 4

10:00 a.m. Academic Procession Forms.
10:30 a.m. Graduation Exercises.
Address by Salutatorian. Presentation of Class Gift. Response. Award of College Trophies. Address by Valedictorian. Award of Diplomas.

Medals and Publication Board Members Selected

As a result of the recent election for the Publications Board, A. R. Bird, J. W. McCutchen, and W. C. Ragin were re-elected to serve for the year 1930-31. These men, all of the rising Senior Class, were elected from a number of nominees. Bird is next year’s editor of the annual, while McCutchen is editor of The Davidsonian. Ragin is co-editor of the college magazine. The two faculty representatives for the board have not been appointed as yet.

(Continued on page six)

Final Vespers to be Led By Cunningham

Announcement was made here recently by the Davidson College Y. M. C. A. that Rev. J. R. Cunningham, D.D., president-elect of Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary, had accepted an invitation to deliver the annual sermon before the Y. M. C. A. at the final meeting of this body on Sunday night, June 1, of the 94th commencement of Davidson. Dr. Cunningham has been pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Bristol, Tenn., for the past two years, and prior to that time was located at the First Presbyterian Church, Gainesville, Fla., and at Grenada, Miss. He is a former chaplain in the United States Army, serving two years during the World War. His education was obtained at Westminster College, Fulton, Mo., where he graduated in 1914. His theological work was done at Louisville Seminary, from which institution he was graduated in 1917. The Y. M. C. A. speaker has the reputation of being the youngest president ever to occupy the chair at Louisville Seminary, and will succeed Rev. John M. Vander Meulen, D.D., LL.D. The doctor of divinity degree was conferred upon this renowned pastor by his Alma Mater in 1926. During his career, he has held important offices in the church. Much of his work at Gainesville, Fla. was with students at the university located there.

Revisions Made in Freshman Rules

“D” on Caps to be Replaced by ‘34

At the last meeting of the Court of Control Monday night, May 19, the rules and regulations underwent several alterations. Some of the Freshman rules were discontinued this year for experimental purposes, but most of them are to be replaced and enforced all the more strictly, according to the members of the court. Instead of the “D,” with which this year’s Freshman class is so familiar, the caps next year will be adorned with a “34” emblazoned on the front, loudly proclaiming the identity of the wearer. 

“Regulation No. 1,” as was the case this year, will be respect for upperclassmen rather than No. 8, due either to the rising estimation of the value of this rule or the insufficient observance of it this year. There will probably be different opinions about this matter on the campus. It will probably be of special interest to upperclassmen to know that matches will be carried by the Freshmen on the campus next year. This rule was omitted this year, but has been decided indispensable by the Court of Control, and will be resumed next year. It was one of the regulations last year. Among other decisions of the court are: That the rule requiring Freshmen to attend all athletic contests, with megaphones, shall be enforced more strictly, and that they remain in their seats in chapel until all upperclassmen have left the room, the latter rule being resumed after a year's experimental discontinuance. It is the general opinion of the members of the court that the rules should be enforced to a greater extent than they have been in the past.

Banquet Surplus to Start Student Fund

A surplus of fifty-five dollars was left over after the expenses of the student body banquet were paid. This sum has been placed on deposit in care of the college and is to be known as the student body fund. It is to be used to meet student body expenses, such as future banquets, stationery, expenses of delegates to conventions, and other miscellaneous items. This fund will fill a long-felt need, for heretofore there has been no provision for meeting such expenses.

Final Details Complete In Program for Annual College Commencement

Prominent Educators and Leaders Throughout America to Speak at Graduation Exercises

BIG CROWD EXPECTED

Dr. Walter Lingle to be Installed

With the 94th commencement of Davidson College only two weeks off, final plans for this occasion have been completed, and detailed announcements were made this week concerning the inauguration of Dr. Walter L. Lingle as the eleventh President of Davidson College, and for the dedication of Chambers Building, a $600,000 structure used for administration and classroom purposes. Prominent educators and leaders throughout America have been invited to these occasions, and a new roster of speakers has been chosen and the accepted invitations portend a historical commencement for the Presbyterian institution. It has been previously announced that Dr. Stuart Nye Hutchison, pastor of the East Liberty Presbyterian Church, of Pittsburgh, Pa., would deliver the baccalaureate sermon, June 1, and Dr. J. R. Cunningham, president-elect of Louisville Theological Seminary, will preach the final sermon before the Y. M. C. A. Dr. R. A. Dunn, of Charlotte, president of the Davidson Board of Trustees, will preside at both the inaugural and dedication exercises, and he will be the one to administer the oath of office and formally induct Dr. Lingle into the presidency. The new president's inaugural address will follow.

Greetings will be brought by Dr. H. W. Chase, retiring president of the University of North Carolina and president-elect of the University of Illinois, representing the state educational institutions of North Carolina. Presbyterian colleges will send greetings through Dr. J. D. Eggleston, president of Hampden-Sidney. Colleges of other denominations will be represented by Dr. W. L. Poteat, president-emeritus of Wake Forest College. Eastern universities will send greetings through Dr. J. C. Metcalf, dean of the University of Virginia, and the Southern division will have as their speaker, Dr. J. M. Douglas, president of the University of South Carolina. Dr. B. R. Lacy, president of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., will represent the theological seminaries, and other organizations of the Presbyterian Church will send greetings through Dr. Henry H. Sweets, of Louisville, Ky. Davidson alumni will have as their spokesman H. Smith Richardson, president of the Davidson College Alumni Association, New York.

These exercises are scheduled for the morning of Tuesday, June 3, and after the annual alumni luncheon and a meeting of the General Alumni Association, the dedication of Chambers Building will take place. With Dr. Dunn again presiding, the exercises will be opened by Dr. E. D. Brownlee, of Sanford, Fla., representing the Synod of Florida, who will offer the invocation. Dr. W. J. Martin, president-emeritus of Davidson and now president of the Presbyterian General Assembly's Training School, and chairman of the building committee under whose guidance the building was constructed, will make the presentation of the building to the college. S. Clay Williams, of Winston-Salem, chairman of the finance committee, will formally accept it on behalf of Davidson. The address of dedication will be made by Dr. W. Taliaferro Thompson, faculty member of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. These exercises will be followed by a reception, at which the Davidson faculty will be hosts.

Monday of commencement will be devoted largely to the Senior Class exercises and is the time when the majority of the alumni will return for reunions and visits to the college. The literary societies exercises occur in the evening. Preceding the class day exercises, that afternoon the Seniors and friends will be entertained at a reception by the class mascot, little Miss Betty Pritchett, daughter of Professor and Mrs. Norton G. Pritchett.

Davidson’s 94th commencement will con-
(Continued on Page 5)