THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 18, 1930

1922 Davidson Graduate Now Dean of Law School

Dr. Malcolm Ray Doubles is Head of T. C. Williams Law School at Richmond, Va.

ONE OF YOUNGEST

Since His Graduation, Dr. Doubles Has Had a Busy Career

Dr. Malcolm Ray Doubles, a 1922 graduate of Davidson, is one of the youngest law deans in America. This distinct honor came to him last June, when he was appointed dean of the T. C. Williams Law School of the University of Richmond, following his association with that institution for a number of years, as a student, a member of the faculty, and as law librarian. Dr. Doubles is only 30 years old. He obtained his bachelor of science degree from Davidson, and his work in the sciences was so excellent that he was offered a fellowship at Johns Hopkins University.

However, he decided to enter the insurance business with his father in Richmond, and began studying law at the University at night. As a freshman, he was vice-president of the law school, and made Delta Theta Phi, a law fraternity. During 1923 and 1924, he continued his law studies and at the same time taught sciences at the University. In December of 1924, he passed the Virginia state bar examination and became associated with the law firm of Carter, Crawford & Redd, of Richmond, in June, 1925. During his senior year, he was president of the law student body, and at the conclusion of his course was awarded a medal for the best all-around graduate of the University of Richmond.

Dr. Doubles continued his law practice in 1926, and accepted a part-time law instructorship and law librarian position. The following year, however, he gave up his practice and devoted full time to his University connections. During the summers of 1928 and 1929, he did graduate work at the University of Chicago, and from that institution was awarded the degree of doctor of jurisprudence in August, 1929. He continued his work at the Richmond institution, with the result that his appointment came a year later. He began his duties immediately and has since published a new catalogue. The T. C. Williams Law School has a faculty of nine members. This institution is 60 years old.

Statistics Prepared on S. Carolina Men

During the past summer, the alumni secretary had occasion to prepare a list of Davidson alumni who had attended this institution, but who now reside outside of the state. This list was compiled from the class of 1870 through the class of 1926, and it was found that 215 of them are now living outside of their native state. These 215 men have scattered to 25 states of the Union, eight foreign countries, and the District of Columbia. North Carolina has received the greatest immigration of South Carolina men who attended Davidson, leading with 75. It is interesting that New York claimed the second largest number, 19, while Virginia was next with 18; Georgia had 16; Florida, 12; and the District of Columbia, 10.

Of the 215 men, 89 are in business; 49 are ministers; 32 are in the medical profession; 15 are connected with educational institutions in a teaching capacity; ten are high school or preparatory school teachers; eight are lawyers; while the remainder included four newspaper men, two college presidents, two Y. M. C. A. secretaries, one army officer, one consul, and one big league baseball player.

Capt. Fred L. Black, ’04, has been transferred from Washington, D.C., to Quartermasters Post, Presidio of San Francisco, California.

Dr. Malcolm Ray Doubles. Above photograph used by courtesy of Richmond (Va) Times-Dispatch.

The Davidson Alumni at Harvard Make Good

Harvard Officials Say That Davidson Students Are Above the Average

Davidson College two-year alumni concluding the course at the Harvard Business School during the past several years have made records that have brought forth unusually favorable comment from officials of that branch of Harvard University. In a letter received this summer by Prof. J. P. Williams, '16, of the Department of Business Administration, a general statement was made by one of the officers that “the majority of the Davidson College graduates have made records considerably above the average.”

Notably outstanding among the recent graduates was Boyce F. Martin, ’28, of Atlanta, Ga., who, along with a dozen others out of a class of 300 finishing last June, received the degree of “master in business administration with high distinction.” Mr. Martin’s work during his first year was of such an unusually high grade that during his second one he was able to study under the tutorial form of instruction, corresponding to the honors course at Davidson. J. S. McAlister, ’28, of Greensboro, who also finished at Harvard in June, received either a distinction or high pass on all of his subjects. W. S. Woods, ’27, now of Atlanta, Ga., and L. H. Leathers, '27, of Spartanburg, S. C., graduated from Harvard in 1929 with the degree of business administration “with distinction.”

Seven Davidson graduates finished in the 1930 class of the Harvard Business School, and all of them have obtained positions. They are 1928 alumni of Davidson. Mr. Martin is in the chief statistician’s division of the American Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company; Mr. McAlister is in the credit department of the Bank of New York and Trust Company; Rod McRae is in the trust department of the same concern; B. G. Alderman is with D. W. Alderman & Sons, of Alcolu, S. C.; J. R. McCravey with the Federal Reserve Bank branch in Atlanta, Ga.; R. M. Stephenson with the Western Electric Company’s branch in Atlanta; and W. O. Nisbet, Jr., with the R. S. Dickson and Company, of Charlotte.

Many favorable reports have been coming back to Davidson regarding the exploits of other Davidson alumni connected with the law and medical departments of Harvard University. Several of the 1930 class of Davidson are enrolling at Harvard this fall.

Prof. F. M. Mack, ’10, has been re-elected superintendent of the Fort Mill, S.C., High School for the tenth consecutive year.

Alumni Personals

H. Hunter Smith, '26, and Thomas C. Watkins, '28, are both connected with the faculty of Washington and Lee.

Rev. W. L. Baker, '26, has accepted a call to the Union Presbyterian Church, in Gaston County. He has been at Farmville, Virginia.

Shepard K. Nash, ’15, of Sumter, S.C., has been re-elected to the State Senate of South Carolina.

Glenn A. Price, ’29, has been transferred by the American Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company to Princeton, Ky.

M. O'Neal, ’28, “Y” secretary at Davidson for the past two years, will study at Columbia University, New York, for the next nine months.

Dr. S. W. Moore, '26, who finished at the Harvard Medical School in June, is doing his intern work at the Cleveland City Hospital, Cleveland, Ohio.

Watt McCain, '24, has been transferred from Chicago, Ill., to Tulsa, Okla. He is with Mathieson Alkali Works.

After spending several months studying in Cincinnati, Ohio, A. S. Jones, Jr., '26, has returned to Salisbury and is in business with his father.

J. Dougald Coxe, ’23, is operating The McDowell News at Marion. He was formerly editor of The Mount Holly News, and The Salisbury Post.

Dr. George Howard. Above photograph used by courtesy of The Salisbury Post.

Dr. George Howard Now Aligned With University

Resigns as Rowan County Superintendent After Five Years’ Work

Dr. George Howard, 1912 graduate of Davidson, has resigned as Rowan County Superintendent after five years of work. Prior to that, he was assistant...associated with papers at Davidson College, and for the past five years Edenton, Hertford, and Red Springs. Mitchell, 17, superintendent of the Rowan County Schools, resigned from that position about one month ago, and has become connected with the extension department of the University of North Carolina. He will have the rank of professor of education. Definite assignment of Dr. Howard has not been made by the University, but he will reside at Tarboro. Since his resignation as head of the Rowan County Schools, numerous resolutions of regret have been passed by organizations in Salisbury. Lengthy ones appeared in last Saturday's issue of The Salisbury Post from the Kiwanis Club, and the Board of Education. Dr. Howard has been a student of education and its problems ever since his graduation from Davidson. He has taught at N.C.C.W., and other places in the state, and obtained his doctor of philosophy degree.

Four Davidson College alumni have begun duties with South Carolina educational institutions, according to acceptances of offers made to them during the past several months. Two of them are connected with the University of South Carolina, and the other two are with Presbyterian College. Dr. J. Edward Mills, ’96, formerly of Washington, D.C., and Edgewood, Md., an outstanding research chemist of America, is on the faculty of the South Carolina University in the Department of Chemistry. Prof. Paul M. Patterson, ‘25, formerly a member of the Davidson teaching staff and for the past two years a student at Johns Hopkins University, is heading the Department of Botany at the same institution. Dr. J. H. Davis, Jr., '25, for several years a professor at Davidson, is now on the faculty of Presbyterian College as head of the Biology Department. Rev. D. McL. McDonald, ’12, formerly of Columbia, S.C., has begun his duties as executive secretary of Presbyterian College.

Both of these institutions are headed by Davidson alumni. Dr. D. M. Douglas, ’95, is president of the South Carolina University, and Dr. John McSween, '08, heads Presbyterian College. Other Davidson alumni are connected with South Carolina educational institutions. Dr. Reid Smith, ’01, is dean of the University’s Graduate School; Dr. H. R. Murchison, '93, is chaplain at that institution, and Prof. J. M. McFadden, ’22, is in the Law Department. Dr. F. D. Jones, '96, is a professor at Presbyterian College, and Prof. J. A. Tillinghast, ’91, is with Converse College, at Spartanburg.

Dr. Howard has been preaching at Tarrant City, Columbia for years. In 1925, he went to Salisbury, and according to The Salisbury Post, “he came at a time when the Board of Education was beginning a program of intensive expansion and development. During his administration, the number of one-teacher and two-teacher schools was reduced effectively.” The Post continued to name Dr. Howard's accomplishments and paid high tribute to his labors. The work of this educator attracted national attention, and only this summer he attended a conference in Wisconsin, where he lectured for ten days. He taught in the summer school of the University of North Carolina, and has also taught at Catawba College, and directed a summer school there. Dr. Howard has also been connected with the State Board of Education for some time.

He was named health officer of Wayne County, with headquarters at Goldsboro, over 14 other applicants. Rev. Donald H. Stewart, '27, who has been preaching at Tarrant City, Ala., since his graduation from Louisville Seminary, will be studying in Scotland this year, and recently passed through Davidson en route. W. A. Christian, Jr., ’27, who finished at Union Seminary in May, is also studying at the University of Edinburgh, and during the summer months toured Europe.

Championship Football Team of 1910 Re-Unites
Special Invitations Have Been Issued to Re-Union on Home-Coming Day, October 25

SIMMONS COACHED
Mentor Has “Commanded” Eleven to Report on Time—Their Record

Back in the fall of 1910, Davidson College had a football team that made history. Twenty years have passed since the lads of those days frolicked, played, and fought on a gridiron. No attempt has ever been made to bring that team together, but this year, on Home-Coming Day, October 25, those football players, who have since developed into doctors, lawyers, ministers, and business men, will come back, and every effort is being expended by a group of individuals to have each member of the varsity on the campus for that gala occasion.

Coach Floyd Simmons, who guided the destinies of the 1909 and 1910 football teams, has again given instructions to that formidable eleven, and in the last few days, he has sent each member of the eleven orders to be here, with emphasis on the strict adherence to his command. This letter has been sent to the men who bore the brunt of the main attack, and to two substitutes and the manager. One of the substitutes died last year and is the only one who has dropped from the ranks. The alumni secretary is in touch with all of the men, except B. T. Neal, who, when last heard from, was located in Atlanta.

The personnel of that championship team includes Dr. DeWitt Kluttz, of Washington, N.C., left end and captain; Rev. Eugene Alexander, Manchester, left tackle; B. T. Neal, left guard; D. A. McQueen, Jacksonville, Fla., center; W. D. Wolfe, Tellico Plains, Tenn., right guard; J. C. Cashion, Huntersville, right tackle; Lunsford Richardson, Greensboro, right end; E. H. Graham, Goldsboro, quarterback; S. F. Ervin, Jr., Florence, S.C., right half; Reed Pharr, Cass, W. Va., left half; Rev. D. G. Joseph, Mo., fullback. Substitutes were Rev. E. S. Currie, Haichow, China; Rev. J. R. Phipps, Pollocksville, and J. N. Van Devanter, deceased. Roy Barron, of Rock Hill, S.C., was the manager.

The record of the 1910 team follows:
Davidson 29 Catawba 0
Davidson 57 Elon 0
Davidson 16 Guilford 0
Davidson 22 N. Carolina 0
Davidson 14 Citadel 5
Davidson 53 S. Carolina 0
Davidson 32 Wake Forest 0
Totals 223 Opponents 5

Hon. W. E. Lynch, ’13, of Rowland, has been elected to the State Senate of North Carolina, succeeding the late James D. Proctor from the eleventh senatorial district. Rev. J. I. Knight, ’22, who has been pastor at Holston Valley, Tenn., for the past five years, began work at Mount Olive on September 1. While in Hawaii this summer, J. P. McBryde, ’29, met Captain R. D. Daugherity, former member of the Davidson R.O.T.C. faculty. Mr. McBryde mailed the alumni secretary a card from Honolulu, but did not tell the extent of his summer travels. Dr. Neal L. Anderson, '85, pastor of the Independent Presbyterian Church of Savannah, Ga., was critically ill this summer, but has now recovered. Chas. W. Robinson, ’22, is a vache at Bryn Mawr Hospital, Bryn Mawr, Pa.; James P. Hendrix, ’25, and J. M. Cooke, '26, at the University Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa. These three men graduated at the University of Pennsylvania in June.