6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 9, 1930

Fall Tennis Tournament Shows Keen Competition
Winner in Singles Tournament Will Receive Trophy

The annual fall tennis tournament for the singles championship of Davidson began last Monday, and tomorrow will mark the beginning of the finals. There is an unusually large number of contestants this year, with some excellent prospects in the present Sophomore Class. Six of these Sophomore contestants formed the nucleus of the Freshman team last year, and although none is expected to play dramatically, they will be the ones upon whom the varsity team will build for next year.

A beautiful silver loving cup has been offered to the winner in this singles tournament, and with the large field of candidates, few are willing to venture speculations as to the possible winner of the cup. Through an arbitrary seeding of players, a tentative ranking of the first six players has been set in order as follows: DuBose, Poe, S. McLean, M. Roddey, D. Calder, and D. Rusk. Harrison, Spencer, Myers, Mebane, Lake, and many other likely prospects compose the rest of the field of candidates.

Dr. Lacy Denounces Sins of the Soul Ruin Many Lives

In the morning chapel services conducted by Dr. Ben Lacy, he appealed to the spirit of the Davidson men to help him make the meeting a success. He likened it to the way in which the V. M. I. cadets back anyone who is approved by the corps. The morning text was taken from the thirteenth chapter of Corinthians, the great love chapter. In his talk, he brought out the fact that the sins of the soul were emphasized much more than the sins of the body. While these sins will not be known to everyone, they will ruin more lives and are much harder to conquer. He emphasized the sins of ambition, pride, and covetousness, stating that the sin of pride in his day was one of the outstanding sins of the campus.

“Ambition,” he said, “is the sin that besets all wide-awake Americans, and it is one that the Davidson men have to fight.” Often men are willing to ruin others' lives to satisfy their own ambitions and help them attain their wishes. Dr. Lacy stressed particularly the sin of pride, which, he said, applied more to men at Davidson than any of the other sins. “Pride goeth before a fall and a haughty spirit before destruction.”

FIFTY-FIVE ALUMNI (Continued from page 4)

Morganton; Dr. W. W. Washam, Cornelius; Jos. B. Johnston, Barium Springs; Hansell Watt, Thomasville, Ga., and J. B. Meacham, Birmingham, Ala.
1902—Rev. P. C. DuBose, D.D., Camden, S. C., and Dr. John W. MacConnell, Davidson.
1903—Thos. D. Morrison, Asheville; W. A. Jetton, Davidson, and Rev. R. D. Daffin, D.D., Ripley, Miss.
1904—Rev. J. C. Rowan, D.D., and J. A. Cannon, both of Concord.
1905—Rev. W. T. Thompson, D.D., (2), Richmond, Va.; Congressman J. Bayard Clarke, Fayetteville; A. S. Dennison, New York, and Rev. A. W. Shaw, Fort Mill, South Carolina.
1906—The late Rev. M. A. Ray; Rev. J. O. Mann, Chester, S. C., and E. T. McKeithen, Aberdeen.
1907—W. R. Cely, Greenville, S. C.; Rev. Geo. F. Kirkpatrick, Laurinburg, and the late L. A. Mills.
1908—Rev. J. K. Parker (2), Mt. Mourne; Rev. C. W. Reed, Martinsville, Va., and Rev. L. T. Newland, Korea.
1909—S. V. Daniel, Huntington, W. Va.

Duke-Davidson Scores Year

Duke D.C.
i ASS BS CO ge aR RR 12 @ 11
EGS NER SSeS ae apap pea 18 6
(7) § SS ERS Pee eee eet ape 13
21 25 0 - 26
°26 ra 0 20
27 48 7
"28 33
ry "29 igo? 13

successful

College Calendar

Literary Societies

Friday, Oct. 10—Pep meeting for entire student body in Shearer Hall at 7 p.m.
Sunday, Oct. 12—Vesper services in Chambers Auditorium at 6 p.m. Tom Glasgow, of Charlotte, will speak.
Tuesday, Oct. 14—Literary societies in respective halls at 7:15 p.m.
Wednesday, Oct. 15—Smoker for group of Freshmen at 9 p.m., in Social Center. Twenty-five Freshmen are especially invited each succeeding Wednesday night. At 7:15 p.m. all boys teaching Sunday School classes will meet in the Social Center.

TWELVE ALUMNI (Continued from page 4)

James Allen, ’11

James Allen, 1911 graduate of Davidson, died in Charleston, S. C., on June 5th. Mr. Allen entered with the 1910 class at Davidson, remained out a year, graduating in 1911 with honors of high distinction. He studied law at the University of South Carolina and at Harvard, obtaining master of arts and law degrees. He started practicing law in Charleston in 1916, and enjoyed a meteoric rise. He was appointed solicitor of the ninth judicial circuit by the South Carolina governor in 1923, and each time was re-elected. His work as an attorney was interrupted by two years’ service in the World War. Mr. Allen was considered one of the most distinguished citizens of Charleston.

J. M. Williams, ’15

James Moore Williams, 37 years of age, and prominent business man of McConnelsville, S. C., died at his home in that town on September 18th. He was a 1915 alumnus of Davidson, and returned to his native home.

Plan Work for Year

Eumenean and Philanthropic Societies Have Many New Members

The two literary societies of the college, Eumenean Literary Society and the Philanthropic Literary Society, have begun a seemingly successful year. Both societies have received many new men, these consisting chiefly of Freshmen. Also, both organizations have many well-trained orators and debaters which promise many interesting and instructive programs. Last Tuesday night the Eumenean Society had as their guest Colonel Scott, head of the Reserve Officers Training Corps on the Davidson campus. ColonelScott made a very interesting talk on West Point. He did not relate so much of the life at the military academy, but he told of the many stiff requirements for entrance into the government school. The Eumenean Society has made many new plans for the future. It was decided at the last meeting that a key will be presented to those members achieving special distinction in oratorical or argumentative lines. This calls for a great deal of competition in the society. All students of the college who are interested in public speaking are cordially invited to attend the meetings of the society on each Tuesday evening at 7:15.

The Philanthropic Literary Society intends to experiment with a plan suggested by Dr. Currie, an alumnus of the society. This plan is to choose a synod which is to have meetings at regular intervals and decide on certain issues brought before the society for consideration. The Philanthropic Society Hall is the possessor of the celebrated Napoleon chandelier. The society purposes to hold a meeting in the near future and to have this chandelier lighted. It is reputed that this is the one under which the great emperor, Napoleon, was married. It was sent from France by an alumnus of Davidson College. The society also wishes to extend a cordial invitation to all those interested in any literary lines.

That Wildcat Offensive

After his work here, he was a business leader at McConnelsville, being connected with the J. P. Williams & Company, general merchandise. He was also active in church work.

Rev. Charles Grady Brown, 1922 Davidson graduate, died at his home at Reidsville, N.C. on July 11th. Mr. Brown attended Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va., completing his work there in 1925, and since his graduation had been pastor at Reidsville, where he was prominently identified with other interests besides his church work. He had served in the World War and was with the Army of Occupation for 16 months.

F. D. Brown, ’25

Frank Durick Brown of Davidson, was killed in an automobile wreck near Salisbury on July 18th. At the time of his death, he was residing in Salisbury, where he became connected three months before his death. Mr. Brown attended Davidson and later went to Duke University, then known as Trinity, where he starred as a football player.

D. E. Hunt, ’33

David Elder Hunt, of Oxford, member of last year’s Freshman Class, was fatally injured in an automobile accident near Clayton on July 13th, and died later in a Raleigh hospital. Mr. Hunt attended Davidson only a part of last year, and was substitute center on Davidson's 1929 Freshman team.

BILL MURRAY

Bill Murray, Duke Halfback

Duke Backfield Threats

“KID” BREWER

Brewer, Plunging Duke Fullback

Davidson Men Are Always Welcome

NORTON’S IVEY’S MEN’S CORNER

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BARBER SHOP

Will be at Schofield's Store Tuesday, October 14 with correct fall furnishings with new low prices.

Magazines, Books, Stationery, Watches, Clocks, Fountain Pens

New Records Every Week

Superior Soda Service

W. S. HERBERTSON

Davidson Theatre

Monday and Tuesday, October 13, 14

“Raffles” with RONALD COLMAN

Wednesday and Thursday, October 15, 16

“Common Clay” The Best Picture of the Year

Friday, October 17

“Madame Satan” By CECIL B. DE MILLE

Saturday, October 18

“The Big Fight”

Printing and Engraving of Every Description

By STANDARD PRINTING CO.

311 Watts, Garland Court, Charlotte, N. C.