THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 11, 1930

_Freshman Mist

THE SPORTS PARADE

CHRISTMAS NEW YEAR Prospects for 1931

Sophs Down Juniors 44-24 in Title Clash

LOOKING ’EM OVER

With W. H. Matthews

Next Wildcat Eleven to Lack Reserve Power

This Year’s Team Had

WILL HAVE VETERAN FIVE

King, McQueen Only Regulars to Return to Backfield

At the close of what may be called a fairly successful season, the eyes of the campus are naturally turned towards the prospects for another Wildcat machine. This year’s squad was unusual in its greater wealth of reserve power than former Davidson teams. Next year prospects are that the Wildcats will have an equal eleven to this year’s, but greatly inferior to it from the standpoint of reserves. The line will remain practically as strong as this year’s except at the guard positions, while the backfield will be greatly tampered with by graduation.

Covington, alternate captain and a tower of strength in the line at the tackle position, will be greatly missed next year. Brock and Parker at guards will be the hardest to replace of the whole line, while Proctor, who has played a fine game at end all year, will be missed, although he has capable subs stepping into his shoes, and Mason’s great work at center will be missed. Three great gaps will be impossible to replace in the backfield. Fraley, captain and quarterback; McCall, ball-toter deluxe and mentioned for All-American, and Tom Brohard, steady driving fullback, will form a triumvirate that will be most keenly missed.

In spite of these important vacancies, virtually every position next year will have at least one good candidate and a few have two or three. On the flanks, there will be Steve Brown, one of the most consistently good ends in the state, on one end, with “Skinny” Pierce, Bob Johnson and Mart Miller available for the other end. The line will send up O'Keefe, a light but scrappy player; Morris, who shows some promise, and Pratt, another light man. Out of these last three, one will probably see quite a lot of service as a reserve. The flank division will probably be even stronger next year than it was this year, with Brown playing his last year, Pierce, with a year of much experience behind him, and Miller, who is a good all-around end. Raker and Wagner, varsity tackles, will (Continued on page 6)

Wildcats Gain Many Yards Through Line

Only Three of Davidson’s Opponents Outgained Wildcats

The Davidson Wildcats gained nearly 2,000 yards through the line of their various opponents this fall, figures recently compiled show. Line plays netted 1,828 yards in the ten games for an average of 182.8 yards per game. This same line held enemy advances down to 1,240 yards for the season, an average of 58 yards per game less than the gains of Davidson.

The comparatively light forwards of Davidson were outweighed in nearly every game, but were nevertheless able to consistently open holes for the backs. Coach Monk Younger’s style of play calls for straight off-tackle plays and end runs where the responsibility rests upon the line men to open up the way. Davidson outgained all but three teams. Duke, The Citadel, and V. M. I. were the only opponents gaining more yardage than Davidson. Only one team held Davidson to less than 125 yards gain per game, the Blue Devils stopping the Wildcats with only 42 yards.

The best single afternoon’s work for Davidson backs was registered against Elon, when 333 yards were gained. The University of North Carolina Tar Heels gave up 230 yards, and Erskine was opened up for 241 yards. Duke was the only team to gain more than 200 yards through the Wildcat line, their total being 238 yards. Only two other teams, The Citadel and V. M. I., showed gains of more than 150 yards by scrimmage, and three teams were held to less than 50 yards gain per game. Davidson’s schedule this year was unusually hard, carrying five Southern Conference foes.

Collins of Carolina, “takes” the cake, or some such edible. In a radio broadcast early in the season, he predicted that to win the state championship, Carolina would have to beat Davidson. Truer predictions were never uttered, for had the Tar Heels been victorious over the Wildcats, Carolina would have ended the season with three victories and a tie, compared to Duke’s two wins and two knotted counts. However, it is not contended that Coach Collins had any idea of the muddled status of affairs that was to develop toward the close of the season. “If we get it right,” editorially commented the Greensboro Daily News of Monday morning, “Duke got the state championship but it came by way of Davidson.”

Davidson Coaches Pick All-State Combinations

Younger and Tilson Each Select One Davidson Man for Their Mythical Elevens

Davidson Coaches Younger and Tilson placed one Davidson man each on their mythical All-State elevens. Thad Brock, who played end last year and guard the year just passed, was chosen to fill the end position by Coach Younger, while Tilson picked Steve Brown to fill that position. No Wildcat backfield men were selected by either of the two mentors.

Coaches Younger and Tilson agreed on the linemen from tackle to tackle, but disagreed on the men to fill the end positions and two backfield posts. Younger placed Brock of Davidson and Rosky of Duke at the flanks as opposed by Tilson’s combination of Hyatt of Duke and Brown of Davidson. Fullback and one of the halfback posts were occupied by different selections. Younger used Mills of Wake Forest at full, but Tilson chose Brewer, the Duke flash, to fill that position. For one of the halfbacks Younger selected Magner of Carolina and Tilson, Nash of the same institution. The two coaches agreed on Murray of Duke and Branch of Carolina for halfback and quarterback, respectively.

“We could pick about four teams, composed of entirely different players, and each would be just about as good as the other,” remarked Younger in making his picks. The pivot position said by coaches to be the hardest to fill, but both believe that Parker of Wake Forest is just about the best man for the post. Younger said: “The hardest choice I had to make was between Gardner of my team and Parker of Wake Forest, but I finally chose Parker because he is a little more experienced man.”

Coach Younger favored three men each from Duke, Carolina, and Wake Forest, and one each from Davidson and State. Tilson gave Duke four places, Carolina three, Wake Forest two, and one each to Davidson and State.

Younger’s Team
Rosky (Duke) - Left End
Cobb (State) - Left Tackle
Werner (Duke) - Left Guard
Parker (Wake Forest) - Center
Levine (Wake Forest) - Right Guard
McDade (Carolina) - Right Tackle
Brock (Davidson) - Right End
Branch (Carolina) - Quarterback
Murray (Duke) - Left Halfback
Magner (Carolina) - Right Halfback
Mills (Wake Forest) - Fullback

Tilson’s Team
Hyatt (Duke) - Left End
Cobb (State) - Left Tackle

Championship Race

MARTIN AND MANSON STAR

Sophomores Take Lead and Are Never Headed

By downing the Juniors in the play-off game last week, the Sophomores won a clear claim to the 1930 basketball championship. The winners, playing inspired ball, made the best of every opportunity to decisively crush the Juniors, 44 to 24. The second-year men piled up a lead and continued to set such a pace throughout the rest of the game that the losers never really threatened.

Before the game was three minutes old, Manson dropped one in from the court for two points. Manson added two more points and Hartsell duplicated the feat. Martin dropped a two-pointer in for the Juniors’ first score, but Hartsell came right back with two more field goals.goals. West counted once from the court to give the Sophs a 12-2 lead as the quarter ended. The second period saw Manson and Hartsell cage five field goals and two fouls in rapid order to run the Soph total to 24, while Martin and Patrick added two field goals apiece for their team. The half ended 24-8.

The Juniors, with Martin again leading the attack, came back strong after the intermission to score ten points, but the Sophs continued to increase their lead by counting eleven times, on goals by Hartsell, Manson, and Calhoun, the quarter ending 33-19.

In the final stanza, the winners added eleven more points, while the third-year men scored five. Scoring honors went to Martin of the Juniors and Manson of the Sophomores, each getting 15 points. Hartsell, Manson's running mate, was next with 14. The line-ups:

Juniors 24
Patrick (7)
Montgomery (2)
Martin (10)
McGehee (2)
Boucher

Sophomores 44
Mason (15)
Calhoun (8)
Giese (2)
West (2)

Substitutions: Juniors—Potts; Sophomores—Hartsell (14), Bradsher (1), Myers. Referee: Dean Rusk.

Pocatello, Idaho—(AP)—In an effort to wipe out all memories of the old Idaho Technical Institution, which for four years has been the University of Idaho, Southern Branch, the Idaho Technicad, undergraduate newspaper at the university, has changed its name to The Idaho Bengal.

"Idaho" was an Indian name from which Idaho took its name as a state, and the university's athletic teams are known as "The Bengals."

New York—(AP)—The current issue of School and Society, reporting a survey made in Philadelphia, declares that high school boys can sell newspapers in their leisure time without danger to their health or their studies.

The investigator, Charles W. Palmer, came to the conclusion that selling newspapers was a direct character builder for the boys, serving as a moral substitute for the "chores" farm boys used to do.

Left Guard: Parker (Wake Forest)
Center: Levine (Wake Forest)
Right Guard: McDade (Carolina)
Right Tackle: Brown (Davidson)
Right End: Branch (Carolina)
Quarterback: Nash (Carolina)
Left Halfback: Murray (Duke)
Right Halfback: Murray (Duke)
Fullback: 

"CHRISTMAS CANDIES"
Whatever else you give—include candy. No other gift possesses the same degree of sentimental value as a package of delicious chocolates. Leave your order with us. A Complete Assortment of Better Grade Candies.
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

Wrestling practice is well under way and the only thing left of football is the awarding of letters and election of the captain. For many, the sports season is over until September. Without a doubt, football is the most colorful, the most spectacular, and by far the most popular of all intercollegiate sports. However, there are enough other sports to keep the spectator occupied between early December of one year and early September of the next, and we will turn to them now.

But before running the curtain down on the grid year, it would be well to mention this past season’s schedule and take this means of thanking the men responsible for it. Seven of Davidson’s games were played either on Richardson Field or in Charlotte, giving, in effect, seven home games. Two others were played at Greensboro and Durham, close enough for nearly all of the student body to see each one. Only one contest was so far away as to be completely out of reach for the majority of the students. It was as nearly a perfect card for spectators as could be asked. It was almost as well arranged for the team, too. As it turned out, they did not have to play a really hard game until well into October. Most of the time there was ample time between the important tilts to prepare for them as they came. Captain Pritchett’s job of arranging the schedule is no easy one and he has done a fine job on this one. From what can be learned about the 1931 schedule, it will be as good as the one just finished, and will carry bigger teams.

Nine Davidson touchdowns of last season received mention in this year’s Intercollegiate Guide, published by A. G. Spalding and Company. No order is scored, but several of the most important Davidson scores of last fall are listed under the various headings. Five touchdowns scored by Joe McCall are in the list, he leading all Davidson players in number mentioned. His 85-yard kickoff return against Clemson receives notice, as does his interception and 65-yard run for a score in the N. C. State game. His 45-yard run against Duke is the longest Davidson run from scrimmage. The other two scores of his in the lists are the 15-yard pass from Brock and resulting 55-yard run against V. M. I. and his 20-yard run from scrimmage in the Elon game.

The 35-yard pass from Brock to King, who ran five more yards for the touchdown against the Army, is another to receive notice. King’s plunge of one yard for Davidson's lone touchdown against Wofford is noted with an asterisk, indicating the play won the game. The other two touchdowns are Red Parrish’s 40-yard dash for a score against Carolina, and Fraley’s one-yard drive for a score against N. C. State. Thad Brock’s 102-yard run against Duke is not mentioned at all, due to the fact that it did not result in a score. Had he gone the other five yards separating him from a touchdown, his run, which would have been of 107 yards, would have been the longest scoring run of the year, the longest scoring play from scrimmage, and the sixth longest run in the history of football which is on the record book.

Seven touchdowns made against Davidson last year are mentioned also. Two of Clemson's passes from McMillan to Woodruff are among them. Others to receive notice are passes from Branch to Ward for a Carolina score; and from Williams to Waggoner of Elon for the Christian’s marker. Two plays, Ward's 65-yard run and Mills of Wake Forest's 35-yard jaunt, are the only scrimmage plays in the book against Davidson. O'Keefe’s 35-yard field goal for the Army's first score is the only three-point marker mentioned against the Wildcats.

We hit two of our three picks for last Saturday right, and got a tie on the other. Our record for the season is 37 right, 3 ties, and nine upsets, giving us a mark of a little over 80 percent on the fall’s work.

A Complete Service for School Publications
Annuals, Magazines, Catalogs, View Books
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

Established 1899

SHIRTS
SHOES
STETSON
"D" STORE
PHONE 206

FEATURING for The Christmas Holidays
TUXEDOS
Ready-to-Wear at $25.00
TIES
CLOTHES