THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 24, 1930

After Graduation --- Law?
Requisites and Advantages of Law As A Profession Shown By Preston
Charlotte Barrister Points Out Recent Changes in Law

There has been much discussion in recent years as to whether the general practice of Law offers as great comparative
opportunities for ambitious young men as it did in America up to the beginning of the twentieth century. Without attempting
to debate this question, it might be well to say that the functions and activities of the general practitioner have
changed entirely within the last generation—the major part of his work and the most remunerative is now that of counselor,
whereas formerly it was that of the advocate or courthouse lawyer. In considering the choice of Law as a life
work, this fundamental change should always be borne in mind.

The writer has both by inheritance and by observation a deep and abiding respect for the personnel of Davidson’s Student
Body and for its great traditions which place service and character before the amassing of fortunes as tests of success
in life. This article will not discuss, therefore, the chance for money-making in the Law: further than to say that
the pecuniary rewards to those who succeed are usually ample and more than sufficient to supply all the needs of
the normal American family and provide for a comfortable old age.

The study of Law as mental discipline and practical mind developer has no superior, because it brings the student in
touch with every phase of human affairs; and clear, accurate discussions at each step in the discussions are necessary in
the classroom. Ideas and constructive thinking control the affairs of the world more and more; therefore every young man should
pursue those studies which best fit him for analyzing complex problems with accuracy. Muddy thinking in legal study is impossible,
and an increasing number of business leaders encourage their sons to study Law, although they may have no intention of
practicing, in order to widen and strengthen their intellectual outlook. In fact, it is my belief that every college student
should take a course in Law, which it is practicable to do so.

Opportunity for Community and State Leadership
This is the historic field of the Lawyer. All of our Presidents except ten have been Lawyers. The overwhelming majority,
probably four-fifths, of all the Governors, Senators, Congressmen, and foreign ministers are and always have been of the same profession.
The Judiciary, in many respects the most important branch of the Government, is, of course, entirely composed of Lawyers. If
a young man desires to go into Politics, the legal profession still affords his best chance for success.

A field in which a law-trained man can be of untold benefit to his state and fellowman is in the
Legislature. As an Architect, before erecting a large edifice, examines and tests the soil to see whether it can support
the weight, so a wise lawgiver does not begin by drawing up laws that are good in themselves but considers
first whether the people are ready for the legislation proposed. It is on this account that he who frames laws
ought to have a thorough knowledge of the historical background of all laws and be equipped with a sound understanding
of both the former and the present-day laws, as they affect the people. This offers then, to the mind trained
in Law an unusual chance for leadership. All legislation, insofar as its form and language are concerned, is, of course,
drafted by Lawyers.

Law Practice an Interesting Life
The life of the average lawyer is most interesting to anyone who likes people and varied work. He never knows
what the next case to occupy his attention will be. In the course of a year he comes into contact
with all sorts of people and every phase of community life.

Profession of Great Personal Influence
The lawyers of today are rendering higher and more far-reaching service than ever before. Behind every public movement or private
enterprise, you will find that a lawyer is usually the directing mind, shaping its policies and preparing its plans in
detail. This gives the modern lawyer a quieter but ever greater influence than he has ever had, as all modern
life is carried on through corporations and organizations guided by the legal profession.

Opportunity for Service
Lawyers of ability and character have increasing opportunities for living lives of the most valuable service to their communities, though
they may never hold public office. The older lawyers will tell you, as they look back over their professional careers,
that they feel more satisfaction in having settled litigation on a fair basis than in anything else. This is the
modern tendency and means much for the Public Welfare, because long drawn-out lawsuits involving families, businesses, and sometimes whole communities
are hindrances to its progress and well-being. There are many other ways in which a lawyer, by reason of his
knowledge and training, not only can but does help his clients, his city, and his State, and “Service is, after
all, the Christian ideal.”

Thorough Preparation Needed
My suggestion to the young man who is interested in this great profession is to prepare thoroughly, whether he intends
to make Law his life work or not. Build a solid foundation, before you enter Law School, and then spend
the required number of years in the latter before you embark on your life’s work. The world will still be
going on, and opportunities will be waiting for you. Be equipped and ready to grasp them when the time comes.

MILITARY INSPECTION (Continued from Page 1)
Blade, honorary military fraternity, was host to the inspectors at lunch. At 2 o'clock the battalion formation was held. This
included the march to the drill field, calisthenics, parade, individual inspection, and concluded with an inspection of close and extended
order drill. The rating attained this year has not as yet been announced, but at the inspection last year the
local battalion was given an excellent rating, which is the highest rank given to a school of this type.

A Firm Educational Foundation Is Necessary To Present Day Lawyer
By Dean McCormick, of the University of North Carolina

There is something dramatic and stirring in the scene which is presented in a courtroom when a prisoner is on
trial for his life. Nearly every young man has imagined himself as standing in the shoes of the lawyer who
pleads for the acquittal of some villain, such as Loeb or Leopold. It is natural for one who has a
talent for leadership and for effective and persuasive speech, to think of the law as a possible career.One wise thoughts
turn in this direction should remember, however, that while a lawyer needs the ability to make a telling and eloquent
speech to the jury, he needs even more a sound education in the principles of law. Nowadays a lawyer spends
most of his time in his office, where his chief business is that of advising his clients as to how
they can avoid the courthouse with its risks and expenses. To help his clients avoid trouble, the lawyer must know
what the courts have decided about the legal rights of people who have tried to do things that the client
is proposing to do. Also, if the client has become involved in court, the lawyer before he gets to the
jury must draw up the pleadings, must present the evidence, and must often argue points of law to the judge.
Again, after the jury has brought in their verdict the lawyer must handle the appeal of the case to the
Supreme Court. So we see, that the flaming eloquence of the jury speech is only a small part of the
lawyer’s task. More of his work is that of applying in various ways his knowledge of law and of business.
The successful lawyer must be a man who knows. How is he to secure that knowledge? This is a question
which interests every young man who has fixed his eyes upon the legal profession as his future career. Such a
young man will find many possible answers. He will see in the newspapers and magazines the sensational advertisements of correspondence
law schools which purport to make one a lawyer by mail in a short time. He will find also that
in every city there are night law schools in which one may study law while working at a regular job
in the daytime. A third method of preparation is by “reading law” in the office of some lawyer friend. All
of these seem rather easy and attractive. But there is another way which is more difficult but is being adopted
today by the majority of the young men who are seriously planning to devote their lives to the law. This
is the preparatory training of two years or more of college work in a standard college or university followed by
a regular course of three years study of law in a university law school, leading to the degree of LL.B.

Which of these ways is the best—two years in correspondence schools, night school or law office, or five years or
more in college and law school? Knowing that this is a puzzling question to a young man who is anxious
to spend his time and money to best advantage and not to waste either, but who wants above all to
become a well-trained and capable lawyer, the lawyers themselves have undertaken to advise such young men how to answer the
question. The American Bar Association, the great national organization of lawyers, after a very careful study and prolonged discussion of
the matter, adopted a resolution in 1921 which expresses their views and advice. This is their recommendation: Everyone who seeks
to become a lawyer should first, prepare himself for law school by two years or more in college, and second,
attend an “approved” law school for three years. The Association has prepared a list of “approved” law schools of which
there are more than sixty. These schools meet certain strict requirements as to their faculty, library, and courses. In view
of this recommendation there seems little doubt that one who conscientiously plans to be a high-class lawyer should choose the
path of a college preparation and an “approved” law school course. The first step is to choose the law school.
Remember, it is easy to make the mistake of preparing too little for the difficult tasks of the lawyer, but
it is almost impossible to make the mistake of preparing too thoroughly and completely for this great and learned profession.

Professor: “What did you find out about the salivary glands?”
Clara: “Nothing at all, Professor. They’re so secretive.”

Trusty: “I’ll do anything I can, Warden.”
Warden: “Well, just don’t put yourself out.”

Law Schools
In next week’s Davidsonian two more articles on vocational guidance in law will be published. The length of the articles
and the fact that several more of them are available makes this necessary. The outstanding schools of law in the
East are:
Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N.C.
University of South Carolina, S.C.
Duke University, Durham, N.C.
Wake Forest College, Wake Forest, N.C.
University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.
University of Georgia, Athens, Ga.

Catalogues of these schools may be found on the vocational guidance table in the entrance to the “Y” rooms. Please
use these at the “Y” rooms and return them to the table as there are others who will want to
use them.

“Y” CABINET (Continued from page 1)
charge of the Sunday School work for next year. He is a member of Eta Sigma Phi. The church relations
for the coming year will be in charge of A. W. McLean, Lumberton. He is a member of the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, Beaver Club, football manager, and business manager of the Wildcat Handbook. R. F. Norton, of Rome,
Ga., will have charge of the executive work for the following year. He is a member of the Phi Delta
Theta social fraternity, secretary-treasurer of the Student Body. The publications for next year will be turned over to P. R.
Alderman, of Alcolu, S.C. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, Delta Pi Kappa, Reporters’ Club,
Spanish Club, International Relations Club, and Class Historian. J. F. Preston, of Korea, will have charge of the world evangelism
for the coming year. He is a member of the Alpha Omega social fraternity, Omega Phi Alpha, International Relations Club,
Eta Sigma Phi, Eumanean Literary Society, Reporters’ Club, Le Cercle Francais, and the rifle team. All of these men except
Enloe, Arnold, and Norton are members of the rising Senior Class.

Stationery Books Magazines Superior Soda Service
W.S. HENDERSON
Fountain Pens Felt Goods Sundries

Davidson Theatre
Monday and Tuesday, 28th and 29th
“THE DIVORCEE” with NORMA SHEARER
Wednesday and Thursday, 30th and 1st
“HIGH SOCIETY BLUES” with JANET GAYNOR and CHAS. FARRELL
Friday, May 2
“STRANGE CASE OF SERGEANT GRISCHA”
Saturday, May 3
“BEAU BANDIT”
