THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1930

DAVIDSON 118 OPPONENTS 57

THE SPORTS PARADE

BASKETBALL AND WRESTLING PRACTICES START

Davidsonian Selects All-Star Grid Teams

Five Davidson Stars Awarded Places on All-State First and Second Teams

BOTH LINES ARE POWERFUL

All Big Five Schools Place at Least Two Men

Selection of an All-State eleven this year resolves itself into a task which, we believe, is harder than usual. Due
to the great number of good men at some positions and the comparative lack of really outstanding players at others,
it is very likely that not more than one or two men in the State will be unanimous choices. We
have seen a number of selections already, and there has been a great divergence of opinion at almost all positions.
Everything from favoritism to prejudice has entered into them, and no two have yet been anywhere near alike. Our pick,
printed elsewhere on this page, is what we believe represents a careful pick. We have chosen men on their work
this fall, and not what they did last season, or what they might do in seasons to come. Injuries have
handicapped some men, and for that reason they have not been able to show up at their best all the
time. We look upon that as their tough luck and someone else’s good fortune. No matter how good a man
is, if he has to hobble around on crutches half the season, he can’t make touchdowns.

One team is almost as good as the other in the lines. The backs of the first string carry a
little more offensive punch, but both sets of ball-carriers lack a big, pile-driving back who makes his own holes. Such
would be desirable.

Starting at center, we are faced with the hardest task of the whole pick. Four centers of the State are
very nearly on a par, and all are good. Lipscomb of Carolina gets the ball over the lot because he
is a little better on the defense than the rest, has had a little more seasoning and experience, and because
he has shown up wonderfully well in a line that is far from spectacular. Gardner of Davidson gets the second
place over Parker of Wake Forest and Adkins of Duke. Parker was good, but we believe that Gardner has played
just as good ball all the time, game for game, and has not had the help of being flanked by
six stellar men, as has Parker. Adkins will likely land on a number of selections.

Guards there are in abundance, but not one stands head and shoulders above the rest. Levine and Brock we give
first, then Stout and Werner. Brock was slow catching on to the guard work, but by mid-season he was playing
fine ball and in the last two games he was one of the outstanding men on the field. Levine’s work
throughout the season was fine. Stout led the State team and was one of the mainstays of its line. Werner
noses out such men as Fysal, Dupree and others.

Much the same condition is noticeable at tackle as there was at guard. Webb is a little better than his
teammate Williams, though some will doubt it. Both are ideally built for the position. Stroup played a smashing game in
the Wolfpack line. Covington was consistently good all season and held his position through the hardest kind of competition.

The only difficulty in naming the ends is to find which one will be placed where. Duke had the finest
pair in the State, but Wake Forest’s flankmen are close runners-up. Brown of Davidson has starred sensationally in every game
and has never had to be taken out because of injuries. Rosky is a little better than either Hyatt or
Gregson, whom we place third of the quintet, and did a fine job of calling signals, as well as doing
everything else an end ought to do. Brogden of Wake Forest had the misfortune of playing at the same time
four other good men played, and perhaps had his star dimmed a little by his more sensational teammate.

(Continued on page 4)

DAVIDSONIAN’S ALL-STATE TEAMS AS PICKED BY W. H. MATTHEWS

First Team Position Second Team
Rosky (Davidson) ----------------- End ----------------- Gregson (Wake Forest)
Webb (Wake Forest) --------------- Tackle --------------- Williams (Wake Forest)
Levine (Wake Forest) -------------- Guard --------------- Stout (N. C. State)
Lipscomb (Carolina) --------------- Center --------------- Gardner (Davidson)
Brock (Davidson) ----------------- Guard --------------- Werner (Duke)
Stroup (N. C. State) --------------- Tackle --------------- Covington (Davidson)
Brown (Davidson) ----------------- End ----------------- Hyatt (Duke)
Branch (Carolina) ----------------- Back ----------------- Benton (Wake Forest)
McCall (Davidson) ----------------- Back ----------------- Mills (Wake Forest)
Murray (Duke) -------------------- Back ----------------- Brewer (Duke)
Magner (Carolina) ----------------- Back ----------------- Slusser (Carolina)

Cage Team Starts Work With 3 Letter Men Back

Loss of Last Year’s Forwards to be Greatly Felt by Team

After a very successful football season, Coach Younger turned his attention to basketball Tuesday. A long list of candidates responded
to the call for practice at that time. With three lettermen back on the court, three good prospects from last
year’s squad, and some favorable material from the yearling team of last year, the approaching season looks bright for Davidson.
A pair of forwards to fill the berths left vacant by Pritchett and Johnson, two of the team’s most dependable
offensive stars in '29-'30, have to be picked by Coach Monk. Captain Bill Goodson (guard), Jim Proctor (guard), and Dean
Rusk (center), are the returning lettermen and each will fill his former position, with the possible exception of Rusk, who
may be shifted to forward. The other former squad men returning and who reported Tuesday are Martin, Shepherd, and Montgomery.
All three are seeking the forward positions and show promise of displaying keen competition for the two posts. Mathis will
be a contender for a guard post, and Boots Wilson is a candidate for the center position. If Rusk is
placed at forward instead of center, then in all probability Skinny Pierce will see service in the latter position. Pierce,
center of last year’s Frosh quintet, stands six feet, three inches, and if his style of playing meets expectations, he
will be a valuable asset to Monk’s team during the next three years. Besides Pierce, the Sophomore class offers Peabody
and Manson, who saw service on the first string of the Freshman five last season.

Wrestling Practice Off to Good Start

Seven Letter Men Back to Form Nucleus of This Year’s Team

Wrestling practice which for the past few weeks has been carried on at night, has been shifted to afternoon workouts
and practice has begun in real earnest. With Captain Conway, Cowan, Boyle, Raker, Gorham, Brock and Houston, all lettermen, back,
Coach Unger hopes to have a winning team. In addition to these men there are several men who were out
for last year’s team but did not make their letter; also there are several Sophomores from last year’s Freshman team
who will give those men on the varsity a tough time in keeping their former positions on the team. Coach
“Doc” Unger expressed the opinion that everything had started off with a rosy hue and that prospects for a successful
season seemed very good. There will be no matches before the holidays, but immediately after school opens in January the
season will get under way. The schedule has not as yet been completed, but will appear later.

More than 80 percent of the shoplifting done in New York City is done by women who are between the
ages of 17 and 23.

WEEK-END TRIPS

Can be made economically in a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford from—

HENDERSON’S FILLING STATION

Sophs and Juniors End Season in Tie

Although all the scheduled games of the 1930 inter-class basketball championship have been played, no winning team has yet emerged.
The Juniors and the Sophomores each turned in victories during the past week, the Juniors triumphing over the Freshmen, 46-25,
and the Sophomores downing the Seniors, 33-9.remain in a deadlock for first place. A game between these two leading teams,
however, has been arranged to decide the championship, and will be played sometime this week. Each team has won five
games and lost one for a percentage of .833, but as a scoring machine, the Sophomores lead their rivals 175
points to 161. The other two teams, the Seniors and Freshmen, also are deadlocked, each team having one victory and
five defeats. The Freshmen have outscored their elders, however, 111 points to 106. The order in which the teams finished,
together with the number of points they scored, follows:

Team Points W. L. Pct
Juniors ----------- 161 5 1 .833
Sophomores ----- 175 5 1 .833
Seniors ----------- 106 1 5 .167
Freshmen ------- 111 1 5 .167

Individual scoring honors go to Hartsell, Sophomore center, who turned in a total of 73 points for the six games.
Martin, captain and center of the Juniors, by scoring 22 points in the Freshman game, ran his series total to
54 points for second honors. Following Hartsell and Martin, the next eight high scorers are: Smith, Seniors, 54 points; McLain,
Freshmen, 46; Montgomery, Junior, 43; Patrick, Junior, 34; Manson, Sophomore, 31; Evans, Freshmen, 29; Bouches, Sophomore, 26, and Arnold, Junior,
24. Each team had at least one man among the first ten, while the Juniors placed four men.

Sophomores 33—Seniors 9

Accurate shooting combined with an almost impenetrable defense enabled the Sophomores to swamp the Seniors in their last game, 33
to 9. By holding their opponents to nine points, the Sophomores turned in the best defensive performance that has been
played by any team during the present series. The second-year men scored four field goals in the first quarter, while
holding the Seniors scoreless during the stanza. The Seniors managed to score five points in the second period, but the
Sophs also scored several times, to hold an 18-5 lead as the half ended. Little shooting was done in the
third quarter, only five points being scored, two by the Seniors and three by the Sophs; but in the final
stanza, the winners again went on a scoring spree to add 12 points while holding the Seniors to two foul
goals. Hartsell, as he has done in almost all the other contests in which he has played, again took high
scoring honors with 14 points. His total alone was sufficient to win the game. Manson, his running mate, was next
in scoring with nine points.

(Continued on page 6)

Complete Service for School Publications
Annuals Magazines Books
Community Printing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

LOOKING 'EM OVER
With W. H. Matthews

Football season is over; the managers have cleaned and stored away all the equipment until spring; lettermen have been, or
will soon be, announced and managers and captain for next year’s team have been decided upon. Except for a smattering
of big intersectional games, the season is over. It has been far from an unsuccessful season for Davidson. The record
of six wins in ten starts is comparable with the record hung up by any of Davidson's recent teams. Certainly,
its defensive record is one of the best any Davidson team has ever turned in. Only one team has as
many as three touchdowns upon the Wildcats this year; only two have scored twice. Five have been turned back scoreless.
It is the best defensive record of any team in the Big Five. The opposition against which this record was
made was some of the best this state, South Carolina, or Virginia had to offer. It is a glowing tribute
to the coaching genius of Younger and Tilson.

The Wake Forest game was a hard one to lose, both because of the importance of the contest in Davidson's
rating in the state and because of the way in which Davidson outgained the Deacons, only to lose out in
the scoring end of the melee. The Wildcat attack made eight first downs to five for the Baptists. The running
attack netted Davidson more yardage than the attack of Wake Forest gained for them. Davidson passes likewise rolled up a
larger total than the successful heaves of the Deacons, and the difference in yards which punts and kickoffs were returned
was even more noticeable. Unfortunately, however, they don’t pay off on any of these counts, and two perfectly executed passes
spelled out Davidson's loss. It was a hard game to lose.

The Baptist line was undoubtedly the best in the state. It possessed more than a passing amount of weight—it is
said to be the third heaviest forward wall in the entire South—and this weight did not seem to be gained
at any loss of speed, for some of those two-ton trucks got about with surprising swiftness. The slight superiority of
the line more than offset Davidson’s advantage in the backfield, which we believe the Wildcats had, and plays which swept
over and around and through the Tar Heels were smeared on Thanksgiving. Incidentally, we don’t quite see how Carolina happened
to nose Wake Forest out in their opening game.

Thad Brock was undoubtedly the best-known man on the Davidson squad this year, and he closed his football days for
Davidson with two fine exhibitions of football against Carolina and against Wake Forest. We believe that if he could have
stayed at end, Davidson would have had the two finest pairs of wingmen in the state, in spite of the
nice quartet exhibited by Duke and Wake Forest. His play at guard improved as the season grew older, and he
will undoubtedly make quite a few all-states at that position, which is certainly what he deserves. We doubt if there
is a gamer fighter, pound for pound, to be found in this state. It was always a pleasure to watch
him work.

During the last two weeks, we have picked seven games. Five of the teams picked to win did so, some
not by the margin doped, however, but nevertheless they all came through. Another game ended in a tie, and the
seventh we missed. Our pick on the Notre Dame-Army game last Saturday was way off as to score, but on
a dry field, we believe the Irish would have gotten at least three touchdowns. They certainly had the chances. Our
record for the season is 35 right, two ties, and nine misses.

This is the last weekend of the regular scheduled games. And we doubt if any one day of the entire
year will see so many big games carded in proportion to the total number of contests. The most important in
this vicinity is the Duke-Carolina clash—a classic if there ever was one! It’s hard to dope, but we believe that
the Blue Devils will do or die for DeHart and give him a victory. 14 to 7 is

(Continued from page 4)

Statistics for Season
D. C. Opp.
First downs ----------- 95 71
Yds. gained by rushing 1828 1250
Passes attempted ------- 127 113
Passes completed ------- 34 33
Passes intercepted ------- 9 15
Yds. gained on passes ---- 444 430
Yds. gained on passes and rushes -------- 2272 1680
Av. lgth. of kickoffs ------- 44.8 48.7
Av. lgth. of punts -------- 33.6 35.9
Yds. punts and kickoffs returned -------- 608 714
Total yds. gained by rushing, passes and return of kicks -------- 2980 2284
Scoring points ----------- 118 57

SHIRTS SHOES STETSON
“D” STORE PHONE 206
FEATURING
For The Christmas Holidays
TUXEDOS
Ready-to-Wear at $25.00
TIES CLOTHES
