2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 30, 1930

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly

“For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

WILLIAM McCUTCHAN................. Editor-in-Chief
PAT CANNON.......................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
F. B. GRAHAM......................... Managing Editor
W. S. LEA............................. Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN.......................... Managing Editor
W. H. WOOD........................... Sports Editor
V. M. BELL............................ Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES....................... Feature Editor
A. R. ANDERSON...................... Review Editor
P. R. McRAE.......................... Associate Editor
J. R. SMITH........................... Associate Editor
R. S. RAGIN........................... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
PHILIP CONWAY....................... Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BAKER........................... Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS......................... Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY................... Subscription Manager
PETER BROWN.......................... Solicitor
R. W. FALCONER....................... Solicitor
A. M. MANN............................ Solicitor
A. L. MEBANE.......................... Solicitor
W. R. MORROW........................ Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
S. S. WILEY........................... President
D. G. STEWART
A. H. WHITE
R. H. ALLISON
J. G. BROWN
N. B. DICKS
J. G. NICHOLS
E. O. GUERRANT
WILL HANCOCK
J. E. LAKE
R. L. McCALLIE
C. C. MATTHEWS
C. F. MYERS
V. F. MULLISS
H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
C. W. F. SPENCER
B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR
W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH
D. D. McBRYDE

OCTOBER 30, 1930

“King am I, whatsoever be their cry; And one last act of knighthood shalt thou see Yet ere I pass.” —King Arthur, from Tennyson

SUGGESTIONS

Alumni were not the only friends present at the game last Saturday whom students were glad to see. Dr. Rimmer has come and gone, doubtless to soon begin his six-month period of excavation. One cannot refrain from wondering what he will unearth next, either with or without scriptural significance. Small boys await tomorrow night with mischievous eagerness. College men are supposed to have passed certain prankish celebrations of Hallowe’en; time will tell. Thanks to the football team for a hard and cleanly fought game last Saturday! It was a typical example of Davidson spirit. Discretion is an essential stepping-stone to success. Few people have gotten far without some of it. Some students appear to be more engrossed with their studies than they were this time last week. Reports do have an effect.

THE POWER OF THE MINUTE

“If winter comes, can spring be far behind?” The answer is self-evident, for nature seldom changes its course to suit the whims of man. Occasionally man fits his desires to the weather and climate which nature gives him, but most of us find it hard to be satisfied all the time. At any rate, autumn is rapidly approaching winter, and after winter comes spring. Despite habits to the contrary, it is the psychological time to get down to hard work. Whether it be morning or night there is enough “zip” in the air to stimulate the brain to extraordinary endeavors. Harry Lauder was right when he sang, “But it’s nicer to lie in the bed,” but that does not solve the problems presented by mathematics, languages, and sciences. Most students have determined on their course of study; they did so in their Freshman year. Instead of arguing and pondering over the merits of a Bachelor of Arts degree as opposed to a Bachelor of Science degree, each man should decide to win the one which he has chosen. Many will disagree as to the advantages of cramming until the wee small hours, avowing that it is better to get up early and retire early. The important thing is to do one or the other. Habit will once more make the difference between failure and success. An alarm clock does little good when its hearer reaches out, turns it off, and turns over; it cannot pull a man out from under the covers. Many men have waited until the first of January to realize that first semester examinations were upon them.

THE WARBLING FOUR

Davidson has always had a good Glee Club; it has become part of the tradition of the school. Although the entire club has not yet appeared in public, the varsity quartette, on last Saturday night, gave an indication of what lies in store for devotees of music. Words of praise for the men have been numerous. Still, in the light of the present, the mind must sometimes turn to combinations and novelty numbers of the past. Despite the fact that they were not classed as a quartette, perhaps one of the most famous of the club’s offerings functioned in 1928-29. Gordon McSwain, Howard Reid Mobley, and Proctor Thompson provided harmony galore. If memory serves correctly, they were encored eight times upon their initial appearance in that year. Their audiences never grew tired of listening to them. All of them have gone, but those who heard them will never forget the minor chords they crooned so well. Of a slightly different type perhaps, but displaying infinite promise, is the 1930-31 group. Three of the four are upperclassmen, the quartette consisting of one Senior, two Juniors, and one Freshman. They should not be taken as individuals but as a group singing together. It is essential that the four voices blend with one another; it is no place for individual ability alone. To our minds, a male quartette is one of the most pleasing arrangements of voice combinations. We wish Ramseur, DuBose, Rule, and Koontz all possible success in their future appearances.

TO THOSE WHOM THEY DELIGHT TO HONOR

On Monday the honorary fraternities will issue bids to the upperclassmen whom they have decided to honor. Many men have failed to fully appreciate the values offered by such organizations; a few of these men have actually been members of the groups. The time-worn expression must be used again, “A man gets out of it exactly what he puts into it.” Contrary to a prevalent belief, conference of honor is not the only object entertained by these fraternities. It is true that they are called “honorary,” but the word is supposed to define the desired result rather than the purpose. The two factors have been confused. Too many students have had the idea that they should accept such propositions merely because it gives them another line to put below their names in the annual. It is because of this mistaken conception that some of the fraternities have not proved to be the active organizations they are supposed to be. Men who have joined with the above-mentioned purpose in view have retained it after they became members; it remained in their subconscious minds. Year after year it continued until it grew to be firmly rooted both in the brains of active members and in the minds of those who did not belong to the group. It is a basically false point of view. However, there have always been men in these fraternities who have realized the error of this idea. Gradually they have succeeded and have forced the adoption of progressive programs. Some of the organizations never needed a rejuvenation; others did. In any case, it is the purpose of this adjuration to dispel any such ideas from the minds of those who may receive bids. That man who is invited to join an honorary fraternity should remember a few fundamental principles. First, each group centers its endeavor upon a particular field. It may be concerned with classical, scientific, musical, literary, military, or other subjects. The neophyte should be interested in the particular branch. Second, the student who received a bid is supposed to be proficient and devoted to this branch of curricular or extra-curricular activity. If he is not, and it is possible for the organization to be mistaken, he should not even consider membership. Finally, no one’s feelings will be wounded by acceptance or refusal. If the bid is taken up, the members of the organization will be glad; if not, they supposedly have enough intelligence to understand that other questions can enter into the problem. It is possible and probable that one man can belong to more than one honorary fraternity and still do justice to all that carry his name on their rolls. They do not exact all of a member’s spare moments. On the other hand, the bid should not be accepted if the acceptor desires only to be initiated, to have his name placed on the roll, and to be absent from subsequent meetings. They aim to be and should be active working organizations.

Among Davidson’s contribution of a half-dozen or more baseball stars to the major leagues, one of the most outstanding is Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, the registrar, who, peculiarly enough, would not accept his big-time offer. After the World War, in which he saw service, he starred for three years in the minor leagues, playing with Little Rock. After this period with the Arkansas team, the erstwhile Davidson diamond luminary, who, while a student here, made an enviable record as a pitcher, was sold to the Washington Senators. Faced with theNecessity of choosing a coaching job at his alma mater, and that of accepting the big league offer, Mr. Hengeveld chose the former, serving in the capacity of baseball and basketball coach until he was appointed to his present position, sacrificing the opportunity which would have been eagerly grasped by thousands of baseball aspirants, whose supreme ambition is to become a major league player—a singular distinction within itself. Although the future was promising, the registrar clung to his convictions and gave up professional baseball altogether. There are very, very few men who have ever refused this lucrative offer. Moreover, he is still owned by Little Rock, who deem him too valuable to lose. Some years ago, the former Wildcat twirler wrote to the Ozark club and requested a release, but they refused, unless he paid a consideration of $2,500. After that, Mr. Hengeveld suspended all negotiations and decided to be voluntarily retired, which automatically eliminates him from ever playing in organized professional baseball again. Some of the minor league teammates of the registrar, whose efficiency in his present position has been a source of innumerable commendations, are now among the foremost major league stars. Charley Grimm is an infielder with the hard-hitting Cubs, Bing Miller a member of the World’s champion Athletics, and Travis Jackson an outstanding New York Giant shortstop. Mr. Hengeveld has not given up the game entirely though. Occasionally he goes out to watch the varsity team practice in the spring and, when he takes the notion, retires one batter after another by the strikeout route.

Ed Bettis has introduced a unique system of correspondence here on campus. Ed, who is an amateur radio operator, the only one in Davidson College except Dave Caldwell, communicates with “folks” in Tennessee over the radio, at a designated time on Wednesday or Friday afternoons, thus eliminating the necessity of “writing.” Ed and Dave procured their licenses as radio operators only after passing a difficult examination on radio theory and code. Subsequently, these two men, with some others who have since graduated, established here, in October 1928, an amateur radio station W4ZD located above the old Armory and operated on 20, 40, and 80-meter wave bands. Desiring to broaden the scope of the new undertaking, they organized the Radio Club, which now exists as an active organization, and which, although open to most everyone, selects its members by requiring numerous qualifications. Since the creation of the club, the radio enthusiasts have had direct contact with Germany, England, France, New Zealand, Australia, Alaska, Puerto Rico, and Newfoundland and have received messages from each by the code. Its members run schedules every day with at least two different stations in various parts of the country, during which time many long-distance messages are relayed from Davidson. Ed tells of a humorous incident which occurred one day last year, and which embarrassed him greatly. After a long “talk” with a boy presumably, he asked, as is customary in radio telegraphy with new correspondents, the name of the listener, whereupon he received the reply “Mary.” After that, Ed watched the substance of his “conversations” with strangers, before finding out the identity of the communicant.

It is interesting to note that Bryan College, a newly-established educational institution in Dayton, Tennessee, scene of the famous Scopes trial in which Clarence Darrow enacted the part of the defender, and William Jennings Bryan the role of the prosecutor, and named for the great Commoner, has fashioned its curriculum on the model of the Davidson College system. This announcement was compacted in a syndicated news article, which divulged the endowment and initial progress of the new Volunteer college.

A $15,000 damage suit brought against the freshman and sophomore classes of Columbia University by the owner of a restaurant which was damaged in a class fight, was dismissed as against the two classes, and individuals were made defendants instead.

MUSINGS

Well, kiddies, gather ’round while ole Uncle Remus tells an old story about the middle ages. The middle ages aren’t gone yet because if you look to all sides of you, you'll still find men and women in the middle ages (35 to 55). But of course, that has no bearing on the story—who ever heard of a story with bearings? Only cheap automobiles have bearings. Well, let’s see now. We were going out bearing, so get your gun and sword. No—no! We were not going out bearing, we have lost our bearings—My kingdom for a horse! These were the good ole feudal days. There used to be some excellent poets back in them days—remember that ole poem, ’bout: “Feud love me lak I loves you, No knife could cut our love in two.” Yer ain’t gonna foreclose and send us out in the cold, is yer, Morgan? In these olden days whereof I speak, the rats were very, very bad. So Uncle Jeb was all for taking their measure and killing them out. So he calls out his whole family and asked them what they would do in such a case. All of the young folks had new-fangled ideas as to how it should be and even went so far as to express their ideas. One young vassal spoke up with his plan: “Uncle Jeb, why don’t you use rat biscuit? That's what they’re a-doing these days.” Uncle Jeb looked like he was gonna blow up. “Listen here. I ain't never pampered no rats yet and if they can’t eat the same biscuits we eat right here they can get out of my castle.” Naturally enough, the subject was dropped right where it was ‘cause nobody wanted to argue with Uncle Jeb when he was riled and if you don’t believe this is a true story, just think a minute. We still got rats today, ain’t we? In those days the people didn’t say “Yea” for yes. They said “Yeo”! So instead of having “yes men” like we got today, they had yeomen. And in those days they didn’t travel by train either. They had men to carry them around on their shoulders. This was the only way to travel so when a lord was looking for a call from some one of his neighbors which was only about two hundred miles away he would say: “I guess old Pete'll come on the next vassal.” And sure enough old Pete’d come in on the next vassal. Now ole Uncle Jeb was a very important man in them days. He was Secretary of ye Agricolae. He was often called upon by many people from far and near about their crops. One day he got a letter from a man saying he would be over to see him on a very important matter. So Uncle Jeb canceled all engagements including a marriage engagement with his girl—to see this feller. When the vassal came in, Uncle Jeb went to meet the man and find out what the matter was. He took him up to the castle and told him to make himself at home. For three days the man hung around whilst Uncle Jeb was preparing his data and everything and then they had the conference to find out what was the trouble. So they called on the man to get up and tell ‘em. He got up with wrinkles all over his forehead and said in a mournful voice: “Gentlemen, I appreciate all this consideration for me,” then he leaned over and whispered: “The truth is that I have a sunflower that isn’t doing so well!” And if you don't believe that I'll tell you something that will make you believe it—That sunflower died. A few years later Uncle Jeb had another call. So when he went down to the landing to wait for the next vassal a man got off and said that he had trouble with his incubator. “Why, what's the matter with it?” asked Uncle Jeb. “Do you know, Uncle Jeb, I bought that thing three weeks ago and that fool thing hasn't laid an egg till yet!” Now, go to bed kiddies, so ole Uncle Remus can finish shaving the warts off of these dill pickles.

Mark Webb, Cambridge University bacteriologist, told students of the University that two youths who had grafted the head of a bee on a beetle afterward maintained they had evolved the perfect humbug.

University of Utah students are campaigning to have a number of their professors placed in the Hall of Fame being selected by a Salt Lake City newspaper.

War themes won first place among both books and plays in the poll of “senior superlatives,” at the New Jersey College for Women.

Jack Horwitz, Cleveland, makes his way through Ohio State University by taking pictures with a specially built camera, negatives and prints from which he can turn out in two minutes.

Provisions for the founding of a college were left in a will of the late Mayor Anthony M. Ruffu, Jr., of Atlantic City, who was killed in an automobile accident. The mayor had hoped to establish the college in his lifetime.

One of the new courses on the curriculum of the University of California is one on investments. The students will learn how to invest money in the stock market without taking too big a loss.