TRACK MEET WITH WAKE FOREST STUDENT BODY, SATURDAY, APRIL 26

"ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS"

Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 24, 1930 No. 26

"Y" Cabinet For Coming Year Installed At Easter Vesper Service

New Cabinet Includes Men Prominent in All Phases of Campus Activity

IMPRESSIVE CEREMONY

Rusk Relieves Brown of Duties as Head of Organization

The new officers and cabinet members of the Y. M. C. A. were formally installed last Sunday night as a
part of the annual Easter vesper service. After the song service, the officers and cabinet were called upon the stage
where Frank Brown, the retiring president of the Y. M. C. A., read a part of the Scriptures and Dean
Rusk, newly elected president, led the congregation in a prayer to close the meeting.

Dean Rusk, Atlanta, Ga., president and retiring vice-president, a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, varsity basketball, and the
“D” Club, was installed as the new president of the “Y” for the coming year. The vice-presidents for the coming
year are R. P. Enloe and C. W. Arnold, Greensboro, N. C., a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity,
and a member of the student council.

Appointed to be head of the weekly meetings for next year was J. A. Jones, Laurinburg, a member of the
Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, assistant manager of football, Red and Black Masquers, and Glee Club. W. W. Fraley, Barium
Springs, was named to lead the deputations for the following year. He is the retiring vice-president of the Student Body,
a member of the Student Council, “D” Club, varsity football, and captain-elect of football.

Appointed to direct the vocational guidance for next year was C. N. Burch, of Memphis, Tenn. He is a member
of Eta Sigma Phi, International Relations Club, Eumanean Literary Society, and manager of the wrestling team. M. W. Norfleet, of
Winston-Salem, was named head of the social center for next year. He is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, International
Relations Club, Eta Sigma Phi, and Omega Phi Alpha.

The social life of the “Y” next year will be directed by C. H. Koodykoontz, of Bluefield, W. Va., who
is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, Student Council, retiring president of the Junior Class, president-elect of
Student Body, and varsity football. H. S. Covington, of Red Springs, was appointed to have charge of the chapel services
for next year. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, Court of Control, Student Council, varsity
football, varsity baseball, varsity wrestling, “D” Club, Sergeant R. O. T. C., and alternate captain of football.

The freshmen work for next year will be in charge of W. B. Goodson, of Lincolnton, who is a member
of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, retiring vice-president of the Athletic Association, president-elect of Athletic Association, varsity basketball, varsity
baseball, “D” Club, Student Council, and captain-elect of basketball. J. S. Meacham, of Birmingham, Ala., will have control of the
boys’ work next year. He is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity and Sergeant-Major in R. O. T.
C. F. L. Wood, of St. Louis, Mo., will have (Continued on page 6)

Musical Fraternity To Hold Convention

The national convention of the Mu Beta Psi, musical fraternity, will be held here Friday and Saturday, April 25 and
26. Delegates from a large part of the United States are expected to attend this meeting. Friday night, the visitors
will hear the Glee Club concert in Chambers Auditorium, and later will have a business meeting in the Dome Room.

The delegates are invited to stay over and attend the Davidson-Wake Forest track meet, which will be held here Saturday
afternoon, and it is hoped that many of the visitors will be able to be present at this event.

Easter Service Is Featured By Music

Last Sunday the “Y” vesper service was the scene of the annual Easter musical service. This year it was more
impressive than ever in the new Chambers Auditorium for the first time and with the new organ. Paul Fry opened
the service with an organ prelude, followed by “The Palms” played softly on the organ, while Fred Poag read the
story of the “Triumphal Entry.” Carl Pritchett, the retiring president of the Student Body, then led in prayer. The next
number was a hymn by the audience standing, “O Worship the King.” As Paul Fry softly accompanied him on the
organ with “Break Thou the Bread of Life,” Fred Poag again read the “Story of the Last Supper,” and then
the “Story of the Crucifixion,” as the quartet sang “The Old Rugged Cross.” Following this, Mrs. Watts and Professor Cullum
responded with a very beautiful duet, “He Did Not Die in Vain.” The assembly then sang “When I Survey the
Wondrous Cross.” A violin quartet played softly as Fred Poag read of “The Resurrection” on the first Easter morning, and
Mrs. Cullum sang “Hosanna” in response. Then as the assembly sang “All Hail the Power of Jesus’ Name,” the new
“Y” cabinet for the coming year came out on the platform. Frank Brown, the retiring president of the Y. M.
C. A., held a short consecration service and Dean Rusk, president for the ensuing year, closed with a prayer for
the “Y” and the newly chosen leaders.

D. S. La Far Elected Pres. Senior Class

Representative Chosen From Junior Class for Student Council

D. S. La Far, Gastonia, N. C., was elected president of the rising Senior Class last week on the third
ballot. La Far is one of the most popular men on the campus, his ability being recognized early in his
college career. He was a member of the Beaver Club, honorary leadership fraternity for Sophomores. He is at present junior
baseball manager and a member of Kappa Sigma, social fraternity.

Running with La Far in the race for president were R. M. King, Nashville, Tenn., and A. B. McClure, Rabun
Gap, Ga., who were eliminated on the first ballot; W. W. Fraley, Barium Springs, N. C., eliminated on the second
ballot, and J. A. Jones, Laurinburg, N. C. on the third.

The new members of the Student Council elected from the present Junior Class are: Dean Rusk, Atlanta, Ga.; W. B.
Goodson, Lincolnton, N. C.; H. S. Covington, Red Springs, N. C.; W. W. Fraley, Barium Springs, N. C., and J.
A. Jones, Laurinburg, N. C. The other men nominated for this office were: R. M. King, Nashville, Tenn.; A. W.
McLean, Lumberton, N. C.; A. B. McClure, Rabun Gap, Ga., and D. S. La Far, whose name was withdrawn when
his election to the presidency of the class became known.

New Men Initiated By Reporters’ Club

Wiley Elected President of Organization for Coming Year

At the regular bi-monthly meeting of the Reporters’ Club of The Davidsonian, the following new members were initiated: R. H.
Alderman, G. E. Bailey, J. E. Boyd, E. O. Guerrant, J. E. Lake, D. D. McBryde, R. L. McCallie, Geo.
Miller, W. F. Mulliss, H. F. Nichol, S. P. Preston, N. C. Raies, B. B. Sugg, and B. B. Taylor.
C. F. Myers and W. B. Ward will be initiated at the next meeting of the club. These men, most
of whom are Freshmen, were selected from a large group of boys who have been working all year on The
Davidsonian. Election to the club requires a great deal of hard work and some talent. It is the greatest journalistic
honor which can come to a man during his first two years at Davidson. (Continued on Page 5)

Chameleon to Appear

According to an announcement made recently by the editor, R. F. Jarrett, the second issue of The Chameleon for the
current year will make its appearance about the fifth of May. The color and style of this ever-changing literary medium
of the campus has not yet been announced. Not only will the color and style change, but the contributors, as
well, will, in most instances, be new ones. The contents will consist mainly of short sketches interspersed with poetry. However,
the poetic element has shown up as very deficient this time, providing a very limited selection. With the forthcoming issue
of the magazine, the terms of service of the present staff will terminate, after which a new group will be
selected, although another edition this year is tentatively planned.

New Managing Editors Take Control Of Paper

Dwelle, Lea, Martin, and Matthews Form Capable Staff Which Takes Over Control of Davidsonian

CHOSEN BY OLD STAFF

Members Have Active Interest in Campus Activities

With this issue of The Davidsonian, the four men selected as managing editors assume active control. These appointments were made
by the four retiring managing editors before the Davidsonian election was held. The new men, all members of the Junior
Class are: E. C. Dwelle, Jr., W. S. Lea,D. G. Martin, and W. H. Matthews. All of these men are
members of the Reporters’ Club and have been active in journalistic work on the campus. Dwelle, whose home is in
Charlotte, belongs to the Beaver Club, Le Cercle Francaise, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity. W. S. Lea, from Knoxville,
Tenn., is also a member of the Beaver Club, the Glee Club, and Phi Gamma Delta, social fraternity. Matthews, who
will fill the particular capacity of athletic editor, has done much literary work while at Davidson. He is a member
of the Philanthropic Literary Society, and his home is in Marlin, Texas. Martin, who lives in Covington, Ga., belongs to
Le Cercle Francaise, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity. He was a member of last year’s basketball squad. In addition
to these activities, Martin was secretary and treasurer of the Sophomore Class.

Inspection of Local Military Unit Held

Davidson’s annual R. O. T. C. inspection beginning Tuesday, April 22nd, was completed Wednesday afternoon, the 23rd, and to all
appearances was a complete success. The entire program for the two days was run off with clock-like precision and showed
the careful preparation which has been going on for weeks. Contrary to recent expectations, Colonel Little, who was to have
had charge of the inspection, was unable to be here on account of illness, and was ordered to Walter Reed
Hospital for an operation in the immediate future. However, his position was ably filled by Captain St. Clair Woodward.

On Tuesday Captain Woodward occupied his time in talking with the president of the college, Dr. Walter Lingle, and other
members of the faculty. He investigated carefully the school and R. O. T. C. records and seemed well pleased with
them. He also inspected all the arms and other equipment, gallery range, and drill fields. The routine for Wednesday began
with an inspection of all R. O. T. C. classes held that day in which he watched the methods used
in teaching and reciting. Scabbard and (Continued on page 6)

Nat Speir Elected Junior Class Head

At the close of the presidential elections held last week by the rising Junior Class, Nat Speir, of Charlotte, was
elected. Speir, a prominent member of the student body, is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity. He is
one of the Church Committee of the local Y. M. C. A. Three ballots were cast, Chester Arnold, of Greensboro,
and J. D. McConnell, of Davidson, being eliminated on the first vote. L. S. Raker, of Lexington, was eliminated in
the second ballot. In the final vote, Robert Gorrell, of Winston-Salem, was put out. Robert Norton, of Rome, Ga., was
nominated from the floor but withdrew from the race. The following men were nominated by the Student Council Nominating Committee
to be voted upon for the Junior representatives in the Student Council: Chester Arnold, Greensboro; Bob Gorrell, Winston-Salem; Bill Rule,
Knoxville, Tenn.; Roger Enloe, Buchanan, Ga., and Don King, of Bristol, Tenn. Archie Baker, Martin Miller, Kemp Morton and Steve
Brown were nominated from the floor. These men will be voted upon during the early part of this week and
the remaining elections will probably be run off some time during the next ten days.

Bird New Editor Of “Quips and Cranks”

Is Prominent in Many Other Activities Here on the Campus

On the first ballot, A. R. Bird, of Washington, D. C., was elected editor-in-chief of “Quips and Cranks” for the
ensuing year. The election is by class, the rising Junior Class being allowed to select their own editor. Andy is
well known on the campus, having received, in addition to this honor, recognition in the following organizations: Sigma Upsilon, honorary
literary fraternity, Alpha Phi Epsilon, honorary forensic fraternity, International Relations Club, Reporters’ Club, Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, Delta
Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, Eta Sigma Phi, honorary classical fraternity, and Phi Gamma Delta, social fraternity. He is also
vice-president of the Forensic Council and a member of the varsity debating team. To win this election, Bird defeated J.
V. D. Middleton and S. S. Wiley. Middleton, who was eliminated on the first ballot, numbers among his honors the
following: Retiring secretary-treasurer of the Reporters’ Club, membership in International Relations Club and in Pi Kappa Phi, social fraternity. Wiley,
who was eliminated on the last ballot, is the new president of the Reporters’ Club, retiring secretary-treasurer of the Junior
Class, member of Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, Le Cercle Francaise, honorary French fraternity, the International Relations Club, and
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity. He also is a wearer of the Golden Quill and a member of the Beaver
Club. These men have played an important part in the literary work of Davidson life throughout their stay here.

O. D. K. Tap Day

The spring tap day of the local circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, will be held the morning
of April 29 according to a statement made recently by Zeb V. Long, Jr., head of the local circle. Prominent
men of the Junior and Senior class will be tapped by the old members during the Chapel Services and will
signify their intention to receive this honor by following the old member back to the platform.

Head of Student Body To Return To Davidson As Y.M.C.A. Secretary

Carl Pritchett Chosen to Succeed Camper O’Neal in Work on Local Campus

IS OUTSTANDING LEADER

Present Secretary to Study at Columbia University Next Year

An announcement was made recently by the Executive Committee of the Young Men's Christian Association of Davidson College, that Carl
R. Pritchett, of Reidsville, N. C., will succeed Camper O'Neal as secretary of this organization. Mr. O'Neal's resignation will become
effective in June, and Mr. Pritchett will take over his new duties in September.

The incoming secretary is a member of this year’s Senior Class and is one of the outstanding men on the
campus this year. He is the president of the Student Body, and was vice-president of the Student Body last year.
He was on the Student Council for three years, and was on the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet one year.
In his Junior year he was captain of the basketball team, high scorer, and a member of the “D" Club.
His work was outstanding on the Davidson quint this year, and he was one of the best forwards in the
State. He has been on the varsity debating team for three years, and he is a member of Omicron Delta
Kappa, national leadership fraternity. He is also a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, forensic fraternity. He is very well liked
by the students, and it is expected he will make an excellent secretary.

Mr. O'Neal has had this position since he graduated in 1928 from Davidson. He plans to attend Columbia University next
year. During his stay here as a student and later as secretary of the “Y,” he has won the friendship
and confidence of all with whom he has come in contact. This is a responsible position, because aside from the
amount of clerical work which has to be done in the “Y,” the secretary meets many students on the campus
in the form of councillor and advisor. Another important duty is work with the Freshmen during the whole year, but
especially in the fall. A great responsibility falls on the secretary at the first of every year in making the
Freshmen feel at home, and he must also bring them together later in the year in a social way. Camper
O'Neal has handled this position in an enviable manner and has gained a unique position on the campus. Through his
efforts a new electric radio was purchased, the Social Room was improved, and the “Y" rooms have become a real
place of recreation for many students.

Plans For Student Banquet Under Way

Student Body Leaders for Next Year to be Installed at That Time

As was announced to the Student Body Tuesday morning at chapel, plans are rapidly going forward toward perfecting the big
Student Body Banquet and installation ceremony for next Tuesday evening. Various committees, appointed by W. B. McGuire, Senior President, are
busy with their tasks, and it seems that every detail will be well cared for when the bell sounds for
Davidson men to assemble at Chambers Building. The new Student Council will be formally installed at that time, as will
other leaders for the coming year’s work. An impressive ceremony has been planned in which both old and new leaders
will take part. The proceedings will be kept secret until the time appointed, however. Those in charge are enthusiastic in
their expectations that the occasion will be one of the greatest ever participated in by a Davidson group. Ticket sales
are going forward satisfactorily, and it is the hope of the Seniors to (Continued on Page 5)
