THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 24, 1930

WILDCAT Pickups and Passes By W. H. Matthews

SHADOWS OF COMING EVENTS

THURSDAY, APRIL 24
Tennis State Tournament at Chapel Hill (completion).

FRIDAY, APRIL 25
Golf Davidson at Carolina
Tennis State Tournament at Chapel Hill (completion).

SATURDAY, APRIL 26
Golf State Tournament at Sedgefield.

TUESDAY, APRIL 29
Baseball Lenoir Rhyne at Davidson (varsity).

THURSDAY, MAY 1
Davidson at Lenoir-Rhyne (varsity).
Mount Pleasant Collegiate Institute at Mount Pleasant (Freshmen).

A brand new column, with a new name and under a new make-up, to start off the new staff! For
no reason at all, except that it has always been done, we were forced to change the name of this
weekly sports comment, and make some change in the looks of it, just to show it was new, and it
wasn’t the old sports editor who was writing it. Protection for those departed, so to speak. We haven't as yet
been able to find a suitable name, and it hardly seems likely that the above title will continue to appear
long. Like Davidson’s healthful Piedmont weather, it is subject to change without notice.

With Whittle doubling in brass and assuming the stellar role, the Wildcat track team staged a regular Davidson fighting finish
up at Raleigh last week and stole the track meet right out from under N. C. State's nose, after it
looked as though the affair was in the bag for the Technicians. After taking all three places in the javelin
and still needing two points to make them even with the Wolfpack, Joe McCall and Whittle came through with first
and second, respectively, and made the final score 65½ to 60½. Quite a jolt to have your meet yanked out
of your hands like that. Whittle entered five events, won three of them, and got a second and a third
in the other two. His nineteen points easily made him high point man. Besides winning his favorite races, the hurdles,
he also came in ahead in the century. Then he entered the 220 and got a third, and to taper
off, placed second in the broad jump.

Only one more home meet for Tilson’s and Pritchett’s performers before the State meet on May 3. Wake Forest brings
a good team down Saturday afternoon to try to continue their bothersome winning streak over Davidson teams this spring. The
meet will mark the last appearance on the home paths for five members of the squad. Whittle, Brohard, Lafferty, Joe
Gardner, and Gene Smith will all graduate in June. Davidson has a good chance to duplicate its feat of last
year by coming in second in the State meet with a like finish this year. Carolina, with one of the
strongest teams in its history, stands out as overwhelming favorite to win by virtue of its showing in the recent
Tech relays, and in dual meets won by large scores from Georgia Tech, Penn State, and others.

Track fans will all focus their attention on Philadelphia this weekend, where the Penn relays are held tomorrow and Saturday.
This annual carnival is one of the best in the country and always has on its entry list the cream
of the nation’s cinder artists. Numbered among the three thousand entries this year are George Simpson, holder of the world's
record 9 2-5 second for the 100-yard dash, using starting blocks, and Hamm, Ga. Tech broad jumper, who won the
Olympic jump in 1928. Ninety-nine events are carded.

The enterprising baseball manager, Ladd Mills, has scouted around and gotten five more games for Monk’s willow swingers. These will
prolong the season a full week longer than was formerly expected, and give Davidson three more Big Five contests this
year. One more game has been arranged with Carolina, to be played at Chapel Hill.

(Continued on Page 5)

Five Games Are Added To Finish Baseball Card

Keeping Tab on the "Cats

Three Are “Big Five” Games—Others With Lenoir-Rhyne

Five additional baseball games have been added to the 1930 schedule of Davidson College since the first announcement of the
games. These will be played with Duke University, and an additional one.with the University of North Carolina, and two with
Lenoir-Rhyne. Duke and Lenoir-Rhyne will be met once in Davidson and once at their home grounds, and the third game
with the Tar Heels will be played at Chapel Hill.

The additional mixups give Davidson a total of ten contests with the “Big Five” members for the season. Wake Forest
has already won two from Davidson; the Wildcats defeated N. C. State twice and dropped one encounter to them, and
they have just completed a series of games against the Tar Heels. The schedule this season is extending a week
later than usual, but the regular number of games are being played.

The revised schedule for the remainder of the season follows:
April 29—Lenoir-Rhyne at Davidson.
May 1—Lenoir-Rhyne at Hickory.
May 6—Elon at Davidson.
May 8—University of South Carolina at Davidson.
May 12—Duke at Durham.
May 13—Carolina at Chapel Hill.
May 15—Duke at Davidson.

Davidson Teams to Engage in Tourneys
Golfers Play at Sedgefield—Tennis Team at Carolina

Both the Davidson golf and tennis teams are entered in State elimination tournaments this week. The tennis tournament which was
begun last week at Chapel Hill was postponed by rain, and play was not resumed until today because of matches
that the Wildcat netmen had scheduled in Virginia during the earlier part of the week. The golf team plays Duke
on Thursday, the University of North Carolina on Friday, and participates in the State tournament Saturday at Sedgefield in Greensboro.

Captain Frontis Johnston and A. N. Halverstadt, stars of the Wildcat netmen, have fought their way to the quarter-finals of
the singles and will resume their play today against Yeomans, Captain Merritt, Hendlin, and Liskin, of Carolina, and Frank and
Phillips of Duke.

The Wildcat golfers will strike stiff competition this week at the State collegiate golf tournament. Chapel Hill boys, who won
the tournament last year, are especially strong, since every one of the varsity members of the squad have returned, in
addition to Goodes, a sophomore, who beat out last year's captain for a place on the team. The strength of
Duke is practically unknown since they have not played many matches so far this year, but they are expected to
send a strong team.

(Continued on page 4)

“DON’T SH” cried the willowy Winona.
“And why not, my gal?” demanded Wellington Threeves, thrusting his classic chin against her heaving bosom.
“Because,” replied Winona, “you will not be annoyed at bridge by his huskiness any longer. He has promised that, if
spared, he will change to OLD GOLDS, made from queen-leaf tobacco. Not a throat scratch in a trillion.”

OLD GOLD
FASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE IN HISTORY... NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD

On your Radio... OLD GOLD—PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR, Paul Whiteman and complete orchestra... every Tuesday, 9 to 10 P.M., Eastern Standard
Time
© P. Lorillard Co.
