THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 25, 1930

DAVIDSON 38 ELON 0

WE GOT THE FIRST ONE!

THE SPO

A PARADE

CAPTAIN PRITCHETT PRESENTS NEW INTRAMURAL PLANS

Looking ’Em Over | With W. H. Matthews

N. C. State at Greensboro Memorial Stadium. Kick off at 8 p.m.

We come now to Davidson's first Big Five tilt, and one which many believe will have an important bearing on the way the two contestants finish in the state race. It is the earliest that Davidson has met one of its important state opponents in a long time. The game is almost certain to pack the Greensboro bowl to capacity. Due to settle with Davidson, because of the possible championship nature of the contest, and last but not least, since it is the first game of importance in the state to be played at night, it is generally considered that the crowd will be a sell-out.

John Van Liew, mentor of the Technicians, is serving his first year at the position vacated by Gus Tebell. With a championship freshman team offering the cream of its talent, and with two or three star veterans back from last year, Van Liew has a wealth of material to work with. He will receive his first test as a coach against Davidson, and will likely shoot the works to win.

The showing of the Wildcats against Elon was a disappointment to some, merely satisfactory to others, and eminently successful in the eyes of a few. We are inclined to consider ourselves in the second group. At times during the second half, the line and backfield were working together in a manner beautiful to behold, but except for the opening drive in the first half, the play during that stanza was far below what it should have been.

One of the most pleasing aspects of the contest was the way in which both the first and second string teams functioned. It was hard to say which looked the better, for each was able to gain regularly. However bright this may look from the standpoint of reserve power, it says very little about the true strength of the material as a whole.

Those in the stands who came to see Captain Pete Williams repeat his last year’s performance of stealing the show were disappointed. For the Elon leader could get started only once on a run, and other than for that one time, never gained more than three yards on any one play. His passing proved a serious threat at times, and he backed up the line capably but not brilliantly. That is as much as we can say for him.

If Davidson meets a team that has a real passing game, as it certainly will, things are apt to go bad. Elon completed half its passes, but about two-thirds of the other heaves were incomplete because the receiver was not quite at the place where the ball was, rather than that no one was there to keep the ball from him.

This week's grid menu looks more appetizing than did that of last Saturday, both locally and nationally, with two Big Five games featuring the day. Nearly every one of the nation’s best teams get into action, but still only on their trial horses. Among the games booked, with the way we see them are: Davidson 13, State 7; Duke 14, South Carolina 0; Carolina 35, Wake Forest 0; Clemson 20, Wofford 7. Anyhow, that’s our story and we stick to it.

President Hoover's spacious mansion overlooking the Stanford University campus is for rent.

Chicago is the greatest railroad center in the world and the greatest waterway center in the interior of any continent.

John Masefield, poet-laureate of England, who used to be a New York bartender, and whose poetry frequently sings the praises of wine, is a teetotaler.

Wildkitten Schedule For Year Complete

Freshmen Open Hard Schedule Here Against Oak Ridge Next Week-End

That question as to what kind of a team the Davidson Freshmen are going to have will be solved to a certain degree October 3 when the Wildkittens open their five-game schedule up against Oak Ridge here.

Following out the same schedule that faced the Fresh team last year, this year’s Wildkittens will be faced with the task of bettering their predecessors’ record, which was fairly successful. Oak Ridge last year proved to be the equal of the Freshmen in every department of the game, including scoring, the game being a 6-6 tie. It was true the Wildkittens failed to click in this game as they did in some of the following games, but this does not mean that Oak Ridge wasn’t strong. Oak Ridge has produced some of the greatest athletes in this part of the country and even though it is a prep school, it ranks with any college Freshman team in the state.

Wofford slipped up on the Kittens last year in the first half of the game and almost took the contest, but in the last half the Freshmen got their offense working for the first time during the season to click off several touchdowns in a row, starring Mills and Fleagle. Wofford continually places a hard-fighting aggregation on the field and can without doubt be depended on to repeat their past performances. The Kittens renew their feud with Wofford down in Spartanburg on October 16.

Rutherford College visits Davidson next, in hope of avenging a three-touchdown defeat handed to them by the Kittens of last year. All three of these touchdowns were administered by the heels of Fleagle, who has joined the ranks of the varsity this year. This game is scheduled for the afternoon of October 24, the day before Homecoming, assuring Davidson fans a complete week-end of football.

The Freshmen then have a long rest before tackling the State Freshman team at Raleigh on Armistice Day, November 11. Last year State had one of the biggest and best Freshman teams in the Carolinas, but the Kittens gave them a great battle, allowing them to eke out a 6-0 win. It was a hard-fought game and by far the best exhibition put up by the Kittens during the season. State is said to have gathered together a likely looking crew of Freshmen again this year, which bodes ill for the Kittens, but it looked bad for the Freshmen last year, too.

Two weeks more and the Duke squad moves on Davidson, bringing with them an array of prep stars of 1929, for their annual tilt with the Davidson Freshmen Friday afternoon, November 21. This is the last game, but Laird’s squad is numerous and there are some hefty looking candidates out who ought to make good varsity material. Although the Imps trounced the Freshmen last year by a top-heavy score, Davidson bids fair.to hold them this year. By using a violet ray, experts were able to determine that the body of a man taken WALTER FRALEY Captain of the Wildcat team, playing quarterback this year. Last season he was one of the outstanding men in the backfield and after seeing his work in the Elon game it is believed that he will play even better this fall.

Wildcats Smother Elon In Opening Grid Contest

Long Runs of King and McCall Feature Game

Superior reserve strength was the overwhelming advantage held by the Wildcats in their opening game with Elon, played last Saturday on Richardson Field. The final score showed 38 points for the fighting Davidson eleven and none for an equally hard-fighting Elon team. Three thousand people braved a gentle drizzle to see a team of Christians hold Davidson to one touchdown in the first half, and then crumble as Coach “Monk” Younger sent in numerous substitutes. Davidson scored in the opening period after a 48-yard touchdown pass, Fraley to Bradshaw. Brock’s toe still seemed to function as well as last year, for he converted the extra point by place-kick. After this tally, the Christians made their only serious threat of the game, carrying the ball to the Wildcat two-yard line before losing it on downs. The passing of “Pete” Williams, the Elon player, was responsible for their gains.

In the third and fourth periods, however, the Wildcats seemed to find themselves. Don King made a beautiful touchdown run of 64 yards. Joe McCall also made some nice gains, among them being one for 46 yards. Mills and Pierce each crossed the goal line in the last half, and Tom Brohard crossed twice. Fogleman and Williams stood out for Elon, while Covington, Brohard, King, McCall, and Pierce showed up well for the victors.

Elon Position Davidson
Rollins LE Proctor
Pace LT Covington
Bogleman LG Brock
Morris C McConnell
Mathis RG Rives
Bernard RT Brown
Harrington RE Bradshaw
Rodgers QB Fraley, C.
Dofflemeyer LH McCall
Latham RH King
Williams FB Bradshaw

Extensive Program for Interclass Competition

Interfraternity Winner to Receive Handsome Loving Cup

The Department of Physical Education has recently announced complete plans for intramural competition this year. According to the department, the most extensive program ever attempted in this line will be carried out. Ten sports will be included in the schedule, giving everyone in school a chance to compete. Ten sports in which the classes will compete will be campus football, track, volleyball, golf, tennis, gymnastics, Sigma Delta Psi competition, and physical improvement. This is much the same as last year, but it is hoped by officials that more students will be attracted into each event by making the competition keener.

It is planned to start football in a few days, with teams representing each class competing. This is the only campus sport in which definite plans have been completed as to the date of starting, etc., but further announcements will be made from time to time in other events. As in past years, each event will count towards determining the champion class in school. Points will be awarded to the winners in each competition and will be totaled up at the end of the school year. The award will be a handsome silver plaque, which will have engraved upon it the numerals of the winner. Other cups and awards to be made include the cup representing the inter-fraternity championship, individual development cup, and membership in Sigma Delta Psi to those qualifying. This is very much the same as last year, except that the fraternity award will be issued for the first time this spring.

Style Finds Place On Davidson’s Grid

It cannot be denied that the football prospects for this year are the best in years. Realizing this, the Athletic Association decided to clothe its men in the height of gridiron fashion every time they come on the field. Such niceties of haberdashery as the refinement of two jerseys for each man was the outstanding notice in the Elon game last Saturday. After playing one half of the Elon game in solid red jerseys, with black numerals for identification, Coach Younger had almost his entire squad come out for the second half in black uniforms with red numbers. A red band about three inches wide across the shoulders further showed the style-consciousness of the Wildcats’ clothier.

Three Holes-in-One Scored at Davidson

Holes-in-one seem to be of rather frequent occurrence on the Davidson College golf course. When John Thompson made an ace the other day it was the third time that the trick had been turned since July. Dr. Norton G. Pritchett, head of the college faculty, was the first. He made his ace last July on the difficult second hole, a drive of 113 yards, while engaged in a foursome with Dr. H. M. Moffett, Bob Black, Wilmington football coach, and H. M. Moffett, Jr. The second hole is difficult in that it is on top of a hill, which is known as “Buttermilk Hill.” The shot was made with a mashie. Monk Younger was the next to duplicate the feat early this fall. His drive was made on the ninth hole, a distance of 224 yards. He also was playing in a foursome with Tex Tilson, Monk's coaching partner, and Sam McConnell, former Davidson grid players, as mates. Monk used a brassie.

(Continued on page 4)

Summary Davidson-Elon Game

Davidson Elon
First downs 11 7
Yardage from scrimmage 333 yds. 87 yds.
Passes attempted 4 13
Passes completed 4 6
Yards gained on passes 48 yds. 59 yds.
Passes and scrimmage gains 381 yds. 106 yds.
Av. length punts and kick-offs 38.9 yds. 34 yds.
Av. length returns punts and kick-offs 6.6 yds. 11.2 yds.
No. punts and kick-offs 11 8
Fumbles 3 3
Fumbles recovered 3 2
Penalties 75 yds. 12 yds.

Complete Service for School Publications
Annuals, Magazines, Catalogs, View Books
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.
Established 1895

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“SODA” “SUNDRIES”

from the drainage canal at Chicago recently was that of a Chinaman. An extracted tooth was used for the test.

Score by quarters:
Elon 0 0 0 0 — 0
Davidson 7 0 13 18 — 38

The Most Up-to-Date Cleaning Plant in the Two Carolinas At Your Service
ZORIC CLEANING by DOMESTIC LAUNDRY
“Poon” Hancock Representatives 210 Watts “Dus” Enochs

FURNISHINGS
Friendly Five Shoes
STETSON
“D” STORE PHONE 206
Clothes For The College Man
CLOTHING
John Ward Shoes