THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 9, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

ZEB V. LONG, Jr. ... Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCALL ... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
J. B. BLACK ... Managing Editor
J. W. McCUTCHAN ... Managing Editor
P. C. RAGIN ... Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN ... Athletic Editor
J. F. PRESTON ... Feature Editor
J. L. BROWN ... Feature Editor
R. F. JARRATT ... Associate Editor
F. D. MILLER ... Associate Editor
C. M. PRATT ... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
L. A. CANNON ... Asst. Bus. Mgr.
LOY T. BOYD ... Subscription Mgr.
A. J. BAKER ... Solicitor
P. M. CONWAY ... Solicitor
J. E. RUFF ... Solicitor
J. L. SEVIER ... Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
S. H. BEENER ... President
J. A. D. MIDDLETON ... Secretary-Treasurer
J. G. BERRY
C. G. PEPPER
C. MATTHEWS
J. G. DUNKLIN
W. F. D. O. STEPHENSON
W. T. HANCOCK
A. H. WHITEHEAD
JOHN M. BROWN
G. P. PARDINGTON
W. H. BIRD
R. DWELLE

DECEMBER 12, 1929

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

Get behind Monk’s basketeers as they clash with Carolina’s Tar Heels Saturday night. Central High Gym-Charlotte. Make it a Davidson
night with a real Davidson crowd. That team needs you.

Exams in the offing, for seniors and all. Old time jubilee on the campus. Don’t you believe it. Three-hour writs
are no fun, not even when over.

Felix looks ahead and sees a fine wrestling squad. Plenty of trouble for all competition. Laurels to Christenbury and his
giant-killers.

Congratulations to the student body on its hearty response to the Banner Elk Drive. Dig in and make it an
even thousand.

Today is the best time to do anything you have in mind, including the perusal of a few examinations soon
to be given. Don’t wait until today becomes tomorrow or last week.

High hopes in evidence for a speedy freshman quint. Red-Laird’s methods are bearing fruit.

Looking over next year’s football schedule. Well-balanced. Not too grinding. Should fit the team, and keep it fit.

Another basketball clash tucked away. Charlotte “Y” the victim. 33 to 18.

1930

A new year is a great institution ideally speaking, especially the first few days when we can cajole ourselves with
a flock of splendid policies which we faithfully determine to carry out in the days to be. They are dead
easy to make, but so hard to keep that many folks have lost interest in the old requirements of resolutions,
and are hailing the young cycle as a time to cast off from every restraint, more than before, and to
seek life’s gifts in haphazard fashion, believing that some guardian fate will lead them along happy paths.

We don’t see the good to be gained from a multitude of specific resolutions, the sort of petty things which
every day brings around with sometimes disheartening regularity, but we do believe in getting back to rock level and asking
a few questions which have most to do with our job of living a worthwhile life. Am I striving for
the creation of a clean heart within? Am I meeting my friends wholeheartedly? Am I helping anybody or anything? Am
I justifying the faith which has sent me to Davidson? Am I placing the values of my time, energy, and
abilities on the right things? Let’s think them over in fairness to ourselves and to outside interests as well. If
we measure up to these conditions the year ahead won’t be able to cast many shadows in our direction.

SCIENCE AND THE ARTS

Many college students are prone to believe and proclaim the idea that the particular course which they are taking is
the only practical one offered. In other words, the scientific man cannot be induced to admit the value of a
knowledge of the classical languages and arts. The reverse opinion is often true.

In current and serious discussions champions of the two schools have been known to become quite heated. These arguments are
usually of more or less stereotyped form, and the issues are generally much the same. Scientists maintain that the fundamental
training leading to a B. S. degree finds its zenith in the perfect blending of theory and practice. Because of
this combination—it is argued—the average college undergraduate, who is pushed for time and is eager to enter the industrial world,
receives a more intensified training. He is better and more completely equipped to stop or start the revolving wheels of
industry than the man who has studied a purely classical course for four years.

On the other hand, the masters affirm that a clear understanding of theory and practice cannot be attained unless the
background of former experiments is opened. These men insist that the only means of honestly studying the ancients is through
the so-called classical languages. Only through them can both the scientific and philosophical conclusions of former experimenters be clearly defined.

It would be trite to say that the present age is a scientific one. What if it is? But at
the same time, let us consider its background. In its endless gropings for the fundamental principles of chemical and physical
action, science has been aided and abetted by the errors and discoveries of former meta-physicians whose works have been translated
and explained by men whose names are followed by two letters, A. B.

It is sincerely believed that the thinking student can see the practical application of the two schools. They are, in
fact, inseparable. One must needs find a hard road without the other. It is disheartening to meet a doctor of
medicine who cannot speak the English language correctly, but it is equally repelling to be acquainted with a linguist to
whom the word protozoa carries no connotation beyond its derivation.

A well-educated man must know something of both schools. It is the age of specialization, but one must have a
firm foundation before he can specialize. The perfectly schooled man, the man who can honestly claim the term scholar, is
the man who has blended his courses, not subjecting one to the other, but making each a necessary aid. The
answer to the query must be—BOTH.

J. W. McCutchan.

SPIRIT OF BASKETBALL

Enthusiasm along basketball lines should reach a high pitch this weekend as the Wildcats tackle their traditional and seldom defeated
foes from the University of North Carolina. The contest to be staged in the Central Hi gymnasium at Charlotte is
due to attract a banner crowd of Davidsonians, who realize that the Cats enter the game with the best chance
in years of upsetting the Tar Heels, many times Southern Conference and state champions on the ribbed court.

Basketball is a sport which depends to a great extent upon the conditions attendant to the actual playing for its
success. Several important factors may have a part in the result of a game. For instance, if the gym is
filled with smoke clouds from innocent cigarettes, the closeness of the atmosphere works an undeserved hardship upon the players’ ability
to maintain pep and vitality so necessary to a good exhibition. If eager fans allow their partisanship to get the
better of them and begin to “rag” performers of the visiting team, to “boo” when foul shots are being tried,
and to display qualities of poor sportsmanship, the effect in a crowded gymnasium is much worse than on an open
football field, though it is the practice and not the place to which we are referring here.

It is all too easy to fall into habits of the above nature, so let Davidson men take care that
they furnish no ground for criticism of conduct during the current season of winter sports. Spirited cheering and inspiring support
can exercise a tremendous effect on a struggling quintet, however, and can often become the means of pulling the clash
“out of the fire.” It seems that a team can be lifted up and carried to new heights on the
strength of vigorous backing from the sidelines. The Wildcats will be in for a great

J. W. McCutchan

Two recent fires in Washington have caused an honest dread to dwell in the hearts of all patriotic citizens. When
the White House was damaged everyone was relieved to know that the “first family” and guests were safe. The financial
estimate of the damage was considerable. Upon the scorching of the Capitol Dome, a natural question as to the origin
of the fires was raised. Although it is yet a young nation, the United States holds, in its Federal Buildings,
historic treasures dear to the heart of every man and woman. These buildings should be fire-proofed.Despite its imposing white exterior,
the dome is little more than a shell. Citizens should be glad that the reserve wealth of the nation is
not housed in a similar hazard. About the first of the new year, a leading daily newspaper published a page
of photographs which contained pictures of the leading events of the year 1929. After carefully studying it, we were unable
to think of a single event of national importance that had been omitted. But, the repetition of some names was
striking. “Lindbergh flies,” “Lindbergh marries,” “President Hoover this and that,” “the Athletics wind up the season by winning the World’s
Series.” Interesting, important events composed a complete resume of world happenings. Still, there was no mention of the country doctor
who risked his life on a dismal night, in order that a soul might live, no mention of hundreds of
brave and trustworthy public officials who “shoot it out” with gangsters to have them released by incompetent courts. “Hello World!
Don’t go ’way!” President Hoover is to be commended for his recent diplomatic stroke in civil affairs. A group of
young Communists paraded in front of his offices, shouting, “Down with Hoover! Down with Government.” They were arrested and carried
to the police court. The president demanded that they be immediately released, so that “they might not achieve a cheap
martyrdom.” Sacco and Vanzetti obtained enough publicity for many years of agitation. The Communists do not appear to be succeeding
any too well around Lumberton, either. In connection with the above, it is wondered whether there will be student recognition
of labor troubles. It will be remembered that a large and usually reliable newspaper printed an account of a certain
radical club on the local campus. Mailboxes were inspected; speculation ran high as to who the desperadoes might be. It
was expected that, at any time, a procession might be seen issuing from one of the dormitories, with its personnel
waving red flags. Such was not the case. The club expired a natural death. With its democratic ideals, Davidson has
no place for fanatics who make common other people’s property and ideals. It is wondered how much good was accomplished
by the “Carnegie Investigation.” Whether a man be employed by University authorities to wind an eight-day clock, or whether he
is paid to report that the sun is still shining, he still plays amateur athletics. Some well-known characters have had
softer jobs than that and call it making an honest living. We saw a toothbrush the other day which interested
us. It was marked, “For Professional Use.” We have not yet decided which is the most logical of two deductions.
First, it might have been intended for practicing members of the Dental Profession. On the other hand, it is possible
that inter-collegiate tooth-brushing contests are coming into vogue. (Chess went out a few years ago). The brush has been so
marked, because any amateur found using said brush will henceforth and forevermore be barred from inter-collegiate competition. Page the Carnegie
Foundation! Writing a column has its disadvantages. Occasionally this column has a great temptation to be entirely humorous for one
week. On second thought, it is doubted if a change could be noticed. Still, to be personal, there are some
things printed underneath the caption above which remind us of dry chaff—very dry. Once in a great while we give
vent to our emotions, but invariably we come away feeling as though we had been in someone's smoke. Wonder who-o-o?
Just to incite interest, this column will give a fitting reward to any member of the Sophomore or Freshman class
who can recite from memory the telephone numbers which can be called in case of fire—‘naw”—conflagration. Remember the time the
chicken house burned? “Turn on the heat!” Once in a great while an inspiring topic comes to mind. We have
been hackneyed and have resolved. Well—we have resolved never to be inspiring. Inspiring persons are misunderstood. Take Calvin Coolidge for
example. A dollar a word—no resolution was ever kept when it had a chance to be broken. Ours will be
kept. Here’s to the Muse. : season under the baskets if the students awake to the fact that basketball must
be taken as seriously as football when it comes to the winning of games. As the men on the sidelines
feel about it, so will the five men on the court feel, and the chances are that their play will
be likewise. Every man in Davidson College behind that team, in person when possible, and always in spirit! Well, the
holidays are over (quite obviously) and I hope that everybody had a very Merry Christmas, Yom Kippur, Happy New Year,
and all of the usual twaddle. No, I didn’t make any resolutions, so this column still runs. I imagine that
everyone had about the same kind of a vacation that I did. Not good, not bad, just lousy. For this
evening’s entertainment, I believe I’ll write a little story with a moral. THE LAST CRUISE OF “OIL” No, I think
I’ll write about the last cruise of the good bark “Oil.” Drag up your chairs, mates, and let an old
salt spin a yarn. As well as I can remember, it goes something like this: A bunch of football players
had just finished a strenuous season dying for dear old Below Normal School, so they pocketed their earnings, hied forth
to the seashore, and signed to ship on the bark “Oil.” They were seeking adventure and recreation. Why they should
choose this form is beyond me, but they certainly found more than they were looking for. However, that’s getting ahead
of my story. Back up, Lightnin’! They boarded the ship singing the football songs of the season “We Ain’t Gonna
Train No More.” But I'll be hornswoggled if they didn’t change their tune in a hurry. After a week at
sea, they became terribly dissatisfied. The bark leaked and the food was terrible. In fact, they lived on a diet
of cheese entirely. They would go to their meals singing “For Cheese a Jolly Good Fellow.” But it soon became
apparent that the condition of the ship was more serious than the bite of food that they ate every day.
In other words, the bark was worse than the bite. The only pleasure that they had was provided by the
captain of their team, Watt A. Mann, who suffered dreadfully with asthma. He would sit in the cabin and play
his catarrh for them by the hour. Up until this time, the good ship “Oil” had ploughed the waters of
a placid ocean. But, shiver my timbers, a storm blew up. The ship was unharmed by the explosion, but the
wind and waves buffeted her old hulk cruelly. She began to go to pieces. The wind blew down her rigging,
the waves broke over her sides, and soon even her masts were mizzen. In the crash of falling spars, Watt
A. Mann was seriously injured. He called to the Captain, “Ossifer, I’ve got mine. This is the end and I
know it.” The Captain kneeled over him with tears in his eyes. “My boy,” he said chokingly, “tell me your
name, so I can tell your mother.” Mann struggled up and sobbed, “But, ossifer, she knows my name.” At this,
the Captain, whose name was Ed (they called him Sonny Boy for short), heaved the carcass overboard and painted a
huge X on the deck to mark the spot. Suddenly, an unusually large wave picked the “Oil” up bodily and
crashed her on a coral reef. In other words, it poured the “Oil” on the troubled waters. The Captain gazed
at the wreck and sighed. “Well, there’s the end of my smuggle-buggy,” he groaned. Then he cried, “Man the lifeboats!
Women and children first!” However, there were no women and children and the whole crew would have drowned if a
floating university had not floated by just in the nic-o-tine. There’s Southern hospitality for you. Well, the storm began to
subside. Soon, the wind was coming in short pants, so they all knew that it had reached its second childhood
and was near its finish. Finally, the storm went out like the lights in East, and the boys were conveyed
safely to land. They borrowed a couple of dollars from the Floating U. men (they had sunk all of their
money in “Oil”) and bummed back to die for Below Normal another season. There they all took a solemn oath
never to have any more dealings with dat ole davil—SEA. Now, children, kiss Papa nightti-night and get beddie-bye. Nautical, nautical!
Papa spank! Business Man (butter and egg): “Well, Miss Smith, would you like to take a business trip with me
next week?” Miss Smith (chewing hard): “Say, I may be your typewriter, but I’m not portable.”—Purple Parrott. “Do you like
automobiles?” “I’ll say I do. You should see the truck I eat for dinner.”—Awgwan. Our own private idea of carrying
a joke too far, is for a professor to hum “Home, Sweet Home” when he is writing the term exam
question on the board.—Awgwan. Joe Glee Club: “And what voice do you sing, young man? Tenor?” Frosh: “No. Shortstop.” Glee
Club: “Shortstop?” Frosh: “Yes, between second and third base.”—Own.
