THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 9, 1930

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office; Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

WILSON McCUTCHAN................. Editor-in-Chief
F. A. GANNON.......................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
S. S. DWELLE, JR..................... Managing Editor
W. A. WILSON.......................... Managing Editor
J. M. MARSHALL..................... Managing Editor
J. M. McCONNELL.................. Sports Editor
J. M. McCONNELL.................. Feature Editor
J. M. McCONNELL.................. Feature Editor
J. M. McCONNELL.................. Review Editor
J. M. McCONNELL.................. Associate Editor
J. M. McCONNELL.................. Associate Editor
J. M. McCONNELL.................. Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
P. M. C.................................. Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BAKER........................... Assistant Business Manager
J. B. ..................................... Assistant Business Manager
A. G. ..................................... Subscription Manager
P. H. BROWN......................... Solicitor
R. W. PADS............................ Solicitor
A. ......................................... Solicitor
A. L. MEBANE....................... Solicitor
W. R. MORROW..................... Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
G. S. F. WIDBY....................... President
D. G. STEPHENSON............... Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD................. Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
J. M. BROWN
J. G. BERRY
G. E. BAILEY
A. R. BIRD
E. BOYD
N. BUCKS
G. DUNKLIN
E. O. GUERRANT
W. T. HANCOCK
E. LAKE
R. L. McCALLIE
J. C. MATTHEWS
C. F. MYERS
F. MULLISS
H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. REDDINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
C. W. SPENCER
B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR
W. R. WARD
J. R. SMITH
D. D. McBRYDE

OCTOBER 9, 1930

There is a passion for hunting something deeply planted in the human breast.
—Charles Dickens.

Students wish to express their sympathy to Coach Younger in his recent sorrow.

SUGGESTIONS

One of the things which students miss most at this time of year is an open fireplace! One does not use pine knots to read by in this day of electricity, but a glowing hearth is home-like.

As cold weather rapidly becomes colder one thinks of the college band. Capes would improve the looks of that organization as well as keeping the boys warmer.

Appreciation is expressed to the Executive Committee for their action taken in regard to the Duke game at Durham. Everyone is intensely set toward victory, but every man should discomfort himself, if necessary, to be there.

Congratulations to the Athletic Association on their plans to provide programs for the remaining games of the football season! Spectators will be able to follow the game more closely.

If the roommate is digging for a review spare him from the agonizing harmony of a popular melody.

It would be a safe wager that when the fall rains begin there will be no need to stress the purpose of the new concrete walks.

James Alcinpura is the only co-ed among two hundred and ninety-nine students of a teachers’ college in New Jersey. He has courage.

THE FIRST STEP HAS BEEN TAKEN

With the sixth and final address made during his recent stay in Davidson, Dr. Ben R. Lacy terminated a series of talks which were as inspiring as any “since the memory of man runneth not to the contrary.” From his first sermon on Sunday morning, Dr. Lacy held the interest and attention of his audience. His was not an easy task, for he followed such men as Dr. Vander Meulen, Dr. Sam Glasgow, and Bill Anderson. He justified the choice of the Y. M. C. A. Students are universal in their admiration and appreciation. The true test will come after a month or two have elapsed. One round a week does not tend to develop a par golfer. Neither will a spiritual revival twice a year give a person satisfaction. All that Dr. Lacy and those before him have attempted to do is to direct the thought of the students. They recognize that a man cannot change himself totally in the space of a few days. Thought can be stimulated, not created. Ideas can be brought forward, but one has to continue to think about the problems mentioned before he can reach a solution. The men who have been stirred mentally are ready to think. Whether they do or not depends entirely on themselves. Fall services are completed. Some men will fall back into the same old rut; others will stay out. The most interesting fact about thoughts is that one leads to another. They progress, subconsciously perhaps, into surprising situations. Incidentally, the point is that students will derive little benefit from these services unless they ponder over them. Dr. Lacy has gone; winter is coming. There will be plenty of time to think over his advice.

CLOTHES OF OFFICE

On Tuesday a vast crowd of people attended the celebration of the battle of Kings Mountain. Perhaps the greatest drawing card was the presence of Herbert Hoover, President of the United States of America. One is naturally drawn into the audience of a man supposedly great. We do not intend at this time to comment on the rather apparent employment of a commemorative event for political purposes. It will be recalled that Republican party headquarters announced the billing of four speeches in defense of the present administration. The one Tuesday was listed among them. However, this is not a discussion of parties or of politics. Man will do much and suffer much to gratify his curiosity; how far he goes depends to a great extent on his mental capacity. Gratitude has nothing to do with it. One type of mind will travel for miles to witness the hanging of a notorious criminal. A more advanced type will go through exactly the same difficulties to listen to a brilliant scientist. An especially famous medicine man in darkest Africa exacts the same homage from members of his tribe. Few people pause to think that, although a man may be the chief executive of the greatest republic in the world, he may not be a good philosopher. Moreover, he is seldom an active athlete, a theologian, or a psychologist. If he is fortunate, he may know life. Hero worship is a peculiar emotion; its ingredients are hard to analyze. This much is evident; deification of those men fortunate enough to fill public offices should not be winked at. It would have been easily possible for a man far wiser, far nobler, and far more efficient than President Hoover, to have been in the crowd at Kings Mountain. His name would have passed unsung; his presence would have been unnoticed. This is not a criticism of the President of our federal state. The incident merely illustrates the point we wish to make. Clothes may help to make the man, but clothes of office do not. The dignitary must have been a man before he was elected to his position or born to it, as in the case of monarchs. And, many kings were notable failures because they were rulers without character. A man does not become great upon election whether it be by the voice of the people or the divine right of kings. He should have been great before. Again, we point to the fact that we are not questioning the subject of Hoover’s claim to fame. But, we do say that the majority of the people who saw the President on Tuesday were more concerned with the position than the man. This same principle holds true for any office, famous or obscure. It is both possible and probable that an executive can be great because of himself and because of his title. It is also possible for a little man to sit in a great place. There will doubtless be much adverse opinion as regards this theory. If there is, we can only assume the attitude of Patrick Henry when he shouted, “Caesar has his Brutus, Charles I his Cromwell, and George III... (cries of “Treason! Treason!” were heard in the hall). If this be treason, make the most of it!”

INFERENCES FROM “WHO’S WHO”

This publication makes no claim to omniscience in selecting the 29,704 names included in the new edition. Some are there because of official position, but the rest are chosen because of “special prominence in creditable lines of effort,” which, in turn, makes them “subjects of extensive interest, inquiry or discussion.” A certain degree of curiosity on the part of the users of this volume is assumed, for “where there is no curiosity, information becomes tedious in proportion as it is precise.” There is no attempted appraisement of worth, no rigid definition of success. “Prominence” procures admission to “Who’s Who,” and its pages give added prominence even to those who are but “prominulous” on entering. Immediately the absence is noted of names that should be there if inclusion were a measure of excellence. But as a general work of reference, the book is invaluable in giving specific local habitation to men and women whose names arouse interest. It also furnishes reliable biographical material from which to generalize. This year, special attention has again been given to the inclusion of...

What Do You Know About?
Where the Old Clothes Go?
The National Miniature Open?
Bet-a-Hat?
Expensive seats?
Scoop the Scoops?

What happens to our old clothes after the pressing clubs get through...wearing them out? Well, if they have had four years of college education, they very often get to take a trip overseas and turn up on the back of some follower of Gandhi in India, or on a camel driver in Egypt. The business of exporting old clothes has grown into a sizable industry, and due to the fact that American clothes are better than those of other nations in quality, garments which once shed the cold of winter from American citizens are likely to keep the sand from a city dweller of Iraq. Each country seems to have its own tastes. The well-dressed Indian has a penchant for vests, frequently as many as four or five at once, topping the outfit off with a loud waistcoat. In South Africa, the demand for style finds its highest expression. He also likes an occasional Army overcoat around in case of snow, or merely for general wear. Discarded Tuxedos find their way to Iraq, where dress coats also are in high favor. The Egyptians prefer cast-off summer suits and other lightweight clothing. Be sure to find out the trade-in value of that old suit before discarding it the next time.

“No game is in a sound state when it is played only by professionals.”—Dean Inge. Professional golfers may laugh at miniature golf, but the prizes offered to the winner of the first National Open Championship of the Tom Thumb courses are not to be sneezed at. Winners of local Pee Wee tournaments will meet on the course at Lookout Mountain, Tenn., which, by the way, is the birthplace of the current American plague, to battle for first money, which amounts in this case to $7,500. Among national stars entered in the local eliminations are Gene Sarazen, twice winner of the Professional Golfers Association Championship and numerous other titles; Walter Kozak, 1929 Metropolitan champ; Bill Mehlhorn; and Al Espinosa, who tied Bobby Jones for the National Open Championship last year, losing in the playoff. Tommy Armour has also filed his entrance, and Wiffy Cox, among many others.

“An act of Congress has small jurisdiction over what men think.”—Calvin Coolidge. One of the niftiest salesmanship schemes of the season is the Bet-a-Hat campaign put on by the Knox Hat Co. Why, say the sponsors, risk your hard-earned shekels on betting on something you don’t want. Make a hat the prize of your wager, and go through the season with a brand-new sky piece overhead. And the Railway Express Agency, noticing huge spaces of nothing on the sides of their trucks, decided to sell the unused space to advertisers. So Wrigley and Chesterfield ads are now appearing on the express delivery trucks all over the United States.

“If I should die, I should have plenty of brothers to succeed me.”—Prince of Wales. While hurling epithets at the dirty so-and-so who borrowed your chair over the summer, be thankful that it wasn’t a seat in the New York Stock Exchange that was lifted. The value of one, as shown in a recent sale, was $265,000. Ownership of a seat entitles one to access to the floor of the exchange and the right to buy and sell stocks on it. But even this price is low compared to that which seats were bringing in April. At that time, one went for $480,000. The sharp drop in turnover of stocks has caused the corresponding decrease in the value of the trading privileges.

“Prohibition is not an issue in the Republican party, and I don’t believe it is in the Democratic party.”—Sen. Simeon D. Fess. The Chicago Herald-Examiner scooped all Chicago newspapers when it published the copyrighted story one day that Rogers Hornsby would assume the management of the Chicago Cubs. But that evening, the Tribune announced over its radio that it was all a mistake, and that Hornsby would not take over the reins of the Chi Cubs. But very soon thereafter, this same Tribune published another copyrighted story saying that the Rajah was the boss from then on. Quite a mix-up, and probably the only time that a copyright has ever been granted twice on the same story.

Teacher—What is an alibi?
Bright Boy—Being somewhere where you ain’t.