THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1930

Davidson 1910 Players Do Not Regret Having Played Football

Twenty Questionnaires Filled Out on Home-Coming by Men Who Performed on the Gridiron for Davidson College Twenty Years Ago Contain Interesting Information

WOULD ADVISE IMMEDIATE FAMILY TO PLAY

Many Cited Instances Where They Had Occasion to Put Into Practice The Things They Had Learned on the Football Field

Do football players regret having participated in the gridiron sport 20 years after graduation? Would they strongly urge members of their own immediate families to participate in intercollegiate football? Do football players ever have occasion to put into practice things they learned on the gridiron? And what inspires football players to do their best?

Universal answers to these questions would no doubt be of vast importance and interest to football coaches throughout the country, to college presidents, to college student bodies, to high school students, and to the public in general. Some may even go so far as to say that the affirmative or negative replies to such a questionnaire would justify or nullify the existence of the present sport which has captivated millions of people.

If answers to such questions can be used as a criterion, and if the football players of Davidson College 20 years ago can be considered as a cross-section, then players do not regret having participated in the sport, they find numerous occasions when they can advantageously use the things they learned on the gridiron, and there are innumerable reasons why a player does his best.

When the 1910 state championship football team of Davidson returned to the campus Home-Coming Day for a reunion, a questionnaire was presented to them along the above lines. Proponents of the idea contended that these heroes of two decades ago were now mature men, and would not answer the questions haphazardly or with the immature minds of recent graduates. On the other hand, their answers would be made after 20 years in the business or professional world, and would indicate mature judgment.

Twenty players were at Davidson on October 25, and 20 questionnaires had “No” to the following: “You participated in your last intercollegiate football contest 20 years ago. During those 20 years, has there, at any time, been any regrets that you were a participant?” In other words, these 20 men were unanimous in saying that there had been no regrets. To be emphatic, one answered, “Positively no.”

The second query was, “Do you, or would you, strongly urge or advise those eligible in your immediate family to play intercollegiate football?” Again Davidson’s 20 players on the 1910 title team were unanimous in saying that they would so advise. All answered “Yes.” Two had these reservations: “Yes, if built for it and had confidence in the coach,” and “Yes, with proper training and no apparent physical defects.”

Question No. 3: “Since leaving college, during your professional or business careers, you have doubtless encountered situations which demanded immediate decisions, quick action, ‘a second to think, so to speak, in arriving at your conclusions. Have you ever considered that your football training was helpful to you?” Eighteen of the 20 players unequivocally answered, “Yes,” one of these 18 men saying, “Yes, many times!” The other two had answers, “Very likely,” and “I think so.”

(4) “If your answer to No. 3 is yes,” said the questionnaire, “kindly cite an instance.” Some of the players cited several instances, and without comment, some of the answers are given below: “Avoided would-be auto accident.” “Saving my boy from a serious fall—the most outstanding attribute is getting into action quickly.” “It has aided me in quick decisions and to carry on under any circumstances.” “In salesmanship, in meeting unexpected turns in making a sale.” “In medical profession, quick decision has been frequent.” “Getting a platoon of men out of line of shell fire.” “One work occasion—a proposition for other salesmanship.” “A near accident with automobile.” “Speed in two cases this week, both of whom had stopped breathing.” “Aided me to make one ‘quick’ decision while in service (U. S. Navy) won promotion.” “My entire business life necessitates quick work and thinking.” “Too many to mention—a near train accident being one in particular.” “The performance of an emergency operation (1918), quick decision being necessary.” “When I went into the army for overseas service.” “All questions as they come up, especially under adverse decisions.” “Rescued baby from burning building.” “In evangelistic campaigns, in personal work, in young people’s work.” “Once or twice, keeping cool in dealing with salesmen.”

Quite varied were the answers to the final question, “While you were a member of this 1910 Davidson team which, in your opinion, stimulated you individually to a tensity in contest, what keyed your fighting spirit to a higher pitch than anything else?” Seven answered that it was their football coach, his talks before the game, his leadership, his character, spirit and personality. Four cited college spirit and four said it was “love for old Davidson.” These three things led the list. Three said that it was their natural love of the sport, another thought that being outclassed inspired them, two said teamwork, and another contended that it was an appeal to sacrifice. One of the players said that “it was a slap on the back from some other teammate who was as tired as you.” Another said that it was the realization that “ten others were expecting you to do your part.” And many other reasons bordering on the ones listed above, but differently expressed, were given by the men.

Six 1926 graduates were members of the Mohican Club, and in the four and a half years since graduation have kept up a round robin letter that has “made the rounds” every two months. It is interesting to note that six men are now scattered to five different states. Four are married, four are teachers and two are ministers. This club contained A. Y. Bowie, Birmingham, Ala.; L. L. Deck, Atlanta, Ga.; G. M. Eddington, Franklin, Tenn.; Rev. J. M. Garrison, Columbia, Mo.; Rev. A. H. Hollingsworth, Jr., Georgetown, Ky., and R. B. Parker, Rome, Ga.

These Davidson alumni recently elected as officers of medical societies include Dr. R. M. King, 1900, ofConcord, as president of the Seventh District Association, and Dr. D. S. Currie, ’07, of Parkton, as vice-president of the Fifth District Medical Society.

ALUMNI PERSONALS
Used by Courtesy of The St. Louis (Mo.) Globe-Democrat

Alumni Deaths
R. M. Foster, ’71
Judge Robert Magruder Foster, who received both his bachelor of arts and master of arts degrees from Davidson in 1871, died at his apartment in St. Louis, Mo., on November 1. He was 78 years old. For a half-century, this Davidson alumnus had been a prominent figure in St. Louis’ legal, political, and civic life. The deceased was born in Georgia and studied for two years at Alabama Male College before he entered Davidson in 1869. Graduating from here, he studied law at Washington University, completing his course in the St. Louis Law School in 1875. His law career was successful, and at one time he was circuit judge in St. Louis. He was a member of the American Bar Association and the Missouri State Bar Association. Before his retirement from the law and business world 15 years ago, Judge Foster had served as president of the Central Arkansas and Eastern Railway Company, the Helena Water Company, the (Ark.) Farm Company, and Townsite Company.

Births
Rev. H. N. Alexander, '10, and Mrs. Alexander, of Brandon, Miss., announce the birth of a daughter, Susanna, on October 22.
Mr. William H. Neal, '18, and Mrs. Neal, of Winston-Salem, announce the birth of a son, William Henry, Jr., on October 24.
Mr. C. R. Crawford, '23, and Mrs. Crawford, of Kinston, announce the birth of a daughter, Patricia, on November 5.

An ancient pair of Egyptian dice, dating from Cleopatra’s day, have been received by the Chicago Field Museum.

Garland Court
Printing and Engraving of Every Description
J. A. CANNON 311 Watts
STANDARD PRINTING CO. Charlotte, N. C.

The alumni office is indebted to Thos. W. Rankin, '09, of Fayetteville, for a photo of the 1907 football team, which picture was recently received. Mr. Rankin also gave the alumni office a photograph of the 1909 team, two years ago. These pictures, along with others of recent squads and trophies, are on display in the “D” Club room in the north end of Elm Row.

Rev. H. H. Cassady, 1900, is supplying the pulpit of the Ora Street Church at Asheville until next spring.

Rev. R. C. Clontz, ’21, is holding evangelistic services at Kenansville.

Dr. Bernard R. Smith, '06, of Asheville, has been chosen as physician to Herbert Hoover, Jr., during the stay of the President's son in Asheville. Mr. Hoover plans to be in Asheville for at least six months. Selection of Dr. Smith by Dr. Joel T. Boone, White House physician, was made.

Alumni Marriages
Law-Potter
“Mrs. Bertha C. Potter announces the marriage of her daughter, Frances Ruth, to William Latta Law, on Saturday, October 11, at Moorestown, N. J.” Mr. Law is an alumnus of Davidson in the class of 1916. He was originally of Rock Hill, S. C., and after serving with the United States Expeditionary Forces in France, went to Havana, Cuba, where he was in business. He later was located in Lakeland, Fla., and has more recently gone to Moorestown, N. J., where he has business connections. He is at 133 E. Main St., Moorestown, N. J.

Elliott-Gibbes
“Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Gibbes announce the marriage of their daughter, Mildred, to William Talley Elliott, on Wednesday, October 29, at Columbia, S. C.” Mr. Elliott graduated from Davidson in 1923. He entered the law department of the University of South Carolina, completed his work at that institution, and has been teaching law at the University and practicing at Columbia, S. C., for some time. Mr. Elliott is located at 901 Loan & Exchange Bank Bldg., Columbia.

Rev. Thornton Whaling, D.D., ’77, who has been in Asheville for some time, is now located in Columbia, S. C., at 1600 Hampton Street.

Rev. T. L. Fraser, ‘23, is now preaching at North Haledon, N. J. Mr. Fraser has been studying at the Biblical Seminary in New York for the past two years.

Paul B. Frye, ’29, is teaching school at Waynesville, N. C.

The address of Rev. W. A. Christian, Jr., '27, in Edinburgh, Scotland, is 16 Dundonald Street.

Rev. J. R. Woods, ’18, who has been doing mission work at Elsa, Texas, has gone to Peiping, China, where he is teaching in the North China Union Language School.

Dr. Geo. R. Wilkinson, ’12, of Greenville, S. C., recently read a paper before over 100 medical men of the Fourth District Medical Association of South Carolina.

I. C. Moomaw, '25, of Roanoke, Va., is credit manager of the LeGrand Jewelry Company, which has a chain of seven stores.

Gaston, '96, of Chester, S. C., who was elected to the state legislature this summer, is a candidate for the position of justice of the Supreme Court bench of South Carolina.

Lanier Gant, ’30, was among 84 graduate students receiving awards from Columbia University this summer. He is studying in the law department of this New York school and is at 410 Furnald Hall.

Complete Service for School Publications
Annuals Magazines Catalogs New Books
Queen City Printing Co. Charlotte, N. C. Established 1897

WEEK-END TRIPS
Can be made economically in a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford from—
HENDERSON’S FILLING STATION

HANES PROVIDES REAL UNDERWEAR LUXURY AND SERVICE AT LOW COST
When you button up in HANES, you button out all the underwear grief you’ve ever known. HANES always fits you—never bunches or binds. The reinforced cuffs don't pull off—buttons stay! The materials are soft, long-lived. HANES is a man’s underwear. Dungarees couldn’t ask for more masculine company, yet smarter or more up-to-date underwear isn’t made. Go take a look at the Gold Label Elastic-knit Lightweight Union Suit. It's really luxurious and, as in all HANES garments from light to extra-heavy, the hanespun cotton is knitted and cut to careful measurements of both trunk and chest. If you wear summer weights all year round, be sure to see the pleasing styles, rich materials, and many special features in HANES Shirts and Shorts.