THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 30, 1930

Side Line Shots At the Wildcats on the Court and Mat
By P. R. Alderman

With about two weeks rest behind them, the Wildcats are on the warpath again. Only a month left to go, but there’s plenty to be done in that time. Barring the losses to Furman, which were due largely to Carl Pritchett’s injury, and to Charlotte “Y,” the season so far has been perfect for the Cats. They've downed some mighty good quintets too. It’s going to be a close race between the Fresh and Varsity to see which can come through the season with the least number of losses. Both are beginning to find themselves as teams and that’s what counts.

The V. M. I. matmen didn’t find Tex Tilson’s men any too easy last Saturday, in spite of the fact that three of the Wildcats’ best bets were out. The score doesn’t tell the whole tale by any means. Alex Warren and “Pie” Conway furnished most of the thrills against the Cadets. They were fighting against odds, especially Conway, but came through on top in spite of it.

Captain Johnston and his men won't be seen in action as much as we would like. The trip through Virginia next week and the State trip the latter part of the month will include most of the major games. Judging from the records of Virginia quintets so far this year, the Kitten and Varsity squads are going to have about all they can handle next week. The odds never are hopelessly against any Davidson team, however, as has been proven time and time again. Unfavorable odds call for fight and the Wildcats practically thrive on that.

With intramural contests getting into swing, there’s enough in the realm of athletics going on to give everybody a chance to make up for any lost exercise so far. Surely looks good to see the gridders don their uniforms again even if there won’t be any games to look forward to. Next year should be one of the best in Wildcat history, barring unforeseen mishaps.

Pritchett and Johnston are giving each other plenty of competition for high-scoring honors. This race should get better as the season goes on. The varsity took a big step toward revenge against Carolina for the licking in football last fall by their cage victory over them. Wake Forest is the next in order to be reckoned with.

The Wildkittens also have some old scores to settle for grid defeats—especially against Duke and State first-year men. If they keep on like they’ve started, they’re pretty apt to accomplish these tasks. The Wildcats need and appreciate wholehearted backing during the basketball season as well as on the gridiron. We can’t stress this too much and it’s our duty to fight along with those in the battle.

Dean—My boy, do you drink?
Stude—No, sir.
Dean—How unfortunate. My brother in Scotland sent me two cases of Scotch and since I don’t drink, I am trying to dispose of it.

Charlotte ‘Y’ Team Conquers ’Cat Five

A desperate rally in the waning minutes of the game fell one point short and the Davidson College basketball five went down to defeat before the Charlotte “Y” Monday night at the Central High Gym, 39 to 38. The final whistle sounded just as Johnson, Wildcat Captain, was about to take a couple of shots for a foul inflicted on him. Although he made good with both tosses, his last failed to knot the count by a single point. The “Y” started off with a rush and for a time it seemed as ifthe 'Cats would be entirely played off their feet. However, near the close of the first half, the defense of the Charlotte Club faltered, and the Wildcats left the floor leading by one point. The count then being 17-16. Again in the second half, the "Y" led by Henderson, McCachren, and Craver, outdistanced the Wildcats, and the closing rally of the Davidson quintet fell just one point short of knotting the score.

Charlotte "Y" (39) Pos. Davidson (38)
Craver (10) F Pritchett (4)
Henderson (17) F Johnston (15)
Bullards (6) C Rusk (7)
McCachren (4) G Proctor
Clark (2) G Goodson (6)

Substitutions: Charlotte "Y": Smith, Medlin; Davidson: Martin (4), Mathis, Moore (2); Referee, Rawson.

Schedule for February Athletics
Feb. 1—Wrestling—Varsity vs. N. C. State—There.
Feb. 2—Coleemee All-Star Basketball game—Here.
Feb. 3—Basketball—Wake Forest Fresh vs. Davidson Fresh—Here.
Feb. 5—Basketball—Varsity vs. V. M. I.—There.
Feb. 5—Basketball—Fresh vs. W. & L. Fresh—There.
Feb. 5—Wrestling—Fresh vs. Barium Springs—Here.
Feb. 6—Basketball—Varsity vs. Roanoke College—There.
Feb. 6—Basketball—Fresh vs. Roanoke College Fresh—There.
Feb. 7—Basketball—Varsity vs. V. P. I.—There.
Feb. 7—Basketball—Fresh vs. V. P. I.—There.
Feb. 8—Wrestling—Varsity vs. V. P. I.—There.
Feb. 10—Basketball—Varsity vs. Duke—Charlotte.
Feb. 11—Basketball—Fresh vs. Belmont Abbey—There.
Feb. 12—Basketball—Varsity vs. Wake Forest—Here.
Feb. 12—Wrestling—Varsity vs. Carolina—Here.
Feb. 12—Basketball—Fresh vs. Oak Ridge—There.
Feb. 14—Wrestling—Fresh vs. Barium Springs—There.
Feb. 15—Wrestling—Varsity vs. Duke—There.
Feb. 15—Basketball—Varsity vs. Elon—Here.
Feb. 15—Track—University of Virginia Indoor Meet—There.
Feb. 17—Basketball—Comptometer Girls vs. Yadkinville—Here.
Feb. 18—Basketball—Varsity vs. Erskine—Here.
Feb. 21—Basketball—Varsity vs. N. C. State—There.
Feb. 21—Basketball—Fresh vs. N. C. State Fresh—There.
Feb. 22—Wrestling—Varsity vs. Army—There.
Feb. 22—Basketball—Fresh vs. Duke Fresh—There.
Feb. 24—Basketball—Varsity vs. Carolina—There.
Feb. 24—Basketball—Freshman vs. Carolina—There.
Feb. 24—Wrestling—Varsity vs. University of Virginia—There.
Feb. 27—Basketball—Varsity vs. Wofford—Here.

Wildcats To Battle N. C. State Matmen
First Big Five Meet of Year for Davidson

The Davidson wrestling team journey to Raleigh this weekend for a meet with North Carolina State Saturday evening. This will be the first encounter of the season with a Big Five team for the Wildcats, although it is the third match for the year. The 'Cat exponents of the cauliflower sport have made a very creditable showing against opponents so far, having a match with Concord Y. M. C. A. showing on the win column, and one with Virginia Military Institute appearing on the loss side. An unusually good showing was made against the latter team, considering the fact that the 'Cats were weakened by injuries. The work of Conway in the unlimited class was especially outstanding. Although outweighed 35 pounds, Conway handled the cadet entry in fine style. He is certain to give any man in his weight a very interesting evening. Captain Christenbury, Marrow, and Frank Brown were held out of the match last Saturday on account of injuries, and if they are able to wrestle this week, the team will be greatly strengthened. No definite announcement of the men who will make the trip has been made as yet, but in all probability the list will include Cowan, Gorham, Russell, Brown, Brohard, Conway, Captain Christenbury, Covington, Warren, and Marrow.

"Yield or be ground beneath the wheels?" roared Inglesby.

"Never!" cried Our Nell, bound to the rails, her eyes blazing with defiance. "Death is preferable to a life with such as you."

"How do you make that out?" he purred.

"A rasping voice such as yours would make life a living hell," she answered him. "Unbind me, change to OLD GOLDS and maybe I'll listen to reason."

P. LORILLARD CO.