THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1930

Senior Party Sets High Mark in Campus Social Activities

Girls Are Here for Entertainment—Rapid Fire Program Offered by Faculty

Many members of the Davidson College faculty, their wives, and others connected with the institution, who ordinarily follow dignified roles, discarded these last Saturday night to become school boys and school girls of 50 years ago in order to present a cross-section of the old-time one-room schoolhouse, and delight over 100 members of the senior class and their guests with a play as a part of the annual entertainment of the senior-faculty party. They really presented two different plays to the appreciative audience, one depicting “School Days—As They Were,” and the second scene being “School Days—As They Will Be,” the former being a caricature, and the latter representing a “radio college,” with a well-known announcer and musical entertainment interspersing the more serious discourses.

Fictitious names of an outlandish nature, which fitted the equally ludicrous and outlandish costumes, were applied to the faculty members. The schoolmaster was Prof. Archibald Currie; the committee which came to the school on a tour of inspection were Uriah Honeysuckle, enacted by Dr. C. R. Harding; Theophilus Tinker, played by Prof. E. J. Erwin; and Sandy Crackstone, who was Dr. John L. Douglas. Visitors that day were Mrs. Uriah Honeysuckle, a role played by Miss Orrie Steele, who brought in her three-year-old son, Ezekiel Jedediah (Buddy), who was Capt. John W. Elkins. The “baby” was pulled into the room in a miniature express wagon.

Practically every one of the students had their opportunity to “show off” before the committee. Tryphosia and Tryphena Honeysuckle, played by Mrs. W. R. Grey and Mrs. John A. Otto, recited a poem together; Carl Dunderhead, who was Prof. Henry T. Lilly, gave an elaborate intellectual discourse on the cat; Patience Peterkin, Salvation Bradford, and Timothy Truck, enacted by Mrs. A. B. Robson, Prof. S. C. Lyon, and Dr. G. R. Vowles, respectively, listened to the famous George Washington story, and later wrote their own version of what they had heard. The audience was kept in an uproar. Jonathan Pettibone, who was Prof. K. J. Foreman, was the orator, and sneezed and stuttered his way through the oration; Hester Jane Doolittle lisped through a ditty, and Philander Doolittle, enacted by Dr. Geo. B. Watts, kept the attention of the several hundred people by frequent trips to the “old oaken bucket” with its old-time gourd.

The second part of the play represented a modern radio college, Graham McNamee being impersonated by Prof. F. K. Fleagle, who was both announcer and entertainer. The great musicians scheduled to entertain members of the radio college were the Davidson orchestra. Amos ’n Andy, who Saturday night were Prof. J. T. Kimbrough and Prof. James Truesdale, dressed as blackface comedians, had plenty of “wise cracks” to feature their dialogue. The closing was “Aunt Sally,” impersonated by Mrs. Emily Cullum, who told a few bedtime stories and sang for the “children of the unseen audience.”

At the conclusion of this program in the main auditorium of Chambers building, the faculty and their guests adjourned to the banquet hall of the building, where the hosts, still attired in their play costumes, served the seniors and their friends with a turkey supper. The Davidson orchestra furnished music for the occasion, various stunts by individuals and groups were offered for entertainment, and as a grand finale to the evening’s pleasures, the entire crowd participated in a grand march.

Out-of-town visitors included Miss Virginia Dillon, Atlanta, Ga.; Miss Mary Louise Paguese, Columbia College, S. C.; Miss Carter Clark, Covington, Ky.; Miss Maude Westcott, Charleston, S. C.; Miss Geraldine Bryan, Coker College, S. C.; Miss Frances Marshall, Rock Hill, S. C.; Miss Lillian Van Wagner, New York City; Miss Mary Engle, Kissimmee, Fla.; Miss Bunny Westcott, Charleston, S. C.; Miss Elizabeth Kirby, Spartanburg, S. C.; and Miss Serene de Saussure, Greenville, S. C. Converse students from Spartanburg, S. C., were Misses Elizabeth Johnson, Helen Shuler, La Verne Brown, Marion Burwell, Emalie Howard, and Mamie Hine LaRoque.

Visitors from North Carolina cities included:

Charlotte—Misses Marjorie Bonitz, Martha Dulin, Dorothy Wooley, Eileen Brown, Ellen Hawkins, Martha Gruver, Minna Caldwell, Kate Caldwell, Catherine Brown, Sissy Stokes, Elizabeth Ross, Jean Marion, and Adeline Wooley.

Albemarle—Misses Juanita Huneycutt, Isabelle Efird, and Vivian Austin.

Concord—Misses Alys Mae Fuller, Irene Long, Mary Cannon, and Orchard Lafferty.

Davidson—Misses Caroline Moffett, Nona Elkins, Sophia Cathey, Lucy Martin Currie, Fredrica Hallum, Susan Moffet, Madeline Lyon, and Mary Agnes Gaffney.

Statesville—Misses Mary Neal Hobbs, Barbara Byford, Mary Brandon, Jessie Martin, Margaret Christenbury, Rebecca Ritchie, and Elizabeth Alexander.

Greensboro—Misses Ruth Ferree, Ruth Abbott, Mary Lynch Phipps, Rose Goodwin, and Louise Smith.

Salisbury—Misses Ludie Barefoot, Francis Thompson, Edith Clark, and Margaret Hudson.

Mooresville—Misses Alice Carr, Nancy Howard, and Margaret Davidson.

Others were Miss Louise Denning, Benson; Miss Marie Benton, Hendersonville; Miss Dorothy Wagg, Connelly Springs; Miss Louise Puckett, Maiden; Miss Annie Sue Holland, Trap Hill; Miss Blanche Briggs, Lenoir-Rhyne; Miss Sue Jane Mauney, Salem College; Miss Mary Lee Lindsey, Taylorsville; Miss Harriet Boyd, Waynesville; Miss Mary Norris, Salem College; and Miss Dorothy Wreen, Durham.

DR. KIRK TO DELIVER (Continued from Page 1)

Founder of the fund on “Unsettled Questions.” Dr. Robert L. Dabney gave the second series on “The Atonement.” Dr. J. B. Shearer gave the third on “Modern Mysticism,” and the final series were delivered by Dr. Walter W. Moore on “The Permanence of the Christian Ideal.” None of these lecturers are living today.

SOPHOMORES ARE HOSTS (Continued from page 1)

“Sally” songs were sung by the Kappa Delta chorus of Queens College. This was followed by several dance numbers given by Billy Franklin of the Sophomore class. Mr. Dan McConnell then sang a number of humorous selections which were enjoyed very much by everyone. Next, the Kappa Delta chorus gave a series of popular songs. Professors Truesdale and Kimbrough then gave a very good imitation of “Amos ’n Andy.” Following this, the party was entertained by several song and dance numbers by Mr. Truesdale and his sister. Miss Martha Dulin then sang several solos and gave a very entertaining reading. This concluded one of the most enjoyable weekends of the year and one of the best programs yet prepared for a similar occasion. The change which the Sophomore Class of this year made in the program of former years proved to be very good and it is hoped that next year’s class will follow in their footsteps.

DR. LANDRITH REVIEWS (Continued from page 1)

Humorous talk of last year, and he was enthusiastically received by the student body this time, his excellent thoughts being most helpful in promoting an intense interest in Christian Endeavor work on the campus. Dr. W. W. Akers, pastor of the West Ave. Presbyterian Church, of Charlotte, and Mr. Roy Breg, secretary of the International Society of Christian Endeavor, were also present for the chapel service. Selecting as his topic a few words from the tenth chapter of Mark, he read as follows: “And when He was gone forth into the way, there came one running, and kneeled to Him, and asked Him, ‘Good Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?’ And Jesus

New Catalogues

The Davidson College Bulletin and Catalogue for 1929-1930, containing Announcements for 1930-1931, will be available on or about March 15th. It is the customof the College to publish the regular monthly bulletin each year in March in the form of a catalogue. The issue this year will have practically the same contents as in previous years except that the new requirements for entrance and degrees, which will go into effect in September, 1930, will be included. Any student who wishes to obtain a copy of the catalogue may do so by calling at the office of the Registrar any time after March 15th.

Edwin Steckel Presents Amusing Lecture-Recital
Noted Entertainer Pleases Large Audience With Various Popular and Classical Selections

Last Thursday evening, Mr. Edwin Steckel was presented in a lecture-recital in New Chambers at 7:30. A satisfactory audience was present. Mr. Steckel began by lecturing for the first twenty minutes on the origin and advancement of music and musical instruments. Music, said he, has both physical and spiritual elements such as love, hatred, and pious devotion. Music began in the night-time of civilization in the form of sounds made by a savage in striking a hollow tree with a club as a signal of danger. This later developed into the animal skin drum. Rhythm was soon introduced by the dances of these savages to their crude drums. He concluded by saying that the real purpose of the recital was to teach one to listen better to music, especially men, as music really belongs to men, since all great musical composers were men.

Mr. Steckel illustrated in his lecture such musical elements as rhythm and harmony by playing numerous pieces and compositions on the Morrison organ. Among the better known were: “The Blue Danube,” “Irish Folk Song,” “My Old Kentucky Home,” and “Finlandia.” The second half of the program was completed on the piano by which Mr. Steckel showed that the backbone of many modern popular hits were simple old tunes or great compositions. He finished the recital by playing “Dixie” and “Yankee Doodle” simultaneously. Mr. Steckel’s lecture was filled with a number of humorous sayings and quite a bit of satire to the amusement of his audience.

There is a spirit of co-operation in Christian Endeavor; and the Christian Endeavor movement stands for four things. First, it stands for the Confession of Christ, which includes absolute faith in Christ; second, it stands for service for Christ. Every good deed in this world is pleasing to the Lord; we must show loyalty to Christ’s churches. The third thing is fellowship with Christ and with Christ’s people. It is a pity to confine your ministerial activities to a single congregation in the twentieth century. It’s the “plus” that makes the man who is above the rest. The fourth purpose of the Christian Endeavor movement today is the promoting of interdenominational fellowship and good will, of evangelism and Christian citizenship.” In closing his talk, Doctor Landrith explained that in Christian Endeavor, “we show the world that we know how to forgive,” and spoke of the tremendous possibility that Christian Endeavor possesses.

Two Screen Stars in Paul Whiteman Hour
John Boles (left) and Lloyd Hughes listeners are to hear John Boles, star of ‘The Desert Song’ and “Rio Rita,” sing his “Song of the Dawn” Tuesday evening, March 18. This is one of his numbers on an all-male program of the Paul Whiteman-Old Gold Hour, to be broadcast over the Columbia system at 9 o'clock eastern standard time. Boles, known to thousands as the “golden voice of the screen,” is now co-starring with Laura La Plante on Universal’s lot in “La Marsellaise.” He also appears with Whiteman and his band in ‘King of Jazz,” soon to be presented on the talking screen by Carl Laemmle. Lloyd Hughes, another star of this week's Old Gold broadcast, came with Radio Pictures to appear with Bebe Daniels in her first show after her success in “Rio Rita” and “Love Comes Along.” Hughes also has the lead with Mary Astor in an early release tentatively titled “Cooking Her Goose.”

Bonteron Not Able To Deliver Lecture
Le Cercle Français regrets to announce that Monsieur Marcel Bonteron, well-known author and librarian of Paris, France, who was scheduled to speak at Davidson on March 26, has been forced to cancel his engagement here. He is at present on an extended speaking tour which has taken him to the Pacific coast and throughout the Southern states. He has found his itinerary too taxing for his strength and it has been decided by the general secretary of the Alliance Francaise, under whose auspices he came to America, to relieve him from several of his speaking engagements. It is hoped that another speaker may be secured for a lecture later in the year.

The valuable lesson that we can learn from Daniel here is to go out with full confidence, not that we can do anything great in our own strength, but that God through us can do all things. We are the instruments through which He accomplishes His will. He can give us all the qualities that go to make up this spirit of Excellency. The man who has found God can never turn aside to little or unworthy things. Miss Milton of the Queens student body closed the service with a vocal selection.

JUNIOR CLASS SPONSORS (Continued from page 1)
The curtain will rise at 8:00 o'clock. It was also announced that the first feature starting the week-end program will be held in Charlotte on Friday night in the Charlotte hotel ballroom. On the following night, after the Junior Minstrel has been given, the celebration will be concluded in Mooresville, where a Davidson Orchestra will entertain. The same Orchestra has also been secured for the Friday night social. From all present indications, the traditional party will be well-attended.

“Would you love me as much if father lost all of his money?”
“Has he?”
“Why, no.”
“Of course I would, darling.”

Of every 4 cars, one suffers some damage each year: Goes afire. Is stolen. Becomes involved in a collision. Damages property. The sure remedy for such damage is adequate insurance. Avoid financial loss by carrying one of our 4-square Automobile policies protesting against loss from fire, theft, collision, and property damage. Telephone, call, or write. It's safer to have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Co. Insurance Department CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Doctor Landrith spoke in part the following: “It is a lot easier to be good now than it used to be. We are not hypocrites. Christian Endeavor is an organization established to enable young people to live. It is an organization, consisting of eighty thousand local organizations of 40,000,000 members with 87 different denominations and communions.

The Spring Holidays are Near. Place your order for that Spring Suit. Complete Line of Spring furnishings. Sincerely, RAY HARRISON

At Students’ Store and Dealers
MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COMPANY
Mooresville, N. C.