THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 13, 1930

Side Line Shots At a Game Between Two Great Quintets

That was undoubtedly the most heartbreaking loss that a Wildcat quintet has sustained in many a day, but it’s no
disgrace to lose to a team as good as that one presented by the Blue Devils Monday. As usual, Dame
Luck played her part in the fray and this time favored the Duke five rather than the Wildcats. Looked like
we were due for one or two breaks, though, with the odds heavy against us to start with. Guess it
was too much, however, to expect us to nose out the Blue Devils again after that unforgettable 13-12 defeat that
we handed them on the gridiron last Fall.

But the game wasn’t determined by “breaks” alone, even though the loss can be directly traced to a tough one
against the Cats. In Croson and Werber, Duke boasts two of the best cagers to be found in the southland
and they’re due their share of credit. Living up to the ancient tradition, Monk’s men displayed all the fight that
could be asked of anyone, as well as a brand of basketball that isn’t demonstrated in every cage game. “Sleepy”
Godson proved a match for Werber when it came to consistent as well as flashy floorwork. The former had just
shot the basket that would probably have made a different tale of the game when he was called out of
bounds and the goal didn’t count.

The Blue Devils are now in undisputed leadership of the Big Five but we’ve got another shot at them. This
will be on their home floor, however, and that makes the odds a little heavier against the Wildcats.

The Varsity was certainly on the warpath through Virginia. Three Old Dominion quints went down in decisive defeat on successive
nights before the onslaught of Captain Johnston and his men. The Kittens had a clean record spoiled by two close
losses to the Roanoke and V. P. I. first-year men. They’re still undefeated in the state, though, and have a
mighty good chance at the championship.

Unless something happens in the meantime it’s going to be the last game of the season before it can be
determined who will be high scorer. Pritchett and Johnston are making a close race of it.

Elon and Erskine are bringing convincing records with them when they come to meet the Cats. The latter quint ranks
next to Furman in South Carolina and should put up a strong opposition. There won't be many more games on
the home floor and so let’s be there backing the cagers every time. Let ’em know when they make their
last trip through the state that we're still behind them.

V. P. I. DEFEATS (Continued from page 1)

Raker, Davidson heavyweight, showed up exceptionally well in his match with Davis, giant Poly captain, who has never been defeated.
In the 125-pound class, Gorham put his opponent, Graves, through a fast series of twists and turns only to be
finally thrown by him. After being apparently outclassed by Ellett, Warren slipped across a winning hold to throw the 175-pounder
of the Techmen. Both Conway and Christenbury had no trouble in defeating their opponents by time advantages.

Varsity Meets Two ‘Dark Horses’ Next

Monk’s Cagers Prepare for Elon and Erskine

The Davidson quintet faces two dark horse fives when they meet Elon College on Saturday night and Erskine College of
South Carolina on the Tuesday following. Both games are to be played on the home floor. The Elon team has
been on a winning spree lately and have a combination that will bear watching. In the “Little Five” so far,
the Christians have won four games and lost only one, that to High Point College early in the season. However,
not content with that, on a recent northern trip they have defeated such teams as V. P. I. and Emory
and Henry, Virginia rivals of the Christians, with apparent ease. Caddell, forward, and Briggs, guard, seem to be the boys
who will require the most watching.

On Tuesday night, the “Flying Fleet” from Erskine gives the Wildcats the last home opposition before the start of their
North Carolina campaign when three “Big Five” teams are to be met on the same trip.They have been burning up
competition in the stand and rank next to the powerful Furman five in the state race. Reports have it that
they are anxious to give the Wildcats a taste of what they can expect when the two teams meet in
football next fall for the first time in the history of the two colleges.

’CATS IN FORM TO DOWN THREE
V. M. I., Roanoke, and V. P. I. Defeated Successively

Displaying the best all-round form of the season, the Davidson College Wildcats were able to chalk up three decisive victories
over powerful Virginia teams in their invasion of the Old Dominion last week. All of the wins were by top-heavy
scores; the Wildcats lacked only six points of doubling the scores of their opponents for the entire tour. The air-tight
five-man defense displayed by the Davidson five proved a puzzle to all the teams. Not one of them could successfully
and consistently pierce the barrier erected by Monk’s men. The defense was working better than at any time this year,
and when once the Davidson men got control of the ball, they carried it down the floor fast. The combination
of tight defense and fast-breaking offense spelled defeat for each of the foes.

Johnston, Rusk, Pritchett, and Goodson were the big guns on the Davidson offense. These four men accounted for 114 of
the 122 points gotten by the ’Cats. Rusk reached the form he displayed last season and ran wild in all
the games to lead his teammates in scoring for the trip. He rang up 34 points in the three games,
getting eleven points against both V. M. I. and Roanoke, and raising his mark to an even dozen points in
the final contest with Virginia Poly. Goodson added his share of the counters to the total score, besides being one
of the mainstays on the defense.

The Wildcats opened the trip in proper manner by trouncing V. M. I. on the opening night. The score was
35 to 27. Johnston, Rusk, and Goodson each got eleven points and accounted for 33 of their team’s points between
them. The victory of the Davidson team was looked upon as a slight upset by most of the sport scribes,
who accorded them only a chance of victory.

The next night, Roanoke College added to the list of victims. The game was more of a slaughter than anything
else, Carl Pritchett leading the scoring with Rusk following closely. Coach Monk used a number of substitutes in the game
and gave his first stringers as much rest as possible. The subs were unable to maintain the fast scoring pace
set by the regulars, but presented as sturdy a defense, and the game ended with the final count 49 to
16, favoring the Wildcats.

The trip was closed at Blacksburg with a win over the V. P. I. quintet. Rusk led in the scoring
with twelve points, and was closely followed by Johnston and Pritchett with ten points each. The floor work of Pritchett
was especially good, and he was characterized as the “classiest goal-shooter to be seen on V. P. I. court in
quite a while.”

Varsity Scoring
Davidson 50, Catawba 26.
Davidson 33, Charlotte Y 18.
Davidson 29, Wofford 15.
Davidson 20, Furman 33.
Davidson 22, Carolina 20.
Davidson 39, Lenoir-Rhyne 25.
Davidson 38, Charlotte Y 39.
Davidson 33, Maryville 20.
Davidson 35, V. M. I. 27.
Davidson 49, Roanoke 16.
Davidson 38, V. P. I. 20.
Davidson 30, Duke 33.
Davidson 416, Opponents 292.

HOW THE SCORE
Johnston: 101
Pritchett: 99
Goodson: 76
Rusk: 70
Moore: 11
Pritchard: 15
Nailton: 19
Mathis: 5
Hopkins: 4

THE RESISTANCE
“Marvin Murgatroyd, you fiend, I promised myself the rare pleasure of doing you in with my two bare hands, and—”

“Choke away, Horace Gillingwater! Any throat protected by the constant use of OLD GOLDS, the smoother and better queen-leaf cigarette,
is beyond the power of your feeble strength! There’s not a cough in a carload!”

FASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE IN HISTORY... NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD

ENGRAVED BY JOHN HELD JR.
