Wildcats Win Third Game Shutting Out Seceders

Erskine Defeated by Score of 21-0 When Davidson Team Overwhelms Their Attack

GOAL LINE STILL UNCROSSED

Joe McCall and Don King Play Outstanding Game

Coaches “Monk” and “Tex” added another shutout victory to their string last Saturday when their 1930 edition of scrappy Wildcats outclassed a game eleven from Erskine College, 21 to 0. Joe McCall, brilliant Davidson back, added another long run to his personal list when he sped through the entire Seceder team, sprinting 74 yards for a touchdown on the second play of the game. The fans settled back expecting to see a slaughter, but the sturdy Erskine defense began to function better, and they repeatedly thrust back the Davidson eleven when it seemed inevitable that they would score. The Wildcats were able to gain at will through the fighting line of Seceders, but always some mishap near the enemy goal prevented more scoring. At the same time, the Wildcats presented an impregnable forward wall that repeatedly thrust back the Erskine running attack, their longest running gain being one of eight yards by Hood. As a consequence, they were forced to resort to the air, and at one time reached the Wildcat 25-yard line.

Aside from the brilliant run of McCall, a 39-yard run by Mills was the feature of the day, but Brohard, hard-punching fullback of the Wildcats, was the most consistent gainer of the day, never failing to chalk up creditable yardage on the numerous occasions when he carried the ball. The first real sustained drive of the game, coming in the latter stages of the second quarter, gave Davidson the second touchdown. McQueen led the way and was ably assisted by McCall and Mills. From midfield, they marched with uninterrupted progress down the field, and Don McQueen skirted right end for the needed distance. For the second time, Thad Brock showed old-time form in converting the extra point.

The fighting Seceders held the Wildcats scoreless in the third period but were unable to thrust back a drive in the final quarter. Mills got off his 39-yard run, bringing the ball to the 17-yard line. A five-yard penalty against Erskine brought the ball to the 12-yard line and Captain Fraley passed to Proctor for the score. Fraley kicked goal for the extra point and the game ended soon after with the ball in Erskine’s possession on their own 40-yard line. Gettys was the Erskine star, playing a great defensive game throughout. Carr and Hambright also showed up well for the Seceders.

The line-ups:

Davidson Position Erskine
Proctor L.E. Hambright (C)
Wagner L.T. Caldwell
Brock L.G. Simonton
Gardner Center Pressley
Parker R.G. McKay
Raker R.T. Bell
Nance R.E. Brown
Fraley (C) Q.B. Carr
McCall L.H. Auten
King R.H. Gettys
Brohard F.B. Hood

Davidson 7 7 0 7—21
Erskine 0 0 0 0—0

Officials: Referee, Kirkpatrick (N. C. State); umpire, Speer (Furman); head-linesman, Frew (Washington and Lee). Scoring touchdowns: McCall, McQueen, Proctor. Points after touchdown: Brock, 3.

Big Five Standings
Davidson 1.000
N. C. State .667
Wake Forest .333

SUMMARY Davidson-Erskine Game
Davidson Erskine
First Downs 15 4
Yds. gained from Scrim. 241 54
Passes attempted 12 21
Passes completed 4 8
Yds. gained from passes 56 47
Total yds. gained 297 101
Av. lgth. punts and kickoffs 39.6 45.6
Av. return of punts and kickoffs 23.2 10.2
No. punts and kickoffs 8 11
Total yds. gained from scrimmage, passes and return of punts and kickoffs 476 143
Fumbles 4 0
Fumbles recovered 3 1
Penalties 15 25

Inter-Fraternity Sports Planned for Next Week

Football, Basketball and Baseball Sports in Which All Fraternities Will Take Part

Next week the fraternities of Davidson will start their competition for the fraternity championship of the college. This year there will be three major sports, football, basketball, and baseball, in which the teams will compete. These sports will be run off in tournament form, the fraternity winning the most sports or gaining the most points will be given a loving cup. Points will be given to the winners in each of the sports; a certain number of points will be given to the winner, the runner-up, and those in the semi-finals will also be awarded points to count toward the final standing. Also, points will be given to the fraternity with the greatest number of men out for the varsity teams of these three sports.

The first sport that will be run off is touch football, which will start next week or the latter part of this week; the next one scheduled is basketball, which is scheduled during basketball season; the last one, baseball, will also be run off during its season. Last year there was no cup given, but the championship of the fraternities was won by the Beta Theta Pi, who won both the football and the baseball championships.

Most of the captains have been appointed and have their teams organized. The captains are as follows: Sigma Phi Epsilon, C. E. Bettis; Pi Kappa Phi, P. S. Knox; Pi Kappa Alpha, R. K. Gregory; Phi Gamma Delta, Alec Montgomery; Beta Theta Pi, Hugh McMillan; Theta Upsilon Omega, Charlie Kraemer; Kappa Alpha, Taylor Marion; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Ed Gorham; and Kappa Sigma, not appointed. These captains will meet and decide the drawings of the tournament.

Captain Pritchett and Heath Run, Tilt With Oak Ridge

Walton and Gold Lead Teammates in Amassing 32 Points

It was a well-oiled Oak Ridge football team that invaded the lair of the Wildkittens last Friday and emerged from the fight with a 32-0 victory over the Freshmen. Scoring in every period of the game, the Cadets from Oak Ridge were early seen to be the superior of the two teams. With a forward wall that averaged about 185 pounds to the man and a backfield that was probably heavier and very fast, the Cadets sifted through the Kittens’ line and secondary defense like so much water and once they came into possession of the ball it was generally only a matter of time until they crossed the goal line.

Although the whole Oak Ridge team was good, most of the scoring can be attributed to the work of one man, Walton, who, every time he carried the ball, gained a considerable amount of ground. Sharing honors with Walton was his running mate, Captain Gold, who was a constant ground gainer.

The whole Wild Kitten team fought until the last whistle but it was just too much Walton plus Oak Ridge. The outstanding players for the Frosh were Wilson at right tackle, Slaughter at guard, and O'Keefe at end. The novelty of never having played together showed in theplay of the Freshmen. Oak Ridge showed its margin of superiority by 23 first downs to two for the Freshmen, which came as the result of penalties.

Cross Country Team Is New Feature This Year
Two Meets to be Arranged for Distance Runners

For the first time since 1927, Davidson is to have a cross-country team this year. This team is to be composed of six members only, who will probably be selected from those who ran the distances last year. It is hoped that two meets may be arranged but as they are now only tentative and as several schools are on the list at present, it is impossible to state either the dates or the names of the teams we will meet in these contests.

The other activities in fall track are scarcely more than a means of keeping those track men who are not participating in any other sport in condition for the regular track season in the spring. In this type of work it is impossible to judge who will be outstanding next spring, because several prominent men of this sport are in football work at present.

Professor Raymond Moley, of the Department of Public Law at Columbia University has recommended that a broader education be accorded students studying to be lawyers.

Scores of Davidson’s Opponents
Elon 45—Atlantic Christian Col. 0.
N. C. State 0—Florida 27.

LOOKING THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 9, 1930

DAVIDSON 71 OPPONENTS 0

THE SPORTS PARADE

Freshmen Outclassed in Game

With W. H. Matthews

Duke at Durham Saturday afternoon at 3 p.m. Second Big Five game.

The Davidsonian Wildcats looked better against Erskine than at any time this season. True, the opposition was not as strong as might be wanted but there undoubtedly was class written boldly in the way that line charged and the manner in which the backs drove and drove. Especially during the first half did Davidson impress the fact that she is going to be the team to be reckoned with this season. McCall's run on the second play after Davidson got the ball was scintillating and his longest so far this season. The Davidson speed merchant can certainly carry the mail when he gets into a broken field, and his line is seeing that he gets an opportunity at least once each game. He is the fastest man in North Carolina football circles, only Slusser of Carolina approaching him. He will be Davidson's big bid for all-state if he evades injury.

Charlie Parker’s play at guard against N. C. State and Erskine shows that he has at last arrived after two years of hard work. He was just about the best guard on the field against State and vindicated Tex Tilson’s choice of starting him in the game Saturday. He makes an excellent running mate for Thad Brock.

Duke’s unexpected showing against Virginia was the surprise of the weekend. Undoubtedly the Blue Devils have the material, but their play against South Carolina would never have revealed it. Reports of the game with the Cavaliers say that DeHart’s men were working like a machine and that the interference for the backs mowed down the opposition. We do not doubt that that was true. Last Thanksgiving Duke presented the prettiest offensive seen by us during the entire season. Time after time it would carry them down the field to within the shadow of Davidson's goal. They were able to run up 22 first downs and most of them came from straight football, as Sam Buie’s passes went only in Davidson receiver's hands.

In sharp contrast to the showing of the varsity last week was the play of the freshmen against the powerful Oak Ridge squad. There is no denying that Oak Ridge was the better team and that the Wildkittens were playing their first game, but even that does not wipe out some of the errors. The line could not get going consistently at any time and the backs were snowed under by the Ridgers’ forwards.

The play of Slaughter, guard; Pratt and O’Keefe, ends; Wooten, center; and West and Brown, backs, looked good at times. We believe that Unger and Laird will land the Freshmen out of their lethargy in the next two weeks, and that an entirely different looking team will meet the Wofford Fresh ten days from now.

The only game we missed last week was the Duke-Virginia encounter. The Blue Devils gave the dope bucket a lusty kick to hand the Cavaliers a 32 to 0 lacing. Davidson beat Erskine 21 to 0; the guess was 20 to 0. Carolina’s margin over V. P. I. was 18 points, the guess being 20 to 0. The Florida ’Gators vindicated our faith in them by exactly what we figured, and Wake Forest failed by a touchdown to come up to our expectations over Furman, though won easily. Our record for the season is nine correct out of eleven. In spite of Duke's showing, Davidson should add their fourth victory Saturday, 13 to 0. The other games of the Big Five look like this to us: Carolina 20, Maryland 0. Clemson 7, State 0; Wake Forest 13, 0 (Thursday); Yale 13, Georgia 7; Georgia Tech 13, Carnegie Tech 20.

Baltimore & New York City has 1,200,000 school children. Measurement of noted brains at Cornell University has demonstrated that women are equal mentally to men. Less than eight per cent of the families of this country have annual incomes in excess of $5,000. Saxony invented the harmonica, and now 50,000,000 a year, 40 per cent of them to the United States.

Argentina purchases one-half the 25,000 windmills which are manufactured annually in this country.

The next fire alarm may be for your property. But there's no need to be alarmed, should you be the unfortunate—IF you have adequate Fire Insurance. Why not check up and be sure? And insure—adequately. If you haven't enough protection, turn in an alarm for us. We'll be glad to correct that alarming situation, at the lowest cost to you.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McAlister Carson (713), Manager
M. B. Speir ('26)

Whittle have complete charge of the points scored and the way the tournament is to be conducted.

Duke 32—Virginia 0.
Citadel 7—Clemson 13.
V. M. I. 6—St. Johns 0.
Wake Forest 13—Guilford 0.

When You're Hungry
Let Helper Help You
HELPER’S RESTAURANT

FURNISHINGS CLOTHING
Next Door to Telephone Office

STETSON “D” STORE
PHONE 206
Clothes For The College Man
Students’ Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”