THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 24, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

J. WILSON McCUTCHAN .......... Editor-in-Chief
H. H. MOGA .................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. W. DWELLE ................. Managing Editor
J. E. HAYES ................... Managing Editor
W. C. HARRIS ................. Managing Editor
M. H. HAYES .................. Athletic Editor
J. S. CARR, JR. ............... Associate Editor
W. C. RAGIN ................. Associate Editor
K. A. THOMAS ............... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. A. GANNON ................. Assistant Business Manager
J. R. McCALLIE ............... Subscription Manager
J. H. COMAN ................. Solicitor
J. M. NISBET ................. Solicitor
J. H. McKINNON .............. Solicitor
B. R. MOORE ................. Solicitor
J. L. SEVIER ................. Solicitor
D. G. STEPHENSON ........... Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD ............ Secretary-Treasurer

J. G. BERRY
J. G. DUNKLIN
J. C. MATTHEWS
C. W. F. SPENCER
J. R. SMITH
W. B. HANCOCK
R. F. NORTON
J. M. BROWN
N. B. DICKS
G. P. PARDINGTON
A. R. BIRD
R. E. WITT
G. E. BAILEY
R. H. ALDERMAN
E. O. GUERRANT
J. E. BOYD
D. D. McBRYDE
J. E. LAKE
GEORGE MILLER
R. L. McCALLIE
C. F. MYERS
W. F. MULLISS
S. P. PRESTON
H. F. NICHOLS
B. B. SUGG
NORMAN RAIES
W. B. WARD
B. B. TAYLOR

APRIL 24, 1930

SUGGESTIONS

Tennis teams have always been above the average at Davidson. This year, for the first time, a six-man team is being used in this active sport. It wouldn’t hurt students to give a little more support to the Red and Black baseball team. Surely those who play campus football and indoor baseball could wait until the last man is out before leaving the bleachers. Everybody can show their confidence in the new “Y” cabinet by being regular at Sunday night vespers. Buckle down to the textbooks a little harder for the next few weeks. It won't last for long, and the folks back home are counting on you. Don’t forget those inspiring life service talks by Doctor Anderson. Think about them and act accordingly. There is a track meet with Wake Forest, Saturday. The boys are setting records, and the state contest comes on May 2. This will be the last chance to see a good many of the boys in action. How many students have heard a varsity debate this year? Davidson meets Wake Forest in Statesville, Saturday night.

AS REGARDS POLICY

There will doubtless be a natural curiosity aroused in the minds of readers as the new staff assumes active control of The Davidsonian. According to the custom adopted in former years, there will be no apparent change in the style or makeup of the paper itself. The same comment is true in regard to the general editorial policy. However, the staff wishes to declare itself, at this time, in favor of these movements which it believes to be representative of the student body. Personal opinion must occasionally assert itself, but the new staff will do everything in its power to overcome these sentiments and assertions. That stand which is taken by the majority of the readers and subscribers to The Davidsonian will always be regarded as paramount to any other. As a whole, the new members of the staff feel that trust has been placed in them. As a body, they will strive to be worthy of this confidence. Any college paper, and The Davidsonian in particular, is the common servant of the student body; it is not to be used as a weapon. Following past customs, constructive discussion will find its place, but there will be no space free for fanatical railings. The staff’s primary intention is to provide a clean, newsy, and progressive Davidsonian for Davidson.

CAMPER O’NEAL

Along with the announcement that Carl Pritchett has been selected as Secretary of the Young Men’s Christian Association comes the realization that Camper O’Neal is leaving. It will be a sad departure for Davidson. During his two years in the above-mentioned capacity, O’Neal has devoted his full time to the development of better social and moral contacts. Everyone who has consulted with him has found him ready to sacrifice himself on their behalf. He has proved himself to be not only an able secretary, but also a sincere friend of everybody with whom he has come in contact. Particularly able speakers have been procured for vesper and evangelical services; the moral tone of campus life has been lifted. Nor has O’Neal shown himself negligent in recreational and social affairs. The “play” room of the “Y” building has been remodeled and refurnished. Several new games have been introduced, and students spend much more of their leisure time there than they formerly did. The addition of a radio to the reading room has increased its popularity. Not least important of the activities promoted by Camper was the successful house-party sponsored by the Y. M. C. A. The establishment of the Social Center in Eu Hall also marked another progressive move. Formerly a student, now an alumnus, O’Neal has become an integral part of Davidson College in its most personal phase. We wish him every success in his pursuit of the real things of life. He has been the first man we see in the fall, and the last one we see in the spring; he will not be forgotten.

SHOW YOUR LOYALTY

If the proposed student body banquet next week receives the support it deserves from every man at Davidson, we believe it will long be remembered as a monumental occasion for the college and as a significant testimony to the reality of the spirit that is here. The chances are that future classes will want to follow the precedent being set at this time, ushering in the new student regime with fitting ceremonies in which the entire personnel of the student body can take part. Such is the hope of this year’s graduating class, for they believe that an annual practice of this sort can come to mean much in the life and work of the institution. Some years ago, the Davidson students decided that it would not be amiss to get together for a restatement of the principles which underlie and motivate the spirit of Davidson, thereby providing an occasion upon which the loyalty and devotion of students to the college might be affirmed and pledged for the coming year. The mass meeting was planned in the interests of a “Bigger and Better Davidson,” that phrase furnishing the inspiration for the program and fellowship which followed. Practically every man on the campus turned out for the big celebration, and the result was all that could have been desired. The new student government was given a send-off with the assurance that full support was being offered them. The Honor System was brought into the spotlight, its vital role in the success of the college being emphasized, and confidence expressed that during the year ahead, Davidson men would come to guard it more carefully than ever before. Many men saw Davidson in a light which was different from old conceptions. Their determination to be better college men was strengthened. The Senior Class hopes to create a finer devotion for this college in the heart of every one of the men who make up the student body, an ideal than which there is none more worthy, than which none may be more productive of lasting good. It becomes the privilege of a school like this to promote student relations in a peculiarly personal way. Now the effort is being made to bring the college itself into a fellowship just as close and binding as that which exists between the men in the dormitories. It seems right to suppose that such a condition will be desirable to the students, and so we are asking them to enter into the project with all the love they bear their Alma Mater. Here is the chance to do a great service with little inconvenience to self. The possibilities of loyalty can never be over-estimated. Davidson we have come to know as an object commanding the highest degree of that wonderful quality, and every man who wants to make her future bright will not pass up an opportunity to do his bit. From this day on then—A Bigger and Better Davidson!

Z.V. LONG, JR.

DAVIDSON-- WEEK by WEEK
By Nor

MUSINGS of the MATADOR
Vereen Bell

Who’s Who in America, probably the world’s most celebrated compilation of brief biographies of prominent men and women, lists five Davidson professors in its contents, or about ten per cent of the faculty. The standard of admission into Who’s Who is divided into two eligible classes. The first consists of persons who have attained special prominence in creditable lines of effort making them subjectsHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Of extreme interest and discussion in the United States. The second class includes those who are arbitrarily chosen on account of their position in the world—civil, military, naval, religious or educational. Its compilers emphasize the fact that not one sketch is paid for, this being against their principles of publication. Drs. Walter L. Lingle, H. B. Arbuckle, Frazer Hood, Scott Cary Lyon, and J. M. MacConnell, are Davidson’s contributions to this well-known collection. Although the biography of each man is very brief, space forbids the enumeration of the honors which each of the faculty members in this book have attained. But, it must be said that each man has been listed as an eminent educator, with numerous achievements.

Although there has been published much comment about Dr. W. M. Anderson, powerful and inspiring are the only two words which could justly describe the eloquence of the speaker chosen by the Y. M. C. A. to conduct the spring services. The “Y” Cabinet is to be highly commended for its choice of this man, whose masterful speaking can only be explained in superlatives. Doctor Anderson spoke seven times to Davidson students as a group, each message striking squarely in the heart of each listener, and after he had made his last talk, everyone was wishing that he was just starting his services. In appreciation of his work, the student body at the conclusion of his last sermon paid him a splendid tribute when every man went forward in response to his plea for reconsecration. Last fall, Dr. Sam Glasgow, who held the first of these meetings, was also splendidly received by the student body. How fortunate we are to be able to procure such men to give us these wonderful messages!

The Davidson student body missed a rare treat when the majority failed to attend the play given by the Red and Black Masquers. The plot was fine, but the splendid acting of the characters in the play was the feature of the evening. Stewart Meacham, John Preston, Duncan Calder, Horace Erwin, and Gaither Sanford all had important roles and played them nearly to perfection, and Susan Moffett, having the only part offered to a young lady, was a real star as the heroine. The play was given at Queens College Tuesday night before the student body. Perhaps future plays given by the college dramatic club will draw larger crowds if only those who missed this one could appreciate it as much as the audience which was in attendance.

Camper O'Neal, our popular “Y” secretary, will be sorely missed by the student body when the next term begins, and Camper is absent. After a splendid six-year record, both as a student and as the Y. M. C. A. secretary, Camper has decided to take graduate work at Columbia where he will make a deeper study of his chosen profession, Personal Work. Perhaps no one is more qualified for this task than he, which is evidenced by his winning personality and unquestionable character. One interview with him is proof enough of his sincere influence. To crown the climax of the whole matter, students are rejoicing that an able man has been chosen to succeed the outgoing secretary, Carl Pritchett, who hardly needs a eulogy.

Sam Coker has a real mark to shoot at if he wishes to emulate his well-known father, David R. Coker. Mr. Coker, who was the chief speaker before the North Carolina Conference for Social Service in Charlotte last week, is considered by such experts as Hugh McCrae, Carl Vrooman, and Prof. William E. Dodd as the most scientific farmer in America. He was recently referred to by Governor Gardner as having done more for the science of farming than “any other man, living or dead.” He is regarded as the greatest hope of a way out for the stricken agricultural south. Mr. Coker's father was the founder of Coker College, a growing women’s school in South Carolina.

It is a tragedy that Johnny Moore did not get to attend Davidson when he was a freshman. The little Rock Hill boy who entered as a Junior last year was the outstanding star in three major sports at Presbyterian College as well as one of the best athletes in South Carolina before he entered Davidson. Of course, he is unable to compete in any varsity sport here because of ineligibility, which hurts Johnny as much as it does the student body. Although he has gotten over it now, John says that it was almost a tribulation for him to sit around idle during his first year here.

We will begin the Saturday Silver Service with a musical number. Miss Stienblitz will perform on her new organdie: “As you rip, so shall you sew.” “Are you fond of dogs?” Plenty of mustard, please. (Don’t you just adore seeing cowboys break in a new mustard, Gladys?) “Why, I have had collies all my life.” You should see a doctor; it has all the symptoms of pomerania. Stick out your tongue and say “Eenie, meenie, minie, moe.” Yah, Yah, right back at ya. I see where they are waging a campaign against malaria. It looks like they would leave those Malarians alone, doesn’t it? “Oh, Mr. Newton, are you any kin to the fightin’ Newtons?” “Get out of my house, you silly kicker, and never darken my door again,” said the irate farmer. “Heh, heh, you have your words confused. I feel so silly,” smiled the villain blandly. How do you like my brand new shoes, Wung Woo? If I can get my tongue untwisted, I'll write some poetry. I’ve always had a half-warmed fish in my heart to,—I mean a half-formed wish,—be a poet.

POME
She was just a farmer’s daughter
And he was a city chap
He knew he hadn’t caught her
But they went for a buggy ride.
Just like the daring villain
He stole her pocketbook;
I knew there’d be a murder
’Cause I heard her father talking:
“Roses are red,
Violets are lavender;
Grandma rides a bicycle
Old Black Joe.”
Airplanes are zooming,
Drums are booming,
Board and Rooming.
These would have been timed better if I hadn't lost my meterstick. I know the size of a board foot, but just how big is a lumber yard? No, Rachel, I don’t use my twelve-inch foot as a rule. Remember the old adage—“Smile and the world sees you in the toothpaste ads; weep and get a nice big dose of Fletcher’s Castoria.” Tsk, tsk; mustn’t break mama’s new umbrella over baby’s head, you little Swede. Nordic, Nordic. By the way, Scales, have you seen the new catalogue? Yeah, but I don’t think so much of those foreign cars. And what’s more, I don’t believe those Romans went a thousand miles on a galleon. I called around to see the Czar the other day, but he was upstairs in his bathrobe. I told him to slip on something and come down. He did; he slipped on the top step and fell all the way down the stairs. After I had inquired about the Czarina and the little Czardines, we went out to dine. The waiter spoke pleasantly to us as he gave us our soup: “It looks a little like rain, doesn’t it gentlemen?” “Well, I wouldn’t go so far as to say that,” growled the Czar, “but it certainly doesn’t look like soup.” The waiter slunk off and returned presently to tell us that the Scotchman, who was eating pig’s knuckles and ate up to his elbow before he noticed it, was doing quite well now, thank you. The next time he came up to me and said, “How did you find your steak, sir?” “Oh, I just moved the potato and there it was,” I replied, thus burning him up properly. No, Percival, that’s not a picture of Bull Montana; that’s a map of Ireland. So your plums are ten cents a peck, are they? What do you think I am, a bird? “Oh, mama, look at the funny man sitting on the sidewalk talking to a banana peel.” Watson, is that Helen Kane or do we need a new needle? You've buttered your bread, now lie on it. Selah.

It seems that a freshman the other day got a job in a clothing store. He was being broken in by a senior who had three years’ experience. After several lectures to the freshman, the senior concluded with: “You can sell anybody anything. All you gotta do is go at ’em right.” About that time a little darkey walked in and the senior, who was anxious to demonstrate his powers as a salesman, went right after him, “Come right in. What can I do for you today? We have just anything you want.” The little negro started out, but the senior stopped him. “Come on, young fellow. We can sell you anything you want. Now, what did you want to buy?” “I wants a nickel’s worth of cheese.”—Ga. Tech Yellow Jacket.

“I want to speak to my husband,” yelled the murderer’s wife, frantically phoning the penitentiary. “Sorry, madam,” replied the polite warden, “but your party has just hung up.” “You Noah?” “Yes, and she’s always been a Jonah to me.”