es What has caused this queer jinx that seems THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20, 1930 BEAT THAT WAKE FOREST JINX 6.
THE SPORTS PARADE Wake Forest Jinx Gets Severe Test in Turkey Day Tilt With Wildcats Wildcats Have Won Nine Out
of Seventeen Games Since 1908 DEACONS ARE HEAVIER Younger Coached Machine Has Never Defeated the Baptists A jinx of eight
years’ standing will be a severe test on Thanksgiving Day next week, when a fighting Wildcat team takes the field
against a heavier Deacon outfit. Since 1908, the two teams have played 17 games, Davidson annexing nine of them, while
only four have gone to Wake Forest. The other four have been tie games. But since 1920, Davidson has not
won a game from the Demon Deacons, and four times a seeming victory has been snatched away from them in
the closing minutes of the game by a swift rally to tie the score on the part of the Deacons.
Not since Monk Younger and Tex Tilson have the Wildcats been able to win out over Wake Forest. A short
resume of each game played since Younger and Tilson took over the reins at Davidson in 1923 may give some
idea as to how this jinx came about. Before 1920, the Wildcats defeated the Deacons unmercifully from year to year,
swamping them in 1917 by the overwhelming score of 72-7. On the afternoon of October 25, 1923, the first Younger-coached
eleven took a 6-0 lacing from the Wake Forest heavyweights. The thin Wildcat line fought back every thrust made by
the mighty Deacon forward wall, but Greason, fast Baptist back, slipped through the line in mid-field and traveled the intervening
distance to the goal. It was a hard-fought contest but Wake Forest outpowered the fighting Wildcats for their second win
since opening football relations with Davidson. Their first win was in 1921, when they lucked out by a score of
10-7 over the Wildcats. The next year, 1922, resulted in a 6-6 tie. After the next skipping year, the teams
reopened relations in 1925, when they met at Wearn Field in Charlotte on October 8. Davidson upset all dope by
tying the two Baptists, 7-7, in an inspiring battle when Red Laird, now Freshman coach at Davidson, sent the oval
between the bars for the extra point after touchdown. Outweighed 17 pounds to the man, the valiant Wildcats of half
a decade ago overcame the great odds by a wonderful exhibition of fight. For two years now Davidson had met
a superior Wake Forest team, and one time held them to a low score and a second time tied them.
Again in 1926, a highly-touted Deacon eleven was sent back, not with several touchdowns as was expected, but with a
hard-fought tie, 3-3. It looked as if the rising state champions were going to take the game at 3-0, but
in the last quarter the Baptists were able to get in position for a field goal which was successful. Outside
of these two field goals, neither team made any serious threat, but see-sawed back and forth in the middle of
the field most of the time. Next year, it was Wake Forest's year to spring a surprise by tying Davidson
for the fourth and last time since the two teams began relations in 1908, at the World War Memorial Stadium
in Greensboro. The score was 3-3. For a long time it was slow in the first quarter, but beginning with
the second, Davidson began a drive which ended down within the 10-yard line, (Continued on page 6) Complete Service for
School Publications Annuals Magazines Catalogs Queen City Printing Co. Charlotte, N.C. FRESHMEN CLOSE SCHEDULE WITH DUKE TOMORROW Davidson-Carolina Statistics D.C.
U.N.C. First Downs 10 8 Yds. gained by rushing 230 115 Passes attempted 4 18 Passes completed 0 6 Passes
intercepted 0 2 Yds. gained on Passes 8 73 Yds. gained by passes and rushing 230 188 Average length of
kickoffs 43.5 47.5 Yds. kickoff returned 80 22 Av. length of punts 35.5 29.8 Yds. punts returned 30 98 Total
yardage gained by rushing, passes, and return of kicks 340 308 Wildcats Have Bare Chance to Win Title Saturday’s Upset
Gives Duke, Carolina, and Davidson Chance for Three-Cornered Tie Davidson’s smashing 7 to 6 upset of the University of North
Carolina last Saturday brought the Big Five title hunt back into a horse race again with any four teams still
having a mathematical chance to at least tie for the title and giving Davidson an outside chance to win undisputed
claim on the coveted position. But leaving mathematics to one side for a while, the Duke Blue Devils, marvel team
of the present race, bounded into the limelight as favorites to carry the first Big Five crown to Durham and
have Jimmy DeHart bestow a North Carolina title on the Methodist institution 25 days before he moves for other parts.
By winning their remaining games with Wake Forest and Carolina, which at present seems highly possible, the Berserk Babies from
Duke will finish in complete charge of the top rung. A good chance to enter a three-cornered tie for first
with Duke and Carolina. If the Wildcats beat Wake Forest, Carolina defeats Duke, then Davidson, Duke, and Carolina, with one
defeat and three victories apiece, would be tied for first. Davidson has a three-cornered tie. A tempting morsel to conjure
one’s brain with is the fact that if Carolina and Wildcats to Battle Six Foes on Home Grounds Five Southern
Conference Opponents to be Met in 1931 Richardson Field will be the scene of six or more of Davidson's gridiron
battles in the 1931 season, while the Red and Black will not invade more than four foreign fields, if plans
now pending go through. Three Southern Conference elevens and a rival of long standing will furnish the main attractions on
the Davidson field, if present plans materialize. An attempt to secure an intersectional game for the Wildcats failed, and Washington
and Lee, another S. I. C. team, which has not appeared on the Presbyterian schedule in several years, has been
added to the fall menu. Definite arrangements for the place of the game have not been made, but the date
October 3 has been set. There remains but one open date, October 10, and plans for the filling of it
are definite enough to announce that six conference teams will be opposed in 1931. The schedule for next year is
as follows: Elon at Davidson, September 19 N.C. State at Greensboro, September 26. Washington and Lee (place pending) October 3.
October 10—Open. Duke at Davidson, October 17. Erskine at Davidson, October 24. V. M. I. at Davidson, October 31. Citadel
(place pending) November 7. Carolina (place pending) November 15. Wake Forest (place pending) Thanksgiving. Juniors Hold Lead In Basketball Race
Sophomores Move Into Second Place With Two Victories in Only Games Played Although they were idle during the week, the
Juniors continue to lead in the 1930 inter-class championship series in basketball with three victories and no defeats. The Sophomores
moved into second place by virtue of two victories, one over the Seniors and one over the Freshmen, during the
past week. Because of two postponed games from last week, the schedule for this week and next week has been
changed slightly. Nevertheless, it is known that contests between the Juniors LOOKING 'EM OVER With W. H. Matthews “Eleven men
fighting sixty minutes.” That phrase which was spoken time and again at the pep meetings last week gives in five
words the complete story of Davidson’s smashing victory over Carolina. The Wildcats were a team that just would not be
downed, and consequently could not be beat. They showed by their blocking and tackling from the opening kickoff that they
were out after this game above all others, and nothing stopped them. The Davidson line as a whole played the
best gameof the season, and the backs were quick to take advantage of the gaping holes they found opened for
them in the Carolina forward wall. It was the sheer power of Davidson's drive and fight that enabled them to
carry the ball down the field time after time. Except for an occasional spinner or a cross buck, the plays
called by Captain Fraley were straight off-tackle and over guard movements that depended upon getting the men on the ground
for their success, and this was done with tiresome regularity—for the Tar Heels.

One outstanding instance of the drive was evidenced when Fraley went through the line for a touchdown. The play went
right over Carolina’s right guard, and the hole there was big enough to send the cart with the Wildcat’s cage
on it through that wide-open gap. The man in the interference didn’t have a single block to make; the suddenness
of the play amazed the stands, and few realized that the score had been made until the referee trotted over
to the middle of the field for the try for extra point.

We had heard much of Branch this year; had seen him in action last fall; but we did not realize
how great a part he was of the Tar Heel attack. The small quarterback carried his part nobly and proved
to be the hardest man on the field to stop, once he got well underway. It was a pleasure to
see him play, especially since the Wildcat had him well under control. It was interesting to compare the running of
McCall and Branch. Both were the broken field aces of their respective teams and both got the desired result, though
in slightly different manners. We think that a lot of the elusiveness of Tar Heel lay in the drive he
developed, and the extreme difficulty his tacklers had in knocking him off his feet. McCall’s speed and an elusive sidestep
kept him out of the reach of most of his would-be tacklers. It has always been an old question which
is the better of the two methods. As far as Saturday’s contest was concerned, it was a draw. For plays
from scrimmage, we are prone to rely on Jumping Joe’s tactics.

The initial showing of the cross country team was, to say the least, highly satisfactory. Brannon’s time for the three-mile
course of a little more than 15 minutes was very good, considering the condition of the course. The other Davidson
entries came in ahead of the South Carolina harriers. Morrow, of the Freshmen, showed good time over the two-mile course
and won his race, but the Winston-Salem team came in bunched to win the meet. Things look far from bad
in the distances for spring track.

The Freshmen football team has its last game here tomorrow against the Duke Frosh, outstanding favorites to cop the state
crown. A victory for the Wildkittens in their final game would change this drab season into a more than passing
success.

Although we did not give a definite guess on the Davidson-Carolina affair, we limited our statement to the effect that
we had a hunch. The only upset registered was Vandy’s defeating Tennessee, whom we had picked to win. Duke, Alabama,
and Penn took their opponents as expected, giving us a count of 30 out of 39.

The 1930 football season is rapidly drawing to a close. Two more Saturdays and Thanksgiving Day will see the end,
except for a smattering of intersectional classics. The outstanding affair of the weekend, as far as North Carolina is concerned,
is the Duke-Wake Forest tussle at Wake Forest. In spite of their bold statements, we don't see much hope for
the Deacons stopping the Blue Devils, and they should win by about 13 to 7, or likely better than that.
North Carolina State battles South Carolina at Columbia in a game of no great importance, and the Wolfpack should win
this one by a margin of about 21 to 7.

Duke, following a Thanksgiving victory over Carolina, would have a strong claim for the title. Davidson has already faded from
the championship panorama, and Wake Forest is doped to follow after their game with the Blue Devils. That will make
the game on December 6 between the Tar Heels and the Methodists the championship tilt, with Carolina having to win
to finish above the .500 mark in the percentage column.

Standings through last Saturday’s games are as follows:
W. L. Pct.
Duke 2 0 1.000
Davidson 3 0 1.000
Carolina 2 1 .667
Wake Forest 2 1 .667
State 0 4 .000

The Sophomores took undisputed possession of second place in the inter-class basketball race by bowling over the Senior aggregation by
a 31 to 22 score in their game last Tuesday night. Soucher of the Sophomores opened the ball early in
the game by making a charity toss good for a point, and Manson, Sophomore forward, followed him closely with a
basket from directly under the goal to make it 3 to 0. The teams were in a 4-to-4 deadlock at
the end of the first quarter, but the second-year men held a one-point lead at the halfway mark. From then
on they were never headed.

Hartsell, Sophomore center, went on a scoring spree to make 14 of his team’s 31 points. Shepard and Wilson accounted
for eight points each to lead the Senior scoring.

Princeton, N. J.—(AP)—Because of the failure of Princeton fans to remain in the stands after the Princeton-Navy game while the
Midshipmen sang their Alma Mater, the undergraduate council at Princeton University has sent a letter of apology to Admiral Samuel
S. Robison, superintendent of the Naval Academy, expressing regret at the discourtesy.
