THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 23, 1931

New Library Books

The following is a list of the new books recently placed in the library:

1. Dwellers of the Silences, by Alexander Sprunt, Jr. (a Davidson alumnus).
2. Astronomy, by John Charles Duncan.
3. America’s Greatest Garden, by Ernest H. Wilson.
4. The Stream of History, by Geoffrey Parsons.
5. Goethe, by Emil Ludwig.
6. Business Without a Buyer, by William Trufant Foster and Waddill Catchings.
7. The North Italian Renaissance, by Berenson.
8. Aristocrats of the Garden, by Ernest H. Wilson.
9. The Pronunciation of 10,000 Proper Names, by Mary Stuart Mackey and Maryette Goodwin Mackey.
10. Reptiles of the World, by Raymond L. Ditmars.
11. The Buck in the Snow, by Edna St. Vincent Millay.
12. The High School Boy and His Problems, by Thomas Arkle Clark.
13. Dear Judas, by Robinson Jeffers.
14. The World I Live In, by Helen Keller.
15. The New Leaven, by Stanwood Cobb.
16. The Aircraft Handbook, by Colvin and Colvin.
17. You and the Law, by S. Boyd Darling.
18. The New Poland, by Nevin O. Winter.
19. The Settlement Horizon, by A. Woods and Albert J. Kennedy.
20. Master Makers of the Book, by William Dana Orcutt.
21. How to Know the Wild Flowers, by Frances Theodora Parsons.
22. The Dalton Laboratory Plan, by Evelyn Dewey.
23. The Monuments and the Old Testament, by Ira Maurice Price.
24. Modern Immigration, by Annie Marion MacLean.
25. Freedom and the College, by Alexander Meiklejohn.
26. The Little Town, by Douglass.
27. Ways of Nature, by John Burroughs.
28. Characters and Events of Roman History, by Guglielmo Ferrero.
29. The Rise of Modern Industry, by L. L. Hammond and Barbara Hammond.
30. The Eastern Question, by J. A. R. Marriott.
31. Music, by John Redfield.
32. The Most Ancient East, by V. Gordon Childe.
33. American Masters of Social Science, Edited by Howard W. Odum.
34. The Story of Costa Berling, by Selma Lagerlof.
35. How to Do Research Work, by W. C. Schluter.
36. Manual of Tree and Shrub Insects.
37. The Art of Flying, by Capt. Norman MacMillan.
38. Skyward, by Commander Richard E. Byrd.
39. Cyrus Hall McCormick, by William T. Hutchinson.
40. Tragedy, by Ashley H. Thorndike.
41. South Wind, by Norman Douglas.
42. The Doctrine of God, by Albert C. Knudson.
43. Vergil, by Tenney Frank.
44. Fundamental Ends of Life, by Rufus M. Jones.
45. Capital and Finance, by Dr. Richard Ehrenberg.
46. Tree Crops, by J. Russell Smith.
47. Maria Theresa, by Rev. J. Frank Bright.
48. North America, by J. Russell Smith.
49. The Problems of Childhood, by Angelo Patri.
50. Movement and Mental Imagery, by Margaret Floy Washburn.
51. The Distribution Age, by Ralph Borsodi.
52. Reluctantly Told, by Jane Hillyer.
53. The Foreign Policy of Canning, by Harold Temperley.
54. Economics of Fashion, by Paul H. Nystrom.
55. The Private Papers of Henry Ryecroft, by George Gissing.
56. Where Goes the River, by Albert S. Tousley.
57. Andree’s Story, Edited by the Swedish Society for Anthropology and Geography.

Harlan Paul James B. “Red” Roberts, one of Centre College’s three All-American football players, has announced that he will enter
the Democratic race for governor of Kentucky. Roberts was picked as an All-American end by Walter Camp in 1922, when
the “Praying Colonels” were at the height of their national glory.

Fraternities Entertain Many Week-end Guests

Over Seventy Girls Attend Pan-Hellenic Spring Party Held April 17, 18

Over seventy girls were guests of the fraternities on the campus for the Pan-Hellenic spring entertainments. The following is a
list of the guests:

Beta Theta Pi
District convention week-end.

Kappa Alpha
Misses Gene Wheeler, Charlotte; Alice Alexander, Charlotte; Adele Foard, Winthrop; Louise Milchor, Queens; Jean Ritz, Salem; Mason Daniels, Jacksonville, Fla.;
Lil Circus Harmon, Salem; Margaret Kimbrel, Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Phi
Misses Julia Orr, Charlotte; Catherine Maynard, Cheraw, S. C.; Stella Hall, Belmont; Frances Kearns, High Point; Sue McLean, Aberdeen; Louise
Kearns, High Point; Eileen Brown, Charlotte; Martha Johnson, Charlotte; Ruth Lang, Carthage; Nancy Cox, Raleigh; Roselie Rogers, Charlotte; Peggy Foreman,
Charlotte; Margaret Melchor, Mooresville; Scotty Johnson, Charlotte.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Misses Martha Clark, Fayetteville; Bell, Charlotte; Nancy Bell, Charlotte; Christine Sweets, Columbus, Ga.; Mary Louise Wadsworth, Charlotte; Lucy Horton, Paducah,
Ky.; Marjorie Huey, Tallahassee, Fla.; Virginia Armour, Nat. Park Seminary.

Kappa Sigma
Misses Hazel Townsend, Dorothy Skinner, Charleston, S. C.; Charlotte; Sally Charlotte.

Phi Gamma Delta
Misses Patsy McMullan, Washington; Louise Harrison, Greensboro; Natalie Selser, Mercersburg, Pa.; Barbara Dejonge, Charlotte; Catherine Gaston, Salem; Nonie Withers, Charlotte.

Theta Upsilon Omega
Misses Margaret Hausey, High Point; Elizabeth Gatewood, Telham; Mutt Hutchinson, High Point; Ellen Hawkins, Charlotte; Pat Hurley, Troy, S. C.

Phi Delta Theta
Misses Sally Couch, Charlotte; Elizabeth Price, Salem; Elizabeth Lewis, Chester; Boo Bitzer, Converse; LeDonia Thomas, N. C. C. W.; Grace
Bowes, St. Marys; Margaret Crawford, Converse; Elizabeth Wills, N. C. C. W.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Misses Ethel Begg, Charlotte; Virginia Knee, Charlotte; Mary Skinner, Durham; Sarah Rogers, Charlotte; Martha Pitts, Charlotte; Edress McAfee, Charlotte; Dolly
Blair, Salem; Grace Saseen, Charlotte; Mary Elizabeth Wakefield, Charlotte.

Whitehead Elected

At a meeting of the Reporters’ Club, held last Thursday night, officers for the coming year were elected. Allen Whitehead
of the rising Senior class was elected president; John Lake of the rising Junior class was elected vice-president, and William
Mullis of the rising Junior class was elected secretary and treasurer. The retiring officers are: President, Sam Wiley; vice-president, Don
Stevenson, and secretary and treasurer, Allen Whitehead.

At the New Jersey College for Women a collection of paintings by contemporary East Indian artists is on exhibition.

Costly decorations for the Junior prom at the University of Utah were taken by thieves.

At Hoopestown, Ill., cards are out announcing the birth of 26 pigs to a sow on the Fabian Jemsen farm,
which is believed to be a record.be a world championship. In Germany, the flight of a rocket has been controlled
from the earth. Like the Washington Monument and the Lincoln Memorial, the nation’s Capitol building soon will have its dome
mirrored in a pool of water, to be built near the Capitol. Germans are building a new plane believed capable
of rising ten miles in the air. For the first time since the World War, German and French soccer teams
met in Paris for a contest. Invited recently to take an airplane ride, Mahatma Gandhi replied that the only way
he ever would fly through the heavens would be “through the natural process of transmigration after I leave this earth.”

Prof. Foreman Attends Big Atlanta Conference
Religious Education Association Discusses Religious Problems in Present Economic Crisis at Meeting

From April 15 to 17, Professor Foreman, professor of Bible and philosophy at Davidson, was in Atlanta, Ga., attending the
annual national meeting of the Religious Education Association. This meeting, held at the Central Congregational Church, was attended by representatives
from Jewish, Roman Catholic, and Protestant churches. The discussion was centered around the general problem of religion in the present
economic crisis.

The conference was divided into three discussion groups, the first of which was composed of representatives from colleges and universities
throughout the United States. The second group was made up of representatives from the churches. The third was composed of
businessmen who represented the economic interests of the United States. Professor Foreman was in the first discussion group, but he
managed to hear some of the other discussions.

The conference included four general sessions at which prominent men spoke on the general subject of the social implications of
religion. In speaking of the conference, Professor Foreman says, “One of the most interesting impressions was the harmony between the
representatives of various religions in the social and ethical ideals.”

Lieut. George C. Baker of the army air corps, a graduate of Stanford University, was killed while stunting over Waikiki
beach.

INSTALLATION EXERCISES
(Continued from page 1)

He pointed out that heredity and environment might be similar, but that each personality was different from the other. He
continued that God worked out this plan for a definite purpose. The speaker reminded the audience that this is his
first year as “Y” secretary, and thanked those who have helped him, and asked for their support and prayers in
the future. He urged the students to rededicate and consecrate their lives to a new fellowship with the Eternal Father.
Following this speech, the gathering bowed its head and held a period of silent prayer.

An improvised stairway led up on the stage from the auditorium and after the list of the newly selected members
was called, they ascended the stage and took their respective places. The “Y” Cabinet for the coming year is as
follows: John R. Howard, of Atlanta, Ga.; Charles F. Myers, Jr., of Greensboro, vice-presidents, Howard, deputations; Myers, attendance; S. S.
Wiley, Salisbury, weekly meetings; William Rule, III, Knoxville, Tenn., boys’ work; C. W. Kuykendall, Charleston, W. Va., student life; W.
H. Matthews, Jr., Marlin, Texas, editor of the “Y” Handbook; N. G. Spier, Charlotte, social life; R. W. Gorrell, Jr.,
Winston-Salem, social center; J. H. McKinnon, Jr., Jacksonville, Fla., Sunday School work; R. L. Torrence, Gastonia, vocational guidance; Don S.
King, Bristol, Tenn., chapel services; Horace W. Erwin, Long Island, N. Y., music; D. G. Martin, Covington, Ga., freshman work;
Frank W. Buckner, Davidson, world evangelism; and Chester W. Arnold, Greensboro, church relations. Professor Lewis Schenck pronounced the benediction.

“Cars washed $1, midget cars dunked 50 cents," advertised a St. Louis garage recently.

DEBATERS CLOSE YEAR
(Continued from page 1)

and J. C. Matthews completed their spring debating schedule some time before. This was the first Davidson team to enter
the 1931 platform field. They defeated the University of Richmond by a 2-1 score, Roanoke College by a 3-0 score,
and Birmingham-Southern by a 2-1 score. They were defeated by Wake Forest, however, by a 2-1 score, this being the
only defeat they suffered. The debate with Birmingham-Southern was the only one held at Davidson. It was held in the
Eumenean Literary Society hall on March 11. P. S. Knox, Jr., and G. P. Pardington, who composed Davidson's third and
last team, were defeated by Emory at Converse College. This team went to Rock Hill, S. C., to meet the
University of South Carolina there, but the South Carolina team did not appear.

William Brown Bowdle, of Lima, Ohio, who as of April 15, claims to have never missed a Sunday School service
in 96 years.

Helen Crain, former co-ed at Birmingham Southern University, was arrested in New Orleans recently, charged with a series of thrill
robberies.

The industrial relations section of Princeton University has completed a survey in which it suggests loaning money instead of giving
charity to idle workers.

Five volumes printed by William Caxton in the fifteenth century have been sold by the minister of the library of
York for $100,000 to provide funds for the ancient minster’s repair. The library antedates the Danish invasion.

William Coolidge Lane, 71, librarian emeritus at Harvard University, died recently at Boston.

Camels in as prime condition as Winston-Salem, the cigarette capital of the world. Camels that leave our factory are now
wrapped in moisture-proof, airtight Cellophane which acts as a humidor and keeps the natural moisture in.

Peppery tobacco dust and harsh moisture-robbed tobacco are what sting the tongue and burn the throat. Thanks to our patented
vacuum cleaning apparatus and the new Humidor Pack, everybody, everywhere, can enjoy the Camel blend of fine Turkish and mellow
Domestic tobaccos in prime, fresh condition.

Switch to Camels today, then leave them tomorrow, if you can.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.
Winston-Salem, N. C.

Factory-fresh CAMELS are air-sealed in the new Sanitary Package which keeps the dust and germs out and keeps the flavor
in.
