THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 12, 1931

New Library Books

The following is a list of the new books recently placed in the college library:

1. An Introduction to Edwin Arlington Robinson, by Charles Cestre.
2. Kitchener, by General C. R. Ballard.
3. The Mission of Greece, by R. W. Livingstone.
4. Universities: American, English, German, by Abraham Flexner.
5. A Treatise on Money, by John Maynard Keynes.
6. The Sarcophagus of an Ancient Civilization, by George L. Robinson.
7. Education of a Princess, by Marie Grand Duchess of Russia.
8. Economic Rhythm, by Ernst Wagemann.
9. The Economics of Branch Banking, by Bernhard Ostrolenk.
10. The Composition of Homer's Odyssey, by W. J. Woodhouse.
11. Interpretations of Federal Reserve Policy, by Benjamin Strong.
12. Federal Reserve Aid, by Austin F. MacDonald.
13. The Labor Injunction, by Felix Frankfurter and Nathan Greene.
14. Jesus and the Law of Moses, by Bennett Harvie Branscomb.
15. Distillation Principles and Processes, by Sydney Young.
16. The Development of English Humor, by Louis Cazamian.
17. Introduction to Theoretical Physics, by Leigh Page.
18. An Introduction to Chemistry, by John A. Timm.
19. New Methods in Exterior Ballistics, by Forest Ray Moulton.
20. Quantum Mechanics, by Edward Condon and Philip M. Morse.
21. Three Titans, by Emil Ludwig.
22. Studies in Matthew, by Benjamin Wisner Bacon.
23. Recent Religious Psychology, by A. Rudolph Uren.
24. A Scandinavian Summer, by Harry A. Franck.
25. History of Spanish Literature, by Ernest Mérimée.
26. Who Were the Greeks? by John Linton Myres.
27. Italy Before the Romans, by David Randall-MacIver.
28. Christianity’s Contributions to Civilization, by Charles David Eldridge.
29. Selected Poems, by Edgar Allan Poe.
30. When the West Is Gone, by Frederic L. Paxson.
31. The Eagle and the Serpent, by Martin Luis Guzman.
32. Brazil Today and Tomorrow, by L. E. Elliott.
33. The Parables of Jesus, by George A. Buttrick.
34. Progress and Religion, by Christopher Dawson.
35. Years of Grace, by Margaret Ayer Barnes.
36. 24 Hours, by Louis Bromfield.
37. Jesus the Son of God, by Benjamin Wisner Bacon.
38. Epicurus, by Cyril Bailey.
39. Lawyers and Litigants in Ancient Athens, by Robert J. Bonner.
40. Pagan Regeneration, by Harold R. Willoughby.
41. Character Through Creative Experience, by William C. Bower.
42. Man’s Social Destiny, by Charles A. Ellwood.
43. The Glory of the Nightingales, by Edwin Arlington Robinson.
44. The Virgin Birth of Christ, by Gresham Machen.
45. The Two Solar Families, by Thomas C. Chamberlin.
46. Introduction to the Theory of Numbers, by Leonard Eugene Dickson.
47. Contemporary American Philosophy, by George Adams and Pepperell Montague.
48. Ancient Painting, by Mary Hamilton Swindler.
49. Junior Worship Guide, by Charlotte Chambers Jones.
50. The Best Plays of 1929-1930, by Burns Mantle.
51. New Chapters in the History of Greek Literature, by J. U. Powell and E. A. Barber.
52. On Forsyte Change, by John Galsworthy.
53. The History of Economics, by Othmar Spann.
54. A Treatise on Money, by John Maynard Keynes.
55. Fractional Money, by Neil Carothers.
56. Dictionary of Botanical Equivalents, by Ernst Artschwager and Edwina Smiley.
57. Mathematical Introduction to Economics, by Harold L. Reed.
58. Federal Reserve Policy, by Harold L. Reed.
59. Oriental Forerunners of Byzantine Painting, by James Henry Breasted.

Tennis Team Schedule To Be Completed Soon

Davidson Representatives to Have Strenuous Season With Many Matches Away From Campus

For the season of 1931, all the tennis matches so far arranged will be played away from Davidson. The following gives the schedule for the tennis team this season:

April 14—Duke.
April 15—Carolina.
On April 17, 18, and 19, the team will attend the State Meet which is to be held at Chapel Hill.
April 27, 28, and 29, with Washington and Lee, V. P. I., and University of Richmond, respectively. The arrangements for these three have not been fully arranged.
April 30, University of Virginia.

Last year in both the singles and the doubles of the State Meet, Davidson sent men into the last rounds. Captain Johnston went to the finals of the singles and he paired with Halverstadt to win through to the semi-finals of the doubles. Last year’s results were as follows:

Davidson, 4; Duke, 5.
Davidson, 2; Carolina, 7.
Davidson, 6; William and Mary, 3.
Davidson, 2; Virginia, 7.
Davidson, 6; P. C., 0.

Totals: Davidson, 20; Opponents, 22.

"I should prefer to admit a million morons than a million geniuses to the United States, because the morons could be put to useful work which none of us want to do." — Prof. J. M. Osman.

"When we make a chaos of the home, as we do by divorce, we do the same thing eventually to the government." — Rev. T. L. Graham.

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago

Five Years Ago, February 11, 1926

Davidson defeated Guilford by a score of 34 to 23. Starting with a fast attack in the first period, the Wildcats played a snappy and entertaining game of basketball to overwhelm...Completely the quintet from Guilford. Captain Laird and Anderson were the outstanding stars, with Anderson the high point man.

Ten Years Ago, February 11, 1926

As things look now in the race for state championship, Trinity seems to have a slight edge in some respects. Yet either the University of North Carolina or Davidson may be counted in the running. Trinity is the only quintet at present to get by undefeated in the race for top honors.

Hardly a school girl is writing today who deserves any credit.—Dr. Henry Van Dyke.

The blessing of offspring, however, is not completed by the mere begetting of them: But something else must be added, namely, the proper education of the offspring.—Pius XI, Pope.

A man who has reformed himself has contributed fully toward the reformation of his neighbor.—Norman Douglas.

Never once do I remember hearing over the wireless anything approximating music.—Sir Hamilton Harty.

I consider the modern deification of self somewhat anti-social in its tendencies and therefore retrogressive.—Lady Allenby.

Your acquisitive man is a man become feminine.—Sherwood Anderson.

All “sordid” movies have been banned by the censors of Great Britain.

Officers Installed By Ministerial Band

The Ministerial Band held a meeting Thursday evening of last week and a general discussion took place. The new officers were installed. They are: M. W. Norfleet, president; Roger Enloe, vice-president; and Wayte J. Fulton, secretary and treasurer. Following the open discussion, reports were given and plans formulated for the next meeting. A keen interest in the work is being shown by the members and it is believed that great strides will be made in the future under the direction of the new officers.

DR. W. H. FRAZER (Continued from page 1)

Moses controlled himself; he might have remained in Egypt to sit on the throne and rule the land. He said that in the desert Moses must have often thought of the mistakes he had made which were responsible for his being a wanderer in Midian. He emphasized the importance of young people today living in such a way that in later years, when they look back over the events in their lives, there would be nothing to be ashamed of, but only beautiful things to remember. Then, if there was anything in the past that was not wholesome, to forget it, and reach out to the future, and press forward. The speaker declared that the isolation of Moses in the wilderness was a blessing, since Moses spent his time in personal communication with God, who enlightened his mind, enkindled his spiritual nature, and created holiness in him. He asserted that when adversity forces people to come closer to God, it is a glorious failure. Dr. Frazer said that a new perspective was added to these other acquired things and opened a new horizon to the great Hebrew leader which stretched far beyond the desert. He expressed the delightfulness of being led from darkness into light where the plans and purposes of life are nobler. In conclusion, Dr. Frazer told how Moses plodded along, facing many difficulties, and his

Davidson Rifle Team to Have Strenuous Season

Shoulder Matches Planned with N. C. State, Presbyterian College, Citadel, and Gastonia

The Davidson College rifle team opened the season last week with correspondence matches with Alabama, Polytech, Michigan State College, University of Maryland, and New York Stock Exchange. Up to date, there have been scheduled fifty-three correspondence matches. It is the present plan of the team to shoot from five to seven matches per week through March 28. Attempts are being made to shoot shoulder-to-shoulder matches with N. C. State, Presbyterian College, Citadel, and Gastonia. The team has just completed shooting off the prone position in the Corps Area matches. It is planned to shoot one position a week until the match is completed. The boys are very much interested, and Captain Blanton is looking forward to a successful season. There are twenty boys on the team, from which fifteen are picked to shoot in each meet.

OUR DEMOCRACY (Continued from page 1)

They are aggressive and persistent; they will bear watching. “The South should remain,” said Dr. Wertenbaker in conclusion, “as it has in the past, a solid block of opposition to paternalism and bureaucracy. Let us cling to those rights reserved to the states by the Constitution which have not already been taken over by the Federal government under the all-embracing ‘necessary and proper’ clause. Let us retain our self-reliance, our individuality, and our localism.”

Nearly everybody is inaccurate in judging his own degree of sociability and his own sense of humor.—Fred C. Kelly.

Of the need of men now to take up tasks and experience hardships which lead to a revelation of God.

Economics, by Griffith C. Evans.

© 1931, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Which of these cigarettes is the tallest—but maybe you're on to this one! YOUR EYES MAY FOOL YOU BUT YOUR TASTE TELLS THE TRUTH! MILDER...AND BETTER TASTE.