HEAR PROF. FOREMAN AT “Y” VESPERS

The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

KEEP BEHIND THOSE WILDCATS

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 30, 1931 No. 3

Davidson Wildcats Lose to State Wolf Pack in Greensboro Night Game

Sensational Comeback Made in Second Half Comes Too Late to Change Result

’CATS PUZZLED BY SHIFT

North Carolina State Comes Through Victorious in First Game

Displaying a fast and tricky style of play, North Carolina State was able to pile up enough points in the first half to beat the Davidson Wildcats last Saturday night in Greensboro. This was the first game of the season for the N. C. State Wolfpack and their first appearance under the direction of Coach John P. “Clipper” Smith, former all-American at Notre Dame. During the first part of the game, the brilliant shift, which has characterized the Notre Dame style of football for many years, was a complete puzzle to the Wildcats. State was able to plow through the line at will, and scored two touchdowns in the first quarter. They scored one more in the second period and their scoring was over for the night. Wilson and Cumisky were outstanding on the offense, while Gurneau stood out on the defense for State. None of the tries for points after touchdowns were successful.

At the beginning of the second half, the Wildcat team started a drive which completely outclassed State for the remainder of the game. It was a straight hard drive for the goal line which netted them their first touchdown. The drive was the result of persistent attempts at the line, and the brilliant play of two Wildcats, Bruce Peabody and Buddy Gardner. Gardner, after assuming his old duties in the line, was in every play. Time after time he messed up what promised to be a long run for State. Peabody returned punt after punt for consistent gains. He was also excellent on the defense.

In the statistics of the game, N. C. State was completely in the lead. They gained more ground, punted further, and passed more accurately. However, in first downs the two teams were equal. If each half were counted separately from any point of view the game would have been a tie. State had complete mastery of the situation in the first half. Davidson, just as surely, had the upper hand in the last half.

State Pos. Davidson
Gurneau L.E. Raker
Cobb (c) L.T. Whitfield
Duke L.G. Mathis
Espey Center McConnell
Lefcourt R.G. Conway
A. Wilson R.T. Wagner
Greason R.E. Brown
McQuage Q.B. King
D. Wilson L.H. Pearce
Dellinger R.H. Gardner
Cumisky F.B. MacQueen

Davidson, 0 0 0 7—7
State, 12 6 0 0—18

Touchdowns—State: Dellinger, D. Wilson, Cumisky. Davidson: MacQueen. Point after touchdown, King (place-kick). Officials—Ref- (Continued on page 6)

Allen and Sugg Are Named Cheerleaders

These Men Were Selected From Nine Candidates and Will Assist Ed Kuykendall

In the voting last week, Brook Allen and Bruce Sugg were elected Junior cheerleaders to assist Ed Kuykendall this year. These men were chosen over a group of nine men composed of Joe Bryant, John Lake, Tom Bowles, Leland McKeithan, Jack Stuart, Anderson Little, and Bob Glasgow. In the first day’s voting four men were eliminated, leaving Allen, Sugg, Glasgow, Bowles, and Little in the race. Allen and Sugg were elected from this group of five.

Both of the new cheerleaders are members of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and Sugg is the sports editor of The Davidsonian. He is also a member of the Glee Club and was a member of the College Band last year. As is customary at Davidson, these two men will assist the head cheerleader, Ed Kuykendall, for the rest of this year. Then in the late spring, one of the two will be chosen by the student body as head cheerleader for next year.

Players Named For “The Monkey’s Paw”

Parts in “The Monkey’s Paw” have been chosen and rehearsals are fully under way. The club being without a director, Prof. Erwin, who is a member of the Key Club, was present at the tryout rehearsal to confirm the selection of characters. The group of five will rehearse about three times a week in Shearer Hall until the parts have been thoroughly mastered. Then stage work will probably shift to Chambers Auditorium to familiarize the characters with distance and setting so that precision of gesture and action can be practiced.

The leading male part, that of Mr. White, head of a poor English family, who has managed to provide for them in a modest dwelling upon which there is now a two hundred-pound mortgage, is assumed by Horace Ervin, who took minor parts in “Whappin’ Wharf” in 1930 and in “The Perfect Alibi” last year. The role of Mrs. White, the only female part in the play, is taken by Miss Adele Arbuckle. Miss Arbuckle, who is a recent graduate of Agnes Scott College, was president of the Dramatic Society in that institution.

John G. Marvin will be Herbert, the only son of the otherwise lonely couple, through whom the granting of the first wish is made plausible and yet regretted by them, and about whom are woven the additional two wishes. Marvin also will have charge, as usual, of make-up. Sampson, representative from the electrical company for whom Herbert works, is taken by Fred Hellegers of the Sophomore class, who makes his first appearance on the Davidson stage. Hellegers has had experience in high school in such plays as “Mrs. Bumpstead Leigh,” “The Copperhead,” and “Spreading the News.”

The only new member of the student body to be given a part in the first presentation of the year is Grainger Williams of the Junior class, who is Sergeant-Major Morris, soldier, mystic, and gossip, who brings the paw with its horrific history into the lives of the peaceable family. Sergeant Morris knows that the paw was first charmed by an old fakir of India, so that three wishes would be granted to three possessors. He himself was the second.

Stage manager for the play is Henry C. McFadyen, recently elected to the Key Club. In spite of previous announcement, it is not certain that “The Monkey’s Paw” will be presented on Home-Coming Day, as the evening is under the auspices of the Glee Club, who may not require a play of one hour to fill the program. Announcement, pending decision of that organization, will be made later.

Informal Debate Held by Phi Society

The Philanthropic Literary Society held an informal debate at their meeting Tuesday night, September 21. They had as guests the Eumenean Literary Society and the debate was staged between Dr. C. R. Harding and Dr. Frazer Hood. President Rhyburn presided at the meeting and announced the subject, Resolved, “That Participation in Literary Society Activities is More Beneficial Than Taking Part in Inter-Collegiate Athletics.” Dr. Harding upheld the affirmative side of the question and Dr. Hood argued for the negative.

Dr. Harding, in beginning his speech, stated that to his way of thinking the question for debate was ridiculous since it was so one-sided in his favor. Then, he declared that it was true that athletes in their prime received good compensation, but after they grew older they were no longer able to compete in athletics and had no future ahead of them. While the man who is versed in parliamentary law, the art of debate, and public speaking, has everything to look forward to.

In response, Dr. Hood replied he was surprised that his colleague did not appreciate the value derived from taking part in inter-collegiate athletics. He pointed out that it benefited a man physically as well as socially. He also emphasized the fact that it took more brains to catch some of the elusive forward passes than to pass some of the examinations given by local teachers.

There was a rebuttal which followed the debate and it was spicy and full of rich humor. At the close of the debate a vote was taken by the society and it was decided that the vote was a tie.

FRATERNITY AVERAGES

According to Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, the following is a list of the scholastic averages of the social fraternities for the year 1930-31: Kappa Alpha, 85.94; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 85.66; Sigma Phi Epsilon, 85.58; Phi Gamma Delta, 85.27; Phi Delta Theta, 84.58; Pi Kappa Alpha, 84.46; Kappa Sigma, 84.33; Beta Theta Pi, 83.55; Theta Upsilon Omega, 82.49; Pi Kappa Phi, 82.37. This is the third (but not consecutive) year that the Kappa Alpha fraternity has won the cup. If they win it this year, 1931-32, they will gain permanent possession of the cup. The Pi Kappa Alphas have won it two times before, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, one year, Phi Gamma Deltas, one year, and the Beta Theta Pis, one year.

The cup was given in 1924 by Mr. James C. Harper, of Lenoir, N. C. The fraternity making the highest scholastic record keeps the cup for one year or until their average is surpassed. The fraternity having the highest standing for three consecutive years gains permanent possession of the cup.

Professor K. J. Foreman to Conduct Open Forum at Vespers, October 4th

Collection of Interesting Questions Has Been Gathered During the Past Week

FIRST OPEN FORUM HELD

The Topic of Predestination is of Interest to the Student Body

On next Sunday night the Y. M. C. A. will present perhaps the most interesting and certainly the most unique vesper service ever held at Davidson College. At this time there will be an open forum with Prof. K. J. Foreman, professor of Bible and Philosophy here at Davidson, in charge. For the past week there has been a box inChambers Building in which students had the opportunity of depositing questions which they wished answered at the forum on Sunday night. A great many questions were put into this box. On the whole, it may be said that most of the questions were thought-provoking, and all of them interesting. It is believed that they include almost all of the questions that may be at the hearts of the student body at present, and should therefore be not only entertaining but also highly valuable. Most of the questions seemed to be on the general subject of predestination, but not all. The following are typical: “Granting that God is all-powerful, why did He allow evil to come into the world, knowing that His Son should have to suffer untold agony in payment for that which He created?” “What is your idea of hell?” “When does the soul enter and leave the body of man?” “Why do you believe in the immortality of the soul?” “Why should we believe in predestination?” “How may we know that the Bible is the infallible Word of God?” “What is truth?” “What did the ‘tree of life’ in the Garden of Eden symbolize?” “Can a man who has never heard of Jesus Christ be saved?”

As seen above, the questions are ones that are vital in religion. Furthermore, the man to lead the discussion of these questions is admirably suited for that position. As professor for both Bible and Philosophy, Professor Foreman has acquired the type of knowledge required for answering questions of the above type. In addition, he has a ready wit and ideas that are always unusual and original. This forum on next Sunday night should prove very thought-provoking and extremely interesting and helpful.

The number of candidates for football manager reached twenty last week as eleven Freshmen in addition to the nine upperclassmen reported to Bob Gorrell, varsity manager. Candidates are: Juniors, A. H. Grant, W. A. Mebane, and A. Ross, Jr.; Sophomores, R. W. Beaty, J. B. Caldwell, Frank Holt, John Drake, B. F. Ormond, Jr., W. A. Kirkland; Freshmen, Mims Rogers, Billy Northern, David McLain, Raymond Pollock, Caskie Norvell, Warner DuBose, Bob Everett, Billy Atwater, J. C. Sherrill, K. Hanrahan, G. W. Barnes.

Ten Social Fraternities Issue Their Annual Fall Invitations to Freshmen

Dr. Tom Sparrow is “Y” Vesper Speaker
Davidson Alumnus Gives Interesting Talk on Character, Work, and Personality

“A man’s influence is felt principally through his character, his work, his personality, and through his convictions,” said Dr. Tom Sparrow, M.D., of Charlotte, in his vespers address last Sunday evening. His text, which was read by Robert Gorrell, was based on the passage from John 14:6-15. Dr. Sparrow began his address by illustrating how a man’s influence may be felt by his character, using the life of Stonewall Jackson as an example. The speaker showed how the Christliness of Jackson's life permeated his entire battalion during the Civil War, and especially so among his staff, with whom he was constantly associated. A special incident was quoted about the time when Jackson had assembled his staff in order to discuss the plans for a battle the next day. After each officer had expressed his opinion, Jackson announced that he would withhold his plan until the following morning, to which Colonel Hill laughingly remarked that “Old Jackson” wanted time to pray over it. Some hours later Hill returned to Jackson’s tent and found him there praying, and on seeing Jackson on his knees, Hill was heard to exclaim, “If this is religion, then I want it!” A man’s character is one medium of spreading his influence. Similarly, Dr. Sparrow developed his other points, using certain great men as illustrations. In explanation of “a man's convictions” a warning was given to the audience not to have the wrong kind of convictions. To be sure, the detestable man is he who is neither hot nor cold, but nevertheless a man should be cautious as to questions on which he convicts himself. To make himself clear, Dr. Sparrow told of an instance in which a Philadelphia gangster was shot, and when questioned, he told numerous lies in order to protect his would-be assassin, because the code of his convictions prohibited him to be a “squealer.” In conclusion, a well-known quotation was given as an additional seal for the right kind of influence that our lives should spread. The passage was: “To thine own self be true. Then as the day follows the night, thou canst not be false to any man.”

Scabbard and Blade Emblems Presented

Scabbard and Blade emblems were presented to eight cadet officers of the local R. O. T. C. battalion at the regular drill period held last Monday. The eight officers received bids in the Scabbard and Blade last spring. All are members of the Senior class and are beginning their fourth year in military science at Davidson. Don S. King, cadet major of the battalion; D. Grier Martin, captain Company B; L. S. Baker, captain Company D; P. M. Conway, captain Company A; S. S. Wiley, captain-adjutant; A. G. Montgomery, W. S. Lea, and Chas. Harris, cadet lieutenants, were the eight presented with emblems. Presentation of the emblems was made by Col. W. R. Scott, professor of military science and tactics, who complimented each officer on his achievement. In addition to presenting Scabbard and Blade emblems, Col. Scott awarded medals in marksmanship to M. L. Brohard, S. S. Wiley, and A. G. Graham. These three men were members of the 1931 rifle team, which made an impressive showing at Camp Perry this year. Rifles were used at the battalion formation for the first time this semester and added to the presentation ceremonies.

The very essence of a free government consists in considering offices as public trusts, bestowed for the good of the country, and not for the benefit of an individual or a party.—John C. Calhoun.

God grants liberty only to those who love it, and are always ready to guard and defend it.—Webster.

Ninety-two Freshmen, Two Sophomores, and Four Juniors Were Pledged September 23

LAST YEAR 110 PLEDGED

Pledge Night Ended One of College’s Most Successful Rushing Seasons

Ninety-eight men were this week pledged to membership in Davidson College's ten national social fraternities. The pledging came as the climax of two weeks of intensive rushing activities which have been in progress since the beginning of school. The number pledged includes four men who are Juniors, two who are Sophomores, and 92 members of the Freshman class. This year’s pledge list falls an even dozen short of the number who were so honored last fall, when 110 aligned themselves with the Davidson fraternities. The list of pledges follows:

Beta Theta Pi: Byron Schriver and E. G. Williams, both of Little Rock, Ark., members of the Junior class, and the following Freshmen: J. M. Voegtler, Summit, N. J.; J. L. McClintock, Charlotte; W. C. Brewer, Henderson; T. D. Miller, Henderson; W. E. Atwater, Burlington; G. H. Brown, River Edge, N. J., and Spencer B. Hanes, Jr., Winston-Salem.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Wills Hollingsworth, Florence, Ala.; R. K. Matthews, Kwansie, Japan; C. E. Norvell, Greensboro; G. C. Harris, Welch, W. Va.; J. W. Ashton, Middleburg, Va.; F. Hillier, Barbourville, Ky.; R. H. Berry, Harrisonburg, Va.; Henry Daniel, Charlottesville, Va.; Henry Hodgin, Red Springs; B. P. Little, Albemarle; W. H. Tomlin, Gastonia; J. F. Baxter, Gainesville, Fla.; Ralph Caton, Concord; and John Mackorell, Hickory; and P. J. McElrath, Bramwell, W. Va., a member of the Sophomore class.

Kappa Alpha: D. B. Bailey, Rock Hill, S. C.; J. H. Batte, Concord; Warner DuBose, Mobile, Ala.; R. W. Dulin, Jr., C. C. Lucas, L. F. McPhail, and L. D. McPhail, all of Charlotte; Dewey Hutchins, Lexington; J. A. Macfie, Brevard; Singleton Maynard, Bluefield, W. Va.; J. L. Milford, Charleston, W. Va.; Lewis R. Prosser, Johnson City, Tenn.; Jeff Robbins, Chester, S. C.; and W. H. Sprunt, Wilmington.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: E. G. Holt, Greensboro; J. M. Douglas, Davidson; R. B. Everett, Laurinburg; Jack Hellinger, New Bern; Robert Kornegay, Rocky Mount; C. A. Munroe, and J. A. G. Wadsworth, both of Charlotte; K. D. Weeks, Rocky Mount; T. F. Wood, Jr., Wilmington; W. H. Watkins, Ramseur; W. N. Neill, Jr., Columbus, Ga.

Kappa Sigma: E. B. Garrett, Jr., Rigdon Dees, Jr., L. F. Byerly, and Lee VanStory, and Charles W. Rives, all of Greensboro; H. Gomez, Orange, Texas; B. L. Rose, Fayetteville; W. B. Ravenel, Charleston, S. C.; S. W. Bernhardt, Lenoir; H. L. Green, Mt. Berry, Ga.; and H. E. White, Gastonia.

Phi Gamma Delta: E. G. Holt, Greensboro; J. M. Douglas, Davidson; R. B. Everett, Laurinburg; Jack Hellinger, New Bern; Robert Kornegay, Rocky Mount; C. A. Munroe, and J. A. G. Wadsworth, both of Charlotte; K. D. Weeks, Rocky Mount; T. F. Wood, Jr., Wilmington; W. H. Watkins, Ramseur; W. N. Neill, Jr., Columbus, Ga.

(Continued on page 6)

Fifty-One Contest in Frosh Cake Race

Morris and McFadyen Break Tape Together at Finish Line

Fifty-one contestants streaked across hill and dale in the precincts of Davidson College last week in the second annual cake race, and out of the mass of human beings came spurting Hubert Morris, Freshman from Winston-Salem, and A. A. McFadyen, Junior from China, to tie. The course was 1.7 miles and was negotiated in 10 minutes 37.5 seconds, which failed to measure up to the record set last year by Rufus Morrow, of Mexico. His time for the same distance a year ago was 10 minutes 30 seconds. Heath Whittle, assistant in physical education, was the official in charge of the race, and stated that it was staged to enable the coaches to have an idea of what might be expected in the way of cross-country material. Thirteen prizes were offered the winners, others finishing in order being G. L. Gullette, Florence, Ala.; J. H. Simpson, Athens, Ga.; J. A. Rose, Waynesville; R. W. Richardson, Jr.

(Continued on page 6)