THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 9, 1931

Columbia Editor Causes Literary Societies Stir in Serious Charges

Phi and Eu Literary Societies had their regular weekly meetings last Tuesday evening, December 8. The topic at the Phi Society was "Great Philosophies of Life." The subject was treated as follows: The Stoic Philosophy by Horace Ryburn, the Platonic Philosophy by Stuart Noblin, the Aristotelian by Marion McDavid, the Epicurean by Woolye Croker, and the Christian by Courtney Ross. The program for next Tuesday, December 15, will be "The Letters of General Robert E. Lee" by Will Rachal, and "Readings from Autograph Collections" by William Carter.

The Eu program was composed of six short talks which were as follows: Gunby Rule on "Casey at the Bat," Lewis Gregg on Eugene O'Neill and "Mourning Becomes Electra," B. O. Simpson on Gandhi Land, Geddy Monroe on Thomas Edison. Talks were also made by Joe Tyack and Alvin Byer. It is the object of the society to maintain interest and to give the members of the society a more frequent opportunity to speak by having many short talks.

Reed Harris Asserts Through His Paper That Columbia Gridders Are Paid by Alumni

There has been no Carnegie report this year to stir up the college football question, but it’s been stirred up just the same, in the East at least, by the students themselves. In a number of eastern colleges—and even in some high schools—the squabble has been between the football squads and their ardent supporters, and the student newspapers, backed by their admirers.

The first notable shell was fired by Reed Harris, former 215-pound football player, now editor of the Columbia University Spectator, who wrote a series of editorials to the effect that the Columbia gridders were more or less underwritten by wealthy alumni. Members of the squad immediately presented themselves at the Spectator office and offered to lick Harris if he printed any more such stories. Harris almost literally thumbed his nose at the players, and went on printing his accusations, drawing more and more support from not only students but many alumni as well.

This raised such a furor that Dean Christian Gauss of Princeton let it be known that so far as he could ascertain all football players in the country were supported directly or indirectly by alumni or other interests. He intimated that, as Chief Justice Hughes once said, “You can't have an honest horse race until you have an honest

Mount Holyoke College Students Aid in Relief

South Hadley, Mass.—(IP)—Several hundred dollars were secured for the relief of underfed children last week when the women students at Mount Holyoke College, all 1,050 of them, ate beans and lamb stew in place of the regular menu.

The students had their choice of beans and brown bread, or lamb stew with biscuits. The meal took the place of the regular Sunday chicken dinner and fixin’s.

Davidson Glee Club To Render Concert

The Davidson College Glee Club will give a concert in Pinehurst on the night of December 17. The Glee Club has rendered a few numbers in chapel and they also expect to give a concert here at Davidson some time in the near future. The club this year is under the direction of William Rule, III, and George Pardington is business manager.

The tentative program for the Pinehurst concert is as follows: Glee Club will present three groups of songs. Sunnyland Serenaders will play two groups of popular numbers. The quartet will render a selection. A skit. A solo by George Pardington. Horace Irving will play a violin solo.

Prof. Beaty Speaks To Ministerial Band

Prof. E. A. Beaty, of the Latin Department, addressed the Ministerial Band at an informal meeting Sunday afternoon. Professor Beaty spoke on the subject of “The Kingdom of Heaven.” He took up four phases of the Kingdom. First, he discussed the place of the Kingdom of Heaven, bringing out the fact that the Kingdom is within one’s self and is a condition of spiritual citizenship. Next, he disclosed the nature of the Kingdom, stating that it is a spiritual subjective experience. He then further stated that the Kingdom can be approached only by spiritual means. His last phase was “the duty of every minister.” Under this topic, he stated that it is a minister’s duty to preach of the Kingdom of Heaven to a social group and not only to the individual.human race.”

Editorial Contest
The Intercollegiate Disarmament Council, with headquarters here, has announced a nationwide contest for college students on the writing of the best editorials on “How Students Can Help Achieve World Disarmament.”

First, second, and third awards will be $40, $25, and $10. The following rules were announced:
- Editorial must be by an enrolled undergraduate.
- Editorial must have been printed in a college paper or magazine.
- Editorial must be not more than 500 words.
- Editorial must be submitted by the author and must reach the editorial contest editor, 347 Madison Avenue, New York, on or before December 21.

Winning editorials are to be published in the February issue of Intercollegian.

Coaches Confess
Turning out good football teams is a serious business in this day and age, but the mentors have time for their chuckles just the same, according to an article, “The Coaches Confess,” published in the January College Humor. Almost a new slant is given on the old game when leading coaches like Stevens of Yale, Zuppke of Illinois, Warner of Stanford, Kerr of Colgate, Bible of Nebraska, Cavanaugh of Fordham, Ingwerson of Iowa, and Madigan of St. Mary’s tell their funniest experiences.

As an example, Coach Zuppke tells this one:
“Just before the game I said, ‘Nobody comes out until he is dead.’
“This ultimatum apparently had a good effect and it wasn’t necessary to make a substitution until late in the last quarter when one of the regular linemen was disabled. Our trainer went out and worked on him but it was clear he would have to leave the game.
“I hurried out a big, inexperienced substitute. He went over to the place where the disabled lineman was still stretched out, bent over him and then came running off the field back to the bench.
“‘Why didn’t you stay out there?’ I yelled at the sub.
“‘Why, Zup, you said nobody left the game but a dead man and he’s still breathing!’”

Small Deputation Visits Banner Elk for Weekend
We have it on reliable authority that the excellence of Sam Wiley’s first sermon delivered at Banner Elk a month ago accounted for his being called back the past weekend to fill the Lees-McRae College pulpit. Accordingly, he and Horace Ervin set out on Saturday afternoon (the latter to render a violin solo) for the distant junior college, and unless you call being stuck on a lonely mountainside for two hours with a burned-out coil a mishap, they arrived without casualty.

Wiley spoke Sunday morning and evening. His morning sermon was built around Job’s reference to God’s thunderous power, while in the evening he talked on Obligations, it being a prelude to a short pageant which the undergraduates had worked up on “Immigration.” The dependence of immigrants and foreigners on the Christian evangelical work of America was the theme. Ervin played at both these meetings.

You probably know that heat is used in cigarette tobaccos. But you know too that excessive heat can destroy freshness and fragrance. That’s why there could be no truly fresh cigarette except for scientifically developed methods of applying heat. Reynolds is proud of having discovered and perfected methods for getting the benefits of heat treatments and still avoiding ever parching or toasting. With every assurance we tell you, Camels are truly fresh. They’re made fresh—not parched or toasted—and then they’re kept fresh in the Camel Humidor Pack.

If you wish to know why the swing to Camels is nationwide and steadily growing—switch to them for just one day—then leave them, if you can.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY
Winston-Salem, N. C.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company's Coast-to-Coast Radio Programs
CAMEL QUARTER HOUR, Morton Downey, Tony Wons, and Camel Orchestra, direction Jacques Renard, every night except Sunday, Columbia Broadcasting System
PRINCE ALBERT QUARTER HOUR, Alice Joy, “Old Hunch,” and Prince Albert Orchestra, direction Paul Van Loan, every night except Sunday, N. B. C. Red Network
See radio page of local newspaper for time

Don’t remove the moisture-proof wrapping from your package of Camels after you open it. The Camel Humidor Pack is protection against sweat, dust, and germs. In offices and homes, even in the dry atmosphere of artificial heat, the Camel Humidor Pack delivers fresh Camels and keeps them right until the last one has been smoked.

Made FRESH — Kept FRESH
© 1931, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company