THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1931

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

N.C. C. W.

Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, wife of the Governor of New York and “First Lady of New York State,” recently spoke to the students on three very important subjects dealing with the professional and office life of the young women of today. Her three topics were: “The Necessary Equipment for a College Woman to Enter the Business World,” “Opportunities for the Modern Woman in the Business and Professional World,” and “Ways and Means of Getting in Touch with These Larger Opportunities.” Mrs. Roosevelt is well known as a hostess and as a model housewife. During the great war, she was cited as a model for efficiency in the home where she very ably managed ten servants and five children, quite a task. In the state of New York, she has been very active in educational, sociological, and political affairs.

Here at Davidson, we hear much about sportsmanship and spirit, but we do not read about the spirit of other teams, except on rare occasions, even though we see it very vividly in the playing of the teams and the student bodies of our rivals. To show the sportsmanship and spirit of one of our rivals, Citadel, whose sportsmanship and spirit we are quite aware of, we quote an editorial from The Hornet on “Citadel Spirit.”

“Those Furman students who were able to attend the Citadel game last Saturday have returned with enthusiastic accounts of their treatment on the Citadel campus. In the first place, all Furman students were admitted to the game free, which is always gratifying to a college man. In addition, however, the spirit showed by the Cadet corps both before and after the game was that of a group of thorough sportsmen. Furman students wish to express their appreciation of the attitude taken. It is easy to be generous in victory, but to be generous and courteous in defeat is the mark of a gentleman and a sportsman.”

Duke

Phi Beta Kappa held their autumn vote recently and twelve seniors were elected to the highest honorary fraternity in the land. In this group, there were seven boys and five girls. Their initiation will take place in December. Omicron Delta Kappa, probably the second highest honorary fraternity in the land, elected seven men of the Senior class to their body. At the tap day, Dr. William H. Wannamaker, dean of the university, was the principal speaker. At the banquet which followed the initiation, Dr. Frank Brown, national president of O. D. K. and sponsor of the Duke circle, was the principal speaker.

Converse

Mrs. Amelia Earhart Putnam, the famous transatlantic aviatrix, spoke to the student body in the auditorium at a recent meeting. Mrs. Putnam came under the auspices of the Salvation Army and the Red Cross for social welfare purposes, particularly in regard to the unemployed. Her talk was made up almost entirely of speaking on the subject of aviation. To her, it seems that aviation is a necessary means of transportation, but that the greatest problem that now confronts those interested in aviation is that of making it safe.

Wofford

“The growth of the Honor System has closely paralleled the growth of government. In government, first, there was the primitive horde, with hardly any organization. Then came the stage where families bound themselves together in tribes and tribes into nations. Then they chose a king, and the system of authority came into being. But gradually men began to take upon themselves more and more power, until today we have the citizenship form of government, which we believe to be the best. No one would dare suggest that we need a king or the authority system of government. But we do hear students groaning for the authority system in student government and honor. They want to be trusted in business, in the practice of law, in the practice of medicine, or in any other profession, but they do not want to be trusted while in college. They expect to be magically transformed from an untrustworthy person in college to a person of the highest integrity in business. They do not realize that before one can be trusted in matters of great concern, he must first be proved trustworthy in small things.

“Students say they will not report because it is none of their business. They keep themselves within the rules of the system, but it is none of their business if the other student transgresses. Yet that same student feels that it is some of his business if he is short-changed or cheated in a business deal—he feels that it is distinctly his loss. Yet when he sees the student beside him getting his work through illegal means, he is content to sit by and see the standard run up, and consequently, a good mark harder to make. He is content to see the other student get by with something which took him several hours’ hard work. And still, he will say that it is none of his business, that he doesn’t lose anything. Again, students say they do not want to make enemies. Yet, when we analyze, we see that the man who will desert us on a moral question will not make a valuable friend and will not be able to effect much damage as an enemy.

“The Honor System is only a mechanism, and its success or failure depends upon the students who compose it. If they stand behind it and perform all duties connected with it, they need not fear that men will brand it a failure. If it fails, there is only one answer—it is the students of Wofford College who have failed in their moral character. The Honor System is for real men, careful of their own rights as well as the rights of others.”

In the “Y” reading room, papers from the following colleges can be found: Wofford, Duke, Furman, N. C. C. W., Converse, East Carolina Teachers’ College, Georgia Tech, Gettysburg College, P. C., Ga. State College for Women, Oglethorpe, Southwestern, Queens-Chicora, Emory, G. C. W., N. C. State, Catawba, Marshall College, Alabama College, Washington and Lee, Virginia State Teachers’ College, Auburn, Clemson, V. M. I., University of Tennessee, Mars Hill, Mercer, Austin College, High Point, Salem, Winthrop, Wake Forest, Mary Baldwin, Lenoir-Rhyne, Roanoke, Wesleyan, Sewanee, Brenau, Agnes Scott, Carson-Newman, Judson College (at Marion, Ala.), and one from Poly Prep Country Day School of Brooklyn, N. Y.

Dr. J. M. McConnell Unveils Monument

Dr. J. M. McConnell was the principal speaker at the recent unveiling of a monument at old Crowfield Academy. Crowfield Academy was an old classical school. It was founded in 1760 on a site just two miles north of Davidson on highway number 26. The unveiling of the monument was a result of the efforts of the Mary Slocumb Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution. It is interesting to note that of the many great men who schooled at this old institution of learning, the first three professors of the University of North Carolina were among its graduates. Crowfield Academy also was the forerunner of Davidson College, which makes the incident more personal and consequently more interesting. Dr. McConnell was accompanied on the trip by Prof. A. C. Currie.

“Goethe” to Be Subject For Essays in Contest

In commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of the death of Goethe, the Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation, Inc., Philadelphia, Pa., announces a...National essay contest, which is open to all undergraduates at colleges and universities throughout the United States. Liberal cash prizes, amounting to almost $1,000, are announced. The first prize for an English essay is $200 and a similar first prize is offered for the best essay written in German. The choice of subjects and the rules of the contest are announced on a poster which has been distributed to all institutions of higher learning. Essays must be submitted to the headquarters of the Foundation in Philadelphia not later than September 15, 1932, and are limited to 5,000 words. A number of prominent professors of German at some of the leading American colleges and universities have agreed to serve as judges.

Dr. McConnell in Wreck

Dr. J. M. McConnell, professor of history, while en route from Charlotte to Davidson, was in an automobile accident on the Statesville highway last week. The wreck occurred just as Dr. McConnell was approaching Davidson. It seems that he was traveling along at a fairly good rate of speed, when another car, coming in the opposite direction, attempted to pass another car which was meeting the McConnell car. To avoid a serious accident, Dr. McConnell drove his car into the ditch to keep from hitting either of the two cars. In doing this, Mrs. McConnell was thrown against the door and received a broken arm. She was taken to the Charlotte Sanatorium where her injuries were cared for. The other occupants of the car were not seriously injured.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
Let Us Fix You Right For Thanksgiving

Death of Mr. Beaty

On Sunday morning the brother of Professor Ernest Beaty died at his home in Monroe, N. C. Mr. Beaty had been ill for three days with pneumonia. The funeral was at 10 o'clock Monday morning.

Local Spanish Club to Be Installed Into Sigma Delta Pi in Near Future

Members From University of Chattanooga and South Carolina to Lead Installation Services

PROF. BLYTHE GIVES TALK

Associate Professor of Spanish Gives an Interesting Talk on Madrid

Last Wednesday night at 8:15, the Spanish Club met in the “Y” Social Center. The chief event of the evening was a talk by Professor Blythe, associate professor of Spanish, on the subject of “Madrid.” Another important matter which was brought up was the fixing of the date for the installation of the Spanish Club at Davidson as a chapter of the national Spanish fraternity, Sigma Delta Pi. This event is to take place Saturday, December 12, and at that time representatives of Sigma Delta Pi from the University of Chattanooga and the University of South Carolina are to come to Davidson to take part in the installation of the chapter here.

Sophs Nose Out Juniors

Last Friday the Juniors met the Sophomores in the inter-class basketball tournament. The game was a very snappy one and both teams exhibited some very good playing. The final score, which was 7 to 9 in favor of the Sophomores, remained very close during the whole game, but the Sophomores finally broke through and took the game. The line-up was as follows:

Juniors
Sophomores
Manson
Lafferty
Right Forward
Calhoun
McLean
Left Forward
Campbell
Holland
Center
Bettis
Halverstadt
Right Guard
West
A. Manson
Left Guard

Freshmen Defeated In Inter-Class Game

Last Monday afternoon in a very exciting game the Juniors defeated the Freshmen in one of the games of the inter-class basketball contest. The Freshmen outplayed the Juniors the first half and near the middle of the third quarter they were leading, 16 to 4. The Juniors staged a flashing comeback, shooting field goals from all sides, and won the game, 24 to 16. The line-up for the game was as follows:

Juniors
Freshmen
Manson
Harris
Right Forward
Calhoun
Everette
Left Forward
Campbell
Sigman
Center
West
Yelverton
Right Guard
Bettis
Byerly
Left Guard

The substitutions, which were numerous for both sides, were: Juniors, Myers for Manson; Boucher for Calhoun; Coble for Campbell; Bradsher for West; and Bernard for Bettis. Freshmen, Elvery for Harris; Lessom for Everette; Ross for Sigman; Ross for Yelverton; Burns for Byerly, and Monroe for Burns.

Bell Writes Article For Atlanta Journal

Recently in the Sunday Magazine Section of the Atlanta Journal appeared an article by Vereen Bell, the editor of Davidson's humorous magazine, “The Yowl.” The article was entitled, “The Goof Club at Davidson.” It seems that a society by this name has been organized here year before last. The purpose is to gather into a brotherhood all those unfortunates who are knocked “goofy” in football. The “goofs” who are desired in the club are seized upon when in a semi-conscious or somnambulant state during the “first, fine, careless rapture” of their goofiness and hurried to the sanctum of the shower-room. There, they are initiated into the order by a process which is supposed to involve interrogation by questions of a not wholly sane variety. Among the charter members are Goofs Pearce, Peabody and Clarke.

There are two kinds of education. One is that which makes you pass examinations, the other is the one you enjoy. This makes education an atmosphere, a discipline and a lift, and produces a human being.—Bishop David of Liverpool.

Philadelphia—(IP)—The University of Pennsylvania Museum of Art has announced the unearthing of a Persian cemetery of about 2,000 B. C. by its expedition in that territory.

A. Gerskov — The Tailor
SUITS MADE TO ORDER
Cleaned 40c
Pressed 20c
Remodeled and Altered
All Work Guaranteed
Globe Pressing Company

Dining Room on Fifth Floor
Tea Room and Fountain in Basement
If You Can’t Come In—Just Phone 3-4141

SHIRTS $1.65

Shirtcraft and Ide Shirts are the shirts that you can buy to stand the wear that laundries give them. White and colors. Collars attached or stiff.

MONROE SUITS $22.50

In gray, tan, or brown, in homespuns and worsteds.... these are the famous Monroe Suits. In sizes 35 to 42. Be sure and try one on the next time you are in town. Other Men’s Suits priced from $11.95 to $50.00.

SOCKS 35c and $1.00

Interwoven Socks in both plain and fancy patterns. Silk and silk and wool combination. You can’t have too many ... but buy good ones when you buy.

WHERE UP-to-the-MINUTE COLLEGIANS LIKE TO CHOOSE THEIR CLOTHES

SHOES—$4.95

Walk straight into this bargain! Brown-built Tread-straight Shoes for men. This national brand that fits the heel and supports the arch so perfectly. In black and brown.

TIES—95c

Silk Ties and silk and wool combinations . . . resilient lined to keep it in shape. All hand-made and a good selection of colors.

DAVIDSON HEADQUARTERS AT EFIRD’S

Make your headquarters at Efird’s when you come to Charlotte. There are desks and phones on the mezzanine for your convenience . . . meet your friends here ... we are always glad to see you.

Men’s Dept. Street Floor

SUEDE COATS $8.45

Glover and MacGregors Suede Coats in both sweater and coat style. Button or zipper fastenings as you wish. Sizes 36 to 44 in brown. This is ideal for campus wear.

UNDERWEAR

Cooper’s Shirts and Shorts of broadcloth and rayon. They have quality-built comfort that you'll appreciate. Also Cooper’s Winter Weight Union Suits at $1.45 and up.

SWEATERS $2.95 to $3.95

You can find the Sweater here that you’ve been looking for. Something just a little different. Bradley Sweaters in slip-over and coat styles and both V and crew necks.

Men’s Dept. Street Floor