THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 8, 1931

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Bradford-Speir
Dr. William Zeigler Bradford, 1924 graduate of Davidson, and Miss Mary Coley Speir, both of Charlotte, were married at the home of the bride’s parents Tuesday night, January 6. Since completing his work at Davidson, Dr. Bradford has graduated from the Medical School of the University of Pennsylvania, and did his internship at the Long Island College Hospital, and Bellevue Hospital in New York. After the honeymoon, Dr. Bradford will locate in Charlotte. Mrs. Bradford was educated at Queens and Converse Colleges. W. B. Bradford, Jr., ’28, a student at the University of Pennsylvania Medical School, was best man at his brother’s wedding. Groomsmen were Dr. E. S. Faison, ’24, and Dr. A. M. McBryde, '24, both of Baltimore, Md., and Morgan B. Speir, Jr., '26, of Charlotte.

Green-Peeler
Word has been recently received of the marriage of Dr. J. Leighton Green, '25, of El Paso, Texas, and Miss Virginia Peeler, of Santa Monica, Calif., the marriage taking place in Santa Monica on September 27. Dr. Green did his medical work at Tulane University, completed his internship in New Orleans, and is now associate in surgery to Dr. Felix P. Miller, of El Paso. Mrs. Green obtained her bachelor of arts degree from Agnes Scott in 1926, and her master of arts from Columbia University in 1928. Dr. Green’s address in El Paso is 1200 First National Bank Building.

Hopkins-Hamiter
Rev. Frederick Anderson Hopkins, of Lufkin, Texas, 1925 graduate of Davidson, and Miss Annie Hamiter, of Chester, S. C., were married in Chester on December 27. Mr. Hopkins went to Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., for his ministerial preparation after his graduation at Davidson, and did two years of post-graduate work at the Biblical Seminary in New York. Mrs. Hopkins is a graduate of Queens College, Assembly’s Training School, in Richmond, and has been a member of the Thornwell Orphanage faculty. Mr. and Mrs. Hopkins will reside in Lufkin, Texas, where Mr. Hopkins is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church.

McAulay-Heard
“Mr. and Mrs. Judson Heard, of Atlanta, Ga., announce the marriage of their daughter, Laura Greene, to William Aulay McAulay, of Louisville, Ky., on Saturday, December 27, at Atlanta, Ga.”

Alumni Personals
Visitors to Davidson since the resumption of classes after the holidays include Dr. A. M. McBryde, ’24, and Dr. E. S. Faison, ’24, both of Baltimore, Md.; W. B. Bradford, Jr., ’28, and J. C. Montgomery, Jr., ’28, both of Charlotte and second-year medical students at the University of Pennsylvania; Leonard W. Dick, Jr., ’23, athletic director of Woodberry Forest; Prof. W. R. Weaver, Jr., ’29, of the Hampden-Sydney faculty; W. R. Hill, ’30, first-year medical student at the University of Virginia; J. B. Christenbury, ’30, of the Crossnore School faculty, and R. M. Christian, ’30, of Mobile, Ala., en route to Richmond, Va., to continue his work as a faculty member of St. Christopher’s School.

Besides the relatives of alumni mentioned in other columns on this page, friends will also regret to learn of the death of the father of Dr. Oren Moore, '08, of Charlotte; the mother of R. P. Brown, '23, of Charlotte, and W. A. Brown, '28, of Guerrant, Ky.; the wife of W. C. Hutchison, ’80, of Rock Hill, S. C.; and the father of Hunter Smith, ’26, of Lexington, Va., and Robert Smith, ’31, of Davidson.

Davidson alumni recently elected as officers of ministerial associations include Rev. Murphy Williams, '94, president of the Greensboro association; Rev. J. M. Walker, '07, president of the Mecklenburg County Presbyterian Ministers Association; Rev. R. E. McClure, ’20, vice-president of the New Bern association, and Rev. W. H. Allison, ’26, secretary of the Leaksville association.

John P. McKnight, '28, on January 15 will go to Havana, Cuba, to which point he has been transferred by the Associated Press. He was formerly state news editor of the Charlotte News, but last fall became connected with the Associated Press, where his excellent work merited this promotion.

Dr. F. L. Mock, '09, of Lexington, was recently made a commissioner of Davidson County. He was on the County Board of Health, but resigned, Dr. R. U. Zimmerman, '02, of Lexington, being chosen to replace him on the health board.

Alumni Trustee Dies
J. Lee Robinson, an alumni trustee of Davidson College, has been aptly described as a victim of the 1930 financial disaster. His life was one of normalcy and service in the community of Gastonia, but with the failure of the bank of which he was president, his mind was burdened with worries, and the hardships inflicted upon others through the closing of the bank’s doors was evidently too much for him to bear, for last Saturday he took his life. Although not anAlumnus, he was chosen two years ago for a short term as an alumni trustee, and last commencement, was renominated and elected for a four-year term. He was rendering a valuable service to Davidson in the advice that he was offering, and he will be missed by the board. Among his survivors are three sons, all alumni of Davidson: Ralph S. Robinson, ’23, Memphis, Tenn.; A. S. Robinson, ’26, of Gastonia; and J. Lee Robinson, Jr., ’28, of Philadelphia, Pa.; Sam A. Robinson, '99, of Gastonia, is a brother.

Births
John D. Laws, ’25, and Mrs. Laws, of Columbus, Miss., announce the birth of a son, John D., Jr., on December 3. Knox Johnstone, ’26, and Mrs. Johnstone, of Mocksville, announce the birth of a daughter, Elizabeth Carroll, on November 12. R. A. Brand, Jr., ’27, and Mrs. Brand, of Charlotte, announce the birth of a daughter, Martha Jane, on December 14.

Found
E. E. Holdaway, of Branchville, S. C., has found a Davidson College ring that belongs to a member of the class of 1929. He writes that he found it in Winston-Salem three months ago, and will be glad to return it to the owner if he will write and tell him the initials engraved inside.

ALUMNI DEATHS
Death took its toll of Davidson College alumni immediately preceding the holidays, five of them dying over a period of about two weeks. The death of T. G. Coltrane, '26, has already been recorded, and the names and a brief account of the lives of four others are given below:

N. Z. Graves, ’68
Nelson Z. Graves, of the class of 1868, died at his home in Philadelphia, Pa., on December 7. His death was the result of a fall sustained two weeks before. Mr. Graves was a widely known paint and varnish manufacturer of Philadelphia. He was a native of Clinton, N. C., but had not lived there since 1862. He was known as the father of Cape May, N. J., which he developed, and at the time of his death was president of the Cape May Real Estate Co., and N. Z. Graves, Inc. Mr. Graves was noted for the manner in which he befriended boys from North Carolina who were endeavoring to get a start in Philadelphia. In a signed article appearing in the Charlotte Observer after his death, one of those whom he had helped wrote glowingly of this service.

Rev. R. C. Morrison, ’85
Richard Columbus Morrison, 1885 alumnus of Davidson, and for the past 37 years a pastor of Presbyterian churches in North and South Carolina, died at the Columbia Hospital, Columbia, S. C., on December 8. At the time of his death, he was pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Fountain Inn, S. C. Immediately after leaving Davidson, he spent a while in Florida in business, and was later located at Morven as a merchant before he entered the ministry. Nineteen years were spent in North Carolina in various churches, and 18 in South Carolina. Among the survivors are Dr. R. W. Morrison, '16, who is connected with the extension department of the University of North Carolina, with headquarters in Asheville.

Green Penn, ’21
Green Penn, 1921 alumnus of Davidson, and one of the prominent young citizens of Madison, N. C., died at his home in that town on December 4. Heart trouble was the cause of his death. After leaving Davidson, he entered the business field and was the founder, president, and majority owner of the Gem Dandy Garter Company. He was active in social and civic affairs of Madison and was a member of the Rotary Club.

Seven Alumni Meetings In Four Different States Are Set For Immediate Future
Birmingham and Atlanta Dates Have Been Definitely Accepted — Others Are to Be Held in Florida, South Carolina, and a Georgia City

DAVIDSONIANS TO ATTEND
A Large Number of Davidson Alumni in Several States Will Be Extended Invitations

Two out-of-state alumni trips, which will include seven local chapter meetings in four different states, are now being planned by the alumni secretary for the month of January and early part of February. Before the Christmas holiday season, preliminary plans were made for one of these itineraries, and this week work was begun upon another.

The first trip will include alumni meetings in Birmingham, Atlanta, and Rome. The Birmingham alumni of Davidson have never met before, and 30 or more alumni in that city and surrounding section are being invited to a gathering on January 15. Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, will attend this meeting, and will remain in Birmingham for a meeting of alumni secretaries of institutions in Alabama, Georgia, Florida, North and South Carolina, and Virginia. Plans are that Mr. Milton will be joined in Atlanta on January 19 by a member of the faculty or administration for a meeting of this chapter, which is one of the largest in existence. Over 100 Davidson men in the Georgia capital and nearby will be extended invitations. It is expected that the following night these two representatives will meet the alumni of Greenville, S. C., though a definite acceptance of this suggested date has not been received.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson, will attend a series of four meetings being arranged for him in Florida and Southern Georgia. He will visit these chapters at the conclusion of a series of lectures he is to conduct in the vicinity of Tampa and St. Petersburg. Officers of the Southwest Florida, Central Florida, Northeast Florida, and S. G. N. F. (South Georgia-North Florida) chapters were all written Monday. Southwest Florida includes Tampa, St. Petersburg, and other cities nearby. This meeting would be held on January 30. Central Florida pivots around Orlando, to meet on January 31. Jacksonville is the place of the Northeast Florida meeting on February 2, and Thomasville, Ga., is in the heart of the S. G. N. F. alumni chapter. Lists of alumni residing in the various localities are being mailed out by the alumni secretary, and should the dates be acceptable, notices will later be mailed to the alumni from the secretary’s office, supplementing the invitations they received from the presidents.

Garland Court
Printing and Engraving of Every Description
J. A. CANNON
311 Watts
STANDARD PRINTING CO
Charlotte, N. C.