& THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 16, 1931

ALUMNI DEATHS

Dr. Geo. L. Petrie, ’59
Rev. Geo. Laurens Petrie, D.D., LL.D., member of the class of 1859 and oldest living matriculate of Davidson College, died at his home in Charlottesville, Va., on March 27. Thus was taken from the ranks of Davidson alumni a man who was described by The Charlottesville Progress as “grand old man of Southern Presbyterianism, a preacher of the gospel for nearly 70 years, last of the chaplains of the Confederacy, and author of several books.”

Dr. Petrie was born at Cheraw, S. C., in 1840, when this country was a republic of 26 states and seventeen million people. He entered Davidson in 1855, remained here two years, and then went to Oglethorpe University, from which he graduated in 1859. In 1862 he finished his ministerial preparation at Columbia Theological Seminary.

The deceased became chaplain of the 22nd Regiment of Alabama Volunteers and served under Gen. Jos. B. Johnston and Gen. J. B. Hood. He was in the battles of Resaca, New Hope Church, Kennesaw Mountain, Bentonville, and Kinston, and also in a battle fought at Sumter, S. C., after the surrender, before word had been received of it.

After the war, Dr. Petrie taught at a classical school in Montgomery, Ala., for two years, and was professor of Latin at Oakland College, Mississippi, for two years. In 1870 he began his ministerial pastorate work. He was at Greenville, Ala., for two years, accepted a call and remained at Petersburg, Va., for six years, and in 1878 he went to Charlottesville, Va., where he was pastor for half a century, retiring only two years ago at the age of 89 years.

The degree of D.D. was conferred upon him by Hampden-Sydney in 1887, and in 1923, Oglethorpe University honored him with an LL.D. degree. He had obtained his master of arts degree from Oglethorpe in 1862. Dr. Petrie had served as Moderator of the Synod of Virginia and was the author of two books, “Jacob’s Sons” and “Israel's Prophets.”

T. H. Davis, ’65
Thomas Huey Davis, another of Davidson’s oldest alumni, died at Lancaster, S. C., March 16, lacking only a few months of being 90 years of age. Mr. Davis was a member of the class of 1865. For several years he had been in failing health, and his death was not unexpected.

Mr. Davis was born in Lancaster County, South Carolina, on November 5, 1841. He entered Davidson in 1861, where he was a member of Chi Phi, a sub-rosa fraternity here then, but left to enter the War Between the States. A record of his service in the war is unobtainable. After its close, Mr. Davis went to the University of North Carolina. Leaving the University, Mr. Davis went into business at Charlotte, where he remained only a short time before moving to Lancaster in 1870. For many years he was in the mercantile business, but his eyesight failed about 12 years ago, and he was forced to retire. He had been a deacon in the Lancaster Presbyterian Church for 49 consecutive years.

Among the survivors are Walter T. Davis, ’27, of Little Rock, Ark., and Robert Davis, a member of the present student body, who are grandsons.

E. W. Faucette, ’84
Edward William Faucette, 1884 graduate of Davidson, died at his home at Mt. Pleasant, Tenn., on April 2. He was 70 years of age at the time of his death. Mr. Faucette entered Davidson from Sassafras Fork, N. C., in 1880. After graduating he taught school for one year, and then became editor of The Advertiser, at Milton, N. C., and later became postmaster at the same place. Mr. Faucette was a civil engineer, and for many years he had been in the mining business at Mt. Pleasant, Tenn.

Dr. Byron C. Clarke, ’90
Rev. Byron Currie Clarke, D.D., 1890 graduate of Davidson, died suddenly at his home in Salisbury on March 31, after a quarter of a century's service in that city. He had been a member of the Board of Trustees of Davidson since 1907, and for many years was a member of the executive committee of that body. The Davidson board members were honorary pallbearers at his funeral.

Dr. Clarke went to Union Theological Seminary after his graduation from Davidson, and completed his ministerial preparation at Princeton Theological Seminary, where he studied under Woodrow Wilson. He held three pastorates during his lifetime. His first was at Accomac, Va., where he remained several years before going to Mt. Washington Presbyterian Church in Baltimore, Md. He remained there ten years, and 24 years ago became pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Salisbury. He retired from active duty there six years ago.

Among his survivors is B. Oldham Clarke, '21, of Salisbury, a son.

R. G. Mills, '97
Capt. Robert Gill Mills, 57, member of the class of 1897, and prominent citizen of South Carolina, died at Chester, S. C., on March 28, following a long illness with heart trouble. Captain Mills attended The Citadel before coming to Davidson, and after leaving here graduated from a business college in Atlanta. He was engaged in the banking business in Alabama for a number of years, but later came to Chester, where he held important business positions, particularly in cotton concerns. At the time of his death, he was field representative of several counties for the South Carolina Cotton Growers Association. The deceased was long identified with the National Guard, and at the time of his death he was captain of the Lee Light Infantry at Chester.

T. B. Spratt, ’09
Thomas Bruce Spratt, 42, member of the 1909 class at Davidson, and prominent in governmental circles in Charlotte, died in that city the latter part of March, after two weeks’ illness with pneumonia. Mr. Spratt was a civil engineer and for the past 12 years had been County Surveyor for Mecklenburg. He had been successively returned to office the last six elections without serious opposition, having won the confidence of the voters during his first administration. Mr. Spratt was an elder in the Steele Creek Presbyterian Church, one of the original seven churches in the county.

W. F. Milburn, ’10
William Frank Milburn, 1910 graduate of Davidson College, was found dead in bed in his Atlanta home last Friday, March 20. Mr. Milburn suffered a nervous breakdown about three months ago, and while his condition was known to be serious, it was not thought that death was imminent. The deceased died at the comparatively early age of 42. After graduating from Davidson, Mr. Milburn took a master of arts degree from the University of Pennsylvania, and then became connected with the Addressograph Company. For 18 years he had been South-

King-Stratford
James A. King, of the class of 1927, of Washington, D. C., and Miss Mildred Juanita Stratford, of Charlotte, were married at Rockville, Md., on April 4. Mrs. King was educated at N. C. C. W., at Greensboro. Since graduating from Davidson, Mr. King has been with the Liggett and Myers Tobacco Company, and was located in North Carolina for several years before being transferred to the division managership at Washington, D. C.King are at home at 308 Argyle Apartments, Washington, D. C.

Proctor-Lothery
“Mr. and Mrs. O. B. Lothery, of Cornelius, announce the marriage of their daughter, Katherine, to Sidney Eugene Proctor, of Davidson, the marriage taking place on April 5.” Mr. Proctor was in the class of 1929 at Davidson, and has been living here since leaving college. Mr. and Mrs. Proctor are at home in Davidson.

McLemore-Washam
Dan W. McLemore, Jr., of Davidson, member of the class of 1930, and Miss Fannie Belle Washam, of Huntersville, were married at York, S. C., on March 28. Mrs. McLemore was educated at Queens College. Since leaving college, Mr. McLemore has been associated with the Davidson Cotton Mills, located here. They are now at home in Davidson.

Mauze-Dunn
Joseph Layton Mauze, Jr., of New York, member of the class of 1930, and Miss Isabelle Dunn, of Kinston, were married at Kinston on April 4. Mrs. Mauze was educated at Salem College, and for the past two years has been residing in New York. For the past three years Mr. Mauze has been associated with the brokerage firm of Laidlow and Company, of New York. Mr. and Mrs. Mauze are at home at 39 Grove Street, New York City.

R. T. Ellett, ’30, who has been teaching at Porter Military Academy this year, has been re-elected for another year and has accepted the post.

Mr. Milburn was a manager, with offices in Atlanta, for that company, and had made a phenomenal success in his field. His activity in social, church, and fraternal circles was also important in Atlanta, and he was president and the moving spirit for several years of the Davidson alumni chapter in that city. Two years before the United States entered the World War, Mr. Milburn joined a French ambulance unit and received several decorations from the French government for bravery. After the United States entered the conflict he became an officer in the ordnance department, retaining membership in the ordnance reserve after the war. He was a lieutenant-colonel at the time of his death.

College Printing
Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Handbooks, Etc. Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you.
P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE
6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing
Engraved Cards and Invitations.
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ALUMNI PERSONALS
Among the alumni visitors to Davidson during the past two weeks were H. Smith Richardson, ’06, New York; Dr. Bernard R. Smith, '06, Asheville; R. C. Carter, ’19, Mt. Airy; W. B. Garrison, ’20, Charlotte; Hadley A. Hill, ’21, New York; Prof. Jno. C. Bailey, '22, Baltimore, Md.; Rev. J. McD. Richards, ’22, Clarkesville, Ga.; D. M. McComb, '25, Hickory; Wm. C. Alexander, '27, Due West, S. C.; Joe H. McConnell, '27, Charlottesville, Va.; Prof. H. C. Johnson, ’28, Woodberry Forest, Va.; W. B. McGuire, Jr., '30, Durham; F. D. Miller, ’30, Warrenton, Va.; T. R. Nunan, ’30, and H. E. Russell, ’30, both of Decatur, Ga.

Friends will regret to learn of the following recent deaths of relatives of Davidson alumni: The mother of Geo. H. Brockenbrough, '07, Tryon; a brother of T. F. Wharton, ’05, Memphis, Tenn.; the father of Thos. E. Gray, ’25, Jacksonville, Fla.; the father of A. M. Sinclair, ’26, and Hugh Sinclair, ’29, of Memphis, Tenn.; the wife of Hon. W. F. Stevenson, ’85, Cheraw, S. C.; a brother of Dr. A. F. Tuttle, ’02, Spray; the brother of Dr. J. Sam Guy, '05, Decatur, Ga.; the father of DeWitt Helm, '29, Richmond, Va., and the brother of Julian K. Morrison, '16, Atlanta, Ga.

Warren C. Ogden, ’27, is a reporter on The Times-Picayune, of New Orleans, La., and is living at 1925 General Pershing Street. Until a short time ago he lived in Mobile, Ala., and was a reporter on The Mobile Register.

Francis H. Lindley, ’25, has been made secretary of the Tom Walker Company, clothing concern, in Greensboro, with whom he has been working for three years.

Chas. M. Pratt and Hugh W. White, both of the class of 1930, have purchased The Hart County News at Munfordville, Ky., and are now owners and operators of this paper.

T. J. Murphy, '90, is a candidate for the city council of Greensboro. Mr. Murphy has been a former mayor, and has long been identified with city governmental affairs in Greensboro.

John A. Bouvier, Jr., ’26, received his M.B.A. at the University of Chicago last June, and is now practicing law in the Security Bldg., Miami, Fla. He had previously obtained his A.B. and LL.B. degrees from the University of Florida, and writes that despite the fact that he is an alumnus of three institutions, Davidson is still “foremost.” He attended Davidson two years.

Mayor Geo. W. Coan, Jr., ‘11, of Winston-Salem, has announced that he would be a candidate for re-election, and the work of his administration has received highly complimentary comment in the editorial columns of The Winston-Salem Journal. Mayor Coan, along with about 25 other mayors, including those of New York, Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Los Angeles, New Orleans, Atlanta, and the Governor of Virginia have been invited to come to Paris early in May as joint guests of the City of Paris and the French Government.

The word “Davidson” is a little difficult for Billy Gamble, three-year-old son of Rev. W. A. Gamble, ’23, of Raymond, Miss., to pronounce correctly, but he has announced to the world that he is going to “Dabidson College in North Ca’lina.” His father writes that he'll be here in about 14 years.

Dr. DeWitt Kluttz, ’11, of Washington, N. C., has been chosen president of the Second District Medical Society.

Frank S. Wilkinson, ’27, of Rocky Mount, has been made vice-president and general manager of the Underwriters Fire Insurance Company, which concern has its headquarters in Rocky Mount.

Dr. Parks M. King, ’97, of Charlotte, and Dr. J. Moore McConnell, ’99, of the Davidson faculty, have been named as members of the Board of Managers of the Mecklenburg Sanatorium, located at Huntersville.

The sports page of The New York Times recently carried an account of the Rugby game between the New York Rugby Club and Princeton, which the New Yorkers won, 9 to 3. Riggs McConnell, ’29, a graduate student at Princeton and former member of the Davidson football team, played for Princeton and a sub-head in the article read, “McConnell Tackles Pfann,” the detailed account under it stating that Pfann “stopped on a brilliant tackle by McConnell, Princeton fullback, passed to Oliphant.” Pfann is a former Cornell football star and was the luminary of the New York Club.

A Complete Service for School Publications
Manuals, Magazines, Catalogs, Year Books
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“SODA” “SUNDRIES”

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia

OFFERS
To Regular Students—Well balanced course, including a number of electives.
To Advanced Students—Specially chosen courses to fit each individual case.
To the Most Successful Students—Five Fellowships, some resident, others abroad.
For Catalogue and information, address Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President