| THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 19, 1931

ATHLETIC NIGHT WAS COMPLETE SUCCESS

THE SPORTS PARADE

HIGH SCHOOLS MEET HERE SATURDAY

Davidson Is to Be Host For High School Teams

Many Sections of the State to be Represented by Competing

RIVALRY WILL BE KEEN

Points Scored by Wildkittens Are Not to be Counted

Field Events

About an even dozen of North Carolina’s leading high school track teams will assemble here this weekend for the annual
Davidson invitation meet to be held on Saturday afternoon beginning at 2 o'clock. Not all of the entries have been
mailed in yet that are expected, but by Saturday it is expected that the entry list will grow to about
a dozen. Those that are in at present include: Oxford Orphanage High School, R. J. Reynolds High School, Winston-Salem; High
Point High School, New Hanover High School, Wilmington; Concord High School, Belmont Abbey High School, Westfield High School. Charlotte High
School will also send a team up, it is reported.

Not much is known about the relative strength of the state teams, but Charlotte High, High Point, Winston-Salem, and Wilmington
are expected to furnish most of the competition unless some dark-horse group rises up. It is not known whether there
are any Goodwins or Mullis’s to lead the way this year or not, but there is a certainty that some
new individual stars will show this year.

As has been the custom in the past, Davidson’s Frosh team will also compete, but their points will not count.
They will only run in the preliminary heats of the shorter distances. Last week Charlotte High outclassed the Freshmen in
a triangular meet with the varsity, which makes it look like this meet will be pretty fast.

The order of events will be as follows:
2:00—120 high hurdles—trials.
2:15—100 yd. dash—trials.
2:30—Mile.
2:45—100 yd. dash—finals.
3:00—120 yd. high hurdles—finals.
3:15—220 yd. dash—trials.
3:30—880 yd. run.
3:45—220 yd. low hurdles—trials.
4:00—440 yd. run.
4:15—220 yd. dash—finals.
4:30—220 yd. low hurdles—finals.

Field events:
2:00—High jump and shot put.
2:45—Pole vault and discus throw.
3:30—Broad jump and javelin throw.

Wildcat Cindermen Take Opening Meet

Davidson’s Wildcat track team ran up a total of 114¼ points to overwhelm the Charlotte High School and the Davidson
Freshmen cinder artists in their first meet of the season last Saturday afternoon. Charlotte High was second with 25 points,
while the Wildkittens trailed with 12⅓ points.

Joe McCall, varsity track captain, and Graham George, also of the varsity, tied for first honors for the afternoon, each
scoring 14 points. McCall compiled his total by taking first place in the broad jump and the javelin throw and
tying for first in the 100-yard dash, while George’s total came as a result of first places in both hurdle
events and third place in both the broad and high jumps.

All, except two first places were copped by the varsity. Charlotte won one of these when Sutton threw the shot
put over 42 feet. The other went to the Freshmen when Halyburton nosed out Neal, of the varsity, to cop
the 350-yard dash. The times on all the events were rather slow, and the middle distances were shortened to prevent
over-exertion on the part of the contestants.

The results:
120-yard high hurdles—George, varsity; McCallie, varsity; Little, varsity; Stalhart, Charlotte. Time, 16 seconds.
100-yard dash—Fleagle and McCall, both varsity, tied for first; Kuykendall, varsity, third; Halyburton, Fresh; Soule and Landis, both of Charlotte,
tied for fourth. Time, 10.5 seconds.
Three-quarter-mile run—Earle, varsity; Howard, varsity; Rembert, varsity; Morrow, Fresh. Time, 3 minutes 25.3 seconds.
660-yard run—Neal, varsity; Turpie, Charlotte; Drake, varsity; Gwynn, varsity. Time, 1 minute 26 seconds.

Davidson Athletes Get Letters and Numerals

Fourteen Letters and Fifteen Numerals Awarded for Basketball and Wrestling

Coaches “Monk” Younger, “Red” Laird, and “Doc” Unger last week announced the award of varsity letters and Freshman numerals to
the varsity and Freshmen teams in basketball and wrestling. There were a total of fourteen letters given to men on
the varsity of these two sports and fifteen numerals awarded. These awards were officially announced last Tuesday night, which was
“Athletic Night.”

The following men were awarded letters:
Varsity basketball—Capt. W. B. Goodson, Lincolnton; Dean Rusk, Atlanta, Ga.; J. M. Proctor, Lincolnton; G. L. Mathis, Rural Hall, N.
C.; D. G. Martin, Covington, Ga.; and W. B. Hancock, Bluefield, W. Va., manager.
Varsity wrestling—Capt. P. M. Conway, Henderson, Ky.; G. W. Vick, Jenkinjones, W. Va.; E. L. Gorham, Lake Charles, La.; J.
L. Tyack, Winston-Salem; J. F. Preston, China; B. B. Taylor, Baton Rouge, La.; and C. N. Burch, Memphis, Tenn., manager.

The following men were awarded Freshman numerals:
Freshman basketball—Capt. Robert Evans, Youngstown, Ohio;

“NOSE-DIVES”

A planned nose-dive is spectacular. Unplanned ones are ruinous—to property! Hardly a day now passes but we read about another
“crash”! Machines hurtling down damaging homes and buildings, grounds, and shrubbery. The property owner needs protection against such losses. Aircraft
Property Damage provides it at low cost: Only 5c a $100 a year; no co-insurance required.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McAlister Carson ('13), Manager
M. B. Speir ('26)

Sports Elections

At the meeting of the basketball lettermen, recently, “Doc” Mathis was elected captain for next year, R. K. Morton, varsity
manager, J. G. Dunklin, freshman manager, G. E. Baily, Bob Glasgow, and J. E. Lake were appointed junior managers.

Mathis is a member of the basketball, baseball, and football teams making his letter in each of these sports, is
a member of the “D” Club, and of the Court of Control. Morton, newly elected manager, is a member of
the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and the Student Council, and is an Assistant Circulation Manager of the Quips and Cranks.
Dunklin, freshman manager, is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and the Reporters’ Club and a Solicitor
for the Quips and Cranks.

At the meeting of the wrestling lettermen, E. L. Gorham was elected captain for the 1932 season and A. A.
Sinclair, manager. Gorham is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, of the “D” club, was a junior assistant
cheerleader to George McClenaghan, was a member of the Beaver Club, and a member of last year’s track squad. St.
Clair is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity.J. Lafferty, Rome, Ga.; A. B. McLean, Aberdeen; J. M. Holland,
Jr., Gastonia; Robert Rowan, Gastonia; A. G. Manson, Jr., Jacksonville, Fla.; Thomas Lawther, Wilmington; Boyd Morris, Greensboro, and James Halverstadt,
Atlanta, Ga. J. G. Berry, of Griffin, Ga., will be awarded a minor sport letter as Freshman manager.

Freshman wrestling—Capt. B. G. Gilmer, Greensboro; W. B. Corbin, Fremont, N.C.; Odi Casili, Welch, W. Va.; J. A. Hodges, Kinston;
F. P. Harrison, Mt. Ulla, and W. T. Thompson, Richmond, Va.

220-yard dash—Fleagle, varsity; Halyburton, Fresh; Landis, Charlotte; Kuykendall, varsity, and Mock, Charlotte, tied for fourth. Time 24.3 seconds.

220-yard low hurdles—George, varsity; McCallie, varsity; Allison, Charlotte; Houston, Charlotte. Time 26.3 seconds.

Mile and a half run—Brannon, varsity; Murphy, varsity; Drake, Fresh; Woodside, Fresh. Time 7 minutes 16.8 seconds.

350-yard dash—Halyburton, Fresh; Neal, varsity; Hobson, Charlotte; McGhee, varsity. Time 41.4 seconds.

Pole vault—Flinn, varsity; Roane Brock, both varsity, tied for second; varsity. Height 10 feet 6 inches.

Discus throw—Hall, varsity; Harold Sutton, Charlotte; Bettis, varsity; Boyle, varsity. Distance 114 feet 3 inches.

Broad jump—McCall, varsity; Flinn, varsity; George and McKinnon, both varsity, tied for third. Distance 22 feet 2 inches.

Shotput—Harold Sutton, Charlotte; Knox, varsity; Wagner, varsity; Howard Sutton, Charlotte. Distance 42 feet.

High jump—Wilson, varsity; Allen, varsity; George, varsity; Rhyne, Fresh; Coble, varsity, and Barksdale, Charlotte, tied for fourth. Height 5 feet
8 inches.

Javelin throw—McCall, varsity; Brock, varsity; Howard Sutton, Charlotte; Harold Sutton, Charlotte. Distance 162 feet 9 inches.

The world of mathematics may be a rational world and a tidy world, but it is not a real world.—T.
Wigley.

"DRUGS" "SODA"
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO, Inc.
"PRESCRIPTIONS" "SUNDRIES"

Clothing | Furnishing
STETSON "D" STORE
PHONE 206
OPPOSITE CAMPUS
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
Friendly Five John Ward Sport Shoes

LOOKING With W. H. Matthews
"EM OVER
SHADOWS OF COMING EVENTS

Saturday, March 21
Track meet: State Interscholastic High School track meet. Davidson is this week host to some of the best high school
athletes which the state of North Carolina has to offer. Each year the school boy event which the athletic department
of the college sponsors has grown more and more popular, and better attended. The competition has grown keener between the
competing schools with each passing year and it has been more and more difficult for Charlotte to repeat its annual
victory. Last year it was necessary that they win the final event to cop the cup again. But after seeing
them in action last week, we believe that they will stand a fair chance of repeating. They seemed to have
the manpower and their entries seemed to have been well coached. They will certainly present one of the best balanced
teams entered, whether or not they have the cream of the talent. Raleigh, Greensboro, Wilmington and a number of other
high schools throughout the state have in times past sent brilliant athletes to Davidson’s track carnival; they should do the
same this year. The meet should be well attended.

Varsity baseball practice is beginning to assume the snap and verve of mid-season workouts. It was pretty to watch the
infield at work the other afternoon, even though there were still a number of rough spots, constant bobbles in the
handling of the ball, and some of that confidence and snap that one associates with a smoothly functioning infield combination.
It is rather early to hazard guesses as to the starting lineup for the first game of the season, which
is still two weeks away. But Capt. Armfield will likely start at catcher, Proctor at first and Goodson at second.
The only places in the infield presenting much less experience and ability than the right half are shortstop and third
base, and it is likely that no final decision will be made on these two places until almost game time.
Incidentally, the fly catchers are apt to get plenty of work this season.

The pitchers present a real problem. Not one has had any real experience and none has shown exceptional ability. Thompson,
Pearce, and Mathis are the best bets at present. Goodson may try his hand at pitching too, but we can’t
quite see the advisability of moving a fine second baseman to the pitcher’s box unless forced to by dire necessity.
But that may be what will face Davidson’s coach before the season is out. If two good pitchers can be
found, we see no reason why the club this spring should not be as good or better than that of
last year.

The track men got their first chance to show off last Saturday and neatly ran off with their meet. The
varsity team, we mean. The shortened distances cut down some of the thrills of a bigger meet, but nevertheless the
rather large crowd seemed well pleased by the turn of events. Joe McCall and Grimy George looked very good in
personally handing in 14 points each to tie for high point honors. George competed and placed in four events, getting
two first places. McCall won two of his entries, and tied for first in the third. Soup Brannon’s form and
running on his mile and a half run jaunt looked even better than last year. If ever anyone deserves to
win, he is the man. He has trained all winter for his most grueling ten minutes of running in each
meet.

STATIONERY NEW RECORDS STUDENT SUPPLIES FOUNTAIN PENS SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE
W. S. HENDERSON
MAGAZINES BOOKS SUNDRIES

EVERY WEEK
Davidson Theatre
Monday and Tuesday, March 23 and 24
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS
"REACHING FOR THE MOON"
BEBE DANIELS

Wednesday, March 25
BEBE DANIELS
"MY PAST"
BEN LYON

Friday, March 27
"HONOR AMONG LOVERS"
CLAUDETTE COLBERT and Fredric March

Saturday, March 28
"STRANGERS MAY KISS"
