THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 18, 1931

TAR HEELS OVERCOME

(Continued on page 6)

However, Peabody fumbled after being tackled hard, and Gilbreath recovered for Carolina. After a series of line bucks, a pass, and an end run, Croom faked to Chandler and sprinted 30 yards for the first score of the game. The second score came after Pearce had kicked 61 yards deep in Carolina’s territory. Slusser made 15 yards, and, on the next play, Ferebee slipped through tackle and raced 65 yards for the second touchdown.

The Wildcats threatened in the first and last quarters, but were held on the 20-yard line the first time, and were unable to make any passes good in a desperate attempt to score in the last minutes of the game.

Gardner, blond Davidson center, was outstanding for the Wildcats and broke through time and again to break up the Tar Heel formation before it could get under way. Wagner and Johnson also had a hand in many plays, playing the best defensive games for the ’Cats.

Davidson Position Carolina
Raker (C) LE Walker
Wagner LT Hodges
Mathis LG Mclver
Gardner Center Gilbreath (C)
Conway RG Fysal
Whitfield RT Strickland
Brown RE Brown
King QB Ferebee
Pearce LH Croom
Peabody RH Slusser
Mills FB Chandler

Carolina 13 0 0 7—20
Davidson 0 0 0 0—0

Scoring—Carolina, touchdowns—Croom, Ferebee, Phipps (sub for White). Point after touchdowns—Chandler (placement), Lassiter (sub for Chandler), (placement).

Substitutions: Davidson—Johnson, Kuykendall, Barrier, McConnell, Ogden, Cannon, West, Flinn, MacQueen, Norfleet. Carolina—Cozart, White, Lassiter, Peacock, Philpot, Daniels, Newcomb, Brandt, Oliver, Phipps, Thompson, Alexander, Frazier, Houston.

Officials: Foster (Hampden-Sydney), referee; Sebring (Army), umpire; Tolley (Sewanee), linesman; Rawson (Georgia), field judge.

SIX ARE SELECTED

(Continued from page 1)

land McKeithan. Frederick Hellegers, Sam Wiley, and George Pardington were named alternates.

Pete Knox is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, secretary of the Forensic Council, the track team, “D” Club, and is a lieutenant in R.O.T.C.

Edgar Kuykendall is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, vice-president of the Forensic Council, varsity cheerleader, and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa.

William Rule, III, is a Phi Gamma Delta, president of the Forensic Council, president of the Glee Club, Mu Beta Psi, Alpha Phi Epsilon, and secretary of the Honorary Fraternity Council.

Jack McKinnon is manager of the Freshman football team, a member of the “Y” Cabinet, president of Omicron Delta Kappa, and president of the Senior class. His social fraternity is Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

Riley Powell is treasurer of the Forensic Council, and a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon.

Leland McKeithan is an assistant in Bible, and on the staff of “Quips and Cranks.”

Frederick Hellegers is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, Le Cercle Francais, and the Red and Black Masquers.

Sam Wiley is a member of the “Y” Cabinet, a lieutenant in R.O.T.C., Sigma Upsilon, Le Cercle Francais, Delta Pi Kappa, and belongs to Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

George Pardington is Mu Beta Psi, a member of the Glee Club, and Alpha Phi Epsilon. His social fraternity is Beta Theta Pi.

DR. C.K. BROWN

(Continued from page 1)

team which would put the cigarette smokers to sleep.

After this talk and a few more yells, the above-mentioned shirt-tail parade was staged, beginning in front of Shearer, taking the route down back of the church, into the “D” and ending in front of Chambers. And there after a few more yells and finally “O Davidson,” the meeting came to a conclusion.

SUNDAY VESPER SERVICES

(Continued from page 1)

farther from wrong things; the evil around us will be done away with, and because of that, we will be able to crucify the evil in our own hearts. When wickedness is driven out, naturally good will take its place. One of the greatest results of our drawing nigh unto Him is that we will be able to help others and assist them in their struggle through life.

© 1931, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

“They keep tasting better and better to me!”

Every Chesterfield is like every other one. No matter how many you smoke, the last Chesterfield of the day is just as smooth and sweet—as cool and comfortable—as the first.

They’re milder, too! Chesterfield uses only mild, ripe, sweet tobaccos—the smoothest and ripest that grow.

Notice, too, how white and fine the paper is. It’s the purest that money can buy.

All this care...to make Chesterfields taste better—to make them milder. And millions of Chesterfield smokers say it in their own way—“They Satisfy!”

GOOD...they’ve got to be good!

DUKE UNIVERSITY
School of Medicine
DURHAM, N. C.

Applications for admission to the first and third year medical classes entering October 1, 1932, should be sent as soon as possible, and will be considered in the order of receipt. The entrance qualifications are intelligence, character, two years of college work and the requirements for grade A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.

NORTON’S
BARBER SHOP

We Satisfy

“DRUGS” “SODA”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”

Stetson “D” Store

Nationally Known and Justly Famous

.. SPECIAL ..

FOR 10 DAYS ONLY

Camel Pile Coats - $37.50

Printing of All Kinds: Newspapers, Bulletins, Handbooks, Programs, Cards and Invitations.

Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you.

DAVIDSON REPRESENTATIVE
P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, N.C.

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing