THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 5, 1931

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

WILSON CUTCHAN, A. CAN -- Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. C. DWELLE, JR. -- Managing Editor
W. S. BEASLEY -- Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN -- Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS -- Sports Editor
A. H. WHITEHEAD -- News Editor
V. M. BELL -- Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES -- Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON -- Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN -- Associate Editor
W. A. BLACK -- Associate Editor
C. M. RAGIN -- Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
P. M. PRESTON -- Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BARR -- Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS -- Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY -- Subscription Manager
P. O. REAVIS -- Solicitor
R. W. WILLIAMS -- Solicitor
A. M. McDONALD -- Solicitor
A. L. BROWN -- Solicitor
W. R. MORROW -- Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
S. S. WIGLEY -- President
D. G. STEPHENSON -- Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD -- Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
J. M. BROWN
J. G. BERRY
G. E. BAILEY
A. R. BIRD
J. E. BOYD
N. B. DICKS
J. G. DUNKLIN
E. O. GUERRANT
W. T. HANCOCK
J. E. LAKE
R. L. McCALLIE
J. C. MATTHEWS
G. F. MYERS
V. F. MULLISS
H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
C. W. F. SPENCER
B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR
W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH
D. D. McBRYDE

FEBRUARY 5, 1931

Truth cannot be compassed by the use of our five physical senses.
Dr. R. W. Sockman.

SUGGESTIONS

True Americans, those whose ancestors did not come over on the Mayflower, have contributed proportionately few athletes to the nation.
Perhaps the greatest of them all was Jim Thorpe; Gurneau is another. A man who can win five letters at
a modern college deserves respect.

Students have noticed that Jake Wade is back with “The Charlotte Observer.” It may interest them to know that Harry
Griffith is still connected with that paper but in a different capacity.

Old students cannot refrain from wondering how much longer the good weather of last week will continue. We warrant, however,
that the groundhog saw his shadow last Monday.

Doc Unger made his wrestling debut with a victory. We wish him many more.

Getting gravel in one’s shoe is a more commonplace occurrence than having an apple drop on one’s head. Isaac Newton
experienced the latter and presented the world with a theory; the former field is still open to philosophers.

President Hoover has been the recipient of another dog. A President’s kennels grow rapidly while he is in office. We
congratulate him on not being adopted by any Indian tribes or having his picture taken in a cowboy outfit.

MARKS OF A GENTLEMAN

A short time ago there was editorial comment made on the general subject of caring for property that is not
one’s own. Its special application was directed toward the escape of window panes from the customary snowballs. There are other
ways to respect property. Perhaps nothing is quite as characteristic of the little mind as scribbling and drawing on walls
of rooms and buildings. Mere defacement of a clean surface is something which a thinking person finds hard to explain.
Vandalism has long been pointed out as a trait of the average American. Long ago it was the habit of
barbarians to utterly ruin and mar everything for which they had no use and which they could not carry away
with them. There was mere depredation in their hearts. Visitors to Monticello, the palatial home and shrine of Thomas Jefferson,
will see his tombstone enclosed by a high iron grating; it is there to prevent chips being taken from the
stone as souvenirs.

Chambers building has fared fairly well for the time that it has been in use. There is no student who
does not take a pride in it, down in his heart; we do not believe that anyone would thoughtfully diminish
its beauty. All that is necessary is a little more honest and concentrated thought on the matter.

“DOLE” OR SUBSCRIPTION

When the Senate recently voted to appropriate twenty-five million dollars to be presented to the Red Cross for the relief
of areas stricken by the drought, it was confronted with a storm of opposition from several different sides. Mr. Payne,
head of the Red Cross, appealed to President Hoover to stop the legislation, saying that the idea of the government’s
helping the organization would prevent the workers from securing free-will subscriptions. Hoover himself objected to the idea of a government
appropriation, taking the stand that it resembled too closely the “dole” system of the British Empire, and that this would
be a dangerous precedent to set. Many prominent workers in the Red Cross movement do not approve of this move
of the Senate’s, stating that, if government funds are used in this emergency, it will never again be possible for
the Red Cross to do the work that it has done in the past, because the people, knowing that the
government will support the Red Cross, will not subscribe to the relief fund. These fear that the whole Red Cross
organization would be destroyed by any government aid. The Senators sponsoring the bill reply with the statement that, although the
Red Cross may eventually take care of the people, they fully realize the imminent need of the sufferers. An amendment
has been suggested for the appropriation bill, making the twenty-five million a loan from the government to the relief organization,
to be repaid after the crisis is over. There are some who think that the money raised by subscription should
be combined with the government appropriation and both used in the relief.

In the furtherance of his plan of raising the money by public subscription, President Hoover has appointed what is probably
the most illustrious committee ever designated. Such names as Calvin Coolidge, Alfred E. Smith, John W. Davis, Will Rogers, and
Frank Hawkes show the nation-wide importance of the committee. That this committee is accomplishing something is shown by the fact
that Will Rogers made eighty thousand dollars in Texas for one week’s performances, and gave it all to the relief
fund.

Grier Martin.

THE SENIOR PARTY

Every class at Davidson has its own peculiar and particular social functions; some classes have more of them than others.
The faculty of the college has a distinct hand in two of these, namely the Freshman reception and the Senior
house party. The latter is of comparatively recent origin but has ably proved its place among other class social events.
Sponsored by members of the faculty and their wives and planned by a committee appointed from this group, the Senior
party offers that class its last opportunity to a restrictive entertainment on the campus. It is restrictive in the sense
that it is held strictly for the enjoyment of Seniors. Commencement cannot be properly termed a social event; smokers, even,
offer a different type of get-together affair. Seniors should take the best advantage of this last true class function. Some
of these men do not appear to fully realize the fact that within a time less than five months distant
the class will have its members scattered hither and yon throughout this and other countries. Even now there are men
who are planning to travel farther than others; it is a safe speculation that all of the members of ’31
will not be present for the “baby alumni” reunion.

Close friendships are frequently formed in four years; we are even of the opinion that if they are not formed
through an association of this time they will never be formed. There is no man in the Senior class, having
spent four years on the Davidson campus, who does not have friends that he did not have before he came
here. Many of these are so firm that one places implicit trust and faith in them. Their value cannot be
measured in worldly terms. It is not pleasant to observe, rightly and truthfully, that these associations will draw to more
or less of an end as the fiscal year closes. The man who is in active correspondence or touch with
five of his classmates after he has been out of undergraduate school for five or six years may indeed count
himself fortunate.

One of the unpleasant factors of college life is the reality that within a few years the ties formed in
school dwindle and are lost while their personnel is in the act of passing the tests of life. This is
not as much the effect of forgetfulness as the demands of necessity, yet no man can single out the friendships
which will continue throughout the years.Those which seem the dearest to him now may, in a short time, be separated.
Alumni Ernest Milton, our popular secretary, hardly needs a eulogy from anyone who knows him, for if any man ever
deserved credit for real achievement, it is none other than our industrious alumni chief. Therefore, in this issue, this column
is devoted entirely to Ernest and his splendid work, as a tribute to him on behalf of the student body.
The vast majority of this “dope” came from men intimate with the functions of the alumni office and who are
in close contact with the secretary himself, whose extreme modesty rendered him “unapproachable” to a news reporter.

Graduating in 1926, after some undergraduate experience in news writing, Ernest was appointed head of the Davidson press bureau, the
official source of all college news dispatched from Davidson, whether administrative or extra-curricular. In the fall of 1926, the alumni
office was created, and the alumni chose Ernest as their executive. His work with the press bureau was undisturbed by
this new position, and he still negotiates the dual duties. Realizing the great difficulty confronting the successful management of the
newly-initiated institution, Ernest began enthusiastically to perform the multitudinous requirements of the office by completely revising the 2,500 names on
the alumni roster, many of which were incorrectly addressed, and faculty in many other ways. Now there are about 3,700
names accurately filed in every detail, as far as is known. Usually, changes incur some 600 variations in address annually
and an approximate addition of 100 new names to the roll each year.

A few years ago, little interest was evidenced by alumni in college activities. Then, a Homecoming program attracted only a
comparative few, whereas now hundreds attend, all effected through Ernest's efficiency. As a testimony of appreciation for his work, the
college administration now contributes $2,000 a year to the alumni office as compared to its $350 donation in 1926. Further
proof of his capability as an administrator is obvious when it is revealed that he has virtually “wiped out” a
$3,000 debt which has burdened the alumni office ever since its inception. As an organizer, he has not only built
his office into an almost perfect systematic unit but has progressed exceptionally well in stimulating alumni enthusiasm in different cities
where Davidson’s graduates reside. In 1926, only four organized alumni chapters existed. Now there are at least thirty which can
be considered “active.” Our secretary supervises and attends about twenty-five alumni chapter meetings a year. These groups serve a three-fold
purpose: to inform themselves about Davidson from speakers who are usually college faculty members, to renew collegiate contacts, and to
urge, through their influence, prospective Davidson men to matriculate here.

Ernest's phenomenal success can be attributed to his extraordinary personality. From the beginning, he made the office a personal thing
and attempted to show the alumni that he really was interested in them, not only through voluminous personal letters but
by continuous individual contact with Davidson men on trips. It would not be exaggerating to say that he knows personally
over 2,000 of our alumni; at least 60 percent of them. He incessantly keeps in close touch with all of
the alumni, writing usually four personal letters a year to the entire constituency, sometimes sending forty different ones daily, in
addition to his usual routine obligations. His remarkable ability to recognize any Davidson man’s name on sight is unique, and
he has developed an unusual “knack” for remembering almost every alumnus’ name as well as his initials, can usually tell
you his address, and what occupation he is engaged in. He reads numerous newspapers daily and is always on the
lookout for news concerning alumni.

To enumerate all of Ernest’s activities would require another column, but the major ones can be mentioned. He writes over
1,000 news articles a year, about 500 more than the personnel of the press bureau did in 1926. During the
course of the college year, he receives hundreds of telegrams and telephone calls from different southern newspapers inquiring for information
about some particular phase of Davidson life. He issues periodically alumni catalogues which include a comprehensive account of an alumnus’
doings. The secretary, by the farthest mental and physical distance, efforts are frequently made to thwart this obvious condition; one
of the schemes is the plan of alumni reunions. With all respect to these, no class gathering has ever had
every man there who graduated with the rest of his classmates. There are some men in school who will attempt
to underrate class spirit and unity; few of them are seniors. Even these individuals will admit, when pressed, that such
emotions do exist, although they cannot always be accounted for by mere logic.

MUSINGS

MATADOR PERSONALS AND OTHERWISE

Mr. D. P. Smith, local youth, has moved his place of abode to Hiner’s Corner where he will start to
work with the Mud Contractors Co. It is generally understood that Mr. Smith will have very little chance to work
up as his work calls for a well-digger. At the recent picnic given by the Lions Club, Mr. C. P.
O’Brien brought a ham, Mr. H. A. Allen brought a watermelon, and Mr. S. D. McTavish brought his brother. Mr.
Alf Woody gave his little son a dollar bill, it is rumored, for crying out loud! It is with regret
that we record that Mr. H. K. Dooligan has left town for an indefinite period, and his associates state that
they miss him very much. Mr. H. K. Dooligan will be remembered as the cashier of the Fourth National Bank.
Mr. G. T. Brown is in the hospital here. Mr. Brown, although only thirty years of age, is usually referred
to as one of the early settlers as it is said that he pays his bills on time. Mr. K.
O. McKesson, local scientist, has left for the Petunia Islands where he will try to find out if the jellyfish
get their jelly from the ocean “currents.” Mr. O. D. Adams will be formally initiated into the Royal Order of
Dragons tonight. To use a popular expression, he will be taken for a rite. Friends say Mr. and Mrs. Newlywed
are very happy in their new home. It is rumored that Mrs. Newlywed worships her husband; in fact, some go
so far as to say she places burnt offerings before him three times a day. Mr. T. L. Winkershander is
said to be of the opinion that a blackmailer is a Negro postman but he, highly indignant, denies having any
knowledge whatsoever. Considerable anxiety is being felt here for Mr. S. E. Larson, baker, who is selling bread that he
kneads himself. Mr. Alf Woody is suffering from father’s foot, caught during the dead of night last Tuesday when his
little brat hollered all night. Mr. Woody states, however, that his foot is furtherest from his mind.

Officer: “Is that soup ready, Jones?”
Officer’s Servant: “No, Sir. The stove went out, Sir.”
Officer: “Went out? Then why don’t you light it again?”
Officer’s Servant: “’Cos it went out by the roof, Sir.”

Dentist (speaking to patient about to have tooth extracted): “Have you heard the latest song hit?”
Patient: “No, what is it?”
Dentist: “The yanks are coming.”

Schumaker: “Father, what is heredity?”
Father: “Something a father believes in until his son starts acting like a fool.”

Wife: “Do you think that Dr. Smith’s medicine does any good?”
John: “Not unless you follow the directions.”
Wife: “What are the directions?”
John: “Keep the bottle tightly corked.”

Ernest edits the alumni page in the Davidsonian each week and issues a pamphlet bi-annually giving vital statistics about births,
deaths, marriages, and other events concerning alumni. He takes the responsibility upon himself to see that the college bulletin, which
is published monthly, is properly distributed and sometimes edits it himself. He also endeavors to interview every senior in the
graduating class in an attempt to convey to them the object of the alumni office and the ways in which
the secretary may be of service.

“Davidson, greater still by your will.” Ernest originated this excellent slogan two years ago, in trying to convince every alumnus
to leave Davidson a small part of his estate, on the premise that our institution would be, in about 30
years, a powerful college financially. His motto so impressed the graduates that already he has received gratifying results; many wills
have been made since then including Davidson as a beneficiary. Ernest has still many “dreams” for the future—a separate alumni
building, an alumni magazine, a placement bureau for the purpose of assisting graduates to procure positions, and a filing system
which will keep each man’s correspondence separately filed and augmented by all the material relating to his past and present
record. What more could a man do in four and a half years?
