THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 7, 1931

WILDCATS MEET V. P. I. IN BLACKSBURG SAT.

THE SPORTS PARADE

FRATERNITY AND CLASS FOOTBALL COMPETITION BEGINS

All we know is by hearsay, but what we have heard and read! “Wildcats claw Generals,” “Davidson Smothers W. &
L.,” “’Cats Win in Big Upset.” These and many other captions have been used in describing our victory, and the
general reaction has of course been a feeling of great pride. The individual sentiment seems to have been in the
form of a desire to show some of the sports writers where they get off, almost preceding the desire to
win the game, and when we read these various writeups, underneath our pride, voiced or unspoken, was the inevitable gloating
thought of, “Yi Yi, I told you so!” The showing of the Wildcats against Washington and Lee last Saturday should
prove sufficient evidence for squelching these cocksure prognosticators.

In comparing pre-game predictions with after-game writeups, we are reminded of the little anecdote concerning the child whose bad habits
were pointed out to the father, the mother saying, “Your child,” but whose commendable actions brought forth the comment of,
“OUR child.” Every under-dog has his day. Reports have it that the Wildcats played the greatest game any Davidson team
has ever played, and every man who witnessed that classic struggle in 1929 when Davidson won over Duke, 13-12, will
imagine with a thrill to what magnificent heights the ’Cats must have risen in defeating the Generals of W. &
L. Those of us who remained behind and heard the play-by-play report, figuratively took part in every play, feeling physical
contact on every line plunge, running with our hands outstretched for each pass, and tackling on the defensive with all
the reality of an enraged Wildcat. Each gain by the ’Cats was cheered as if the game was going on
before our very eyes, each loss marked by a low whistle of disappointment—and oftentimes dismay.

We venture to say that each one of us listening in down here suffered no less mental anguish during that
last quarter than the players and coaches three hundred miles away. What fighting those Wildcats must have done! Four times
the Generals plunged and passed their way to within scoring distance of the Wildcat goal, only to meet that well-known
brick wall—no loose mortar either.

The Davidson Team Gave the Generals Big Upset Last Saturday Afternoon

NINTH TILT SINCE 1903

Monk Younger and Tex Tilson Former V. P. I. Football Stars

The traditional battle between the Gobblers of Virginia Polytechnical Institute and the Davidson Wildcats will be held at Blacksburg on
Saturday. This will be the fourth appearance for the Wildcats and it is hoped that they will acquit themselves as
well on this occasion as in their former games this season. At Lexington last Saturday the ’Cats upset the dope
and defeated the Generals of Washington and Lee 7 to 0. The Gobblers were swamped by Georgia, 40 to 0;
but still they have a strong team as Georgia is one of the nation’s best, according to Coach Laird who
scouted the game.

The game will present a series of rivalries between the coaches as well as the players. Both Monk and Tex
were stars on former V. P. I. elevens. Monk, one of the best ends ever seen in Virginia, earned for
himself the name of the “Southern Panther” for his work against Yale and Cornell. He also coached at V. P.
I. for a number of years. Tex was captain of the V. P. I. team in 1922 and was recently
elected the institution’s greatest tackle of all times. Both Monk and Tex came to Davidson in 1923 and have been
on our coaching staff ever since.

The game will be the ninth played over a period of 28 years, beginning in 1903. V. P. I.’s coach,
Orville Neale, was captain of the 1903 team. The games were as follows:

| Year | V. P. I. | Davidson |
|------|--------|----------|
| 1903 | 26 | 0 |
| 1906 | 10 | 0 |
| 1907 | 5 | 12 |
| 1910 | 16 | 6 |
| 1917 | 13 | 7 |
| 1922 | 7 | 7 |
| 1923 | 7 | 0 |
| 1930 | 20 | 19 |

This gives V. P. I. six victories, one defeat, and one tie. With the Wildcats having as good a chance
to repeat as in 1907. It is also expected that the game will be as interesting as the game last
year in which Davidson was several times ahead and the result was in doubt until the final whistle. V. P.
I. will use its veteran line and fast-stepping Sophomore backfield, although there are four veteran backs who will probably share
the spotlight. The starting line-ups are expected to be as follows:

| V. P. I. | Davidson |
|---------|----------|
| Seamon | L.E. | Raker |
| Stark | L.T. | Wagner |
| Hite | L.G. | Mathis |
| Brown | Center | Gardner |
| Swart | R.G. | Conway |
| Grinus | R.T. | Whitfield |
| Chandler| R.E. | Brown |
| Groth | Q.B. | King |
| Robison | R.H. | Pearce |
| Causey | L.H. | Peabody |
| Howard | F.B. | McQueen |

DON KING
Veteran Wildcat Quarterback

Play-by-Play Report in Gym Heard by Students

Last Saturday afternoon a crowd of about 250 assembled in the gym to hear the reports of the Davidson-Washington and
Lee football game at Lexington, Va. Reports were received over a direct wire from the field to the gym, Ernest
Milton sending them and Mr. Abernathy, who is the railroad telegraph operator here, catching them up on this end of
the line. The crowd consisted mostly of students, but a number of faculty members were present. The first report was
received at 2:50 o'clock and from then until a little after five a report was received every five or ten
minutes. Ed Kuykendall doing the announcing and Bill Matthews showing on the blackboard each play. The crowd from the beginning
seemed to be in high spirits.

Complete Service for School Publications

Because the whole Davidson team worked so well as a unit, it would be difficult to pick out those who
were outstanding, but if any men should be selected for personal mention, most sports observers pick Pearce and Gardner as
best defensively, and Wagner, offensively. According to newspapers, Collins, powerful W. & L. fullback, was undoubtedly the most brilliant player
of the afternoon. Time and again he led his team to Davidson’s ’steen yard stripe, but failed to pierce the
Wildcat defense.

It is reported that in a line averaging about one hundred and ninety pounds per man, V. P. I., whom
the ’Cats take on this Saturday, has a guard 6 feet, 4 inches in height, and weighing 215 pounds. What
a man! Look out, Mathis!

Georgia 40, V. P. I. 0. Davidson plays...V. M. I. Monday and Tuesday P. I. Saturday. Smarting from their defeat
by Georgia, V. M. I. will be eager for revenge, and if the ’Cats duplicate their heads-up football against W.
& L., it should be a good game and a close one.

THE SPIDER
EDMUND LOWE—LOIS MORAN
Wednesday
“NEW WALLINGFORD”
Thursday
SCARLET TANAGER
THOMAS MEIGHAN—HARDIE ALBRIGHT
TOBACCOS - - SODAS
Friday
“BAD COMPANY”
RICARDO CORTEZ—JOHN GARRETT
Saturday:
“HUCKLEBERRY FINN”
JACKIE COOGAN—MITZI GREEN

Juniors-Seniors Win Inter-Class Football
Second Round Matches Were Finished First of Week

The first game of the inter-class touch football contest was played last Thursday afternoon between the Seniors and the Freshmen.
The Seniors won by a large margin. In the Junior versus Sophomore game, the Juniors emerged the victors, and in
the Senior-Sophomore game, the Seniors were victorious. This game concluded the first round, and the second round games are being
played this week. The captains of the teams for this year are as follows: Seniors, H. L. Carr; Juniors, D.
S. Currie; Sophomores, L. M. Huie; and the Freshmen, Oscar Bethea. Below is given a schedule for the concluding contests:

Monday afternoon—Juniors vs. Freshmen.
Tuesday afternoon—Seniors vs. Juniors.
Wednesday afternoon—Sophomores vs. Freshmen.

Last year the Junior class was the victor, winning three and none. The Freshman, Sophomore, and Senior classes tied games,
losing for second place. These inter-class sports are under the supervision of Heath Whittle, assistant director of physical education at
Davidson. It is the purpose of the inter-class sports contests to interest the men who ordinarily would not be interested
in athletics. So far, they have proven very successful here at Davidson and have been very beneficial in physical development.

They have the same old spirit they do when the team is right there in front of them fighting for
each yard. When Davidson would make a spectacular play, everyone would cheer as if the players could hear them, and
when Davidson made the touchdown, it looked as if the old gym wouldn't stand up under the strain. When Washington
and Lee started their long drives and would make two and three first downs in succession, many groans and whistles
were heard, but when Ed would say, “And the ball goes over to Davidson,” there would go up another yell
that could be heard all over the campus. It was only during the half that one was able to breathe
freely, but even then things looked pretty shaky. When it was announced that Coach Tilson’s brother stumbled and fell down
when he had a clear field for a touchdown, everyone knew Coach was enjoying the game to the utmost. Things
didn’t look so good when W. and L. started their third drive toward our goal, but when it was announced
that not only had they lost the ball, but that the game had ended and we were at the big
end of the score, the old gym really did quiver and tremble beneath the uproar. During the whole show, the
students showed excellent spirit and also that they hadn't lost any of the old pep.

Referee of State Game Praises Wildcats’ Fight

“Both Coach Younger of Davidson and Coach Smith of N. C. State should be congratulated on the type of football
they are teaching their young men,” was the comment that Everett Strupper, referee of the N. C. State-Davidson game at
Greensboro last Saturday, made on the play of these two elevens in his column in the Atlanta Journal this week.
Strupper, who from his referee’s post had an ideal opportunity to judge the sportsmanship shown by both elevens, continued by
saying that “although the battle was for blood at all times, not once was there any unsportsmanlike conduct. It was
a wonderful spirit displayed by both teams, and the two schools should be mighty proud of them.” But the official,
who played for Georgia Tech some years ago, was especially complimentary of the fight of the Wildcats. He headed his
column, “That Wildcat Spirit,” under which was the sub-head, “Strupper Lauds Spirit Shown by Davidson Against Heavier Wolfpack.” After detailing
how the N. C. State boys so thoroughly outclassed Davidson in the first half, “gaining at will and crossing the
Wildcat goal three times,” he went on to say how Davidson came back strong in the second half. In the
first period, he said, “it was too much individual play on the defense, while on the offense the big State
team completely smothered them. The half finally ended without Davidson having made a single first down.” But after the half,
during which Strupper says Coach Younger must have given his “team some well-selected words that hit the spot,” Davidson came
back like a different team altogether. In his own words, Strupper described it thus: “The second half had hardly started
before the little Wildcats began to play like a team. They not only stopped the big State drive cold but
gained possession of the ball and started straight down the field. It was not by passes or trick plays but
right through the heavy State wall. The little team opened it up and marched on to a touchdown.” Continuing, he
said “they were in no way satisfied with this but continued to march the big State team all over the
field. When the game ended, they were right under the shadow of the State goal post with what looked like
a certain touchdown. Twice fumbles with the very wet ball stopped drives.” The official summarized the stirring fight of Davidson
graphically. He said that “State was even more outplayed in the second half than Davidson was the first. There should
not be a Davidson old grad anywhere that should not love and respect every man on that team. Even though
they were defeated, their cup of defeat has more glory in it than the cup of victory that State won.”

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“SODA” “SUNDRIES”

A Short Cut to Accurate Information

You will find a quick answer to questions about words, persons, places in WEBSTER’S COLLEGIATE The Best Abridged Dictionary because
it is based upon WEBSTER'S NEW INTERNATIONAL—The “Supreme Authority.” Here is a companion for your hours of reading and study
that will prove its real value every time you consult it for the wealth of ready information that is instantly
yours. 106,000 words and phrases with definitions, etymologies, pronunciations, and use in its 1,256 pages. 1,700 illustrations. Includes dictionaries of
biography and geography and other special features. See It At Your College Bookstore or Write for Information to the Publishers.
Free Specimen pages if you name this paper. G. & C. Merriam Co. Springfield, Mass.
