BEAT DUKE! The Davidsonian "ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS" STUNT NIGHT PROGRAM Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER
14, 1931 No. 5

GRADS TO SEE DAVIDSON BATTLE DUKE

EXTENSIVE PLANS ARE MADE IN EXPECTATION OF RETURNING GRADS

Full Program Scheduled With Dr. Kenneth Foreman to Deliver the Alumni Address

Annual Home-Coming Day will be held here Saturday, October 17, the date of the Davidson-Duke football game, and hundreds of
alumni are expected to visit their Alma Mater at that time. Several thousand invitations have been issued to the alumni,
and a great many have definitely expressed their intention of returning to the campus. An extensive program, which includes athletic
events, an address, and stunt night, has been arranged for their benefit and enjoyment.

Professor Kenneth J. Foreman, a member of the faculty and a widely sought-after speaker, will deliver the welcome and address
to the alumni, students, and friends of the college. Professor Foreman was chosen by the Alumni Association officials in conjunction
with local faculty members.

Saturday's program will begin at 11 o'clock in the morning when the varsity and freshman cross-country teams of Davidson and
Duke race. This event will start and finish in front of the stadium. At the conclusion of the race, the
crowd will assemble in Chambers Auditorium for Professor Foreman’s address. There, “College Ties,” “O Davidson,” and other school songs will
be sung. This exercise will conclude within an hour and at one o'clock luncheon will be served, cafeteria style, in
the banquet hall of Chambers.

At 2:30 o'clock, Davidson and Duke University will clash in a football game at Richardson Field. This event is always
a feature of the Home-Coming exercises and makes the second Big Five tilt for the Wildcats this season.

In conclusion of the day, a stunt night will be held in the auditorium at 7:15 o'clock in which the
classes and various campus organizations will participate. Those involved in this phase of the day’s program have been working for
the past two weeks in preparation for this entertainment. Home-Coming Day in the past has been held at a later
date in the year, but October 17 was chosen this fall because of the game with an important North Carolina
eleven.

Charlotte Minister Is Heard in Lecture

Inspirational Message Delivered by Doctor Edgar Gammon at Vesper Service Sunday Evening

Dr. Edgar Gammon, pastor of Myers Park Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, gave a searching study of youth at the “Y” vesper
services Sunday evening, October 11. He used as his text Mark 10:22, “And he was sad at that saying, and
went away grieved; for he had great possessions.”

“Christ,” stated Dr. Gammon, “was scarcely more than a youth—even toward the end of His ministry, therefore He understood a
young man’s problems, and makes a vivid appeal to youth everywhere and in every age.

“The story of the rich young ruler is found in three gospels, for it was an important and interesting incident.
In it is a message for the young men of today.”

Dr. Gammon first analyzed the character of the rich young ruler. “If ever anyone had everything,” he said, “he had
it. He was wealthy, young, powerful, and besides having a vivid personality, he possessed character. It is clearly stated that
he was rich, young and powerful and his possession of a personality is proved by the statement, ‘and He loved
him.’ In the fact that he sought Jesus we know that he had character, at least a yen for something
higher.

“Then what did he lack? We know that something was missing. He admitted that. There was a false note in
his orchestra of life, and the harmony was spoiled. The lack was in the realm of his inner spirit.

“We live, as he did, in a restless age. What's (Continued on page 6)

O. D. K. Tap Day

Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa will hold its annual fall tap day on Tuesday morning, November 3rd. At this
time members of the Senior class will be tapped by the present members of O. D. K. The service is
very impressive. It is the custom of the O. D. K. to have a member of the faculty to speak
to the audience on some phase of Omicron Delta Kappa fraternity. After the faculty member speaks the president of the
society, J. H. McKinnon, taps the gavel on the altar and a member of the society rises and goes to
the student who is to be tapped and taps him on the back. Then the one thus designated rises and
follows his tapper to the platform, if he desires to accept. This form of the public ceremony signifies those to
whom bids have been extended by the society.

DR. ROBERT W. MILES WILL CONDUCT ANNUAL FALL YMCA SERVICES

Speaker is Pastor of Westminster Presbyterian Church in Lynchburg, Virginia

GRADUATE OF DAVIDSON

Evangelistic Meetings Will Begin November 10th and Continue Through November 13th

Dr. Robert W. Miles, the pastor of Westminster Presbyterian Church of Lynchburg, Va., will conduct the annual Y. M. C.
A. fall evangelistic services. Dates for the meeting have been set for Tuesday, November 10th through Friday, November 13th, according
to Carl R. Pritchett, secretary of the “Y.”

Dr. Miles is a graduate of Davidson, and while here he was an outstanding leader on the campus. He was
one of the most popular men on the hill, was a member of the football and basketball teams, and was
prominent in several other fields. Following his graduation from Davidson, he attended Seminary, getting his bachelor of divinity. He came
back to Davidson in 1918 as the first secretary of the Y. M. C. A. It was largely through his
work that the foundation for the present organization was laid. He is deeply interested in the affairs of Davidson, and
thoroughly acquainted with the situation.

While a student at Davidson, Bob Miles was instrumental in putting the honor system into effect and giving it the
permanent position which it now occupies. His student body honors were numerous, and he was one of the prominent men
of the campus. He is thoroughly acquainted with student life and problems, having been student pastor at (Continued on page
6)

“The Monkey’s Paw” To Be Staged Soon

“The Monkey's Paw” is gradually being whipped into shape as rehearsals go on daily, and will be ready for presentation
the week following Home-Coming. It will play together with “The Mayor and the Manicure,” a comedy in one act, upon
which work has been started. The latter is the story of a college boy who, returning home, is trailed by
a scheming woman who heard that he is the scion of a wealthy family and plans to make good use
of her acquaintance with him. Whether she is successful in her attempts against the rich old gentleman is worked out
in the play.

Last week the cast of “The Monkey’s Paw” were given complimentary tickets to “Let Us Be Gay,” a presentation by
the Charlotte Little Theatre. The capable director of that organization promises to be present when the Red and Black Masquers
offer their bill.

Noted London Lecturer Douglas Booth, Will Be Heard at Davidson Soon

“The British Foreign Policy” is Chosen as the Topic for Discussion Here

HAS HAD WIDE EXPERIENCE

Speaker is Brought Here by International Relations Club

C. Douglas Booth, of London, England, noted lecturer on politics and economic affairs, is to speak at Davidson on the
night of November 12. Mr. Booth is sent by the Carnegie Peace Endowment and his talk here will be sponsored
by the International Relations Club. Davidson is fortunate in having the opportunity to hear such an authority speak. The subject
will be, “British Foreign Policy.”

Mr. Booth is a member of the Royal Institute of International Affairs in England, before whom he frequently delivers lectures
on international affairs. He has also spent some time studying at the Academy of International Law at The Hague.

Among his articles is a paper on “The Political Situation in Southeastern Europe,” presented before the Institute, and published in
the Journal of the Royal Institute of International Affairs. “Italy's Aegean Possessions,” published in 1928, is also well known in
this country, as well as his articles written for the American Peace Society at Washington, D. C. and published in
“The Advocate of Peace.”

Canada is Mr. Booth’s native country and he attended school at both St. Andrews College, in Toronto, and Loyola University.
During the war he was a major in His Majesty's Forces. He has devoted seven years to the study of
Mediterranean and Balkan problems, and has lived or traveled in Morocco, Egypt, Rhodes, Patmos, Athens, and Belgrade. He has had
wide lecturing experience and done political work for the National Liberal Party of England.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving
the original meaning and punctuation:

the Liberty Loan and Red Cross drives while with the Y.M.C.A., lecturing in both England and America on work in
M. Forces during the war, besides experience in international relations. Only two years ago he visited more than fifty International
Relations Clubs in Southern and Middle Western colleges and universities under the auspices of the Carnegie Endowment. Some of the
subjects for the lectures on his tour present are, “The Permanent Court of International Justice,” “The Austro-Germanic Rapprochement as a
Stabilizing Factor in Middle Europe,” “Balkan Consolidation a Necessity to European Peace,” “Remarks on Disarmament,” and “British Foreign Policy.” “British
Foreign Policy” was chosen as the topic for discussion for his lecture here because of the interest in British affairs
at present. Great Britain has just changed her gold standard and the committee thought it appropriate and timely to have
a discourse on a subject relating to England.

RHODES SCHOLARSHIP CANDIDATES ELECTED
Fifteen Men, Representing Five States, Will Appear Before State Committee December 5th

A greater interest than usual was shown in seeking Rhodes Scholarship awards this year, due to the fact that a
Davidson man received one last year. From the numerous candidates, the following fifteen were selected by the executive committee to
appear at the various state delegations:

North Carolina heads the list with five applicants: C. W. Harrison, J. D. McConnell, E. C. Dwelle, T. W. McLean,
and S. S. Wiley. South Carolina comes second with D. M. McConnell, D. M. McQueen, H. H. Harris, and J.
G. Dunklin. There were J. H. McKinnon and J. A. Abernathy from Florida. From Georgia, Roger Enloe and Grier Martin
were named. Virginia will be represented by Murray Christian and Tom Hill, both alumni. These men will appear before the
state committees on December 5th. Since each state will appoint two, ten Davidson men are eligible for the district competition.
Four men from each district will be awarded Rhodes Scholarships.

(Continued on page 6)

Annual Pictures
Representatives of the Wooten-Moulton studios of Chapel Hill, North Carolina, will be on the campus through Thursday of this week,
to take individual pictures for Quips and Cranks, the college annual. After Thursday, the representatives will leave for Chapel Hill,
where they will begin work on the pictures for the Yackety-Yack, the annual of the University of N.C. The Wooten-Moulton
Studios have been engaged by the Yackety-Yack to make their pictures for the past seven years and have always turned
out pictures of satisfaction. The Wooten-Moulton Studios were contracted by Quips and Cranks this year for the first time. They
replace the White Studios of New York, which has had the contract here for several years. The Quips and Cranks’
staff earnestly asks the student body to cooperate in having their pictures taken before Thursday night.

CHARLES PEARCE WINS VICE-PRESIDENCY OVER TWO IN SECOND VOTE
Charles Pearce, of Plant City, Florida, was elected vice-president of the student body. At first, there were three candidates for
the office. Bob McCallie and Brooke Allen were suggested by the nominating committee. Pearce was nominated from the floor. In
the primary election, Pearce and McCallie advanced to the finals. The election proved to be interesting as the men brought
up are all well known and active in campus affairs. Pearce is a member of the Junior class and was
initiated into Kappa Sigma social fraternity last year. He is also a member of the varsity football team and has
played an important part in football games this season. Baseball is another sport in which Pearce took part.

In the election for Senior Student Council representative, Samuel Shannon Wiley, of Salisbury, N.C., was elected. The other candidates for
this position were William Rule and J. D. McConnell. Wiley is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, Beaver
Club, Reporters Club, Omega Phi Alpha, Scabbard and Blade, Delta Pi Kappa, Le Cercle Francais, the Golden Quill, International Relations
Club, and Sigma Upsilon. He is also a member of the Y.M.C.A. Board and was vice-president of the Junior class.

Dr. Oren Moore to Be Vesper Speaker
At the Y Vespers service to be held next Sunday, Dr. Oren Moore will speak. Dr. Moore, who is well
known throughout the South as a baby specialist, is thought of at Davidson as one of the most loyal supporters
of the college. In everything concerning the activities of Davidson, he is deeply interested. Perhaps he is most enthusiastic over
Davidson football. His is a well-known figure at all of the college games, but it is never seen in the
stadium; he always sits on the players’ bench, and he is one of the first to go onto the field
in the case of an accident. Dr. Moore’s enthusiastic interest in football at Davidson was appreciated so much by the
Athletic Association that it awarded him a gold football as a token of that appreciation. Dr. Moore himself has participated
to a great extent at one time in athletics. He was formerly well known as a fine footballer and boxer.
Dr. Moore has been heard here before with a great deal of pleasure, and it is needless to say that
his talk on Sunday is being looked forward to with much expectancy by the student body.

WILDCATS MEET DUKE BLUE DEVILS HERE ON SATURDAY AFTERNOON
Large Crowds of Supporters of Both Teams Are Expected to Witness Contest

The Davidson Wildcats, with two victories out of four games to their credit, will meet the Duke Blue Devils Saturday
afternoon on their own home field. Out of the three games played this season, Duke has won two, these being
with V.M.I. and Villanova; their conqueror was the University of South Carolina. Last year Davidson met Duke in Durham and
the battle ended in a 12-0 victory for Duke. Davidson has been victorious over Duke four out of the nine
games since 1922. The renewal of this ancient rivalry this year has been looked forward to by the supporters of
both teams; a great throng of ardent fans is expected to gather at Davidson for this Home-Coming Day. After a
poor showing against South Carolina in her opening game, Duke made a complete reversal of form to outclass V.M.I. and
Villanova. In these games, the Blue Devils uncorked a smashing attack led by Wid Brewer that annihilated any defense their
opponents could put up. Last Saturday, the Blue Devils were quick to take advantage of the eight fumbles by Villanova.
Throughout the game, the Blue Devils tackled, blocked, rushed, and held on to the ball in a manner that they
had not shown previously this season. Captain Kid Brewer, fullback, was the most outstanding man of the day. He averaged
approximately four yards a try for his twenty-five chances with the ball and after digging for extra yardage with several
tacklers hanging on to him, made two of Duke's three touchdowns. Brownlee, left half, and Mason, right half, also showed
their power. Emery Adkins, center, showed best in the line, often smashing through to down opposing backs for losses. Crawford,
left end; Bryan, left tackle; and Friedman, right tackle, also made going rough for the opposition and will probably be
the leaders in the attack against Davidson Saturday. Brownlee snagged an eight-yard pass from Mason to race ten yards for
the second touchdown.

Past scores of Duke-Davidson games:
Year Duke Davidson
1922 0 7
1923 18 6
1924 0 0
1925 0 20
1926 0 41
1927 0 48
1928 0 0
1929 0 7
1930 12 0

Le Cercle Francais Bids Nine New Men
Roscoe Prince, Charles Myers, and Lewis Hand Are Officers for This Year

Le Cercle Francais, an honorary fraternity, which has been established here on the campus for a number of years, has
recently pledged nine new members. It is the purpose of “Le Cercle Francais” to reward outstanding merit in the study
of the French language and French literature, and also to stimulate interest in French culture. The insignia for the pledges
is very fitting. It is the French Tri-Color, and the pledges are required to wear it for three days. Men
are only pledged to this fraternity once a year and it is considered quite an honor to be a member
of it.

The officers who were elected for this year are: Roscoe Prince, president; Charles Myers, vice-president; and L. N. Hand, secretary
and treasurer. Three of last year’s officers are back in school again this year. The nine pledges to “Le Cercle
Francais” are: W. W. Cashion, W. H. Coble, Bill Flinn, John Thompson, C. W. Harrison, W. A. McKnight, Fred Hellegers,
L. T. Newland, and H. W. Ryburn.
