ANNUAL PHOTOGRAPHER HERE THIS WEEK

“ALENDA The Davidsonian LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

WILDCATS BACK IN FORM

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 7, 1931 No. 4

Wildcat Eleven Defeats Washington & Lee Team 7-0 in Davidson

Line Holds Stubbornly When Goal is Threatened by W. and L. Drives

TOUCHDOWN BY McQUEEN

Mathis, King and Pearce Good on Defense for Davidson

Scrapping with a spirit that has for years characterized the play of Davidson’s football teams, an insignificant—to hear the newspapers
tell it—Wildcat eleven pulled a Horatio Alger last Saturday afternoon at Lexington, Va., and defeated a strong Washington and Lee
team by a 7-0 score. The Wildcats put up a stubborn defense against the Generals, staving off threat after threat
while waiting patiently for the breaks of the game. And the breaks finally came. In the third quarter, the ’Cats
being always on the alert, recovered a fumbled punt and on the next play converted it into a touchdown, the
only score of the game. Four times the W. and L. team started drives for touchdowns, and pushed the Wildcats
under the shadow of their goal, but four times the ’Cats turned Spartan and determined, “They shall not cross,” and
they did not cross. The losers threatened once in the initial period and thrice more after the Wildcats had scored
in the third quarter. The last three drives ended on the 6, 12 and 13-yard lines, respectively, and caused the
winners no little worry to keep their goal uncrossed. That the Generals showed a supremacy over the Wildcats in ground
gaining is evidenced by (Continued on page 5)

Dr. T. W. Lingle Delegate to Institute of Politics

The eleventh annual meeting of the Institute of Politics was held this summer at Williamstown, Mass. Dr. T. W. Lingle,
head of the history department at Davidson College, attended as a delegate. The meetings were held in the buildings of
Williams College. Williamstown is a village of about the population of Davidson; it is situated in the extreme northwest corner
of the state of Massachusetts. The Institute is endowed by John D. Rockefeller, Jr., Oscar Guggenheimer, and some other of
the nation’s great financiers and philanthropists. President Garfield of Williams, son of the late President Garfield of the United States,
was chairman of the meeting. Delegates representing England, Poland, Canada, Italy, Switzerland, and several other foreign countries, made talks. A
delegate was desired from Russia in order to find out about their five-year plan and other interesting projects, but this
country refused to send a representative, and said that if anyone came they would not be permitted to return to
Russia. Delegates are rather difficult to find since they must be able to speak English so that it may readily
be understood. The Institute was held for the representatives to discuss international relationships and each country’s relation to them. The
home of President Garfield was open to the delegates as a social center. President and Mrs. Garfield received the delegates
of the meeting in the beautiful drawing room of their home. Refreshments were served in the dining room, where hung
the portrait of the late President Garfield.

BEAVER CLUB NOMINATION

At the meeting of Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa last Monday night, John Graham O’Keefe, of Bluefield, West Virginia,
was elected the tenth member of the Beaver Club, Sophomore Honor Society. O'Keefe is a member of the Phi Delta
Theta Social fraternity. He made his freshman numerals last year in football and track, and is one of the two
sophomore representatives on the Court of Control.

Surprise Victory

Old North State Sends Many Men to Davidson

Twenty-One States and Five Foreign Countries Represented in Davidson’s Student Body

Over one-half (57.69) of the students at Davidson are from the state of North Carolina, 369 being the number. South
Carolina is next in line with 42. The third is Georgia, which has 40 representatives here. The other states in
order are: Virginia, 36; Florida, 29; West Virginia, 28; Alabama, 20; Tennessee, 20; Mississippi, 12; New Jersey, 9; Texas, 5;
Louisiana, 5; Kentucky, 4; Arkansas, 3; New York, 3; Pennsylvania, 3; California, 2; Connecticut, 2; District of Columbia, 1; Maine,
1; Ohio, 1. Six of the members in the student body represent five different foreign countries. Two are from China,
and one from each of the following: India, Japan, Korea, and Mexico. Of the students here at college, over one-sixth
intend to make business their life work. One hundred and fourteen plan to enter some phase of the business life.
Medicine attracts the next largest number, 89 planning to enter that field, and law comes third, with 65 men. One
of the most striking things noted in the survey was the further decrease in students planning to enter the ministry,
compared with previous years. This year the number decreased to 57 men, a drop of five from last year, and
23 from 1929-30. This is the smallest number of men naming this as their vocation who have been in attendance
at Davidson since statistics have been kept on the student body. The other professions in order are: Engineering, 33; Teaching,
29; Chemistry, 16; Journalists, 13; Aviation, 10; Dentists, 7; Missions, 7; Architecture, 3; Lumbering, 3; Mortician, 3; Coaching, 2; Music,
2; Farmer, 2; Archaeologist, 1; Y. M. C. A., 1. Naturally since Davidson is a Presbyterian school, the students who
are Presbyterians predominate. Nearly three-fourths (71.6%) are of this denomination. The next in line are the Methodists who have 85.
The others are: Baptists, 34; Episcopal, 20; A. R. P., 7; Lutheran, 6; Christian, 5; Congregationalist, 3; Moravian, 2; Disciple,
1; Catholic, 1; Friend, 1; Christian Science, 1; Non-Denominational, 1; No affiliation, 15. Of the courses here at Davidson the
B. S. 2 proves to be the most popular, since 258 students are taking it. B. S. 1 is next
in line with 170, and A. B. 2 is not far behind with 166. There are only 24 applicants for
A. B. 1, the course which requires the taking of both Latin and Greek. Fifteen students are taking special courses;
six are taking pre-medical courses, and two are taking their M. A. degree.

W. & L. Pep Meeting Was Huge Success

Professor Currie and Coach “Tex” Tilson Were Present and Made Brief Talks

The Pep meeting prior to the W. and L.-Davidson game was a howling success. A full house of Davidson supporters
were on hand and responded nobly to the efforts of Cheer-leader Ed Kuykendal. Prof. Archie Currie was present and delivered
a short talk which aroused much enthusiasm and a great outburst of applause. Coach “Tex” Tilson also gave a brief
talk, emphasizing the importance of the outcome of the game. He then added that a Davidson victory in this tussle
would be of especial interest to him due to the unusual fact that he had two brothers connected directly with
the W. & L. machine: one in the capacity of assistant coach and the other as a player. One of
the most outstanding factors in the success of the meeting was the excellent work of the Davidson band. Several numbers
were rendered and kept the crowd in (Continued on page 6)

Individual Pictures Finished This Week

White Studios Supplanted by Wooten-Moulton, of North Carolina, as Annual Photographers

The photographers of this year’s edition of the Quips and Cranks, Davidson yearbook, arrived on the campus Monday afternoon and
set up a temporary studio in the parlor of West dormitory to begin work early Tuesday morning. So far a
satisfactory portion of the student body has already visited the studios to have their picture taken for this year’s annual.
Great stress has been laid this year on the importance of every man being represented in their own college yearbook.
The photographers are paying their visit to Davidson this year at a much earlier date than heretofore, the company doing
the work this year being a new company for Davidson. White Studios of New York City have been the annual
photographers for the past few years. But last year it was decided by the Student Body to give the contract
to a North Carolina concern of excellent reputation throughout the south. The Wooten-Moulton representative will be on the campus until
Friday, taking only individual pictures. E. C. Dwelle, Editor in chief of the 1932 Quips and Cranks, is anxious to
have greater representation of the student body in the annual than was in last year’s book. Dwelle states that the
success of any yearbook is measured by its representativeness of the Student Body as a whole and in order for
the Davidson yearbook of 1932 to surpass those of the past it must have more pictures of the individuals than
any of the preceding ones had.

Dr. Edgar G. Gammon to Deliver Address at “Y” Vespers SundayOct. 11 Speaker Has Promised to Give Account of His
Own Views and Experiences

A pleasant surprise is in store for every student who attends the Y. M. C. A. Vespers Sunday evening, October
11. Dr. Gammon, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church, in Charlotte, is the speaker for the occasion. Dr. Gammon
knows a little about everything and a good deal about lots of things. He possesses a stained-glass vocabulary and his
talks are informative. The discourse Sunday night is sure to have morsels of practical wisdom sprinkled through it and the
Dr. will recharge your jaded spirits. His talks are a frank account of his own experiences and his views and
advice impressions are stimulating. The speaker graduated from Hampden-Sydney and while at college played on the football team. Since he
has been living in Charlotte, he has been a loyal Davidson supporter and has won many friends on the college
campus. Dr. Gammon is doing fine work at the Charlotte church and great progress has been made since he assumed
his duties there. If present plans go through, special music will also be on the program and a large crowd
is expected to be on hand to hear Dr. Gammon.

Deputation Service Active at Davidson

Davidson “Y” Promotes Religious Life in Community by Furnishing Sunday School Teachers

The Davidson “Y” is interested not only in promoting the religious life of Davidson’s students, but in reaching those people
who live in the vicinity of the college. One of the “Y’s” most interesting and noteworthy features along this line
is the deputation service. John Howard, chairman of the deputation department, supplies Sunday Schools in the vicinity with teachers, and
fills pulpits in local churches. On Sunday evening, October 5, four Davidson men held the service at the First Presbyterian
Church, Mooresville. Fred Hellegers led the meeting, Thomas McLean preaching. George Pardington sang a solo, accompanied by Edward McNair, who
also accompanied the hymns.

An altruistic motive for all aviators is not known, but it is a known fact that Major Howard Davidson, commanding
the Air Corps at Bolling Field, Washington, D. C., will personally pay for the cost of painting “Davidson” in 12-foot
letters on the top of Chambers building at Davidson College. Major Davidson passed over here on a cross-country flight from
Brownsville, Tex., to Washington, D. C., in August, and when he arrived in Washington, wrote to the president of Davidson
College. He stated that he had failed to notice the name of the town painted on any of the buildings.
He asked the authorities of the college to investigate the cost, and to notify him of the necessary expense. His
request was complied with, and a check was received this week by President Lingle. Workmen will soon be busy and
aviators on the New York-New Orleans air route will soon have this additional guide to aid them in navigation.

Nominations Are Made For Important Offices

Rule, Wiley, and McConnell Are Nominees for Post of Senior Council Representative

TWO MEN TO BE CHOSEN

McCallie, Allen, Pierce Named for Student Body Vice-President

Last week at the morning chapel exercises, the student-council announced its nominations of candidates for two important offices. William Rule,
S. S. Wiley, and J. D. McConnell were nominated as candidates to fill the vacancy of Senior Student Council representative
left by C. M. Miller, who did not return this year. B. L. McCallie and Brook Allen were nominated to
fill the vacancy of Vice-President of the Student Body, an office left by J. D. Knochs. Charles Pearce was nominated
from the floor as a candidate for this office.

Bill Rule is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, Mu Beta Psi, Alpha Phi Epsilon, the Glee Club,
the debating team, and the Forensic Council. He is also on the varsity football squad. Sam Wiley is a member
of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, the Golden Quill, Beaver Club, Le Cercle Francais, Omega Phi Alpha, and Delta Pi
Kappa. He is also a member of the Y. M. C. A. board and was Vice-President of the Junior class.
John D. McConnell is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity, the varsity football team, the Beaver Club, and Le
Cercle Francais. He was historian of last year’s Junior class also.

The candidates for Vice-President of the Student Body are from this year’s Junior class. Bob McCallie is a member of
Kappa Alpha social fraternity and the Beaver Club. He is also a member of the track team and is one
of the Managing Editors of the Davidsonian. Brook Allen is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. He is
one of the Junior cheer-leaders this year. Charles Pearce is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity and is on
the Varsity football team.

Correction

In the last issue of the Davidsonian, it was erroneously stated that eight men were presented with Scabbard and Blade
emblems by Col. W. R. Scott. The story should have read nine men instead of eight, since the name of
J. H. McKinnon was omitted from the story. Another error was in the name of Chas. Harris, which should have
read Chas. Harrison.

Open Forum Discussion Foreman at Y.M.C.A. Vesper Service

Bible Professor Introduces a New Service by Answering Questions Submitted by Students

NEW PLAN SUCCESSFUL

Many Students Submit Questions Concerning Problems of College Men

Last Sunday night a most impressive and thought-producing vesper service was conducted by the Y. M. C. A. with Dr.
J. K. Foreman as speaker. The meeting was opened by a hymn, followed by prayers by Bob McCallie and Tom
MacClean. Then Charlie Myers introduced the speaker. Professor Foreman set forth first of all the type of questions to be
answered, the short length of time available for this, and his plan for grouping these questions. In connection with the
fact that time prevented most of the questions from being answered as they should be, Professor Foreman extended an invitation
to anyone to come and talk with him privately about any of the questions submitted, or about any other questions
that may have been troubling him.

In order to facilitate the answering of such a large number of questions as thirty-four, Professor Foreman grouped them in
three divisions: Those questions able to be answered comparatively shortly; those questions which may best be answered by reading a
book on the subject, and those questions that should require a greater amount of time and discussion. In the first
group there were several questions and answers that proved to be unusually interesting. The first question asked was, “What is
your idea of heaven and hell?” Professor Foreman answered the question in this way: “Heaven is a place where the
natural consequences of good are unimpeded, and good impulses and wishes are not circumvented by circumstances. Hell is a place
where the consequences of evil are unrestrained and one suffers the consequences of his own sin.”

Another question in this first group was, “What is truth?” In reply, Professor Foreman brought out the fact that there
are two kinds of truth: material and formal. Material truth is that which is in reality true, and formal truth
is that which may be held to be true in the mind. Of course, a thing formally true may or
may not be materially true.

In the second group, Dr. Foreman had a large number of questions dealing with different interpretations of the Bible, and
different beliefs of the Presbyterian Church. These questions could satisfactorily be answered by parallel reading, so Dr. Foreman gave the
proper references for the answering of these questions, then invited those who would like to discuss the questions additionally to
come and have a “bull” session with him.

In the third and last group, Professor Foreman dealt with those questions requiring discussion. One important question was, “What is
it to believe?” The answer to this was that it is not the form of belief that counts, but the
loyalty of it to Him. “Are people who have never heard of Christ but who live morally good lives saved?”
Professor Foreman said that in his opinion such people were saved, because a God such as we have would not
condemn people who had never had a chance to hear about Him. After these questions, there was a long group
on predestination. In this connection, Dr. Foreman said that there were two things that we could not explain, and that
no other philosophy (Continued on page 5)

HOLD THAT LINE!

That Y Vesper attendance line, we mean. Watch the chart down at the Y building. Last Sunday at the Open
Forum discussion, led by Prof. K. J. Foreman, the attendance climbed to 323, a gratifying increase over the previous Vesper
service. If everyone who attended last Sunday will bring another man with him next Sunday, we'll have the entire student
body. —D. D. M.
