THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1931

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

WILSON McCUTCHAN................. Editor-in-Chief
J. A. CANNON......................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. C. DWELLE, JR.................... Managing Editor
W. S. LEA.............................. Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN......................... Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS................... Sports Editor
A. H. WHITEHEAD.................. News Editor
V. M. BELL............................. Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES..................... Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON....................... Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN.................... Associate Editor
J. F. BLACK............................ Associate Editor
C. RAGIN............................... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
P. M. CONWAY....................... Assistant Business Manager
A. Z. BAKER........................... Assistant Business Manager
G. B. OUR............................... Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY.............. Circulation Manager
P. F. BROWN.......................... Advertising Solicitor
R. W. FALLS........................... Advertising Solicitor
A. M. MANSON....................... Advertising Solicitor
W. R. MORROW...................... Advertising Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
S. S. WILEY............................ President
D. G. STEPHENSON................. Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD.................. Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
J. M. BROWN
J. G. BERRY
G. E. BAILEY
A. R. BIRD
E. Y. DICKS
N. B. DICKS
G. D. DUNKLIN
E. O. GUERRANT
J. T. HANCOCK
R. L. McCALLIE
C. C. MATTHEWS
C. F. MYERS
F. MULLISS
H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
C. W. F. SPENCER
B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR
W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH
D. D. McBRYDE

MARCH 18, 1931

It takes a noble soul not to show a feeling of envy, but a positive and real delight in the success of others.
James Moffett.

SUGGESTIONS

Big league baseball managers do not realize what they are missing in not scouting the sandlot games between Chambers building and the dormitories. Like most other clubs, all departments of the game seem to be well filled with the exception of the pitchers. Rumor has it that Walter Fraley gained a new record when he only allowed six earned runs in a nine-inning game recently. Incidentally, four of these were home runs by Meacham, two with the bases loaded.

Spring holidays are not far away. It is rather miraculous; the way in which six hundred men can disperse to all parts of the country and gather together again in five days' time.

R. O. T. C. authorities are expecting the government inspectors along toward the latter part of April. It is the high mark of the year in the Reserved Unit.

Davidson men rendered good service at the recent fire in Cornelius. It would have been more appropriate if the bass member of the Hampton quartet treated the Davidson audience to some of the lowest notes they have heard in some time.

PROPER ATTENTION

When approximately two hundred students left the auditorium upon the completion of the program by the Hampton quartet, rushed hurriedly to Eu Hall, and then ran back to the auditorium, they paid Dr. Swan a compliment which few lecturers have received at Davidson. Never has an audience paid as rapt attention to a speaker.

Next week Dr. C. F. Myers, of Greensboro, begins the annual spring services under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. In the four years that we have been here that organization has never failed to provide a man who was not spiritually, intellectually, and emotionally inspiring. It has become a part of the traditions of the college. Seniors, and other upper-classmen, will recall the visits and services led by ministers of church and national fame. Such names as Dr. Vander-Meulen, Dr. B. R. Lacy, Dr. W. T. Thompson, Dr. Sam Glasgow, and Dr. Bill Anderson arouse recollections of inspiring talks. Whether graduates of Davidson or not, they have grafted themselves into the present life on the campus. There is nothing to indicate that the services this spring will prove an exception to the rule. Many students have heard Dr. Myers and know what they can expect; others have a treat in store for them. Finally, regardless of who the speaker may be, there is hardly a man who will not find something in the talks that will help him to strive for perfection and could be better. These talks are for the benefit of everyone, not for one particular individual or group.

SPRING ELECTIONS HOLD SWAY

With the exception of the recent voting on the Varsity Cheer Leader, Freshmen are about to experience their first active participation in student body elections. For the Seniors, it is their last. Upper-classmen know exactly what importance should be attached to this yearly rite, first-year men possibly do not, as yet, understand its true significance. In the last analysis, there are two distinct parts in this business of student government. The first is choosing the men; the second is supporting them after they have been chosen. It would be hard to say which is the more important phase, for neither can function properly if the other is lacking. It is often a difficult position in which the voter is placed when he has to decide between two men who appear equally fitted for the post to which they have been nominated. There are, however, a few factors which should be taken into consideration when such a dilemma develops. Which man will have the most influence with those with whom he will have to associate and with those whom he must direct? Which of the two men will stand criticism with the maximum amount of gracefulness and tact, for he will inevitably be criticized? Contrary to some observations we have heard, we do not believe that it is harmful to compare two candidates, one against the other. If a man cannot stand the observations which fall upon him as a nominee, he can never hope to surmount the criticism which will surround him as an office holder. Secondly, the voter should remember that when he casts a ballot for a man he is pledging himself to support that man, if elected, in every possible way. If one does not feel that he can give a certain individual full-fledged co-operation in the administration of his office, he should not give him his vote. The time to rake a man over the coals is before, not after, his election. Davidson never has and never will countenance open politics in student body elections. Students should remember, in this connection, that the best guarantee against such a situation lies in every man casting a vote. In national affairs, political machines bank their chances of success on the fact that the average citizen thinks that he is far too busy to bother about going to the polls. Therefore, if an individual happens to be absent when a vote is cast, he should hand in that vote to the proper person as soon as possible, or, if he is going to be away, he should leave his choice before he goes. It cannot be denied that there is a tendency in the minds of many to pick the winners of the various elections. This is a natural trait, for everyone likes to feel in his own mind that he has been on the victorious side. It should require but little thought, however, for the voter to realize that this condition is hard to tolerate. The true spirit is found in choosing the best man, not the one who appears most likely to gain the office. After the office is filled, the student body must remember that the man who fills it must have unselfish and whole-hearted support. The possibilities that a minority is in the right and the majority in the wrong provide interesting topics for discussions, but talking about these things does not increase a man’s efficiency after he is elected. For the successful administration of a democratic form of government, the majority must be assumed to always be in the right. Finally, there are a few hints which will not be amiss to many men in the student body, Freshmen in particular. Intense interest in an election and in its outcome often leads to little acts which are thoughtless, but, nevertheless, out of place. When inquiring about the results of a recent balloting, never question any of them who were nominated for that office. The chances are that they, themselves, know no more about it than the one who is talking to them. If they do know the results, they may easily be embarrassed. A man does not like to be interrogated about a matter in which he may have been defeated, and neither does one like to go about proclaiming to everyone that he was the winner. It is a fine thing to congratulate a man on his success, but he should not be the one to inform another of that success. When discussing those who have been nominated for an office always do so in a gentlemanly manner, especially if in the presence of friends of one of the nominees. It is easy to hurt a person’s feelings, and it accomplishes no good. Elections are a serious matter, and they should be entered into with an attitude of fairness, justice, and respect. The results of action taken here will last for a year, regardless of the attitude of the voter. The water that runs through a mill wheel is lost as far as that mill is concerned. This is a fundamental.

A reporter’s life is hard! After six months of strenuous effort, some information was finally obtained concerning Gaither Jenkins’Trip to Europe, where he remained for a year. Gaither left in September 1929 and returned last fall just in time to enroll for his Junior year at Davidson. He went abroad with the intention of just making a short tour of the continent and returning, but changed his mind after he got there. He spent nine months in Paris except for intermittent vacations which took him to nearly a dozen different countries. While in the French capital, Gay entered the Alliance Française for a term, and later matriculated at the Sorbonne or University of Paris, the first-named being an institution in the instruction of languages. While attending these colleges, he continually made extensive excursions around the vicinity of the famous city.

Outstanding among his experiences was his adventure into the enormous underground lake which is situated under the Grande Opera, the largest opera house in the world. Years ago, when the great theater was under construction and the builders were digging the foundations, they struck water which soon formed a lake. The secret passage to this deep cavern was five cellars underground and very hazardous. In fact, the danger is so great that the officials absolutely forbid any visitors from entering the place. However, he finally persuaded the concierge to admit him but only after offering a bribe. The scene was awe-inspiring, he says, and it is not unlike the setting in the underground episodes of the late Lon Chaney's famous movie vehicle, “The Phantom of the Opera.” Peculiarly enough, very few Parisians are aware of this unusual place.

While in Italy, the Winston-Salem boy took a twenty-mile hike up to the top of Mount Vesuvius, near Naples, and descended into the volcanic crater (which fortunately was not in eruption at the time). Upon his arrival in Rome, it happened that Mussolini was making a speech near the center of the famous city, and he got close enough to the Duce to take a snapshot of him. The enthusiastic reaction of the Italians to their dictator’s presence was amazing. They hail him almost as an idol and the vociferous cheers which greeted the leader were continuously shouted after his address was over. His visit to the Vatican City was also well-timed and here again a celebration was being held in which the Pope was an active participant.

Gay believes that Switzerland is the most picturesque of all the countries he visited, and that its inhabitants more nearly approached our inimitable Southern hospitality than did the citizens of any other country he toured.

Among other observations and experiences worthy of mention were: the frequency of attendance of President Doumergue of France at the opera—spectacular winter sports at St. Moritz in Switzerland—St. Peter’s Church in the Vatican City, the largest cathedral in the world, in which are displayed some priceless paintings of the old Italian masters—from Sicily to Tunis where civilization has made little headway—Carthage, where the ancient ruins, replicas of Hannibal’s reign, were viewed—camel caravans in Algeria—the National Exhibition at Barcelona, Spain, similar to our World Fair—Shakespeare’s historic home at Stratford-on-Avon—the colorful change of guard at Buckingham Palace, home of King George of England—and bicycling through Belgium.

Too, it is remarkable, he said, how many Americans you meet abroad. He encountered many friends whom he knew well here in this country, among whom were some Davidson men.

Monk and Tex’s rules of sportsmanship, which were adopted by the student body recently, certainly were badly needed. Our spirit at some athletic contests this year, namely basketball, was disgusting, and nothing less than shocking. Fellows, this is an alarming situation. At other schools, it might be overlooked. But we, here at Davidson, have been left with a sacred, inviolable heritage—true Davidson spirit—to guard, nurture, and foster it—entrusted in our care by nearly 4,000 alumni who have preceded us. Are we going to break faith with them? Are we actually willing to destroy, deliberately, the fine results of 94 years’ work? Are you going to let Davidson drop to the level of the average college or are you going to learn to be a good sport? Too, booing, and hissing, and razzing, have never won any athletic contest—they have never changed a referee's decision—they never impress our visiting teams with our cordiality which really exists here—and furthermore, never indicate to the coaches that you are actually supporting them. So what benefit is there in being a poor sport—a bad loser—and a traitor to the established principles of our student body?

A revival of state clubs is rather evident in the unusual activity of the West Virginia Club this year. These organizations should be encouraged. They can be made equally as beneficial as some honorary clubs if they are efficiently carried on. The main argument that state university advocates advance is that the future associations in business and professions, in their native state, of students who are educated together at a common state institution, will be of vast benefit. That issue can easily be met by endowed schools by the formation of state clubs. All men from the same state should know each other intimately. The advantages are too obvious to mention. Furthermore, they can invariably have a good spirit, especially here at Davidson, where state pride is so prevalent.

MUSINGS

Ladies and Gentlemen, for the past half-hour you have been entertained by Floyd Gibbons, speaking his gibbonish in his own unauthorized bass. We take great pleasure in announcing our next feature, the Red and Black hour, a program coming direct to you by electoral transition from the studios of Chambers Building. We now turn the microphone over to the director of the program.

Good evening, folks. Here we are gathered in the beautiful Chambers Auditorium about to begin our program of music of all types. I see the orchestra leader has his baton on high so I had better announce our theme song, “Lingle a While.” And while the music continues, let me warn you that this job of announcing is not so hot. Sometimes you get so confused that you mix up your consonants and vowels, but it is a fascinating art. I am now culminating my sixth year on this network and when I look back over the years I say, “Who would have thought I would ever have my name in all the papers as Graham McNamee, the world-famous announcer?” But it all shows that you must practice what you preach and then Pritchett some more. You've got to sit around and watch for your chance to make good; it’s not just yourself that controls your destiny, the world around you is what lets you make a name for yourself. But when you first taste success it makes you feel just like a lion, and you go blithely on your way. You can't ever tell—maybe someday you'll be famous, but then again, maybe not. I see that the first number is coming to a close in a moment; in just a little while you will hear the next number. I don’t know the name of it but I'll soon find out what it is. Oh, yes, the next song will be: “Carry me back to old Virginia.”

That old song about Virginia brings back my childhood days in Arizona where I used to have such great big times, although you would hardly believe it to look at me now. Yes, I guess the happiest days of my life were either when I was a child or when I was in college, I can’t decide which. My mother used to tell me that I had better be a good boy or she would spank me. Oh, I had to walk the chalk line when I was a kid, all right. I was pretty lazy, too, I guess; we used to dig caves to play in, but I always dug less than the rest of the boys. Ah, the orchestra has finished that number, so I shan't hold them up by talking. They will now play that old Irish love song, “Although your hair’s not golden.” And while the orchestra renders that number I will tell you that you are listening to the Red and Black hour, which is rapidly drawing to a close. Also, I ought to tell you that this is Graham McNamee announcing. Well, this program’s got to go off the air in a few minutes. The last selection will be that frolicking little ballad entitled, “Don’t tease my little brown kitten.” And with that, we sign off for tonight. Good-bye, folks.

Decency varies according to time and place, to conditions and social strata—Elmer Rice.

Sin has become a word of the museum.—Rev. Allan K. Chalmers.

The air in the average American home in winter is actually drier than a kiln used for drying lumber.

Economic depression has served to uncover a wealth of human kindness and consideration—Governor Larson, of New Jersey.

America is waking up intellectually. There are evidences everywhere of a rising tide of freedom.—Dr. Magnus Hirschfield.

In every battle fought, in the various steps we have taken from barbarism, it is a contest between human beings and dollars, and it’s still going on.—Senator Norris.

Beware of one-sided diets.—Dr. Leopold Steiglitz.

Men cannot thrive in America without pie.—James J. Davis.

All great humorists have been old, for age alone frees us from seriousness—Poultney Bigelow.

Only a people that are strong and calm can work usefully for peace—Andre Tardieu.

Beautiful brunettes are more rare than beautiful blondes.—Florenz Ziegfeld.