THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1931

NEWS FROM OTHER HILLS

New York (IP) — The college senior fared rather more badly than the college freshman in a report issued this
past summer by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. According to the report, based on tests given to
more than 10,000 college students in Pennsylvania colleges and universities, the "art of forgetting" caused the senior to lose, even
before getting his sheepskin, much knowledge he had acquired during our school. “The college senior recognizes only 61 out of
100 words in familiar use by educated persons,” the report said. “The effect of college on the word supply of
the ordinary student appears to be almost negligible and in some cases positively injurious.” The school and college curriculum,” the
report added, “consists of little else but isolated packages of specific ideas, segregated for the time being in self-contained courses,
elected semester-wise and cut off by examinations and credits from any other living conditions. The sacredness of such credit coinage
dominates both teacher and pupil. The raw information which the courses presented and which, with proper treatment, might have contributed
to a fine body of intellectual equipment, was dumped outright at the close of the successive terms, and when the
student came out of college his effective knowledge amounted to little more than when as a freshman he entered the
institution.”

New York—(IP)—A lowering of economic standards in the teaching profession has been caused by “over feminization and a lack of
adequate publicity in the school system,” Dr. Willard S. Elsbree, associate professor of education at Teachers’ College, Columbia University, said
in a survey on “Salaries,” released by the Columbia Bureau of Publications.

Princeton, N. J.—(P)—Princeton this fall will dedicate a new scientific building erected in memory of Dean Henry Burchard Fine, former
Princeton mathematician. One of the features of the structure is the mathematical equations and geometric figures which appear in the
stained-glass windows.

Cleveland, Ohio—(IP)—A noted psychologist has given the following requirements of a scholar: Understanding and appreciation of other races and cultures,
contemporary and remote. Ability and disposition to weigh evidence in controversial matters. Ability and disposition to mentally project an undertaking
through its successive steps before undertaking it. Skill in explanation and prediction. Ability and disposition to look beneath the surface
of things before passing judgment. Disposition toward continued study and intellectual cultivation. Critical and questioning attitude toward traditional sanctions. Clarity
in definition. Discrimination in values in reacting to environment, social and physical. Analytical approach to propositions leading to the detection
of fallacies and contradictions. Ability and disposition to observe accurately and systematically. Understanding and skill in the use of processes
of induction, deduction, and generalization. The ability to see relationships and accuracy in their interpretation. A freshness of interest with
respect to the developments of knowledge.

London—(IP)—The combined Yale-Harvard track team defeated the combined Oxford-Cambridge tracksters with a score of 71-2 to 41-2. The event was
the tenth of its kind, and the victory gave the Americans six wins over their British rivals in the series.

New York (IP)—Speaking before the Eastern Association of Football Officials here recently, Major John L. Griffith, commissioner of the Western
Conference, expressed the belief that while football might not draw as many fans this year as in previous years, he
expected fully as much interest in the sport throughout the country.

Pittsburgh, Pa—(IP)—Henry Smith Pritchett, president of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, warned colleges in his annual report
this summer that continued exploitation of football as a college money-making game would lead to governments taxing colleges as profit-making
organizations.

Delaware, Ohio—Scientists at Perkins Observatory at Ohio Wesleyan University hope that before the solar eclipse visits this country next year
they will...

Carl Pritchett, Secretary of Y. M. C. A., Will Hold Freshmen Smokers

Social Gatherings to Better Acquaint Freshmen Will Begin Next Wednesday Night

Davidson College Y. M. C. A. announced today that on Wednesday night, September 30, there would be held a social
for the freshmen. The social will be held at the Social Center building at 4...

Mathis, alternate captain, and “Buddy” Gardner had a word or two to say on the subject. The band was on
hand in full force and the new assistant cheerleaders, Sugg and Allen, occupied their new posts for the first time.
Up to last Friday night, only Freshmen attended the pep meetings this year. At these meetings, Ed Kuykendall attempted to
teach the Freshmen the songs and yells. From now on, all the student body is wanted at Shearer Hall on
Friday nights.

Davidson Five Years Ago

Martin, being interviewed by a Davidsonian reporter, stated, “That the greatest need of the college at the present is a
building fund. The sources of such a fund,” the president added, “were far from certain. At present, only some of
the pledges from the various...

...the third largest in the world, now being installed in the observatory...

...returns from such pledges are indefinite to say the least,” declared Dr. Martin.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the
original meaning and punctuation:

---

Will Bequeathed to University

The purpose of this smoker will be to help the freshmen to become better acquainted with the upperclassmen and especially
with the leaders on the campus. Only about twenty-five freshmen will be invited the first time so as to help
them know each other better. A social or smoker of this type will be held each Wednesday night until all
the freshmen have attended. The bequest will help Lehigh to complete an economic study of the Roman Empire started by
McFarlane, who was engaged for many years in the preparation of the history and gathered many thousand excerpts and references
to sources, which he partly catalogued.

First Pep Meeting for Upperclassmen is Held

Last Friday evening, before the State game, the first pep meeting was held in which the student body took part.
This meeting was held in Shearer Hall, which was led by the upperclassmen. There was no regular speaker, but "Doc"
McConnell, Wildcat center, scored the first touchdown of his college career when he intercepted a forward pass and dashed 55
yards through the Wofford team for a touchdown.

Rome, Italy—(AP)—Football, which as a professional game appears to be the most popular Italian sport, would be of less importance
here, it was noted recently, were it not for the large number of excellent football players imported from the Argentine.
Within the last 18 months, 31 Argentine football players have come to Italy under contract with salaries of from $4,250
to $12,500. Recently, seven Argentines played on one side and four on the other. Most of the players, it happens,
are sons or grandsons of Italians and have Italian names, and their Argentine citizenship is not advertised to the public
here. Premier Mussolini recently prohibited further importation of players but found that this would make for gross inequalities among the
various teams of the country, and so lifted the ban temporarily to allow all teams to fit themselves up with
enough Argentines to be able to play other strong teams.

Speaking before the tenth annual meeting of the International Student Service at Mount Holyoke College here, Dr. Walter M. Kotschnig
of Austria said he believed unemployment could be solved by the colleges for their failure to deal with vital economic
problems.

Tight—Ever Right

The new Zip and it’s open! See the new notched tab on the top of the package. Hold down one
half with your thumb. Tear off the other half. Simple. Quick. Zip! That's all. Unique! Wrapped in dust-proof, moisture-proof, germ-proof
Cellophane. Clean, protected, neat, FRESH! — what could be more modern than LUCKIES’ improved Humidor package — so easy to
open! Ladies — the LUCKY tab is your finger nail protection.

Made of the finest tobaccos — The Cream of many Crops — LUCKY STRIKE alone offers the throat protection of
the exclusive “IT'S TOASTED” process which includes the use of modern Ultra Violet Rays — the process that expels certain
biting, harsh irritants naturally present in every tobacco leaf. These expelled irritants are not present in your LUCKY STRIKE! They're
out — so they can't be in! No wonder LUCKIES are always kind to your throat.

Cigarettes “It’s toasted” Your Throat Protection against irritation — against cough

And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh

©1931, The American Tobacco Co., Mfrs.

TUNE IN — The Lucky Strike Dance Orchestra, every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday evening over N.B.C. networks.
