2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1931

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly "For a Better Davidson"
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

R. CON MARTIN.................Editor-in-Chief
WAYNE W. SMITH...............Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
JOHN J. GUERRY...............Managing Editor
J. McBRYDE....................Managing Editor
J. McCALLIE....................Managing Editor
J. W. McCALLIE................Managing Editor
J. W. McCALLIE................Athletic Editor
J. W. McCALLIE................Associate Editor
J. W. McCALLIE................Associate Editor
J. W. McCALLIE................Associate Editor
J. W. McCALLIE................Associate Editor
J. W. McCALLIE................Associate Editor
J. W. McCALLIE................Associate Editor
J. W. McCALLIE................Associate Editor
J. W. McCALLIE................Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. W. McCALLIE................Assistant Business Manager
J. W. McCALLIE................Assistant Business Manager
J. W. McCALLIE................Assistant Business Manager
J. W. McCALLIE................Assistant Business Manager
J. W. McCALLIE................Assistant Business Manager
J. W. McCALLIE................Assistant Business Manager
J. W. McCALLIE................Assistant Business Manager

SUCCESS
For several years the business managers of the publications of the college have had difficulty in making ends meet, because of the rule of the Charlotte Merchants’ Association which forbade advertising in college publications by any of its members. With this handicap, it was indeed hard for the managers to secure a sufficient amount of advertising to pay for the publication of the paper or magazine. For that reason, the ruling has for a long time been a sore spot for the Davidson publications. By a recent change of policy, the Association has decided to allow the solicitations of ads by the publications. In last week’s Davidsonian appeared the first ad of a Charlotte merchant. Others (it is hoped) will follow. The student body expresses its appreciation for this consideration by the Merchants’ Association and feels that the results in business and goodwill will justify the act. This action by the people of Charlotte should lead to a better feeling between that city and the students of Davidson than has existed before.

DECEMBER 2, 1931

Wisdom is oftentimes nearer when we stoop than when we soar.
- Wordsworth

PARAGRAPHICS
With fewer football games to write up, the sports writers turn to the picking of All-American, All-Southern, All-State, or other kinds of representative teams.

The authorities of the various institutions which have scheduled post-season charity games are to be congratulated for their spirit of cooperation.

One could well have believed he was in London recently, if the existing weather conditions were considered.

The League of Nations has a remarkable opportunity to demonstrate its power and usefulness by settling the present disturbances in the Far East. Unless they are able to bring about a peaceful end to the quarrel, it will seem that they are only a group without power.

The editorial appearing in last week’s Davidsonian on “The Danger of Provincialism” was written by C. F. Myers.

An article on the coming “Y” campaign appears in this issue of the paper. Students will be interested to see that after two years for Home Missions, the fund is this year to be given to Foreign Missions.

The annual photographer will be here again next week, and, according to the editor, this will be absolutely the last opportunity to have pictures made. It’s the annual of all the students; all should have their pictures in it.

THE PHYSICAL SIDE OF EDUCATION
From our very first contacts with education to our present status as college students, emphasis has been laid always on the mental side of education. We were taught in our homes that the development of the mind was supreme in our schooling. In grammar school and later in high school, the same principle was drilled into us. The only objection to this training is that it in itself does not provide for the development of a sound and healthy body in which to lodge this mind. In youth, this training and care of the body is hardly thought necessary, as the parents are ever watchful of the health of their children. Then, too, it is difficult enough to prevent a young person from devoting too much of his time to play and exercise. At the beginning of his college career, however, he realizes more fully the necessity of cultivating his mental traits, and therefore neglects the exercise necessary for good health. Many college students have been forced to leave college because of ill health, caused by lack of proper attention to the physical side of their education.

To alleviate this difficulty, educators have been experimenting with various plans to include physical development as a vital part of the curriculum of the college or university. At Davidson, much has been done along this line. It is now compulsory for every student to take a certain amount of exercise each week. The system is flexible enough to allow each individual to take the kind of exercise he desires. Aside from this, physical development is being promoted by intramural and inter-fraternity sports of all kinds, a well-equipped gymnasium, and encouraging a greater number to enter the field of varsity athletics. The ideal to which the authorities are working is a man well-versed in intellectual matters, with a sound body, and the ability to mingle with his fellows in a social way.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Winthrop
The South Carolina Press Association will meet at Columbia on December 3 and 4. At this convention, there will be representatives from college publications all over the state. The hosts to this meeting will be the University of South Carolina and Columbia College. Winthrop will have four representatives at this meeting: two from The Winthrop Journal and two from The Johnsonian. At our neighbor in South Carolina, Winthrop, there was recently held the first model League of Nations. International questions and relations were pondered, grave questions asked, and treaties were made and abrogated. There was at this meeting a man of no little note, Mr. C. Douglas Booth, who spoke to the Davidson student body about two weeks ago. Mr. Booth spoke to this League of Nations on international affairs.

Duke
This Durham institution will conduct its fall religious services all of this week. The speaker at these services will be Dr. Frank Kingdon, pastor of one of the larger churches of Greater New York City. He will make, in all, fifteen talks to the students of Duke, as he is to be there the whole week, speaking both in the mornings, two at that time, and at night at 7:45. Duke’s newest fraternity, Sigma Nu, Gamma chapter, was installed there week before last. At this installation, there were representatives from chapters all over the South and a few from the leading chapters in the North. Representatives from the University of North Carolina, N. C. State, and the University of South Carolina remained the whole weekend. We wish to quote here an editorial from The Chronicle on Commendable Spirit:

“Great spirit of the kind the student body of Duke is capable of showing was in evidence on the entire campus during the weekend. The pot started boiling last week when Dean Wannamaker turned the Thursday assembly into a pep rally in preparation for the Carolina game.

“The huge bonfire and pep meeting held adjacent to the freshman football field eclipsed any similar gathering ever held at Duke prior to an athletic event. Anyone who possessed any faint idea that the student body was not cooperating with its team must have been more than eight or ten miles away—out of hearing distance of the noise and vociferation.

“Cheering and yelling at the game Saturday dispelled all our doubts concerning student support of its athletic representatives. Duke students can cheer and yell at a football game, as was proved at the recent Carolina clash. The stands were in a frenzy of excitement throughout the encounter and the supporting clamor that was emitted from them was enough to inspire any football team with the knowledge that its student constituency was supporting it. The student body is to be congratulated for this same cheering and yelling at the aforementioned game.

“As pleasing to our minds as any single aspect of the game was the sportsmanlike manner in which the student body conducted itself under tense, excited, and emotional circumstances. When such keen rivalry as that existing between Duke and Carolina is renewed, feelings can be expected to reach that nervous pitch at which they go astray and forget the principles of good sportsmanship. But we were greatly pleased to see nothing of that kind happen here Saturday from either of the two student bodies. A team’s showing on the field is determined largely by the student body’s attitude and its will to win. The student body never showed a more commendable attitude nor a more pronounced will to win than at this game.

“The two means by which a university community can leave an impression upon its visitors were employed for noticeable benefit, namely: the actions of the team upon the field and the impression which the students in the stands leave by their actions. The showing of the team on the field speaks for itself, butIts superb demonstration of clean sportsmanship against such a traditional rival as Carolina speaks well for the team as such and as individuals. “The conduct of the student body in the stands was just as noteworthily outstanding in its pleasant aspects. We were impressed with the fact that, even though there were bad breaks which probably robbed both teams of scores, there was no hooting of officials at a time when censure and prejudice would have been natural in an excited mind. The combination of the two desirable ways of impression should result in clean, wholesome relationships with other colleges.”

What Do You Think?

Dr. Henry H. Donaldson experimented with families of albino rats and discovered that bookwormish college students develop less brain power than muscular students who are constantly going out for athletic teams. He gave the results of this experiment at a nation-wide gathering of scientists at the first of three meetings of the National Academy of Sciences. Dr. Donaldson is a professor of neurology at the Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology in Philadelphia. His experiments have been conducted over a period of twenty years and were principally with albino rats because their physiological similarities with man warrant the inference that the same organic changes take place. His experiments showed that sturdy exercise increased the capacity and weight of the brain and strengthened all of the other vital organs. This may be true, but not many of us like the idea of having our degrees of intelligence and brain power compared with those of albino rats. It seems rather discouraging that there is such a similarity between men and rats. And besides, we wonder how Dr. Donaldson made his comparisons when it came to a question of football teams and making Phi Beta Kappa.

For any of those who might feel a fear as to the religious trends of modern college thought, the following statement by Dr. Herbert W. Searles of the School of Philosophy at the University of Southern California comes as a relief and a comfort: “Less than five per cent of college students are atheists and twenty-four per cent of them find prayer valuable in strengthening the will or moral power. Implicit faith in God was professed by an average of eighty-one per cent of the students enrolled in five colleges and universities. Approximately forty-four per cent of the students undergo some sort of change in their conception of God during the years they spend in colleges and universities. The general trend of the student thought is from belief in a personal God to belief in an impersonal God, and away from orthodoxy. The greatest change is noted in the junior and senior years, and there is a swing back to a personal conception of the Almighty after graduate study.”

When Will Rogers sailed with Floyd Gibbons to the Orient in order to view the Manchurian hostilities, he resolved to substitute compliments for wisecracks when he learned that their senses of humor were practically non-existent.

Here is Mahatma Gandhi's definition of his own Hindu faith:
1. I believe in the Vedas, the Upanishads, the Puranas and all that goes by the name of Hindu Scriptures, and therefore in Avatars (divine incarnations) and rebirth.
2. I believe in Varnashrama Dharma in a sense strictly Vedic, but not in its present popular and crude sense.
3. I believe in “Cow Protection” in a much larger sense than the popular belief.
4. I do not disbelieve in “idol-worship.”
5. I believe implicitly in the Hindu aphorism that no one truly knows the Scriptures who has not attained perfection in Innocence (Ahimsa), Truth (Satya), and Self-Control (Brahmacharya), and who has not renounced all acquisition or possession of wealth.
6. I believe, along with every Hindu, in God and His Oneness, in rebirth and salvation.

Roanoke College

The faculty of this institution tried a little experiment with the student body last week, giving them a Thanksgiving holiday from Wednesday afternoon until the following Monday afternoon. If the student body does not abuse this privilege by cutting classes just before and just after the holidays, this practice will be inaugurated next year. This school has had one prominent speaker recently and in the near future is going to have two others. Lincoln Steffens, a very noted newspaper man, spoke to them a short while ago on the subject: “The Meaning of the Russian Revolution.” Will Durant, prominent author and philosopher, will speak to them on “Is Democracy a Failure?” and Sir Norman Angell, noted British pamphleteer, will talk on “What Is Happening in the British Empire.”

Georgia Tech

Four members of the senior class at this Atlanta institution were recently elected to Omicron Delta Kappa, Tech's newest national honorary society.

Auburn

We quote here an editorial on “A Tribute to Auburn’s Coaches”:
“With all gone but an impregnable spirit the athletic situation had sunken into the mire of dejection—there to be kicked about by unfavorable publicity—there to be humiliated by the scathing jabs of athletic supporters everywhere.
“Above the chaotic turmoil every loyal Auburn supporter was crying for assistance—for some force dynamic enough to lead us to the position of the respected in the sporting realm.
“The Joan of Arc came. We are back with the mighty. Once more is the Auburn football team a force to be reckoned with by any team.
“Of the present coaching staff and their part in this phenomenal rise, enough cannot be said. Not only from the more rabid football fans has this unstinted praise been forthcoming; but from admirers of real men everywhere. Men who can lead men. Men who instill more than the intricate tactics of football into their subjects.
“This season has brought wonders both in victory and defeat. Auburn has made a most creditable showing against the nation’s strongest teams, and there has been a new force at every game that has brought comfort in the face of defeat.”

Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings...

Duncan McBryde

“AUTUMN OBILES”

Coming downward by the thousands,
Wafted windward by the breeze:
Countless hosts of leaves are falling,
Cov'ring all the earth like dew.
Like the leaves I, too, am falling,
Wafted on the wings of thought:
Falling unimpeded, helpless,
Falling fast, and hard, for YOU!

“A-SAP’S FABLES”

THERE’S NO TIME LIKE THE PLEASANT.
WHEN BETTER AUTOMOBILES ARE BUILT— PEDESTRIANS WILL HAVE TO GO FASTER.
IT IS DARKEST JUST BEFORE THE PAWN.
23 MORE HOCKING DAYS BEFORE CHRISTMAS.

SOMEBODY STOLE MY GAL (“Darn the horsethief”)

Why am I so blue tonight?
Why are you so gay?
Listen, darling, to my plight:
Why should you be so—hey!
Who was that I saw you with
(At such a place and time)?
(Don’t say that it was Lawyer Smith,
Though that alone will rhyme!)
Of all the people in the world
Why did you go for Jim?
You said that you were mine “always”;
And then you heard of him.
Of all the people in the world—
(O, cruel, cruel Fate!)
Why did you have to meet, and fall—
For my ROOMMATE!!

EXPRESSIONS OF THE TIMES

“Ahem!”...... George Bernard Pshaw. (They quote everything ELSE that he says, and this is all that was left. It expresses his opinion of the present state of China, Japan, Manchuria, Tsisihar, and all points east.)

IT WOULDN’T BE MUCH OF A GAMBLE FOR SOME PEOPLE TO STAKE THEIR PAST AGAINST THEIR FUTURE .... Arthur Rathbane. (nuf sed.)

Have you noticed people who do the same old things, day after day, week in and week out, religiously? Men read the sport pages religiously; women go to the “Bargain Matinees” religiously; neighbors play the radio religiously. People do many things religiously. In fact, we all have a routine that makes us do about everything religiously. That is, just about everything but go to church.

Little Insights into Life in Rumple Dormitory:
“I awoke last night and heard the bed ticking. The bed spread, the pillow slip (ped), and I fell in the spring—(s).

CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT

“CHARLOTTE SURE HAS GOT “IT” (I. T.). —Bill Carter.

BEAT THIS ONE

Occasionally, when a moving picture theatre puts on a “double feature” day, the two titles, side by side, give comical results. Here’s one I saw last summer, in front of a theatre in Dobb’s Ferry, in New York: The titles glittered—“LOVER COME BACK .... DEVIL TO PAY!”

WHAT AILS OUR YOUTH?

That symptomatic Effervescence
Is merely autumn
is Adolescence.

ENGLISH AS SHE IS SPOKE

You see a beautiful girl walking down the street. She is of course feminine. If she is singular, you become nominative. You walk across to her, changing to the verbal, and then becoming active. If she is not objective, you become plural. You walk home together. Her brother is an indefinite article. And her mother is accusative. She becomes imperative. You talk of the future and she changes to the interrogative. Her father becomes indicative and you become a past participle.