THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 8, 1931

DAVIDSON vs. N. C. STATE CENTRAL HIGH THURSDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

DAVIDSON vs. CAROLINA CHARLOTTE ARMORY SATURDAY

Wildcats Win in Initial Cage Game With Stars

Rusk, Playing New Position at Forward, is High Point Man for Team

The Davidson basketball aggregation opened its 1930-1931 season a few days before college closed for Christmas holidays by trouncing a team of Barium all-stars, 48 to 20. The clear superiority of the college five was marked at all times, and the all-stars, with two old Davidson men playing the outstanding roles, never seriously threatened.

The Davidson five jumped into the game and wrested an overwhelming lead from the all-stars. Such excellent guarding was shown by the collegiates that they were leading 21 points before their opponents were able to tally. At the half the score stood 30 to 8 in favor of the Wildcats.

Dean Rusk, moved this year to forward by Coach Younger, was high point man, garnering 18 points. He was trailed by his teammate, Martin, and Calhoun of the all-stars, each with 12 points. The guarding and floor play of Captain Goodson was particularly outstanding.

Barium All-Stars
Calhoun (12), Pritchett (3), Williamson (3), Smith (2), Collier

Davidson (48)
Rusk (18), Mathis (5), Martin (12), Proctor, Goodson (C) (4)

Subs: Barium—Kimball, Jackins. Davidson—Manson (2), Peabody (5), Wilson, Bernard, Enochs (2).

A new course in government at Barnard College for Women will allow students in the course to go to all parts of New York City to inspect at first-hand the manner in which various phases of government operate.

Yet, O, to dream were sweet!—Euripides.

Wrestling Coach

“UNGER, ASST. FRESH COACH

COACH UNGER

“Doc” Unger, head coach of wrestling at Davidson, comes here from the University of Indiana where he made an enviable record as a heavyweight in Big Ten wrestling circles. He was also a member of the football team there. His work as Freshman line coach this fall was full justification of his addition to the coaching staff, and he is an experienced wrestling coach; he will have full charge of the grapplers this winter.

A million dollar fund left as a foundation for the education of females in or adjacent to Philadelphia by Dr. William Curran, who died 50 years ago, has been awarded to Beaver College, at Jenkintown, near Philadelphia.

Most of what I learned at school is now found to be inaccurate or wholly false.—Joseph Hergesheimer.

January February Winter Sports Calendar

8—Basketball—Varsity vs. N. C. State, at Charlotte.
10—Basketball—Varsity vs. Carolina, at Charlotte.
14—Basketball—Varsity vs. Erskine, at Davidson.
24—Basketball—Varsity vs. V. P. I., at Davidson.
26—Basketball—Fresh vs. Belmont Abbey, at Davidson.
30—Basketball—Fresh vs. Oak Ridge Military Institute, pending.
31—Wrestling—Varsity vs. N. C. State, at Davidson.
Basketball—Fresh vs. Charlotte, at Davidson.

February

3—Wrestling—Fresh vs. Barium Springs, at Barium Springs.
4—Basketball—Fresh vs. Belmont Abbey, at Belmont Abbey.
5—Wrestling—Varsity vs. W. & L., at Lexington, Va.
6—Basketball—Fresh vs. Greensboro Hi., pending.
7—Wrestling—Varsity vs. V. M. I., at Lexington, Va.
Basketball—Fresh vs. Barium Springs, at Barium Springs.
10—Basketball—Fresh vs. Presbyterian Junior College, at Davidson.
12—Basketball—Varsity vs. Carolina, at Chapel Hill.
Basketball—Fresh vs. Carolina Fresh, at Chapel Hill.
13—Basketball—Varsity vs. N. C. State, at Raleigh.
Basketball—Fresh vs. N. C. State Fresh, at Raleigh.
14—Wrestling—Varsity vs. Duke University, at Durham.
17—Wrestling—Fresh vs. Belmont Abbey, at Davidson.
19—Basketball—Varsity vs. South Carolina, at Columbia, S. C.
20—Basketball—Varsity vs. The Citadel, at Charleston, S. C.
Basketball—Fresh vs. Charlotte Hi, at Davidson.
21—Basketball—Varsity vs. C. Charleston, at Charleston, S. C.
Wrestling—Varsity vs. Carolina, at Chapel Hill.
25—Wrestling—Fresh vs. Barium Springs, at Davidson.
27—Basketball—Varsity vs. William and Mary, at Davidson.
28—Wrestling—Varsity vs. V. P. I., at Davidson.

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store

Students’ Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

“SODA” “SUNDRIES”

George Wins Decathlon Trophy; Brannon Second

Track Star Scores 228 1-2 Points to Win Annual All-Around Championship

Graham George, versatile track star of the Davidson track team, won the decathlon race for 1930 by scoring 228 1-2 points and winning five first places out of the ten that he entered in. E. S. Brannon, another star and letterman, finished second with 211 1-2 points. R. S. Hall came in third with 184 1-2 points to his credit. Frank Buckner was fourth; B. Gwyn finished fifth; Tom Neal placed sixth; Bill McGehee was the seventh man; Bob McCallie took eighth position; Harold McMillan and Gilmer were tied for ninth place.

There were forty-five men entered in the decathlon. This race extended over a good length of time, starting about the first of November and just finishing before Christmas holidays.

For winning this race, George will be given a trophy on Athletic Night, which will be held some time in the spring. This trophy was awarded to Heath Whittle last year.

The time in these events was very good considering the bad weather at that time, but no school record was broken. There were twelve events and a man could choose any ten that he wished to enter. The judges set the qualifying time and distance and for each fifth of a second cut off of the qualifying time a point was given, and points were also given for greater distances in the pole vault, high jump, discus, and javelin.

The events and their winners are as follows:

Event Winners
100-yard dash—Halverstadt, McMillan, George, Haliburton.
300-yard dash—George, Haliburton.
880-yard run—Brannon.
Mile run—Brannon.
2-mile run—Brannon.
120-yard low hurdles—George.
High jump—George.
Broad jump—George.
Pole vault—Gilmer.
Shot-put—Hall.
Discus throw—Hall.
Javelin throw—Brannon.

Unger Disappointed Over Mat Turnout

The response to Coach “Doc” Unger's plea for “more and bigger” wrestlers, which he and Coach Tilson put before the student body recently, has not received a very enthusiastic response, according to the wrestling coach’s statement. He stated that he was rather disappointed in the turnout for the varsity team, both by members of last year’s squad whom he had counted on, and also football linemen, who had been especially urged to come out by Coach Tilson.

“The men who are out and who are really working hard are showing up well,” said the mentor. “But all these men are light, and a number of others who have the makings of good grapplers have been unusually reticent in reporting, especially after Christmas,”

Taylor, Tyack, Vick, and Gorham are all showing up well in their weights. The comparative dearth of heavies is what is now causing worry in shaping the team. None of the men who worked in the higher weights on last year’s teams have reported consistently.

LOOKING THEM OVER

WITH W. H. MATTHEWS

SHADOWS OF COMING EVENTS

Jan. 8—Basketball—Varsity vs. N. C. State—Charlotte.
Jan. 10—Basketball—Varsity vs. Carolina—Charlotte.
Jan. 14—Basketball—Varsity vs. Erskine—Davidson.Back only a week from the Christmas holidays, and the Varsity meets what will perhaps be its hardest foe of the year tonight on the Central High gymnasium floor at Charlotte. Then that is followed by a game two nights later with the Carolina Tar Heels, always a fight. To say the charges have bitten off a large hunk in the way of basketball is an understatement. If there is a stronger team in the state than that which Doctor Ray Sermon has over at State this year, it is doubtful if it has been brought to light. They handed the powerful Villa Nova squad a decisive licking in their pre-Christmas game, and then the northerners went on to nose out Duke and lick Wake Forest. It is generally conceded that State is apt to have an edge over the Tar Heels. All the teams in the state this year seem to be made up largely of more or less untried material. State has some veterans in its lineup but has been working in sophomores all along. Duke has built its team around Croson and Captain Rogers and is filling in with youngsters; and Wake Forest and Carolina are far from settled on their permanent setups. Looks like a great year for the youngsters, both at Davidson and all over the state. Coach Younger has been working hard with his squad and is shaping it into form. In their game with the Barium Spring All-Stars just before the holidays, they won nicely and with very little real exertion. But the competition is not nearly so strong as will be encountered this weekend. The job of filling the shoes of Pritchett and Johnston is proving a boon to the barbers, in that it is causing Coach Younger to have trouble with grey hair.

Wagner Drops Out Due to Leg Injury

Jack Wagner, first string guard from last year’s Freshman team, has been forced to give up varsity basketball because of a bad knee which has been giving him a great deal of trouble. An operation will be necessary to put the injured leg back in shape, and this will keep Wagner out for the season. On last year’s yearling quintet, Wagner played a good game as standing guard, winning his numeral. He was expected to show up nicely in his first year of varsity competition, and would probably have been used as understudy to Jim Proctor, regular guard. 

Turning to the Freshmen, Coach Unger was much more optimistic. A large number of men have reported for the team and several of them have shown up nicely. It has not been possible to get any definite line on the prospects, but those who have shown up well include Harrison, Hodges, Huie, Graham, Rhine, and Wilson.

Arriving on January 15th, bringing good news to Davidson men, Clothes “Made For You” under careful supervision of Stetson “D” Tailors for the startling low prices of $25.00. Also Stock Tuxedos at $25.00. FRIENDLY FIVE and JOHN WARD SHOES.

Rusk seems to be fixed at one of the places, leaving only one more to fill. If Skinny Pierce’s shoulder gives him no trouble, he will likely work at center. That leaves Grier Martin and Doc Mathis, who has been shifted from guard, to battle for the forward place as running mate to Rusk. It is likely that both will see about equal amounts of service, with Martin having a height advantage, but Mathis being perhaps a better shot at the hoop. This week's work will do a lot towards deciding things. And while on the subject, the game Wednesday night with the Erskine Seceders should also prove a thriller. Last year this squad was about the best in South Carolina and journeyed to Davidson to hand the Wildcats a lacing. Anyone that goes to the movies on that night, figuring perhaps the game is a setup, is apt to receive a shock. It will be well worth watching. And it might be well to postpone cramming for those exams until after nine o'clock, too.

The appeal of Coaches Tilson and Unger for wrestlers should be given careful attention. Coach Unger knows the wrestling game from the mat up, and is also an able teacher. The schedule this year, both for varsity and freshman teams, is unusually good. With a squad of twenty men on each team, we believe that he could put out a winning team. The Davidsonian would like to see arrangements made to bring the Duke game to the campus. We realize that the facilities here make such a procedure difficult, but it is not fair to the student body to have all the big games in Charlotte, where it is practically impossible for more than half of the students to see them. The poor seating facilities of the gym and the small attendance make it objectionable to the visiting team, but if the game could be brought here, we believe the members of the student body would be willing to pay a little to get the contest on the home boards. What about it?

The greatest building program in the history of Harvard University is being carried out during 1930 and 1931. The new buildings include freshman dormitories, units of the new House Plan, laboratories of various kinds, field house, faculty club, dining rooms, and a medical school dormitory, all in the prevailing Georgian style of architecture.

Petition Considered By Sou. Conference

The petition of Davidson College for membership in the Southern Conference was referred to the Executive Committee of that body at a meeting of conference officials in Chapel Hill, December 11 and 12. Davidson, along with four other colleges, has asked for immediate entrance into the conference, but action upon the application has been deferred by the committee until a later date. After consideration by the Executive Committee it will probably be put before the main body again, before a definite conclusion is reached. The conference has another meeting in the spring, and it is hoped that favorable action will be taken at that time.

“LET’S SEE”

Leasehold insurance covers Lessee’s Loss due to curtailed lease through Fire or other casualty. The owner of a valuable lease should protect himself against loss by carrying Leasehold Insurance. Let’s see you, Mr. Lessee, about this form of business protection. Tell us when you'll be glad to see rates and learn details.