THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1931

Students to Gather at Religious Convention to Be Held at Buffalo, N. Y.

Gathering Will Discuss Four Major Problems Confronting the Christian World of Today

4,000 WILL ATTEND

Many Prominent Speakers and Religious Leaders Will Be Present

China and Japan at each other’s throats—a League disarmament conference in February which will powerfully influence world history in the years ahead—India agonizing in her struggle to work out her national destiny—a tottering economic system that produces industrial conflict and unemployment the world over—shall we in America be mere spectators, or can, should, will thinking students have any small part in helping toward the solution of these and other similar crises that are racking the world today? Is there any contribution they can make, any point where their thinking can dig in right now?

Certainly the dizzy rapidity of present world changes demands that they give careful thought to the place of religion in the present world order; while, by the same token, the rapid modifications in the Christian missionary enterprise necessitate a new and penetrating appraisal of the whole purpose and technique of foreign missions.

The most significant student religious gathering during the present academic year will be the meeting of the Eleventh Quadrennial Convention of the Student Volunteer Movement, at Buffalo, New York, December 30, 1931, to January 3, 1932. Four thousand delegates from the colleges and universities of the United States and Canada are expected to gather there to consider:

1. The present world situation.
2. The place of Christ in this world-picture.
3. The present problems facing world Christianity.
4. The future of Christian missions.

The program is being arranged with the advice of some of the best student religious leaders and gives every indication of being extremely effective. The round table idea for groups has been especially adapted to the needs of this convention. Qualified and informed leaders on different phases of the convention purpose will lead enlarged “fireside conversations” to introduce the students to some vital spot of their own knowledge and experience. This is designed to produce discussion without “the pooling of ignorance,” and education without the perpetuation of prejudice.

Such a convention as this is inevitably judged largely by the group of leaders whom it brings together. A full list of these would be too lengthy for publication here, but merely to name a few of them will give an idea of the calibre and quality of leadership which is being enlisted for this gathering:

Dr. John R. Mott, formerly General Secretary of the National Committee of the Y. M. C. A., and now Chairman of the International Missionary Council.
Dr. Walter H. Judd, medical missionary in China during the past six years where his own hospital has been overrun seven times by Communist or bandit troops.
Kirby Page, author, speaker, and editor of “The World Tomorrow.”
Paul W. Harrison, M.D., for over twenty years a medical missionary in Arabia.
Dr. Samuel M. Zwemer, noted authority on the Mohammedan world.
Dr. Robert E. Speer, Secretary of the Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church.

There will also be leaders in the Christian work of other countries, such as Dr. T. Z. Koo, of China, and Dr. D. D. T. Jabavu of Africa.

The convention is the eleventh in a series of quadrennial conventions sponsored by the Student Volunteer Movement, which for over forty years has been stimulating college students to a more intelligent attitude toward world Christianity, and seeking recruits for Christian service abroad. But the conference is in no sense limited to prospective missionaries. It will be thoroughgoing and thoughtful but not technical in its approach. It is planned for all students who really propose to take the message of Christ seriously, and who are eager to do something to help make His resources available for a distressed world.

Phi’s Officers Were Recently Installed

At its regular meeting last night at 7 p.m., the Phi Society held its quarterly meeting of installing officers. The present officers are Roger Hall, president; Stuart Noblin, vice-president; W. L. Fugate, secretary; D. D. McBryde, treasurer; Bill Cartey, critic; Herbert Lucas, supervisor.

The program for next week is as follows: Debate, “Resolved, that the dissemination of contraceptive information should be legalized.” Those upholding the affirmative are W. M. E. Rachel, D. D. McBryde, and Courtney Ross. Those on the negative are Stuart Noblin, Felix Gee, and Raymond Steadman. The public and students are cordially invited.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

(Continued from page 4)

of Raeford, will be presented to Hoke County about December 25th. The bust is being designed by W. T. Covington, of Raeford, father of two Davidson graduates.

of Charlotte,will be married on November 27th, and William J. Armfield, III, ’28, of Asheboro, and Miss Elizabeth Allen, of Weldon, will be married on November 28th. Friends will regret to learn of the death of Mrs. J. A. Abernethy, Sr., of Lincolnton, mother of R. S. Abernethy, ’99, of Winter Haven, Fla., and J. D. Abernethy, '07, and J. A. Abernethy, Jr., '19, both of Lincolnton. S. Christenbury, '26, is coaching and teaching at Plymouth.

John S. Alden, ’30, is a member of the teaching staff at Porter Military Academy at Charleston, S. C. He joined R. T. Ellett, ’30, who is now in his second year as a member of the faculty at Porter. Three Davidson College alumni have been named on the committee of one hundred to direct a campaign for Democratic funds in this state. They include Dr. John T. Burrus, 1900, of High Point; Allison James, '07, of Winston-Salem, and Bailey Patrick, ’19, of Hickory.

Brown, '12, who is heading Y. M. C. A. work at Bucuresti, Roumania, recently sent the alumni office a group photograph taken in the gymnasium of the Y. M. C. A. in that city. In the photo with Mr. Brown are ex-King George and ex-Queen Elizabeth of Greece; Niculae Mishu, Roumanian Davis cup player, and Miss Golescu, woman’s singles champion of the Balkans. In his accompanying letter Mr. Brown said that “our Association continues to go forward with an ever-increasing group of influential Roumanians supporting the movement,” and then told about the success of a summer camp.

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Announcement has been made of the marriage of Miss Mary Elizabeth Ratledge, of Advance, to Cyrus Donald McCrary, of Lexington, the marriage taking place in the First Presbyterian Church of Thomasville on Saturday, November 14. Rev. J. K. Fleming, '19, pastor of the church, performed the ceremony. Mr. McCrary was a member of the Freshman class at Davidson last year and is now associated with the Lexington Perpetual Building and Loan Association. Mrs. McCrary attended Salem and N. C. C. W., and has more recently been teaching music in the Advance and Smith Grove schools.

Mr. and Mrs. J. Fred Thompson, of Lexington, announce the marriage of their daughter, Louise, to Charles L. Creech, Jr., of Winston-Salem, on Saturday, November 14th. Mr. Creech was graduated in the class of 1929, and since finishing here he has been associated with his father in the furniture business at Winston-Salem. After December 1, Mr. and Mrs. Creech will be at home in Winston-Salem.

(Continued from page 4)

Davidson in 1928, and immediately went to Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., where he completed his course last May. He is pastor of a group of churches in Virginia, and has his residence at Mill Gap.

Creech-Thompson

Folks who smoke really fresh cigarettes made from choice sun-ripened tobaccos never have to give a thought to their throats. That’s because such fresh cigarettes retain natural moisture — and are gratefully smooth, cool, throat-friendly, mild. Camels are the fresh cigarette—everyone knows that now—they’re blended from the finest Turkish and mild Domestic tobaccos that money and skill can buy. We would never dream of parching or toasting these choice sun-ripened tobaccos—that would only drive off or destroy the natural moisture that makes Camels fresh in nature’s own mild way. The Camel Humidor Pack protects a fine cigarette fresh with natural moisture — it could do little or nothing to freshen a cigarette that is dried-out or factory-stale. If you smoke for pleasure, see for yourself what freshness means in mildness and flavor —switch to Camels for just one day—then leave them, if you can!

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY
Winston-Salem, N. C.

Radio Programs

CAMEL QUARTER HOUR, Morton Downey, Tony Wons, and Camel Orchestra, direction Jacques Renard, every night except Sunday, Columbia Broadcasting System

Don’t remove the moisture-proof wrapping from your package of Camels after you open it. The Camel Humidor Pack is protection against perfume and powder odors, dust and germs. In offices and homes, even in the dry atmosphere of artificial heat, the Camel Humidor Pack delivers fresh Camels and keeps them right until the last one has been smoked.

See local paper for time

CAMELS
Made FRESH—Kept FRESH

PRINCE ALBERT QUARTER HOUR, Alice Joy, “Old Hunch,” and Prince Albert Orchestra, direction Paul Van Loan, every night except Sunday, N.B.C. Red Network

© 1931, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company