THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 8, 1931

Sports Champions—1930

Baseball
World’s champions and American League pennant winners—Philadelphia Athletics.
National League pennant winners—St. Louis Cardinals.
American League batting—Al Simmons, Philadelphia Athletics.
National League batting—Bill Terry, New York Giants.
American League pitching—Robert Grove, Philadelphia Athletics.
National League pitching—Clarence Mitchell, New York Giants.
Home runs, National League—Hack Wilson, Chicago Cubs.
Home runs, American League—Babe Ruth, New York Yankees.
Little World’s Series winner and International League pennant winners—Rochester Red Wings.
American Association pennant winners—Louisville.
Pacific Coast League pennant winners—Hollywood.

Football
Leading national college team (best record)—Notre Dame.
Leading Eastern teams (best records)—Fordham, Colgate.
Leading Mid-Western team (best record)—Notre Dame.
Western Conference champions—Michigan and Northwestern.
Pacific Coast Conference champion—Washington State.
Leading Southern team (best record)—Alabama.
Southern Conference—Alabama and Tulane.
Big Six Conference—Kansas.
Southwest Conference—University of Kansas.
Rocky Mountain Conference—Utah.

Golf
National open—Robert T. Jones, Jr., Atlanta.
National amateur—Robert T. Jones, Jr., Atlanta.
British open—Robert T. Jones, Jr., Atlanta.
British amateur—Robert T. Jones, Jr., Atlanta.
National women’s—Glenna Collett.
British women’s—Barbara Fishwick.
National professional—Thomas Armour.
Intercollegiate—George W. Dunlap, Jr., Princeton.
Intercollegiate (team)—Princeton.
National public links—Robert E. Wingate, Jacksonville, Fla.
Western Conference—Richard Martin.
Western Conference (team)—University of Illinois.
Interscholastic—Richard Chapman, Pomfret School.
Canadian open—Thomas Armour.
French open—Aubrey Boomer.
Metropolitan open—Willie Macfarlane.
Metropolitan amateur—Maurice J. McCarthy, Jr.
Metropolitan women’s—Martha Parker.
Metropolitan P. G. A.—Willie Macfarlane.
Western open—Gene Sarazen.
Western amateur—John E. Lehman, Jr.

Boxing
Professional
Heavyweight—Max Schmeling.
Light-heavyweight—Maxie Rosenbloom.
Middleweight—Mickey Walker.
Welterweight—Tommy Freeman.
Lightweight—Tony Canzoneri.
Featherweight—Bat Battalino.
Bantamweight—Al Brown.
Flyweight—Midget Wolgast, recognized by N. B. A.; Frankie Genaro, recognized by New York Boxing Commission.

Track and Field
Outdoor Champions—Men
100 yards—Eddie Tolan, University of Michigan.
220 yards—George Simpson, Ohio State University.
440 yards—Vic Williams, University of Southern California.
880 yards—Edwin Genung, Washington A. C.
One mile—Ray Conger, Illinois A. C.
Six miles—Louis Gregory, St. Joseph's Catholic Club, New Jersey.
120-yard hurdles—Steve Anderson, Washington A. C.
220-yard hurdles—Bob Maxwell, Los Angeles A. C.
440-yard hurdles—Richard Pomeroy, Los Angeles A. C.
Three-mile walk—Harry Hinkel, Los Angeles A. C.
Two-mile steeplechase—Joe McCluskey, Fordham University.
Running broad jump—Alfred H. Bates, Meadow Brook Club.
Running high jump—Anton Hurg, Illinois A. C.
Pole vault—Frederic H. Sturdy, Illinois A. C.
Sixteen-pound shot put—Herman Brix, Los Angeles A. C.
Discus throw—Paul B. Jessup, Washington A. C.
Javelin throw—James De Mers, Los Angeles A. C.
Fifty-six-pound hammer throw—Norwood G. Wright, New York A. C.
Pentathlon—Barney Berliner, Penn A. C.
Decathlon—Wilson Charles, Haskell Institute.
Track and field team champion—Los Angeles A. C.

Wrestling
Professional
World's heavyweight—Jim Londos.
Intercollegiate
The 115-pound class—Joe Sepora, University of Illinois.
The 125-pound class—Lawrence Mantooth, Oklahoma University.
The 135-pound class—Hugh Linn, Iowa State.
The 145-pound class—Hardie Lewis, Oklahoma University.
The 155-pound class—Otto Kelley, Michigan.
The 165-pound class—Jack Van Bebber, Oklahoma Aggies.
The 175-pound class—Conrad Caldwell, Oklahoma Aggies.
The heavyweight class—Earl McCready, Oklahoma Aggies.

Tennis
Davis cup—France.
Wightman cup—England.
National men’s singles—John H. Doeg.
National men’s doubles—John H. Doeg and George M. Lott.
National clay court men’s singles—Bryant M. Grant, Jr.
National clay court men’s doubles—Fritz Mercur and Gilbert Hall.
Wimbledon men’s doubles—Wilmer Allison and John Van Ryn.
National women’s singles—Betty Nuthall.
Wimbledon women’s singles—Helen Wills Moody.
French women’s singles—Helen Wills Moody.
Canadian women’s singles—Olive Wade.
National women’s doubles—Betty Nuthall and Sarah Palfrey.
Wimbledon women’s doubles—Helen Wills Moody and Elizabeth Ryan.
National mixed doubles—Edith Cross and Wilmer Allison.
Wimbledon mixed doubles—Elizabeth Ryan and Jack Crawford.
French mixed doubles—William T. Tilden, II, and Cecelie Aussem.
National intercollegiate—Clifford S. Sutter, Tulane.
National intercollegiate doubles—Dolph Huehleisen and Bob Muench.
National junior singles—Wilmer Hines.
National junior doubles—Wilmer Hines and Judge Beaver.
National boys’ singles—Jay Cohn.
National boys’ doubles—Frank Parker and George Boynton.

Basketball
National A. A. U. (men)—Henry Clothier, A. A., Wichita, Kan.
National A. A. U. (women)—The Sunoco Oilers, A. A., Dallas, Texas.
Eastern Intercollegiate League champion—Columbia University.
Eastern College champion (best record)—St. John’s College, Brooklyn.
Western Intercollegiate Conference—Purdue.
Pacific Coast Conference—University of Southern California.

New York (IP)—That an occasional riot in the public would be a good manner of attracting money to the college
is the belief of the Bulletin, undergraduate publication of Barnard College for Women here. “If we, by bursting the bonds
of convention, can gain a little profitable publicity,” the Bulletin said, “let us imitate the noble example our brothers have
set for us... . Let us be Amazons, oh my sisters! Let us riot—in the public eye.”

Group-Singing Class
A series of classes in group-singing and song-leading, begun before the holidays, will be continued beginning tonight, Thursday, at 6:30
in the Glee Club room, Shearer Hall. This course is under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A., and
conducted by Professor Cullum. The object is to develop students along the lines of musical leadership in church and community.
Practical application will be provided on Y deputations as song-leaders or in quartets. A special rate for students has been
obtained for the concert by Paderewski tomorrow night to be given in the City Armory at Charlotte.

Wesleyans Planning On Changing Name
Middletown, Conn.—Agitation has been renewed this year on the Wesleyan University campus to have the name of the university changed.
For some time now the change of name has been the subject of much discussion here, the chief reason for
the proposed change being that the institution is so frequently mistaken for Wesleyans in other parts of the country, such
as West Virginia Wesleyan, Ohio Wesleyan, and several others in the mid-west. It is also declared on the campus here
that the name indicates a closer connection with the Methodist Episcopal Church than is warranted. This year the university is
finding it difficult to gain any publicity outside of the New England and Atlantic Coast states, because of the feeling
on the part of newspaper editors that the Eastern institution's name will be applied by readers to Wesleyans in their
own territory.

Fifteen Initiated Into “D” Club Dec. 12
Awarding of Seventeen Football Letters
Fifteen men were initiated into the “D” Club Friday night, December 12. This number included six varsity football players who
were awarded the monogram for the first time this fall, four managers of Freshmen sports, a service letter award, and
the varsity cheer leader. Varsity football recognized for the first time for their gridiron playing as follows: Parker, guard; Wagner,
tackle; Gardner, center; Pierce, end, and McQueen and Mills, halfbacks. The complete list of letter awards made by the Athletic
Association for the season just closed includes 17. Wildcats, as follows: Ends, J. M. Proctor, H. S. S. Pierce; tackles,
L. J. M. Wagner; guards, Thad Brock, G. L. Mathis, and C. T. Parker.

Fraternity Conventions
Four of the national organizations of ten of the social fraternities on the campus at Davidson College had national conventions
during the period immediately following Christmas, and all of the four chapters at Davidson had representatives in attendance. These annual
and bi-annual convocations are in widely scattered sections of the country.Alpha fraternity held its session in Memphis, Tenn., and James
B. Black, Jr., of Red Springs, represented the Davidson Chapter. He was elected grand councillor of the Pi Kappa Alpha
fraternity for the nineteenth time. The Phi Gamma Delta fraternity held its annual session at San Antonio, Texas, and two
representatives, Robert Gorrell, Jr., of Winston-Salem, and Chas. A. Sisson of Winona, Miss., represented the Davidson Chapter. In Evanston, Illinois,
the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity held its bi-annual meeting. A. W. McLean, of Lumberton, was the Davidson representative. Theta Upsilon
Omega fraternity held its annual conclave in the east, at Washington, D. C. H. M. Wilson, of Staunton, Va., represented
the local chapter.

Wimbledon men’s singles—William T. Til- Athletic Association Announces the Brown and L. S. Raker, H. S. Cov- Ladies’ Home Journal
Is Giving Prize for Story Prize Story Will Be Published in July Issue

Of interest to students throughout the United States is the announcement that the Ladies’ Home Journal is sponsoring a contest
for short-story writers of colleges and universities. The magazine is offering a prize of $1,000 for the best and $500
for the next best short story. The short story may be from 5,000 to 17,000 words in length. The Journal
has the right to buy at the usual rate any short story, or short, short story sent in that does
not win a prize, but yet deserves to be printed. The short, short story must be from 1,200 to 2,500
words in length.

As to eligibility, this contest is open to men and women students who are undergraduates of American colleges during the
year 1930-31. Those students graduating at the end of the first term will be eligible also. The Ladies’ Home Journal
thinks that a large number of college men and women have undiscovered talent. The magazine is so firm in its
belief that it is going to award these attractive cash prizes. The subject is not limited to any particular phase
of life, section of the country, or class of people; however, it is natural to suppose that the author would
be more successful with material of which he had first-hand knowledge.

Entries must be mailed before or on February 1, in the short, short story contest. The prize short, short story
will appear in the June number of the magazine. It is necessary that short stories be mailed before or on
March 1. The best short story will be published in the July issue. It is permissible for a contestant to
submit more than one story in either contest, but every story must be sent in a separate envelope.

Two noted authors and the editor of the Ladies’ Home Journal will serve on the committee as judges. If the
entrants will enclose a self-addressed, stamped envelope, the winners will be notified and the other stories returned as soon as
the judges reach a decision. There are a few rules that must be observed. The title of the story should
be in the center at the top of the first page, the author’s name, address, college, and class at the
left, and the number of words at the right. All manuscripts must be typewritten, double-spaced, and only one side of
the paper can be used. Papers should be mailed to the Contest Editor, Ladies’ Home Journal, Independence Square, Philadelphia, Pa.

Center, U. B. Gardner, and W. A. Mason; quarterback, Captain Fraley; halfbacks, J. D. McCall, D. S. King, and A.
L. Mills, Jr.; fullbacks, T. W. Brohard and D. M. McQueen. In addition to the six new football players who
are now “Wearers of the D,” the following were also initiated: Varsity managers: A. W. McLean, football; W. B. Hancock,
basketball; T. M. Hunter, baseball, and Chas. A. Sisson, track. Freshman managers: J. A. Jones, football; J. G. Berry, basketball;
D. S. La Far, baseball, and James A. Watt, track. Other initiates included C. H. Goodykoontz, awarded a service letter
for his consistent and conscientious attendance at football practice for the past four years, and Geo. W. McCleneghan, varsity cheerleader.

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago

Five—Many interesting things were found in the first January issue of the Davidsonian of 1926. A front-page article told of
the decision of the faculty to henceforth bar all intercollegiate boxing meets. The Wildcats opened their basketball season by defeating
the strong Duke five, 32 to 31. However, the following night the Red Terrors of N. C. State downed the
Davidson boys to the tune of 32 to 24. In these two games, Huie and Captain Flake Laird were the
outstanding Davidson players. Laird was the high scorer for the season at that point. The Davidson orators planned a very
ambitious schedule, meeting Wake Forest, U. of Pittsburgh, William and Mary, Presbyterian College, U. of the South at Sewanee.

Ten—Davidson was in the midst of the famous million-dollar campaign in 1920. The students of the college had pledged themselves
to raise $10,000. The Rockefeller Foundation offered to give Davidson $100,000 if the college would raise the other $400,000. The
Sophomore class showed marked superiority in winning the inter-class basketball tournament. Mr. Fred Hengeveld had just taken over the job
of basketball coach. A kind letter of appreciation had just been received from President Woodrow Wilson in regard to the
endowment of the Woodrow Wilson Chair of Economics and Political Science at Davidson.

Freshmen Downed By Salisbury Hi

A zone system of defense which proved very effective marked the victory of the Salisbury High quintet over the Davidson
Freshmen team in a game played at Davidson, December 16. When the final whistle blew, the Salisbury crew were out
in front by a score of 16 to 11. Davidson took a first-quarter lead of 4 to 2, but by
half-time Salisbury had found the range and from that point on was never headed. Chase, Salisbury, was the high scorer
of the game, making his shots good for eight of his team’s counters, while Evans and Rowan led the Freshmen
scoring with four points each. Evans played a brilliant game at forward while Morris of Davidson proved himself effective at
guard.

Salisbury Position Davidson
H. Goodman (2) R.F. Evans (4)
Wilroe L.F. Lafferty
Miller C. Rowan (4)
Cole R.G. Manson
Wiles (1) L.G. Morris

Subs: Salisbury: Chase (8). Davidson: Lawther, Halverstadt, Holland (3), Blanton. Referee, Pritchett (Davidson).

Duke University School of Medicine
Durham, N. C.

On October 1, 1931, carefully selected first and third-year students will be admitted. Applications may be sent at any time
and will be considered in the order of receipt. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.

Underwear as made by HANES. We've taken track-athlete freedom and enlarged on it a bit for men who’ve dropped their
calisthenics, but who love comfort nonetheless. We are a little tickled, too, that we can match the weird colors in
your ties, your shirts, and your socks—though there is pure white, of course.

UNDERWEAR OF DISTINCTION
SHIRTS AND SHORTS

Some men say amusing things about color in shirts and shorts—but no one questions the unusual comfort in this two-piece
underwear. P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N. C.
