STUDENT DIRECTORY (Continued from page 4)

Tomlinson, S. H., 26 Ga.
Tong, A. E., 14 Rumple.
Torrence, R. L., 8 Rumple.
Tucker, F. A., 314 East.
Turrentine, H. W., 208 West.
Tyack, J. L., C West.
Vanstory, Lee, 11 Rumple.
Vass, J. S., 8 North.
Vickory, L. M., 29 Rumple.
Voegtlen, J. M., 410 Watts.
Wadsworth, J. A. C., 114 West.
Wagner, J. M., 2 Ga.
Walker, J. D., 411 East.
Wallace, M. B., Kimbrell’s.
Wallace, N. W., 409 Watts.
Walser, W. T., 210 Watts.
Ward, W. B., 205 East.
Washam, J. N., Home.
Watson, A., 2 Watts.
Watson, F. A., 27 Rumple.
Watkins, W. H., 406 East.
Weeks, K. D., 312 Watts.
Welch, J. T., 105 West.
West, C. D., 406 East.
West, F. H., 211 Watts.
West, J. W., 4 South.
West, Lee, 16 South.
West, P. E., Home.
White, C. P., Home.
White, H. E., 18 Rumple.
White, J. C., Home.
White, J. W., 309 Watts.
White, J. W., Home.
Whitehead, A. H., 209 West.
Whitener, O. M., Home.
Whitfield, R., 28 Rumple.
Whitney, F. A., 212 Watts.
Whitted, J. W., E. East.
Wildman, C. M., 108 East.
Wiley, S. S., 414 East.
Wilkes, M. B., 16 Rumple.
Williams, D. R., 26 Ga.
Williams, E. G., 30 Rumple.
Williams, Jack, 211 West.
Williford, J. I., 9 North.
Wilson, F. C., 203 West.
Wilson, H. A., 311 East.
Wilson, H. M., 114 East.
Wilson, J. S., 8 South.
Wilson, T. J., 312 East.
Wingfield, G. W., Gym.
Withers, J. R., Home.
Womble, J. G., Home.
Wood, G. R., 107 Watts.
Wood, T. F., 305 Watts.
Woods, J. P., 412 Watts.
Woodside, H. R., 412 Watts.
Woodside, R. E., 6 North.
Wootten, L. B., 22 Ga.
Wright, C. R., 23 Ga.
Wyche, B. W., 2 East.
Yancey, W. T., A West.
Yelverton, H., 202 West.
Young, F. C., 410 East.

GRIDIRON CANDIDATES REPORT FOR OPENING OF FOOTBALL SEASON

...him in action last year will testify as to his ability to tackle hard and cleanly. Julian West, one of
the few of last year’s Freshmen to show up well this year, should make a dependable back. Fleagle, Bradshaw, Clark,
Peabody, and Norfleet round out the list of backs who are showing up best so far. Center seems to be
cinched by John D. McConnell. Wooten and Baggett, who played Fresh football last year, will probably be the next in
line. Doc Mathis will fill one guard position, but there is still an open race for the other guard left
vacant by Thad Brock. The absence of Charlie Parker will also have to be filled. At present, Barrier seems to
be the selection, but Pi Conway, Fred Ogden, Jake Mackorell, Jim Pratt, and Hal Wilson are also in there fighting
for the position. Jack Wagner and Cal Kuykendall seem to be first choice for tackles. Whitfield and Bernard are showing
up well, and also two of last year’s Freshman team, McElrath and Wee Thompson. Raker, one of last year’s star
tackles, has been shifted to end, and Covington was lost by graduation. The above, however, should develop to take their
place. Steve Brown, one of last year’s stars, and Bud Raker, who played end his Fresh year, should hold down
that position very capably. Bob Johnson appears to be first string substitute, while Rule, Cannon, and MacConnell are also out.
Due to lack of much good material coming up from last year’s Freshman team, the team this year will very
probably be weak on reserves. The first string, however, should develop into a scrapping team capable of giving anybody a
tough run for first place. While we do not predict a brilliant team by any means, the first string should
carry the colors well up in the race for state honors.

Hap: “Did you ever see a roomful of women perfectly silent?”
Sap: “Yes, once; someone had asked which of those present was the eldest.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 16, 1931

Prof. Archibald Currie, head of the political science department at Davidson College, has just returned from Providence, R. I., where
he attended the nation-wide assembly of Phi Beta Kappa. Prof. Currie represented the Gamma chapter at Davidson and remained for
the three-day session. The delegates were guests of Brown University and many important matters were discussed at this year’s conclave.
The Phi Beta Kappa fraternity is an order that recognizes scholarship, and ten percent of the Senior Class is bid
each year.

Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr., after teaching for six weeks in the Davidson College Summer School, went to Montreat where
he taught for two weeks in the Leadership Training School of the Southern Presbyterian Church. He and his family spent
most of the month of August in Connecticut. While there, Dr. Gwynn served as a member of the faculty of
the Connecticut State Summer School of Religious Education, which held its sessions in the Connecticut Agricultural College at Storrs. Dr.
Gwynn was also scheduled to appear on the program of the Hazen Conference on Student Counseling at Lisle, N. Y.,
but the spread of infantile paralysis in the eastern section of the United States made it seem wise to cancel
that engagement. Since his return to Davidson last week, Dr. Gwynn has addressed the Synod of North Carolina on the
subject of Religious Education.

Dr. Lyon spent the major part of the summer doing research work with the Federal Bureau of Entomology at a
field station in Clarksville, Tenn. He was studying the methods of controlling insects affecting tobacco. The latter part of August
was spent camping and fishing in northern Michigan.

Professor Blythe attended the Middlebury Spanish School in Middlebury, Vermont. Dr. Lilly was in London most of the summer doing
some research reading. Dr. Richards taught the first semester of summer school here at Davidson. He spent the month of
August at Montreat. Dr. Porter taught summer school here at Davidson. Professor Fulcher taught summer school at the State Teachers’
College in East Radford, Va. The college had the second largest summer enrollment in the state, being second only to
the University of Virginia. While teaching there, Professor Fulcher supervised the construction of an eighteen-hole golf course on the campus.

Faculty Activities During the Summer Months

Heath Whittle spent most of his summer at Camp Carolina at Brevard, N. C. Dr. Walter Lingle was a speaker
at the Young People’s Conference at Davidson on June 14th. He then spoke at a Young People’s Conference at Camp
Ovoca in Tennessee. On July 25th, he spoke at the Young People’s Conference of Kings Mountain, in Charlotte. He made
two addresses at the University of Virginia, before the Institute of Public Affairs and the summer school. From July 25-29,
he was a speaker at a Young People’s Conference at Camp Smyrna, Ga. On Sunday, August 2, he preached at
the First Presbyterian Church of Houston, Texas. From August 3-10, he was a speaker at West Presbyterian encampment in Kerrville,
Texas. On August 23, he preached in Spartanburg, S. C., and on August 30, he preached in Charlotte.

Dr. Currie taught at Davidson the last half of the summer session. He spent most of his time at Davidson,
but did make three short trips into the mountains, and made one trip to the seashore. Dr. Shewmake spent the
entire summer at Davidson doing quite a lot of reading. Dr. Sentelle was at work in his office during most
of the summer. He did spend one month in Knoxville, Tenn. Professor Erwin taught the first session of summer school.
He then spent some time at the seashore on Pawley’s Island. Prof. J. T. Kimbrough spent the month of June
playing baseball. During the latter part of July, he journeyed up to Atlantic City. From there he went to New
York City, where he spent a week, then returned home. Capt. N. Pritchett spent his entire summer at Camp Carolina.
Carl Pritchett stayed at Montreat during the months of July and August. Dr. J. M. Douglas taught at both summer
sessions of summer school here at Davidson. He also made several trips into the mountains of North Carolina. Dr. Brown
spent ten days at Lake Canandaigua in New York collecting fossils. From there he went over to Ithaca and studied
botany and geology for six weeks. Prof. Lewis Schenck spent the summer in Richmond, Va., doing research reading at the
Union Seminary Library.EUROPEAN COUNTRIES

Velvets, and always have at least one dress costume of either material. Even their aprons are gorgeously embroidered in many
designs. The most beautiful women among the peasants were at Pont l’Abbey. These women are different in appearance and are
supposed to be descendants from different racial stock. They have beautiful skin, blue eyes, and chestnut hair. They then visited
the Chateau country and saw the sights that most tourists see. From there they went into Germany, confining their visit
principally to Bavaria. As they toured the country in their own car, striking unrest was noted on the part of
the younger people by the number of them on the roads trying to get rides from place to place. They
then crossed over to England, landing at Dover. They spent the first night in Canterbury. From there they journeyed to
York. They took their time and stopped at many interesting villages and small cities. From York, they went to the
Lake Country, making their headquarters at Grasmere. Dr. Hood had been invited to stay with a friend of his while
staying there. His friend was called away to his country home just a few days before their arrival, so they
stayed at a delightful old hotel situated in the midst of a typical English flower garden. Dr. Hood later visited
his friend at his country estate. Grasmere, Keswick, and Windermere are associated with the names of Wordsworth, Coleridge, and De
Quincey. It was quite a thrill to sit in the room where once these great writers had worked. They then
went to the lovely county of Devon. Exeter, the county seat, is a beautiful town. There Dr. Hood saw the
tavern at which Drake lived when he received the orders that later terminated in the destruction of the Spanish Armada.
The most interesting feature of Devonshire is the Moor. Dartmoor is famed in story, especially from the pen of Eden
Phillpotts. Dr. Hood was not accompanied home by his wife, since she spent the remainder of the summer in Wales.

Mose: “Don’t you know? Well, I'll tell you what an orator is. If you were to walk up to an
ordinary man and ask him how much two and two was, he’d say, ‘four’; but if he was one of
us orators, he’d say, ‘When in the course of human events it becomes necessary to take the numeral of the
second denomination and add it to the figure two, I say unto you, that the result will invariably be four.’
That’s an orator.”

Nurse: “Have you ever run a temperature?”
Patient: “No, but I’ve driven almost every other kind of car.”

Headquarters, $25.00 Tailored Suits $29.50 Stetson “D” Store OPPOSITE CAMPUS | PHONE 206 | WELCOME TO DAVIDSON

Our Store is your Store, so make it your Down Town. We carry everything from head to foot that a
College Man will need. COME IN TO SEE US.

INTRODUCTORY EXERCISES FOR THE FRESHMEN

Concerning the college church and its place on the campus, Dr. J. M. McConnell talked about student scholarship, telling the
men that they were at Davidson primarily to study. Prof. F. K. Fleagle talked about the use of time in
college, emphasizing the fact that it is very valuable and should be budgeted as much as money. Don King, president
of the student body, concluded the Wednesday morning exercises with a talk about the honor system at Davidson. Wednesday afternoon,
Dr. M. E. Sentelle, dean of students, gave one of the most necessary and instructive talks of the series when
he talked about College Regulations. C. R. Pritchett, secretary of the Y. M. C. A., talked about Campus Organizations, explaining
the large part they played in student life. Cal Kuykendall, judge of the Court of Control, gave a talk in
which he explained what was expected of the Freshmen and the regulations set for them by the Court of Control.
Mrs. Smith gave a short talk on the care of the dormitories. The program was concluded Wednesday evening. Mr. F.
L. Jackson gave one of the most necessary talks of all about the handling of money and care of property
while at college. He emphasized the fact that money is to be spent after consideration of values. Dr. Walter L.
Lingle, president of the college, closed the series of lectures with a most enlightening talk about what Davidson can mean
to a student. He outlined the great possibilities which confronted every Freshman and the way in which they could make
their college years count for the most.

In a country newspaper appeared the following advertisement: “The man who picked up my wallet in Fore Street was recognized.
He is requested to return it.” The next day this reply was published: “The recognized man who picked up your
wallet requests the loser to call at any time and collect it.”

First Executive: “Did you enjoy your vacation?”
Second: “Yeah, but there’s nothing like the feel of a good desk under your feet again.”

Bob: “What is the difference between an auction sale and seasickness?”
Rob: “One is the sale of effects and the other is the effects of a sail.”

First Mother (reading letter from collegiate son): “Dick's letters always send me to the dictionary.”
Second Mother: “My Tom’s letters always send me to the bank.”

Sam: “What’s an orator?”
Mother: “You never come into the house without making an attack on that dish of doughnuts.”
Tommy: “That's all right, mom; you see, a home run doesn’t count unless a feller hits the plate.”

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE APPOINTS ASSISTANTS

Applied Mathematics—E. L. Gorham, Ipe., Lake Charles, La.
Recorders of Absences—D. M. McQueen, Little Rock, S. C., and W. B. Ward, Timmonsville, S.C.
Library Assistants—D. R. Mower, Staunton, Va.; J. O. Mann, Jr., Chester, S. C.; G. C. Neal, Ruffin; R. L. Torrence,
Gastonia, and S. L. Hoffman, Korea.
Monitors—B. E. Allen, Wilmington; A. M. Manson, Jacksonville, Fla.; J. R. Howard, Atlanta, Ga.; E. D. Kuykendall, Jr., Greensboro; D.
H. Leeper, Jr., Hiddenite; John D. McConnell, Davidson, and H. W. Ryburn, Erwin, Tenn.

COLLEGE GIRLS VS. CHORUS GIRLS

It was declared that chorus girls are mental equals of college undergraduates. Six Hunter College Seniors disagreed with this statement
and arranged a meeting with a team of six chorus girls. The contest was held in the lounge of the
Hotel Lexington in New York with Horace Liveright, publisher and producer, acting as judge. Bellamy Partridge of Bretano’s editorial department
compiled the examination. When the two teams met, it was found that the chorus girls were all college graduates and
that it really was a battle between undergrads and alumnae. At the end of the contest, the averages were 84
to 54 in favor of the undergraduates. There was much debate and scratching of heads over the following questions:

Q.—What composer wrote a series of operas based on famous legends?
A.—Wagner.
Q.—Who was the first Chief Justice of the United States?
A.—John Jay.
Q.—What monarch was responsible for the Protestant Reformation in Great Britain?
A.—Henry VIII.
Q.—Who is now Prime Minister of France?
A.—Andre Tardieu.
Q.—Who was the first President of the Soviet Republic?
A.—Sverdlov.
Q.—Who was Plato’s most famous pupil?
A.—Andrea del Sarto.
Q.—Who wrote the poem “To a Skylark” which begins “Hail to thee, blithe spirit”?
A.—Shelley.

WHY TEACHERS TURN GRAY

Answers to exams on medieval history when asked to identify the following:
Philip the Fair—The first user of Palmolive soap as he kept that ‘school girl complexion.’
City of God—Garden of Eden.
Charles the Bold—The first man to eat an oyster.
Romance Language—Pet words used by Mark Antony and Cleopatra.
Dante—Famous writing on “The entrance to the Hellespont.”
Charles the Hammer—Rival of George Washington.
Joan of Arc—Daughter of Noah.
Marco Polo—A famous game of the Prince of Wales.
Moscow—Furnished the well-known food for colleges.
Richard the Lion-Hearted—A member of Barnum and Bailey Circus.
Alaric—A form of blank poetry.
Theodosian Code—A code used by the famous lovers, Pyramus and Thisbe.
Harold, the Fair-Headed of Norway—First user of Golden Glint shampoo.—Selected.

SCARLET TANAGER TOBACCOS - SODAS - SUNDRIES and MAGAZINES

We Cater to Davidson Men

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Davidson Theatre

LOWELL SHERMAN in

Monday and Tuesday “CAUGHT PLASTERED” BERT WHEELER AND ROBERT WOOLSEY

Wednesday “HIGH STAKES”

Thursday and Friday “SMILING LIEUTENANT” MAURICE CHEVALIER

Saturday “THE SPIDER” EDMUND LOWE AND LOIS MORAN AND MAE MURRAY
