THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1931

Important Resolutions Passed by University Professors’ Association

Endeavor Made to Prevent Professors’ Being Dismissed by Trustees on Unjustifiable Charges

ALL FEES MADE PUBLIC

“Other Organizations Working on Same Problems,” Says Dr. Wilkins

Cleveland, Ohio—(IP)—Two important resolutions, one designed to place “above board” the “close connection between public utilities and the academic profession,”
and the other to provide a means for arriving at a plan to ensure freedom of speech and tenure of
office for college professors, were passed by the American Association of University Professors, in session here during the holidays.

The first action provides that any member of the organization who testifies or speaks in public on behalf of an
organization or individual paying him a retainer fee shall make public the fact that he is being paid by that
organization or individual. In this action, the professors’ association apparently had in mind the report of its committee which investigated
the spreading of propaganda by public utilities corporations through educators, many of whom, the committee found, were receiving fees of
as much as $10,000 annually for research work done for the utilities. No voice was raised at the convention to
question the ethics of receiving such retainer fees so long as the professors being paid made the fact public.

The second resolution authorized the officers of the association to confer with other organizations of college teachers in an effort
to work out a plan whereby college trustees may be deterred from discharging faculty members without reasons justifiable in the
minds of the teachers’ organizations, and report back at the meeting next December.

The association was taken to task by Dr. Ernest Hatch Wilkins, president of Oberlin College, who addressed the annual banquet
at Hotel Statler, for its failure to take an interest in an improvement of the quality of teaching in American
universities. “Many other organizations, such as the Association of American Colleges and the Association of American Universities, are tackling this
problem,” the Oberlin president said, “and, so far as I have been able to discover, your organization is the only
one which has failed to consider this problem. I feel strongly that you should do so and that if you
did it would mean a tremendous influence in the right direction.”

Dr. Wilkins pleaded also for more individual attention to the student by the professor, asserting that, while the English tutorial
system probably would not be acceptable in this country, a compromise between that system and the American lecture system should
be developed.

Frosh Are Victors Over Steele Creek

Show Improvement in Winning Over Opponent, 19-15

A very greatly improved Freshman team defeated Steele Creek, 19 to 15, on January 6 on the Davidson court. With
Evans showing the way with nine points, the Frosh had the lead all the way. In the last few minutes
of play, Steele Creek brought the score up to 19 to 15, but were stopped there by the Wildkitten defense.
Neal of Steele Creek proved most potent of the high school sharpshooters, scoring nine points himself. The visitors brought with
them an elongated bit of grief for the Frosh in the person of one Choate, who played center for Steele
Creek. Mr. Choate played a defensive game that proved rather discouraging to his opponents. Davidson had much the best of
things so far as speed and teamwork were concerned, but Steele Creek, led by the aforementioned Choate, put up a
very stubborn defensive game.

Davidson Position Steele Creek
Byars RF Hoover
Lafferty LF Neal
Rowan C Choate
Morris RG Byrum
Manson LG Williamson

Subs: Davidson—Holland, Lawther, Blanton. Steele Creek—Ervin, Neeley. Referee, Pritchett (Davidson).

Personal experience is the basis of all real literature—George Henry Lewes.

College Calendar

Thursday, Jan. 15—Exams begin.
Sunday, Jan. 18—“Y” Vespers at 6 P.M. Mr. Oren Moore, of Charlotte, will speak.
Tuesday, Jan. 20—Literary Societies in respective halls at 6:45 P.M.
Wednesday, Jan. 21—Meeting of Student Sunday School Teachers at 9 A.M. in “Y” Reading Room.

New Library Books

There are forty new books in the college library. They deal with diversified subjects, such as biography, religion, history, science,
and music. These books will be placed on their respective shelves, corresponding to the subjects. The following gives the title
of the book and the author: A History of Science, William Cecil Dampier Dampier-Whetham; Simon Bolivar, Hildegarde Angell; Since Then,
Sir Philip Gibbs; The Unity of the World, Guglielmo Ferrero; Primary Worship Guide, Jeanette E. Perkins; Essays and Addresses, John
Burnet; Frederick the Great, Victor Thaddeus; Wolsey, Hilaire Belloc; Old Masters and Modern Art, Sir Charles Holmes; Universities, Abraham Flexner;
Art and Religion, Von Ogden Vogt; To the South Seas, Gifford Pinchot; Myths of the Origin of Fire, Sir James
George Frazer; Makers of Modern Europe, Count Carlo Sforza; The Infidel Emperor, Paul Wiegler; Minoans, Philistines, and Greeks, A. R.
Burns; Five Masters, Joseph Wood Krutch; The Universe Around Us, Sir James Jeans; Parallel Lives, Clarence E. Macartney; Love in
the New Testament, James Moffat; The Life of Christ, Fillion; Explorations at Sodom, Melvin Grove Kyle; Chile, L. E. Elliott;
Aggrey of Africa, Edwin W. Smith; Travel and Travellers, edited by A. P. Newton; Freedom and Restraint, Robert F. Campbell;
Bible Landmarks in a Changing Land, J. MacPhail Waggett; The Lost

Doctor Hardie Fills Church Pulpit Here

The Rev. Dr. James F. Hardie, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, delivered the morning sermon on Sunday, January
11, at the college church. Dr. Hardie is one of the most prominent men in the ranks of the Southern
Presbyterian Church and is widely known throughout the South. Several years ago, he was called to Charlotte from a large
pastorate in Houston, Texas. Dr. Hardie used as his theme, “And My God shall supply every need of yours according
to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus,” Philippians 4:19. He then discussed the two principal factors in the verse,
God and man. The Apostle Paul was cited as the ideal recipient of God's gifts which fulfilled his “needs.”

Dr. Moffett left last week for Birmingham, Ala. He is expected to return to Davidson during the present week.

High Schools Will Hold Annual Meet Here Soon

Meet is Set for March 21, by Athletic Officials

College athletic officials have already set the date for the annual high school track meet on Richardson Field here. This
will be March 21, a day when no other athletic contests are scheduled, but which will be entirely turned over
to the visiting high school students from approximately a dozen different schools of North Carolina. This will be the fifth
consecutive year that the high school lads have had an opportunity to exhibit their various abilities early in the season,
preparatory to any dual schedule they may have, or to later track meets at other institutions throughout the state. Some
of the best performers in North Carolina today have participated in meets held at Davidson during the last four years.
No definite efforts have been made on the part of the Davidson authorities toward this meet, but in February they
will begin

Professors Dismiss State Institutions

Cleveland, Ohio—(IP)—Four Mississippi state institutions of higher learning from which Gov. Theodore Gilmore Bilbo dismissed 179 faculty members and officials
last summer, were blacklisted by the American Association of University Professors, in session here during the holidays. This latest attack
on the Mississippi governor, who is accumulating for himself and his state the hostility of a large group of American
educational and professional societies, was formulated by a special investigating committee of the professors’ organization.

The institutions affected by the association’s edict are the University of Mississippi, the Mississippi Agricultural and Mechanical College, the Mississippi
State College for Women, and the Mississippi State Teachers College. The passage of the resolution means, according to Prof. H.
W. Tyler, of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, secretary of the A. A. U. P., that so far as the association
is concerned, the four Mississippi state institutions will no longer exist as valid institutions of higher learning. Members of the
association now teaching in those schools will not lose their membership in the organization, he said, but will be placed
on the association's list of members who are no longer engaged in active teaching. Any member who accepts a position
in one of the four schools will lose his membership in the association, under the rules.

Governor Bilbo’s action is regarded by most of the societies connected with teaching as one of the “most audacious examples
of theUsurpation of academic tenure in this country’s history,” officials of the A. A. U. P. said. While in session
here, the professors read an Associated Press dispatch quoting the Mississippi governor as declaring that the general producers of artificial
radium rays win award.

Tuve, Hafstead, and Dahl Present Experiments Before Physical Society

Cleveland, Ohio—(AP)—Artificial production of radium rays capable of penetrating three inches of lead won the annual $1,000 prize of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science, in session here during the holidays. The award went to M. A. Tuve,
L. R. Hafstad, and O. Dahl of the department of terrestrial magnetism of the Carnegie Institute of Washington. The three
presented a joint paper, “Experiments With High Voltage Tubes,” before the American Physical Society.

The rays described by the scientists were produced in a carefully annealed pyrex glass tube, looking like a string of
small fishbowls, which was sealed in an iron tank of compressed oil. Next to the tube was placed a huge
Tesla coil for producing a 2,000,000-volt current which jumped the tube. Extraordinary precautions were taken to protect the observers from
stray bolts of electricity and from the powerful rays. The short wavelength radiations, called Gamma rays, were measured on a
Geiger counter, shielded by six-inch plates. The rays were filtered through lead plates, one, two, and three inches in thickness.
The thicker the filter, the shorter, or “harder” the ray which struck the measuring instrument.

The ultimate object of the experiment is to produce another sort of radium emanation, Alpha rays, which are the heavy
nuclei of helium atoms shooting into space at the rate of 12,000 miles a second. When these rays are produced
in tubes of still greater power, it is the intention to aim the Alpha rays at atoms and possibly smash
them. If this is done, the age-old dream of the necromancer, the transmutation of elements, will become at least partly
true.

The physics section of the association considered this contribution to the science of radiation the most important announcement during the
meeting here, as it brings physicists nearer the solution of the mysterious rays coming to the earth from interstellar space.
Cosmic rays are so powerful they pierce six feet of lead.

Four Additional Games Are Added to Schedule

Two games with Duke, one with Elon, and one with Guilford are the most recent additions to the Davidson College
basketball schedule. The card is not yet complete, but according to an official announcement, other contests will be scheduled until
a total of approximately 15 is reached. With whom they will be has not been determined.

The first Duke game will not be played on the scheduled trip through Central North Carolina, but will take place
during a special trip to be made to Durham on February 3. Later on in February, State and Carolina will
be met at Raleigh and Chapel Hill, respectively, on successive nights. The 17th of the same month will witness the
return game with Duke, at either Davidson or Charlotte. Additional games, dates, and places:

Jan. 27—Elon at Davidson.
Feb. 3—Duke at Durham.
Feb. 7—Guilford at Davidson.
Feb. 17—Duke at Davidson or Charlotte.

1931 Football Team (Continued from page 1)

Probably no more ambitious schedule has ever been undertaken by the Wildcats and few by any non-conference Southern team. A
schedule which includes six conference teams cannot be termed light even by a conference member. The schedule is as follows:

Sept. 19—Elon at Davidson.
Sept. 26—N. C. State at Greensboro.
Oct. 3—Washington and Lee (place undecided).
Oct. 10—V. P. I. (place undecided).
Oct. 17—Duke at Davidson.
Oct. 24—Erskine at Davidson.
Oct. 31—V. M. I. at Davidson.
Nov. 7—The Citadel at Charleston, S. C.
Nov. 14—Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Nov. 26—Wake Forest at Davidson.

Dr. Lingle Leads in Missions Work

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, is the chairman of a committee to present one phase of the
foreign mission work of the Southern Presbyterian Church at the World Congress on Missions to be held in Chattanooga, Tenn.
Dr. Lingle has completed his manuscript, and it is now in the hands of the printers to be put into
pamphlet form. He is at the head of the commission whose designated field was “The Missionary Message and Obligation—Christianity and
the Non-Christian Religions.” Dr. Fraser, Hood, of Davidson, is one of the ten members of the committee which assisted Dr.
Lingle in the preparation of his discussion. The Congress is to meet in Chattanooga, February 16-19. It happens that these
dates conflict with a meeting of the college board of trustees, which Dr. Lingle must attend. He is, however, trying
to change the dates of the board meeting in order to make it possible for him to attend both.

American Drama (Continued from page 1)

The purpose of this tour is to give students a fascinating opportunity to view Russia as well as to study
outstanding examples of the new drama. Lectures will be given by the director in the experimental and workers’ theatres and
there will be frequent comparisons with the Continental methods and the Russian school preceding and following the work of Stanislavsky.
The troupe will attend rehearsals and hold conferences with many leading producers. The tour will also include visits to the
Meyerhold Theatre, Moscow Arts Theatres, Kamerny Theatre, Blue Blouse Troupes, Theatre of Social Satire in Moscow, and the Ukrainian National
Theatre. Folders and full particulars can be obtained concerning these two interesting tours from the Drama League Travel Bureau, 15
West 44th Street, New York.

I doubt, despite Omar Khayyam and the Latin proverb, that any profound philosophical truth has ever leapt from the wine-cup.—W.
B. Seabrook.

A recent demonstration against the governor was put on by more than 200 students of the University of Mississippi, who
have lost their academic standing in other colleges and graduate schools because of the affair. They burned Bilbo's effigy.

The idea that you can restore permanent prosperity by spending public money and thereby necessitating more taxes is unsound.—Borah.

It is not a laughing age. Notice how little laughter you hear on the streets.—Sherwood Anderson.

I am rarely enthusiastic about what the League of Nations has done or has not done, but I am always
glad it exists.—Prof. Albert Einstein.

Duke University School of Medicine

Durham, N. C. On October 1, 1931, carefully selected first and third-year students will be admitted. Applications may be sent
at any time and will be considered in the order of receipt. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from
the Dean.

First Flying Smokers’ Compartment!

Miss Valentine La Dor, pioneer airplane hostess, is handing a passenger an Old Gold with the assurance that “there’s not
a cough in a plane-load.” She and five other hostesses, commencing January 10, will fly as the third member of
the crew on the 18-passenger de luxe planes of the Eastern Air Transport, Inc., on the New York-Washington division. The
hostesses will provide cigarettes to passengers to be smoked in what is believed to be the world’s first aerial smoking
compartments in the airplane public carrier field in the U. S. These compartments with their special equipment and ventilation mark
a new stage in catering to the comfort of flying passengers, and they are for the use of both sexes.
Free coffee, tea, and biscuits will also be served. The regular crews on these runs will comprise the pilot, co-pilot,
and hostess. The planes leave New York and Washington thrice daily, each way, with stops in Philadelphia.
