STUDENT BODY / SIX O'CLOCK INSTALLATION ELECTIONS AND BANQUET TOMORROW NIGHT

"ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS"

Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 30, 1931 No. 26

Class Representatives on Student Council for Next Year are Elected
Men Outstanding for Past Three Years Are Elected by Rising Senior Class

FIFTEEN MEN SELECTED
John Lafferty and Bill Johnson Are Selected Sophomore Representatives

Last week the elections for the representatives of each class on next year’s student council were held. Representing the Senior class next year will be E. S. Brannon, R. W. Gorrell, C. M. Miller, L. S. Raker, N. G. Spier, J. H. McKinnon, and D. S. King. The rising Junior class elected the following men: John Howard, Robert McCallie, J. D. Enochs, and Jerome Clark. Next year’s council members from the Sophomore class will be Bill Johnson, John Lafferty, and E. L. Powell.

The Senior councilmen have all been outstanding members of their class and of the student body throughout the last three years, being leaders in various activities on the campus. Emmett “Soup” Brannon, from Rome, Ga., member of Phi Delta Theta, is a varsity track star. Last year he broke the college record for the two-mile run, and this spring broke his own record. Last fall he set the college record for the three-mile run during cross-country season. Bob Gorrell, from Winston-Salem, N. C., member of Phi Gamma Delta, was business manager of the Wildcat Handbook, and junior business manager of the “Quips and Cranks.” Among his other activities are: President of the Beaver Club, junior manager of football this year, vice-president of the student body, and is manager of the varsity football team for next year. Martin Miller, from Laurens, S. C., member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, has served on the student council before. He played Freshman and varsity football, and is advertising manager of the “Quips and Cranks.” Bud Raker, from Lexington, N. C., is a member of Kappa Alpha, and is well known around the campus as an athlete. He played (Continued on page 6)

Dr. Ericson Reviews Dr. Cummings’ Work
Dr. William P. Cumming, of the English department of the college, has recently made a study called “The Revelations of Saint Birgitta.” Professor E. E. Ericson, of the University of North Carolina, comments favorably on this work in the May, 1931, issue of Modern Language Notes. The critic relates something of the life of the Swedish saint and the unpublished manuscript which is the source of Dr. Cumming’s work. Professor Ericson in his review shows his enthusiasm over the Davidson professor’s modernized spelling, more normal capitalization, and complete vocabulary. He goes on to say that “the editor has brought judgment and thorough scholarship to the task and the result is a volume admirable in the tradition of famous editors of the Publications of the Early English Text Society.”

Another scholarly work that Dr. Cumming wrote lately appears in the April issue of “Studies in Philology.” The title of this study is “The Influence of Ovid’s Metamorphoses on Spenser’s Mutabilitie Cantos.” The study is written with many footnotes to help the reader to understand the theory of preceding writers about the influence of “Metamorphoses” on Spenser. The Davidson professor claims that the Lucretian passage is but a passing reference of a line, and there is no parallelism of line or thought to show that Spenser made use of the poem. He maintains that Spenser confuses two stories, which is not unusual among the classic writers, as well as modern commentators. The subject calls for a familiarity with mythology, old classic writers and their works, and demonstrates that he is a true connoisseur of this topic.

Dwelle is Editor of Next Year’s Annual
On Tuesday, April 21, E. C. Dwelle, Jr., of Charlotte, N. C., was elected editor-in-chief of the Davidson annual, Quips and Cranks, by the rising Senior class. He succeeds A. R. Bird, of Washington, D. C., who is editor of the publication this year.

Dwelle was elected on the first ballot, defeating William Rule, D. G. Stephenson, W. T. Hancock, and W. B. Hawkins. All of these men were nominated for the position by the annual staff.

Dwelle’s election is the culmination of three years’ work on the Quips and Cranks staff. He has specialized in literary work, and during his first year on the Davidsonian, he gained valuable experience. In his second year, he was a reporter and a feature writer. This year he held the position of managing editor of that publication. While a student at McCallie School, he edited The Pennant, the yearbook of that institution.

Dwelle is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity; Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary fraternity; the International Relations Club, Delta Pi Kappa, national journalistic fraternity; Le Cercle Francais, wearer of the Golden Quill, and the Beaver Club. He was on the honor roll the first semester of this year and is an outstanding student.

Dr. Howard Rondthaler To Speak at Initiation of New O.D.K. Members
Installation Service Will Take Place on May 11th, in Chambers Auditorium

On Monday evening, May 11, the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa fraternity at Davidson will hold its initiation services. The speaker on the program will be Dr. Howard E. Rondthaler, of Winston-Salem, son of the late Bishop Edward Rondthaler. Dr. Rondthaler is the president of the Salem College and Academy, and is an outstanding man in Winston-Salem, especially in church and educational circles. He is a great educator and a Bible student. He has been at Davidson several times to speak at the “Y” vespers, and is remembered as a true Davidson friend. The alumni and student members will be initiated at this service and the annual banquet will be held afterwards.

Mu Beta Psi Sponsors National Music Week
Dr. Baldwin Internationally Known Organist, to Give Concert Here

The Beta chapter, Mu Beta Psi, national honorary music fraternity, will sponsor National Music Week, May 3-9, on the Davidson campus.

Junior Class Conducts Weekly Vesper Service
Rue and Speir Give Interesting Talks on “Spiritual Tests”

The Junior class conducted the vespers program last Sunday night, and at first planned to hold the exercises outside, but because of the unfavorable weather the service had to take place in Chambers Hall. Jack McKinnon acted as leader and interpreted with the audience the responsive reading. Horace Erwin directed the singing, and Don King and Roger Enloe pronounced short prayers. The Brass Quartet rendered a familiar musical selection in keeping with the spirit of the service.

In his introductory paragraph Bill Rule asked the question, “Why does God make life’s paths so steep and rocky?” He promptly declared that the Lord makes them difficult and treacherous to test and measure people's worth. He cited several examples as the test of Abraham's faith, Noah’s faith as exemplified in building the ark, and the many trials that Jesus faced. He maintained that tests show whether the individual is a strong or weak character. The speaker explained that just as students are examined in school to find out how much knowledge they have accumulated, so are they searched to ascertain how much spiritual depth they have.was very well received. Some possess. He claimed that often men are led into difficult circumstances that seem unnecessary, like Israel’s wanderings, but he pointed out the helpful lessons that the Israelites learned from the desert while sojourning there. Another aspect that was mentioned is that Jesus is willing to walk by the traveler’s side and be a lamp unto his feet. In a forceful manner, he outlined the life of David Livingstone, the hero of the Dark Continent, and added that although this missionary no longer blazes through Africa, his influence lives on.

Nat Speir continued along the same trend of thought and stressed the importance of making wise decisions. He brought attention to Solomon’s ability to make decisions and asked the group assembled if they would have made such an unselfish decision as this king. Affirming that the few who know how to make decisions control those who are undecided, he reminded his hearers that it is said that one hundred men control American politics. Next, the speaker advised the audience to choose someone to help them make decisions. He showed how Joseph was filled with compassion instead of hatred for his brothers after they treated him so cruelly. He deplored that such large numbers of people cannot make decisions and gave the rich young ruler as an example of this type.

(Continued on page 6)

STUDENT BODY BANQUET; INSTALLATION SERVICES ARE SET FOR TOMORROW

DAVIDSON DEPUTATION GOES TO GREENSBORO

Conducted Services at the “Y” and Also at Several Churches

At the request of the Cone Memorial Y. M. C. A. at Greensboro, N. C., a group made up of twelve members of the retiring “Y” cabinet went on a deputation to Greensboro during the past weekend. These men conducted services at the Y. M. C. A., several of the Greensboro churches, and some Sunday Schools. Part of the men went up Friday while the rest went Saturday. They returned Sunday evening. Last week had been “Witnessing Week” at the Greensboro “Y.” Personal interviews, some of which resulted in decisions, were given by members of the deputation on Friday and Saturday. On Sunday, the Davidson men had charge of five church services, twelve Sunday School classes, and three young people’s meetings. They made talks before the collected members of four Sunday Schools. Each year a deputation made up of the old “Y” cabinet goes to Greensboro in the spring to hold services. During the past few weeks, Davidson has been well represented at Greensboro. On April 19, eight men were at the Presbyterian Church there; last Sunday, twelve men went up, and on May 3, four men will make the trip to sing at some of the services. Those who went up Friday were John Preston, Stuart Meacham, F. L. Wood, and Charles Burch. On Saturday, M. W. Norfleet, Chester Arnold, Dean Rusk, Archie McLean, Albert McClure, Sam Wiley, Walter Fraley, and Carl Pritchett made the trip.

Sophs Cast Unanimous Vote Against Soph Day Due to Faculty Restrictions

This Annual Custom is Discontinued

It was thought at the first of the year to have a Soph Day as has been the custom at Davidson for years. The present Sophomore class began making their plans for the day so that they would be within the faculty restrictions. There was to be no form of hazing connected with Soph Day. A delay arose from some cause and meanwhile, the court of control decided to allow the Freshmen to remove caps. This disrupted all the plans of the Sophomore class. A meeting of the Sophomore class was called and Soph Day was discussed. It was decided that the Soph Day was really more harmful to Davidson’s name than it warranted. A vote was taken and it was unanimously decided that the custom of Soph Day should be abolished. The action thus taken was to eliminate other methods of hazing which had heretofore come from Soph Day.

Managers Selected For Student Store

A. S. Montgomery and N. G. Speir, both of the rising Senior class, have been recently made managers of the Student Store for the coming year. Nat Speir is to be bookkeeper, while Alec Montgomery is to handle the buying part of the business. These two will take charge of the store beginning with the first of May. Alec Montgomery is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity and has been active in Student Store work. His appointment comes as the result of three years of endeavor. Nat Speir is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and has held many outstanding positions on the campus, including that of president of the present Junior class.

Dan Goodykoontz to Preside Over Installation Services Which Begin at Six o’Clock

BARBECUE TO BE HELD

Don King to Take Over Office as President of Student Body

Following a custom instituted by last year’s Senior class, the installation of all student body officers will be accompanied by a student body banquet. The installation exercises will take place on Friday, May 1, at 6 o'clock in Chambers Auditorium, and after this, the banquet will be given. This year’s banquet will be in the form of a barbecue supper and all students are expected to attend. On Friday evening, due to this supper, none of the various boarding houses will be open. The installation exercises will be presided over by Dan Goodykoontz, president of the student body. The officers of the Athletic Association, the student body, the Davidsonian, and the Annual, will all be installed. Following this ceremony, the retiring presidents and the incoming presidents of each of these groups will make short talks to the students. Following this meeting, the students will be given plates in the banquet hall, and they will then go out on the campus behind the building, where the barbecue is to be served. The banquet this year is sponsored by the Senior class and there will be a charge of approximately thirty-five cents to students. Mr. Sherrill, connected with the American Legion in Mooresville, has been selected to provide the barbecue. Tags, serving as tickets of admission to the supper, went on sale yesterday at the drug store. They may also be secured after chapel exercises tomorrow morning. All the faculty members and townspeople are invited to attend these exercises.

Rising Junior Class Names Clark Leader

In an election held several days ago, Jerome Clark was elected president of the rising Junior class. He was elected to that honor on the second ballot. Those nominated for that position were Jerome Clark, John Howard, Dus Enochs, Paul Brown, and Bill Flinn. On the first ballot, this group was reduced to Clark, Howard, and Brown, and on the second, Clark and Howard tied exactly. Only one hundred and twenty-eight votes were cast on the second ballot, so everyone was urged to vote in order to break the tie between Clark and Howard. The necessity for another vote was removed, however, when John Howard withdrew his name. Clark, from Fayetteville, N. C., is one of the outstanding men on the campus. He is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, vice-president of the Freshman class, and is a member of the varsity football squad.

Conway Holds Office in Press Association

Last week at a meeting in Raleigh of the North Carolina Collegiate Press, P. M. Conway, Davidson Junior, was elected vice-president of the association for the coming year. The convention was held April 23 to 25, and was made up of representatives from the staffs of the leading college papers of North Carolina. P. M. Conway is a Junior at Davidson, member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, and first sergeant in the R. O. T. C. unit. Last season he was captain of the wrestling team. He is a member of the “D” Club, and assistant business manager.

(Continued on page 6)