THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 9, 1931

BLACK MAJESTY
A Book Review

Black Majesty, John W. Vandercook. Harper and Brothers, N. Y.

Book reviews should, I suppose, confine themselves to books available to those by whom the review is read. Here is a fine bit of history and biography in our own library and short enough to read on a Sunday afternoon. Vandercook, who makes a specialty of the negro, and who writes in a fascinating manner, is familiar to many readers of the “National Geographic” and “Harper's.” His excellent story, Djombe River, appeared in this last named magazine several years ago.

The title page of Black Majesty states that the book is a life of Christophe, King of Haiti, but actually it is a gripping story of three truly great black men. Accounts of the rise and fall of Toussaint L’Ouverture and his friend Jean Jacques Dessalines are necessary as a background for the remarkable story of Christophe. Haiti today is an island that has slipped far into “stupor and dirt and dreamlessness.” A hundred years ago a king who had been born a slave created a nation there toward which the wondering eyes of the world were turned.

“There was a theater in the Cap and there were schools. No one was indolent or dirty, for indolence and filth were forbidden by the king. Factories were busy and the bay was filled with ships. The great plain between the hills was a sugar field, the finest in the world, its area measured by hundreds of square miles. Along the roads out of the town, roads bedded evenly with gleaming white stones, were plantations owned by negroes who bore with dignity the titles of duke and baron and count.” The armies of this king drove the best Napoleon had to offer into the ocean. He, in one year, established a stable system of exchange in a country which had for years been torn and ravaged by war. He did this by taking the only product that remained unharmed by the civil struggles, hundreds of thousands of gourds, and to this day the principal coin of Haiti is called the “gourde.” His palace, “Sans Souci,” had a marble front, and his troops astonished a British admiral who paid an official call. His citadel, a massive work of masonry on the top of a mountain three thousand feet high, remains to this day one of the marvels of the Americas. All this by a man who was unable to read the hundreds of letters he dictated to the nations of the world, but who had a lofty dream for his people. Here it is, in words spoken to Sir Home Popham, commander-in-chief of the British West Indian fleet: “It is a drum, Sir Home. Somewhere my people are dancing. It is almost all we have. The drum, laughter, love for one another, and our share of courage. But we have nothing you white men can understand. You despise our dreams and kill the snakes and break the little sticks you think are our gods. Perhaps if we had something you could understand, we could show you something. If we had something we could show ourselves, you would respect us and we might respect ourselves.”

A stranger tale, every bit true, this story you never read, and it is I rather feel that O'Neill knew before he wrote his Emperor Jones.
—H. C. McFadyen

DR. PIERSON
(Continued from page 1)

of his address as “Education versus Pedagogy.” The university dean did not make his attack and let it rest at that. He offered an alternative, which he said might be a ten-year plan, a twenty-year plan, or a lifetime plan. Essentially and summarily it was that secondary schools, the college, and the graduate college would act and interact upon each other in a dependent way that would bring about “standards of thoroughness and excellence instead of the soft pedagogy of all too many of our public high schools.”

MR. DAVID OVENS
(Continued from page 1)

Mr. Ovens took as his topic, “Negative versus Positive People.” His first statement was that there are those who say that something is fundamentally wrong with education and that only a very few people take a thinking part in the demand for economy. Among the latter are to be found, curiously enough, some professional educators, who are,” said the speaker, “ready to urge the abandonment of the doctrine of democracy that everybody should be taught, on which these same educators have thrived for a generation, and to substitute, instead, a system of selection.”

At this juncture, Dr. Pierson went into an explanation of what these selective educationists propose. “This proposition would be accompanied by a drastic reorganization of the traditional curriculum in the direction of utilitarian instruction designed, it is claimed, better to fit a person for life under present circumstances. They would do things to such traditional subjects as grammar, foreign languages, mathematics, and history, which they think of as dead wood. The curriculum is described by them as a fetish. Is this reasoned conclusion based upon the fear that the American public has been oversold on education? Dr. Pierson asked if this line of thought was not by way of a confession, a plea for exoneration. He was of the opinion that it was, and that in methodistic instruction we have another case of over-emphasis.

Mr. Ovens then told of the people that are wanted in the business world of today. They must not be neutral, but must be either positive or negative. The neutral ones are a nuisance to society. Business wants the kind of person who is straightforward and honest, the kind of person who can stand confidence, the kind who is determined. The world is interested in what you do, not in what you do not do.

“Negative Christians” were described by Mr. Ovens as those who pride themselves on what they do not do. These people think they are doing well because they do not commit the various offenses and sins to which man is subject. They do not realize that the world is not interested in what a man does not do, but it is interested in what a man does. “Positive Christians” are those who do something. One of the greatest of these was Paul. He had been persecuting the Christians, but when he was converted, he did not ask Christ if he should stop his present activities. He asked Christ what He wanted him to do. Paul was not content with not doing wrong, but wanted to do right.

(Continued from page 1)

According to Mark, the passage was one of the teachings of Christ, the parable of the sower. Christ told of the sower who sowed seed in all kinds of ground. Various things happened to prevent the seed from producing. The seed represented the Word which was given to various men, some of whom soon lost it, some of whom tried to spread it, and some of whom took it and used it to the advantage of the Kingdom.

SIGMA DELTA PI
(Continued from page 1)

The society has also three national or international presidents: Dr. John D. Fitz-Gerald of the University of Arizona, and Drs. Tomas Navarro Tomas and Juan C. Cebrian of Madrid. The purpose of the Society is to sponsor thorough scholarship and high ideals in the field of Hispanic study and to promote a live interest in the language, literature, and culture of Spain and other Spanish-speaking countries. A movement is on foot now to make the organization international.

SOCIETY OF MODERN LANGUAGES
(Continued from page 1)

lections, and a very entertaining one-act play was given by members of the Palmetto Club of the same institution. The South Atlantic Modern Language Association is straightforward and honest, the kind of person who can stand confidence, the kind who is determined. The world is interested in what you do, not in what you do not do.

“We are warranted,” strongly spoke the university dean, “in the demand that schools of education be reformed.”In his final thought, Mr. Ovens told the Davidson students that they are going out into the world, inspired and educated by their stay at Davidson. They will go into a world broken by the depression, with many timid souls and many worn-out persons, fighting to keep going. Their job and their privilege is to use their inspiration from Davidson and help nurse the timid and weak souls back to confidence. They are called to give a new exhibition of courage, as much courage as was shown by the participants in the great war.

Delta Phi Alpha Issues Invitations to Six Men

The Epsilon chapter of the Delta Phi Alpha honorary fraternity has issued bids to the following men: J. C. Calhoun, W. W. Caligan, J. R. Howard, A. S. Morrow, Avery Patton, A. H. Whitehead.

Delta Phi Alpha is an honorary national fraternity for the recognition of excellence in the knowledge and use of the German language. It was founded at Wofford College in 1927 and was installed at Davidson in 1930. Davidson has the distinction of having the second national vice-president, Dr. G. R. Vowles. New members are to be initiated on December 10, at which time a talk will be given on the famous Austrian author Arthur Schnitzler, by R. A. Stedman.

Professor Schenck Will Be Vesper Speaker Sunday

The speaker for the “Y” vespers next Sunday, December 13, will be Professor Schenck, a member of the faculty, but he is also an alumnus. He graduated with the class of ’21, remembered as one of the most prominent men on the campus. His extra-curricular activities and positions were O. D. K., member of the Board of Control, a detail lion wearer of the “D,” captain and president of his class, and he served as an officer of the student body. He received his theological training at the Union Theological Seminary and took additional post-graduate work at Yale Divinity School.

At present, he is a member of the Board of Control of the “Y,” a board that controls the policies of the “Y,” and also one of its faculty representatives. Besides all this, he is an interesting speaker, and the least that can be expected is a very good talk.

DR. WALTER L. LINGLE (Continued from page 1)

The Association of Colleges and Preparatory Schools of the Southern States was organized in 1895 at Atlanta, Ga., at a meeting of delegates from a number of southern colleges and universities. The purpose of the meeting was first to organize southern schools and colleges into co-operative groups for mutual benefit; secondly, to establish uniform entrance requirements and raise the standard of different institutions in regard to their scholastic standing. The school which measures up to the requirements of the association is accredited and is received into the association. Each school then sends annually a representative to the convention. This year Mary Baldwin College at Staunton, Va., obtained membership in this group.

This association has taken definite steps toward promoting uniform standards of entrance and regulations touching upon the amount of work to be required and the administration of these are made conditions for membership in the association.

If You Can’t Come In—Just Phone 3-4141 CHARLOTTE, N.C.

WHERE UP-TO-THE-MINUTE COLLEGIANS LIKE TO CHOOSE THEIR CLOTHES

SUEDE COATS $8.45
Glover and MacGregors Suede Coats in both sweater and coat style. Button or zipper fastenings as you wish. Sizes 36 to 44 in brown. This is ideal for campus wear.

UNDERWEAR
Cooper’s Shirts and Shorts of broadcloth and rayon. They have quality-built comfort that you'll appreciate. Also Cooper’s Winter Weight Union Suits at $1.45 and up.

SWEATERS $2.95 to $3.95
You can find the Sweater here that you’ve been looking for. Something just a little different. Bradley Sweaters in slip-over and coat styles and both V and crew necks.

SHOES—$4.95
Walk straight into this bargain! Brown-built Tread-Straight Shoes for men. This national brand fits the heel and supports the arch so perfectly. In black and brown.

TIES—95c
Silk Ties and silk and wool combinations . . . resilient lined to keep it in shape. All hand-made and a good selection of colors.

AT EFIRD’S
Make your headquarters at Efird’s when you come to Charlotte. There are desks and phones on the mezzanine for your convenience. Meet your friends here . . . we are always glad to see you.

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Handbooks, Engraved Cards and Invitations. Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you.

P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE
600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing

CHARLOTTE, N.C.