DAVIDSON vs. STATE IN GREENSBORO “SALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” The Davidsonian NEXT HOME GAME, OCTOBER 17 Vol. XIX. DAVIDSON
COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 23, 1931 No. 2

Rev. Marshall Woodson Delivers Unusual Talk on Conversion of Stone

Y. M. C. A. Vesper’s Speaker Shows Difficulties Found

J. H. McKINNON PRESIDES

Opening Prayers Are Led by Matthews and McConnel

Reverend Marshall Woodson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Salisbury, made an inspiring talk at the “Y” vespers Sunday
evening, September 20. Reverend Woodson graduated from Presbyterian College, playing football there. He is a young man, and is especially
interested in young people. Jack McKinnon read the Scripture and introduced the speaker. Bill Matthews and J. D. McConnell led
in prayer, while Bill Rule conducted the singing. Horace Erwin rendered a violin solo.

Reverend Woodson chose the fifth verse of the sixteenth chapter of Matthew as his text. “Let your light so shine
before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.” The topic of
his address was “Leading a Christian Life on a College Campus.” He stated that one of the hardest places in
the world to lead a Christian life was on a college campus. He also said that he thought that Davidson
was an exception to that rule, because of the fine spirit and Christian influence on the campus. But he said
that one Christian could have more influence on a college campus than in any other place.

To bring out his point more clearly, he used the life of the great actor, Fred Stone, as an example.
According to Reverend Woodson, leading a Christian life on the stage is one of the hardest problems that faces an
actor. According to Reverend Woodson, a man is closer to God when he is thinking. He used the life of
Stone to prove his point, as Stone was homesick, and thinking of his wife and children when he was converted.
After his conversion, Stone broadcast the fact to the world that he was a Christian. To his surprise, he found
that there are a lot more Christians than he had supposed there were.

Reverend Woodson stressed the fact that every time Stone got a chance to do so, he mentioned the fact that
he was converted, and told about all that God had done for him. Stone’s greatest performance was his telling a
vast audience of his conversion. At the last, another point of Stone’s Christian life was brought out. His cheerfulness after
being terribly hurt in an airplane accident. Thus, Reverend Woodson compared the good that Stone had done to the many
things that could be done on any American college campus.

Language Teachers Meet in November

The fourth annual meeting of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association will be held November 27-28 at the University of
South Carolina, Columbia, S. C. Every high school and college teacher of English, French, German, or Spanish of the two
Carolinas, Georgia, and Florida is invited to join the association and attend this meeting. Dr. H. Carrington Lancaster, professor of
French in Johns Hopkins University, will deliver the principal address of the meeting. The Chairman appointed for the various committees
the following men: German, C. A. Krummel, Duke University; French, A. Vermont, Converse College; Spanish, F. K. Fleagle, Davidson College;
English, J. B. Hubbell, Duke University.

This association was organized in Atlanta, Ga., in 1928. The purpose of the body is to promote the study of
these languages, as well as keep in close contact with the present-day changes which come at various times. The officers
are as follows: E. J. Erwin, president, Davidson College; C. F. Hamff, secretary, Emory University. The executive committee is G.
C. Taylor, University of N. C.; A. Vermont, Converse College; Iola Kay Eastburn, Brenau; E. V. Gage, Florida State College
for Women, and F. W. Bradley, University of South Carolina.

The meeting in 1929 was held at Spartanburg, S. C., Converse College being the host. Last year Davidson College entertained
the delegates during this session held on the Hill.

Bud Raker, of Lexington, N. C., who has recently been elected Captain of the Davidson Wildcats. Raker has been shifted
from his old position at Tackle to End.

Davidson Teams Introduce Pass to Southern Football

Weekend Parties Draw Many Visitors

Various Fraternities Hold House-parties After Elon Game

The first house party of the 1931-1932 session at Davidson proved to be unusually popular, with one of the largest
crowds of visitors ever present up here for that occasion. There were approximately one hundred girls up for the weekend,
with a great many more for the game only. A great many alumni, families, and friends of Davidson also came
up on the occasion of the first football game, the scrap with Elon. The game was of course the main
feature of the program of entertainment, although at all of the fraternity houses there was an informal party of some
sort. One fraternity, however, the Pi Kappa Alpha, made up for the lack of the usual entertainment in Charlotte by
having a dinner party at Statesville with the New York Serenaders furnishing the music.

As complete a list of the girls present for the game and the weekend as could be gotten follows:

BETA THETA PI: Misses Susan Hill, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Ida Patterson, Concord, N. C.; Betsy Tate, Charlotte, N. C.; Janet
Mather, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary McCoy, Concord, N. C.; Nancy Nalle, Charlotte, N. C.; Sara Steagall, Statesville, N. C.; Douglas
Rankin, Charlotte, N. C.; Julia Stinson, Charlotte, N. C.; Jean Porter, Charlotte, N. C.; Rosalie Rogers, Charlotte, N. C.; Agnes
Leake, Greensboro, N. C.; Barbara Witherspoon, Greensboro, N. C.; Mary Louise Allen, Wadesboro, N. C.; Louise Tate, Charlotte, N. C.;
Frances Stowe, Charlotte, N. C.; Belle Ward Stowe, Charlotte, N. C.; Henrietta Whisnant, Charlotte, N. C.; Susan Gregory, Greensboro, N.
C., and Lura Abercrombie, Salisbury, N. C.

PI KAPPA ALPHA: Misses Sara Walser, Charlotte, N. C.; Martha Dulin, Charlotte, N. C.; Geraldine Harris, Charlotte, N. C.; Virginia
Killey, Charlotte, N. C.; Aileen Brown, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Glenn, Charlotte, N. C.; Virginia Pegram, Charlotte, N. C.; Evalyn
Ritchie, Charlotte, N. C.; Ruth Vaughn, Charlotte, N. C.; Billie Deaton, Statesville, N. C.; Mary Belle Deaton, Statesville, N. C.;
Anna French, Statesville, N. C.; Sylvia Steele, Statesville, N. C.; Emma Mills, Statesville, N. C.; Jane Cregg, Winston-Salem, N. C.;
Langdon Manley, York, Pa.; Mildred Knight, Greensboro, N. C.; Frances Williams, Greensboro, N. C.; Lib Thompson, Davidson, N. C.; Mabel
Wilkie, Charlotte, N. C.

KAPPA ALPHA: Misses Louise Melchor, Mooresville, N. C.; Jane King, Johnston City, Tenn.; Dot Hand, Charlotte, N. C.; Annie (Continued
on page 6)

1906 Edition of Wildcats First to Complete Forward Pass in Southern Football History

WOODRUFF INFORMANT

Defeats Georgia 15-0 in Memorable Game of October 13

It will be news to many Davidson men that Davidson about 25 years ago used the first forward pass in
the history of Southern football. The late Fuzzy Woodruff, noted sports writer at that time, makes this assertion in his
“History of Southern Football.” In his book he says, “The first record of a forward pass being successfully used is
October 13, 1906, when Davidson defeated Georgia, 15 to 0. The reports of the game say that Davidson used a
short pass over the middle of the line with great effect. In fact, the more read of that year, the
more convinced we become that coaches saw in the forward pass only a means of making short gains. It had
not yet become a scoring potentiality.”

The line-up for the Davidson team and the present location of the players is: Dr. R. C. Sadler, Vineland, N.
J., left end; Rev. J. M. M. Walker, of Charlotte, left tackle; Dr. C. Lentz, of Albemarle, left guard; the
late Dr. N. B. Edgerton, of Columbia, S. C., center; Dr. R. Allen, of Waynesville, right tackle; Dr. R. W.
Spicer, Winston-Salem, right guard; (Continued on page 6)

Wildcats to Clash With Wolfpack

Dramatic Group to Present First Play

The year’s first presentation, announce the Red and Black Masquers, will be made on the evening of Home-Coming Day, October
17th, and will be W. W. Jacobs’ famous story, “The Monkey’s Paw,” dramatized in three scenes by N. Parker. Choice
of characters, of which there are five in the play, will be made from experienced members of the society. An
opportunity for Freshmen and other interested members of the student body to exercise their dramatic talent will be made with
one-act plays at present.and with longer dramas later on in the season. Tryouts, it is said, will be announced as
soon as “The Monkey's Paw” is well on its way. The play, which was originally produced at the Haymarket Theatre
in London on October 6, 1903, is the tale of a wondrous monkey’s paw which is said and believed by
legend to grant any three wishes to its possessor. Sergeant-Major Morris has happened upon this mysterious charm in his peregrinations
and, returning finally to England, presents it to the incredulous Mr. and Mrs. White, impecunious householders, who employ the paw
in an endeavor to pay off a long-standing mortgage on their property. An unexpected event following the first wish impels
the old couple to wish a second and a third time, which, if one has any imagination for the supernatural,
will produce an atmosphere of suspense and dread.

Vanderbilt Speaker Is Heard in Lecture

Dr. Edward Mims Spoke on the Subject, “Bright Intervals,” Last Wednesday Evening

A most valuable and interesting lecture was given in Chambers Auditorium on Wednesday night, September 16, 1931, by Dr. Edward
Mims, head of the English department at Vanderbilt University. Dr. Mims’ subject for the night was “Bright Intervals.” Dr. Mims
is the first of a series of speakers who are to be brought here to speak. Dr. Shewmaker is chairman
of the faculty committee on lectures and selected Dr. Mims as the first speaker because of his reputation as a
lecturer and his importance in educational circles. This noted educator has spoken twice before to Davidson students and has made
himself conspicuous not only as a speaker but also as an author. Because of his ability, he is in great
demand and is a favorite at Chautauqua, New York, during the summer season.

Dr. Mims said that he got the ideas for his lecture last summer. The weather at that time was very
rough, rainy, and foggy. The newspaper report would oftentimes read: “Mostly cloudy and rainy today—bright intervals between clouds.” During the
“bright intervals” he would see the sun shining through the clouds, the green grass, etc. The whole made a beautiful
picture and seemed at times to be a “transfiguration.” Then Dr. Mims made the practical application. While to many of
us, life seems hard, full of drudgery, and disappointments, still every life has some “bright intervals”—“bright moments.” We should look
at life through these great moments of insight into the real meaning of life.

Many of us find college disappointing. Education seems not to be worth the cost of time and money. We may
be disappointed in our professors, and they may be disappointed in us. Still, there are the “bright intervals” in college
life. We should look for them. The fine arts represent the bright intervals in the lives of some men. Not
all literature is long. The most famous poems are short. It is not the length of an essay that makes
it important. It very probably is a sentence here or there that will stir something in a man. It is
the quality of the great moment, and not the quantity. A man should not be judged by his ordinary life.
He should be judged by his great moments.

(Continued on page 6)

OPEN FORUM

On Sunday evening, October 4th, the Y. M. C. A. is to conduct its Vespers Service in the form of
an open forum. The meeting will be conducted by Dr. K. J. Foreman, professor of English Bible. Instead of throwing
the meeting open to impromptu questions and answers, a box has been placed at the entrance of Chambers and will
be there through next Tuesday morning, September 6th, to accommodate those students having problems that they would like to have
discussed. Carl R. Pritchett, Y. M. C. A. Secretary, expressed his earnest desire that all men having problems of theological
nature or otherwise would please write them on a slip of paper and deposit them in the above-mentioned box. The
slips need not be signed, according to Mr. Pritchett. This is the first meeting of its kind to be conducted
on the Davidson campus and a sincere degree of interest is solicited from the student body by the Y. M.
C. A.

Wolfpack in Night Game

Saturday in Greensboro

Davidson’s First Big Five Tilt Expected to Draw Fans in Large Numbers

FIRST GAME FOR STATE

Younger to Use Set of Plays Withheld in Elon Game

Davidson makes her initial bid for Big Five honors when the Wildcats meet N. C. State on Saturday. The game
will be played at night and a good crowd should be present as Wake Forest and Carolina go into action
at Chapel Hill during the afternoon. The Wildcats won a hectic battle from the Wolfpack last year when they played
under the lights in Greensboro’s World War Memorial Stadium where the fracas will be staged this year. The score was
12-0, and 13-0 the previous year. The pack will certainly be out for vengeance and the Wildcats will be determined
to repeat their victories, so a snappy scrap will be assured.

The guidance of the Aggies is in the hands of Coach “Clipper” Smith this year who has charge of them
for the first time. Great interest is being shown in his 1931 edition of North Carolina State College. Of course,
a stiff training schedule has been in progress. Morning and afternoon scrimmages, perfection of plays and individual drills, hard workouts
consisting of driving, tackling, and blocking, and practice in scoring plays have been the program for the past several days.
Coach Monk continues the regular drill and works to perfect the shift attack. The injured list for North Carolina State
still ranges around four, but most of these men will probably be ready for the game on Saturday. Rudy Seitz,
200-pound letterman tackle; Ridenhour and Matlack, two prospective first team guards, and Don Wilson, a half, were on the injured
list. Davidson has been lucky so far this year. “Mick” Bradshaw is the only member of the squad who has
received an injury and he has practically recovered. No one was hurt in the Elon game, so we have a
good chance to meet State in full force.

The coaches of both institutions have been having the blues off and on since the season began. Coach Smith claims
the team is not up to par and isn't running any too well as yet. Coach Monk needs reserves first
of all. The Wolfpack line-up is still tentative. Backfield talent has been showing up unusually well, John Lanning, Dink Dellinger,
Bob Cook, and Mope Cumisky getting loose for good gains frequently during scrimmage. Kinken was also a consistent ground-gainer. All
these men have good chances for berths on the State machine. Willie Duke, who has been shifted from end to
guard, has demonstrated that he must be considered as a successor to the place left vacant by the graduation last
spring of Mack Stout, who captained the 1930 Wolfpack. Red Espey at center and Captain Cobb at tackle were highlights
in the line. Gurneau is at end and ought to do well this season. He performed brilliantly in wrestling here
last winter. Both teams will be on the qui vive when Saturday rolls around. State has not performed so far
this season, but will be rearin’ to go. The Elon game did not conclusively prove any-

(Continued on page 6)

Jenkins is Elected to Staff of Yowl

Gaither Jenkins was recently elected business manager of the Yowl for this year by the publications committee. He succeeds Archie
Baker, who did not return to Davidson, but went to Tulane Medical School. Gaither is a member of Alpha Phi
Epsilon, national forensic fraternity, International Relations Club, was on the Quips and Cranks editorial staff, and was on the business
staff of the Yowl last year. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. The Yowl is a
new magazine at Davidson, this being its second year of publication. The business manager and the editor-in-chief, Vereen Bell, desire
to increase the circulation of this magazine as much as possible. The Yowl will be larger and the cover design
will be changed. Present plans indicate three issues this year, the first of which will appear on November 1st. Reeves
Pope is the head of the art department and will have charge of all that work.
