THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1931

BEAT THE CITADEL

THE SPORTS PARADE

FRESHMEN PLAY P. J.C. HERE FRIDAY

Davidson Wildcats to Clash With Citadel Saturday

Contest This Saturday Is the Last to be Played Here This Year

CLOSE GAME EXPECTED

Competitive Scores Show the Two Teams Evenly Matched

Davidson's home schedule will be brought to a close here next Saturday when the Wildcats battle the Cadets of The Citadel in the eleventh meeting of the two schools. The Cadets return this year with a determination to avenge the defeats they have suffered at the paws of the Wildcats the past two seasons.

Last year the two teams met in Charlotte and Davidson eked out a 6-0 victory, when Joe McCall scored a touchdown within the first five minutes of the game. The year before Davidson won over the Cadets by a 7-6 score, the extra point which proved to be the margin of victory being kicked by Thad Brock.

Davidson first met the South Carolina school in 1909. That game ended in a scoreless tie, but since that struggle nine contests have been played between the two schools. Of these nine, the Wildcats have emerged the winner in seven, The Citadel in one, and the others resulted in a tie. In the ten games played, the Wildcats also hold an advantage in the scoring department with a total almost double that of the Cadets, Davidson scoring 113 points to The Citadel's 57. Except for the 1910 battle, which Davidson won, 27-6, all the struggles have resulted with small victory margins.

This year The Citadel brings an eleven to Davidson which has won three games, lost two, and tied one. They have been outscored by their opponents 32 to 25. In this respect, Davidson holds a slight advantage over her opponents with 40 points to 38. Davidson also has three victories, two defeats, and two ties for this year’s record.

In her first game of the season, The Citadel lost to Mercer, 26-0. But Mercer has a powerful eleven which has met defeat only once in six attempts against S. I. A. A. teams this fall. Against Erskine the following Saturday, the Cadets showed a more versatile attack and defeated the Seceders to the tune of 12-6. Since then, the Seceders have played the Wildcats to a scoreless tie. This should show in a slight degree the comparative strength of the Wildcats and Cadets.

The Citadel's third game, played against V. M. I., ended in a 13-13 tie. Their next two struggles were with Clemson and Stetson. Both of these resulted in 6-0 victories for the Cadets, but in their game last week against South Carolina, they were unable to hold the Birds and the latter ran roughshod over them to the tune of 27-6. Since Davidson defeated V. M. I. by a 7-0 score last week, the Wildcats are given a slight edge over the Cadets, but from all indications, the battle will be hard-fought and the final score will be close.

Roane Chosen Head Of Sigma Delta Psi

The members of the Davidson chapter of the Sigma Delta Psi national honorary fraternity held a meeting last week for the election of officers. R. E. C. Roane, the only man in college now that was taken in in 1930, was elected president for the scholastic year 1931-32, and Johnny Creech was made secretary and treasurer.

Sigma Delta Psi is a goal for anyone who is athletically inclined to strive for. It has been recognized by the Honorary Fraternity Council and has been installed in all the leading colleges and universities. Only 18 men have made the Davidson chapter since it was incorporated in 1930. The following men passed all the requirements last year, and automatically became members of the fraternity: Tom Brohard, John Creech, W. A. Flinn, R. Z. Johnston, A. G. Little, Alec Montgomery, J. H. O'Keeffe, Bruce Peabody, Ben Taylor, and Joe Tyack.

Any man in college is eligible to try for Sigma Delta Psi. Pete Whittle, the assistant athletic director, who was a member of the new chapter in 1930, is aiding Captain Pritchett in testing the men for the various qualifications. He urges every man, and especially the Freshmen, to come out now and get some of their events off. It is not necessary to run off all the events at once. They may be passed one at a time and a record will be kept of each. That is, one might pass four or five events one year, and a record of them will be kept so that he will not have to pass them again the next year.

A beautiful trophy is given every year to the man making the most number of points in the competition. Extra points are given in all the running and field events. Last year Flinn won the trophy, with Peabody running him a close second. Also, a member of Delta Sigma Psi counts one point for his fraternity toward the winning of a trophy.

The qualifying events are as follows:
- 100-yard dash—11 3-5 seconds.
- Shot put—according to weight.
- Football punt—120 feet.
- 120-yard low hurdles—16 seconds.
- Running high jump—5 feet.
- Running broad jump—17 feet.
- 20-foot rope climb—12 seconds.
- Baseball throw—250 feet.
- Javelin throw—130 feet.
- 100-yard swim—1 minute, 45 seconds.
- 1-mile run—6 minutes.
- Front hand spring—landing on feet.
- Hand stand—10 seconds.
- Fence vault—chin high.
- Good posture—standard B (H, B. M.)
- Scholarship—eligible for varsity competition.

Maximum substitution is three letters or intramural championship and two letters.

October 3, Lexington, Va.: Davidson 19, W. and L. 0; October 31, Davidson, N. C.: Davidson 7, V. M. I. 0. Both teams from Lexington; both teams from Virginia; both scores 7-0. Two victories out of three games with Virginia teams. Not bad.

Back into form again and displaying a determined and confident mode of attack, not too cocky, the Wildcats outplayed the clean fighting cadets of V. M. I. to win decisively by a 7-0 score. Running their plays with an attitude of savoir-faire, every man playing his part in each play as it should be played, the ‘Cats seemed to have lifted themselves out of a former rut in which there seemed to be no cooperation, and were functioning, with the exception of a portion of the first half, with machine-like precision. And this is the way we like to see them play. A winning attitude—that’s it.

It's a funny thing about these Wildcats, they'll fight, all right, every time, but you never can tell when they're going to fight together. And that’s what counts—cooperation. They remind us somewhat...of these four Mills brothers of radio fame. Nobody knows when the ‘Cats are going to be on or off their game, and nobody knows when the Mills brothers are going to be on or off the air. But when they are “on”—well, that’s something else, and no mistake. But to get back to the game, we observed that the Wildcat line, which only too often gets less commendation than the backfield, was man, it’s sad but true (the line) do all the fighting that the coat and pants truly every Phi Gam-Beta Tilt Will Decide Champs

After a very exciting and successful season, the inter-fraternity touch football tournament came to a close yesterday afternoon. The final game was played between the Beta Theta Pi team, who were defending champions, and the Phi Delta team. The Betas earned their right to play in the finals by defeating the Kappa Sigs, the K.A.’s, and the S.P.E.'s. The Phi Gams won the final position by their victories over the Phi Kappa Phi’s and the Gamma Pi K.A.’s, and then a bye into the finals. As this issue went to press, the final game had not been played. The games all drew larger crowds than ever before. The games were very closely contested and were divided into two halves of fifteen minutes apiece and were very well run off by competent officials. The whole tournament was stretched over a period of about three weeks. The results of the games were as follows:

S.A.E. vs. S.P.E. 6-0
Betas vs. T.U.O. 18-0
K.A. vs. K.A. 12-0
Betas vs. Phi Gams 30 yds.
Phi Gams vs. Phi Kappa Phi 8 yds.
Bye, Phi Gams

Nationally Known Camel Pile Coats
Stetson “D” Store
SPECIAL FOR 10 DAYS ONLY
Justly Famous - $37.50

Watts Defeats Georgia 7-0 in Y.M.C.A. Benefit Contest

work, and the vest (the backfield) gets all of the gravy. Gardner, Whitfield, and Johnson played brilliantly at times, and were possibly outstanding in the line, while Brown, Mathis, and Raker kept things hot for any of the cadets who came their way. Conway played a very good defensive game, and Wagner, though handicapped by a bad shoulder injury and a bum knee, was a stone wall of defense. One thing we like about Buddy Gardner, when he tackles a man, that man has to recline a minute or two to remember where he is. We like to see a man leave his feet, get a half-nelson on the ball carrier in mid-air, and let him know that he’s been hit. Incidentally, Dick Whitfield and Bob Johnson are no mean tacklers. Bob has come through in a big way, and we predict big things for Dick in the future. It was Billy Flinn who made the touchdown, a 34-yard run off tackle in a scintillating gallop which would have done credit to an All-American. And to give credit where it is due, there was a nice hole there to give him a good start. Parson Peabody’s 65-yard run from the 10-yard line was undoubtedly the most brilliant of the afternoon, matched only by Smith’s 60-yard sprint for V.M.I. Peabody, who dodged and eluded several tacklers at first, cut straight for the sidelines, and but for one man, would have scored. Don King ran his team well and was also good for several gains through the line. And though he got through for extra yardage through the line several times, Charlie Pearce distinguished himself mostly by some beautiful punting. Gill of V.M.I. evidently had an off day, for his punts were often for very short distances, one in particular which was good for only two yards. Next Saturday the 'Cats meet another military team, the Citadel. These boys play clean, hard football, and it is always a pleasure to see these two teams scrap. The Citadel defeated Erskine by a 12-6 count earlier in the season, but played V.M.I. on even terms for a 13-13 tie, so anything may happen when they meet the Wildcats. With the exception of Wake Forest, who plays P.C. at Wake Forest, the Davidson-Citadel game will be the only Big Five game in North Carolina, and should be the center of attraction on November 7.

Marquis Piero Misciattelli, professor in the University of Siena, noted Dante scholar and authority on Italian art and literature, is lecturing at Columbia University this fall.

Game Is First of Series of Games to Be Played Between Dormitories

MARION CROSSES GOAL
Georgia Threatens in Final Period But Fails to Score

In the first of a series of football games between teams from various dormitories, Watts defeated Georgia, 7-0. The game was played on the varsity practice field, and was attended by a large number of students, who gave enthusiastic support to the two teams, as well as to certain individual players. The proceeds of the game went to the Y.M.C.A. During the first quarter, each team tried plays to test the other's defense, and neither threatened the other's territory. In the second period, Watts began a steady drive down the field to Georgia's 8-yard line. On the next play, Marion slipped off left tackle, and squirmed through the Georgia defense for the only touchdown of the game. Montgomery's drop-kick was good. The half ended after a few more plays, the score being Watts 7, Georgia 0. The third quarter was a repetition of the first; both teams holding for downs and exchanging punts. In the final quarter, Georgia resorted to an aerial attack, which did not prove very successful. Watts made several gains through the line, and the game ended without further score. Smyre and Bethea for Watts, and Bell for Georgia were the shining lights in the line, while Montgomery's punting and Kuykendall’s returning of those punts were the features of the backfield performance. The line-up was as follows:

Watts (7) Georgia (0)
Smyre L.E. Gorham
McCallie L.T. Ashcraft
St. Clair L.G. Shaw
Kirkland Center Reid
Bethea R.G. Morrow
Stevens R.T. Johnson
Holland R.E. Bell
Moseley Q.B. Kuykendall
Montgomery L.H. Williams
Marion R.H. Martin
Manson F.B. Tomlinson

Give Us a Trial
NORTON’S
“DRUGS” “SODA” “PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”
Students’ Supplies
Make Our Store Your Store
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

Davidson Theatre
MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“HEARTBREAK” CHARLES FARRELL
WEDNESDAY
“SIN OF MADELINE CLAUDETTE”
THURSDAY
“24 HOURS”
FRIDAY
“ROAD TO RENO”