THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 12, 1931

WILDCATS PLAY STATE & CAROLINA ON ROAD

THE SPORTS PARADE

DAVIDSON WRESTLERS MEET DUKE HERE SATURDAY

’Cats to Meet Blue Devils Again Feb. 17

Davidson Students Will be Admitted to the Game Free of Charge

Tuesday night, February 17, the Davidson Wildcats will meet Duke in a return engagement at the Charlotte Armory before what
is expected to be one of the largest crowds ever to see a basketball game in Charlotte. The Blue Devils
will be on their way down to the Southern Conference tournament in Atlanta, which means they should be in the
peak of condition. It has been two years since Davidson has defeated Duke in a basketball game and the Wildcats
will be out to win that night.

Both Duke and Davidson were off in their last encounter, making the game a slow and uninteresting spectacle, but by
then the two quints should have returned to proper form. It has always been an assured scrap when Davidson and
Duke battle and it will be more so Tuesday, as the Wildcats aim to even the count with the Blue
Devils. Last year these two traditional rivals battled before a crowded house in Charlotte on even terms, only to have
the Blue Devils forge ahead in the last minute and win by three points.

Davidson journeyed to Durham earlier in the season and were turned back by Duke in a slow game, 27-18. This
was Davidson's first Big Five defeat, and with it went the Big Five lead. This was a blow to Davidson
hopes and a blow that needs revenge, as are many other setbacks received at the hands of Duke in the
past year.

The Blue Devils and Carolina play Saturday in Chapel Hill in a return engagement. If Duke wins this game and
Davidson crashes through with two wins tonight and tomorrow, then Davidson and Duke will meet Tuesday for the Big Five
championship, in all probability, though Davidson has a game with Wake Forest here toward the end of the season. State
knocked Duke off of the Big Five lead last week when they outplayed them to take a 26-23 decision. Croson,
lanky Blue Devil center, was off his game as were Shaw and the others.

The Athletic Association, according to reports, is going to admit students to this game free of charge as they did
for the Carolina game. An effort was made to bring the game to Davidson.

EAST is WEST when the twain — old man Wind and Property meet — and twist. In proportion, Windstorms do
as many dollars damage in the East, as Tornadoes do in the West. Last year 185 windstorms and tornadoes destroyed
property, country-wide, worth $13,000,000. The speed of the wind in the wicked heart of a tornado is between 200 and
500 miles an hour. You can’t run that fast to get away from one, so tell us to rush the
delivery of that windstorm policy for you — now — before the Blow hits you.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO. Insurance Department CHARLOTTE, N. C. McAlister Carson ('13), Manager M. B. Speir (’26)

The Davidson Wildcats started the game against the Charlotte “Y” quint Thursday night like a house afire, but fell into
such a shooting slump that they didn’t make good a single two-pointer during the entire last half. Because of this
the Linkmen went back to Charlotte with the large end of a 29 to 20 score.

A few minutes after the start of the game, Davidson was leading, 12 to 3, and seemed to have the
situation well in hand. But at this point Neiman, “Y” forward, got going and sank four long shots in quick
succession. Due to this spurt, the “Y” left the floor at the end of the half leading 16 to 15.

During the second period the guarding was so close that the Wildcats were shut out entirely and the Linkmen got
only two pointers. However, the fouling was prevalent, the “Y” gaining nine points while the Wildcats were getting five. A
total of 22 fouls were called during the game with Davidson quint having the advantage, 11 to the “Y's” 11.
John Purser and Neiman were high point men of the evening, with 11 and 9 points, respectively. Line-ups and summary:

Charlotte “Y” G. Fg. Tp.
Purser, f. 3 5 11
Neiman, f. 4 1 9
Smith, c. 1 1 3
Carter, g. 1 3 5
Shomer, g. 0 0 0
Comer, g. 0 1 1
Totals 9 11 29

Davidson G. Fg. Tp.
Rusk, f. 0 5 5
Stokes, f. 1 1 3
McIntyre, c. 1 4 6
Goodson, g. 0 1 1
Peyton, g. 2 0 4
Bennett, g. 0 1 1
Totals 4 12 20

Non-scoring substitutes: Davidson—Peabody, Boucher. Referee—Hackney (Carolina).

Guilford 27—Davidson 18

A fast-passing outfit from Guilford surprised a lethargic quint on the Davidson home floor Monday and took the scalp of
the Big Five leaders to the tune of 27-18, in one of the major upsets of the present basketball season.
Feeling keenly the loss of Captain Goodson, star Wildcat guard, the Davidson five played a hurried, wild-passing game and muffed
numerous chances for easy points with poor shooting.

The Red and Black team started off in creditable fashion, and after six minutes of play were leading 10 to
5. However, from this point the Wildcats trod the downward path and were barely ahead at the half, 12-11.

During the first half of the second period the score was knotted three times, 12-all, 15-all, and 18-all. With four
minutes left to play, the calm Guilford five profited from the erratic shooting and passing of the desperate Davidson quint
to run up a comfortable lead. Captain Alleshouse, Hayworth, and Jamieson were outstanding for the victorious Quakers.

(Continued on page 6)

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia

HAS A Distinguished Faculty Nineteen Buildings, Fifty Acre Campus A Moderate Endowment, and Many Scholarships

For Catalogue and information, address Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President

S. A. E.’s Win Fraternity Basketball Tournament

Defeat Kappa Sigma to Win Third Event of Interfraternity Trophy Race

The Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity won the fraternity basketball tournament by routing the Kappa Sigmas, 23 to 12, in the
final round. The Kappa Alpha fraternity came third, followed by the Pi Kappa Phi’s and the Phi Gamma Delta’s who
were tied for fourth position.

The S. A. E. team met the Pi Kappa Alpha team in the first round and won by a narrow
margin. Then they defeated the Kappa Alpha team by one point in a thrilling finish to place them in the
finals.

The winners had a smooth-working team and developed good team-work before the tournament was over, but their defeat of the
Kappa Sigmas came as a surprise. The S. A.FE. team was composed of McAllister, Clark, Myers, McKinnon, and Cannon. This
places the S.A.E.'s among the leaders for the athletic Beta Theta Pi's who, together with a win on the campus
football championship, and the Kappa Sigma’s runners-up in both the football and the basketball tournaments.

Davidson Beaten by Two Virginia Teams

The Wildcat matmen fared rather badly last week on their Virginia trip where they wrestled both Washington and Lee and
the Virginia Military Institute in successive matches. They were the first defeats for Davidson this year. Meeting Washington and Lee
last Thursday night, Davidson was defeated by the score of 31 to 3. Captain Pie Conway of the Wildcats won
the only decision for Davidson by a time decision in the 165-pound class. The W. & L. team got three
decisions and four falls. Acting as captain of the Generals was Abramson, who recently threw his Army opponent in three
seconds. He defeated Gorham of Davidson with a figure four and a half-nelson in five minutes. Tex Tilson, of Washington
and Lee, who wrestled in the 175-pound class, is a brother of Davidson's line coach.

Two nights later, Davidson was defeated by V.M.I., 30 to 0, failing to win any matches. The Keydets took five
decisions and two falls, getting one match by default. The match between the two captains, Talman and Conway, was one
of the best of the evening. It was the first time that the Davidson captain had lost to a Southern
opponent during his intercollegiate career. Talman held the Southern title in the 175-pound class last year, this year wrestling in
the 165-pound class.

LOOKING 'EM OVER
With W. H. Matthews

SHADOWS OF COMING EVENTS

Thursday, February 12
Basketball — Varsity vs. University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Freshmen vs. Carolina Fresh at Chapel Hill.

Friday, February 13
Basketball — Varsity vs. N.C. State at Raleigh.
Freshmen vs. N.C. State Fresh at Raleigh.

Saturday, February 14
Wrestling — Varsity vs. Duke at Davidson.

Tuesday, February 17
Basketball — Varsity vs. Duke at Charlotte.
Wrestling — Freshmen vs. Belmont Abbey at Davidson.

By virtue of N.C. State’s upset victory over the Duke Blue Devils Saturday night, Davidson again came into the Big
Five lead, this time in a tie with N.C. State. The Wildcats dropped out of first place as a result
of their loss to Duke early last week, but in remaining idle against other Big Five opposition while the leaders
were losing a game, Davidson again moved back into first place. Thus, except for four days, Davidson has been in
first place in the Big Five race continuously since January 8. But as to whether they will remain there is
another story, and it is one that will be settled before the next issue of this paper comes out. For
Davidson meets Carolina and N.C. State tonight and tomorrow, respectively, and then takes on Duke in Charlotte next Tuesday. That
will leave only one more Big Five game on Davidson's schedule, with Wake Forest, which the Wildcats will be doped
to win, in all likelihood. But that is getting about two weeks ahead of time.

If Davidson wins three games, which is certainly an optimistic hope, they will be sitting firmly on the very top
rung of the ladder, holding a commanding position. But, as we have said, that is a most optimistic hope.

In the first place, judging from performances, Davidson seems to have been going back instead of forward in their play
ever since they met Carolina, and later, V.P.I. The ball played against the Charlotte “Y” and Guilford was some of
the worst that has been seen in quite a while. That is saying a lot, but nevertheless, it is true.
Against State and Carolina early in the season, the Wildcats looked almost unbeatable at times. Since then they have frequently
looked anything but that. And Davidson’s opponents have been improving as time went on, consistently whetting their teeth by trying
to chew up each other. Carolina, State, and Duke have gotten better and better, and right now each is probably
an odds-on favorite to take the Wildcats into camp when they meet. Which does not mean that they will, by
any means.

Coach Doc Unger’s wrestling team met the Southern Conference's most powerful teams in the last week on their trip to
Virginia, and the results were all against Davidson. Capt. Pie Conway, who lost a time decision in the V.M.I. match,
was defeated for the first time by a Southern opponent. The winner of the match is the holder of the
Southern Conference title in his weight. The only match lost by Conway last year was against his West Point opponent,
the captain, winning all others, and claiming the state title in his weight. The match with Duke this week-end will
be the fourth opponent of the Davidson grapplers in three weeks' time, all of them members of the Southern Conference.
Matches with V.P.I. and Carolina will conclude the varsity card.

Coach Tex Tilson is putting his spring football candidates through a really tough schedule. Several short scrimmage sessions were held
last week and more have been on the program for this. The change of weather early this week was welcome
to the candidates, as the temperatures they had been working out under were anything but favorable for football. About forty
candidates are reporting daily. According to the plans of the coach, scrimmage will be the order of the day at
frequent intervals up to the last two weeks or so, and then three or four practice games will conclude the
winter workouts.

Captain Pritchett is working a number of men. Prospects are fairly good, especially in distance events, hurdles, and one or
two of the weights. The track schedule arranged this year for the Davidson team is the best that we have
seen here in some time. All of the strong squads, and home meets are plenty, even though Davidson may lose
some of them, they will provide thrills for the spectators. Whenever Captain Pritchett arranges schedules, we notice that he gives
the spectators and their welfare as much or more consideration as the team he happens to be making a card
for. The cash customers like it, and the teams do always fairly well under the system also.

Won't be long now before those who are so inclined will be able to hear the crack of horsehide on
willow any afternoon now. Baseball practice will start soon. Prospects are pretty good, except for the need of some pitchers.

Note from Duke University: Wallace Wade, the man who may do wonders at Durham, in looking his candidates over said
that the boys didn’t grow as big up here as they do in Alabama, but then perhaps a few big
boys may turn up. And he can say that after looking over the boys who made up that Blue Imp
team of last fall. Whatta man!

Complete Service for School
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

STATIONERY MAGAZINES
STUDENT SUPPLIES BOOKS
FOUNTAIN PENS SUNDRIES
NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE
W. S. HENDERSON

Clothing Furnishings
STETSON “D” STORE
PHONE 206 OPPOSITE CAMPUS
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
Friendly Five John Ward Sport Shoes
