THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 23, 1931

Book Review

BOOKS WE HAVE READ

Swift, by Carl Van Doren—The Viking Press, New York.

To one who has, at best, had only a hasty resume of English literature, this biography of one of the greatest writers in that literature comes as a delightful welcome in the extremely rich field of biography. From the associations of Dryden and Pope, and Addison and Steele, Van Doren shows Swift as emerging supreme, the greatest of them all. The boy at Kilkenny, the secretary to Temple, the man who hated all women yet immortalized one, the dean of St. Patrick’s—all live again for us in one of the most spirited biographies of today. With a skill which makes one believe he is reading a novel rather than a biography, Mr. Van Doren gives us the story of the man who was never quite able to adjust himself to the scale of life as other men lived it. A critic not only with his pen but also at heart, he remained forever an alien, a solitary figure. His whole life is a story of his literary achievements, told in the fitting background of the constantly tragic fight between his hatreds and his loves. A rebel who could never quite glory in his rebellion, Swift was a literary genius, the like of which few ages produce. Van Doren tells the story of Swift’s life with vigor and candor. No effort is made to push the unpleasant details into obscurity nor to constantly place the more admirable ones before the reader. His affair with Vanessa is related frankly; his love for Stella is shown as beautiful as Swift himself held it. The story of his life is a dynamic one all the way through until three years before his death. Paralysis relieved him but he did not die for three years. Mr. Van Doren has collected all of the data but he has carefully selected only those which are necessary to a fast-moving, interesting biography of one of England’s greatest men of letters.

Grand Hotel, by Vicki Baum—Doubleday, Doran Co.

It is a rare discovery, and a delightful one, to find that there is someone who knows character as does Vicki Baum. In “Grand Hotel,” her new book, she presents a number of characters in a number of situations; presents them in such a way that they are at once gay and sad, disgusting and lovable. It is a poor reader who will shun Frau Baum’s novel because the characters and settings are German. They are universal, appealing to all the world. However, Frau Baum does use, and very effectively, too, the particular individual traits of her own people. The story revolves around the situations of a few days in the lives of the characters around a Berlin hotel. Doctor Ottenschlag is truly German, but he is so like so many hotel residents we have known! Baron Gaigern, a none-too-scrupulous young man, experiences the sensations of a first real love when he falls in love with Grusinskaya, a love-hungry, middle-aged dancer in a theater. Gaigern’s first expressions of tenderness and Grusinskaya’s first taste of love in a long time are humanly, and a bit pathetically, convincing. Undoubtedly the character who is most real and who enlists the most sympathy is little Kringelein, bookkeeper at the hotel, who has come to the city from a small town after being told that he does not have long to live. His one desire is to really live a little before he dies. The story is merely a collection of not-too-logically connected incidents, and it is extremely inferior to the wonderful characterizations which Frau Baum has drawn in these incidents. In the book, there is death, there is emotion, there is an element of mystery—all running rampant in an extremely entertaining melodrama. From popularity in Germany alone, Vicki Baum has moved to popularity in America as well. She has the skill of a natural narrator; her story is alive and her characters are real.

W. W. Franklin.

Bill—Aren’t you going to have your roommate to your wedding?
Jim—No, he’s only got one dress suit.

Mother—Why on earth did you marry that gangster?
Daughter—Because I liked his wave.

Wife—Is it true that you will write before the end of the week?
Husband—Goodness, Alice, you must make that check last longer than that.

“College Humor” to Sponsor Boat Races

Thirty-Two Leading Universities Inaugurated Races Last Year

Student drivers the country over are tuning up their little outboard speed boats for the annual Gold Cup Intercollegiate Regattas, sponsored by College Humor Magazine. These races were inaugurated last year when seven different meets were held in all sections of the United States. Thirty-two of our leading universities were represented. This spring the smaller regattas have been eliminated in lieu of three large sectional events. College outboard enthusiasts from the eastern schools will compete at Lake Skaneateles in Northern New York. Pacific Coast events will be staged at Los Angeles. A definite location for the mid-west regatta has not yet been named, but it is likely these races will be held on Lake Mendota, Madison, Wisconsin, or on one of the many small lakes in Northern Illinois. College Humor gold trophies will be awarded first place winners in the various divisions and classes. Special silver and bronze medals have been secured for drivers finishing second and third in the different events.

Day-dreams often prove the real and most tangible things in life—Rev. C. R. Brown.

We are passing out of the age when the spinster was made a joke by persons who wanted to say something smart.—Margaret Bondfield.

In our social relationship we fear more to be guilty of an impropriety than we fear to wound the feeling of a fellowman.—Rabbi Morris Lichtenstein.

Short selling is a fraud to begin with; if you sold a horse you didn’t own you'd be put in jail—Senator Brookhart.

When Vazil Ferencsik, of Detroit, sought U. S. citizenship, he was asked to give his full name. It was a mouthful. “My real name,” he said, “is Vazil Rasko Ferar-ravoceincmooceuigearmocicooui. I'll spell it for you.”

An interesting discovery in the title deeds of two old cottages at Sheepy Magna, Leicestershire, near the battlefield of Bosworth, was a Latin inscription which has been translated as follows: “With water drawn from this well Richard the Third, King of England, assuaged his thirst when fighting in the most desperate and hostile manner with Henry Duke of Richmond, and about to lose before night his life, together with his sceptre. Aug. 22, A. D. 1485.” There is a large well in the garden of the cottages.

The Soviet government has furthered its drive against organized religion by increasing the already oppressive taxes on clerical incomes. The income rate for priests and church workers was increased by 75 per cent, and the change was made retroactive, applying to 1930 incomes.

Anderson Is Named Notre Dame Coach

Was Head Coach at St. Louis University Until 1928

South Bend, Ind. — (IP) — Heartley (Hunk) Anderson, who has been selected as acting head coach at Notre Dame following the death of Rockne, came to Notre Dame from Calumet, Mich., in 1918, with the immortal George Gipp and O. J. Larson. He became a regular guard in 1919 and served three years. While he did not reach sensational heights on the gridiron, he was considered by Rockne as one of the greatest of Notre Dame’s linemen. His spirit and capacity for work appealed to Rockne, and when he graduated, Rockne made him head line coach. He remained with Notre Dame until the 1928 football season, when he went

NEWS FROM OTHER HILLS

Atlanta, Ga.— (By the Red and Black and Intercollegiate Press)—Remaining awake for long periods of time isn’t unusual in college, but remaining awake 100 hours for science is. Two University of Georgia students did it so one could write a thesis for an advanced degree and to allow Dr. A. S. Edwards, head of the psychology department, toto St. Louis University as head coach. He remained there two seasons, but last year, when Tom Lieb resigned to go to Loyola in California, Anderson returned to his alma mater. The huge factor which the Notre Dame line made of itself last season was a tribute to the ability of Anderson.

The ten biggest news events of the year 1930, according to Kent Cooper, well-known newspaper man, were: The solution of Andree’s fate, the flight of Coste and Bellonte, Bobby Jones, the Gandhi movement in India, the Lindbergh baby, the Ohio Penitentiary fire, the American drought, the discovery of planet X, the return of King Carol of Roumania, and the burning of the dirigible R-101.

The United States government is making a talkie star of Dr. Stephen Moulton Babcock, who spurned a fortune so the nation might benefit freely from his milk test. The 87-year-old scientist is re-enacting for the camera his discovery of the process which brought millions to the dairymen of America. It is the first production of the Department of Agriculture.

Sixteen members of the student body of the evening sessions of Hunter College are between 60 and 70 years old, 89 are beyond 50, and 434 have passed 40. More than 1,400 are in their thirties, while more than 1,200 are still in their teens.

Customer—Is this a cheese sandwich?
Druggist—Certainly, sir. That’s our special today.
Customer—But where’s the cheese?
Druggist—Oh, we're just serving holes today.

Prof.—What is the definition of a modern kitchen?
Student—A modern kitchen is simply the place where you go to take things out of cans and put them on plates.

Office Boy—The boss is beginning to take an interest in me.
Head Clerk—Is he?
Office Boy—Yes, he asked me yesterday if I worked here.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, and Tennessee.

To Regular Students—Well balanced course, including a number of electives.
To Advanced Students—Specially chosen courses to fit each individual need.
To the Most Successful Students—Five Fellowships, some residential.

For Catalogue and information, address Rev. B. R. Lacy, D.D., President.

Clothing
Five Shoes
Original
Sportswear
STETSON
SUPREME
PHONE 206
OPPOSITE CAMPUS
CLOTHING FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
Furnishings by John Ward

make observations on the results. Harry Gerofsky, Trenton, N. J., and Wendall Morris, Pensacola, Fla., were the students. They stayed awake from Monday, March 23, until Friday noon, March 27. Gerofsky then slept for an hour and rose again to attend a wedding in Atlanta. Morris remained in bed until midnight, Friday, rose to get something to eat, and was back in bed again after 15 minutes.

Tests were made during the week to ascertain the effects. Both lost weight and complained of headaches and sore eyes, but neither suffered any lasting effects. Morris, in fact, gained strength on the last day. Conversation, cold water, cigarettes, and coffee were used to keep from falling asleep. They wandered about the campus for exercise, ate in local restaurants, attended classes regularly, and tried to keep up with their work. Morris is a graduate student in the psychology department and Gerofsky a Freshman taking the regular first-year course. Both have fully recovered and complain of no evil effects from their ordeal.

Philadelphia—(IP)—A high standard has been attained in the football practice of Temple University’s eleven this spring. Coach Heinie Miller has had his boys working out on the roof of the new student recreation building, 300 feet in the air. Incidentally, no scrimmages were held on the roof, but the fundamentals were put across fine, Miller said.

Gambier, Ohio—(IP)—By action of the Kenyon College faculty, Mark MacElvoy, 22, Cleveland Senior and captain of the football team here, was suspended for a year as a result of the finding of five gallons of liquor in his room during a raid. MacElvoy was charged with possession and fined $100 and costs.

Harrisburg, Pa.—(IP)—Football coaches who want to continue their incomes as “writers” will have to spend a little time on their English if a bill proposed in Pennsylvania is passed. The bill, if it became a law, would prohibit “ghost writing” in that state, and make it necessary for the name of everyone having a part in a published article to be published with the article.

Philadelphia—(IP)—Colleges and high schools in Pennsylvania holding boxing or wrestling contests will be required to obtain permits from the State Athletic Commission and to pay a 5 per cent tax on their gate receipts, it was announced recently by the boxing commission. Affected colleges include the University of Pennsylvania, Penn State College, Temple University, Bucknell, Lafayette, Lehigh, and others.

Memphis, Tenn.—(IP)—Henry Fuller, a college textbook salesman, a student at the University of North Carolina and a former student at the Sorbonne in Paris, is threatening to sue Memphis police authorities for putting him in jail recently on the suspicion that he was a “red.” Police Commissioner Clifford Davis said Fuller was held incommunicado for 36 hours and without a charge because police were convinced he was a Communist when he walked into central police headquarters and asked to be directed to the Communist party’s office. “I wasn’t a Communist when I went in,” said Fuller, “but I am almost one now.”

“Memphis police,” Davis said, “have been instructed to lock up anyone who shows communistic tendencies. We are not going to allow un-American, communist groups to get a hold in our city.” Fuller said he had asked police to direct him to Communist headquarters because he wished to find an acquaintance, Prof. Horace B. Davis, former member of the Southwestern College faculty here. Professor Davis, his wife, and a Communist organizer were jailed last spring and left the city after police banned their call of a public mass meeting. Professor Davis said he was not a Communist.

Birmingham, Ala—(IP)—With the graduation of its seventh group of scholarship holders in May, the Birmingham News has announced the gift of five more four-year scholarships to enter college in 1931, taking the places of those who are graduated. Each scholarship covers necessary expenses up to a maximum of $500 each year.

Athens, Greece—(IP)—The discovery of what is believed to be the first Greek temple ever dedicated to Eros, or Cupid, has been announced by Professor Brognard of the American Archeological School. Professor Brognard has unearthed the temple on the northern slope of the hill which Pausanius, an ancient Greek geographer, gave as its site.

Charleston, S. C.—(IP)—In a free-for-all fight which followed a basketball game here between the Citadel and the College of Charleston on the Citadel campus, two city firemen received injuries which sent them to the hospital and a number of students, firemen, and policemen sustained bruises and cuts. The fight started between the students of the two rival institutions. When rocks and sticks began to fly, police and firemen were summoned. Then the battle turned to a fight between the students of both institutions on one side, and the officers on the other. Things ended when the firemen turned a hose on the students.

Tucson, Ariz.—(IP)—University of Arizona students who like to ride on automobile running boards, or sit three and four in the driver’s seat, are going to pay fines to the city if they don’t take to riding like normal beings, so says the chief of police. In other words, those who don’t board the chariot first are going to have to walk to class.

Montreal—(IP)—Co-eds at McGill University are called “Freshettes.”

New York—(IP)—Dr. James E. Mendenhall, of Teachers College of Columbia University, has found that practically all difficulties in spelling are caused by four capricious vowels, a, e, i, and u. “O” is the only vowel, he said, that does not mix up would-be spellers.

For my part, I esteem a certain churlishness in a newspaper.—James N. Cain.

Davidson Theatre
Monday, 27th, and Tuesday, 28th
“STRANGERS MAY KISS”
NORMA SHEARER
Wednesday, 29th
“SECRET SIX”
WALLACE BEERY
Friday, 1st
“THE SPY”
Saturday, 2nd