THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1931

Alumni Personals

Visitors to the alumni office during the past week include M. M. Erwin, ’22, of Honea Path, S. C., and
Milton Thomasson, '24, and Frank Cannon, ’29, both of Charlotte.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of Rev. I. S. McElroy, D.D., father of Rev. I. Stewart McElroy,
'12, of Rutherfordton, and Rev. W. P. McElroy, ’12, of Montclair, N. J.; of Mrs. Sarah Hassell, mother of Rev.
A. P. Hassell, D.D., '06, of Tokushima, Japan, and W. T. Hassell, ’17, of Raleigh; of Mrs. Carrie L. Gorrell,
sister of Rev. J. E. Thacker, D.D., '90, of Norfolk, Va.

Dougald Coxe, ’23, has purchased the McDowell News, at Marion, N. C., and is now owner and editor of this
newspaper.

S. A. Robinson, '99, has been made first vice-president, and W. T. Spencer, ’26, has been made second vice-president of
the Gastonia Chamber of Commerce.

Dr. Henderson Irwin, ’06, of Eureka, N. C.; Dr. J. V. Hunter, ’94, of Asheboro, and Dr. John T. Burrus,
'01, of High Point, have all recently been re-appointed to the boards of health in their respective counties.

WANTED
Information about Davidson College alumni. Please send data, such as your marriage, books you have written, offices to which you
have been elected, etc., to Ernest Milton, alumni secretary.

M. H. Caldwell, ’82, of Concord, has been made an honorary member for life of the Cabarrus County Bar Association.

Dr. M. C. S. Noble, '79, dean of the School of Education of the University of North Carolina, has written
“A History of the Public Schools of North Carolina.” It is described by one of the leading editors of this
state as “the most important North Carolina book of the new year.” This editor devoted a half-column of comment to
Dr. Noble’s work.

W. H. Bordeaux, ’27, has been licensed to preach by the Wilmington Presbytery. Mr. Bordeaux completes his theological work next
May at Westminster Theological Seminary, in Philadelphia.

Ralph Thomas, ’29, is now with the Jefferson Standard Life Insurance Company, and has his headquarters at his old home
at Barium Springs.

Rev. W. H. Goodman, ’02, of Kannapolis, was recently the subject of a newspaper article from that city, which gave
a biographic sketch and told of his work there.

Rev. Jno. P. Johnston, ’27, is pastor of the Associated Reformed Presbyterian Church at Blacksburg, S. C.

Samuel P. Doss, ’27, of Thomasville, Ga., was recently admitted to the practice of law, having successfully passed the Georgia
bar examination.

Rev. M. G. Lyerly, ’27, has accepted a call from a group of churches near Reidsville, N. C. He has
been located near Wilson since completing his theological work at Union Theological Seminary.

Rev. LeRoy P. Burney, ’23, pastor of the Sugaw Creek Presbyterian Church, near Charlotte, is now at Vanderbilt University for
a six weeks’ course.

Aubrey N. Brown, '29, is handling the publicity of Union Theological Seminary, and in the last issue of the Christian
Observer had a very interesting news report “As Others See Them.”

Rev. W. C. Copeland, '16, formerly pastor of a group of churches near Troy, is now pastor of the Robinson
Presbyterian Church in Harrisburg, N. C.

Augustus Leazer, '11, who has been in charge of the Raleigh airport, has been promoted, and is now in charge
of the Candler Field airport, at Atlanta.

W. A. Huey, ’15, is in charge of music at the First Baptist Church in Atlanta.

Dr. Neal Anderson, '85, formerly pastor of the Independent Presbyterian Church, of Savannah, Ga., has moved to Winston-Salem, which will
be headquarters for his future work in interesting officers and members of churches in soul-winning.

P. O. Bethea, ’22, has gone to Philadelphia, Pa., where he will be assistant to the vice-president of Pennsylvania Mutual
Life Insurance Company. Mr. Bethea is located in offices of this concern at Independence Square.

Rev. R. F. Davidson, '23, is professor of physical education at Hiram College, Hiram, Ohio.

Dermott Shemwell, ’05, after residing in Albany, Ga., for many years, is now located in Winston-Salem, where he is president
of the Nye Odorless Incinerator Corporation.

Dr. W. G. Stevens, '97, has been re-elected a member of the Rock Hill, S.C., town council.

Alumni Deaths

Gen. G. C. Barnhardt, ’90
Brigadier General George Columbus Barnhardt, of the class of 1890, died at Fort Bliss, El Paso, Texas, on December 10,
closing one of the most notable careers of any army officer. A round of golf, according to press dispatches, was
believed to have aggravated a toe infection, blood poisoning having caused his death. Gen. Barnhardt had only recently returned from
Honolulu, where he had been stationed for two years following his commission of brigadier general, June 23, 1927. He had
received an appointment to the United States Military Academy while a student at Davidson, and left here to begin a
military career. He graduated from West Point with honors, participated in the Spanish-American War, was on the Mexican border from
1913 to 1916, and during the World War was on General Pershing’s staff. His other exploits have been numerous. This
Davidson alumnus had been decorated with the Distinguished Service Medal, the Croix de Guerre of France, with palm and a
silver star citation, and was made an officer of the French Legion of Honor.

Birmingham, Atlanta and Greenville Alumni Are Scheduled for Dinners

Davidson Alumni Residing in Alabama City Will Meet Tonight, Atlanta on Monday and Greenville on Tuesday

PROF. CURRIE ATTENDS
Davidson Faculty Member Will Attend Latter Two Meetings—Large Crowds Expected

Tonight at 6:30 o'clock, Davidson College alumni residing in the vicinity of Birmingham, will gather at the Bankhead Hotel in
Birmingham for the first meeting of Davidson men in that city. Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, left Davidson last night to
speak to this group, and will remain in Birmingham for two days, attending a meeting of the alumni secretaries of
six states. Rev. Edward G. Lilly, ’19 graduate of Davidson, has been the director of preliminary arrangements for the dinner-meeting,
and has reported decided encouragement in his efforts. Following the address of the alumni secretary, the meeting will be thrown
open for discussion, both in matters referring to Davidson and the Alumni Association, and as regards the perfecting of a
permanent organization.

Prof. Archibald Currie, popular member of the Davidson faculty, will join Mr. Milton in Atlanta Monday for a meeting of
the Davidson alumni in the Georgia metropolis at theHenry Grady Hotel at 6:30 o'clock that evening. Invitations to over 100
alumni have been mailed out by the Atlanta officers, who are Harllee Branch, Jr., '27, president; S. C. Marks, '31,
vice-president, and W. S. Woods, '27, secretary. These two Davidson representatives will leave Atlanta early Tuesday morning for Greenville, S.C.
to conclude the itinerary at a dinner-meeting of the Greenville chapter. This will be given at the Woodside Grill at
7:30 p.m., and invitations have gone to alumni in that city and a number of others within a radius of
50 miles. Officers of the Greenville chapter are Frank Spratt, '04, president; J. I. Smith, '25, vice-president, and Dr. E.
P. Davis, '73, secretary.

New Addresses
In addition to the new addresses listed in the “Alumni Personals” columns, others which have been obtained recently include:
J. B. Meacham, '01, 1439 S. 29th St., Birmingham, Ala.
D. D. Gibson, '07, 1522 36th Place, Norwood, Birmingham, Ala.
William T. Witt, '16, Route 8, Shades Mountain, Birmingham, Ala.
Dr. C. E. Cunningham, '22, Franklin, N.C.
Dr. A. M. McBryde, '24, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Md.
Dr. N. B. Pearah, '21, Office Suite 3, Hotel Howard, Helena, Ark.
Rev. W. E. Crane, '22, 691 Woodland Ave., Atlanta, Ga.
Rev. T. P. Burgess, '83, 623 S. McDonough St., Decatur, Ga.

Printing and Engraving of Every Description
Some men say amusing things about color in shirts and shorts—but no one questions the unusual comfort in this two-piece
J. A. CANNON underwear as made by HANES. We’ve taken track-athlete freedom and enlarged on it a bit for men
who've dropped their calisthenics, but who love comfort none the less. We are a little tickled, too, that we can
match the weird colors in your ties, your shirts, and your socks—though there is pure white, of course.
P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
Winston-Salem, N.C.

Engagements
Sory-Guthery
“Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Sory, of Fredonia, Ky., announce the engagement of their daughter, Juanita, to Val J. Guthery,
Jr., of Charlotte, the wedding to take place in the spring.” Mr. Guthery graduated from Davidson in 1927, and spent
one year in the Business School at Harvard. Since then he has been associated in business with his father. Miss
Sory is a graduate of Queens College.

Collins-Gaffney
“Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Collins, of Oklahoma City, Okla., announce the engagement of their daughter, Ann Marie, to William
Franklin Gaffney, of Davidson, the marriage to take place in February.” Mr. Gaffney was graduated from Davidson in the class
of 1930, and is now connected with the Standard Oil Company, with headquarters in Charlotte. Miss Collins was educated in
the Oklahoma schools.

Dr. Harding Invited By New York Alumni
Dr. C. R. Harding, senior member of the Davidson faculty and head of the Greek department, has been invited to
be the guest of honor at the annual dinner of the New York chapter of the Davidson Alumni Association. This
invitation was extended to Dr. Harding last week by Dr. A. B. Reese, '17, president of the organization. This chapter
annually chooses some local faculty member or officer of the administration to be their guest and speaker. The spring meet,
the date of which was set at the fall smoker, will be on March 18. There are over 100 Davidson
men residing in the American metropolis, or its suburbs, and annually over half of the number attend the dinner. Fifty-one
were present last March when Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson, and Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, were guests.

Dr. G. R. Foster, '16, Hurt Bldg., Atlanta, Ga.
Dr. W. L. Pomeroy, '25, Elizabeth St., Waycross, Ga.
J. C. Nixon, '09, 2909 Seminary Ave., Chicago, Ill.
Rev. P. B. Freeland, '25, 804 Chestnut St., Duncan, Okla.
Rev. S. L. Hunter, '18, Porterdale, Ga.
H. L. Morrill, Jr., '26, 201-101 Marietta St., Atlanta, Ga.
J. E. Millner, '26, 18 W. 76th St., New York, N.Y.
W. L. Crawford, Jr., '29, 6417 Drexel Ave., Ruthmere Apts., Chicago, Ill.
J. M. Ulmer, '30, 416 Robinson Bldg., Elmira, N.Y.

Great Interest Displayed In Proposed Visit of Dr. Lingle to Florida Cities
Definite Acceptance of Three Suggested Dates Has Already Been Received by the Alumni Secretary

MANY INVITATIONS
Dr. Lingle Has Been Invited to Make Several Other Addresses in Florida

Considerable interest has been manifested by Davidson College alumni in Florida in the proposed series of alumni meetings which will
be attended by Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of the institution. Since a preliminary suggestion of dates was made a
week ago, a definite acceptance has been received from three of the chapters, and the remaining one is momentarily expected.
Officers of the chapters have actively begun work on these dinner-meetings, even though it is approximately two weeks before Dr.
Lingle will attend the first one at Tampa. Officers of the chapters located in separate cities have used the long-distance
telephone to discuss their plans, and to ascertain if the date proposed was satisfactory. Since announcement has gone to Florida
of these meetings, the Davidson president has received numerous invitations to speak at other than the alumni gatherings. He has
been invited to fill the pulpit of the Winter Haven Presbyterian Church, of which Rev. Edgar A. Woods, '19, is
pastor, and the pulpit of the First Presbyterian Church, of which Dr. R. H. McCaslin, a trustee, is pastor. An
invitation has also come from the Quincy, Fla., Rotary Club to speak at their luncheon while in that city. In
addition to the Tampa meeting of January 30, Dr. Lingle is scheduled to be in Jacksonville on February 2, and
Quincy, Fla., has been decided upon as the place for the meeting of the S. G. N. F. (South Georgia-North
Florida) chapter on February 3. The organization at Orlando is the only one which has not been heard from as
yet. Presidents of these four local chapters are Dr. J. Frank Cranford, '06, of St. Petersburg, Southwestern Florida; R. M.
Wetherell, '08, of Orlando, Central Florida; Dr. W. McL. Shaw, '15, of Jacksonville, Northeastern Florida, and Hampton Jennings, '29, of
Thomasville, Ga., S. G. N. F. chapter.

R. M. Kennedy, '29, is with the McDonald Service Stores in Greensboro, and is residing at the Y. M. C.
A. in that city.
Fred N. Thompson, '21, of Charlotte, has been made treasurer of the Carolinas Branch of the Associated General Contractors of
America.

UNDERWEAR OF DISTINCTION
