THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 19, 1931

ALUMNI DEATHS

T. C. Hyman, ’93
Thomas Gardner Hyman, member of the class of 1893, and on the Board of Trustees of Davidson, died at Miami, Fla., February 7. A sudden heart attack was the cause of his death. Mr. Hyman, whose home was at New Bern, was visiting in Florida. He had been ill for the past several years, but recently had shown great improvement. The deceased was born April 8, 1869. He was a native of Greensboro, but after leaving Davidson he went to New Bern, where he entered business and was at one time head of the Hyman Supply Company. He was prominent in the business, civic, and social life of New Bern. He was an officer in the New Bern Presbyterian Church, had been a member of the board of aldermen and president of the Chamber of Commerce, and held many other offices in other local organizations. Mr. Hyman was an Elk, Mason, and Shriner, and a member of several other fraternal organizations. Mr. Hyman had been a prominent member of Davidson’s Board of Trustees for several years from Albemarle Presbytery. His death will be a shock to his associates on the board.

Dr. J. G. Marshall, ’99
News has recently been received in Davidson of the death of Dr. Jesse Gwynn Marshall, 1899 graduate of the North Carolina Medical College. Dr. Marshall died at his home at Canton, Okla., on December 24, 1930, three days after he suffered an apoplectic stroke. Dr. Marshall was born July 15, 1875. Prior to entering the Medical College here he attended the Medical College at Richmond, Va. He could easily be classified as one of the pioneers of the mid-west, for he immediately went to Oklahoma where he practiced in what was then known as the Territory of Oklahoma. When Oklahoma was admitted into the Union, he was licensed to practice in that state. The deceased was appointed a captain in the medical section of the Officers Reserve Corps of the United States Army on August 18, 1917, and saw special service during the influenza epidemic when he was called into service at Seminole, Okla. In September, 1919, he was called to the Indian Service at Zuni, where he served for over six years.

Dr. I. J. Campbell, ’06
Dr. Isaac Johnson Campbell, member of the 1906 class of the North Carolina Medical College, died suddenly at his home in Clover, S. C., on February 7. Dr. Campbell had spent the week in Columbia, S. C., where he was a member of the State Senate, but returned to his home in Clover, and was seen on the streets only a few hours before his death. After attending the Medical College here, Dr. Campbell went to Louisville, Ky., where he obtained his medical degree. He started practicing in Clover immediately, but retired from active participation in that field two years ago because of failing health. He had served two terms in South Carolina’s House of Representatives, being elected for the first time in 1924. In 1928 he was elected to the State Senate, which term would have expired in 1932. Before entering state politics, he was mayor of Clover several times. In addition to many other prominent roles, he was vice-president of the First National Bank of Clover.

Three Alumni Chapter Meetings Are Planned Within the Next Month
Dr. Walter L. Lingle Will Be in Washington, and Dr. C. R. Harding in New York and Baltimore

Three local alumni chapter meetings are planned within the next month. These are to be held in Washington, D. C., New York, and Baltimore. Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson, will be the speaker at Washington, and Dr. C. R. Harding, senior professor at Davidson, will be the guest of the New York and Baltimore chapters. Following out the plan of economy outlined by the Alumni Council, the annual continuous spring tour to seven or eight cities in the East will not be made this year, though the presence of Davidson administrative officers at various points up north will probably enable the alumni office to have most of the meetings anyway. The date for the Washington conclave has been tentatively set for February 26. J. A. Thomas, ’18, secretary of the chapter, recently wrote that a meeting was desired before the adjournment of Congress, so that Davidson’s three Congressmen and one honorary member of the Senate could be in attendance. Dr. Lingle is to be in Washington for a meeting the latter part of this month, and the date of February 26 was suggested, though confirmation has not been received yet. Dr. C. R. Harding has been invited to speak to the New York alumni, which is next to the largest group of Davidson men at any one point. That meeting will be on March 18. Dr. Harding has consented to stop at Baltimore en route to Davidson, and will be a guest of that chapter on March 19. Officers of the Baltimore group have been written suggesting this date. Other Davidson officials may be in the East this spring, and if so, they will be utilized wherever possible to attend other chapter meetings. According to the alumni secretary, it seems likely at this date that the association will soon be entirely out of debt when the report is made for the fiscal year which ends in May, while a trip such as is usually made costs slightly over $100.00. The Council and others connected with the alumni organization are anxious to make this report, and thus are pursuing the policy outlined above.

Pasadena, Calif.—(IP)—A small group of professors and research students gathered at the Norman Bridge Laboratory of Physics at the California Institute of Technology here last week and heard Prof. Albert Einstein, leading physical philosopher of the world, announce his latest contribution to the world’s store of knowledge. The German scientist presented the group with his new “unified fields” theory, in which he believes he has reduced and explained all major natural laws in one mathematical equation. Although the scientist urged extreme caution in its application until further study has been made, those present agreed unanimously that the new theory appears to offer a single solution to the mysteries of light, gravitation, and electro-magnetic phenomena. The importance of the new theory seems to lie in the fact that it expresses in a single equation all known laws governing the behavior of light, gravity, and electricity.

When a thief attempted to hold up John Shepard, Springfield, Mo., hot tamale salesman, Shepard rubbed some of his wares in the gunman’s eyes, whereupon the bandit screamed and made tracks.

Complete Service for School Publications
Queen City Print Co.

Four Scholarships Won By Alumni of Davidson
J. M. Appleby, ’26; V. S. Broyles, ’27; H. G. Goodykoontz, ’27; and Chas. F. McRae, ’27, Given Awards

Union Theological Seminary annually offers five fellowships to its Seniors who are completing their three-year course, and an announcement from the office of President Ben R. Lacy, ’06, at Richmond, Va., shows that four of these five fellowships were awarded to alumni of Davidson College for next year. James M. Appleby, ’26, was awarded the Salem Fellowship; Vernon S. Broyles, ’27, the Charles D. Larus Fellowship; H. G. Goodykoontz, ’27, the Moses D. Hoge Fellowship; and Chas. F.McRae, ’27, the Thomas Cary Johnson Fellowship. The fellowships awarded to Messrs. Appleby and McRae carry with them the provision that the student can either continue his study at the Seminary, at some other approved institution in this country, or abroad. Those given to Messrs. Broyles and Goodykoontz specify that study is to be continued at Union Seminary.

Alumni Marriages

Price-Haynsworth
“Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Baker Haynsworth announce the marriage of their daughter, Clara, to Dr. Julian P. Price, on Saturday, February 7, Florence, S. C.” The above announcement was received in the alumni office a few days ago. Dr. Price graduated from Davidson in the class of 1922, and returned for his master of arts degree. After leaving Davidson he went to the Johns Hopkins Medical School. Graduating from there and completing his internship, he located in Florence, S. C. Recently he was made state secretary of the South Carolina Pediatric Society. Dr. and Mrs. Price are at home in Florence.

Adams-Boyd
William Speight Adams, Jr., of Swannanoa, N. C., 1926 graduate of Davidson, and Miss Lucy Brant Boyd, of Charlotte, were married in Charlotte Thursday night, February 12. Fletcher R. Adams, ’29, of Charlotte, was best man at his brother’s wedding. Since his graduation from Davidson, Mr. Adams has been doing chemical work, and is now a chemist with the Beacon Manufacturing Company at Swannanoa. Mrs. Adams was graduated from the Ashley Hall School at Charleston, S. C., last June. Mr. and Mrs. Adams are now at home at Swannanoa.

Judge James E. Boyd, ’66, of Greensboro, last week celebrated his 86th birthday.

STOP ----

No traffic czar can regulate the progress of a windstorm or tornado. It blows and goes when and where it pleases. Each year cities, towns, and communities which “never had one” are feeling the destructive force of windstorms. Stop being penny-wise, pound-foolish. Go get windstorm and tornado insurance. Our rates are so low it’s not worth the risk to be without this protection on your home, place of business, garage, and car.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McAlister Carson (’19), Manager
M. B. Speir (’26)

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Among the alumni visitors to Davidson during the past week were C. L. Black, ’04, Greensboro; Hinton McLeod, ’07, Brevard; Carl H. Long, ’20, Winston-Salem; Don J. Chipman, ’24, Winston-Salem; R. V. Liles, ’25, Lilesville; Julian Lake, ’27, Richmond, Va.; R. O. Flinn, Jr., ’29, Richmond, Va.; Archie M. Calhoun, ’30, Laurinburg; John B. Christenbury, ’30, Crossnore; and Ernest H. McCall, ’30, Salisbury.

Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, ’06, of Charlotte, read a paper this week before the Tri-State Medical Association meeting at Richmond, Va.

William P. Greene, Jr., ’29, has been elected clerk of the South Carolina Senate Judiciary Committee. He is completing his second-year law course at the University of South Carolina, Columbia.

R. W. Oeland, ’25, who is with the Anchor Cap Company, has been transferred from New York to Louisville, Ky. He is at 1336 Starks Bldg., Louisville.

Dr. W. Z. Bradford, ’24, of Charlotte, has been temporarily appointed physician for the city schools of Charlotte.

Rev. J. Lee McLean, ’24, formerly pastor at Fairmont, N. C., has accepted a field at Capon Bridge, W. Va.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of A. M. Faggart, father of Press M. Faggart, ’26, of Concord.

J. A. Cannon, ’04, of Concord, has been endorsed by that city’s Rotary Club for the office of governor of the 58th District of Rotary International.

G. T. Preer, ’29, who was studying at Brown University, Providence, R. I., has gone to Harvard University for his second semester. He is doing graduate work in philosophy.

Rev. J. E. Cousar, ’14, formerly of St. Albans, W. Va., is now pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Covington, Va.

Dr. J. M. C. Covington, ’25, has been transferred from the Naval Dispensary at Portsmouth, Va., to the U.S.S. Andres. He can be reached on that ship, U. S. Navy, care Postmaster, New York City.

R. H. McMillan, ’24, has been transferred by the Standard Sanitary Manufacturing Company to Atlanta, and is residing at his home, 8 Peachtree Way.

W. S. Royster, ’99, of Norfolk, Va.; Dr. C. R. Wilcox, of Rome, Ga.; Rev. R. S. Arrowood, ’13, of Concord; and R. J. Knight, ’22, of Safety Harbor, Fla., are new members of the board of trustees. Mr. Royster and Dr. Wilcox were elected by the General Alumni Association, and the other two were chosen by their respective Presbyteries.

Dr. Robert W. McKay, ’17, of Charlotte, lectured before the Robeson County Medical Society at its monthly meeting held last Monday at Lumberton.

Rev. Ben F. Yandell, ’17, of Charlotte, was the principal speaker at the regular meeting of the Mecklenburg Ministerial Association, Monday.

Births

1916—Mr. and Mrs. Jas. H. Carson, of Charlotte, announce the birth of a daughter, Charlotte, on February 3.

1924—Mr. and Mrs. W. M. Heston, of Atlanta, Ga., announce the birth of a daughter, in February.

1925—Mr. and Mrs. R. G. White, of Louisville, Ky., announce the birth of a daughter, Corrie Carter, on February 8.

ANNUAL STATE MEET (Continued from page 3)

Tilson requested those coaches accepting the invitations to notify him immediately so that entry blanks would be mailed to them. This meet is held rather early in the season so that the coaches can get a line on the material which they have, and can get their men in shape for meets later in the season. The Freshmen will probably enter this tournament, but will participate only for the experience and the dope which this will give of the caliber of their team. They will, of course, be given no credit in the scoring column. Coach Tilson is expecting over twenty schools to enter. Each year the number of entrants has increased and he expects the field this year to be representative of the largest high schools in the state. Among the schools attending the meet last year were Charlotte, Winston-Salem, Wilmington, Greensboro, Raleigh, Barium Springs, and others.

The Davidson coach also stated to the high school mentors that a loving cup would be awarded to the winner as has been the custom since the inception of the track carnival at Davidson. He also announced that the teams and their guests would be the guests of the college, in the way of entertainment, while on the campus. Charlotte High School has been the consistent winner of the cup in the past. As different high schools have entered the tournament, gradually increasing the number, the competition has grown keener and the winner has had no easy path to victory. The last event of the afternoon decided the winner last spring.

UNDERWEAR OF DISTINCTION
SHIRTS AND SHORTS

Some men say amusing things about color in shirts and shorts—but no one questions the unusual comfort in this two-piece underwear as made by HANES. We’ve taken track-athlete freedom and enlarged on it a bit for men who’ve dropped their calisthenics, but who love comfort none the less. We are a little tickled, too, that we can match the weird colors in your ties, your shirts, and your socks—though there is pure white, of course.

P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
Winston-Salem, N. C.