THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 28, 1931

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

GRIER MARTIN.............Editor-in-Chief
M. CONWAY.................Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Athletic Editor
Feature Editor
Feature Editor
Review Editor
Exchange Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. MANSON........Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE........Assistant Business Manager
J. W. WHITTE........Assistant Business Manager
J. R. MORROW........Subscription Manager
W. C. HINSON........Solicitor
V. A. RICHARDS........Solicitor
J. B. WOOTEN........Solicitor
A. H. McMANUS........Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
A. H. McLEOD........President
N. P. OMAN........Vice-President
W. N. WILSON........Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
F. H. COVINGTON
J. GAMBLE
B. B. TAYLOR
S. LORRAINE
G. E. BAILEY
G. E. BOYD
J. POWELL
S. P. PRESTON
PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
F. SCHENCK
O. CASALI
J. M. THOMPSON
L. W. SETTLE
W. T. THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAMS
J. A. HUNTER

OCTOBER 28, 1931

Alas! by some degree of woe
We every bliss must gain;
The heart can ne'er a transport know
That never feels a pain—Lord Lyttleton.

PARAGRAPHICS

The effect of reports is noticeable. Men realize that their work is not up to standard, or they are urged
onward by the belief that they can do better, and therefore do more work just after the reports are out.

People passing on the Statesville highway will no longer ask the name of the preparatory school on the eastern side
of the road. We now have a sign for all the curious ones to read.

Two games on Richardson Field on successive weekends and not a single score has been marked up. That was a
brilliant show for the defense of all teams involved.

The football team needs the full support of the student body for the remainder of the games on the schedule.
They are all going to be hard to win.

HONORARY FRATERNITIES

Honorary fraternities are bidding new men at the present time; some have already sent out their invitations, while others will
do so in the near future. The accusation has often been made that these groups are of no real value
to the students who become members of them, and in many cases this accusation has been highly justified. On the
other hand, the facts in the case must be regarded before such a decision is made.

If a passive attitude of mere acceptance of honor is taken by the men who enter these organizations, the true
purpose is immediately defeated, in so far as the acquisition of any benefit is concerned. But, if the men who
accept invitations to these honorary fraternities realize that they will get out of them just what they put in, the
results will be far more successful, for the fraternity and for the man concerned.

The students who become members should keep in mind the fact that although the name “honorary” is given to the
fraternities, they should not be entered with the idea of getting nothing from them save honor alone. The interest shown
later and the active participation in the program of the fraternity bring more pleasure than the enjoyment gotten from having
one more line of honors in the annual.

There are a few basic principles which have been given here before, concerning the acceptance of bids to honorary fraternities.
In the first place, each group has its interest centered on one particular field of endeavor. This field may be
scientific, classical, musical, literary, military, or otherwise. To accept, the man should be vitally interested in the work.

Second, the person invited to join is supposed to be proficient in that particular field of endeavor. If, through some
error, the fraternity has made a mistake in their selection, the student should not consider joining, as it would be
to the disadvantage of himself and of the fraternity.

Finally, no one’s feelings will be affected by acceptance or refusal. The men extending the bid understand that there are
many things to enter into the decision of the invited one. The fact that they have invited him to membership
shows that they will be glad if he accepts.

Thus we see that only through active participation in the work of the organization does a man get the most
from his association with these groups. And only in that way will the honorary fraternities be effective.

ANOTHER OPPORTUNITY

Recently there appeared in the columns of this paper an editorial on making use of one’s opportunities. Of course, a
list of the various opportunities which a person has at Davidson would cover several pages, but we would like to
take this opportunity to bring out something decidedly useful which the student body as a whole does not take advantage
of.

The attendance at Y. M. C. A. Vespers this year has been very creditable in comparison with past years. But
even at that, only about one-half the students attend these meetings regularly. There are a great many men in school
who never go. To say that they are missing an opportunity would be putting it mildly. They are missing one
of the best things in college life.

Vesper services are the only essentially student meetings which are held at Davidson, and therefore deserve the support of every
man in the college. The “Y” secures the best speakers it is possible for them to obtain, and there are
always some interesting added features of a musical nature. The Sunday afternoon meetings never last over forty-five minutes or an
hour at the most, and it is an easy matter to go right from supper to the auditorium. They are
held by the students and for the students—why not give them your support every Sunday?

EXCHANGE

At Washington and Lee University last Friday and Saturday, according to The Ring-tum Phi, the newspaper of Washington and Lee,
there was held the Southern Interscholastic Press Association Convention. At this convention, there were delegates from the District of Columbia
and six states: Missouri, Virginia, South Carolina, Kentucky, West Virginia, and North Carolina. From the state of North Carolina were
Central High School of Charlotte, and Burlington High School of Burlington. The delegates arrived Thursday night and were entertained at
an informal reception at the Delta Tau Delta house; at that time they were entertained by Charles Blake, the college
magician, who performed a few of his many tricks of deceiving the eyes of the audience. Twelve silver cups were
awarded to the best publications represented.

The Salemite, of Salem College, tells us that they had a representative at the State Atwater Kent radio audition in
Raleigh held last Monday night. Miss Doris Kimel, a Senior at Salem, represented Salem and the city of Winston-Salem in
this audition. The Greensboro College paper, The Collegian, tells us that they were represented by two young singers, Miss Alice
Barrow, of Elizabeth City, and Miss Annie Laurie Felder, of Greensboro. The local contest was held in Greensboro last month
and Miss Barrow won first place, and Miss Felder, second. As these papers went to press the results were not
known, so The Davidsonian does not know the results.

From The Collegian, of Greensboro College, we quote the following editorial on “Optimism”:

“What a delightful sound the last gurgle of the confirmed optimist would make as he slowly choked after saying: ‘Perhaps
the depression is really a blessing in disguise.’ Yet before allowing him to choke he might be given the benefit
of a doubt.

“Perhaps his statement is true! How many students have gone into a profession merely because it carried a fairly substantial
salary and seemed an easy way out, in preference to work which they were really fitted to do, yet which
might be a poor investment financially.

“Today, what profession has not been touched by the depression? To what must the college student turn if he subordinates
his real interest to the call of—money—money? Do not the careers of teaching, law, medicine, journalism, etc., rest on the
same basis—a long struggle, a hard climb with small income, and perhaps success in the end? The flood of migration
to the teaching field has been checked by the lack of ready positions and the recent salary cut. Teaching is
daily becoming more of an art. Students are looking now for work in which their interest is primarily centered. With
no profession beckoning with the almighty dollar there is no reason why the student may not enter the work for
which he has an inner urge, thus adding his talents to the field where they readily belong.”

One of our rivals on the basketball court has eliminated this sport from their intercollegiate sports and has turned it
into an intramural sport. Lenoir Rhyne, whom we play every year on the court, has come to this action after
several years of controversy over the matter. The Lenoir Rhynean, their paper, informs us of the sad news. We have
always been friendly rivals with this college and the games on the court have always been very hard fought and
Davidson has never considered it as an easy game.for eliminating this sport at Lenoir Rhyne. In the first place, there
was less interest in it than any other sport there; in the second place, the Athletic Council believes the students
will as a whole enjoy the intramural sport as well, if not better, than the intercollegiate sport, and will derive
more benefit out of it.

The Campus Comment, of Mary Baldwin College, a bi-monthly publication, announces with pride that their last year’s annual, the Bluestocking,
was given First Class Honor Rating by the National Scholastic Press Association. The maximum score that could be gained was
1,000 points; the Bluestocking obtained 900 points to gain the term “Excellent.” One criticism that was made of this annual
was that it had “a difficult theme to develop in some respects. A good piece of work, however—scholarly.”

DES ENTREFILETS

The United States chose a most fitting way in which to pay homage to the late Thomas A. Edison. At
9:59 P.M., October 21st, the entire nation, at the request of President Hoover, was plunged into darkness for the period
of one minute. No more appropriate symbol could have been used than darkness in order to show the sorrow of
the nation over the death of the man who gave the world light. The traffic and street lights in all
our cities went out and in many movie theatres the screens faded out for sixty seconds while the American nation
paid its debt of memory.

In Geneva, the League of Nations is facing a real problem in the case of Manchuria. Very little progress is
being made in the settlement of the dispute between China and Japan. The troops of both nations are occupying the
territory and Japan refuses to withdraw its troops even if China has agreed to protect Japanese citizens in Manchuria. The
League adopted a resolution asking Japan to evacuate by November 16th, but it was not accepted by Japan. China has
agreed to observe the Briand-Kellogg pact but Japan insists upon negotiations before the withdrawal of troops.

Much depends upon the outcome of trouble in Manchuria. It will, if the League is successful, prove the power of
this body and may influence the United States in regard to a change of attitude toward the League of Nations.
It is well to note that the United States is being represented for the first time in the League in
the person of Consul-General Gilbert. Gilbert has no official capacity and is merely attending the meeting for the interests of
his country. If the League of Nations continues to become more influential in world affairs, it will not be many
years before the United States will be forced to become a member.

“Taxation without representation” comes to the front again in the recent demonstration staged at Dartmouth in protest of the tax
proposed by the Hanover, N. H., school board on fraternities. Fifteen hundred students, including the student council and band, gathered
at the building where the Board of Education was holding its meeting and built bonfires about the place. They broke
into the hall where the president of the college was presiding over the meeting and forced them to adjourn. The
meeting was adjourned until December 18, at which time the students will be on Christmas vacation.

The George Washington bridge over the Hudson has the world’s largest span. It extends 3,500 feet between towers. This bridge,
which was opened to traffic only a few days ago, is a monument to the engineering skill of this age
of steel; it is a milestone in the road of achievement. One would think that we were fast approaching the
limit in length of spans, but according to one authority, we are only beginning. A modern suspension bridge of 10,000-foot
span can be built with the same degree of safety as the George Washington bridge, said O. H. Ammann, chief
engineer of the Port of New York Authority, in an address before the American Society of Civil Engineers recently.

The arrival of Pierre Laval, Premier of France, in this country is a subject of greatest importance in foreign affairs.
Laval’s mission is unknown, but one may rest assured that it is of prime importance, for otherwise the Premier would
not have made such a long journey to see President Hoover. According to Babson, who has become famous through his
supposed powers to look into the future and forecast events, and his actual ability to get people to pay him
for his guesses, Laval has come to this country to persuade the United States to inflate its currency so Europe
will be able to pay off its debts easier.

With the turning down of the railroads’ plan of a 15 percent increase in rates, the I. C. C. has
proposed a plan of self-help by the use of a pool. The I. C. C. will permit increases in some
rates but not in the manner proposed by the roads. A pool is proposed by the commission in order to
enable the weaker roads to get funds for interest which must be paid on bonds. The Association of Railway Executives
at its meeting at Atlantic City has accepted the plan of the commission “to help stabilize railroad credit by a
co-operative and united effort.” A committee has also been appointed to suggest to the I. C. C. modifications of the
proposals of the commission to pool revenues accruing from specified increased rates for assisting carriers unable to meet their fixed
charges. The railroads are glad at the present to grasp at anything which will better their condition, for at this
time more roads are being threatened with bankruptcy than there were in the panic of 1893. Railroads are necessary to
this country and it will be only a matter of time until their condition is bettered by legislation.

The East Carolina Teachers College, of Greenville, N. C., will have some splendid music this winter, according to their paper,
The Teco Echo. On November 17 they will have the Don Cossack Russian Male Chorus, a chorus of thirty-six former
officers of the Czar. “These men, singing the song of the homeland which they have small hope of ever seeing
again, since they are exiles, sing with such emotion that each thrills to it.” Then in January, they are to
be entertained by the famous coloratura soprano, Galli-Curci. She has been famous as a singer throughout the world for many
years, so it is not necessary to go into details about her ability.

Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings...
Duncan McBryde

THE MOURNING AFTER THE NIGHT BEFORE

Four (count ’em) verses.

Broke, broke, broke,
On thy cold gray streets, D. C.!
And I would that my wallet would supply
The wants that arise in me.

Oh well for the banker’s son,
With autos of latest makes,
Oh well for the wealthy one,
And the week-end trips he takes.

And the cruel, cold world goes on—
The good, the indifferent, the bad;
But oh for the touch of the ole Greenbacks
That I used to get from Dad!

Broke, broke, broke!
(And campus’d too, D. C.!)
And the metallic clink of coin that is gone
Shall never come back to me.

SUGGESTED SLOGANS:
(For a tailor:)
“A stitch in time will save many a blush,”
(For an auto repair shop:)
“If your tire is flat, we fix it;
If you are flat, we fix you!”

Our Foolish Contemporaries

Three cheers for Oofy the Offis Boy, of By the Way fame. Here’s one of his latest:
“Come where my love lies dreaming;
She’s snoozing beneath a tree;
Let’s tickle her cheek
And the tip of her beak
With the business-like end of a bee.”

Laying Aside All Jokes

“In my class (’23) there was ONE man who didn’t belong to a Literary Society. They called him ‘ILLITERATE’!”—Rev. W.
M. Hunter. Join a Literary Society.

That talk last night by Captain Seifert was well worth hearing, as well as the talk the week before, by
Professor Blythe. Both these speakers figured in a “Travel Talk Series” instituted by the Phi Society.

SETTLING THE GANGSTER PROBLEM

We believe we have at last solved the great question of the gangster and racketeer in America. Our remedy is
simple, but should prove effective. We can’t scare any of the gangsters; they have the cops bribed. We can’t keep
them in jail; they have too much money. What shall we do? Our answer is: Turn them over to the
Chesterfield Cigarette people. THEN THEY’VE GOT TO BE GOOD!

BOOT-LAGER

We would say that any racketeer nowadays is in the near bier business.

CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT

“You know what Sherman said war was. Well, the same thing still goes, with R. O. T. C.”—Arnold Pate.

IN MEMORIAM:

Here’s to the boy who did not play;
But came out, injured, from the fray—
The water-boy at the ’Kitten game,
Whose unique fate has brought him fame;
With pail he went in, and pale he came out
Without having entered the ’Kitten-State Bout!

They say a man may be down, but never out. I am both; down to the bottom of this page,
and out of (homespun) material.

ALARUM. FLOURISH. EXEUNT OMNES.

Although it has one of the smallest of all standing armies among the great nations of the world, the United
States last year spent more than any other nation on armaments. Other nations spent for arms in the order: Soviet
Union, France, Great Britain, Italy, Japan, India, Germany, Spain.
