BASKETBALL SEASON TO OPEN AGAINST STATE IN CHARLOTTE COURTS

"ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS"

Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 8, 1931 No. 14

Bishop Penick Speaks To Vesper Audience About Threefold Love of God
Charlotte Bishop Gives Stirring Message to Large Group of Students in Sunday Service

LECTURES ON WILL
Advises Students Not to be Chain-Store Men

Bishop E. A. Penick, of Charlotte, who is well known by Davidson men because of his splendid addresses on former visits, delivered, as usual, a most interesting and inspiring message to those assembled for Y vespers last Sunday evening. In his introduction, he quoted from a Bishop's article in the Atlantic Monthly, “Let us go back to fundamentals.” In the development of this theme, Bishop Penick pointed out the unstableness of reasoning in the Christian’s mind, referring to a verse in John in which Christ told His disciples He was going, but would return. “The question, ‘When will He return?’ should cause perplexity in the mind of the real Christian,” declared the speaker. It is well to beware of cock-suredness of religious faith whether it be in the layman or in the minister. The Bishop continued that in this sea of doubt, it was best to “identify our wills with a power stronger than evil—this is God.”

During the latter part of the message, he stated that “life is a quest,” and that after we attain what we are after, we are not satisfied. “What shall we say,” he went on, “to the pilgrim on the road to Truth?” Here he outlined three vital points for him to follow, namely, intellectuality, self-respect, moral courage, and simplicity of faith. Under the first point, Bishop Penick explained that it was the Savior Himself who added the “mind” to the verse found in the Old and New Testaments, “Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart.” Under the second, he declared that all of us are more and more becoming “chain-store men,” and are inclined to follow the crowd in our thinking; and that we detest the idea of being “marked men.” In his third point to the pilgrim, the speaker gave a definition of faith which included first an assumption, second an experiment, and third a discovery. In conclusion, the Bishop went on to say that the above characteristics suffer in the face of worldly things, but that we must have courage and face the obstacles squarely.

Dr. Hood Speaks at Psychology Meeting
Dr. Fraser Hood, head of the psychology department of Davidson College, recently attended a meeting of the American Psychological Association at Des Moines, Iowa, on December 28-30. Dr. Hood, who is considered to be one of the leading psychologists of the country, and who is an author of several books, read a paper before the convention and took part in a round-table discussion of problems of general psychology. Dr. Hood left Davidson on December 23, spent several days in New York City, joined the New York delegation from Princeton, Columbia, and Yale, then went with that delegation to Des Moines.

There were eight phases of psychology discussed: General psychology, educational psychology, experimental psychology, mental tests, animal psychology, child psychology, clinical psychology, and aesthetic psychology. However, Dr. Hood stated that the phase in which he was most interested was abnormal psychology. In this part of the program, such subjects as the effect of conscious wish upon dreams, and physical and mental traits of individuals susceptible to hypnosis were discussed. It was brought out in this connection that there is a difference in the blood content of neurotic as compared with non-neurotic persons. An interesting paper was also read on the subject of an experiment being conducted upon the 7,000 students at the State University of Washington. This experiment is (Continued on page 6)

Cats Begin Season in Tonight’s Game
Monk Younger’s new Wildcat quintet will receive its baptism of fire tonight against the Red Terrors from State College at the Central High School gym in Charlotte at 8 o’clock, and then again on Saturday night they will battle the Tar Heels at the Armory, and next Wednesday Erskine will be met here. This game officially opens the Wildcats’ basketball season and will in all likelihood be one of the stiffest opponents on the card. The Red Terrors have always boasted of a fine quintet and from time to time have had championship teams, and this year, with five veterans back, State has already made an auspicious start toward another championship team.

Coach Younger has been drilling his squad strenuously since the holidays in order to whip them into shape for this opening test. Younger has three dependable veterans around whom he is building his attack, Rusk, Goodson, and Proctor. Rusk has been moved from center to forward this year in order to make use of the extra height of “Skinny” Pierce, a Sophomore, for the center position. Martin, from last year’s squad, seems to be Younger’s choice for the other forward position. Captain Goodson and Proctor can take care of the guarding in good style. This will give Davidson one of the tallest teams in the state and will certainly outreach last year’s five, with every man around six feet, and three a little beyond that mark.

To meet these Wildcats, State will bring a little more experienced squad, as well as one that has already been up against stiff opposition this year and came out victorious. A strong Villanova quintet fell before the onslaught of the Red Terrors in the middle of December as the Carolina five topped their score by 11 points. Of the five veterans returning, four, Gammon, Atkinson, Morgan, and Rose, constitute the starting team, together with a Sophomore, Clark.

On Saturday night the Wildcats will again take on a strong foe when they play the Tar Heels in the Charlotte Armory. This is the first time the Wildcats have used the Armory and it is expected that the extra seating capacity will be needed, as present indications point toward a large crowd. Carolina and Davidson have always packed them in pretty thick for the two never fail to give each other a ferocious scrap. The Tar Heels are not expected to present as strong an array as State, but even at that they can be plenty good. Carolina is still probably mindful of their last engagement in Charlotte with the Wildcats when the ’Cats nosed them out in a tightly played match by the score of 22-20, and will be out for revenge.

Next week Erskine, S. I. A. A. champs of last year, will invade the Davidson campus in an effort to make it two straight over the Wildcats, as they administered a severe lacing to them last year. This game is scheduled for Wednesday night at the Davidson gym and will probably be the last engagement before the exam period.

Lawrence, Kan.—(IP)—But seven of 1,705 women students at the University of Kansas are studying to be home-makers, according to a recent survey of the university undergraduate body. Teaching school is the aim of 879 of them. Eighty-four intend to take up journalism; 80 are planning to be nurses; 60 hope to be business women; 16 will take up the practice of medicine, and 15 will practice law. Another 123 are undecided and 136 did not answer the questions of the registrar.

French Course Continued
French six, scheduled in the catalogue for the first semester only, will be continued through the second semester. It will consist of reading of contemporary novels and plays. Those planning to register, who have not yet reported, are requested to see Dr. Watts before the examination period.

“Ye Yowl” to Appear Soon
Davidson’s youngest yearling, Ye Yowl, is expected to make its second appearance on the campus around the first of February unless delayed by the exam period according to present plans of the staff. The mid-year issue will be of a rustic nature under the title of the “Farm Number” and will be more profusely illustrated by drawings of the art staff. The magazine will bear the same cover design of red and black, and will be of the same size as the Fall edition. Since the decision of the Student Body to have a humorous rather than a literary magazine, it was planned to have the Yowl appear three times each year. The Fall issue came out in late November.

“The Editor.”

Bob Gorrell is Elected 1931 Football Manager
At a meeting of the football lettermen on Monday, December 15, Bob Gorrell was elected as varsity manager for the coming year and Jack McKinnon was elected as Freshman manager. These two men were the only men in the Junior class out for the managership since Spencer McCallie, the other candidate, did not return to school this year.

Both of these men are leaders on the campus in various lines. Gorrell is of Winston-Salem, N. C., one of the vice-presidents of the student body, is a member of the Beaver Club and was president of that body during his Sophomore year, is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, andis manager of the Wildcat Handbook. McKinnon is from Jacksonville, Fla., is a member of the Ministerial Band, a member of the "Y" Board of Control, and is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. It was decided to allow the Sophomore managers, Allen Mebane, Arthur Ross, Al Grant, and Bill Lee, to remain out until the election at the end of football season next year. A certain number of Freshmen will be kept as managers next fall. Preceding this election there was a banquet held for the football men, at which time all the players were given Christmas presents. This banquet was held on December 9.

Rhodes Scholarship Is Awarded To Rusk

Word was officially received on the night of December 14 that Dean Rusk had been awarded the Rhodes Scholarship, one of four conferred by the Southeastern Committee in Atlanta, and had been confirmed as a candidate by the national organization in Swarthmore, Pa. Rusk is a member of the class of 1931, he is a candidate for a diploma this year and expects to enter Oxford next fall. His home is in Atlanta, Ga. His father is Rev. R. H. Rusk, Davidson ’94. While living in the Georgia capital Rusk attended Boys’ High where he won distinction as president of the Senior class, editor of the annual, colonel of the Atlanta Cadet High School Regiment, editor of the Atlanta Journal school section, honor roll for four years, associate editor of “The Tattler,” and an interscholastic debater for three years.

After entering Davidson in the fall of 1927, Rusk received the first class honor that can come to a local man, being elected president of the Freshman class. He was inducted into the Beaver Club, Sophomore honorary society. Various honors to which he attains and offices which he holds are: President of the Y. M. C. A., Cadet Major of the R. O. T. C. battalion, varsity “D” in basketball, manager of the Students’ Store, member of the tennis squad, student councilman for two years, and a member of six honorary fra- (Continued on page 6)

Barium Renders Its Thanks to Davidson

During the month of December the Y. M. C. A. made a campaign drive for Barium Springs Orphanage, setting its goal at $1,000. So far this campaign has been highly successful, even measuring up to the expectations of the Y. M. C. A. Already the pledged subscriptions and cash donations total $989.75. An effort was made to personally interview each student, but there are still about fifty men to be canvassed. If these equal the standard set by the rest of the student body, the $1,000 goal will be easily reached, if not passed. This success surpasses any “Y” campaign fund drive that has been made in the college for several years. Those subscriptions that have already been made have been sent to Joseph B. Johnston, manager of Barium Springs, and he is highly gratified with the gift. The generous response of the students here has shown him the interest that Davidson feels toward the Orphanage. In a letter written to Carl Pritchett, Mr. Johnston expresses his thanks to the Y. M. C. A., and adds: “Your check and letter received, and there isn’t any money that has come to us that I appreciate more than this.

“We have so many contacts with Davidson—all of them delightful—and that your Y. M. C. A. thought well enough to make us the object of your gifts this year was mighty fine and made us feel mighty good.

“The willingness that seems to be manifest in the subscriptions is another thing that makes us feel mighty good. We just hope we will always deserve the goodwill and liberality everywhere, especially of Davidson.

“With wishes,

“Very truly, Joseph B. Johnston.”

The thanks of the Orphanage to Davidson were more publicly expressed in an article in the “Barium Messenger.” Besides stating the thanks which the Orphanage feels toward Davidson for the gift, the article mentions the close relationship which exists between the two institutions. Deputations of Davidson are continually visiting Barium Springs and conducting various meetings there. Also, a number of Davidson alumni are on the staff at Barium, and each year several graduates from the Orphanage enter Davidson. To sum up the feeling of Barium in its own words: “We are proud to claim the Davidson students and faculty our friends. That they have chosen to honor us in this way makes us very happy.”

Fire at Old Armory Causes Excitement

On the evening of December 13, a large per cent of the student body were being entertained by the Junior class when suddenly the fire alarms rang out. The fire was in the room of Dean Rusk and Stewart Meacham. About two hundred and fifty students answered the call, which had been turned in by Johnny Marvin, and soon the blaze was extinguished. Sergeant Kirby wielded the fire extinguisher which was instrumental in putting out the fire. Very little damage was done, the main damage being the loss of three extra rolls of wallpaper and one fire extinguisher. Immediately after the blaze was extinguished the occupants of the room returned to the scene of the festivities. It is believed that the fire was caused by a defective flue. Rusk and Meacham have expressed their thanks for the brave and heroic efforts of those who helped to extinguish the fire, which might have caused extreme damage to their property.

Winter Park, Fla —(1P)—The Third Annual Institute of Statesmanship at Rollins College, January 5 to 10, brought to the college some fifteen speakers representing education, industry, banking, journalism, economics, and the Federal government. The general subject for the institute was “Our Changing Economic Life.”

Dr. Kirk Lectures Here On Topic “Man’s Place In Nature and Beyond”

Delivers Series of Five Lectures Before Davidson Student Body and Townspeople

SCIENTIFIC PROOFS

Approaches His Subject Through the Way of Apologetics

Dr. Harris I. Kirk, eminent minister of the Southern Presbyterian Church, former Moderator of the General Assembly, and now pastor of the Franklin Street Presbyterian Church of Baltimore, Md., since 1901, last Friday concluded at Davidson College a series of five lectures centering upon the general theme, “Man's Place in Nature and Beyond.” Approximately 800 people daily heard Dr. Kirk. These consisted of Davidson student body, faculty, townspeople and many visitors from nearby cities, among them many ministers. In treating his general subject, the minister used specific topics, “The Insignificance of Man's Earthly Home,” “The Significance of Man's Personality,” “The Spiritual Trends of Science,” “Jesus Christ, the Historical Manifestation of God,” and “The Christian Conception of Man’s Place in Nature and Beyond.”

The series of lectures was delivered under the Otts Foundation, a fund established in 1893 by the late Dr. J. M. P. Otts. It was the fifth series, former lecturers having been Dr. Otts, Dr. R. L. Dabney, Dr. J. B. Shearer, and Dr. W. W. Moore. Dr. Moore lectured in 1920, and since that time officials of the college had permitted the fund to accumulate. Present plans are to have a lecturer visit Davidson bi-annually. Dr. Kirk approached his subject through the way of apologetics, choosing this instead of from the standpoint of theology, which begins with the assumption that Christianity is true and then goes on to prove it. Apologetics, he declared, starts with the conviction that Christianity holds eternal and essential values and then proceeds to show that these (Continued on page 6)

Glee Club Sings at Christmas Vespers

Davidson's annual Christmas vesper service was held the last Sunday before school was dismissed, December 14, and brought to a close a year of unusually fine and inspiring vesper services. This was the last service which the students attended during the year 1930, and served as a climax to all the services which preceded it. One of Davidson's most cherished and traditional customs has been, for many years, to hold a sacred vesper service before the Christmas holidays. This is one of the most beautiful held during the entire year. One of the most impressive features of the service this year was the decoration of the stage. Pines and hemlocks were massed in the center of the stage and the curtain was draped around them. A white star shone above the trees. The Glee Club and speakers were hidden from sight by the trees, and only the songs and scripture could be heard. The service was opened with a prelude by the strings and organ, and the Glee Club sang a processional, “O Come All Ye Faithful.” Jas. A. Jones pronounced an invocation and “O Little Town of Bethlehem” was rendered as a response. The Nativity of Christ was traced by scripture readings, and Christmas carols were sung by the congregation as a response. The prophecy of Christ’s birth in Isaiah and Micah was read first. Then the Nativity was read from Matthew and Luke. Following this, the stories of the coming of the shepherds and the coming of the wise men were read. The service was closed by the benediction and “Silent Night” was sung by the Glee Club. This brought to an end a service which, wherever it is held, is unsurpassed in beauty and impressiveness.