THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 5, 1931

FOUR MEN RUN AT CAROLINA INDOOR MEET

THE SPORTS PARADE

ATHLETIC NIGHT MARCH 17TH

Mathis and Martin Top ’Cat Cagers in Scoring

Davidson Quintet Wins Nine of the Seventeen Games Played This Season

TEAM SCORES 452 POINTS

Rusk and Goodman Also High Scorers for Team

Two men on the Wildcat basketball team this year ran a very close race for scoring the most number of points during the entire season. The high point man for the season was Grier Martin, who scored a total of 110 points. Martin started out the season at forward and also alternated at center with Pierce, but when the latter dropped out, Martin was shifted to the center position for the remainder of the season, holding down this post in great style. Mathis followed close on the heels of Martin and was second in the scoring with 108 points. In more than one game Mathis was high point man and his shooting was one of the high spots of the past season. Rusk swapped from center to forward this year, was next in the scoring with 92 points. Next came Captain “Sleepy” Goodson, who was out most of the latter part of the season but still managed to stay in fourth with 70 points. Other scorers were: Proctor, 32 points; Pierce, 17 points; Peabody, 14 points; Boucher, 5 points, and Bernard, 4 points.

During the past season the team played a total of seventeen games and amassed a total of 452 points for an average of a fraction over 26 points a game. Of the seventeen games played the ’Cats won nine and lost eight; in the Big Five Davidson won three games, two from Carolina and one from State, losing two games to Duke and one each to State and Wake Forest.

The summary of field goals and fouls of each man is as follows:

Fg. F. Total
Martin 44 22 110
Mathis 46 16 108
Rusk 31 30 92
Goodson 31 8 70
Proctor 10 12 32
Pierce 6 5 17
Peabody 3 8 14
Boucher 1 3 5
Bernard 1 2 4
Totals 173 106 452

Evans Leads Freshmen

Captain Bob Evans, star forward, led the Freshman basketball team in points scored during the past season. The Wildkittens’ leader scored 102 points, more than twice as many as his nearest rival, to take first honors in that respect. In gathering the 102 points, Evans averaged eight and one-half points a game for the twelve Kitten contests. His total consists of 41 field goals and 20 foul shots. Rowan, Evans’ nearest rival, cashed in with 18 field and five foul goals for a total of 41 points; while Holland came in third with 13 field and eight foul goals, a total of 34 points.

Although the Wildkittens failed to break even in games won, they had fair success, winning games from Salisbury, Greensboro, the previously undefeated Charlotte Hi, Presbyterian Junior College, and Steel Creek, while dropping contests to Salisbury, Charlotte, Barium All-Stars, Carolina Freshmen, State Freshmen, and two to Belmont Abbey. They scored a total of 238 points while allowing their opponents 250. The individual scoring of the team follows:

Four Men to Carolina

Captain Pritchett plans to take four Wildcat trackmen to Chapel Hill, Saturday, to compete in the 60-yard dash in the Annual Southern Conference indoor meet held by Carolina. This meet is strictly a Southern Conference meet for varsity teams but freshmen events are opened to all schools. Also, a few events have been arranged for non-conference teams. The men who will make the trip are Fleagle, George, McCallie, or Kuykendall for the varsity and Halyburton for the Freshmen.

Baseball Candidates Begin Daily Practice

No Pitchers Among Seven Lettermen Returning—Fifty Men Report for Workouts

The crack of the bat on hide and the chatter of about fifty aspirants for berths on the Wildcat baseball roster are heard every afternoon down on Richardson Field now. The workouts are being confined at present to warming up exercises, pepper exercises, tossing the ball back and forth in a lazy fashion, and some fundamental drills in base running. Captain Armfield has been conducting practices recently, due to the absence of both coaches, Younger and Laird. But the coaches have returned now and the squad is expected to settle down into stiff workouts from now on.

Not much line can be gained on any new material as yet and so far the veterans seem to have their positions pretty well sewed up. But in the Sophomore ranks appear such performers as Mills, Pearce, Peabody, Bradsher, and Bailey, who have been showing up well in the preliminary drills and show promise of blossoming out as soon as real work is begun. Mills especially has been cavorting around like he is familiar with a ball diamond and looks like he will live up to all expectations. Pearce and Bailey, pitchers in the Sophomore ranks, have only been warming up and as yet have not displayed anything. Among the veterans, Covington and Mathis, outfielders,have been gauging long distance flys. Barnhardt and McMillan have been engaging in long pepper sessions, while (Continued on page 4)

| Player       | FG | F | Total |
|--------------|----|---|-------|
| Evans        | 41 | 20| 102   |
| Rowe         | 18 | 5 | 41    |
| Oman         | 13 | 8 | 34    |
| Battery      | 8  | 8 | 24    |
| Montis       | 4  | 2 | 10    |
| Halverstadt  | 3  | 3 | 9     |
| Leawther     | 2  | 4 | 8     |
| Manson       | 3  | 2 | 8     |
| Meltean      | 0  | 1 | 1     |
| Reid         | 0  | 1 | 1     |
| Total        | 92 | 54| 238   |

MARCH
14—Track: Fresh and Varsity vs. Charlotte Hi., at Davidson.
21—Track: State High School meet, at Davidson.
26—Baseball: Fresh vs. Belmont Abbey, at Belmont Abbey.
27—Track: Fresh vs. Elon at Davidson.
27—Baseball: Fresh vs. Mount Pleasant.
28—Track: Varsity vs. N.C. State, at Davidson.
31—Baseball: Fresh vs. Charlotte Hi, at Charlotte.

APRIL
1—Track: Fresh vs. Winston-Salem All Stars, at Winston-Salem.
2—Track: Varsity vs. Furman, at Greenville, S.C.
2—Baseball: Varsity vs. Guilford, at Guilford.
3—Baseball: Varsity vs. Elon, at Elon.
6—Baseball: Varsity vs. Carolina, at Winston-Salem.
9—Baseball: Varsity vs. Elon, at Davidson.
11—Track: Varsity vs. Duke University, at Davidson.
13—Baseball: Varsity vs. Wake Forest, at Davidson.
15—Baseball: Varsity vs. Lenoir-Rhyne, at Davidson.
16—Track: Fresh—Open.
17—Baseball: Varsity vs. Guilford, at Davidson.
18—Track: Varsity vs. South Carolina, at Davidson.

Spring Sports Calendar
20—Baseball: Varsity vs. N.C. State, at Davidson.
22—Baseball: Varsity vs. Duke University, at Davidson.
22—Baseball: Fresh vs. Carolina Fresh, at Chapel Hill (pending).
23—Baseball: Fresh vs. N.C. State Fresh, at Raleigh.
23—Track: Fresh vs. Winston-Salem All-Stars, at Davidson (pending).
24—Baseball: Fresh vs. Duke University Fresh, at Durham.
25—Track: Varsity vs. V.M.I., at Davidson.
28—Baseball: Varsity vs. South Carolina, at Columbia, S.C.
29—Baseball: Varsity vs. Erskine, at Due West.
30—Baseball: Varsity vs. Clemson, S.C.

MAY
1—Baseball: Fresh vs. Charlotte Hi, at Davidson.
2—Track: Varsity in State Track meet, at Greensboro.
4—Baseball: Fresh vs. Presbyterian Junior College, at Maxton.
5—Baseball: Varsity vs. Lenoir-Rhyne, at Hickory.
6—Baseball: Fresh vs. Mount Pleasant, at Davidson.
12—Baseball: Varsity vs. N.C. State, at Raleigh.
13—Baseball: Varsity vs. Duke University, at Durham.
15—Baseball: Fresh vs. Belmont Abbey, at Davidson.

LOOKING 'EM OVER
With W. H. Matthews

SHADOWS OF COMING EVENTS
Saturday, March 7

With basketball season over, all that remains of it are post mortems and all-state teams. Most of these came out last Sunday. In looking them over, we noticed that Bill Goodson, flashy Davidson guard, received high mention on nearly all of the squads. Mathis made one second team, as did Rusk. Goodson was an almost unanimous choice on nearly all the picks of the sports writers we saw. He and Marpet of Carolina were undoubtedly the two ranking guards of the state. Of the two, it would be hard to make a choice for the first honors. Marpet had a little advantage in height over the Davidson captain, but Goodson was a little better on down-the-floor work and faster. Probably he is a better shot from a distance, but Marpet would likely offset this with his height under the basket. The two are a nice working pair of guards.

Rusk and Mathis were each mentioned as forwards on second teams. Concerning Mathis, Wade Isom of the Charlotte News said he was the “most underrated player in the state.” He placed Mathis on his “No. 2” team. Crowson, Gammon, Shaw, and Rose were the other men on most of the selections.

One of the changes in the new letter requirements for all sports drawn up recently by the athletic association is the granting of a minor sports letter to members of the golf team. This recognition puts this sport on an equal basis with all others at Davidson and gives it the spot which it has long been clamoring for.

Golfers at Davidson have generally, in the last two or three years, been as high ranking in comparison with their competitors over the state as have the tennis players. Jack Pepper last year was medallist at the State tournament at Sedgefield, and the Davidson team has always made a creditable showing in their season’s record.

The new requirements grant letters to the four men who compose the team, provided their play has been such throughout the year as to warrant it, and that their general conduct has been satisfactory to the chairman of the faculty committee on golf. We believe that this is a fair and just settlement of a matter that has been causing a great deal of discussion ever since golf has taken the place at Davidson it now holds.

The complete list of new requirements will be published in the Davidsonian next week.

Baseball practice is now in full swing, both on the varsity and freshman diamonds. The varsity outlook depends to a great extent upon how the present untried pitchers come through under fire. If they develop as they are expected and hoped, then things will be satisfactory. If not, and the Davidson staff becomes a two or three man affair, things are apt to be bad on some of the longer trips. It may be so that the Athletics last year won the World's championship with a two-man pitching staff, but it is our opinion that those two men had wonderful support, both from their other pitchers, and from their fielders. It would be hard for the Wildcats to win consistently with only two hurlers. Especially in view of the hard schedule outlined.

Captain Pritchett announces the date for Athletic Night to be Tuesday, March 17th. Athletic Night has rapidly grown into a place of prominence at Davidson since its inception three or four years ago, and is one of the big dates on the spring calendar. We advise everyone to keep that night open. No definite announcement has been made as to who the speaker will be, but from the men the athletic department are trying to get, he is certain to be well worth hearing. Dr. Daugherty of the University of Tennessee, who spoke last year, was very entertaining, and we feel sure that this year’s speaker will be equally as good. In addition to the address, certificates will be awarded to letter men, gold footballs to the football letter men, various trophies and cups to the winners of the intramural events, and other honors awarded to winners. It will be a very interesting program.

Notice TO THE COLLEGE BOYS
Why pay $1.25 for half soles when you can take them to the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP and get the same sole with better work for only 85¢
Try Us and See
C. A. KENNEDY, Prop.

A Friendly Five Sport Shoes

“DRUGS” “SODA”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”

Clothing Furnishing
STETSON “D” STORE
PHONE 206 OPPOSITE CAMPUS
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
John Ward