6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 29, 1931

Competition in Gym and Sigma Delta Psi Begins Last Week in February

Contest Will Feature Thirty-Eight Gymnastic and Fourteen Sigma Delta Psi Events

The Annual Spring Gymnastic Competition along with tryouts for Sigma Delta Psi will be started the latter part of February, according to an announcement made recently by Captain Norton G. Pritchett. This Gymnastic Competition consists of ten events on the parallel bars, ten events on the horizontal bars, eight events on the horse, and eight events in tumbling. The point basis will be used in computing the scores in the different events. The person compiling the greatest number of points will receive a trophy. A regular class in gymnastic work will be begun immediately in order to give the men who want to try out in this competition a chance to get themselves into good condition. Last year Frank R. Brown won first place, W. V. Carter won second place, and H. F. Bost took third place.

Competition for Sigma Delta Psi will also be started during February. There are fourteen events which a person must pass before he is taken into Sigma Delta Psi. As soon as anyone passes these, he is immediately taken in. Some events have been changed this year. Instead of the 220 low hurdles, the 120 low hurdles have been substituted with only six hurdles. The time in the hundred-yard swim has been changed from two minutes to one minute and forty-five seconds. The pole vault has been discontinued and the rope climb has been substituted. To qualify in this, a person must climb twenty feet in twelve seconds. Every person in school is eligible for this, and Freshmen especially are requested to try out. If a man comes out when he is a Freshman, he has four years in which to pass all the events, because when a person has once passed an event he does not have to repeat that event the following year. In this way, he can concentrate his efforts on the events which he has not yet completed. Each year a trophy is given to the man qualifying in Sigma Delta Psi who has compiled the greatest number of points.

Hazing Studied at Texas A. & M. College

Senior Class Invites Committee of Texas Legislators to Make Survey

College Station, Texas—(IP)—In order that the exact conditions in respect to hazing at A. & M. College of Texas may be clear in the public mind, the Senior class of the college has invited a committee of Texas legislators to make a thorough personal survey of the situation. Motion to that effect was adopted recently at a class meeting, following close on the heels of the publication in the undergraduate newspaper, The Battalion, of extracts from letters received by President T. O. Walton from various quarters in which the writers censured, and in some instances severely denounced, certain alleged practices which, they set forth, they had been advised existed as forms of hazing at the school. The Seniors expressed the belief that the legislative investigation would serve to stop such rumors, inasmuch as it is contended by the students that no serious forms of hazing exist on the campus. The action of the Senior class was first suggested in an editorial in The Battalion, of which Robert L. Herbert is editor. President Walton expressed entire approval of the action of the Senior class, declaring that he also believed a survey by the legislative committee would do much to clear up unfounded rumors. “The Seniors in voting for the investigation, showed their attitude toward hazing,” he said.

DAVIDSON MEETS DUKE

(Continued from page 1)

The Blue Devils met a severe setback last week when the Red Terrors from State seemed to get back into old form and trampled the Blue Devils to the tune of 24-19. State held the lead throughout the game and were only headed once in the early minutes of the second half. Duke will probably be in a vengeful mood when the ’Cats tie up with them. Duke has won one and lost two in the Southern Conference rating at the date of this writing. They also lost to Maryland in an early contest, but Maryland is handing the wise men big surprises every week now. Among many, Duke numbers the fine Navy quintet in the ever-growing list of the vanquished. Davidson will have an enviable record to defend in that game unless they drop one to Lenoir-Rhyne, which is not probable. Starting off with a victory over the highly-touted Red Terrors, the Cats have brushed aside every opponent that has faced them, but not without difficulty. Carolina followed State on the downward road; then

Spring Holidays

This year the spring holidays for Davidson will begin on April the second at 12:30 P. M., and will be completed on April the eighth at 8:30 A. M. These holidays will last four and a half days and during them the students will be home on Easter Sunday for the first time in several years; Easter Sunday falls on the fifth of April. These holidays are given annually at approximately the same time every year so as to give the students a little rest from the steady grind that they have been in since the Christmas holidays, and also to give them a rest before the final examinations in the latter part of May. During these holidays re-exams will be given to those students who for any reason missed an examination or who failed one course or more but made as much as sixty on the examination that they took. These re-exams are given every year to enable the students to pass their courses.

Teacher at Chicago Predicts New Utopia

Poverty Will Be Abolished in Future Says Dr. Ogburn

Chicago, Ill—(IP)—A future in which man will live in urbanized communities surrounded by forests, speaking one common language and many specialized languages; where poverty is abolished, and perhaps “plumbers will discuss Aristotle,” and where morals have lost their force and the home its supremacy, is pictured by Dr. Wm. F. Ogburn, professor of sociology at the University of Chicago. “The future society of man,” says Dr. Ogburn, “will be one where the number of inventions per year will be larger and larger and where the accumulation of civilization and material culture will be greater and greater. A person could once get pretty well acquainted with his culture at 16 or 17 years of age, but in the future it will require 40 or 45 years. Most persons will not try to learn it all, but will become specialists and speak, in addition to their specialist's language, a common language popularized by the great agencies of communication, the talkies, the radio, newspapers and literature. There is no period of quiet and peace ahead, but rather one of continual change. This condition of change will change our code of morals, for the past cannot offer guidance for an ever-changing society. Right and wrong will give way before social expediency. Also the majesty of the law will lose its prestige, for laws are difficult to build up in a changing society.

New York—(IP)—Fifty thousand dollars has been voted by the alumni of Columbia University here as the beginning of an endowment of the university’s athletics, in line with a plan put forward several weeks ago by President Nicholas Murray Butler.

Love was the creator of all the great thoughts and great deeds of men in all

Book Review

James Jeans: “The Mysterious Universe,” pp. viii—163. The Macmillan Co., New York

This little book, now discussed around the world by scientists and philosophers, consists of five chapters bearing the following titles: “The Dying Sun,” “The New World of Modern Physics,” “Matter and Radiation,” “Relativity and Ether,” “Into Deep Waters.” The last of the five titles may properly be applied to the entire volume. Yet there is much in each chapter that can be comprehended by the layman. The central thought of the book, as I see it, is that the outstanding achievement of twentieth-century physics is not the theory of relativity with its welding together of space and time, not the theory of quanta with its present apparent negation of the laws of causation, not the dissection of the atom with its resultant discovery that things are not what they seem; it is the general recognition thatWe are not yet in contact with ultimate reality. Physical science is in pursuit of this reality as never before. In this pursuit, material substance has been broken up into electrons and protons. These electric charges send circular wave motion. Unbottle this circular wave motion, and it proceeds in a straight line as radiation at somewhat greater velocity than before. Here we have light and all the forms of radiation that penetrate interstellar space. It would thus appear that bottled-up electric waves operating with circular motion at a lesser velocity manifest themselves as material substance, while matter is transformed into light, X-rays, cosmic rays, and the rest the moment the circular feature of the wave motions of electrons (or electric charges) is straightened out and speeded up. Thus matter is potential light. If this be true, then the universe came into being when the Great Architect exclaimed, “Let there be light!”

Fresh Defeated by Fast Belmont Five

Belmont Abbey brought a better-drilled and better-shooting basketball team to the Davidson court last Monday night and left the Freshmen holding the short end of a 34 to 29 score. The Frosh tried hard, especially in the last half, but were up against a better team. Diamond of the visitors started things going with a basket early in the game and his teammates helped the cause along for the rest of the contest. At the first quarter, Belmont led, 10 to 4, and still at half-time, 18 to 10. The Freshmen pulled up, 22 to 26, by the end of the third quarter, but could not stop the Belmont offense enough to overcome the lead with their seven points in the last period. Captain Evans of Davidson was the star of the Freshmen, both on shooting and floorwork, garnering 14 points to win high-scoring honors of the game. Captain Frierson, Belmont forward, was not far behind him with 11 points. Belmont had a particularly good-working combination in Frierson, Campbell, and Murphy.

Davidson Pos. Belmont Abbey
Lafferty (1) F. Frierson (11)
Evans (14) F. Diamond (8)
Rowan (0) G. Murphy (8)
Manson (2) R.G. Doris (2)
Morris (6) L.G. Campbell (5)

Subs: Davidson—Holland (5), McLean (1), Halverstadt. Belmont Abbey—Wheeler. Referee, Pritchett (Davidson).

In terms of mathematical concepts involving space and time, the reader lays down Jean's little book with the conviction that the substance about us, and all the universe beyond, are far and away more complex in their structure than has ever dawned upon the mind of the man in the street. Thos. W. Lingle.

Radiation of all kinds is generated by the breaking up of the atom under extreme heat in the interior of the sun and multitudinous stars. The substance of all the heavenly bodies, so brilliant on clear nights, as well as of our own sun, is thus being transformed into radiation on a vast scale, so that our sun is decreasing in weight at the rate of 250 million tons per minute. All the material universe, excepting a few planets, exists at fearfully high temperatures, while radiation proceeds through interstellar space characterized by temperatures of the other extreme. So far as we know, this radiation is dissipated in space, and the material universe is running down steadily and certainly as a clock. Our own sun, dwindling through aeons of time, is but a fragment of its original self, and is destined to dissipate itself in radiation, leaving the earth and other planets to wander far afield into the frigid realms of interstellar space. All this indicates that the material universe was brought into being at some remote time in the past and cannot have been eternal.

In the meantime, all the motions of electrons, planets, galaxies, and remote nebulae indicate that the Great Architect of the universe was a pure mathematician. “Nature's great book,” says Galileo, “is written in mathematical language.” The universe is not an application of mechanics but is explained in terms of mathematical concepts involving space and time.

The former S. I. A. A. champs, Erskine, were defeated in the Davidson gym. After the struggle with exams, the Wildcats took up where they left off and nosed V. P. I. out by 22-20. Close and fast games seem to be the ’Cats’ method of meting out defeat to their opponents, as was seen against State, Carolina, and the Gobblers. The schedule does not show a game with Lenoir-Rhyne, but worried lest his team might lose the knack, Coach Younger has had another game added to the rather slim schedule. Final negotiations have not been made but it is expected that the ’Cats will play the Bears here either tonight or tomorrow night.

Fresh Meet Barium

The Freshman wrestling team will open their 1931 season at Barium Springs Tuesday night. Barium has a team that has had several years of experience and will hold an advantage over the Freshmen in that respect, the Wildkittens having only one man who has ever wrestled before this year. Nothing is known as to the lineup for Davidson as the tryouts for the meet have not been held. However, Coach “Doc” Unger is well pleased with the showing of the men out for the team and is in high hopes of annexing the match.

NEW JOURNAL PUBLISHED

(Continued from page 1)

Thirteen chapters have been added, making a present total of nineteen. The activities of the chapters, the accomplishment of the high aims and objects of the society, and the merit which one must attain for election, have made it an honor much coveted. One of the nine founders of the fraternity was Dr. James M. Douglas, the head of the physics department at Davidson. The first meeting of the group was held at his home and he has watched over its growth and activities with deep interest since that time. Dr. Douglas graduated from Davidson with the A.B. degree in 1893, and took his A.M. from here in 1894. After several years of high school teaching, he went to Johns Hopkins University, where he received, in 1901, his Ph.D. in physics, chemistry, and mathematics. Ever since then he has been head of the Davidson physics department. While in college he was a leader in many branches of activity, and since then has held and is holding many important positions in the scientific, commercial, and industrial world. He is Chancellor of the Executive Council of Sigma Pi Sigma.

Another prominent Davidson alumnus is a member of the fraternity Executive Council. He is Robert W. Graves, from Rome, Ga., who graduated from Davidson with a B.S. in 1926. Majoring in physics, he received his M.A. from Princeton in 1928. He is now a student in medicine at Duke University. Mr. Graves has been one of the most interested and active members of the society, and a very earnest worker as a councillor.

Relief Fund

Acting together, the College Church and the Davidson Methodist Church formed the “Christian Relief Association” to aid the needy families in and around Davidson. Funds for the association were raised through contributions and the sale of old clothes. In the collection of the clothes, the Y. M. C. A. was asked to cooperate. Students were appointed for each of the dormitories, and in this way, old clothes of the students were collected. The Relief Association realized that due to the financial depression and the severe weather, numerous families were actually in need of clothing and financial aid. Accordingly, the collected clothes were sold in “rummage” sales, held in the Civic League Hall and the proceeds used for the more desperate cases. Mrs. W. L. Lingle was in charge of the relief campaign.

Freshman Scoring

Field Foul Total
Players Goals Goals Points
Evans, f 12 9 33
Rowan, c 7 0 14
Holland, c 3 4 10
Morris, g 4 2 10
Lafferty, f 4 1 9
Manson, g 2 0 4
McLean, f 0 1 1
Total 32 17 81

Complete Service for School Publications
Annuals Magazines Catalogs New Books
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

Davidson Theatre

Mon. & Tues., February 2nd & 3rd
“LITTLE CAESAR”
—with—
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, JR.

Wednesday, February 4th
“GREAT MEADOW”
—with—
JOHN MACK BROWN & ELEANOR BOARDMAN

Thursday, February 5th
“GOING WILD”
—with—
JOE E. BROWN

Friday, February 6th
“INSPIRATION”
—with—
GRETA GARBO & ROBERT MONTGOMERY