HAVE YOUR PICTURE MADE The Davidsonian HELP TO RAISE OUR QUOTA OF $1,000 “SALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” RED AND
BLACK MASQUERS TO PLAY FRIDAY NIGHT Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 9, 1931 No. 13

DR. WALTER L. LINGLE ATTENDS MEETING OF COLLEGE ASSOCIATION

Heads of Southern Colleges and Secondary Schools Hold Meeting in Montgomery, Alabama

DR. C. A. BROWN SPEAKS

Tuskegee Institute Was Visited by the Delegates

The Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools of the Southern States met December 1-4 at Montgomery, Ala. About three hundred
representatives from the various southern schools attended the convention. President Walter L. Lingle represented Davidson College at the conference. Dr.
Charles A. Brown, president of the association, delivered the main speech. Dr. Brown is associate superintendent of the public schools
of Birmingham, Ala., and has rendered invaluable service in the advancement of the public school system. A witty and clever
response was given by Dr. Spencer H. McCallie, headmaster of McCallie School at Chattanooga, Tenn. Dr. Joseph Roemer of Peabody
College was elected to succeed Dr. Brown as president of the association. The president serves for a period of twelve
months. The headquarters are at the Jefferson Davis Hotel, Montgomery, Ala.

During the convention, the delegates visited the Tuskegee State Normal and Industrial Institute at Tuskegee, Ala. When they were graciously
viewed by President Morton, the 2,200 students were gathered together and the delegates were entertained with songs. This is an
institution established for the education of negroes in 1880 by an act of the Alabama Legislature. The institution does a
large amount of extension work. It has a medical school, a ministerial school, a school of agriculture and industry, and
teaches practically all other subjects of interest to students. It aims to change public opinion and turn the attention of
the people in the direction where there is hope for them. It encourages better methods of farming and so induces
the people to stay on the soil at the school. Dr. Lingle stated that he met Dr. Powell, who has
done such valuable work in connection with the peanut and sweet potato. He has produced over 200 useful vegetables.

The Southern Association of Secondary Schools and Colleges belongs to the American Association of Secondary Schools and Colleges. This association
determines the status of the (Continued on page 6)

“Other Goals”

If a “Thousand Dollars” were our only goal it would be a low aim indeed. The Student Body Gift Campaign
for Missions has a three-fold objective. The financial goal is the physical manifestation of a mental concept and spiritual inspiration.
The “Thousand Dollar Goal” is the outgrowth of the two objectives outlined below:

1. EDUCATIONAL:
a. To inform the Student Body concerning the Mission Stations of our Church.
b. To enlarge our vision of the universal need for Christ.
c. To show the effect of Christian Missions in the past and the opportunities of the present.
d. To inform ourselves concerning the Executive Committee of Foreign Missions.
e. To call our attention to the local objective.

2. SPIRITUAL:
a. To call attention to the Divine Commission.
b. To encourage individual acceptance and response.
c. To create a spirit of sacrificial giving.
d. To enrich our individual lives and our campus life by giving a light from our torch to those in
the night of despair.

Rhodes Scholarship Try-Outs Are Given

Fifteen Davidson College students or alumni appeared before Rhodes Scholarship examining boards last Saturday. The candidates selected from their states
gathered later in Atlanta for competition in the district. Those representing Davidson before the committee at Raleigh were: Chas. W.
Harrison and John D. McConnell, of Davidson; E. C. Dwelle, Jr., and T. W. McLean, of Charlotte; and S. S.
Wiley, of Salisbury. Dr. Drew C. Smith of Duke University announces the successful North Carolina candidates. The two chosen to
represent this state in Atlanta are R. Mayne Albright, Jr., of Raleigh, and W. Clyde Dunn, of Kinston, both of
the University of North Carolina.

At Atlanta today, a selection committee representing Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, South Carolina, and Florida were to name four
students to receive scholarships allowing them 400 English pounds annually for study at Oxford University. Appearing at Columbia, S.C., were
D. M. McConnell, Chester, S.C.; D. M. McQueen, Little Rock, S.C.; H. H. Harris, Jr., Greenville, S.C.; and J. G.
Dunklin, of Laurens, S.C. J. H. McKinnon, Jr., of Jacksonville, and J. A. Abernethy of Winter Haven, went to Jacksonville,
Fla. Roger Enloe, of Buchanan, Ga., and D. Grier Martin, Covington, Ga., were in Atlanta for the examinations. Davidson's representatives
before the Virginia board were T. E. Hill and R. M. Christian, both alumni and residents of Richmond.

As the Davidsonian goes to press, none of the Davidson candidates had been selected, and so a comprehensive report cannot
be made. Dean Rusk, of Davidson, is studying at St. John's College at Oxford now. Other men who have attended
Oxford are: Wilson Plumer Mills, Hangchow, China; Benjamin Rice Lacy, Richmond, Va.; Shelby Thomas McCloy, Durham, N.C.; James McD. Richards,
Clarksville, Ga.; and Robert Franklin Davidson, Hiram, Ohio.

Football Lettermen

At a recent meeting of the Athletic Council, the following men were awarded Varsity “D” for services rendered on the
football field during the season of 1931: Pearce, Peabody, Gardner, Brown, Baker (Captain), Johnson, Wagner, Whitfield, Mathis, Conway, Gorrell, King,
McQueen, Mills, Council (Manager). Varsity “D” for four years’ service on the squad was awarded to: McConnell, Bradshaw, Wilson, Kuykendall.
Minor Sports “D” was awarded to McKinnon for service rendered as manager.

The following Freshmen were awarded numerals for the season of 1931: Morris, Morgan, Hand, Siewers, Potter, B. Fort, Batte, Dupuy,
Brewer, Lee, Van Story, C. Fort, Gregory, Miller, Mackorell, Bernardo, Wingfield, Smathers, Hutchins, Bumgarner, Caton, Hufford, West.

The following were awarded numerals for services rendered on the freshman cross country team: McFadden, Morris, Gullette, Rose, J. A.

MR. DAVID OVENS, OF CHARLOTTE, DELIVERS ADDRESS AT VESPERS

“Negative versus Positive People” Is Subject of Talk by Manager of Ivey’s

INTRODUCED BY CANNON

Speaker Gives Stirring Challenge for Independent Thought in Life

The Y. M. C. A. vesper service Sunday evening, December 6, was conducted by Mr. David Ovens, general manager of
Ivey's Department Store in Charlotte. Mr. Ovens had as his subject “Negative versus Positive People.” He was introduced by Mr.
Cannon, president of the Y. M. C. A. Mr. Ovens gave a stirring challenge for independent thought in life. He
emphasized the importance of positive thinking and the impact it can have on personal and professional success.

The Haunted House Will Be Staged Friday Night

Additional Performance Will Be Presented in Barium Springs on the Following Evening

ELEVEN ACTORS IN CAST

Farce and Mystery Combine to Make Entertaining Play

The finishing touches will be put on “The Haunted House” tonight; tomorrow night will be the dress rehearsal, and on
Friday evening at 7:15 o'clock the Masquers will present their first performance of the play. Additional performances are planned definitely
for the following evening, Saturday, at Barium Springs, and indefinitely for later dates, presumably Queens-Chicora and other not distant institutions.
Plans for a performance in Statesville have been held in abeyance until the first two schedules have been completed.

Discussed at Meetings

The cast, as it now stands, is:
The Bride .................. Miss McLemore
The Groom .................. J. Simpson
The Chauffeur .............. E. A. Hancock
The Maid ................... A. Rachal
The Novelist ............... H. W. Ervin
The Girl ................... W. McIlwinen
The Sheriff ................ G. Wood
The Neighbor .............. J. Williams
The Detective ............. D. McLain
The Father ................ G. Womble

The Inter-Fraternity Undergraduate Council held its annual convention in New York on November 27 and 28. Ed Kuykendall was chosen
by the Pan-Hellenic Council to represent Davidson fraternities at the convention. The sessions were held in the Pennsylvania Hotel, where
many of the vital problems of the fraternities were discussed. A few interesting and informative talks were heard, but the
main feature was the open forum discussion at which time such problems were discussed as rulesFor Stage Manager is W.
A. Erwin. Assistants are E. S. Hodge and S. Henry. Lighting is done by J. J. Klooster. Make-up artist is
J. G. Marvin. Tonight the play will be criticized by the faculty advisor, Prof. F. J. Flinn. At the dress
rehearsal, it will be interrupted without disruption.

Is it safe to take one’s bride to a house reputed to be haunted and which the owner desired to
turn over to an insane asylum? What is one to do when the other woman enters one’s life? Is a
creator of detective fiction a competent unraveler in real-life mystery? These, and others, are questions to be answered Friday evening.

The subject, “Negative versus Positive People.” The Scripture was read and the speaker was introduced by Eugene Cannon of the
Junior class. W. A. McKeithan and W. C. Matthews led in prayer and W. T. Thompson and A. M. Cunningham
gave a trumpet duet. The scripture lesson was taken from the first part of the fourth chapter of the Gospel.

(Continued on page 6)

Ed. Kuykendall Attends Fraternity Convention

Annual Inter-Fraternity Council Is Held in Pennsylvania Hotel in New York

THREE-DAY SESSION

Vital Problems of Undergraduate Life

Rushing season, co-operative buying for fraternity boarding houses, substitutes for “hell week,” means of discipline of Freshmen, and above all,
the importance of scholarship in the fraternity. It was brought out that, along with social activities, the fraternities should stress
scholastic work and also extra-curricular activities. The Thanksgiving Council convenes every year around this time for the definite purpose of
discussing such current problems. Ed Kuykendall stated that this year’s convention seemed to be the most successful one and that
he is sure that not only himself but also all the other delegates profited greatly from the program of talks
and discussions.

Society of Modern Languages Convene

The South Atlantic Modern Language Association met in Columbia, S. C., last Friday and Saturday. This was the fourth annual
convention of the association, this one being sponsored by the University of South Carolina. The four states composing the South
Atlantic group, Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, and North Carolina, had representatives. These representatives are professors of the various universities and
colleges of the four above-mentioned states. Six members of the Davidson faculty attended the meetings: Prof. Erwin, Prof. Goldiere, Prof.
Fleagle, Dr. Cumming, Dr. Vowles, and Dr. Watts. Prof. Erwin was the retiring president of the association at this meeting
and was succeeded to office by Prof. Goodyear of Emory University. Prof. Fleagle has the distinction of being chairman of
the Spanish section of this body.

The four outstanding modern languages are discussed in detail at these assemblies. These languages are English, French, German, and Spanish.
Any innovations or ideas concerning these languages are discussed both by the members in attendance. Individual opinion is given a
chance of expression and as a result much interest and benefit are obtained by those present. Several features enlivened the
program. Outstanding of these was the sightseeing tour of the city of Columbia and of the Saluda River. The visitors
were transported in huge buses and were escorted by a cortege of highway patrol. The highlight of the program was
an address by Carrington Lancaster, of Johns Hopkins University, on “Spanish-French Dramatic Relations in the Seventeenth Century.” Dr. Lancaster was
the guest of honor of the association.

Music and dramatics also had their part on the program. The Glee Club of the University of South Carolina rendered
several beautiful selections.

(Continued on page 6)

Sigma Delta Pi Will Be Installed Here Dec. 12

Local Spanish Club to Become Omega Chapter of National Honorary Spanish Society

13 DELEGATES TO ATTEND

Unique Program Including Spanish Plays, Songs, and Talks Is Planned

The Spanish Club and the Department of Spanish are looking forward with keen interest and elation to the installation of
the Omega Chapter of the National Spanish Society of Sigma Delta Pi, which ceremonies take place here on the evening
of December 12. The installation exercises will be in charge of delegations from the University of Chattanooga and the University
of South Carolina. Prof. Terrell Tatum and one student member of the Chapter will come over from Chattanooga, while Dr.
R. Timmons and ten student members of Chi Chapter are to be here from Columbia. After the installation ceremonies, there
will be a banquet, followed by a varied Spanish program, consisting of short talks in Spanish, a short Spanish play,
Spanish songs, etc.

The granting of the charter for this coveted chapter to Davidson was due to the untiring efforts of Prof. Fleagle,
with the hearty co-operation of Profs. Blythe and Goldiere and the members of the Spanish Club. Prof. Blythe is already
a member of the Mu Chapter of the Society, having been elected into that chapter in 1927. The Sigma Delta
Pi Fraternity was founded on November 14, 1919, at the University of California. In 1921 it began to expand, and
in November 1925 became a National Society with six chapters. Since then it has grown into 24 chapters installed in
institutions such as Middlebury College and Universities of California, Southern California, Leland Stanford, Oregon, Illinois, Wisconsin, Idaho, Maryland, Texas, Chattanooga,
and South Carolina. Dr. Leavitt O. Wright of the University of Oregon is national president of the society.

(Continued on page 6)

DR. PIERSON DELIVERS ADDRESS BEFORE PHI BETA KAPPA SOCIETY

Speaks Before Large Audience in Chambers Auditorium After Formal Initiation of Elected Men

NINE MEN INITIATED

University of North Carolina Dean Speaks on “Education versus Pedagogy”

On Monday, December 7, those elected to Phi Beta Kappa fraternity in the fall were initiated. The initiates were E.
C. Dwelle, Jr., Charlotte, N. C.; Roger P. Enloe, Buchanan, Ga.; T. W. McLean, Charlotte, N. C.; S. S. Wiley,
Salisbury, N. C.; J. D. McConnell, Davidson, N. C.; J. K. Welch, Mt. Holly, N. C.; Louis N. Hand, East
Spencer, N. C.; I. S. Bettis, Morristown, Tenn.; C. W. Harrison, Davidson. After the ceremony, held in Chambers on Monday
evening, Dr. W. W. Pierson, alumni of Alabama University and dean of the Graduate School of the University of North
Carolina, delivered an address in the auditorium, which was attended by the public. Dr. W. K. Foreman, president of the
Phi Beta Kappa Chapter at Davidson, made the opening speech; Prof. A. Currie, the secretary, then introduced the initiates, and
Dr. Lingle, who was elected an honorary member of Phi Beta Kappa before he became president of Davidson College, introduced
the speaker.

A condensation of Dr. Pierson's speech follows: Courageously flaying state legislatures which have permitted educationists to engage “in what has
become a stupendous exploitation,” with direct reference and denunciation to the requirement that “the applicant for certification must have a
certain percentage of hours in education courses,” Dr. W. W. Pierson pleaded for a renaissance in scholarship with the subject.

(Continued on page 6)

The following are interesting questions on our mission work in foreign fields. The answer to these questions will be found
on the editorial page.

1. What did the average member of our church give last year to Foreign Missions?
2. What is the missionary aim of our church?
3. Where are our forces centered?
4. How many mission stations do we have?
5. How many missionaries represent our church?
6. What is the native membership of our church?
7. What is our total Christian constituency in these countries?
8. Do native churches contribute to their own support?
9. What is the number of our schools and enrollment?
10. Does our work stop with Evangelism and Education?
11. How many medical missionaries and nurses do we support?
12. How many hospitals demonstrate for us the message of Christ?
13. What are some material needs in our work?
14. How long have Protestant Missions been in existence?
15. Who was the first Protestant missionary?
16. How long has the Southern Presbyterian Church been engaged in Missions?
17. Where is the largest congregation of the Southern Presbyterian Church?
18. What are the two largest educational institutions conducted by the Southern Church?
19. Who is Kagawa?
20. What is the Kingdom of God Movement in Japan?
21. What is the yearly cost of our Mission enterprise?
