WRESTLING STATE vs DAVIDSON SATURDAY NIGHT

The Davidsonian
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

DR. HENDERLITE TO SPEAK AT Y VESPERS SUNDAY

Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 29, 1931 No. 16

Dr. Oren Moore Delivers Inspiring “Choosing One’s Life Work” is Subject Selected by Charlotte Physician

Large Field is Open
Lawyer, Engineer, and Doctor Tell Greatest Thrill They Have Known

At Y vespers, on January 18, Dr. Oren Moore, baby specialist of Charlotte, delivered a straightforward and inspiring address to
the assembled students. His subject was “Choosing One’s Life Work.” In his introduction, Dr. Moore explained that his choice of
the above subject was perhaps a surprising one to most of his listeners, because it was used by so many
lecturers. However, this has not lessened the need for instruction to students along this line. There are so many fields
of work lying before the young man of today that he is flustered when a definite choice has to be
made. Even the outlook on life work has changed from what it used to be. The subjects of medicine, law,
and the ministry are no longer considered the only outstanding and the best of the various subjects, but (Continued on
page 5)

Wrestling Team Meets N. C. State on Saturday
Is First Appearance of Coach Unger’s Team This Season

On Saturday night, January 31, the first edition of Coach Doe Unger’s Wildcat wrestling squad will make its initial appearance
in a tilt with the Wolfpack of State College. As yet, the capacities of Coach Unger's team are unknown, while
those of State are comparatively indefinite. In a recent match with Washington and Lee, State won out in only three
weights, but this is considered very good since W. & L. won over the Army wrestling team by the score
of 34-0. This year’s varsity wrestling team includes four men from the Freshman wrestling team of last year, the rest
being men who have wrestled on previous teams. Coach Unger has been working with his squad night and day since
the first of December, but will not hazard a prophecy as to the result of the coming match with State.
He does say that the wrestling schedule is one of the most difficult ones he has ever seen, and probably
the hardest this college will ever face. In the 118-pound class, Vick, weighing 120, will start off the match. Gorham,
weighing 126, will wrestle in the 125-pound class. In the 135-pound weight, either Houston or Preston will wrestle, to be
decided by Coach Unger. Either Tyack or McDavid will fight in the 145-pound class. Captain Conway, intercollegiate state champion of
last year, and defeated only by Packard of the Army with a time advantage of 5:29 minutes, will wrestle in
the 165-pound class. McFayden will wrestle in the 175-pound class, while Boyle will wrestle in the unlimited class.

Book By Dr. Brown Interesting

Births
Coach and Mrs. Tex Tilson have announced the birth of a daughter, Virginia Anne, born at the Presbyterian Hospital, Charlotte,
on January 15th. Mr. and Mrs. Tilson have one other child, Tex, Jr. Dr. and Mrs. Thomas L. Lingle also
announced the birth of their first grandchild, Clara Souther Garth, born January 18th, in New York City. Tiny Miss Garth
is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Garth, Mrs. Garth being the former Miss Sara Lingle. Mr. Garth,
a Davidson alumnus, is a professor of physics in Hunter College.

Vesper Address Recently Published

Indicative of the treatment that is to follow, Dr. C. K. Brown's latest book, “The State Highway System of North
Carolina,” starts off with this story: “Some years ago,” said General William R. Cox, speaking before a convention at Raleigh
in 1902, ‘I was traveling on a stagecoach in Western North Carolina and was favored with a seat by the
driver. I asked him whether he always traveled that same road. He said: “Not in the winter; then I travel
the lower road.” Upon my inquiring of him where that road was, he answered: “About two feet under where we
are traveling now.”’ Beginning thus with the highway conditions as they were in North Carolina in the nineteenth century, Dr.
Brown brings the story up to date, telling of the first “Good Roads Movement,” the subsequent struggle for modern highways,
ending in the program undertaken in 1921 and carried forward in the next eight years with the liberal issuance of
state bonds.

“This book, which came off the press only last week, is the second book that Dr. Brown has written for
the University of North Carolina Social Study Series. The earlier work came out in 1928 and was entitled, “The State
Movement in Railroad Development.” It deals in a manner like that of the later book with the growth of railways
in North Carolina. In preparing the book, Dr. Brown worked in his capacity of sometime research associate in the Institute
for Research in Social Science in the University of North Carolina. The first nine chapters of the highways book are
narrative and historical, tracing the (Continued on page 5)

Seniors Partial To Phi Beta Kappa Key
Athletics Hold Chief Interest and Are Deemed Most Valuable

The results of a Senior Questionnaire which was held some time ago are now being made known. They show the
attitude of the part of the student body which has been here the longest, to outside activities, R. O. T.
C., compulsory courses, etc. The results of the question, “Which extracurricular activity holds your chief interest?” are: Athletics, 29; religious,
6; publications, 4; literary societies, 3; bulling, 2; honorary fraternities, 2; music, 2; sleeping, 2; debating, 1; fraternity (social), 1;
radio, 1, and rifle team, 1. The activity deemed most valuable to the college is: Athletics, 16; football, 15; Y.
M. C. A., 9; literary societies, 3; publications, 3; golf, 1; fraternity, 1; and study, 1. The next question has
to do with that much-discussed problem: “Do you consider Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, or Varsity ‘D’ the most
valuable?” Forty-four gave first place to Phi Beta Kappa, 18 gave first place to Omicron Delta Kappa, and 3 considered
the Varsity ‘D’ most valuable. To the question, “For which one would you work the hardest if starting over?” 42
named Phi Beta Kappa, 13 named Omicron Delta Kappa, and 7 named Varsity “D”. While the results of this may
be rather surprising, still they show that Phi Beta Kappa is recognized as the supreme achievement of four years of
study. Also as noted in the second question, if the four years could be begun again, if college could be
started afresh, 42 would strive for Phi Beta Kappa in preference to the other activities. In answer to a questionnaire
on R. O. T. C., 60 considered it an asset while 5 considered it a detriment. This may give many
of the Freshmen and Sophomores a ray of hope since it shows the fact that almost the entire Senior class
considered their two years as an asset.

New Journal Published By Physics Fraternity
Sigma Pi Sigma Has Grown to Have Nineteen Chapters

DOUGLAS LED FOUNDING
Holds Position of High Prominence Among National Honorary Fraternities

Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity, has recently published the first number of its new journal, “The Radiations of Sigma
Pi Sigma.” Davidson is deeply interested in the progress of this fraternity because it was founded here in December, 1921,
by five students and four faculty members. Since then it has grown to a position of high prominence among national
honorary fraternities. Sigma Pi Sigma was founded with this purpose in view: To reward high scholarship and promote interest in
the advanced study of physics, to stimulate individual research, to enable its members to keep pace with the progress of
science, and toencourage a spirit of co-operation and friendship among those who have displayed marked ability in this study.” From
the date of the founding until 1925, the only chapter was at Davidson. Between then and 1928, the fraternity grew
to six chapters. (Continued on page 6)

Captain Pritchett Gives Students Splendid Talk

Interesting Speech is Delivered on “Sanctuaries”

An inspiring message was delivered at the vesper service last Sunday evening by Captain Norton Goodier Pritchett. The audience was
very attentive to the speaker and seemed to enjoy his talk, since it was informative and made interesting by apt
illustrations and examples.

In the introduction to his speech, “Sanctuaries,” Captain Pritchett quoted the words that Edward W. Bok's grandmother said to the
great financier when he was a small boy, “make you the world a little better and more beautiful because you
have lived in it.” Then he described the Mountain Lake Sanctuary in Florida, which he recently visited, and showed how
Bok had carried out the wishes of his old grandmother. He said that while the chimes in the tower were
ringing, the great mass of people assembled there were as hushed and silent as if some unseen hand had quieted
them. He told of the shimmering lake that reflected the shadow of the imposing tower. (Continued on page 5)

New Courses

It will be of interest to students to learn that six changes have been made in as many semester courses
for the spring portion of the ensuing term, which have not been noted in the College Bulletin. Doctor Archibald Currie
will take over Economics Five, heretofore taught by Dr. C. K. Brown. Dr. Brown, in turn, will offer a new
course in “Transportation.” Captain Norton G. Pritchett will teach a class in Physical Education again in the second semester, similar
to that taught in the first semester, for the benefit of Junior students, since the course is an alternate one
and will not be available next year. Besides these, Dr. P. H. Gwynn, a new Education and Sociology professor, will
offer courses in the Methods of Teaching Mathematics, and similar courses in Physics and History. Such courses were mentioned in
the catalogue, but no definite professor was listed as instructor, except in two instances, where the named instructor has been
changed.

Davidson Meets Duke In Crucial Game At Durham

Scabbard and Blade To Have Rifle Team

A team from the Davidson Order of the Scabbard and Blade will participate this spring in the National Scabbard and
Blade rifle and pistol competition. Eighty-five teams of similar organizations from various parts of the United States are to take
part. Rifle firing begins this month and continues until April 1. Seven Davidson men, J. L. Brock, R. D. Russell,
J. L. Smith, Dean Rusk, J. S. Meacham, J. W. McCutchan, Thad Brock, and S. S. Wiley, are trying out,
and from this number, five will be chosen to represent the school. The regular .22 calibre gallery rifle is to
be used in the competition, and targets will be fired at a fifty-foot range. J. L. Brock, who represented Davidson
in the national R. O. T. C. matches last summer, is captain and coach of the team.

Pistol firing will start April 1 and end June 1, and during this period a team will be chosen to
shoot in the national competition from the following men: A. R. Brock, J. D. Russell, C. A. Sisson, J. W.
McCutchan, A. R. Bird, J. S. Meacham, and Thad Russell. J. D. Russell is captain of this group, which is
coached by Captains Blanton and Cochran. The winning team of each phase of firing will be presented with a loving
cup, and the individual members will receive medals for their work.

Law Degree Highly Valued By Seniors

University of North Carolina is Favorite Among Other Schools

At the last smoker held by the Senior class, at which most of the members were present, a questionnaire was
submitted to the group. The questions covered a large field of diversified subjects. Very interesting results were obtained, one of
which showed that political science is the most popular course among the Seniors. Some of the questions with the results
are: “What would be your choice of schools now, outside of Davidson?” The University of North Carolina was the first
choice with 23 votes. Georgia came next with four. Alabama, Dartmouth, P. C., Vanderbilt, W. and L. came next with
three each. The “2” class was Duke, Harvard, Princeton, and V. M. I. There were fifteen other selections of one
vote each, among which were Colorado, U. S. M. A., and Heidelberg.

“What is your major subject?” Political science led with 12. Chemistry and philosophy came next with 10 each; history, 7;
economics, English, and physics, 4; biology and mathematics, 3; psychology, 2; and education and fine arts, 1 each.

“What is your minor subject?” Political science and biology led with 9 each; economics came next with 8.

“What do you judge the most valuable course you have taken?” Political science I, 16; economics, 8; philosophy I, 7;
physics, 6; chemistry and Bible, 4 each; English, 3; biology, accounting, history, mathematics, and R. O. T. C., 3 each.
There were five other subjects mentioned.

“Which course that you have taken has proved most interesting?” Again political science led with 29; English next with 5;
chemistry and philosophy had 4 each; economics and psychology, 3 each; biology, business, and physics had 2 each. Nine other
subjects were mentioned.

“Are you in favor of more compulsory courses?” Sixty were not in favor of more courses made compulsory, and nine
were in favor of more. Among the suggestions for further compulsory courses were: political science I, 4; philosophy and religious
education, 2 each, and etiquette with 1.

Big Five Leaders to Get Hardest Test at Hands of Powerful Blue Devils

WILDCATS SHOW CLASS

’Cats to Meet Lenoir-Rhyne Here Today or Tomorrow

Educational Association Will Convene in Raleigh

Dr. Watts is President of N. C. Modern Language Association

The program committee of the Modern Language Association of North Carolina met on Friday evening, January 25, at the North
Carolina College for Women, Greensboro. Davidson College was represented by Drs. G. B. Watts, F. G. R. Vowles, and K.
Fleagle. Plans were made for interesting programs at Raleigh, where the North Carolina Education Association will hold its meetings during
the latter part of March. Different committees will report on “An Adequate Program of Education for North Carolina,” and the
various departments will discuss the accounts given. In fact, the meetings will consist mainly of these reports and the discussion
of them. The committees have been instructed to formulate all their plans for publication as soon as the last meeting
has been held.

Dr. G. B. Watts, head of the French department at Davidson, is president of the North Carolina Modern Language Association,
is chairman of the general committee, and is also a member of the sub-committee for French. Dr. K. Fleagle is
on the sub-committee for Spanish and Professor G. R. Vowles on the sub-committee for German.

BARIUM SPRINGS PLEDGES

Next Monday, February 2, 1931, the pledges for the Barium Springs campaign will be collected. This campaign was initiated last
Fall by the Y. M. C. A, and a goal of $1,000 was set. Although a great deal of money
has already been collected, not all of the pledges have been paid. It is expected that the full amount will
be paid soon after the effort is begun.
