o o THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 6, 1931 O. O. McIntyre Gives Tips on Manhattan Writes of Experiences on First Going
to Big City O. O. McIntyre gives some personal experiences on his going to Gotham in the June issue of
College Humor. “At the outset,” says Mr. McIntyre, “it is only fair to chronicle I am what might be called
a New York-o-phile. To me, living on this narrow strip of island is sitting on top of the world. “It
is no exaggeration that when I stepped from my Middle West train into the dizzy rotunda of Grand Central that
I would have given all I possessed—which to be precise included a healthy appetite, two suits of clothes, a change
of underwear and forty-six dollars and fifty cents in cash—to have taken the next train back without stepping outside the
enormous terminal. “I knew then what was meant when I had read that New York was ‘an ogre.’ The same
buckitty-buckitty which is today a stimulant was then something indefinably calamitous. There was a sensation of utter isolation—a drop of
water in a vast ocean. “I have heard many welfare workers and others interested in Manhattan sociology say that no
young person should come here with an idea of finding a niche in the man-made cliffs without having money enough
to last at least six months. For a single person the amount is fixed at six hundred. For a married
couple the amount is nine hundred dollars. “Every day charity organizations are paying railroad fares back to the cross-roads of
the great army of Those Who Failed. Yet if I were a young man who had just left college and
was equipped with a high-powered ambition to get on in this amazing world, possessed excellent health and equally excellent ideals
along with enough money—say sixty dollars—I would make a bee line for New York.”

Large Registration Already Completed All but 43 members of the present Davidson College student body of the three lower classes
have completed their registration for next fall, according to an announcement from the office of Fred W. Hengeveld, registrar. This
means that 422 students, members of the present freshman, sophomore and junior classes, have signified their intention to return to
Davidson next fall. The 43 who have not qualified represent a smaller number than usual. Mr. Hengeveld also stated that
100 members of the incoming freshman class next September have been accepted and registered, either by sending in their credits
to the registrar or making a room deposit fee with the treasurer. This advanced registration is only slightly less than
it was one year ago at this time. Seldom does a day pass now that some applicant is not accepted
for enrollment at Davidson. The total registration for the 1931-1932 scholastic session is therefore 522, with an estimated further registration
of new men, or old ones returning after an absence, of about 125 students. It is planned to maintain the
enrollment at Davidson next year around the 650 mark. The registrar predicted that several of the 43 men who failed
to register during the prescribed period would be in Davidson. Davidson officials have expressed satisfaction over the outlook, in the
face of a general financial depression throughout the country.

Lingle Attends Funeral Last Friday afternoon the president of Davidson College, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, left en route to Charlottesville,
Va. He went for the purpose of participating in the funeral services of the late Edwin A. Alderman, president of
the University of Virginia. This noted educator died Wednesday, and Dr. Lingle received a long-distance call, asking him to take
part in the last rites. Although surrounded with and pressed by his other important duties, Dr. Lingle gladly consented to
go, and left for Charlottesville Friday, returning to Davidson Saturday night.

Mother (after visitor had gone): Bobby, what on earth made you stick out your tongue at our pastor? Bobby: Oh,
dear! Why, Muvver, I just showed it to him. He said “Little man, how do you feel?” I thought he
was a doctor.

Evelyn Ervin Gives Delightful Program Last Monday night, May 4th, the Mu Beta Psi musical fraternity of Davidson presented Miss
Evelyn Ervin, organist from Queens-Chicora College in Charlotte. Miss Ervin is the honor student in organ of the graduating class
there. She was assisted by Miss Miriam Murphy, violinist, and Miss Nella Sharpe, accompanist. The program is as follows: I.
Sonata in D Minor—Opus 2—Guilmant Largo e maestoso Allegro Pastorale Finale Miss Evelyn Ervin II. Bizarre—Kroll Miss Murphy and Miss
Sharpe III. Dewdrops—Swinnen Rosebuds—Swinnen The Intrusit—Kinder Miss Evelyn Ervin IV. Indian Lament—Dvorak La Media Noche—Artiles Miss Murphy and Miss Sharpe
V. Etude de Concert—Bonnet Caprice Heroique—Bonnet Miss Evelyn Ervin These selections were rendered beautifully, and the audience applauded generously. This
is the first of a series of musical concerts to be sponsored by Mu Beta Psi this week, which is
National Music Week. A member of the fraternity has charge of the devotional exercises each morning in chapel. Tonight Dr.
Minor C. Baldwin, the Dean of American Organists, and also called the Paderewski of the organ, will be presented in
an organ recital. Tomorrow night, Thursday, the Atwater Kent Audition for Davidson will be held, the winner of which will
represent Davidson at the State contest.

SENIOR CLASS (Continued from page 1) Jesus touches the personal side of her life. Next he mentioned the rich young
ruler who had many good traits but who was not a positive believer and was not ready to give up
everything for the service of Christ. The speaker stated that the commission given at the tomb was not restricted, but
boundless in scope. In the same way Jesus makes no restrictions today as to color, nationality, sect, or what-not. In
proceeding, he asserted that we are all brothers and each has an integral part in the Kingdom. He contrasted the
story about a tourist’s regard for his fellowman with the story of the Good Samaritan. Jesus told this parable to
illustrate that a neighbor is a person who shows mercy. He asked the question, “Why are people called on to
serve?” The answer he revealed was through love of Him. Continuing, he focused attention on Mary’s spontaneous action which was
a result of her love. He attested that William James says, “The love of a mother for her dying child
is perhaps the most beautiful thing in the world.” Mr. Kraemer cogitated with the assembly on what a wonderful world
this would be if everyone who professes Christ would serve Him. He showed how reasonable Jesus’ requests are, since He
never asks others to do things that He has not done Himself. Above all things he cautioned his hearers to
never be satisfied with what they have done. When tempted to indulge in this, he suggested that they think of
the great sacrifice that was made that others might be saved. Jesus died as a man, and rose as Lord,
which makes Him conqueror over life and death. The speaker affirmed that religion is a positive impetus in lives and
teaches unselfishness. Proclaiming that religion must more than convince, but rather pervade the entire life, he assured the group that
it was worthwhile to give up everything for Jesus and voicing the hope that his audience would set out to
make its religion positive, closed his talk on “The Positive Life.” After the second speech the whole congregation repeated together
the Mizpah benediction.

College Calendar Wednesday, May 6, 8:00 P. M.—Organ recital by Minor C. Baldwin, in Chambers Auditorium. Thursday, May 7, 8:00
P. M.—Atwater Kent Audition Contest in Chambers Auditorium. Friday, May 8, 2:30 P. M.—Varsity Tennis Team vs. V. P. I.
Saturday, May 9, 2:30 P. M.—Varsity Tennis Team vs. Citadel. 3:00 P. M.—Freshman Tennis Team vs. Charlotte High. Sunday, May
10, 6:00 P. M.—Mother’s Day “Y” Vesper program. Mrs. Robert Glasgow from Charlotte will speak in Chambers Auditorium. Monday, May
11, 2:30 P. M.—Varsity Tennis Team vs. Citadel. 8:00 P. M.—Dr. Howard Rondthaler speaks at O. D. K. Initiation Ceremony
at Chambers. Tuesday, May 12, 3:30 P. M.—Freshman Baseball Team vs. Charlotte High School. 7:15 P. M.—Literary Societies meet in
their respective halls. Wednesday, May 13, 3:00 P. M.—Freshman Tennis Team vs. Carolina Freshmen.

COLLEGE WILL CONFER (Continued from page 1) burg, will be the recipient of the doctor of literature, and the doctor
of divinity degrees will be conferred upon Rev. W. H. Lingle, well-known missionary to China; Rev. L. R. Scott, of
Valdosta, Ga., and Rev. E. W. Way, of Jacksonville, Fla. Mr. Allen is a business executive inNew York and was
the business and confidential advisor of the late James Buchanan Duke. He is the executor of Mr. Duke’s will, is
chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Duke Endowment, and is chairman of the Board of Directors of the
British-American Tobacco Company. The president of the University of North Carolina, Dr. Graham, is a graduate of the University, and
after serving for many years on the faculty, he was recently made president of America’s state university. Dr. Graham has
already been honored by one degree this spring by a Southern institution.

Prof. P. N. Tillinghast graduated from Davidson in 1891 and later obtained a master of arts degree here. He was
a student at Cornell and has taught at Oregon, Belfast, Ireland, and Washington, D. C. He is now professor of
social sciences at Converse College in Spartanburg, S. C. The doctor of divinity honorees are Mr. Lingle, a graduate of
Blackburn College, McCormick Theological Seminary, and for forty years a missionary to China; Mr. Scott, a graduate of Davidson in
1908 and a graduate of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., pastor in Montgomery, Ala., and now a minister of the
Presbyterian Church at Valdosta, Ga.; and Mr. Way, minister of the Southern Presbyterian Church. Mr. Way is now in Jacksonville,
and he has spent his life in the ministry, largely in Florida.

Mother’s Day Program
Mother’s Day is next Sunday and Carl Pritchett announces that there will be a special service in observance of this
event. Mrs. Robert Glasgow of Charlotte will speak at the vespers Sunday evening and it is expected that there will
be a large attendance to hear her talk. The following Sunday the Freshman class will conduct the services. This is
the third class that has sponsored these exercises this year and the plan is a successful one. Dr. J. L.
Powell is going to make the commencement address before the “Y” and he is sure to have morsels of practical
experience to relate.

“DRUGS” Students’ “PRESCRIPTIONS” Make Our Store Your Store WHITE DRUG CO., Inc. “SODA” Supplies “SUNDRIES”

DAVIDSON TEAM TAKES (Continued from page 3)
ner of Duke for fourth. High jump: Won by Clark, N. C. S., 5 feet 6 3-4 inches; second, Smith,
Duke, and Stafford, N. C., tie; fourth, Brewer, Duke. 120-yard high hurdles: Won by George, Davidson; second, McCall, Davidson; third,
Little, Davidson; fourth, Paris, N. C. S. Time: 15.8 seconds. Broad jump: Won by Fulmer, Duke, 22 feet 11 inches;
second, Howard, N. C., 21 feet 4 1-4 inches; third, Brewer, Duke, and Goodman, N. C. S., tied, 21 feet
1-4 inch. 880-yard run: Won by McGinn, N. C. S.; second, Watkins, N. C.; third, Bradsher, Duke; fourth, Simon, High
Point. Time: 2 minutes and 5-10 seconds. 220-yard dash: Won by Brownlee, Duke; second, Fleagle, Davidson; third, Smith, N. C.;
fourth, Drane, N. C. Time: 22.6 seconds. Two-mile: Won by Baucom, N. C.; second, Brannon, Davidson; third, Hubbard, N. C.;
fourth, Lewis, Duke. Time: 9 minutes 51.7 seconds (new record). 220-yard low hurdle: Won by George, Davidson; second, Slusser, N.
C.; third, Little, Davidson; fourth, McCallie, Davidson. Time: 25 seconds. Javelin: Won by Dupre, Wake Forest, 180 feet 5 1/4
inches; second, Whitesides, Wake Forest, 165 feet 8 1/4 inches; third, Brown, N. C., 158 feet 5 1/2 inches; fourth,
Massengill, Duke, 157 feet 9 inches. Mile relay: Won by North Carolina (Smith, Drane, Watkins, Weil); second, N. C. S.;
third, Duke; fourth, Davidson. Time: 3 minutes 25.2 seconds (equals record). Discus: Won by Dameron, N. C., 136 feet 6
inches (new state record); second, Seitz, N. C., 127 feet; third, Brown, N. C., 125 feet 11 inches; fourth, Thompson,
N. C., 118 feet 3 inches. One-mile: Won by Jones, N. C.; second, Simon, Duke; third, Earle, Davidson; fourth, Richs,
State. Time: 4.32. 440-yard run: Won by Floyd, N. C. S.; second, Maryland, N. C.; third, Weil, N. C.; fourth,
Silver, N. C. S. Time: 51.1 seconds.

FRESHMEN ARE DEFEATED (Continued from page 3)
(C), Landis (C). Time: 23.8. 220 low hurdles: Allison (C), Hawthorne (C), O’Keefe (D). Time: 26.6. Quarter-mile run: Halyburton (D),
Glasgow (C), Wright (D). Time: 54.2. Half-mile run: Turpie (C), Curlee (D), Corbin (D). Time: 26.6. Shot put: Harold Sutton,
Hasty, Allen, all of Charlotte. Distance: 45 ft. 1 1/4 in. High jump: Rhyne and Pratt, both of Davidson (tied
for first); Lambeth and Stothart, both of Charlotte (tied for third). Height: 5 ft. 2 in. Pole vault: Hopson (C),
first; Peabody (C), and Stephens (C), tied for second. Height: 10 ft. 6 in. Discus throw: Dill (D), Harold Sutton
(C), Hasty (C). Distance: 110 ft. 1 in. Broad jump: Soule (C), Pickard (C), Allen (C). Distance: 21 ft. 7
1/4 inches. Javelin throw: Howard Sutton, Harold Sutton, Allen, all of Charlotte. Distance: 160 ft. 10 in. Mile relay: Charlotte
(Mock, Landis, McGill and Hopson).

’CATS PLAY GOOD (Continued from page 3)
The fielding of the ’Cats was a feature of the game. The Seceders committed a total of six errors, while
Davidson made but two. The score: Davidson 2 2 5 5 2 0-8 2 6 6 Erskine 3 6 5
Batteries: Davidson, Croker and Armfield; Erskine, McGill and Knox.

OMICRON DELTA (Continued from page 1)
ball letters, belongs to Eta Sigma Phi and Scabbard and Blade. He was alternate captain of football and is a
captain in R. O. T. C. Jas. A. Jones, Laurinburg, N. C., is the retiring president of the Forensic Council.
A member of the student council, Alpha Phi Epsilon, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity, he also served on the
Y Cabinet and was manager of Freshman football. J. K. Smith, Dunn, N. C., has recently retired as manager of
the Student Store. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta, social fraternity, Scabbard and Blade, and is captain in
R. O. T. C., and Senior marshal for commencement. Composing the seven Juniors bid to Omicron Delta Kappa are: E.
C. Dwelle, Jr., Charlotte, N. C., who was recently elected editor of Quips and Cranks for next year, belongs to
Delta Pi Kappa, Le Cercle Francais, Sigma Upsilon, and International Relations Club, honorary fraternities, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon. R. P.
Enloe, Buchanan, Ga., is president of the Y. M. C. A., and belongs to Eta Sigma Phi, International Relations Club,
and Omega Phi Alpha. R. W. Gorrell, Jr., Winston-Salem, is football manager for 1931, business manager of the Wildcat Handbook
for the past year, is on the Y Cabinet and Student Council, and belongs to Phi Gamma Delta, social fraternity.
D. S. King, Bristol, Tenn.-Va., is president of the Student Body for the coming year, a member of the football
team for two years. He also belongs to Scabbard and Blade and Kappa Alpha. J. H. McKinnon, Jr., Jacksonville, Fla.,
is president of the rising Senior class, a member of Scabbard and Blade and Sigma Alpha Epsilon. He also serves
on the Y Cabinet. D. M. McQueen, Little Rock, S. C., president of the Athletic Association, wearer of varsity football
“D,” belongs to Kappa Sigma, social fraternity, and has won distinction in scholastic attainments. D. G. Martin, Covington, Ga., editor-in-chief
of The Davidsonian, has won a letter in varsity basketball. He belongs to Le Cercle Francais, Sigma Upsilon, Scabbard and
Blade, International Relations Club, Delta Pi Kappa, the Y Cabinet, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity. Other student members of
Omicron Delta Kappa are: A. R. Bird, Jr., Thad Brock, W. W. Fraley, W. B. Goodson, C. H. Goodykoontz, R.
M. King, D. S. LaFar, J. D. McCall, A. B. McClure, J. W. McCutchan, A. W. McLean, Dean Rusk, and
C. A. Sisson.

FORMAL INSTALLATION (Continued from page 1)
Goodson, in giving his position to Don McQueen, stated that it was his sincere hope that the Wildcats would beat
Wake Forest in football while the new Athletic Association officers were in office. The final feature on the program was
a farewell address made by Dan LaFar which he concluded by giving the gavel to Jack McKinnon, president-elect of the
rising Senior class. McKinnon said in acceptance of the gavel that he wished, on behalf of the new Senior class,
to accept the challenge offered to him by Davidson’s traditions, and that he hoped that his class would measure up
to the high standards set by the outgoing class. The meeting was then adjourned for the barbecue in the banquet
hall.

College Prof—How are we to meet the high cost of living?
College President—You don’t have to meet it. It overtakes you.

Davidson Theatre
Monday, 11th “DRACULA”
Tuesday, 12th GLORIA SWANSON “INDISCREET” with BEN LYON
Wednesday, 13th “SHIP MATES”
Thursday, 14th “DAY BREAK”
Friday, 15th “PAINTED DESERT”
