‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 28, 1931

CLASSES BEGIN PRACTICE SATURDAY

Individual Scoring Led By Kid Brewer of Duke

STATE FRESHMEN DOWN DAVIDSON: 14-7

And another game ends in a scoreless tie! We wonder if this is getting to be a habit of the Wildcats. One more score like the last two games and we'd be willing to resort to tag football, setting a maximum time limit of five minutes, and giving the decision to the team gaining the most ground.

Just as we suspected, the flying fleet from Erskine pulled a fast one and upset the dope bucket—not such an upset at that, for the Seceders had previously held the strong Citadel team to a 12-6 score. The obvious conclusion drawn from the Davidson-Erskine game would either be that Erskine was very much underrated, or that the ’Cats were experiencing the let-down frequently resulting from a previous hard engagement, this being in the case of Davidson, the Duke game.

It was a tough game, and to some extent monotonous, because of the unusual defensive strength of both teams and the corresponding lack of offensive in both the ’Cat and Erskine machines. The ‘Cats possibly had a slight edge as regards offensive, a large part of the game being played in Erskine territory. Four possible chances they had to score, each time within the Erskine 20-yard stripe, but a great Erskine line refused to open, and the ball went over each time, Erskine immediately punting out of danger.

This fellow Gettys, in our opinion, is one of the best defensive ends on any team Davidson has encountered this year. Time and again he smashed through to halt the Wildcat backfield before it could even get started, frequently downing the ball carrier in his tracks. He was truly a burr in the Wildcat’s paw Saturday. Peabody for the Wildcats handled his punts nicely, running them back for extra yardage at times, but usually being halted before he could get going. King’s 20-yard run and his catch of a 20-yard pass furnished the only thrills of the afternoon, although Pearce and Flinn made several nice gains. McQueen possibly had the edge on Gettys in their short punting duel. His first opportunity of playing for any length of time since his recent injury, Buck Mills played a very nice game. His forward passes were long and accurate, and he got off several long punts. We believe we should see more of Buck than we have recently.

The Wildcat line as a whole played very well, with especial mention going to Whitfield and Johnson. The Freshmen got the tables turned on them by State last Saturday and found themselves on the short end of a 14-7 score. Frequent fumbling and poor tackling were largely responsible, as well as a small degree of overconfidence. The Fresh as a whole, however, played well, and the game was an interesting one, filled with thrills.

This Saturday the ’Cats lock horns with the Cadets of V. M. I., and if comparative scores mean anything, Davidson will once more regain her position as under-dog. This same Erskine team which tied Davidson Saturday was beaten by Citadel, 12-6, who in turn was tied by V. M. I., 13-13. These Virginians have a strong team, backed by a wonderful spirit, and the Wildcats know what to look for—a good scrap.

Aesthetic Ed’s predictions for the coming Saturday include:
Valparaiso over Culver.
Wilburforce over Moravian.
Mount St. Mary’s over Auguston.
Tuskegee Institute over Brigham Young.

Complete Service for School Publications
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

KITTENS

Light Kittens Hold Heavy Opponents For One Half, But Weight Finally Wins

In a game replete with thrills from start to finish, the Davidson Wildkittens bowed to the Freshmen from North Carolina State, 14-7. The defeat was in no way ignominious. The Kittens were outweighed approximately twelve pounds to the man, and their opponents possessed rare speed and stamina plus a great reserve strength. The State machine used a system of hard, straight, bruising football, which was successful due to their tremendous weight advantage. By this terrific line attack, State punctured through into Davidson territory several times during the fracas, but were repulsed by the scrappy Kitten forwards. Twice, however, the Wolf Cubs reached the “promised land” just beyond Davidson's goal line via the aerial route after sustained drives. The fateful passers were McAdams to Riddin in the second quarter and McAdams to Rex, who bucked the first extra point and Ray on an end run converted the second. The lone Davidson tally was the natural consequence of a beautiful pass, MacKorell to Morris, who crashed center for the seventh point.

So far as figures go, the Kittens were decisively outplayed. On the offense, the Felines netted only six first downs to State’s eighteen; but what can we do about that? When a State touchdown seemed an absolute certainty, those Kittens reared up their hind legs and knocked it for a loop. Only on those miserable fluke passes was State able to score.

On defense and in the line, Captain Potter shone like a Mazda lamp. After the first quarter when State realized what a dose of venom they were playing against in the person of Captain Potter, the State quarterback wisely chose to run his plays elsewhere. One of the most potent factors in holding the State scoring down was the excellent punting of Morgan, the stellar Kitten left end. Frequently his talented toe arched the spheroid in beautiful spirals out of Davidson territory, to save his cause once again. Two of his boots covered 55 yards apiece, and another traveled a bit over 60. On the whole, the game was well played throughout; few fumbles, few times out, and two great grid machines battling it out with the larger, more experienced, and luckier team eventually emerging the victor after a terrific struggle.

Starting line-ups:
Davidson Position State
Morgan L.E. Stephens
Siewers L.T. Pharar
Brewer L.G. Bernhardt
Lee Center Hamerick
Potter (C) R.G. Frashkin
Hand R.T. Daugherty
Morriss R.E. Reddin
Hubbard Q.B. McAdams
Wingfield L.H. Goodman
Smathers R.H. Peterson
Caton F.B. Rex

Before the Duke game at Davidson, Jake Wade, sports editor of The Charlotte Observer, had many nice things to say about the Wildcats, but it is summed up in these apt words, “Davidson, in its leanest years, makes it interesting for its Big Five opponents. Davidson may make it extremely interesting for Duke Saturday.”

BY 14-7 SCORE

P. J.C. Added to Freshmen Schedule

Davidson, N.C., Oct. 27—Presbyterian Junior College at Maxton has been added to the schedule of the Davidson College freshmen, according to an announcement made here by Coach Laird, mentor of the Wildkittens. The game with the eleven from down East will be played at Davidson on November 6th. This new contest has been substitutedFor the game with the Asheville School for Boys, which was carded for Asheville next Friday afternoon, but which was canceled at the request of authorities at the mountain resort institution. Scheduling a game with Presbyterian Junior College for the local field will give Davidson College students an opportunity to see the Wildkittens in action once again this year. According to the announcement, the remaining games would be played on foreign territory, but the cancellation changed this. Besides the junior college eleven, others yet to be met by the Davidson yearlings are the Duke Freshmen and the Oak Ridge Military Institute.

Blue Devils Lead Race

Duke's dashing Blue Devils and Captain Kid Brewer were leaders of Big Five football teams and leaders over the weekend, despite the brilliant showing of Carolina’s Tar Heels against the strong Tennessee team. Captain Kid Brewer took it upon himself to defeat the Wake Forest Demon Deacons last Friday and jumped far into the lead in individual scoring with a grand total of 50 points. His nearest opponent is Rip Slusser, of Carolina, who hasn't scored since the first game of the season—neither has Carolina. So by the showing and standing of the present Big Five situation, it looks like another dog fight between Carolina’s Tar Heels and Wallace Wade's first Duke team for the state’s title again this year. Duke won the fight last year by virtue of their scoreless tie with Carolina after the Tar Heels had gone down for the count under the fight of little Davidson.

A complete line-up of Big Five statistics follows:

Team Scoring

| Team | G | Td | Ep | Fe | Tp | Op | Avg. Per Game |
|------|---|----|----|----|----|----|----------------|
| Duke | 5 | 8 | 3 | 0 | 33 | 34 | 6.6 |
| Carolina | 4 | 7 | 4 | 0 | 52 | 8 | 13.0 |
| Davidson | 6 | 8 | 3 | 0 | 33 | 34 | 5.5 |
| N.C. State | 5 | 4 | 2 | 0 | 24 | 68 | 5.0 |
| W. Forest | 4 | 2 | 0 | 0 | 12 | 101 | 3.0 |

Team Standings

| Team | W | L | T | Pct. |
|------|---|---|---|------|
| Duke | 5 | 0 | 0 | 1.000 |

Flying Cadets Will Meet Davidson Here Saturday

Wildcats Will Play Their Third Consecutive Home Game Against V. M. I.’s Cadets

BOTH TEAMS GOING GOOD

V. M. I. is Widely Known For Its School Spirit

The Wildcats will play their third consecutive home game Saturday, with V. M. I.'s “Flying Squadron” furnishing the opposition. The Davidson aggregation goes into this game facing their sixth annual clash with Coach Bill Raftery’s Squadron. Since the two teams started playing regularly in 1926, the Cadets have succeeded in wresting a victory from Younger and Tilson’s boys each year so far. Back in 1917, Davidson sent their Virginia neighbors home in defeat, but since then they have not been able to do so again. The team which Coach Raftery will bring to Davidson Saturday is, with the exception of Dunn, last year’s fullback, practically the same team that won over the ‘Cats last year. Gill, their captain and end, does the majority of V. M. I's punting, while Smith, quarterback, is their best passer. They also boast one of the best backfield men in the state in Travers, a senior this year.

The Cadets have been twice honored this year—both Duke and the University of Virginia were hosts to them for their respective Home-Coming games. The game with the University of Virginia witnessed the dedication of the University’s new $350,000 stadium, at which time the Squadron gave Virginia an 18-3 upset. Younger and Tilson will probably throw their full squad at the Cadets Saturday, with the possible exception of Jack Wagner, who may have to be withheld on account of injuries received in the Erskine game last week. V. M. I., like Davidson, is widely known for its highly developed school spirit, so the game Saturday will be the scene of a spirited contest between two teams who keep in the best of condition, and who play good, clean, hard football.

Basketball Season For Classes Opens

The first game in the inter-class basketball tourney is to be played November 9. Workouts have been going on now for about two weeks under the direction of the coaches selected to instruct the class teams. Each year the class basketball teams are under the supervision of men who play basketball or who have played it during former years. This year the teams are being coached by different men on the campus. The Freshman team is under the direction of Carl Pritchett, a former varsity player here at Davidson. Boucher is coaching the Juniors and Grier Martin, a member of last year’s varsity basketball team, is instructing the Sophomores. Patrick is coaching the Seniors.

Last year in the inter-class basketball tourney, the Sophomores were victorious with the Juniors running in second place. The Seniors and the Freshmen held down third and fourth places respectively.

Freshmen Defeated by Guilford in Close Race

The Freshman cross-country team was outrun by the Guilford varsity last Friday, at Guilford, 21-34. The Davidson first-year men suffered from lack of experience against the more elderly runners of Guilford. Even though running on a strange and longer course than usual, the Freshmen put up a good fight, making their opponents strain every effort to win. Newlin, of Guilford, finished first in unusually good time, covering the 2.9-mile course in 15 minutes 49.6 seconds. Trivette, also of Guilford, finished second, while McFadyen, of Davidson, outran Venable of Guilford for third place. Morris of Davidson came in fifth and those following him in order were: Budd (Guilford), Gullette (Davidson), Poindexter (Guilford), Simpson and Rose (Davidson). It was clearly shown that much training will have to be put in, both for sprinting and stamina, before they meet the strong Winston team two weeks from last Friday.

To SIR THOMAS LIPTON 1850-1931

Born in the squalor of a tenement house,
Errand boy at the age of nine...
Known for his shrewdness and good common sense,
He soon became a merchant prince.
Barred from the Royal Yachting Club
Because he was not nobly born,
At last they learned, “the man’s the gowd.”
Nobility of character has no bonds.
Ever a sportsman of highest rank,
That “elusive old mug” he never won,
But with Shamrock the Fifth
He fought to the end,
Ever to be known as the world’s “Best Loser.”

Faster Souders.

Leisure grows in popularity now that so many people wonder what is the use of working so hard for money when you will lose it if you try to save it.

Davis

There never was a bad man that had ability for good service.

Burke

Sweet are the slumbers of the virtuous man.

Addison

Give Us a Trial

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store

Students’ WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

“SODA” “SUNDRIES”

Nationally Known Stetson “D” Store

SPECIAL FOR 10 DAYS ONLY

Camel Pile Coats - $37.50 and Justly Famous