THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1931

ALUMNI PERSONALS

ALUMNI DEATHS

Geo. W. Mackey, '11, of Greenville, S.C., for many years connected with the Y.M.C.A., has become affiliated with the James F. Mackey & Sons Mortuary in that city.

F. M. Pridgen, Jr., '31, has been transferred from Nashville, Tenn., to Detroit, Mich., by the Equitable Life Assurance Society. His address in Detroit is 2288 Lathrop St. Robt. B. Erckman, '30, with the same concern, has a new address: 1115 Armour Boulevard, Kansas City, Missouri.

Julian R. Briggs, '25, who completed last May a four-year service with a branch of the National City Bank of New York in the Philippine Islands, is now in New York, preparatory to sailing on October 15th for Shanghai, China, where he continues his connection with this firm.

S. Wood Brown, '26, who studied under the Sterling Fellowship in the Yale Law School last year, is now connected with the firm, Spencer, Disere, Phelps & Dunbar, at New Orleans, La.

Tyree Dillard, '28, who completed his law preparation at Harvard last June, successfully passed the District of Columbia bar examination, and is now connected with Douglas, O'Brien & Douglas, at Washington, D.C.

R. S. Link, Jr., '28, passed the Louisiana State bar, but has another year in the Tulane Medical School.

Last Monday, Rev. W. Beatty Jennings, D.D., '80, completed his twenty-fifth year of service as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Germantown, Pa., and celebration of the event by Dr. and Mrs. Jennings, the church, and all of its organizations was an important occasion.

Alumni who were recently chosen moderators of North Carolina Presbyteries included Dr. J. M. McConnell, '99, Davidson, of Concord Presbytery; Rev. W. M. Baker, '09, Mebane, of Orange, and Rev. J. K. Fleming, '19, Thomasville, of Winston-Salem Presbytery. Several other Davidson men were given the offices of stated clerks, or assistant clerks.

Dr. W. H. Sprunt, Jr., '14, of Winston-Salem, is scheduled to speak before the Eighth District Medical Society at its meeting in Reidsville next Friday. Irvin S. Cobb, author and humorist, will be among the speakers.

S. T. Henderson, '17, of Charlotte, will speak at the tenth annual convention of the North Carolina Association of Real Estate Boards when that organization meets in Durham, October 9-10.

McAlister Carson, '13, of Charlotte, and J. L. Choate, '16, of Huntersville, were recently renamed as trustees of Queens-Chicora College. Mr. Carson is chairman of the trustees of this institution.

Dr. Robt. E. Abell, '08, of Chester, S.C., has been named examiner for the Veterans Bureau of that district.

Paul P. Brown, '03, of Raleigh, secretary of the North Carolina Bankers Association, has been named as an associate councilman for this state for the American Institute of Banking.

Rev. S. H. Hay, D.D., '06, of Morristown, Tenn., and Rev. John R. Hay, '10, of Hickory, brothers, toured Scotland, France, and England this summer. Rev. Egbert W. Smith, D.D., '82, of Nashville, Tenn., sails October 2nd for a visit to the Holy Land and to the Presbyterian missions in the Belgian Congo.

Rev. Wm. T. Baker, '25, of Winston-Salem, was this summer chosen president of the Association of Religious Education Directors in the Southern Presbyterian Church. It was the initial organization of this group, and Mr. Baker is the first president.

W. C. Archie, '28, who has been teaching and coaching at Gulf Coast Military Academy, Gulfport, Miss., since his graduation, is now connected with Oak Ridge Military Institute.

James F. Pinkney, '27, in January became connected with the law firm of Grant, Ellis, Shafroth and Toll, at Denver, Colo., 730 Equitable Building. He completed his law course at the University of Colorado.

Among the visitors to the Davidson campus during the past week were Rev. R. P. Smith, D.D., '73, of Asheville; Dr. Thos. D. Sparrow, '16, of Charlotte, speaker at "Y" vespers; Robert W. Graves, '26, of Rome, Ga., en route to Duke Medicine School; J. W. Grey, '28, of Charlotte; W. Hampton Jennings, '28, of Thomasville, Ga.; Robt. L. McMillan, '28, of Charlotte, en route to Duke Medical School; W. L. Dumas, '29, of Talladega, Ala., en route to Harvard Law School; Carey J. Hansel, '30, of Old Fort; Louis C. Roberts, '30, of Shelby, and H. Stokes Munroe, Jr., '31, of Charlotte, both en route to Duke Medical School.

Governor Gardner of North Carolina recently appointed delegates to the U.S. Good Roads convention to be held in Birmingham, Ala., on October 12-15. Included in the list were Dr. John T. Burrus, '98, of High Point, and John A. Scott, '11, of Statesville. In his appointments from South Carolina, Governor Blackwood included: W. F. Lightsey, '97, of Crocketsville, S.C., and T. H. Stukes, '13, of Manning.

ENGAGEMENTS

Allen-Armfield
"Mr. and Mrs. Henry Drewry Allen, of Weldon, announce the engagement of their daughter, Elizabeth Drewry, to William Johnston Armfield, III, of Asheboro, the wedding to be solemnized in the late fall."

Since leaving Davidson, Mr. Armfield has been in business at Asheboro. He is a member of the class of 1928.

Alumni Marriages

Peterson-Mann
"Dr. J. E. Mann, of Middleton, announces the marriage of his daughter, Lizzie Lowe, to Edward Burwell Peterson of Atlanta, Ga., in Rocky Mount, September 18th."

Mr. Peterson is in the class of 1930, and after leaving Davidson was located for some time in Atlanta. Lately, he has been traveling for Proctor and Gamble Company, and at present his headquarters are at Rocky Mt. where he and his bride are at home.

A movement is now on foot to induce the authorities of Westminster Abbey to ask President Hoover to use his good offices to get the body of the famous evangelist, George Whitefield, which has long rested in the South Presbyterian Church at Newburyport, thirty miles from Boston, sent to England, with a view to a resting place being found in the Abbey.—United Presbyterian.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N.C.

I have enclosed $2.00, for which please send me THE DAVIDSONIAN to the address below, for the school year 1931-32.

SIGNED:

The following accounts of the deaths of Davidson alumni who died during the late spring, summer months, or early fall, and which have not been recorded in the columns of The Davidsonian:

Col. F. H. Fries, '74
Col. Francis Henry Fries, 1874 graduate of Davidson, president of the Wachovia Bank & Trust Company, an outstanding financier of the South and pioneer developer of the western part of the state, died at his home in Winston-Salem on June 5th, following a two weeks’ illness.

Following his graduation from Davidson, Col. Fries entered the textile business, working up to superintendency of the F. and H. Fries mills by 1887. That year he undertook to build and did build the Roanoke and Southern Railway, at a total cost of over two million dollars, which railroad was consolidated in 1893 with the Norfolk and Western Railroad.

In 1893 he organized the Wachovia Loan and Trust Company, which was merged in 1911 with the Wachovia National Bank, which institution he headed at the time of his death. It is the largest bank in the state and the oldest bank and trust company in North Carolina.

In 1896 he established the Mayo Mills, around which grew the town of Mayodan, and three years later he built the Avalon Mills. In 1903 he took a leading part in the organization of the Washington Mills and also became interested in the Winston-Salem Southbound Railroad. In addition to being a director and officer in a number of mills at the time of his death, he was president of Brown & Williamson Tobacco Company.Among the survivors is a brother, Henry F. Fries, ’78, of Winston-Salem.

J. W. McLauchlin, ’74

John Williamson McLauchlin, another 1874 graduate of Davidson, died at his home in Raeford on June 23rd, following several weeks’ illness with typhoid fever. He was declared to be one of the most highly esteemed and respected citizens of his county and that part of the state, and was likewise a developer in his own territory and his own way. Before coming to Davidson in 1870, he served in the War Between the States, and after obtaining his education he materially assisted in the rehabilitation program. For a few years he taught, then entered the naval stores and mercantile business in South Carolina, later selling out and returning to his native section. There he re-entered the same line of endeavor and accumulated one of the largest land estates in North Carolina. Mr. McLauchlin was versatile in his interests. He was superintendent of the Raeford Sunday School for half a century, and was at one time Moderator of the General Assembly of the Southern Presbyterian Church. He served as a State Senator for three terms and literally refused to serve as a Congressman from his district. He founded the town of Raeford and Raeford Institute, and was instrumental in the forming of Hoke County. He was a trustee of Davidson from 1909 until a few years ago. Mr. McLauchlin remembered Davidson in his will.

Dr. John R. Irwin, ’75

Dr. John Robinson Irwin, an 1875 alumnus of Davidson, died at his home in Charlotte on June 28th after several weeks’ illness. He was one of the best-known surgeons and physicians in North Carolina and the southeast, and for 54 years had served humanity in this capacity. After leaving Davidson, Dr. Irwin studied medicine privately, and in 1875 entered the University of Maryland School of Medicine and graduated in 1877. After one year as a clinical assistant in the University Hospital at Baltimore, he returned to this county and later moved to Charlotte to practice. He rose to the presidency of the North Carolina Medical Association and was a member of the national body. Dr. Irwin became a member of the faculty of the North Carolina Medical College in 1902 and for several years filled the chair of gynecology and abdominal surgery. He was one of the founders of the Presbyterian Hospital and had a large part in its growth and development. For a long time, he was a member and vice-president of the trustees of Charlotte College for Women, later Queens, and for several years was a trustee of Davidson. Among his survivors are four sons, Dr. Henderson Irwin, '06, Eureka; Herbert Irwin, ’03, Charlotte; Batte Irwin, '09, of Brooklyn, N. Y., and Sheriff John R. Irwin, Jr., '09, of Charlotte.

Rev. Neal Anderson, ’85

Neal Larkin Anderson, D.D., an 1885 graduate of Davidson, and widely known in the South as a clergyman and author, died suddenly in Montgomery, Ala., on May 19th. Several months before his death he resigned as pastor of the Independent Presbyterian Church at Savannah, Ga., and had established a residence at Winston-Salem, speaking in different parts of the South. He had been in ill health for a year. After graduation here, Dr. Anderson taught for two years at Clinton, N. C., then entered Princeton, where he obtained his M.A. degree. In 1890 he graduated from Princeton Theological Seminary. He was pastor at Clinton, N. C., Montgomery, Ala., Winston-Salem, and Savannah. In 1916 he was selected president of Austin Theological Seminary, two years later going to Savannah. At the time of his death, he was doing special stewardship work. Dr. Anderson was the author of several books, including a volume of sermons, "God's World and Word," and "With Wings," an account of an airplane trip over Europe about three years before his death. He was the inventor of the carriage return on the Underwood typewriter. Davidson conferred upon him the D.D. degree, and he served as a trustee of this institution for almost a decade, from 1912 until two years ago.

Dr. L. D. Wharton, ’91

Dr. Lacy Donnell Wharton, a 1891 graduate of Davidson, died of a sudden heart attack at his home in Smithfield on June 15th. Dr. Wharton had been in ill health for several years, and his death affected that entire section, where he was prominent as a physician and a leader in many enterprises. After his graduation here, he attended the Medical School at Tulane University, where he obtained his degree. He first started his practice at Red Springs but moved to Smithfield in 1896, where he remained until his death. He was superintendent of the Sunday School for about 30 years, was a member of the Smithfield school board, and was a director in the First Citizens’ National Bank & Trust Company at the time of his death. Among his survivors are five sons, W. L. Wharton, ‘17, of Winston-Salem; D. B. Wharton, ’24, of New York; L. D. Wharton, Jr., '27, of New York; J. G. Wharton, ’28, of Boston, Mass., and Watson Wharton, ’30, of Smithfield.

Rev. E. P. Bradley, ’95

Rev. Edward Pascal Bradley, an 1895 graduate of Davidson, died at a Salisbury hospital on May 28th. At the time of his death, his home was at Mocksville, where he was pastor of the Mocksville Presbyterian Church, in which capacity he had been serving for 20 years. Mr. Bradley obtained his divinity degree from Union Theological Seminary, and following his graduation there he served pastorates in Lincoln, Granville, and Halifax counties, going to Mocksville in 1912. For the past 16 years he had been superintendent of the Davie County Schools and was instrumental in starting several mission churches in that country. He was active in other phases of church affairs.

Dr. D. M. Douglas

Rev. Davidson McDowell Douglas, D.D., another 1895 graduate of Davidson, died suddenly at his home in Columbia, S. C., on August 1st. At the time of his death, he was president of the University of South Carolina, where he had served for the past four years. Dr. Douglas began his ministerial training at Louisville Theological Seminary and completed it at Columbia Seminary in 1899, being awarded his master’s degree at the University of South Carolina the same year. Following post-graduate work at Princeton and at Johns Hopkins University, he spent his early ministry in North Carolina churches. From 1904 to 1911, he was pastor of the Maryland Avenue Presbyterian Church in Baltimore, and the latter year assumed the presidency of Presbyterian College, where he remained until he went to the University in 1927. Honorary degrees conferred upon Dr. Douglas were Doctor of Divinity, given by Davidson in 1912, and Doctor of Laws, conferred by Southwestern University in 1924. He was a past Moderator of the Synod of South Carolina and was a trustee of Columbia Theological Seminary. Among the survivors are three brothers, Dr. J. M. Douglas and Dr. J. L. Douglas, both 1893 graduates and members of the faculty of Davidson, and R. L. Douglas, ’99, of Chester.

H. D. Brown, '96

Henry Dockery Brown, a 1896 alumnus of Davidson and prominent insurance man, died (Continued on page 6)

THE GREATEST UNDERWEAR VALUE

You can pay more than HANES costs—but you can’t get more. Just try to match HANES values. There’s the Gold Label Light Weight Union Suit or Shirts and Drawers. SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war belt. That’s patented and can’t be imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and Shorts in a variety that will make it easy for the most fastidious to choose from. All at prices that will make you wonder how it can be done.

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.