THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 14, 1931

"College Literary Societies" Speech Given 12 Years Ago

Parts of a Speech Delivered in 1919 by Dr. Walter Lingle

NOTES CHANGING TIMES

Not to Belong to a Literary Society Was a Disgrace

"When the committee invited me yesterday to make an address at this meeting of the Literary Societies tonight, I told
them that if they wanted a finished address on Poe or Lanier, or even Browning's Sordello, they would have to
excuse me on account of the shortness of the time! However, I told them at the same time that if
they were willing to put up with an off-hand talk on the work of the Literary Societies, I would be
willing to undertake it. They agreed and I agreed.

"First of all, let me say that I am afraid that there are some college students who do not make
as much of the literary societies as they ought to. In fact, I am informed that some do not even
belong to one of the Literary Societies. I am also informed that some of their members do not perform their
duties as carefully as they might. That 'Off the Hill and not on duty' sounds very natural and was a
very familiar excuse in my day, and it covered a multitude of sins. I suppose that one generation has about
as much human nature as another and sometimes more. Let this be as it may, I am absolutely sure that
the man who fails to make the most of his Literary Society is missing a great opportunity and making a
great mistake in his life.

"It is a great calling to be able to express oneself with clearness and power. The Literary Society is the
place to learn to do that very thing. But let me also rejoice in the fine work which is being
done by the members of the Literary Societies. The old Davidson men at Union Seminary keep right up with your
athletic features. When you go into a football game, your score is marked on our bulletin board as soon as
the telegraph wires will flash it to us, and there is great rejoicing when you win a victory as you
have the habit of doing. I delight in athletics and always rejoice inwardly and sometimes outwardly at these victories. But
there is one thing that always gives me more joy than even this, and that is when the tidings come
that Davidson has won a debate over some other college or university, and I observe that you have a way
of winning about seventy-five percent of all the debates you go into. Your debates and public speeches show that a
large number of men are doing splendid work in your Literary Societies. The only thing to be regretted is that
every student in the college does not avail himself fully of this same opportunity.

"It is a pleasure to note the vast improvement of your present-day speaking over the speaking that was done in
the college back in my day. I do not mean to say that you have yet reached perfection, but you
are making progress in the right direction. Most of us used a stilted, artificial, declamatory, bombastic style. It was commonly
reported that one of my fellow students mapped out all of his gestures first, as if he were making a
kind of blueprint, and then wrote his speech to suit his gestures. I can hear him yet as he exclaimed
with great eloquence in a speech on the destruction of Pompeii: 'The full moon hung like a crescent gem over
the doomed city.' He has gotten bravely over all of that and is now one of the most effective preachers
in the Southern Presbyterian Church. But some have never gotten over it. I am glad to see that you have
so little of it to begin with. A speaker ought to cultivate unaffected naturalness. Be natural or you will be
flat, if I may be pardoned for using a musical expression.

"There was a deep note of pessimism in our speaking. I heard of a number of definitions of a pessimist.
Here are some of them. A pessimist is a man who has lived for six months with an optimist. An
optimist is a man who looks at an oyster and sees a pearl; a pessimist is a man who looks
at an oyster and sees a case of ptomaine poisoning. A pessimist is a man who wears a belt and
suspenders at one and the same time. A pessimist is a man who, having the choice of two evils, takes
them both. At any rate, a pessimist is a fellow who takes a rather gloomy view of life. That is
what our speeches did. In my Junior year, I spoke on the perils of socialism. I knew all about the
perils, but I give you my word that I did not know a thing about the first principles of socialism.
I do know that if all the evils I predicted had come to pass, the world itself would have come
to an end long before this good hour. Professor Sleeth, who teaches public speaking at Union Seminary, is always chiding
our men about being so sad and exhorting them to get the sadness out of their...throats. For downright sadness of
tone, he ought to have known the men of my day and generation. A rather cheerful young lady who heard
a sermon by one of our students back in those days remarked afterwards that she had expected to hear him
close his sermon by saying: “These services will be concluded at the cemetery.” Let us be serious but not sad.

“Another thing that we need to cultivate is the note of reality. This is woefully lacking in some college speeches.
I made one of my college orations on “The Future of Constantinople.” By the way, I took the position that
it ought to be internationalized as it probably will be before the Peace Conference gets through with it. But I
will confess to you at this late day that I had very little interest in the future of Constantinople at
that time. As a result, the note of reality was absent. Always choose for your subject something that you are
really interested in.

David Hume was walking rapidly along the streets of London one day when a friend met him and asked him
where he was going. He replied, “I am going to hear George Whitfield preach.” The friend replied: “You don't believe
what Whitfield is saying, do you?” Hume replied: “No, but Whitfield does.” When the speaker believes what he says and
believes it with a burning conviction, there will be a deep note of reality in his speaking and somebody will
want to hear him.

“If a man wants to become a good speaker, he ought to cultivate the art of being a good hearer.
During your four years in college, you have the opportunity of hearing a great many men who speak with power.
Listen to them with all your might and try not only to get their message but try to find out
for yourself where the secret of their power lies. College men do not always make the most of such opportunities.
I have known them to be listless or, on the other hand, exceedingly noisy when some distinguished speaker was addressing
them. Let me illustrate.

Dr. Francis L. Patton, who was formerly president of Princeton University, is one of the most distinguished and effective speakers
in the Presbyterian church. On one occasion, he went back to Princeton to preach. After he had spoken about twenty-five
minutes, the students began to shuffle their feet and clear their throats. The distinguished preacher was right on his job.
Raising his hand, he said: “Hold on a few minutes, young gentlemen, I have just a few more pearls I
would like to cast.” A sudden stillness filled the auditorium. If a pin had dropped, it would have sounded like
thunder. Dr. Patton proceeded with his address. That was a well-earned and neatly turned rebuke. If a man wishes to
become a speaker of power, he can employ his time more profitably than the Princeton students cited above. He can
be laying up the message of the speaker and he can be learning his art of speaking.

“While I would urge you to learn all that you can from every speaker about the art of speaking, let
me earnestly exhort you to imitate no man. Be yourself in public speaking and in all other things. Phillips Brooks
somewhere in his notes on Preaching remarks that if a preacher wants to imitate John the Baptist, he might not
have much trouble in getting the camel’s hair and the locusts. In other words, it is easy enough to get
a speaker's externals and idiosyncrasies and at the same time miss his spirit and power.”

A Sydney specialist has predicted that because of the amount of time Australians spend in their surfs, the nation is
due to become a darker race.

The ancient Greeks enjoyed a blessing—
Their trousers never needed pressing.
But to their joy some gloom attaches,
They had no place to strike their matches.

TRENCH COATS RAINCOATS Made to Measurement $4.95 SEE PAUL BROWN 105 Watts Headquarters. $25.00 Tailored Suits Stetson “D” Store OPPOSITE
CAMPUS PHONE 206 Our Store is your Store, so make it your Down Town Headquarters. We carry everything from head
to foot that a College Man will need. COME IN TO SEE US $29.50

"Oh! You Lucky Tab! MOISTURE-PROOF CELLOPHANE — Ever Right The Unique HUMIDOR PACKAGE Zip— and it’s open! germ-proof Cellophane. Clean,
protected, neat, FRESH! — what could be more modern than LUCKIES’ improved Humidor package— so easy to open! Ladies—the LUCKY
tab is your finger nail protection. Made of the finest tobaccos — The Cream of many Crops — LUCKY STRIKE
alone offers the throat protection of the exclusive “TOASTING” Process which includes the use of modern Ultra Violet Rays —
the process that expels certain biting, harsh irritants naturally present in every tobacco leaf. These expelled irritants are not present
in your LUCKY STRIKE! “They're out — so they can't be in!’ No wonder LUCKIES are always kind to your
throat. “It’s toasted” © 1931, The American Tobacco Co., Mfrs. See the new notched tab on the top of the
package. Hold down one half with your thumb. Tear off the other half. Simple. Quick. Zip! That's all. Unique! Wrapped
in dust-proof, moisture-proof, Sealed Tight Your Throat Protection — against irritation — against cough And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps that “Toasted”
Flavor Ever Fresh TUNE IN—The Lucky Strike Dance Orchestra every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday evening over N.B.C. networks.
