THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25, 1931

TRACK TEAM MEETS STATE SATURDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

WILDKITTENS OPEN SEASON TODAY

Wildkittens Will Meet Belmont Abbey Today
First Game Will Test the Strength of Coach Laird’s Yearling Nine

KOONCE SHOWS UP WELL
Next Game is to be Played With Charlotte High

This afternoon at 3 o’clock the Davidson Wildkittens will meet their first test on the diamond when they encounter the
nine from Belmont Abbey. Nothing is known of the strength of these boys, but they always give the Davidson Freshman
team a real battle on the sandlot. Last year the team from Belmont eked out an 11-10 victory over the
Wildkittens.

The yearling nine is looking good this year, but not as good as usual. Behind the plate Coach Laird has
Boyd Morris as first-string and McLemore as Morris’ understudy. Both of these men look good in practice, according to Coach
Laird. There are five men out for pitcher this year. They are Koonce, Lineberry, Hudspeth, Holland, and Burks. Of this
quintet, the only one that shows great promise is Koonce. However, the others are improving steadily and will, in all
probability, develop into good boxmen. At first base, McLean and Smith are having a little battle to determine who is
the better of the two; at the present writing, McLean has the call over Smith. Blanton seems to have the
keystone sack all to himself, as there is no stiff competition offered him at this position. At shortstop, there is
another battle with Smyre and Armstead the competitors; at present Smyre seems to be the better of the two and
will start instead of Armstead. The hot corner is held down by Gladstone and Grant with Gladstone holding the upper
hand in this fight. The three positions in the outfield are sought for by five men, Wilson, Alexander, Casali, McClintock,
and Harrington. Wilson and Alexander hold the call over the other three, but it is not known as yet who
will be the third man in the outfield. As a whole, the outfield does not look very good, but Coach
Laird is fastly rounding them into form for the first game of the season.

Following the Belmont Abbey game today, the Freshmen will meet the Mount Pleasant team tomorrow at 3 o'clock. Nothing is
known as yet of the strength of this team, but they are always known to have a good team and
the Freshmen cannot let up on this game. Then on Monday, the Wildkittens will encounter the Charlotte High team. This
year Charlotte has a very good team, probably as fine a team as it had last year. Last year they
played the Wildkittens to a 9-9 tie. This game will be played in Charlotte, probably at 3 o'clock.

Tentative line-up for Davidson Freshmen for the Belmont Abbey game:
Pitcher—Koonce.
Catcher—Morris.
First base—McLean.
Second base—Blanton.
Shortstop—Smyre.
Third base—Gladstone.
Outfield—Wilson, Alexander, and either Casali, McClintock, or Harrington.

This line-up will be the same for the other two games with the only change being the pitchers.

Try This One

The following problem was presented by Prof. J. T. Kimbrough to the Editor of The Davidsonian to be published for
the benefit of those students who are mathematically inclined so that they may have the opportunity to test their ability
to some extent. While it is true that it is a brain teaser, it is possible to work it. This
is the problem:

A baseball diamond is a square, 90 feet on a side, and the distance from the pitcher to the home
plate may be taken to be 60 feet. A base-runner is 6 feet off of first base and tries to
steal second base; and he can run at the rate of 26 1/4 feet per second, starting two-fifths of a
second before the pitcher throws the ball to the catcher. The pitcher can throw the ball 100 feet per second,
and the catcher who is four feet directly behind the plate can throw the ball 90 feet per second to
the second baseman; but the catcher takes two-fifths of a second to get the ball off. The second baseman is
standing 3 feet away from second on the path to first. It takes him one-fifth of a second to apply
the ball to the runner who is sliding under him. Is the runner safe or out?

Eight Matches Are In Tennis Schedule

A schedule of eight matches and the State Tournament has been arranged for the tennis team under the managership of
J. L. Hall. Though arrangements for several more matches are pending, with Citadel and Sewanee, they are not definite enough
to warrant announcement.

On April 21, Duke will be met in the first match of the season at Durham. Then on the following
day, Carolina will be played at Chapel Hill. From the 23rd through the 25th, Duke is host to the State
Tournament. Following the tournament, there will be a northern trip, during which Wake Forest, on the 27th; V. P. I.
on the 28th; Washington and Lee on the 29th, and the University of Virginia on the 30th, will be met.

N.C. State Track Team Opens Wildcats’ Season
First Dual Meet Features Part in Saturday’s Junior Speaking Program

KEEN RIVALRY EXPECTED
State Brings Outstanding Middle Distance Men of South

On Saturday, March 28, the Davidson track team will compete against State College in the first meet of the season
for either team. The meet is scheduled for 2 o'clock on Richardson Field, and it is expected that an unusually
large crowd will be present, especially those guests who are coming up for Junior Speaking weekend. Since State has engaged
in no previous meet this season, the quality of its track team cannot be estimated, but the usual brand of
good athletes is expected. It has been reported that State has many promising Sophomores on its team besides a number
of veterans. Davidson's track team this year is one of unusually high calibre, being composedof many lettermen from last year,
and several Sophomores who won their numerals on last year’s Freshman team. This is also the first meet of the
season for the Wildcats, only three men having engaged in the non-conference meet held in Chapel Hill on March 6.
These men, Fleagle, George, and Kuykendall, scored eight points, tying P. C. for first place. As this issue goes to
press, no tryouts for the coming meet have been held, but it is expected that the following men will participate
in their respective events: 100-yd. dash, Captain McCall, Fleagle, and Kuykendall; 440-yd. dash, McGehee and Tyack; 880-yd. dash, Neal, Drake,
and Cannon; the mile, Earle and Howard; two-mile, Brannon and Murphy; high jump, Allen, George, and Wilson; broad jump, McCall
and George; pole vault, Flinn, Roane, Stroud, and Brock; weights, Boyle, Hall, and Wagner; high and low hurdles, George, McCallic,
and Little; javelin, McCall, Arnold, and McCullough.

The team will take a nine-day rest before further competition when they meet V. P. I. and Erskine in the
first series of home matches on the 9th and 12th of May, respectively. This week will see the beginning of
the Freshman tournament. The Freshman team will be largely determined by the results of the tournament. Jim Halverstadt is in
charge.

FS Clothing
Friendly Five Sport Shoes
STETSON
“D” STORE
PHONE 206
OPPOSITE CAMPUS
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
Furnishing John Ward

Burning Up The Road
It’s great sport to burn up the road. But mighty poor sport to burn up on the road. You can
be a good sport about it though, if you have an Automobile Fire Insurance policy tucked away somewhere. When you're
burned up on the road or the city pavement be fully protected. Get our low rates on Theft, Collision, Property
Damage, and Liability covers too, while you're at it.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McAlister Carson (’13), Manager
M. B. Speir (’26)

Davidson Theatre
Monday 30 and Tuesday 31
RONALD COLEMAN
“THE DEVIL TO PAY”
Wednesday 1
“TAILOR MADE MAN”
Thursday 2
“JUNE MOON” with JACK OAKIE
Tuesday 7 and Wednesday 8
MARLENE DIETRICH
“DISHONORED”
Friday 10
“A CONNECTICUT YANKEE” WILL ROGERS

LOOKING THEM OVER
With W. H. Matthews

SHADOWS OF COMING EVENTS
Thursday, March 26:
Baseball—Fresh vs. Belmont Abbey at Belmont.
Friday, March 27:
Baseball—Fresh vs. Mt. Pleasant at Mt. Pleasant.
Track—Fresh vs. Elon at Davidson.
Saturday, March 28:
Track—Varsity vs. N. C. State at Davidson.
Tuesday, March 31:
Baseball—Fresh vs. Charlotte.
Wednesday, April 1:
Track—Fresh vs. Winston All-Stars at Winston-Salem.
Thursday, April 2:
Track—Varsity vs. Furman at Greenville, S. C.

Before the next issue of The Davidsonian comes out, we shall know with a pretty definite certainty just how all
four of Davidson's major teams will fare this spring. The track team has yet had no severe test, but their
meetings with State, Furman, and Duke in rapid succession will test them to the utmost. The baseball team, too, meets
Carolina and other strong teams and Davidson followers will find just how strong this year’s nine is. The freshmen, too,
will run up against strong competition on both the track and diamond. April will see some one of Davidson's teams
in action almost every day.

The fifth annual high school track meet went off with a great deal of success, in spite of the bad
weather. Not that it matters any, but have you ever seen one of the high school meets that it didn’t
rain? Charlotte won the meet again, but this time with more gusto than was expected. Their strength in the weight
events was enough to offset the division of points to other schools on the track. Charlotte was strong enough to
win first and second in three events, and piled up other points to almost double their nearest competitor, High Point.

Golf and tennis are coming back strong now with the coming of spring. It is almost impossible to get a
tennis court at about four-thirty on any pretty afternoon, and as for golf, dodging flying balls from other people's clubs
enhances the sport of the contest. Both varsity teams have already scheduled good trips and have meets with a number
of strong teams. Tryouts for the tennis team will be under way soon after spring holidays. The golf team tryouts
will doubtless be completed soon. Letters are being given in both these sports now, putting them on equal footing.

The varsity baseball team is rapidly rounding into shape, but pitchers are still in need. Coach Younger is fairly certain
about six of his nine positions, but shortstop and third base can still be said to be open for competition.
Armfield, Proctor, and Goodson are rather certain of their old posts at catcher, first and second, respectively. Doc Mathis and
Hub Covington will likely patrol left and right fields, unless they get jobs as batterymen. Mathis has been showing up
nicely as a pitcher, and is likely to be one of the regulars on the hurling staff. Covington is understudy
to Armfield behind the bat. Bradsher will likely be the third man in the outfield. Mills has been showing up
well at short and he is perhaps an even break against the field for the place. Bernhardt and McCoy are
staging a hard fight for third base.

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“SODA” “SUNDRIES”

(Continued on page 6)

To Regular Students—Well balanced course, including a number of electives.
To Advanced Students—Specially chosen courses to fit each individual case.
To the Most Successful Students—Five Fellowships, some resident, others abroad.

For Catalogue and information, address
Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President
UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia

SENIORS
NOW IS THE TIME TO HAVE YOUR ENGRAVED CARDS MADE
Best Quality and Prices
Any Type of Engraving
P. M. CONWAY
27 Rumple
Representing
STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Charlotte, N. C.
