THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 5, 1931

New Library Books

The following is a list of new books recently placed in the college library:

1. The Bible for Home and School, by Galatians.
2. The Conquest of Civilization, by James Henry Breasted.
3. Stabilisation of Prices, by Joseph Stage Lawrence.
4. Life Insurance, by Solomon S. Huebner.
5. The Economics of Life Insurance, by Solomon S. Huebner.
6. Elements of Land Economics, by Richard T. Ely and Edward W. Morehouse.
7. Financial Organisation and Management, by Charles W. Gerstenberg.
8. Analysis of Financial Statements, by H. G. Guthmann.
9. Monetary Theory Before Adam Smith, by Arthur E. Monroe.
10. Property Insurance, by S. S. Huebner.
11. Business Law, by Thomas Conyngton.
12. The Field of Ethics, by George H. Palmer.
13. Business After Ten Years. Report of the American Trade Union to the Soviet Union.
14. English Political Institutions, by J. A. R. Marriott.
15. Philosophy and Religion, by Hastings Rashdall.
16. The Great Apes, by Robert M. Yerkes and Ada W. Yerkes.
17. The Medieval City State, by M. V. Clarke.
18. William Makepeace Thackeray, by Lewis Melville.
19. The Psychology of Individual Differences, by Robert S. Ellis.
20. Whitman, by Emory Holloway.
21. Mental Adjustments, by Frederick Lyman Wells.
22. Delinquents and Criminals, by William Healy and Augusta F. Bronner.
23. Charles Dickens and Other Victorians, by Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch.
24. The Marriage Crisis, by Ernest R. Groves.
25. March’s Thesaurus Dictionary, Historical Publishing Company.
26. Bible Dictionary, Funk and Wagnalls Company.
27. The Butterfly Book, by W. J. Holland.
28. India, by Sir Valentine Chirol.
29. Green Mansions, by W. H. Hudson.
30. Of Human Bondage, by W. Somerset Maugham.
31. Men Without Women, by Ernest Hemingway.
32. The Old Wives’ Tale, by Arnold Bennett.
33. The Garden Party, by Katherine Mansfield.
34. Enough Rope, by Dorothy Parker.
35. A Guide to Good Golf, by James M. Barnes.
36. Aviation, by Manly.
37. Sketches and Studies in Italy and Greece, by John Addington Symonds.
38. They Stooped to Folly, by Ellen Glasgow.
39. Adventure, by Streeter, MacMurray, Russell, and Chilcott.
40. The Aircraft Book, by Colvin and Colvin.
41. The Making of Modern India, by Nichol MacNicol.
42. Sons and Lovers, by D. H. Lawrence.
43. Far Away and Long Ago, by W. H. Hudson.
44. A Modern Comedy, by John Galsworthy.
45. Modern Essays, by Christopher Morley.
46. The Man Who Saw Through Heaven, by Wilbur Daniel Steele.
47. Bows and Arrows, by James Duff.
48. A Hind in Richmond Park, by W. H. Hudson.
49. St. Francis of Assisi, by Gilbert K. Chesterton.
50. Principles of Psychotherapy, by Dr. Pierre Janet.
51. Lincoln, by Nathaniel Wright Stephenson.
52. Theodore Dreiser, by Burton Rascoe.
53. English Biography, by Waldo H. Dunn.
54. The Origins of the World War, by Sidney Bradshaw Fay.
55. Six Plays, by David Belasco.
56. Select Charters, revised by H. W. C. Davis.
57. John Ferguson, by St. John G. Ervine.
58. I Believe in God, by A. Maude Royden.
59. Plato’s Theory of Ethics, by R. C. Lodge.
60. Abraham Cowley, by A. W. Waller.
61. Egoists, by James Huneker.
62. Marketing and Advertising, by Floyd L. Vaughan.
63. Tendencies in Modern Poetry, by Amy Lowell.
64. Chicago Poems, by Carl Sandburg.
65. Slabs of the Sunburnt West, by Carl Sandburg.
66. Points of View, by Repplier.
67. Asphalts and Allied Substances, by Abraham.
68. England in Johnson’s Day, by M. Dorothy George.
69. Letters of John Keats, edited by Sidney Colvin.
70. A House-Boat on the Styx, by John Kendrick Bangs.
71. Introduction by Sir Oliver Lodge.
72. Edwin Arlington Robinson, by Redman.
73. The Poet’s Week, by Weekley.

Dr. MacConnell Returns From Medical Meeting

Is Re-appointed Member of Executive Committee of National Federation of State Boards

Dr. John W. MacConnell, secretary of the North Carolina Board of Medical Examiners, and physician of this college, returned recently
from medical meetings in Chicago and Washington. In Chicago, where he attended the fourth annual congress on medical education, he
was reappointed as a member of the executive committee of the National Federation of State Boards, and was a member
of the nominating committee which presented the name of Dr. Thomas J. Crow, of Austin, Texas, for president. He was
also toastmaster at one of the banquets and was prominent in the discussions.

In Washington, he attended the White House conference on child welfare.

Hammond Discounts Paul Revere’s Ride

Concord, N. H.—(IP)—Get out your American history books, boys and girls, and write in the margins opposite Paul Revere’s ride,
“Not so!”

Major Otis G. Hammond, director of the New Hampshire Historical Society, is credited with the information that Paul didn’t raise
Massachusetts farmers to battle at all, but rather came right on up into New Hampshire, and started the first battle
of the Revolution at Portsmouth, before the Battle of Lexington had even been thought of. Major Hammond contends that the
successful storming of Fort William and Mary at Portsmouth Harbor by the Granite State volunteers set aflame the torch of
rebellion in the colonies. It resulted in the capture of powder, small arms, and cannon.

Week-End Guests

MR. DAVID OVENSby 74. Heartbreak House, by Bernard Shaw. 75. John Bull’s Other Island, by Bernard Shaw. 76. The Unconscious,
by Morton Prince. American Unto This Last, etc., John Ruskin, Ben Words, Ancient and Modern, by Ern-

(Continued from page 1)

seekers were: to tell something about their personality, character, and habits, but most important of them was, what can you
do? He said that the manager of the branch office in New York expressed the wish that he had attended
instead the large university where he studied, because he believed that he would have derived more real benefit from his
education at a smaller institution. He advised the students to go out into the world and fit themselves into their
respective niches and be somebody, trying to do more than just get along. He related the story of a famous
Scotch coach who had his men train for running the mile by having them run three-fourths of the way on
muscle and the remainder “on man.” Davidson of Mr. Ovens stressed the importance of being upright and looking ahead of
the crowd and refusing to be merely seconders of the motion. He admitted that the law called the survival of
the fittest holds true today as never before. His narration of a story about a faithful Eskimo dog who became
too old for further service to the Byrd expedition was very effective. When the dog saw them put another dog
in his harness he went off into the snow and was not seen afterwards. Mr. Ovens averred that if folks
did not do their part, somebody else took their place and completed the task. He affirmed that the world needs
pioneers to lead the way and show the path to others. The speaker proclaimed that the doctrines of the Bible
were as sound as ever and avowed that nothing else could supplement them. As a final thought, Mr. Ovens suggested
that Davidson men stamp their personalities on their jobs, and when the test comes to them they would be an
honor to themselves, their families, and the school that nurtured them.

Movies Taking Place Of Books in Homes

Philadelphia, Pa—(IP)—Declaring that popular interest in books is declining, Booth Tarkington, novelist who is now recovering his sight, asserts that
reading in the home is about to be replaced by home talking pictures, and that the writer of the future
will have to devote himself to writing scripts for the talkies if he hopes to continue his trade. “When one
can press a button and turn on a good play or vocalized movie on the home screen,” Tarkington said, “there
will be little time for reading. Certainly, there has been a gradual decline in reading for a long time. Times
are materially changed from the days when the only diversion of the pioneer and farmer was a good book. Editors
tell me more people than ever read books because of the increase in population, but a very much smaller percentage
of the population reads books than formerly.

Literary Societies

Philanthropic

The program scheduled by the Philanthropic Literary Society for February 10 is a very interesting one. Duncan McBryde will deliver
a talk giving a resume of his trips on the water last summer, and Professor E. J. Cullum is to
lecture on “The Artistic Evaluation of Chambers Building.”

Eumanean

The program of the Eumanean Literary Society for Tuesday night, February 10, will consist of a review of current events
by Jim Ward and an oration by Rawling Pratt-Thomas. There will be additional features not definitely decided upon.

After prayers for rain had been offered in Southwest African churches, a 48-hour downpour raged in the district, causing damage
estimated in the thousands of dollars.

The following were visitors at Davidson the weekend of Saturday, the 21st: Misses Virginia Knee, Charlotte, N. C.; Elizabeth Earle,
Stovall, N. C.; Ethel Begg, Charlotte, N. C.; Susan Moffett, Davidson, N. C.; Daisy Caldwell, Davidson, N. C.; Catherine Moore,
Charlotte, N. C.; Elizabeth Norman, Mooresville, N. C.; Ann Clegg, Richmond, Va.; Virginia Burgess, Lynchburg, Va.; Agnes Brown, Davidson, N.
C.; Grace Sasseen, Charlotte, N. C.; Peggy Ashcraft, Charlotte, N. C.; Hazel Ashcraft, Charlotte, N. C.; Margaret Ashcraft, Charlotte, N.
C.; Effie Murphy, Rock Hill, S. C.; May Williams, Charlotte, N. C.; May Gray Efird, Charlotte, N. C.; Dorothy Skinner,
Charlotte, N. C.; Margaret Melchor, Mooresville, N. C.; Rosalie Rogers, Charlotte, N. C.; Jane Steele Hannon, Charlotte, N. C.; Margaret
Seivers, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Lucy Curry, Davidson, N. C.; Cleo May Sullivan, Salisbury, N. C.; Susie Jackson, Davidson, N. C.;
Frances Marshall, Rock Hill, S. C.; Elizabeth Gatewood, Pelham, N. C.; Ida Bell, Charlotte, N. C.; Anne McLaurine, Charlotte, N.
C.; Nancy Bell, Charlotte, N. C.; Brantley Nichols, Charlotte, N. C.; Henrietta Wheelwright, Burgaw, N. C.; Irene Dotson, Winston-Salem, N.
C.; Kathrine Fraley, Rockwell, N. C.; Eleanor Hayes, Charlotte, N. C.; Leonora Patterson, Huntersville, N. C., and Ruth Walters, Charlotte,
N. C.

YOUR EYES MAY FOOL YOU BUT YOUR TASTE TELLS THE TRUTH!

Milder... AND BETTER TASTE
