THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 16, 1931

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

WILSON McCUTCHAN....................Editor-in-Chief
J. A. CANNON............................Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. C. DWELLE, JR.......................Managing Editor
W. S. LEA.................................Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN...........................Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS....................Sports Editor
A. H. WHITEHEAD....................News Editor
V. M. BELL...............................Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES.......................Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON.........................Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN......................Associate Editor
J. C. RAGIN...............................Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
M. CONWAY..............................Assistant Business Manager
B. B. TAYLOR..........................Assistant Business Manager
W. B. WARD.............................Assistant Business Manager
J. R. SMITH...............................Subscription Manager
D. D. McBRYDE.........................Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. WIDNEY...............................President
S. D. G. STEPHENSON...............Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD....................Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN
J. M. BROWN
J. G. BERRY
G. E. BAILEY
A. R. BIRD
J. E. BOYD
N. B. DICKS
J. G. DUNKLIN
E. O. GUERRANT
W. T. HANCOCK
J. E. LAKE
R. L. McCALLIE
J. C. MATTHEWS
C. F. MYERS
V. F. MULLISS
H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
C. W. F. SPENCER
B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR
W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH
D. D. McBRYDE

APRIL 16, 1931

What is most interesting about each generation of men is the things they never thought of.
G. K. Chesterton.

SUGGESTIONS

Wonder how bad Soup Brannon felt about his last year’s track record being broken. Congratulations to both Soup and Billy!

Ever eager to please their customers, the Students’ Store made a bid for early trade the other morning. One of their most energetic clerks got up and opened the store at seven-thirty. It looks as though they will not have to close down at all after examinations start.

Seems like the “Dons” are having a big year of it, one of them is President of the Student Body, and the other head of the Athletic Association.

A new story came to our ears the other day. It seems that Dr. Shearer, former president of the college, was tried before a church court in Virginia on the charge of selling a stack of hay to a circus. The hay was presumably for the elephant. Dr. Currie, the grandfather of Davidson’s present Professor of Political Science, defended him, and, we understand, procured an acquittal.

If we have a last hope it is that more men will read the editorials of the new editor than have been wont to do.

It wouldn’t hurt to put the chairs back in the parlors after one is through using them in the evening.

SWAN SONG

With this issue the present editorial staff of The Davidsonian passes into oblivion, as far as newspapers are concerned, and becomes a part of past history. This year’s edition will become a part of the files kept by the organization, with the hope of being brought to light in future time when worried reporters search for items destined to fill the “Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago” column.

It is characteristic that men should be more concerned with the future and present than with the past. In our own defense let it be said that this is in no way intended to pass for an apology. Things which were planned and not consummated must be placed in that large list of resolutions which must ever fall short of realization. It is probably true that we have failed to some extent in our own hopes and in matters which were expected of us. At the same time we feel that we have succeeded in keeping out of the rut of complacent philosophy which Emerson terms “the hobgoblin of little minds.”

Yet, The Davidsonian is not by itself in the matter of changing its personnel. Leaders of the Student Body, Athletic Association, and Y. M. C. A. have already been chosen. Others will soon follow, probably before the next issue of this sheet. The staffs, cabinets, and other officers of the organizations will be elected and appointed before long. We wish to extend congratulations to all of them.

There is one fact which should prove inspiring to those men who are about to take over the reins of student body government. There is always room for improvement. There can always be a little touch added that will increase the value of the most efficient organization.

DAVIDSON’S SPIRIT

Quite a lot has been said recently concerning that “Wildcat Spirit.” Adverse criticism has not been restrained. There is no doubt in anyone’s mind that there has been a depression—a leashing—a restraint in the manifestation of our spirit. Particularly during the past basketball season has this been the case. The question has naturally arisen this year as in every year during the past, “Is that Wildcat Spirit dying out?” Are the students of Davidson sitting back and living on the past reputation of Davidson, a reputation made by our spirit?

Because there has been a restraint or a depression of our spirit does not mean that Davidson’s spirit is dying out. On the contrary, it is growing each year. Not in the past three years has there been a better spirit shown than during the football season of 1930, and not in the past three years has Davidson had a better team or a more successful season. During the basketball season there was a decided change, but that does not mean that the spirit is gone.

This depression in spirit may be due to numerous things. It may be due to the fact that there is a depression in almost every field—in finance, in education, and in business. It may be due to the fact that certain things have been taken away which students believe Davidson’s spirit stands for. It may be due to the fact that there has been a general shifting and uneasiness among the students themselves, because so many of them have had to leave school due to financial difficulties. Or, it may be because some few individuals are unconsciously indifferent toward that intangible thing, and yet infinitely vital thing called “spirit.”

Whatever may be the cause of this depression in Davidson’s spirit it certainly cannot be said to be due to the students themselves. There is now a general trend toward better times. This is true with the American people as a whole; they are becoming more vitally interested in all fields of endeavor. And to those who have a slight fear that our spirit is not all that it might be, we would say just this: That fear is ungrounded, and for proof watch that Wildcat Spirit made manifest, more than ever before. And to the students—just one plea: Keep up your good work; lend your continued support to Davidson’s athletics, place Davidson’s patriotism on a pinnacle, the like of which has never been reached in the annals of the institution.
E. D. Kuykendall.

GET BEHIND THEM

With the appearance of this edition most of the student body elections will have been completed. The die is cast, and there can be no turning back. The only risk lies in the fact that those who have had responsibilities placed on their shoulders must accept them with their best ability while the students who conferred these honors on them find their support more or less optional. This situation should not exist, but there is no good way in which to remedy it.

In national politics the man who forsakes the principles of his party before his election stands little chance of gaining a position. On the other hand, an official’s constituency has an astonishing manner of abandoning him; he is left alone. The latter part of Woodrow Wilson’s administration serves as an illustration.

We feel that students at Davidson generally get behind their leaders and help them, but they could help them more. If there is a laxity in support it is more concerned with the organization than with the individual. Another column treats of the support due to athletic teams and at sports contests. There is little question but what there could be more enthusiasm shown in Y. M. C. A. affairs. A glance at the attendance chart on the front of the Y building will show a decidedly erratic graph. Too many men are inclined to regard Vespers as a source of entertainment rather than as a place where they can have their own worship in the quiet of the evening.

Neither has the Court of Control received its full amount of co-operation. Every year it appears that the students show a greater reluctance in reporting delinquencies of rules and regulations. Still, they are ready to remark on various and sundry infractions. At times it would appear that there is a tendency among the students...to appear as blasé and indifferent individuals. In attending to outside interests and activities, they are too prone to overlook those on their own campus. Although they are not staging a comeback, literary societies have illustrated the ashes into which the fires of an active organization can smolder. In the final analysis, it lies with the students more than with the leaders as to whether organizations succeed or not.

Reflections: (This is not an attempt to be high schoolish or even to imitate a certain well-known writer but merely a divulgence of the consensus and an impartial expression of observations)—Dr. Frazer Hood, while a professor at Northwestern University, organized the second college insurance salesmanship department established in the United States. Jim Proctor deserves a world of credit for his versatile sport activity—and he really fights when he plays... The nightly dormitory prayer meetings are Davidson's finest features... The sophomore class is the best in college... Fred Fleagle, while on the freshman football team, gave the finest examples of Davidson fight in the past two years—if ten others fought like he did, very few teams could beat us... Dr. Gwynn is mighty thought-stimulating in his discussions... Dr. Thomas W. Lingle often visited Woodrow Wilson’s home while a student at Princeton, at which time the great President was a professor there—and had many chats together. Don King, Allen Mebane, Nat Spier—ideal collegians... The boys here from Mississippi and Alabama are the best-liked group in Davidson—very representative of the easy-going extreme southland... Dr. Walter Lingle is the most human college executive we ever knew... Everybody should remain here for the Commencement exercises—they are extremely impressive... No other educational institution in the United States has a finer all-round reputation than Davidson... Wish we had Ned Dwelle’s reserved dignity... Bill Lea, judging by his good work last fall, is a splendid band leader... Pat Boyle succeeds Major Hoople as the college “character”—two much-admired men. Jim Brock and Dace Russell are two of the finest riflemen in the country—they have captured many medals in strong competition... Spend an interesting afternoon some day, reading the old college annuals—some are very amusing... We have the greatest admiration for Jazz Jones... Speaking of princely fellows, find a better group than this—Hub Covington, Henry MacFadyen, Alec Montgomery, Caldwell Roane, Archie Howard, Charlie Kraemer, Bob McCullough, Bill Poe, Boots Wilson, Bob Gorrell, Jack McKinnon, Charlie Norfleet, Hal Wilson, Bob Davis, Greer Martin, Bruce Peabody, Larry Smith, Charlie Parker, Bill Goodson, Jack Ramseur, and Bob Orr—there are many others too. Wilson McCutchan will teach at Assuit College in Egypt next fall... Bill Mason is a typical college athlete... The freshman class looks better every day... We have over a dozen men enrolled at Davidson from foreign countries—all sons of missionaries... Bill Belk has been re-elected editor of the official state student volunteer publication—mainly because of his past efficiency... Soup Brannon is the most conscientious college athlete of our knowledge—he keeps in training every day of the whole year—more Davidson spirit... Who could be more entertaining than Horace Erwin?... Every student should speak to every member of any visiting athletic team or any visitors on the campus—and make them feel at home—what do you say?

The beautiful chandelier in Phi Hall is said to be of historical significance... Want to solve a puzzle? Then try to find out who's who among the Thompson twins... Bill Matthews is a prolific writer... Ed Kuykendall is making a noble effort to keep Davidson spirit as high as ever—and he is succeeding—have you noticed the improvement too? Al Tong is a superb actor... Mrs. Robson, our beloved nurse, will give her famous Mother’s Day speech to Davidson men only every four years—and they are so inspiring, we wish she would change her mind and make it an annual affair—we plead for all. Andy Bird—indefatigable worker—one reason for his prominence... Professor Kimbrough is a star baseball player—as well as a keen student of all athletics... George Pardington is one of the leading baritones in the whole south. Sergeants Burton and Kirby—typical army non-commissioned officers and popular with everyone... Outstanding on the football field—Don McQueen’s pluck... The campus is just beginning to look beautiful... Davidson has the most excellent college faculty of any small school in the country, we sincerely believe. Every student should read Miss Shaw’s charming book “Davidson College”—an interesting and comprehensive compilation of intimate facts about our institution—a record of its growth and development—and innumerable incidents about our college which every Davidson man should know. It may be procured at the treasurer's office at a reasonable price. Gene DuBose and Roger Enloe—two brilliant students... Dave Murphy and Buddy Gardner—original personalities... Mr. Jackson, Mr. Hengeveld, and Miss Hattie Thompson are exceedingly accommodating to everyone—although they are invariably busy... Marshall Ney, one of Napoleon’s chief officers, is credited with having designed the Davidson seal... John Knox and Neil McGeachy of last year’s graduating class, are enjoying immensely, their experience of teaching abroad, the former being at Beirut, Syria, and the latter at Khartum, Egypt. We could be more modest than Dan LaFar? Bill Flinn is a promising pole-vaulter who will undoubtedly make a name for himself in collegiate track circles... If you want to hear a fascinating tale of adventure, ask Professor Lilly to relate his trip through Russia to you... Read the articles in Who's Who concerning the Davidson faculty members represented in this select book, and you will find some interesting revelations concerning their accomplishments which are distinguished but not generally known. Davidson sport authorities all acquiesce in the statement that Grimy George has the best form of any hurdler yet to appear here... Students appreciate Professor Fleagle’s unselfish devotion to their interests, which is also characteristic of many other faculty members, including Professor Beaty, Drs. Arbuckle, Harding, and Sentelle, and Professors Williams, Erwin, and Dr. Porter.

MUSINGS of the MATADOR VEREEN BELL

DICTIONARY PERIOD:
Bobtailed comma, designating whoa.

CYNIC:
Person who missed his cup of coffee at breakfast some morning. Often confused with kitchen variety, the kitchen cynic, into which the cook piles the dishes that she is too tired to wash.

STUDENTS:
Young men who go to school to keep from going to work and wonder whether or not they chose the lesser of the two evils. See “Scholar.”

SCHOLARS:
Young men who go to school in order that they may not have to work so hard after finishing school.

AUTHOR:
Famous King of Britain who reigned before they put the corners on tables. Was also originator of the “Who was that lady I seen you with, etc.” joke.

HARE:
Phenomenon often found in soup and other vegetables.

PHENOMENON:
Strange occurrence which people do not believe until they see it and doubt it then.

SILVER LINING:
The part of a cloud that the umbrella salesman sees.

SILENT:
With a person of the weaker sex.

SKEPTIC:
(See cynic). Also, SKEPTIC PENCIL: Substance made into shape of a pencil for stopping of blood-flow.

EPISTLE:
The wife of an apostle.

TENNIS RACKET:
Peculiar noise made by a tennis.

SPADE:
A spade, often called.

RHUBARB:
Bloodshot celery.

CELERY:
Regular wage paid to workers and others.

MONOLOGUE:
Conversation between husband and wife and three children.

LEAF:
Verb meaning go away. Often imperative.

SENTIMENT:
Substance collected at the bottom of a solution. Therefore, SENTIMENTAL means: Waiting below.

WEARER:
More weary.

COP:
Interior of an ear of corn, around which the kernels grow.

ATOM:
First man, husband of Eve.

RIOT:
What some folks had rather be than President.

AINT:
The sister of a parent or wife of an uncle. (2) Small creatures noted for their industry, usually found in the midst of a picnic party.

PENNANTS:
What people eat at baseball games.

VACUUM:
The place where the Pope lives.

MENTION:
Stately and majestic abode of the affluent. (Ed. Note: Hot Dog!)

The origin of civilization is in man’s determination to do nothing for himself which he can get done for him.—H. C. Bailey.

Another war will be as certain as tomorrow’s sunrise if an active peace mind, not only of the pious but of the practical kind, does not intervene—Ramsey McDonald.

In Hoboken, we have to struggle against both failure and success and find them equally exhilarating and dangerous.—Christopher Morley.

Politics is a farce unless it deals openly and bravely with questions of work, commerce, and finance that affect men where they live—Prof. John Dewey.

Sea roads are so cheap that New Zealand may be described as 500 American railway miles from England.—Carlyon Bellairs.

The time will come when we will take St. Patrick's Cathedral and the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, and make them into museums.—William Z. Foster.