THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 19, 1931

Forty-Eight Davidson Alumni Are Now Teaching in Preparatory Schools

Territory Covered in Survey Made by the Alumni Office Included Institutions Scattered Through Eleven States

SIX HEAD INSTITUTIONS

Majority of Teachers in Classes Recently Graduated—1930 Leads All With Eleven Men

Forty-eight Davidson College alumni are teaching in 26 different preparatory schools, junior colleges, or orphanages, according to a survey which
has been completed in the alumni office at Davidson. The territory covered extends from Texas in the Southwest to Massachusetts
in the East, and extends in the Midwest as far as Kentucky. It includes institutions in 11 states.

Ernest Milton, who made the survey, prepared it from records in the alumni office, and states that he will give
the names of additional Davidson alumni who are connected with preparatory schools if any have been omitted. This is supplementary
to the tabulation made last fall and includes more institutions than those reviewed one year ago.

It is significant that the majority of the alumni in this work are from the more recent classes, for 37
of them have graduated in classes that finished here since June 1923. The class of 1930 has the major representation,
since 11 of its members are engaged in this endeavor.

Six of the 48 alumni, or one-eighth of them, head institutions. Rev. R. A. McLeod, ’09, is president of Presbyterian
Junior College; Jos. B. Johnston, '01, and Edgar H. Tufts, ’22, are superintendents, respectively, of Barium Springs and Lees-McRae; Dr.
S. H. Cook, '09, and Dr. C. R. Wilcox, ’11, are presidents of Martha Berry Schools and Darlington School, respectively,
and Major Harlee Morrison, ’16, is commandant of Texas Military College.

The full list of institutions and the names of Davidson alumni teaching in them are as follows:

Woodberry Forest, Va.: Leonard W. Dick, Jr., '23; H. C. Johnston, ’28, and H. S. Covington, ’31.
Battleground Academy, Franklin, Tenn.: Glenn M. Eddington, ’26; W. M. Regen, ’29, and Robert E. Kell, ’29.
Chamberlain-Hunt Military Academy, Port Gibson, Miss.: H. S. McCallum, ’23; K. V. Woodham, ’27, and J. R. Caldwell, Jr., ’31.
McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tenn.: C. M. S. McIlwaine, ’25, and W. W. Purdy, ’25.
Darlington School, Rome, Ga.: Dr. C. R. Wilcox, ’11, president; R. O. Flinn, Jr., ’29.
Berry Schools, Mount Berry, Ga.: Dr. S. H. Cook, ’09, president; W. A. Johnson, ’16, treasurer; G. M. Ford, ’23;
J. M. Gudger, ’28; Robert M. Thompson, ’28, and A. H. Shepard, ’28.
Presbyterian Junior College, Maxton: Rev. R. A. McLeod, '09, president; Chas. R. Hunter, '25, and G. P. Henderson, ’30.
Porter Military Academy, Charleston, S. C.: John S. Alden, ’30, and R. T. Ellet, ’30.
Lees-McRae Institute, Banner Elk: Edgar H. Tufts, ’22, president; L. K. Pritchett, ’28, and E. L. Lafferty, ’30.
Barium Springs Orphanage: Jos. B. Johnston, '01, president; J. H. Lowrance, '05; Ralph McMillan, ’26, and R. G. Calhoun, ’29.
Crossnore School: J. and T. R. Nunan, ’30.
Kentucky Military Institute, Lyndon, Ky.: C. E. Hodgin, Jr., '24, and N. C. Hodgin, ’30.
Others include H. S. Shaw, ’08, Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.; C. B. Saunders, ’11, St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.; A.
P. B. Christenbury, ’30, The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.; Major Harlee Morrison, '16, president Texas Military College, Terrell, Texas; W.
O. Green, '27, Schreiner Institute, Kerrville, Texas; J. R. Farnest, '25, Augusta Military Academy, Fort Defiance, Va.; W. W. Fraley,
’31, Shenandoah Valley Academy, Winchester, Va.; Zeb V. Long, Jr., '30, Virginia Episcopal School, Lynchburg, Va.; R. M. Christian, ‘30,
St. Christopher’s School, Richmond, Va.; W. A. Brown, ’28, Highland Institute, Guerrant, Ky.; R. M. Engle, ’28, Tupelo Military Academy,
Tupelo, Miss.; W. B. McGavock, ‘30, Branham and Hughes Military Academy, Spring Hill, Tenn.; James A. Ward, ’31, Webb School,
Bell Buckle, Tenn.; T. W. Brohard, '30, Stony Brook School, Long Island, N. Y.

Alumni Death

A. W. P. McGehee, '86

William Polk McGehee, member of the 1886 class at Davidson, died at his home in Denver, Colo., on November 27th.
Mr. McGehee went to Colorado some years ago because of ill health, and for the past several months was in
a critical condition. For many years he was a traveling representative of the Sharp & Dohme Chemical Company, of New
York, with headquarters in Denver. Mr. McGehee entered Davidson from Raleigh, and after leaving here he attended the University of
North Carolina. For a while, he was connected with the Seaboard Air Line Railway Company, of Raleigh, before ill health
forced him to relinquish his position and go to Colorado.

Dr. M. C. S. Noble Awarded The Mayflower Society Cup

His Book, “A History of the Public Schools of North Carolina,” Was Basis of Award

Dr. M. C. S. Noble, 1879 alumnus of Davidson, was signally honored last week when he was presented with the
Mayflower Society Cup, awarded to the best work written during the year by a North Carolinian. The cup was the
first ever to be presented and was awarded to this distinguished Davidson alumnus and educator at the closing session of
the North Carolina Literary and Historical Association. The handsome cup was given to Dr. Noble for his book, “A History
of the Public Schools of North Carolina,” a work which created considerable favorable comment when it first came from the
press, and describes the story of the development of public education in this state.

In making the presentation, Josephus Daniels described Dr. Noble as “the eldest of five immortals who have written glorious chapters
in the history of public education in the state.” Since the announcement was made of the award, many of the
North Carolina newspapers have commented editorially upon the wisdom of the choice made by the Mayflower Society.

After leaving Davidson, Dr. Noble enrolled at the University of North Carolina. He became superintendent of the public schools at
Wilmington in 1882, where he remained for 16 years before he became affiliated with the School of Education of the
University of North Carolina, in which capacity he has served ever since. In 1913 he was made dean of his
department. He has been frequently called the “grand old man” of education in North Carolina.”

Alumni Personals

Among alumni visitors to Davidson during the past week were R. T. Faucette, '01, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Rev. Warner DuBose, D.D.,
'04, Mobile, Ala.; Dr. Chas. B. Robson, Chapel Hill; E. L. Lovelace, '26, High Point; L. H. Corbett, '31, Atkinson,
and C. S. Faucette, '33, Chattanooga, Tenn.

C. C. Alexander, ’10, with the National Cash Register Company, is now located in Charlotte.

Dr. P. S. Tompkins, '28, is an intern at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa.

Dr. D. Heath Nisbet, '13, is head of the medical staff of the Charlotte Y. M. C. A.

Rev. Robert L. McLeod, ’23,Who has been pastor at Grenada, Miss., has accepted the pastorate at Winter Haven, Fla. John
F. McInnis, '30, who taught last year at Virginia Episcopal School at Lynchburg, Va., is now connected with Cannon Mills,
Inc., at Kannapolis. F. L. Lovelace, '26, who has been with Tomlinson Chair Manufacturing Company for several years, is now
state representative for Williams-Norris Co., furniture manufacturers, with headquarters in High Point. L. H. Corbett, '31, and A. C. Ward,
'32, both of Atkinson, have gone into the garage and mercantile business together in Atkinson.

Births
1924—Dr. and Mrs. W. Z. Bradford, of Charlotte, announce the birth of a son on December 1st. Mr. and Mrs.
W. S. Sells, Jr., announce the birth of a son, William Samuel III, on November 4th.

Cleveland—(IP)—Professor I. Lester Furnas of Western Reserve University, returned from a summer health survey cruise off the coast of Alaska
with a conviction that contact with the white race raises the deuce with Eskimo health. Since April he was lieutenant
commander aboard the United States ship Northland making a study for the United States Public Health Service in Washington and
giving first aid to those who needed it. In remote settlements never before visited by white men he found the
natives had perfect teeth. But in the settlements where white adventurers had called, he found teeth in terrible condition. Dr.
Furnas found toothache sufferers in some parts in the habit of prying out the painful teeth with nails, while one
man reported that he had shot out a bad molar with a gun.

Complete Service
School Publications
Year Books
City Printing Co.
Charlotte

BALFOUR Jewelry Showing
At DAVIDSON
Friday, Dec. 11
W. G. PENRY COMPANY
LEXINGTON, N. C.
SHOWING AT MISS MINNIE’S
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10TH
SPECIALS ON
Topcoats — Knickers
Pajamas
Shirts
Socks
Ties
PETE KNOS Representatives
DUCK POWELL

Battle-Denny
"Mr. S. T. Battle, of Atlanta, Ga., announces the engagement of his daughter, Marion, to Edwin Harden Denny, of Memphis,
Tenn., formerly of Greensboro, the marriage to take place on December 26th." Mr. Denny is a 1922 alumnus of Davidson,
and with the exception of a short time, he has been affiliated with the Addressograph Company for ten years. He
is now sales agent for a territory that covers five states, with headquarters in Memphis. Prior to a recent promotion
he was in Charlotte and Atlanta. "Miss Battle, formerly of Augusta, Ga., attended Hollins College."

Murray-McKinnon
"Mr. and Mrs. E. F. Murray, of Laurinburg, announce the engagement of their daughter, Martha Fairley, to James Calvin McKinnon,
also of Laurinburg, the wedding to take place in December." Mr. McKinnon is a member of the 1926 class at
Davidson, and since leaving here has been in business at Laurinburg.

Baird-Watkins
"Mr. and Mrs. B. H. Baird, of Warsaw, Va., announce the engagement of their daughter, Virginia Page, to Thomas Cobb
Watkins, of Lexington, Va., the date of the wedding to be announced later." After completing his college course in three
years and graduating in 1928, Mr. Watkins attended the University of North Carolina for two years. He is now a
member of the faculty at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va., where he is teaching for the second year.

Huntington, W. Va.—(IP)—Chicago University with its youthful Robert M. Hutchins as president, and Allegheny College with its 31-year-old president, must
not suppose that they are the first higher educational institutions in the United States to have youthful administrators. It is
recalled here that near the end of the last century the late Champ Clark, then 23, was president of Marshall
College here. He later became a candidate for president and was for a number of years speaker of the House
of Representatives in Congress. He also during his life practiced law in Kansas and managed a newspaper in Louisiana. He
died in 1921.

College Park, Md.—(IP)—The Diamondback, undergraduate publication at the University of Maryland, has revealed to its readers that a little red
brick building near the campus which now houses the university's agricultural station, was once a wayside inn, and that at
one time the Marquis de Lafayette stayed there.

SCARLET TANAGER
NORTON’S
Sodas — Tobaccos
BARBER SHOP
Sundries
Sandwiches — Hot Drinks
We Assure You
Correctness
Phone 9143

Pittsburgh—(IP)—The college girl is inclined to be “sloppy,” it was declared here by Dr. Robert Emmons Rogers, professor of English
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who two years ago set the country agog with his advice to college graduates
to be “snobs.” Here are some of Dr. Rogers’ statements in a talk here: “The girl who is a college
graduate seldom has to use sex appeal in the business world. The college girl is inclined to be sloppy—the more
educated she is the sloppier she usually is. It is to the advantage of any girl, seeking a position or
filling one, to be well groomed and attractive. As a general rule, the man and woman who are not college
graduates are inclined to be more careful of their personal appearance. The old-fashioned employer resents sloppiness in the appearance of
his workers; the modern employer is reconciled to it.”

New Orleans, La.—(IP)—The Richardson chemistry building at Tulane University was partly wrecked last week when a defective drum of hydrogen
sulphide exploded. Two hundred students and instructors in the building escaped uninjured. Fire which followed was quickly brought under control.
Two women students, trapped on the third floor of the building, climbed out a window and hung to a ledge
until they were rescued by a hook and ladder crew. A professor leaped to safety from a lower window, but
was uninjured.

Philadelphia—(IP)—The Temple University News has, for the last seven years, conducted an annual prize contest for the best Christmas stories
written by the university’s undergraduates. Prizes of $15 and $5 respectively are offered, and the winning stories are published in
the paper. Judges include persons prominent in Philadelphia publishing fields, and the editor of the feature section of the News.

College Station, Texas—(IP)—Sophomores at A and M College here are a more economical bunch than the college’s freshmen, it is
revealed in a survey being conducted by the department of rural sociology at the college. After the sophomore year, however,
the student’s expenses increase again. According to the survey the freshman at Texas A and M spends $641.22 a year;
the sophomore, $591.69; the junior, $636.25, and senior, $761.00.

Salt Lake City, Utah—(IP)—Non-sorority co-eds at the University of Utah have formed an organization known as Phrateries. It is an
outgrowth of the women’s section of the Barbs organization, made up of non-fraternity men.

Nationally Known
Stetson “D” Store
SPECIAL FOR 10 DAYS ONLY
Camel Pile Coats - $37.50
and Justly Famous
