THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1931

Unique Mathematical Book Written In 1857 By Davidson Professor

Major Daniel Harvey Hill Drew Upon His Varied Experiences and Broad Knowledge to Make Book Interesting to Students

ODD PROBLEMS

Examples to Be Solved Are Based on Historical, Political and Economic Facts of the Times

Back in the ante-bellum days, between the years 1853-1858, to be exact, there was a young and brilliant professor at Davidson College, who not only carved a niche in the hall of fame for himself, but who, through his son, Daniel Harvey Hill, Jr., gave to Davidson and to North Carolina one who “carried on” after his father’s death, rising to great heights in the educational world.

It is not about the son, however, that this article is being written, but about the young man who was the professor of mathematics, natural philosophy and civil engineering at Davidson. He was only 36 years of age when he gazed with pride, it can well be imagined, upon a volume that was the product of his pen, and which today can be considered unique in its content. The book was known as the “Elements of Algebra,” but to those who are acquainted with the preliminary “elements” of that science today, its more than 500 pages seem a maze of intricate combinations and analytical study. Few freshmen could make a passing grade, it is believed, upon the “elements of algebra” as he set them forth in this volume.

The professor, Daniel Harvey Hill, was the grandson of two Revolutionary soldiers, and had spent a life wholly governed by military tradition and custom. He had graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1842. He served in the Mexican war, and for gallantry he was promoted from second lieutenant to first, then to a captaincy and some time later was made a major.

Major Hill retired from the army to become a professor of mathematics at Washington College (now Washington and Lee), and six years later he came to Davidson. Major Hill was superintendent of the North Carolina Military College in Charlotte after leaving Davidson, and then followed an active period of service in the War Between the States. At its conclusion he served as an editor for four years, and in 1877 he was made president of the State University of Arkansas. Several years later he became president of the Middle Georgia Military and Agricultural College, and died in Charlotte in 1889. He is buried in the cemetery at Davidson.

History tells of his gallant actions on fields of battle. But better than any historian’s words, this book, that might well have been the usual dry-as-dust mathematician’s volume, discloses illuminating traits of the man’s character. It may have been that his mind was filled constantly with matters of political or military activity, or it may have been that he was making an effort to avoid the usual and tiresome phraseology to be found in any such works; at any rate, the young professor produced a volume that may be read today for its interesting collection of historical facts, and for its revelation of the thoughts that occupied this man who now is recognized as one of the South’s most interesting figures.

Military Problems

It is more than interesting to meet problems like the following when this volume is opened:

“A colonel wishes to divide his regiment of 800 men, and 10 companies, in such a manner that the two flank companies shall contain each one-third more men than each of the central companies. What must be the number of men in each flank company, and in each central company?”

“How many changes can be made in every file of two men in a squad of 20 men, so that the files shall differ by at least one man?”

“The governor of a besieged town has provisions enough to allow each of the garrison 1½ pounds of bread per day for 60 days; but, as he learns that succor cannot be expected for 80 days, he finds it necessary to diminish the allowance. What must the allowance be?”

It will be remembered that Major Hill had served in the Mexican war, and he evidently stored away those things that he saw for future use. Here’s one that he might have calculated while standing outside a cathedral in Mexico:

“The railing around the altar of the cathedral in the City of Mexico is a composition of gold and silver. Assuming that 279 pounds of the composition loses 20 ounces when immersed in water, and that 19½ pounds of gold lose one pound in water, and 10½ pounds of silver lose one pound in water. Required, what proportion of gold and silver in the alloy?”

“At the beginning of the Mexican war, the proprietor of the DuPont Mills wished to work up the materials of his powder for hunting and mining, and make war powder out of it. He removed the sulphur by sublimation, and then wished to ascertain what proportion to take of the remaining charcoal and nitrates in the two specimens. What proportion ought he to have taken?”

Here’s a Tough One

“The field of battle at Buena Vista is 6½ miles from Saltillo. Two Indiana volunteers ran away from the field of battle at the same time; one ran half a mile per hour faster than the other and reached Saltillo five minutes and 54 6-11 seconds sooner than the other. Required their respective rates of travel.”

It will be remembered that 1857 was not long after the gold rushes in California, and this remembrance of Major Hill probably prompted this one:

“A California gold digger wishes to sell a vessel full of gold mixed with sand. The vessel, when filled with gold, will weigh ten pounds, and when filled with sand, one pound; the mixture weighs seven pounds. How much gold is in it?”

He remembered his college days in offering these two:

“In a square floor of a college building there is a certain number of brick; if one more brick is added to each side of the floor, and the square form be preserved, there will be 61 more brick than at first. How many brick does the floor contain?”

“A freshman recited five times a week in mathematics, and his average for the week was 66. His average for the first three days was to the average for the last two as 7 to 6. What were those averages?”

Historical Problems

Major Hill's mind was packed with a vast store of historical, political and economic facts, upon which he drew to make the tenor of his book even more novel. From such history and its outgrowths, he presents the following problems:

“In the year 1692, the people of Massachusetts executed, imprisoned or privately persecuted 469 persons, of both sexes, and all ages, for the alleged crime of witchcraft. Of these, twice as many were privately persecuted as were imprisoned, and 7 17-19 times as many more were imprisoned than were executed. Required, the number of sufferers of each kind.”

“The year in which Decatur published his official letter from New London, stating that the traitors of New England burned blue lights on both points of the harbor to give notice to the British of his attempt to go to sea, is expressed by four digits. The sum of the first and fourth is equal to half the second; the first and third are equal to each other; the sum of the first and second is equal to three times the fourth, and the product of the first and second is equal to eight. Required, the year.”

Signally Honored

ALUMNI PERSONALS

PROF. M. C. S. NOBLE. —Courtesy of the Raleigh News and Observer

Dr. M. C. S. Noble, above, 1879 alumnus of Davidson, who was awarded the Mayflower Society Cup recently for the best book written by a North Carolinian during the past year. His book was “A History of the Public Schools of North Carolina.”

Births

1917—Mr. and Mrs. J. P. McNeill, Jr., of Florence, S. C., announce the birth of a son, ArtemasNovember 20th, 1921—Mr. and Mrs. Ernest H. Brown, of Ivanhoe, announce the birth of a son, Ernest Hyde, Jr., on October 1st. Mr. and Mrs. D. K. Miller, of Cleveland, announce the birth of a son, David Kenneth, Jr., on December 10th. 

Legare, in 1930, received some consideration, as shown by the problem at the Woman's Rights Convention as follows: “At the Woman’s Rights Convention, held at Syracuse, N. Y., composed of 150 delegates, the old maids, childless wives, and the bedlamites were to each other as the numbers five, seven, and three. How many were there of each class?”

“The year in which the Governors of Massachusetts and Connecticut sent treasonable messages to their respective Legislatures is expressed by four digits. The square root of the sum of the first and second is equal to three; the square root of the product of the second and fourth is equal to four; the first is equal to the third, and is one-half of the fourth. Required, the year.”

“Some of the New England States were fully, and some partially, represented in the Hartford convention, which, in the year 1814, gave aid and comfort to the British during the progress of the war. If four be added to the number of states fully and partially represented, and the square root of the sum be taken, the result will be the number of states fully represented; but if 11 be added to the sum of the states fully and partially represented, and the square root of the sum be taken, the result will be equal to the square root of eight times the number of states partially represented. Required, the number of states fully and partially represented.”

Woman's suffrage, even in those early days, etc. Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you.

6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing
Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Handbooks, Engraved Cards and Invitations.
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE

Alumni visitors at Davidson recently included Rev. R. K. Timmons, D.D., ’04, of Columbia, S. C., here at the installation of the Spanish fraternity; I. P. Graham, '08, Cooleemee; Dr. Oren Moore, '08, Charlotte, and Lawrence H. Wilkinson, ’14, of Charlotte, here for the Athletic Council meeting Monday, and D. C. Hunter, '30, Belmont.

Rev. W. P. Mills, ’03, who has been doing Y. M. C. A. work in Hangchow, China, is now studying at Columbia University in New York, and will later be at Union Theological Seminary. He is at 419 W. 121st St., New York City.

Dr. Julian P. Price, ’22, of Florence, S. C., has just published a book, “The Young Doctor Thinks Out Loud.” The book is an answer to the questions, “What do young doctors think of their profession? Why do they choose this career in the first place? In what way do they react to their instruction and their instructors in medical school? What do they think of their training in hospitals?” The publishers, in making their announcement of the book, said, “All of these topics are here discussed by a young doctor with a gift for expression, who sees medicine as both a science and an art.”

Indian Slaughter
“In the year 1637, all the Pequod Indians that survived the slaughter on the Mystic River were either banished from Connecticut or sold into slavery. The square root of twice the number of survivors is equal to one-tenth that number. What was the number?”

“In the year 1853, a number of persons in New England and New York were sent to lunatic asylums in consequence of the Spiritual Rapping delusion. If 14 be added to the number of those who became insane, and the square root of the sum be taken, the root will be less than the number 42. Required, the number of victims.”

“The year in which the translation began of what is called King James’ Bible is expressed by four digits. The product of the first, second, and fourth is 42; the fourth is one greater than the second, and the sum and difference of the first and third are both equal to one. Required, the year.”

South Carolina Problems
“In the year 1706 the French made a descent upon Charleston; but, ‘South Carolina,’ says Bancroft, ‘gloriously defended her territory, and, with very little loss, repelled the invaders.’ A certain number of French were killed and wounded, and 100 were taken prisoners. The number killed and wounded was to the number of uninjured, including the prisoners, as one to three. And the square of the number that escaped in safety from the expedition was to the square of the number killed and wounded. Required, the number killed and wounded, and the number in the expedition.”

“In the year 1842, South Carolina converted The Citadel at Charleston, and the magazine at Columbia, into military academies, which were to be supported by the sum of money appropriated annually previous to this time to a guard of soldiers. The interest upon this sum for 21 months amounted to $1,960, and the square of the interest for six months exceeded (Continued on page 6)

For Men and Boys
Over 25 years of manufacturing experience! HANES low prices! All combine to make the greatest underwear values you've ever seen. HANES Gold Label Elastic-knit Light-weight Union Suits are excellent for the changeable weather of autumn and spring—ideal winter garments for men who work indoors. Luxurious in materials and finish. Low in price. If you wear summer-weights the year through, be sure to see how athletic union suits and shirts and shorts are made better by HANES.

HANES UNDERWEAR
Soft, long-wearing materials! Expert tailoring!

J. B. Black, Jr., '31, is teaching English, history, and the theory of athletics at the Episcopal High School at Alexandria, Va. Friends will regret to hear of the death of Mrs. J. M. Rose, mother of Dr. W. C. Rose, ‘07, professor of chemistry at the University of Illinois, Chicago, Ills.

J. Max Hendrix, '14, has been made commander of the Greensboro Post of the American Legion. J. H. McKeithen, ’22, of Winston-Salem, is a member of one of the committees of the National Junior Chamber of Commerce. Knox Poole, ’28, student at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., has been elected secretary of the Junior class there.

Dr. T. E. Winecoff, ’90, member of the Pennsylvania Game Commission, recently had an article published in the magazine, “American Game,” on the deer situation in that state. Associated with Dr. D. Heath-Nisbet, '13, on the Y. M. C. A. examining committee in Charlotte, are Dr. R. H. Lafferty, '99, and Dr. Thos. D. Sparrow, ‘16. Dr. R. G. Tuttle, ’09, of Winston-Salem, is now in Baltimore, where he is spending ten days in special study.

Chas. A. Cannon, '15, has been re-elected first vice-president of the North Carolina Cotton Manufacturers Association. A. M. Fairley, '86, of Laurinburg, was re-elected as second vice-president, and Harvey W. Moore, ’05, of Charlotte, was named to serve on the board of directors of the organization when it met recently in mid-winter session at Pinehurst.

Rev. J. N. McCord, ’04, who had been in Greenwood, S. C., has accepted a pastorate at Choudrant, La. Glenn A. Price, ’29, has been transferred by the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company from Henderson, Ky., to Owensboro, Kentucky.

The date of the wedding of W. A. Armfield, '31, has been announced for December 30th, when he will be married in the First Presbyterian Church at Winston-Salem to Miss Lucy Reynolds Follin.

Dr. J. A. Shaw, '19, of Fayetteville, has been named president-elect of the Cumberland County Medical Society for the year 1933. Dr. J. E. Mills, '96, member of the faculty at the University of South Carolina, Columbia, was one of the speakers last Saturday when the South Carolina Piedmont section of the American Chemical Society met at Presbyterian College, at Clinton.

HANES IS “MASCULINE” FOR “UNDERWEAR”
Specialists in male comfort determine the styles and measurements, and place every seam in HANES.