Book Review

Journal of Katherine Mansfield. Alfred A. Knopf, N. Y., 1930.

Perhaps it would be as well to risk the danger of insulting the intelligence of the reader and make a preliminary warning concerning this book. The Journal of Katherine Mansfield is not what it sounds like. It is not arty, not high-brow, not the English course sort of book, not hard to read; in fact, it is nothing that one would expect, knowing it to be a “Journal” of a woman writer. It is simply life. Katherine Mansfield (Mrs. Murray, née Kathleen Beauchamp) was one of the finest writers of fiction, perhaps the very finest in her line, during the first twenty years of the century. Her books include Bliss, The Dove’s Nest, The Garden Party, and In a German Pension. These volumes contain only short stories. Her short stories are different from almost any others. They do not begin with an introduction, work up to a climax, and end with a denouement; most of them end practically where they started, while some are quite melodramatic; yet they are not mere character studies—they are bits of life. Life just as it is lived. The possession of this quality of life is the reason Katherine Mansfield’s books are so very interesting. One settles back and thinks: “Oh yes, why I had no idea that was the way one felt, but come to think of it, it is.” Of course, all of her stories have a point, a moral. They are not just so many recorded incidents. The moral, however, in none of them, can be found by casually thinking over the story, and then concluding that good shall overcome evil, or that man shall give up his life. The morals in Katherine Mansfield’s stories are identical with those in life. Just as one can naturally register a mistake in an episode in life, so one can subconsciously realize the lessons Katherine Mansfield has set out to teach in her stories.

Katherine Mansfield’s Journal is a diary or notebook kept largely with the idea of recording impressions and reactions she expected to use in her stories; thus, it has the same spirit as her books. This spirit is of extreme sensitivity. Every record is clear-cut, definite. One can feel exactly how she felt and understand fully all her joys and sorrows—of sorrow she had much, more perhaps than was her share, but she also had joy, and where it came, there it was distilled to purity. The Journal itself covers only the years from 1914 to her death in 1922, but her husband, the editor, furnishes a short introductory outline of her life. Katherine Mansfield was born in Wellington, New Zealand, on October 14, 1888. At thirteen she was sent to England to be educated at Queens College, London, where she remained until she was eighteen. The first recognition at all of her work was in 1909, when she became a fairly regular contributor (up until 1911) to “The New Age.” In 1911 In a German Pension was published. In the same year she met John Middleton Murry, then an Oxford undergraduate, and they were married in 1917. Prelude, sometimes considered her best story, was published in booklet form. This story marked the beginning of her final phase of development. In 1915 her brother had been killed in the war and her mind had been thrown into a chaos of broken ideals; its renascence was a return to the happenings of her childhood in New Zealand. In January 1918, Katherine Mansfield went to the south of France to get rid of an attack of pleurisy. She got worse and had to return to England. From then until her death Katherine Mansfield suffered from an even more serious case of tuberculosis coupled with heart trouble. But her sickness only seemed to augment her sensitivity and the good quality of her work. In 1920 Bliss was published, and in 1921 The Garden Party and Other Stories finally established her as the most remarkable writer in England. In 1922 she went to Paris for treatment of her lungs. She retired to Fontainebleau and died on the night of January 9. Her death came unexpectedly as a result of a violent hemorrhage occasioned by walking up the stairs.

Katherine Mansfield herself always considered her greatest compliment to be that which came from the laboring classes, who read her stories considerably and wrote her letters in which was always expressed a gratification at the sensation of reality found in her stories. Unless one is very sophisticated and very far above life, this sense of reality is not hard to find. One need only read one of Katherine Mansfield’s books to realize that her writing is Life.

T. F. W.

All artists who make concessions to other people’s wishes, tastes or views, cease to be artists—C. R. W. Nevinson.

Error is the force that welds men together; truth is communicated to men only by deeds of truth—Tolstoi.

The same heart beats in every human breast.—Matthew Arnold.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1931

NEIGHBORLY COMMENTS

“Monk” Younger and “Tex” Tilson, coaches of Davidson College athletic teams for the past eight years, have signed a new contract to continue as mentors there for the next five years. Since these two came to Davidson the college has had lean and fat years in athletics, but regardless of whether the Davidson boys were victorious or not, no rumblings of ousting or dissatisfaction have arisen. Just another proof of that famous Davidson spirit we would say! Here’s to them! They have our sincere admiration! —Lenoir Rhynean.

Band Has Brilliant Outlook This Year

When E. B. Robinson, director of the Sunnyland Serenaders, official college orchestra, sounded the call for tryouts September 16, nine new men responded, most of them being Freshmen. After displaying their wares as musicians, the following men were selected: A. M. Cunningham (Freshman), trumpet; F. A. AAR (Freshman), bass horn; T. C. Robinson (Freshman), saxophone; Henry Hodges (Sophomore), piano, and W. T. Thompson (Sophomore), trumpet. Old men who are back are as follows: Reeves Pope, first saxophone; S. M. Hines, third saxophone; W. W. Caligan, banjo, and E. B. Robinson, director. The orchestra will play with the Glee Club, at college socials and will make short trips in the vicinity of Davidson. The music they have played in practice has been of a high calibre and according to Director Robinson, as a unit, they are further advanced this year than was the case at this time last year. Some twenty Freshmen answered the call for band practice on the same day. It certainly spoke well for the Freshmen that every man who tried out was selected. The twelve old men with the new additions under the direction of E. B. Robinson give Davidson a band of which she can justly be proud. Prospects for the band are excellent, with the old men playing well, ably supported by the newcomers and a good spirit prevailing, led by its director, E. B. Robinson, who stated that the band is also further advanced than it was at the same time last year.

Juniors and Seniors to Try for Rhodes Honors Oct. 1st

Last Date for Students to File Applications With Faculty Committee

SENIORS ARE PREFERRED

Professors Vowles, Lilly, Richards, Cumming Are Davidson Committee

Members of the Senior and Junior classes with good scholastic and extra-curricular records are eligible to apply for the Rhodes Scholarships. Juniors, however, are seldom appointed. The North Carolina committee of selection inclines toward Seniors, while in some states students who have done some graduate work are sometimes given the preference. Under the new plan, regional or district appointments are made early in December, appointments by state committees a little earlier. Applications for permission to appear as candidates should be in the hands of the Davidson College Committee (Professors Vowles, Richards, Lilly, Cumming) by October first. This committee presents its nominations to the examining committee, which is the final authority.

Wisconsin Plans to Construct University City

Several Thousand More Students to Have Better Housing Facilities

Madison, Wis.—(IP)—Plans for the creating of a “university city” have been developed by the regents of the University of Wisconsin here, as a means of relieving the meagre housing facilities for the several thousand students of the university. Discovering that the present dormitory system cares for only 500 men and 365 women, that fraternity and sorority houses take care of only 1,500 men and 600 women, and that the rest of the 6,000 students stay in rooming houses, poorly ventilated and lighted and without proper toilet facilities, the regents have worked out a plan whereby the university would purchase land on the ridge overlooking Lake Mendota, and offer rent-free sites to all fraternities and sororities that wish to build thereon. There would also be college dormitories on the ridge, and each unit would be carefully plotted and landscaped in accord with the whole group. Because of a “lobby” of rooming house owners in the city, permission to go ahead with such a plan was turned down by the last legislature, so that the regents must wait until 1932 before they can obtain the necessary legislation.

Age is not all decay; it is the ripening, the swelling, of fresh life within, that withers and bursts the husks.—Geo. Macdonald.offers to every mind its choice between truth and repose.—Emerson. I say the whole earth and all the stars in the sky are for religion’s sake—Walt Whitman. To err is human, to forgive divine—Alexander Pope.

In the selection of candidates, no student or alumnus of any college may appear before any state committee without the endorsement of his college. Every year some applications come from Davidson students or alumni too late for consideration, so note the date, October 1. As has already been pointed out in the Davidsonian, one of the results of the plan of regional election of Rhodes Scholars has been, at least in the election of 1930, a decidedly larger proportion of appointees from the smaller colleges. No one can foretell the trend of 1931, but the 1930 elections should be very encouraging to Davidson men. Davidson men whose residence is North Carolina may appear as candidates only in North Carolina. Those who reside in other states have a choice between North Carolina and the state of their residence. In making application, the candidate should indicate in what state he wishes to appear. Davidson College has won three appointments in North Carolina, two in South Carolina, and one in Arkansas.

The scholarships are worth nearly $2,000 a year and are tenable for two years, with the privilege of reappointment for the third year. By a recent ruling, the scholar may spend his third year, under certain conditions, in a university of the Continent. A colonial Rhodes Scholar may spend his third year in an American or Continental university. It may be surprising to the American student to learn that the Oxford academic year is less than six months. There are three terms of eight weeks each. During the terms, the student attends lectures, orients himself in his work, confers with his tutor, finds his place in athletic life, and makes other social contacts. During the vacations of respectively six, six, and sixteen weeks, he must do the major part of his “reading,” as they call studying. He may do this anywhere except in Oxford. No student may reside in Oxford during vacation without permission. The Rhodes Scholars usually combine study with travel on the Continent. The student of history visits places of historical interest, the language student has the opportunity to hear the language spoken. It would be impossible to enumerate all the opportunities in the way of travel and study open to Rhodes Scholars during vacations. If you do not apply, you will not get the scholarship. If you do, you may be Davidson’s seventh Rhodes Scholar. Your application should reach Dr. Vowles by October first.

ALUMNI DEATHS (Continued from page 4)

Dr. H. H. Wyman, ’97
Dr. Harry Hastings Wyman, an 1897 alumnus of Davidson, died suddenly of a heart attack at his home in Aiken, S. C., on September 13th. Dr. Wyman was one of the leading physicians in South Carolina and was a prominent citizen of Aiken. He completed his medical preparation at the University of Georgia. Several relatives, alumni of Davidson, survive him.

L. E. McAlpine, '07
Lawrence Elliott McAlpine, a 1907 alumnus of Davidson, died at the Wallace Thompson Sanatorium at Union, S. C., on July 16th following an illness of several months. He resided two miles from Union. After he left Davidson, Mr. McAlpine farmed at Hartsville, S. C., and for a while was in business at Blackstock, S. C. At the time of his death, he was a prominent mill man of Union. Davidson alumni surviving him are his father, Rev. J. R. McAlpine, '72, of Clarkesville, Ga.; and brothers, J. R. McAlpine, Jr., '13, Hartsville, S. C.; P. H. McAlpine, '22, Clarkesville, Ga., and W. E. McAlpine, 'Union, South Carolina.

P. M. Robinson, ’23
Pink Mundy Robinson, 1923 alumnus of Davidson, died at Longview, Wash., on July 9th after a lingering illness. He was a native of Denver, N. C., and after leaving Davidson he was assistant manager of Gilmers, Inc., Lynchburg, Va. He was later connected with Montgomery Ward Company, at Hickory, before going to the West Coast.

Rev. J. S. McFall, ’26
Rev. John Swillins McFall, a 1926 alumnus of Davidson, was fatally injured in a football game at Aliceville, Ala., on September 11th. He went there a year ago to accept a pastorate of the First Presbyterian Church and was a member of a town team playing the high school when he received a fractured skull, death resulting a few hours later. Mr. McFall left Davidson and entered Columbia Theological Seminary, where he obtained his divinity degree. Immediately after he concluded this preparation, he was pastor of the church at Morven, N. C., before going to Aliceville. His engagement and approaching marriage had been announced before his death.

T. F. Anderson, ’27
Thomas Farish Anderson, 1927 graduate of Davidson, and basketball captain his Senior year, died in a New York hospital on August 3rd. His death resulted from pneumonia, followed by complications. Two operations were performed in an attempt to save his life. Mr. Anderson was a native of Bristol, Tenn., and following his graduation, he became connected with Reynolds Metals Company and was in Louisville, Ky., for almost four years. Late last fall he was transferred to New York, where his death occurred. Among his survivors is a brother, John C. Anderson, '25, of Louisville, Ky.

DAVIDSON WILDCATS LOSE (Continued from page 1)
Referee, Strupper (Georgia Tech); umpire, Major (Auburn); head linesman, McGuggin (Michigan).

Ancient City Found Buried in Black Sea
Believed to Have Thrived in Second Century Before Christ
Moscow—(IP)—An ancient city, believed to have thrived in the second to fourth centuries before Christ, has been discovered by Soviet archeologists, buried on the floor of the Black Sea on the southwestern extremity of the Crimean Peninsula. Divers found the city under 40 feet of water and reported the ruins to be those of a city in the shape of a great horseshoe, with walls, towers, houses, and underground tunnels honeycombing the whole. The archeologists believe the city was destroyed in the gradual sinking of the land, which is known to be creeping rapidly into the sea. The approximate dates of the city were established by red clay earthenware and crockery lying about.

TEN SOCIAL FRATERNITIES (Continued from page 1)
W. L. Northern, Jr., Sarasota, Fla.; J. B. James, Greenville, N. C.; D. P. McLain, Cleveland, Tenn.; G. L. Gullette and P. M. Rogers, both of Florence, Ala.; A. H. Smathers, Jr., Raymond Pollock, Jr., New Bern; D. G. Munroe, Fayetteville; T. J. Wilson, Winston-Salem; J. D. Sievers, Winston-Salem, and R. H. Smith, Jr., Mobile, Ala.

Pi Kappa Phi: C. W. Marsh, Marshville, member of the Sophomore class, and the following Freshmen: W. M. Alderman, Alcolu, S. C.; R. L. Allen, Greenville, S. C.; A. W. Burns, Philadelphia, Pa.; W. E. McInvaile, Hartsville, S. C.; D. A. Morrison, Hartsville, S. C.; C. J. Paine, Waycross, Ga.; J. D. Rankin, Charlotte; Clarence Rozelle, Taladega, Ala., and J. E. Spence, Greensboro.

Theta Upsilon Omega: P. W. Brown, Asheville; J. Enid Bowers, Charlotte; H. M. Ray, Ocala, Fla.; W. B. Shumate, Newport News, Va.; F. C. Young, Greenwood, Miss.; F. A. Tucker, High Point, and J. E. Parker, Hopewell, Va.

Phi Delta Theta: B. C. Barnes, Asheville; R. S. Dupuy, Greensboro; W. M. Glasgow, Charlotte; P. D. Guerrant, Jr., Pasadena, Cal.; J. M. Holmes, Jr., Charlotte; W. H. McPhail, Jacksonville, Fla.; R. W. Richardson, Jr., Sarasota, Fla.; J. A. C. Robinson, Talladega, Ala.; and J. R. Taylor, Mobile, Ala. W. F. Green and G. S. McKinnon, both of DeFuniak Springs, Fla., are members of the Junior class.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: W. A. Exum, Snow Hill; S. C. Henry, Concord; C. S. McCall, Bennettsville, S. C.; W. J. Morris, Hattiesburg, Miss., and A. D. Rogers, Bennettsville, S. C.

FIFTY-ONE CONTEST IN FROSH CAKE RACE (Continued from page 1)
Sarasota, Fla.; J. M. Smith, Parkton; R. J. Giles, Glen Alpine; C. C. Murchison, Charlotte; C. B. Ross, Davidson; D. H. Donigan, Teaneck, N. J.; Peyton Montgomery, Reidsville, and R. H. Page, Jr., Tuscaloosa, Ala.

Complete Service for School Publications
Annuals, Magazines, Catalogs, Directories, Books
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Davidson Theatre
Monday and Tuesday
“WICKED” with VICTOR McLAGLEN
Thursday
“DEVOTION” ANNE HARDING
Friday
“ERO MAID” NANCY CARROLL
Saturday
“CAUGHT” with RICHARD ARLEN