THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 18, 1931

WHAT SPORTS WRITERS THINK

Everett Strupper, former Georgia Tech football star, has officiated at two Davidson football games this fall, and after each one he has gone back to Atlanta and devoted a number of paragraphs in The Atlanta Journal to the playing of Davidson. Some time ago a special article was devoted to his musings after the N. C. State tilt, and today an account of his comment is given as he wrote it after the V. M. I. contest. Harllee Branch, Jr., ’27, of Atlanta, sent in the clipping, which is as follows:

“Saturday I saw the Davidson Wildcats lick the big V. M. I. team, 7 to 0, and it was certainly a battle from the whistle. I do not see how those Wildcats lasted the entire game, for they look as if they put every ounce of energy into every play, but at the end of the game they appear as fresh as their opponents.

“I wish that Tech or Georgia would put the Wildcats on their schedules so that the people of Atlanta could see this little team battle.

“Not that I think Davidson could beat the powerful Bulldogs, but they would give them a fight.

“Back in 1915-16-17 when Tech had a series of its most powerful teams Davidson was always on the schedule and for those three years they gave us the hardest games of the entire season. Several times they had the big Tech team on the ropes.

“Tech had to resort to all their power to come out victor. Each year one of the most popular games on our schedule was that with Davidson.

“It has only a very few alumni here but the world loves a battler and the fans flocked out to see the little Wildcats tear into the big Jackets and for the three above-mentioned years I can personally verify that they were not disappointed.

“I honestly believe the hardest tackle I ever received was in a Davidson game. I forget at present who the tackler was for Davidson does not hit one man at a time but the entire flock seems to be on you all the time. They today have the same type of team as of old.

“Article upon article is written about the great deeds of the large college coaches and their all-conference and national championship teams, but often one entirely overlooks a job of coaching just as efficient as in the larger colleges.

“For example, take Coach Younger at Davidson. I doubt if his entire squad, including his Freshmen, is as large as some of the college varsity squads.

“Look at his material, his help, his equipment and everything else, then glance at his record and you will see immediately what I mean by a good job of coaching.”

B. Arp Lowrance, editor of The Mecklenburg Times and former secretary of the North Carolina Press Association, was a guest of Davidson when the Wildcats defeated Citadel, and in his next issue of The Times, he had the following editorial, headed, “The Spirit at Davidson,” which was sent in by Hugh A. Query, ’09, editor of The Gastonia Gazette:

Those who have attended a football game or any other event at Davidson College are acquainted with that Davidson spirit which seems to permeate the air on that college campus. It is particularly noticeable at a football game such as the one last Saturday when Davidson defeated Citadel. It was a most interesting game.

But Davidson always expects to win the game and the whole college faculty and students join hands and hearts to do their best. Even though the team is lighter by far than the opponents, they are never discouraged. Regardless of the record of the other team, Davidson is always clean and fair in their games. Each individual is always working with other members of the team for the success of the whole college.

Wilton Garrison, sports editor of The Spartanburg, S. C., Herald, joined his contemporary at Charleston, S. C., in saying some very nice things in his column under the head, “The Wildcats,” as follows:

If you always want to be sure of getting plenty of football action for your money, just follow the DavidsonWildcats. How Monk Younger and Tex Tilson do it every year is still a miracle, but nevertheless, they do it, and no matter how blue the blues songs are in September, by October the Wildcats are knocking ‘em off as per usual. This year, starting with only fair prospects, the Wildcats have won four, lost two, and tied two. They defeated Elon, Washington and Lee, V. M. I., and the Citadel; tied Duke and Erskine; lost to V. P. I. and N. C. State. Considering the calibre of the teams they’ve met, the Wildcats have a record of which to be proud. And Monk Younger isn’t through with his wrecking crew yet, either. Several other good football teams may learn how it feels to have those Presbyterian cats claw and scratch. The Gastonia Gazette was also responsible for the opinion of one of the officials that day, who remarked to Monk Younger: “You ought not to mind if your team got beat 100 to 0, as long as they fight like they did today. I would not mind a loss with a team like that.”

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Among recent alumni visitors to Davidson were Dr. F. S. Whitaker, '05, of the North Carolina Medical College when it was located at Davidson, of Kinston, and his brother, R. E. Whitaker, '06, of New York. Dr. John T. Burrus, 1900 Medical College alumnus, of High Point, who is a state senator and chairman of the North Carolina Board of Health, has been named as the executive head of the new Randolph Hospital at Asheboro. Dr. Burrus heads two large hospitals at High Point and does surgery for another at Lexington. Mayor Geo. W. Coan, Jr., ’11, of Winston-Salem, who visited France last summer as a guest of the French government and the city of Paris, has spoken frequently before various clubs, telling about his experiences, and recently appeared before the Kiwanis Club at Martinsville, Va. Dr. Thos. D. Sparrow, '16, of Charlotte, has been made a fellow in the American College of Surgeons. This honor was conferred at the annual meeting in New York recently. J. P. Harmon, '28, who is coaching and teaching at Jennings, has been promoted to first lieutenant in the infantry reserve corps of the U. S. Army. Dr. Yates W. Faison, '06, of Charlotte, was made president of the North Carolina Pediatric Society when it was organized last week at Duke University.

“Of course I smoke Luckies — they’re kind to my throat”

Luckies — I thought everybody did. They're kind to my throat — you don't hear them in the microphone. And that’s a very neat little handle on your new Cellophane wrapper.

Ina Claire wasn't content with being an acknowledged ruler of the American stage — now she's capturing Hollywood, too! Here she is in one of those stunning Chanel creations she wears in Samuel Goldwyn’s production, “The Greeks Had a Word For It,” a United Artists’ picture. Don't miss that picture.

Made of the finest tobaccos — The Cream of many Crops — LUCKY STRIKE alone offers the throat protection of the exclusive “TOASTING” Process which includes the use of modern Ultra Violet Rays — the process that expels certain harsh, biting irritants naturally present in every tobacco leaf. These expelled irritants are not present in your LUCKY STRIKE. “They're out — so they can't be in!” No wonder LUCKIES are always kind to your throat.

“It’s toasted” Your Throat Protection — against irritation — against cough

And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh

TUNE IN ON LUCKY STRIKE: 60 modern minutes with the world’s finest dance orchestras, and Walter Winchell, whose gossip of today becomes the news of tomorrow, every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday evening over N.B.C. networks.

CELLOPHANE Sealed Tight — Ever Right

Zip — And it’s open! MOISTURE-PROOF The Unique Humidor Package

See the new notched tab on the top of the package. Hold down one half with your thumb. Tear off the other half. Simple. Quick. Zip! That’s all. Unique! Wrapped in dust-proof, moisture-proof, germ-proof Cellophane. Clean, protected, neat, FRESH! — what could be more modern than LUCKIES’ improved Humidor package — so easy to open! Ladies — the LUCKY TAB is your finger nail protection.

Is Miss Claire’s Statement Paid For?

You may be interested in knowing that not one cent was paid to Miss Claire to make the above statement. Miss Claire has been a smoker of LUCKY STRIKE cigarettes for 5 years. We hope the publicity herewith given will be as beneficial to her and to Samuel Goldwyn and United Artists, her producers, as her endorsement of LUCKIES is to you and to us.

Copr., 1931, The American Tobacco Co.