THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 8, 1931

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDITORIAL STAFF
WILSON A. CANNON Editor
E. C. ALDRIDGE JR. Managing Editor
W. S. LEE Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN Managing Editor
W. H. MATTIE Sports Editor
A. H. NEWSOM News Editor
V. M. RATES Feature Editor
NORMAN RATES Feature Editor
A. L. SEASIDE Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN Associate Editor
C. E. BLACK Associate Editor
J. C. RAGIN Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
P. M. BROWN Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BROWN Assistant Business Manager
J. B. BROWN Assistant Business Manager
A. G. BROWN Subscription Manager
P. B. BROWN Solicitor
R. W. BROWN Solicitor
A. M. BROWN Solicitor
A. L. MEBANE Solicitor
WORT AMORROW Solicitor

S. S. D. G. A. H. R. H. ALDERMAN
J. M. OW. J. G. BERRY
G. E. BAILEY A. R. BIRD
J. E. BOYD N. B. DICKS
J. G. DUNKLIN E. O. GUERRANT
W. T. HANCOCK J. E. LAKE
R. L. McCALLIE J. C. MATTHEWS
C. F. MYERS V. F. MULLISS
H. F. NICHOLS G. P. PARDINGTON
S. P. PRESTON C. W. F. SUGG
B. B. TA W. B. WARD
J. R. MIRI D. D. McBRYDE

JANUARY 8, 1931

It is not the clear-sighted who lead the world. Great achievements are accomplished in a blessed, warm, mental fog.
Joseph Conrad.

SUGGESTIONS

One could hardly liken the night before school opens to the night before Christmas, “when not a creature was stirring.” Those who lost sleep can blame it all on train schedules. Athletes hie themselves to the gymnasium and physical education building as a result of damp tennis courts and fields. We wonder how long it will be before some dime novelist or song writer tries to capitalize on the recent episode of Otto Wood. To racketeers, we mean those who make racket, we would suggest that there are a few, very few perhaps, who are trying to study in advance for examinations. For the first time Davidson is going to have a Rhodes Scholar playing a forward position on her basketball team. Prospects are good with three letter men back. Senior blazers are like Chrysler automobiles used to be. Every time one comes out it is a different model.

A TRITE CUSTOM

Trite and hackneyed as the subject may sound or may be, the time has come when young men’s (and old men’s too) fancies turn to resolutions and determinations to make the oncoming year a more successful one than that which has just ended. No one will dispute the efficacious qualities of such mental stimulation. It does one good to think about such matters even if he is never able to fulfill his intent. Occasionally resolutions develop into continued action. We dare say, however, that the greatest number of them do not. At first sight, the reasonable course would be not to make any such thought-compelling reflections, although it would appear that there is a still more simple expedient. Indeed, to carry out only a few fundamental resolutions, and the result may be astonishing. Advice is psychologically lost at the time it is given; the average human mind sets itself against any effort to direct it or dictate to it. The only way to put an idea across is to fool the subject of the advice into thinking that the whole thing is an original idea with him. That is hard to do on paper. At any rate, the average individual of homo sapiens on the Davidson campus is capable of improvement. Ofttimes only a gentle push is needed to start the ball of mental agitation in motion. What we are trying to do is to push it off the brow of the hill, not to roll it up the other side. The direction it will take is somewhat optional, but examinations are exactly a week and a day in the offing.

THE CALL TO ARMS

For the first time since we have been here, as far as memory is correct, it has been necessary for coaches to make a direct appeal to the student body for aspirants who seek varsity athletic distinction. Never before has there been such a dearth in wrestling candidates. At least such was the impression cast in chapel last Saturday morning. We do not attempt to attribute the blame for the situation on any particular factor. We hope that by the time this appears it will have been an unnecessary alarm that has risen in the minds of many students. It is the more alarming because there can be no definite reason for the apparent departure from the history of past wrestling seasons. Although not as successful as it might have been from the standpoint of victories in dual meets, the past season gave Davidson two state champions in Conway and Warren. Conway is the captain of the team for the coming year. Surely wrestling is holding its own along with other branches of intercollegiate athletics. If the close observer is not wholly satisfied with last year’s record, he can go back to the time of Garrison, and before that to Frierson, Hill, Flythe, and others for records that add glory to Davidson athletic history. To those who could possibly doubt the excitement and glamor attached to the game, we advise that they consult some Senior who watched Garrison wrestle Abbot of Carolina. More than half of the referee’s time was taken up with silencing frantic students and fans. Any man who goes out for the team regularly can be assured of learning something about a science which can certainly do him no harm and which can prove of great benefit. Coach Unger, in the short time that he has been here, has proved himself a wrestler of no mean ability. What is more, he can get it across to his team. The man who went through a season of “Big Ten” wrestling with the results he achieved must have both the ability and theory. We sincerely hope that this comment will prove superfluous; that the Athletic Association will have to provide more mats for the contestants. There are enough men in the student body to provide a first-rate team, one that will stand alongside any other in North Carolina or the Southeast.

RESPECT FOR PROPERTY

Regardless of the other attributes, physical or mental or moral as the case may be, a man has never been lessened in the sight of others by having consideration and respect for property that is not his own. One is at times doubtful of the real worth of the person who uses his own things unwisely and wastefully, but there is never much question about invading on the privileges of others. Man is generally acknowledged to be endowed with certain inalienable rights, rights which cannot be taken away from him. They are: The right of personal security or life; the right of personal liberty; and the right to hold property. One hears a great deal about invasion of the first two mentioned above. The last named is sometimes overlooked, forgotten, or disregarded. It makes little difference whether the property is owned by an individual or a corporation; it belongs to somebody, and that person has a right to it and its protection. In past years at Davidson, there have been few snows that the window panes and glass fixtures about the college did not bear the brunt of badly directed snowballs. There have been literally scores of glasses broken, and these have had to be replaced. The significant fact is that the students are the ones who pay for this damage. If the desire to crash glass becomes utterly uncontrollable to some individual, we suggest that he go to a hardware store, or picture-framing establishment, purchase himself the desired amount of glass and break it to his heart’s content. That, we repeat, was the usual course of procedure in past years. We believe it is a sign of distinct progress when we learn from the Supervisor of dormitories that not a single pane was broken during the snow before the holidays. We are going to give everybody the benefit of the doubt and not say anything about the proximity of the holiday season having anything to do with it. Finally, whether the foregoing words make any appeal or not, there is a strong business incentive to maintain college property intact. A damage fee is included in the tuition paid by every student; it is supposed to cover accidental breakage. The balance left after the costs of damage have been deducted...is returned to the depositor. It comes in handy because it is returned at a convenient time.

What Do You Know About?
1. How to be a success as a journalist?
2. Resolutions that really solve?
3. A three-way split?
4. The championship scrap?

It has been said about thirty American men in the last one hundred and fifty years or so that their road to fame “led to the White House.” It seems now, however, that for those who can capitalize on it, there is a very successful road on beyond the White House open to those who have either been residents in Washington or aspirants to that abode. We speak of the journalistic field. The announcement that Al Smith, four-time governor of New York and late Presidential nominee of the Democratic party, will write a weekly article for a number of newspapers has caused much comment both on his entrance into the field and that of former President Coolidge. Coolidge has been contributing his two hundred words or so to a number of daily papers for several months, while Smith is starting his with the New Year. Both men are undoubtedly “cleaning up” on their venture, in spite of the fact that the Coolidge daily opinion is at times very monotonous reading. He is getting two dollars a word for his articles, which vary in length from 150 words—the minimum under his contract—to 200 words, which is his maximum. A little figuring will see that the $350 per day or over which this nets him will keep him and his wife in the simple necessities of life for quite a while. Smith’s weekly articles will run about fifteen hundred words. His emolument has not been made public, but we are sure it is worth his while. Young man, be an ex-President and succeed!

“Each year twenty-five per cent of the Freshman class at Harvard enjoy the first year so much that they repeat it.” —President Lowell of Harvard.

Frank McNinch, citizen of Charlotte who was so recently made a member of Hoover's Federal Power Commission—although not without a fight in the Senate—has immediately jumped into the day’s news as a member of that body. It seems that three fellow members of the commission were under fire for the firing of three employees of the department, and Mr. McNinch comes through with a neat bit of politics that stalls off the hounds baying after them for a while. Messrs. Bonner, executive secretary; Russell, counsel; and King, chief accountant of the commission were ousted from their posts by the newly named five members. This brought a storm of protest upon the heads of the five, which, to say the least, was beginning to be uncomfortable. So Mr. McNinch puts in a resolution, which is passed by the other four members, that the deposed employees be asked to put in their applications for their old jobs, along with the other new officers who are to be selected. This wise move silenced all criticism and in no way obligates anyone to restore the jobless to their jobs. Only one hitch is noted—not one of the three men have been anxious to take up the opportunity.

“After a horse, man is the most stupid thing created.” —H. L. Mencken.

Two enterprising mathematicians, not being satisfied with the opinion of one so learned and high in the mathematical field as Descartes, have recently announced that they have found a way to trisect the arc with a ruler and compass, a feat declared impossible by the learned Descartes some three hundred years ago. This interesting feat has long been a puzzler to the geometrists. The ancient Greeks, past masters of the science, said it was impossible to divide the arc into three equal parts with the compass and straight edge, and Descartes substantiated their statements. Later, modern scientists did it with complicated apparatus. However, this present effort is the first time it has been done with the everyday implements of the geometrist. And they refuse to tell how it is done until the copyright is granted to them. Aren't we glad we have passed plane geometry! Just another theorem to learn.

“I always like to dip my bread in the coffee, but the Queen doesn’t like it.” —King Albert of Belgium.

1930 was a year which can be remembered as almost completely lacking in excitement in the heavyweight realm of fistiana. Schmeling, although the nominal title holder, retired to Germany and has kept out of the way of such enterprising challengers as Stribling and Sharkey. Really the only fight worth looking at was the Ingram contest to see whether we should get our shaves out of the tube or the jar. And now that’s all over too. Whom did you have your money on? We have a sneaking notion that it is going to end in a draw.

“Women marry because they don’t want to work.” —Mary Garden.

MUSINGS

“MATADOR,” VEREEN

PERSONAL MENTION AND SOCIETY

Mr. Joe Joe, the dog-faced boy, has at last gone home after making himself a nuisance at the home of Mr. and Mrs. J. T. Sumter for more than a week.

The many friends of Miss Suzanne Smith will breathe sighs of relief when they learn that she has finally caught the wealthy scion from Artichoke. They will be married in the parsnip as soon as Miss Smith can overhaul her wedding gown.

Mr. K. K. Klan is in the local hospital where he is being treated for an acute New Year’s celebration.

Mr. and Mrs. D. B. Dooley have gone to Europe and expect to see the “Fall of Rome,” by Floyd Gibbons. They will remain abroad until late in Mrs. Dooley’s inheritance.

Miss Pinta Maria, famous actress, has been asked to participate in the activities at Pandora University where she will break the first date of the new season.

Mr. F. H. Ruckus is in the local hospital suffering from injuries sustained in a violent holocaust with Ravli Spinola, truck driver. Ravli Spinola, truck driver, now gets his mail at the county Bastille, following a mild disagreement with Mr. F. H. Ruckus.

Mr. C. B. Bog has left his wife and it is rumored that he will sue for a divorce. He intends to sue on the grounds of non-support.

Mr. Sandy McArthur has been hailed before the bar of Justice. It is charged that he told his tiny child that there was no Santa Claus.

Mr. B. B. Bang has been in jail now for two weeks following an argument with T. D. McCoy, policeman. It is stated that the argument started when Mr. Bang told Officer McCoy that he couldn't put him, Mr. Bang, in jail.

Mr. B. A. Gaston is staying in the Plaza Hotel until his wife’s mother completes her visit with his wife.

K. S. Slater is at home after a week of “roughing it” on the river. He had the finest collection of mosquito bites ever seen in these parts.

Mr. Olaf Henderson will sing over the radio tonight at station W. O. W. The title of his first selection will be “You're the Swedish girl this side of heaven.” He will be accompanied on the veranda by Miss Hulda Orchat who can find nothing else to do just now.

Mr. C. T. Singletree is now residing in New York where he is living quite comfortably beyond his paltry income.

Mr. and Mrs. Boreman De Tour were genial host and hostess at a party given to show off Mrs. De Tour’s new Paris Creation. A prize was given to Mrs. Mary Sudsop who surprised the group by her sleight of hand.

The vulgar cannot love anything different to themselves. —Jeffery Farnol.

The earth is a perfect machine, without any freewill of its own. —Prof. J. W. Gregory.

The way to increase a vocabulary is very much like the way to increase your personal acquaintance. Put yourself in the way of meeting as many different phases of expression as you can—read widely, talk with clever people—and whenever you come across a new word or expression train yourself so far as possible to understand it, just as you would train yourself to classify and remember people you meet, gentle and vulgar, good, bad or indifferent. —Barrett Wondell.

The truth is a beautiful thing, even when it’s tangled and in doubtful taste. —W. B. Seabrook.

The chief lesson of history for those who have eyes to read is that history throughout is the history of freedom. —Senatore Groce.

Dr. Paul Douglas, of the economics department of the University of Chicago, believes that the only answer to the unemployment situation in the United States is the dole system of Great Britain.

Princeton Theological Seminary will undertake the biggest development project in its history, with the opening of the new expansion program. The Board of Control of the seminary has voted to approve the $10,000,000 plan, which includes making the theological building group the most beautiful of its kind in the world.