THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 14, 1931

Alumni Marriages

Boggs-Bragaw
Ralph Erwin Boggs, Jr., 1925 graduate of Davidson and resident of Old Hickory, Tenn., was married in the First Presbyterian
Church at Lexington, N. C., on October 7th to Miss Martha Adderton Bragaw, of Lexington. Rev. J. R. McGregor, ‘14,
performed the ceremony, assisted by Rev. Wade H. Boggs, D.D., ’07, of Atlanta, uncle of the groom. J. I. Smith,
'24, of Greenville, S. C., was one of the groomsmen. Mr. Boggs worked in Gastonia for some time after leaving
Davidson and is now connected with the DuPont Rayon Company in Old Hickory, Tenn. Mrs. Boggs is a graduate of
both Peace Institute and Converse College, and for a while was a member of the faculty at Peace. They will
be at home in Old Hickory after October 15th.

Regen-Faw
Clair D. Regen, 1925 alumnus of Davidson, and Miss Elizabeth Faw, both of Franklin, Tenn., were married at the home
of Judge and Mrs. W. W. Faw, parents of the bride, in Franklin, on October 6th. The ceremony was performed
by Rev. E. K. Regen, '26, brother of the groom, and Dr. Eugene Regen, ’24, of Nashville, Tenn., another brother
of the groom, was best man. After leaving Davidson Mr. Faw studied insurance up north and returned to his home
to follow that profession. However, he became connected with the Standard Oil Company, with which he worked until early in
September when he established the Regen Brothers Coal Company at Franklin. Mrs. Regen is a graduate of Randolph-Macon. After October
19th, they will be at home in Franklin.

Alumni Death

John R. Jones, Jr., ‘17
John R. Jones, Jr., 1917 alumnus of Davidson, of Albemarle, was killed in an automobile accident near Biscoe on Friday,
October 9th. It is believed he met instant death, though the car had caught fire and burned up before passersby
discovered the wreck. He was alone. The accident occurred when his car hit a culvert and turned over. Identification of
the charred body was made from the license plate of his car. Mr. Jones came to Davidson from Sanford, and
after leaving here he first took a position in a Sanford bank, but later became southern representative for the National
Bank of Commerce of New York. He went to Albemarle in 1928, and rapidly rose to leadership in that city.
At the time of his death, he was executive vice-president of the Bank & Trust Company, president of the Albemarle
Insurance Agency, president of the Alamance Chevrolet Company of Burlington, manager of the Texas Distributing Company at Albemarle, and president
of the Rotary Club. He was also identified with several fraternal organizations.

Engagement
Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Lawton, of Columbia, S. C., announce the engagement of their daughter, Mary, to Neill L.
Carroll, also of Columbia. Mr. Carroll is a 1927 alumnus of Davidson, and after leaving here he studied at the
University of South Carolina. He is a native of York, but is now located in Columbia. Miss Lawton received her
education at St. Mary’s School at Raleigh.

Program
Elsewhere in The Davidsonian, details of the Home-Coming program can be found. Beginning with the football game between the Davidson
Freshmen and Wofford Freshmen at 3 p.m. Friday, the program continues Saturday with the following: 11 a.m., cross-country races. Duke
varsity and freshmen vs. Davidson varsity and freshmen, starting and concluding in front of the stadium. 12 noon, exercises in
the auditorium of Chambers with Prof. K. J. Foreman as principal speaker. 1 p.m. luncheon in the banquet hall of
Chambers. 2:30 p.m., football game, Duke vs. Davidson. 7:30 p.m. stunt night in Chambers Auditorium.

Births
1920—Dr. and Mrs. E. M. Whitehead, of Salisbury, announce the birth of a daughter, Virginia Goldsby, on October 8th.
1923—Mr. and Mrs. Harry Whitener, of Charlotte, announce the birth of a son, on October 4th.

Neisler-Lutz
Mr. and Mrs. T. H. Lutz, of Shelby, announce the marriage of their daughter, Anne, to Hunter Ramseur Neisler, of
Kings Mountain, at high noon, Saturday, October 10th. Mr. Neisler is an alumnus of the 1928 class at Davidson, and
since leaving here has been connected with the Neisler Mills at Kings Mountain. He is with that concern now, but
is stationed at Shelby. Mrs. Neisler received her education at State College at Fredericksburg, Va. They are at home, Grover
Road, Shelby.

Hood-Millen
Herman Baxter Hood, of Matthews, 1928 alumnus of Davidson, and Miss Martha Linn Millen, of Huntersville, were married.Huntersville Associate Reform
Presbyterian Church at 7:30 p.m. on Wednesday, October 8th. Mr. Hood is a native of Huntersville, but is now in
business at Matthews. Mrs. Hood is a graduate of Erskine College. They will be at home in Matthews within a
few days.

Get Ready for Homecoming October 17th

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
Complete Service

See It At Your College Bookstore or Write the Publisher for Information

A Short Cut to Accurate Information
You will find a quick answer to questions about words, persons, places in WEBSTER’S COLLEGIATE The Best Abridged Dictionary: WEBSTER'S
NEW INTERNATIONAL — “Supreme Authority.” Here is a companion for study that gives you ready information with 106,000 words and
phrases with definitions, etymologies, pronunciations, and use in its 1,256 pages. 1,700 illustrations. Includes dictionaries of biography and geography and
other special features. Free specimen pages if you name this paper. G. & C. Merriam Co. Springfield, Mass.

ALUMNI PERSONALS
Davidson alumni seen at the V. P. I.-Davidson football game at Blacksburg, Va., last Saturday included Dr. G. M. Maxwell,
'96; Rev. Z. V. Roberson, '14, and E. C. Moomaw, '25, all of Roanoke, Va.; Rev. Norman Johnson, '15, and
Prof. J. H. Hall, Jr., '23, both of Blacksburg, Va.; Rev. T. K. Currie, '05, Richmond, Va.; Dr. Oren Moore,
'08, and Lawrence H. Wilkinson, '13, both of Charlotte; Carl R. Pritchett, '30, and R. W. McCullough, '31, both of
Davidson.

Alumni visitors to Davidson within the past week include, among others, Rev. S. W. Moore, D.D., '93, Bluefield, W. Va.;
Rev. L. O. McCutcheon, D.D., '95, Chunju, Korea (Dr. McCutcheon is on furlough and for the next year will be
at Bishopville, S. C.); C. C. Alexander, '10, Charlotte, who has recently moved from Orlando, Fla.; Clair D. Regen, '25,
Franklin, Tenn., and W. H. Bailey, '29, Memphis, Tenn.

Paul P. Brown, '03, of Raleigh, secretary of the North Carolina Bankers Association since 1923, was last week elected president
of the state secretaries division of the American Bankers Association at its meeting in Atlantic City, N. J. He therefore
heads the secretaries of Bankers Associations in 48 states and Porto Rico. His selection also automatically placed Mr. Brown on
the executive council of the American Bankers Association, and on the administrative committee for 1933.

C. R. (Pat) Crawford, '23, recently purchased by the St. Louis Cardinals, world series champions, will coach and do physical
instruction at Ohio State, Columbus, Ohio, this winter. He recently obtained his degree in physical education from Springfield College, Springfield,
Mass.

McKinnon Carmichael, '17, of New Bern, was recently made a captain of infantry in the United States Officers Reserve Corps.

The University of South Carolina published a bulletin this spring in which it listed the writings by members of its
faculty. Three Davidson alumni are connected with the South Carolina University. The bulletin showed that Dr. Reed Smith, '01, dean
of the graduate school, had written two books, been co-editor of five, had written 15 pamphlets, bulletins and monographs, and
also 11 articles and reprints. In addition, Dr. Smith was founder and editor of the University Weekly News, of the
extension division. Dr. J. E. Mills, '96, professor of chemistry at the university, was editor and co-author of the magazine,
“Chemical Progress in the South,” had written 27 articles and was co-author of five others, and had published three pamphlets.
Prof. Paul M. Patterson, associate professor of biology, has written four articles. All of these have obtained publication in diversified
periodicals.

W. Barrett Taylor, Jr., '08, formerly with the Coca-Cola Company in New York, is now connected with Taylor Brothers, Inc.,
of Winston-Salem, tobacco manufacturers.

SEE OUR NEW LINE OF STATIONERY
Open All Night Friday, Oct. 16
Hot Chocolate—Coffee—Bouillon
Phone 9143

P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

THE GREATEST UNDERWEAR VALUE
You can pay more than HANES costs—but you can’t get more. Just try to match HANES values. There’s the Gold
Label Light Weight Union Suit or Shirts and Drawers. SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war belt. That’s patented and
can’t be imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and Shorts in a variety that will make it easy for the most fastidious to
choose from. All at prices that will make you wonder how it can be done.

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.
