THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 6, 1931

Book Review

Education of a Princess, by Marie, Grand Duchess of Russia—The Viking Press, New York.

In this day when kings are so decidedly out of style, a book full of palaces, princes, liveried attendants, political intrigues, and royal balls arouses a deal of interest. Nor is it concerned only with such things, but has an assortment of assassinations, murders, revolutions, war scenes, and air raids that would delight the soul of any 12-year-old boy. From the Emperor’s fare to horse meat is a far cry, but the author has done it all and has told it to us in a most gripping and personal story. Through it all she does not forget that this is her story and the result is an autobiography that is as exciting as any novel you ever read. It bears marked resemblance to Dickens’ Tale of Two Cities, and we come to admire the Duchess Marie as we realize that she lived these events which we shudder to read.

A cousin of the late Czar, she and her brother Dmitri were the most intimate playmates of the Czar’s children. Her father was banished from Russia for marrying outside the royalty and she grew up under the care of her uncle. A very keen child by nature, the conventions of court life bound her down, and the only real affections of her early life were centered in Dmitri and her father. At the early age of eighteen, she was joined in a diplomatic marriage to Prince William of Sweden and spent a few rather lonely years in that country before her marriage was annulled at her request. Returning to Russia just before the war, she entered that struggle in the capacity of a nurse and soon was placed in charge of a hospital containing six hundred beds. Several years in this situation ended when she was called to the capital by the news that her brother, now an army officer, had been one of the plotters in the assassination of Rasputin. Dmitri was sent into exile and not long afterwards the Czar abdicated. Thus followed a long period of political uncertainty and one of great danger and anxiety to the members of the Romanoff family. But the social unrest did not prevent Marie, still young, from falling in love with, and marrying Prince Sergey Putiatin, with whom she escaped from the country on the last day before the frontiers were closed to all refugees. On the next day began the massacres of Russia’s former rulers during which all the friends and family of Duchess Marie were killed. But still she loves Russia and has hope for that troubled nation. The blame for the revolution she places on the unseeing and stubborn rule of the later Romanoffs. She also gives, along with a great story, a fine summary of all that has gone on in Russia in the last twenty years. You will be educated, entertained—and you will not leave this book unfinished.

H. C. McFadyen.

The Wisdom of the Chinese, by Brian Brown, Brentano's, New York. (Charlotte Public Library.)

“What do you not wish others should do unto you, do not unto them” might seem to be a quotation from one of the Gospels, but it was written five centuries before Christ by Confucius. And “your goody-goody people are thieves of virtue” might well be taken for Christ’s denunciation of such as the scribes and Pharisees. It, too, comes from Confucius. Again, “requite injury with kindness” is the doctrine of Lao Tzu, while Kang-Hsi foreshadowed Christian ethics with “Let us help one another.” The writings of the Chinese are sententious and are practical for everyday life. Confucius was a great moral teacher, interested in the social structure of his people. He wrote (and indeed the greatest Chinese arts, literature, and philosophy, were written) before or while Hammurabi was making laws for young Babylon. Brian Brown has amassed a “very incomplete” anthology of what seems to be the Chinese’ most prominent expression. The volume includes thoughts and maxims of Confucius, Mencius, Lao Tzu, Chuang Tzu, etc., Chinese poetry and maxims.

Willie—Paw, what is discretion?
Father—Oh, that’s only another name for lack of nerve, my son.

Future Husband—How does your sister like the engagement ring that I gave her, Bobby?
Her Young Brother—Well, it’s a little too small. She has an awful hard time getting it off when the other fellows call.

Philanthropic Debaters Defeat Eumenean Team In Inter-Society Debate

McCutchan, McDavid and Noblin, Winning Trio, Down Wood, Moore and Mann Two to One

Last Tuesday evening the Philanthropic Literary Society defeated the Eumenean Society before a large crowd in a lively and interesting inter-society debate, Resolved: That the Present System of Presidential Elections Should be Abolished. The judges were Professors E. F. Shewmake, W. L. Porter, and Frank Brown. The representatives of the Phi Society upheld the affirmative and the Eu’s, the negative. The decision of the judges was 2-1 in favor of the affirmative.

Following is the argument used by the affirmative: First, the present system of election is unsatisfactory. Several instances of political corruption were cited. The affirmative also argued it undemocratic and unconstitutional. Second, a new plan of proportional representation was presented. The negative side argued: First, that the present plan is satisfactory inasmuch as in only three instances in the history of the nation has the popular vote gone contrary to the vote of the electoral college. The theory was also advanced that an absolute popular vote would tend to give undue stress to negroes and aliens voting by unscrupulous political bosses.

The following men participated in the debating: for the affirmative, Foy McDavid, Stuart Noblin, and Wilson McCutchan; for the negative, Ferguson Wood, Charlie Moore, and Lee Mann. S. W. DuBose, president of the Phi Society, presided at the meeting. This inter-society debate was instrumental in creating more interest in society work on the campus as several new men enrolled with the Philanthropic immediately after the debate. These debates should help to bring back the keen rivalry which once existed between the societies and create a new interest for the betterment of Davidson's two oldest and most historic institutions of extracurricular activities.

Noted Philosopher Dies

Chicago—(IP)—Dr. George Herbert Mead, 68, head of the department of philosophy at the University of Chicago, and one of the most noted philosophers in America, died here suddenly of heart failure. Dr. Mead recently had handed in his resignation, along with several others in his department, because of what the group thought was academic tyranny on the part of Chicago’s youthful president, Dr. Robert Maynard Hutchins. The philosopher was educated at Oberlin College, Harvard University, and the Universities of Berlin and Leipzig. He was the author of a number of important books on his subject.

LECTURE ON OXFORD (Continued from page 1)

chosen from colleges with enrollments between 324 and 857 was increased from 12 to 27 percent of the total number of Rhodes scholars. Dr. Vowles also spoke of the course of study followed by the Americans at Oxford. A majority of the Rhodes scholars take law; next to the law students come those who major in medicine and the natural sciences. Students of English literature, philosophy, economics, and scattered courses follow. When the scholars return to America, teaching is the profession most of them enter. Law follows as a close second. Davidson men who desire to compete for the scholarship should start thinking about it early in their college career. Those who wish to compete next year should see Dr. Vowles this spring so they will be prepared for the competition next fall. Davidson has already had six Rhodes scholars and the new system of appointment should encourage more Davidson men to compete.

West Virginia Club

The West Virginia Club held their last meeting of the year Wednesday night in Chambers Building, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle and Prof. W. W. Wood being the honor guests. At this third meeting of the year, the club reviewed the achievements of the past year and considered the progress made under President Calvin Kuykendall’s leadership unusually successful. Plans were made for next year. The names of Davidson supporters who look for prospects in West Virginia have been secured by Alec St. Clair and within a few weeks a letter will be sent by a committee headed by Billie Franklyn to each man, explaining why he should come to Davidson, giving some of the school’s good points. This plan has the co-operation of Mr. Hengeveld, the registrar, and is expected to influence formal, and John Seal and Bill Hancock were in charge of the refreshments. Definite plans for next fall are not yet formulated, but the first meeting next year will take place during the latter part of September.

Prof. Williams Speaks

Last week Professor John P. Williams, of the Business Department at Davidson, delivered the baccalaureate address before the graduating class of Polkton High School, Polkton, North Carolina. The principal of Polkton High School is Prof. Mason D. Field, graduate of Davidson in '24.

Alcohol Is No Issue At Mich. University

Lansing, Mich—(IP)—Drinking by students is not a major problem at the University of Michigan, according to a report submitted to the House of Representatives last week by the special committee appointed to investigate liquor conditions at the university. Appointment of the committee followed raids by Ann Arbor authorities on five fraternity houses the night of February 10. The fraternity houses closed until September 1932. Commenting on the raids the committee said:“It is the opinion of the committee that the police officers, who actually raided the fraternity houses, were indiscreet and over-zealous or were quite willing to embarrass the students needlessly. 

“The committee found reason to believe that drinking among students is gradually decreasing. Drinking is not a common practice among the students. Conditions are materially better than they were five years ago, and there is less drinking on the campus by the students than there was before the adoption of prohibition. 

“The committee finds that conditions not only are improving at Ann Arbor from year to year, but that conditions at the University of Michigan are better than at most colleges and universities.” 

Although intoxicating liquors were found in each of the five fraternity houses, this fact does not constitute an indictment of the entire membership, according to the committee. In each case, the committee reported, the liquor was in possession of a few students rather than that of the fraternity itself. No considerable amount of liquor was found at any of the houses, the report points out. 

The committee directed attention to a university rule prohibiting intoxicating liquor in fraternity houses and added that each of the fraternities had a similar rule of its own. The time at which the raids were conducted was, according to the committee, “a period of general relaxation and celebration,” examinations being almost finished and the Junior Hop set for the immediate future.

To Regular Students—Well balanced course, including a number of electives. 

To Advanced Students—Specially chosen courses to fit each individual case. 

To the Most Successful Students—Five Fellowships, some resident, others abroad. 

For Catalogue and information, address Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY RICHMOND, VIRGINIA Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia.

The program for the evening was in- 

McLean Represents College at “Y” Meet 

Last Friday Archie McLean went to Greenville, N. C., to attend the joint conference of the college Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. officers which was held at East Carolina Teachers’ College. 

The men’s organization includes the officers of all the organized Y. M. C. A.’s located in the colleges of this state, and who are affiliated with the national association. Archie is president of this group. This is likewise true of the ladies’ organization, which is presided over by Miss Louise Melville of Guilford. 

The conference, which lasted until midday Sunday, was chiefly inspirational in nature, made a comprehensive study of the problems facing the organization, and was addressed by Mr. Francis Miller, chairman of the World’s Student Christian Federation, and Miss Elizabeth Smith, national secretary of the Y. W. C. A., among other distinguished speakers. 

The officers elected for the coming year are: President Y. M. C. A., Rawlins Coffman, Duke; treasurer Y. M. C. A., M. L. Shepherd, N. C. State; President Y. W. C. A., Miss Charlotte Wilkinson, N.C. C. W.; secretary Y. W. C. A., Miss Frances Mitchell, G. C.

Attention Litterati

“Unfortunately the prima donna was a little horse.” The college student who imparted this doleful news belongs to that considerable body of the pseudoliterate who persevere in a romantic faith in the power of intuition as concerns spelling and diction. While dust gathers on the dictionary, these students guess and guess, and their compositions are made discordant by what one of them called “the clash of symbols.” Indeed, insanities in their writing suggest what one of their number inadvertently described as “a slight concession of the brain.” 

“The author,” writes a student, “has betrayed his characters with great skill.” These betrayals of words, on the other hand, are unskillful, even unconscious. The grotesque humor that resides in them is humor unaware of its own existence until the wise serpent indicates it with a marginal note in red ink. Perhaps this innocency flavors the amusement which even the most sober instructor must feel now and then, for the dew of Eden is on these strange fruits, and they have none of the cloying flavor inherent in the neat complacency of a premeditated pun. 

Certainly no intention of pertness moved the student who attempted to enumerate “the benefits deprived from living in a dormitory.” Neither was that one daring who described a balloon vendor as “standing on a busy corner selling his wears.” Respectful in purpose was the youth who wrote that Wordsworth “infests nature with new meaning.” Probably no racial prejudice animated the one who cited the writings of “the Hebrew profits,” no indignation at low professorial salaries existed in the mind that dictated a colorful description of “the commencement procession of robbed faculty members,” and no ungallant gibe was intended in the mention of “the famine sex.” No dietary prejudice is necessarily indicated by the advice to prepare for a coming camping trip with “food that will not go fowl.” And who would knowingly describe a friend as one who is always “a true pall”? 

“I impersonated Santa Claus and scarred some of the youngsters,” confesses one student. The reader is not surprised to learn that the next night, in further celebration of the holidays, he went on “a slaying party.” There is madness in some of these slips of the pen. They are the irrational gargoyles on the otherwise shapely structure of written language. “A maize of vines” sounds a bit like a Burbank miracle, but even more like some strange growth casting the supernatural shade of Gothic terror, after the manner of Jack’s horrible beanstalk. We feel ourselves at the bedside of a demented poet when the patient “gives the nurse a cheerful simile,” or has a “vacant stair” in his eye. So in the case of the disillusioned portrait painter who with one furious gesture “rents” the canvas from the frame. So with “King Leer.” In some such light of madness do we behold, at the circus, “the beauty of the lions, the tigers, and the lepers.” And what wild delirium there is in the sentence having “two clauses separated by a coma.” 

In the coinage of words, these writers who have forgotten the dictionary display what one of their number would call “zealousy.” Their list includes such synthetic products as “valiantry,” “abhorrible,” “gorilla” warfare, a large “vocability.” There are “geologians,” suggestive of sermons in stones; and one can imagine that college “alumini” are those who as students spent their summers peddling kitchen utensils. A mysterious perverse alchemy it is, like that misguided act, “steeling the gold.” Sometimes there is a curious touch of rightness about the mistake. Something true about the age of innocence is suggested by “the area of long skirts.” It may well prove difficult to “peddle a bicycle.” It is powerfully descriptive to write that on the wall hung a “peer” glass, or that one has just undergone an “abominable” operation. Nor is it altogether wrong to define historians as those who “annalize” the past. Occasionally there is a touch of genius which overrides the quibbling about lowness of wit that pursues the pun. Certainly a child should not be “irrespective to its father.” Is there nothing to be said for the point of view that Byron was a great “satyrist”? And who would not desire to know more about the “pacific” causes of the World War or about John McCormack’s “annunciation”? 

Reading that a student has “unrolled” in a class in French and plans to “consecrate” on his lessons, the instructor laughs or growls, according to his mood, and affixes an ironic marginal comment; the student reads it and is abashed. It is unfortunate if the matter ends there. However lamentable the result, the student's attempt to bring an untamed word into the barnyard of his domesticated vocabulary is a laudable one; and the error should serve to motivate dictionary study of at least the two terms which have been confused. 

Wiser than he intended to be was the student who wrote that the dictionary is the useful source of much valuable information about the “deviations” of words. —Warren Beck, Lawrence College, Appleton, Wis.

College Printing

Books, Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Handbooks, etc. Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you. 

P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE

6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing Engraved Cards and Invitations. 

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY CHARLOTTE, N. C.