THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25, 1931

New Library Books

1. Our Chief Magistrate and His Powers, by William Howard Taft.
2. Social Life Among the Insects, by William Morton Wheeler.
3. The Borderland in the Civil War, by Edward Conrad Smith.
4. The Biology of Insects, by George H. Carpenter.
5. The Theories of Instinct, by E. C. Wilm.
6. Real Wages in the United States 1890-1926, by Paul H. Douglas.
7. Mathematics in Liberal Education, by Florian Cajori.
8. Freedom of the Mind in History, by Henry Osborn Taylor.
9. Hail and Farewell, by George Moore.
10. The Abilities of Man, by C. Spearman.
11. Lister and His Achievement, by Sir William Watson Cheyne.
12. The Story of the Theatre, by Glenn Hughes.
13. Selected Poems, by Conrad Aiken.
14. The Real Situation in Russia, by Leon Trotsky.
15. The ABC of the Federal Reserve System, by Edwin Walter Kemmerer.
16. Meteors, by Charles P. Olivier.
17. Sahara, by Angus Buchanan.
18. Speech and Hearing, by Fletcher.
19. The Human Body, by Trevor Heaton.
20. History of the Civil War, by James Ford Rhodes.
21. Essays, by William Ernest Henley.
22. Idle Days in Patagonia, by W. H. Hudson.
23. Slavery and Abolition, by Albert Bushnell Hart.
24. Theory of History, by Frederick J. Teggart.
25. The Decline of the West, by Oswald Spengler.
26. Wholesome Childhood, by Ernest R. Groves and Gladys Hoagland Groves.
27. Fundamental Gymnastics, by Niels Bukh.
28. Stranger Browne.
29. Principles of Labor Legislation, by John R. Commons and John B. Andrews.
30. Spenser, by Emile Legouis.
31. The Light That Never Was, by Katherine Fullerton Gerould.
32. The Story of San Michele, by Axel Munthe.
33. French Foreign Policy (1898-1914), by Graham H. Stuart.
34. Blowing Clear, by Joseph C. Lincoln.
35. Humanism and Tyranny, by Ephraim Emerton.
36. The Last American Frontier, by Frederick L. Paxson.
37. Memoirs of a Revolutionist, by P. Kropotkin.
38. Russian Economic Development Since the Revolution, by Maurice Dobb.
39. Soviet Rule in Russia, by Walter Russell Batsell.
40. Cicero and His Influence, by John C. Rolfe.
41. Mind and Behavior, by Herrick, Humphrey, Jastrow, Allport, and Burtt.
42. The Life of Henry B. Wright, by George Stewart.
43. Harvey Than Fiction, by Lewis.
44. The Preface of the Universe, by Brownwell, Slosson, Darrow, Smith, and Lewis.
45. Wider Horizons, by Herbert Adams Gibbons.
46. Drifting Sands of Party Politics, by Oscar W. Underwood.
47. Personalities in Art, by Royal Cortissoz.

DAVIDSON TO RECEIVE (Continued from page 1)

Cartledge, Peter Marshall, and Henry L’Heureux. The quartet is well known in the South and sang at the Congress on
World Missions held in Chattanooga.

Johnny Melton, of the class of ’29, was one of the outstanding men on the Davidson campus during his four
years here. He was president of the Y. M. C. A., a member of the football team, and a member
of Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity. He was also a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He coached at
McCallie last year and entered Columbia Theological Seminary this fall.

Jeb Russell, of the class of ’30, was a member of the wrestling squad, a leader in his class, and
a campus leader in general. He was a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

Richard Gillespie, graduate of Presbyterian College, was a football player and a leader in other campus activities.

Plans for Summer Term Are Released

Courses in Primary and Grammar School Work to be Offered

Prof. F. K. Fleagle, director of Davidson College summer school, has made a tentative selection of the courses to be
offered during the 1931 sessions. These selections have been made on the basis of the past several years of experience.
The complete faculty has been selected also, and the dates for the first session are June 8-July 18.

It was announced a short while ago that Eloise Rankin, of Charlotte, supervisor of the rural schools of Mecklenburg County,
and Miss Alma Browning, teacher in the East Carolina Teachers College of Greenville, N. C., have been obtained to teach
courses in primary and grammar school work, respectively, to those high school teachers desiring this course.

All the other members of the summer session faculty, with one exception, were selected from professors now teaching at Davidson.
They are: Dr. Chas. M. Richards, Bible; Dr. Price H. Gwynn, Education; Prof. E. J. Erwin, English; Prof. W. W.
Wood, Mathematics; Dr. G. B. Watts, French; Dr. J. M. McConnell, History; Dr. J. M. Douglas and Prof. W. L.
Porter, Science; and Prof. and Mrs. Ernest J. Cullum, School Arts.

Applications are already coming in for the term, and it is thought that the attendance, as well as the quality
of the work done, should be well above the average, according to a report from Professor Fleagle.

DR. STONE WILL DELIVER (Continued from page 1)

uated from Auburn Theological Seminary. Dr. Stone's national recognition is seen in the numerous honorary degrees which have been conferred.
Institutions thus honoring him are Amherst, Emporia College, Occidental College, Coe College, Lafayette College, Columbia University, and the University of
Vermont.

Seniors Choose Mascot

The Senior Class has chosen as their mascot, little Miss Helen McGill, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. M. W. McGill.
The youthful mascot will be only five years old in July but is already most attractive. The Seniors referred the
selection of a class mascot to a committee composed of H. M. Moffett and J. R. Caldwell. The committee’s choice
of Miss McGill was unanimously approved.accepted. Last year’s graduating class also preferred a young lady as it will be recalled
that Miss Betty Pritchett, daughter of Capt. and Mrs. Norton G. Pritchett, was named mascot by the Class of 1930.

DR. CHARLES F. MYERS
(Continued from page 1)

That is, by taking some things for granted, while other things are gained by working them out, for example, mathematical
problems; people can be known by this same method. Jane Addams, who went along the streets taking the ragamuffins and
orphans up and helping them to get food and clothes and jobs, did this great work by spiritual experience. Sherlin
Wood, a graduate of Davidson and who is working as a missionary in the foreign field, also has done his
great work by religious experience.

“We must have imagination,” said Dr. Myers. He shows the difference in the definitions of the dictionary, a girl, and
a mother, of a diamond. The dictionary will define it in big words that no one will be able to
comprehend unless he is very learned. The girl, who is in love with the boy who has just given the
diamond to her, will say in simple language that it expresses the love that is binding between her and her
sweetheart. The mother, who has been given the diamond by her son as a birthday present, will say that it
expresses the love and affection that her son holds for her. He also shows the difference of the doctor's and
Charles Lamb's definition of tuberculosis and the difference of the definition of the philosopher and Macbeth of remorse.

“It takes a long time to know Christ, it takes a long time to grow from one experience to another,
it takes a long time to know a person, and it takes a long time to make a violin,” according
to Dr. Myers. He told the congregation that it takes a thousand years to make a violin. Three hundred years
in the ground and the other seven hundred in the different parts of the world being seasoned so as to
be carved into a violin. This violin is made perfect by this process; our knowledge and love of Christ will
be made perfect by long association with Him.

The service was closed by a solo by Mrs. Farrell and the benediction by Dr. Myers.

DATE FOR LANGUAGE
(Continued from page 1)

Watts is chairman of a committee working upon this, and states that considerable work has already been done. Dr. Watts
is also on the sub-committee on French. According to the association president, Dr. J. P. Wickersham Crawford, professor of Romance
Language and assistant dean of men of the University of Pennsylvania, is expected to address the convention on “Method and
Content for Modern Courses in the First Two Years of Language.” Other Davidson faculty members who will play a prominent
part in outlining a suggested program for North Carolina institutions are Dr. G. R. Vowles, member of the committee on
German, and Prof. I. Fleagle, member of the committee on Spanish.

PEABODY AND ENOCH
(Continued from page 1)

of Freshman class, and was a member of the Freshman tennis team and basketball squad. Dus is one of the
Doodler Brothers who broadcast over WBT every Tuesday night. Tee Thompson, Bob Evans, and Julian West were nominated by the
nominating committee for secretary and treasurer of the student body and Bill Johnson was nominated from the floor. Bob Evans
was eliminated on the first ballot and Tee Thompson on the second ballot. Bill Johnson and Julian West remain in
the race but have not been voted on up to this time.

The nominating committee nominated the following men for president of the Sophomore class of next year: Wee Thompson, Alex Schenck,
James Halverstadt, and John Lafferty. The following men were nominated from the floor: E. L. Powell, Bob Evans, Julian West,
and Boyd Morris. Wee Thompson, Julian West, and Boyd Morris were eliminated on the first ballot. Halverstadt was eliminated on
the second ballot, and Lafferty on the third ballot. The race is now between Schenck, Powell, and Evans. The other
officers and those that are being voted on at this time will be elected as soon as possible.

RECITAL TO BE GIVEN
(Continued from page 1)

Lindsay. He graduated from the Springfield High School and attended Hiram College for three years. From 1900 to 1903, he
studied at the Chicago Art Institute. In the spring of 1906, Lindsay tramped through the Blue Ridge Mountains from Florida
to Tennessee, a trip which he described in a prose volume, “A Handy Guide for Beggars” (1916). He then went
to Europe, where he studied in more than a score of museums. Later he made several other walking tours of
the United States, once going as far west as New Mexico and stopping on the way back to work in
the Kansas wheat fields. These trips were described in his books, “Adventures While Preaching the Gospel of Beauty” and “Tramping
With a Poet in the Rockies.” It was not until 1913, when his poem, “General William Booth Enters Into Heaven,”
appeared in “Poetry, a Magazine of Verse,” that Mr. Lindsay received his first real prominence as a poet. From that
time on his fame has grown constantly, and he has published several well-known volumes, his most recent one being “Selected
Poems of Vachel Lindsay.”

YOUR EYES MAY FOOL YOU, BUT YOUR TASTE TELLS THE TRUTH!
Is one of these cigarettes longer than the other—or do your eyes deceive you?
©1931, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
