THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 29, 1931

DAVIDSON

THE SPORTS PARADE

STATE FEBRUARY 3 SATURDAY NIGHT

Wildcats Eke Out Hard Fought Win Over V.P.I. In Thrilling Game, 21-20

Wildcats Extend Winning Streak to Four Straight and Third Over Southern Conference Teams

PALMER LEADS SCORING

Bill Goodson and Doc Mathis Lead ’Cats in Close Exhibition

The Davidson Wildcat quintet took the V. P. I. five, fresh from a victory over the strong U. of N. C. team, into camp, 22 to 20, here Saturday night, and added their scalp to the growing list of victories. The game was close and packed with thrills from beginning to end, and the excellent guarding of both teams made the counters all the more important.

The Gobblers started their second team with the exception of Captain Baker, but quickly inserted their first-stringers when the Wildcats pulled out in front with a 5 to 2 lead. The veterans were soon able to stem the tide and from then until the half very few balls found the coveted inside of the basket. As the first half ended, Palmer dropped in a foul shot to give his team a 9 to 8 advantage.

Captain Goodson opened the Davidson fireworks soon after the second period started by dropping in two beautiful long shots. Goodson’s mates started finding the basket from this point on, and when the time clock showed only two more minutes left to play, Davidson was leading, 22 to 16. At this point Palmer got busy and dropped a short one and then a long one to cut the lead down to two points. After Davidson had missed a crip shot under the goal, V. P. I. worked the ball down the floor but a long shot missed its mark. The ball bounded off the backboard and was knocked out of bounds as the game ended.

Captain Bill Goodson and Doc Mathis led the Wildcat scorers with six points each, Palmer was high scorer for the evening with eight points.

V.P.I. G. Fg. Tp.
Baker 2 0 4
Bosley 1 2 4
Woods 0 0 0
Donaldson 0 0 0
Seaman 2 0 4
Schreibing 0 0 0
Palmer 2 4 8
Wiltefig 0 0 0
Totals 9 6 20

Davidson G. Fg. Tp.
Palmer 1 1 3
Mathis 2 2 6
Martin 1 1 3
Digh 1 1 3
Goodson 3 0 6
Brockton 0 1 1
Totals 8 6 22

Non-scoring substitutes: V. P. I.—Hall, Belote, Yaggie; Davidson—Peabody. Referee, Robertson (Furman); umpire, Rawson (Georgia).

DAVIDSON 37; ERSKINE 23

Captain Bill Goodson went on a scoring rampage to lead his Wildcat basketeers to a 37-23 win over the Erskine Seceders on the home floor, January 14. The eye of the Davidson captain was on the basket, and the machine-like regularity with which he dropped in counters took the heart out of the visiting five. Goodson’s total for the night was 17 points, eight field goals and one foul goal.

The Erskine five jumped into the lead soon after the opening whistle and were leading, 6 to 2, but Captain Goodson soon started his work. He sank a field goal and Mathis did likewise to tie the count. Then in quick succession Goodson dropped in three field goals and shortly before the end of the half made good with two more. The Wildcats were leading at the half, 20 to 15.

Towards the end of the game, the Erskine quint showed a spurt to come within four points of the fast-moving Davidson team, but after a short consultation, Davidson rang up 10 points while holding their opponents scoreless. Goodson was the outstanding player on the floor, both on the offense and defense. Captain Reid looked best for Erskine.

Erskine G. Fg. Tp.
Hambpright 1 1 3

New W. & L. Contract

Davidson College’s original one-year football arrangement with Washington and Lee has been made into a two-year contract, according to Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, professor of physical education and schedule-maker for Davidson. The 1931 encounter has been definitely placed at Lexington, Va., the fracas for 1932 coming to the Davidson campus. It was intimated at the conclusion of negotiations for a game that the 1931 tilt would be either at Asheville, Lexington, or Davidson, but the contract has now been signed for the General's backyard. Capt. Pritchett also announced that it seemed likely that the V. P. I.-Davidson game would be at Blacksburg, Va. “Our contract has been signed for that place,” he said, “with the optional clause that the V. P. I. officials could change it to any other point at their discretion.” Richmond, Va., was mentioned as a possible city in which the Wildcat-Gobbler melee would occur, and it is known here that several individuals and parties in Roanoke are endeavoring to get the game scheduled for that city.

Thirty-Seven Report For Spring Football

Coaches Tilson and Laird Will be in Charge, With Covington as Assistant

Work Divided in Periods

Fundamentals Will Come First With Games Later on

Thirty-seven men reported for spring football practice Monday, under the direction of Coaches Tilson and Laird. Hub Covington has given his time to helping them, although himself ineligible for play next fall. The practice will be divided into periods, in which the coaches will take up different phases of the game. It will last for six weeks, the first two or three to be devoted entirely to fundamentals, such as blocking, tackling, forward passing, etc., the next one to running and timing of plays and the last to

To Face Stiff Schedule

Meets With N. C. State, Furman, Duke, and V. M. I. Already Definitely Set

PLAN FOUR HOME MEETS

Season to be Closed With State Meet at Greensboro

This year the Davidson track team will meet severe competition on the cinder paths, probably more severe than ever before. The full schedule has not been announced as yet, but so far meets have been scheduled with North Carolina State, Furman, Duke, and V. M. I. Captain Pritchett and Manager Sisson are at the present time trying to get a meet with either the University of Georgia or the University of South Carolina. Following the regular scheduled season, the team will journey to Greensboro for the State meet.

There are two trips for the varsity this year, in all probability, one into South Carolina and one to the State meet. The trip into South Carolina is not definite. Captain Pritchett, track coach, had planned for a trip out to Memphis, but he decided to postpone the trip and go out there next year during the spring holidays.

The Georgia Tech Relays, which are attended annually by the Davidson team, were eliminated on account of financial difficulties, according to Coach W. A. Alexander, director of the Tech Relays. Last year in these relays, Heath Whittle, now assistant track coach, won a first and a second, placing first in the 120-yard high hurdles and second in the 220-yard low hurdles. Graham George finished third in the 220-yard low hurdles and Joe McCall, 1931 captain, finished second only to Ed Hamm in the broad jump; Hamm at that time held the world’s record in the broad jump with a record of 25 feet, 11 1-4 inches.

Last year in the State meet at Greensboro, Davidson finished third following Carolina and State, but were within a very few points of passing State. In this meet Whittle in the 120-yard high hurdles and the 220-yard low hurdles, Graham George finished second in the low hurdles and Joe McCall outleaped all theCompetition to win the broad jump. Won two firsts, Davidson should have a good team this year with nearly all of last year’s men back except Whittle, Gene Smith, pole vaulter, and Bob Norton, one of the milers. From last year’s Freshman team there are Karle, a miler, Bob McCallie and Alex Little, hurdlers, and Flinn, a broad jumper, who offers good prospects, as well as a number of others.

Duke must be played twice, and State in the second half against the State. Just an inkling of what is coming. Four home meets—Capt. Pritchett says they are the biggest ever to be brought here. This spring practice is considered so essential by the coaches that any man having more than a very few unexcused absences will be unconditionally dropped from the squad and will thus become ineligible for work on it next fall.

LOOKING 'EM OVER With W. H. Matthews SHADOWS OF COMING EVENTS

January 31.—Wrestling, Varsity vs. N. C. State at Davidson. Basketball, Fresh vs. Charlotte, at Charlotte.
February 3.—Basketball, Varsity vs. Duke at Durham. Wrestling, Fresh vs. Barium Springs at Barium Springs.
February 4.—Basketball, Fresh vs. Belmont Abbey, at Belmont.

By virtue of N.C. State's victory over Duke last Saturday night, Davidson moves into undisputed leadership of the Big Five cage race, and into a commanding position as the favorites at the end of January. But the big tests of the Wildcats are yet to come. True, the N. C. State and Carolina games were no small tasks, but championship contenders must be met once more, and this time on their home courts, on successive nights. We believe that Coach Younger has a team that is this year capable of a state championship, but only if they play the kind of basketball shown in the last half of the Carolina tilt, and in other words, their best. The barriers yet remaining are bigger by far than those which have been cleared. Davidson must win all their remaining games to claim the Big Five title, since she plays fewer contests within the circuit than do the other members. We believe they can win if the team and student body really put out.

With exams over, things in a sports calendar for February show some Davidson teams in action almost every day throughout the month, except Sundays, and frequently two teams having matches the same day. Coupled with that, Coach Tilson is sending his winter football squad through the strenuous training season when the fundamentals are really drilled into the gridsters, and Capt. Pritchett is working with his track men every day. He has one eye cocked on the winter indoor meets, and the other on the most ambitious track schedule that Davidson has attempted in a long time.

We must admit now that we were among those who thought that Davidson's basketball team for this year would be below that of last. However, the way—a most decisive way it has been—that they have dispatched four hard teams in a row has completely wrecked our pre-season views. Bill Goodson has improved over his last year’s form remarkably, and is just about the best all-around basketball player we have had the privilege of seeing. Proctor and Rusk are playing ball on a par of that which they exhibited last winter. And Martin, Mathis, and Pierce, the newcomers to the regular lineup, have fitted in like veterans. It is a smooth-working combination that Coach Monk Younger has been able to fashion this winter. His work is pretty to watch.

When this is being written, the weather without is balmy and dry. By the time you read this it will probably be raining. But this is not a prophecy. We merely wanted to drop the hint that if it is raining, you could drop over to the well-equipped gymnasium and work out for an afternoon. Your object might be a little exercise. Another just as good would be to practice a little with an eye also on entering the gymnastic competition which will be soon underway. A handsome trophy is being awarded to the winner, as well as points toward the class championship to the twenty high men. Frank Reid Brown, winner of the trophy last year, did nearly everything in a gymnastic way called for. It is likely that there will be several who will be fighting it out this year for first prize. The requirements are posted in the old armory and on the sports bulletin board in Chambers. Someone will be in the gymnasium nearly every afternoon of the week to demonstrate the movements. Get in a little exercise when the weather is inclement—or when it is fair.

The schedule is as follows:
March 28—N. C. State, here.
April 2—Furman, Greenville (tentative).
April 11—Duke, here.
April 18—University of South Carolina, here.
April 25—V. M. I., here.
May 2—State meet, Greensboro.

Following is a list of the men who reported for practice Monday: Don King, Don McQueen, Buddy Gardner, Bud Raker, and Buck Mills, letter men; and J. D. McConnell, Kuykendall, Clark, Mackorell, Creech, Mullins, Rule, Maxwell, Beacham, Norfleet, McKinnon, Wooten, O'Keefe, J. H. Pratt, West, Ogden, Strange, Blanton, Nickey, W. M. Thompson, J. Goodykoontz, Baggett, Rice, McElrath, Shaw, Carrigan, C. M. Howard, Lynn, Cochran, and Rives. Many of these men have shown up well in fall work, and, with the material they have, the coaches will be able to develop a fine team for the coming season. Some of the regular men, who would otherwise be out, are now busy with basketball and wrestling.

That Wildcat Offense
Field Goals Foul Goals Total Points
Goodson, g 8 1 17
Rusk, f 5 3 11
Martin, f, c 13 4 30
Mathis, f 9 3 21
Pierce, c 4 2 10
Simonton 0 0 0
Reid 4 3 11
McAllister 1 1 3
McRae 0 0 0
Enochs, g 0 0 0
Totals 18 1 37

STATIONERY MAGAZINES STUDENT SUPPLIES BOOKS FOUNTAIN PENS SUNDRIES NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE

W. S. HENDERSON STETSON “D” STORE PHONE 206 RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Everything Reduced Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia

Come in and Take Advantage of This Offer

A Distinguished Faculty Nineteen Buildings, on a Hill Campus, A Moderate Endowment, and Many Scholarships

For Catalogue and information, address Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President