DR. MYERS TO CONDUCT SPRING EVANGELISTIC SERVICES

The Davidsonian
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

DR. SWAN VISITS DAVIDSON FOR LECTURE PERIOD

Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 5, 1931 No. 20

Mr. David Ovens Speaks To Large Vesper Crowd on Seconders of Motion

Speaker Chats Informally on Interesting Subject Concerning the Unanimous Majority

IS MANAGER OF IVEY’S

Speaker Says Knowledge is Power Only Through Its Application

Mr. David Ovens, general manager of Ivey's department store in Charlotte, made an unusual talk at the “Y” vespers Sunday evening, March 1. The “Y” vesper program committee has tried to arrange a date that would be convenient with Mr. Ovens to speak for some time. The audience had the feeling that it was having a chatty little talk with this financier and cogitating with him on his subject.

Walter W. Fraley read the first 14 verses from the Gospel according to John, and introduced the speaker. Jack McKinnon and Moffatt McConnell led in prayer, and Albert McClure conducted the singing. Mr. Ovens’ topic was “Seconders of the Motion,” and he treated his theme from the angle of the businessman. He indicated that in recent years there has been a trend to glorify the physical side of life. Having just returned from New York City, he proved his statement by the pride the citizens there take in the new Empire State Building, which is a tribute to human skill and powers of construction. He asserted that the physical things were overestimated and human things were underestimated.

Making the statement that a church is no better than the congregation and its preacher, he brought forcefully a point that people neglect to think about, because many form their opinions of a church by its stained glass and steeples. He declared that the reason why San Francisco, Baltimore, and Chicago were rebuilt finer after the catastrophes that came upon them than they were formerly, was because of the vital spark and vision of their citizens, and pointed out that if some calamity destroyed Davidson, the keen spirit of Davidson's supporters would restore it to its former state.

Mr. Ovens brought out some very practical points and stressed the fact that “knowledge is power,” only through the application of knowledge. He claimed that some of the questions the employers asked job (Continued on page 5)

I.R.C. Holds Annual Convention at Duke

Grier Martin Chosen Vice-President of Conference

The International Relations Club held its eighth annual conference at Duke University on February 26, 27, and 28. The students attending the sessions from Davidson were J. W. McCutchan, J. F. Preston, Grier Martin, and J. C. Matthews. All of these men, with the exception of Martin, are of the Senior class.

On Thursday, February 26, the conference was addressed by Edward S. Corwin, McCormic professor of jurisprudence, Princeton University. His address was upon “The Foreign Relations of China.” On Friday, the 27th, and Saturday, the 28th, the conference was addressed by M. Pierre de Lanux, director of the Paris Information Office of the League of Nations, and George Grafton Wilson, professor of international law, Harvard University. Grier Martin was chosen vice-president of the conference. The president for the coming year will be Walton Reid, of Rollins College. This institution was also selected as the next meeting place for the conference. Martin will be vice-president of the Southern section, which is composed of 55 clubs from nine Southern States. The national organization contains 255 clubs, which devote much time to the discussion of prevalent problems on international relations. Selection for membership is based upon a student’s adequate knowledge of a world-wide import, upon which he writes a dissertation.

Athletic Night Will Be Held This Month

According to an announcement Tuesday by Captain Norton G. Pritchett, professor of physical education at Davidson, Athletic Night, an annual affair in which Davidson students are publicly recognized for their athletic performances for Davidson, has been set for Tuesday night, March 17. One of the prominent Southern sports leaders has been invited to deliver the address, but his name has not as yet been divulged by authorities of the college.

Athletic Night is becoming one of the outstanding events on the college calendar at Davidson. An eminent sports leader is brought here to speak, certificates and letters are awarded to the various athletes, and certain other citations, in the form of cups and trophies, are given to men outstanding in gymnastic activity and muscular improvement. Last year N. W. Daugherty, president of the Southern Conference, was the speaker. A silver cup was awarded Frank R. Brown, winner in gymnastic competition, and another to William J. Davis, of Rome, Ga., for greatest physical improvement. Letters and gold footballs were presented, and reports from the Athletic Association were made.

Until three years ago, no such exercises were held at Davidson, but when at that time it had its inception, Davidson officials decided to make it a public occasion of prime importance. It has grown decidedly in popularity in this short period, and hundreds of Davidson students, as well as numerous alumni, are present at the exercises.

Glee Club Program

According to Jack Ramseur, president, the Glee Club program scheduled to be presented in Chambers auditorium this week has been postponed until Wednesday night, March 11th, at 8:15 o'clock. The postponement was made on account of the program of the Westminster Choir given in Charlotte last Tuesday, March 3rd, the date originally set for the program here.

Dr. Lingle is Appointed To Important Committee

Committee Will Present Report on Ideas, Views and Work of Presbyterian Church

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, was appointed last week by the American Section of the Pan-Presbyterian Alliance as a member of a committee of eight, composed of representatives from the Presbyterian churches in America, which, together with a similar committee from Europe, will draw up a statement of the ideas, views, and work of the Presbyterian churches of the world. Dr. Lingle will represent the Southern Presbyterian Church on this committee. Last week he gave a report to the American Section which met at Washington, D.C.

The Pan-Presbyterian Alliance is divided into an American Section and a European Section. Committees from both will cooperate in drawing up a statement which will be submitted to a general meeting of the Alliance in Belfast, Ireland, in 1933. The statement which will be prepared will give the Presbyterian and Reformed views of the church, its ideas, work, and its

Deputation Goes to Charlotte Churches

Myers Park Church is Host to Thirteen “Y” Representatives Over Week-End

For the past two weeks the deputation department of the “Y” has carried out a rather full program, sponsoring several such missions to nearby churches and similar organizations. Probably the outstanding of recent deputations was one which went out on Saturday, February 21, to the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, where a number of Queens College girls were being entertained. It was to complete this entertainment that the Davidson “Y” was asked to send over thirteen of our students. The following men went over Saturday afternoon and remained that night for this purpose: W. H. Matthews, E. L. Powell, Bob Glasgow, Lynn Huie, T. H. McCallie, S. S. Wiley, Andy Little, Andy Manson, Ches. Arnold, A. Mebane, A. Whitehead, S. B. McLean and John Fitzgerald.

All but four of the above returned after the Saturday night events. Allen Mebane and Allen Whitehead remained until Sunday, at which time they each made talks at the Sunday School services. At vesper services Sam Wiley and Ches. Arnold delivered messages. These Sunday services ended one of the largest and most successful deputations that has been sent out in the past several weeks.

On Sunday, February 22, Sam Wiley and Ches. Arnold, besides taking part in the above deputation, made talks at 2:15 p.m. at the Charlotte “Y” to two groups of boys, divided on the basis of age.

One other phase of this work that deserves special mention is the participation in the “Come Clean” campaign that is now under way in Charlotte. Last Monday, March 2, eight Davidson students made talks on such subjects as smoking, drinking, profanity, and others appropriate to such a campaign. Each day of this week, with the exception of tomorrow, one man will be sent out from Davidson to carry out this program, making talks to various groups of boys on the above-mentioned subjects. Besides these, several other deputations went out, all to churches in Charlotte.

New Voile

Recent reports on research work being done by the New York University school of retailing show that shoppers prefer to buy different articles on different days of the week.functions. Similar statements have been given out by other churches concerning their ideas. The Roman Catholic Church has expressed its duties in several papal encyclicals. The Anglican Church held a conference and set forth its principles in a lengthy statement. According to Dr. Lingle, it was felt, therefore, that it would be very appropriate for this world-wide organization of Presbyterian Reformed churches to make a statement, similar to those issued by previous organizations and assemblies, giving its views. Other prominent Southerners connected with the Alliance are Dr. J. M. Wells, of Sumter, S. C., former president of Columbia Theological Seminary, who is vice-president of the entire Presbyterian Alliance, and Dr. David M. Sweets, editor of the Christian Observer, who is vice-president of the American Section.

Washington—(IP)—Dr. Ernst of the University of Cologne, will come to America this summer to serve on the faculty of the George Washington University summer school, lecturing in the symposium on world affairs which the university, through its school of government, is presenting as the inauguration of its celebration of the George Washington bicentennial.

Vocational Guidance
The annual Vocational Guidance program, sponsored by the Y. M. C. A., will begin tomorrow night with a lecture on “law” by Judge Currie of Charlotte, a former Davidson man. This lecture will be held at the Social Center and will begin at 8:30 p.m. All students interested in law are invited. The Y. M. C. A. plans to present about eight other speakers at intervals of a week, until the most prominent professions are covered, and students planning to enter a profession are urged to take advantage of this opportunity offered to them by the “Y”. This plan of presenting the individual speakers to the students was substituted for that of last year in which the various professions were presented through this paper.

HYGIENE LECTURES WILL BE GIVEN NEXT WEEK BY DOCTOR EUGENE L. SWAN

Dr. Myers to Talk at Spring Services
Dr. Charles F. Myers, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, N. C., will conduct the Y. M. C. A. annual spring evangelistic services this year. These inspirational services will extend over four days, from Sunday, March 22, through Wednesday, March 25. Dr. Myers is well known to the Davidson student body and several of the students are members of his congregation. His son, Charles F. Myers, Jr., is a member of the student body. He has spoken here many times before and he has been greatly enjoyed every time he has spoken. While here he will conduct both services on Sunday, the morning service and the vesper in the evening; Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday he will conduct the chapel services in the morning and will speak to the student body and the townspeople on each one of these nights, probably at 7 o'clock. Besides this, he will give the students a chance for a personal interview with him. This practice of a personal interview with the speaker has been used ever since the fall and spring services have been conducted. In these personal interviews, the students bring their troubles and thoughts to the speaker and he will do all in his power to solve them. These talks with the speaker have been found to be very helpful, judging by the past experiences of boys that interviewed the speaker about their life work, and it is hoped that the Davidson students will take this opportunity of interviewing Dr. Myers.

Dr. Myers was a delegate from Greensboro to the Congress on World Missions held in Chattanooga from February 16 through February 19. Although he was not called on to make a talk, however, at one of the meetings he was called on to lead the audience in a prayer. While there he was head of one of the group conferences and held an interesting discussion group; he was also a member of the findings committee, which presented before the whole congress the methods that the people thought ought to remain, the methods that ought to be changed, and the methods that ought to be added to the manner of conducting the foreign and home missions.

Davidson Delegates Attend O.D.K. Meet
Fraley, LaFar, and Bob King Represent Delta Circle at Lexington, Kentucky

On Tuesday, March 3, three delegates from the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, at Davidson College, left for Lexington, Ky., where they will attend the biennial Omicron Delta Kappa Convention, lasting from March 5th through the 7th. The Davidson delegates are Walter Fraley, Dan LaFar, and Bob King.

Reports on the activity of the past two years will be made by delegates from colleges and universities all over the South, and various problems will be discussed. One of these will be a discussion of certain student problems, and matters in campus life. Aside from the business part of the convention, extensive entertainment has been prepared for the guests of the Lexington Circle (Mu Circle). The Mu Circle will sponsor a tour of the “Blue Grass Country,” taking in the main surrounding points of interest in the state, and in addition to this, other entertainment has been arranged for the delegates on their return to Lexington. Davidson’s delegates, mentioned above, left Tuesday and will return Monday.

New York—(IP)—As many students as ever are able to find jobs this year in spite of the business depression, an investigation carried on here has revealed.

Has Been Sought for a Number of Years by the College Authorities
On Monday and Tuesday, the 9th and 10th of March, Dr. Eugene La Forrest Swan, M.D., will be at Davidson. While here he will deliver lectures on social hygiene. Dr. Swan was for many years a physician in active city practice, is a member of the National Council, Boy Scouts of America, was a major in the Medical Corps, U. S. A., during the World War, and a lecturer to the troops, a member of the Committee of Fourteen, New York City, director of Pine Island Camp, a summer camp for boys, and has been lecturer for the American Social Hygiene Association since 1918. It is therefore seen that Dr. Swan is eminently qualified to speak to a college audience on the question of sex and social hygiene. Davidson College has been trying for a number of years to obtain an engagement with Dr. Swan and feels that it is very fortunate that Dr. Swan is able to come. He has spoken at a number of colleges, all of which were deeply impressed not only by his splendid personality, but by the wonderful way in which he dealt with a most vital topic. Dr. Swan's first appearance will be at chapel Monday morning, where he will make a short address. This will be followed by others on Monday and Tuesday. He will also have interviews with any of the students who wish to have them with him.

Ten Bids Issued By Two Honorary Fraternities
Sigma Pi Sigma Bids Six Men and Gamma Sigma Epsilon Bids Four

Two honorary fraternities have bid ten men to their ranks in recent elections. Six Sophomores were this week extended bids to Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary physics fraternity. Those receiving bids were: C. E. Bettis, Homer W. Burgess, W. W. Freeman, William I. Holshouser, M. C. McConnell, and John B. Rice. Sigma Pi Sigma is the mother chapter of the national physics fraternity of the same name, was founded at Davidson College late in 1921, and in its ten years of growth has become one of the ranking national orders. Membership is based very largely on grades, an average of 95 for the first two years, in physics, generally constituting the prerequisite. At the present time the roll of the fraternity totals about twenty-seven members, including six faculty members, Dr. J. L. Douglas, Dr. J. M. Douglas, Professors Wood, Fulcher, and Mebane, and T. E. Lothery.

The local chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national chemical fraternity, announces the election of four new men on the basis of their proficiency in this subject. These include J. A. Alexander, of Stony Point, post-graduate student; A. W. Henderlite, of Bristol, Tenn., and J. H. Bradshaw, of Gastonia, Seniors, and J. T. New York, N. Y., member of the Junior class. Gamma Sigma Epsilon is also the mother chapter of the national chemical fraternity of that name, Davidson possessing the Alpha Alpha chapter. The other members of the fraternity are: W. C. Ragin, W. W. Beattie, W. W. Fraley, and R. W. McCullough.

Columbia, Mo.—(IP)—Co-eds of the University of Missouri have come to the rescue of the distressed southern cotton planter by adopting a resolution that they make their spring wardrobes out of cotton, including their stockings. Praising the co-eds in the U. S. Senate, Senator Heflin urged all Americans to follow their example. As yet no one has spoken a piece for the silk manufacturers.