$. N THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25, 1931

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina. Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

WILSON McCUTCHAN, Editor-in-Chief
VAS CANNON, Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. C. DWELLE, JR., Managing Editor
W. S. LEA, Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN, Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS, Sports Editor
A. H. WHITEHEAD, News Editor
V. M. BELL, Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES, Feature Editor
A. VORIS JACKSON, Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN, Associate Editor
W. R. BLACK, Associate Editor
C. C. RAGIN, Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
P. M. CONWAY, Assistant Business Manager
P. A. BAKER, Assistant Business Manager
J. STEVENS, Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY, Subscription Manager
P. P. BROWN, Solicitor
R. W. RADIUS, Solicitor
A. M. MANSON, Solicitor
A. T. SMITH, Solicitor
W. R. MORROW, Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
S. S. OYEN, President
D. G. STEPHENSON, Vice-President
H. WHITEHEAD, Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
J. M. BROWN
J. G. BERRY
G. E. BAILEY
A. R. BIRD
E. Y. DICKS
N. B. DUNKLIN
E. O. GUERRANT
W. T. HANCOCK
E. LAKE
R. L. McCALLIE
C. C. MATTHEWS
C. F. MYERS
V. F. MULLISS
H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
C. W. F. SPENCER
B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR
W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH
D. D. McBRYDE

MARCH 25, 1931

NOMINATIONS FOR EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 1931-1932
E. C. Dwelle, Jr.
W. S. Lea
D. G. Martin
W. H. Matthews

SUGGESTIONS

Junior Speaking. An old, old Davidson ceremony that has completely vanished, except for the name. But we are glad the custom still prevails, though in a modified form.

Dr. Myers’ services continued to uphold the high standard which the “Y” has been fortunate enough to set in all of its evangelistic meetings. Because he lives close to us does not detract one bit from the power and charm of the man and his message. Mrs. Farrell, the soloist, added a great deal by her singing. Its naturalness and beauty enhanced its appeal no end. Would it be possible to borrow her more frequently?

In spite of the characteristic weather, the annual high school track meet went off successfully. It was a well-managed and well-conducted affair, and the large entry list was gratifying.

Grimy George’s sportsmanship in correcting the mistakes of the judges at the Carolina indoor meet is one of the finest examples we have heard of in some time. It should do much to restore friendly relations between the two neighboring Presbyterian schools.

ACHIEVEMENTS OF ’32

This is not an effort to make the Junior Class seem better in any way than other classes which have graduated from Davidson, or those which will graduate in the future, but rather to give a brief synopsis of the accomplishments of the Class of ’32, and some of the achievements that it has attained. It seems altogether fitting and proper that such a record be given in the Junior issue of The Davidsonian, and just before the class social function, “Junior Speaking.”

Starting with athletics in general and football in particular, there were nine Juniors on the 1931 football squad, five of whom made varsity letters. Two of these men were selected on several All-State picks, and one received honorable mention on one All-American. The class furnished two of the captains of the wrestling team, one being State champion in his weight. In other branches of sport the Juniors have been equally outstanding, one holding the college record in the mile run, three being on the tennis squad of six men, two making their letters in baseball, and two in basketball. In intramural athletics the banner of ’32 has been consistently upheld, the teams having won the touch football series, placed second in the basketball and volleyball, and were successful in the “indoor-outdoor” baseball series.

In other campus activities the third-year men are equally well represented, having a large number of men in journalistic, literary, forensic, and Y. M. C. A. work. Three Juniors serve on the Forensic Council, and two are on the “Y” cabinet.

It is understood that this is a very incomplete account of the achievements of the Class, both because of the limited space and on account of the fact that the career of the Class of ’32 has not yet been closed.

Grier Martin.

Junior Speaking. ITS TRADITIONS

Noble tradition is among the most valuable and attractive possessions which any college may or may not have. Not infrequently this much-to-be-sought-after thing is conspicuous by its absence. Perhaps we should not have to go a great distance to find a shining example of a notable institution, some day to be among the foremost, sadly lacking in the cherished memories which time alone can give. Such cannot be acquired in a day or in a year or even in a score of years. The development of an apparently unimportant custom into an established tradition can hardly be noticed until it has reached a fair degree of maturity. Many years must pass to give to a college this all-important possession, necessary if it is rightly to be called great.

Yet more than a long period of time is necessary to acquire powerful unwritten laws. There must be in the student body men who see the wisdom in treading the paths which seemed to their forefathers to be worthy. There must be men who will carry on, who will perpetuate unto the end, the honored customs of the students of yesteryear.

Davidson is peculiarly rich in having so great a number of truly worthy traditions—the product of almost a century of glorious history. The Phi and Eu Societies, Oak Row, and Elm Row are among the many that could be mentioned along with Junior Speaking as the ancient landmarks of which we may most justly be proud. It is these—and almost these alone—that the Davidson man of half a century ago can recognize in the Davidson of today. Physical changes must necessarily take place; it is but natural that they should. Yet we may readily see that honored traditions must be preserved if Davidson is to remain in spirit as it has ever been.

On Friday and Saturday we are to follow a custom which has, excepting Commencement, in times gone by been the greatest single event of the school year—Junior Speaking. Unfortunately one of the most significant features connected with it has been abandoned. It is yet possible, however, to recover the essential attitude toward this gala weekend. We may still hold to the spirit of olden time. As we enter into the festivities of so happy a period, let us constantly remember all that for which it stands, for it is largely by maintaining the traditions of the past that we can keep up that all-important yet intangible thing called Davidson Spirit.

E. C. Dwelle, Jr.

ITS HISTORY

There are some traditions which form the very life of the institution in which they exist. Davidson College is filled with such traditions. They give us a background of which we are justly proud. It is truly the living past which is in our college. Junior Speaking is just such a tradition. Although the outward form of the occasion has changed, we still hold to the spirit which has existed for thirty-seven years.

The observance of Junior Speaking began with the Class of 1894. Every member of the Junior Class was expected to make a public oration which was not to exceed eight minutes. These series of orations began on the twenty-second of February and usually lasted for two or three days, until each member had been able to deliver his speech. As the classes became larger it was impossible for all of these orations to be public, so they were delivered before various groups of the faculty. Finally the classes became too large even for this, so the speaking was discontinued. There was, however, developing a stronger feeling among the students than that aroused by a mere series of orations and Junior Speaking began to take on a more fanciful and gayer aspect. Visitors were invited to entertainments which took the place of the orations, which may not have been quite as gay. The alumni came back for the affair, and it became an occasion for the reviving of old friendships and acquaintances. In this manner it has developed until it is what it is today, nevertheless a tradition.

This year the Executive Committee of the Junior Class has worked faithfully to make the Junior Speaking of 1931 the same part of our life that it has been in the past. There will be entertainment both in Davidson and in Charlotte, as has been the custom for the last few years. To the alumni, we issue our heartiest welcome.

What Do You Know About?
The Hoover Holiday?
A Hole in Uncle Sam’s Pocket?
Viking Victims?
Row, Row, Row Your Boat?

President Hoover, with Congress safely out of the way, is now taking...a ten-day vacation tour into the West Indies, combining pleasure with business. His trip in Porto Rico and the Virgin Islands will help a great deal in clearing up the unemployment and tangled conditions in those two possessions of Uncle Sam’s. The President took advantage of the trial run of the newly reconditioned U.S.S. Arizona, a ship of the line, to seek a rest and chance for recuperation after the strenuous three months’ session of the lawmakers. It was the initial long run of the Arizona after a complete overhauling, taken preparatory to her joining the remainder of the battle fleet. The President occupied a four-room suite aboard the vessel. Humorists and columnists took especial fun at poking jokes at Hoover's vacation, which was, incidentally, his first long lay-off since he took over the office. Will Rogers said he found out where all the congressmen were not going to be, “then picked out that place for his vacation.” Also, the same writer said he took counsel of Borah about what to do before leaving. Mrs. Hoover did not accompany her husband, going, rather, to Asheville where her son is recuperating.

“The bank is a place that charges you money for letting it borrow your money, and then charges you for letting you borrow it back again.”—Jay Franklin.

Uncle Sam is faced with a huge deficit as he closes his present fiscal year. It is estimated that there will be a difference between his assets and liabilities, so to speak, of close to $500,000,000, and some place the sum at a figure of $700,000,000. And yet the government shows no signs of bankruptcy or having to close shop. The great deficit is due to a number of reasons and has been forecast for some time. However, the raising of the loan rate on the bonus called for a great deal more outlay than had been originally expected and put the United States further into the red. Income taxes, too, showed a drop and this likewise caused a decrease in revenue on which to run the government. A third reason for lack of funds was the unusual profligacy of the last congress, the most expensive short session in history. Andrew Mellon, secretary of the treasury, and others, say that it will be unnecessary to raise the income tax rate to meet the overdrawn account. Decreasing the rate of retiring the public debt will probably take care of the $500,000,000 which is missing, and Uncle Sam will quickly be put back on his financial feet.

“In a period of depression, we have to run as fast as we can to stay where we are.”—Cyrus H. K. Curtis.

The wreck of the “Viking,” a small whaling ship, off Horse Island, Newfoundland, is at present filling the front pages of the newspapers. Rescue efforts to locate the two leaders of the expedition which was sent out to take moving pictures of the private lives of seals, and a number of others who are still missing, are attracting wide attention, due partly to the prominence of the leaders of the expedition, and partly to the fame of Bernt Balchen and others who are on the rescue party. The “Viking,” a small sealing vessel, with a crew of 155 men, was off the coast of Newfoundland. It had a great deal of explosives on board with which icebergs were to be blown up, photographs being taken of the spectacle. The explosives exploded while they were still on the boat and threw the entire crew onto the ice in which the boat was locked. One hundred and twenty-seven men reached shore fifteen miles away, and the other 28 men are still lost. Balchen, famous pilot and co-explorer with Richard E. Byrd of various extremities of old Mother Earth, is helping with the rescue efforts by searching from an airplane for the lost men. He had to surmount a number of difficulties in his attempt to get to Horse Island with his plane.

In a renewal of one of the oldest sporting events of modern times, Cambridge defeated Oxford in their four-mile rowing race, annually held on the Thames River. It was the eighth consecutive victory for Cambridge in the event that has been held intermittently ever since 1928. Cambridge won by the simple expedient of jumping into an early lead and holding it against all rushes by the losers. Observers said that neither crew was “so hot.”

We want you with us because you have helped to form our tradition. Each class has added something of value to the occasion, and we hope that this will continue into the future. We welcome the visitors, and hope that they will enjoy our entertainments with us. If they see anything of the spirit which we possess, it will be through us. Let us carry on. Junior Speaking must have the support of the Student Body, because it is a Student Body affair. It is an occasion in which there must be cooperation. The support of the faculty is needed also. They are invited to every part of the entertainment, and the members of the Junior Committee announce that they welcome them. We appeal to the members of the faculty for their support of the occasion. It is our hope that this is the best Junior Speaking which has ever been held at Davidson. Come, and make it so.

W. S. Lea.

MUSINGS

Well, they say Spring is here, but you can’t fool me; either this is a relapse of winter or a backfire of fall. I think maybe it is the latter because I distinctly remember making the remark last year that winter was getting here early and now I suppose autumn is just making its reappearance to save its self-respect. However, I cannot afford to be dogmatic—this may be spring in disguise. And I don’t like disguise either, slipping in like this. But you can’t blame spring for coming under camouflage, what with the depression and everything. Whatever this is, we can be fairly positive that summer will be here on time—that is, unless your watch is wrong. Yes, before long summer will be here and everybody will go to the seashore and bathe in the surf. I suppose common cries will be: “Are you ready?” and the answer will come: “Surf!” I suppose also they will be saying: “You're wanted on the foam!” Also: “I’ll beach you to the Post Office; let’s sand some postcards.”

Be all that as it may (and it might as well), I think it is raining a little too much for a decent spring, but I haven’t time right now to do anything about it. Here is a weather forecast for Davidson and vicinity: Charlotte: Fair and warmer, with breezes from the south caressing the newly opened flowers. Mooresville: Fair and warmer. The birds have promised to sing extra loud for the next few days. Cornelius: Slight cloudiness, but not enough to make you take your washing in. Davidson: Storm warning! Constant rain with possibility of snow and hail. Would also be sleet if there were room. The mercury will disappear in the little globe. (We know where we can get some more mercury but what’s the use? It'll disappear too.)

You know, it really is funny about the way it rains here. At the end of every year we say, “Well, the rainy season is over for this year.” On New Year's morning, we look at the sky and again say, “The rainy season has set in again.” Not that it’s unbearable or anything. But the rain doesn’t stay on the ground long enough to get in any fishing to amount to anything, even if we have time. It is rumored that most of the permanent settlers have web-feet, and even some of the graduate students. I don’t think it would be amiss to put in a course in canoeing. Or why doesn’t someone write the Naval Department at Washington and get them to put in a Naval unit? We can’t complain, though. Nearly everybody would like to attend a Floating University and we come closer to it than most folks, only this isn’t a university. And we don’t have to take so many baths. Anyway, we can’t always think of ourselves. Think of the ducks.

The planet Uranus was discovered 150 years ago, on March 13, 1781, by William Herschel, an unknown organist in Berlin, who then leapt into worldwide fame. Rear Admiral Samuel McGowan, retired, has urged that the United States adopt a new amendment to the Constitution which would prevent this country from going to war, except in cases of actual military attack, without a referendum of the people. Charles Francis Adams, Jr., son of the secretary of the navy, and scion of the famous Adams family which has provided the nation with two presidents and other statesmen, is rowing this year with the Harvard crew. Game wardens recently hunted a pack of seven wolves driven into the Adirondack Mountains in northern New York State by the extreme Canadian cold. Frank Dorbandt, Arctic flier, has landed his airplane in the smoke and steam-enveloped heart of the volcanically active Valley of Ten Thousand Smokes on the Alaska Peninsula. By beating the Navy boxing team recently, Syracuse University boxers administered the Middies their first defeat in 12 years.