THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1931

Football Used When Davidson Defeated Georgia Tech 38-6, in 1900, Received

Dr. S. B. Sherard, ’01, of Gaffney, S. C., Manager of Team That Year, Sends Prized Possession to Davidson

WELL PRESERVED

Record of Team During the Season and Names of Players Are Legible

Perhaps the greatest addition to the collection of victory footballs at Davidson College was last Saturday received by Ernest Milton, Executive Secretary of the Alumni Association. It was the football which Davidson’s eleven used at Augusta, Ga., in 1900, when the Davidson team, which was not then known as Wildcats, defeated Georgia Tech, 38 to 6. The football was sent to the alumni office by Dr. S. B. Sherard, '01, of Gaffney, S. C., who was manager of the team that year.

Dr. Sherard was at Davidson on Home-Coming Day, October 17th, when it was first learned that he had the prized football in his possession. He graciously offered to send it to Davidson to add to the present collection, and soon it will be stuffed and on exhibition for the eyes of alumni and for the Davidson students, some of whose fathers played on that team, to examine with pride.

Dr. Sherard stated that he was unaware that this football was still in existence until he was rummaging through some stored-up trunks at his old homestead. He then discovered it and immediately carried it with him to Gaffney, where he kept it until it was sent to Davidson last week. The football is remarkably preserved, and what is still more remarkable is that the scores of that season and the names of the players on the team, written in ink shortly after the contest, are still legible. A few of them are slightly dimmed, but most of the names and words are discernible in a large measure.

On the football are these words of identification, “Davidson College 38; Georgia Tech 6; Thanksgiving, Nov. 29, ’00, Augusta, Ga.” The record of the games played, also written on the ball, is as follows:
Guilford 0; Davidson 16.
Clemson 64; Davidson 0.
A. & M. College 0; Davidson 17.
S. C. College 0; Davidson 5.
Georgia Tech 6; Davidson 38.

In explaining in his accompanying letter the 64-0 victory of Clemson, Dr. Sherard said that, “We considered this a very successful season in spite of the fact that Clemson College beat us so much. That was due to circumstances that we could not control and not inferiority of play.”

The names of the players on the football follow:
Center, Johnston, J. B.
Left Guard, Fetzer, Monk.
Right Guard, Fetzer, Buntz.
Left Tackle, Rowe, John.
Right Tackle, Armstrong.
Taylor, Punter.
Left End, Wharton, Caldwell.
Right End, Tuttle.
Quarterback, McClintock, Wyman.
Left Half, Reid, Huie.
Right Half, Fitzpatrick, Captain.
Fullback, Caldwell.

(Continued on page 5)

NOTICE

Have Your Shoes Rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
_ Soles 85c and $1.00 - Give us a trial
C. A. KENNEDY, Prop.

What Sports Writers Think

After The Davidsonian had gone to press last week, the sports editor of The Raleigh News and Observer sent a clipping to Ernest Milton, which had been found on the sports pages of The Charleston (S. C.) News and Courier. It was written by Henry Cauthorn, sports writer of the Charleston paper, and was headed, “Davidson Trips Them Up.” It is quoted in part as follows:

“The pickers must despise Davidson. The fighting North Carolina Presbyterians average one big upheaval per season. This year’s came early when the Wildcats held Duke scoreless last Saturday. Davidson didn’t score either, but that was all right. The nothing-nothing outcome was satisfactory.

“No matter how strong, no team can let up against Davidson, especially if the game is being played at Davidson on a Home-Coming Day. Duke, cheered by its big win over Villanova, doubtless started off in low or intermediate gear against Davidson. You can’t do that against the Davidson teams. They will just fight you off the field and you never will be able to get into high.

“The last time the Citadel played at Davidson it was Home-Coming Day for the Presbyterians. About 5,000 gathered at Richardson Field for the game. That was in 1929. The Citadel was clicking that day. The Bulldogs would drive the Wildcats back to the goal line, only to be held off. They marched up close at least a half-dozen times. Three of these drives carried within the five-yard line. But each time Davidson fought them off and Brock, the great kicker, punted out.

“Finally the Citadel scored, but missed the point after touchdown. In the last five minutes Davidson passed up the field for a touchdown and made the extra point, Brock putting through a kick to win the game.

“That’s the kind of stuff you run into at Davidson. Duke experienced it in 1929. North Carolina felt it last year, and now Duke has experienced it again.”

One comment was omitted last week through error, and that is what Dan McGugin, head football coach of Vanderbilt University, and known as the dean of Southern football coaches, had to say about the N. C. State-Davidson affair in Greensboro. Coach McGugin acted as field judge in the night encounter, and after recounting his experiences as an official, he paid one of the finest tributes ever given to Davidson. Here are his words:

North Carolina State, with a strong, hard-running attack, scored three touchdowns in the first half. The Davidson team was greatly outweighed but it came back with a high spirit of resolution, scored a touchdown and held State scoreless during the second half. Josh Cody told me once very earnestly and feelingly of the remarkable spirit of athletic union suits and shirts and

For Men and Boys

REV. SMILEY WILLIAMS, ’14

Rev. Smiley Williams Is Awarded Carnegie Medal

Davidson Alumnus Is Highly Recognized for a Rescue Made in Charlotte Last October

While visiting in Charlotte last fall, Rev. Smiley Williams, 1914 graduate of Davidson College, and pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Welch, W. Va., heroically rescued a child from burning to death. At the time of his courageous act, long accountsAccounts of his bravery were given in both of the Charlotte papers, and last week high recognition of his disregard for his own personal safety came in the award of a bronze medal to him by the Carnegie Hero Fund Commission. The occasion of Mr. Williams’ visit to Charlotte was the Home-Coming of Davidson and the reunion of the 1910 championship football team on October 25th. This Davidson alumnus is active in other than pastoral work at his West Virginia residence. He is a past president of the Kiwanis Club of that city, former chairman of the Red Cross chapter, and is chaplain of the 150th Infantry, West Virginia National Guard. He was the only West Virginian to receive this medal, out of 48 awards.

(Continued on page 6)

Some of these Davidson teams had fought fully up to the last measure of their capacity, no doubt against Cody’s Clemson teams. After the game Saturday, I was able to agree with Josh. The Davidson team fought brilliantly, scored a touchdown in the second half, and held State scoreless from then on. Davidson was able to score only because of great courage and determination. Boys who go through this sort of spiritual experience are made stronger.

HANES IS “MASCULINE” FOR “UNDERWEAR”

Specialists in male comfort determine the styles and measurements, and place every seam in HANES. Soft, long-wearing materials! Over 25 years of manufacturing experience combine to make the greatest underwear values you've ever seen. HANES Gold Label Elastic-knit Lightweight Union Suits are excellent for the changeable weather of autumn and spring—ideal winter garments for men who work indoors. Luxurious in materials and finish. Low in price. If you wear summer-weights the year through, be sure to see how HANES UNDERWEAR fits. Expert tailoring! HANES low prices! All shorts are made better by HANES.

For Every Alumni

Personals

Alumni Marriages

Friends will regret to learn of the deaths of Dr. William F. Mitchell, of Shelby, father of Dr. Thomas B. Mitchell, '20, of Shelby; of Mrs. H. Kerr Taylor, of Tai Chow, China, sister of Irwin P. Graham, ’08, of Cooleemee; of Arthur Brown, of Ivanhoe, half-brother of Dr. C. K. Brown, ’21, of Davidson, and Mrs. Mary Osborne, of Charlotte, mother of Lieut-Col. Thos. D. Osborne, '01, of Washington, D. C.

Charles M. Pratt, ’30, and Hugh W. White, '30, have sold their newspaper in Mumfordville, Ky., and have started another one at Owensboro, Ky. Dr. Robert E. Abell, ’08, of Chester, S. C., has been reappointed by Governor Blackwood of South Carolina to the Board of Medical Examiners of that state. Dr. John W. MacConnell, ’02, is secretary of the North Carolina Board of Medical Examiners. Dr. Abell was recently on the program of the Fifth District Medical Society of South Carolina, when it met in Chester. On that same program with Dr. Abell was Dr. Robert W. McKay, '17, of Charlotte. Dr. McKay will also present a paper at the Southern Medical Society when it meets in New Orleans, La., in November. Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, ’06, brother, of Charlotte, last week addressed the Urological Association of Georgia when it met in Macon.

Dr. Philip B. Price, '17, who is a medical missionary to China, has written a book, entitled, “On Becoming a Missionary.” Publication of the book is now being arranged by his brother, Harry B. Price, '25, who is continuing his graduate study at Yale University. D. O. Westbrook, Jr., ’28, of New York, has been promoted to the rank of First Lieutenant in the Officers Reserve Corps. Ernest F. Bohannon, Jr., ’27, is now with May Hosiery Mills in New York, resigning his position with the Bank of America to accept this new place. H. L. Campbell, ’28, of Georgetown, S.C., who has been teaching at Newland since his graduation, is teaching this year at Newland.

So you asked Geraldine to marry you?
Yes, but I didn’t have any luck. She asked me if I had any prospects.
Why didn’t you tell her about your rich uncle?
I did, hang it. Now Geraldine is my aunt.

“W. L. Morris announces the marriage of his sister, Judith, to Dr. William Yohannon Sayad, on Wednesday, October 21st, New York City.” Accompanying cards read, “At home, Palm Beach, Fla., after January 1st.” The above announcement has been received, and no details have been obtained about the marriage. Dr. Sayad is a 1917 graduate of Davidson, and after finishing here he studied in the Yale Medical School. Completing his internship, he practiced for a time in Poughkeepsie, N. Y., and several years ago he went to West Palm Beach, where he has practiced as an eye, ear, nose, and throat specialist in that city and in Palm Beach.

Engagement

Announcement was made last week of the engagement and approaching marriage of Miss Louise McLeod, of Maxton, to George Patrick Henderson, 1930 graduate of Davidson, of Gastonia. The wedding will take place on December 23rd. Since graduating here, Mr. Henderson has been teaching and coaching at Presbyterian Junior College located at Maxton.

Births

1913—Mr. and Mrs. W. C. Davis, of Charlotte, announce the birth of a daughter, Betty Amelia, on October 23rd.
1929—Mr. and Mrs. R. M. Gant, of Greensboro, announce the birth of a daughter, Nancy Lee, on October 8th.

Fraternities at the University of Arizona have founded a new cooperative organization known as the Arizona Associated Fraternities, the purpose of which is to make all purchases for the campus fraternities, and thus create a 15 percent saving in supplies for the organizations.

SCARLET TANAGER
Sodas — Tobaccos — Sundries
Stationery — Shaving Supplies
Phone 9143

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.
Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.
Catalog and information on request.

6,000 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing
Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Handbooks, Engraved Cards and Invitations. Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you.
P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.