THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 18, 1931

GET READY FOR WAKE FOREST

THE SPORTS PARADE

BIG PEP MEETING TUESDAY NIGHT

The Tar Heels must feel immensely satisfied with themselves by virtue of their victory over the Wildcats last Saturday, and
they have every right to be, for they needed a victory to offset the defeat administered to them last year
by Davidson. But we do not feel that the margin of victory was indicative of the relative strength of the
two teams. Those who saw the Wildcats win over V. M. I. and the Citadel will readily admit that the
playing of the ’Cats against Carolina was by no means up to par. What was wrong last Saturday we do
not know. Passes were incompleted, line bucks failed to gain, and end runs were smeared disastrously. No appreciable gains could
be discerned from returning punts, and what little ground gained from returning kick-offs was lost on downs.

The one redeeming feature for the Wildcats was the unusual and superb punting of Charlie Pearce. Time and again his
quick kicks caught the Tar Heel safety man unawares, the ball going over his head and frequently rolling out of
bounds deep in Carolina territory. One particular punt we observed rolled out on the Tar Heel one-yard line, after being
kicked for 53 yards. Pearce seems to kick his punts further in each game than in the preceding one. Perhaps
he will be able to kick over the Wake Forest goal line from his own ten by Thanksgiving.

That Carolina put up a great game no one will hesitate to admit, but the score was not what it
should have been under ordinary conditions. But so much for that. No use crying over spilt milk. Undoubtedly Wake Forest
will suffer because of the very fact that the ’Cats were defeated by Carolina. Every team has its off days
and last Saturday was the last one of the year for the ’Cats. Incidentally, the entire Demon Deacon squad had
an off day last Saturday—off the Wake Forest campus, but all over Chapel Hill like a wet sheet.

Though the newspapers seemed to have overlooked the fact, in our opinion Buddy Gardner played one of the best defensive
games he has played this year. Furthermore, we predict that many all-state selections will include his name at center. Jack
Wagner and Bob Johnson shared honors with Gardner, each playing well defensively.

As this issue went to press, there remained ten days in which to prepare for Wake Forest. Errors made in
the Carolina game were pointed out to the players last Monday, and methods taken to correct them. Both coaches seemed
to believe that the most serious weakness of the Wildcats lay in their blocking. To this, we might add tackling.
The Demon Deacons have scouted every game Davidson has played this year, and should by now know the Wildcat plays
even better than the Davidson squad. It seems that the Deacons are anxious to keep clean their record of not
a defeat since 1920 by Davidson. So there you are.

It was observed that a loud cheer arose from the Carolina stands, as the Davidson-Duke score was announced. Perhaps Jake
Wade might find some food for thought in that.

Kittens Meet Duke Freshmen on Friday

The Wildkittens will leave Thursday for Durham, where they will clash with the mighty Freshman team of Duke, Friday at
3 o'clock. The ’Kittens are said to be in tip-top condition, and have been showing improvement in both offense and
defense, in scrimmage with the varsity. The team will no doubt miss the performance of Johnny MacKorell, flashy back, who
survives a simple fracture of the leg, received in scrimmage two weeks ago. The Blue Imps, having defeated the mighty
eleven of State, prove themselves to be decidedly the strongest team faced by the ’Kittens this season. They also defeated
a hard-fought battle. This exhibition ends the season for the Freshmen. The games thus far show victories over Oak Ridge,
Wofford, Presbyterian Junior College, and one defeat from the hands of the State Freshmen.

Cheerleaders Expect to Arouse Famous Wildcat Spirit for Deacon Game

FIGHT! WILDCATS! FIGHT! FIGHT! WILDCATS! FIGHT! FIGHT-FIGHT, FIGHT-FIGHT-FIGHT! FIGHT! WILDCATS! FIGHT!

Such will be the sounds on the Davidson campus next Tuesday night, when the entire student body gathers for the
last pep meeting for the football season. So great are the yells expected to be that the meeting will not
be attempted to be held indoors for fear that the roof of Shearer would be raised by the noise. Instead,
the pep meeting will be held in front of Chambers. Or rather it will begin there and end after the
Wildcats have finished putting the water on the Demon Deacons for their baptism on Thanksgiving Day.

After the students have been enthused at the meeting in front of Chambers, they will form in a shirt-tail parade
and march behind the band, which will be in uniform, through the campus, visit various professors’ homes, and terminate the
ceremonies on the Freshman field. At the Freshman field, a bonfire will be used to help heat things and arouse
the spirit—that old WILDCAT SPIRIT—to new heights. And should anyone lift his spirit so high that he becomes hoarse, there
will be cough drops galore to help soothe his pain.

The cheerleaders, Captain Kuykendall and his assistants, Sugg and Allen, are doing their darndest to make this the greatest Wildcat
Spirit raising pep meeting that Old Davidson has ever heard. Placards and banners are being prepared to enliven the campus
with the spirit, and Tuesday night they hope to embed every student with at least a spark of the spirit.
Once again Dr. K. J. Foreman will be on hand to give the student its annual pep talk before the
Wake Forest game. Those who have heard Dr. Foreman know that he will have something interesting and worthwhile hearing.

Every student is expected in front of Chambers next Tuesday night at seven o'clock to start that Wildcat “eleven” on
its way to victory over the Demon Deacons, so that they can win at least one game from Wake Forest
for “Monk” and “Tex.”

Davidson Fresh Defeat Central High Harriers

The Charlotte High runners were no match for the Davidson Freshmen last Thursday, when they were beaten by the latter,
18-37. Although most of the Freshmen are inexperienced in the game of cross-country, they are rapidly learning both byExperience and
the teachings of Coaches Pritchett and Whittle. Much development was shown both in style and stamina, as they placed three
men in front of the Hornets. McFadyen and Morris tied for an easy finish in the time of 11 minutes
and 24 seconds. Gullette came close behind, leading Thompson, the first of the Charlotte men. Rose created much excitement among
the spectators as he sprinted for a 6-inch advantage over Beard for fifth place.

Due to the way in which the Freshmen showed up in that race, it is hoped that they will be
able to get a meet with the State Freshmen next week.

The order of finishing was as follows: Morris and McFadyen (tied for Davidson), Gullette (Davidson), Thompson (C. H.), Rose (Davidson),
Beard (C. H.), Richardson (Davidson), Barber (C. H.), Ramsey (C. H.), and Edwards (C. H.).

A. Gerskov — The Tailor
SCARLET TANAGER
SUITS MADE TO ORDER
Cleaned 40¢
Remodeled and Altered
All Work Guaranteed
Phone 9145
Globe Pressing Company

Davidson Theatre
MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“RICH MAN’S FOLLY” GEORGE BANCROFT
WEDNESDAY
“ARE THESE OUR CHILDREN?”
THURSDAY
“WAY DOWN HOME” SETH PARKER
FRIDAY
“CUBAN LOVE SONG” LAWRENCE TIBBET
SATURDAY
“RIDERS OF THE PURPLE SAGE”

On last Wednesday, November 11, the Davidson Freshmen won an Armistice Day battle from the Oak Ridge Military Institute eleven
in the Memorial Stadium there by the score of 18 to 6. The Wildkittens scored in every quarter with the
exception of the first. The opening period was scoreless, although the Freshmen made a strong drive which carried them within
Oak Ridge’s ten-yard line. The Cadets made the first touchdown of the game in the second quarter after blocking a
Davidson punt on the latter’s nine-yard line. McCachren faked a pass and skirted end for the score. The Freshmen retaliated
soon after when Hufford threw a short forward pass from the Oak Ridge 18-yard line into the hands of Morris
for a touchdown. In the third quarter, Wingfield knifed his way through the Oak Ridge defense for seven yards and
a score after the Wildkittens had recovered a Cadet fumble. Davidson’s last touchdown came in the fourth period on a
long pass from West to Hutchins, who stepped across the goal line. The Freshmen outplayed Oak Ridge in every phase
of the game and won decisively.

Score by periods:
Davidson: 0 6 6 6—18
Oak Ridge: 0 6 0 0—6

Officials: Referee, Perry (Elon); umpire, Belding (Iowa); headlinesman, Wohl (Princeton).

Juniors Beat Sophs In Class Game, 19-15

Last Thursday night in a very heated contest the Juniors beat the Sophomores, 19 to 15, in the second game
of the inter-class basketball contest. At the end of the first quarter the Sophomores were leading, 8 to 2, and
at the end of the half the score was tied, 8 to 8, and was still tied at the end
of the third quarter, 13 to 13. The Juniors finally broke through and won the game.

The starting line-up was as follows:
Sophomores Juniors
Holland Center Campbell
Lafferty Forward Calhoun
McLean Forward Manson, M.
Manson, A. Guard West
Halverstadt Guard Bettis

Substitutions: (Sophomores) Reed for McLean, Smyre for Reed. (Juniors) Boucher for Bettis, Myers for Manson, Coble for Campbell, Bradshaw for
Calhoun.

The games for this week will be Freshmen vs. Juniors and Sophomores vs. Seniors. The officials for Thursday’s game were
Mathis, referee, and Bob Glasgow, timekeeper.

Wildkittens Defeat Oak Ridge on Armistice Day

Deacons Working to Down Wildcats Again

Wake Forest has scouted nine Davidson College football games this fall. And, by the way, that’s all the Wildcats have
played so far. Evidently, Pat Miller and his cohorts are determined that they will know every trick that the Davidson
players possess, and will be primed for anything that the Wildcats attempt against them in Charlotte next Thanksgiving.

The Demon Deacons have every right to be proud of their long string of victories or ties with the Wildcats,
and nothing has been left undone in the Baptist stronghold this fall to prepare the Deacon eleven for the Davidson
formations on Turkey Day. It was in 1920 that Davidson last tasted a victory over Wake Forest, and that taste
has long ago lost its savor. It has been replaced by one of defeat, which, as some have expressed it,
“ain’t so good.”

According to The Gastonia Gazette, Wallace Wade, coach of the Duke University eleven, went to the dressing room of the
Wildcats after the Duke-Davidson game here and told the players that they had outplayed his boys in the 0-0 upset
of that day. Later, in a conversation with Dr. Lingle, continued the same paper, the Duke coach stated: “I have
often heard of Davidson and its football team here, and this is the first time I have had the chance
to see the team in action. You have a good team, Doctor.”

Plenty of Southern Conference teams want Younger right now, but he likes Davidson. And does Davidson like him? Well, last
fall they signed him up for five more years. Tie that if you can.

Complete Service for School Publications
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.
Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.
Catalog and information on request.

HANES UNDERWEAR

Hanes is “Masculine” for “Underwear”

Specialists in male comfort determine the styles and measurements, and place every seam in HANES. Soft, long-wearing materials combine to
make the greatest underwear values you've ever seen.

HANES Gold Label Elastic-knit Light-weight Union Suits are excellent for the changeable weather of autumn and spring—ideal winter garments for
men who work indoors. Luxurious in materials and finish. Low in price. If you wear summer-weights the year through, be
sure to see how HANES shorts are made better by HANES.

For Every Season
