THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1931

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

GRIER MARTIN................. Editor-in-Chief
MEA CONWAY.................. Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
H. G. SUAREZ.................. Managing Editor
D. MCBRYDE................... Managing Editor
C. F. MYERS.................... Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG..................... Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENS............... Feature Editor
W. W. FRANK.................. Feature Editor
B. S. O'BRIEN.................. Review Editor
J. L. NISBET.................... Exchange Editor
J. C. DWELLE, JR............. Associate Editor
W. S. ANDERSON............. Associate Editor
W. H. SMATHERS............. Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. G. MANSON................. Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEADORS............... Assistant Business Manager
J. W. WHITTED............... Assistant Business Manager
J. R. MORROW................. Subscription Manager
W. C. JOHNSON................ Solicitor
F. NEAL.......................... Solicitor
B. WOOTTON.................. Solicitor
J. ASHMAN..................... Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
H. WHITEHEAD
A. T. BELL
W. P. MURPHY
R. H. ALDERMAN
F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR
L. S. GAMBLE
G. E. BAILEY
K. E. LORRAINE
J. E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
S. P. PRESTON
R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
A. F. SCHENCK
O. CASALI
W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. CLARDY
W. T. THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAMS

NOVEMBER 4, 1931

J. A. HUNTER

The humblest citizen of all the land, when clad in the armor of a righteous cause, is stronger than all the hosts of error.—William Jennings Bryan.

The sympathy of the student body is extended to Allen Whitehead and Billy Watkins in the loss of their fathers.

PARAGRAPHICS

Davidson defeated two Southern Conference teams from Lexington, Va., both by the score of 7-0—Page Ripley!

At the time of this writing it is not known whether the faculty granted the request of the students in regard to the holiday for the Carolina game. It is known that the student body is going to be needed at that game!

The talk by Mr. C. Douglas Booth should be particularly interesting to the student body on account of the British situation at the present time.

Every student should make his plans so that he will be able to hear Dr. McSween at Vespers next Sunday. He is one of the finest talkers in the Presbyterian Church, and is an alumnus of Davidson College.

While we do not wish to look too far ahead, we would like to see one spirit developed on the campus. That is, “WE ARE GOING TO BEAT WAKE FOREST”

Of course before then we have Citadel and Carolina to get by!

GREAT BRITAIN

With events of national importance occurring in rapid sequence in Great Britain, the world at large has become intensely interested in the outcome of the whole situation. A short while ago England got off the gold standard, on which she had been since just after the war. Then Ramsay MacDonald resigned as head of the Labor government, and was placed in the leadership of the coalition forces. Last week came the startling victory at the polls; Ramsay MacDonald received a vote of trust and support from the British nation. With the policies and actions of England affecting the United States and the rest of the world as they necessarily do, it is no small wonder that the statesmen of this and other countries are watching closely the results of Great Britain’s moves.

Friday night Mr. C. Douglas Booth, a member of the Royal Institute of International Affairs, will speak to the Davidson student body on the subject, “British Foreign Policy.” A man so well acquainted with British affairs, and also their relation to other nations, should present a most interesting insight on the present predicament, or situation, in which England now finds herself.

THE LIBRARY

In the general rush of events on the campus there is often a tendency to overlook, or to accept as natural, certain improvements and additions which are made in the equipment of the college. This is a great oversight on the part of those who are guilty, and that includes a large percentage of the student body.

Two years ago an efficient assistant librarian was secured by the college, thus improving greatly the library staff. Later on a thoroughgoing survey was made of the needs of the library by Dr. L. R. Wilson, of the University of North Carolina, who is an expert in library work. At the instigation of

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

What Do You Think?

The Ring-Tum Phi, the college newspaper of Washington and Lee, gives us the following quotation from The St. Bonaventure on the subject of “This Thing Called ‘Spirit’.”

“On practically every campus there is a great deal of talk about school spirit. Much of it is plain ‘blah,’ but some of it is justifiable and even valuable. While admitting that there exists something aptly termed school spirit, the saner student often fights shy of pointing at any particular accepted manifestation of it and labeling it the real thing. We mean that the clear thinking collegian, working on an experimental basis, does not always conclude that the man who sings the ‘fight songs’ most lustily, and who treats the crowd to an almost simian exhibition whenever the home team gains a little ground, is the most loyal son of Alma Mater. Certainly not, and while these more or less physical protestations are fine—in moderation always—they must be viewed in perspective. There are other ways, better ways, and even more worthy ways of showing fealty. But these are not always easier ways and therein is the rub. For instance, it is none too easy to refrain from ‘welching’ when things go a little awry, when that permission is refused, however justly, or what a change in the weather, way, or an empty post office box has made us just a bit sore at the world in general. What any educational institution needs is a student body with a willingness to ‘give it a break,’ with a sense of values enabling it to make allowances for the human element in all things. These are the materials of which a real school spirit is made.

“Here there is a real spirit, a spirit at its best is truly charitable. It is not superficial but it is not always paraded. At times, indeed, it seems somnolent, but once having met it we dare not doubt its existence. The older students are so familiar with it that they have almost ceased to think of it as less than something of which they themselves are a part. We want that spirit to continue and to grow, and so we ask everyone who really desires to make a sometimes overworked phrase really vital to take his own reactions apart and see just how closely they measure up to the real thing. And if they don’t quite measure, let’s get to work on them.”

From The Parley Voo, of Converse College, we learn that Miss Amelia Bruns, a Senior at Converse, won the Atwater-Kent contest for girls of North Carolina held in Raleigh. Miss Bruns sang as the winning number, “Je Suis Titania”—Mignon. The second place in the contest went to Miss Doris Kimil of Winston-Salem. First place in the boys’ contest was won by Walter Peterson of Bolton, N. C. As the winner of this contest, Miss Bruns will go to Louisville, Kentucky, to compete in the Southern contest. This will be held on November 18 and all the Southern States will send representatives up there. The winners of this Southern contest will go to the North to compete in the national contest.

According to The Emory Wheel, newspaper of Emory University, near Atlanta, Charles Curtis, Vice-President of the United States, was a visitor on the campus last week. He was interviewed by one of the correspondents of The Wheel and the following information was gathered from the interview:

“Get all the education you can! The chief aim of a college education is to enable one to prepare himself for the profession of his choice. Everybody recognizes that the college man of today has the advantages. As one gets older he realizes more and more the necessity for a higher education. Speaking from my own experience, the values of a college education cannot be appreciated in the slightest degree until one has reached full maturity. So I say get all the education you can. The time will come when you will need it.”

We find from The Agnostic, of Agnes Scott College, that Bishop McConnell, president of the Federated Council of Churches of America and Bishop of New York City, spoke there on October 21 on the subject of present-day thought. He began his talk with a plea for open-mindedness. This was illustrated by a story of a mythological island where the minds of the people were transparent. This was not his idea of the ideal state. Next he pointed out that the great mass of people in their thought today are not really adding anything that is constructive. The next point was that there must be broadened viewpoints and minds attuned to tell the bits of real gold from the dross. He concluded by saying that the training received in such schools as Agnes Scott best prepares one for such accomplishments.The college, the Carnegie Corporation of New York, appropriated $15,000 to the library for the purchase of books; $5,000 of this to be available each year for three years. An order for these new books for this year is now being prepared. This caused the need for new bookshelves, which were purchased last year. The new lighting system has been very favorably noticed. An expert from the Duke Power Company was secured for the proper adjustment of the lights for the students. In past years, the library has closed at nine o’clock every night; now, through the use of student assistants, it remains open until eleven. The English Department of the school is giving instruction in the use of the library by taking small groups through and making explanations. By glancing over this brief list of the improvements that have been made in the library alone, we realize just how much work is done that is never noticed by the student body in general. The library has now reached the limit of its capacity, and any other additions made to it will necessitate a new building.

Whenever a defense is put up for a new gas tax, it is always that “the automobile owners pay it.” This sounds like automobile owners were not considered human beings. Kilby prison now claims the tallest man it has ever housed. A law violator committed recently measures six feet, eight and three-quarter inches up and down. This can be no “mean” criminal.

It is presumed that the new British government just elected will set about to put into effect a protective tariff. As England is one of the best customers of the United States, this fact is said to be disturbing to the administration at Washington. But can they realize anything different than if a tariff is good for this country, it will not also be good for England?

Since so much of it is moved through the streets and over the highways now by motor truck, one is given a better idea of the enormity of the cotton crop and its products. Great trucks hauling cotton in the seed, cotton in the bale, cottonseed, cottonseed meal, and hulls are moving almost every hour of the day and night. Just watch the Davidson to Charlotte highway for an hour any day of the week.

President Hoover believes the Philippines should not be given their freedom until the islands’ finances are on a more firm footing. If he is going to put things on a financial basis, us in this country will be in chains before long.

Arthur Brisbane says, “Germans expect nothing but trouble. They are used to it.” That’s an unfortunate frame of mind for an individual or a nation; and that too, when we all know most of the trouble we expect never happens.

The elections in England last week returned an enormous majority for the national government and made secure the position of Prime Minister Ramsay MacDonald. The results of the elections should have a stabilizing effect upon the country and prove an aid to business.

Only a city the size of New York could afford a luxury like Mayor Walker. The Mayor has announced that in 1932 he needs $120,240 for the hire of chauffeurs and clerical help alone, and expenses for the upkeep of his staff will be $328,740.

Millions of dollars have been added to the value of the South's cotton crop in the last ten days, and no one will deny that it is the result of a manifest determination on the part of the farmers, bankers, and businessmen to turn about in our agricultural methods. If they all display the nerve to go through with their plans for curtailed production and more living on the farms, they will see more millions added.

Japan may disclaim any idea of war and protest that her actions in Manchuria are only for the protection of her nationals; nevertheless, she is treading on dangerous ground that can lead to armed conflict that will draw in nations other than the two directly concerned at this time, and that is the reason the world looks on with apprehension. If Japan does not want war, why does she persist in walking around an open powder can with a torch in her hand?

Under plans formulated last week by the post office department of the United States, temporary employment will be given to 171,070 people during the Christmas holidays. They will be employed ten days as clerks, carriers, and laborers in post offices and get sixty-five cents an hour for a ten-hour day.

An ebb tide in the steady stream of gold flowing from domestic mines to America’s well-filled coffers in the next decade is expected by scientists. Troubles of Great Britain, Sweden, and Norway and other gold standard nations have revived discussion here among geologists and mineralogists of this country’s future raw gold supply. Although none of the experts would venture a flat prediction, all held to the theory future discoveries would be negligible while existing fields would slowly be exhausted. A sharp break in gold production in 1915 was considered as a supporting factor. That year, America reached her production peak, 4,823,672 ounces. It has now climbed to slightly more than 2,000,000 ounces annually. Officials of the geological survey cited a report by the gold delegation of the League of Nations financial committee in 1930 as probably the most accurate estimate of America’s future production. Prepared largely by the geological survey with the cooperation of the bureau of mines, the report estimates that this country’s output until 1940 will remain at an average of 2,000,000. International statistics predict the United States will relinquish second place in world production ranking to Canada by 1933, and drop from the valued output of $42,800,000 in 1930 to $36,100,000 in 1940. South Africa now leads with upward of $200,000,000 yearly.

From our friendly rival, Wake Forest, comes the news that they have the largest student body in the history of the school. Old Gold and Black, Wake Forest's newspaper, tells us that to date 725 students have enrolled, 265 of that number being members of the Freshman class. The former record for attendance at this school was held by the year 1926-27, which had a total of 716 students. Of this year’s enrollment, Campbell and Boiling Springs each furnished more men than any other junior college; Mars Hill was close behind.

“Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryde

HALLOWE’EN REMINISCENCES (A Sonnet)

Never was the moon so radiant;
Never was the air so sweet—
Never blew the wind so softly
Down the cool sequestered street.
Never murmured babbling brooklets
So caressing; never sung
So enthralling all the mock-birds,
To their chirping, begging young.
Than the time you said you loved me
And promised you'd be true;
Than the time you gently kissed me,
(And to my doubts you bid adieu);
Than the time we were together last,
And with this thought I’m through.

Cal Calculator says: Advertising pages indicate that members of our most promising and wealthy families are willing to endorse almost anything, except a poor relation’s note.

TODAY'S BEST DEPRESSION STORY:

“Well, who's been waiting the longest?” asked the dentist cheerfully as he opened the door of his inner office.
“I think I have,” said the tailor, presenting his bill. “I delivered that suit you're wearing three years ago.”

P. S. TO PROSPECTIVE HUSBANDS

The lives of married men remind us,
As their lives we read about—
That for wives we'd better find us
Some that aren’t so strong or stout.

SHE SEEMS TO BE A GOOD SPORT (Taken from a Sports Page Item)

“At athletic meets all over the country she competes in dashes, hurdles, discus, shot, javelin, and standing broad and high jumps. She plays volleyball, basketball, football, and baseball. She is an excellent equestrienne, and plays a good game of tennis. In addition to that, Rena is just a stay-at-home girl.”

A POEM DEDICATED TO THE FELLOW WHO SAID THAT THERE WAS NO NEW RIME SCHEME

“CELIBATED CELEBRITIES” (Rime scheme: aaaaa, bbbbb, ccccc, ddddd)

O’er all the earth
You'll find a dearth
Of men with girth
Or financial worth
As Ambrose J. Smirth.
He’s four feet ’round
(When run aground),
His wealth is sound,
So it’s told around,
(I’ve found).
BUT, THE LOW DOWN GOOP,
HE BLOWS ON HIS SOUP,
SAYS “POO POO PA DOOP,”
AND “OOPS, M’DEAR, OOP,”
LIKE A REGULAR SNOOP.
So pay no attention;
But prevent his retention
By social convention,
And give him no mention
For good intention.

Good BYE (AND BYE)

The following is quoted from a selection in The Parley Voo, paper of Converse College, and was written by one of the students there. This is only a part of the selection:

“The students of today, like the servants of old, must first love knowledge, and have the real desire to learn and education, as it is regarded today, may consist of the rudiments of learning—a little mathematics, history, English, and some foreign language. Too great a number of people go through college simply because it is customary to study these rudiments; but they have no real interest in them. They could never, like Pascal, delve into unknown things and think them out just for the sake of knowledge, these people are not true scholars.

“The ideal student of today is the one who is interested in his subject for love of that subject, and from an innate desire to learn. He views his topic from all angles, inspired by the glamour of seeking knowledge. And to my mind, the true scholar is he who, remotely, and often without expectation of success, hopes some day to discover a new truth, which, through all the ages, has escaped the knowledge of man.”