THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 16, 1931

The Ben Greet Players

On Saturday afternoon and evening, April 11, the world-famous Ben Greet and the Ben Greet Players appeared at the Armory
Auditorium in Charlotte, presenting “Twelfth Night” (or What You Will) at the matinee hour, and the “Tragedy of Macbeth” at
the evening performance at 8:30. Sponsored by the Charlotte Drama League, these two Shakespearian plays were pronounced successes, as evinced
by the gratifying attendance, both at the matinee and evening performances.

“Twelfth Night,” the matinee hour presentation, was lauded by many as a superb performance. Although not as dramatic as “Macbeth,”
its lightness, jollity, and humor apparently well equalled that more solemn performance in public appeal. The acting was good, and
the story was easy to follow. Viola and her twin brother Sebastian are separated in a shipwreck. Viola, disguised, enters
the Duke's service as a page and falls in love with him. The Duke, thinking her a boy, sends her
to the Countess, with whom he is in love. The Countess falls in love with Viola. Sebastian appears on the
scene and himself falls in love with the Countess. The Duke comes in, the twins explain. The Duke marries Viola,
and Sebastian marries the Countess.

Ben Greet, as Malvolio, played a better part in this performance than in “Macbeth,” as the role afforded a better
exhibition of talent. The performance of this veteran, with that of Russell Thorndike, a second outstanding humorous character, constituted the
best-liked part of the play.

“Macbeth” was a distinct dramatic success. Excepting, perhaps, the fact that Malcolm and Donalbain, played by Walters and Gillespie, seemed
a bit weak in the portrayal of their roles, the play as a whole showed wonderful talent and assiduous preparation.
Ben Greet, who played three minor parts, again demonstrated his wonderful ability as an actor, notably in the role of
the Porter and the rendition of the famous Porter Scene. Reginald Jarman, as Macduff, and Russell Thorndike, as Macbeth, were
the outstanding performers of the production. Muriel Hutchinson, as Lady Macbeth, also showed wonderful capabilities as an actress. Somewhat difficult
to follow than the matinee performance, but offset by excellent lighting effects and a dramatic atmosphere, augmented by subdued lights
and colorful hangings, “Macbeth” brought back all the thrill and all the delight ever afforded in time past by the
plays of Shakespeare.

D. D. McBryde.

VACHEL LINDSAY (Continued from page 1)

... rhythm, sacrificing audibility and clearness in his attempt to attain this end. He interpreted his poems with all the
passion and physical expression, accompanied by many idiosyncrasies, of an actor or a grand opera singer. In a poem interpreting
eastern music, Mr. Lindsay called upon the audience to chant the verse with him. Two of his selections, The Chipmunk
and Crows, illustrated clearly the poet's point that words and verses can be made to imitate the “talk” of wild
life. The works were not taken from any one book, being chosen at random from A Handy Guide for Beggars,
Adventures While Preaching the Gospel of Beauty, and Selected Poems.

COLUMBIA STUDENTS (Continued from page 1)

... an appeal in the name of the Master for recruits for his job in the Far East. Seven of
the graduating class of Ely came up after that meeting to give their lives to the hardships and trials of
a life of service in that country. After giving this illustration, Mr. Marshall closed his talk with the thought that
there is such a perfect peace and realm of happiness in a complete resignation to God’s will; and he urged
that if anyone thought himself fit for such a life to accept the challenge by all means, because “the banner
is still leading on—calling us to follow.”

It’s entirely mental, the spring fever business. There is no physiological basis for it—Dr. E. M. Winchester.

Many college instructors have hardly got the dust of the A. E. F. brushed off; yet if in the classroom
one of them alludes to the war, some student is sure to ask in all seriousness, “which war?”—Elizabeth Corbett.

I believe parents are usually bad for their children. —John B. Watson.

Dr. E. Hopkins Discusses Purpose of Liberal Arts

Dartmouth Head Says Liberal Arts Education Furnishes Atmosphere and Environment

Hanover, N. H.—(IP)—The function of a liberal arts college is not only to give knowledge, as many believe, but to
inculcate an inquiring and understanding habit of mind, according to Dr. Ernest M. Hopkins, president of Dartmouth College.

“Nothing is more useless than a fact by itself,” he said recently. He admitted many sincere persons still over-emphasized pure
knowledge in university training and cited as an example Thomas A. Edison, who in an examination for a scientific assistant,
asked applicants to name the city with the greatest number of washing machines.

“The object of a liberal arts college is to teach the students to be something; that of the technical school
is to teach them to do something,” Dr. Hopkins continued. “The only thing the liberal arts college can do is
offer the atmosphere and environment in which education can be got.

“We ask our Freshmen: ‘Why are you a Republican or a Democrat; why are you a Presbyterian or a Methodist?’
Although some parents object to this disturbance of preconceived ideas, we insist that our students have some understanding of where
their beliefs come from.”

In response to the argument that the responsibility of the college is to the individual welfare of its students, Dr.
Hopkins answered that its responsibility was rather to “the life of the time in which our undergraduates will live.” At
the same time, he declared that Dartmouth students are more religious today than he had ever known them to be.

Among Dartmouth’s advances in education, Dr. Hopkins mentioned the senior fellowship plan, which allows outstanding seniors complete freedom in academic
activities during their last year; honor courses in which upper-class students have informal conferences with instructors; and a decrease in
the ratio of students to faculty members from fifteen in 1915 to nine in 1930.

Freshman Track Squad Downs Catawba College

Last Friday afternoon the Davidson Freshmen tennis team defeated the Columbia High School netmen from Columbia, S. C., by a
score of 6-1. The only match that the Wildkittens lost was when Alex Sead lost to Moore of Columbia. Jim
Halverstadt, No. 1, had a fairly easy time in defeating Ellis of Columbia, 6-1, 6-0; John Lafferty, No. 2, vanquished
Phifer, Columbia’s No. 2, by the score of 6-2, 6-3; Bob Rowan, No. 3, beat Crawford, 6-2, 6-3; then Moore
of Columbia eliminated Schenck, 6-4, 6-4; Tee Thompson, playing No. 5, outplayed Spann to win, 6-1, 6-2. In the doubles
matches, Halverstadt and Lafferty, who have been doubles partners for the last five years (four...| years at Darlington, and one
year up here), easily defeated Ellis and Phifer of Columbia, 6-1, 6-2. However, Rowan and Schenck did not have a
very easy time in their doubles match, but they were victors in this encounter by the score of 9-7, 4-6,
6-4.

Tomorrow afternoon at 3 o'clock they will meet the four-man team from Darlington School, of Rome, Ga. These four men
will be Nixon, a member of last year’s team; Holt, also a member of last year’s team; Joe Grier, No.
1 on Charlotte High’s team last year, and one other man whose identity is not known as the Davidsonian goes
to press. This team is coached by Roland Parker, an alumnus of Davidson. Last year Coach Parker brought his six-man
team up here and defeated last year’s Freshmen, 9-0; but two of his last year’s team are now up here
and are members of the Freshmen tennis team. They are Halverstadt and Lafferty.

None of us have a patent on being right.—Senator Tydings.
What is most interesting about each generation of men is the things they never thought of.—G. K. Chesterton.

The Reed College Quest is planning to devote one issue to what is being done by the student scientists on
the campus. Previously the only special issues of this nature have been given over to the students interested in literature.

Dr. Henry Crane and Bishop William F. McDowell were the speakers at special religious services held on the campus of
the University of Maryland.

Prof. Hardre to Speak Here
According to Dr. Geo. B. Watts, head of the French department, Prof. René Hardre will speak to Le Cercle Francais
and students of French either tomorrow or Monday the 20th. The exact time will be announced at chapel. Prof. Hardre
is now professor of French at N. C. C. W., Greensboro. This will be his third visit to Davidson under
auspices of Le Cercle Francais. Professor Hardre is to speak on his experiences as a student in a French boarding
school and will give descriptions of some of the beauty spots of France.

Col. Scott Delivers Vesper Address
“Initiative, judgment, and resolution, coupled with humbleness and righteousness, are the prerequisites of real success,” said Lieutenant-Colonel W. R. Scott
in speaking at the weekly Y. M. C. A. vespers last Sunday evening. “It would be wrong to include the
first three qualifications and omit the last, for without it as a balance wheel, man becomes a menace to society
through the power of the first three.”

Colonel Scott, commandant of the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit, gave his hearers a highly practical talk, basing his
remarks upon the application of nine recognized principles of warfare to modern business. “These nine principles,” he maintained, “may all
be included in three words, ‘initiative, judgment, and resolution,’ which are always incorporated in the actions of great business leaders
as well as great generals.”

Predominance of Youth Discussed by Durant
Durant, Professor at Columbia, Believes Modern Youth on Verge of Puritanical Revolution
Cleveland, Ohio—(IP)—The reign of youth in the world today is about due to end in a puritanical revolution, Dr. Will
Durant, author of books on philosophy and kindred subjects and former professor of philosophy at Columbia University, said recently in
an interview here.

“The predominance of youth in modern affairs,” he said, “is due partly to the large unsettled population caused by late
marriages and partly to the fact that most of the newspaper writers and reviewers are young people. Youth has been
holding an epicurean riot in our big cities; but like all things, they run themselves out in time. The new
clothes may be an indication of the trend. Perhaps long skirts will bring long marriages.”

Durant, who is 46 years old, made a tour of India recently which he said has cured him of any
inclination he might ever have had to run down his native country. “I am sick and tired of people who
run America down and believe that most Americans suffer from a national inferiority complex. New York is, I believe, the
most beautiful and interesting city in the world today,” he said. “Indeed, in architecture, Europe is sending architects by the
boatload to study our skyscrapers. And we undoubtedly lead the world in generosity. People talk about Americans chasing the almighty
dollar. Why, most Europeans are far greedier than we are. They criticize because they want what we've got. And China—why,
there a man will let you kill him if you pay him enough money. America excels in modern architecture.”

Literary Societies
Eumenean
The Eumenean Literary Society set a precedent Monday night when several of its members journeyed to Winthrop College, at Rock
Hill, S. C., and presented a program to the three literary organizations of the large Palmetto institution, in a joint
meeting in Johnson Hall. Calvin Kuykendall presided at the meeting, after being introduced by Miss Elizabeth Hopke, Winthrop master of
ceremonies. Jim Ward and Dave Murphy took charge of the opening exercises after which Jack Matthews gave a talk on
Eumenean traditions. This was followed by an address on travel, given by Gaither Jenkins. Waddell Williams concluded the program with
an extremely humorous talk. Every speech proved effective and was well received. Norman Raies acted as critic for the evening.

Philanthropic
At the last regular meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society a special business session was held to settle several items
pertaining to old and new business. Talks were made by Ryburn and W. L. Cowan, and interesting reading from Horace
Fugate. A current magazine review was made by C. E. Kraemer. F. L. Cowan, the first critic, then made his
critical report of the evening's performance, and made announcements concerning the coming program. As one of the features on the
coming program, Duncan McBryde will tell of his experiences abroad; his experiences on the ocean last summer. Other details have
not as yet been disclosed.

The American people possess the most likeable and most precious qualities of modern humanity—spirit, faith in success, and a kind
of chimeric positivism and mystical dynamism in need of discipline.—Gaston Rageot.

© 1931, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
The best way to find out just what the new Humidor Pack does for Camel smokers is to switch over
to this famous brand for an entire day. After you have tasted the Camel blend of choicest Turkish and mellowest
Domestic tobaccos kept in prime fresh condition, just try them... then leave them—if you can. Just quit Camels if you
can. Remember, it’s dust-dry cigarettes that have been robbed of their natural moisture by evaporation or scorching that sting the
tongue and burn the throat. There are none of these discomforts with Camels. Try them and see for yourself.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.
Winston-Salem, N. C.

CAMELS
Factory-fresh CAMELS are air-sealed in the new Sanitary Package which keeps the dust and germs out and keeps the flavor
in.
