2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1931

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly
“For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN --------------- Editor-in-Chief
PINES GON ---------------------- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
D. GRIER MARTIN ----------------- Editor
D. D. McCRARY ------------------- Managing Editor
R. S. McCALL --------------------- Managing Editor
G. A. BOLES ---------------------- Managing Editor
J. P. SHEPPARD ------------------ Athletic Editor
D. G. ENSON ---------------------- Feature Editor
W. W. NICHOLS ------------------- Feature Editor
R. L. McCALLIE ------------------- Review Editor
N. P. McCAW --------------------- Exchange Editor
D. G. LIPSCOMB ------------------ Associate Editor
W. S. LEE ------------------------ Associate Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS ---------------- Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. MANSON ------------------- Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE -------------------- Assistant Business Manager
J. W. WHITTED ------------------ Assistant Business Manager
W. R. MORROW ------------------ Subscription Manager
W. T. JOHNSON ------------------ Solicitor
J. F. NEAL ----------------------- Solicitor
L. R. WOOTTON ------------------ Solicitor
A. H. MANSON ------------------- Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
A. H. WHITEHEAD ---------------- President
W. F. MULLISS ------------------- Vice-President
R. H. ALDERMAN ----------------- Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR
L. S. GAMBLE
G. E. BAILEY
R. E. LORRAINE
I. E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
S. P. PRESTON
R. PRATT THOMAS
W. R. WARD
A. F. SCHENCK
O. CASALI
W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. CLARDY, JR.
W. T. THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAMS
J. A. HUNTER

SEPTEMBER 30, 1931

PARAGRAPHICS

Tough game in Greensboro last Saturday night! It just seemed that the team couldn’t get going until it was too
late.

That cold weather has arrived at last, and from all present evidences there will be plenty of it during the
coming winter.

Wesley, Dean of Janitors, certainly stays on the job. If he ever loafs he conceals it very well.

The open forum which the “Y” is conducting next Sunday is, so far as we know, an innovation at Davidson;
and it should prove to be a most interesting and valuable one.

Several people have asked the editor WHY the paper doesn’t get out on Wednesday. We are going to try just
one more time, and then if there are no results it will be dated Thursday.

Let’s give those Wildcats a real send-off when they leave for Lexington!

Announcements in chapel are at times rather hard to hear on account of the noise, and because they are often
not given loud enough. Let’s make them so they can be heard.

COMPLETE BEAUTY

An editorial must preach some sermon, stimulate some thought, advocate some principle, or right some wrongs. No editorial is the
absolute consensus of all the opinions that a paper must represent. Neither does this need to be representative of the
student body in any way, but only a treatment of a problem that touches every individual on this campus by
one person.

If one should ever visit Nashville he would doubtless visit the State Capitol building of Tennessee. From the front he
would see a beautiful square with an imposing looking war memorial building on the right and a small park in
the immediate foreground. All is peace and beauty. Yet if this unknown visitor should walk behind the Capitol he would
see, much to his horror and disillusionment, Sulphur Dell, the dumping grounds of the State Capitol. All beauty has vanished,
all peace is gone—he will forever carry away with him that memory of one eyesore in a beautiful surrounding which
will utterly annihilate any of the beautiful impressions he may have gotten earlier in his journey.

The student body has looked with pride at the growing beauty of our campus, at the growing stateliness of it.
Is the writer mistaken to believe that the student body would like to see all of the sides of Chambers
kept sown in beautiful grass, including the north side? Or would the student body rather turn it into a playground
and thereby spoil the effect of beauty? Then, too, this spot in rainy weather after the grass has been worn
off becomes exceedingly muddy, causing a great deal of inconvenience. Personally, we would like to see this spot beautified.

R. L. McCALLIE.

RESPECTING THE RIGHTS OF OTHERS

If there is one thing which marks a man as a gentleman it is his respect at all times for
the rights and property of others. This word “others” does not mean to infer human beings alone, not just individual
persons; it means also corporations, units, things. The average man is inclined to feel that his doing something against one
of these last named is not an offense in the strictest sense of the word. But if one comes to
the point of analyzing this discrimination he will discover that it is hard to separate the two things.

At Davidson much is said about the destruction of property, both that belonging to the college and that possessed by
the students. Theft is handled by the Honor System, being one of the three provisions of this code. In spite
of criticisms and accusations there is relatively very little of this kind of disrespect for the rights of others. Davidson
men are traditionally courteous and respectful to all, especially to visitors on the campus. Their reputation in this matter is
known everywhere in the South. But there are one or two exceptions to this distinctive Davidson courtesy. These exceptions are
regrettable in that they do not give much credit to the college or to the student body. They are stains
on an otherwise almost perfect thing.

There are several evidences of this disregard for others’ rights. In chapel when a faculty member is speaking one can
often hear a murmur of voices, and occasionally hisses from certain portions of the student body. The discomfort and uneasiness
caused the speaker by this can only be known through a like experience. On some occasions the same thing is
true when some outsider is talking. At athletic contests students sometimes forget themselves and razz or hiss the opposing team
or the officials. This does not often happen and is only mentioned as one form of discourtesy existing here.

This expression of unconcern, dislike, or whatever it may be, is one of the most cowardly things a person can
do. Hiding behind a crowd to do such a thing is despicable. How many of those who take this opportunity
to express their feeling would do so were they required to stand out in the open? We venture to say
that there would not be one. Think that over the next time you wish to show your disapproval of something!

EXCHANGE

The V. M. I. Cadet informs us that, in all probability, the entire Corps of the Virginia Military Institute will
travel up to Yorktown, Virginia, to the Yorktown Sesquicentennial Celebration from October 16th to 19th, inclusive. Last spring the Corps
was invited but at that time there was some doubt as to whether the Corps could go on account of
the expense that the Cadets would incur on such a trip. The Superintendent of the Yorktown Celebration is at the
present time making arrangements for the quartering of the V. M. I. Cadets. The exact details of the provisions for
the Cadets have not been worked out, but arrangements will be made with the authorities of the Celebration. Everything but
the blankets and food will be furnished and the Cadets are directed to carry their rifles along.

This paper also tells us that there is a greater number of Cadets in V. M. I. than there has
ever been before in the history of the school. This fact is similar to our own, as we have 640
students enrolled, the largest in the history of the school.

There are only, note the word only, eighty men out for Freshman football of the one hundred and twenty-five that
reported at the beginning of the season at Duke, says The Duke Chronicle. Although only a fortnight has passed, the
two coaches, Caldwell and Waite, have rounded the Freshmen into a very good balanced team. In spite of this, the
Duke varsity sent them down to a defeat by the overwhelming score of 34-0; this happened when the Freshmen were
not so well organized. Even in view of this, the followers of Duke University are very pessimistic, according to this
paper. We think that both the Wildcats and the Wildkittens had best beware of the Duke Blue Devils and Blue
Imps for they are both going to be dangerous this year.

The Lenoir Rhynean, the newspaper for Lenoir Rhyne College, says: “The theme or motif of the 1932 Hacawa will be
woven around the life of Martin Luther. The life of the founder of Lutheranism fits in very well since Lenoir
Rhyne is a Lutheran college and his life will be portrayed from his childhood until his death. An interesting and
beautiful theme will be found, including the outstanding events of his life, on all the Division Pages, in the art
work and all through the general make-up of the book.” This “Hacawa” is the yearbook of Lenoir Rhyne and the
policy followed is similar to the policy that Davidson’s annual, “Quips and Cranks,” followed last year in portraying the life
of Woodrow Wilson throughout its pages. Well, this depressionwill certainly put people back on their feet again. The mortgage companies
will take back all the automobiles. —Duke Chronicle.

Greeks as a people have a philosophy of life that is quite different from that of Americans. Their desire is
to round out human beings, and to have an interest more in beauty and life itself than in material successes.
Harshness in personal relations is exceptional and as a rule their habits are temperate. They show a liking for the
mere process of thinking. —V. M. I. Cadet.

According to the Duke Chronicle, there was one more national fraternity and one more national sorority charter granted to the
local petitioning groups. The national fraternity was Sigma Nu, which charter was granted to the Goblins Club at the twenty-fifth
convention of Sigma Nu held recently. The installation services are to be held soon. The national sorority was Delta Delta
Delta, which granted a charter to Delta Chi Upsilon. The initiation of the chapter will take place in the near
future. The Duke chapter will be the eighty-seventh.

Of the thousands of Americans who are interested in India’s great leader, Gandhi, it is very profitable that the vast
majority are attracted by his personality and not by the cause which he represents. This is readily explained, for the
problems which confront India are very perplexing to the average person while, on the other hand, there are many things
which attract interest in the leader. Thousands of people are wondering whether Gandhi will wear his loin cloth when he
visits King George. This is a question which at once attracts attention, for the personality and showmanship are things which,
externally at least, are easily grasped by everyone. Gandhi is an interesting person and his private life is a thing
of interest to the average individual. One day out of seven he spends in uninterrupted silence while the other six
are spent in working as a spinner. During these six days he arises at four in the morning and retires
at ten in the evening. Although a subject of interest for many, much of his time is spent in prayer.
Gandhi's dress is really a symbol of his poverty and of the poverty of millions of his people. As a
politician and statesman Gandhi ranks among the greatest living. This fact is shown by his getting a large share of
his demands from the British. It is entirely possible that Gandhi will carry away from the London conference a good
bit more than the British had intended to yield.

I believe in equality for everyone except reporters and photographers. —Mahatma Gandhi.

A recent statement sent to the government of Finland, the only dry country in the world besides the United States,
by the Federation of Finnish Judges, shows that they are not having any better success than this country. This statement
tells the reader that during the twelve years of the existence of the prohibition law in Finland the consumption of
hard liquor has grown, crime has increased and thousands have been convicted of drunkenness. Contempt for the law is common
and the younger generation has acquired drinking habits which are threatening the nation’s moral and physical future. America is not
alone with its troubles over prohibition and one notices that the things which the Finnish Judges complain of are the
same as those this country is experiencing at the present time.

When man begins to think, all is lost. —Dr. Will Durant.

The number of non-member nations of the League of Nations has been reduced from ten to nine. This was brought
about by Mexico joining the League recently. The covenant of the League asserts that nothing therein affects the validity of
the Monroe Doctrine; Mexico declared that it has never recognized the doctrine. This makes no difference whatever since Mexican statesmen
have said the same thing many times before, but their statements have never changed the doctrine nor its application. The
Monroe Doctrine does not prescribe any course for Latin American countries but it does prevent non-American powers from extending their
political systems into this hemisphere. It is enforced by the United States alone. The list of non-member nations of the
League includes, in addition to the United States, Afghanistan, Brazil, Costa Rica, Soviet Russia, Egypt, and the Kingdom of the
Hejaz and of Nejd. Turkey, Ecuador, and the problem of life will turn from that of the struggle for existence
to the question of how to spend the additional leisure which we shall have. —Assistant Secretary of the Navy Jahncke.

Some members of the American Legion unemployment conference have been considering a plan to force the government to cash their
bonus certificates in full at a cost of $2,400,000,000. Major General James G. Harbord, President of Radio Corporation of America,
in an address told the veterans that if they went to Detroit waving a relief plan in one hand and
a tin cup in the other they would appear ridiculous. “If you do,” said Harbord, “you will be laughed at.”

To buy today is a patriotic duty, not unlike that of the days when we bought Liberty bonds and won
a war. —Alvan MacAuley.

If all the folks in the United States would do the few simple things they know they ought to do,
most of our big problems would take care of themselves. —Calvin Coolidge.

I believe that we shall wake up some bright Thursday morning and find that the depression has quietly come to
an end and business is pretty good again. —Loring A. Shuler.

I don’t like to read books; they muss up my mind. —Henry Ford.

DES ENTREFILETS

Of Ships & Shoes—& Sealing Wax—Of Cabbages & Kings...

Duncan McBryde

AN OPEN (ED) LETTER

Rumple (“Double Barrel”) Dorm. Second Barrel Thirstday.

To Whatever Concern It May Concern, Davidson College.

It has been found that college standards are not as high as army standards. Army standards are six feet, more
or less. To raise college standards, then, all college students should be given an intelligence test. The test, which follows,
is highly recommended, for freshmen as well as stale. The grading will be as follows: A=10-20; B=10-20; C=10-20; and D=Failure.
This is not an entrance exam, but an exit exam.

I. If you belonged to a circulating library that had only one book, would you rotate anti-clockwise, or would you
cancel your life insurance policy? Answer yes or no.

II. If your doctor told you that you had only two weeks more to live, where would you go? (The
correct answer is, “I would go to another doctor”).

III. If your professor gave you a rubber yardstick, and asked you to measure the distance from the Post Office
to Chambers Building, would it be easier to stretch the rubber, or would you remember that you had once taken
the oath of office? Answer, I do.

IV. If you were a college student of normal (7) intelligence, and realized that you had a chance to become
President of the U. S., what would you do to correct the error? Has this anything to do with the
disposal of second-hand razor blades? There is no answer to this question. It is a matter of ethics. Anyway, people
don’t save soap wrappers any more.

TOO LATE TO BE CLASSIFIED.

About the only difference between the old dime novel and one of today, is $1.90. —(Ohio State Journal)

V. If you had your choice between radio announcing, and a career as a yodeler, would you sail for Hong
Kong, or commit suicide?

VI. Identify the following verse, and state whether it is in trochaic tetrameter, or in tetra-ethyl.

Mary had a little lamb,
Her father shot it dead;
And now it goes to school with her
Between two hunks of bread.

VII. Which is the biggest joke, the YOWL or the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD? The answer is, I don’t know.

VIII. How is it that you can allow such a column as this to run? Ans., I am a member
of the S. P. C. A.

STILL LATER, BUT CLASSIFIED.

“Adolf Whiffelschnitselheimer, eighty-four years of age, has just embarked upon his fourth marriage.” (News Item). We'd call that “a Dog's
Life.”

IX. This is a tough one. (So use Burma Shave). You are clinging to the tail of the Graf Zeppelin
which is circling over the North Pole. Now naturally you can be identified by your laundry mark, but it isn’t
your laundry mark. Would you try to get an uncle on the jury, or would you reach for a Lucky
(Penny) instead?

X. If you were riding through the Tropical Belt on a Bike, in the capacity of a Marine, would you
Guard the Vital Zone, or Tighten the Belt?

XI. What are the three greatest races of today? Ans., the 220, the 440, and the Mile. (I heard that
somewhere.)

Every student still kicking, after these questions, should be placed on the dissecting table, and examined for mental defect. Any
person giving all correct answers is entitled to take down and put up bleachers for 3 more years, regardless of
graduation, death, or other unusual occurrences.

Mr. Methusal Grabholt will now sing that well-known old song of heredity, “Where Did You Get Those Eyes?” This is
through (with) the courtesy of Blindem and Blindem, the Optimistic Opticians, makers of “Eye-wonder glasses” (Eye wonder why I ever
bought them). And we will be all up in the air again next Thursday Night, weather permitting—er—transmitting.

Give my love to Cousin Sally.

Yours Thru-ly,
OSWALD R. F. D. (Right From Davidson).
