**The Davidsonian**

Published Weekly

"For a Better Davidson"

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editors
Exchange Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. MANSON - Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE - Assistant Business Manager
J. W. WHITTED - Assistant Business Manager
W. R. MORROW - Subscription Manager
W. T. JOHNSON - Solicitor
K. N. WILSON - Solicitor
J. B. WOOTTON - Solicitor
A. H. MANSON - Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. H. WHITEHEAD - President
T. M. AYCOCK - Vice-President
W. B. UMSTEAD - Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR
L. S. GAMBLE
G. F. BAILEY
R. E. LORRAINE
J. E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
S. P. PRESTON
R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
A. F. SCHENCK
O. CASALI
W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. CLARDY
W. T. THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAMS
J. A. HUNTER

OCTOBER 21, 1931

“Most of us know our own limitations, but not many of us can afford to make a public confession of them.” — Sir Charles Higham.

PARAGRAPHICS

Congratulations to the whole Wildcat team for that splendid game Saturday! They certainly exhibited that well-known Wildcat spirit throughout the game.

Some of the credit for the fine showing should go to the student body for its fine backing and especially to the cheer-leaders for their work. That was one of the best pep meetings ever held at Davidson.

It would be an omission to say nothing of the Freshman game Friday. It looks as though the varsity should have some good material coming up for next year.

Dramatics are taking their place on the campus now. Stunt night was a success and “The Monkey’s Paw” will be presented by the Red and Black Masquers at an early date.

Several new types of heads are now being used in the paper. The staff hopes that these will lend a variation which will make the publication more interesting.

Captain Pritchett’s recital of the poem on the origin of the name “Wildcats” was enjoyed by all those who were at the pep meeting.

We would like to get the straight of the ruling made last year about the holiday that is usually given for one football game away from the “Hill.” The team is going to need support in Chapel Hill on the 14th!

FRIENDS

“Friends thou hast, and their adoption tried, grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel...” Hoops of steel! How connotative of true, lasting friendship this should be, and how unfortunate it is that so many of these so-called friendships are secured by bonds of flimsy fabric, severing upon the least infringement on the harmony and concord of friends.

And what are these hoops of steel? To some they represent petty and temporary associations in which the persons discover a common interest along some lines of activity. To others they signify bonds of fraternal organizations, oaths compulsory to membership. To still others, they connote admiration for another’s intellect, wit, or physical prowess, etc.—and in this relation, one frequently observes a one-sided association in which the one gives all, the other—nothing.

These friendships are superficial, materialistic, and fragile, for the real friendship comes as a result of having penetrated to the very depth of another’s soul, becoming acquainted with previously unexpressed convictions, discovering powerful emotions, and in being able to evaluate the true worth of a man. Again, a true friend should be one who would share in a man’s happiness and sympathize in his sorrow. This friendship develops from having gone through some experience, happy or sad, with another.

To distinguish a real friendship from the common every-day type, it is necessary for the two friends to become separated for a time. Invariably, when this happens, one finds that he has expected too much. No more does he have anything in common with his friend of the past, for the things which bound them previously no longer hold secure, and having no knowledge of the ideals and dreams of his friends of days gone by, he will not be interested in the other’s new ideas, new opinions, or new thoughts.

But the true friends will find it easy to continue their past relationships, each being eager to learn of the other’s new-born convictions, new ideals, and present situation of past illusions. For them it is easy to gather up the threads of former friendships and rebind them more securely than ever.

Thus we see that one should beware of superficial friendships, sacrificing all of them if necessary in order to keep a few real ones. “Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel.”

B. B. SUGG, JR.

THOMAS ALVA EDISON

If there was a character in the world whom young people most desired to be like it was the world’s greatest inventor, Edison. That is a high tribute to pay to anyone but he rightfully deserves that and all the other honors that have been given him.

Edison’s life reads like the most interesting of story books. He started his career as an inventor on a train where he was supposed to be selling papers. In the process of completing an experiment he upset a powerful concoction, which set fire to the car in which he had his newspaper business and also his laboratory. For this he was fired.

Since then his life has been a continuous line of successes; first in the telegraph, then the electric light, the phonograph, the telephone, the moving pictures, the sound pictures, and others too innumerable to name. It has been said that Edison has given more to civilization than any other one man in the history of the modern world.

At his death last Sunday morning, the sentiment of a nation of admirers was set loose. The world cannot fully realize the loss which it has suffered in the death of this great man. From his closest friends we learn that he was not only a notable, a great man, but that he was a real human being, and the best friend a man could have. His works have been recognized by countless medals and other forms of recognition, but he has never worn the medals nor shown the other awards; only an example of his modesty in all things.

So we mourn with the rest of the world the loss of one of its most outstanding and valuable citizens.

EXCHANGE

The Parley-Voo, of Converse College, tells us that the Cotillion Club of Converse, a social club at that college, is thinking of obtaining Guy Lombardo, Ben Bernie, or some equally popular orchestra, to play for one of their dances this year. The important dances planned by the club this year are those at Hallowe’en, St. Valentine’s Day, and the Senior Prom in April. As these famous orchestras are making a tour of the South there is a possibility of the club securing one of them for one of the above-named dances.

The Carolinian, the newspaper of N. C. C. W., informs us that the young Progressive leader, Senator Robert M. LaFollette of Wisconsin, addressed the students of that institution on Friday, October 8. The subject of his message was “What Progressives Are Fighting For.” This man is the youngest Senator in Congress since Henry Clay.

From Old Gold and Black, of Wake Forest, we find that Dean Daniel B. Bryan, dean at Wake Forest for a number of years, flayed the practice of bumming, or the habit of ride-begging as he calls it. “Most of you have spent all of your lives at home, and when you graduate from college, you will either return there or to your own domiciles. Why, then,” he asked, “should you put in jeopardy this one golden opportunity in your lives by cluttering up the highways to beg a ride home?”

According to The Agonistic, the newspaper of Agnes Scott College, their annual, called the Silhouette, won the cup given by the Southwestern Photoprocess Company to the girls’ school in the southeastern section receiving All-American rating. One thousand points would indicate a perfect publication and Agnes Scott was only a comparatively few points below this with 910. Penelope Brown, editor of this year’s annual, urged the students to strive to win the cup for the next two years so that the cup would become theirs permanently. Agnes Scott succeeds the Florida State College for Women, who won it last year. Georgia Tech won the boys’ school award for 1930. The All-American Honor was conferred on the Silhouette by the National Scholastic Press Association.

The following quotation is taken from The Erskine Mirror, the paper of Erskine, whom we meet on the gridiron Saturday:

“How often are we told, it is the little thing in life that counts, it is not quantity but quality, expensive things come wrapped in small packages. It seems true in our vocabulary that the little words sink deeper, they are weightier and have more thought. ‘See,’ ‘Well,’ and ‘Can’ are all small words of three and four letters, but still they convey big things; if not separately then perhaps in combination.”The visual power of man is one of his greatest. Can he not train himself to see the good things just by looking for them? He must look far ahead, see the problem clearly before he is able to respond. “If he sees the work to be done, the deed to be accomplished, he must will to do that thing. The right attitude or mindset bears weight on the possibility of its being done. If one is willing, then he can—the two mentioned above are requisites for the ‘canning’ or accomplishment. When there is a will there is always a way.”

What Do You Think?

The youngest son of a British lord was recently found shelling peas and peeling onions in one of London’s best hotels. Other members of the nobility are performing similar humble tasks and one at least has been drawing the unemployment dole. In the old days that sort of thing would have been construed as a shocking example of the evil results of dissipation. Today it means no more than overproduction in the title market. There is a glut of English peers, knights, and the lesser nobility—far more of them than the democratic traffic will bear. The old nobility may never come back, but it will be doing a far, far better thing by going to work. In fact, by going to work it may remove the stain of the jibe that while its founders could make their mark but could not write their names, the present title-holders can write their names but cannot make their mark. Some of them may do just that when compelled to earn a living.

Figured on a business basis, as it should be, it is said that the cost of producing cotton is twelve or thirteen cents a pound. That being true, there is absolutely no hope of the farmer getting near like cost out of this year’s crop. In time, with improved business conditions the world over and a big reduction in acreage, cotton may sell as high as twelve cents, but the best thing the cotton farmer can do now is to plan other crops and other ways to make up his loss. It can be done, and the time to start is now.

Owen D. Young, member of the President’s emergency relief commission, has asked the American colleges to play at least one football game to devote the proceeds to charity, after expenses have been deducted. Properly arranged games between rival colleges would result in an immense sum to be contributed to the cause of charity, and many institutions have already expressed a willingness to fall in with Mr. Young’s suggestion. Other sums for charity will be raised by the motion picture people who plan to make contributions from their proceeds over a certain period. Sport and amusements will lose nothing in doing their bit, as Mr. Young expresses it, for the needy of the country.

The death of Thomas A. Edison means for America the loss of one of the greatest men and possibly the greatest scientist and inventor of the twentieth century.

In the last issue of the magazine which claims the largest newsstand sale of any publication in the country, Mrs. Ella A. Boole, national president of the W. C. T. U., presents an argument in support of prohibition which will be hard for her opponents to refute. Mrs. Boole’s article is not of the lurid, emotional type, but is sane and logical, supported by facts and figures that cannot be controverted. It is in good temper all through and will strengthen the cause which she so ably represents.

Aimee Semple McPherson Hutton is failing to draw in the crowds or the cash in a revival which she is conducting in Boston. Her audiences are running around 5,000 a performance and the collections average 10 cents a head, while her business manager says she must take in $2,600 at each service in order to break even. Is this another aspect of the depression?

Gasoline taxes paid by the motorists of the nation in the first six months of the year totaled $246,373,000. The number of gallons taxed showed an increase of 4 1/2 percent over the first six months of last year. The increase of commercial trucks no doubt accounts for that, and more, for it is not believed that pleasure cars are operated as much as when money was more freely circulated.

A sample of the kind of phraseology that the new American Bible of Dr. J. M. Powis Smith and Dr. Edgar Goodspeed, of the University of Chicago, is to have was made public last week. The Lord’s Prayer, for example, will read as follows:

“Our Father in heaven,
Your name be revered.
Your kingdom come!
Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven!
Give us today bread for the day.
And forgive us our debts, as we have forgiven our debtors,
And do not subject us to temptation,
But deliver us from the evil one.”

The new Bible is to make its appearance November the 10th.

New hostilities flared up recently between Japanese and Chinese troops, according to advices reaching here (Peiping) from Mukden. The new outbreaks aroused fear the Japanese occupation of Manchuria will be further prolonged. Mukden dispatches also said a Russian cavalry detachment had crossed the border into Manchuria, entering the Chinese city of Manchouli. Manchoulians are said to have protested to the Russian consul, who denied the arrival of Russian soldiers had any military significance and said they were looking for anti-Bolsheviks believed to have fled to China. The Russian action caused considerable concern among Peiping officials, however, in view of the Chinese suspicion that some misunderstanding existed between Soviet Russia and Japan prior to the Manchurian occupation.

“Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings... Duncan McBryde”

“COLLEGE TIES”

The Wildcat’s back from the bloody fray,
The Blue Imp has long turned in;
The Wildcat’s still panting, regretting not scoring,
The Blue Imp—Oh Boy!—is all in.

The way those ’Cats jaunted for 92 yards
Near the end of the game, will long be told;
The way the same line stayed in there for 4 quarters
Is a tale that shall never grow cold.

Mill’s passing, Pearce kicking, King running ’round end,
Peabody’s ground gaining; as well as McQueen’s,
Had Brewer all flustered; the Blue Imp grew thin,
The palsy got Mason; and something seized James.

But what got “Wallace” worst of all
And had him so nearly caved in,
Was the way our old line, like a solid brick wall
Abs’lutely refused to give in.

So thanks go to Raker and Johnston, on end,
And, center, Bud Gardner, their pard;
As well as Jack Wagner and Whitfield, the tackles,
And Barrier and Conway—on guard!

We couldn’t tell who had the worst “line” at the game Saturday, Duke, or Grady Cole, the announcer. Duke’s line was full of lead, Cole’s was full of bull. Duke led an aerial attack, which was cut off by the Wildcats, Cole led a gas attack, which was cut off by Captain Pritchett.

Books we bet you haven’t read:
ON THE TRAIL OF THE LONESOME DIME, by D. Pression.
LIVID PHILOSOPHERS, by K. Lamity.
PROFILES AND SILLY WETS, a bootleg in 3 quarts (0). By I Swallow.

And then there was the Davidson student who went to the Post Office, to the stamp window, and said, “I would like to register a—complaint.” The clerk replied, “Why I can’t even register surprise, but I can give you my stamp of disapproval, if you'll turn and face the door.”

Do your Christmas hocking early. It’s darkest just before the pawn. A switch in time saves alimony.

A THOUGHT FOR TODAY
To Borrow is Human; to Repay, Divine.

A California golfer is saturating his golf balls with an aromatic solution so that the butterflies will be attracted to them, thus serving as caddies. Now isn’t that a sweet solution! When they start following those butterflies around, and find, half the time, that the butterflies were only headed for a honeysuckle vine (or what have you), they’ll invent a whole new vocabulary of “golf expressions for the infuriated golfer,” and I don’t think it’s worth the trouble. It’s a wonder they don’t invent crossword puzzles of a special type, just for golfers—you know, “between the acts” puzzles, when inspiration would be at its height. Some golf expressions do have about as much meaning as some crossword puzzles, which is none, and I’m sure the “golfer’s vocabulary” would contain plenty of words to meet the needs...

Especially in a street car, you can tell a gentleman by what he stands for.

ADD THIS TO YOUR LIST (From an ad in the Saturday Evening Post):
“Typing will improve your English. Sentences will be crisper, more expressive. It is almost impossible to misspell words on a Corona.” Soon they'll be saying: Why study English for years? Perfect your English in six weeks with our typewriter. Improve your spelling one hundred percent. Become an author overnight. Profit by the mistake of Simon Blotz, who after 30 years of failure as a writer, found that he had the wrong make of typewriter. He now spends his summers in Bermuda. He now says, “I am a Coroner for life.”

For our concluding number, Saturday, the Knight of Bath, will sing the popular song: “They kissed in the church, and the bells tolled.” With that we rest our case.