THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 7, 1931

Prof. Kenneth J. Foreman Will Be the Speaker on Home-Coming Day

Popular Davidson Professor Has Accepted Invitation to Deliver Address to Alumni, Students and Visitors on October 17th

FULL DAY’S PROGRAM
Cross-Country Races—An Address—Luncheon—Football Game—Stunt Night

Several thousand Davidson College alumni will this week be invited to return to the campus where they spent their undergraduate days and participate in the celebration of annual Home-Coming Day. The event is less than ten days off, but it has already been widely advertised to the alumni, and hundreds have already made their plans to visit their Alma Mater. The date is Saturday, October 17th, and will be marked by a number of important exercises and events, largely arranged for the benefit and enjoyment of the returning sons of Davidson.

Prof. Kenneth J. Foreman, one of the most popular members of the faculty and widely sought as a speaker for many occasions, has accepted the invitation to deliver the welcome and address to the alumni, students, and friends of the college. Alumni officials, working in conjunction with college authorities, decided to pursue the course followed last year in the use of local faculty members, but decided to limit it to one man this year. Prof. Foreman was the choice, and those who have been students under him or who have come in contact with him, know that he will have a splendid address for that special day in alumni affairs.

Beginning at 11 o’clock in the morning, a full day of events has been planned which will afford amusement and entertainment for the hundreds of alumni and other visitors. At 11 a.m., cross-country races between representatives of Duke University and Davidson will start in front of the stadium and conclude at the same place. The dual meet between the Freshmen teams will be staged first, and immediately after its conclusion, the varsity outfits will streak across the country in their paces.

The crowd will then assemble in the auditorium to hear the address of Prof. Foreman and any announcements that are to be made. This exercise will be concluded within an hour, and at 1 o'clock there will be a luncheon in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. Having found the luncheon of the past several years satisfactory to the majority, the same style of lunch will be served. Sandwiches, fruits, and other foods will be available to the alumni, and it will be served in cafeteria style, permitting the visitors to group themselves as they desire. Ladies are invited to the Home-Coming luncheon. Fifty cents will be charged each person in order to defray the cost of the luncheon, which is arranged for the benefit of those alumni who want to come to Davidson early and get lunch here.

Football teams of Duke and Davidson clash at 2:30 o’clock on Richardson Field. The gridiron contest on Home-Coming is always a big feature, and the affair with Duke on October 17th will have more than the ordinary interest. This will be the second Big Five contest for the Wildcats this season, and the Davidson team will put up one of its greatest fights because of the added presence of so many alumni of Davidson.

To close the day’s events, a program of music, stunts, and other amusements has been arranged for the evening. Organizations and individuals involved in this phase of the day’s program have been busy preparing a high-class entertainment for the visitors. The actual starting time of this performance and the price of admission will be announced later.

Home-Coming Day is earlier this year than usual, but a football game was selected for the return of the Davidson alumni which will attract them and conform to the wishes of many that Davidson play a North Carolina eleven on that date. Alumni in distant points have already expressed their intention of returning, and there will be many others coming who do not notify the executive secretary.

Get Ready for Home-Coming October 17th

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

ENGAGEMENTS

Wills-Morris
“Mr. and Mrs. William S. Wills, of Philadelphia, announce the engagement of their daughter, Mary Ann, to Dr. Rae Henderson Morris, of Concord, the date of the wedding to be announced later.” Dr. Morris graduated from Davidson in 1924, and two years ago was graduated from Jefferson Medical College at Philadelphia. He did his internship in Philadelphia hospitals, and this summer began practicing in Concord. Miss Wills is a graduate of the Friends’ Select School of Philadelphia.

Atkins-Allison
“Mr. and Mrs. Geo. F. Atkins, of Saltville, Va., announce the engagement of their daughter, Eleanor Countiss, to Samuel Joseph Allison, of Glade Spring, Va., the wedding to take place on October 10th, at 7:30 p.m., at Madam Russell Church, Saltville, Va.” Mr. Allison is a 1929 graduate of Davidson, and after leaving here he attended the Wharton Business School in Philadelphia. He returned to his home in Glade Spring, where he is in business.

Births
1921—To Mr. and Mrs. B. W. Romefelt, of Fair Lawn, N. J., a daughter, Margaret, on July 1st.
1922—To Rev. and Mrs. J. M. Richards, of Thomasville, Ga., a son, James McDowell, Jr., on July 26th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. Robt. J. Knight, Jr., of Safety Harbor, Fla., a son, Francis McKenzie, on August 9th.

Fred L. Smyre, 1900, was recently made president of the Gaston County Textile Manufacturers Association. He succeeded another Davidson alumnus, Sam A. Robertson, ’99.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Alumni Marriages
Hugh M. Grey, ’18, is now connected with Concord Knitting Company, at Concord, N. C. Before going to Concord he was at Fort Payne, Ala.
Dr. Robert W. McKay, ’17, of Charlotte, was one of the speakers last Monday at the North Carolina Urological meeting in Asheville.
John P. McKnight, ’28, who has been a member of the Havana, Cuba, staff of the Associated Press, has been appointed chief of the bureau at the Cuban capital. He has been with the Associated Press only two years, and immediately after his graduation was connected with the Charlotte News.
Rev. O. M. Anderson, D.D., ’08, of Water Valley, Miss., has already written that he plans to attend the reunion of his class at Davidson next commencement.
D. H. Howard, Jr. '28, has been given a research fellowship at Cornell University. He was an assistant at the same institution last year.is working on his doctorate degree in physics. For one year after graduation he was connected with the chemistry department here, and has been at Cornell since September, 1929. Dr. G. H. Cartledge, ‘11, is now head of the department of chemistry at the University of Buffalo, Buffalo, N.Y. Dr. Cartledge was head of the chemistry department at Johns Hopkins University for several years. He is well known in the chemistry field and has written several textbooks on that subject. He was at one time connected with the same department at Davidson, taking his master’s degree and assisting at the same time. 

Five Davidson graduates this year began graduate work in history at four different institutions. As stated before, R. B. Parker, ‘26, is at the University of North Carolina. Rufus F. Johnston, ‘29, is at Carolina. Frontis Johnston, ‘30, is at Yale; Kenneth M. Jackson, '31, is at Vanderbilt, and J. C. Matthews, is at the University of Virginia. Alumni from distant points who have already signified their intention of visiting Davidson on Home-Coming Day, October 17th, include H. Smith Richardson, '06, of New York; Dr. W. J. Martin, Jr., ‘23, of Rochester, Minn.; J. I. McGee, ‘28, of Pittsburgh, Pa.; Wm. A. McAulay, '25, of Louisville, Ky.; Clair D. Regen, ‘25, of Franklin, Tenn., and E. L. Douglass, ‘28, of Augusta, Ga. All of these have voluntarily written that they will be here, though the official invitation is not being extended until the latter part of this week. 

Harllee Branch, Jr., ‘27, is now connected with the law firm, Colquitt, Parker, Troutman and Arkwright, in Atlanta, Ga., and is teaching at Georgia Tech’s night school. H. S. Davidson, Jr., ‘29, who has been with the Bell Laboratories in New York since graduation, is now studying in the department of physics at Cornell University. John D. Gwin, ‘28, underwent a serious throat operation at his home in Greenwood, Miss., this summer, and remained at home three months. He recently returned to New York and is at 25 E. 10th St. Dr. A. B. Reese, ‘17, president of the New York alumni chapter, has appointed the following committee to act in an advisory capacity to any Davidson alumnus locating in New York for the first time: W. P. Anderson, ‘07, chairman; W. S. Dowdell, ‘04; C. E. Houston, ‘26; W. R. Grey, Jr., ‘28, and Gardner H. Green, ‘29. 

L. B. Parish, ‘30, is in Rahway, N. J., working as a chemist with Merck & Company. He attended N. C. State last year, obtaining his master’s degree there. W. Lester Morris, ‘11, was this summer made president of the Clinchfield Company, with headquarters in Marion, N. C. He has been with the company since its founding 15 years ago, and in the interim between his beginning and his elevation to the presidency, he has been secretary and assistant treasurer. The Clinchfield Company comprises two cotton mills. 

It is now Capt. W. C. Morris, ‘11. Captain Morris was promoted from a first lieutenancy to a captaincy this summer, and is now on duty with the air corps at Manila, Philippine Islands. Captain Morris began his military career as an enlisted man in 1917. He was commissioned a second lieutenant in 1918, and became a first lieutenant in 1920. 

Rev. W. A. Hafner, '94, resigned this summer as pastor of the Limestone Presbyterian Church at Gaffney, S. C., after sixteen years’ service with that one church. Mr. Hafner resigned because of ill health, and will continue to reside in Gaffney. J. J. Summerell, ‘10, who is southern representative of Chilean Nitrate Corporation, has been transferred to Raleigh. He was formerly located at Greenville, N. C.

Mr. and Mrs. Claude J. Logan, of Rutherfordton, announce the marriage of their daughter, Margaret, to Calvin J. McGehee, of Nashville, Tenn., the ceremony being solemnized at the home of the bride’s parents on October 1st. After graduating from Davidson in 1928, Mr. McGehee spent a year at the University of Georgia. Since then he has been connected with the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company, and at present is located in Nashville, where they will make their home. Mrs. McGehee was educated at Mitchell College and for the past two years has taught in the Rutherford County Schools.

William Smith Tate, 1928 alumnus of Davidson and a resident of Charlotte, and Miss Ann Eliza Torrance, of Lincoln, Nebr., were married on October 3rd in the home of the bride’s aunt in Charlotte. Since leaving Davidson, Mr. Tate has been in business in Charlotte and is a member of the firm of Tate-Brown Company. Mrs. Tate, who is a daughter of a Davidson alumnus, R. A. Torrance, ‘93, last June graduated from the University of Nebraska. Upon their return they will reside on East Boulevard in Charlotte.