6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 21, 1931

Social Fraternities Hosts to 130 Girls

Girls From Many States Enjoy Week-End House Parties

Never in the history of Davidson College has it gone on record that more than 130 girls came to Davidson to attend a house party! This became a reality on the weekend of the 17th and 18th of this month. Girls from far and near flocked to Davidson to join the throng of returning alumni. The program was varied and entertaining. 

Friday afternoon there was a game between the Freshman football team and Wofford College. In the evening there was an entertainment in Charlotte. On Saturday morning the cross-country track meet between the Davidson and Duke Varsity and Freshman track teams was staged in front of the stadium. At the noon hour, Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman addressed the alumni in Chambers Auditorium. In the afternoon the climax was reached with the homecoming game, Davidson and Duke players giving the spectators a thrill throughout sixty minutes of real football. That evening another entertainment was held in Charlotte and Sunday morning the girls attended the college church service. It was altogether an enjoyable occasion and proved to be the most successful house party in many years.

A list of the girls up for the weekend party is as follows:

Kappa Alpha—Kathrine Witchen, Hollins; Nancy Harmon, Salem; Isabel Pollock, Salem; Elizabeth Morton, Salem; Louise M. Melchor, Mooresville, N. C.; Mary Marion, Converse; Anne Hoover, Concord, N. C.; Lib Lewis, Converse; Sally Couch, Charlotte, N. C.; Elizabeth Warlich, Davenport; Suzanne Lucas, Converse.

Sigma Phi Epsilon—Z. Pal, Richmond, Va.; Jane Howard, Charleston, W. Va.; Georgia Watson, Tompson, Ga., and the following Charlotte girls: Ethel Begg, Kathrine Crowell, Martha Ware Pitts, Betty Hunter, Grace Sassinne; Elizabeth Wakefield, Sarah Mott; Mabel Henry, Concord, N. C.; Sue Webb, Greensboro, N. C.; Violet Poost, Concord, N. C.; Liberty Casali, Welch, Va.; Marie Taylor, Bennettsville, S. C.; Louise Harry, Salisbury, N. C.; Dolly Blair, Albemarle, N. C.; and S. McCall, Bennettsville, S. C.

Beta Theta Pi—Hazel Eubank, Hendersonville, N. C.; Caroline Rowan, Concord, N. C.; Virginia Sevier, Hendersonville, N. C.; Ellen White, Concord, N. C.; Dot McClintock, Charlotte, N. C.; Ida Patterson, Concord, N. C.; Elizabeth Henritze, Welch, W. Va.; Mary McKay, Concord, N. C.; Carolina Iver, Concord, N. C.; Mary Lois Allen, N. C. C. W.; Barbara Witherspoon, Greensboro, N. C.; Tex Horton, Winter Haven, Fla.; Edna Love, Shelby, N. C.; Miss D. Baker, Charlotte, N. C. Those from Rock Hill were: Effie Murphy, Mary Ware, Harriet Vaughn, Elizabeth Nicholson.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Elizabeth Price, Salem; Louise Marshall, Salem; Lucy Follin, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Brantley Nichols, Charlotte, N. C.; Julia Thompson, Richmond, Va.; Virginia Staples, Athens, Ga.; La Verne Hudson, High Point, N. C.; Betty Taylor, Hollins, Va.; Betsy Armfield, Converse.

Phi Gamma Delta—Dit Jenkens, Charlotte, N. C.; Grace Jepson, Charlotte, N. C.; Mildred Beasley, Charlotte, N. C.; Florence Holmes, Charlotte, N. C.; Dorothy Sellars, Burlington, N. C.; Elizabeth Sellars, Burlington, N. C.; Carol Dean, Converse; Sally H. Hughes, Knoxville, Tenn.; Elizabeth Fouts, Cleveland, Tenn.; Ellen Campbell, Cleveland, Tenn.; Martha Mack, Waynesville, N. C.

Phi Delta Theta—Thelma Launwery, Concord, N. C.; Janie Secrest, Monroe, N. C.; Elizabeth Potts, Davidson, N. C.; Mary Carpening, Rockingham, N. C.; Francis O’Brien, Rockingham, N. C.; Irene Todd, Lawrence, S. C.; Elizabeth Glasgow, Nashville, Tenn.; Pankie Allen, Charlotte, N. C.; Celia Wadsworth, Charlotte, N. C.

Pi Kappa Alpha—Elizabeth Harris, Welch, W. Va.; Alice Grubbs, Frances Williams and Colum Schenck, Greensboro, N. C.; Elizabeth Thompson, Davidson, N. C.; Mable Wilky, Geraldine Harris, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Bailey, Gainesville, Ga.; Eileen Brown, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Brown Prince, Converse; Sis Muldrowe, Elizabeth Nolan, Isabel Sims, Converse; Neal Whitworth, Albemarle, N. C.; Lambie Wilkerson, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Anna Lovin, Red Springs, N. C.; Dorothy Etheridge, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Mary Alice Darby, Florence, S. C.

Theta Upsilon Omega—Virginia Combs, Atlanta, Ga.; Berdette Scales, Monroe; Wilhelmina Wolford, Charlotte, N. C.; Sarah Wilson, Staunton, Va.; Ellen Hawkins, Charlotte, N. C.; Sibina Sleeper, Fort Moultrie, S. C.; Helen VonDrehl, High Point, N. C.; Isabel Scott, Davidson, N. C.; Mary Virginia Cox, Duke View; Jessie McGriffin, Staunton, Va.; Adelaide Shott, Betty Wicker, Lucille Campbell, Grace Lawing, Dorothy Hand and Lucille Worley, Charlotte, N. C.; Kitty Cunningham, Decatur, Ga.Casey Ingram, High Point; Elizabeth Kenry, Fort Valley, Ga. Kappa Sigma—Elizabeth Rollins, Timmonsville, S. C.; Calesta Riegel, Dayton, Ohio; Sue Horner, Durham, N. C.; Louise Hardin, Greensboro, N. C.; Tine Thompson, Dunn, N. C.; Nancy Moodie, Gastonia, N. C.; Elizabeth Blizzard, Dillon, S. C.; Sarah Erkman, Hendersonville, N. C.; Lillian Birch Ellison, Washington, N. C.; Nancy Comper, Atlanta, Ga.; Lucy Goss, Margaret Cunningham and Margaret Bennet, Decatur, Ga.; Bebe Hyde, Farmville, Va.; Boo Bitzer, Spartanburg, S. C.; Dorothy Powell, Gastonia, N. C.; Adele Ford, Bennettsville, S. C.; Frances Marshall, Rock Hill, S. C.; Margaret Allison, Knoxville, Tenn.; Sally Kate Alderman, Kings Mountain, N. C.; Bertha Burch, Elizabeth Boykin and Anna Preston, Charlotte, N. C.

Pi Kappa Phi—Anne Bolton, Union, S. C.; Sarah Floyd, Spartanburg, S. C.; Sue Corbin, Fremont, N. C.; Lucy Floyd, Oxford, N. C.; Margaret Melchor and Sarah Brawley, Mooresville, N. C.; Adelaide Foil, Concord, N. C.; Anne Ware, Darlington, S. C.; Sarah Fletcher, Hartsville, S. C.; Janet Bern, Americus, Ga.; Emily Cooper, Holly Springs, Miss.; Lois Ayres, Nichols, S. C.; Julia C. Orr, Anderson, S. C.; Eleanor Spratt, Mt. Holly, N. C.; Julia Gold Clark, High Point, N. C.; Margaret Gilliam, Almedia McGinnis, Estelle Hall, Evelyn Wagner and Rosalie Rogers, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Elizabeth Meeks, Rocky Mount, N. C.; Peggy Foreman, Charlotte, N. C.; Polly Moore and Jennie Harrison, Greensboro, N. C.; Sophie Marshall, Rock Hill, S. C.; Martha Johnston and Scotty Johnston, Charlotte, N. C., and Anna Mack Redfern, Monroe, N. C.

PHI BETA KAPPA BIDS (Continued from page 1)

editorial staff of Quips and Cranks, and an assistant in Bible. McLean is president of the Ministerial Band, assistant in Latin, and a member of the Eumenean Literary Society. Wiley is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, Golden Quill, Delta Pi Kappa, Le Cercle Francais, Omega Phi Alpha, Ministerial Band, and was secretary and treasurer of Junior class, ’29, ’30. He was also president of Reporters’ Club, Beaver Club and manager of the Rifle Team. McConnell is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity, a member of the football squad, Le Cercle Francais, is assistant in mathematics, and is class historian and a captain in R. O. T. C. He was also a member of the Beaver Club. Welch is assistant in French, is a member of Le Cercle Francais, and has been on the Honor Roll. Hand is a member of Eta Sigma Phi, Le Cercle Francais, is French assistant, and was on the Honor Roll last year. Bettis is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, and belongs to the Radio Club, Spanish Club, Rifle Team, varsity track squad, and the Tennessee Club. Harrison made the Honor Roll and is a member of the International Relations Club. He took part in intramural boxing and is an R. O. T. C. lieutenant.

WILDCATS WILL MEET ERSKINE (Continued from page 3)

While the Davidson-Erskine encounter is not a headliner in North Carolina, it will be one of the best games of the season. The Seceders, with a considerably smaller student body than Davidson, turn out just as scrappy a bunch of players as can be found anywhere. Erskine will be fighting for an upset. Davidson is generally predicted as winner, but the Seceders are well versed in the art of upsetting, just like the Wildcats are. Erskine will be the underdog on Saturday, but a very ferocious one, and the Cats will have to fight not only to conquer but to hold their own.

VESPERS ADDRESS (Continued from page 1)

and paid several days’ lodging for him in advance; this was certainly embracing an opportunity to serve someone. The address was closed with a fitting quotation from Kipling to “Tommy,” reminding him that no matter where he went or what he did that since he had enlisted in the service of the king, he was branded as a service man. The service was led by Paul Brown, who also read the Scripture lesson taken from Matt. 20:20-28. Bill Rule led the singing and a special music selection was rendered by Horace Erwin on the violin. Bill Matthews and Jerome Clark offered prayers after the reading of the Scripture.

WILDKITTENS CROSS GOAL (Continued from page 3)

from the goal line. Mackorell and Wingfield then had no trouble in adding six more points to the score. For the third time Mackorell and Morris completed another long pass to place the ball on the two-yard line. Smathers broke up the Wofford defense to carry the ball over. A pass and Hutchins. Extra points: Davidson, Mackorell (drop-kick), and Hutchins (line buck). The final touchdown. Line-up and summary:

Wofford (6) Pos. Davidson (44)
Conner LE. Morgan
Worton LI. Siewers
Jones LG. Potter
Parnell Center Lee
Kemp RS. Brewer
McCreavy RT. Hand
Blakely RE. Morris
Gault QB. Mackorell
Mims LA. Smathers
Williams RH. Wingfield
Shilfeto FB. Caton

Score by periods:
Wofford Fresh 0 0 0 6—6
Davidson Fresh 7 7 18 12—44

Scoring touchdowns: Wofford, Gault; Davidson, Mackorell 2, Morris 2, Caton, Smathers, and Hutchins. Extra points: Davidson, Mackorell (drop-kick), and Hutchins (line buck).