THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1931

(Continued from page 1)

it had tempered existence before America was founded, but he claimed that the real democracy was largely an ideal until America came into existence and threw “open the door of opportunity and a square deal,” and made democracy workable.

JUDGE PARKER SPEAKS

Judge Parker said that the weakness of ancient democracies was the tyranny of the majorities, and maintained that the rights of individuals suffered less from the arbitrary power of the despot than from the injustice of the demagogue. He continued by declaring that “we overcame this weakness when we guaranteed these rights to the individuals, not merely against the power of the executive, but against the entire power of the state.”

As the second step toward a fundamental and workable democracy, said the speaker, America combines the strength of the great state with the liberty of the smaller one, thus eliminating the weaknesses of both. “Thus we have combined the principles of local self-government, allowing the peoples of different localities with widely different customs and traditions to govern themselves in matters of local concern according to their ideas, and to exercise over their local institutions that immediate supervision which is essential to efficiency of government.”

“With a guaranty of individual rights and the dual system of government, and largely as a result of them,” he continued, “has come the third great constitutional right.” After elaborating on this conception, he added that through the judiciary a government had been built which is a government of laws, and not of men.

Concluding his discussion of the three things that he conceived to be the “essence of constitutional government,” Judge Parker then launched into a vehement dissertation upon the dangers which are threatening this democracy, the dangers, he declared, “which have caused the land to change from faith, hope, and courage to one of doubt, fear and pessimism.” He stated that the greatest danger is the socialistic thought. He explained that he did not mean those who are communists and bolsheviks, but those who believe in government ownership and operation of industry, or who would have it operated without regard to the rights of owners and would strike down any constitutional guaranty standing in the way of their schemes. He said that socialism, contrary to the belief of many, was not freedom, but was tyranny—tyranny by the state which cramps and starves the life of the individual just as effectively as tyranny by a monarch or an oligarch.

College Calendar

Sunday, Dec. 6, 6:00 P. M.—Mr. David Ovens of Charlotte will speak at “Y” vesper services in Chambers Auditorium.
7:15 P. M.—The Student Volunteer Group will meet in the “Y” Social Center.

Monday, Dec. 7, 8:00 P. M.—Dr. W. M. Pierson of Duke University will speak at Phi Beta Kappa initiation in Chambers Auditorium.

Tuesday, Dec. 8, 7:15 P. M.—Literary societies meet in their respective halls.

“SERVICE” IS THEME OF DR. HENDERLITE

(Continued from page 1)

but rather with loving kindness. Therefore we should prompt ourselves that “whatsoever thy hand shall find to do, do it with all thy might.” The reason for our being rather sloppy with regard to this was pointed out to be: that we today have very little pioneering to do, which leaves us only the commonplace things to accomplish. But Dr. Kirk says that it requires the work of a genius to render the commonplace things in a striking manner. Yet, the duty of the contemporary Christian is to make the common thing uncommon. This idea was amply borne out by an old Canadian repair man who, on repairing the broken head of a cane, was being complimented by the owner. The workman exclaimed, “Sir, I try to make every bit of work that goes out of this shop leave a highest impression of my hearty goodwill toward mankind.”

In closing, the speaker cited the incident of the Southerner carrying water to a group of wounded Yankee soldiers during the battle of Fredericksburg. The Southerner went at the risk of his life under fire, and tradition has it that both sides stopped firing while he went out. Dr. Henderlite expressed his doubt as to that fact, but he said that he was satisfied that the Choirs of Heaven must have stopped while one of the Lord's servants carried a cup of cold water in His name.

DAVIDSON PICKS FOR ALL-STATE

Don King closed a brilliant season for Davidson, and wins halfback position on Davidsonian All-State. Buddy Gardner, playing his second year at center for the Wildcats, easily gains All-State position. Doc Mathis, tower of defense and offense, gains one of the guard positions on the Davidsonian’s pick.

DR. PIERSON TO SPEAK

(Continued from page 1)

In addition to these three eminent alumni speaking at the same evening, these are E. C. Dwelle, Jr., Charlotte, N. C.; Roger P. Enloe, Buchannan, Ga.; Thomas W. McLean, Charlotte, N. C.; Sam.unscrupulous use of power of organ- | uel S. Wiley, Salisbury, N. C.; John D. Mc- | A 8 45 ete cess an even greater danger, | Connell, Davidson, N. C.; J. T. Welch, Jr., | $1.65 LIKE TO CHOOSE THEIR CLOTHES $ i € believed. “No one, nor one class of men,” | Mount Holly, N. C.; Louis N. Hand, East | , A he declared, “have the right to attempt to co- | Spencer, N. C.; Edward S. Bettis, Morris- | Shirtcraft and Ide Shirts are Glover and MacGregors Suede erce the government. The government should | town, Tenn., and Charles W. Harrison, David- | the shirts that you can buy to Coats in both sweater and coat represent the whole people, and should be | son, N. C. | stand the wear that laundries give style. Button or zipper fastenings ministered under the constitution for the ben- | These twelve men will be privately initiated | them. White and colors. Collars | Aer wish. Sizes 36 to 44 in efits of the whole people.” | at exercises one hour preceding the public func- | attached or detached. | brown. This is ideal for campus As a third danger to democracy, Judge Park- | tion which will be held at 8 o'clock Monday | wear. er spoke of local self-govern- | night in Chambers Auditorium. At the conclu- | MONROE SUITS ment and the inability of committees | sion of the program, local and visiting mem- | $22.50 to cope with crime, necessitating the strong | bers of Phi Beta Kappa will be entertained at | Cooper’s Shirts and Shorts arm of the federal government to eradicate it. | a banquet. | In gray, tan, or brown, in Local government has become inefficient, boss- | homespuns and worsteds. ridden, and in many instances openly cor- | MR. DAVID OVENS TO | These are the Monroe National rupt,” he said, and he warned his hearers that | LEAD “Y” VESPERS | Suits. In sizes 35 to 42. Be sure when citizens allow their local government to | and try one on the next time you be weakened or prostituted, they are aiding | (Continued from page 1) | are in town. Other Men’s Suits the forces which are threatening the national | college, because unaided he has risen so high in | priced from $11.95 to $50.00. government itself. | the business world. | SOCKS A still more serious danger,” said the speak- | Last year Mr. Ovens spoke at vespers, taking | 35c and $1.00 er, “lies in the attacks which are | as his subject, Seconders of the Motion. He | Interwoven Socks in both plain being made upon the judiciary. There are | treated the topic from the business man’s | and fancy patterns. Silk and silk those who would destroy the federal judiciary | angle, bringing out some very practical points. | and wool combination. You can’t because they have come to believe that the | He urged Davidson men to go out into the world, | have too many... but buy good independence of the courts to | not merely trying to get along, but using all | ones when you buy. review the acts of Congress or those of the | the strength in them to do their best. Thus, | SHOES—$4.95 state legislatures is an obstacle to their efforts to de- | from last year’s experience, we may be assured | Walk straight into this bargain! prive the lower federal courts of jurisdiction | that Mr. Ovens’ message will be extremely | Brown-built Tread- and strip the judges of their power | worth-while. Come! You'll never regret hav- | straight Shoes for men. This to guide the course of trials.” | ing heard him. | national brand that fits the heel In closing his address, Judge Parker firmly | The last Sunday before Christmas holidays | and supports the arch so perfectly. maintained that upon the preservation of the | begin, the vesper service will consist almost | In black and brown. American Constitution “stands the future of | entirely of music. Watch for further announce- | TIES—95c mankind, not only of America, but of the entire | ments concerning it! | Silk Ties and silk and wool world.” | combinations . . . resilient lined to keep it in shape. All hand-made and a good selection of colors. Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Handbooks, Etc. | Nothing too large or too small for us to serve you. Printing P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE 6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing DAVIDSON HEADQUARTERS AT EFIRD’S Make your headquarters at Efird’s when you come to Charlotte. There are desks and phones on the mezzanine for your convenience . . . meet your friends here ... we are always glad to see you. Men’s Dept. Street Floor STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY CHARLOTTE, N. C.