THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 26, 1931

DR. THOMPSON
(Continued from page 1)

acter, capacity, consecration, and firm convictions. He added that other attributes that were a great help were thoughtfulness, humility, courage, love of fellowman, and the possession of a sense of humor. At this juncture, he asked where men who met these severe requirements come from except from a school like Davidson. He said that there was as much sheer masculinity at Davidson as any other college that he knew anything about. He commented favorably on the democratic spirit that prevails on the campus and the feeling of friendliness that is prevalent.

Dr. Thompson did not try to influence men to go to the foreign fields, but asked those who felt that they were called into this profession to say, “Here am I Lord, send me.” He deplored the fact that there are people in some parts of the world who have never had a revelation or conception of God or any experience with His transforming power. He said that he could heartily agree with Stanley Jones in that “he did not see how any man east or west could get along even fairly well without Jesus Christ.” Dr. Thompson said that Christ needs Davidson men to serve as feet for Him, as this is the only way the spreading of the Gospel can be accomplished. He continued along the same train of thought with the statement that Jesus was a universal panacea who could heal all our wounds no matter of what nature they happened to be. In closing, he made the wish that at Davidson there would be a wide debarkation across pathless seas to undreamed of shores, where the Lord reigns supreme.

MID-WINTER ASSEMBLAGE
(Continued from page 1)

the college finances are in a satisfactory condition. The Trustees were the guests of the faculty at a luncheon given in the banquet hall of Chambers Building.

WILDCAT BASEBALL
(Continued from page 3)

ent, which gives no first-rate performers among the alternates. At present, there appear to be only five twirlers with the possibility of a sixth before the season opens. McAllister, Thompson, and Croker are the only leftovers from last year’s varsity squad, but a few aces of the freshman nine are expected to go good this year in the varsity. These are Pearce and Baily. None of these were star performers last year, but all showed a great deal of promise and there is a possibility of two or more coming out this year in good form. A sixth, Cathey, is uncertain about his eligibility, since he was here at Davidson a number of years ago and has returned this year to take up some M. A. work.

Capt. Armfield will head the receiving staff, which at present is composed of himself and Whitley, a recruit from the freshman ranks of last year. Armfield turned in creditable work last year and is expected to go even better this spring. Whitley held down the backstop position last year in a steady style for the freshmen, though never sensational, he showed marked improvement during the season.

It would be a hard job to try to pick a probable starting infield for the coming season, but two regulars have about cinched their jobs. Proctor will in all likelihood resume his old post at first base, and Goodson is slated to take the keystone bag again. Both of these men were stalwarts on last year’s team and will aid greatly in building a team this year. Both are above-average fielders and both have batting averages better than most. For the other two infield posts, there are four men to fight it out between them. Barnhardt and McMillan were regulars last year, but two sophomores are slated to give them a run for their positions. Mills and Peabody were towers of strength on the freshman nine last year and both are going to be heard from this year. It is entirely possible that Mills will be shifted to the hot corner, though shortstop is his regular stamping ground. He has a strong arm, is very fast, all of which goes to make a good third sacker. Peabody is a keystoner by trade and might be left there as an understudy to Goodson, or he might be shifted to work with McMillan or Barnhardt for one of these other two positions.

Out in the garden, there are Covington and Mathis from the varsity with Bradsher, a sophomore, slated to take a position with them. All three of these take a healthy swat at the ball and should develop into first-class fly chasers. Others to try out in the outfield will be Morrison, J. G., Morrison, J. D., and Howard.

MISSIONS CONFERENCE
(Continued from page 1)

The missionary message is a message of the life and sacrifice of Jesus Christ. Commission number two, on “The Foreign Field—Our Missionary Responsibility,” with Dr. D. W. Richardson, chairman, was also endorsed, with the following things stressed: We should take the world as a whole as our field, moving forward as quickly as we are able with the present responsibility and financial conditions taken into consideration. As regards the commission on “The Church at Home—How Can It Meet This Responsibility?” with Dr. H. W. DuBose, chairman, the individual responsibility of everyone in the church was stressed. Much the same suggestion was made on the commission on “The Pastor and Missions—His Place of Leadership,” with Dr. Wm. M. Anderson, chairman, with the conference feeling that the pastor was the leader of the church in foreign missions, but that every individual should do everything in his power to help the pastor and to assume more and more of his responsibility.

In the commission on “The Offering of Possessions—Adequately Financing the Enterprise,” with Dr. A. S. Johnson, chairman, the following thing was suggested: That we should increase the number of missionaries by fifty each year, and that we should increase the amount of money to foreign missions $125,000 per year. The congress made no definite action on this, although it recommended that the percent of appropriations to foreign missions increase. The commission on “The Offering of Life—The Missionary Recruits Past, Present,and Future,” with Dr. W. T. Thompson, chairman, was endorsed, with the following things emphasized: There is a definite need in our church for more missionaries. The missionaries should measure up to certain standards, and the foreign mission board should be allowed to call its missionaries if necessary. After the report of the findings committee, there was a pageant presented, entitled "His Presence," by Lucile DuBose. It contained a cast of 230 characters and showed how Christ was with the missions of the church at home and abroad in the past, and will be in the future.

Soph. Week-End
The Sophomore Week-End will begin Saturday afternoon, March 14th, at 3:00 o’clock with a free picture-show. Following the show, at 5:15 there will be a reception at the “Y” Social Center. At 6:30 there will be a banquet in the dining hall of Chambers. It has not yet been decided whether the entertainment at 8:15 will be furnished by Winthrop girls or by local talent. The entertainment committee is made up of Paul Brown, Reeves Pope, Don Brandon, and Bob McCallie.

DR. HENDERSON (Continued from page 1)
made to identify science with morality, then the art of science will be broken down. “Questions of morality,” he continued, “are problems for mankind to settle. Explosives that in time of war can wipe out whole cities probably are no more destructive than they are beneficial in time of peace when they can be put to uses that aid in building industries.” It is a well-known fact that science is head and shoulders above all other branches of knowledge. The reason for this is because the scientists always work with vigor and patience to solve their many problems, according to the speaker. He urges that all the other educational branches speed up in their work so they can be in the same range as science.

Dr. Henderson named three of the greatest scientists of the present day and discussed them briefly. Thomas A. Edison, Madame Curie, and Einstein were the scientists named and discussed. He classed Edison as a natural wizard who can make the phenomena of the earth do his bidding. Madame Curie, who discovered radium, was classed as one who could work out the theory, take it into the laboratory, and apply it to find out nature’s secrets. Professor Einstein was called the only universe builder since Sir Isaac Newton. Dr. Henderson explained to the audience the Einstein theory of relativity. He concluded his speech with these words, “He (Einstein) is now working for a merger between the universal law of gravity and the law of magnetism.”

I. R. C. MAKES PLANS (Continued from page 1)
church have now ceased to attend church, to pray, and to visit God. The Communist party, which is in power, though not actually prohibiting church attendance, has passed severe measures which are very hostile to any form of religion. The old orthodox Russian church, which was such a famous institution in past centuries, has been almost completely done away with. The Bolshevists center their efforts on the youth and it is a significant and alarming thing that the whole generation of young people is growing up with the idea that religion is a monstrous unreality. Social service is the chief means of multiplying a variety of appeals that religion had made to man instead of prayers, fasting, lighting of candles, or retirement to a monastery, all of which argue the Russians, aside from being of no practical value, draw a man into himself, his own glorification, he will give himself to building things for the new society, new factories, homes, cities, and schools. They insist that science is the key to the ministry of life, its origin and purpose. Never in the history of religion has Christianity faced a foe so determined, energetic, and formidable, as it is now encountering in Russia. It is the institution of private property on which the Bolshevists have centered their fiercest attack. “The theory of the Communist,” says the Communist Manifesto, “may be summed up in one sentence; the abolition of private property; by private property they mean primarily the means of production. Property for the strictly personal use is the only kind which one may legitimately acquire. It is the accumulation of property to be exploited for gain that the Communists wish to outlaw. Such property they pronounce the chief scourge of mankind, the cause of wars, poverty, crime, and internal conflicts.”

Makers of Camels Offer Many Prizes
Contest Inaugurated on February 25, by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
A contest, offering $50,000 in prizes, was inaugurated on February 25 by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., makers of Camel cigarettes, with special announcements in this and other college periodicals. Eight days are allowed for submission of answers, the contest closing at midnight on March 4. Prizes will be awarded for the best answers to the question: “What significant change has recently been made in the wrapping of the Camel package, containing twenty cigarettes, and what are its advantages to the smoker?” Answers are limited to 200 words in length, must be written on one side of the paper only, and are to be mailed to the Contest Editor, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C. First prize is $25,000, with second and third prize of $10,000 and $5,000, respectively. Numerous smaller prizes will also be awarded. Judges of the contest are Ray Long, President of the International Magazine Company and Editor of Cosmopolitan magazine; Roy Howard, chairman of the board of the Scripps-Howard newspapers, and Charles Dana Gibson, internationally known artist and publisher of Life magazine.

The contest is part of what advertising experts declare is one of the most intensive advertising campaigns ever staged. Practically every daily and county seat weekly newspaper in the country will be used, as well as college periodicals and financial newspapers. This campaign is to be followed by an aggressive advertising drive through newspapers, magazines, radio, and outdoor display.

Where will the two slanting lines meet if the shorter one is continued? Good eyes are needed for this one.

YOUR EYES MAY FOOL YOU BUT YOUR TASTE TELLS THE TRUTH

Milder...and Better Taste