THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 13, 1931

Book Review

The Christian Belief in Immortality in the Light of Modern Thought. By James H. Snowden. The Macmillan Company, New York.
(Library New Book List.)

The vast accumulation of knowledge in recent years, the liberality of thought given Scripture, and the tolerance of varying interpretations—all
the product of the scientific era in thought and thought method—have called forth a frank discussion, scientifically, of the vital
question of immortality.

The doctrine of life after death is time-old, and belief in it has so long been shared by the majority
of mankind. Pagan and Christian alike, though differing in concepts of the present life, have universally accepted the continuation of
the soul’s life in the future world. But just what and where is the soul? Ancients have ascribed it a
definite place in the brain, agnostics have of course denied its existence, while modern thought construes it as personality itself,
the Ego in man.

Dr. Snowden’s book is a presentation of the grounds of belief in immortality on natural, religious, and Christian grounds. On
natural grounds, the soul, the essence of personality, is a continuing entity, existing before and after this life. Considered in
that light the soul has simply lodged itself in a physical body, working in conjunction with and guiding it. What
reason is there to believe that its existence will be cut off with the physical body containing it?

The most powerful objection to immortality, says Dr. Snowden, is the dependence of the soul on the body as though
the two came into existence and perished together. But this concept is undermined by the fact of the soul’s mastery
over the body. When a telegraph instrument stops sparking the operator does not stop thinking.

The religious argument for immortality is its deep-rootedness in man’s nature. It is an instinct in man’s heart prompted by
his recognition of the incompleteness of the soul and of the world. The Christian’s strongest argument for immortality is, of
course, the Bible. “Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father’s
house are many mansions: if it were not so I would have told you. I go to prepare a place
for you.” This and Christ’s other allusions to “another home” coupled with natural and normal religious faith in a hereafter
constitute the foundation of the Christian belief.

Material and symbolic proof of a hereafter was presented in Christ’s own resurrection from the grave. The agnostic’s cry that
his resurrection was illusory to the disciples is convincingly refuted by Dr. Snowden in his chapter on “The Christian Grounds
of Belief.” “Such illusions and delusions can grow up only in minds that already have some obsession or possession, in
their favor they demand original soil and propitious circumstances. Nothing of the kind but quite the contrary existed in the
case of the disciples. While Jesus had spoken to them of His resurrection, yet they seem not to have understood
Him, and no such expectation was in their minds. His death was a disaster wholly unexpected by them and was
at once followed by the utter collapse of all their hopes.” The disciples, especially Thomas, had to be convinced of
Christ’s rising, such was their doubt.

The feasibility of immortality is demonstrated in chapter 8 in which Dr. Snowden states that the doctrine has won the
assent of scientific minds, that it has been confirmed by spirit communications, that it has stood the test of the
great war and is practical for every-day life. The conviction can be strengthened by intellectual reasoning, but actual belief is
born and nourished in the heart. The Christian’s stand is faith. The alternative of immortality is pessimism.

Dr. Snowden’s book, which won the $1,000 prize offered by “The Churchman” for the best paper on the subject, is
a masterful and scholarly exposition. The author quotes frequently from poets.

H. W. E.

ANNUAL MOTHERS’ DAY (Continued from page 1)

way to get spirituality is to get it by yourself, but Mrs. Glasgow thinks the spiritual atmosphere of this campus
refutes this belief. She related the story about one of her friends who decided to be a minister. When he
was reminded of the trials he would face, he answered, “Who wants an easy job?” The speaker said that control
is another thing that should be developed, because people without it are unreliable. She quoted the passage, “He that ruleth
his own spirit is greater than he that taketh a city.” Comparing a wild, spirited horse that is useless to
a strong, well-trained, useful horse, Mrs. Glasgow ended by asking her hearers, merely harmless strength. Consecration was affirmed as another
factor necessary in a four-square man. She explained the difference between morality and spirituality and stressed the moral, mental, and
physical side of life. She told how David Livingstone’s true worth was proven by his decision to remain in Africa
when his life was in danger. Giving the example of a small boy who informed his mother during the World
War that if he were old enough to go to fight, he wouldn’t, because there would be lots of other
things he would want to do. She added

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS” Make Our Store Your Store Students’ Supplies WHITE DRUG CO., Inc. “SODA” “SUNDRIES”

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY Richmond, Virginia Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia The
oldestand largest Southern Presbyterian Seminary. Both sound in the faith, and alert for new methods. Nineteen Buildings, on a Fifty
Acre Campus. A Moderate Endowment, and Many Scholarships. To regular students—well-balanced courses, including a. To advanced students—specially chosen courses to
fit each. To the most successful students—five fellowships of post-graduate study, some resident, others abroad. For further information, address REV.
B. R. LACY, JR., D.D., President.

Wilson, Theta Upsilon Omega; E. B. Rob- that the tot went away and thought it over, and returned to his
mother and said that if his country needed him he would be ready. Mrs. Glasgow ended by asking her hearers,
“if their God needed them, to be ready.”

A. H. WHITEHEAD (Continued from page 1)
tative to the council. The new council consists of the following: E. Z. DuBose, Beta Theta Pi; R. E. C.
Roane, Pi Kappa Alpha; R. K. Morton, Kappa Alpha; N. G. Spier, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; E. D. Kuykendall (secretary and
treasurer), Kappa Sigma; A. H. Whitehead (president), Pi Kappa Phi; R. W. Gorrell, Phi Gamma Delta; H. M. Robinson, Phi
Delta Theta, and C. E. Bettis, Sigma Phi Epsilon. The retiring council is made up of J. A. Cannon, Jr.
(president), Beta Theta Pi; G. W. George, Pi Kappa Alpha; R. M. King, Kappa Alpha; Nab Armfield, Sigma Alpha Epsilon;
J. K. Pepper, Jr., Kappa Sigma; A. H. Whitehead, Pi Kappa Phi; A. R. Bird, Jr., Phi Gamma Delta; C.
T. Parker, Theta Upsilon Omega; C. H. Goodykoontz, Phi Delta Theta, and F. R. Pilcher, Sigma Phi Epsilon.

CONWAY AND GORRELL (Continued from page 1)
Cranks on last Friday, according to an announcement made by Bob King, the retiring business manager. Several weeks ago Bob
Gorrell was elected football manager for next season, and only recently he was elected to serve on the 1931-32 Student
Council as a representative of the Senior class. Besides these honors, Bob was the business manager for the Wildcat Handbook
last year and he is to serve on the Y Cabinet next year. He is a member of Phi Gamma
Delta social fraternity. The other members of the business staff of the Annual will be appointed during the week and
future announcements will be made concerning them. In a recent election, A. J. Baker was elected business manager of the
Yowl, Davidson’s humorous magazine.

SALE
TIES NOW
$0.75
$1.05
$1.00
$1.50

HOSE NOW
$0.25
$0.35
$0.55
$0.75
$1.05
$1.55

Archie Baker is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, Student Councilman, assistant business manager of the Davidsonian, and
a member of the varsity football squad. The assistant business managers for the business staff of the Yowl are Ike
Dickinson, Alex Little, Mac Manson, Arthur Ross, and Bill Flow.

PRES. H. E. RONDTHALER (Continued from page 1)
it urge him on, and lay continuing and lasting and joyful stress on the subject which will make him go
deeper into it than the mere page of his book. “This thing will make him see all the imagery and
symbolism of his mathematics, the vast underlying movement and currents of history, the living and pregnant power of words, rather
than the drudgery which is all too common to these things. These things will add immeasurably to the subject, and
will give it those things which will last. Hard to judge in terms of grades, or units, I grant you,
but far more important,” added the speaker. “I would,” Dr. Rondthaler concluded, “that at the threshold of each new adventure
in education for every man, this ‘spirit of imagination kindled’ would stand, urgent, rich, earnest, sincere, pointing the way on
to the real and important things to be learned.” Immediately preceding the public address, the formal initiation of the new
men was held, and at the close of the speech, a banquet for the new initiates and old members was
laid in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. Men honored with membership in this fraternity included Dr. Rondthaler, himself, of
Winston-Salem, and Profs. K. J. Foreman and C. K. Brown, and Lieut.-Col. W. R. Scott, members of the Davidson faculty.
The following students were also initiated: J. L. Smith, Dunn; J. A. Cannon, Jr., Concord; H. S. Covington, Red Springs;
J. A. Jones, Laurinburg; Roger Enloe, Buchanan, Ga.; Grier Martin, Covington, Ga.; D. S. King, Bristol, Tenn.; D. M. McQueen,
Little Rock, S. C.; J. H. McKinnon, Jr., Jacksonville, Fla.; E. C. Dwelle, Jr., Charlotte, and R. W. Gorrell, Jr.,
Winston-Salem.

Tom—I've seen the girl I want to marry. I stood behind her at the ticket window this morning and she
took seven minutes to buy a five-cent elevator ticket.
Alice—Did that make you want to marry her?
Tom—Yes, I figured out that she could never spend my income at that rate.

SALESMEN WANTED
Men with selling experience will be interested in the excellent earnings obtainable through the sale of Class Rings, Frat Pins,
Favors, Trophies, etc. Write for proposition.
The Metal Arts Co.
Rochester, New York

FOR SALE
The Cranford Home, located on Main Street; nine rooms, two baths, extra lavatory. Nearly three acres of land with a
frontage of about 110 feet.
A. B. CARTER
Gastonia, N. C.

Complete Service for School Publications
Annuals, Magazines, Catalogs, View Books
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

SALE
UNDERWEAR NOW
$0.75
$0.35
Coat at $1.00
$0.90

PAJAMAS
$2.00
$1.55
$2.50
$2.05
$3.00
$2.55
$3.50
$3.05
$4.00
$3.75

Stetson “D” Store Offers Their Second Annual Profit Sharing Sale
EVERYTHING GREATLY REDUCED
Sweaters 25 per cent Off
Stock Suits Reduced
