THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1931

Mr. Joe Johnston, Head Of Barium Springs, Is Vesper Service Speaker

“Religion Can’t Be Put Aside During Week Like Sunday Clothes,” Speaker Asserts

W. H. MATTHEWS PRESIDES

Jake Mackorell and Moffett McConnell Offer Short Prayers

“You can’t have religion and put it away like you do Sunday clothes,” Mr. Joe B. Johnston, superintendent of Barium Springs Orphanage, told Davidson students last Sunday at vespers in Chambers Auditorium. He reviewed Deborah’s victory song, mentioning the tribes that responded. Some of the tribes were indifferent. He maintained that prayer did not require the person to dress up before he begins to pray. He said that people ought to approach God with all reverence.

An old negro man is responsible for the deepest religious experience Dr. Johnston ever had. The pipe in the orphanage well was lost in the well and if it couldn't be found they would have an ice famine. This negro man said we would fish for it if he were given some help. One morning several of them gathered at the well as the sun was coming up in an effort to find the pipe. While standing there the negro suggested they have a word of prayer. Mr. Johnston said after that he was confident they would find the lost pipe. Continuing he asked his audience if they were willing to trust God in little things? The Bible is full of proof that God stands by his people in little matters. Aren’t the sparrows cared for and the hairs of people’s heads numbered? God lets sunshine on the desert so that people over the world can enjoy it. He also allows rain to fall in the ocean that people everywhere can benefit. A God that does this is ready to hear the prayers his people offer.

He said religious services should do more than stir the heart. Mr. Johnston told about a man who became religious at every revival and his religion never lasted over twenty-four hours. He was an emotional drunkard and did not see the importance of applying the principles he heard to his everyday life. The right kind of religion is an experience that becomes a part of a person. It is not something that can be lain aside at the approach of sin.

Bill H. Matthews led the service and called on Moffatt McConnell and Jake Mackorell for prayers. Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman dismissed the assemblage.

Aptitude Test Will Be Given to Med. Students

Test to Be Given in Chambers, Room 124, on Dec. 11

Last year, on December 11th, at 3 p.m., was given, for the first time, the Pre-Medical Students Aptitude Test. This test was issued by the American Association of Medical Colleges, to be given to all students intending to enter medical colleges the following fall. Medical Colleges are not restricted as to their number of entrants, and so this test was made compulsory for such students. Davidson College is unconnected, other than through actually giving, with the test. The papers are sent to the Association, which corrects them and forwards them to the colleges to which the candidates intend to apply, and the results are not disclosed until entrance at these colleges.

Last year twenty men took the test; this year only fourteen have so far applied, although Mr. F. W. Hengeveld stated that if more than twenty students apply, he would be unable to accommodate them all, since more papers are unavailable. This year the test will be given in Chambers, Room 124, on December 11th, at 3 p.m. This is the only time this year the test will be given; and all those pre-medical students who intend entering a Medical College in the Fall of 1932 must take it. There is a charge of one dollar to cover expenses of printing, etc.

Dr. Henderlite Will Be Vesper Speaker

Dr. J. H. Henderlite, of the First Presbyterian Church of Gastonia, will be the speaker for the “Y” services that will be held in Chambers Auditorium this coming Sunday at six o'clock. Dr. Henderlite has spoken to the Davidson student body regularly for the past several years, and has proved himself a very interesting speaker. This tall, witty white-haired speaker attracts his audience merely with his appearance, to say nothing of his supreme ability of public speaking. Dr. Henderlite is a great backer of Davidson, and he had a son

©1931, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

WHY do more and more smokers say: Chesterfield. They Satisfy!

BECAUSE ... as pure as the water you drink!

THEY'RE MILDER. It’s the tobaccos—The mildest that money can buy. Ripened and sweetened in the sunshine ... cured by the farmer... then aged for two years in wooden hogsheads.

THEY TASTE BETTER. These tobaccos are put together right. Rich aroma of Turkish and mellow sweetness of Domestic, blended and cross-blended to Chesterfield’s own BETTER TASTE.

THEY'RE PURE. Everything that goes into Chesterfield is tested by expert chemists. The purest cigarette paper made, tasteless, odorless. Sanitary manufacture... no hands touchyour Chesterfields. They’re THEY SATISFY. You break open a clean, tight-sealed package. You light up a well-filled cigarette. Yes, sir... you're going to like this cigarette! And right there is where many a smoker changes to that finished here last year. His messages contain an element that appeals to anyone who enjoys attending these services.

“Y” DOING VITAL WORK
(Continued from page 1)

who are not conscious of the individual religious activity of a large percentage of our men. It is a great temptation when one comes to college to make no effort to engage in religious activities. The inclination is all the more dangerous because of stimulated intellectual inquiry on the part of the student. If one is not living his normal Christian life and his thinking is more intense, it is natural that an unbalanced attitude is likely to result. The average college man thinks of a “greasy grind” with something akin to contempt because he is not developing the “full man.” He is developing his mind with little or no concern for his other powers. Likewise, the man of brute strength and dull intellect will command little respect on a college campus. Even so, it should be equally true that an intellectual religion should command little respect unless it is accompanied by an active religion. A man’s religious attitude should not only be voiced in his conversation, but in his actions. Intellectual convictions are a part of religion and not religion itself. Religious experience and not a “mental system” is the backbone of religion. We are constantly changing our mental attitudes. In the light of fresh knowledge we cast aside some of our once cherished beliefs. Our experience cannot be cast aside. It is the most real part of our religious life. If our object be a triumphant Christian life it follows that our intellectual religious progress should be accompanied by an experience of equal depth and reality. It behooves us therefore to be alert to the opportunities for service which daily clamor at the door of our hearts.

I. R. C. GIVES BIDS
(Continued from page 1)

Cercle Francais, the Glee Club, Concert Orchestra, Volunteer Group, the South Carolina Club, and Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. James Gray Dunklin is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and is assistant manager of basketball. Robert Glasgow, Jr., is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, Junior basketball manager, secretary and treasurer of Junior class, and prominent in track in his Freshman year. Joseph William Lee is a Sigma Phi Epsilon and was Sophomore football manager last year. George Anderson Little is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity and has taken interest in inter-class athletics. William Robert Morrow is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, subscription manager of Davidsonian, and on the Freshman tennis team his first year. Leland McKeithen is on “Quips and Cranks” editorial staff, Glee Club and Sigma Upsilon. Arthur Ross is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and is a Junior manager of football.

DAVIDSON DRAMATIC CLUB
(Continued from page 1)

Club, J. G. Marvin was elected manager and E. A. Hancock, secretary-treasurer.

OTHER PLAYS ANNOUNCED

If it is possible to do so before Christmas, the Masquers will present the Little Theatre of Charlotte in the very popular one-act drama, “The Valiant.” Other plays in consideration to fill the remainder of the bill for the evening are “A Christmas Chime” and “Flat Lux,” also a Christmas story. December 21, the night before Christmas vacation, is being considered for this program.

WILDCATS PRIMED
(Continued from page 1)

acy, and the ’Cats trying to break the jinx of a decade. The all-time records are as follows:

1908 Wake Forest 4 - Davidson 31
1910 Wake Forest 0 - Davidson 32
1912 Wake Forest 7 - Davidson 13
1913 Wake Forest 0 - Davidson 6
1914 Wake Forest 6 - Davidson 7
1915 Wake Forest 7 - Davidson 21
1917 Wake Forest 7 - Davidson 72
1919 Wake Forest 0 - Davidson 21
1920 Wake Forest 7 - Davidson 27
1921 Wake Forest 10 - Davidson 7
1922 Wake Forest 6 - Davidson 6
1923 Wake Forest 6 - Davidson 0
1925 Wake Forest 7 - Davidson 7
1926 Wake Forest 3 - Davidson 3
1927 Wake Forest 13 - Davidson 13
1928 Wake Forest 25 - Davidson 6
1929 Wake Forest 6 - Davidson 0
1930 Wake Forest 13 - Davidson 2

Totals: Wake Forest 127; Davidson 274.

“LEADERSHIP IN PRAYER”
(Continued from page 5)

Pri petition means to forgive me for the things that I owe to Thee, meaning God; these are the things that we have left undone. Dr. Miles referred to Ibsen’s Peer Gynt, in which the hero felt things brushing about his feet and hanging onto him. When he asked what these were, he was told that they were the things “he had left undone, the kind words he had failed to speak, and good deeds he had failed to do.” These debts are sins of omission, and we are more condemned for these than for things we do that are wrong. The service was closed by repeating the Lord’s prayer, and then the benediction by Dr. Miles.