**THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 9, 1931**

The Davidsonian  
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”  
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915  

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the College Year.  
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.  
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN  
Editor-in-Chief  
P. M. CONWAY  
Business Manager  

EDITORIAL STAFF  
E. O. GUERRANT, Managing Editor  
D. D. McBRYDE, Managing Editor  
R. L. McCALLIE, Managing Editor  
C. F. MYERS, Managing Editor  
B. B. SUGG, Athletic Editor  
D. G. STEPHENSON, Feature Editor  
W. W. FRANKLIN, Feature Editor  
H. W. ERVIN, Review Editor  
E. LAKE, Exchange Editor  
J. C. DWELLE, JR., Associate Editor  
W. S. LEE, Associate Editor  
W. H. MATTHEWS, Associate Editor  

BUSINESS STAFF  
A. M. MANSON, Assistant Business Manager  
A. L. MEBANE, Assistant Business Manager  
T. W. WHITTED, Assistant Business Manager  
J. R. MORROW, Subscription Manager  
W. T. GRAHAM, Solicitor  
A. H. SPENCER, Solicitor  

REPORTERS’ CLUB  
A. H. WHITEHEAD, President  
J. E. LAKE, Vice-President  
B. F. MULLISS, Secretary-Treasurer  
R. H. ALDERMAN  
F. H. COVINGTON  
B. B. TAYLOR  
L. S. GAMBLE  
G. E. BAILEY  
R. E. LORRAINE  
J. E. BOYD  
E. L. POWELL  
J. P. PRESTON  
R. PRATT-THOMAS  
W. R. WARD  
A. F. SCHENCK  
O. C. LILES  
W. M. THOMPSON  
L. W. CLARDY  
W. T. THOMPSON  
JACK WILLIAMS  
J. A. HUNTER  

DECEMBER 9, 1931

PARAGRAPHICS

Congratulations to the Freshmen in their well-earned victory Saturday. It is the first time the Freshmen have played the Tar Babies in quite a while.

From every indication, it seems that the dubious affair at Durham turned into a mild success, although the crowd was disappointingly small. The Wildcat representatives report that they thoroughly enjoyed the game and praised the sportsmanship and gameness of their teammates from the other two schools.

Elsewhere in this edition will be found information concerning the object of this year’s gift of 1,000 dollars. It is to our advantage to familiarize ourselves with this, as this is and has been an important part of the Student Body’s task.

OUR NEW TASK

The Wildcat Spirit does not end with the completion of the football season nor does it begin again with the renewal of the basketball season, but it is ever present and all-pervading. Now we are called on to exercise that spirit more than almost ever before. We have to do something that is not spectacular, something that we do not receive individual credit for doing. We are called on to give out of our own pockets at a time when it hurts worse. But it is our task, a challenge that has been handed down by preceding Student Bodies who have been faced with the same task and succeeded.

This year’s contribution goes mainly to the Foreign Mission Board of the Southern Presbyterian Church for their use in foreign missions. The people of our Church are woefully ignorant of the tasks which face our foreign mission movement. This Student Body is probably like them in that respect, so the Y. M. C. A. is attempting to carry on an intensive education program in order that the students may know to what great project they are donating their money. From day to day short talks will be made to give a few graphic pictures of the work we want to support. In the hallway of the first floor of Chambers is a display of articles representing the countries in which we have mission stations.

Below are the answers to a group of interesting questions found in a box on the first page:

1. $2.60. To win for Christ 36,000,000 people in six countries all around the world: Brazil, China, Japan, Africa, Korea, Mexico. Nine Foreign Missions, 50 Stations, 1,624 Out-stations, 338 Organized Congregations.  
2. 427 men and women from our country, 3,452 native workers.  
3. 50,000; 4,748 added last year; 81,115: Sunday School pupils. 101,475; this does not include those reared in native churches.  
4. Yes, this year they contributed $528.00.  
5. 1,025 schools and enrollment of 41,217.  
6. No. We support industrial schools also. Our Agricultural School at Lavras, Brazil, is the model school for the Brazilian Government.  
7. 23 doctors, 24 nurses; 31 native physicians, 170 nurses and 66 helpers.  
8. 22 hospitals, and 15 dispensaries. Last year 11,115 operations performed; patients treated, 320,404.  
9. Missionary homes, school buildings, equipment, libraries; preaching halls, chapels; hospitals, dispensaries and modern medical equipment.

ABOUT OUR HONOR

Davidson’s honor system is far renowned because it is known to be a working system. Seldom does there come a time when the honor of any Davidson man is questioned. And Davidson is proud of her reputation along this line; it is one of her most treasured traditions. Davidson men hold it their highest duty and privilege to uphold this tradition.

There are many colleges and universities which have tried unsuccessfully to have the honor system. It is therefore a great tribute to Davidson that she is able to have such a system with little difficulty. Yet to have an efficient honor system there must be honor in small things as well as in larger matters. A small infraction is in reality as bad as one of the major breaks, in so far as the preservation of the system is concerned.

The Davidson Students’ Store has, in the last eight years, made a total profit of around eight thousand dollars. It seems that, with all the trade the students give to their store, the profits should be more than a thousand dollars a year. The loss that occurs may be attributed to several different causes—small margin of profit, high operating expenses due to the salaries paid to the clerks, lack of continuous operation, and various other causes. But it is certain that a part of this loss is due to the failure of some men to pay for things they obtain from the store. These articles may be small and it seems at the time to mean nothing to pick up an extra cracker, another piece of candy, or get a package of cigarettes, without paying for them. But in figuring the results we must consider the fact that there are over six hundred men in the student body, and that if each one did this, the total would be enormous. Aside from this fact we must realize that we are not keeping our honor in small things. Let’s make the phrase, “You are dealing with yourself,” really mean something!

Collegiate Ramblings  
J. E. Lake

Gettysburg College

This college, located at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, where the historical battle of Gettysburg was fought during the Civil War, is going to observe its one hundredth anniversary of the founding of the college this year. As speakers at this celebration, the school authorities have engaged two men who stand very high in the medical world. These men are Dr. Lewellys Franklin Barker, professor emeritus of medicine at Johns Hopkins University and visiting physician at the Johns Hopkins Hospital and who is acclaimed to be one of the most outstanding teachers of internal medicine in the East; and Dr. Frank Pierpont Graves, who is president of the University of the State of New York and Commissioner of Education. He was also awarded the Butler medal for educational administration in 1927. Dr. Graves is a very inspirational speaker and teacher. At this same institution, Phi Beta Kappa elected to its membership recently three seniors.

Auburn

Wiley Post and Harold Gatty, famous round-the-world flyers, made a visit to the new Auburn-Opelika airport last Sunday, December 6, and that afternoon they both spoke at the Opelika Theatre on their great trip around the universe. This airport is a very new one, having been just completed, so these are the first flyers of note that have visited this port. The people of Auburn are very proud to have these two men and their plane, “Winnie Mae,” visit their port. This port is going to be used as an emergency landing field for the new air mail service between Atlanta and New Orleans.

Duke

With a great deal of pride, The Chronicle tells us that Duke has the largest library in the Southeast. In this library, there are over a quarter of a million books on all subjects that would be interesting to the students. There are books in this library whose publication dates from the seventeenth century, one of them dates from 1680, this being the oldest book there. There are also records of the Protestant Episcopal Church, minutes of the Southern Baptist Association, and the Southern Baptist Convention, letters that were written between Georgia and South Carolina men during the Revolutionary War, and a number of notes of General Nathaniel Greene.evangelists need bicycles, motorcycles, motor boats, and Ford cars to cover their territory. 138 years. William Carey went to India in 1792—first Protestant missionary. 14, 15, 16, 17. Luebo, Africa. 18. Davidson College and The Golden Castle College, Nagoya, Japan. The most spectacular figure in the Christian world of Japan today. He is a product of our mission work in Japan. He is a philosopher, poet, novelist, labor leader, orator, Bible teacher, and preacher extraordinary. He is called “The Leader of New Japan.” The concerted evangelistic movement of the Christians of Japan. It is led by Kagawa. $1,250,000. ¥ ? 19. 20. 21.

“Of Ships & Shoes—& Sealing Wax—Of Cabbages & Kings...” Well, well (deep subject), football is about to hand over the old gavel to basketball. The young people are forgetting the word “gridiron,” and beginning to think of the word “court.” It seems that football is a game where you get razzed if you don’t run with the ball; and basketball is a game where you get razzed if you DO run with it. We give up—what is this anyway, a game? We've had a pretty hard time picking our all-state team, so we're gonna try a new idea. VOLUNTEERS! Kindly send seven ($0.07) cents, (please do not send stamps) to MIRTHOFANATION, together with 12 reasons why you never could play football, 8 reasons why you never wanted to, and 3 reasons why you have been playing football this year. You might also send a 5,000-word essay on “Why I Avoid Such Harmful Throat Irritants as Camels, Chesterfields, Lucky Strikes, and Spuds.” Our team so far is as follows:
BROGKAN ........................................ Tackle
AWIEIR Gates .................................. Off Center
Goot Clath ....................................... Third Base
Uy GG ............................................. Mudguard
IPentinete ....................................... Water Boy
EROCH ........................................... Drawback

Only one game has been scheduled as this paper goes to press. The team will play HAVOC next Thirstday, Octomber the 35th, on the Langley Field, unless some, or all, of the team kick off before then.

There are only two wooden Indians remaining in front of cigar stores in America. The others, we suppose, all went in search of a good five-cent cigar. (Or maybe they are trying to find five cents.)

HE LEARNED ABOUT WOMEN
“I could not Love thee, dear, so much—
Loved I not Henry Moore.”

TIMELY LITTLE HINTS FOR SUCCESS
Set your watch up a quarter of an hour. For: “I owe my success in life,” says Admiral Nelson, “to having always been a quarter of an hour before my time.”

WE SUGGEST AS SLOGANS:
(For a “Help-Wanted” section): —“Read 'em and sweep.”
(For an eye-wash concern): “A product continually in the eye of the public.”
(For a clothing concern): “For attired business man.”
(For a bank): “If you have money, we will have it; If you want money, we won't have it.”

(Send in your suggested slogans to this column. A handsome reward given to the best sent in each week. Unless the judges are unable to decide which is the best, which will probably be the case.)

RUMPLE REPARTEE:
He—He said I was crazy.
Hee—Yeah?
Heee—So I called Himalaya.

CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT
“After all, girls will be girls, and boys will be boisterous.” —Bob Torrence.

A-SAP’S FABLE FOR TODAY:
“A fool and his money are soon party-ed.”

LOOKING OVER THE MORNING MAIL:
POT 8 O CLUB
2 hills past tomato

Dear Sweet Potato:
Do you carrot all for me? My heart beets for you. Please don’t turnip your nose, you big cabbage. If you do carrot all for me, lettuce elope. If you cantaloupe, lettuce marry.
Your little Wild Jerry,

Came the reply:
“Jerrymiah mother doesn’t approve of you. But I'll Micah approve of you yet. Pop corn has consented, but Mamma Lade sticks fast.
Rhoda. Dendron.

BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH SUGGESTION:
John Knox on Death’s Door. By Midnight.

Said the street car conductor to the Davidson student: “Well, come on. Are you Gunga Din the car or not?”

SPOON RIVER SPECIALS
Epitaph on a fireman’s grave: “OUR ESTEEMED FRIEND”

DES ENTREFILETS
Those who think that the expression, “Oh, yeah,” is something very modern will be surprised to learn that it is not in the least up to date and is in fact 1,500 years old. According to Max J. Herzberg, Superintendent of English in the Newark Public Schools, Beowulf, about 500 or 600 years after Christ, would have said “yeah.” He adds that our “yeah” is the “yea” of the Bible. Anglo-Saxon authorities say the letters y-e-a would have been pronounced “yeah” in that language.

A short time ago the spectators in the Traffic Court of New York were amused when the case of Hamm against Rolls was called. A certain Albert Rolls had received a ticket for illegal parking from Patrolman Henry P. Hamm. Rolls was fined three dollars.

Supreme Court Justice William F. Bleakley of New York is very much against “publicized football games” at Sing Sing. He said recently, “I am in favor of healthful exercises within the prison walls but when you advertise convicts and make heroes out of them the effect is generally bad.” The justice added that it was “particularly incongruous” that a game between the convicts and a police department should be widely advertised.

Vienna was astonished recently upon learning that the document which is the basis of the Austrian Republic’s liberation from the rule of the Hapsburgs no longer exists. This document was a letter of abdication signed by the Emperor Karl in 1918. It was lost with thousands of other documents when the Vienna Palace of Justice was burned by a mob on July 15, 1927. It is ironical that it should have been destroyed by the extreme Left revolutionary mob which, incensed over the acquittal of two Heimwehr members who had killed two people taking part in a Socialist protest, burned the Palace of Justice and thus destroyed the basic charter of the Austrian Republic.

The British Government recently purchased from the Plane Speaker Corporation a loudspeaker with which it intends to spread goodwill over the empire. The apparatus consists of powerful amplification tubes and a loudspeaker which magnify the voice a million times. It is possible with the use of this device to make the voice heard from the altitude of 3,000 to 4,000 feet. It is the intention of the Air Ministry to use this method to spread goodwill in India and other colonial possessions.

The number of individuals having incomes for taxation of over one million dollars dropped from 513 in 1929 to 149 in 1930. There were 6,152 persons in 1930 having an income of more than one hundred thousand dollars as compared with 14,701 in the preceding year. This just goes to show that the depression isn’t over yet, at least not in the United States, and a much larger drop in incomes is expected for the year of 1931.

Only 141 days after it was inaugurated the Constitutional Cortes of Republican Spain completed voting on the Constitution, a document designed to transform a feudal monarchy into a modern state. From its first article declaring “Spain is a republic of the workers of all classes,” to its last section it is designed to erect the most modern of all states. In this constitution the Catholic Church is declared to no longer be the state religion of Spain and that it is a “secular” state.

The Finnish Government has asked the Diet to authorize a referendum to determine whether they shall continue prohibition, repeal the laws outright, or adopt a policy of modification. It seems that Finland is having the same experience with prohibition as the United States. It is having a destructive influence upon the laws of the country. There has been an increase in drunkenness and in crimes of violence. A special criminal profession has grown up because of the situation created by prohibition and the judicial system of the nation has been endangered.

According to Professor Carl G. Gaum of Rutgers University the sure index of a man’s intelligence is laughter. “Tell me what you laugh at and I'll tell you your mental age,” he said. “Laughter is an indication of intelligence, and of all degrees of laughter, the laughter at oneself rates the highest. A moron, a half-wit, even an idiot, can laugh at other people’s mishaps; the man who can laugh at a superstition, a custom, a tradition, an institution, must be an observer; but the man who can genuinely laugh at himself is truly intelligent.”

CORPORAL PUNISHMENT OR THE GENERAL LIFE OF A CORPORAL OR THE PRIVATE LIFE OF A GENERAL
Ben Battle was a soldier bold,
And used to war’s alarms;
But a cannonball took off his legs—
So he laid down his arms!

Epitaph on a cook’s grave:
“WELL DONE, THOU GOOD AND FAITHFUL SERVANT”

Good night, shirt.