\ THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1931

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the College Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN Editor-in-Chief
P. M. CONWAY Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. O. GUERRANT Managing Editor
D. D. MCBRYDE Managing Editor
R. L. McCALLIE Managing Editor
C. F. MYERS Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENSON Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLIN Feature Editor
H. W. VALINE Review Editor
J. E. LAKE Exchange Editor
W. S. ANDERSON Associate Editor
W. H. McALLISTER Associate Editor
W. H. MALONE Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. SWANSON Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE Assistant Business Manager
J. W. WHITTED Assistant Business Manager
J. O. WILSON Subscription Manager
A. W. FLETCHER Solicitor
J. F. DAVIS Solicitor
J. B. WOOTTON Solicitor
A. H. NELSON Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
A. S. WHITENER President
W. B. GARRISON Vice-President
W. C. McMULLIN Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR
L. S. GAMBLE
G. F. BAILEY
R. E. LORRAINE
J. E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
S. P. PRESTON
R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
A. F. SCHENCK
O. CASALI
W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. STRICKLAND
W. T. THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAMS
J. A. HUNTER

DECEMBER 16, 1931

The good man prolongs his life; to be able to enjoy one’s past life is to live thrice. — Martial.

PARAGRAPHICS

This is the last issue of the Davidsonian before the Christmas Holidays. The next one will appear Wednesday, January 13,
1932.

One man who heard the Russian Chorus stated that he would rather hear them than any other musical organization in
the country. There is a treat in store for those who attend.

If you haven't already contributed to the “Y” fund, do so at once!

To the Freshmen—the Christmas vesper service will be one of the most impressive services you will have the pleasure of
attending during your college career. Don’t miss it.

Heard on the campus—suggestions for a successor for “Monk”: “Tex” Tilson, Flake Laird, Walter Skidmore, Captain Pritchett, Alonzo Stagg, Howard
Jones, Pop Warner, and Harry Mehre. (Someone intimated that this last-named gentleman might be looking for a position.)

The Davidsonian Staff extends the Season’s greetings.

WHY GO TO COLLEGE?

This editorial does not propose to offer any remedies for the situation it is to present, but merely to present
some facts and raise some questions. The results from a recent investigation made by the Carnegie Foundation are astounding to
the average person. This investigation was made in schools in Pennsylvania, and was in the form of a standard test
given by examiners for the Carnegie Foundation. This test was divided into three sections, the first being on general knowledge,
the second a standard intelligence test, and the third concerning certain academic subjects. The examination was given to the four
classes of several different colleges in Pennsylvania. In computing the results it was found that the college senior knows very
little, if any, more than the freshman who has just entered the institution. On many subjects the freshmen averaged higher
than the would-be graduates. The sophomores and juniors were very near the average made by the other two classes, higher
in some branches of learning and lower in others. If no learning results from a four-year stay at an institution
one may well raise the question, “Why go to college anyway?” Is there not something radically wrong with our educational
system? Are there other advantages to be acquired from a college education which make up for this evident lack of
real education? Or is it true that Americans are spending millions of dollars yearly in a futile effort? There must
be an alternative in education which will give better results than the present system. Experimenters all over the country are
trying to find this system, and the American nation eagerly awaits the discovery.

QUITE A SURPRISE

Davidson College received quite a surprise Sunday morning when it was enlightened of the fact that Coach William Lee (Monk)
Younger would be assistant coach at Virginia Polytechnic Institute for the next five years. Especially was this true since Davidson
thought that “Monk” was to be head coach here for that same period of time.

During the last several years there has been a considerable amount of speculation on whether Coach Younger would be at
Davidson any longer. It was known that V. P. I. was negotiating with him, and many thought that he would
accept their offer. This fall the issue was, to all appearances, settled; “Monk” and “Tex” signed five-year contracts. At that
announcement many Davidson alumni and friends heaved sighs of relief. Now comes the announcement from the Virginia school that Younger
will be there next year. This leaves the Davidson authorities only a comparatively short time to secure a successor for
him. It will take a long time to find a mentor who will be able to fill his shoes capably.
Younger, while at V. P. I., where he went after attending Davidson a year, was termed “the smartest end in
the history of V. P. I. football.” After his graduation there he coached a year at Hampden-Sydney, served three years
as assistant at Virginia Tech, and in 1923 came to Davidson as head coach. For nine years he has been
successful in having, if not a championship team, at least a creditable one. It is the sentiment throughout the state
that Younger is one of the smartest coaches in Southern football. Davidson is indeed indebted to him as a coach,
an alumnus, and a friend. He goes to V. P. I. with wishes for success from the Davidson student body,
alumni, and supporters.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Washington and Lee
Bernie Cummins, nationally-known dance orchestra, will be the entertainers for the Washington and Lee fancy dress set of dances, which
will take place on January 28, 29, and 30. This orchestra is well known all over the United States, having
played at Kansas City, Oklahoma City, St. Paul, New York City, Dallas, and Cincinnati. This band has won popularity and
fame especially with two pieces often heard over the radio, “Minnie the Mermaid,” and “Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder.”
Davidson is well acquainted with this band, although it has never been to this campus. However, it is heard over
the radio here from Cincinnati many times.

Emory
Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity, at a recent election tapped seven student leaders, six seniors and one graduate student.
Last Tuesday the Emory debaters opposed the Oxford University of England debaters on the subject, Resolved, “That the press is
democracy’s greatest danger.” The Emory boys upheld the negative, the foreigners had the affirmative side. It was a no-decision contest.

Auburn
Blue Key, a national honor society, elected six seniors to its membership at a recent election. The purpose of the
local chapter is to further the best interest of Auburn, to promote fraternalism among the students there, and to foster
intercollegiate relationships. It also strives to develop a national spirit by placing the stamp of approval upon college leaders, which
will make it possible to recognize them wherever they are found. The Blue Key is a subsidiary to the more
prominent Omicron Delta Kappa and usually recognizes those leaders on the campuses, where it is located, who just fail to
make O. D. K., and also other leaders on the campus.

Winthrop
The students of Winthrop had the pleasure of hearing and seeing “Samson and Delilah,” a three-act opera, which was presented
in their auditorium on December 10. Its leading parts were sung by Mr. Arthur Craft of New York and Chicago,
who sang the part of Samson, and Miss Frances Hatch of Winthrop music department, who sang the part of Delilah.
One of the soloists who was secured for this presentation was Mr. Ben DeLoache of Camden, winner of the Atwater
Kent contest four years ago. Last Tuesday Winthrop and N. C. State College held a debate on the subject, Resolved:
“That congress should enact legislation providing for the centralized control of industry.” Twenty-one students from Winthrop are planning to attend
the Quadrennial Student Volunteer Convention, which is to be held in Buffalo, N. Y., from December 30 to January 3.

N. C. C. W.
“About this time of the year everybody gets tired of everything and everybody else, and is on the verge of
blowing up something, no matter what, except the louder the report, the better. The psychology of the whole thing makes
it seem useless to argue with homesick to buck up and bearHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original
meaning and punctuation:

---

that Santa Claus’s coming. In fact, it is doubtful that Santa can get enough gas to run his airplane down
this far from the pole. And if he did get here, the only evidence some will see will be the
roar of the propeller as he passes over. “And that isn’t all. Every little atom of humanity on this campus
has the privilege of either making things seem happier and brighter for the other little atoms, or of making things
gloomy and desolate. When girls reach the college age, they are perfectly capable of forming their own conclusions; consequently, it
is up to all of us to decide whether we are going to perk up and put an optimistic attitude
on this campus or whether we are going to see which one can rake up the most things to complain
about. “While we're deciding, bear in mind that the spunkiest person is going to grin and bear it. Santa Claus’s
coming, so we'd better be good and show our spunk.”

“Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings...” Duncan McBryd

THE EDITORIAL “OUI”

The Massachusetts Institute of Technology announces the invention of a mechanical brain whose gray matter is mostly light. We have
long been familiar with the kind of brain whose gray matter is light. Some of them are so light they
won't stay down. Some even rise as high as congress.

AN INTERESTING HOBBY

Bill Carter has an interesting hobby of collecting thoughts and signatures of various personages of interest, scattered far and wide.
Here are some interesting excerpts from Mr. Carter’s collection:

Tarzan Ranch, California.
“It is impossible for me to say which of my books I prefer. Doubtless, it is TARZAN OF THE APES.
I am sorry that I have no slogan, no favorite quotation or anything of that sort to autograph for you.
In the past, I have sometimes wondered where the next meal was coming from, and this at such times must
have been my favorite thought.
Yours, Edgar Rice Burroughs.”

New York City.
“Months have passed since your letter came my way, Thoughts have passed through my humble brain, I mislaid your letter—oh,
happy day! Lord knows when thoughts will come again. The only thing I can think of, Bill, is OOWAH! and
BEST WISHES, Bud Fisher.”

C/o Chas. Scribner’s Sons, New York.
“You flatter me abominably. I am sure I have never given voice to any great thought. There is one motto,
however, which, I think, might well be followed as a means of achieving more or less a worldly success—to wit:
“Keep your mouth shut and your bowels open.
Yours, S. S. Van Dine.”

Park Avenue, New York.
“My dear young man:
I have no favorite thought.
Yours cordially, Irvin S. Cobb.”

Governor W. Green, Governor of Michigan, sent his autograph inscribed on green letterhead stationery, and the signature in green ink.
That is only a beginning. Among other interesting personalities in the collection of autographs are to be found: George Ade,
J. P. Alley (originator of “Hambone”), Bruce Barton, Rex Beach, Edward Bok, Calvin Coolidge, Churchill, Harry Fosdick, Zane Grey, Rockwell
Kent, Morley, Harry Franck, O. O. McIntyre, Edgar Lee Masters, Frank Packard, Franklin Roosevelt, Will Rogers, Carl Sandburg, Terhune, Billy
Sunday, Harold Wright, John Sousa, many famous aviators, as Post, Gatty, Hester, Al Williams, and many others, even down to
and including our dear friend and radio announcer, Grady Cole.

SO SETH YE ALL

“The Poets of today,” says a critic, “do at least put plenty of fire into their verses.” The trouble with
some of them is that they do not put enough of their verses into the fire. As you will notice,
no poetry appears in this column. You remember the old saying, it’s better to practice what you preach, than to
preach what you practice.

CHRISTMAS SUGGESTIONS

CHRISTMAS COMES BUT ONCE A YEAR IS ENOUGH.
DO YOUR CHRISTMAS HINTING EARLY.
YOU CAN GET ALONG AT CHRISTMAS TIME WITHOUT MISTLETOE, AND EVEN WITHOUT HOLLY, BUT YOU MUST HAVE THE BERRIES.
THE HEIGHT OF IRONY IS TO GIVE FATHER A BILLFOLD FOR CHRISTMAS.

A FAREWELL TO FOOTBALL

TWO HALVES MAKE A HOLE, AND A FULLBACK GOES THROUGH.
—Notre Dame Juggler.

NOWADAYS A REAL FOOTBALL FAN IS ONE WHO KNOWS THE NATIONALITY OF EVERY MAN ON THE ALL-AMERICAN TEAM.
—Judge.

What Do You Think?

Thirty-one fatalities have resulted from football injuries in the season just closing, and this number probably does not include several
others which will no doubt be reported in the next two or three weeks. Coaches, officials, and players have been
quick to attempt to give reasons for this unpleasant side of the world’s greatest game. They have pointed out that
only four of the deaths were among players of the major teams, while the others occurred among high schools and
in games where the players often entered the game without proper protective garments or without proper training and supervision. One
thing that probably accounts for the increasing deaths in football as well as an increase in the number who receive
injuries is that, to all appearances, the game is played much harder at the present time than ever before, despite
the changes made in the rules for the express purpose of reducing the danger of the game.

According to John Temple Graves in the Birmingham Age-Herald, there is no record of whether or not business was prospering
or depressed at the time when Christ was born. A Christmas that is measured in terms of business is bound
to bring disappointments.

Chicago and Cook County, one-time happy hunting grounds for the Indians, now contain only 246 red men, according to a
survey just completed by the Chicago Association of Commerce. The total population of Chicago and its suburbs in the county
is 3,982,123. Second generation white Americans numbering 1,198,154 are the greatest individual race in all Chicago polygot groups, but those
of German birth or parentage lead the other racial entities with a total of 458,957. Although hard to believe after
a casual glance at the great number of Chinese restaurants and laundries, there are only 2,757 residents of Chinese birth
or parentage and only 486 Japanese. There are 246,992 American negroes in the county, their number being less than the
436,230 Poles, but greater than the 209,592 residents of Irish birth or parentage.

The numbers of the other principal racial groups as tabulated by the Association of Commerce are: Italy, 208,356; Russia, 177,876;
Czecho-Slovakia, 172,537; Sweden, 161,591; England, 132,657; Canada, 89,098; Lithuania, 72,146; Austria, 62,459; Norway, 60,517; Yugoslavia, 36,569, and the Netherlands, 34,787.
France is far down on the list with only 17,998.

The small towns get some praise from Zona Gale, novelist. She gives expression to some truths which small town residents
who get out and away at times know, but which are not known by residents of the big cities who
do not come into contact with the inhabitants of the smaller places. “The small town today,” she said, “is a
place where one can find plenty of leisure, where people talk about their gardens, where children have a place in
the home, where members of the family come into intimate contact with each other, and where there is not that
air of breathlessness that plants one impression on top of another so fast that all of them are lost. And
as for gossip, there is no more of it on Main Street, ‘Davidson, N. C.,’ than on Fifth Avenue, New
York. I think it is a good idea, however, for a small town resident to come to a place like
New York once a year in order to keep abreast of what is happening.”

Here is a bit of advice on Christmas giving which the Rev. Charles K. Gilbert, social service secretary of the
diocese of New York, has given: Give what the recipient needs most, not what you like best. Give presents to
the children of the needy through their families or known friends rather than publicly through strangers. Give families the chance
to open your packages in private; otherwise your generosity will be spoiled. Give with discrimination. Prevent duplication. Indiscriminate giving is
worse than no giving because it tends to pauperize, embarrass or degrade the recipient.

This column wishes you a Merry Christmas.

PARASITE—THE LARGE LOUTISH-LOOKING FOOTBALL PLAYER WHO PILES ON TOP OF THE OTHER TWENTY-ONE MEN FOR EFFECT, AFTER THE PLAY IS
COMPLETE.
—Detroit News.

Please be careful during the holly-days, and don’t take any chances. Not on your life! Remember luck doesn’t last. A
rabbit's foot is a poor substitute for horse sense. If a black cat crosses the path of a motorist, it’s
a lucky cat. And remember the guy who once stooped to pick up a horseshoe on the road and a
car came along and knocked him over the fence into a field of four-leaf clovers.

GOOD BYE AND GOOD LUCK

YORE’S AS OF YORE

My Wild Irish Arose (to the occasion)
“How did you get that black eye, Mrs. O’Donnell?”
“Well, sir, me ’usband came out of prison on ’is birthday.”
“Yes.”
“And I wished him many happy returns.”
