THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 5, 1931

Book Review

Aggrey of Africa. By E. W. Smith.

James Emman Kodwo Mensa Otsiwadu Humamfunsan Kwegyir Aggrey—what a name ...and what a man! Heir of a lineage that could
trace itself back to 1076, proud of his race, proud of his family, rather pleased with himself apparently; devoted to
God and his fellowmen, serving with distinction on educational commissions, teacher in a North Carolina college for many years, internationally
known on three continents, enthusiastically heard at student conferences, an orator who could win hostile audiences and hold them in
the palm of his hand, a man of whom those who knew him best thought he was the nearest to
sainthood of anyone they had ever known; let not the gentle reader be shocked at learning that this man was
quite black and proud of it.

His biography is one of the books that are not only interesting but important. Important, because in its rapidly moving
pages one learns of the new Africa and the new African; of the possibilities that lie in the African; of
the new spirit of inter-racial cooperation in the spirit of Christ which (said Aggrey) is the only way out for
the races; of the new idea in education being worked out in and for Africa; and most of all, for
the picture of one of the most striking personalities of the first quarter of the twentieth century. Interesting, too, because
incidentally one learns much about Salisbury, N. C., and the negro college situated there; about African customs, about the conflict
between the followers of DuBois, Marcus Garvey and Aggrey, each of whom represents a different ideal in negro policies and
hopes; interesting in its many anecdotes.

Aggrey was the kind of man who was always having an interesting time, and readers of his biography will perhaps
be rather sorry they never knew him. He was the sort of man who at 1 o'clock a.m. could meet
a prize fighter in the street, stand and talk with him three hours till the pugilist in tears was converted;
on the other hand he was the kind of man who could relieve a tense situation by the tale of
the girl who confessed to her father that at a party she had been kissed. “And how often?” said the
stern father. “I came to confess, not to boast,” said she. Well, read the book; if it leaves your mind
small and your heart cold, you are a hopeless case.

The Virgin Birth of Christ. By J. Gresham Machen, D.D., Litt.D., Professor of New Testament in Westminster Theological Seminary, Philadelphia.

The word “dogma” has a forbidding sound to young people, but it is really nothing very dreadful. It is simply
a convenient name for a conclusion that has been drawn by the church (or in other words by the people
who have given the matter the most careful thought) on the basis of the evidence available. The adoption of a
dogma is a kind of ecclesiastical cloture rule; the church declines to open up the question again unless new evidence
presents itself, just as a court’s decision stands unless new evidence can be offered which might have changed the verdict.

One of the dogmas of the Universal Church (both Catholic and Protestant) is the virginity of Mary, the mother of
Christ. Students who are interested in the reasons why the church believes this, will find the evidence in a most
thorough and scholarly way in Dr. Machen’s book. The author’s method is not that of mere dogmatic assertion, or of
theological mud-slinging, but of careful, thoroughgoing examination of the evidence for the virgin birth and of the objections that have
been brought against it, and then an examination of the various theories that attempt to explain away the church’s belief
on some other basis than that of fact.

This book is not recommended for all students. If you are one of those who divide all books into two
classes, those you read for credit and those you read to kill time, you need not bother with this one.
But if you are really interested in this, one of the most famous and influential of Christian beliefs, if you
have a certain amount of leisure and the disposition to think vigorously, you will find this a helpful book. For
the timid student, or the one whose time is necessarily limited, the following chapters are perhaps best for the beginner:
The Integrity of the Lucan Narrative; The Inherent Credibility of the Narratives; The Birth Narratives and the Rest of the
New Testament; The Theory of Pagan Derivation; Conclusion and Consequences.

Kenneth J. Foreman.

If it were left to me I would no more pay an athletic student than I would a chemical student.—Chairman
Mackellar of Sewanee Athletic Committee.

Track Practice to Begin Next Monday

Many Letter Men Returning From Last Year’s Squad

For the past several weeks the track season has been in a process of beginning, and many men have been
practicing and taking “workouts” daily on the athletic field and track. For the most part men have been engaged in
unlimbering their muscles and in preparing themselves for the coming strenuous track season which will begin in earnest on next
Monday.

Track practice has been hindered somewhat by adverse weather conditions, but the majority of the men are in comparatively good
condition, and a successful track season is predicted by those in a position to know. The track itself is being
prepared by the track managers, and will in a few days be ready for use.

The following is a tentative list from which men will be chosen to participate in their respective events: 100-yard dash:
McCall, Fleagle, McCallie, and Kuykendall; 440-yard dash: McGehee, Tyack, Creech, and McCallie; 880-yard dash: Neal, Drake, and Cannon; mile: Earle
and Haword; two-mile: Brannon and Murphy; high jump: Allen, McKinnon, George, and Wilson; broad jump: McCall, George, and McCallie; pole
vault: Roane, Stroud, and Brock; weights: Boyle, Hall, and Wagner; high hurdles: George, McCallie, and Little; low hurdles: George, McCallie,
and Little; javelin: McCall, Arnold, and McCullough.

The majority of these men are veterans from the varsity or from last year’s Freshman team, only a comparatively few
men having been lost by graduation last year.

Pictures Taken for “Quipps and Cranks”

Last week the representative of White Studio, of New York, was on the campus to take pictures for the 1931
“Quips and Cranks.” As customary, various views of campus scenes and buildings were taken. At the same time, pictures were
made of the athletic teams and of the R. O. T. C. unit. This year the columns of New Chambers
were used as a background in taking the battalion pictures.

The White Studio representative will return to the campus March 15, to take pictures of the fraternities, clubs and other
campus organizations. The business staff of the Annual plans to offer for sale these campus and group pictures at nominal
prices.

COLLEGE CALENDAR

Friday, March 6—A vocational guidance program will be given, sponsored by the “Y.” Judge E. A. Currie, of Charlotte, will
speak.

Sunday, March 8—“Y” vespers at 6:00 p.m. The speaker will be Rev. C. H. Nabors, of High Point.

Monday, March 9—Dr. E. L. F. Swan will speak on social hygiene at chapel exercises. Other lectures will be given
on this day and the following.

Tuesday, March 10—Literary societies meet in respective halls at 7:15 p.m.

Wednesday, March 11—Meeting student Sunday School teachers at 9:00 p.m. in the “Y” reading room.

People who are much alone become clear-sighted; they turn the pages of life slowly and read every word.—Alice Duer Miller.

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago

DAVIDSON TEN YEARS AGO

The Taylor brothers, of Winston-Salem, offered as a prize a ten-pound can of Red Eye tobacco, to the student who
composed the best organized Davidson yell.

Karl Lehman, Christian Endeavor organizer, spoke to the students at the “Y” vesper services. He also spoke to the recently
organized Christian Endeavor Society among the students.

Golf has taken a strong hold on the athletically inclined, and it is hoped that many new members will be
enrolled. The course, though not perfect, is good enough to learn.Davidson students are to have a share in the relief
work among the prison camps. The “Y” cabinet pledged a sum for the student body, the amount to be raised
among the students.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

The Davidson Glee Club returned to the Hill yesterday after an extensive tour, lasting for eight days, through North Carolina,
South Carolina, and Georgia. The Glee Club presented six concerts: Spartanburg, Gainesville, Ga., at Brenau; Atlanta at Agnes Scott College;
another concert at Atlanta; Greenville, S. C., and Charlotte. Approximately forty members were taken on the trip, including the symphony
orchestra, the Davids, the jazz orchestra, and the members of the cast of a comedy skit written by C. F.
Smith.

Winning the first six matches, the Davidson wrestling team swamped the North Carolina State squad here last Friday night by
the score of 20-3. State won the last match on time advantage when Lambe of State defeated Maulden of Davidson.

There is much joy in Davidson because Tex Tilson, assistant football coach, has been signed for another year.

The Citadel basketball team defeated the Davidson quint here Saturday night in the final game of the season by the
small margin of two points, 39-37. Both teams were playing championship ball; and the going was hot and heavy throughout.

No one has ever succeeded in keeping nations at war except by lies.—Prof. Salvador de Madariaga.

Modern science is very liable to superstition and tends to breed superstition in its devotees.—Prof. John MacMurray.

Our age is more humanist than intelligent.—G. K. Chesterton.

It is only as the audience develops that the moving picture can rise to artistic heights.—Ella Winter.

Custom is reason fast asleep; it takes the place of thought in all the popular habits of life.—W. S. Sparrow.

Leviathan, we realize, is not a perfect whale, made as a whale and as nothing else, but the descendant of
a land animal doing its best to swim.—H. G. Wells.

STATIONERY
STUDENT SUPPLIES
FOUNTAIN PENS
NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE
HENDERSON
MAGAZINES
BOOKS
SUNDRIES

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia
HAS A Distinguished Faculty
Nineteen Buildings, on a Fifty Acre Campus
A Moderate Endowment, and Many Scholarships
For Catalogue and information, address Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President

NEWS FROM OTHER HILLS

Baltimore—(IP)—Four women students of Johns Hopkins University will accompany Dr. David M. Robinson, archeologist of the university, on his expedition
this summer to the site of the ancient city of Olynthus, destroyed in 348 B. C. by Phillip of Macedon.

Toronto, Ont.—(IP)—The Ontario Rugby Football Union has gone on record as favoring the adoption of the forward pass, as used
in football in the United States, without any alterations. The resolution has been sent to the Canadian Rugby Union.

New Haven, Conn.—(IP)—The favorite sport of students at Yale-in-China at Hunan, Changsha, is soccer football, according to word received by
university officials here.

Middletown, Conn.—(IP)—Gifts of more than $1,000,000 have been received by Wesleyan University in its drive for $3,000,000 as a centennial
fund to be raised before October. Seven gifts have been for $100,000 each.

Washington—(IP)—Senator Henrik Shipstead, of Minnesota, has introduced a resolution into Congress to make it clear that the United States does
not join with other nations which signed the Versailles treaty in making Germany bear the entire blame for the war.
The resolution, which was not referred to committee, may be brought up at any time.

Fort Valley, Ga.—(IP)—Ken Horado, Japanese secretary of the League of Nations, arrived here to visit the Georgia woman who was
his instructor while she was a missionary in Japan years ago. The woman is Miss Annie Lyon Howe, who was
a missionary in Japan for 40 years.

South Hadley, Mass.—(IP)—Given a perfect background by an old-fashioned New England snow which had covered the ground since before Christmas,
students at Mount Holyoke College the other day put on a snow and ice carnival on the campus, including such
events as ski jumping, snowshoe races, ski tournament, snowshoe tug of war, and snowshoe baseball game. In the evening the
undergraduates took part in an ice carnival on Lower Lake, dressed in costume.

New Brunswick, N. J.—(IP)—A hard claystone pipe, buried in a stratum of glacial gravel since a date estimated at 1100
A. D., has been discovered near South River, about eight miles from here, by Granville A. Quackenbush, instructor in geology
at Rutgers University.

Pasadena, Calif.—(IP)—That mystery of wide open celestial spaces, the red shift, is blocking for the time being mankind’s study of
the universe. Mere man, including Dr. Albert Einstein, would know more about the size, shape and destiny of the universe
if he could only decode the message brought to earth by this phenomenon. This is the frank admission of Dr.
Einstein and a score of noted scientists who gathered recently at the Mount Wilson Observatory Library here to hear Einstein
lecture.

The “red shift” is a mysterious rearrangement in spectral lines, noted in the light from distant nebulae—the fast moving galaxy
or “island universes” discovered by Dr. Edwin P. Hubble with the 100-inch telescope on Mount Wilson. As now understood, the
red shift indicates that these galaxies are moving away from us with such inconceivable speed and numbers that they are
breaking all boundaries and theories on the structure of the universe.

“The red shift of distant nebulae has changed the old conception of a static universe. It came like a hammer
blow,” said Dr. Einstein. Professor Einstein suggested that the red shift might be interpreted as an effect not yet understood,
due to some dynamic property in space and to light getting “tired,” becoming redder and losing energy as it travels
through the immensity of space.

The curiosity of Einstein is infinite. It was learned here recently that on his weekend visit to Santa Barbara he
came to an olive tree. He reached up and picked an olive. Quickly he popped it into his mouth and
as quickly sputtered it out with: “Whew, what makes it?” “You always eating everything you see,” chided his wife.

In democracies today’s minorities are often tomorrow’s majorities.—Tardieu.

A cultured mind not only appraises judiciously, but also delights in things true, just, lovely and honorable.—H. S. Coffin.

Be discreet physically, mentally, emotionally.—Surgeon General Cumming.

President Hoover’s effort to artificially stem the course of the debacle made me think of King Canute.—Henry W. Morgenthau.

Wireless stations in both France and Canada have reported that during the broadcast of the Pope’s message by the Vatican
radio station, Soviet radio stations set up a series of noises on the same wavelength, and kept them up during
the broadcast from Vatican City.

Forty-seven students at the College of the City of New York were fined $25 and costs each for the damage
they did when celebrating after a Sophomore class dinner recently.

Dr. Nevil V. Sidgwick, of Oxford University, is a special lecturer in chemistry at Cornell University this term.

At Parsons, Kansas, the other day, pupils of the Fairview rural school tossed aside textbooks when they saw a fire
at the home of Mrs. Francis Bradfield, and went to her rescue. They carried the woman, a cripple, from her
room just as the flames reached it.

The Bureau of Standards at Washington is erecting an artificial waterfall with an imitation torrent channel which is to be
used in answering several engineering problems.

Although because of the barren shores of Labrador sailors call it “Land of Naked Rocks,” inland Labrador is a land
of much vegetation.

Sight-seeing excursions for college students, once almost unheard of, now are common adjuncts to college teaching.

The largest newspaper advertisement ever placed by a publishing house recently was run in 12 dailies across the United States
by the Crowell Publishing Company. It consisted of five consecutive pages.

Davidson Theatre

Wednesday, 11th
JOHN “DON’T BET ON WOMEN”

Thursday, 12th
“GENTLEMEN'S FATE”

Friday, 13th
“GIRLS DEMAND EXCITEMENT”

Saturday, 7th
JOHN WAYNE
“BODY AND SOUL”

Monday and Tuesday, 9th and 10th
CHARLES FARRELL and LISSA LINDI
“ONE HEAVENLY NIGHT”
