NOTED ORGANIST TO PLAY HERE IN NEAR FUTURE

The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

DUKE vs. DAVIDSON WRESTLING SATURDAY NIGHT

Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 12, 1931 No. 18

CATS TO MEET CAROLINA TONIGHT AT CHAPEL HILL AND PLAY STATE FRIDAY

Two Games Expected to be Deciding in the “Big Five Title Race”

Davidson's quintet opens a state tour tonight in Chapel Hill against a Big Five team when they will attempt to
halt the Tar Heels’ winning streak. Again tomorrow night the Wildcats journey over to Raleigh to meet the Red Terrors
in a return engagement. At the end of these two battles the Big Five standing ought to be unraveled. At
the present time State and Davidson are tied for the lead, Duke having been ousted last week. Four Big Five
members are closely bunched with Wake Forest at the bottom with no wins.

The Tar Heels will entertain the Wildcats in Chapel Hill this time, making the margin of victory in their favor.
Davidson nosed Carolina out by only one point in their last meeting in Charlotte, but the Tar Heelers have been
going strong lately and will be a different team to beat this time. Carolina is ranking high in Southern Conference
rating, winning five and losing two, ranking just below Maryland in the list. The Tar Heels’ last victory was at
the expense of Virginia to the tune of 28-24, a narrow margin. Marpet was up to old tricks and Alexander,
who was out when they played Davidson, has returned to good form. With only one minute to go the score
was knotted, when Hines, lanky forward, goaled one, putting the Tar Heels in the lead. Then Moore slipped in a
couple of foul shots to give his team a four-point margin of victory.

The next night Davidson moves over to Raleigh to battle State in a crucial game, for if the Wildcats down
Carolina, this game will in all likelihood be a championship game, although Duke must be counted in, when championships are
being talked about. State has had their ups and downs this year, starting off fast, then falling into a slump,
and now they seem to be rising and bid fair to give trouble to any team. They started their rise
by defeating Duke last Saturday in another close game, 26-23. The Red Terrors played such a consistently good brand of
basketball that after overhauling the lead Duke gained at the beginning of the battle, they were headed again. Johnson went
on a scoring spree to bag 11 points while his teammates were playing excellent floor games.

When the Wildcats return from this trip they will either be at the lead of the Big Five or permanently
out of the race. Both games will be harder than any Davidson has played this winter. The Wildcats have been
in somewhat of a slump lately, but are due to come out of it now, as every team goes through
a bad period during the season.

F. L. Jackson is on College Commission

Reappointed for Third Time as Member of Association of American Colleges

It has been learned here that F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, has been reappointed for the third consecutive
time as a member of the commission on permanent and trust funds of the Association of American Colleges. This reappointment
was made at the annual meeting of the association held in January. It is not known who is on the
committee except that Dr. A. W. Anthony of New York has been appointed as chairman. At the meeting the commission’s
annual report discussed present financial conditions, recent cautions in the use of annuity agreements, contingent endowment funds, the united investment
policy, and approved principles emerging.

At this time Mr. Jackson is also serving as vice-president of the national executive (Continued on page 6)

Board of Trustees To Meet Feb. 18th

On next Wednesday morning, February 18, at 10 o'clock, the Board of Trustees of Davidson College will meet in Davidson
to settle a few matters that will come before them at that time. Preceding this, on Friday, February 13, the
Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees will meet in Charlotte at 10:30 in the morning. These meetings were announced
by Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson and also a member of the Board of Trustees.

During the last few months there have been some replacements in the personnel of the Board of Trustees. Rev. R.
S. Arrowood of Concord replaced Rev. E. A. Woods of Salisbury in the North Carolina Synod; Mr. Robert J. Kingler
of Safety Harbor, Fla., took the place of Rev. W. T. Mann of Bartow, Fla., the Florida Synod; in the
Alumni Association, Mr. W. S. Royster of Norfolk, Va., was given the position of a trustee, succeeding Mr. Watson Rankin
of Charlotte, N. C. Mr. C. R. Wilcox of Rome, Ga., was made a member of the Board for 1931
for the Alumni Association. Mr. H. W. McKay of Charlotte, N. C., who was formerly a trustee of the Alumni
Association, has been moved to the Executive Committee of the Board. The two trustees from the Synod of Georgia made
their exit with the close of the year 1930. They were Prof. A. G. Miller of Macon, and Rev. N.
L. Anderson of Savannah, both of the Savannah Presbytery.

Recently there have been two deaths in the membership of the Board, Mr. Lee Robinson of Gastonia, and Mr. Thomas
G. Hyman, 93, of New Bern, N. C., both of the Synod of North Carolina.

Dr. W. H. Frazer Speaks At “Y” Vesper Services

Misses Brice and McQueen, Students of Queens-Chicora College Render Musical Selections

Dr. W. H. Frazer, president of Queens-Chicora College, was the speaker at the last Sunday evening vesper service. Miss Brice
sang a beautiful solo and Miss McQueen accompanied her at the piano. Both of these young ladies attend Queens-Chicora College
and have appeared on vesper programs before. James A. Jones was in charge of the song service, and M. W.
and D. M. Bernard Norfleet made short prayers. H. S. Covington read from the third chapter of Exodus, which tells
that Moses, while in Midian, was astonished one day on seeing a bush burning, and yet remaining unconsumed; and when
he turned aside to look more closely at the queer sight, he received a call from Jehovah.

Dr. Frazer, in his talk taken from this passage, told something of the life of this inspired man. He mentioned
the wonderful opportunity Moses had to come under the influence of the Holy Spirit amid the solemn grandeur of the
wilderness and the time he had in its deep solitude for thoughtful meditation. He continued with a description of the
loneliness of Moses’ life and contrasted it with the grandeur and pomp of his court life. At this point he
quoted the phrase, “Of all sad words of tongue or pen the saddest are these it might have been.”

Dr. Frazer related the incident in which Moses killed an Egyptian because he saw him strike an Israelite. He pictured
the subsequent flight from Egypt into Midian, where Moses tended Jethro’s flocks. He explained that just as there was a
trail for Moses in the desert, there was a path through the desert for everyone, if they looked diligently enough
for it. Dr. Frazer brought out the point that had (Continued on page 5)

Prominent Organist Seibert

Noted Organist To Give Recital Feb. 18

Has Played Monthly Recitals Over N. B. C. Network and Appears on Prominent Programs

Next Wednesday night, February 18, at 8:15, Davidson College and the surrounding towns will have the extreme pleasure of hearing
Henry F. Seibert, American concert organist of New York City, and organist of the Holy Trinity Lutheran Church in New
York, who will present a recital for the benefit of the students. Mr. Seibert is a very well known organist,
having played over the National Broadcasting Company network, has played monthly recitals over WEAF in New York, and he also
broadcast from the Wanamaker's Auditorium last season. He came to New York from Reading, Pa., eight years ago.

One day while playing an impromptu recital at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, his work attracted the attention
of a man of influence in organ circles. This audition wasthe beginning of many notable engagements. When the new Town
Hall organ was opened, Mr. Seibert was one of a group of organists to play. Later, Mr. Seibert was engaged
as the official organist of the Town Hall, and he still retains that position. His position requires him to play
a recital every Friday night. He appears on programs with William Lyon Phelps, Hon. Frank Kellogg, Ambassador Houghton, Jane Addams,
Helen Keller, Princess Kropotkin, and other noted lecturers. Mr. Seibert played 50 organ recitals last season. This phenomenal success is
due chiefly to his ability to play a program that will please both the layman and the musician. So many
organ recital programs are splendid technical accomplishments, but they never “reach the hearts” of the average audience. Mr. Seibert contends
that popular classical music, played in an artistic and finished manner, will win enthusiasts for the organ—that with the advent
of the modern organ, with all its new tones and accessories, comes also a new era of organ playing. The
organ not only serves the purpose of being an ecclesiastical instrument but has become a concert instrument as well. Mr.
Seibert toured through Italy four (Continued on page 6)

Music Recitals

The Fine Arts Department announces the first of a series of afternoon recitals, free to the public, in Chambers Auditorium,
Thursday afternoon, at 5:00 o’clock. Mr. William Wall Whiddit, organist of St. Peter’s Church, Charlotte, and Mr. Eugene Craft, pianist,
will give a joint recital. The program will include several selections with the combination of organ and piano.

OUR DEMOCRACY AND ITS FUTURE IS SUBJECT OF DR. WERTENBAKER’S TALK

Debating Try-Outs

On Tuesday night, February 3, the varsity debate tryouts were held, there being elected three varsity teams, two men and
three alternates for each team. The varsity debaters chosen are as follows: J. A. Jones, of Laurinburg, N. C.; W.
Rule, of Knoxville, Tenn.; P. S. Knox, of Thomson, Ga.; J. C. Matthers, of Lumberton, N. C.; R. D. Powell,
of Lawrenceville, Ga., and G. P. Pardington, of Decatur, Ga. The alternate debaters are: A. B. McClure, of Rabun Gap,
Ga.; G. J. Jenkins, of Winston-Salem, N. C., and J. H. McKinnon, of Jacksonville, Fla. Judges of the debate tryouts
were Prof. T. J. Erwin, Prof. P. H. Gwynn, and Prof. J. P. Williams, and the basis of judgment was
not only oratorical ability, but evidence of preparation, knowledge of the subject, ease on the rostrum, and rebuttal possibilities. About
sixteen men tried out for the team, representing all the upper classes. Three of the named varsity debaters are members
of the Davidson Forensic Council. They are J. A. Jones, president of the Council; William Rule, secretary of the Council,
and P. S. Knox, treasurer. Complete plans have not been announced as yet for the trips that the debating teams
will take this year. However, two trips, at least, will be made, meeting the leading college debaters of the South,
in such schools as Alabama, Florida, and Emory universities.

Davidson Wrestlers To Meet Duke on Saturday

Meet to be Held in Davidson Gym, Being the Fourth Match of Year

On Saturday night at 8 o'clock, the Davidson Wildcat wrestling team will meet Duke University in the Davidson College Alumni
Gymnasium. This will be the fourth wrestling match the ‘Cat grapplers have engaged in during the past three weeks, all
of which have been with members of the Southern Conference of Athletic teams. Nothing at all is known as to
the power of the Duke wrestlers, with whom Coach Doc Unger has had no contact since he became wrestling coach
at Davidson, but fans are confident of witnessing a scrappy match whenever any Duke and Davidson athletic teams meet. Of
the three matches Davidson has fought, the grapplers have won over State College and lost to Washington and Lee and
V. M. I. The teams they have lost to represent two of the strongest wrestling teams in the Southern Conference.
The ‘Cats go up against Duke with many injuries as a result of their matches two days apart in Virginia
last week, but it is expected that all injuries will for the most part be cured by next Saturday. As
a result of his bout in the Washington and Lee meet, Boyle was forced to default his match with V.
M. I., while Vick and Preston sustained severe mat burns. It is probable that French Cowan will be in shape
to wrestle in the 118 or 125-pound weight by Saturday, and it is also expected that Thad Brock will be
able to wrestle in the 155-pound class. Both of these men were valuable members of the wrestling team last year,
and it is expected that they will make valuable additions to this year’s team if able to compete.

Democracy on Trial in America and Education is Necessary for its Success

“Our watchword in preserving the democracy of the United States must be education,” said Dr. J. H. Wertenbaker, professor of
history in Princeton University, as he spoke to the students and faculty of Davidson College. “After all has been said,
government by the people is still on trial in this country, and education in the art of government, education in
history, education as to the value of individual rights and the necessity of upholding them will do much to preserve
our democracy. Of vital importance is the role of the South in this struggle to preserve democracy.” The Princeton professor
opened his address by briefly outlining the history of American democracy, of its struggles in shaping, of the arguments as
to its final form between Jefferson, Hamilton, Washington, and the other features of our nation, reaching its highest point in
the election of Andrew Jackson, “which decreed that political leaders should not only be elected by the people, but should
be of the people.” Three powerful groups or influences have always been tearing at democracy, and are doing so today,
pointed out the speaker. The first of these he characterized as “powerful self-interested groups.” This threat came for a while
from the theocratic-aristocratic leaders of old New England. Again, it came from the old aristocratic slave-holders of the South. Both
of these have been overthrown, and from the ruins of the latter, a richer, more enlightened, more progressive South arose.
“The next threat came as a result of the vast expansion of industrialism in the North,” continued Dr. Wertenbaker. “Under
the trust system, once more a small group had arisen to grasp at power and influence in government inconsistent with
democracy. But Sherman, by his anti-trust law, and Wilson and Roosevelt, by their new freedom and new nationalism, reconciled big
business with democracy. “Another threat outlined by the Princeton professor comes from the radical groups—the Reds, the Communists, the Socialists,
and those classes which would turn everything over to the government as a panacea for all ills. At present their
number is so small as to make the danger remote. (Continued on page 5)

Fresh Vote Not To Select a President

Class Organization Will Take Place Later on in Spring

Members of the Freshman class at Davidson College have followed the advice of the leaders on the campus, and have
decided to refrain from an organization of the class and election of a president as Freshmen. In March they will
go through the formal organization and select one of their number, who will lead the class through the remainder of
their first year and the Sophomore session. All the former presidents of Freshman class are unanimous in their opinion that
selections as class president militate against the one chosen throughout the rest of his collegiate career. As one expressed it,
“the president becomes unpopular with his class because he cannot heed all of their requests; he also becomes unpopular with
the student body because of the requests he makes as a Freshman president.” Such action on the part of the
first-year class at Davidson this session will call for an amendment to the constitution that guides the student body if
the upper classes are in agreement with the decision of the Freshmen. It is thought by those in touch with
student affairs that this will be written into the constitution before the year is over, and become a permanent custom.
