THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 5, 1931

§ Washington Alumni Met Thursday Night at an Enthusiastic Banquet

Officials in Washington Describe Meeting As One of the Best Since the Club Was Organized

WANT FOOTBALL GAME

Resolution Passed That the Secretary Get in Touch With University of Maryland

Reports from alumni in Washington on the annual dinner-meeting of Davidson alumni residing in and near that city indicate that
the affair of last Thursday night at the Racquet Club was one of the best staged since the chapter was
organized in the spring of 1928. Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson, was guest and principal speaker. Officers elected
for the ensuing year were W. A. Elliott, ’09, president; Dr. C. A. Cornelson, '04, vice-president; and J. A. Thames,
'18, was re-elected secretary. The chapter also decided to hold their next meeting the first week in September, after Labor
Day. To quote from the report received, the following will give an idea of the matters discussed and business transacted:

“Dr. Lingle told of the college finances, addition to the library in the way of books through the Carnegie Foundation,
new shelves, etc., and touched on other matters, like athletics, help for students, the dancing problem, and others. There was
a good deal of discussion on the latter, and also on the question of military training.

“No resolutions were passed, except one, that the secretary get in touch with the athletic authorities of the University of
Maryland, with a view of getting a football game with them, either in College Park, Md., or Washington; and also
contact the Baltimore chapter with a view of enlisting their cooperation in this.”

The letter also told that Congressmen J. Bayard Clarke, ’05, and Hinton James, ’06, found it impossible to come at
the last minute; that Congressman H. F. Stevenson, ’85, was in South Carolina because of the serious illness of his
wife, and that Senator Morrison, honorary alumnus, had a previous engagement. Rev. A. R. Bird came by after the dinner
and made a few general remarks.

Alumni attending were A. R. Dorroh, ’94; Dr. C. A. Cornelson, '04; W. A. Elliott, '09; J. A. Thames, '18;
J. F. McClerkin, ’21; H. M. Morris, ’23; C. L. Bragaw, ’26; J. A. King, ’27; John R. Falls, ’28,
and W. W. Harrison, Jr., ’30, all of Washington; Harold C. Smith, '14, Rockville, Md.; F. C. Thames, '23, Indian
Head, Md.; A. C. Slaymaker, ’27, Alexandria, Va., and F. DeWolfe Miller, '30, Warrenton, Va.

W. R. Sparrow, ’27, formerly in the cotton business at Gastonia, has now become the agent of the Gulf Refining
Company, with two counties as territory. He will maintain headquarters in Gastonia.

The United States of Europe project, fathered by Aristide Briand, will not be considered by the League of Nations for
at least a year.

The newspaper man must know the truth as fully as it can be known, be ready and fearless to tell
it, and then know how to tell it—John H. Finley.

() Complete Service for School Publications

ALUMNI PERSONALS

The Board of Trustees’ committee to study the dancing question at Davidson met here last Saturday for their first conference.
Four of the five members were present, who were I. P. Graham, ’08, Cooleemee, chairman; Rev. C. E. Hodgin, '94,
Greensboro; Rev. W. C. Brown, ’93, Barium Springs, and J. Archie Cannon, ’04, Concord.

Alumni seen at the Wake Forest-Davidson basketball game were Ed Morrison, ’25, Concord; Dr. D. H. Nesbit, '13, Charlotte; J.
B. Johnston, ’01, Barium Springs; L. H. Wilkinson, '13, Charlotte; Geo. Battle, Jr., ’27, Concord, and Ben F. Brown, ’29,
Charlotte. Others here during the past week included J. K. Hall, Jr., ’29; A. W. Baker, ’29, and D. C.
Hunter, ’30, all of Belmont; Edgar H. Tufts, ’22, Banner Elk; J. B. Alexander, ’88, Charlotte, and C. L. Black,
’04, of Greensboro. A. F. Black, ’10, of Charlotte, and A. C. McIntyre, '25, of Ontario, Canada, were also among
the many visitors. Mr. Black has recently moved to Charlotte from Columbus, Ga., and is with the Calco Chemical Company,
of the former city. Mr. McIntyre has been in Canada for several years, and is manager of the Stratford (Canada)
branch of the Ontario Equitable Life Insurance Company. While visiting in South Carolina Mr. McIntyre was the guest of T.
C. McSwain, ’25, of Minturn, S. C.

E. P. O’Connor, ’26, formerly with the Observer Printing House, in Charlotte, is now employed by the Atlanta, Ga. branch
of the Erie Lithographing and Printing Company.

Capt. R. M. Fitzpatrick, '02, is now stationed at Fresno, Calif. There are now 16 Davidson alumni in that far-away
state.

New Addresses

Some of the new addresses obtained recently include:
John R. Falls, ’28, LaSalle Apts., Washington, D. C.
A. D. Calhoun, Jr., ’23, 1326 Vermont Ave., N. W., Washington, D. C.
D. M. Bethea, '25, 2258 West Grand Blvd., Apt. 110, Detroit, Mich.
J. Layton Mauze, Jr., ’30, care Laidlaw & Co., 26 Broadway, New York, N. Y.
Dr. L. L. Wilson, ’20, care Woodruff Clinic, High Point.
W. W. Harrison, Jr., ’30, 1841 Kalorama Ave., N. W., Washington, D. C.
A. C. McIntyre, ’25, 819 Ontario St., Stratford, Ontario, Canada.
Rev. C. D. Patterson, ’26, West Huntsville, Ala.
J. A. Joyner, ’26, Postal Telegraph Co., Norfolk, Va.
Dan M. Nuttall, '16, Colonial Apts., Charlotte.
R. A. McPheeters, ’21, High Point.
W. M. Heston, ’25, 266 Hampton Terrace, N. E., Atlanta, Ga.

Of 39 medical men who were elected fellows in the Tri-State Medical Society at its recent meeting, two were Davidson
alumni, Dr. I. A. Bigger, ’13, of Richmond, Va., and Dr. W. Z. Bradford, ’24, of Charlotte.

W. M. Fetzer, ’06, now residing at Brevard, has been named assistant football coach at William and Mary College for
the 1931 season. Coach Bill Fetzer is widely known throughout the South as a mentor. He has tutored athletic teams
at Davidson, N. C. State and the University of North Carolina. For the past several years he has been out
of the coaching game.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of J. W. Smith, father of Warren W. Smith, ’28, of Charlotte;
Mr. W. A. Gentry, father of J. H. Gentry, ’13, of Advance, N. C.

Dr. H. C. Menzies, ’95, of Hickory, has been appointed a member of the Catawba County Welfare Board. Dr. Menzies
has also been a member of the County Board of Health and of the county tubercular hospital board.

J. Archie Cannon, ’04, has been re-elected as 1931 president of the Cabarrus County Club, Concord.

R. W. Walker, III, ’25, of Salisbury, has been made vice-president of the R. W. Walker Lumber Company, which concern
has recently announced a veneer factory for that city.

Newspaper dispatches from the training camp of the Detroit Tigers, where C. K. Marrow,’31, is working out as a pitching
recruit. Camp followers, according to an article appearing last Saturday, have predicted a big league future for him, after he
has gained more experience. Rev. C. B. Yeargan, ’06, Itasca, Texas. C. M. McCaskill, ’21, 1610 Lovers Lane, Monroe, La.

Births
Dr. U. S. Alexander, ’15, and Mrs. Alexander, of Charlotte, announce the birth of a son, Uhlman Seymour, Jr., on
February 14th. Kenneth Harris, ’27, and Mrs. Harris, of Charlotte, announce the birth of a daughter, Marilyn Edwards, on February
18th.

BASEBALL CANDIDATES
(Continued from page 3)
The other veteran infielders, Proctor and Goodson, have not reported for practice, just having come through a long basketball season.
Captain Armfield, veteran catcher, has been supervising the workouts while engaging in them himself. The pitching staff has not a
single returning letterman in its ranks, but McAllister, Thompson, and Croker have returned from last year’s squad and all will
probably see service this year. The pitching department has been hard at work for a week and in another week
will probably begin to bear down a little with the rest of the team.

’29
Garland Court
Printing and Engraving of Every Description
P.M. CONWAY
27 Rumple
STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

Davidson Is Furnishing Preparatory Teachers
Survey of 18 Institutions Shows That Over 10 Per Cent of the Teachers Are From Davidson

Davidson College is this year furnishing over ten per cent of the teachers in 18 of the leading preparatory schools
of the South and East, according to a survey which was completed this week. In the 18 institutions surveyed, the
faculty enrollment totals 280 men, and these are graduates of 102 colleges and universities. Of the 280 teachers, 40 are
from Davidson, or an actual percentage of 10.4. The survey shows that Davidson is furnishing over twice as many preparatory
school teachers as any of the other 102 colleges or universities included in the 18 institutions. The University of Virginia
has the next largest number, with 14, the University of Texas, 12; Hampden-Sydney, 11; Harvard, 10; University of Georgia, 9;
Vanderbilt University, 8; Southwestern Presbyterian University, 8, and the remaining 182 teachers are distributed among 95 different institutions. Among the
latter are Georgia Tech, University of Tennessee, University of Mississippi, Mercer University, Mississippi A. & M., Louisiana State, Tulane University,
Washington and Lee, V. M. I., William and Mary, N. C. State, Furman, Southern Methodist, University of Alabama, The Citadel,
Wake Forest, V. P. I., University of South Carolina.

Preparatory institutions included in this survey included Woodberry Forest, Orange, Va.; McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Darlington School, The Berry Schools,
Rome, Ga.; Branham Hughes Military Academy, Spring Hill, Tenn.; Barium Springs Orphanage, Gulf Coast Military Academy, Gulfport, Miss.; St. Christopher’s
School, Richmond, Va.; Chamberlain-Hunt Military Academy, Port Gibson, Miss.; Presbyterian Junior College (preparatory department); Battle Ground Academy, Franklin, Tenn.; Schreiner
Military Institute, Kerrville, Texas; Kentucky Military Institute, Lyndon, Ky.; The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.; Riverside Military Academy, Gainesville, Ga.; St.
Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.; Lees-McRae Institute, Banner Elk, N. C., and Virginia Episcopal School, Lynchburg, Virginia. The Berry Schools, Rome,
Ga., has the largest number of Davidson graduates of the 18 listed above. Four are teaching there. Woodberry Forest, Battle
Ground Academy and Chamberlain-Hunt Military Academy have three each. Some preparatory schools in which Davidson men are teaching were not
included in the survey because a catalogue has not yet been received from them. Others known to have Davidson men
on their faculties are Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.; Tupelo Military Academy, Tupelo, Miss.; Wallace School, Nashville, Tenn.; Stuyvesant School, Warrenton,
Va.; Porter Military Academy, Charleston, S. C.

UNDERWEAR OF DISTINCTION
SHIRTS AND SHORTS
Some men say amusing things about color in shirts and shorts—but no one questions the unusual comfort in this two-piece
underwear as made by HANES. We’ve taken track-athlete freedom and enlarged on it a bit for men who’ve dropped their
calisthenics, but who love comfort none the less. We are a little tickled, too, that we can match the weird
colors in your ties, your shirts, and your socks—though there is pure white, of course.
P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
Winston-Salem, N. C.

Five Alumni Meetings Are Planned for March
New York, Baltimore, Philadelphia, Columbia and Augusta Are on the List

The month of March is generally a busy one for local alumni chapter meetings, and while the 1931 program is
not as extensive as in former years, it includes quite a number of local meetings. At present, five different meetings
are being planned over an eight-day period, but they will not all be on the usual trip through the East.
It was announced in the middle of February that Dr. C. R. Harding, senior professor at Davidson, had been invited
to speak to the New York alumni, and that he would also go to Baltimore. Dr. Harding’s trip has been
extended further, so that it might include a meeting of the chapter in Philadelphia. The New York date was definitely
set last fall for March 18, and the dates which have been suggested to local officers are March 17 in
Baltimore and March 19 in Philadelphia. Heeding a request made a year or two ago by some of the Davidson
alumni in Augusta, an original meeting for the alumni in that city and others close by in South Carolina is
planned for Friday night, March 13. Prior to visiting in Augusta, the alumni secretary, who will attend the meetings, has
suggested the date of Thursday, March 12, to authorities in Columbia, S. C. A chapter was organized there several years
ago, but its meetings have been infrequent since that time. Several days ago a request came to the alumni office
from Dr. L. L. Wilson, ’20, of High Point, asking that steps be taken to organize a chapter there. If
finances permit, the secretary hopes to have a number of local meetings throughout North Carolina during the month of April.
Meetings within the confines of this state have not been held during the past two years because of the economy
being practiced to get out of debt.

Atlanta, Ga—(IP)—College boys in Georgia would have to go back to the old black ties and drab socks of their
fathers, or beg increased allowances from home, if the Georgia legislature were to pass a bill now before it providing
an exorbitant tax on red neckties and loud socks. Miss Bessie Kempton, representative from Fulton County, and Representative Pat Griffin,
of Decatur, sponsors of the bill, said it was “diabolically planned” to wipe out a state deficit of some $7,000.
The house needed a good laugh the day the bill was presented, the representatives said, and they set about trying
to find something to tax that hadn't yet been suggested. The tax would be $1 a day on the wearer
of the colorful clothing.
