THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1931

W. AND L. "CATS TO PLAY SATURDAY

GOLF TOURNAMENT NOW UNDER WAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

Though the ’Cats were beaten by the State Wolfpack last Saturday, the experience will undoubtedly prove a profitable one to
the team, coaches, fans, and all concerned. Pre-season depression has to a large extent disappeared, and with it has come
a return of confidence based upon facts. Neither the team, coaches, nor fans have any illusions as to the strength
of the squad, for it is obviously weak in comparison with last year, but that last quarter of the game
in Greensboro demonstrated as no words or illustrations could, the fact that the Wildcats have a drive, which, when clicking
neatly, is bound to bring results.

What could have been prettier than that fourth quarter drive by the Wildcats! Taking the ball on their own eighteen-yard
line, the ’Cats hammered and plunged their way through the powerful State line, with an occasional end run, and without
being stopped on any play, advanced the ball by consecutive first downs to the far corner of the field and
over for a touchdown. One of the lightest teams in the state brushing aside the monumental Wolfpack defense with a
drive reminiscent of Sherman’s well-known ride through Georgia! Time and time again, Mr. Cobb, all-state tackle of no mean repute,
found himself rudely shoved five or ten yards behind his line, and from his position on the ground looked up
to see something red and black go by with the speed of that well-known bird going out of the lower
regions.

In this last half, MacQueen, Pearce, and King showed up exceptionally well, with MacQueen and Pearce carrying the ball the
majority of the time. Peabody, sent in as a substitute also in the last quarter, played like a veteran, receiving
and running back punts for good gains, as well as skirting the ends for additional yardage each time. Doubtless we
shall see more of Peabody as the season progresses.

Whether or not the replacement of Gardner at center was responsible for many gains through the center of the Wolfpack
line is subject to discussion, but we cannot help but believe that this change materially strengthened the ’Cat line. Of
course, Gardner is very good as regards to running interference in the backfield, but if we use the State game
as a criterion, the assumption is that he could be used most effectively at center. However, a man of Buddy
Gardner’s size and calibre is one to be reckoned with no matter where he is placed.

At the end of the first half, it might be observed that King and Mathis were the only two men
remaining from the starting team. And right here let us note that Doc Mathis played a brilliant game at guard,
especially defensively.

This Saturday the Wildcats journey to Lexington, Va., where they meet the Generals of Washington and Lee. Hampden-Sidney was badly
beaten last Saturday by W. and L. by a score of 33-0, and according to Coaches Laird and Unger, who
scouted the game, W. and L. has a stronger team than last year. The ’Cats have a hard struggle ahead
of them, but with the development of promising substitutes, they should win a fair percentage of their games.

Miss Maude Royden, the famous woman preacher, has had the degree of doctor of divinity conferred on her by Glasgow
University. She is the daughter of the late Sir Thomas Royden of the Cunard and Anchor Lines. She has made
a unique center of religious activity out of a disused chapel in Eccleston Square, near Victoria Station, London.
—From London Letter.

Wildcats Leave Friday For Lexington to Meet Strong W.&L. Generals

’Cats Taught New Tricks After Losing in Night Game With N. C. State

NO GAME LAST YEAR

This Makes Second Game for Generals; Third for Davidson

On Saturday afternoon, October 3rd, Davidson's Wildcats will meet the Washington and Lee Generals in Lexington. This will be the
first time these two teams have met on the gridiron for several seasons. Washington and Lee played one game this
season, this being with Hampden-Sidney last Saturday. In this game, W. and L. smothered the opponents with a series of
plunges, running plays, and passes to win by the score of 32-0. The Generals were inaugurating Coach DeHart's new football
system and made it look good for early season play against weak opposition, piling up eighteen first downs to their
opponents’ two. Three touchdowns came on passes and two on plunges. Last year the Generals tied a 0-0 score with
V. P. I., who defeated Davidson by just a point, 20-19.

SEEN FROM THE SIDELINES
By BILL MATTHEWS

Most of the sports pages of the state carried their predictions and opinions of Big Five teams last week. This
page has withheld it until now, the opinions given after seeing the teams play, and not before, can better be
so changed. Here's ours on the four teams, leaving Davidson to your own opinion.

The Davidson-N. C. State fracas proved to be fairly satisfying to adherents to both sides. Davidson had heard so many
dire things about their Wildcats that they were overjoyed at the stirring last-half showing. N. C. State undoubtedly showed plenty
of power in their running attack, presented a powerful line, and two of the prettiest stepping backs seen in quite
some moons! We mean Messrs. McQuage and Wilson. McQuage was nearly the whole show for State. He was a demon
in running back punts, had his drives consistent, and his kicking was highly effective. Wilson also boasted a pair of
snaky hips, enough weight to give form to substantial gains, and he and Cumiskey came through the line like nobody's
business. But that’s State. We believe they will go far this year.

Anyone who has been believing these tales about Carolina lacking things this year had to revise their ideas last Sunday
morning. Their superiority to Wake Forest seemed even more marked than the score indicated. Carolina will be there in December
right near the top. Slusser will be the big noise, we think, in the Tar Heel attack. He slid off
and around ends a number of times for pretty gains and eased over for a brace of scores. Branch is
still the same flashy runner, but he is not now, and never has been, any help as a blocker or
interference man. He took about three men out of plays during the whole game.

Wake Forest, as we said above, has a pretty line, and one that will cause anybody worlds of trouble. But
this year they don't have the quartet of backs who can sail out through holes that are opened for them.
They gained less than 50 yards against Carolina, and though this was not entirely their fault, they were the boys
who weren't getting the yards, no matter who was to blame. With this backfield will rest the Deacons’ fate this
year.

We believe that Davidson has as good a chance this year as they will have in quite some days to
break that jinx. If the Wildcats will forget about its existence, they stand a good chance to do it.

Duke disappointed a multitude of hopeful alumni, but then South Carolina is supposed to have a swell team, and their
defense was just as big as the starters. They ripped up the Wake forwards, who last year were just about
as good as any in these parts and is almost exactly the same this year as it was last Thanksgiving,
save for one or two places. The Wildcats were downed by the Blue Devils with a score of 12-0.Wake Forest
by the Blue Devils doesn’t mean that the Millionaires don’t have the football this year. In the game with the
Generals last year, they were defeated, 21-7. That was just about how things could have been if they had kept
up through the game as they started off. Remember, South Carolina frocked ‘em worse than that last year, and Duke
didn’t lose another game. With the material on hand, the Wildcats are going places.

DON McQUEEN, WILDCAT FULLBACK

The Davidson College fall golf tournament opened last Monday, September 28, with between 16 and 20 entries. The preliminaries are
to be 18 holes and the finals are to be 36. The main purpose of this tournament is to get
a line on the most promising golfers in school. It is expected that a fall golf team is to be
selected and there are prospects of several matches with neighboring clubs.

Davidson’s wrestling schedule for the coming season is not complete to date, but the Wildcat grapplers have at least six
matches, it was announced by “Doc” Unger, wrestling coach. Matches are being scheduled with the same opponents the grapplers met
last year, with the exception of N.C. State, who have dropped wrestling from their winter sports program. There are only
three members of last year’s team back in school. Of these three, Tom Caldwell is the only one that has
been able to play any, as Jack Wagner and John D. McConnell are out. Coach Unger also announced that wrestling
workouts will begin immediately after the close of the football season. The first match will probably be held the first
week in February. Another schedule is being prepared with several high school and college freshmen wrestling teams for the Davidson
Freshmen. Unger will also have charge of the Wildkitten grapplers.

Thirty-six freshmen have entered the tennis tournament and will play off their matches by Saturday. The six best men will
be chosen to make up the Freshman team. The entrants and the pairings follow: S. Brown, B. Bogart; Parker, McIlwaine;
L. Garrett, B. Little; R. Orr, Hellenger; S. Eaton, E. Norvell; J. James, M. Rogers; G. Gullett, R. Sherrill; W.
Sprunt, W. Sutton; B. Cait, H. Daniel; R. Lessem, J. Taylor; B. Smith, A. Bayer; H. Powell, A. McFadyen; P.
Lucas, H. Yelverton, J. Walker.

Because there were such a large number of men entering the tournament this year, it will be necessary for the
following men to play off the preliminaries before they will be eligible to enter the tournament. They are: N.C. West,
Rogers; R. Porter, H. Morris; D. Elvery, S. Adams; Bo Simpson, H. Ray.

Play in the upperclassmen’s tennis tournament progressed to the final round last week. Jim Halverstadt, of Atlanta, Ga., defeated Gene
DuBose, of Camden, S.C., in four sets, 6-2, 6-8, 6-1, 6-2. It was an interesting tussle and the battle held
the attention of the crowd throughout. Both contestants displayed hard-driving games and each man kept on his toes for fear
his opponent would drive him to the wall. The players were well pitted and the game was the best exhibition
of form seen on Davidson tennis courts this fall. The services were truly potent crashes and the forehand drives of
each player were spectacular.

STATISTICS ON STATE-DAVIDSON GAME

First downs: 7-7
Passes attempted: 4-7
Passes completed: 2-3
Passes intercepted: 1-0
Yards gained from passes: 35-0
Total yards gained: 217-106
Average length of punts: 34-31

We Cater to Davidson Men

TOBACCOS - SODAS - SUNDRIES

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Handbooks, Cards, and OTHER PRINTING. Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve
you.

P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Our Store is your Store, so make it your Downtown Headquarters. We carry everything from head to foot that a
College Man will need.

TAILORED SUITS

OPPOSITE CAMPUS
PHONE 206
