THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 23, 1931

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

WILSON McCUTCHAN Editor-in-Chief
A. CANNON Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. C. DWELLE, JR Managing Editor
W. S. LEA Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN Managing Editor
W. B. MATTHEWS Sports Editor
A. H. WHITENER News Editor
V. M. BELL Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN Associate Editor
TIRE BLACK Associate Editor
CY RAGIN Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
P. M. CONWAY Assistant Business Manager
COE BAMBER Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY Subscription Manager
P. F. BROWN Solicitor
R. W. FALLS Solicitor
A. L. OMAN Solicitor
A. L. MEBANE Solicitor
W. R. MORROW Solicitor

Applause is not always what it seems to be, if one can believe The Chronicle, Duke college in submitting news to the college public. One reads that Paderewski received the greatest ovation ever accorded an artist in Page Auditorium. On the next page, an oracle comments that it doubted if he lived up to his reputation. The critic even admitted his doubt as to the nature of that reputation. We suppose it all goes to prove the fickleness of the general public.

THE SENIOR QUESTIONNAIRE
Critics have often questioned the importance which should be attached to straw votes, intelligence tests, information blanks, questionnaires, and the like. Roger Babson once made the statement that anything could be proved with statistics. We believe that the present subject is like any of the other types mentioned; it has to be interpreted correctly to be of value as an indicator of popular opinion.

As framed, the Senior Questionnaire was intended to solicit opinion from the majority of the members of the Senior class as regards current college topics and as related to personal ideas and habits. It did not attempt to elicit, nor did it receive, censorious criticism. Except in a few and relatively unimportant cases were there any leading questions. No solicitation or condition was made in reference to any particular question. The only demand was that the papers should be unsigned.

It is the common opinion of those who have participated in the tabulation of answers that continual proof was given that thought had been present in the formation of replies. Replies also bore evidence that there was universal veracity of thought and seriousness of consideration. Sixty-nine questionnaires were filled out and returned. We believe that this is a fair indication of the Senior class as a whole. Not only is this true, but careful scrutiny of the returns shows that the men answering constitute an excellent representation of the class. Every line and branch of collegiate endeavor was well represented.

THE PROBLEM OF TRANSPORTATION
When the Romans constructed such feats of engineering as the Appian Way, they realized the great necessity for an easy means of traveling from one place to another. Inventions have likewise shown man’s eagerness to get somewhere in the quickest way possible. It remains a problem, even to the college man.

In light of recent rumors and reports from divers sources, a few words of caution may not prove out of place. Lest either the “pros” or the “cons” doubt our good intentions, let it be said that we are merely trying to add another solution to the old, ever-existent problem.

We do not believe that “courtesy rides” prove either bothersome or unpleasant to those who offer them, as a general rule. Due to instance, it is often necessary to return from a certain place to the starting point. Quite often, in the absence of bus or train service, there appears to be but one alternative. We admit the efficacy of this alternative as a means of last resort only. When it becomes essential to employ this last mentioned system, individuals should remember that they are purely and rightly in the nature of guests. They have been invited to accept a moving hospitality and are under obligation to its donor. Not only are they under obligation to their carrier, but they owe a courteous thanks to the person on whose property they were when invited to ride. A cheerful receiver is as essential as a cheerful giver.

TENNIS AND GOLF
As spring sports activities begin to swing into full sway, as they must before a great period of time elapses, track and baseball will claim a goodly number of candidates. The basketball and wrestling seasons will be drawing to a close. With spring training in football, this period marks the time of greatest variety, if not greatest intensity, of athletic competition at Davidson.

There are two sports which are often times overlooked to some degree by the student body. Tennis is one of them. It is hardly necessary to observe that tennis is the one sport in which more non-varsity athletes participate than in any other. But tennis has its own adherents, men that devote more time to it than to any other form of extra-curricular activity. It is due to this fact that Davidson tennis teams in the past have ranked along with those of any other college or university in the South. The memory of Bradley, Carr, Roddey, and Halverstadt remains.

One is at a loss to explain the usually poor attendance at tennis matches. There are probably three basic reasons. In the first place, it seems that they are usually staged at the same time when a track meet or baseball game is going on. Tennis never has had the drawing power of these two sports in collegiate followings. Secondly, it is not as well advertised as other activities. Lastly, comfortable seating accommodations are sadly lacking. Spectators have either experienced, or seem to fear, the unpleasant sensation of sliding down a red clay bank into the back-stop. The courts are, in themselves, good; careful attention has whipped them into remarkable shape for the period of time that they have been in use. Still, lovers of the game have to have a considerable desire to watch it before they will sit on the ground or on seats improvised of old boxes and pieces of wood for the length of time necessary to complete a match.

Golf, on the other hand, is a coming sport here. It gains more followers every year. The men in this branch of athletics have not yet been awarded varsity recognition; we believe they will eventually get it. At the same time, they are doing their part to represent Davidson on the links in competitive competition in the state.

Few conveniences can be constructed for a gallery. Even the most rabid fan could hardly propose a stadium or stand large enough for a nine-hole golf course, if such a structure were possible. It is to be regretted, however, that more golf matches cannot be arranged for the local links. Dr. Arbuckle and the golf committee have done wonders with the material and resources they have had. It will probably be some time before it will be possible to hold inter-collegiate tournaments here. In addition to general improvement, there are a few details that should be attended to. Players must not be in continual danger of falling off of bridges into water hazards, or of tearing their sports attire on certain metal devices that mark old property lines. It will be a new mark of progress when students can comfortably witness tennis and golf matches on the campus.

What Do You Know About?
Pushing the Drive?
Fortune on Foam?
Spring Growth of Business?
Colorful Choices?

Drastic measures have been undertaken by the Red Cross for relief of the millions of sufferers in drought-stricken areas. In order to meet the need, a special call for $10,000,000 has been made by the body, and the full forces of the organization have been called upon to aid in the raising of the amount. A proclamation by President Hoover formally started the campaign. He appointed a committeeof fifty of the most prominent men and women in American life to aid in the raising of the funds, and the work has been pushed into action as quickly as possible. Heading the committee are Ex-President Coolidge, in the role of honorary chairman, and Almost-President Al Smith, as the man who is actually at the helm. These two, coupled with the others on the committee, give the campaign added prestige and the backing of big names—and big pocketbooks—that otherwise might have been lost. And being in need of a good publicity agent, one who could really picture the need to America in a way that would get attention in the newspapers, one of the most widely-read men in the United States—Will Rogers—was named for the position. Piloted by the best-known present-day figure of the other, Capt. Frank Hawkes—speed man de luxe—Will has been touring the stricken areas and has been giving to his readers the conditions as they are. It is a worthy cause, and should go over well.

“Science is always wrong. It never solves a problem without creating ten more.”—George Shaw.

One of America’s wealthiest drug manufacturers, and a sportsman widely known throughout the Carolinas, died last week. I. E. Emerson, head of the drug company that bears his name, and inventor of the formula for Bromo-Seltzer, had acquired a large fortune from his invention of an ease for headaches, and was widely known as a lavish and popular host. The story of Emerson’s discovery of the formula for America’s great eye strain remedy and the subsequent rise of the then young druggist reads like a Horatio Alger story. While working in a drug store as a clerk, he took a well-known headache remedy—potassium bromide—and by adding a little of another chemical to the uninteresting white powder, the enterprising young man obtained a mixture that fizzed and foamed in a most convincing manner when water was added, and immediately changed an everyday remedy, which sold only moderately, into a national necessity. And a few bubbles did it all, because before the addition of the foaming constituent, potassium bromide had enjoyed little popularity.

“I must handle the family bankbook. If the professor tried it, he would get all mixed up.”—Mrs. Albert Einstein, wife of the German Scientist.

Business is looking hopefully into the spring months for a revival of America from its lethargy, and a return to something like the good old days “B. D.” (Before the Depression). One of the things which is helping to make their hopes mount is the fact that every day brings added news of more men returning to their jobs, and of the wheels of industry beginning to turn once more at something of their wonted pace. Ford alone has taken on almost 60,000 new men in the last few weeks, returning his force to almost normal capacity. Other automobile makers are reporting the return of large numbers of their employees. Other industries, too, are on the upgrade, and the more optimistic are looking for things to snap out of it soon.

“There is almost nothing you can’t find in Shakespeare except pajamas.”—Sir Phillip Ben Greet.

Recent study by a noted psychologist into the color likes and dislikes of the various races has revealed a number of interesting things. One of them is that blue is liked best of all colors by both members of the white race and by Negroes. Next in the grouping of these comes green and then orange. It is said that white is the least liked. Mexicans had as their pet shade a nice flaming red. These placed blue second, and again concurred with the whites and blacks by placing white at the end of the list. What sort of people like Christmas neckties?

“What I missed most during my first Christmas at Hollywood was holly.”—Greta Garbo.

MUSINGS

After hearing all this talk about abolishing war and with no results forthcoming, I have decided that I would take the matter in my own capable hands and promptly dispose of the warlord Mars. In the first place, we don’t need to bother with foreign countries; we should live to ourselves. To this, some will say that the Americans have not the aesthetic sense of Continentals. To this, I point with pardonable pride to the football teams of the good ole United States—witness the University of Alabama and Notre Dame—and answer that we have as good aesthetics as anybody. Also, some may, not knowing the facts, say that we have no sculpture to compare with Europe’s and again I use the finger of scorn and point, although it is impolite, to our American radiator caps—what better sculpture do you want?

Now, my friends, I come to a vital point (no, I’m through pointing with my finger): It is absolutely too hot to fight in the summertime. Any married man will tell you that. Why, in parts of Spain in the summer it is usually 110 degrees Fahrenheit in the shade... in the shade, mind you! Of course, my adversaries in this cause (and, ah, they are numerous) will shrug their square shoulders smugly (as smug as a bug in a rug) and say that we don’t have to fight in the shade where it is so hot. To this, I merely ask—Is that any argument? No! And what's fair for the goose is fair for the gander, I say. So I state that we should leave the foreigners alone. Now, I will admit that we do owe them a debt of gratitude in one way: This country was discovered by foreigners. Besides saying that we are grateful, I say nothing to this. This has always been a sore spot with me; why couldn't some full-blooded American have discovered this country!

I now come to my method of abolishing war. The military forces should take on an enormous searchlight capable of sending a powerful beam of black light—just common everyday black light—and place it in a strategic position near the front. Then we ignore the enemy, absolutely ignore them. The enemy hates nothing worse than ignorance and will come charging into range of the searchlight. Then I (I really think I should be the one to man the searchlight because it’s my idea and everything, you know) will turn my powerful black light down on them, full force. The enemy, thinking it is dark, will tuck each other in bed and go to sleep. When their snores punctuate, pardon me, I mean puncture the air, we (the general and myself and a few of the fellows) will silently steal down to their encampment. A little study can be given to those snores that puncture the air that is filled with black light. If we wait too long, the snores will have made so many knot holes in our black light that the enemy will think it is day again and resume the aforementioned charge; but if the holes are knot holes, what are they? Now to resume: The general and myself and a few of the fellows are down in the encampment amid the punctures of the enemy. The general (or I could do it either) sends up a small flare of white light and my successor at the searchlight turns off the black light. The enemy gradually begins to awaken and finds the general and the fellows (not me; I can’t cook) quietly cooking breakfast among them. They smell the food (the general is a swell cook) cooking and imagine they are very hungry. They clamor for food but the general smilingly tells them that he won’t give them a bite until they promise not to fight anymore. They agree readily and we all sit around and enjoy breakfast together, chatting like old friends. We even tell them about the black light and we all laugh heartily at the incident, so to speak. We can start right now on this crusade by every man learning to cook (except me; I am going to man the searchlight). The present standing army could be turned into a cooking school. However, let us remember that too many cooks spoil the broth, so some of us must set about inventing the searchlight; or we can do our bit by saving up all the little dark places we run across and pile them up and sprinkle them over the charging enemy.

Oak Hill, historic home of President James Monroe in Loudoun County, Va., is to be sold at public auction.

When John Hicks, in Australia, called his relatives in Sedalia, Mo., on December 26, he was able to wish them a Merry Christmas, because in Sedalia it was December 25.

When Secretary of State Henry D. Stimson heard his Washington home being bombarded, he found that his windows were being smashed by boys using slingshots on birds in the vicinity.