THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 6, 1931

Alumni Association Will Undergo Reorganization This Commencement

Entire Alumni Body Was Sent Proposed Plan and By-Laws Some Time Ago

SUGGESTIONS MADE

On Basis of Criticisms and Suggestions Several Changes Have Been Made

The Davidson College Alumni Association will undergo a reorganization at the approaching commencement at Davidson, which is the outgrowth of two years of study on the part of alumni officials, and the result of observations and experimentation since the inception of the alumni office in 1926. The present officers and Alumni Council were continued in office last commencement, with the idea of further working out a plan they had in view and submitting it for adoption at the 1931 meeting of the Alumni Association.

A draft of the reorganization was mailed to the entire alumni constituency some time ago, with a request for criticisms and suggestions. They were asked to vote for the plan or reject it in general, the final form of which would be drafted by a special committee to be appointed by the president of the Alumni Association. The vote was overwhelmingly in favor of the proposal, with many suggestions and criticisms being offered by the individual alumni.

With these before them, the special committee, made up of H. Smith Richardson, ’06, of New York, president of the organization; Dr. R. H. Lafferty, '99, of Charlotte, vice-president of the association, and Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, '06, a former president of the Alumni Association, met in Charlotte to re-draft the proposal, and the by-laws which had been submitted. Six hours of deliberation were devoted to the plan by this committee, with the result that a revision of the plan will be submitted to the alumni for adoption at commencement. It was decided, on the basis of suggestions offered, that the proposed council of approximately 200 members would be unwieldy, and that it was advisable to reduce the number.

The outcome was that the Alumni Council would be made up of a limited number of distinguished alumni from the older body of former students, a specified number from the groups that had graduated within the last ten years, and also a specific number, as outlined in the proposal, from the Senior class. The older group were to be chosen on the basis of their accomplishments and achievements in the professional and business world, irrespective of classes, while two were to be selected from the classes of the last ten years, and ten from the outgoing classes.

In substance, that was the major outgrowth of the lengthy conference. Other revisions were tentatively written into the plan, and when the new council gathers together at Davidson on Monday of commencement, a by-laws committee, to be appointed that day, will further devote several hours to a final draft of the proposal and submission to the Alumni Association.

President Richardson has written personal letters to the first-chosen members of the Alumni Council, enclosing a program of the meeting to be held at Davidson, beginning at 10 o'clock Monday morning, June 1, and going through the early part of Tuesday morning, if all of the work has not been completed by the Monday night session. The plan is to divide the council into committees, some of which will be permanent, and some temporary. Most of the phases of college life would be represented by the committees, and the returning alumni would co-operate with the younger group of alumni, who know the Davidson campus today, and would discuss among themselves the problems and conditions at Davidson.

Tonight the outgoing Senior class is scheduled to select its ten Alumni Council representatives. A smoker has been arranged for

Alumni Deaths

Dr. R. A. Brown, '92

Rev. Arthur Brown, D.D., 1892 graduate of Davidson College, died suddenly in the lobby of Hotel Wilkes at North Wilkesboro last Saturday, April 30. Dr. Brown was in Wilkesboro looking after the transfer of property belonging to the Presbyterian Church, and had just completed his business when he walked into the hotel and collapsed. He died within a few minutes.

The deceased was born in 1867, and entered Davidson from Greensboro. Completing his work here, he did his ministerial preparation at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., and served pastorates at Mt. Airy, and at Waycross, Ga. Dr. Brown then became connected with the home mission work in Arkansas, and later accepted the presidency of Stillman Institute, at Tuscaloosa, Ala. More recently, Dr. Brown was superintendent of colored evangelistic work for the Southern Presbyterian Church, with headquarters in Atlanta.

Rossie Engagements

Petrea-Campbell

"Mr. and Mrs. J. L. Petrea, of Concord, announce the engagement of their daughter, Zula, to William L. Campbell, Jr., of Salisbury, the wedding to take place in June." Mr. Campbell is in the class of 1924, and after attending Davidson, he went to the Philadelphia Textile School and Museum of Arts. He is now connected with the Rowan Cotton Mills at Salisbury. Miss Petrea obtained her education at Greensboro College.

May-Hall

"Mr. and Mrs. Charles C. May, of Grifton, announce the engagement of their daughter, Carolina, to Matthew Neagle Hall, of Belmont, the wedding to take place in June." The newspapers carried onlyThis announcement, with no details as to the contracting parties. Mr. Hall graduated from Davidson in 1928, and since then has been in business at Belmont. Rev. T. R. Alexander, '19, of Charlotte, who is completing his master of arts degree at Duke University this year in the field of economics, has been awarded a fellowship in that department at Duke, valued between $700 and $800. Glenn A. Fry, '29, of Albemarle, has been awarded a fellowship in psychology at Duke, the value of which is $350. Mr. Fry is a student at Duke now. Mayor Geo. W. Coan, '11, of Winston-Salem, will leave soon with 36 other mayors of America to be the guests of the French Government and Paris. While there, Mayor Coan will lay a wreath at the tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Paris. This wreath is being sent by the North State Post, Veterans of Foreign Wars. John McCrummen, '23, who has been superintendent of the Vass-Lakeview Schools for the past four years, has been re-elected to that post for another year. Newspaper reports stated that Mr. McCrummen’s regime had been characterized by “marked success.” Gen. W. A. Smith, '65, of Ansonville, commander of the North Carolina Confederate Veterans, was host last week to approximately 300 guests, made up of Confederate Veterans, their relatives, and friends. Hen E. Fries, '78, and Mrs. Fries, of Winston-Salem, recently celebrated their golden wedding anniversary. Over a thousand guests called during the evening. The class, and most of them have been interviewed personally, so that they might be informed as to what elections were to take place.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Among the visitors to the campus during the past week were E. L. Baxter Davidson, '80, Charlotte; Rev. W. B. Knox, '18, Statesville; J. Eris Cassell, '19, Concord; Dr. M. R. Doubles, '22, Richmond, Va.; Charles Anderson, '27, of St. Petersburg, Fla.; George Batte, Jr., '27, Concord; Joe H. McConnell, '27, Charlottesville, Va.; Ernest F. Shannon, Jr., '27, New York; Thomas M. Alexander, '29, Concord, and W. B. Buckner, '30, Shelbyville, Tenn. Friends will regret to learn of the death of H. B. Brown, father of Rev. H. D. Brown, '25, of Lynchburg, Va., and W. W. McGirt, father of Roger M. McGirt, '23, Gibson, N. C. Dr. Robt. H. Lafferty, '99, has been elected president of the North Carolina Medical College Alumni Association. For many years this medical college was operated across from the main campus of Davidson. Dr. C. G. Long, '21, of Albemarle, was made temporary clerk of Mecklenburg Presbytery at its meeting in Wadesboro, and Rev. W. Payne Brown, '23, of Edenton, was chosen for the same office in Albemarle Presbytery at its meeting in Tarboro. Paul P. Brown, '03, of Raleigh, was re-elected secretary of the North Carolina Bankers Association, and D. I. McKeithen, '17, of Aberdeen, was chosen as a member of the executive committee, representing one of the nine local groups of bankers within the state. Taylor H. Stukes, '13, of Manning, S. C., a member of the Senate of South Carolina, is being prominently mentioned for a judgeship in South Carolina. His appointment would come from the State Legislature, now in session at Columbia, S. C. Chas. A. Cannon, '15, of Concord, has been appointed by Governor O. Max Gardner, of North Carolina, as one of the seven members of the new highway commission. The commission will be in charge of administering the new road act, which provided that the state take over the entire system of county roads in North Carolina. Major J. S. Simmons, '11, of the Army Medical School, Washington, D. C., has recently published a 20-page article on dengue fever. The article appeared in the March issue of The American Journal of Tropical Medicine, and has been reprinted in pamphlet form and widely distributed. Major Simmons is in the department of bacteriology of the Army Medical School. His work shows a competent and complete study of this malady and its causes, and is accompanied by several charts which Major Simmons worked out. J. A. Alexander, '29, master of arts student at Davidson, who was recently chosen as an alternate for a fellowship in geology at the University of North Carolina, has been granted that fellowship, since the one to whom it was given is going to study elsewhere next year.

THAT LITTLE STING way down in the throat when you inhale a cigarette is caused by parched dry tobacco. You never feel it when you smoke fresh, prime Camels. The Humidor Pack keeps Camels from drying out or going stale. That’s why they are always so cool and mild, so throat-easy. Blended from choicest Turkish and mellowest Domestic tobaccos and kept in tip-top prime condition by an air-tight wrapping of moisture-proof Cellophane, Camels are mighty hard to leave once you have tried them. If you don’t believe it, switch to Camels for one whole day, then quit them, if you can.

© 1931, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company

Dear Mr., Miss or Mrs. Try a fresh Cigarette! R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO. Winston-Salem, N. C.

CAMELS

Factory-fresh CAMELS are air-sealed in the new Sanitary Package which keeps the dust and germs out and keeps the flavor in.