THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1931

Reprinted Article Tells Campus Church History

Paper Gives Account of Dedication Ceremony of Church at Commencement Exercises of 1885

IMPRESSIVE SERVICE

Interesting Manuscript Saved for Many Years by Mrs. Paisly

(Editor’s Note: The following article is reprinted from The North Carolina Presbyterian of June 17, 1885. The Davidsonian is very much indebted to Mrs. Paisley for permission to use this.)

Saturday, June 6, was Commencement Day at Davidson College village. It was unlike other commencement occasions, however, as it was not an ingathering of a great multitude to celebrate the exercises connected with the annual closing of the college; but it was literally a “commencement,” a beginning of a new era in the history of this time-honored community, which has had an existence for nearly half a century, yet never before enjoyed the worship of God in a building dedicated to His service. Previous to this time the congregation had attended the college preaching in the “Old Chapel,” so familiar to all who have been students here.

About three years ago Rev. J. F. Latimer, D.D., after his remarkable zeal and success in church building at Ramah and Huntersville, conceived the idea of starting a church edifice at Davidson College. The people gladly sympathized in the movement, having long felt the need of a pastor, who would go in and out among them, mingling with them in their times of sorrow and of joy, for while Davidson College has been blest with pulpit ministrations of the highest order, in the preaching of the various presidents, from Dr. Morrison to Dr. Hepburn (then president) who have given us the marrow and fatness of the Gospel, and whose faithful, earnest presentations of the truth and kind ministrations in times of sickness and death the people gratefully acknowledge, still with the heavy duties of the presidency, it was impossible to meet all the details of pastoral work.

When Dr. Latimer left us, about $2,400 was secured for the building. Then Col. W. J. Martin, with his accustomed persistence in good works, secured other funds from the community, and visited many of the larger churches in the state, soliciting aid to complete the enterprise. To his laborious efforts are due the finishing of this “holy and beautiful temple of the Lord.” Not quite one year from the laying of the cornerstone, the church was dedicated, virtually free from debt, at a cost of over $6,000.

Dr. J. F. Latimer was unanimously chosen by the congregation to preach the dedicatory sermon, which he did in a vigorous, able presentation of the resurrection of Christ as the “cornerstone” of our faith. “If Christ be not risen, then is your faith vain.” Rev. R. H. Morrison, D.D., the father of Davidson College, its first president, was invited to assist in the baptism of the daughter—the new church. He was too feeble to attend, but sent us his benediction and his prayers for the presence of God’s Spirit.

Rev. Charles Phillips, D.D., was also invited most cordially by the community as one who had done faithful pastoral work while professor in the college. The doctor’s big heart swelled up with loving response to this request, but he was too unwell to come. The Rev. William W. Pharr assisted in the service. Rev. P. T. Penick preached at night. Revs. P. P. Winn and L. K. Glasgow were present; also Rev. P. W. Williams of the Methodist Church. The Communion of the Lord’s Supper was administered on Sabbath to a full house, and a Sabbath School jubilee followed in the afternoon, with a sweet service of song, and several addresses to the children.

Never were a people more filled with gratitude to God for His blessing on an enterprise so full of promise for good to this community and this college. The citizens of the village have evinced great enthusiasm for the work. The “Ladies’ Aid Society” contributed $300 for the pews and carpet. The Children’s Society raised funds for the chandelier and bracket lamps, which reflect great credit on their juvenile efforts, aided of course by their friends. The Sabbath School presented a handsome Bible. An elegant walnut pulpit and table were the gifts of a venerable friend and his daughter, as a memorial offering; they were once members of this church, and our aged elder rejoiced in being present on this occasion. Another Father in Israel (President Morrison) presented a baptismal bowl. Thus nobly have this people demonstrated their delight in their new house of worship.

ATHLETIC AWARDS

(Continued from page 1)

After the athletic certificates had been presented by Dr. J. M. Douglas, formerly director of athletics, to all those men who made their letters for the first time, Prof. F. K. Fleagle awarded to J. H. Ramseur of Lincolnton the gymnastic trophy for the best work in the gymnasium during the past year. L. D. Adcox, of Pine Bluff, N. C., was awarded the physical improvement trophy by Col. W. R. Scott. Adcox added 9 3/4 inches to his body since he entered Davidson last fall, to barely win over W. T. Thompson, Jr., of Richmond, Va., also a Freshman, who added 9 1/4 inches. G. W. George, of Decatur, Ga., was the winner of the track decathlon trophy by mustering the greatest number of points, and this was presented by Prof. W. W. Wood.

Twenty-nine Davidson athletes won letters during the football, basketball and wrestling seasons, three managers were presented their letters, two service letters were awarded, a minor letter went to managers of Freshman sports, and varsity cheerleader was given his public recognition. The various athletes and others recognized include those in football: Capt. W. W. Fraley, Barium Springs; J. M. Proctor, Lincolnton; H. S. Brown, Mt. Ulla; L. S. Pierce, Spencer; L. S. Raker, Lexington; H. S. Covington, Red Springs; J. M. Wagner, Statesville; Thad Brock, Barium Springs; G. L. Mathis, Rural Hall; C. T. Parker, High Point; U. B. Gardner, Decatur, Ga.; W. A. Mason, Belmont; U. D. McCall, Salisbury; T. W. Brohard, Graf-

May the God of the everlasting covenant abide in this holy place. May His Spirit dwell in the hearts of all who worship here, enriching them with every Christian grace so that they may abound in good works.growing more and more into the likeness of His dear Son, until they shall be meet for the inheritance of saints. J. R. B. (Professor J. R. Blake, of the Physics Department. Copied from a paper kept by Mrs. Paisley.) 

ton, W. Va., and D. M. McQueen, Little Rock, S. C. 

Basketball: Capt. W. B. Goodson, Lincolnton; Dean Rusk, Atlanta, Ga.; J. Proctor, Lincolnton; G. L. Mathis, Rural Hall, and D. G. Martin, Covington, Ga. 

Wrestling: Capt. P. M. Conway, Henderson, Ky.; G. W. Vick, Jenkinjones, W. Va.; E. L. Gorham, Lake Charles, La.; J. L. Tyack, Winston-Salem; J. F. Preston, China, and B. B. Taylor, Jr., Baton Rouge, La. 

Varsity managers receiving awards were A. W. McLean, Lumberton, football; W. B. Hancock, Bluefield, W. Va., basketball, and C. N. Burch, Memphis, Tenn., wrestling. 

Service letters were awarded to C. H. Goodykoontz, of Bluefield, W. Va., and to R. G. Wilson, of Marion, N. C., in football and basketball, respectively, for their faithful attendance and conscientious work in the practices for the past four years, but whose participation in these sports was not sufficient for them to come in the category of regular lettermen. 

Minor sports letters went to J. A. Jones, of Laurinburg, as manager of Freshman football team, and to J. G. Berry, Griffin, Ga., as manager of the Freshman basketball five. 

George E. McClenaghan, of Florence, S. C., was awarded his certificate as varsity cheer leader during the past year. 

REQUIREMENTS MADE (Continued from page 1) 

complete in at least 20 quarters of the games scheduled for the season. 

Basketball—The varsity D in basketball shall be awarded to those members of the varsity basketball team who participate in at least 20 halves of the games scheduled for the season. 

Baseball—The varsity D in baseball shall be awarded those members of the varsity baseball team who participate as follows: Infielders and outfielders must play in at least 12 games; pitchers and catchers, in at least five games scheduled for the season. 

Track—The varsity D shall be awarded those members of the varsity track team who score ten or more points in competition with varsity teams of other colleges during the season. 

Managers—The varsity managers of football, baseball, basketball, and track shall be awarded the varsity D. 

Wrestling—The minor sports D in wrestling shall be awarded those members of the varsity wrestling team who compete in at least two matches with varsity teams of other colleges during the season and who score either by fall or time decision. 

Tennis—The minor sports D in tennis shall be awarded to the six members of the varsity tennis team who win highest rating through open tournament competition and who by virtue of their consistent play maintain the privilege of competing in more than half of the matches scheduled for the season. 

Golf—The minor sports D in golf shall be awarded to the four members of the golf team who win highest rating through open tournament competition and who by virtue of their consistent play maintain the privilege of competing in more than half of the matches scheduled for the season. 

Managers—The minor sports managers shall be awarded the letters of their respective sports. The Freshman managers of football, basketball, baseball, and track shall be awarded the regulation D with two-and-one-half-inch M sewn inside. 

Class numerals shall be awarded to members of the Freshman teams upon recommendation of the coaches and with the approval of the Athletic Council. Mere compliance with minimum requirements does not constitute sole basis of award. Every letter-man is expected to satisfy traditional standards of sportsmanship, sustained effort, co-operation, and personal honor with respect to all training pledges and requirements, or he forfeits his eligibility for such award. No letter is awarded without the recommendation of the head coach and without the approval of the Athletic Council. 

MR. WHEELER (Continued from page 1) 

stroys valuable farm land and also the silt is washed down the streams and fills up the dams. It is predicted that the new Boulder dam will be filled with silt within the next fifty years. Considering the third subject, protection of the wild things in the forests, Mr. Wheeler said that there was a great need of trained men for handling game in game preserves. He remarked that a great deal was being done in preserving wild life. States have begun to set aside portions for state forests and state game preserves. His last subject was the human use of the forests. He said that he regretted very much the fact that some people go into the forests, destroy the game, cut flowers, break down trees, and disfigure the spot with rubbish. He also said that the young people, through the Boy and Girl Scout organizations, were being taught how to enjoy and protect outdoor life. “In New Hampshire, 18,000 boys and girls, at a cost of $200,000, go to summer camps,” remarked the speaker. Mr. Wheeler ended his talk with the poem, “Trees,” by Joyce Kilmer. This poem was beautifully illustrated with colored slides. “Poems are made by fools like me, But only God can make a tree.” 

SOPH’S HOUSE PARTY (Continued from page 1) 

During the meal entertainment was furnished by Misses Bertha Burch, Margaret Johnson, Nina Cranford, and Catherine Milton; Messrs. “Doodler Brothers,” “Stumpy” Sugg and “Goof” Clark, and the Sunnyland Serenaders. Miss Burch entertained the audience with an exhibition of tap dancing. Miss Johnson, who has performed here before this year, delighted the gathering with some beautiful selections on her accordion. Miss Nina Cranford, well known to a Davidson audience, and Miss Catherine Milton played and sang for the pleasure of the assembly. The famous “Doodler Brothers,” Dus Enochs and Woody Caligan, members of the class of 1933, and who are heard over WBT, the Charlotte station, every Tuesday night, sang several selections, which met with immediate approval. “Stumpy” Sugg and “Goof” Clark put on a comical skit. Clark told a bedtime story accompanied on the flute by Sugg. As already mentioned, the Sunnyland Serenaders, Davidson's own orchestra, furnished the music. 

© 1931, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. 

YOUR EYES MAY FOOL YOU BUT YOUR TASTE TELLS THE TRUTH! 

Which is bigger—the airplane's landing wheel or the setting sun? Guess first, then check your guess with a