IN THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 13, 1931

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN, Editor-in-Chief
J. C. CANNON, Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF:
E. O. GUERRANT, Managing Editor
D. D. McBRYDE, Managing Editor
R. L. McCALLIE, Managing Editor
C. G. MYERS, Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG, Athletic Editor
G. W. BRANSON, Feature Editor
W. W. BRANSON, Feature Editor
W. W. WILKINSON, Review Editor
E. C. DWELLE, JR., Associate Editor
W. B. TAYLOR, Associate Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS, Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF:
P. M. CONWAY, Assistant Business Manager
A. G. BAKER, Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS, Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY, Subscription Manager
P. F. BROWN, Solicitor
R. W. FALLS, Solicitor
A. M. WEATHERS, Solicitor
A. L. MEBANE, Solicitor
W. R. ROGERS, Solicitor
A. J. E. WILLIAMS, Solicitor
W. F. MURRAY, Solicitor
R. H. ALDERMAN, Solicitor
F. H. COVINGTON, Solicitor
B. B. TAYLOR, Solicitor
L. S. GAMBOL, Solicitor
G. E. BAILEY, Solicitor
R. E. LORRAINE, Solicitor
J. E. BOYD, Solicitor
E. L. POWELL, Solicitor
S. P. PRESTON, Solicitor
R. PRATT-THOMAS, Solicitor
W. R. WARD, Solicitor
A. F. SCHENCK, Solicitor
O. CASALI, Solicitor
W. M. THOMPSON, Solicitor
L. W. CLARDY, JR., Solicitor
W. T. THOMPSON, Solicitor
J. A. HUNTER, Solicitor

MAY 13, 1931

I love tranquil solitude
And such society
As is quiet, wise and good.
—Shelley.

PARAGRAPHICS

In Monday’s issue of the Charlotte Observer is a picture of the monument erected on Beatty’s Ford Road, in memory
of General William Lee Davidson. The college was named for this distinguished Revolutionary War general, who was killed while attempting
to delay Cornwallis’ troops.

Students are evidently glad that the last voting of the year has been completed. It becomes rather tiresome after so
many ballots.

Some weather prophet has predicted that it will rain every weekend this year. If it is raining just one more
Saturday or Sunday we will be tempted to believe him.

This is the last issue of the Davidsonian that will carry news. The next edition of the paper will be
pictorial, having pictures of the leaders for next year, and also some cuts of the campus.

Why not keep all the caddies from congregating in the students’ store in the afternoon? It’s rather hard to get
in sometimes when they are all present.

The small crowd that turned out to hear Dr. Rondthaler is evidence of a rather distressing situation that now exists
here. Students fail to come to hear even the best of speakers that are secured.

MAKE-UP

The following men did make-up work on the page indicated:
McBryde - Front Page
McCallie - Page Five
Myers - Page Six
Sugg - Sport Page
Guerrant - Assignments

A FAREWELL

One or two more days of classes, a few exams, Commencement exercises, and then the members of the Class of
1931 will leave Davidson for the last time as students of the college. It is with a great deal of
regret that the remainder of the student body see them go. They have made a place for themselves that will
be exceedingly hard for another class to fill.

The Senior Class has entered a great many fields of activity since its entrance to Davidson College. Their success in
all fields has been nothing short of miraculous. Perhaps no class has ever presented a better or more rounded group
of athletes than has this one. They will be missed when Wildcats meet opposing teams on the field, court, and
diamond next year.

The same thing is true when we examine their other endeavors. In the literary, scholastic, forensic, and social fields they
have been eminently successful. In bidding this group farewell, we want to wish them success in whatever they may go
into, be it business, profession, or a continuation of their studies at some other school. May they remember that wherever
they may go, whenever they come into contact with others, people will be forming opinions of the college; that it
is their duty to uphold the ideals and traditions that are Davidson’s. May they also remember that whenever they return
to the campus as alumni, they are as welcome as they were when they were students.

HUMOROUS OR LITERARY

With the appearance of the last issue of the “Yowl” Monday, a year of more or less trial publication has
been completed. Last spring the student body voted to make the then existing “Chameleon” half-literary and half-humorous, because of the
apparent failure of a literary magazine to arouse any interest among the students in writing. This fall the elected literary
editor failed to return to school and it was voted to make the magazine all-humorous.

Since that time three editions of the publication have appeared. It is difficult to determine the exact reaction of the
student body to this new effort in literature, but it is generally admitted that it has been more successful in
retaining the interest of the students than was the Chameleon. The type of work appearing in the magazine has been
very good under the circumstances, and the “Yowl” has taken a place among the leading humorous publications of Southern colleges
and universities.

Now, upon the recommendation of the English Department of the college, the Executive Committee has decided that for the coming
year the publication is to be composed of sixty percent humorous and forty percent literary matter. Their purpose in this
is evidently to give an outlet to any literary talent which the students may have. Whether the publication, with its
changed contents, will be as well received as the entirely humorous magazine is a question which will be decided next
year. Whatever the result may be, the retiring staff deserves the commendation of the student body, and the new staff
needs its full support and co-operation.

Exchange

The Sun Dial of Randolph-Macon Woman’s College tells us that twenty-one seniors received bids to become members of the Phi
Beta Kappa. Besides this number there was one alumna to receive an invitation. This is an amazing number to receive
bids to this national honorary fraternity. It is most astonishing to Davidson since there were only ten men to make
it here and Davidson has a larger student body than Randolph-Macon.

“Featured by the relay team which set a new record in the mile relay, P. C.’s phenomenal track squad did
well in a large field of opponents who entered the annual Southeastern A. A. U. track and field meet held
in Atlanta on April 25. The team tied with Vanderbilt University for fourth place.

“The relay team shattered the association’s record for the mile relay with a time of three minutes, 23.7 seconds. The
old record was set by Georgia last year at three minutes 27 seconds. This time is more than remarkable for
the track was slightly heavy and running was difficult. The time is faster than any recorded previous to this time,
by any team, east of the Mississippi river and south of the Mason Dixon line.”—The Blue Stocking.

Recently the Lenoir-Rhyne paper published the following article praising the sportsmanship of the Davidson student body:

“A few weeks ago the baseball squad journeyed to Davidson College and engaged that team in a game. Lenoir-Rhyne lost,
but when they left the field they knew that they had lost to a team that had played a clean
game. Not only that; they noticed that there had been something lacking which was experienced in other games, that is,
jeering from the sidelines. The Davidson student body did not once razz a Lenoir player. In fact they applauded every
good play or beautiful catch made by Lenoir-Rhyne team. It is a deplorable fact that such good sportsmanship has not
been in evidence on the home field this season.

“At this game the Davidson student body did some well-organized cheering at the beginning of the game and continued at
intervals as their team came to bat and when they took the field, each inning; that is, twice each inning.

“There is nothing that reflects poorer sportsmanship in an individual than for him to engage in razzing the players. It
is not part of the game, as some would like to think. It shows the poorest kind of spirit, or
rather, no school spirit at all. Consider the player that is being razzed. He is fighting for his school; but,
to hear the razzing he gets for making an error, one would think he was some dumb animal who had
unwittingly donethe wrong thing, or that he was a criminal about to be lynched. He feels bad enough about his
error without the crowd rubbing it in.” Franklin was dining with the English and French ambassadors, when the former proposed:
“England, the sun whose bright beams enlighten and fruitify the remotest corners of the earth.” The French ambassador followed with:
“France, the moon whose mild, steady, and cheering rays are the delight of all nations.” Franklin then arose to the
occasion, “George Washington, the Joshua who commanded the sun and moon to stand still, and they obeyed.”

What Do You Think?

National Music Week again reminds us that music can effectively be introduced anywhere; that is, provided it is appropriate music.
It is the hardest of hard reserves that music will not affect or stir, a reserve that is to be
pitied. Every day a constantly new use of music is discovered, and one of the latest comes to us in
a statement by one of our famous surgeons:

“For certain types of operation, spinal or local anesthesia which does not cause the patient to lose consciousness is used.
Many surgeons have introduced music into the operating room in order to divert the patient’s attention, soothe and allay anxiety,
and lessen the danger of psychic shock.”

Not all of us undergo operations, but we’re all patients of one sort or other, and there’s nothing like a
little music to quiet our angers and to start us thinking. The music in chapel all year, and particularly the
music of the past week was, without a doubt, enjoyed by every member of the student body, however hard he
may have tried to convince himself that he wasn’t enjoying it. The week’s program was at its height when Dean
Baldwin, “the Paderewski of the organ,” played in concert Wednesday night. Each attendant left the hall realizing that there was
something more in music than he had formerly supposed.

Again the faculty surprises us when it turns out in full force and plays the Senior Class a comparatively close
game of baseball last Friday. A home run was a fine thing (and there were several of them), but when
one member of the faculty catches three flies in one inning—that is too much! We are anxiously awaiting the next
game and we're pretty sure we'll be looking for the faculty to win that one.

Not far from here in a long clearing in a fragrant pine forest in North Carolina there stands the magnificent
and extensive educational project of the present day—Duke University. Still in its infancy the college stands fair to be one
of the greatest educational centers of the world. One of the largest departments of the enormous university is the Duke
Medical School. The Medical School plans to effect a new principle of medical training by speeding up the course in
order to get the men through in two or three years by means of a four-quarter plan. It is also
planned that the medical students will have as much practical work as possible in the new Duke Hospital with its
proposed 456 beds (150 for negroes and 50 bassinets for infants). One hundred and seventy-five of these beds are now
ready—and filled. All of the buildings are modern, well equipped and efficient. The great chapel, the hospital, the lecture halls,
library, students’ union, the auditorium—all are an extraordinary combination of complete perfection.

The Duke Endowment left by the late James Buchanan Duke provided a trust fund of about $34,000,000, the income of
which was to be divided as follows: 20 percent to be added to capital until an additional $40,000,000 shall have
accumulated; 32 percent of the remainder to Duke University; 32 percent to the Duke Hospital and other local hospital programs
($1.00 a day for every bed in every charity hospital in North and South Carolina); 5 percent to Davidson College
(Presbyterian at Davidson, N. C.); 5 percent to Furman University (Baptist at Greenville, S. C.); 4 percent to Johnson C.
Smith University (Negro at Charlotte, N. C.); 10 percent to North and South Carolina orphanages; 2 percent for pensions for
Methodist ministers; 6 percent for new Methodist churches; and 4 percent for the upkeep of those churches. When James Buchanan
Duke died, his will bequeathed nearly $40,000,000 more to the endowment, about half of which went straight or in trust
to the University. The fifteen trustees of the endowment are instructed to keep the capital in stock of the Southern
Power System or in U. S. Government Bonds.

Arthur Holly Compton of the University of Chicago asked this: “Is a girl smoking and listening to jazz music over
the radio what the great electrical pioneers have been working for? ... Is our science any more likely to last
than the science of the ancient Greeks? Democritus thought he had solved the problem as to what the world is
made of and how. Yet around his atoms was staged the first great fight between science and philosophy. And Plato
and Socrates, the opponents of the science, won that fight. Greek science failed, though the civilization based upon it survived.
Was this not because science started out by promising to help men to live better, and didn’t succeed?” What do
you think?

Dr. McConnell: Did you follow my prescription?
Student: No, no. I would have broken my neck if I had followed it. I threw it out of a
third story window.

G-Saps Fables
By D. D. McB.

Many a man who is a five-ton truck at the office is nothing but a trailer at home.
A woman driver is one who doesn’t let her right hand know what her left hand has signaled.
The man who acts like an ass should not be surprised if he has to carry burdens.
Any dog may be a community scenter.
For that tired feeling—sit down.
There are some people so near nothing that they are everywhere without being seen.
“Punning is the lowest form of wit,” it has been said. Therefore the foundation of ALL wit, sez we.

KNIGHT MARES

The Parking Problem
When Noah sailed the waters blue
He had his troubles, same as you.
For forty days he drove the Ark
Before he found a place to park.

“Corporal Punishment,” or “Private Life of a R. O. T. C. Student”
Ben Battle was a soldier bold,
And used to war's alarms;
But a cannon ball took off his legs—
So he laid down his arms!

“Let Mayhews press your pants into service” (not an advertisement).

JOTTED DOWN IN PASSING:
“... there was a tap at the door. He arose and turned it off...”

He: What kind of a picture is that?
She: It’s a realistic picture of a college man at work.
He: But he isn’t doing any work.
She: Well, that’s the realism. (Alarm, selah, oowah, etc.)

SPOON RIVER SPECIALS:
Epitaph on a fireman’s grave: “Our Esteamed Friend.”
Epitaph on a cook’s grave: “Well done, Thou Good and Faithful Servant.”

OUR BOOK-OF-THE-WEEK SUGGESTIONS:
1. Chronological Account of the Date Tree—By Degrees.
2. Haughty-Cultural Remarks—By K. Gardner.
3. Game Laws—By the renowned Hoyle.
4. The Beau Catcher—D. Cameron.

QUESTION AND ANSWER DEPARTMENT:
Dear Mr. A-SAP: Just what do you think of the trend of the modern moving pictures? On what theory are
they based?
A. The survival of the It-est, madam. (No idle Chatterton, either).

Dear Sir: Why was Battle Creek so named?
A. It’s the place where they start so many breakfast feuds.

Dear Sir: In Mr. Grabholt’s recent book, THE CLAW, do you think the heroine eloped with one of the boarders?
A. No. The girl didn’t elope with a boarder. It was only a rumor.

Dear Sir: Who was the youngest swearer in the Bible?
A. We've heard that one before. It was Job. He cursed the day he was born.

Dear Sir: Will you translate ‘Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas’?
A. Let there be Lux where there orta be Palmolive. (This is not a free translation. It costs two dollars).

First Davidson Student: I held my girl’s hand last night.
Roommate (also a Davidson Student): Yes. It looked like you were holding your own.

A FAST ONE ON OUR FOOLISH CONTEMPORARIES:
U. N. C. Student (arrested for speeding): But I am a college student, Your Honor.
Judge: Well, ignorance is no excuse, lock him up.

“WALKING MY BABY BACK HOME”
“For goodness sake, daughter, your shoes are all muddy.”
“Yes, that’s why they’re muddy.” (Ed Note: We bet you won't see the point.)

TODAY’S BEST STORY
Said a preacher once, who, when entertained and being given a very small bedroom: “Is this a bedroom?”
“Yes, the Prophet’s Chamber.”
“Probably made for one of the minor prophets.”
