THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 29, 1931 — Birmingham, Atlanta and Greenville Alumni Have Enthusiastic Meetings; Many Attend From Nearby Points

Davidson Alumni in Birmingham Perfected Permanent Organization—Others Selected Officers for Ensuing Year

DAVIDSON SPEAKERS

Prof. Currie Addressed Atlanta and Greenville Chapters—Alumni Secretary Attended All

Sixty-eight Davidson College alumni, and two special guests, recently attended three dinner-meetings in Birmingham, Atlanta, and Greenville. Ernest Milton, alumni
secretary, was present at all three gatherings, while Prof. Archibald Currie joined him in Atlanta for the Atlanta and Greenville
meetings. The latter made a special address before the alumni chapters, and the alumni secretary brought general information to the
Davidson men.

Prof. Currie told the alumni that they had heard of Davidson’s greatness through what she had accomplished, but that it
was his purpose to show that “Davidson is also great for what she has not done.” Three points were developed,
the essentials being that “Davidson is great because she has steadfastly set her face against co-education; because she has refused
to listen to, or be influenced by, the siren song of building up professional schools, and because her policy has
never been shaped by her benefactors.”

The well-known Davidson professor spent some time upon the latter contention, because of accusations which had been made against the
college in reference to the Duke Foundation gift. He emphatically averred that not a single member of the Davidson faculty
or administration had been approached and told what to teach in the economics department, and branded as “absurd and false”
any beliefs to the contrary.

Rev. E. G. Lilly, ’19, presided at the Birmingham dinner; Harllee Branch, Jr., ’27, retiring president of the Atlanta chapter,
was toastmaster at that gathering, and Frank K. Spratt, ’04, retiring head of the Greenville alumni, presided at that meeting.
Elsewhere on this page the names of the newly elected officers and all of the alumni attending are given.

The Birmingham alumni decided to effect a permanent chapter, and after officers were chosen, they went on record as favoring
an athletic contest between Davidson and some Alabama team, preferring that the game be played in Birmingham. They also decided
upon semi-annual meetings, one of which is to be in the summer, when Alabama boys, now attending Davidson, can be
present.

At the Atlanta meeting, a letter was read from Mrs. J. Bonar White, wife of the late Dr. J. Bonar
White, ’10, former president of the Atlanta chapter. Her letter was one of thanks for resolutions prepared at the last
meeting of the chapter, and for a floral offering sent by the Atlanta alumni at her husband’s death.

The special guests were Richard F. Hudson, of Birmingham, father of Frank Hudson, ’26, who was killed in an automobile
accident his senior year, and Mr. H. H. Harris, of Greenville, father of H. H. Harris, Jr., a member of
the 1932 class at Davidson. Mr. Hudson attended the Atlanta meeting, and said that he was expressing publicly, for the
first time, his deep appreciation to the class of 1926 and to Davidson College for the numerous manifestations of sympathy
during his great sorrow.

While in Greenville, Prof. Currie and Mr. Milton were the guests of J. A. Winn, 1900, at the bi-weekly Rotary
luncheon, which was attended by approximately 90 Greenville men. J. I. Smith, ’24, of Greenville, was also a guest of
Mr. Winn, and other Davidson alumni of the Rotary Club there are R. Cely, ’07, and H. T. Mills, ’06.
Mr. Winn, a former president of the Greenville Rotary Club, brought all of these men together at one time.

Those Who Attended

The following is a list of the Davidson alumni who attended the three recent meetings held in Birmingham, Atlanta, and
Greenville:

1873—Dr. E. P. Davis, Greenville.
1883—Rev. T. P. Burgiss, Decatur.
1886—Prof. R. A. Mickle, Birmingham.
1898—Prof. W. G. Perry, Atlanta.
1900—H. M. Askew, Atlanta; Rev. E. B. Robinson, Talladega, Ala.; J. A. Winn, Greenville.
1901—Rev. J. B. Meacham.
1903—H. H. Caldwell and Dr. W. M. Dunn, both of Atlanta.
1904—W. E. Cooper, Atlanta; Dr. E. D. Kerr, Decatur; Dr. Geo. A. McAliley, Atlanta, and F. K. Spratt, Greenville.
1906—H. T. Mills, Greenville.
1907—Scott Candler, Atlanta; W. R. Cely, Greenville; M. J. McLean, Birmingham.
1908—Prof. S. G. Stukes, Decatur.
1910—Dr. J. H. McDuffie, Jr., Columbus, Georgia.
1911—Dr. C. R. Wilcox, Rome, Ga.; Rev. H. M. Shields, Atlanta.
1912—Dr. E. L. Bishop and J. L. R. Boyd, both of Atlanta.
1915—Rev. C. M. Campbell, Birmingham; W. A. Huey, Atlanta; B. R. O'Neal, Greenville.
1916—Dr. G. R. Foster and G. B. Hoyt, both of Atlanta.
1917—Lloyd Christenbury, both of Birmingham.
1918—J. M. Black, Greenville; Rev. L. M. Thomas, Emory University, Ga.
1919—W. H. Lawrence, Anderson, S. C.; Rev. E. G. Lilly, Birmingham; L. C. McAskill, Atlanta.
1920—D. P. Douglas, Rev. W. H. Harrell, and G. D. Sample, all of Birmingham; B. E. Shields, Decatur.
1921—W. W. McCorkle, Birmingham.
1922—Rev. A. C. Summer, Birmingham.
1924—J. I. Smith, Greenville.
1926—A. Y. Bowie, Birmingham; Otis Brenner, Atlanta; L. L. Deck, East Point, Ga.; Neil Jones, Birmingham; W. B. Mattison, Greenville;
R. B. Parker, Rome, Ga.
1927—W. H. Branch, Jr., Atlanta; A. H. Copelan, Travelers Rest, S. C.; J. A. Law, Greenville; W. S. Woods, Decatur.
1928—W. K. Forbes, Birmingham; J. R. McCravey, Atlanta; H. F. Peterson, Decatur; A. M. Smith, Travelers Rest, S. C.; R.
M. Stephenson and P. W. Walton, both of Atlanta; Joe D. Welborn, Pelzer, S. C.
1929—J. N. Bragaw, Marietta, Ga.; Henry Simpson, Greenville.
1930—W. J. Beavers, Atlanta; W. C. Kirkland, Decatur; V. A. Milton, Thomasville, Ga.; W. C. Mizelle, Atlanta; T. R. Nunan,
Zeb Russell, and A. M. Warren, all of Decatur.

Special guests—H. H. Harris, of Greenville, father of H. H. Harris, Jr., ’32, and Richard F. Hudson, of Birmingham, father
of the late Frank Hudson, ’26.

If inquiries were made as to how this and that alumnus was progressing in his business, an almost invariable reply
was, “He’s doing well and has a big future ahead.” Occasionally, however, the reply was to the contrary, but this
was rare.

BILL RULE

LET US FIX ’EM!!

Wright’s Cleaning Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Shoe Repairing, Tux Shirts, Hats Reblocked
Tuxedos Cleaned

NAB ARMFIELD

Officers Chosen

Birmingham
President, G. D. Sample, ’20; Vice-President, Rev. E. G. Lilly, ’19; Secretary, W. W. McCorkle, ’21.

Atlanta
President, Dr. E. L. Bishop, ’12; Vice-President, Rev. P. D. Miller, ’22; Secretary, W. S. Woods, ’27.

Greenville
President, J. I. Smith, ’24; Vice-President, H. K. Aiken, Jr., ’18; Secretary, B. R. O'Neal, ’15.

Random Thoughts

The three recent alumni meetings in Greenville, Atlanta, and Birmingham brought Davidson men together from those cities and also Decatur,
Ga.; Talladega, Ala.; Columbus, Ga.; Rome, Ga.; Emory University, Ga.; Anderson, S. C.; East Point, Ga.; Travelers Rest, S. C.;
Pelzer, S. C.; Marietta, Ga., and Thomasville, Ga.

Dr. J. H. McDuffie, Jr., ’10, of Columbus, Ga., has attended all meetings of the Atlanta chapter for the past
several years, and drives 125 miles to do this. Dr. C.R. Wilcox, '11, and R. B. Parker, '26, drove 75
miles from Rome, Ga., to be at the Atlanta dinner on the 19th, and Rev. E. B. Robinson, 1900, of
Talladega, Ala., drove 50 miles to the Birmingham meeting. V. A. Milton, '30, was planning a visit to Atlanta and
arranged it on the day of the meeting there, coming over 250 miles. Many others attended from shorter distances. All
of which is an indicator of the alumni interest in their college. Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, says that he thought
his financial problems were monumental in nature, but after attending the regional conference in Birmingham, he realizes that he has
an easy time compared to the secretaries of other institutions. The Davidson secretary also stated that aside from the new
ideas he obtained, was the comforting feeling that the Davidson alumni are more loyal and interested in their institution than
those of others, if what he gleaned in private conversations with other alumni secretaries is true. No individual poll was
taken, but Mr. Milton believes that if this were done, it would be found that Davidson men support their Alumni
Association 100 percent better than others. Were the alumni secretary of Davidson conducting a campaign for funds, a new approach
was obtained at the meeting. A secretary went to an alumnus one day, and in all seriousness asked, “Do you
believe in the hereafter?” “Yes,” said the alumnus. “Do you have any money?” was the next question. “Yes,” said the
alumnus, puzzled at the connection between the two questions. “Then that’s what I’m here after,” promptly came from the secretary.

Prof. Currie made a profound impression upon the Davidson men in Greenville and Atlanta. At the latter, there were exactly
39 people there, and of this number he had either taught or been in college with all but four or
five. At Greenville one alumnus, in private conversation, asked Prof. Currie if A ever sold that horse to B.

"GOOF" CLARK

Alumni Secretaries in Regional Conference

Approximately Fifty Directors of Endeavor Met in Birmingham—Six States Represented

Alumni secretaries of the third region of the American Alumni Council met in Birmingham, January 16 and 17 to exchange
ideas and to discuss mutual problems attendant to alumni endeavor. This conference brought together the directing officers of institutions in
North and South Carolina, Virginia, Alabama, Florida, and Georgia. Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, attended from Davidson. Approximately 50 alumni or
alumnae secretaries were present. Birmingham-Southern and Howard College were joint hosts to the visitors, and addresses were heard from the
presidents of both institutions at a dinner and luncheon that had been arranged in honor of the executives. John Temple
Graves, II, of Birmingham, was the principal outside speaker of the conference.

Practically every phase of alumni endeavor received consideration. Getting alumni to the campus for Home-Coming and Commencement, and their entertainment;
the maintaining of records and the different systems used; the use of local alumni chapters for effective work, and the
financial problems encountered were the main items discussed. The latter received more consideration than others, for it seemed to be
a universal problem with alumni offices. J. Maryon Saunders, executive secretary of the University of North Carolina, was chosen director
for the ensuing year, and a three-day session at three different institutions in Florida—Florida State College for Women, Tallahassee; University
of Florida, Gainesville; and Rollins College, Winter Park, was planned for 1932. Announcement of plans for the national meeting of
alumni and alumnae secretaries, for magazine editors and business managers, and for those responsible for raising funds for institutions, was
also made and discussed. This session is to be in Atlanta in April, and includes alumni officers from all institutions
in America and Canada. The last meeting was at Amherst.

New Addresses

In the last issue of The Davidsonian, at least half a dozen new addresses of Davidson alumni were given prior
to the recent alumni trip, and when the secretary returned to Davidson he had almost two dozen more changes or
additions to the records. Some of them are as follows:

L. L. Deck, '26, 616 Jefferson Ave., East Point, Ga.
Dr. Walter Lingle Now In Florida for Series Of Alumni Gatherings
Davidson President Will Visit With Alumni in Tampa, Jacksonville, Orlando and Quincy

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson, is now in Florida conducting daily Bible classes at St. Petersburg and Clearwater
in a series of missionary conferences, and tomorrow night will begin a five-day itinerary of alumni chapters in that state,
attending four different meetings. His schedule opens at Tampa Friday night with a dinner at the Hillsboro Hotel. Saturday evening
he will be in Orlando, where the Davidson men will gather at the Latch String Tea Room. Monday, he meets
with the Jacksonville alumni at a place which had not been decided when The Davidsonian went to press, and Tuesday
night he concludes the series at Quincy, where the Davidson men meet at the Cotillion Club. Dr. Lingle will preach
in Winter Haven Sunday, at the church of which Rev. Edgar Woods, '19, is pastor. The series of meetings have
been planned for a month ahead, and officers of the several chapters have been making arrangements to give the Davidson
president a hearty reception in that state. It will be the first time that Dr. Lingle has been before those
chapters. Many letters were received by Dr. Lingle before his departure, including invitations to attend club luncheons, to fill pulpits,
and to be the guests of trustees or alumni of the college. Full cooperation has been extended the local officers
by the alumni office at Davidson. Lists of alumni have been mailed out to individuals, and a notice has been
sent from Davidson about the time and place of each, supplementing the invitations from the secretaries. Davidson men in Florida
are not as numerous as in other states, but it is thought that a good representation of those there will
attend the dinners.

B. R. O’Neal, '15, 301-A S. Main, Greenville, S. C.
Dr. S. B. Fewell, '26, Woodside Bldg., Greenville, S. C.
H. R. Deal, '11, Trust Co. of Ga. Bldg., Atlanta, Ga.
Prof. Woodfin Rampley, '13, Decatur High School, Decatur, Ga.
Rev. J. T. Gillespie, '17, Agnes Scott College, Decatur, Ga.
L. C. McAskill, '19, 1898 Wycliff Road, Atlanta, Ga.
A. H. Mackey, '15, care Jas. F. Mackey & Sons, Greenville, S. C.
W. L. Bentz, '12, 411 Arlington Ave., Greenville, S. C.

UNDERWEAR OF DISTINCTION

SHIRTS AND SHORTS

Some men say amusing things about color in shirts and shorts—but no one questions the unusual comfort in this two-piece
underwear as made by HANES. We’ve taken track-athlete freedom and enlarged on it a bit for men who’ve dropped their
calisthenics, but who love comfort none the less. We are a little tickled, too, that we can match the weird
colors in your ties, your shirts, and your socks—though there is pure white, of course.

P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
Winston-Salem, N.C.
