THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 9, 1931

1931 FOOTBALL SEASON OVER

THE SPORTS PARADE

BASKETBALL TEAM FAST TAKING SHAPE

Duke-Carolina Downs Wake Forest-Davidson-State 14-0

Players From All Big Five Schools Perform Before Large Crowd in Duke Stadium

CONTEST FOR CHARITY

Eight Wildcats, Raker, Gardner, Mathis, Conway, Wagner, Brown, King, Pearce, Appear in Line-up

The headliner of several post-season charity affairs which grouped players of North Carolina’s Big Five schools was won by the Duke-Carolina combination. The universities’ aggregation was victorious over the Wake Forest-Davidson-State forces by a 14-0 score. Five thousand football fans willing to do their share in aiding charity paid their way into Duke Stadium to see the cream of North Carolina football players in action in one contest. Fifty-nine players from the five schools took part in the game, the winners using one less than the losers.

Great defensive work on the part of both aggregations marked the contest until the final period when the Duke-Carolina team managed to score two touchdowns. The first score came on a short pass from Nick Laney, Duke halfback, to Rip Slusser, Carolina back, who raced ten yards to cross the goal. Carolina’s famous quarterback, Johnny Branch, converted the extra point. Duke-Carolina’s second touchdown came in the closing minutes of the game when Bill Croom, Carolina back, intercepted a Wake-Davidson-State pass and sprinted 80 yards to cross the goal line. Kid Brewer made the extra point good. Another score made by Kid Brewer after a 64-yard run was nullified when the Duke-Carolina aggregation was penalized for holding.

Both teams worked well and executed very few bad plays despite only two days of practice together. The losers, however, presented the best all-around play and offered an opposition which stopped Johnny Branch, Rip Slusser, Kid Brewer, Lowell Mason, and Nick Laney, all-state backs. The losers also presented a line which overshadowed a Duke-Carolina line which contained no less than six all-state first team players. This is confirmed by the fact that the Duke-Carolina backs were able to gain only 30 yards from scrimmage while losing 27 yards, or a net gain of only three yards from scrimmage. On the other hand, the Wake-Davidson-State backs gained 125 yards while losing 26 from scrimmage. The losers also made more first downs than the winners by gathering 12 to 4 by the Duke-Carolina combination.

Duke-Carolina got the better of the aerial attacks presented by the two teams. The winners completed four passes of 12 tried for 94 yards, while the losers completed six out of 20 for 66 yards. Each team intercepted two passes. Duke-Carolina also had an advantage in punting and punt returns, collecting 40 yards to the losers’ 12. Penalties against each team were few.

Charlie Pearce, Davidson halfback who started in the Wake-Davidson-State line-up, received a shoulder injury on the second play of the game, after he had gained 15 yards around end. This was the only casualty of the contest. Eight Davidson men donated their services for the contest and each saw some action during the game. Doc Mathis, Steve Brown, and Charlie Pearce were in the starting line-up, while Bud Raker, Jack Wagner, Buddy Gardner, Pi Conway, and Don King performed a great part of the game.

Religion without the supernatural ceases to be religion.—Bishop Manning.

My life is like a stroll upon the beach, As near the water’s edge as I can go.—Henry D. Thoreau.

33 in First Trials for Fresh Wrestling Squad

Thirty-three men constitute the large-sized squad from which the Freshman wrestling team will be taken. These men are Anderson, Adams, Batte, Douglas, Donigian, Eaton, Ferguson, Griffith, Gregory, Hanrahan, Jones, Kimbrell, Lee, Maynard, McCall, Neill, Owen, Ogburn, Paine, Quarterman, Rozelle, Sprunt, Smollridge, Shumate, Smith, Taylor, Vass, Voegtlin, Withers, White, Garrett, Lucas, and Northern. There are several other men out also whose names have not as yet been listed.

On last Thursday night the squad had five-minute bouts. At this time there was much interest shown, and considerable improvement on the part of some men. However, so few practices had been held that it was impossible to form any definite conclusions from these matches as to the relative ability of the contestants. Up to the present time Coach Unger has let any man so wishing to come out for the squad. He will work with the entire number until Christmas. Then at that time he will cut down the squad to about two teams, in order that the men might get more personal attention and thereby learn the sport more quickly.

At present only one match has been arranged for the Freshmen. In this match they will meet the Duke Freshmen when the two varsities meet in Durham. However, negotiations are being made with Greensboro High, Salisbury High, and Oak Ridge for additional matches.

Volley Ball Tourney Won by Sophomores

Tuesday afternoon, December 8, the Sophomores won the inter-class volley ball tournament by playing the deciding game with the Juniors. This was a very exciting game throughout, and there was very good playing shown on both sides.

During the tournament the Seniors and the Sophomores played five games each, and the Freshmen and Juniors played six games each. Out of this number, the team which won the greatest number of games was to be given the championship. In the tournament last year, the Seniors won first place by winning four out of six games and losing two. The Juniors came in second with three wins and as many losses. The Sophomores and the Freshmen tied for last place, each winning one game and losing five. This tournament also was very well played and furnished many thrills.

In the teams this year, Bennet Mosely is captain of the Seniors, John Boyd heads the Juniors, T. Hook McCallie the Sophomores, and “Duke” Glasgow is the captain of the Freshmen. There have been no regular teams. There was a great deal of interest taken in the tournament, both by the players and the rest of the student body. The tournament lasted about three weeks as it was necessary to hold the games over on many occasions due to the heavy rains. Much rivalry was shown in all the games, but in all cases it was of the most friendly nature. This rivalry made the games very much more interesting, even though there were no bitter feelings between the teams.

Most people try everything when they are young except moderation.—B. D. Montague.

Gossip must often have been likened to the winged insects bearing pollen to the flowers; it fertilizes many a vacuous reverie.—George Meredith.

Whatever the politics of a country may be, the machine is a communist.—Louis D. Brandeis.

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS” Make Our Store Your Store Students’ Supplies WHITE DRUG CO., Inc. “SODA” “SUNDRIES”

Not having been able to witness the Duke-Wolf-Heel-Cat-Demon royal mixup, we know nothing except by hearsay, but what we have heard and read was a plenty. It seems that all the Davidson representatives acquitted themselves nobly in the name of charity, adopting the slogan, “All for charity,” as their battle-cry, and, forgetting that their compatriots were former enemies, united themselves with the stars from State and Wake Forest to form a cosmopolitan but compact eleven. And there in the huge Duke Stadium, fans were privileged to view the churnings and boilings of the football melting pot of North Carolina. We read that Brown and Mathis were outstanding for the college team, while King also received much commendation. It has been reported that King was throwing passes like baseballs all over the stadium.

And to have beaten the Carolina Tar Babies 13-0, the Freshmen must also have played a whale of a game. Those who witnessed the game up at Hickory say that the Wildkittens outplayed the Carolina Fresh in every department and should have scored a dozen more touchdowns. It seems that the boys were on a rampage, with Bumgarner and Smathers in the backfield, and Siewers and Morgan in the line, outstanding. The boys were plowing through the line like nobody’s business and were all over the governor's son, “The Guy,” as he was affectionately nicknamed, like a wet blanket. Let it be said, however, that the “Guv”played a good game and took the razzing like a good fellow. And now one can't pick up a newspaper prematurely and eyesight streamers without having his dimmed by two-by-four headlines announcing somebody or other's selections for All-State, All-Southern, All-American, all-day, all-night—anything, just so it’s an all-somethin’ team. The most recent has been that of the Associated Press which selected Pearce of Davidson for a halfback position. Our suggestion for the depression relief: Make every man selected on some all-sumthin’ team pay a dollar to the Red Cross; or, better still, make the authority who selects the team pay a dollar for every man he selects. We know a team composed of all Rhodes Scholars. And what team is that, you ask? Why, the Sing Sing eleven of course. There you are. Hook, line and sinker. Now write that down on a piece of paper and try to figure it out. (And when you do figure it out, wire us at our expense.)

We have a plan in which you might be interested, said he, refusing to end a sentence with a preposition (apologies to McIntyre). How about an all-time, all-Davidson team? How far back can you remember? Here are some suggestions: Tubby Laws, Dick Grey, Thad Brock, Nappy Davis, Jake Shepherd, Joe McConnell, Nick Sappenfield, Tom Baker, Arrowood, McCoy, Bohannon, and many others including those of the last four years’ varsities. Send in your selections now. Each selection will be given to a committee which will be appointed later, and this committee will judge all selections. The winner’s all-time all-Davidson pick will be published in this paper.

Just as this issue went to press, we learned of a very amusing incident which occurred at the charity game at Duke which might interest some of our readers. It seems that Comisky, upon charging at the university team line, was taken back six yards by Ersler and deposited none too gently upon the unyielding turf. Then, to make matters worse, when Comisky got up again, Ersler immediately jumped on him again, causing him to hit the turf a second time in almost as many seconds. This unwarranted treatment aroused the fighting ire of Comisky, and, picking up the pigskin, he hurled it swiftly at the offending Ersler about six yards away and as the ball cracked Ersler's dome, it bounced at least ten yards in the air. Needless to say, the stands howled.

Kittens Down Tar Babies in Post-Season Contest

Varsity Wrestling Team Shows Good Prospects

Varsity wrestling prospects for this year look very good with 14 men out, of which number three are lettermen from last year’s squad, and three others are numeral men from last year's Freshman squad. The men who have reported to date are Whitfield, McElrath, Gorham, Taylor, Harrison, Hodges, Ashcraft, Tyack, Graham, Beacham, Currie, Wilson, Rice, Coffin. In addition to these, Conway, captain of last year's team, is expected to report within the next few days along with several men who have not reported as yet on account of football. Coach Doc Unger reported that the squad is progressing very well in its practices, and that he is well satisfied with the work that the varsity men did with the Freshmen while he was coaching the Freshman football team for its last game. At the present time four meets have been arranged: V. P. I. at Blacksburg, V. M. I. here, Washington and Lee here, and Duke at Durham. In addition to these, there will be two or three more matches arranged for the varsity, to bring the entire number of matches up to six or seven. It is also hoped that a pre-season match can be arranged with some state Y. M. C. A. between the Christmas holidays and the examinations.

Twenty-two Enter Ping Pong Matches

The annual Davidson ping pong tournament will begin this afternoon and will be continued through Friday. There will be 22 participants in the tourney and from the appearances of some of the players there should be some snappy ping pong matches. In last year’s tournament L. N. Hand and Sam Wiley met in the finals. They matched for the championship, but Hand with fast, driving shots won the honor of being ping pong champion of Davidson College. In the tournament this year Hand has been seeded number one and Wiley number two. A medal will be given to the victorious ping pong player, and it will be presented by P. I. Pritchett in chapel. This “gold” medal is now on display in the showcase at the Students’ Store. The matches this year will be played in accordance with the United Association of American Ping Pong Players and will be posted in the Y. M. C. A. Departing from the custom of most ping pong tournaments, the officials, which are Bob Gorrell, coach; P. I. Pritchett, referee, and Bennet Mosely, scorer, have decided to let a limited number of gallery witness the matches. If you expect to watch the playing, be there early so as to get a seat.

At a revival meeting converts were coming forward by the dozen. A Negro came striding down the aisle and dropped to his knees. His feet were bare and enormous as they stuck up behind him. In a moment the revivalist started up the aisle, kneeling here and there beside converts. The near-sighted old man peered earnestly at the Negro, patted him on the shoulder and murmured: “Bless you, brother.” Then kneeling behind him and putting a hand on each heel, he said: “And bless these two dear little boys.” — The Gateway, University of Alberta.

Smathers on Offense and Morgan and Caton on Defense Star for Davidson

PROCEEDS FOR CHARITY

Contest Played on Lenoir-Rhyne Field at Hickory

Davidson's Wildkittens took a 13-0 verdict over the Tar Babies from the University of North Carolina last Saturday. The contest, a charity affair, was held on the athletic field of Lenoir-Rhyne College in Hickory. June Smathers, plunging Davidson halfback, was the big gun in the day's proceedings. The victory for the 'Kittens was a clean-cut win, and showed in a decisive manner their superiority over the boys from Chapel Hill, who threatened to score but once, this threat coming in the second canto, and being stopped on the Davidson two-yard marker when the whistle sounded for the half. For the Tar Babies, Martin and Jackson showed up well in the backfield, and Ralph Gardner was a bulwark of strength in the forward wall. Martin’s punts were particularly outstanding. The red-jerseyed boys were somewhat handicapped by the loss of three regular backs, Mackorell, Hutchins, and Winfield, who were not able to be in uniform due to injuries. However, the entire Davidson aggregation played inspired football, and in spite of a fortnight’s layoff, put up an offense that Carolina found impossible to stop. Neither were they vulnerable on the defense, due especially to Morgan's work on the flank, and Caton’s line backing extraordinary. Smathers proved the most adept at running the ball, scoring both touchdowns. Caton made the lone extra point on a line buck. Davidson made eleven first downs to three for North Carolina. Carolina’s passing attack failed to function, and many good passes from the hand of Jackson were grounded which, if completed, would have been good for first downs on numerous occasions. Nevertheless the Davidson Freshmen had the superior ball club by far, and the two-touchdown margin does not fully indicate the decisive manner in which the Tar Babies were defeated.

Davidson Position N. Carolina
Morgan L.E. Manley
Sievers L.T. Blount
Potter L.G. Lozowick
Lee Center Gardner
B. Forte R.G. Laxton
Hand R.T. George
Morris R.E. Farrell
Hufford Q.B. Jackson
Bumgarner L.H. Martin
Smathers R.H. Ogburn
Caton F.B. Hinckle

Davidson 7 6 0 0—13
North Carolina 0 0 0 0—0

Scoring summary: Davidson touchdowns, Smathers, 2. Point after touchdown, Caton (line buck). Officials: Referee, Shores (Maryville); umpire, Hatcher (Duke); headlinesman, Gurley (N. C. State); field judge, Setzler (Newberry).

It is entirely possible a “racketeer king” may arise in a few years and control the business of the country.—Rosalie Loew Whitney.

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY “FALSE MADONNA” KAY FRANCIS—WILLIAM BOYD
TUESDAY “GOOD SPORT”
WEDNESDAY “PRIVATE LIVES” NORMA SHEARER—ROBERT MONTGOMERY
THURSDAY AND FRIDAY “TOUCHDOWN” RICHARD ARLEN—PEGGY SHANNON
SATURDAY “GUILTY HANDS”