DR. OREN MOORE IS VESPER SPEAKER FOR SUNDAY NIGHT

The Davidsonian
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

SIX SOUTHERN CONFERENCE ELEVENS ARE ON DAVIDSON 1931 SCHEDULE

Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 15, 1931 No. 15

WILDCAT TEAM LEADS THE BIG FIVE RACE IN STATE AFTER PAIR OF VICTORIES

Brilliant Victories Over N. C. State and U. of N. C. Makes Them Outstanding in State Race

By virtue of two victories over teams regarded as the cream of Big Five talent, the Davidson Wildcats have skyrocketed to the place as leaders in the annual cage race in the bare space of three days. Their decisive win over N. C. State Thursday night stamped a hitherto unknown team as something to be reckoned with before the final reckoning was done this winter, and their smashing comeback to eke out a one-point win over Carolina showed that Coach Monk Younger had fashioned a team that not only knew how to play basketball but had the fighting heart of a champion.

In the meantime, the Duke Blue Devils have won their lone encounter in the Big Five to also gain a position near the head with a perfect percentage. After being held even by Wake Forest for a half, the Blue Devils spurted in the last stanza and came home with a comfortable margin of victory.

With their first two serious hurdles past, the Davidson five now goes into hibernation for the length of exams with their position secure as leaders until they take the courts again against State competition early in February. There will be no change in the positions of the other teams for at least a week, since all fare forth against out-of-state teams or members of the Little Six.

The two leaders at the present time, Davidson and Duke, have teams which are much alike in many respects. Both lost stars by graduation and had to rebuild a great deal. The Wildcats started the year off minus the services of two forwards, Pritchett and Johnston, and Duke had lost three flashy players, Werber, Councilor, and Farley. Both teams have been rebuilt around a nucleus of two or three veterans.

N. C. State and Carolina both showed great form against early season opposition, with the Red Terrors holding a commanding place by virtue of a victory over Villanova, who dealt harshly with Duke and Wake Forest. In the state race, the Wolfpack has a loss to Davidson and a victory over (Continued on page 6)

Senior House Party Set for Feb. 21-22

Mrs. Schenck is Named Chairman of Faculty Entertainment Committee

In accordance with the annual custom of the faculty entertaining the Senior class at a Senior house party, plans have been underway for some time planning what appears to be the most successful and largest Senior entertainment such as was held last year at the campus. Very few plans are available at present, but the date of the party has been set for the weekend of February 21-22. It is also known that the girls attending the house party will be asked to bring a costume. This means that there will be some sort of entertainment such as was held last year at the same party. This entertainment is solely for the Seniors and it has always been looked upon as one of the big entertainments of the year here at Davidson.

The program will be for the most part planned by the faculty committee on entertainments, of which Mrs. Schenck is the chairman. Several committees will be chosen to aid Mrs. Schenck in the plans for the weekend. There will be a committee appointed to look after the housing of the girls, a great many of whom will stay in the homes of the faculty. Another group will be named to help with the program, and another to plan the refreshments.

D. S. Lafar, president of this year’s graduating class, urges every member of the Senior class to invite a girl up for the Senior weekend.

Prof. Currie Speaks At Sunday Vespers

One of the most interesting and inspiring talks of the year was delivered at vesper services last Sunday by Prof. Archie Currie. He chose as his subject, or title, “The College Man and Law,” and around this head placed certain propositions relating to it.

The first of these propositions was the fact that the college man dominates the world. This fact is almost universally true whether in business, politics, or a profession. Professor Currie related how Senator Morrison was ridiculed for saying in the Senate that a certain friend of his was a leader and also an elder in the Presbyterian Church. But his statement probably had more truth in it than even he realized.

“The world is governed by law, and not law by the world,” was Professor Currie’s second point. This proposition, the speaker said, was never more true than it is today. In this day and time there can never be any more rulers as omnipotent as Alexander or Caesar. A noted minister at Asheville recently made the sagacious statement that the recent civic collapse was due largely to the people’s attitude towards law.

The field of law is so big that it must be qualified and divided. Thus we have the law of God and the law of man. We can change the law of man as in our constitution, but we often get the idea that we can mind the law of God just as we mind the law of man. The law of God is based on the Ten Commandments, and many people by their custom and usage try to amend these laws just as they would the poor inadequate laws of man. The reason people try to change the laws of God is because they follow their leaders as they did in the time of the prophet Ezekiel.

The Christian elder leaders must remember that whatever their attitude towards the Eighteenth Amendment, etc., their attitude towards the laws of God must be one of reverent submission and loyalty to its author.

Davidson Students Hear Brilliant Polish Pianist

Virtuoso Renders Many Selections, Favoring Brahms, Beethoven, Chopin, and Debussy in Varied Program

Friday, January 9, Ignace Jan Paderewski, famous Polish pianist, gave a memorable recital in the Armory Auditorium, Charlotte. The appearance of this man is a momentous event anywhere, and for once the people in Charlotte seemed to recognize their opportunity, for the auditorium was packed with some thirty-two hundred persons. As customary, the pianist was greeted by a rising audience, and the program begun in a darkened hall.

Of late critics have been wont to condemn this man for the brevity of his programs. Certainly any such criticism would have been out of place at this recital, as the audience was held for nearly two and three-quarter hours.

From the beginning, Mr. Paderewski gave evidence of his right to be called a master virtuoso. If, in recent concerts, he has been guilty of unwonted pounding and carelessness of detail, there was no evidence Friday, for he certainly appeared at his very finest, and a more masterly performance could not have been given.

The program opened with The Variations and Fugue on a theme by Handel of the great German composer, Brahms. Perhaps six or seven different variations were given before the Fugue was taken up, and when it did come, it was with startling suddenness. The voices of the Fugue throughout their intertwining were always clearly and (Continued on page 6).

Princeton Professor to Lecture

Dr. Thomas Jefferson Wertenbaker, Edwards Professor of History, Princeton University, will deliver a public lecture in the New Chambers Auditorium before the faculty and students of Davidson College on the evening of February 9th, next.

Professor Wertenbaker is an author and lecturer of distinction. In April he goes to Germany to deliver a course of lectures at Gottinger University. The faculty committee on lectures feels that it is fortunate in being able to secure Professor Wertenbaker to appear on its program. These lectures will be the third of the first semester's presentation by the faculty committee on lectures.

Highest Rating is Given Davidson by University Association of America

One of Four North Carolina Institutions Named on List for 1930

CONFORMS TO DEMANDS

Association of American Universities is Highest Educational Organization in U. S.

According to the 1930 Education Bulletin issued this month by the United States Department of the Interior, Davidson is one of the four North Carolina institutions namedOn the approved list of the Association of American Universities. This means that Davidson conforms to the strenuous demands made by this association in its approval, and the alumni from Davidson are admitted without examination to any educational institution in the United States for graduate work. The Association of American Universities is the highest educational rating organization in the United States, and Davidson thus ranks very high among the colleges and universities.

(Continued on page 6)

“Quips and Cranks” Receives High Honor
Annual Edited by Pratt Awarded A-Rating of Excellent by Association

At the last meeting of the National Scholastic Press Association on October 1, 1930, at the University of Minnesota, the 1930 edition of “Quips and Cranks,” edited by C. M. Pratt, was awarded a rating of excellent which is second to All-American rating. This was the tenth meeting of the organization which every year gives college annuals throughout the United States their proper rating according to their merits. There are five grades in which the yearbooks may be placed. They are as follows: 1, All-American; 2, excellent; 3, good; 4, high average; 5, no honor.

This book is not the only one of Davidson’s annuals which has won distinction, as the annual edited by Don Wharton a few years ago won the high distinction of All-American rating.

No Davidsonian Next Week

Due to winter term examinations which start on the 15th and extend throughout the 24th of January, there will be no Davidsonian published next week. After this, regular publication will be resumed. It is expected that a report will be made at that time as regards the Senior questionnaires which were submitted to the Senior class before the holidays.

DAVIDSON FOOTBALL TEAM OF 1931 FACES SIX FOES IN SOUTHERN CONFERENCE

Dr. Lingle to Make Addresses on Trip

Dr. Walter L. Lingle will speak in four different states during the next three weeks, filling pulpits, speaking before men’s organizations in two states, conducting a series of missionary conferences, attending a series of alumni meetings, and appearing before other bodies. He will deliver almost as many addresses as there are days, since his schedule calls for two appearances on a number of occasions. Next Sunday he will preach twice in the First Presbyterian Church of High Point, and the following night he will be in Shelby to address the Piedmont Council of Boy Scouts, which will include approximately 200 men from six different counties. He leaves for Atlanta immediately after this address to attend a meeting in Atlanta on Tuesday. Dr. Lingle goes to Columbia, S.C., January 20 to deliver an address on “The State of the Southern Presbyterian Church,” before a gathering of Presbyterian men in South Carolina. This conference will be similar to that to be held in Greensboro for the North Carolina Presbyterian men, when Dr. Lingle will address the gathering on “A Diagnosis and a Remedy.” From January 25-30, Dr. Lingle will be in Florida, conducting a chain of missionary conferences. His work will be in St. Petersburg, Tampa, and Clearwater. Before he returns to his office here, the Davidson president will attend a series of four alumni meetings in Florida and Georgia, and speak in two Florida churches. The alumni meetings will be at Tampa, Orlando, Jacksonville, Fla., and Thomasville, Ga. Already for the month of February Dr. Lingle has engagements that will take him to Richmond, Washington, D.C., and Chattanooga.

Drama League To Conduct Annual Tour

Eaton Will Tour England and Germany, While Sheldon Cheney Tours Russia

The Drama League of America recently announced that two drama tours to Europe will be conducted this summer, one by Walter Pritchard Eaton to England and Germany, and the other by Sheldon Cheney to Russia. These are annual tours taken advantage of usually by college students, and conducted by leading experts in stagecraft. Mr. Eaton, author of “The American Stage of Today,” “The Actor’s Heritage,” and a recent history of the Theatre Guild, will lead the fourth annual Summer Theatre Tour, sailing from New York July 4. The party will first visit England for the interesting Shakespeare festival, then Orange for the yearly festival held in the Theatre Antique. From there they will journey to Salzburg for the Reinhardt Festival, then visit Heidelberg, Munich, and Bayreuth for their festival seasons. In addition to visiting these interesting old landmarks of the theatre, interviews are being arranged with prominent theatrical personages throughout these countries, such as Max Reinhardt, Gordon Craig, the Capeks, and a few others. Special features of the tour will include visits backstage to investigate theatrical equipment and machinery, and the party will enjoy plays from both sides of the footlights.

The other novel trip arranged is through the Soviet republic and will be led by Sheldon Cheney, outstanding exponent of theatre arts and author of “The Theatre,” “1,000 Years of Stage Direction,” and the recently published “New World Architecture.” This trip sails early on May 9 in order to reach Russia before the theatres close. The purpose of the tour is to study the unique developments in Soviet theatre and architecture.

(Continued on page 5)

Strong Washington and Lee Generals Replace Wofford on Wildcat Grid Card

Six Southern Conference teams will grace the 1931 football card of the Wildcats, including such drastic changes as the addition of the Washington and Lee Generals and the change of the Wake Forest game to Davidson. The Generals will replace Wofford, age-old rival of the 'Cats. The schedule includes ten contests with five games carded at Richardson Field and the possibility of one more, while no games have been scheduled for Charlotte. Five games are carded for the same weekend as they were this year—Elon, N.C. State, V.M.I., Carolina, and Wake Forest. The location of the Washington and Lee-Davidson tilt is undecided, but according to Captain Pritchett it will be either Lexington, Va., Asheville, or Davidson. At present, however, it is reasonably expected to come off in Lexington. The V.P.I.-Davidson game is pending between Blacksburg and Richmond. Richmond is favored by the Davidson officials because of the great number of alumni there. It is expected that the Duke game scheduled at Davidson for October 17 will be named the Home-Coming date, although that is not authoritative and will not be decided upon until June. This will be the most convenient date, being a game that returning alumni will be interested in seeing and also being early in the season. Wallace Wade will be bringing to Davidson next year a Southern title contender which should add still more interest to that as the Home-Coming game.

Another interesting feature of the schedule is the switching of the Carolina game back to Chapel Hill for the first time in a number of years. The game had almost come to be an annual affair on the Davidson campus. It is not known whether the game will be played for several years at Chapel Hill, or whether the officials will agree to alternate from year to year.

Probably one of the most interesting features of the whole schedule is the possibility of the Wake Forest game being played on Richardson Field next year. While no written contract has been signed, Captain Pritchett states that a tentative agreement has been made among the officials of the two institutions that the game will be played here next year and that the Wake Forest officials might choose the scene of the following year’s battle.

(Continued on page 5)

Dr. Oren Moore to Be Vesper Speaker

Loyal Friend of Student Body is Popular Throughout South

The Y.M.C.A. has been fortunate enough to secure as speaker at vespers on this coming Sunday night, Dr. Oren Moore, of Charlotte. Dr. Moore is a baby specialist, and as such has gained a wide reputation both in Charlotte and in the South. To most of the upperclassmen Dr. Moore needs no introduction. He has spoken here before, not only at vespers but on various other occasions. Aside from being an interesting and enlightening speaker, Dr. Moore has many qualities that would make him appeal to Davidson men. He is one of the most loyal backers of all Davidson athletic teams in Charlotte. He attends all of the games and is always ready to help in any way possible. It is interesting to note that several years ago Dr. Moore was awarded a gold football because of his interest in Davidson’s athletics, and his ardent support of the teams. Dr. Moore has a wide reputation as a speaker, and is a member of the Kiwanis Club in Charlotte.