THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 14, 1931

| The Davidsonian Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col- legiate Year. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. O. GUERRANT...........-...--.—-..-,.--.Managing Editor
D. D. McBRYDE.. .--Managing Editor
R. L. McCALLIE ..-Managing Editor
C. F. MYERS ..-Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG.._- Ae ..-Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENSON. ...Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLIN.. Feature Editor
Hy Wi ERV ENG... Review Editor
J. E. AKE.... Editor
E. C. DWELLE, JR Editor
W.-S BAS. Editor
W. H. MATTHEW Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. MANSON _..----.-----Assistant Business Manager
A. S. SPIO DON losseees Docc ccke ecole Assistant Business Manager
I. W. WHITTED Assistant Business Manager
J. R. MORROW Subscription Manager
W. T. JOHNSON psacscc BOUlCICor. oR NEAL -Solicitor
J. Wootto -___ Solicitor
A. H. MANSON....-..2-2.,-2.2.-.-2--.----5------=- Solicitor

OCTOBER 14, 1931

Large streams from little fountains flow, Tall oaks from little acorns grow.
—David Everett.

PARAGRAPHICS

Honor to whom honor is due—Mr. E. O. Guerrant wrote the editorial entitled “Making Use of One’s Opportunities,” which appeared in last week’s Davidsonian, concerning the advantages of knowing the faculty better.

The last quarter at V. P. I. should have been omitted!

Dean Rusk, on his way to Oxford, was a visitor on the campus last week. He is a little late, due to his sickness, and we trust that he won't miss out on the orientation program over there! Davidson wishes him every success.

Let’s be out Friday and help the Freshmen beat the Wofford Rats. The Wildkittens seem to have the necessary power, and they certainly are well-coached.

It has been demonstrated that Wallace Wade is not a “wonder man.” It’s up to us to show Duke a few other things about this game of football!

The Glee Club is sponsoring the annual stunt night program after the Home-coming game. These entertainments are always interesting and amusing.

Fall seems to have at last arrived! The leaves are falling off the trees, and it is getting a bit cooler.

HOME-COMING

The word “home-coming” means very little to a great many of the students at Davidson. It is a date, a holiday, a big football day—farther than this it is impossible for the average student to understand the deeper sentiment attached to a real home-coming. The majority of the student body has never been away from home enough to become really “home-sick,” and to experience the thrill of returning again to the place that they love best, after a long absence. But to the alumni, both young and old, it is an event long anticipated, one on which they will look back with a great deal of pleasure. Their feelings on that day, as they view the old campus once again, are of such a nature as to make them inexpressible. If one can put himself in the place of the returning alumni, he will find it more easy to understand his emotions. Thus it seems that the least the student body can do for these men is to turn the campus over to them entirely on this, their “Home-coming Day.” Be nice to them, help them in any way possible, and see that they are entertained. One day out of the year seems small enough recognition for those men who have gone before; let’s make it wholly theirs! Then in later years when we are wont to return to “The Hill” on Home-coming Day we may expect the same treatment.

LEST WE NEGLECT

“Let us endeavour so to live that when we come to die even the undertaker will be sorry.”—Mark Twain.

In striving to live an all-round life, very few of us find ourselves able to include everything we should, and give to each thing the proper place it should occupy, or the importance it deserves. We place the emphasis, all too often, on the wrong thing, and leave out many things that are of great value. There is one in particular we would like to urge the value of. Whether you are reciting in class, leading devotionals in chapel, making an after-dinner speech, seeking advice, or making love: You like to be able to express yourself well. Whether you are selling a car, a book, an idea, or a skyscraper, you will find self-expression the open sesame (or the shibboleth). “Speech is the index of the mind,” said Seneca, and his name lives for what he said. Every day we see countless examples, in literature, on the stage, and over the air, of “That which oft was tho’t, but ne’er so well expressed.” Can you neglect so vital an asset for a well-rounded life? Are you going to be the man with the sceptre, or the man with the hoe? If you can’t write a letter for a job, that will bring results, how can you ever hope to write a check? There is one activity on the campus the whole aim of which is to attain clearness of speech and diction, forcefulness of argument, and powerful self-expression. If it is not all that it should be, it is because you have not helped it out. It is the literary society. Read, in the preamble of the constitution of the Philanthropic Society how “We... . deeply sensible of the great importance of properly fitting ourselves for acting well our respective parts in the great arena of life, have resolved to form ourselves into a society, the objects of which shall be intellectual, moral and social improvement. ... . It shall be the aim of this society to cultivate the arts of elocution and composition, to promote a spirit of subordination to law and order, by engendering a high regard for virtue and truth, and... . unite... . in closest bonds of friendship and fellow feeling ....” Do not join, or fail to join, a literary society simply because of what it is; but for what you may help it to become. Read, on page 5, the view of one whom we both know and admire, the text of which he has kindly permitted us to publish. And if you’re the man we think you are—we'll see you next Tuesday night at 7:00.

DUNCAN McBRYDE.

EXCHANGE

The Brackety-Ack, of Roanoke College at Salem, Virginia, announces that Lincoln Steffens, newspaper man, author, lecturer, philosopher, and optimist, has been engaged to deliver an address at that college on the night of November the 23rd. Mr. Steffens will speak on the subject, “The Meaning of the Russian Revolution.” This speech will be of keen interest not only to the students of Roanoke College but also to the people of the United States as well who, to a large extent, do not know what the Russian Revolution was and what the results were. He will, in all probability, tell something of the Russian Five Year Plan. This lecturer is a very learned man, having attended six universities, Berkeley, Heidelberg, Leipzig, Berlin, Paris, and London, and is a war correspondent of some note. He was formerly a reporter of the New York Evening Post; city editor of the Commercial Advertiser; managing editor of the McClure Magazine, and he is well known for his reports of the Mexican and Russian Revolutions, the Fascist uprisings in Italy, and the Peace Conferences.

The Stormy Petrel, the college newspaper of Oglethorpe University, located just outside of Atlanta, announces that their football team, called the Stormy Petrels, have been invited to play in a benefit game in Chicago next month against either Carnegie Tech, Princeton, Alabama, Cornell, Penn State, Tennessee, Colorado, Utah, Vanderbilt, or Washington and Jefferson. This invitation was received by Dr. Thornwell Jacobs, president of Oglethorpe, from the Illinois Department of Disabled Veterans of the World War. As all of these teams had open dates on November the 21st, the date of the charity battle, one of these will be selected as Oglethorpe’s opponents with Oglethorpe choosing whom they wish to play. It is not definitely known whether Oglethorpe will play in this game or not, for the authorities of the school will have to sanction it.

According to The Technician, of N. C. State, Dr. W. L. Lingle is a member of the executive committee of the North Carolina Conference of Colleges, with Dr. E. C. Brooks, president of N. C. State, as president. Other members of the executive committee are: W. H. Frazer, of Queens-Chicora, vice-president; N. W. Walker, of the University of North Carolina, secretary-treasurer; Dr. A. T. Allen, State Superintendent of Public Education, and Dr. Holland Holten, of Duke.

From The Sewanee Purple, of the University of the South at Sewanee, Tennessee, comes the report that 67 men were pledged by the fraternities at Sewanee recently. Phi Delta Theta got nine men; Pi Kappa Phi, six; Kappa Sigma, three; Kappa Alpha, six; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, six; and the Phi Gamma Delta, five. There were two delegates from Sewanee at the National Church Convention held in Denver, Colorado, a few weeks ago. They were Dr. Benjamin F. Finney, representing the Diocese of Tennessee, and the Rev. Mr. Moulton Guerry, representing the University of the South.

From The Chronicle, of Duke University, we learn that rushing season was a huge success for both the fraternities and the sororities. The sororities pledged 105; the fraternities, 257. Phi Delta Theta topped the list with 24; Kappa Alpha was close.behind with 23; Pi Kappa Alpha pledged 19; Kappa Sigma got 11; Pi Kappa Phi put the button on 23; Sigma Phi Epsilon got 16. The Red and Black, of the University of Georgia, made quite a mistake in their paper last week when they wrote up the doings of their Rhodes Scholar, M. P. Jarnagin, II, and ours, Dean Rusk. They stated that Dean was from the University of North Carolina; quite a big mistake. We do appreciate their writing of Dean’s accomplishments and we will forget the error.

DES ENTREFILETS

The President’s plan, which has caused so much comment in the last few days, to provide a method of aiding banks in distress, is proceeding with exceptional rapidity. The Federal Reserve Banks have, because of laws preventing them from extending loans on other than high-grade commercial paper, proved unable to meet the present situation. Many banks which have commercial paper that is ineligible for rediscount at Federal Reserve Banks are forced to close their doors because they are unable to meet the demands of their depositors when they are called upon to do so. This results in a hurried liquidation of their assets and consequently an unnecessary loss to the depositors.

This plan of President Hoover’s calls for the establishment of a National Credit Corporation which will have the power to issue up to $1,000,000,000 of debentures; of this amount, the banks expect to purchase one-half. Only $500,000,000 will be issued at present and this will be bought by the banking group; the remainder will be issued if necessary. The National Credit Corporation will probably be headed by M. N. Buchner, president of the New York clearing house association. Judging by the wide approval of the bankers of this country, this plan should be of great aid in starting the upgrade and the confidence of the public in business. It is only through such organized action as this that the world will be able to pull itself out of the present depression.

Business is improving, the country is 100 per cent solvent, with credit unlimited, and more than five billions in gold accumulated. When the people want better times and get ready to prove that they want them, they can have them.—Arthur Brisbane. (The Davidsonian does not necessarily endorse or commend Brisbane’s view and conclusion. His comment is published as an expression of opinion of the world’s highest salaried editor.)

Moratoriums are the style this year. The president of Brazil signed a decree for a sixty-day moratorium last week on all foreign commercial and private payments. This was caused by the deficiency of bills on the Brazilian market in the last few weeks to furnish exchange needed by importers, either in pounds sterling, dollars, or francs. Why shouldn't individuals be permitted to follow in the footsteps of the nations of the world and declare personal moratoriums? The next time your creditor pays you a visit, simply tell him that you have declared a moratorium and see what he says. In case it works, you can thank Hoover for originating the idea.

All life is a racket—Mayor James J. Walker.

The prohibition question doesn’t seem to lead anywhere. If a dry investigator makes a report on the question, then he tries to make one think that it is the greatest thing in the world and that in only a very short time the government will succeed in enforcing the law. If a wet makes a report, he is not satisfied with saying that the law will never be enforced because it infringes on the right of man and that it is the source of crime and gang wars, but even goes so far as to blame the length of the present depression upon this so-called noble experiment.

The American Legion has a plan all doped out to relieve all the unemployment and almost go so far as to guarantee the immediate return of prosperity. Three cheers for the American Legion! What this country needs is more and better proposals for relieving unemployment, emphasis on the better. So far, all those submitted have not been worth one-tenth the time spent in thinking them up, and judging from the proposals, the persons sponsoring them haven’t overworked their brains. One fellow even had the nerve to suggest building more tourist camps and filling stations as a sure way to bring on prosperity.

The most hopeful event that has happened in America is this financial panic—Harry Carr. (The least we can say is that this gentleman certainly has a unique idea. But something tells us that he isn’t having to sell any cotton at five cents.)

No matter how important or big the offender, history shows that he is eventually caught.—Prohibition Commissioner Woodcock.

Since the selection of a title for this column (?) the editor has been asked innumerable times what the idea was in naming it Des Entrefilets. In order to settle this question once and for all, we would like to make a confession to the readers (did we say fish?). Des Entrefilets was the name of a famous French newspaper which flourished in the days of the French Revolution for a very short time, a year to be exact, and then died because of lack of appreciation from the public. Just as this revolutionary paper died, so must this column, hence the name.

Prof. Martin Sprengling of the University of Chicago believes that a Bedouin foreman of a mine, working for the Egyptians in the half-century between 1850-1800 B.C., first used the characters which have developed into the modern alphabet.

At the National Air Races in Cleveland this summer, Lieut. Al Williams stunted his plane as directed by the audience through a radio hook-up. Another stunter waltzed his plane in time with dance music broadcast from the ground.

Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings...

Duncan McBryde

THE AIR SHOW

Park, park, it’s dark—and we thought it would be before we could park Jenny Lee, our rambling wreck, in a cotton patch, and proceed to the Air Pageant. It cost us (Bill, Dave, Joe, John and I) twenty-five to park the bus in the cotton patch—at least that’s one way to make money on cotton. The collector who said he couldn't collect anything but dust should have been at the Air Show. If we can get rid of half the dust we collected in the next week we'll be lucky—and did we get our tonsils sun-burned looking at the planes! But it was worth it all, for Tex Rankin is first now—he’s the world champion outside loopy de looper artist. And we have his autograph—got it less than half an hour after he set a new world record! (So you see we collected more than dust after all.) And after the show was over we rubbed elbows with Wiley Post, Harold Gatty, Ruth Nichols, Dorothy Hester, Ken Hunter (who not long ago stayed up 23 days in the air), Tex Rankin, Cole, and others. Humph, just ordinary people. Al Williams sure rose to the occasion—didn’t he? Until he made a typical stock market crash (the bank being unrelenting).

Ten cent Coca Colas... Barrel the inevitable radio announcer... Greasy mechanics... Rolls... belles femmes... dust... Davidson Students... tail spins... more Davidson Students... more dust... Dorothy Hester’s head-on double roll... Al Williams’ straight-away climb... Al Williams’ crash (suit)... Drunk cop... my two attempts to get to Al’s wrecked plane (there ought to be a law)... another drunk cop... more dust...

Celebrities seen around the scene—Ken Hunter... Harold Gatty... Riley Rowell... Dorothy Hester... Joe McCall... Wiley Post... Johnny Creech. They had a falling out in one of the planes. (Aw ‘chute, I thought there was a catch to it.) And the way those fellows landed—at a 14 feet per second rate... but they landed... on their own. So we should worry. They did it on their own (spinal) (ac)(cord). Which reminds us of little Willie's definition of a spinal cord. “A string of bones. Our head sits on one end, and we sit on the other.”

DO YOUR CHRISTMAS HOCKING EARLY.

And then there was the dumb aviator, who when the photographer asked him “How about letting me take a shot?” replied, “It’s too public here, and besides I can’t drink while on duty.”

Laying Aside All Jokes

As Doctor W. L. Lingle says, “A man, like a great department store, must not only have the goods, but must have a good DELIVERY!” Join a literary society. If not, then Phi on Eu!

And now our concluding number is thirteen. Most of us have been suffering of air fever, but for the sake of the fellow who had too many cuts, and couldn't go, we're going to run a little poem entitled:

AS SEE—FEVER

I must go down to the dean again, to the tyrant lord in his den,
And all I ask is a good line and a drag to help me then.
But my long face, and my sob song, and my beer suit quaking
Tells a sad tale of my weak heart and my poor knees shaking.

I must go down to the dean again, to take my stand on the mat,
For a note came, and a call came, and there’s no denying that;
And all I ask is a good break and the dean’s mood joyous,
And a good chance for a nice chat with none to annoy us.

I must go down to the dean again, to give him a new excuse,
To the dark room, to the black room, to the torture rack and the noose;
And all I ask is half a chance to spill my line of chatter
And then a date with a nice girl to brag about the matter.

WHOA!