THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 19, 1931

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief: WILSON McCUTCHAN
Manager: A. CANNON

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. C. DWELLE, JR. Managing Editor
W. S. LEA Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS Sports Editor
A. H. TREHEAD News Editor
V. M. BELL Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN Associate Editor
J. B. BLACK Associate Editor
W. C. RAGIN Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
P. M. CONWAY Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BAKER Assistant Business Manager
J. S. STEVENS Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY Subscription Manager
P. F. BROWN Solicitor
R. W. FALUS Solicitor
A. M. MANSON Solicitor
A. L. MEBANE Solicitor
W. R. MORROW Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
S. S. WILEY President
D. G. STEPHENSON
A. H. WHITEHEAD
R. H. ALDERMAN
J. M. O.
J. G. BERRY
G. E.
A. R. BIRD
J. E. BOYD
N. B. DICKS
G. D. DUNKLIN
E. O. GUERRANT
W. T. HAN
J. E. LAKE
R. L. McCALLIE
C. C. MATTHEWS
C. F. MYERS
F. MULLISS
H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
C. W. F. SPENCER
B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR
W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH
D. D. McBRYDE

FEBRUARY 19, 1931

I have nothing to say about anything.
Senator Fess, Republican Chairman.

SUGGESTIONS

Poe Company jumped into the unlimited class again Saturday night. Fans will recall that he did the same thing successfully
last year. Seniors remember Jeff Garrison, 145-pounder, gained time on unlimited opponents.

Between the flu and the pink-eye, students are having a hard time of it. If it must come, one can
be thankful that examinations are safely by.

There has been a general exodus to Chattanooga. A great many Tennessee boys have gone home and taken their friends
with them, taking in a great conference while there.

President Hoover, at the time this is written, seems to be facing a defeat of his veto. Sometime there may
be a legislature that will back its leader.

Now that there is a promise of all marines being withdrawn from Nicaragua, the revolutionists can wage their war in
peace.

Seniors rush frantically about making last-minute preparations for their house-party.

Next week in this space we hope and intend to hail the Wildcats as state champions in basketball. It will
be practically decided by them.

A CRYING NEED

Never has the necessity of a new infirmary been more poignantly felt by the college than during the present epidemic
of influenza. Especially is this true as regards size and capacity. It was a significant gesture when beds were placed
in the parlor of West for emergency cases, even if they were not actually occupied.

Praise is due the medical and infirmary staff for their ability to cope with the situation which has so frequently
proved disastrous in the past. When one pauses to think, it is something of a miracle that more students have
not had to report for medical attention. A sick boy away from home is something different from a sick boy
at home or a well boy away from home. When one is in the first situation, he is deeply sensitive
to any attention he receives; he can also be extremely appreciative. Only praise can be directed to the personnel of
the infirmary for the manner in which it has functioned in the past.

Nevertheless, one wonders what could be done if this same personnel were installed in an up-to-date plant. It is a
matter for which no one can be blamed; it is more of a plan for the future. When dreams and
hopes for a finer Davidson rise in the hearts of her sons, we believe that the infirmary should claim a
paramount place among them. The staff and the students are worthy of something better.

SPRING FEVER!

“In the spring a young man’s fancy
Lightly turns to thoughts of love.”

That was what Alfred Lord Tennyson said was the effect of that well-known ailment, Spring Fever. But we are inclined
to think that the same statement can be changed a very little and apply equally well today. Recast, it might
read: “In the spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns—.”

There is no gainsaying the fact that it is harder to study in the spring than at any other time
of the year. One can find more seemingly good reasons to procrastinate and put off those hundred and one little
things that are always popping up during spring than at any other season during the whole twelve months. Work that
has heretofore seemed interesting and absorbing suddenly acquires an aspect of plain old drudgery that is hard to overcome.

Reasons there are aplenty for the condition. Warm days and long twilights seem to throw one entirely off their well-planned
schedules. The golf course, tennis courts, baseball, and things like that offer a stronger and stronger pull away from study.
The very atmosphere seems to pull. And then too, there is a natural reaction after six or seven months of
work that forces one to want to let up and just coast on through those few remaining weeks to the
end of school.

But whatever the cause or whatever may be the result, a slackening in pace just now may wreck an entire
semester’s hard work. A small turning of fancy from dry books to any one of a thousand more alluring, but
possibly less pressing subjects, may seriously hamper one’s success in those dry, but nevertheless important books.

This is not intended to be an argument against spring, or against the full enjoyment of that time. But only
this: Don’t forget that let-ups are dangerous things, and especially at this time of the year. Grades before spring holidays
determine whether members of the freshman class remain in school or are asked to withdraw. A slackening of pace, however
slight, by a man who may be on the borderline may mean the difference between spending the latter part of
the semester in Davidson or at home.

Upperclassmen, having been in college longer and learned its ways better, are generally more inclined to begin to let things
slip at the slightest provocation than are the first-year men. And a little jaded by their year’s work so far,
perhaps, they too might be led off. But upperclassmen must pass, too.

We would not have it any other way but the way it is. Spring, and its attendant divertissements, is the
most enjoyable time of the entire college term, we think. But be careful that a fickle fancy doesn’t turn too
many ways and then refuse to come back to those boresome, worldly things, like studies.

W. H. Matthews.

DAILY EXERCISE

This editorial page has recently carried discussions of various minor sports, and also sports in which the college is represented
but which do not earn varsity recognition. It is conceivable that these articles were of more interest, perhaps, to athletes
than to others. There is still another phase of sport life in Davidson which has not been treated. It should
probably be termed exercise rather than athletics.

Intra-mural, inter-fraternity, and inter-company contests have a distinct value, but they do not claim everyone’s attention. One does not have
to be a close observer to see that a great many men engage in all three divisions. In other words,
some one hundred men suffice to form all of these teams. This is probably due to the men’s natural love
for contest and exercise. From thirty to forty of these are Freshmen.

It is the case of the other two hundred and fifty upperclassmen that interests us. They are those who do
not engage in the class games, varsity contests, and who for various reasons do not take the course in the
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. Under the present system in the Physical Education Department, these men must take at least three
hours of exercise per week. Many of them take more than this; some do only what is required of them.

Captain Pritchett has done much to make everyone “exercise-conscious.” Still, there are many men who look upon the care of
their physical health as something which is unimportant and a thing to be taken by fits and spells. A little
experience will prove to any man that his health, good humor, mental activity, and energy all improve with regular and
systematic exercise. Parallel bars, mat work, basketball, volleyball, and campus football will all help. The fresh air and sunshine alone
will do their part, and this part is far more than the average man ordinarily believes.

OH DAVIDSON!

Emanating from Davidson’s vast store of traditions is one, singular within itself—that of the enrollment of the late Woodrow Wilson,
our wartime President, in Davidson College decades ago, and for whom present-day political prophets have predicted a brilliant future reputation—that
time will prove him the greatest of our chief executives! and who has become a beloved memory to the whole
nation as well as to all Davidson alumni. Dr. Wertenbaker’s visit here revived the interest in our most famous alumnus
so, that the former President was the subject of prevalent conversation on the campus for several days.

Very few people know the exact facts about the President’s stay here, and rumors are rife as to his activities,
most of the hearsay portraying his character as unduly pessimistic. An attempt is made here to recall briefly and accurately
some of Mr. Wilson’s relations to the college in the one year that he remained here and his contact with
the institution during his presidency.The famous “14 points,” matriculated here in the fall of 1873 at the age of 17
years. His personality was not necessarily so attractive that it kept his classmates closely concerned with his actions. In fact,
little did they dream that within their midst was a boy who would rise to the highest position in the
gift of the American people. Therefore, few records of Woodrow Wilson's life at Davidson were preserved, and not until his
accession to the presidential chair did many of his college chums recount the incidents which occurred while he was a
freshman. Even some of these stories became mere fabrications, but there are some records in black and white which are
undeniably true. Unfortunately for us who had taken it home to use as a defense against parental attack, the story
that Thomas Woodrow Wilson “flunked out” is an erroneous one, this misunderstanding arising out of the confusion of two names.
It happened that another student here at the same time, known as W. Wilson, had left college early in the
fall for some unknown reason. Both were members of the same literary society and through the minutes of this organization,
this was found to be the case. Records also definitely show that President Wilson was also known as “T” Wilson
or “Tom” Wilson. His scholastic achievements while here, although not exceedingly high, were better than the average. His grades for
the first semester were: Logic 95, Greek 87, Latin 90, Mathematics 74, Composition 96, Declamation 92, and 100 percent in
Deportment—a general average of 87.67 percent. In the spring his grades slightly increased in each subject giving him an average
of 93.42 percent, still below the Honor Roll. From this record, it is evident that the immortal war-time chief was
a poor student in mathematics and his 100 in deportment makes obvious the reality that he was not prone to
be rowdy or disorderly. He was ill much of the spring term having been absent from Chapel 44 times, getting
3 church cuts, and missing 66 classes, as compared to two excused chapel absences occurring in the fall. “Tom” was
aligned with the Eumenean society and was formally inducted into its secrets on October 4, 1873, and in this hall
started his climb to oratorical heights. The minutes show that he was frequently selected for parts on the program. He
lost his first debate, and the judges’ decision in his second one. His prowess as an athlete is described in
the following paragraph, as told by a teammate on the baseball nine, the late ex-Governor Glenn, of North Carolina. “Davidson
was playing its strongest rival and in the last half of the ninth inning, with the opposing team up, the
score stood four to three in favor of Davidson. The opponents had a man on first and second, with two
out and the next batsman was the strongest on the opposing team. I decided to give the batter four balls
and take my chance with the next batter, who was weak. I threw a ball wide of the plate and
to my surprise the batsman stepped out and hit it fairly. “The two men on bases started to run, as
did the batter, and it looked like a home run. With the crack of the ball Wilson started after it.
Nobody believed that he could get it, but just as it got over his head he leaped several feet in
the air and the ball hit his hand. It stuck. The game was over and Woodrow Wilson had won it.”
Woodrow Wilson narrowly averted being drowned while swimming in the Catawba river, a few miles distant, during his spring term
here. He was attacked with cramp and his cries attracted the attention of a negro plowman in a nearby field,
who came and rescued him. The negro, Randolph Williams, later moved to Ohio and it is not known if he
ever lived long enough to realize the greatness of his service. Taking part in Davidson's religious life, the former Princeton
University head regularly went across the railroad to teach in a mission Sunday. The reason he remained here only one
year was because he wanted “to go to a place closer to where history is being made.” He explained that
he thought Davidson was a fine school and had a splendid faculty and that he regretted leaving very much. He
went to the University of Virginia. At President Wilson’s inauguration, a little band of Davidson College students, seventy in number,
went to Washington, D. C., and were assigned to the head of the college section in the great inaugural parade.
The other colleges represented were Princeton, University of Virginia, and Johns Hopkins—all institutions which Mr. Wilson had either attended or
taught as a professor. This part of the parade passed the reviewing stand in the twilight. The president had stood
for many hours and was, presumably, wearied to exhaustion. For some little while he had been seated, but when the
little group of men, led by a Davidson banner, came near the stand, he arose, removed his hat, bowed in
recognition and acknowledgment, and stood at attention until they passed. When Secretary of the Navy Josephus Daniels spoke at Commencement
here in 1914, Woodrow Wilson wrote and asked the former cabinet member to convey his cordial greetings to the student
body on the President’s behalf. All these acts indicate his unceasing interest in Davidson, even during his period of intense
diplomacy. (Continued on page 5)
