HEAR DR. MILES EVERY NIGHT

~The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

GET READY FOR WAKE FOREST

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 18, 1931 No. 10

DR. WALTER L. LINGLE GREETS NEW HEAD OF UNIVERSITY OF N. C.

Dr. Frank Porter Graham is Inaugurated as President of State Institution

5,000 WITNESS SERVICE

Colorful Ceremony Held in Kenan Stadium With Many Notables Attending

Dr. Walter Lingle was selected to extend the greetings from colleges and universities of the state at the inauguration of Dr. Frank Porter Graham as the new president of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill on November the eleventh. The ceremony was held out-of-doors and the robes of those high in academic circles lent color to the already sublime day. Representatives of colleges and universities in all parts of the United States and Canada, and even some from Europe, clad in the vestments significant of their degree of scholarly attainment, were present to extend their felicitations.

Dr. Lingle brought an illuminating piece of history to bear on the occasion. He told the story of the comment of Dr. Samuel Eusebius McCorkle, head of a school in Rowan County, called “Zion-Parnassus,” at which a majority of the first graduates were prepared. Speaking at the laying of the cornerstone of East Building, Dr. McCorkle said: “May this hill be for religion as the ancient hill of Zion, and for literature and the muses, may it surpass the ancient Parnassus!” He also quoted President Battle’s comment: “On this foundation the university desires to rest, the enlightenment of the people, their instruction not only in secular learning but in religious truth, leading up to and sustaining liberty by demanding and shaping beneficent laws under which wealth may be accumulated and individual happiness and national glory be secured, all sanctified by the blessings of God; these are the objects, these are the methods, these are the good rewards of the university.”

Sunday Vesper Services Led by Baptist Pastor

Subject, “Drawing Nigh,” is in Preparation of Fall Services

Last Sunday night, November 15th, the speaker at the Y. M. C. A. vesper services was Dr. Luther Little, pastor of the First Baptist Church of Charlotte. Thomas McLean, of the Senior class, was in charge of the services and introduced the speaker. In his introduction, he said that although many in the audience had never seen the speaker of the evening, they had probably heard him, since he was known to many as North Carolina’s Radio Pastor. Preceding the address, a violin solo, “Souvenir,” was rendered by Horace Ervin, head of the music department of the Y. M. C. A.

The subject of Dr. Little’s talk was “Drawing Nigh.” He said that he had chosen this topic because he had heard that Davidson was entering soon on her fall services, and he thought that a talk on drawing nigh unto God, and making our hearts receptive, would make our fall services the more effective. Dr. Little showed that God was at a great distance from us; this distance was caused primarily by His superior wisdom, the greatness of His works, and His great goodness. Our Heavenly Father has known far more than anyone on this earth will ever know; we can see His wonderful work, and His goodness far surpasses any human ability. After telling of our distance from God, the speaker gave us directions which, if followed, would bring us closer to the Throne. The first way is by meditation and thought along spiritual lines. Dr. Little told the audience that the way which everyone could know God better and come into closer communion with Him would be to meditate with Him if possible once every day. The second way to grow closer to God is by worship of God, and the last way is by association with good companions. Dr. Little said that he didn’t mean for us to shun bad companions, but he said for us to live so that our companionship with them would make their lives more Christ-like and therefore more fruitful. If these means of drawing nigh are carried out, the results will be favorable. We will be (Continued on page 6)

Delta Pi Kappa Bids Ten Prominent Men

The following men received bids recently from Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, for their attainments in literary endeavors: Sam Preston, Bob Gorrell, Charlie Bettis, P. M. Conway, Gaither Jenkins, W. Caligan, John Lake, E. A. Hancock, Horace Erwin, and L. McKeithan.

The men and their honors are as follows: Sam Preston is junior manager of track; member of annual staff and Reporters’ Club. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. Bob Gorrell is varsity football manager; business manager of the annual. He is a member of the Student Council, “Y” Cabinet, Publications Board, Athletic Council, and Beaver Club. He was business manager of the Wildcat Handbook and vice-president of the Student Body last year. He is a member of O. D. K. and belongs to Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. Charlie Bettis is on the annual staff and is a member of Sigma Pi Sigma. He made his Freshman track numeral and is on the varsity track squad now. He has made the Honor Roll several times. He is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. P. M. Conway is business manager of the Davidsonian. He is a member of varsity football squad, “D” Club, varsity wrestling team, Athletic Council. He is a captain in R. O. T. C. Conway belongs to Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He was one of the men recently pledged to O. D. K. Gaither Jenkins is business manager of the Yowl. He belongs to the International Relations Club and Alpha Phi Epsilon. He is the Slave. W. Caligan is one of the managing editors of the Yowl. He is a member of the orchestra. Woody belongs to Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity. John Lake is assistant basketball manager, vice-president of the Reporters’ Club, exchange editor of the Davidsonian, and a member of the International Relations Club. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. E. A. Hancock is a member of the Reporters’ Club and the International Relations Club. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. Horace Erwin is head of the music department of the Y. M. C. A. He is a member of the orchestra and the band. He belongs to Phi Mu Alpha social fraternity. L. McKeithan is a member of the Reporters’ Club and the International Relations Club. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

Dr. Robert Miles Leads Annual Fall “Y” Services

Speaker Will Also Hold Conferences With Individual Students Concerning Their Problems

Rev. Robert W. Miles, D.D., pastor of the Westminster Presbyterian Church at Lynchburg, Va., arrived here Monday night, and Tuesday morning began a series of evangelistic services under the auspices of the Davidson College Y. M. C. A. His first talk was given at chapel Tuesday morning, and he will conclude the series of eight addresses Friday night. Dr. Miles has written that his general theme for the four chapel talks will be “Life’s Adjustments” and he is developing this under the sub-heads of self, family, society, and vocation. His evening address will follow the general thought of “Leadership of Christ,” and his individual topics are His Prayer, His Way, His Power, and His Gift.

The speaker is a graduate of Davidson College and two years ago he was honored with a doctor of divinity degree by Washington and Lee University. He is a former college pastor, is active in various fields in Lynchburg, and last summer was the Rotary delegate of the Lynchburg club to the convention in Vienna. While here he will also have conferences with individual students concerning their problems, life vocations, and any other matters which might be troubling them. This is the annual fall services conducted by the Davidson Y. M. C. A., when prominent ministers of the Southern Presbyterian Church are brought to Davidson to confer with and talk to the Davidson students. A similar service is held in the spring.

DR. PEARSE LECTURES ON TROPICAL NATURE

Prof. A. S. Pearse, of the Duke Zoological department, lectured on “Tropical Nature” in Chambers Auditorium last Thursday evening. The lecture was illustrated with colored slides and proved to be educational and informative. Prof. Pearse has been on the faculty at Harvard, Wisconsin, and the University of the Philippines. He is also the author of two books and because of his wide travel the Faculty Committee thought him singularly fitted to talk on a matter relating to the tropics.

The lecture opened with a slide showing a knight and his lady riding out on horseback to seek adventure. He told about crabs that cover themselves up in the sand when the tide comes in, and many other interesting animals of the sea. He described the footpaths that wind their way into the interior of Venezuela. He said he was disappointed that there weren't many monkeys in South America, but that they are numerous in Africa. Turtles were shown that live in the desert, only eating the meager vegetation there and going without water for a long period of time.

Dr. Pearse mentioned every conceivable phase of tropical life, from the products to religion. The schools in the tropics were treated at some length and the lecturer deplored the fact that there aren't any more of them to teach the throngs of young men who don't have the chance to go to school. Women in the tropics make shingles out of palm leaves and sell them for ten cents a hundred. It was pointed out that progress is being made in wiping out many of the dreadful tropical diseases. People whose lives are spent in the cool temperate regions of the world have in general exaggerated ideas of the tropics. The great heat of which they hear or imagine impresses them unpleasantly, and visions of noxious wild animals and deadly diseases arise until the picture becomes a nightmare.

TARHEELS OVERCOME WILDCATS TO CLINCH STATE CHAMPIONSHIP

Davidson Threatens in First and Last Periods But Is Unable to Score

GARDNER OUTSTANDING

Long Runs by Croom and Ferebee Win for Carolina

Outplaying the Wildcats of Davidson in practically every department, Carolina's Tar Heels last Saturday smashed and passed their way to a decisiveVictory by the score of 20-0, thus clinching the Big Five title. Carolina has one more inter-state game, that with Duke Saturday, but since the Devils’ win over State last Saturday and the Tar Heels’ victory over Davidson, the title of State Champions will go to Carolina regardless of the outcome of their game with Duke.

The Tar Heels demonstrated their superiority early in the game, when in the first quarter long runs by Croom and Ferebee of 65 and 35 yards respectively resulted in two touchdowns for Carolina. No more scoring was done until the last quarter when a 43-yard march resulted in the last touchdown of the game for the Heels. Davidson, however, was on the defensive for a large portion of the game. Several times the Wildcats gained ground by the superb punting of Charlie Pearce, whose punts averaged over 45 yards, but their offensive failed to click, and statistics show only two first downs for Davidson. Passes were grounded or intercepted, end runs were stopped, and the performance in general was a complete reversal from that displayed in the Wildcat victories over V. M. I. and the Citadel.

Carolina made only three first downs during the first quarter while scoring twice, and it was the first quarter that whipped the ‘Cats from the beginning. Davidson received the kick-off, made a first down on Carolina’s 48-yard line, and Mills made five yards on the next play.

Rhodes Scholarship Committee Formed

A letter received from Frank Aydlotte of Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa., American secretary of the Rhodes Scholarship Trust, announces the personnel of the North Carolina Committee of Selection for the Rhodes scholarship this year as follows:

Chairman: Hon. Josephus Daniels.
Secretary: Dean W. C. Davidson (New York and Merton, '13), School of Medicine, Duke University, Durham, N. C.
Members: Prof. G. R. Vowles (North Dakota and St. John’s, ’07), Davidson College, Davidson, N. C.
President H. S. Hilley (Kentucky and Jesus, '14), Atlantic Christian College, Wilson, N. C.
Prof. C. P. Spruill, Jr. (Oklahoma and Merton, ’27), University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N.C.

This committee will meet Saturday, December 5th, at a place not yet determined, to make its selection.

STATISTICS OF GAME

Davidson | Carolina
First downs: 2 | 11
Yards gained at line: 51 | 321
Yards gained at ends: 0 | 2
Yards lost running plays: 13 | 26
Passes completed: 2 | 2
Passes incompleted: 1 | 1
Passes had intercepted: 2 | 1
Yardage on passes: 12 | 46
Number punts: 11 | 9
Average on punts: 44.6 | 34.3
Number punts returns: 8 | 6
Total yards punt returns: 57 | 71
Fumbles recovered: 0 | 1
Fumbles not recovered: 2 | 2
Yardage penalized: 25 | 15

TRYOUTS HELD MONDAY

Twenty-three Take Part in Trials Held Under Auspices of Forensic Council

FIVE MEN ARE SENIORS

Knox, Kuykendall, Rule, McKinnon, Powell, and McKeithan Win Berths

The tryouts for the varsity debating team were held in Maxwell-Chambers Auditorium, under the auspices of the Forensic Council, on the evening of November 16. The judges for the occasion were Dr. T. W. Lingle and Dr. J. M. McConnell of the history department, and Dr. Brown of the social science department. Twenty-three men were aspirants for the honor of being a varsity debater. Six men were given positions on the varsity, while three were named alternates. All but one of the six varsity debaters are members of the Senior class. All of the men on last year’s team retained their places except one, and he was named as an alternate.

The following were selected on the varsity: P. S. Knox, Edgar Kuykendall, William Rule, III, Jack McKinnon, Riley Powell, and LeRoy McKeithan.

Masquers to Give Play

A hushed silence fell on the room. No one stirred. All looked at the ceiling, expectantly. Softly, then harshly, it came, the long chuckling laughter, as of a maniac, echoing and re-echoing along the corridors. Suddenly a heavy chain clanked on the floor above. Then a shot—a piercing scream—the lights went out.

“What—is—it?” stammered Joan. “Can—it—be—” and with a cry she sank to the floor. Morton, swaying on his feet, grasped the back of a chair to keep erect. A narrow band of moonlight through the window fell across the prostrate form. Slowly the door behind him opened. A long hairy arm slipped through the opening and felt along the wall. Instinctively Morton whirled around, and just as—

Well, in short, on December 11th the Red and Black Masquers will present “The Haunted House,” their first three-act play of the season.

Dr. C. K. Brown Gives Pep Meeting Speech

Last Thursday night the annual pep meeting in advance of the Carolina game was held in the usual place, Shearer Hall. Its description can best be brought out by a shirt-tail parade featuring Freshmen yelling, band playing, shouting, etc. It began in the ordinary manner. As the crowd grew, the noise grew, and Shearer rocked more and more. After all had assembled, the band struck up, our three versatile cheerleaders announced the yells in those brief periods of silence, and those Tar Heels were doomed, in spite of the heavy odds for them.

Dr. C. K. Brown was the speaker of the evening and gave the talk in his usual inspiring manner. He brought out the fact that Dr. Lingle, at Chapel Hill a few days before, had stated that in a way the University of North Carolina was ours, as well as its students and alumni’s. And then he asked why we couldn't do as we pleased with our own. More thunderous yells. He described the Tar Heel team as the Chesterfield team, “Good—they’ve got to be good,” and the Wildcat team as the opium (Continued on page 6)

Mr. Joe B. Johnston to Speak at Vespers Here

Superintendent of Barium Springs Orphanage to Speak at Vespers Here Sunday Night

Mr. J. B. Johnston, of Barium Springs, will conduct the vesper services at Davidson Sunday, November 22, in Chambers Auditorium, at 6 o'clock. Mr. Johnston is very well known on campus, having come here many times to speak at vespers, and to speak at pep meetings. He is superintendent of the Barium Springs Orphanage at Barium Springs, N. C.

Mr. Johnston was graduated from Davidson in the class of 1901, and since that time has been here quite a number of times, and consequently is very well known among the faculty and the student body. During his stay at Davidson, Mr. Johnston made a very enviable record in athletics, especially in football, and a few years ago he was awarded one of the five golden footballs presented that year by the Athletic Association to the alumni. For quite a few years Mr. Johnston has been connected with the Barium Springs Orphanage, and he has always kept in contact with Davidson. In all of the activities of the college, Mr. Johnston has been a very firm supporter, and he is a “true Wildcat,” as it was expressed by one member of the faculty.

College President Lingle Is WBT Radio Speaker

Dr. Walter Lingle, president of Davidson College, highly entertained the radio listeners of the nation-wide hook-up from Charlotte over Station WBT last Saturday, the 14th, from 8:30 to 9:00 p.m. His address was based on the liberal arts college movement. He was also a speaker at the First Presbyterian Church at Chapel Hill, November 8th. Then last Wednesday, on behalf of the colleges of North Carolina, he made a very impressive address to an enormous crowd at the inauguration of the eleventh president of the University of North Carolina. The latter part of the week, Dr. Lingle was an honored guest and speaker at the Mooresville Rotary Club.