O. D. K. TAP DAY TUESDAY

The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

BEAT V. M. I.

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 28, 1931

"THE MAGIC SWORD OF SPEECH" IS THEME OF DR. NABERS' TALK

High Point Minister Mentions Three Ways in Which Speech May Be Abused

DISCOURAGES PROFANITY

PASTOR OF PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH OF CHARLOTTE IS Y.M.C.A. VESPER SPEAKER

Many Students Take Active Part in Vespers Program

“Ninety-five per cent of the men who go out into life rise above the character they make in college,” Dr.
C. H. Nabers, of High Point, told those who attended “Y” vespers last Sunday afternoon.

“Speech is a wonderful thing. It has made empires, destroyed artists, and done many things that have influenced tremendously the
history of the world,” he said. “Indeed, everything good or evil is affected by speech,” he declared. “France has sent
Laval to America, believing that by sitting down and talking things over face to face with our statesmen, more can
be done.”

Speaking on “The Magic Sword of Speech,” Dr. Nabers asserted that there are three things that set man apart from
other animals. “Man is the only animal in the world with an upward look; he is the only animal that
worries, and the only one with the ability to talk and speak at the same time.” He put emphasis on
the point that every time people curse they misuse speech. Here he defined profanity. “Profanity consists in taking ideas and
words that stand for the highest and noblest things in life and bringing them down into dust and filth.” He
continued that lots of people use filthy words when they ought to bless and honor God. The speaker claimed that
in most cases folks curse through force of habit. Association is another powerful influence on character and things heard with
others make their impression on the hearers.

Dr. Nabers told about a man he met in Europe that knew one of his fellow townsmen. When he asked
about his friend's earlier life, Dr. Nabers found that the traveler remembered him in college only as a filthy-mouthed youth.
Then, he said that it wasn't hard for him to understand why the man had never amounted to anything.

Another way in which we misuse speech is by being abrupt. He told a story of Benjamin Franklin to illustrate
this point and insisted that it was possible to disagree without being insulting. Jesus was always a gentleman in speech
and there was the grace of God in everything he said.

The third way in which speech is misused is by saying the wrong thing. The importance was stressed that when
speaking on religious matters to take into consideration the crowd to which you are speaking. He claimed that the real
way to use speech is to use it to bring gladness into the lives of others. He told of a
timid, uneducated man who, moved by God's Spirit, went through his town talking to men about giving their lives to
Jesus, while thousands of others with more talents and advantages were tongue-tied.

The closing words of the speaker were: “God has given us The Magic Sword of Speech, take it and use
it in the right way.” Bill A. Flinn was the leader and Dr. H. M. Moffett introduced Dr. Nabers. A
trio com- (Continued on page 6)

Air Marker Completed

The location of Davidson College is no longer a problem to aviators flying north or south on the New York-Atlanta
air route. For “DAVIDSON COLLEGE” has been painted on the roof of Chambers Building in huge, seven-foot letters, together with
a 40-foot arrow, pointing north. Completed Tuesday, the letters stand, a bright yellow on the black background, on the northern
incline of the South wing.

The lettering was done by the “Car-Mac” Sign Company (Bill Carter and Duncan McBryde), college sign painters, in 2 Rumple.
This air marker was made possible through the kindness of Major Davidson, of Washington, D. C.

Talk at Vesper Service Next Sunday Night

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. is planning a revival of interest in the “Y” vesper services. At present it
is hard at work in an effort to obtain the best speakers possible for these services. Next Sunday Dr. Albert
Sydney Johnson, of Charlotte, is scheduled to speak. Dr. Johnson is a familiar person on the Davidson campus. In Charlotte
he is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church and has in his charge one of the largest congregations in the
city. Dr. Johnson attended Alabama Polytechnic Institute at Auburn and received several honors and distinctions while at that institution. After
graduating from this school, he prepared for the ministry at the Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va. Upon completing this
course, he began an active ministerial career which eventually led him to Charlotte and the position which he now holds.
Dr. Johnson spoke at “Y” vesper services twice last year and was heard with a great deal of interest. The
fact that he is to talk next Sunday is gratifying to those who have heard him and will prove most
delightful to those who hear him for the first time.

Many Students See Two Masquer Plays

The Red and Black Masquers, Davidson's dramatic organization, staged its first plays here Friday night, October 23, “The Monkey's Paw,”
by W. W. Jacobs, and “The Mayor and the Manicure,” by George Ade. The plays were presented in the auditorium
of Chambers Building, and were attended by a large number of students, faculty members, and visitors.

“The Mayor and the Manicure” had an all-Freshman cast, consisting of the following: Mayor Milford, a politician, Robert Lessem; Genevieve,
the slick Manicure, played by William Mellwinen, who has had considerable experience playing feminine roles; Wallie, the Mayor's son, just
returned from college, Jimmie Simpson; and his fiancée, Ruth, played by Miss Mattie McLemore. The play was under the direction
of W. A. McKnight; the stage management under E. A. Hancock.

The scene of “The Monkey's Paw” is laid in a modest little cottage in England, and the plot is woven
around a mystical monkey's paw, which causes many complications throughout the play. The cast was: An old English couple, Horace
Ervin and Miss Adele Arbuckle; Herbert, their son, Johnny Marvin; Sergeant-Major Morris, Grainger Williams; Mr. Fred Hellegers. Henry McFadyen handled
the stage management of this play.

Professor E. J. Erwin was the faculty adviser of the production; Johnny Marvin, make-up, and H. B. Daniel, lighting.

Spanish Club Organizes Under National Charter

The Spanish Club of Davidson has been reorganized this year. After several meetings, the club petitioned and was granted a
charter by Sigma Delta Pi, national honorary Spanish fraternity. The officers elected by the fraternity are: W. A. McKnight, president,
and J. C. Houston, secretary and treasurer. Meetings are now held every Wednesday night at 8:15. The membership is as
follows: W. A. McKnight, J. C. Houston, R. P. Enloe, E. S. Bettis, Frank Bixler, H. S. Brown, John Creech,
J. G. Dunklin, John Allen, and R. L. Torrence. The faculty members are Professors Fleagle, Goldiere, and Blythe. The club
will have its installation some time in the future. The exact date has not yet been decided upon.

Dr. Robert W. Miles to Lead “Y” Services

The date of the fall evangelistic services has been changed from the tenth of November to the seventeenth. The reason
for this is that Dr. Robert W. Miles, who is to conduct the services, finds it impossible to get here
on the date that was formerly decided upon. Dr. Miles is a graduate of Davidson, and while here was an
outstanding leader on the campus. He was one of the most popular men on the hill, was a member of
the football and basketball teams, and was prominent in several other fields. He came back to Davidson in 1918 as
the first secretary of the Y. M. C. A. He is thoroughly acquainted with student life problems, having been a
student at Alabama Polytechnic Institute, at Auburn, Ala. From that place he went to his present pastorate and has been
pastor at Lynchburg, Va.

A change has been made in the plans for conducting the evangelistic services this year. Instead of starting on Sunday,
the first meeting of the series will be Tuesday morning in chapel. They will continue twice a day, once at
chapel and again in the evening, through Friday night, the twentieth.

Flying Squadron Leads Wildcats in Past Wins

Cadets Take Eight Out of Twelve Closely Fought Games Since 1904

Davidson College's football team has not defeated the Virginia Military Institute eleven since 1917, according to a review of the
record of contests between these two institutions.Games that the Wildcats and Cadets have played since 1904, the Virginians have been
victorious in eight of them, and the Wildcats emerged as winners in four. No tie game has been played between
the two institutions. In the twelve games, the Flying Squadron has mustered a total of 101 points, an average of
about 8 4/5 points per game, and Davidson has garnered 65, for an average of almost 5 1/4 points. The
greatest margin of victory has been 20 points, which the Cadets obtained in 1927. The all-time record follows:

1904. V. M. I. 6; Davidson 0.
1905. V. M. I. 6; Davidson 8.
1906. V. M. I. 0; Davidson 6.
1909. V. M. I. 0; Davidson 8.
1911. V. M. I. 5; Davidson 0.
1917. V. M. I. 7; Davidson 23.
1919. V. M. I. 14; Davidson 7.
1926. V. M. I. 12; Davidson 7.
1927. V. M. I. 20; Davidson 0.
1928. V. M. I. 13; Davidson 0.
1929. V. M. I. 12; Davidson 6.
1930. V. M. I. 6; Davidson 0.

Total: V. M. I. 101; Davidson 65.

Plays to Be Given.

The Masquers’ second presentation of the season will be on Saturday evening, November 7th, after the Citadel game. The bill
will again consist of two one-act plays and possibly an interlude. The plays chosen are “Bound East for Cardiff,” by
Eugene O’Neill, a picture of raw life among able-bodied seamen, and “Sham,” a comedy satirizing the superficialities of high social
life and the idea of keeping up with the Joneses.

The casts, which are just beginning work, have been chosen from the many applicants for tryouts, numbering as many as
forty, from the Freshman class alone. They will be announced later. Directors of the respective plays are Bill McKnight, who
directed “The Mayor and the Manicure,” and Johnny Marvin, while stage work will be done by Grainger Williams and Horace
Ervin, and lighting by H. B. Daniels.

DAVIDSON-ERSKINE BATTLE TO A TIE LAST SATURDAY

Seceders Repulse Every Scoring Attempt Made at Goal Line by Wildcat Eleven

MILLS’ DROP KICK IS LOW

Brown and Mathis Play For First Time Since Washington and Lee Game

With a stubborn defense, a scrapping band of Seceders from Erskine College repulsed every scoring attempt of the Davidson Wildcats
last Saturday at Richardson Field to earn a 0-0 tie with the ‘Cats. The Seceders, who were rated as the
underdogs, fought hard throughout the game to humiliate the Wildcats, just as the latter had humiliated Duke University’s Blue Devils
the preceding Saturday.

No less than three times did the Wildcats make a sustained drive for the goal, but when within striking distance,
the Seceder defense tightened and the Wildcats lost possession of the ball. The Wildcats drove past the 20-yard line on
three different occasions, once in each of the first, second, and third periods, but all attempts to move further failed.

Most of the play for the afternoon was held in Erskine territory as a result of the punting advantage which
the Davidson kickers held over W. Gettys. The best kicking of the season was displayed by McQueen, Barrier, Pearce, and
Mills sharing the job. Mills also tried for a drop-kick when the Wildcats drove to the 20-yard line in the
fourth quarter, but his effort fell short by inches.

The game was slow, with both teams displaying a defensive game throughout the first three periods, but things began to
liven at the beginning of the final stanza. Brown and Mathis, who had been out of the game because of
injuries, were sent into the game as a fast play for a score. Brown showed up well in his first
game since he was injured in the W. and L. game. Mathis also aided greatly, as was evidenced by the
sustained drive which the Wildcats made to the 20-yard line. But the plucky quarterback, Sut, was carried off the field.
The Wildcat punch died and in a final effort Buck Mills tried a drop-kick which failed.

After an exchange of punts, Erskine made their only first down of the game when a pass from Gettys to
Bolton was completed for 35 yards. The game ended shortly afterward without a score. It was Pressley and Gettys, Erskine
center and end, respectively, who proved a thorn in the side of the Davidson offense all afternoon. Pressley broke through
time and again to throw the Wildcat backs for losses, while Gettys stopped every Wildcat attempt around his end.

The line-ups:

Erskine Position Davidson
Bolton L.E. Baker
Stevenson L.T. Wagner
Austin L.G. Barrier
Pressley Center Gardner
Caldwell R.G. Conway
Rogers R.T. Whitfield
T. Gettys R.E. Johnston
B. Gettys Q.B. King
Mason R.H. Flinn
Carr L.H. Peabody
Ferguson F.B. McQueen

(Continued on page 6)

Gamma Sigma Epsilon

Five men were invited to become members of Gamma Sigma Epsilon fraternity recently. Gamma Sigma Epsilon is an honorary fraternity,
the mother chapter of the national chemistry fraternity of that name. In recognition of their scholarship and interest in chemistry,
Raymond Steadman, Frank Buckner, Campbell Wildman, Avery Patton, and I. Hechenbleiker were issued bids to this fraternity this fall.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon was founded at Davidson in 1919, and has been very successful in promoting interest in chemistry on
the campus.
