N THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 23, 1931

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina. Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

P. GRIER MARTIN................. Editor-in-Chief
J. A. CANNON....................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. D. McBRYDE.................... Managing Editor
D. D. McCALLIE.................... Managing Editor
R. L. McCALL....................... Managing Editor
C. F. MYERS......................... Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG............................ Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENSON............. Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLIN................ Feature Editor
H. W. ERWIN....................... Review Editor
E. C. DWELLE, JR................. Associate Editor
W. S. LEA............................. Associate Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS............... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
P. M. CAVE.......................... Assistant Business Manager
A. J. ELLIS.......................... Assistant Business Manager
J. Z. STEVENS..................... Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY........... Subscription Manager
P. F. BROWN....................... Circulation Manager
R. W. WILLIAMS.................. Advertising Manager
A. M. MASON....................... Assistant Advertising Manager
A. L. MEBANE..................... Assistant Advertising Manager
W. R. MORROW................... Assistant Advertising Manager

REPORTERS
A. B. WHITEHEAD............... Reporter
T. B. DARDEN..................... Reporter
P. W. F. MULLISS............... Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN................ Reporter
F. H. COVINGTON................ Reporter
B. B. TAYLOR...................... Reporter
L. S. GAMBLE...................... Reporter
G. E. BAILEY....................... Reporter
R. E. LORRAINE.................. Reporter
J. E. BOYD........................... Reporter
E. L. POWELL...................... Reporter
S. P. PRESTON.................... Reporter
R. PRATT-THOMAS............. Reporter
W. R. WARD....................... Reporter
A. F. SCHENCK................... Reporter
O. CASALI............................ Reporter
W. M. THOMPSON............... Reporter
L. W. CLARDY, JR............... Reporter
W. T. THOMPSON............... Reporter
J. A. HUNTER..................... Reporter

APRIL 23, 1931

It’s good to have money and the things it can buy, but it is also good to be able to
look back and discover you haven't lost something money can’t buy.—George Horace Lorimer.

PARAGRAPHICS

In congratulating the track team on breaking the Wake Forest “jinx” last week, may we add the hope that the
break will last through next year’s athletic contests with that school.

To the new councilmen—the burden of upholding Davidson’s student government, and the enforcement of its laws rests on you—success to
you.

That was a wonderful exhibition Saturday of a fighting finish between two Wildcats, Brannon and Earle, in the two-mile run.
The spirit of competition is good, even when it is between teammates.

Campus statisticians report that it has rained here for the last nine weekends. That should be some kind of record,
endurance or otherwise, for Davidson.

Beginning next Sunday the various classes will have charge of the “Y” Vesper services, which will be held outdoors, next
to the “Y” rooms. Regardless of which class is conducting the program, let’s everybody support them!

The following managing editors did make-up work on pages indicated:
McBryde.................. Front Page
McCallie.................. Page Five
Guerrant................ Page Six
Sugg....................... Sport Page

CHAMBERS BUILDING

Much has been written and more said of the beauty, usefulness, and, particularly, the preservation of the Chambers Building, but,
unless one knows Davidson well, he cannot realize the vast importance of this building in the life of the school.
One has only to realize that all classes, excepting chemistry and R. O. T. C., meet in Chambers, and that
all the offices of the administration are there, to understand how essential the building is in the operation of the
college.

It seems almost impossible that Davidson could have been kept running after the fire which destroyed Old Chambers, when there
was no administration building, and classes were held in Shearer, in houses in the town, and in other inconvenient places.
It was only through the perseverance of Davidson leaders, and the generosity of Davidson men that disaster was averted. Even
after the construction of the south wing of the new edifice, it is hard to understand how the work was
so successfully carried on.

Now that we have the whole building completed, surrounded by grounds that are being improved every day, amply providing facilities
for the entire system of education, it is important that we keep in mind at all times the care and
preservation of this virtual center of Davidson activity. This has been done in an admirable manner in the past and
should be continued during all future Davidson generations. Only in this way will we be able to have an administration
building of which all Davidson men can be proud.

POLICIES

Following the “swan-song” of the former editor in the preceding issue of The Davidsonian, it seems proper that we should
express some ideas and facts concerning the policy of the paper for the coming year, and try to give to
the student body an idea of what it will be like during the time that the new staff will serve.

No radical changes are to be made in the make-up of the paper, and those that are made will not
go into effect until the first part of the next school year. If the paper can be made as good
as it has been in the last several years, we will feel that success has been achieved. This does not
mean that it will be the same in all respects as it has been in the past, because unless something
new can be included in this staff’s regime, it will not be up to the standard set by former editors.

One change which is noticeable is the fact that there are five managing editors instead of four, as it has
been customary to have. Instead of having a news editor the managing editors will alternate in sending out assignments, the
one doing this being relieved from other work for that particular week. This policy was adopted in order to give
this part of the work more recognition.

Another thing which will be attempted next year is the running of more cuts than has been the custom. Although
this involves additional expense to the paper, it is thought that the added attractiveness in appearance will warrant the greater
cost.

In the past the student body has had no way of knowing the type of work that the managing editors
are doing, and consequently have had no definite knowledge of how to vote in the election of an editor. This
year a list of the pages that they have made up will be published on the editorial page, and also
one editorial a week will be written by one of the managing editors. In this way it is hoped that
the students may get a clearer idea of the capabilities of the men they are to vote on next spring.

Above all the purpose of a newspaper is to present news that will be of interest to its readers. In
doing this the cooperation of all organizations and individuals on the campus is sought, in the hope that they will
let The Davidsonian, in so far as it is possible, publish news before it is announced in other ways. In
the furtherance of this idea, an attempt is to be made to have the paper appear on Wednesday rather than
on Thursday. In this way the articles will have a certain newness that is impossible when it comes out on
Thursday. The success of this plan rests on whether or not the printers will be able to publish the paper
by that time.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Enough praise cannot be given to the Department of Physical Education, headed by Captain Pritchett, for its work in the
physical development of Davidson students. The accomplishments in this branch of work in the last several years are numerous. It
is impossible to tell exactly how much has been done, because so much has been of an intangible nature, such
as improved bodies, better health throughout the year, and scholastic improvement due to superior physical qualities.

Besides these there are other more noticeable changes in the athletic curriculum of the school. The changing of the old
armory into a gymnasium, the required exercise for those not taking R. O. T. C., interclass and inter-fraternity sports, classes
in physical education, and the remarkable improvement of the track team, are some of the evidences of the wonderful changes
that have taken place in the field of physical education.

Of course, the primary interest of college men should be to secure an education, but in doing this and aside
from it, an absolute necessity is a healthy body. In filling this necessity Captain Pritchett and the coaching staff have
been very successful, and deserve the commendation of the student body and all those connected with the school.

“No temporary Democratic chairman ever wrote a Democratic platform. If Mr. Raskob insists upon such power, the rank and file
have but one message: ‘Pay your debts and get out.’”—Josephus Daniels.

Recent to a Britisher is five years ago. Recent to an American is but five minutes—William.G. Fern. These revolutions of
ours are very tiresome. Personally, I cannot take them seriously—Foreign Minister Alba of Spain (until recently). Whenever any group, zealous
for power, makes loyalty to one of its own members the test of citizenship and the object of any election
then sooner or later corruption comes.—William Allen White.

What Do You Know About? How’s this? Kicked out? Revolution? Nicaragua? Gum?

On April the 6th the Court of Appeals in the District of Columbia handed down a decision upholding the conviction
of Albert B. Fall in 1929 for accepting a $100,000 bribe from Edward L. Doheny in the infamous Elk Hills
oil lease case. Now how was it possible that the courts found Doheny innocent in 1930 of giving a bribe
which Fall, only a few months before, was found guilty of receiving?

“I want peace, and I’m willing to live and let live. I’m tired of gang murder and gang shootings.” —Al
Capone.

Eve Garrette Grady and her husband, a United States mining engineer employed by the Soviet government, were expelled from Russia
recently because of the story published by Mrs. Grady entitled “See Russia and Die-Laughing.” “Your article was not considered generally
offensive but it contained an offensive reference to Josef Stalin,” Russian officials told her.

“We are not only more free from attack, but our people are more free from the haunting fear of attack
than any other people in the world.”—President Hoover.

The bloodless revolution which has just taken place in Spain is a good example of the modern and more civilized
way of changing the government of a country. King Alphonso has taken his downfall as merely a temporary state of
affairs and is expecting to be recalled to the throne in the near future. As Alphonso stated in his “Manifesto”
which was published at the time of his departure from Spain, “I am King of all Spaniards and I am
myself a Spaniard. ... I do not renounce any of my rights because they are more than mine... . I
am waiting to learn the real expression of the collective opinion of my people.”

Don Niceto Zamora, the provisional president of the Republic of Spain, seems of an opinion very different from that of
King Alphonso. Zamora stated, “Finally ... the popular will could at last, after eight years of dictatorship, manifest itself with
irresistible pressure in favor of a republic. Alphonso realized at last that he was in material and moral isolation, so
he yielded and quit the country.”

Leon Trotsky, in his pamphlet entitled “The Revolution in Spain” which was published several months before the departure of King
Alphonso from his country, stated, “Even if we should assume for a moment that the revolutionary movement led by the
Left Wing of the bourgeoisie leads to victory, then the fruitlessness of this victory would in the final analysis become
equal to defeat. The Spanish Republicans stand completely on the basis of the present property relation.”

French patriotism is in no way aggressive. It is dangerous for nobody. It does not tend to elevate France above
other countries.”—M. Le President Doumergue.

Since the recent earthquake in Nicaragua, there has been a rising tide of opposition to the building of the proposed
canal through that country by the United States. But according to Sydney B. Williamson, chief of the civilian engineers on
the board of survey, Nicaragua has had fewer earthquakes since the Spanish Conquest than the Panama region. He added that
if the United States owned two canals—Panama and Nicaragua—there would be less chance of our control of inter-ocean traffic being
destroyed by a single earthquake.

“If Mr. Rascob is ‘an amateur in politics’ (as he stated in his letter to the Democratic National Committee) then
politics needs more amateurs.”—Outlook and Independent.

William Wrigley, Jr., the big-gum-man-from-the-west, proposes to use all his sales receipts from gum in the South to buy cotton.
He plans to buy 200,000 bales provided the market does not rise above twelve cents. Wrigley said, “The people of
the South are all right. They just need a little help.” He makes this “sincere and friendly gesture to the
South” because he once traveled in this section as a drummer.

“Prohibition has been a huge success in the United States.”—Sen. Smith W. Brookhart.

“The primary desire and the primary business of women is to attract men.”—Peggy Hopkins Joyce.

“My objection to divorce is that it has become too respectable."—G. K. Chesterton.

“How silly it must be for the Democratic party to disregard the Prohibition issue.”—John J. Rascob.

By D. D. McB.

FIGHT-A-PHONE Presents for your entertainment: “ROCKINGHAM” (A sequel to the stage-hit HAMLET)

Setting: (In a Morris chair)
Scenario by: Chance
Directed by: Automatic Device
Music by: Anglo-Saxophone Serenaders
Cast: Iron

Dramatis Personae
Casino: Count of Monte Carlo
“Mike” Huntry: (’Tis of thee) Radio Announcer
Duke of Illyria: Brother of Malaria
Ben Wurkin: A.B., 97, University of Athens
Angela Appleblossom: Co-ed, same University
(Time, Daylight saving, B. C. 196)

ACT I
“Mike”: Good morning-glory! This performance comes to you through the courtesy of the Atlas Axle-grease Company (“We grease all Greece”)
and is sponsored by the French and English Department of the University of Athens. This is Station XXX, the original
home of light wines and beer. The performance begins! Please stand by.

Duke: And in the face of all this depression, O Casino, what would’st recommend?
Casino: (Sings softly) “And let the rest of the world go buy.”
Duke: Ruffian! Would’st make a fool of me?
Casino: No, m’Lord, I never try to interfere with Nature.
Ben: (Running up) Hail, O Peers of the harbour of Athens. Sad news!
Duke: Speak, lad. What grievance now mars thy school-girl complexion?
Ben: Oh, Sir, Homer is very Iliad—near the point of death.
Casino: That’s Odyssey. And who is Homer?
Ben: My prize pigeon, sir; and a good one at that.
Casino: (Censored). (Fire ALARUM. Excited firemen rush hither and yon, seeking fire).
Duke: And where, prithee, is all this fire?
Ben: Oh, Sir, ’tis but the co-eds of dear old Athens. School is out.

ACT II
(Enter Ben and Angela. Ben is an industrial (?) student).
Angela: ... but, Ben, have you no end in view?
Ben: Aye, sure, May the 31st.
(Strange interlude)
Angela: Ben! (Silence falls on the surroundings and breaks down three rose bushes).
Ben: Angela, do you believe in love at first sight?
Angela: No, I have astigmatism.
(Exeunt omnes)

ACT III
(A Turkish bath. Enter Duke and Casino).
Duke: (Paying for bath) Zounds! They sure soak you here in this place!
Casino: (Combing his hair). Ah, the plot thickens! The hair restorer works!
Duke: (Changing the subject and giving Casino the change) How is your son getting along at the University?
Casino: By my troth he doth remind me of a kerosene lamp.
Duke: And how is that?
Casino: He is not over bright; he is often turned down, he generally smokes, and he frequently goes out at
night.
(Exeunt)

ACT IV
At this point the action becomes so complicated, and the technique so intricate, that it has been omitted. Let it
suffice to say that, while Casino and the Duke are out on the plains of Marathon engaged in quoits (they
are bootleggers, and have just delivered 12 quoits to a prominent citizen in Athens), the papal bull breaks out and,
charging upon them from the rear, tramples on them and leaves them, mangled, to die a horrible death, introducing the
first tragical element of the evening. At this point it is revealed that the Duke is the father of Angela,
and Casino the father of Ben.

ACT V
(Rose garden at Angela’s home. Enter Ben and Angela).
Angela: Is it true, oh Ben, that thy father died of hard drink?
Ben: Yes, a big block of ice fell on him, so they say.
Angela: (After a long silence) Why are you so cold, my love, on a night like this, when we are
together? Do I not please you? A silent tongue bespeaks a sorrowful heart. Tell me all, dear one.
Ben: (Trembling with emotion) Words fail me, Angela, in describing the great love I have for you. But there is
something that I have kept a secret from you. I am disqualified! I cannot go like this, I—I have, Heaven
help me, I have—ATHLETE’S FOOT! My fate is sealed! “Hence vain deluding joys—” Angela! (Stabs self).
Angela: Oh! My love! My love! This heart cannot contain the sorrow it knows! Oh that I were dead! (At
this point the curtain falls on the despairing heroine). (She expires).
