THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 11, 1931

ON TO CHAPEL HILL

THE SPORTS PARADE

BEAT CAROLINA!

In the final analysis, there were only two perfectly executed plays, in so far as Davidson was concerned, in the Wildcat-Bulldog scrap last Saturday, but these came at vital moments when they were needed and resulted in touchdowns. Even if we disregard statistics of the game, it is doubtless true that the cadets outplayed the ’Cats, obviously in the last half, and for parts of the first half. Statistics would tend to bear out this observation, for we see that Davidson made only four first downs to The Citadel’s twelve, that Citadel gained 179 yards from scrimmage while the ’Cats gained 127, and that Citadel completed six passes to three for Davidson. But why worry? We won the game and that's enough. N. Y. U. outplayed Georgia for fifty-nine minutes of the game, but Georgia scored in the last sixty seconds of the game and got credit for a victory. Davidson scored in the first two minutes of their game, and also in the third quarter. 14-7. Not bad. And when we stop to recall pessimistic predictions for Davidson this year, we are inclined to thumb our noses at some of these prognosticators. In what was booked to be our leanest year, we find the ’Cats with four victories, two defeats, and two ties. Two more victories would square up our schedule to a T. One of these victories we are anticipating, and for Thanksgiving dinner, we want on the menu, Demon Deacon a la king, just like mother used to make.

With the exception of the two touchdown plays, we find little upon which to comment. Incidentally, Charlie Pearce’s touchdown sprint was one of the prettiest of the game. His punting was also above par, and it was obvious that he had a big edge over the Bulldog punter. Buck Mills played a good game, his two scintillating runs of over fifty apiece providing a couple of thrills for the stands. Peabody, as usual, handled his punts easily, and King ran his team well. We understand that his shoulder injury will be healed by Saturday. The line as a whole played good football during the first half, but was outcharged by the Bulldogs during the second half. Conway played one of his best defensive games, and Wagner seemed to handle the Big Man Mountain Rivers without much difficulty.

And now Carolina. The Wildcats beat Carolina last year, but make no mistake, the Tar Heels have a powerful team this year. There’s no getting around that. We only need to point to the Tennessee game—Tennessee 7, Carolina 0. We make no predictions. That it will be a great scrap we take for granted. The ’Cats will have to duplicate and reduplicate their performance of the Duke game to win over Carolina.

Our predictions for Saturday’s games include:
Tulane over Georgia.
Tennessee over Vanderbilt.
Duke over N. C. State.
Oglethorpe over Wake Forest.
South Carolina over Florida.
Penn. over Georgia Tech.
Kentucky over V. M. I.
Furman over Citadel.
Alabama over Clemson.

A. Gerskov — The Tailor
SUITS MADE TO ORDER
Cleaned 40c
Pressed 20c
Remodeled and Altered
All Work Guaranteed
Globe Pressing Company

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
We Only Ask For A Trial

’CATS MEET CAROLINA SATURDAY

Tentative Basketball Schedule
Wildcats Go to Chapel Hill Saturday to Play Annual Tar Heel Game
Davidson Won Over Carolina Last Year by Close Score, 7-6

Charlotte
Davidson
Saturday, Jan. 9—Carolina
Monday, Jan. 11—Furman
Friday, Jan. 29—Duke Durham
Monday, Feb. 1—Duke Charlotte
Thursday, Feb. 4—Erskine (?)
Wednesday, Feb. 10—N. C. State Raleigh
Thursday, Feb. 11—Carolina Chapel Hill
Saturday, Feb. 13—College of Charleston Davidson

On Grid

One of the most ancient of gridiron feuds will be played this weekend when the University of North Carolina Tar Heels will be met by Davidson's scrapping Wildcats. The scene of this Big Five title race will be the Kenan Memorial Stadium at Chapel Hill.

Varsity Cross-Country Runners Lose to V. P. I. As Fresh Beat Winston

Football was introduced in North Carolina by these two institutions and for over a period of 34 years they have engaged in contests. Of these 29 games Carolina has won 20, four were scoreless ties, and Davidson has won five. The most recent win scored by the Wildcats was last fall when they sprang a sensational upset to nose out the Tar Heel team, 7 to 6. During the season of 1926, the Wildcats won by a score of 10 to 0, and in 1910 the score was 6 to 0 in Davidson's favor. Both the teams of 1926 and 1910 were State Champions.

The cross-country varsity of V. P. I. defeated the Davidson aggregation last Saturday, 23 to 32. V. P. I. has an exceptionally strong team this year and is slated to win the Southern Conference. Brannon of Davidson proved himself a most worthy captain when he covered the three miles in 16 minutes and 17 seconds. This is unusually good time, for he outdistanced Miles of the Gobblers, who was slated to win, by several hundred yards. Morrow of Davidson

Entire Freshman Squad Has Chance to Show Its Strength Friday on Richardson Field.

The game was completely generalled by the Wildkittens as substitutions were numerous and the game finally ended with the last man on the Davidson squad seeing action. Hutchins was the outstanding player for the home team as he squirmed, twisted, and outran his opponents during the time he was in the contest. Following a 40-yard gain by Smathers, Hutchins ran for a total gain of 34 yards and the first touchdown of the game in the first quarter. The Kittens made 18 first downs as compared with the two made by the P. J. C. aggregation. Bumgarner, Wingfield, Legare, and Hutchins were responsible for the tallies, and Van Story, West, Morgan, Smathers and, in fact, the whole

Wildkittens Overwhelm Weak P. J. C. Team 36-0

Betas Defeat Phi Gamms To Decide Championship

On Thursday afternoon the Beta Theta Pi’s defeated the Phi Gamms 2-0 in the finals of the inter-fraternity football race. The contest was well played and run off in good order. A sizeable crowd was on hand for the game. From all appearances the two teams were evenly matched. The only departmentof play in which the two teams might be contrasted would be in the defense presented by the opposing lines. Here, it seemed that the Betas were a bit superior. This superiority might be accounted to the fact that the winners had a considerable edge in weight. Both teams flashed consistent aerial attacks, although the Beta passing combination weakened toward the closing moments of play and the Phi Gamms’ attack became more steady. The winning set of points came as a result of a touchback charged against the Phi Gamms. The ball was passed over the head of Rogers, Phi Gamm fullback, and rolled approximately twenty yards down the field and just behind their goal line. Upon retrieving the ball, Rogers was immediately tagged and consequently a touchback was the result. These points proved to be the winning margin.

Outstanding in the Beta backfield was McMillan, who very ably skirted the ends and tossed passes. “Dunk” Calder shone in the line, playing a vicious, charging game. He personally broke up several Fiji passes.

The remaining pair of triumphs came in 1918, by a score of 14 to 7, and in 1920, when the count was 7 to 0. These scrapping Wildcats have caused Carolina to write on the pages of its football history just about the toughest rivalry that these pages show. Three of the four scoreless ties happened way back in the early years of this century. Three times in the course of five years the battles between the two teams ended in draws, once in 1904, again in 1906, and the last in 1908. The fourth tie game was in 1921, when the two football machines went the route with neither team scoring. Carolina’s victories have been numerous and Carolina has rolled up four times as many points as Davidson, acquiring 331 to the Wildcats’ 72. Carolina’s victories, and their scores came in 1897, 10-0; 1898, 11-0; 1899, 10-0; 1901, 6-0; 1902, 27-0; 1905, 6-0; 1911, 4-0; 1912, 13-0; 1913, 7-0; 1914, 16-3. In 1915, the Tar Heels scored the most decisive victory, winning 41-6. They continued their wins in 1916, 10-6; 1919, 10-0; 1922, 29-6; 1923, 14-3; 1924, 6-0; 1925, 13-0; 1927, 27-0; 1928, 30-7; and 1929, 27-7.

Fresh Beat Seniors in First Basketball Game

Monday night, November 9th, the Freshman basketball team beat the Seniors, 27-25. The score was tied at the end of the period and so a five-minute extra period was added. This was the first of a series of inter-class basketball games, the remainder of which will be played off before the Christmas holidays. The game, which was played between two very unpracticed teams, furnished many thrills, and was very well played, considering the practice that the players have had together. The Freshmen showed some very good material, and Davidson’s varsity will doubtless be strengthened by them in the future. There were quite a few witnesses to the game, the majority being Freshmen, who seemed to be elated by the victory of the Freshmen over the Seniors.

The same Freshmen team were at their best. Coaches Unger and Laird seemed satisfied with everyone’s performance in the last game and are looking forward to a victory in their next encounter, with Oak Ridge. The starting line-up for both teams is as follows:

Beta Position Davidson
Robinson LE Morgan
Beasley (C) LT Siewers
Johnson LG Brewer
Clark Center Lee
Davis RG Potter (C)
Hamer RT Batte
Singleton RE Morris
Sandlin QB Smathers
Andrews LH Wingfield
Hitt RH Hutchins
Campbell FB Caton

Score by periods:
Beta 0 0 0 0—0
Davidson 0 0 0 6—6

Franklin Fricker, '21, who is with the Ethyl Gasoline Corporation, is now located at Birmingham, Mich. Henry S. Goodwin, ‘30, who is studying and teaching at the University of Michigan, has accepted a bid to Alpha Chi Sigma, national professional chemical fraternity.

McFadyen of Davidson set the pace during the entire two-mile trot to finish first in the good time of 11 minutes and 12 seconds. He was closely followed by Kinney of Winston, who was also pushed by Captain Morris of Davidson. The remainder of the runners finished as follows: Sandefur (Winston), Gullette (Davidson), Hollingsworth (Winston), Everett (Winston), Patterson (Winston), and Rose (Davidson).

Richardson was the sensation of the meet when he sprinted within a few feet of Fisher of V. P. I., who took third place. The order of the others was as follows: Elder (V. P. I.), Carter (V. P. I.), Grimsley (V. P. I.), Hudgins (V. P. I.), White (V. P. I.), Howard (Davidson), Moss (Davidson), Earle (Davidson), and Woodside (Davidson).

The Associated Press is carrying a series of personality sketches of prominent North Carolinians, and last week they devoted an article to Hon. Chas. G. Rose, 1900, of Fayetteville. The activity of Mr. Rose is diversified, and a few days ago it was learned through The Fayetteville Observer that he is now directing a Y. M. C. A. drive in that city, being president of that organization.

SCARLET TANAGER
Sodas — Tobaccos — Sundries
Stationery and Hot Drinks
Phone 9143

Davidson Theatre
MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“YELLOW TICKET”
ELISSA LANDI

WEDNESDAY
“GIRLS ABOUT TOWN”
KAY FRANCIS

THURSDAY
“MAD GENIUS”
JOHN BARRYMORE

FRIDAY
“ONCE A LADY”
RUTH CHATTERTON

SATURDAY
“TIP OFF”

Complete Service for School Publications
Manuals
Magazines
Annuals
Catalogs
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte

Nationally Known Stetson “D” Store

SPECIAL . . FOR 10 DAYS ONLY
Camel Pile Coats - $37.50

Justly Famous HANES
Gold Label Elastic-knit athletic union suits and shirts and shorts are made better by HANES. For Men and Boys for the changeable weather of autumn and spring—ideal winter garments for men who work indoors. Luxurious in materials and finish. Low in price. If you wear summer-weights the year through, be sure to see how HANES UNDERWEAR combines to make the greatest underwear values you've ever seen. Expert tailoring! Over 25 years of manufacturing experience! HANES low prices! All Light-weight Union Suits are excellent for every season.