THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 30, 1931

New Library Books

Following is a list of books that have been placed in the college library:

1. Field Book of Wild Birds and Their Music, by F. Schuyler Mathews.
2. The Spirit of Protestantism, by Harris E. Kirk.
3. The Gospel and Its Ministry, by Ernest Findlay Scott.
4. Twenty Years at Hull-House, by Jane Addams.
5. The Meaning of Relativity, by Albert Einstein.
6. Dictionary of Hymnology, by Julian.
7. The Oxford Book of Victorian Verse, Chosen by Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch.
8. Parnassus on Wheels, by Christopher Morley.
9. Thermionic Vacuum Tubes, by H. J. Van der Bijl.
10. Roman Portraits, by Moses Stephen Slaughter.
11. Enzymes, by Selman A. Waksman and Wilburt C. Davidson.
12. Radio, Telegraphy and Telephony, by Rudolph L. Duncan and Charles E. Drew.
13. The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition, by E. V. McCollum and Nina Simmonds.
14. Chemistry in the World’s Work, by Harrison E. Howe.
15. Eminent Chemists of Our Time, by Benjamin Harrow.
16. The Psychology of Skill, by Norman Triplett.
17. Psycho-Analysis, by Barbara Low.
18. Microscopic Fresh Water Life, by F. J. W. Plaskitt.
19. The Engineers and the Price System, by Thorstein Veblen.
20. The Christian Belief in Immortality, by James H. Snowden.
21. Bodily Changes in Pain, Hunger, Fear and Rage, by Walter B. Cannon.
22. The Problem of Business Forecasting, Edited by Persons, Foster, and Hettinger.
23. Marketing Agricultural Products, by Benjamin H. Hibbard.
24. The Unstable Child, by Mateer.
25. Memoirs of Travel, by James Bryce.
26. Riviera Towns, by Herbert Adams Gibbons.
27. A Spring Walk in Provence, by Archibald Marshall.
28. The Immigration Problem, by Jeremiah W. Jenks and W. Jett Lauck.
29. The Political Education of Woodrow Wilson, by James Kerney.
30. Around the World in New York, by Konrad Bercovici.
31. American Music, by Paul Rosenfeld.
32. The High School Age, by Irving King.
33. Investment Management, by Dwight C. Rose.
34. American Political Ideas, by Charles Edward Merriam.
35. Bermuda, by Walter B. Hayward.
36. Middletown, by Robert S. and Helen Merrell Lynd.
37. Troy, by Walter Leaf.
38. The American Architecture of Today, by G. H. Edgell.
39. Readings in Recent American Constitutional History, Edited by Allen Johnson and William A. Robinson.
40. Joseph Conrad, by G. Jean-Aubry.
41. Parent Education, Edited by Richard Olding Beard.
42. Great Britain From Adam Smith to the Present Day, by C. R. Fay.
43. Hart, Schaffner and Marx Prize Essays in Economics, by Charles Stillman Morgan.
44. Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, Edited by J. R. R. Tolkien and E. V. Gordon.
45. The History of the Fabian Society, by Edward R. Pease.
46. A Study of American Intelligence, by Carl C. Brigham.
47. Communism, by Professor Harold J. Laski.
48. Thomas Alva Edison, by Francis Arthur Jones.
49. My Autobiography, by Benito Mussolini.
50. Czecho-Slovakia, Edited by Dr. Josef Gruber.
51. Contemporary French Dramatists, by Barrett H. Clark.
52. Harvard Plays, Published by Brentano’s.
53. The Contemporary Drama of Ireland, by Ernest A. Boyd.
54. Carolina Folk-Plays, by Frederick H. Koch.
55. The Provincetown Plays, Edited and selected by George Cram Cook and Frank Shay.
56. The World Today Bookshelf, Under the Editorial Chairmanship of Charles A. Beard.
57. The Vergilian Age, by Robert Seymour Conway.
58. Mary Shelley, by Richard Church.
59. William Dean Howells, by Oscar W. Firkins.
60. The Doctor’s Dilemma, Getting Married and the Showing-up of Blanco Posnet, by Bernard Shaw.
61. The Poetical Works of Joaquin Miller, Edited by Stuart P. Sherman.
62. Bibliography, by Henry Bartlett Van Hoesen.
63. Casuals of the Sea, by William McFee.
64. A Shropshire Lad, by A. E. Housman.
65. Last Poems, by A. E. Housman.
66. 18,000 Words Often Mispronounced, by William Henry P. Phyfe.
67. English Literature During the Last Half-Century, by John W. Cunliffe.
68. Etiquette, by Emily Post.

Enrollment in Summer School Will Be Large

Dates for Six-Week Session Will be From June 8 to July 18

Advance registration for Davidson College’s summer session has already reached a high figure, according to Prof. F. K. Fleagle, director of the summer session, and inquiries received indicate that the final enrollment for the summer school will be one of the largest which the college has ever had. The wide variety of subjects appealing especially to school teachers, and special teachers for education methods is attracting a large number of high school teachers to Davidson. In addition to these, regular courses in college subjects which are being offered are attracting a number of undergraduates. The complete list of courses for the summer curricula has not yet been completed, but it is expected that this will be announced in the near future. Dates for the six-week session will be from June 8 to July 18.

Hibbard Claims Ancients Had Steel to Cut Rocks

Egyptians Must Have Used Steel in Constructing Pyramids is Assertion

New York—(IP)—“How did the Egyptians cut those big rocks they used for the pyramids?” has been a vexing question for some centuries. Henry D. Hibbard, a leading member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and of the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, declares he is sure they used steel. “To deny the use of steel for stone cutting by the ancient Egyptians,” he said here recently, “is to a steel metallurgist like denying the cutting itself, for hardened steel is the only substance known to man which could have served the purpose.” He pointed out that before the dawn of history the Egyptians made amazing progress, for they were able to produce beautifully carved statues of hard stone.

Senior Class Will Conduct ‘Y’ Vespers

This Sunday night the Senior class will hold the weekly vesper service. This service will begin the series of outdoor vespers which are held in the spring. The Sunday after, May 10, is Mother's Day. A program suitable to such a day is being arranged by the “Y.” The “Y” hopes to find some mother who will be willing to come and give a talk at vespers. Also, there will be special music in keeping with Mother’s Day. All students are urged to have their mothers up on this day and to attend the vespers with them. The Sunday after Mother’s Day, one of the other classes will have charge of the services.

Foreigners Pick Up Slang Words Easily!

East Indian Learns Slang on College Campus

Columbus, Ohio—(IP)—An East Indian coming to America finds it hard not to pick up slang expressions and use them in his everyday speech. At least this has been the experience of Dr. B. B. Malvea, head of the chemistry department of Ewing Christian College, Allahabad, India, who is studying at Ohio State University. This ability to pick up what he calls “Yankee slanguage” has caused Dr. Malvea a good deal of embarrassment since he came here from India a year and a half ago. His English before he reached the Ohio State campus was very good, he says, but now his vocabulary is replete with phrases that he mentally shudders at, but that slip out. He finds it especially embarrassing when he writes letters to his friends in India, he says. Once he wrote that a man he had met in Columbus was “dumb, judging from his conversation.” The friends couldn’t quite figure out how a man could be dumb and yet carry on a conversation. They wrote urging him to explain, and suggested that in future letters he add a postscript explaining his slang remarks. Nevertheless, the American system of education is superior to the English system now used in India, he thinks. Mass education, which is the aim in India, he thinks, is better accomplished by schools which give their own examinations prepared by the government. He is taking a course in chemical engineering at Ohio State so his Indian pupils will be able to put into actual practice the theories he gives them in the classroom. But he hopes that he will forget his “Yankee slanguage” before he returns to India.

Dr. Watts Becomes Magazine Reviewer

Will Be Critic and Reviewer of Modern Foreign Books

Dr. G. B. Watts of the Davidson faculty is to become a regular contributor to Books Abroad. Prof. R. T. House, editor of this publication, recently invited him to join the team of reviewers.Dr. Watts to submit reviews and other articles to his quarterly study. Books Abroad contains comments on the newest foreign books published abroad. Dr. Watts has contributed several articles on modern French novels and biographies which will appear in Books Abroad and receives monthly assignments of contemporary works for his inspection and criticism. Dr. Watts has conducted about ten tours in the Continent, visiting the gay capitals and interesting out-of-the-way places. Therefore, Professor House feels that he is thoroughly capable of presenting comprehensive and unusual reports because of his wide travel and direct contact with foreign countries.

V. M. I. TRACK (Continued from page 3)
Brannon, Bond, V. M. I. Time: 59 seconds.
220-yard high hurdles—Won by George; Wagner, V. M. I.; Little. Time: 25.4 seconds.
120-yard low hurdles—Won by George; Heald, V. M. I.; McCallie. Time: 15.6 seconds.
Pole vault—Won by Brock; Brown, V. M. I., and Roane, Flynn, and Stroud tied for second. Height: 10 feet 6 inches.
High jump—Won by Phillips, V. M. I.; Wilson, Allen, and Martin tied for second. Height: 5 feet 10 inches.
Broad jump—Won by Brown, V. M. I.; Flinn; Dunn, V. M. I. Distance: 20 feet 6 inches.
Shot put—Won by Hoyle; Knox; Mergenhagen, V. M. I. Distance: 40 feet 4 inches.
Discus—Won by Hall; Knox; Hollowell, V. M. I. Distance: 114 feet 9 inches.
Javelin—Won by Wright, V. M. I.; Brock; McCall. Distance: 173 feet 10 inches.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia

OFFERS
To Regular Students—Well-balanced course, including a number of electives.
To Advanced Students—Specially chosen courses to fit each individual case.
To the Most Successful Students—Five Fellowships, some resident, others abroad.
For Catalogue and information, address Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President

Davidson Is Represented At Language Association
Professors Watts and Goldiere, of French Department, Attend Meeting at Raleigh

Davidson College was well represented at the Modern Language Association held in Raleigh on April 24 and 25. Professors G. B. Watts and A. V. Goldiere went as delegates from the French department. At the meeting Friday morning, Prof. J. P. Wickersham Crawford addressed the assembly. Professor Crawford is chairman of the Department of Romance Languages of the University of Pennsylvania. During the discourse, he outlined modern methods of teaching and declared that he was opposed to some of the methods used in some modern institutions. Professor Watts, president of the association, gave a resume on the activities of the program forming committee which has outlined a schedule of work for the two-year course in modern languages in North Carolina. Dr. G. R. Vowles, of the German department at Davidson, was elected president of the organization at the business session. Professor Watts read a paper on Desirable Achievements for the Two-Year French Course. The language groups gave their approval of the program of the committee and decided to revise it and send it to the N. C. Education Association for publication.

Commission Against College Broadcasts
Washington—(IP)—The college is soon going to lose all its space on the radio air if it doesn't watch out, and what small amount of radio program of educational value now drifting through the ether is going to be once more confined to the ivy halls of the classroom, according to John H. McCracken, vice-president of the National Commission on Education, who testified before the Radio Commission here recently. McCracken said that more and more attacks on college radio stations are being made by purely commercial stations, and that within a short time the education of radio fans will be subordinated to the commercial radio show business.

APPROXIMATELY FORTY (Continued from page 4)
the inauguration of the alumni office at Davidson.” At the close of the meeting, “O Davidson” and “College Ties” were sung by the assembled alumni, and a quartet from the Seminary gave several selections during the evening. Guests of the chapter, who were members of the quartet, were Joe Overmeyer, Joe Clower, Jr., and C. A. Terhune. Alumni attending from Richmond (alphabetical order) were: J. M. Appleby, ‘26; S. Blue, '10; S. Broyles, '27; J. Brown, '05; A. N. Brown, Jr., '29; V. R. Christian, '30; D. Clarke, '30; W. Crinkley, '27; Rev. T. K. Currie, C. G. Davis, J. L. Fairly, '09; R. O. Flinn, Jr., T. A. Breet, G. Gray, '28; T. H. Hamilton, '27; DeWitt Helm, '29; Dr. W. E. Hill, 1900; W. E. Hill, Jr., '29; Dr. J. A. Hodges, '79; G. F. Houck, '28; R. W. Kirkpatrick, '29; Dr. B. R. Lacy, '06; C. F. McRae, '28; Rev. W. T. Mann, '11; Dr. W. J. Martin, '88; J. M. Murchison, '28; Dr. D. W. Richardson, '02; R. F. Sloop, '27; Dr. W. T. Thompson, '05; Robert Turner, '30, and R. S. Wilson, '27. Other guests were Rev. D. T. Caldwell, '14, and J. H. VanLandingham, '06, both of Richmond, Va., and L. W. Dick, '23, Woodberry Forest, Va.

College Calendar
Thursday, April 30, 3:00 P. M.—Freshman tennis team vs. Wingate Junior College, here.
Friday, May 1, 3:30 P. M.—Freshman baseball team vs. Charlotte High School, here.
7:30 P. M.—Vocational guidance program at “Y” social center. Mr. Morgan B. Speir, Sr., of Charlotte, will speak on business.
Sunday, May 3, 6:00 P. M.—Outdoor “Y” vesper services in charge of the Senior class.
Tuesday, May 5, 7:15 P. M.—Literary societies meet in their respective halls.
Wednesday, May 6, 3:30 P. M.—Freshman baseball team vs. Mt. Pleasant, here.
9:00 P. M.—Student Sunday School teachers’ meeting in “Y” reading room.

MEMBERS OF NET (Continued from page 3)
and Draper, of Carolina, and Roddy and Poe, of Davidson, had to be called off due to darkness, with each team having won one set. On the following day, the State Meet began, with two rounds of singles and one of doubles being played off. Myers, McLean, Roddy, Calder, DuBose, and Poe, the entire Davidson team, advanced into the second round. However, Grant, Carolina, beat Myers, Davidson; McLean, Davidson, beat Davidson; Yeomans, Carolina, beat Calder, Davidson, and DuBose, Davidson, beat Poe, Davidson, thus leaving only DuBose and McLean, Davidson’s number one and two men, still in the run.

In the quarter-finals, the Carolina net stars, who had been winning consistently throughout the tourney, continued their excellent play by advancing four of their men to the semi-finals. Grant, Carolina, beat McLean, Davidson; Hendlin, Carolina, beat Rogers, Duke; Hines, Carolina, beat Wright, Duke; Yeomans, Carolina, beat DuBose, Davidson. In the semi-finals, Grant beat Hendlin, and Hines beat Yeomans. In the doubles matches, the Davidson teams did not show up so well, Myers and Rogers, Duke, winning from McLean and Myers, Davidson; Yeomans and Wright, Carolina, winning from DuBose and Calder, Davidson; and Perry and Grow, State, winning from Poe and Roddy, Davidson, in three sets.

Planes Take Place Of Cars on Campus
Gatlinburg, Tenn.—(IP)—Well, boys and girls, if you want to bring your airplane to college with you, get busy and prepare to tell the dean where to head in. Meeting here in annual conference, the deans of men in American colleges decided that the next thing that’s going to need regulation on the campus is flying. A number of students already own their planes, the deans have discovered in between frowns, and they set up a hue and cry here about what would become of the colleges if you all get them. Automobiles owned and driven by college boys, the frowners said, have caused a waste of student time, have contributed to recklessness, and have congested the campus.

Untiedt to Visit Hoover
Denver—(IP)—Bryan Untiedt, 13-year-old boy hero of the late winter’s Colorado bus tragedy, is going to get some first-hand advice from President Hoover on what he should do about his education, he said here recently. The boy is to be a guest at the White House in the near future.

Books, College Printing
Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, etc. Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you.
P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE
6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing Bulletins, Hand-Books, Engraved Cards and Invitations.
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.