ATTEND THE 5¢ NTO fot Sth at ig Davids onan See .M. CONFERENCE IN THURSDAY NIGHT CHATTANOOGA “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 5, 1931 No. 17

Conference on Missions of World to be Held in Chattanooga, Tennessee

This Congress Will Mark Epoch in Missionary Work of Southern Presbyterian Church

IS BIG ADVANCEMENT

Will Be Delegation of Ministers, Laymen, and Students

Beginning on Monday, February 16, and ending on Thursday, February 19, there will be held at Chattanooga, Tenn., a congress on world missions. This conference will mark an epoch in the mission work of the Southern Presbyterian Church, and it is the biggest step forward ever taken by this church on the subject. The congress will be widely represented by some 5,000 delegates, it has been estimated. These will include ministers, laymen, students, and delegations from all the churches of the Southern Presbyterian Church. Also, the entire student bodies of our seminaries, as well as the entire student body of the Assembly’s Training School, will be there.

Speaking at the congress will be some of the leading men in the Presbyterian Church. Dr. Robert E. Speer, Secretary of the Foreign Mission Board of the Presbyterian Church, U. S. A.; Dr. Samuel M. Zwemer, who occupies the chair of missions at Princeton Seminary; Dr. Mark A. Matthews, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Seattle, Wash., which is the largest Presbyterian Church in the world; and Bishop W. N. Ainsworth will be among the speakers. Mr. Homer Hammontree, an outstanding leader of evangelistic singing, will be song leader, assisted by a quartet and a chorus choir.

In the past year, six commissions have been appointed to go over the situation and make a report of their findings to this conference. These commissions are working on the following subjects: Christianity and the non-Christian Religions, with Dr. W. L. Lingle as chairman; The Foreign Field—Our Missionary Responsibility, with Dr. Donald Richardson as chairman; The Church at Home—How Can It Meet This Responsibility (Continued on page 5)

Music Department Arranges Program

Wednesday evening, February 4, a large number of Davidson students, faculty, and townspeople will occupy a block of seats at the Charlotte Armory to hear the internationally-famed negro tenor, Roland Hayes.

Tuesday evening, February 17, Henry F. Seibert, distinguished concert organist, and organist of New York City Town Hall, where he is now appearing in weekly recitals, will give a concert in the Chambers Auditorium on the magnificent Skinner organ recently installed in this building as a gift from the wife of Senator Cameron Morrison. Mr. Seibert is also a popular radio artist, broadcasting regularly over WEAF and other networks. His program will no doubt have a varied selection and appeal.

On Tuesday, March 10, the famous Hampton Quartet, of Hampton Institute, will give a program of negro spirituals, sung in the most authentic manner as few but Hampton singers can do. The Hampton singers are at present making a tour of all the large cities. This week they are singing in New York under their famous director and composer, Nathaniel Dett. While Davidson will not be privileged to hear the full organization, the quartet will give the type of program that has a peculiar appeal of its own.

Beginning Thursday afternoon, February 12, at 5 o'clock, a series of short recitals open to the public will be given in Chambers Auditorium. For the most part, local talent will appear. The Steinway Duo-Art will also be used to bring some of the great piano works, played by eminent artists, to all those interested. Early in March, the Davidson musical clubs will give their annual spring concert.

Dr. Landrith Speaks on Prohibition

“Legalized liquor traffic must disappear from God’s earth if this is to be God’s earth,” declared Dr. Ira A. Landrith, former president of Ward Belmont College and now an international leader in the Christian Endeavor movement, in speaking to Davidson College students at chapel exercises here January 28, 1931. This is the third visit that Dr. Landrith has made to Davidson in as many years, and the subject for the speech that he made this time, had he chosen a subject, would have been “Living in God’s World.” The manner in which he combined humor with his serious thoughts made this address both entertaining and worthwhile.

The speaker, who was at one time the vice-presidential candidate for the United States on the prohibition ticket, abhorred the contentions of the people nowadays who maintain that there is more liquor in America now than there was before the Eighteenth Amendment was passed. “Who says so?” he asked, and immediately answered it, “The wets.” He further explained this point by showing the decrease of drunkenness on the streets and in public places. Dr. Landrith said that the abolition of legalized traffic occurred only 11 years ago, and he said that he thought that it was doing pretty well in its childhood. “The wets said that we couldn't get it,” he continued, “and they still maintain that a repeal of the amendment is inevitable. A recent statement was made that by 1933 it would be repealed, but I am inclined to agree with Arthur Brisbane, as much as we disagree on some subjects, because he says that the Eighteenth Amendment won’t be repealed during the lifetime of generations unborn.”

The speaker spoke humorously of the contention of women that they had been responsible for the Eighteenth Amendment. “That's not true,” he said. “The granting of woman suffrage was the Nineteenth Amendment. We men beat you to it by arithmetic and history. We cleaned house first and then gave you the mop, and now if you can’t keep it cleaned, get out.”

Davidson students were urged to adopt a moral specialty by cleaning America and keeping it clean. “If you’re going to run the world, do it right, for we of the passing generation did pretty well before you arrived. Reduce your chest measure because you are heirs to 6,000 years and what are you going to do to make this world better? In this twentieth century, we are not going to forgive the unclean life of college students, and some fact recalled to some man’s mind about some questionable feature of your college career may result in serious hindrances to your future progress.”

In closing, Dr. Landrith urged his hearers to make America a fit place in which to rear churches, schools, homes, and character.

Dr. Wertenbaker to Lecture Here Soon

On the night of February 9, Dr. Thomas Jefferson Wertenbaker will give a lecture in the Chambers Auditorium to the faculty and students. Dr. Wertenbaker attended the University of Virginia, where he received his A.B., A.M., and Ph.D. degrees. Since 1905 he has been engaged in teaching and newspaper work. At the present, he is Edwards Professor of American History at Princeton University. The speaker is also a renowned author, having written several historical books on Virginia and other parts of the world.

This lecture will be the third of the lectures presented by the faculty committee on lectures. The committee feels that they are particularly fortunate in having a speaker such as Dr. Wertenbaker, as he is very much in demand. In April, he sails for Europe, where he will deliver a course of lectures at Gottingen University. The lecture will be a public one and not only are the faculty and students urged to attend, but also the townspeople.

Four Promotions Made in R.O.T.C. Battalion

Officers, Ruck, Bird, McCutchan and Kraemer Promoted to Next Highest Rank

Cadet Major Dean Rusk, of Atlanta, Ga., commander of the Davidson College R. O. T. C. battalion, has been promoted to the rank of Cadet Lieutenant-Colonel and Battalion Commander, and three other Senior cadet officers of the Davidson R. O. T. C. department have also been advanced in grade, according to a special order from the professor of military science and tactics read at a recent parade of the battalion. These promotions are to take place at once.

Other promotions filled the place left vacant by Rusk. Cadet Captain A. R. Bird, Jr., of Washington, D. C., who has been in command of Company A, was advanced to the position of Cadet Major and battalion executive officer, to fill the place of Rusk. Cadet First Lieutenant J. W. McCutchan, of Warm Springs, Va., was made Cadet Captain and commander of Company A, and Cadet Second Lieutenant Kraemer, of Bonham, Texas, was made Cadet First Lieutenant.

These promotions are in line with the customs of the military science department of Davidson, which advances the commanding officer of the battalion to the rank of Cadet Lieutenant-Colonel at the beginning of the second semester of the college year. Rusk’s promotion only adds to his long series of honors gained at Davidson, the most recent being his selection as a Rhodes scholar.

Faculty Meeting

Davidson’s Quadwranglers met in their monthly club meeting last Friday evening at 7:30. The club has its own club room in Chambers. The speaker of the evening was Captain Cochran, new associate professor of military science. As his subject, CaptainCochran used the general theme of the “Philippines,” having recently returned from Philippine service. He began with a description of the route usually taken to reach America's outpost in the Orient. This included a trip through the Panama Canal and a stop-over in the Hawaiian Islands. Captain Cochran then described the geographical features of the Philippine Islands, their volcanoes and luxurious vegetation, and their tropical climate. The population of the Philippines is a mixture of many races, including some 6,000 Americans. 

(Continued on page 5)

Medical Exam to Be Given

It will be of interest to Davidson pre-medical students to learn that on Friday, February 13, at 3:30 p.m., a medical adaptability test will be given to all students throughout the country who are taking pre-medical courses in secondary schools, and who expect to enter medical schools next year. According to Mr. Hengeveld, College Registrar, these tests will be given at the appointed time by each secondary school to its pre-medical students, and the papers, ungraded, will be forwarded to the secretary of the American Medical Association, which is giving the test. The Association, in turn, will grade all the papers, and furnish any and all medical schools in the country with the grades of the prospective applicants. After this year the medical colleges of the country will require a passing grade on this test of every candidate for admission; so that any present pre-medical students who intend to enter such institutions next year must not only stand the test to be given on February 13th, but must make a passing grade.

Seniors Give Views in Literary Survey

One section of the Senior questionnaire which was held some time ago endeavored to ascertain the most popular author of literature, fiction, poetry, plays, and essays. Then it attempted to find the most popular book, poem, and play. Another question had to do with which magazines were read the most, and which were the favorite ones. Finally, there was a question which dealt with which newspaper was the favorite one among the students. From the questionnaire, Poe holds a distinct position in the literary considerations of the Seniors, for he was given first place as author of literature, third place as author of fiction, and several of his poems were given votes as most popular. The balloting for the most favorite author of literature was as follows: Poe, 11; Shakespeare, 11; Kipling, 5; Hugo, 3; Dumas, 3; Dickens, 2; Cooper, 2, and Sinclair Lewis, 2. There were votes cast for 10 others, among them eight Englishmen, one Greek, and one Russian. Zane Grey commands the first place as favorite author of fiction with Van Dine and Oppenheim being second and third, showing that their mystery stories have an appeal. The vote was: Zane Grey, 11; Van Dine, 6; Oppenheim, 2; Poe, 2; Hugo, 2; H. B. Wright, 2; and C. B. Kelland, 2. There were 22 others, including 11 Americans, four English, three French, two Spanish, one Russian, and one Pole. The vote for favorite poet was: Poe, 19; Browning, 9; Tennyson, 7; Longfellow, 5; Kipling, 2; Byron, 2, and Homer, 2. Fifteen others were given votes: nine English, five Americans, and one French. Shakespeare, of course, tops the dramatists: Shakespeare, 36; O'Neil, 5; with each of the following getting one vote: Moliere, Rostand, Wilde, Connelly, Ibsen, Mackaye, Aeschylus, Marlowe, and Shaw. In the vote for favorite essayist, Emerson was given first place, and two stuck up for Dorothy Dix. The votes were as follows: Emerson, 20; Bacon, 4; Lamb, 4; Stevenson, 

(Continued on page 6)

Radio Club Here is Active Organization

The Radio Club has, for several years, been one of the most active organizations on the campus. This year it is well organized with a membership of about twelve. It meets twice a month with an interesting and very instructive program. There is usually a lecture by one of the members on some interesting subject directly connected with radio, and a general discussion on current radio problems. Three members of the Davidson faculty are members of the Radio Club. These are Dr. J. M. Douglas and Professors H. E. Fulcher and T. E. Lothery. With the installment of new equipment, the Davidson Radio Club has brought itself up to the par of most amateur stations. One of the most interesting events on the station’s schedule is a connection made by Ed Bettis with a station operated by his cousin in Morristown, Tenn. He makes this connection about twice a week, at which time he usually talks to his mother or other members of his family, in short wave code. One day the Radio Club received a letter from McCarty, who graduated from Davidson in 1929, and who was the first president of the Radio Club. In it he stated that while acting as commercial operator on a steamship then in Holland, he had heard the Morristown station talking to Davidson, but that he had been unable to pick up the Davidson station. This was because of a difference in wave length. While at Davidson, McCarty did much for the club, and has since then been very interested in radio and its progress. At present, however, he is not engaged in radio work, but is living at Highlands. The officers of the club are David Caldwell, president; Frank Wilson, vice-president, and Frank Rollins, secretary. One of the most active and interested members is Ed Bettis, who could well be called president-emeritus.

Doctor J. H. Henderlite of Gastonia Gives Talk at Vespers on Fidelity

Aristarchus Cited as Servant of God and as Constant Associate of Paul

WAS GOOD COMPANY

Violin Duet Given by Robert Orr and Horace Ervin

At a well-attended vesper service, February 1, Dr. J. H. Henderlite, of Gastonia, delivered an address in which he brought out the characteristic of fidelity as found in the man Aristarchus. His name is found in the second verse of the 27th chapter of Acts as well as other places, and he is always associated with Paul in his work. In the former, it is written that he was “a Macedonian of Thessalonica.” Aristarchus is called “the good companion” by John A. Hutton, but the speaker declared that he liked to think of him as “the man who is faithful—the man who is obscurely faithful.” Thus as much as Paul was in the limelight in Acts, so was this Macedonian in the background at all times. He was always there as a companion of Paul and as a servant of God. It is for this reason that we are just a little bit surer of his fidelity than we are of many of the outstanding characters of the New Testament. Dr. Henderlite then urged his listeners to analyze with him the true character of Aristarchus. There are three tendencies present in every man: “inward, outward, and upward.” “Let us think of Aristarchus in these lights,” he said. First of all, the man was not ashamed of himself. He was true to himself because he knew positively that he had done his duty. “Duty is one of the strongest words in the English language” and it covers a multitude of good points in a man when properly performed. “Outwardly, in his relations toward other men, we do not find a better living example of Christ-likeness. Paul could always count on him. Great men are made great by the sincerity of the men they depend upon.” Here, the speaker illustrated his point. “The quotation, ‘The history of a nation is written in the lives of its great men,’ is true and not true,” he explained. The fact that the obscurely faithful ones are the direct cause of others’ greatness is demonstrated time 

(Continued on page 6)

Senior House Party To Be Held Feb. 21

According to advance information, the Senior house party, an annual affair of unusual interest, will take place on Saturday evening, February 21, in Chambers Building. These functions have been held each spring for the last three years by the faculty and Senior Class with greatest success, and the program for this year promises to be no exception to the rule. The general scheme, in keeping with the date (Feb. 22), will be that of colonial times, with decorations commemorative of the time of George Washington, and colonial costumes will be donned by the attending members of the faculty. “Southern Syncopation,” a musical comedy of the nature implied by the title, will constitute one of the outstanding features of the histrionic part of the program. Further details of the nature of the evening’s entertainment will be given at a later date. Several committees and sub-committees have been appointed, and enthusiastic work is going forward. The faculty members have made arrangements to entertain the weekend guests of the Seniors, and present indications are that most of the Seniors have invited girls up for the occasion. The Senior house party has become an annual event, and is rapidly becoming a real Davidson tradition. Much gratification has been manifested over the success of these entertainments in the past, and according to several who are in a position to know, the coming program holds a real treat in store for those that attend.