THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1931

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Among the alumni visitors here during the past week (this does not include the several hundred who were at Davidson especially for the Elon-Davidson game) were Rev. E. B. Robinson, 1900, of Talladega, Ala.; C. C. Travue, IV., ’28, of Nashville, Tenn.; D. P. Anderson, Jr., ’30, Birmingham, Ala., en route to University of Pennsylvania; Chas. A. Sisson, '31, of Winona, Miss., en route to Harvard Business School; J. T. Kerr, ’28, Chapel Hill; Leland McKeithen, ’33, of Aberdeen, on leave of absence from U. S. Naval Academy, and Prof. J. H. Hall, Jr., ’27, of Blacksburg, Va.

Roland B. Parker, ’26, who has been teaching at Darlington School since his graduation, is this year a student at the University of North Carolina. He was awarded a fellowship in the history department.

Four Davidson students this June finished the two-year medical course at the University of North Carolina. Their names and the places at which they are continuing their studies are Shelby W. Vance, ’28, Emory University; Henry C. Harrell, ’29, Johns Hopkins; J. B. Hall, '29, University of Pennsylvania, and W. H. Flythe, ’29, Vanderbilt.

Davidson alumni passing the North Carolina bar examination this summer were W. T. Covington, Jr., ’27, Raeford; Robt. B. Peters, Jr., '19, Tarboro, and Fred D. Hamrick, Jr., ’30, Rutherfordton. W. M. Powell, ’29, passed the Arkansas bar examination, Harllee Branch, Jr., ’27, passed the Georgia bar.

Vir As Bakey, '25, of Greenville, Miss., was recently chosen from Washington County as their representative in the next State Legislature.

C. R. (Pat) Crawford, ’23, who has been setting a fast pace at first base and at the bat for the Columbus, Ohio, club, has recently been purchased by the St. Louis Cardinals. Mr. Crawford has formerly played in the big leagues with the New York Giants and Cincinnati Reds.

D. T. Bradshaw, ’11, formerly of Efland, N. C., was a member of a trapping party to Guadalupe Island, off the California coast, who were marooned for several days.

Henry S. Goodwin, ’30, who was a research chemist at Midland, Mich., last year, has accepted an appointment as teaching assistant in the chemistry department of the University of Michigan, at Ann Arbor, Mich. At the same time, he will continue his studies in chemistry, looking toward master of arts and doctorate degrees in that subject.

E. S. Heefner, Jr., ’30, student at Harvard Law School last year, is this year continuing his law course at Duke University.

Dr. R. F. Wakefield, '14, for 12 years a practicing optician in Charlotte, has recently gone to Greensboro, where he is connected with the Lane Optical Company.

Davidson alumni graduating from the various seminaries and the calls which they have accepted are as follows: Rev. P. J. Garrison, ’28, Elizaville, Ky.; Rev. Paul P. Thrower, '29, Vicco, Ky.; Rev. H. F. Peterson, ’28, Cedartown, Ga.; Rev. Harllee Bordeaux, '27, Old Greenwich, Conn.; Rev. Ronald S. Wilson, ’27, University, Va.; Rev. J. H. Caligan, '27, Valdese; Rev. C. G. Davis, '27, Asst. Pastor, Grace-Covenant Presbyterian Church, Richmond, Va.; Rev. Jas. S. Gray, ’28, Lydia Robson Memorial Church, Charleston, W. Va.; Rev. Leighton M. McCutchen, ’27, Bulape, Africa; Rev. T. H. Hamilton, ’27, Colonial Heights Presbyterian Church, Petersburg, Va.; Rev. Geo. F. Houck, ’28, Bolar, Va.; Rev. Julian Lake, ’28, Warrenton, Va.; Rev. W. L. McColgan, ’28, St. Charles, Mo.; Rev. J. M. Murchison, ’28, Roxbury, Va.; Rev. A. B. Williford, ’26, Millboro, Va.

V. S. Broyles, Jr., '27; Harry G. Gooodykoontz, ’27, and Chas. F. McRae, ’28, all finished their training, but were awarded fellowships and are continuing their studies at Union Theological Seminary. J. M. Appleby, ’26, is studying under a fellowship at Edinburgh, Scotland.

Davidson alumni who are ministers, and who recently accepted new calls, and the places where they are now located, include Rev. R. C. Wilson, '10, Kings Mountain; Rev. R. C. Long, '07, Greenwood, S. C.; Rev. J. M. Richards, ’22, Thomasville, Ga.; Rev. H. N. Alexander, ’10, Delhi, La.; Rev. D. Ralston Bitzer, '22, Assistant Pastor, First Presbyterian Church, Charleston, W. Va.; Rev. Geo. F. Robertson, D.D., ’78, Clover, S. C.

W. Lewis Hart, ’30, of San Antonio, Texas, will not return to the Harvard Business School this year, but expects to conclude his two-year course there the following year.

J. M. Akers, ’28, who won a fellowship in economics at the University of North Carolina, is now studying at Chapel Hill.

W. O. Puckett, '27, formerly a member of the Davidson faculty and for two years connected with the University of North Carolina, is continuing his doctorate’s work at Princeton, where he was awarded a fellowship.

Joe H. McConnell, ’27, who obtained his law degree in June, and made Phi Beta Kappa at the University of Virginia, is now connected with the firm of Wideman, Wideman and Wardlaw, at West Palm Beach, Fla.

W. B. Garrison, ’20, who is on the Mecklenburg County Board of Commissioners, is now secretary-treasurer and manager of the Gastonia Coca-Cola Bottling Company.

Dr. J. B. Gallent, '25, has been elected professor of chemistry at Brenau College, Gainesville, Ga. After completing his Ph.D. at the University of North Carolina, Dr. Gallent taught for a year as assistant professor of chemistry at Jonesboro A. and M. College, Jonesboro, Ark.

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago

TEN YEARS AGO

With the North Carolina State game less than a week off, the Davidson Wildcats are going through some strenuous preparation for the Techmen. Coach Fetzer has a squad of fifty men to choose from, and with ten lettermen from last year’s varsity back, the outlook is quite promising.

President William J. Martin was the speaker at the regular Sunday evening Y vesper service this week. His subject was “What Shall My Life Work Be?”

The Eumanean Literary Society initiated 35 Freshmen last Saturday night and provided various forms of entertainment for their benefit.

The Davidson-Japanese Aero Service gave three exhibition flights with Frosh Minter, Rhames, and Carr. Rhames won the altitude record with ease.

The Delta Pi Kappa journalistic fraternity held its annual initiation on September 20 for six new men. This organization was founded at Davidson last year and is looking forward to a very successful season.

The Davidson varsity locked horns with the scrub team in a practice game last Saturday and emerged victorious, 26-0.

Dr. Frazer Hood is a new and welcome addition to the Davidson faculty this year. He will fill the C. E. Graham Chair of Education and Psychology.

FIVE YEARS AGO

The Davidson Wildcats trounced the Elon Christians, 34-0, in the initial game of the season last Saturday on Richardson Field. Davidson suffered greatly, however, in the loss of Nick Sappenfield, quarterback, whose leg was broken in the second quarter of the game.

The Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Phi Gamma Delta social fraternities have just moved into houses off the campus. Several other chapters are planning such a move in the near future.

The fall tennis tournament at Davidson will begin on Monday, September 28.

Coach Monk Mattox is a new addition to the staff of Wildcat mentors. He has taken over his work as coach of Freshmen athletics.

Sorrows remembered sweeten present joy—Robert Pollock.

Births

ENGAGEMENTS

The following is a list of births to Davidson College alumni since the last issue of The Davidsonian was published, in so far as the executive secretary has been able to prepare it:

1904—To Mr. and Mrs. M. L. Rozzell, of Charlotte, a daughter, Elizabeth Vanstory, on June 22nd.

1914—To Mr. and Mrs. Harry S. Caldwell, of Davidson, twins, a daughter, Elizabeth Kincaid, and a son, William Harry, on June 15th.

1917—To Mr. and Mrs. T. J. Mitchell, of Burlington, a daughter, Laura Sue, on June 24th.

1919—To Mr. and Mrs. J. F. Hurley, Jr., of Salisbury, a son, James Franklin.III, on July 22nd. — To Mr. and Mrs. John W. McAlister, of Greensboro, a daughter, Mary Watson, on May 24th. 1920 — To Dr. and Mrs. F. L. Knight, of Sanford, a son, Floyd L., Jr., on May 24th. 1921 — To Mr. and Mrs. C. L. Cathey, of Newton, William Homer, on May 25th. — To Rev. and Mrs. A. L. Currie, of Nashville, Tenn., a daughter, Betty London, on June 8th. To Mr. and Mrs. W. C. Gaither, of Newton, a son, Albert Cowles, II., on July 23rd. To Mr. and Mrs. M. W. McGill, of Davidson, a son, Phillip Burch, on June 27th. 1924 — To Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Hodgin, Jr., of Lyndon, Ky., a son, on August 6th. — To Mr. and Mrs. H. N. Myers, of Greensboro, a son, Michael Geoghegan, on July 31st. 1925 — To Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Glenn, Jr., of Spartanburg, S. C., a son, William S., III., on June 16th. Mr. and Mrs. C. P. Johnston, of Charlotte, a daughter, Beatrice Lee, on June 8th. 1927 — To Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm McQueen, of Fayetteville, a daughter, on August 11th. 1928 — To Mr. and Mrs. Robt. M. Crosland, of Charlotte, a son, Robert Moseley, Jr., on May 27th. — To Mr. and Mrs. Sam H. Currie, of Toronto, Can., a daughter, Lucy, in July. 1922 — To Mr. and Mrs. Margaret Alumni Marriages Trabue-Ritzius Information was recently received at Davidson about the marriage on June 6th of Miss Julie Ritzius, of Beersheba, Tenn., to Charles Clay Trabue, IV., of Nashville, Tenn. Since graduating from Davidson in 1928, Mr. Trabue has been attending the medical school at Vanderbilt University and has one more year before he completes his degree. Mrs. Trabue graduated at the University of Tennessee. They are at home at the Gainsboro Apartments, Nashville, Tenn. TWENTY-EIGHT MEN COMPETE IN TENNIS (Continued from page 3) boro to play. The Country Club there has an excellent team and will furnish strong opposition for the Wildcats. Three of the five seeded men in the tournament, DuBose, Calder, and Myers, were veterans of last year’s varsity. Halverstadt and Lafferty were the No. 1 and 2 men on the Freshman team and gained their ranking from their excellent records in competition last season. The Freshman tennis tournament is scheduled to begin on Monday, September 28. PAT CRAWFORD SOLD TO ST. LOUIS CARDS (Continued from page 3) the St. Louis Cardinals, National League champions of 1930 and 1931. While at Davidson, Crawford was captain of baseball and basketball and four years a letterman in the former sport, winning state recognition in all sports. He won numerous other honors in addition to his athletic laurels. He was a member of O. D. K., vice-president of the student body, Student Council, and president of Y. M. C. A. Neal-Kluttz “Mr. and Mrs. John Carlysle Neale, of Lanesville, Va., announce the engagement of their daughter, Bosher, to Lex William Kluttz, of Raleigh, the wedding to take place in October.” Mr. Kluttz is a 1915 graduate of Davidson, and is now secretary of the Y. M. C. A. in Raleigh. For many years he was a teacher in foreign countries, and upon his return to America he was connected with the Near East Relief Foundation. Beverly Blakeney-McIlwaine “Misses and Anne Patton, at Karuizawa, Japan, announce the engagement of Miss Bess Martin Blakeney, of Marugame, to Rev. William Alexander McIlwaine, of Nagoya, Japan.” Mr. McIlwaine graduated from Davidson in 1915. He taught for a short time and then completed his training for the ministry at Union Theological Seminary, going from there to Florence, Japan as a missionary. Bryant-Hill “Mr. and Mrs. F. B. Bryant, of Kent, Ohio, announce the engagement of their daughter, Helen, to Hadley A. Hill, of New York and Memphis, Tenn.” Mr. Hill graduated from Davidson in 1921, and later attended Columbia University. He is now associated with the Case-Shepperd-Mann Publishing Co., of New York. Miss Bryant is a graduate of Ohio State and Columbia University, and has been teaching in Cleveland, Ohio. Bragaw-Boggs “Mrs. Richard Bragaw, of Lexington, announces the engagement of her daughter, Martha Adderton, to Ralph Erwin Boggs, Jr., of Old Hickory, Tenn., the wedding to take place in the First Presbyterian Church at Lexington, at 9 o'clock, October 7th.” Mr. Boggs was a 1925 graduate of Davidson, and after completing his work here he worked for some time in Gastonia. At present he is employed at Old Hickory, Tenn. Mapp-Lake “Mrs. George Richard Mapp, of Bridgetown, Va., announces the engagement of her daughter, Jennie Scott, to James Albert Lake, Jr., of Greenville, Miss., the marriage to take place in Hungars Protestant Episcopal Church, Bridgetown, Va., at 7:30 o'clock, October 10th.” Mr. Lake graduated from Davidson in 1925, and later completed his law course at Harvard. He worked in New Haven, Conn., for a while, later returning to his home in Greenville, Miss., to practice. Faw-Regen Information has been received at Davidson of the approaching marriage on October 6th of Miss Elizabeth Faw, of Franklin, Tenn., to Clair D. Regen, also of Franklin. Mr. Regen is a 1925 alumnus of Davidson, and for a while after his departure, he was in the insurance business. At present he is connected with the Standard Oil Company, with headquarters in Franklin. Alexander-Bernhardt “Mr. and Mrs. Edgar D. Alexander, of Morganton, announce the engagement of their daughter, Jean Thornwell, to John Christian Bernhardt, of Lenoir, the marriage to take place this fall.” Since graduating in 1927, Mr. Bernhardt has been in the furniture business, and with the exception of a few months, has been located at Lenoir. Garrett-Douglass “Mr. and Mrs. T. H. Garrett, of Augusta, Ga., announce the engagement of their daughter, Mildred, to Edwin Latimer Douglass, also of Augusta, the wedding to take place on October 15th.” Mr. Douglass graduated from Davidson in 1928, and since leaving here he has been associated with the Augusta Hardwood Company, of Augusta, Ga. Torrence-Tate “Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Torrence, of Lincoln, Nebr., announce the engagement of their daughter, Ann Eliza, to William Smith Tate, of Charlotte, the wedding to be solemnized in Charlotte on October 3rd.” Mr. Tate is a member of the class of 1928, and since leaving here he has been connected with the Tate-Brown Company, of Charlotte. “Mrs. Robert Edward Follin, of Winston-Salem, announces the engagement of her daughter, Lucy Reynolds, to Wyatt Albion Armfield, of Asheboro, the wedding to take place in late fall.” Mr. Armfield graduated from Davidson last June, and while here was prominent in many activities. Literary Societies Hold First Meetings On Tuesday evening, September 15th, the Literary Societies of Davidson College held their first meetings of the fall. President Kuykendall presided at the Eumenean meeting. The program consisted of a talk on Current Events by Bill Ward, and a talk on “Davidson Traditions” by Charlie Moore. A large number of Freshmen were present along with the regular members. The Philanthropic Society was presided over by President Ryburn. There was no program planned, and a business meeting was held. There were also extemporaneous debates held. A large number of new men were also present at this meeting. Statistics on Elon-Davidson Game Yards gained from scrimmage: Elon 86, Davidson 215. Passes attempted: Elon 12, Davidson 1. Passes completed: Elon 5, Davidson 1. Yards gained on passes: Elon 53 yards, Davidson 7 yards. Total yards gained on scrimmage and passes: Elon 119, Davidson 222. Average length of kickoffs: Elon 35, Davidson 33. Yardage gained on kickoff returns: Elon 25, Davidson 5. Average length of punts: Elon 28, Davidson 24. Yardage gained on punt returns: Elon 30, Davidson 24. First Downs: Elon 8, Davidson 9. COME IN $25.00 Tailored Suits $29.50 Stetson “D” Store OPPOSITE CAMPUS PHONE 206 Our store is your store, so make it your downtown headquarters. We carry everything from head to foot that a college man will need. TO SEE US