THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 21, 1931

WILDCATS TO MEET ERSKINE HERE SATURDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

KITTENS PLAY STATE FRESH HERE FRIDAY.

The vicious clawing of a lean, hungry, and snarling Wildcat could not be denied last Saturday, and a powerful Duke eleven, led by a prod of Rose Bowl champions, was played to a standstill. The official score read: Davidson 0, Duke 0, but to those of us who saw the game, the score will have no significance, for the magnificent fighting of the Davidson Wildcats against a larger and stronger team of infuriated Blue Devils will always be remembered. And we do not regard this as another of those well-known moral victories, for moral victories are not worth a cent in so far as the records are concerned, but we are inclined to compare this game with a boxing match in which the winner is determined by a process of points. With this in mind, and considering the two teams as having played on even terms during the first half, with the additional consideration that the greater part of the last half of the game was played in Duke territory, it would seem that Davidson was the theoretical winner.

However, the following statistics would tend to show the two teams pretty evenly matched, and it is this alone which prevents the writer from stating positively that the ’Cats outplayed the Blue Devils:

| Duke | D. C. |
|------|------|
| Yards gained from scrimmage | 119 | 122 |
| First downs | 10 | 9 |
| Passes attempted | 12 | 7 |
| Passes completed | 3 | 3 |
| Passes intercepted | 1 | 3 |
| Yards gained on passes | 74 | 33 |
| Yards gained from intercepting | 5 | 44 |
| Average length of kickoffs | 50 | 25 |
| Kickoffs returned | 0 | 40 |
| Average length of punts | 38.3 | 30 |
| Yards punts returned | 60 | 12 |
| Fumbles | 5 | 3 |
| Opponents' fumbles recovered | 1 | 5 |

Every man on the Wildcat team engraved for himself a place in the hall of fame—barring none. And the same men in the line who began the game were blasting holes through the Blue Devil line up until the final whistle was blown, Bob Johnson filling Steve Brown’s position at right end like a veteran, and T. E. Barrier holding down Doc Mathis’ post at guard equally as well. Better performance in the backfield could not have been desired, King, McQueen, Pearce, Peabody, and Mills playing brilliantly at times—always heads-up football. Time and again the stands were brought to their feet by scintillating runs, King’s 43-yard gallop after having intercepted a Duke pass being especially worthy of note. The line plunging of McQueen, the passing of Pearce and Mills, and the excellent handling of punts by Peabody were all commendable.

Incidentally, the Freshmen have an unusually strong team this year, one from which other teams will doubtless hear more during the season. This passing combination of Mackorell to Morris is something beautiful to see, and the results are astounding. The Fresh don’t seem to need a punter. With fourth down, and 20 to go, they pass.

KITTENS SMOTHER WOFFORD

Wildkittens Cross Goal Seven Times to Defeat Wofford Freshmen 44-6

Passes From MacKorell to Morris, and Play of Gault for Visitors

The Davidson Freshmen displayed a smooth working team here last Friday afternoon, when they decisively beat the Wofford Yearlings 44-6. Such a victory on the opening game indicates a promising season for the Wildkittens. With the Davidson passing system working almost perfectly, and with a swift, hard-driving bunch of backs, the Wofford Freshmen found themselves up against great odds. Even though they started off comparatively slow, making only two touchdowns in the first half, they gained speed and netted seven touchdowns before the end of the game. The passes from Mackorell to Morris, the Wildkittens’ star end, featured the game, scoring three touchdowns and again setting the ball near the goal line. Mackorell, by his drives, and Wingfield by his long jaunts around end, did most of the damage to Wofford. Gault, ace of the Wofford squad, played well throughout the entire game, scoring the Terriers’ only touchdown when he twisted and side-stepped 36 yards to cross the goal.

Soon after the game opened, Davidson marched 70 yards for the first score. The drive was featured by Smathers, who crashed through the opposition for 20 yards. The extra point was drop-kicked by Mackorell. The Davidson boys then eased up until the middle of the second quarter, when they made another drive for a second marker. Mackorell covered 44 yards in one run, and finally carried the pigskin 12 yards for a score. Hutchins bucked the line for the extra point. It took only two plays in the second half for the Wildkittens to start clicking on a series of beautiful passes. The aerial attack was begun when Mackorell hurled the ball 25 yards to Morris, who carried it 32 more to tally. On the first play after the kickoff Wofford fumbled and Davidson recovered on the 35-yard line. Mackorell then flipped another pass to Morris, who snagged it and was downed three yards (Continued on page 6)

Duke Cross-Country Teams Down Davidson

Davidson’s Freshman and varsity cross-country teams were defeated in their first matches of the season last Saturday morning by teams from Duke University. The Blue Devils won over the Wildcats by a 26-29 score, while the Imps crushed the Wildkittens 17 to 41. The dual meets were part of the Home-Coming day program of Davidson College and came as a preliminary to the Duke-Davidson football game. Duke men won first place in both events. The order in which the varsity men finished follows: Bray (Duke), Brannon (Davidson), Farle (Davidson), Bradsher (Duke), Miles (Duke), Morrow (Davidson), Nichols (Duke), Moss (Davidson), Hulse (Duke), and Woodside (Davidson). The order of the Freshmen finishing follows: Reichman (Duke), Justin (Duke), Erickson (Duke), Heritage (Duke), Morris (Davidson), Guillette (Davidson), Wentworth (Duke), Nitschke (Duke), Smith (Davidson), Giles (Davidson), and Rose (Davidson).

The Davidson College Wildcats will meet the Erskine Seceders on Richardson Field next Saturday. Erskine will be the first of the two South Carolina teams that will be met this season. Davidson won from three South Carolina elevens last year, but the Citadel and Erskine "Cats will have to use their proverbial fight and punch to chalk up victories against them. Coaches Monk Younger and Tex Tilson will be able to give Erskine everything they possess along football lines.When the two elevens meet on Saturday, this is very pleasing to the Davidson mentors because the Wildcats will have to hurl their full strength against the strong and scrappy machine from Due West. Davidson was lucky indeed to come out of the Duke contest without injuries to a single man. In the two previous contests, the ’Cats lost two valuable men from injuries, but these players will be ready to participate in the game on Saturday. Of course, minor injuries were experienced in the Duke fray, but they are nothing to worry about, and the Wildcats will be on their toes and rearin’ to go in the battle with Erskine. Both of the Davidson varsity coaches saw the Seceders in action against Newberry last Friday afternoon, and they saw plenty. With the exception of Hambright, Erskine has practically a duplicate of last year’s team, which means that the boys are not new to the game. Coach Younger says that they have an expert and several outstanding linesmen. An overhead attack will probably be launched, and it is in this defense that the coaches are working and trying to perfect. “Erskine has a fast and hard-charging line, some excellent blockers, and some nifty tacklers,” said the Davidson coach in reviewing what he saw at the Erskine-Newberry game. “And they are big boys, too,” he added. “It’s no little team that Davidson will play this coming Saturday, and we'll have to be on our ‘p’s’ and ‘q's’ to win this game,” he said. It is doubtful if the first string varsity will get into any heavy scrimmage this week, the coaches preferring to eliminate the possibility of injuries with the heavy schedule ahead. The second and third string varsity members will probably engage in hard scrimmages with the Freshman team in preparation for the invasion.

(Continued on page 6)

And do they make it! Eighty yards on two passes. Not bad! And this Wingfield is no mean halfback, especially when Smathers, Mackorell, and Caton are in the play. The ’Cats take on Erskine Saturday, and this team, by the way, is nobody’s fresh meat. State beat Davidson, Wake Forest beat State, Furman beat Wake Forest, and Erskine played Furman to a scoreless tie. What do you make of that? Just this: the Wildcats had better be on their toes Saturday—and no mistake!

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“MONKEY BUSINESS”
FOUR MARX BROTHERS

WEDNESDAY
“SIN OF MADELINE CLAUDET”

THURSDAY
“MY SIN”
TALLULAH BANKHEAD

FRIDAY
“SOB SISTER”

SATURDAY
“SHIPS OF HATE”

Both have stronger teams this year and the Wildcats will meet Erskine Seceders here Saturday. Wake Forest Game Will Be Played in Charlotte.

Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, professor of physical education at Davidson College, definitely announced here today that the Wake Forest-Davidson football game on Thanksgiving would be played on the Central High School football field in Charlotte. This decision was made only after a series of conferences between the athletic officials of the two institutions. Last fall, authorities of Wake Forest and Davidson agreed that this game should be played on Richardson Field at Davidson. It was thus announced and advertised, but last June Wake Forest officials balked at the idea of coming to the Davidson campus and immediately started negotiations with Captain Pritchett to play the game again in Charlotte. “We finally consented to make the transfer,” said the Davidson professor, “when Citadel agreed to come to Davidson for the third successive home game with us, thereby enabling us to continue our policy of playing half of our contests on our own campus.” The reluctance on the part of the Davidson officials to place their Thanksgiving affair in Charlotte again this year, said Captain Pritchett, comes only from the desire of the authorities to play this particular game on their own campus every other year, rather than make it an annual game on neutral grounds.

Kittens Will Clash With State Freshmen Friday

Friday, the Davidson Freshmen are booked to contest with the Yearlings from North Carolina State in a game which is expected to be intensely interesting from whistle to whistle. As one game is not enough to show their caliber, the Wildkittens will have a chance to prove their “stuff” against State. Last Friday, the baby felines went completely rampant and submerged the Wofford frosh beneath a tidal wave of tallies; after the debris had been cleared away, the Davidson players found themselves on the long end of a 44-6 count. The game Friday, however, is doped to be drastically different. All reports from State point out that the Freshmen from that municipality have amassed a very strong eleven and have been preparing for this contest for several weeks. As a result of these reports, Freshman Coaches “Doc” Unger and “Red” Laird have been putting their cohorts through strenuous workouts for the past week in an attempt to iron out some of the defects present in last Friday's tilt. The entire Wildkitten squad is in good shape and show promise of continuing their winning ways at the expense of the State Freshmen.

Homecoming has come and gone, and we are more or less satisfied. The Freshmen walloped Wofford, and the varsity duped Duke, and that, my children, is how the Rover boys put one over on the city slickers.

Big Five Statistics
Av Per G. Td Ep Fg Tp Op Gam
N. Car. 4 7 2 0 44 45 115
Davidson 5 5 3 0 33 38 63
Duke 4 3 0 0 31 13
N.C. State 4 3 0 0 18 62 45
W. Forest 3 2 0 0 12 73 4

TEAM STANDING
Team Won Lost Tied Pct.
Carolina 1 0 0 1.000
W. Forest 1 1 0 .500
State 1 1 0 .500
Duke 0 0 1 .000
Davidson 0 1 1 .000

TRENCH COATS
RAINCOATS
Made to Measurement $4.95
SEE PAUL BROWN
105 Watts

SCARLET TANAGER

You are cordially invited to bring your girl in

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“SODA” “SUNDRIES”

Nationally Known Stetson “D” Store
SPECIAL FOR 10 DAYS ONLY
Camel Pile Coats - $37.50 and Justly Famous