THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 5, 1931

DAVIDSON CHARLOTTE “Y” TONIGHT

-THE SPORTS PARADE

DAVIDSON VS. GUILFORD SATURDAY

Davidson Beats Elon And Lenoir Quintets

Mathis and Rusk Are High-Point Men Against Elon, With Martin Leading Against Lenoir

FIFTH AND SIXTH WINS

Wildcats Win Both Games by Comfortable Margins

The Davidson Wildcat basketeers added their fifth and sixth intercollegiate wins last week at the expense of two “Little Six”
teams, Elon and Lenoir-Rhyne. This does not affect the standing of Davidson in the state race, but does give them
a clean slate so far in wins.

Playing erratic and somewhat spurty ball, Davidson downed Elon on the home floor, 39 to 30. Led by Mathis and
Rusk, who scored 15 and 10 points, respectively, the Red and Black five seemed to have the situation well in
hand, although the score didn’t show it at times. The Wildcats started off rapidly and were leading Elon 15 to
6 when the Christians staged a rally that sent them within one point of the home team for a half-time
score of Davidson 15, Elon 14. For a moment at the beginning of the second period Elon was leading due
to a two-pointer of Captain Rollins, but this lead was short-lived, for Proctor retaliated for the Wildcats to again put
them in the lead. From then on it was a game of spurts. Davidson would make five or six points
and then Elon would almost catch them. However, towards the end of the game, the Wildcats pulled well out into
the front to give them a 39 to 30 win.

Two nights later the Wildcat five garnered a lop-sided victory at the expense of Lenoir-Rhyne, winning 46 to 19. The
whole Davidson team found little trouble in hitting the basket with Grier Martin heading the list with 16 points. With
both coaches using many substitutes, the game developed into a comedy rather than a contest, the overwhelming lead of the
Red and Black five being so great. At the beginning of the second period the visitors made their only stand,
holding the Wildcats scoreless for six minutes. But when Goodson finally cut the ice by sinking a neat floor shot,
his mates rallied ’round and started dropping them in from all angles of the floor.

New Games Added

Two more home games have been added to the card of the Davidson Wildcats, according to W. R. Hancock, manager
of varsity basketball. The Powerful Charlotte Y. M. C. A. quint will be met tonight at 7:30. The other new
game is a Big Five contest, the Wildcats meeting Wake Forest here on February 25. This will likely be the
last game of the season for Davidson. At the same time it was announced that the second Duke game will
likely be played in Charlotte. The contest is scheduled for February 17. Students will be admitted free to the game,
the same arrangements prevailing as were used for the Carolina game.

Wildcat Five Will Meet Charlotte ‘Y’ Thursday And Guilford Saturday

Fund for Sweaters to be Taken up at Charlotte “Y” Game Tonight

LINKMEN ARE STRONG

Wildcats Seek Revenge for Defeat of Last Year

Tonight the Wildcats clash with the Charlotte “Y” Linkmen on the home floor and then meet Guilford College here Saturday
night, closing what is perhaps one of the hardest weeks the ’Cats have gone through yet. These two games compose
the whole list of basketball activities until the next printing of The Davidsonian, and much interest is expected to be
displayed by the student body in the game tonight, since the “Y” quintet routed the Wildcats once last year and
are placing a strong five on the floor.

As has been the custom at Davidson, some one game is picked to which the students give voluntarily twenty-five cents
for entry. This fund is turned over to the Athletic Association for buying the basketball lettermen sweaters. The Charlotte “Y”
game tonight has been chosen for the purpose. If Davidson keeps her slate clean until this game, which is possible,
she will meet a thorough test tonight, for the Linkmen have a smooth working outfit and have bowled over good
opposition this winter.

The Wildcats have a smart team, but they will be up against real smart basketball as played by the men
who have grown up in the game. The Charlotte “Y” quintet went up against fast opposition last week and were
downed by the Atlanta Athletic Club, but only after a hard fight. The Atlantans stepped out to a 14-2 lead
in the first few minutes, but the hard-fighting Carolinians staged a desperate rally and the first half ended 17-14 in
favor of the visitors. In the second half the “Y” found themselves and surged into the lead, but did not
hold it long. The game ended 31-27 for the Atlantans.

The “Y” quintet is looking to the Davidson game as one of the hardest they will play this year and
are pepping up for that game. Davidson is leading the Big Five at this writing, and the Linkmen are the

Davidson G. Fg. Tp.
Jackson, f 5 1 11
Hughes, f 0 0 0
Rusk, f 4 2 10
Mathis, f 7 1 15
Martin, c 1 2 4
Barnard, c 0 0 0
Goodson, g 1 1 3
Proctor, g 2 2 6
Totals 20 7 39

Elon G. Fg. Tp.
Peabody, f 0 0 0
Rusk, f 4 2 10
Mathis, f 7 1 15
Martin, c 1 2 4
Barnard, c 0 0 0
Goodson, g 1 1 3
Proctor, g 2 2 6
Totals 16 7 39

Lenoir-Rhyne G. Fg. Tp.
Witt, f 0 1 1
B. Troutman, f 1 0 2
Kiser, c 3 0 6
Rhyne, g 0 2 2
B. Troutman, f 0 1 1
Mathis, f 4 1 9
Martin, c 8 0 16
Goodson, g 2 0 4
Proctor, g 1 1 3
Barnard, g 0 0 0
Totals 20 6 46

Non-scoring substitutes—Lenoir-Rhyne: Biggerstaff. Davidson: Wilson, Brown. Referee: Berry (Wofford).

“DRUGS” “SODA”

Make Our Store Your Store

Students’ Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”

Wildcat Wrestlers Defeat N. C. State

Davidson Wrestlers Win Five of Eight Matches—Score 17 to 13

Davidson’s Wildcat wrestling team won its initial match of the season here Saturday by taking the N. C. State mat
artists into camp, 17 to 13. The Davidson grapplers won five of the eight matches to take the decision.

Davidson scored nine points in the first three weights, when Vick, Gorham and Preston gained decisions over Karig, Bazemore and
Evans, respectively, with time advantages. Oakley gave State three points when he gained a time decision over Tyack in the
145-pound class, but the Davidson victory was cinched when the next two Wildcat grapplers won their matches, Taylor pinning Jones
and Captain Conway gaining a time advantage over Sutten. State won in the 175-pound and unlimited classes when Laney and
Gurneau made short work of their opponents by pinning McFayden and Boyle, respectively. Davidson had four time decisions and a
fall to State’s single time decision and two falls.

Results:

115-pound—Vick (Davidson) won over Karig (State) with time advantage of 5 minutes,53 seconds. 125-pound—Gorham (Davidson) won over Bazemore (State) with
a time advantage of 5 minutes, 56 seconds. 135-pound—Preston (Davidson) won over Evans (State) with a time advantage of 4
minutes, 4 seconds. 145-pound—Oakley (State) won over Tyack (Davidson) with a time advantage of 2 minutes, 49 seconds. 155-pound—Taylor (Davidson)
pinned Jones (State) with a double wrist lock in 5 minutes, 37 seconds. 165-pound—Captain Conway (Davidson) won over Sutten (State)
with a time advantage of 3 minutes, 15 seconds. 175-pound—Laney (State) pinned McFayden (Davidson) with leg scissors and double arm
lock in 2 minutes, 11 seconds. Unlimited—Gurneau (State) pinned Boyle (Davidson) with a head lock in 2 minutes, 32 seconds.
Referee—Bailey (Duke).

No healthy boy would say that he did not want to grow up. If he did, I should advise taking
him to a psychoanalyst.—Prof. A. E. Heath.

Strongest “Y” team in this section. That means there will be a game in Davidson tonight which ought to be
numbered among the more thrilling. The ’Cats have just returned from a strenuous battle with Duke and with a day
of rest ought to be primed again to meet a first-class opponent. Saturday night the ’Cats will again go into
action, this time against one of the “Little Six” aggregations which have so far been unmercifully treated by the ’Cats.
First, Davidson ’Cats had a little trouble in downing the Elon quintet, but last week swamped a Lenoir-Rhyne five. The
Guilford contest promises to be closer and the Davidson aggregation may be extended to win. Not much is known about
Guilford, but it is rumored that they have an imposing looking number of basketeers.

LOOKING 'EM OVER With W. H. Matthews

SHADOWS OF COMING EVENTS

Thursday, February 5
Basketball—Varsity vs. Charlotte Y at Davidson.
Wrestling—Varsity vs. W. & L. at Lexington, Va.
Basketball—Freshmen vs. Greensboro High at Davidson.

Saturday, February 7
Basketball—Varsity vs. Guilford at Davidson.
Fresh vs. Barium Springs at Barium Springs.
Wrestling—Varsity vs. V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.

Tuesday, February 10
Freshmen vs. P. J. C. at Davidson

The next week presents plenty of events for Davidson's teams. Seven events for Davidson's various teams. Seven events in five
days bring all four of the winter sports squads into action. In fact, all during February nearly every night will
find some Davidson team in action somewhere. However, a sharp let-up in March follows, with very few events on the
boards that will attract the customers. March is the dullest month of the year, judged from the standpoint of the
number of attractions.

Regardless of the outcome of Tuesday's game at Duke—the game had not been played when this went to press—the most
important game of the season from Davidson’s standpoint will be the second contest with Duke, to be played February 17.
If the Wildcats win both of their road games with State and Carolina which will be played next week, a
victory against Duke at that time will almost cinch the pennant for Davidson, no matter what was the outcome of
the first meeting with the Blue Devils. If Davidson splits their pair on the road it will be necessary to
defeat Duke to remain in the chase for the pennant. There are several other possibilities, but they all boil down
to this—It will be necessary for the Wildcats to win their second Blue Devil encounter to cop the Big Five
title.

Unfortunately, the game will probably be played on one of the Charlotte courts. Although it was contrary to what Capt.
Pritchett wanted to do, conditions were such that the game had to be played in Charlotte, although it was wanted
to bring it out here on the local court. Duke, of course, wanted the game to be played in Charlotte,
due to the much larger gate the game will draw there. Too, a number of Davidson alumni had written urging
that the game be taken to Charlotte, where it would be possible for more of them to see the game.
All these points had to be taken into consideration in determining the final location of the fracas, and it was
only after a great deal of discussion and thought that it was finally decided to play the game in Charlotte.
Capt. Pritchett stated that he regretted a great deal the necessity of doing so, knowing that a number of students
would be unable to attend. But he also said that all students would be admitted free, as at the Carolina
game, and that under no circumstances would any more of Davidson's big games be taken to Charlotte. Wake Forest had
wanted their game also to be played in the Queen City, but was vetoed by the Davidson authorities. It is
scheduled here for the latter part of February, after the South Carolina trip, and will likely close the season. The
game has only been added within the last week or ten days.

Sam Gurneau, State’s big Indian athlete, is one of the best all-round athletes in the state. He stands a good
chance of lettering in four or five sports as a sophomore, and would run it to six, we understand, except
for the fact that no letter is offered at the Raleigh institution in boxing. Coming to facts, Gurneau played basketball
for State last Thursday night. On Friday he boxed in the unlimited division against Kid Brewer, losing the match on
points. And to finish up his weekend, he wrestled here Saturday night, winning his match in the unlimited class. He
letters in football, will likely get his monogram in basketball and wrestling, and for his spring sports divides time between
track and baseball.

Coach Doc Unger placed a well-coached wrestling team on the mat last Saturday night, and his boys made their mentor's
debut in that field an auspicious one by winning from the N. C. State team. Strength in the lighter weights
enabled Davidson to pile up a lead that losses in the heavier divisions could not wipe out. He takes them
against two of the best grappling aggregations of the South this weekend, when the Davidson mat men tackle W. &
L. tonight and V. M. I. Saturday night, both matches to be in Lexington, Va. The Washington and Lee Generals
have a decisive victory to their credit over the Army squad—34 to 0 was the score—and they later added the
scalp of N. C. State by a comfortable margin. The boys from the greyhound halls of V. M. I. also
have a good squad. The duet of matches are the hardest which the Davidson team will face this year, in
all likelihood. Much the same lineup will be used as that which wrestled Saturday here.

ORDINARY GALES

Property owners realize that Windstorm Insurance not only indemnifies against cyclones and tornadoes which destroy everything in their paths; but
also against ordinary gales which unroof houses and blow down chimneys. Branches from trees or moveable property break windows and
jab holes in roofs and walls, too. In proportion, the little losses cost just as much as the big ones.
Windstorm Insurance indemnifies for both kinds of losses—for little money.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McAlister Carson ('13), Manager
M. B. Speir ('26)
