THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 21, 1930

Fifty-Six Alumni Have Definitely Accepted Membership on Council

This Was Report Received at Davidson on May 16th—Others Are Expected to Accept Before Commencement

FOUR PAST PRESIDENTS

Senior Class Has Selected Its Ten Members, Bringing Total to Seventy

According to a report last Saturday from the New York office of H. Smith Richardson, '06, president of the Davidson Alumni Association, 56 alumni had definitely accepted membership on the new Alumni Council, which will meet at Davidson for two sessions on Monday, June 1, and remain over through the alumni luncheon and meeting of the Alumni Association on Tuesday. The list includes alumni from many different classes and from a widely scattered area, for the acceptances have come from Davidson alumni in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Tennessee, Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, New York, and Minnesota. Two-thirds of the body will come from outside this state. Added to the 56 acceptances are the names of four past presidents of the Alumni Association, who are ex-officio members of the Council, and ten members from the 1931 graduating class, which brings the total membership to 70. Other acceptances are expected before the first meeting at Davidson on Monday of commencement, and it is thought that the number will reach 80 or more.

Alumni who have accepted include: W. W. Flowe, '95, Concord; Dr. G. M. Maxwell, '96, Roanoke, Va.; Dr. R. H. Lafferty, '99, Charlotte; W. S. Royster, '99, Norfolk, Va.; S. A. Robinson, '99, Gastonia; R. H. Dye, 1900, Fayetteville; Jos. B. Johnston, '01, Barium Springs; Dr. Donald W. Richardson, '02, Richmond, Va.; Dr. W. M. Dunn, '03, Atlanta, Ga.; Henry Alan Johnston, '03, New York; J. A. Cannon, '04, Concord; Dr. Geo. McAliley, '04, Atlanta, Ga.; Dr. W. T. Thompson, '05, Richmond, Va.; Dr. Fred Rankin, '05, Rochester, Minn.; Dr. Ben R. Lacy, '06, Richmond, Va.; Dr. B. R. Smith, '06, Asheville; Scott Candler, '07, Atlanta, Ga.; Dr. Everard Wilcox, '07, Augusta, Ga.; Dr. Oren Moore, '08, Charlotte; H. A. Query, '09, Gastonia; Geo. E. Wilson, '10, Charlotte; Ruffner Campbell, '10, Asheville; Burney Thomas, '10, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Mayor Geo. W. Coan, Jr., '11, Winston-Salem; Dr. C. R. Wilcox, '11, Rome, Ga.; John J. Barnhardt, '12, Concord; Dr. G. R. Wilkinson, '12, Greenville, S. C.; Dr. E. L. Bishop, '12, Atlanta, Ga.; Clifton Murphy, '13, New York; Lunsford Richardson, '14, Greensboro; J. Edward Johnston, '14, Baltimore, Md.; J. Caldwell McDonald, '15, Charlotte; Dr. Wm. Y. Sayad, '17, West Palm Beach, Fla.; H. K. Aiken, Jr., Greenville, S. C.; Alexander Sprunt, Jr., '18, Charleston, S. C.; J. J. Love '19, Quincy, Fla.; A. L. Wilson, '20, Quincy, Fla.

1921-1930

J. Eris Cassell, '21, Concord; Houston White, '21, Atlanta, Ga.; D. R. LaFar, '22, Gastonia; Rev. E. B. McGukin, '22, Norfolk, Va.; Dr. J. H. Davis, Jr., '23, Clinton, S. C.; W. J. Cooper, '23, Kingstree, S. C.; Dr. W. Z. Bradford, '24, Charlotte; J. I. Smith, '24, Greenville, S. C.; T. F. Staley, Jr., '25, New York; R. B. Parker, '26, Rome, Ga.; R. W. Graves, '26, Durham; L. D. Wharton, Jr., '27, New York; Joe H. McConnell, '27, University, Va.; F. C. Withers, Jr., '28, Columbia, S. C.; H. M. Arrowood, '28, Shelby; M. T. Gilmour, '29, Chapel Hill; R. E. Kell, '29, Franklin, Tenn.; W. B. McGavock, '30, Spring Hill, Tenn.; Zeb V. Long, Jr., '30, Lynchburg, Va.

Past Presidents

Dr. J. C. Rowan, '04, Concord; Dr. J. P. Matheson, '99, Charlotte; Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, '06, Charlotte; H. Smith Richardson, '06, New York.

Alumni Marriages

Whitener-Clary

Henry Erson Whitener, of Huntersville, member of the class of 1914, and Miss Lois Clary, of China Grove, were married at the Presbyterian Church in China Grove on May 9. After attending Davidson, Mr. Whitener was in the farming business, but for the past three years has been teaching school at Huntersville. Mrs. Whitener was educated at N. C. C. W., and has taught in the schools of Huntersville for the past two years.

Brown-Johnston

Robert E. L. Brown, of the 1922 class, and Miss Lucille Johnston, both of Charlotte, were married at the home of the bride’s parents on May 15. After attending Davidson, Mr. Brown went to the University of North Carolina, receiving his degree in law. He is now connected with the Southern Public Utilities Company, of Charlotte. Mrs. Brown attended Queens College and was later graduated in music at Mary Baldwin Seminary, Staunton, Va. After a wedding trip they will reside on Avondale Avenue, Charlotte.

Appleby-Allen

Rev. James Mourning Appleby, of Florence, Ala., and Miss Elizabeth Seagle Allen, of Raleigh, were married in the First Presbyterian Church at Raleigh on May 15. Mr. Appleby graduated from Davidson in 1926, was Y. M. C. A. secretary here for two years, and last week, graduated from Union Theological Seminary. Mrs. Appleby graduated from Peace Institute and later from Assembly’s Training School in Richmond. Mr. Appleby will be assistant pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church, Petersburg, Va., this summer, and in the fall he and his bride will go to Scotland for a year, where Mr. Appleby will study at Edinburgh, having been awarded the Salem Fellowship at Union Seminary.

Ohsiek-Goodier

“Mr. Conrad A. Goodier announces the marriage of his daughter, Grace, to Carl Alfred Ohsiek, on Saturday, May 2, Brooklyn, N. Y.” Mr. Ohsiek graduated from Davidson in 1928, and last June completed his degree in the Business School of Columbia University. Since then he has been working with the American Telephone Company, in New York. Mr. and Mrs. Ohsiek are at home, 450 95th St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

TWO MARRIAGES (Continued from page 1)

in Albany, and since her graduation has been associated with the Albany Exchange Bank. Mrs. Lee Cain, of St. Matthews, S. C., announces the engagement of her daughter, Adela Clark, to William Lee Younger, of Davidson. The wedding is to be solemnized some time during the early part of this summer. Miss Cain is a graduate of Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S. C., and is well known in social circles. Coach “Monk” Younger was a student at V. P. I., and then at Davidson. He has been head coach at the latter institution and is now athletic director at Davidson College.

Senior Class Elections

C. H. Goodykoontz, Bluefield, W. Va.; Dean Rusk, Atlanta, Ga.; W. B. Goodson, Lincolnton; D. R. LaFar, Gastonia; J. W. McCutchan, Warm Springs, Va.; J. A. Jones, Laurinburg; A. W. McLean, Lumberton; A. R. Bird, Jr., Washington, D. C.; Walter W. Fraley, Barium Springs; C. A. Sisson, Winona, Miss. To serve temporarily until the return of Rusk and McCutchan from abroad, A. B. McClure, Rabun Gap, Ga., and H. S. Covington, Red Springs.

Made President

S. CLAY WILLIAMS

S. Clay Williams, '05, Will Head Tobacco Business

Was Recently Chosen President of R. J. Reynolds—Former Vice-President and General Counsel

Widespread interest was shown by many Davidson College alumni two weeks ago when it was announced that S. Clay Williams, 1905 graduate of Davidson, had been made president of the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, one of the largest tobacco manufacturing concerns in America. Mr. Williams had been vice-president before his recent election to the presidency. This alumnus obtained his law degree from the University ofVirginia after his graduation from Davidson, and for ten years was engaged in the practice of law in Greensboro. In 1917 he became associated with the Reynolds concern in the law department, and four years later was made general counsel for the firm. In 1924 he was elected a director and vice-president of the company. He continues as a director. The Winston-Salem Journal, in commenting editorially upon Mr. Williams’ choice as president, said in part: “Mr. Williams has been associated with the company for 14 years and is thoroughly familiar with every phase of the business. He is still a young man and should give many valuable years to the company in this position of leadership to which he has been elevated.” Mr. Williams is a member of the Davidson board of trustees, is on the executive committee of that body, and is a member of the Alumni Council.

PROGRAM FOR GRADUATION
(Continued from page 1)

10:30 a.m.—Award of college medals. Presentation of class gift. Response. Addresses by the valedictorian and salutatorian. Conferring of honorary degrees. Graduation exercises.

Sometime Monday, June 1, the Seniors and the faculty are scheduled to play the final game of their three-game baseball series, and Monday morning will be the time assigned for the alumni registration period. East Dormitory has been selected as alumni hotel, and the alumni are to sign for rooms in this dormitory during their stay here. The class officers have been elected for the exercises. They are: J. A. Jones, class orator; J. B. Black, class poet; Paul Alderman, class historian; Albert McClure, valedictorian, and Charles Kraemer, class salutatorian. Lawrence Smith is to be Senior Marshall.

FRESHMEN TO LEAD
(Continued from page 1)

was here, singing in the Glee Club and other musical organizations. He went to Union Theological Seminary to complete his work after his graduation from Davidson. Dr. Fowle will deliver the annual commencement sermon before the “Y” and this will conclude the services for the year.

Alumni To Return Commencement From Widely Scattered Territory

Engagements — Cain-Younger
“Mrs. Lee Cain, of St. Matthews, S.C., announces the engagement of her daughter, Adela Clark, to William Lee Younger, of Davidson, the marriage to be solemnized during the early summer.” Coach Younger is in the 1919 class at Davidson, attending V.P.I. after leaving here. He was assistant coach at V.P.I. before he came to Davidson in 1923 as head mentor. Miss Cain is a graduate of Winthrop, and has been teaching in Charlotte for the past several years.

Adcock-Davis
“Dr. and Mrs. J. Dean Adcock, of Orlando, Fla., announce the engagement of their daughter, Emma Caroline, to Dr. John Henry Davis, Jr., of Clinton, S.C., the marriage to take place in early June.” Dr. Davis obtained his A.B. and M.A. degrees from Davidson in 1924, and is a Ph.D. graduate of the University of Chicago. He is a former member of the Davidson faculty, and now heads the biology department at Presbyterian College. Miss Adcock is a graduate of Coker College.

James-Milton
“Mrs. Mable Hilsman James, of Albany, Ga., announces the engagement of her daughter, Rosa Jackson, to William Ernest Milton, of Davidson, the marriage to be solemnized late in June.” Since his graduation from Davidson in 1926, Mr. Milton has been alumni secretary and publicity director of the college. Miss James completed her education at Bessie Tift College and for the past three years has been in the employ of the Albany Exchange and National Bank.

Jones-Nisbet
“Mrs. Charles DePass Jones, of Concord, announces the engagement of her daughter, Rebecca, to Walter Olin Nisbet, Jr., of Charlotte, the marriage to take place in early fall.” Mr. Nisbet graduated from Davidson in 1928, and in 1930 graduated from the Business School at Harvard. He is in the employ of R. S. Dickson & Company, brokers, of Charlotte.

Cromartie-Hill
“Mr. and Mrs. David Lewis Cromartie, of Garland, announce the engagement of their daughter, Victoria Lewis, to William Edwin Hill, Jr., of Richmond, Va., the marriage to be solemnized in early fall.” Mr. Hill graduated from Davidson in 1929, and is acting as pastor of the Hopewell, Va., Presbyterian Church, while taking his theological training at Union Seminary, Richmond. Miss Cromartie is secretary-treasurer of the Fayetteville Observer Publishing Company.

CHANGES IN FACULTY
(Continued from page 1)

and must be approved by the Board of Trustees. A committee has been appointed whose desire it is to present to the Board of Trustees a centennial program for the adequate equipment of the college. The plan, which would commemorate the one hundredth anniversary of the college and would be completed during the term of 1937, would include the building of a new infirmary, a new library, a new church, a new dormitory, a social and religious center, a field house, and the reconstruction of Rumple.

Official Invitation Leaves Davidson This Week, But Many Advance Notices Have Already Been Received

TWELVE REUNIONS
Four Special Classes and Two Specified Groups Will Reunite This Year

Davidson College alumni residing in Providence, R.I., New York, Pittsburgh, Rochester, Minn., San Antonio, Texas, and many other cities closer by have already notified Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, that they are returning to the 95th commencement of the institution. The official invitation and announcement of the program between May 31-June 3 is being mailed to the alumni this week, but these notices have already come from alumni who are returning for reunions of their classes or for the Alumni Council meeting on June 1. Twelve different classes will reunite at Davidson. These include 1876, whose members are returning for their 55th year reunion; 1881, for its half-century; 1906, for its quarter-of-a-century celebration, and 1930, for its first reuniting. Two contemporary groups of classes will be here, those in 1891, 1892, 1893, and 1894, and 1910, 1911, 1912, and 1913.

For the past two months the class presidents have been writing letters to their classmates, and individuals have sent numerous letters from the office of the alumni secretary at Davidson. The final set of letters were mailed out Monday. According to reports from the class of 1876, three of the five living members of this group are expected to be at Davidson for the reunion. In 1926, there were seven living members, and three of them were here at that time, and occupied a prominent place at all of the events of the commencement exercises.

The new Alumni Council, which is the outgrowth of a reorganization of the Alumni Association, will bring together a distinguished group of Davidson alumni. This will approximate 70 members. Acceptances have been received from alumni in ten different states. This council will meet in session twice on Monday of commencement, and further organization will be perfected. Heretofore, the directing body of alumni work has been made up of only 12 members.

Alumni officials are expecting the greatest return of alumni who ever have come back for a commencement at Davidson. The attendance has been gradually increasing and it is expected to be unusually good here May 31-June 3.