2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 11, 1931

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

THE STAFF
Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. O. GUERRANT - Managing Editor
D. D. McBRYDE - Managing Editor
R. L. McCALLIE - Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG - Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENSON - Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLIN - Feature Editor
Review Editor
Exchange Editor
C. DWELLE, JR. - Associate Editor
W. S. ANDERSON - Associate Editor
W. H. - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Subscription Manager
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
WHITEHEAD
R. H. ALDERMAN
F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR
L. S. GAMBLE
G. E. BAILEY
R. E. LORRAINE
E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
S. P. PRESTON
R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
A. F. SCHENCK
O. CASALI
W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. CLARDY, JR.
W. T. THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAM
J. A. HUNTER

NOVEMBER 11, 1931

Experience keeps a dear school, but fools will learn in no other —Benjamin Franklin.

PARAGRAPHICS

The record of the present football season is very good. Victories over Carolina and Wake Forest would make it well-nigh perfect.

Those who attended the lecture by Mr. Booth Friday night received a very interesting insight on the policies of Great Britain in regard to other nations.

The closing of the dormitories during the football games is a wise move in view of the protection it gives to the property of the students.

The faculty has made it possible for those who so desire to go to the game at Chapel Hill Saturday. It is to be hoped that a large number of the students will take advantage of this opportunity.

It was shown Saturday night in Charlotte that the “Sunnyland Serenaders” have developed into an extraordinarily good college orchestra.

We would like to congratulate The Citadel on having a fighting football team. Despite the fact that they were on the tail-end of a 14-7 score they offered a scrapping offense which gave quite a scare to Davidson supporters.

Now that the Davidson-Charlotte controversy, if it may be called that, has been very definitely concluded to the satisfaction of everyone concerned, it seems that the normal conditions of peace and good-will which have existed, with few exceptions, in past years, may be resumed.

SERVICE

There are a great many services which the Y. M. C. A. performs on the Davidson campus. Many of them are evident in our everyday life; still others, though not so evident, are none the less valuable. This organization is primarily for the purpose of promoting the religious life of the men in the student body. Various methods are used in this work. Perhaps most influential of all these ways are the Fall and Spring services which are conducted every year by the “Y.” Davidson, in its position as one of the leading Presbyterian schools in the country, is able to secure for these semi-annual services the choice of the speakers of the Presbyterian Church. To support this fact we have only to look into the past. Such men as Dr. Thompson, of Richmond; Dr. Bill Anderson, of Dallas; Dr. Ben Lacy, of Union Theological Seminary; Dr. Sam Glasgow, of Knoxville; Dr. Myers, of Greensboro, and others of the same high rank, demonstrate how successful the Y. M. C. A. has been in the past. This year is certainly no exception to the rule. Starting Tuesday morning, Dr. Robert W. Miles, of the Westminster Presbyterian Church of Lynchburg, Va., delivers the first address of the Fall services. Dr. Miles is a graduate of Davidson and was the first “Y” Secretary at Davidson. He is a graduate of Union Theological Seminary, and before going to Lynchburg, was student pastor at the Alabama Polytechnic Institute in Auburn. From such a background Dr. Miles has acquired an understanding of the life and problems of the average college man. We are indeed fortunate in being able to have Dr. Miles as our speaker for the Fall services. The Y. M. C. A. wants the entire student body to receive the benefits from these services, and urges the attendance of every man.

TOPICS IN BRIEF

Recently Wallace Wade inaugurated a policy of allowing students of “Big Five” schools to come to football games at Duke for a very small amount. Any student was admitted by merely showing his student athletic ticket and paying fifty cents. This means that Davidson men can attend a game between Duke and any other team without the necessity of paying what, to the college student, seems an exorbitant price. Although this would not affect Davidson to any great extent because of the distance, it seems a good idea, and worthy of adoption by all “Big Five” schools.

Last year Davidson defeated North Carolina by the small margin of 7-6; later in basketball the Wildcats succeeded in winning both games, one by one point and the other by two points. That means that Carolina is going to be out for revenge, anxious to regain their former standing of superiority. To make things harder for the ’Cats, the game is played on a foreign field this year. Thus it is going to be necessary to fight harder than ever before, to overcome all these obstacles to victory. The student body must work with the team with only one thought in mind: “BEAT CAROLINA.”

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

For the benefit of the student body, the exchanges that are received every week will be placed in the reading room of the “Y.” This is the room to the left just as you enter the building.

Up in Meadville, Pennsylvania, at Allegheny College, the girls are rebelling against the student government rules, according to The Campus, the official newspaper of that college. The reason for this rebellion is that a few members of the weaker sex of that school were campused for being escorted to church by two Freshmen of the boys’ school. They wish the revision of the rule which prohibits Freshman women from accompanying men during the day.

Though probably not known to this student body, the Citadel Cadets previous to the Stetson game, which was played the week before our game with the Cadets, always stood up every minute that the football team was in action. We quote an editorial from The Bulldog, the newspaper of that school, on “A Tradition Passes.”

“The Stetson game last Saturday witnessed the passing of an ancient Citadel tradition—the custom of every cadet standing during an entire football game. The idea of the practice was to show the team that the corps was always solidly behind it and doing all in its power to help win the game; but there was no room left for emphasis—if the corps was standing and ‘pulling’ with all its might when the team was sailing smoothly along to a victory, then how could it do any more when defeat seemed to be imminent; when the team really needed support? In the second place, when a group of average men are on their feet cheering wildly for the first three quarters of a game, they are too exhausted in the final quarter to lend the support that is sometimes needed. And lastly, on our home field the view of the persons who sit in the stand next to the corps is spoiled when the teams are playing on certain corners of the gridiron. This last might be thought by some to be a trivial objection, yet these persons pay their money to see all of the game and are entitled to enjoy it as comfortably as possible.

“However there are times when we think that the entire corps should be on its feet yelling like so many maniacs for the team to win. These times are when the team is in a tight place, when it needs all possible encouragement. Suppose, as a substitute for the old practice, we allow the cheerleaders to tell us when to sit and when to stand—and when they tell us to stand, let's get up and give that team all we have.”

With some pride, The Technique, Georgia Tech’s paper, announces that their annual, The Blue Print, again wins the cup for the best annual in its division. This was given by the National Scholastic Press Association recognizing their great work in last year’s annual. The Blue Print got a total of 900 points out of a possible 1,000. This annual competed with such schools as Notre Dame, which took second place, and Leland Stanford, which was the winner of third place. In the girls’ division, the Silhouette, of Agnes Scott, won the cup, thus making two schools from the same city quite literary and prominent in this line.

The Technician, the official paper of North Carolina State, tells us that Amelia Earhart Putnam, the famous aviatrix and the only woman who has flown over the Atlantic in an airplane, spoke to the State College student body on aviation in general and onAutogiros in particular. She arrived in Raleigh in an autogiro, being the first person to bring an autogiro to Raleigh. She came to that city mainly for demonstrating the autogiro and her visit was sponsored by the Raleigh Chamber of Commerce.

In the “Y” reading room the students can find papers from the following schools every week with probably a few reductions or additions every week: N. C. State, Duke, Guilford, Converse, Georgia Tech, Emory, Brenau, Alleghany, The Citadel, V. M. I., Washington and Lee, Clemson, P. C., Salem, Mary Baldwin, Tennessee, Auburn, Florida, Gettysburg, Lenoir-Rhyne, Wesleyan, Georgia State College for Women, N. C. C. W., and others.

DES ENTREFILETS

In the recent elections, the Democratic party secured control of the House of Representatives. At present, the House is composed of 217 Democrats, 215 Republicans, 1 Farmer-Laborite, and there are two vacancies. One of these vacancies will be filled when the Representative for the Fifth District of New Jersey is elected on December 1, just six days before the new Congress meets. It is very probable that the new Congressman from New Jersey will be a Republican and since the one Farmer-Labor member of Congress has a leaning toward the Republican party, the first meeting, at which the House is organized, may result in a tie-up between the two parties in an attempt to control the organization of the House of Representatives.

There is a small group in the Democratic party who do not wish to assume the responsibility for the conduct of the affairs of the House. They contend that with the outlook so good for the election of a Democrat at the next Presidential election, it would be a mistake for the party to put itself in a position of assuming responsibility for legislation which might produce an adverse reaction among the electorate.

At a banquet, at which raw meat was the main dish, ten thousand warriors celebrated the first anniversary of the coronation of Emperor Haile Selassie I, “King of Kings of Ethiopia, Conquering Lion of the Tribe of Judah, the Elect of God and the Light of the World.” Following the feast, the emperor, accompanied by the royal family, attended the services at St. George’s Cathedral. Then he rode in state in his golden coach once owned by former Kaiser Wilhelm to the chambers of the Legislature and there formally opened the two bodies. The celebration wound up with a display of American fireworks.

According to Dean Inge of St. Paul’s Cathedral, in an address at University College of North Wales, the British Empire is nearing its end. “The profligate expenditures of the World War, followed by a kind of government I will not criticize, has reduced the richest nation of the world to the verge of bankruptcy and deep humiliation. Although I don’t wish to take a pessimistic view altogether, I am afraid our part as a world power is approaching its end... I think our empire, in the old sense, is coming to an end, but our race is not, and what is worth keeping is in our own hands, especially in the hands of the younger generation, to make or mar.”

The question of whether Gandhi would wear his loin cloth and shawl or European dress when he called upon King George was settled last Thursday when the Mahatma arrived at the king’s afternoon party dressed in his usual costume. Gandhi arrived rather late at the palace where five hundred guests of India’s King and Emperor were gathered. He met the king and talked several minutes with him. Gandhi declined to tell what the king had told him. “It would not be dignified,” he said afterward. The Mahatma left the party early; in all, his visit lasted only thirty-five minutes. Gandhi said, “The King and Queen were most friendly and gracious. I also liked the Prince of Wales.” When asked if the king had given any encouragement to his hope of Indian independence, the Mahatma said, “Only God gives encouragement, not kings.”

The charge made recently by William H. Gardiner, president of the Navy League, that the President's ignorance of why navies are maintained was “abysmal” and that his efforts “at every turn” were such as to “restrict, reduce and starve the United States Navy,” were endorsed recently by the Executive Committee of the League by a 7 to 1 vote. The dissenting vote was cast by Henry Breckinridge, who was Assistant Secretary of War under the Wilson administration of 1913 to 1916. In regard to his negative vote, Mr. Breckinridge said, “I wish to record my deep conviction that Mr. Gardiner’s statement contained unseemly and unjustified language concerning the President of the United States, language that will not serve the best interests of the navy or the Navy League; language that should not be approved by the Navy League.”

In the new cabinet formed by Prime Minister MacDonald, there are eleven Conservatives, five Liberals, and four National Laborites. The high-tariff Conservatives hold the key positions but their advantage is partly offset by the appointment of a Liberal as President of the Board of Trade. The new cabinet speaks much for the Prime Minister's ability to balance his strangely assorted team.

CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT: “No Frenchman can live long on British cooking.” —Secretary of State Simpson.

The Duke Chronicle, of Duke University, informs us that they are to have as their golf coach and instructor, the winner of this year’s North Carolina Open Golf Tournament, Marshall Crichton, who won the tournament with a very good score of 301 strokes for the 72-hole match. Crichton is a professional from Durham. He will be coach for both the varsity and Freshman teams and will be the instructor for the physical education students electing golf as their sport. This year is the first time that Duke has had a coach for this sport and much will be expected from their golf teams this year, since they have such a fine golfer as coach.

Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings... Duncan McBryde

Cold weather has come. And so has the YOWL. The depression is one year old, so this issue of the YOWL is called the Birthday Issue. By the way, there’s going to be a dance down at the depot tonight. (The train is going to Charleston.) Catch on? Well, how far did you ride?

Rumple Repartee (Him No. 1): “I think she’s as pretty as she can be.” (Him No. 2): “Most girls are.”

Here’s one for Mr. Ripley. The roommate and I have finished Davidson College. Yet he is in his Senior, and I in my Junior year. (We painted “Davidson College” on top of Chambers, and we just finished “College” a week ago.) TWO BOYS FINISH COLLEGE IN TWO WEEKS!

We feel that we have added color to Davidson College. What color? Why, Gold and Black. (But don’t exclaim—you might Wake Forest!) Davidson’s motto at the Wildcat-Bulldog fray seemed to be: THEY SHALL NOT PASS!

I just made a tall guy short. Yeah? I borrowed five smackers from him.

CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT

When you sit with a nice girl for two hours, you think it is only a minute, but when you sit on a hot stove for a minute, you think it is two hours. That is relativity! —Albert Einstein.

Today’s Best One On the Irish

“See here, Mr. Casey,” said Pat to the tax assessor, “Shore and you know the goat isn’t worth eight dollars.” “Oi’m sorry,” responded Casey, “but that is the law.” And, producing a book, he read the following passage: “All property abutting on Front Street should be taxed at the rate of two dollars per foot.”

A FAST ONE ON OUR FOOLISH CONTEMPORARIES

U. N. C. Student (arrested for speeding): But I am a College Student, Your Honor. Judge: Well, ignorance is no excuse; lock him up.

PARK, PARK, IT’S A LARK

The Parking Problem

When Noah sailed the waters blue, He had his troubles, same as you. For forty days he drove the Ark Before he found a place to park.

Many a man who is a five-ton truck at Davidson, is nothing but a trailer at Queens.

WHAT'S IN A NAME? (This poem by any other name would be just as bad)

Of all the bonds that join mankind, That make a Pythias and Damon, There’s one especially designed To write enduring friendship’s name on; When unexpectedly you find Some chap you only just have met Smokes the same brand of cigarettes. Such splendid judgment one esteems, Yet, when you meet the man in twenty, Somehow invariably it seems Of cigarettes you have a plenty. But life must have its cruel schemes: YOU MEET WHEN IN A SMOKELESS STATE THE GUY WHO SMOKES THE KIND YOU HATE!

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

“Dear MIRTHOFANATION,” writes a reader, “exactly what do you mean by ‘hokum’?” “Hokum” is applesauce and applesauce is hooey; hooey is bologna and bologna is bunk; and bunk, my dear reader, is merely another name for hokum.

Jones was at the student body banquet. He was shy and nervous, and could never summon up enough courage to speak because of his inability to say anything neat. All the evening he had been trying to think up something nice to say to the girl that sat beside him. At last he thought he saw his chance. “What a small appetite you have, Mr. Jones,” remarked the said lady with a smile. “To sit next to you,” he replied gallantly, “would cause any man to lose his appetite.”

Well, Paul Revere, mon petit shoe.