THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 18, 1931

Book Review

S. S. San Pedro, James Cozzens, Harcourt, Brace and Company, New York.

Princeton, N. J.—(IP)—The Palmer Physics Laboratory of Princeton University, it was announced by Dr. Robert J. Van de Graff, has perfected a simple and inexpensive method of building generators capable of developing 15,000,000 to 20,000,000 volts, which experts believe finally opens the way to the realization.

Princeton, N. J.—(IP)—One of the largest series of mural paintings ever undertaken for an American college is being executed for Princeton University. Nine panels, each 8 by 12 feet, have been ordered for the trophy room of the university gymnasium. Athletic games or individuals will be depicted in the murals.

To try to give a review which contains a synopsis of a story which has an action as fast-moving as “S. S. San Pedro” is to try to put into compact and prosaic form something which is already so condensed, so fast-moving, and so gripping that it holds the interest from the beginning. Perhaps its very brevity accounts for part of its charm. In fact, a story like that told in this new book by Mr. Cozzens is best told in a short space, a space which, if possible, should not last longer than the time actually needed for the execution of the story.

The story in brief is that a ship which leaves port with a slight list runs into bad weather, its doom is foreseen early in the story, and the officers struggle desperately to solve the problem of what is wrong, to keep the passengers from going into a panic, and to try to save the ship. The horror of the impending disaster slowly increases, nothing can be done to avert it, and the ship finally goes to the bottom. The sinking of the ship as seen psychologically through the eyes of a member of the officer staff who is saved is almost pathetic. It is commonly believed that Mr. Cozzens’ story is based to a certain extent on a marine disaster which occurred several years ago on the North American coast. There is a quickness, a glamour, a sense of impending disaster which make this sea story truly a notable achievement.

The diction is simple, the prose is straightforward and clear-cut, there are no deep philosophical and psychological problems which will baffle the average reader. His portraits are particularly impressive. Every man on the ship rises up among the pages as a definite personality. His characterization of the captain is unusually good. He pictures the captain as an old man, a sick man, who is absolutely helpless when the inevitability of the impending tragedy slowly comes upon him. Some of Mr. Cozzens’ descriptions are nothing short of wonderful. For instance, his description of the flooded engine room:

“Under a raw, thin fog of vapor the engine room depths formed an infernal swimming pool. Like monster green hogsheads the turbine cases rose in a fantastic steel swamp. Incredible vegetation flowered; white piping; flattened-out layers of open-work footways. Stairs edged with brass rail plunged down, leading nowhere... Below, water moved about regularly, swaying to the sluggish roll. The engine room shaft echoed like a sea cave.”

Beautiful is the description of the S. S. San Pedro on her first night out:

“Steady and strong through the infinite ocean twilight the San Pedro maintained her seventeen knots. The vital quiver of her engines gave her a mounting wave of vibration, like a piano feeling the pedal. Her warm untroubled breath trembled up her shafts and ventilators. She was calm in the lucid radiance of her early lights. Around the dining room—a whole half-deck of her stirred with more intense activity. In the balcony the orchestra was gathering; by the buffet the chief steward was checking the flowers on the many tables. He made a sign to his assistant that the doors might be opened when he heard the gong. Aft, the smoking room was murmuring, expansive in crowded comfort; ice rattled in the bright bar; mild air moved in the doors open on the deck behind. Seen from here, the smoke-soiled mast with the hidden glow of the running light, the booms laid down, the dim sunset radiance remaining on the steerage superstructure, all rose and fell together gently. Astern, the quiet ocean, neither blue nor black, extended in limitless ease to the faintly colored horizon, darkening now to evening at the end of the San Pedro’s steady white wake.”

Vivid in its telling, absorbing to the very end, everyone will find “S. S. San Pedro” excellent reading.

W. W. Franklin, Intercollegiate News

London—(IP)—A fire which destroyedThe physics laboratory of St. Andrews University blotted out the results of the chemistry researches of Sir James Irvine since 1906. Sir James is the principal and vice-chancellor of the university. The laboratory, which opened in 1926, contained valuable chemicals and sugars which Sir James had discovered, as well as reports on researches concerning them.

Big Five Teams Standings
The standings:
Team                W  L  T  Pct.
North Carolina      3  0  0  1.000
N.C. State          2  2  0  .500
Duke                1  1  0  .500
Wake Forest         1  2  0  .333
Davidson            0  2  1  .000

...of the age-old dreams of the transmutation of elements. The new generator, when built, is expected to furnish science with a new tool with which to carry on its attempt to smash the atom.

Ann Arbor, Mich—(IP)—The University of Michigan has announced that an expedition directed by Professor Leroy Waterman has discovered what is believed to be an early Christian Church. The find was made at Sepphoris, only an hour’s walk from the home of Jesus.

Walter Winchell—Walter Winchell’s “Gossip’s Greatest Vice and Verse,” is now “telling all” over the radio, having recently “middle-aisled” it with the sponsors of the Lucky Strike Dance Hour—promising to be very, very bad throughout all of the programs, for a limited period of four weeks. Walter introduces the various famous dance bands that are heard on these thrice-weekly programs—a different band each period, playing the moment—to say nothing of slipping the dear radio public the very latest “insides” on personalities of the “daze.” And is the microphone’s face red?

For those who want waltzes with their Winchell, there’s Wayne King and his Orchestra, floating in from Chicago—or if it’s the movie star’s favorite rhythms that are desired after “little boy peep” has stopped for breath, Gus Arnheim and his Orchestra are playing once a week from Los Angeles. And, of course, there’s the quickened tempos of Andy Sannella’s Orchestra playing from New York for those who want their music like their gossip—“low down.” In fact, there’s never been anything like it on the radio and already telegrams and letters from enthusiastic listeners may be found on the desks of the sponsors, piled way up to here.

Winnipeg, Man—(IP)—An International Disarmament Party, which was begun as the result of a student conference in Canada early in the fall, is sweeping the dominion’s universities, according to the Manitoban, undergraduate publication of the University of Manitoba, and is also gaining strength in other quarters. One of the first definite aims of the new party is the presenting of a petition to the Prime Minister asking that Canada be represented at the Geneva Disarmament Conference in February by public men who show by their action, as Canada achieves nationhood, that the world’s interests are her interests. Efforts are being made to have the students of the Canadian universities vote solidly with the new party at Canadian elections. It had gained a firm stronghold in eastern universities and is rapidly becoming popular in those of the middle and far west of the dominion.

CAMELS Made FRESH — Kept FRESH
Everyone knows now that Camels are the fresh cigarette. If inquiry went deeper, it would reveal that Camels are the natural moisture cigarette. That’s important, because in handling fine tobaccos, when you process out natural moisture, you sacrifice freshness and flavor too. Camel smokers needn’t worry about that, because Camels are blended of fine Turkish and mild Domestic tobaccos that are never subjected to violent processing. They need no parching or toasting to make them smooth, palatable, cool. That’s why the Camel Humidor Pack is such a boon to Camel smokers—it preserves the freshness, flavor, natural moisture, and fragrance that are in this fine cigarette to start with. Camels are fresh in nature’s own mild way, and if you want to see what that means in unalloyed smoke-enjoyment, switch to them for just one day—then leave them, if you can!

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company’s Coast-to-Coast Radio Programs
CAMEL QUARTER HOUR, Morton Downey, Tony Wons, and Camel Orchestra, direction Jacques Renard, every night except Sunday, Columbia Broadcasting System.
PRINCE ALBERT QUARTER HOUR, Alice Joy, “Old Hunch,” and Prince Albert Orchestra, direction Paul Van Loan, every night except Sunday, N.B.C. Red Network. See local paper for time.

Don’t remove the moisture-proof wrapping from your package of Camels after you open it. The Camel Humidor Pack is protection against perfume and powder odors, dust, and germs. In offices and homes, even in the dry atmosphere of artificial heat, the Camel Humidor Pack delivers fresh Camels and keeps them right until the last one has been smoked.

CAMELS are FRESH in nature’s own mild way!