THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 28, 1931

Football Managership Sought by Twenty Men

List Includes Eleven Freshmen, Six Sophomores, and Three Juniors

There are at the present time twenty candidates out for manager of the varsity football team. Eleven of these are Freshmen, six are Sophomores, and the remaining trio are Juniors. Of these three Junior managers, one will be chosen as varsity manager for 1932, and one as Freshman manager. The former will be awarded the varsity “D” and the latter a regulation “DE” with a two and one-half inch “M” sewed inside. Bob Gorell is manager of the 1931 Wildcats, and Jack McKinnon has charge of the Freshman team.

When a Freshman goes out for varsity manager he is prepared to serve a form of apprenticeship for three years, this period of apprenticeship being regulated by a process of elimination. If the Freshman makes a good assistant manager his first year he is retained another year, the number of Sophomore managers being eliminated to six, however. Of these six, three are chosen as Junior managers. From this, it is easily seen that though many are called, few are chosen.

A complete list of the men out for manager follows: Juniors, A. H. Grant, Allen Mebane, and Arthur Ross, Jr.; Sophomores, Ralph Beatty, Frank Holt, B. F. Organd, W. A. Kirkland, Barry Caldwell, and John Drake; Freshmen, Billy Northern, David McLain, Raymond Pollock, Caskie Norvell, Jr., Rigdon Dees, Jr., Warner DuBose, Bob Everett, Billy Atwater, J. C. Sherrill, Kirk Hanrahan, and G. W. Barnes.

College Glee Club Selects Forty Men

Mr. Sinclair, New Director, and New Officer Choose Best From Original Seventy

Some time ago seventy men reported to Shearer Hall for the Glee Club tryouts. There they were met by Mr. Sinclair, of Charlotte, the new director. Mr. Sinclair is head of the music department of the Charlotte High School, and an alumnus of the University of North Carolina. The officers for this year’s club are as follows: President, William Rule; vice-president, George Bailey; and manager, George Pardington. The club plans several short trips late this fall, probably before the holidays. Plans are being made for a long tour to be taken in the early spring.

From the original seventy, the following forty men have been given tentative places on the club. In the near future, thirty men will be chosen for permanent positions.

Tenor: Bailey, Marvin J., Bixler, Mower, Dulin, Garrette E., Morris F. H.
Second Tenor: Powell, Davis, Rule, Flowe, Marvin D., Gullette G., Paine C., Robinson J. C., Dill, Coble, Henry S. C.
Baritone: Gladstone, Hoffman, DuBose, Pardington, Blair J. T., Matthews R. K., Tucker, Schriver, Little C., Womble, McIlwinnen, Byerly, Flinn, Brown P. W., MacMillan.
Bass: McKeithan, Caligan W. W., Williams E. G., McLain D. D., Hollingsworth D. W., Rice J., McPhail L.
Accompanist: Edwin McNair.

THE WAY TO HAPPINESS
S. W. Grafflin

I met a man the other day
Whose sunny manner seemed to say
That he had found the Happy Way.
I asked the secret of his smile,
He gave a thoughtful look the while
And answered somewhat in this style.

Six things have I that spell content,
Six things that mean a life well spent,
That make for real accomplishment:
A Peaceful Mind,
A Grateful Heart,
A Love for all that’s true,
A Helpful Hand,
Real Tolerance,
And Lots of Things to Do.

I took my way with courage new
With kindlier feelings, broader view,
Trying to think his answer through.
That man had found the secret key
Of how to live and what to be,
And passed it on to you and me.

Then let us try his simple plan
Of Faith in God and Love to man,
And imitate him if we can.
—American Aristocrat.

HOW THE WILDCAT CAME TO BE OUR MASCOT

“In the hills of Carolina, where the redskins used to roam,
Scotch-Irish came and settled, fearing God but never man,
Many tales were told at night-time in the shelters they called home,
Tales recounting deeds of valor common to their fighting clan.

“As the young ‘uns sat and listened while their blood in veins ran cold,
Shrill and clear from out the forest came the wildcat’s curdling scream.
Old ones ceased at once their talking, stories left half-told,
For they, too,now sat staring, like one awakened from a dream. “Not from fright their quiet, nor from thoughts of lurking gloom, But from awesome retrospections of the sights that they had seen When the wildcat, crouched and fearless, like a harbinger of doom, Ripped through hindrance whatsoever to the vitals and the spleen.

“They had seen this mite of vengeance fight till all his blood had run; In his battles with his foeman as he rolled upon the ground, Like the Irish, plied shillelah till his scraps he sure had won, Like the Scotch, he gave no quarter, fighting fiercer every round.

“Pious folk, these old Scotch-Irish, and they sang from Bible lore, Sang till hell’s foundations trembled as they ’stablished on a hill In a town nearby to Charlotte a school with fast-barred door ‘Gainst the devil and his minions, and in truth it stands there still.

“In their naming of this college, in the years of long ago, They scratched their heads in thought lest they should fail to do it proud, No mere name like Brown or Yale would be suitable, they know, To a crew of old Scotch-Irish, for a hardy he-man’s crowd.

“Then they thought of all their heroes who had faced both gun and sword, Who in fighting ‘gainst Cornwallis, many worthy deeds had done. Till they thought of their great general who fell at Cowan’s Ford, And they honored both the school and him, when they called it Davidson.

“Now, in anticipation of the days that were to come, They thought, too, of a mascot that would go with such a name, Lest the sons of sons unnumbered might possibly be dumb As to actions of their forebears who had fought their way to fame.

“So they singled out the wildcat as exemplifying fight; Just as David slew Goliath with his faith and sling alone, So should the wildcat be synonymous with the future men of might Who should battle for old Davidson and by that name be known.

“Remember well the moral then, whenever you meet the foe, For hard will be the battle whenever the moral fits, You're known by all as Wildcats here, and all through you must know, Whatever the odds against him—A WILDCAT NEVER QUITS.”

“None so good as LUCKIES”

“I've tried all cigarettes and there's none so good as LUCKIES. And incidentally I'm careful in my choice of cigarettes. I have to be because of my throat. Put me down as one who always reaches for a LUCKY. It’s a real delight to find a Cellophane wrapper that opens without an ice pick.”

Jean Harlow first set the screen ablaze in “Hell’s Angels,” the great air film, and she almost stole the show from a fleet of fifty planes. See her in “Goldie,” a Fox film and Columbia's “Platinum Blonde.”

Made of the finest tobaccos—the Cream of many Crops—LUCKY STRIKE alone offers the throat protection of the exclusive “TOASTING” Process which includes the use of modern Ultra Violet Rays—the process that expels certain harsh, biting irritants naturally present in every tobacco leaf. These expelled irritants are not present in your LUCKY STRIKE. ‘They're out—so they can't be in!’ No wonder LUCKIES are always kind to your throat.

“It’s toasted” Your Throat Protection — against irritation — against cough

And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh

TUNE IN—The Lucky Strike Dance Orchestra, every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday evening over N.B.C. networks.

The American Tobacco Co.

*Is Miss Harlow’s Statement Paid For? You may be interested in knowing that not one cent was paid to Miss Harlow to make the above statement. Miss Harlow has been a smoker of LUCKY STRIKE cigarettes for 2 years. We hope the publicity herewith given will be as beneficial to her and to Fox and Columbia, her producers, as her endorsement of LUCKIES is to you and to us.

MOISTURE-PROOF CELLOPHANE Sealed Tight—Ever Right

The Unique Humidor Package Zip—And it’s open! See the new notched tab on the top of the package. Hold down one half with your thumb. Tear off the other half. Simple. Quick. Zip! That's all. Unique! Wrapped in dust-proof, moisture-proof, germ-proof Cellophane. Clean, protected, neat, FRESH!—what could be more modern than LUCKIES’ improved Humidor package—so easy to open! Ladies—the LUCKY TAB is—your finger nail protection.