THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 18, 1931

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN.....Editor-in-Chief
P. M. CONWAY........Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF:
E. F. GUERRANT........Managing Editor
D. D. MOORE...........Managing Editor
R. L. McCALLIE........Managing Editor
C. F. MYERS...........Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG.............Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENSON......Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLIN........Feature Editor
H. W. PATTERSON.......Review Editor
J. L. HARRIS............Exchange Editor
E. E. WHITE............Associate Editor
W. W. WILLIAMS........Associate Editor
W. M. THOMPSON.......Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF:
J. S. WILLIAMS.........Assistant Business Manager
J. M. BROWN............Assistant Business Manager
J. L. HARRIS............Assistant Business Manager
J. M. BROWN............Subscription Manager
J. S. WILLIAMS.........Solicitor
J. M. BROWN............Solicitor
J. L. HARRIS............Solicitor
J. S. WILLIAMS.........Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB:
A. H. WHITEHEAD.......President
W. M. THOMPSON.......Vice-President
J. L. HARRIS............Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR
L. S. GAMBLE
G. E. BAILEY
R. E. LORRAINE
J. E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
S. P. PRESTON
R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
A. F. SCHENCK
O. CASALI
W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. SMITH
W. T. THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAMS
J. A. HUNTER

NOVEMBER 18, 1931

PARAGRAPHICS

Too bad about that Carolina game, but with a win over Wake Forest, we feel sure that the student body would have little trouble in forgetting it.

Dr. Miles is giving us some wonderful messages in chapel and at the night service. Anyone who is missing an opportunity to hear him is doing himself an injustice.

The Seniors will soon be distinguishing themselves by wearing their new blazers (that is, if they ever get here).

It’s hard to realize that there is only a short time, comparatively, until the Christmas holidays—just a few days over a month.

But before that time we have another report coming. A word to the wise is sufficient.

The optimist says that prosperity is just around the corner; the pessimist remarks that there must have been a wreck coming around the curve.

Recent state elections show that the Democratic Party has gained in both houses of Congress, and there are ten more Democratic governors than there were when Hoover started his term.

ABOUT FOOTBALL

Davidson men can best show their appreciation of the work, ability, and fight of the football team of this season by their unreserved support of those Wildcats in their one remaining contest. Last year there were rumors that the student body at Davidson was losing some of that characteristic fighting spirit for which it had always been noted. Whether these rumors had any true basis cannot be determined, but it can be said that the team has been supported this year. And it is true that the team has justified all the confidence that has been placed in it.

With possibly poorer prospects than Davidson has had in several years, the Wildcats have developed into as smooth a machine as Davidson has had the good fortune to have in recent times. A great deal of the credit for this work goes to the coaches, “Monk” and “Tex.” The men who make up the squad are, in a way, directly responsible for the results of the games played, and they certainly deserve the thanks and respect of every Davidson man. In a most indirect way, yet playing their part well, has been the student body in its “win or lose” support of the team. To the cheer-leaders goes the thanks of those concerned for the part they have played in the development and fostering of this spirit. Thus we see that it has been a matter of cooperation throughout, and that in cooperating the parties included have achieved an excellent success.

The next and last game is with Wake Forest. There have been ten lean years in Davidson’s football relations with this school. It seems that this is the year to break this jinx, if it may be called that. To accomplish this it is necessary that the student body, the coaches, and the team concentrate their thoughts and efforts on this one game. A victory over the Deacons would be a fitting close to the football careers of those Seniors who are playing their last game for Davidson and a suitable conclusion to an exceptional season.

A NEW PRESIDENT’S IDEAS

The University of North Carolina is to be congratulated on their new President, Dr. Frank Graham, who was inaugurated on Armistice Day. The inauguration brought together leading educators of the state and of the nation. Dr. W. L. Lingle spoke for the other educational institutions of the state in a welcome to Dr. Graham.

In his inaugural address, the new President expressed his ideas in regard to freedom in a college or university. A part of his talk follows:

“Freedom in a university runs a varied course and has a wide meaning. It means the freedom of students with their growing citizenship to govern themselves in campus affairs, and the right of lawful assembly and free discussions by any students from anywhere on any issues and any views whatsoever.

“For the faculty, freedom means the right of the faculty to control the curriculum, scholastic standards, and especially matters pertaining to intellectual excellence; to teach and speak freely, not as propagandists, but as scholars and seekers for the truth with a sense of responsibility to the truth for the teacher’s part in the development of the whole youthful personality; to organize their own independent association for discussion and statement of views, and as an organic part of the university help shape university policies by votes, representation, advice, and, may we hope, a larger sharing in the life of the university and the people of the state.”

In both of these views on freedom, Dr. Graham strikes a phase of college life which is up to standard in few of the colleges of the state; and Davidson is not among the leaders in this line.

Collegiate Ramblings

J. E. Lake
Erskine

“One of the most noticeable characteristics which we observe when we come in contact with Davidson students is their fine, outstanding sportsmanship. They have the virtuous habit of giving their visiting teams not only a square deal but also a warm handshake which serves to make the visitors feel that they are friends although opponents on the athletic field.

“Just for the sake of interest, let me give you an example. At the Davidson-Erskine football game, one of the Davidson cheerleaders noticed the pep and enthusiasm which our own cheerleaders had, and instead of developing a fit of jealousy, he came running over to the Erskine cheerleading section bringing one of their own large megaphones and handed it over to the Erskine cheerleaders.

“We commend Davidson for its fine spirit, and we hope that the Erskine students will show a similar spirit of good sportsmanship toward their visiting teams.”

Washington and Lee

Billy Howell, who is W. & L.’s main bid for national golf fame and prominence, was placed third on the ranking amateur golfers of America and of the world as picked by the Associated Press. He is below Francis Ouimet, who is National Amateur Golf Champion, and T. Phillip Perkins, the great British star, and rates above Don Moe, the Western star, Jack Westland, the Chicagoan who made such a hit in the past National Amateur, Maurice McCarthy, former Intercollegiate Champion, George Dunlap, a golfer of no mean ability, Charles Seaver, the great Western golf and football star, George Voigt, one of the leading players of the country, and Arthur Yates, who made such a stir in the Canadian Open and the National Amateur. This is quite an honor to the South and to W. & L. Perhaps we have a second Bobby Jones in this young man from Virginia.

Georgia Tech

Down at this institution, famous for its great football teams, especially the 1928 team, a very peculiar and daring thing occurred during the elections. There were six ballot boxes distributed in the various buildings on the campus for the votes. Five of these boxes were collected and the votes counted and the authorities thought that the box had been picked up by one of their number and would soon be in. But such was not the case, for after waiting about two or three days they came to the conclusion that it had been stolen. This misdemeanor by some member of the student body will cause the running over of the elections at Tech.

Catawba College

“Time and again we become involved in various discussions with our friends, which either lead to some sarcastic ending with both parties concerned satisfied that they have gained their point, or...An ending which is reached with both parties trying to evaluate the convictions of the other fellow in accord with his own philosophy of life. When such discussions take place we are prone to alter many of our former opinions before we question the sagacity of the other party.

"In the code of ethics which we practice today there is no double standard—a thing is right, or a thing is wrong. When our campus problems arise every day, let us be reminded of this ethical fact. Issues will be presented and discussion will grow out of their presentation, and we must face these problems with convictions that must be right or wrong. If the other fellow has some 'right' on his side, why not adopt it as your own to counteract much of the 'wrong' which is in all of us? It has been said and written that a wise man changes his mind, but we would add that he is wise indeed, when this change is for the better.

"The next time that you engage in a verbal interchange of ideas, think of the right and wrong side before you change your mind or form any definite convictions."

What Do You Think?

Arthur Brisbane says that Washington is the official worrier of the world. Well, one doesn’t have to think very long to realize that they have plenty to worry about. A famous astronomer has recently included in a treatise on the stars the statement that astronomy has not yet discovered what keeps the stars shining. A bright friend tells us that press agents and advertising agents have a lot to do with it.

When King Carol was Crown Prince of Roumania he was willing to give up his wife and child and a throne for a woman, but now that his position has changed, he is in a towering rage because his brother, Prince Nicholas, has married a young woman from a commoner’s family.

Armistice Day speakers who saw peace making headway did not see it headed toward a certain place in China called Manchuria.

A moving picture actor is quoted as saying “a man can love more than one woman at a time. He can divide his affections and yet feel absolutely loyal to both women.” A man who lives in the land of make-believe might fool himself with that sort of thing but he can’t fool the women. And they know about such things.

There may be more tourists on the road during this depression period, but the large majority of them are afoot with a thumb sticking out. Fogs and smoke hamper travel by the air; dust on the roads makes automobile travel dangerous; but as long as the signals work the trains on the steel rails can move along in comparative safety and know where they are going.

A British scientist estimates that an earthquake of just average size generates heat equal to that produced by burning more than 3,000 tons of coal. Mongols who live in the Gobi Desert raise no farm crops but live almost entirely on meat and dairy products.

The longest outdoor newsstand in the world extends over one-half block of a regular-sized Los Angeles city block.

“This above all: to thine own self be true,” said Polonius to his son Laertes in “The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark,” by William Shakespeare.

Libraries throughout the nation will join in the commemoration of National Book Week which commenced last Sunday, November 15, and which will continue through Saturday, November 21. The central theme for the observance of National Book Week this year will be “Round the World in Children’s Books.”

Hubert F. Lee, one of the foremost newspaper editors of the South, wrote a letter to Owen D. Young informing him that he had been approached to head a South-wide movement to organize “Owen D. Young for President” clubs and asking Young’s reaction to the subject. Here is Young’s reply:

“Dear Mr. Lee: Time and again during the last few months I have said I would not favor any movement through clubs or otherwise to promote my nomination as President.

“I have said that I have no desire or thought of entering politics under any circumstances and my disappointment is that people who seem to think that I am qualified for the Presidency still persist in disbelieving my statements.

“I should think that one of the first qualifications for the Presidency would be not only to tell the truth, but to have all people believe that you told the truth.

“Of course, however logical that may be, one can, humanly speaking, easily forgive the inconsistency which contains the compliment that they believe you able to hold the greatest office in the land.

“So I thank you for the compliment, and thank you to do nothing.”

“Signed: Owen D. Young.”

Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings...

Duncan McBryde

BITE-A-BONE Presents for your entertainment: “ATHLETES’ FETE” (Sequel to none)

SEWWING! IN A MORRIS CHAIR SCENARIO? BY CHANCE DIRECTED BY MUSIC BY ANGLO-SAXOPHONE SERENADERS

CAST Dramatis Personae: Casino: Count of Monte Carlo Mike Huntry—(’Tis of thee) Radio Announcer Duke of Illyria Brother of Malaria Ben Wurkin A.B., '97, University of Athens Alice Ben Thunder-Bolt Co-ed, Same University

(Time—Daylight Saving, B.C. 196) (Place—Hemlock 3775)

ACT ONE (OR MORE)

Mike: Good Morning-glory! This performance comes to you through the courtesy of the Atlas Axle-Grease Company (“We Grease all GREECE”), and is sponsored by the Department of American History, of the University of Athens. This is Station XXX, the original home of light wines and beer. The performance begins! Please stand by.

Duke: And in the face of all this depression, O Casino, what would’st recommend?

Casino (Sings softly): “And let the rest of the world go buy—”

Duke: Ruffian! Woulds’t make a fool of me?

Casino: No, m’lord, I never try to interfere with nature.

Ben: (Running up) Hail, O Peers of the Harbour of Athens! Sad news!

Duke: Speak, lad. What grievance now mars thy school girl complexion?

Ben: O, sir, Homer is very Iliad—near the point of death.

Casino: That’s Odyssey. And who is Homer?

Ben: My prize pigeon, sir; and a good one at that.

Casino: (Censored). (Fire ALARUM. Excited firemen rush hither and yon, seeking fire.)

Duke: And where, prithee, is all this fire?

Ben: O, sir, ’tis but the co-eds of good old Athens U. School is out.

ACT TWO (Scene: I Tappa Keg, Sorority house. Enter Ben and Alice. Ben is an H. A., Horticultural Architect):

Alice: But, Ben, have you no end in view?

Ben: Aye, sure, May the 31st. (Strange Interlude)

Alice: Ben! (Silence falls on the surroundings, and breaks down three rose bushes.)

Ben (Coming out of the bushes): Alice! Do you believe in love at first sight?

Alice: No, I have astigmatism. (Exeunt omnes)

ACT THREE (A Turkish Bath. Enter Duke and Casino)

Duke (Paying for the bath): Zounds! They sure soak you here.

Casino (Combing his hair): Ah, the plot thickens. The hair restorer works!

Duke (Changing the subject, and giving Casino the change): How is your son getting along at the University?

Casino: By my trough, he does remind me of a kerosene lamp.

Duke: And how is that?

Casino: He is not very bright; he is often turned down; he generally smokes; and he frequently goes out at night. (Exit)

ACT FOUR (At this point the action becomes so complicated, and the technique so intricate, that it has been omitted. Let it suffice to say that, while Casino and the Duke are out on the Plains of Marathon, engaged in quoits (they are bootleggers and have just delivered 12 quoits to a prominent citizen in Athens), the papal bull breaks out and, charging upon them from the rear, tramples on them, and leaves them mangled, to die a horrible death, introducing the first tragical element of the evening. At this point it is revealed that the Duke is the father of Alice, and Casino the father of Ben).

ACT FIVE (Rose Garden at Alice’s Home. Enter Ben and Alice)

Alice: Is it true, O Ben, that thy father died of hard drink?

Ben: Yes, a big block of ice fell on him, so they say.

Alice (After a long silence): Why are you so cold, my love, on a night like this, when we are together? Do I not please you? A silent tongue bespeaks a sorrowful heart. Tell me all, dear one.

Ben (Trembling with emotion): Words fail me, Alice, in describing the great love I have for you. But there is something I have kept a secret from you. I am disqualified! I cannot go on like this. I—I have, heaven help me, I have—ATHLETES’ FOOT! My fate is sealed. “Hence, vain, deluding joys Alice!” (Stabs self).

Alice: Oh! My love! My love! This heart cannot contain the sorrow it knows. Oh, that I were dead! (At this point the curtain falls on the despairing heroine. She expires)

THIS IS THE LIMIT