THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1931

Intercollegiate News

San Jose, Calif—(Intercollegiate Press and Pacific Weekly)—Records a half-century old were discovered here when workmen landscaping a portion of the
old College of Pacific campus, now occupied by the Bellarmine Preparatory School, cracked a sandstone block which they were to
use for ornamental purposes on the grounds. The discovery was dramatically accidental, coming after a soldered copper box, embedded in
mortar, dropped out of a niche in the stone which had been unnoticed since the old East Hall of the
college was torn down several years ago.

The foundations of the old building had been searched for the records when the Catholic institution had the hall razed
after purchasing the site of the old college campus, but at the time the cornerstone and its contents could not
be found. According to authorities of the Bellarmine School, the papers contained in the box are well preserved and will
be sent to the College of Pacific at Stockton, Calif., as most of the documents pertain to the early history
of that institution. The College of Pacific is the oldest college or university in the Far West, having been founded
in 1851, at San Jose.

Walla Walla, Wash.—(IP)—A collection of modern coins with strange names and designs was recently presented to the Whitman College museum
by Stephen B. L. Penrose, Jr., who has just returned from Beirut, Syria, where he has been teaching in an
American college since his graduation from Whitman. The museum now has a complete set of modern coins from twelve European
countries, as well as an extensive collection of both ancient and modern coins from China. Several months ago a collection
of ancient coins was presented by Rev. James Lyman. They range in time from 300 B.C. to 300 A.D. and
are largely Greek and Roman.

New York—(IP)—Speaking before the session of the Institute of Arts and Sciences here, Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, president of Columbia
University, warned that nations must develop national and international consciousness, or go over the precipice of destruction of civilization. The
world is at an important climax right now, he said, with the future depending a great deal on present-day leadership.

Should We Abolish Football Scouting?

Although football scouting has come in for much discussion and criticism during the past few years, it is almost unanimously
agreed among the nation’s foremost coaches that the practice is a benefit to the game, according to Les Gage in
an article, “Abolish Football Scouting?” published in the December College Humor. The old statement that “football would be more interesting
for the spectator if the coach would cease to worry about what the opposition will do, or fail to do,
next Saturday, and devote all his time and thought on preparation of his own squad for the game” is disproved
in a number of instances. General opinion on the subject, from the statements of a number of coaches, brings to
light that football scouting as a practice can be successfully eliminated. The point that the practice, properly controlled, is a
benefit rather than an evil is also made.

On the subject of killing the practice of football scouting, Heartly Anderson, Notre Dame’s new coach, says: “Alumni and friends,
attending other games during the course of a season, will not refrain from sending charts and information to the head
coach at their alma mater.” In the opinion of “Rip” Miller, Navy coach, scouting gives the weaker teams an opportunity
to build their defenses, and tends to equalize competition. “Chick” Meehan states: “It is not uncommon to see ten or
twelve scouts seated together in the press box at any of N.Y.U.’s games and I am convinced that scouting, when
done in an ethical and sportsmanlike manner, makes it possible for the public to see more interesting football.” Dick Hanley,
Northwestern coach, also favors the scouting system. He says: “Legitimate scouting provides for planned offense and defense, and gives us
the skillful game we have today rather than a hit and miss scramble. There are advantages to be gained by
all concerned. What if one of my scouts reports that a kicker is slow in getting his punts away? And
then we are successful in blocking some of them? That kicker will profit thereby, for he will learn to get
his kicks away more quickly. What if we find a ball carrier who can run in only one direction, and
stop him? That player will learn from experience that he has neglected one phase of the game.”

MASQUERS GUESTS OF LITTLE THEATRE OF CHARLOTTE

Through the courtesy of the Little Theatre of Charlotte, the cast of “Bound East for Cardiff” were invited Monday and
Tuesday evenings to witness their performance of the one-act play, which was given at the regular Workshop meeting. The Masquers
were well impressed with the presentation, especially the stage setting and acting.

College Calendar

Nov. 4—Wednesday, 9:00 P.M.—Freshman entertainment in social center.
Nov. 6—Friday, 2:30 P.M.—Football game. Freshmen vs. Presbyterian Junior College.
8:00 P.M.—Mr. Douglas Booth, International Relations Club speaker, will speak in Chambers.
Nov. 7—Saturday, 11:30 A.M.—Davidson vs. V.P.I., cross-country meet to end in front of stadium.
2:30 P.M.—Football game, Davidson vs. The Citadel.
7:30 P.M.—Red and Black Masquers’ plays in Chambers.
Nov. 8—Sunday, 6:00 P.M.—Dr. John McSween to speak at Vespers.
Nov. 10—Tuesday, 7:15 P.M.—Literary societies meet in their respective halls.

Committee to Purchase Equipment for Library

Addition of Books and Equipment for Library Made Possible by Carnegie Foundation

For the past two years the Carnegie Foundation has donated the college $5,000 for the exclusive purpose of purchasing...Additional books
for the library. This gift was promised for a period of five years, therefore this will make the third donation
of the Carnegie Fund. Last Monday night the Library Committee met to draw up a list of the books to
be bought with the 1931-32 installment. This list includes material for the use of the various departments as well as
general literature. It will be submitted to the Foundation and the order filled as soon as possible. Up until now
a few books have been added, most of which are departmental. These were purchased from the fund regularly set aside
by the college, a fund entirely independent of that of the Carnegie Foundation. This, of course, has not been exhausted
and will be drawn upon later to obtain more departmental material as well as some general literature. The following is
a list of the rather recent purchases:

Novels—Master Skylark, John Bennett; S. S. San Pedro, James G. Cozzens; Susan Spray, Sheila K. Smith; Father, Elizabeth.

Non-fictional—The Eastern Color of the Bible, George H. Scherer; A Scientific Investigation of the Old Testament, Robert D. Wilson; A
Lawyer and the Bible, I. H. Linton; The Christ of the Mount, E. Stanley Jones; Dynamite, Louis Adamic; The Himalayan
Letters, Gypsy Davy and Lady Ba; A History of our institution.

Y. M. C. A. SENDS LARGE GROUPS (Continued from page 1)

The Banner Elk institution has twice been recipient of funds from Davidson through the Y. M. C. A., which carries
on a campaign every spring to raise some money, so as to help some phase of home or foreign mission
work. Among the active deputation groups were Grier Martin, who spoke to the Young Men’s Bible Class at Barium Springs,
and a group which had charge of the Sunday evening service at McKinnon Presbyterian Church, at Concord. Lyman Clardy was
leader of this service, at which Riley Powell gave a talk, and George Pardington sang.

DRAMATIC CLUB (Continued from page 1)

The psychology of the mind, the reading of nonsense dreams, and finding of “Suppressed Desires,” from which the play derives
its name, cannot help to keep it from being one of the most screamingly clever presentations ever put on the
Davidson stage. Its cast is:

Henrietta - Miss C. Moffet
Mr. Brewster - H. MacFadyen
Mabel - Miss M. Gaffney
Director - D. Calder
Stage Manager - E. A. Hancock

As usual, the make-up will be done by Johnny Marvin and his assistants.

FOOTBALL USED WHEN ’CATS DEFEATED GEORGIA TECH (Continued from page 4)

Sherard, Manager. Brewin, Coach. In his letter, Dr. Sherard also threw an interesting light on the financing of a football
team in those days when he wrote, “I have forgotten the amounts, but financially the team ended up in the
hole. The manager in those days was made responsible. My recollection is that I came out a couple of hundred
dollars behind and remained so.” Lunsford Richardson, '14, made a contribution last fall when he gave to Davidson the football
used to defeat the University of North Carolina, 6 to 0, in 1910, the first time that Davidson ever was
victorious over Carolina, and the first state championship that a Davidson football team won.

DR. A. S. JOHNSON (Continued from page 1)

What do you do when you're alone?—for in the end all camouflage will be swept aside, and we will be
judged by what we are. It is the man in his innermost personality as he stands before God, for ‘as
he thinketh within himself, so is he.” William Rule led the singing and Grier Martin the scripture and introduced the
speaker. The Varsity quartet, composed of Morris, W. Rule, E. DuBose, and D. McClain sang “My Anchor Holds.” Dr. Walter
Lingle dismissed the assembly with a prayer.

"It's a Truly Modern Cigarette"

"I'm certainly grateful for Lucky Strike. It's a truly modern cigarette for it gives me modern throat protection. And your
improved Cellophane wrapper is wonderfully modern, too. It opens without any coaxing—a flip of the little tab and there are
my Luckies."

That LUCKY tab! Moisture-Proof Cellophane. Sealed tight—Ever right. The Unique Humidor Package. Zip—And it’s open! See the new notched tab
on the top of the package. Hold down one half with your thumb. Tear off the other half. Simple. Quick.
Zip! That’s all. Unique! Wrapped in dust-proof, moisture-proof, germ-proof Cellophane. Clean, protected, neat, FRESH!—what could be more modern than LUCKIES’
improved Humidor package—so easy to open! Ladies—the LUCKY TAB is your finger nail protection.

“It’s toasted” Your Throat Protection—against irritation—against cough And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh

TUNE IN—The Lucky Strike Dance Hour, every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday evening over N.B.C. networks.

Made of the finest tobaccos—the Cream of many Crops—LUCKY STRIKE alone offers the throat protection of the exclusive “TOASTING” Process
which includes the use of modern Ultra Violet Rays—the process that expels certain harsh, biting irritants naturally present in every
tobacco leaf. These expelled irritants are not present in your LUCKY STRIKE. “They’re out—so they can’t be in!” No wonder
LUCKIES are always kind to your throat.

Miss Young's Statement Paid For? You may be interested in knowing that not one cent was paid to Miss Young
to make the above statement. Miss Young has been a smoker of LUCKY STRIKE cigarettes for 4 years. We hope
the publicity herewith given will be as beneficial to her and to First National, her producers, as her endorsement of
LUCKIES is to you and to us. Copr., 1931, The American Tobacco Co.
