**THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 7, 1931**

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief
D. GRIER MARTIN

Business Manager
P. WAY

Managing Editor
M. CON

Managing Editor
FRGUMRRAN

Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Athletic Editor
Feature Editor
Feature Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
M. MANSON - Assistant Business Manager
L. MEBAN - Assistant Business Manager
W. R. MORROW - Subscription Manager
W. R. WILLIAMS - Assistant Business Manager
W. R. MORROW - Subscription Manager
W. R. WILLIAMS - Solicitor
W. R. WILLIAMS - Solicitor
W. R. WILLIAMS - Solicitor
W. R. WILLIAMS - Solicitor
W. R. WILLIAMS - Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President
Vice-President
Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
H. COVINGTON
R. B. TAYLOR
L. S. GAMBLE
G. F. BAILEY
R. E. LORRAINE
J. E. BOYD
L. POWELL
S. P. PRESTON
R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
A. F. SCHENCK
C. CASALT
W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. CLARDY, JR.
W. T. THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAMS
J. A. HUNTER

OCTOBER 7, 1931

PARAGRAPHICS

“Y” Vespers have always been recognized as playing an important part of our campus life, but rarely before have we
received such an interesting and uplifting service as Prof. Foreman delivered to us in the open forum. Let’s have more
of this type.

Those Wildcats certainly demonstrated that fighting spirit in Lexington to come through with a win when practically all the critics
in the state failed to concede them a chance.

This weekend we will have a chance to avenge the one-point defeat handed to us last year by V. P.
I.

A lot of credit should be given to Ernest Milton for having the wire from Lexington connected directly to our
gymnasium, thereby giving us the chance to get the play-by-play reports which would be impossible to get otherwise.

MAKING USE OF ONE’S OPPORTUNITIES

Such an article as this, found on the editorial page of a college paper such as the “Davidsonian,” might, on
first thought, seem a little misdirected, when it is generally conceded that college students, especially those of Davidson, usually make
use of their opportunities. The fact that students come to this or any other institution of higher learning is an
argument in itself that these young men are endeavoring with all their might to make the most of any opportunities
that perchance may come their way. This is partially, but not altogether true in most cases.

It is pointed out by many, and is generally accepted, that one of the advantages of a small college is
the opportunity to know the members of the faculty of the institution and the officers connected with it, whereas in
a large university the students have no contact whatsoever with any of their professors. In many instances, the luminaries who
give the reputation to the institution do not even conduct classes but have their assistants do this while they spend
most of their time in doing research work of various kinds.

This is not the case at Davidson. Our faculty is recognized as one of the best in the South, and
it is to the faculty of this institution and not to the students that the credit for Davidson’s high rating
scholastically among American colleges and universities is to be given. The members of our faculty, also, desire to know the
students outside of the classroom and to have the students call upon them in their homes, yet comparatively few make
use of the opportunity. Aside from the social aspect of this, which would lend variety to a great many of
our lives while at Davidson, there is much which can be gotten in educational lines, not in the same sense
that we would get it in class. Most of the faculty members have traveled much more extensively than a majority
of the students here and take pleasure in recounting their travels. The student can also gain a great deal in
the way of advice on many questions while he is away from home. Many of us have not yet decided
on our life work. While this is a question that each one must decide for himself, yet it is a
question that no one can obtain too much advice about, and the faculty members are always more than glad to
give any help they can along those lines.

As we have already stated before, there are many students on the campus who do know the faculty of Davidson
rather intimately, but there is a larger majority who do not. These are the ones who are missing a vital
part of their college life, especially of our life at Davidson, where the faculty all live in such a small
radius and are all so eager to meet the students outside of a scholastic way. When we come back as
alumni, unless we know the faculty members, Davidson will seem a strange place to us. They will really be the
only link between us and the days we spent on the campus, because it will be a rare thing indeed
to meet a classmate on the campus when we come back to visit the college. This is a fact that
we will realize more ten years from now than we do now. It is to the Freshmen primarily that this
is directed as the upperclass are already cognizant of the facts.

E. O. GUERRANT.

DREAMS FOR DAVIDSON

Whatever and wherever a person may be, it is only human that dreams of the future should be among the
predominant thoughts of his mind. However successful a man is, or whatever his achievements are, his capacities are never fully
realized; there are always numerous things for him to look forward to accomplishing. These dreams or reveries may or may
not be helpful and useful to a person. Final judgment rests on his action resulting from these ideals that he
has set up in his dreaming. If he spends his life in vague dreaming—that life will probably not be worth
a great deal. On the other hand, if he follows dreams and ideals up with thought and action of the
right type, they will be both inspiring and helpful.

Most of the previous paragraph is theory. Let us come a little closer to reality. Much that has been done
at Davidson College has been the result of dreams and ideals that some person or group has had for the
institution. Here again we find action as the keynote of the whole process. Through the faith and perseverance in the
carrying through of the hopes and ambitions that these men have had, and in this way only, has a new
and greater Davidson been built, following the burning of the Old Chambers Building. We can realize the extent of their
work only by the results they have achieved.

Thus it seems fitting that there should be dreams of the future for a still greater Davidson in the hearts
of her sons; and only right that these hopes should, to some extent, be expressed. Numerous are the improvements that
can readily be brought to mind. Most of these are physical needs for the campus; the majority of them are
in the college program for future consideration. A few of them will be briefly mentioned. These are certainly not original
thoughts, but merely expressions of what has been brought out before.

As a Christian school, run by the Presbyterian Church, Davidson needs a new and finer church. More than once in
the past this inadequacy in a place of worship has been brought out; and progress has been made to remedy
the situation. It is to be hoped that within a few years Davidson will be the recipient of a new
place of worship.

For many years the profits from the Students’ Store have been set aside for use in the construction of a
swimming pool for the college. This is a worthy cause, for Davidson is one of the few colleges of its
standing in the country which does not have a pool. A newer plan is for a field house with a
pool below.

The building of new additions to the stadium, the construction of a dormitory to replace the barracks, and the enlarging
of the library are all physical improvements to be carried out in the future. But the thing which to me
seems to be the one which all Davidson men should hold closest to their hearts is not a physical thing.
Its accomplishment does not rest on the generosity of alumni or upon any financial gifts. It is a thing which
the student body alone, through its own efforts, can accomplish. I am referring to that most intangible thing so often
expressed as the spirit of Davidson. In various ways this same thing has been ridiculed to the utmost by many
other schools and by the press and the public in general. To prevent any such thing happening on this campus
is a task for every man of Davidson. It is not a thing that can be accomplished by any one
individual, nor even by any one group; it must be done collectively by the whole student body. We are not
here saying that this spirit is not as strong as it has been in the past, but that it is
the sacred duty and privilege of every son of Davidson to develop this feeling to the utmost extent. That we
consider the highest ideal that a man can hold for the further advancement of his Alma Mater.

EXCHANGE

The following quotation from A. F. of L. Weekly News Service was found in The Old Gold and Black, the
paper of Wofford College, which has the same name as the Wake Forest paper except that the “The” is left
off the Wake Forest paper:

“Indolence and Deference are man’s greatest foes. By Indolence is meant man’s disposition to let someone else do for him
what he should do for himself. This inaction is more pronounced when men are called upon to think.

“Nothing is more troublesome to the averageman. He is pleased to be saved this effort. He accepts second-hand opinions because
this is easier than to form independent judgments. The indolent man is mentally lazy. He yields to a strong-willed man.
“By deference is meant man’s willingness to accept the views of those whom he secretly considers his superiors.”

“Men may be educated, but if they lack willpower they are found in the ranks of indolence and deference. As
a social force they are nil. They are only noticed by vote hunters and the census taker.”

“Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryde

We hate to inflict the following poem on you, since it has been in the Davidsonian before, but you know
the old saying, “Poetry repeats itself.” Since football is in the air, you will probably be interested in

PARLOR FOOTBALL

The football game was over
And at the parlor grate
A maiden and a long-haired youth
Were ling’ring rather late.

They talked of punts and drop-kicks,
But found it rather tame
’Til Cupid put his nose guard on,
And started in the game.

Quoth he, “It’s rather funny
If I don’t arrange a match”
So then he lined the couple up
And made them toe the scratch.

The youth was growing nervous
’Neath the weight of new-found bliss,
And he rather thought the scrimmage
Should end with a kiss.

He charged the center.
He tackled left and right
And the way he held that chair for downs
Was simply out of sight.

He next tried osculation
Just an amateur affair,
But lost it on a fumble
And instead it struck the air.

Then as he landed on her ear
He heard his “opponent” say,
“You're penalized for holding Jim, likewise for off-side play.”

With set teeth he tried another,
This time succeeded fine,
For he made an easy touchdown
On the crimson two-yard line.

And as they sat there by the grate
Communing soul to soul,
The parlor door swung open,
And her father kicked the goal.

If you have any poems along football lines (or sidelines) won't you send them in? We will give to each
one contributing such, a cigarette lighter and a metal coat hanger (haw, haw—a match and a nail).

And now we hasten to prevent, I mean present, a short short story by Bill Carter, Junior (But no, he’s
a Senior). But as I was saying before I started—The name of this story, which incidentally has no connection with
the story, is

“THE BRIGHT STUDENT, or THE LIGHT THAT FAILED NOT” (In the jocular vein)

There are some characteristics of a policeman which are very arresting. At times he is most irresistible. Even the law
suit which he wears does not fit him, and his own (suit) receives him not.

The law was on the trail of an escaped death cell. A dark-haired, blue-eyed reward had been offered for the
return of the death cell, but no one had taken the offer seriously, save the law who was in dire
need of funds. Thus early one morning about ten o'clock the law was seen entering a grocery store close on
the trail (of the Lonesome Pine). Someone had tipped him off to a quarter (heh, heh—a Latin quarter), and he
had skillfully woven a fish net about the unsuspecting victim.

“What do you do to pass the time away in here?” asked the law, not unpleasantly.

The clerk behind the counter retorted, “I’ve been waiting on customers for twenty years, but the customers never come.”

“Humph,” humphed the law, suppressing a button, “you're undertaking a bad business.”

“You mean undertaking is a bad business, copper old coin!” said he, stifling a mob—a gob—no no I mean a
sob.

“Have a care?” proffered the law.

“Don’t care if I do. Try some of my Stranger Rough Cut Tobacco.”

The clerk was a little pale face, but he held his hosses well. Then, thinking he would get on the
good side of the law, he walked around to the other side, and smiled: “I hear you’re a cracked member
of the force.”

The law chuckled: “I'll put you in—”

Crash! A big tub hit the floor with a squash—the squash being broken.

“Hey,” perked the clerk, “whassamatta?”

“Sorry, boss—that old tub wasn’t any good, anyway,” said someone, “I have been expecting it to drop in most any
minute.”

“Say!” leered the law, “are you referring to me?”

“Why law no,” chirped the clerk.

The law motioned to a door in the rear: “office, sir?”

“No, you're the officer,” gibbered the glib gent.

OPEN FORUM

To the Editor,

Dear Sir:

If you will grant me the privilege, I should like to make a brief observation which is prompted by the
leader in your Editorial Section of last week, ably written by one of your staff. I am a very lonely
old man, but I have spent much of my life in observing people, customs, and manners; and now as the
path of my declining years grows short, I make bold to proffer a little advice here, a suggestion there, and
occasionally a warning, but all in the meekest way.

What I have to say pertains not to Extra-Curricular Activities but to social life, that subtle determinant in the success
of an individual. Your editorialist wisely adduced scholarship and extra-curricular activity as indispensable attributes of a well-rounded citizen. I wish
to go beyond that and suggest the necessity of a normal social life to educe from every student normal self-expression.

Fraternities are a great thing. To the inviting atmosphere of their several houses some two hundred members of the student
body can repair to get away, so to speak, from the grind of books, whenever it becomes such, and to
escape ennui and the noise and bustle of dormitory life. On certain weekends, it has not escaped my notice, men
belonging to fraternities invite guests to their houses, especially fair members of the opposite sex (Oh, I was young once!),
where they can be suitably entertained. If that sort of thing is not overdone, normal social intercourse is at its
height. The student is lifted from the atmosphere of grind, ennui, and coarse clamor to an environment where gentility, refinement,
and manners are essential, and in which even the most slovenly and reticent must learn to express himself and make
at least an acquaintance with social etiquette.

After a house party, I imagine those two hundred men must return to their books and classes mentally refreshed and
under less compulsion. And so throughout their four years of college, it is scarcely possible that they can be burdened
with a sense of inferiority arising in the case of one who sees no release, because they can anticipate that
release or escape (in the sense that people regard literature as an escape from the drabness of life). And I
will wager that you will not find many men who exercise their fraternity life normally, despondent over prospects after college.
Yes, fraternities, properly used, are a great thing. And the two hundred men who enjoy them should appreciate the fact.

But sometimes when I am walking alone at night to my garret room in the house down the road, I
stop in my unsteady thoughtful stride and looking back at the gaily lighted fraternity houses, say to myself, “A great
thing—but what about the other four hundred?”

MORIBUNDUS.

WHAT DO YOU THINK?

The New York professor who said that only morons whistle has started something. From all over the world come protests
that some of its leading lights whistle. Among them are Premier Mussolini of Italy and Senator Borah of our own
United States. As a matter of fact, this world right now needs more whistlers. Whistling is a sign that one
is feeling good and happy. When some people were boys, there was an often quoted line, where it came from
we do not remember, which said, “It is better to whistle than whine.” More whistling and less whining, say we.

Property loss from fires in the United States last year is estimated at $500,000,000, while deaths and injuries to men,
women, and children exceeded 35,000. It is stated that a majority of the losses to life and property were the
result of carelessness, and a lack of preventive measures. This is a terrible toll to be levied against the country,
and is impossible enough, it would seem, to make everyone more careful about fires. This week is National Fire Prevention
Week. Every householder and property owner, every tenant, all of us, should enlist in the campaign to as far as
possible remove the causes of costly and fatal blazes. The annual fire loss is one of our greatest national wastes.

In London, Ontario, where potatoes sell for fifty cents a bag, farmers are offering to give half to those who
will dig them. And at that, we’ll wager there are hungry, jobless people in Ontario who will have no potatoes.

Those who are directly interested in aviation are exulting over the fact that in the present year more than 250
persons have crossed the oceans in air travel and only nine lives have been lost. The Graf Zeppelin in its
several crossings of the Atlantic accounted for near 200 of the number. In 1927, 17 persons lost their lives in
attempting to cross the Atlantic while only 16 got across.

The law was taken aback in a little room where he recovered his head after he mopped up with his
brow. He whipped out his pistol as a queer looking person came in, but the man couldn't see the point.

“And who are you?” he axed the man.

“I am, yours truly, John Doe.”

“I have been looking for you far and wide; and I find that you are short and very narrow,” lilted
the law, as he cut him short with sharp words.

“Meet your end,” warbled the warden, wax-like.

“Glad to meet you,” piped the prisoner.

“Power to you,” said the executioner, at the command of execution, as he pulled the switch—(off his aunt’s head).

(Well, as the law said when he got out of town, “THIS IS THE LIMIT,” and we hope you liked
the story. Mr. Carter will be in Rumple to sign all autographs.)

Written this Twelfth Night, September 1931, A.D. (All Done) Q. E. D.
