THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 21, 1931

New History Magazine Published by Clarence Griffin of Forest City

Initial Issue of North Carolina Historical and Genealogical Record Will Appear Soon

Forest City, N. C.—The initial issue of The North Carolina Historical and Genealogical Record will be mailed to subscribers soon. This is a quarterly magazine, published at Forest City, and is devoted to the recording and dissemination of North Carolina history and genealogy, and more particularly to local history. The new magazine will feature local history articles, unpublished letters and manuscripts, and genealogical material pertaining to North Carolina. Every section of the state will be represented in each issue, thereby making it a magazine for the entire state, rather than one of local interest.

Contributors to the initial issue include Col. Fred A. Olds, Miss Gertrude Carraway, Louis T. Moore, Mrs. Maude Minish Sutton, and a number of other well-known North Carolina writers of historical subjects. Genealogical sketches appearing in the first issue include those of the Wiseman family, the Hutchins, and others. In all, a total of nine articles appear in the October issue, covering a wide range of subjects, periods, and sections of the state.

The magazine is published by Clarence Griffin, county historian of Rutherford County, and news editor of the Forest City Courier, of Forest City. Mr. Griffin has long been active in historical and genealogical work, and is recognized as one of the outstanding historians of North Carolina. He was vice-president of the North Carolina Literary and Historical Society in 1929.

The subscription rate of The North Carolina Historical and Genealogical Record is $1.00 per year. Due to the expenses incident to publishing such a magazine, no sample copies will be mailed. Single copies may be procured for 35 cents each. Subscriptions should be received by September 15 to ensure receipt of the first issue.

BRILLIANT ATTACK SHOWN (Continued from page 1)

a pass, but the pass did not connect and fell over the goal line. The Wildcats’ last bid for a score had failed. The half was brought to the 20-yard line, and Duke completed a long pass which gained them 35 yards. Jones was forced out of bounds on Davidson’s 45-yard line as the game ended. As statistics go, both teams were about even and each displayed a great game of football, and fought to the very finish.

The line-ups:
Duke (0) Pos. Davidson (0)
Crawford LE. Raker (c)
Bryan LT. Wagner
Horton LG. Barrier
Adkins Center Gardner
Werner RG. Conway
Friedman RT. Whitfield
Rogers RE. Johnston
Erschler QB. King
Brownlee LH. Pearce
Mason RH. Peabody
Brewer (c) FB. MacQueen

Score by quarters:
Duke 0 0 0 0—0
Davidson 0 0 0 0—0

Substitutes: Duke, Shock for Werner; Mullin for Erschler; Hyatt for Rogers; Laney for Mason; Erschler for Mullin; Mason for Laney; James for Hyatt; Rogers for James; Carpenter for Friedman; Abbott for Brownlee; James for Rogers; Means for Carpenter; Sink for Brewer; Beleu for Abbott; Laney for Mason. Davidson, Mills for MacQueen; Flinn for Pearce; MacQueen for Mills; Pearce for Flinn; Mills for MacQueen.

Officials: Cheeves (Georgia), referee; Sebring (Kansas Aggies), umpire; Frew (W. and L.), head linesman; Hackney (North Carolina), field judge.

THREE DEPUTATIONS (Continued from page 1)

service, accompanied at the piano by Henry Hodgin. The third group of men visited the Sherrill’s Ford Presbyterian Church and had for its leader, White of the Freshman class. J. W. Fulton preached the regular Sunday morning sermon there, and W. A. Pate talked to the Bible class.

On Monday night, October 19, three members of the student body went to Charlotte to furnish entertainment at a Hi-Y banquet being held there. They were Henry Hodgin, pianist; Bradford McLean, tap dancer, and Frank Tucker, soloist. The Y. M. C. A. is planning an extensive program of deputations this year to represent the college in various churches throughout the state. This has always been an important phase of Y work and more emphasis is being placed on it than ever before.

Mr. Ely is one of the oldest and most prominent political economists living today. In his student days he obtained a number of degrees and studied in the leading universities of the world. He is at present the head of the American Bureau of Industrial Research; he was the first president of the American Association for Labor Legislation; he has been one of the founders and at the head of a number of other institutions in some field of economics and is the author of several books on economic problems. For thirty-three years he was professor of political economy at the University of Wisconsin, and now holds the chair of research of economics at Northwestern University. This, I think, is ample to show that he is a man who is recognized in his field as a leader.

Recently at every Kiwanis Club meeting or every gathering of business men the speaker of the hour explained to his audience the reason for this depression, how bad it is, and when it will be over. But these speakers usually differ in the diagnosis and the remedy of the situation, for they are only talking about an idea that they have, or some theory that they think might work. But not so here, Mr. Ely has lived through over three great panics, and has devoted his life to the study ofNot theories only, but the actual facts gathered from a vast amount of research work and statistics. First of all, Mr. Ely discusses the general cause of hard times with illustrations taken from American economic history. Next, in a very clear and reasonable way, he discusses the various economic institutions and attributes to each the part it plays in either bringing on or correcting hard times. Mr. Ely points out causes, which he calls the “seen” and the underlying, unobserved causes, which he calls the “unseen.” The fact that hard times are followed by greater economic development and unsurpassed prosperity seems to show that depressions are useful in the building of the economic system for the future and that in the long run they are beneficial to society taken as a whole. But what about the individual who makes up the society? His lifetime is but a short run compared with many men past the prime of life, who have built up a great business and expect it to furnish a living for the rest of their days, suddenly finds it all swept away. Mr. Ely presents to us a plan, based upon experiences, one taking into account the probable changes to come, by which the frequency and severity of hard times may be reduced, provided everyone plays his part. —C. E. MOORE.

HOME-COMING ADDRESS (Continued from page 1)

solid reality. “We also have fourteen new tennis courts, a golf course, and an efficient laundry, the latter which has a fine button puller, collar shredder, and a sock absorber.” The Davidson faculty member was likewise of the opinion that his colleagues had improved. “The faculty,” the speaker continued, “are more numerous, are younger on the average, better clad, and more athletic than they were fifty years ago. They are also better housed; formerly one could distinguish a professor’s house by the one which needed paint, and now the homes are artistically planned and built. The professors were in former times only from South Carolina and Tennessee, but now even Minnesota and New Hampshire are represented.” Then turning his compliments to the alumni themselves, he said, “They are healthier, as evidenced by their interest in athletics; wealthier, or they would have protested against the increasing of the annual dues to five dollars; and wiser, for many of them are now married, and their ranks are enlarged yearly by a hundred college seniors; if this latter will not increase their wiseness then nothing will.” He closed his address with the serious expression of the future of the college. “I hope,” he concluded, “that on the approach of her two hundredth, as well as her hundredth, birthday, Davidson's sons may still say, ‘These are the best years of her life: these are the golden years.’” After the conclusion of the address, President Lingle made some announcements, and the alumni remained for a short business meeting. Then a group picture was taken of the alumni on the steps of Chambers Building. Following this, a luncheon was served to the alumni in the banquet hall of Chambers.

TWO PLAYS WILL BE GIVEN (Continued from page 1)

Lemore. Both Simpson and Miss McLemore are from the Davidson High School, and both featured in last year's production, “Go Slow, Mary.” The second play is “The Monkey’s Paw,” a longer drama in three scenes, in which Miss Adele Arbuckle, Johnny Marvin, Grainger Williams, Fred Hellegers, and Horace Ervin are cast. The story is woven about a mystical monkey’s paw which is charmed by a Hindu priest to grant three wishes to three different people. An honest old English couple and their fond son become the third owner and put the paw to uses which will be revealed on Friday night. “The Mayor and the Manicure” has been under the direction of W. A. McKnight, a member of the Key Club, who took an important role in “The Perfect Alibi” last year, while H. W. Ervin has assumed responsibility for the other. Today both plays will be staged before Mr. Thomas B. Humble, director of the Little Theatre of Charlotte, who has just produced “Let Us Be Gay,” for his criticism. Mr. Humble, who has expressed an interest in Davidson dramatics, will be present Friday night with some of the cast of the Theatre’s latest play.

“Give me Lucky Strike Every Time”

“My throat is all important to me. No harsh irritants for yours truly. Give me Lucky Strike every time. And pat yourself on the back for your new Cellophane wrapper with that tab which makes the package so easy to open! See the half. Simple. Quick. Zip! That’s all. Unique! Wrapped in dust-proof, moisture-proof, germ-proof Cellophane. Clean, protected, neat, FRESH!—what could be more modern than LUCKIES’ improved Humidor package—so easy to open! Ladies—the LUCKY TAB is your finger nail protection.

“It’s toasted” Your Throat Protection against irritation—against cough

And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh

TUNE IN—The Lucky Strike Dance Orchestra, every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday evening over N.B.C. networks.

Made of the finest tobaccos—the Cream of many Crops—LUCKY STRIKE alone offers the throat protection of the exclusive “TOASTING” Process which includes the use of modern Ultra Violet Rays—the process that expels certain harsh, biting irritants naturally present in every tobacco leaf. These expelled irritants are not present in your LUCKY STRIKE. “They’re out—so they can’t be in!” No wonder LUCKIES are always kind to your throat.

* Is Miss Mackaill's Statement Paid For? You may be interested in knowing that not one cent was paid to Miss Mackaill to make the above statement. Miss Mackaill has been a smoker of LUCKY STRIKE cigarettes for 6 years. We hope the publicity herewith given will be as beneficial to her and to First National, her producers, as her endorsement of LUCKIES is to you and to us.

Copr., 1931, The American Tobacco Co.