& 4 DELTA PI KAPPA | 4 GLEE CLUB TO ANNOUNCES RENDER EDITORIAL: PROGRAM CONTEST: EVENING. “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 26, 1931 No. 20 World Missions Held in Chattanooga, Tenn. Reports of Different Commissions Given at Congress and Discussed in Conference Groups PAGEANT PRESENTED Dr. W. L. Lingle on Committee on “The Missionary Message” From February 16 to 19 there was held in Chattanooga, Tenn., perhaps the most important conference ever held in the Southern Presbyterian Church. It was attended by delegates from almost every part of the land in which the Southern Presbyterian Church is, and included approximately two or three thousand delegates, while at some meetings there may have been even more. This conference was the Congress on World Missions. The congress had two distinct phases: inspirational and educational, in connection with which commission reports were made on six topics vital to foreign missions. Then, after each report had been made, group conferences were held to discuss the contents of the report and to make any criticisms thought advisable. There were thirty of these individual groups with from forty to sixty in each group. Thus every delegate of the congress was afforded an opportunity to make any suggestion that he thought advisable. The program, very briefly, was as follows: Each day three meetings were held. One in the morning, one in the afternoon, and one at night. At each of the daytime meetings a report was made, the congress adjourned to the discussion groups for one hour and fifteen minutes, and then reassembled to hear an inspirational address. The night service consisted of an inspirational address only. All of the meetings were opened by a song service led by Mr. Homer Hammontree. In addition to these meetings there was held an open forum on Wednesday afternoon and night in which anyone was free to ask any question directly of the executive committee. On the final night the report of the findings committee, which had been appointed to review the minutes of the individual discussion groups and to make a summary of them to the conference as a whole, was made. The substance of their report is as follows: Commission number one, on “The Missionary Message and Obligation—Christianity and the Non-Christian Religions,” with Dr. W. L. Lingle as chairman, was endorsed, with the following things emphasized: It is our obligation as much now as it ever was to carry on missionary efforts. (Continued on page 5) Glee Club Program Set for March 3rd As is its custom, the Davidson College Glee Club will present their annual program in Chambers Auditorium Tuesday night, March 3, at 8 o'clock. This time of year finds the club in the best condition because of the weekly rehearsals which began at the opening of school. The program this season is one which caters to both the classical and popular type of music. The chorus, which is the best that Davidson has had in recent years, will figure in the program. George Pardington, winner of the North Carolina Atwater-Kent Audition held last October, is to render several solos, and the quartet composed of J. O. Koonce, Bill Rule, Gene DuBose, and Jack Ramseur, will contribute popular songs to the program. Davidson’s orchestra, the Sunnyland Serenaders, is expected to provide the lighter part of the entertainment. A notable addition to the program this year is the Doodler Brothers, Davidson radio idols, in person. These two will give their interpretation of the latest song hits. Added novelties will find their part in the program. The admission to be charged has been set at twenty-five cents for students and thirty-five cents for townspeople. Honor Roll SENIOR CLASS Alderman, P. R. Caldwell, D. J. Caldwell, J. R., Jr. Emurian, E. K. Jackson, K. M. Matthews, J. C. Munroe, H. S. McCutchan, J. W. Norfleet, M. W., Jr. Rollins, F. H. Shepard, A. H. JUNIOR CLASS Carr, H. L. Dwelle, E. C. Enloe, R. P. Harrison, C. W. Hand, L. N. McLean, T. W. McQueen, D. M. Wiley, S. S. SOPHOMORE CLASS I.R.C. Makes Plans For Talks on China The International Relations Club met Friday night, February 20. President J. C. Matthews presided. Plans were made for future programs; the subjects of two are China and the United States of Europe. After the business meeting, a very interesting review was given by Henry Nichol on “Humanity Uprooted,” a recent book by Maurice Hindus, which deals with the Soviet conditions of present-day Russia. The following is the introduction to the talk: This book by Maurice Hindus describing the new Russia has an extremely appropriate title. For good or for evil, Russia has plucked up the old world by its very roots, and the party in power is glad to see these roots wilt and turn to dust. Not an institution, property, religion, morality, family, love, or any class of people has escaped the overwhelming blasts of the revolution which started its work of transformation in Russia in 1917. Russia is making an attempt to build a civilization based on an entirely new pattern. She has no models of any kind by which to be guided. It is a thing which is without precedent in the history of the human race. Faculty Entertains Seniors with Party The author is well qualified to write such a book, having lived in Russia during boyhood, and then having moved to the United States, visiting his native land at frequent intervals. To write such a book merely as an observer from an unprejudiced point of view is an almost impossible task, yet this is exactly what Mr. Hindus has done. He viewed the situation with the eyes of an artist which is as important as it is humanly possible to be. The book presents a comprehensive picture of the revolutionary effort to uproot ancient institutions and to refashion the ways of men. Let us examine more closely some of these revolutionary changes as they are explained in the chapters of this book. Religion has been overthrown. A wave of the revolution of 1917. Millions of people that were formerly the backbones of the (Continued on page 5) Dr. Henderson Gives Scientific Lecture Last Friday night in the auditorium Dr. Archibald Henderson, head of the department of mathematics of the University of North Carolina and famous as being one of the very few men in the world to understand the Einstein theory of relativity, spoke on “Contemporary Scientists and Their Work.” This was the fourth of a series of programs arranged for the Central High students. This program was sponsored by the Charlotte Engineers.The faculty and trustees’ room on Club of Charlotte. Before the lecture, Dr. ea 3 ~ | the second floor of Chambers, where Prof. Henderson was the guest of honor at a dinner given at the Southern Manufacturers Club. W. L. Porter gave an art exhibit. The other half went to the Quadwranglers’ room on the third floor, where Mrs. J. P. Williams conducted a fish pond and favors were distributed. Officers, directors, and committee chairmen of the Charlotte Engineers Club and several personal friends of Dr. Henderson specified a time the bell was rung. Dr. Henderson spoke of the scientists who are working today to work out the scientific problems of the universe and declared that science stood above every other human activity. He declared that the miracles of today were much harder and more difficult to explain than those of the Bible. 

Dr. Henderson finds no difference, that is much relative difference, between pure and applied science; besides the fact that pure science is a designation for a scientific truth when no practical application for it has yet been found. He ranks the two classes as equal in importance. There has been work in the scientific laboratories all over the country. This work must continue, and if any attempt is made to stop it, it would be a great loss.

One of Few Men to Understand Einstein Theory

Delta Pi Kappa Prize

Anyone interested in a contest being held by the Delta Pi Kappa honorary journalistic fraternity may find all necessary information on the editorial page.

Mid-Winter Assemblage of Trustees Held Last Week

Dr. Thompson Talk at Vesper Service

Dr. W. T. Thompson, of Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, spoke to a large and attentive audience at the “Y” vespers last Sunday evening. Dr. Thompson was a graduate of the class of 1905 and was outstanding in both his class and extra-curricular activities. Two years ago Davidson had the privilege of hearing Dr. Thompson talk at the “Y” services and it was with a great deal of pleasure that his friends welcomed him back to his alma mater again for a short stay. 

Charles A. Sisson read the Scripture taken from the Book of Matthew, and introduced the speaker. Albert B. McClure led the song service, and Paul F. Brown and Jake S. MacKorell offered short prayers. The Davidson College violin quartet played a number in keeping with the spirit of the service. Dr. Thompson began his talk with an illustration concerning baseball and won the attention of his audience. In a deft manner and by his magnetic personality he kept up the interest of his hearers by apt examples, explanatory sketches, and the relating of personal experiences. He declared that the two motives in life are social or competitive. He said that life was a sort of arena where we fight to get all we can from others, or a field of honor where we give everything we can to others. He asserted that the life of Christ should not only affect preachers and missionaries, but business men, and people in all walks of life. The speaker told of a conductor on the Illinois Railroad who kindly took into his family circle a young country girl who was going to a large city for the first time. He affirmed that this man was serving his Master in his own way and making the most of his opportunities when he took in this girl until she made permanent plans for lodging. He referred to an Atlanta layman who made it his motto in business to always treat his customers fairly and do right by his employees. Because of his policy he was successful in business and respected by his fellow citizens. Dr. Thompson stressed the importance of offering one’s life to the service of the Lord. He said that the demands on foreign missionaries were more stringent today than ever before. He said that men were needed on the foreign field who were men of character and integrity.

Pistol and Holster Club Formed Here

Brohard, Caulder, and Burton Are Chapter Members

A new organization has been formed on the campus named the “Pistol and Holster Club.” M. L. Brohard, Duncan Caulder, and Sergeant Barton seem to be the ones who are behind the club. They report that an interest is being taken in pistol shooting, and many are trying out for the team. The purpose of this organization is to organize a pistol team in addition to the rifle team of the college, and stimulate among the students an interest in pistol shooting. Both .45 and .22 caliber pistols are being used in the practice shooting. The Pistol and Holster has already challenged the Scabbard and Blade to an engagement, and a very interesting match is assured. In addition, many other matches are expected to be scheduled, and the manager, M. L. Brohard, is looking forward to arranging some national matches. As yet officers have not been elected, but M. L. Brohard is managing the team. All who have had any experience in pistol shooting, and are interested in this, are requested to see M. L. Brohard. Many have been doing some shooting already as candidates for the team. Captain Morrison has invited the club to shoot on his range in Mooresville.

Reports of College Officials Evince Steady Progress and Stable Financial Condition

CHAIRMAN IS ABSENT

Trustees Authorize the Observance of Annual “Founders’ Day” on April the 7th

The mid-winter meeting of the Board of Trustees was held Wednesday, February 18, with both morning and evening sessions, which were held in the faculty room in Chambers. There were twenty-eight members of the Board present, including the following new members: Rev. R. S. Arrowood, R. J. Knight, and W. S. Royster. Dr. C. R. Nisbet of Charlotte acted as chairman. The Trustees passed a resolution calling attention to a previous motion, unanimously passed by the Board in 1925, sanctioning the granting of diplomas to ladies completing the required work at Davidson. This motion, according to the resolution, had not been put into effect. The Board also decided to discontinue the chair of fine arts. In the absence of the chairman and other members of the committee studying the question of R. O. T. C. at Davidson, the Board decided to defer action on this matter until the next meeting. The trustees also authorized the observance of a “Founders’ Day” for Davidson on April 7, when distinguished speakers will be brought to Davidson. According to records, the cornerstone of Davidson was laid on April 7, 1836. The Board also discussed Davidson’s centennial celebration with the action that a committee will be appointed to study the financial needs of the college and make recommendations for a building program to be completed by 1936. Dr. Lingle’s report to the Trustees showed that the enrollment was barely short of the high water mark reached in 1926-27. He discussed the work done toward taking care of the library needs and dwelt upon minor matters relative to various departments and general conditions on the campus. The report of Mr. Jackson showed that the college was in a stable financial condition.

Seibert Entertains with Organ Recital

Last Wednesday's concert by Henry F. Seibert, official organist of the Town Hall and the Church of the Holy Trinity, New York, was well attended by the Davidson students and townsfolk. Mr. Seibert was assisted on the program by Mrs. Grace K. Johnston, dramatic soprano, of Charlotte (Mrs. Charles L. Mosley, Jr., at the piano), who rendered two selections and one encore in Italian. Mr. Seibert’s program, which was masterfully executed, included numbers by Schubert, Mendelssohn, Handel, and Wagner, but Bach's name did not appear. The most difficult rendition was Mendelssohn’s Sonata No. 1, which included considerable and brilliant pedal work. The Pygmies by Stoughton, characteristic and impressive, was repeated by demand. In his rendition of Schubert's Ave Maria, Mr. Seibert showed forth the qualities of expression and sympathetic playing which are demanded of an organist of his rank. Wagner's Song of the Evening Star also was played beautifully and with much expression. A Pedal Study of Yon, the concluding number, was an example of advanced and difficult footwork on the organ. Mr. Seibert’s recital was an unusual opportunity for Davidson’s music devotees. Greater skill or more sympathetic expression has seldom been heard on Davidson's Skinner. Mr. Seibert, asked of his opinion of the organ, replied that it was a delight to play on such a complete organ in a rural section. Most instruments out of town, he asserted, are but neglectfully repaired by the maker.