THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 28, 1931

WHAT SPORTS WRITERS THINK

Alumni Marriages | Alumni Deaths | Alumni Personals

Every Davidson alumnus has his own opinion about Davidson College’s football teams, and from all that has been said to
the Alumni Secretary in private conversations and in letters, it is a mighty fine opinion, and one of which the
college is proud. But the opinion of impartial observers, men who have never been to Davidson but have been in
contact with the Davidson football team as news writers, brings an even greater pride to the hearts of Davidsonians. In
the following paragraphs, quotations from some of these men are going to be given. Many are omitted, through lack of
space, and because some of them have not been clipped from a dozen papers that daily come to the alumni
office. When a two-foot stack of papers that have been accumulated are looked over, much additional comment can be added
to that given below.

Three different alumni last week sent to Davidson a clipping of an article written by Sam Butz, sports editor of
the Jacksonville (Fla.) Times-Union, who headed his column on October 21st with the following:

“They’re thinking seriously of changing the name of the Davidson football team from Wildcats to Giant Killers or at least
Giant Tamers.

“For years now Davidson, a small North Carolina school, has been battling against larger institutions with a large measure of
success. The Wildcats don’t win all of their games, not by a long shot, but almost every season they're able
to come through with a surprise victory which may spoil the entire campaign for a more highly regarded rival.

“Florida’s acquaintance with Davidson dates back to 1927, when the Wildcats came down to Gainesville and handed the Gators a
12 to 0 defeat in the second game of the Fall. Monk Younger’s outfit had a well-developed offense, full of
spinners and other smooth working plays which handed the Gators, who had been brought along slower in view of supposedly
harder games to come later, a distinctly unpleasant shock. Florida went on to have a very good year, but that
loss to Davidson at the outset practically spoiled everything.

“The next year Davidson wasn’t so strong, but in 1929 the Wildcats knocked over N. C. State 13 to 0
and trimmed Duke 13 to 12. And last Fall they repeated on State, 12 to 0, and followed with a
victory over the University of North Carolina, 7 to 6.

“This year the Wildcats are wildcatting right along. They slipped up against North Carolina State, but went on to wallop
Washington and Lee. Then last Saturday they held Duke to a scoreless tie, just when Duke was supposed to be
going somewhere after an upset of Villanova.

“Davidson may not win any championship, but it hasn’t been asked to fill any ‘warm-up’ dates on many schedules in
recent years. Florida, in particular, hasn’t asked for any more since 1927.”

One of the best recently came from the Raleigh bureau of The Greensboro Daily News, and is as follows:

“The boys (N. C. State) have one remarkably bright spot in a record of blemishes this fall—they beat Davidson. And
that is a feat no matter whether the job be done by Southern California, Notre Dame, or even Georgia.”

After the N. C. State contest, The Concord Tribune said that “few in the stands will forget the magnificence of
the second-half comeback of the Presbyterians. The famous Wildcat fighting spirit was apparent for the first time shortly after the
opening of the period...”

This same paper declared after Davidson's victory over Washington and Lee: “Little Davidson provided the weekend thrill. Continuing their inspired
play that featured their last half rally against N. C. State, the Wildcats startled the football world with a 7-0
victory over Washington and Lee in as courageous an exhibition as was ever seen on a gridiron. ...

“Doped to lose by several touchdowns, the Wildcats played their hearts out after scoring their touchdown, attaining magnificent heights in
their stubborn defense against the Virginians.”

The Associated Press writer wrote after the Davidson victory over Washington and Lee that “Davidson, by defeating W. & L.
7 to 0, won the right to wear the crown with the brightest jewels for at least a week.”

The Fayetteville Observer wrote its musings about the same game as follows: “It remained for scrappy little Davidson to bring
honor and glory to the Old North State Saturday by socking it to Washington and Lee, 7-0. Little Davidson reminds
us of Little David and Bob Fitzsimmons, always itching for some Goliath to bean and always ready to tell the
world the bigger they are the harder they fall...

“Ernest Milton, the special correspondent from the Davidson News Bureau who wrote the game up for Sunday papers, forces us
to disagree with him when he says the Wildcats scrapped and fought as they never scrapped and fought before. Ernest
ought to read the glorious history of Davidson football teams and he will find that something the Wildcats do nothing
better than is to upset the dope bucket.

“Fighting and scrapping have been inherent in Davidson teams since we remember. The word ‘spirit’ has been overworked, but Davidson
has not overworked the potentialities of a fighting heart.”

Frank Spencer, sports editor of The Winston-Salem Journal chimed in with “Little Davidson, with a team given very little chance
to go places this year, pulled the big surprise of the entire South Saturday when they beat back a powerful
Washington and Lee team, 7-0.

“Monk Younger and Tex Tilson are truly miracle men. We will certainly not be surprised at anything Monk and Tex
do from now on.”

Before Davidson played V. P. I., A. J. McKevlin, sports scrivener of The Raleigh News and Observer, gave some of
the characteristics of the Davidson team when he wrote, “Davidson, a habitual upsetter of the dope, will have to turn
in another of its typically Davidson performances if it is to come back from Blacksburg with a victory over the
Poly team of great potential power.”

The Gastonia Gazette’s comments after the V. P. I. struggle were: “They (Davidson) played their hearts out against V. P.
I in the first three quarters and were simply overpowered by superior numbers and weight in the fourth quarter when
three touchdowns were piled up against them, after leading the Gobblers, 6 to 0, for the better part of the
game.”

The Fayetteville Observer likewise had comment before the game in which the writer observed that “Davidson has an in-

(Continued on page 6)

Rev. William A. McIlwaine, 1915 graduate of Davidson, and now a missionary to Japan, was married on September 10 to
Miss Bess Martin Blakeney, of Marugame, Japan. The ceremony was performed at a private home inKaruizawa, Japan. Rev. W. B.
McIlwaine, ’84, of Kochi, Japan, father of the groom, assisted in performing the ceremony. Mrs. McIlwaine is also a missionary
to Japan and for several years she was stationed at Nagoya. For the past several months, however, she has been
at Shikoku, Japan. Mr. and Mrs. McIlwaine are now at home at Nagoya.

Blue-Latimer
Richard E. Blue, who graduated from Davidson in 1924 and is now a resident of Charlotte, and Miss Mary Wright
Latimer, of Washington, Ga., were married at the home of the bride on October 17th. Cecil Dew, ’22, brother of
the groom, was best man. Mr. Blue became connected with the American Trust Company after he completed a master’s degree
at Davidson, and has been with that concern ever since. Mr. and Mrs. Blue are now at home in Charlotte.

Bernhardt-Alexander
John Christian Bernhardt, of Lenoir, a 1927 graduate of Davidson, and Miss Jean Thornwell Alexander, of Morganton, were married at
the First Presbyterian Church in Morganton on October 14th. Geo. H. Bernhardt, '16, of Lenoir, brother of the groom, was
best man, and among his groomsmen were Frank L. Wyche, ’27, of Petersburg, Va.; Robert B. McConnell, ’27, of Asheville;
Gardner H. Green, '29, of New York, and English McGeachey, ’29, of Decatur, Ga. Mrs. Bernhardt is a graduate of
Agnes Scott. Since graduation, Mr. Bernhardt has been associated with the Bernhardt Furniture Company, of Lenoir. Mr. and Mrs. Bernhardt
are now at home in Lenoir.

Douglass-Garrett
Edwin Latimer Douglass, of Augusta, Ga., who graduated from Davidson in 1928, and Miss Mildred Garrett, also of Augusta, were
married in the First Baptist Church of that city on October 15th. No details have been obtained. Since his graduation,
Mr. Douglass has been connected with the Augusta Hardwood Company. Mr. and Mrs. Douglass are now at home in Augusta.

Allison-Atkins
Samuel Joseph Allison, of Glade Spring, Va., and a 1929 graduate of Davidson, was married on October 10th to Miss
Eleanor Countiss Atkins, of Saltville, Ga., the ceremony being performed at Madam Russell Church, at Saltville. No details have been
obtained. After his graduation, Mr. Allison attended the Wharton Business School at Philadelphia, and then returned to his home in
Glade Spring. Mr. and Mrs. Allison are at home in Glade Spring.

NOTICE
Have Your Shoes Rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Soles 85c and $1.00
Give us a trial
C. A. KENNEDY, Prop.

Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you.
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Rev. Alexander Martin, D.D., 1895 graduate of Davidson and a resident of Rock Hill, S. C., died in Lowrance Hospital,
Mooresville, last Saturday night, October 24th. Dr. Martin had been a patient at the Mooresville hospital for some time, following
his continued illness in Rock Hill, which caused his resignation some months ago as pastor of the Oakland Presbyterian Church
in that city. He was 60 years of age. Following his graduation here, he returned to obtain his master of
arts degree and later received his bachelor of divinity degree from Columbia Theological Seminary, then located at Columbia, S. C.
He served as pastor of the Westminster Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, and later became pastor of the First Presbyterian Church
at Rock Hill. Thirteen years ago the Oakland Presbyterian Church in that city was organized, and he was the first
and only pastor until his recent resignation. He was then made pastor emeritus. The degree of doctor was conferred upon
him by Presbyterian College of South Carolina.

Davidson Alumni to Be Especially Considered
According to advices received from the University of North Carolina athletic authorities, alumni of Davidson College, who live in this
state, are going to have an opportunity to get reserved seats in a section on the 50-yard line when the
Wildcats go to Chapel Hill to meet the Carolina eleven on November 14th. Within a few days every Davidson alumnus
in North Carolina, numbering approximately 2,000, will receive a special invitation from University officials, inviting them to this contest. The
letter will be accompanied by an application blank for tickets in this special section. The Davidson alumni office has co-operated
with the University officials in this effort to centralize the alumni at the game, and last week addressed envelopes to
Davidson alumni for the Carolina authorities.

A. Gerskov — The Tailor
SUITS MADE TO ORDER
Cleaned 50c
Pressed 25c
Remodeled and Altered
All Work Guaranteed
Globe Pressing Company

THE GREATEST UNDERWEAR VALUE
You can pay more than HANES costs—but you can’t get more. Just try to match HANES values. There’s the Gold
Label Light Weight Union Suit or Shirts and Drawers. SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war belt. That’s patented and
can’t be imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and Shorts in a variety that will make it easy for the most fastidious to
choose from. All at prices that will make you wonder how it can be done.
P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N.C.

In preparing for the ministry, the name of Wm. C. Alexander, ’27, who is completing his third year at Erskine
Theological Seminary, was omitted through error. The name of T. H. Hamilton, '27, should also be added to the list.
He is taking graduate work at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., after graduating from that institution last June.

Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, ’06, was a speaker this week before the Seventh District meeting of the North Carolina Medical
Society when it met in Albemarle.

Friends will regret to learn that the wife of Coach W. M. Fetzer, ’06, of William and Mary College, Williamsburg,
Va., will be in the hospital for several months because of injuries sustained in an automobile accident on October 3rd.

Rev. John W. Crinkley, ’27, is doing evangelistic work and is now assisting in services at Willow Springs, N. C.
Rev. S. L. Cathey, ’95, pastor at Loray, is conducting services at the Second Presbyterian Church in Concord. Rev. R.
E. McClure, ’20, pastor at New Bern, heads an important committee of the Synod of North Carolina to investigate possible
ways of making the Synod a self-entertaining body.

W. B. Buckner, ’30, is now at Tulane Medical School and is located at 7008 Vimple St., New Orleans, La.

L. H. Martin, ’24, who has been in Germany for several years, is now in this country and is at
his home in Lenoir.

Engagement
“Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Wooten, of Atlanta, Ga., announce the engagement of their daughter, Margaret, to Richard Hunt MacMillan,
also of Atlanta, the wedding to be solemnized in November.” Mr. MacMillan is a 1924 graduate of Davidson, and since
his graduation he has worked in various cities of the South, among them being Charlotte. At present he is located
in Atlanta.

SCARLET TANAGER
Sodas — Tobaccos
Sundries
Hot Chocolate — Coffee
