THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 30, 1931

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE—SESSION 1930-31—SECOND SEMESTER

A.M. EXAMINATIONS BEGIN AT 9:00
P.M. EXAMINATIONS BEGIN AT 2:00

May

Freshman | Sophomore | Junior and Senior
A.M. Mathematics 1 | Mathematics 2 | Math. 3, 4, Business 1, Educ. 1
Thur. Polit. Science 3, Psychology 2.
P.M. History 4, 5, 6.

A.M. Latin A, 1 | Latin 2 | Latin 3, Economics 3, Phil. 2.
Fri. Geology 1, 2.
P.M. Sociology, Psychology 1.

A.M. History 1 | History 1 | Applied Math. 1, 2.
Sat. History 2, 3.
P.M. Biology 2 | Biology 2 | Biology 3, 4, 5, Business 2.

Mon.
A.M.
P.M. English 1 | English 2 | English 4, 5, 7, 10, Econ. 5.

A.M. Chemistry 1 | Chemistry 2 | Chemistry 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
Tues. Economics 2, Education 2.
P.M. Greek 1 | Greek 2 | Greek 3, 5, 6, Business 3, Psychology 4.

A.M. Economics 1, Geology 3, Philosophy 3.
Wed.
P.M. R.O.T.C. 1 | R.O.T.C. 2 | R.O.T.C. 3, 4.

A.M. Physics 1 | Physics 2 | Physics 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
Thur. Political Science 2.
P.M. Spanish A, 1 | Spanish 2 | Spanish 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, Fine Arts 2, Physical Education 4.

A.M. Political Science 1 | Education 3
P.M. German A | German 1 | German 3, 4, Philosophy 1, Econ. 4, Polit. Science 4.

A.M. French A, 1 | French 2 | French 5, 6, 7, 8, Fine Arts 1.
P.M. Bible 1 | Bible 2 | Bible 3, 4, 6, Astronomy.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE—SENIORS

A.M. EXAMINATIONS BEGIN AT 9:00 ONLY
P.M. EXAMINATIONS BEGIN AT 2:00

May

Sat.
A.M. Economics 1, Philosophy 3, Geology 3.
16
P.M. English 4, 5, 7, 10, Economics 5.

Mon.
A.M.
18
P.M. Physics 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, Political Science 2.

Tues.
A.M. Spanish, Fine Arts 2, Physical Education, Greek 3, 5, 6, Psych. 4
19
P.M. Political Science 1, Education 3.

Wed.
A.M. German, Philosophy 1, Economics 4, Political Science 4.
20
P.M. French, Fine Arts 1, Business 3.

Thur.
A.M. Math. 4, Political Science 3, Psychology 2, Business 1, Educ. 1.
21
P.M. History 4, 5, 6.

Fri.
A.M. Latin 3, Economics 3, Geology 1, 2, Philosophy 2.
22
P.M. Sociology, Psychology 1, Bible 3, 4, 6, Astronomy.

Sat.
A.M. Mathematics 1, 2, History 2, 3, Chemistry, Economics 2, Education 2.
23
P.M. Biology, Business 2, R.O.T.C. 4.

Note: Courses not shown on schedule to be arranged by conference. Conflicts to be arranged by conference, with Junior and Senior courses taking preference. All who have conflicts see professors at once.

NEWS FROM OTHER HILLS

Detroit—(IP)—Mrs. William Wilson Cook, 71, divorcee of the internationally known corporation counsel, will bring suit in an effort to break the will of the New Yorker who left his estate of $12,000,000 to his alma mater, the University of Michigan. Mrs. Cook, now living in Los Angeles, will contend that her divorce from Cook in 1898 was void and that New York law prohibits the bequeathing of more than 50 percent of an estate to a public institution, such as a university, when there are heirs. Her counsel is headed by William Gibbs McAdoo, secretary of the treasury under President Wilson. The Cooks were married in 1879. Mr. Cook died last June 4 on his country estate near Rye, N.Y. James O. Murffin, spokesman for the board of regents of the university, asserted Mrs. Cook filed the suit for divorce in Wahpeton, S.D., charging desertion, but Mr. Cook filed a cross petition charging desertion and was the winner of the decree. Murffin said the university would join, no doubt, with the executors in fighting Mrs. Cook’s claims, and that the university “has no intention of relinquishing a penny of the Cook millions if it is necessary to carry the case to the United States Supreme Court.” “Mrs. Cook, I am told, will file suit for half of her deceased husband’s fortune,” he said. “But her divorce was valid and she has no legal claim on any part of her husband’s fortune. Mr. Cook was Michigan’s most generous alumnus.”

Wooster, O—(IP)—Residents of Kenarden Lodge, upper classmen’s dormitory at Wooster College, were in deep mourning one day last week as appropriate funeral services were held for Little Joe, a day-old mongrel pup that died that morning. The morning before, Josephine, the pet of the seventh section, Kenarden Lodge, became the mother of seven puppies. The room of Jim Courtney, high-scoring ace of this season’s basketball team, was transformed into an emergency hospital ward. All during the day, periodical bulletins were posted in front of the chapel stating conditions in the improvised hospital. One of the puppies, christened Little Joe, had difficulties in competing with his huskier brothers and sisters and it was thought he would die. However, several of the pre-medico students took charge of Little Joe and by administering warm milk with a medicine dropper, prolonged his life. But Little Joe died the following morning. That night, the men of the college formed a funeral procession in front of the chapel and proceeded to the quadrangle in the rear of Holden Hall, women’s dormitory. Two trumpeters from the college band led the procession, followed by six freshmen pallbearers. Bill Woodall of Carnegie, Pa., assisted by Tibby Young, West Middlesex, Pa., star football player, conducted the services, delivering a eulogy. Rolly Roehl of Cleveland was funeral director. Accompanied by tolls of the chapel bell and taps by the trumpeters, Little Joe was laid to rest in a plot at the rear of Holden Hall.

Yowl Being Printed

According to the Editor, the current copy of the “YOWL” was carried to press last Tuesday, April 28th. This is the third and last issue of Davidson’s humorous medium that will appear this year. Cartoons will be more profuse in this issue as well as short sketches of varied topics. Copies are expected to be available within the next two weeks.

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS” Make Our Store YourStore Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
the co-ed dormitory.
“SODA” - “SUNDRIES”

FIVE AND TEN YEARS AGO TODAY

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO
April 29, 1926—The Wildcat track team has gone through a week of intensive training preparatory to the state meet at N. C. State, in Raleigh, on Friday and Saturday. The meet has been won by Carolina for the last four years and some of the strongest competition ever seen in North Carolina is expected at this meet. If the weather is good, several state records will likely topple, as all the teams seem to be in better condition than they have been in the past four years.

Camel Awards Will Be Announced Soon
Winston-Salem, N. C., April 27—Announcement of awards in the Camel Cigarette $50,000 cash prize contest will be made early in May, officials of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company stated today. The contest judges and their staff, who have been carefully reading the approximately 1,000,000 entries, announced today that they are rapidly nearing the completion of their work, and that within the next week or ten days they will be able to definitely set the dates on which the winners will be announced, and prizes awarded.

Judges in the contest are Roy W. Howard, Chairman of the Board of the Scripps-Howard league of newspapers; Ray Long, President of the International Magazine Company and editor of Cosmopolitan, and Charles Dana Gibson, the famous artist, who is publisher of Life Magazine. Thirty-eight prizes will be given for the best answers as to how the new cellophane moisture-proof wrapper on Camel cigarette packages benefits smokers. The first prize-winner will receive a check for $25,000 from R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, manufacturers of Camel cigarettes. Awards of $10,000 and $5,000 will be given to the second and third winners. The next five will receive $1,000 each, and the balance of $5,000 will be distributed among thirty winners.

Honorary Frats Bid
On Tuesday, April 28th, ten Honorary Fraternities on the Davidson campus sent out bids. This was to be the second bid-day of the year. Sigma Pi Sigma, Physics society, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Chemistry fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa did not extend bids. Omicron Delta Kappa will hold their semi-annual tap day exercises later in the year. Those fraternities that have issued bids are: Sabre and Blade, Delta Pi Kappa, Eta Sigma Phi, Mu Beta Psi, Delta Phi Alpha.

State College, Pa—(IP)—Prof. Arthur J. Wood, head of the department of mechanical engineering at Penn State College, and who was largely responsible through his research for the development of the modern refrigerating car, was killed here when he was struck by a motorcycle. He is survived by his widow and a son, Reginald, a Sophomore in the college here.

DAVIDSON TEN YEARS AGO
April 29, 1921—At a recent meeting of the Y. M. C. A. the board of control for the year 1921-1922 was elected. The object of this board is to handle all of the business of the “Y” and all Christian activities of the students. About $4,000 a year is handled by the “Y” board. For the Faculty members, Dr. Arbuckle was re-elected for two years, and Dr. Sentelle was re-elected for one year. No student elections have been held as yet.

CLASS REPRESENTATIVES
(Continued from page 1)
Freshman and varsity football, was a Freshman and varsity wrestler, is a member of the “D” Club, and was vice-president of the Athletic Association. He is a first sergeant in the military department. Nat Spier, president of the Junior class, is from Charlotte. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, the Church Relations Committee, International Relations Club, and the student council. He is also assistant business manager of the “Quips and Cranks.” Jack McKinnon, who comes from Jacksonville, Fla., is also a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. He has recently been elected to the position of president of the Senior class for next year. He is a member of the International Relations Club, Eta Sigma Phi, “Y” Board of Control, business staff of the “Davidsonian,” varsity track squad, Freshman football, and Junior Speaking Committee. He is also treasurer of the Junior class. Don King, from Johnson City, Tenn., is a member of Kappa Alpha, and has served two years on the student council, being now president-elect of the student body. Last year he was president of the Sophomore class. As an athlete, Don is outstanding. His Freshman year he played football and basketball. He has played two years of varsity football, and is a member of the “D” Club. He is also a first sergeant in the military department.

JUNIOR CLASS
(Continued from page 1)
of person. Napoleon attributed his success in battle to his skill in deciding questions, and Spier pointed out that this keen judgment resulted in many French victories. As a closing thought, he said, “Choose you this day whom you will serve.” Following this speech, the whole assembly recited the Mizpah benediction.

MU BETA PSI
(Continued from page 1)
fifty years. We feel honored in presenting Dr. Baldwin to a Davidson audience and we hope that many will take the rare opportunity of hearing such a finished artist. Alpha Phi Epsilon, Omega Phi Alpha, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Sigma Upsilon, International Relations Club, Scabbard and Blade, Delta Pi Kappa, Eta Sigma Phi, Mu Beta Psi, Delta Phi Alpha.

CONWAY HOLDS
(Continued from page 1)
of the Davidsonian. His home is in Henderson, Ky. The delegation from Davidson at the meeting was made up of Bob King, E. C. Dwelle, P. M. Conway, J. H. Henderlite, B. B. Sugg, and Croswell Ragin. The other officers of the press association which were elected at the meeting are as follows: Ed Thomas, of Duke, was elected president; Miss Edmundson, of Queens, was elected secretary; Stevens, student at State, was made treasurer.

Davidson Theatre
Wednesday, 6th “TARNISHED LADY”
Thursday, 7th and Friday, 8th “TRADER HORN”
Saturday, 9th “CONQUERING HORDE”
RICHARD ARLEN, & FAY WRAY