THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1931

Davidson Alumni Have Won Majority of Awards Made by the Seminaries

Over Fifty Per Cent of the Fellowships Offered by Three Seminaries Have Gone to Davidson Men

FORTY OUT OF SEVENTY

Alumni Office Surveyed Records of Columbia, Louisville, and Union Seminaries

Some months ago a survey was made by the alumni office of the three Southern Presbyterian Seminaries to ascertain what
percentage of the fellowship awards made for all time had gone to Davidson College alumni. Lack of space on the
alumni page has prevented a presentation of the illuminating findings, which are highly reflective upon the attainments of Davidson men
entering the ministry.

It was found that 70 fellowships had been awarded since 1901, and that 40 of this number, or 57.1 per
cent, had been won by former students of Davidson. Other prizes were given by the seminaries and many of these
were taken by graduates of this institution, though the survey is being confined solely to the fellowships given.

Union Seminary at Richmond gives four principal fellowships. One has been in existence since 1901, while the others came into
existence only a comparative few years ago. Union has given a total of 51 fellowships in the last 30 years,
and Davidson men have won 32 of them for a percentage of 61.5 at that seminary.

Louisville Seminary began giving a number of fellowships in 1924, and since that time, seven of the 15 awards have
been granted to alumni of Davidson for a percentage of 46.6.

Columbia Seminary started its fellowship awards in 1928, and has given four since that time, one of which went to
a Davidson alumnus for a 25 per cent result at that institution.

Alumni will be interested in the men who have won these high awards for efficiency in ministerial preparation, and the
full list is given below:

Columbia Theological Seminary:
Rev. H. N. Alexander, ’10, Delphi, La.

Louisville Theological Seminary:
Rev. A. D. McArn, '20, Camden, S. C.; Rev. John W. Groves, ’22, Lexington, Miss.; Rev. E. E. Houghton, ’22,
Anchorage, Ky.; Rev. C. V. Brown, Jr., ’24, Spring Glen, Hamden, Conn.; Rev. A. M. Martin, '25, Savannah, Ga.; Rev.
E. K. Regen, ’26, Covington, Ky.; and Rev. Donald H. Stewart, ’27, Surry, England.

Richmond Theological Seminary:
Rev. W. W. Arrowood, ’03, Tazewell, Va.; Rev. R. K. Timmons, D.D., ’04, Columbia, S. C.; Rev. W. T. Thompson,
D.D., '05, Richmond, Va.; Rev. Robert King, D.D., ’06, Pulaski, Va.; Rev. Ben R. Lacy, D.D., '06, Richmond, Va.; Rev.
W. C. McLauchlin, '07, Haichow, China; Rev. J. K. Parker, ’08, Mount Mourne; Rev. H. S. Turner, D.D., ’13, Staunton,
Va.; Rev. J. E. Cousar, ’14, Covington, Va.; Rev. C. L. King, D.D., ’14, Richmond, Va.; Rev. James L. Fowle,
D.D., ’18, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Rev. J. R. Woods, ’18, Peiping, China; Rev. E. O. G. Lilly, '19, Birmingham, Ala.; Rev.
Edgar A. Woods, '19, China; Rev. Dwight Chalmers, ’20, Charlottesville, Va.; Rev. R. T. L. Liston, Th.D., ’20, Richlands, Va.;
Rev. D. R. Bitzer, ’22 (two consecutive years), Charleston, W. Va.; Rev. D. P. McGeachey, Jr., ’22, Atlanta, Ga.; Rev.
P. D. Miller, ’22, Atlanta, Ga.; Rev. S. H. Bradley, ’23, Roanoke Rapids; Rev. M. P. Calhoun, ’23, Charleston, W.
Va.; Rev. Dunbar H. Ogden, '23, Pikeville, Ky.; Rev. D. B. Walthall, ’24, Glade Spring, Va.; Rev. J. M. Appleby,
'26, Edinburgh, Scotland; Rev. A. H. Hollingsworth, '26, Georgetown, Ky.; V. S. Broyles, ’27, W. A. Christian, ’27, and H.
G. Goodykoontz, '27, all of Richmond.

Births

Alumni Personals

Alumni Marriages

Alumni Deaths

BETTIE & FRANKLIN, INCORPORATED
828 Greenwood Avenue
Birmingham, Michigan

ANNOUNCEMENT

The public is cordially invited to view the recently added model of the Fricker Line. The first public showing was
held at 11:25 o'clock, Armistice night, 1931, and removal of the entire salon from the present quarters in Woman's Hospital,
Detroit, to the new showrooms in Birmingham will take place about Thanksgiving Day. Inspection is invited, and a corps of
experts is in attendance to explain the new model in detail.

The initial offering in this class has been named the John Arthur Fricker, II, and great things are expected of
it. With a displacement of six pounds one-half ounce and a wheelbase of nineteen inches, a well-proportioned underslung appearance is
maintained. The potential capacity of the powerplant is as yet undetermined although tests under way may reveal a tendency towards
full power roar upon proper provocation. The chassis is well made, taking full advantage of every refinement available to such
a short wheelbase. The body work is ample for immediate needs, and care has been taken to present a smoothly
upholstered appearance, with a definite accent of restraint from the overstuffed trend of design. The prevailing color combinations lean very
strongly towards an ensemble effect of pink to red, with black overhangings. The lamps appear to be blue at the
moment, but only time can determine the permanency of such coloring. The kind interest of friends in the new model
is acknowledged with sincere thanks.

(Signed) Bettie & Franklin, Inc., Props.
Elizabeth C. Fricker.
Franklin Fricker.

Mr. Fricker is a graduate of 1921.

1923—Rev. and Mrs. T. Layton Fraser, of North Haledon, N. J., announce the birth of a daughter, Ruth Marie, on
November 20th.

—Rev. and Mrs. R. F. Davidson, of Memphis, Tenn., announce the birth of a son, Robert Franklin, Jr., on November
16th.

1928—Rev. and Mrs. Frank Lothery, of Baton Rouge, La., announce the birth of a son, Espy Franklin, Jr., on August
3rd.

—Mr. and Mrs. Gordon B. McSwain, of Arcadia, Fla., announce the birth of a daughter, Winnie Lou, on November 21st.

1930—Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Richmond, of Greensboro, announce the birth of a daughter on November 22nd.

Ann Arbor, Mich.—(IP)—The Museum of Paleontology of the University of Michigan has announced discovery of the dorsal armor of a
giant phytosaur of the Triassic Age. The discovery was made near Amarillo, Texas, by an expedition composed of Dr. E.
C. Case, director of the museum, and several aids. Dr. Case describes phytosaurs as large carnivorous reptiles, like crocodiles in
form and habits. The specimen was part of the skeleton of an animal about 25 feet long which lurked in
the swamps some 50,000,000 years ago. The phytosaur’s back was covered by an armor made up of thick bony plates,
and the Michigan expedition made the first find of a set of the armor plates in undisturbed position.

Rev. L. M. McCutchen, ’27, Bulape, Africa; Rev. R. S. Wilson, ’27, University, Va., and among the alumni visiting in
Davidson after the Wake Forest-Davidson game in Charlotte on Thanksgiving were Joe H. McConnell, '27, of West Palm Beach, Fla.;
Robert S. Lowrance, Jr., ’28, of Atlanta, Ga.; Riggs McConnell, ’29, of University, Va.; W. M. Regen, '29, Franklin, Tenn.;
Thomas W. Brohard, ’30, of Long Island, N. Y.; R. H. Reid, ’30, Greenville, S. C.; A. R.Jackson, ’31, Philadelphia,
Pa., and Frank Pilcher, ’31, Chapel Hill. Several corrections and additional information have been obtained on the graduates of '31
since the article about them was written last week. Geo. F. McClenaghan has a position with Wilson & Cain, of
Florence, S. C., in the diversified field of general insurance, bonds, rentals, loans, and real estate. A. R. Jackson is
studying law at the University of Pennsylvania instead of medicine, and Frank Pilcher is studying medicine at the University of
North Carolina instead of pursuing purely academic studies. Friends will regret to learn of the death of Rev. W. S.
Hay, father of Rev. S. B. Hay, ’16, of Auburn, Ala. The deceased once resided at Cornelius, while his son
was a student at Davidson. A Washington (D. C.) announcement stated that John L. Brown, ’30, of Hendersonville, had been
appointed a lieutenant in the field artillery of the reserve corps of the U. S. Army. S. Clay Williams, ’05,
president of the Reynolds Tobacco Company, delivered an address Monday night before the Greenville (N. C.) Kiwanis Club, and other
prominent citizens of that city. Matthew P. Gilmour, ’30, who is now studying at Oxford University and is residing at
8 Keble Road, Oxford, England, will enter one of the seminaries when he returns to this country. Dr. Everett L.
Bishop, '12, of Atlanta, Ga., has been named as a member of a special committee of 15, appointed by the
American College of Surgeons, to study more important cases of bone tumor. Dr. Bishop is in charge of the pathology
and research laboratories of the Steiner Clinic for Cancer and Allied Diseases in Atlanta. H. Lacy Hunt, '30, Princeton Theological
Seminary, New Jersey, is now a student at Princeton.

An acre in Middlesex is better than a principality in Utopia.—Macaulay.

SCARLET TANAGER
Sodas — Tobaccos — Sundries
Sandwiches — Hot Drinks
Sundaes
Phone 9143
Chas. F. McRae, ’28, Richmond.
Nationally Known Stetson “D” Store

SPECIAL FOR 10 DAYS ONLY
Camel Pile Coats - $37.50
and Justly Famous
MacMillan-Wooten

Richard Hunt MacMillan, a 1924 graduate of Davidson and resident of Atlanta, Ga., was married on November 27th to Miss
Margaret Wooten, of Charlotte, the ceremony taking place at the Dilworth Methodist Church in Charlotte. Hugh MacMillan, ’31, also of
Atlanta and a brother of the bridegroom, was best man. Before coming to Davidson, Mr. MacMillan attended Georgia Tech for
two years, entering Davidson in 1922. He has been located in several southern cities and was at one time in
Charlotte. He is at present the southeastern manager for the Dunlop Tire and Rubber Company in Atlanta. Mrs. MacMillan attended
St. Agatha’s School in New York and was graduated from Salem College at Winston-Salem. Mr. and Mrs. MacMillan will soon
be at home at 2795 Peachtree Road, Atlanta, Ga.

Armfield-Allen

William Johnson Armfield, III, of Asheboro, was married to Miss Elizabeth Drewry Allen, of Weldon, on November 28th. The ceremony
took place in the Methodist Episcopal Church at Weldon. Frank McCrary, ’28, of Asheboro, was one of the groomsmen. Mr.
Armfield is a member of the class of 1928 at Davidson, and after leaving here he attended the University of
North Carolina. He is now connected with the People’s Loan & Insurance Company of Asheboro. Mrs. Armfield was educated at
Salem College. After a trip to Bermuda, Mr. and Mrs. Armfield will be at home in Asheboro.

Engagement

Morrison-McCrary

Mr. and Mrs. A. S. Morrison, of Hartsville, S. C., announce the engagement of their daughter, Martha, to James Franklin
McCrary, of Asheboro, the wedding to take place in January. Mr. McCrary is a 1928 graduate of Davidson and since
completing his work here he has been connected with his father in the hosiery mills at Asheboro. Miss Morrison was
graduated from Winthrop College, and has taught school in High Point since she finished in 1928.

J. P. Little, ’78

John Phillips Little, 1878 graduate of Davidson, died at his home in Charlotte on November 27th, at the age of
72 years. Mr. Little came to Davidson in 1875 and finished in 1878. He became interested in various affairs in
Charlotte and surrounding territory, and it was in this section that he spent most of his life. The deceased was
interested for a time in real estate and insurance, and was an extensive farmer. He then entered the contracting business
and at the time of his death he was head of the construction company of John P. Little & Son.
One of his outstanding construction jobs was the First Methodist Church in Charlotte. The contribution of Mr. Little to the
life of Charlotte was such to merit editorial comment in The Charlotte Observer last Sunday, in which he was described
as “a man universally esteemed, establishing here a record in uprightness and probity that won the admiration of all friends.”

J. A. Gloer, ’16

Bare information has been received by the alumni office of the death of Joseph Alexander Gloer, member of the class
of 1916, whose death occurred in Atlanta, Ga., on September 30th, following a two-day illness with pneumonia. Mr. Gloer entered
Davidson from Bowman, Ga., and was nicknamed “Slim” during his student days, and was a guard on the football team.
After leaving Davidson he was in business at Bowman, Ga., later at Gastonia, and more recently in Atlanta.

London—(IP)—“I think we shall have difficulty in saving our western civilization in the next few decades; but one of its
sanctuaries, along with Paris, London, and some of the great European universities, will be the rocky islet of New York.”
This is the statement of Andre Maurois, famous French scholar and author, who has just returned from acting as an
exchange professor at Princeton University. The author said that he should like to meet in Europe women as truly cultivated
as he found in colleges of the eastern states, such as Bryn Mawr and Smith.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.
Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.
Catalog and information on request.

HANES

Over 25 years of manufacturing experience! Specialists in male comfort determine the styles and measurements, and long-wearing materials combine to
make the greatest underwear values you've ever seen. HANES Gold Label Elastic-knit Light-weight Union Suits are excellent for the changeable
weather of autumn and spring—ideal winter garments for men who work indoors. Luxurious in materials and finish. Low in price.
If you wear summer-weights the year through, be sure to see how HANES makes all shorts better. For Every Season.
