MASQUERS PRESENT THREE PLAYS

The Davidsonian

"ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS"

MR. BOOTH SPEAKS FRIDAY 8:00 P. M.

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 4, 1931 No. 8

O. D. K. TAPS EIGHT PROMINENT MEN

DAVIDSON WILDCATS DOWN V. M. I. 7-0

OUTSTANDING SENIORS GIVEN BIDS AT FALL TAP DAY ON TUESDAY

Usual Tapping Ceremony Held at Chapel Tuesday Morning

PRITCHETT GIVES TALK

Roger Enloe Leads Devotional Exercises

Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, at their annual fall Tap Day exercises yesterday, bid to membership eight prominent members of the Senior Class. The Seniors who accepted bids are: E. B. Brannon, P. M. Conway, C. W. Kuykendall, G. L. Mathis, A. G. Montgomery, L. S. Raker, N. G. Speir, and E. D. Kuykendall.

Omicron Delta Kappa is an honorary leadership fraternity and was founded at Washington and Lee University in 1914. The organization now has Circles in many of the colleges and universities of the country.

At the exercises Tuesday, Roger Enloe led in the devotional exercises. Captain N. G. Pritchett then gave a short summary of the history, purposes, and ideals of the fraternity. The president of Delta Circle, Jack McKinnon, after explaining the tapping ceremony, tapped his gavel and in succession the eight new men were bid by the old members of the Circle; after being hit on the back, the new men signified their acceptance by following the old men to the platform. The meeting was adjourned by the singing of “Oh Davidson” by the student body.

E. B. Brannon, of Rome, Ga., is Captain of the varsity track team and holder of the college record in the one, two, and three mile runs, is a member of the Student Council, and of the Phi Theta social fraternity.

P. M. Conway, from Henderson, Ky., is business manager of the Davidsonian, was captain of the wrestling team in his Junior year, is on the Varsity football team, and a member of the “D” Club, is vice-president of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, a captain in R. O. T. C., and a member of Scabbard and Blade. Conway is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

C. W. Kuykendall, Charleston, W. Va., is Judge of the Court of Control, a member of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, on the varsity football squad, and a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity.

E. D. Kuykendall, Greensboro, N. C., is varsity cheer-leader, a varsity debater, Secretary of the Forensic Council, a member of the Varsity track squad. He is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, International Relations Club, and the Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

G. L. Mathis, Rural Hall, N. C., is captain of the varsity basketball team, on the football and baseball teams, a member of the “D” Club, and was a member of the Court of Control last year.

A. G. Montgomery, Reidsville, N. C., is (Continued on page 6)

Captain Seifert Speaks At Phi Society Meeting

Military Instructor Chooses “Panama” as His Subject at Recent Meeting of Society

At its regular meeting on Tuesday night, October 28th, the Phi Literary Society offered as the main speaker of the evening Captain Seifert, Assistant Professor of Military Science and Tactics, who spoke on “Panama.” This is the second of a series of “Travel Talks” instituted by the Phi Society.

Panama, according to Captain Seifert, which was formerly a hotbed of fever and disorder, now stands as a model military sector, in perfect sanitary condition, with thoroughly systematized machinery and admirable military discipline. With the aid of (Continued on page 6)

Dr. A. S. Johnson Gives Clear and Vital Message Before Large Audience

“For as a Man Thinketh Within Himself, So Is He,” Used as Text

VARSITY QUARTET SINGS

Various Methods of Judging Men Are Explained and Discussed

Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, delivered a clear and vital message at the “Y” Vespers Sunday, November 1st. His talk, replete with interesting illustrations, was based on Proverbs 23:7: “For as he thinketh within himself, so is he.”

Dr. Johnson began his talk with the illustration of a Dog Show, where champion dogs are judged by weight, hair, carriage, and other physical attributes. Each dog is given a grade, and they are judged completely by formula. “I fear,” stated Dr. Johnson, “that we know more about judging dogs than men.”

“There are all kinds of men: good, bad, intelligent, stupid, and we are thrown with them every day. They must be judged, but the question is: ‘How?’”

“A few summers ago I was in Battle Creek, Michigan, when Rudolph Valentino, the screen star, died. The great Chicago Tribune featured page after page on Valentino, and devoted only half a column to the death of Charles W. Eliot, who died the same day. Is this wise judgment? Are we to grade men as we do dogs?”

Dr. Johnson then went into the defects of some of our methods of judging men. The first was the yardstick. The audience was reminded of the fact that the salable elements in a man amount to about 98 cents. “Thomas Edison, one of the world’s greatest, is now merely a handful of ashes.” So our yardstick fails us.

The minister then touched other methods of judgment. Position, wealth, appearance, dress, ancestry all fail us when it comes down to a real key to the man. “We judge the man by what he his innermost thoughts. Not the thoughts and deeds of a crisis, but in the heart itself do we find the real man. Never judge a man by superficials. The question is: what do you (Continued on page 5)

Y.M.C.A Sends Large Groups On Missions

Deputations Sent to Lees-McRae, Barium Springs, and Concord

The Y. M. C. A. sent out three deputations during the past weekend. The largest of these was sent to Lees-McRae Junior College at Banner Elk, N. C. The other two went to Barium Springs and Concord.

The Lees-McRae group left Davidson Friday at 2:30 p.m. Those making the trip were Roger Enloe, Sam Wiley, Bob Torrence, Horace Ervin, Frank Buckner, and Fred Dickerson. They stopped on the way at Appalachian State Teachers’ College at Boone, N. C. Saturday morning, Horace Ervin and Fred Dickerson had charge of the chapel service at Lees-McRae. As this was Home-Coming Day, there were many visitors. The football game with Weaver College, with Fred Dickerson acting as official, was one of the main events. Sam Wiley gave a talk at church Sunday morning. Frank Buckner spoke at Arbordale, one of the mission points, and Bob Torrence was the speaker at Pigeon Roost, another mission point. Roger Enloe spoke at “Y” vespers Sunday night. They returned to Davidson Monday.

The deputation sent to Lees-McRae was of more than usual interest due to the fact that the college, which has grown from a mountain mission to one of the most complete plants of its kind in the Southern Appalachian Mountains, has as its president a former Davidson (Continued on page 5)

Yowl to Appear Soon

The initial issue of the Yowl for this year has gone to press and should be out by this Saturday. A great many changes have been made, among them being the increase in size and change of cover. Also, it was decided by the executive committee last year that a reasonable share of the magazine should be devoted to literary material; however, because of a scarcity of contributions, only poetry is being published in this first edition.

The staff is as follows: Gaither Jenkins, business manager; Reeves Pope, Duncan McBryde, Woody Caligan, managing editors; and Gordon Brown, art editor. Editor, The Yowl.

Noted Lecturer to Speak Friday Night

C. Douglas Booth Sent Here by the Carnegie Peace Endowment

C. Douglas Booth, of London, England, noted lecturer on politics and economic affairs, is to speak at Davidson on the night of November 6th, next Friday night, at 8 o'clock. He will be introduced by Dr. T. W. Lingle, of the history department of Davidson.

It is probable that Mr. Booth will speak at the chapel services on Friday morning, and if this is realized his subject will be “Disarmament.” He will speak at Queens-Chicora College, in Charlotte, the night of the 5th, Thursday.

Mr. Booth is sent here by the Carnegie Peace Endowment and his talk will be sponsored by the International Relations Club. Davidson is indeed fortunate inHaving the opportunity to hear such an authority speak. His subject will be “British Foreign Policy.” Mr. Booth is a member of the Royal Institute of International Affairs in England, before which he frequently delivers lectures on world affairs. He has spent some time studying at the Academy of International Law, at The Hague. Among his articles is a paper on “The Political Situation in Southeastern Europe,” presented before the Institute, and published in “Italy’s Aegean Possessions,” published in 1928, is also well known in this country, as well as his articles written for the American Peace Society, at Washington, D. C., and published in “The Advocate of Peace.” Canada is Mr. Booth’s native country. He attended school at both St. Andrews College, Toronto, and Loyola University. During the war he was a major in His Majesty's Forces. He has devoted seven years’ study to Mediterranean and Balkan problems, and has lived or traveled in Morocco, Egypt, Rhodes, Patmos, Athens, and Belgrade.

The speaker has had wide lecturing experience, and has done political work for the National Liberal Party of England. He worked in America for the Liberty Loan and Red Cross drives while with H. M. Forces during the war, besides having experience lecturing in both England and America on international relations. Only two years ago he visited more than fifty International Relations Clubs in Southern and Middle Western colleges and universities, under the auspices of the Carnegie Endowment. Some of the subjects for the lectures on his present tour are: “The Permanent Court of International Justice,” “The Austro-Germanic Rapprochement as a Stabilizing Factor in Middle Europe,” “Balkan Consolidation—A Necessity to European Peace,” and “Remarks on Disarmament.” “The British Foreign Policy” was chosen as the topic of discussion for his lecture here because of the interest in British affairs at the present time. Great Britain has just changed her gold standard and the committee thought it appropriate and timely to have a discourse on a subject relating to England.

Dramatic Club Presents Three One-Act Plays On Saturday, November 7th

“Sham,” “Bound East for Cardiff,” and “Suppressed Desires” are to Be Seen

TWO FARCES, ONE DRAMA

Red and Black Masquers Present Many New Men in Performance

The Red and Black Masquers have noticed the great need of some kind of entertainment to fill the gap between supper and the concluding feature of the Citadel house party. So they have taken it upon themselves to “work up” three one-act plays in the short interval since we witnessed their last performance. It has always been very difficult for any organization to keep from the great error of running over the allotted time, but the Masquers have chosen these plays especially for this occasion. There will be little changing of scenery, and very short lapses between the successive productions.

The first in the series will be “Sham.” It is the story of a social climber begging a burglar to steal anything or everything in his home for the good old attempt “to keep up with the Joneses.” The cast is as follows:
Bunplatoc - R. Pope
Glata - W. McIlwinen
Charles - S. Henry
Director - Johnny Marvin
Stage Manager - G. Williams

The next in order is one of Eugene O'Neill's, “Bound East for Cardiff.” It has been recently given by the “Little Theatre” of Charlotte, and is a picture of life in the fo’castle of a tramp ship among rough, able-bodied seamen. Cast:
Yank - W. Hollingsworth
Driscoll - A. Rachal
Cocky - G. Gullette
Olson - J. Williams
Scotty - R. Lessem
Smith - L. Gregg
Gat - G. Moore
Second Mate - G. Easton
Norwegian - B. Davis
Director - W. Fugate
W. Ervin

The last is a screamingly funny satire on the woman who plunges a little too deep into the (Continued on page 5)

Dr. McSween to Be “Y” Vesper Speaker

President of Presbyterian College Will Also Speak at Morning Services

The Young Men's Christian Association of Davidson College has been exceedingly fortunate in securing for its weekly vesper service next Sunday Dr. John McSween, a forceful speaker, and one who will bring a message of great value to the students who take advantage of this opportunity. The services will be held as usual in the Maxwell-Chambers Auditorium at 6:00 p.m. Dr. McSween will be in Davidson en route home from Greensboro, where he is to attend the Wake Forest-Presbyterian football game, held at the World War Memorial Stadium there. Dr. McSween is president of the latter institution.

The speaker is an alumnus of Davidson College and has not spoken at his Alma Mater since his graduation in 1908. However, he holds a reputation at Presbyterian College for being an extremely interesting speaker. To date his subject has not been made public. He will occupy the pulpit of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church at the morning service. A large portion of the student body will be able to hear him then, and will need no urging to be present at the evening service. His reputation with students throughout the South speaks for itself, and anyone who misses his talk will have passed up a great opportunity.

‘CATS DEFEAT V. M. I. IN CLASSIC FOOTBALL ENCOUNTER SATURDAY

Wildcats Turn Tables by Outclassing the “Flying Squadron”

FLINN MAKES TOUCHDOWN

This Is the First Davidson Victory in Five Years

Showing a complete reversal of form in the second half, a determined Wildcat eleven gained a 7-0 verdict over the “Flying Squadron” of Virginia Military Institute last Saturday on Richardson Field. Approximately three thousand fans witnessed the struggle between the ancient rivals. Completely outplayed in the initial half, the Presbyterians, led by two tow-headed typhoons, Buddy Gardner and Bruce Peabody, tore the Cadet defense to pieces to place the ball on the V. M. I. 34-yard stripe. From here Billy Flinn, skirting the right flank, reversed his field and ran for the lone touchdown of the day. Don King converted from placement, making the score Davidson 7, V. M. I. 0.

The Virginians made eleven first downs to seven for Davidson, but most of their yardage was amassed in their own territory. The aerial attacks of both teams were held well in check, V. M. I. completing four short tosses out of sixteen attempts, and the ‘Cats making two out of seven. On the defensive, Buddy Gardner was all over the field. Time and again the amplifiers brought to the stands, “Gardner made the tackle.” Not satisfied with this, he was absolutely sure death to Cadet passes, intercepting one of the two that they had intercepted, and breaking up numerous others. Bruce Peabody was more than a thorn in the proverbial side of the Cadets. That lad’s defensive work stood out at all times. At the safety position, Peabody consistently ran punts back for good gains, and in the final canto broke loose from his own 10-yard marker on a 65-yard jaunt down the sidelines. He intercepted a pass and was largely responsible for V. M. I.'s failure to complete more of their passes. Bill Smith and Lavinder stood out in the backfield for the red-jerseyed players. Smith was the most consistent ground gainer, and Center Ed Kostainsek did some splendid defensive work. However, all in all, the Cadet forward wall was outtricked and outcharged by the Wildcat line, the work of Whitfield, Mathis and Johnson being particularly noticeable.

To open the game, Buck Mills returned a V. M. I. kick-off thirty yards before he was brought to earth. Pearce then ripped through right tackle for a first down. Here the Cadets braced and Pearce was forced to punt. Bill Smith of V. M. I. made fifteen yards on a cut-back play. But the Davidson line held, and Gill punted. Davidson then tore through the line for two consecutive first downs before having to kick. (Continued on page 6)

Honorary Fraternity Council Has Meeting

On last Friday the Honorary Fraternity Council held its first meeting of the year. The organization, in which all the established honorary fraternities are represented, was called together for the purpose of electing officers. Those elected were: S. S. Wiley, president; J. H. McKinnon, vice-president, and William Rule, secretary and treasurer. Also a committee was appointed to make out a schedule for the meetings of the honorary fraternities so that conflicting times may be avoided. A meeting of the Council will be held next Friday to complete this schedule, after which it will be published in The Davidsonian. Three fraternities were invited to join the Council. They are Mu Beta Psi, musical fraternity; Le Cercle Francais, French organization, and Sigma Delta Pi, new Spanish fraternity.