THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 19, 1931 —— RECORD OF 1921 CLASS Alumni Marriages Last fall a sum of slightly over $33.00,
which was the reserve of a reunion fund, was turned over to the alumni secretary by the class of 1921,
and the suggestion was made that it be utilized in making a survey of that class at some time during
the year. The suggestion was followed out, and a questionnaire sent to members of that class. Not all of them
responded, but those who did, and the information obtained, is given below:

James Richmond Boulware, A.B., Davidson; M.D., University of Virginia, specializing in pediatrics; married; now at Marble Arcade Building, Lakeland, Fla.

Cecil Kenneth Brown, A.B., Davidson; M.A. and Ph.D., University of North Carolina; also student at University of Besançon, France, and
Columbia University; author of two books; now professor at Davidson.

Samuel A. Burgess, B.S., Davidson; life insurance business, having been located in Cleveland, Oklahoma City, St. Paul, Jacksonville, and now
at 1209 Bank of Bay Biscayne Bldg., Miami, Fla.; married, two sons.

Walter Wilson Carter, B.S., Davidson; studied law at University of North Carolina and several trust schools; practiced law in Mt.
Airy; served in N.C. State Senate in 1925; on Davidson board of trustees for several years; trust officer of San
Angelo (Texas) National Bank; now trust consultant Aetna Life Insurance Co., 323 W. Gramercy St., San Antonio, Texas; married, one
son.

J. Eris Cassell, A.B., Davidson; student, University of Virginia; married; taught school at McCallie, Lenoir, principal of Gastonia schools five
years, and now completing second year principal of Concord High School.

Henry B. Culbreth, A.B., Davidson; with Equitable Life Assurance Society, formerly at Memphis, Chicago and New York, now at Wilson,
N.C.; married, one daughter.

Armand L. Currie, B.S., Davidson; B.D., Louisville Seminary; Y.M.C.A. secretary at Davidson; pastor at Paducah, Ky., and now pastor of
Moore Memorial Presbyterian Church, Nashville, Tenn.; married, one son.

John McNeely Dunlap, B.S., Davidson; student, University of North Carolina; principal of Piedmont Junior High School, Charlotte; married, two sons.

D. Ralph Freeman, B.A., Davidson; B.D., Union Theological Seminary; pastor at Arlington, Tenn., five years, and now pastor at Draper,
Va.; married, one son.

Franklin Fricker, A.B., Davidson; S.B., Mass. Institute of Technology; principal, Huntingtown (Md.) high school one year; technical sales promotion, Portland
Cement Assn., Norfolk and Richmond, two years; same capacity, Ethyl Gasoline Corp., Detroit, Mich.; married.

John Moore Gaston, B.S., Davidson; teacher, Cramerton, two years; East Gastonia, one year; in textile business, three years; married, one
son, one daughter.

Marshall Brownlee Heizer, A.B., Davidson; B.D., Union Theological Seminary; pastor, Brunswick Presbyterian Church, Rawlings, Va., since 1925; married, one son,
one daughter.

Hadley Alexander Hill, A.B., Davidson; M.A., Columbia University; with sales department, Bartlett-Orr Press; plan and research department, Chas. W. Hoyt
Advertising Agency; research department, Iron Age Publishing Co.; assistant and general manager, Hardware Age Magazine and Eastern representative, Pacific Coast
Publishing Corp.; now advertising representative, eastern territory, Case-Sheppard-Mann Publishing Corp., at 22 East 38th St., New York.

John Dudley Howell, B.S., Davidson; in accounting department, Atlantic Coast Line Railroad, Box 22, Wilmington; married.

Chalmers Garold Long, A.B., Davidson; Union Theological Seminary; D.D., Central University; pastor, First Presbyterian Church, Albemarle; married, two daughters.

Carl H. Long, building contractor; job superintendent for James Baird Co., of New York, building the Centenary Methodist Cathedral, Winston-Salem;
800 Cloverdale Ave., Winston-Salem.

James Withers Long, B.S., Davidson; with Long Brothers (cotton exporters) and Long Brothers, general merchandise, Uniontown, Ala.; married.

Charles Moore McCaskill, B.S., Davidson; for eight years, department manager, Dodge Brothers, Shreveport, La.; now territorial sales manager for Goodyear
Tire & Rubber Co., with headquarters at Monroe, La.; married, one daughter.

Joseph C. McCaskill, A.B., Davidson; M.A., Columbia University; student, N.Y. School Social Work; Y.M.C.A. secretary, Concord; now “Y” secretary, Montclair,
N.J., and instructor N.Y. School of Social Work; married, two sons.

Walter White McCorkle, B.S., Davidson; for two years in advertising department of The Birmingham News, for last eight years in
accounting department and assistant secretary of Ingalls Iron Works, Birmingham, Ala.; married, two daughters.

William Henry Miley, Jr., A.B., Davidson; International Correspondence Schools; eight years in cotton mill work at Cooleemee; for last two
years, superintendent of No. 5 Mill for the Erwin Cotton Mill, Erwin, N.C.

Frank Ernest Miller, B.S., Davidson; hardware and furniture, retail business, Whitmire, S.C.; married, one daughter.

Alexander McFarlane Mitchell, A.B., Davidson; B.D., Union Theological Seminary; teacher at Alabama Presbyterian College, Anniston, Ala., one year; pastor, Selma,
N.C., two years, now pastor, Camilla, Ga.; married.

Clarence N. Morrison, A.B., Davidson; B.D., Union Theological Seminary; two years, pastor at Whitsett, N.C.; since 1928, pastor of Glenwood
Presbyterian Church, Greensboro; married.

Alexander Pierce Ormond, A.B., Davidson; M.D., University of Pennsylvania; student, Emory University, Ga.; two years, resident physician Philadelphia General Hospital;
one year with Akron (Ohio) Clinic; now practicing medicine at Stow, Ohio, and member of medical staff, Akron City Hospital;
married, one daughter.

Norma Baba Pearah (formerly N.P. Baba), B.S., Davidson; M.D., Kansas City College of Medicine and Surgery; student, Yale University and
University of Virginia; in several hospitals in New York and St. Louis; now practicing at Helena, Ark.

Stafford M. Query, A.B., Davidson; B.D., Union Theological Seminary; since grad-

Caison-Matheson Alphonso A. Caison, 1928 graduate, of Charlotte, and Miss Martha Matheson, of Statesville, were married in Lancaster, S.C., on
March 4. Mr. Caison, whose original home was in Savannah, Ga., has been employed by the American Trust Company, of
Charlotte, since finishing at Davidson. Mrs. Caison is a graduate of Mitchell College, and has made her home in Charlotte
during the past year. At present, Mr. and Mrs. Caison are at home at 2009 East Fifth St., Charlotte.

Johnson-Young David W. Johnson, 1928 alumnus of Davidson, of Fayetteville, and Miss Lorraine Young, of Lumber Bridge, were married at
the homeof the Presbyterian minister at Lake City, S.C., on February 14. Mr. Johnson was originally from Rex, N.C., but
now resides at Fayetteville, where he is in the employ of the Gulf Refining Company. Mr. and Mrs. Johnson are
at home on Russell Street, Fayetteville.

David Worth Roberts, A.B., Davidson; B.D., Union Theological Seminary; Th.M., Princeton University; pastor, Third Presbyterian Church, New Orleans, La.; married,
Birchie Walton Romefelt, B.S., Davidson; stocks and bonds, Asheville; since 1929 associated with Chase National Bank, New York; elected assistant
cashier in January 1930, in securities division; married, two daughters, one son.

John Harris Sample, B.S., Davidson; student, University of North Carolina; since 1924 attorney-at-law in firm of Campbell, Sample and Miller,
Asheville.

Lewis Bevens Schenck, A.B., Davidson; B.D., Union Theological Seminary; Th.M., Princeton Theological Seminary; student, Yale Graduate School, Cornell summer school;
assistant pastor First Presbyterian Church, Huntington, W.Va.; professor of Bible, Marshall College, Huntington, W.Va.; now associate professor at Davidson; married.

Frederick Noll Thompson, B.S., Davidson; street and highway paving contractor; Vice-President and Treasurer, Noll Construction Co., Charlotte; married, two daughters.

Chas. R. Vance, B.S., Davidson; for over eight years was with Caldwell & Company, with headquarters in Greensboro; married, one
son.

My hearty endorsement to one detail in Dr. Butler’s program: I am in favor of his plan to regulate the
weather at football games. — President O’Donnell of Notre Dame.

UNDERWEAR OF DISTINCTION
SHIRTS AND SHORTS

Some men say amusing things about color in shirts and shorts—but no one questions the unusual comfort in this two-piece
underwear as made by HANES. We've taken track-athlete freedom and enlarged on it a bit for men who’ve dropped their
calisthenics, but who love comfort nonetheless. We are a little tickled, too, that we can match the weird colors in
your ties, your shirts, and your socks—though there is pure white, of course.

P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
Winston-Salem, N.C.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Among recent alumni visitors to the campus were Ruffner Campbell, '10, of Asheville; D. G. Wilson, ’26, of Greensboro; Clisby
DuBose, ’28, of New York; R. E. Kell, ’29, of Franklin, Tenn.; R. H. Ratchford, ’27, and W. T. Ratchford,
’30, both of Gastonia.

Friends will regret to learn that the following relatives of alumni have died recently: Mother of R. S. Haltiwanger, ’14,
of Winston-Salem; a brother of Dr. W. R. Kell, ’85, and Dr. T. G. Kell, ’04, both of Pascagoula, Miss.,
and father of Wilbur L. Hodgin, ’27, of Greensboro. These are in addition to the alumni survivors of alumni who
have recently died, and which are mentioned in other columns of this page.

Davidson College alumni will also universally regret to learn of the death of Captain C. S. Morrison, who for many
years had been conductor on the Southern Railway trains that passed through Davidson. Captain Morrison always spoke very highly of
Davidson students and their conduct, and in a conversation with him before Christmas, Captain Morrison spoke enthusiastically of the courteous
conduct of the Davidson boys he had known. “Of course, they had to have their fun,” he added.

Rev. R. W. Culbertson, ’83, has retired from the ministry. For the past 12 years, he was pastor of a
group of churches near Charlotte. He will reside with a daughter at Carthage, N.C.

It is now Major Fred L. Black, '04. Major Black was recently promoted from a captaincy. He is in the
quartermaster corps and is now stationed at the Presidio of San Francisco, Calif.

Notice TO THE COLLEGE BOYS

Why pay $1.25 for half soles when you can take them to the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP and get the same
sole with better work for only 85c. Try Us and See.

C. A. KENNEDY, Prop.

Captain W. A. Dumas, ’15, stationed at West Point as an instructor of military science at the academy there, spoke
over the Columbia broadcasting network on the morning of February 21. Captain Dumas spoke from Carnegie Hall on behalf of
all the patriotic societies of New York, which affair was sponsored particularly by the Sons of the Revolution. Those who
heard Captain Dumas’ address spoke most favorably of it.

Paul DeL. Mazyck, ’12, was approved by the United States Senate last week as postmaster at Gaffney, S.C.

E. L. Baxter Davidson, ’80, of Charlotte, was re-elected last week as president of the Mecklenburg Chapter of the Sons
of the American Revolution.

H. E. Fries, ’78, has been elected chairman of the Winston-Salem zoning board of adjustment.

The Beta Rho Chapter of Nu Sigma Nu, national medical fraternity, was installed at Duke University Saturday. Davidson alumni who
were among the initiates included R. W. Graves, ’26, Rome, Ga.; R. L. McMillan, '27, Charlotte, and L. C. Roberts,
’30, Shelby. All of these alumni are first-year medical students at Duke.

Chih Meng, ’21, is associate director of the China Institute of America, with headquarters in New York, at 119 W.
57th St.

Announcement has been received by the alumni secretary that Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, '06, and Dr. Robert W. McKay, ’17,
have changed their offices in Charlotte from the Professional Building to the second floor of the new Medical Arts Building,
121 W. Seventh St.

A Complete Service for School Publications
Yearbooks, Magazines, Catalogs, Textbooks
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.
Established 1899

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia.

OFFERS
To Regular Students—Well balanced course, including a number of electives.
To Advanced Students—Specially chosen courses to fit each individual case.
To the Most Successful Students—Five Fellowships, some resident, others abroad.

For Catalogue and information, address
Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President

SENIORS
NOW IS THE TIME TO HAVE YOUR ENGRAVED CARDS MADE
Best Quality and Prices
Any Type of Engraving
P. M. CONWAY
27 Rumple
Representing
STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Charlotte, N.C.
