THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 30, 1931

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
Sass matter at the Post
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN... Editor-in-Chief
AS CANNON... Business Manager
E. O. GUERRANT... Managing Editor
DOD MCBRYDE... Managing Editor
R. L. McCALLIE... Managing Editor
C. F. MYERS... Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG... Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENSON... Feature Editor
W. W. BRANSON... Feature Editor
H. W. ERWIN... Review Editor
E. C. D... Associate Editor
W. S. LEE... Associate Editor
W. H. ... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
P. M. CONWAY... Assistant Business Manager
A. BAKER... Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS... Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY... Subscription Manager
P. F. BROWN... Solicitor
R. W. ANG... Solicitor
A. M. MANSON... Solicitor
A. MEBANE... Solicitor
W. R. MORROW... Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
A. S. WHITEHEAD... President
R. A. D... Vice-President
W. F. MULLISS... Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR
L. S. GAMBOL
G. E. BAILEY
R. E. LORRAINE
J. E. BOYD
E. I. WELLS
S. P. PRESTON
R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
A. F. SCHENCK
O. CASALI
W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. CLARDY, JR.
W. T. THOMPSON
J. A. HUNTER

APRIL 30, 1931

“If the choice were left to me whether to have a free press or a free Government, I would choose a free press.” —Thomas Jefferson.

MAKE-UP
The following men did make-up work on pages indicated:
McCallie... Front Page
Guerrant... Page Five
McBryde... Page Six
Sugg... Sport Page

PARAGRAPHICS
From the amount of interest shown in airplanes in chapel it would seem that the college would do well to put a Department of Aeronautics into the college curriculum.

“Mother’s Day” is Sunday, May 10. The “Y” is having a vesper service, devoted to mothers, with a Davidson mother to talk. Every man that possibly can should have his mother up for that Sunday.

Colonel Scott declared the R. O. T. C. inspection the finest since he has been here. Congratulations to the Military Department and to the Battalion for their good work.

Two Davidson Seniors received a considerable amount of space in a column in the last issue of “The Parley Voo,” Converse paper. Nothing like good publicity in the right place.

The golf team deserves the commendation of the whole student body for their recent success in the State tournament. A State championship in golf is fine; one in track would make the spring complete.

Southern Conference Cross-Country Champion Smith certainly prevented Davidson from winning the meet last Saturday. Seeing that unless three places were taken in the half-mile run the meet was lost, he stepped in and took third in the event, after running both the mile and the two-mile against strong competition. That’s what we call an iron-man.

EXAMINATIONS AND THEN—
With the appearance of the examination schedule in this issue of The Davidsonian comes a realization that vacation is not so far away. Only a few more weeks and students will be scattering to all parts of the country, and some even to foreign countries. The Seniors leave with a feeling of joy mingled with regret; joy in the knowledge that they have completed their college course, and regret because they know that they will never return to Davidson again as students of the college. To underclassmen this vacation is only an interim—a time of rest before continuing their work. Next fall they will return, changed only in the fact that they will have advanced one class.

Many and varied are the activities of Davidson men during the summer. Some men in the student body have already completed extensive plans for the use of their time, others are making preparations every day. Probably the majority of the student body will engage in some kind of work, either for the entire summer or for a part of it. A great many men will attend summer camps, some in the capacity of counselors for boys’ camps. Juniors taking the R. O. T. C. advanced course will be in Anniston, Ala., at Camp McClellan, for six weeks. Still others...

FRESHMEN CONTROL
This is not in any respect an attempt to criticize the work of the Court of Control for the past year, or to censure the student body for neglect in the reporting of Freshmen to the Court, but is rather a criticism of the system as a whole, and a suggestion that some other form of control for the new men might meet with better success.

It is generally admitted that there is a sad neglect on the part of upperclassmen in the reporting of Freshmen for violation of the rules. This condition is due to the fact that there is a certain dislike of “turning-up” a man, regardless of the seriousness of the offense. Some men, in their first year, do things, say things, and refuse to do tasks that are assigned them, and are successful in escaping any form of punishment; other men try the same things and are brought before the court for trial. Although it is impossible to treat each man in the same manner, there is a certain unfairness in an organization of that kind which is not desirable at Davidson. To the greatest extent possible men should be dealt with impartially.

In any system where there is not full cooperation on the part of all concerned, that system is likely to be unsuccessful. Thus the control of Freshmen at Davidson has not been an entirely successful venture. One must admit that the cooperation of the students in this has not been notable. By no means do we claim that the present plan is not better than the one which it displaced, that of hazing, but merely suggest that there is possibly a better way than the method now in vogue here. Of course, it would be impossible to have any organization that would correct all the faults of the present method. The following does not make any pretension at outlining such an organization, but is simply something which may lead to the development of a truly good idea.

Some schools have a larger body than our Court of Control, selected from the three upper classes. This group, instead of serving merely to punish men for infractions of regulations, acts also as a council to assist Freshmen needing aid or advice in any way. The purpose of having the larger court is to let them serve over the Freshman Class as the Student Council does over the student body, thus relieving the students of the burden of making all the complaints. This does not, however, prevent anyone from bringing before the court any case against a Freshman. This council calls before them any man that they think needs punishment, advice, or assistance in any way, without having it necessary that the man be reported. In this way the problem of controlling the new men, and of helping them, would both be solved with one body of men. Whether this system would be workable at Davidson is something that can only be solved by experiment. We do realize, though, that the present method is not as efficient as the situation requires.

FIRE SERVICE
The fires that have occurred in Davidson this year have had at least one good effect, in spite of the damage that they have done. They have brought the men in college and the townspeople to a realization that in fighting such a terrible and destructive thing as a fire, something more than mere man-power is necessary. Also they have come to the conclusion that in the use of men in fighting fire, good organization is an absolute requirement. At the fire on last Sunday morning there were plenty of men to do the work, and although the equipment was a little late in arriving, it served its purpose. But one could not say that the efforts made at extinguishing the flames were very successful. Why? Because there was no one guiding force to direct the battle against the flames. One person would order the hose to one place and another would send it right back to the same place at which it had been before. Working in that way very little could be accomplished in saving the house.

The college, in cooperation with the town, is planning to provide more adequate facilities for the control of fires in the future. Whether this equipment will be in the form of a complete truck, with all the necessary...sary accessories, or some other means of getting the existing apparatus to the scene of the fire, has not yet been definitely decided. Also, some other form of organization within the R. O. T. C. department for the fighting of fire is being planned. The result of these projects, if they are successful, will be of immense value both to the school and to the town.

Q-Saps Fables
By D. D. McB.

Wherein the Author Commits Poetry:

“THE BOWERY BRAWL (and what it did for me)”

For you've met the girl before,
The man doesn’t matter, so drop all the chatter;
Let’s try out the Armory floor.
And the stately couples depart,
We return to the Hill-------
But oh for the touch of a vanished hand,
And the sound of a voice that is shrill.

II

Broke, broke, broke,
On thy cold gray streets, D. C.!
And I would that my pocketbook supplied
The wants that arise in me.
Oh well for the bankers’ sons
With autos of latest makes,
Oh well for the wealthy one,
And the week-end trips he takes.
And the cruel, cold world goes on—
The good, the indifferent, the bad;
But oh for the feel of Ye Old Greenback
That I used to get from Dad!
Broke, broke, broke!
And campus’d too, D. C.!
And the metallic clink of coin that is gone
Will never come back to me.
(Apol. to Tennyson.)

Our Book-of-the-Week Suggestions:
“MAKING MONEY THE APPIAN WAY,” by Emperor Siberius.

LINES TO MORPHEUS, or, THOUGHTS WHILE STUDYING

Canto First
Mister Sandman please desist,
Or I my studies will have missed;
Come again some other night
When I am not in such a plight.

Canto Second
(Two tied for second place, so we combined them)
Now I lay me down to rest,
To study hard I’ve tried my best;
If I should die before I wake—
I'd have no more reviews to take.
(Third canto seized by some well-deserving student and destroyed)

QUESTION AND ANSWER DEPARTMENT

Dear Mr. A-SAP:
I am worried about my boy-friend. Will you tell me what I should do? Here is a letter I have just received from him:
“Dearest Annabelle:
I would swim the mighty ocean for one glance from your dear eyes.
I would walk through a wall of flame for one touch of your little hands.
I would leap the widest stream in the world for a word from your lovely lips.
“As always, your Oswald.
“P. S.: I'll be over Saturday night if it doesn’t rain,
“Yours hopefully, fair Annette.”

Dear Miss Annette:
If you live near Davidson—don’t look for him.

TO-DAY’S BEST STORY:
It was an afternoon lecture. The speaker came to a close to find his audience diminished to one.
“My good sir,” said he, “I am much flattered by your staying to hear me when all the rest ran off at the sound of the bell!”
“What! Has the bell rung?” said the slightly deaf student, as he rushed out of the building.

A reward of $100 for the person who first raises the German national flag over the city of Strasbourg, Alsace-Lorraine, as a signal that the city has again passed into German hands, is provided in the will of Charles F. Joerger, a grocer, who died recently at Philadelphia.

President John Grier Hibben of Princeton University has just celebrated his 70th birthday. He became president of the university in January, 1912, and plans to retire in June, 1932.

New York University this week is celebrating its 100th anniversary. When founded by Gallatin, the university was considered a center of radicalism.

Ground has been broken at Mount Holyoke College for the first section of a new physical-chemical laboratory. The section will cost $225,000, and will be completed in about nine months.

ers will travel, some in this country, a few abroad. Wherever they are, Davidson men will be coming into contact with people, and impressions of Davidson will be made by their actions. So, wherever we go, let’s keep the ideals and traditions of Davidson in mind in whatever we do.

What Do You Think?
Whether or not interested, it gives one a certain sense of satisfying relief to hear a member of the graduating class say that his work for next year is all planned out. It is equally disturbing to hear from another that he does not yet know what he will do. The world is growing and growing in population but it still needs and it will always need a class of men to control things and see that industry, commerce, and education are properly carried on. Every man wants to be a member of this class, but, unfortunately, few can be. Education comes first in the required preparation for membership in this class, and next to education comes specialization in education. Every undergraduate should determine what he expects to do, and he should sign up for those courses which will best give him the particular specialization which he needs.

Speaking of jobs and positions brings us to that old and unusually appalling subject of unemployment. The unemployed are everywhere around us; in fact, they are so numerous that they are now designated as a distinct and separate union of men—a union with nothing to do. The men who are trying to relieve unemployment are certainly attempting a noble work. A friend told us the other day that he thought the situation was pitiful and that he did all in his power to alleviate the distress caused by the unfortunate circumstances. He told us that he was shocked when he saw, while walking on the street, a man selling apples, a man who had formerly been an expert mechanic. Our friend tells us that, in order to help the unfortunate individual, he bought two of the three apples he was selling, and would have bought the third but then the man would have been unemployed again!

Vesper Services which are held outdoors are particularly impressive—impressive because they help to emphasize that infinitely important thing that so many of us are so likely to forget—the definite inter-relationship between Nature and Religion. A liking for Nature is not poetic, it’s not effeminate; it’s natural. And here let us express our wishes to the new Y president and the new Y cabinet that next year will more than ever prove the indispensability of their organization, or rather, our organization. It is both a compliment to the old Y officers and cabinet and a challenge to the new when we acknowledge the great work accomplished by the Y. M. C. A. in 1930-1931.

The quiet and stillness of Sunday morning was rent by the menacing sound of the fire siren about ten-thirty. As usual, every Davidson man was alert and a few were already off with the wagon, extinguishers, etc. Everyone did what he could to save the burning house on the other side of town. It is interesting, although unpleasantly interesting, to note that Davidson has had more than its usual number of fires this year, but the reliable Davidson Fire Department has always been on the spot and each time has done what it could to extinguish the blazes.

A lecture in French is all very interesting and the lecturer must feel very satisfied when the audience listens intently for an hour. But when he brings out a cardboard full of posters it must be equally embarrassing to the audience and humiliating to the lecturer when the latter has to ask “Can you see it?” in French three times and finally in English before he can get a reply from his audience.

We are glad that Dr. McConnell delivered the Founders’ Day celebration address at Darlington several days ago. The name of Darlington as a preparatory school means some of the most prominent men on our own campus; prominent in athletics, prominent socially. A Darlington man has usually meant a man who can be and is a true Davidson man.

Whoever originated the phrase “April Showers” was not only a poet, he was not only a prophet; he was an observer. It has not taken a very close observer around Davidson recently to realize that April is the month of showers. But they are short and after all—“they do bring the flowers.” Nevertheless, a slicker has become an only-too-indispensable part of a student’s clothing. Sunshine one minute doesn’t mean that the next won't be a downpour of rain. But let it rain! We like it.

The Duke University Medical School at Durham, N. C., has just dedicated its $4,000,000 set of new buildings. Center College students are planning to institute a point system to limit the outside activities of the undergraduates.