THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1931

BASKETBALL PRACTICE BEGINS

THE SPORTS PARADE

WRESTLING TO START SOON

Well, it’s all over now, even the shouting, and the cussing. Again the Deacons came through with a win, adding
another to their long list of victories and ties against the Wildcats since 1920. And we take back all we
said last week, including the jinx (somebody please take it; we don't want it). There must be a jinx. Nothing
else could have been responsible for the Deacons’ victory last Thursday. Twice the Wildcats drove down the field. Twice they
should have scored. But each time—well, you know the story.

It was a good game, all the thrills and excitement a man could want. Both teams played good football. Though
the Deacons outweighed the ’Cats, statistics—all but the score—show the two teams about even. The playing of Dupre for Wake
Forest at guard was matched only by the great defensive work of Gardner for Davidson at center, and the two
Baptist ends, Green and Brogden, were poison to the Wildcat offense.

In our opinion, Charlie Pearce played the best all-’round game for the ’Cats. His punting, though erratic at times, halted
the Deacons time and again, while three of his passes resulted in appreciable gains for the Wildcats. And when he
was given the ball, his elusive twisting and turning gained ground several times. King, on the receiving end of Pearce’s
33-yard pass, played one of his best games, and besides playing his position at quarter like the veteran he is,
knifed his way through the line time and again. McQueen's line plunging gained much ground for the ’Cats, while Peabody,
though halted upon receiving punts by the two flashy Wake Forest ends, was good for many gains through the line.

In the line, Raker, Mathis, and Conway were outstanding. And incidentally, Buddy Gardner and Doc Mathis can play on our
all-state eleven any time. Speaking of all-state elevens (everybody else is; why can’t we?), we note many interesting selections by
the various coaches in the state. Among the most interesting was that of Coach Chuck Collins at Carolina, who picked
nine Carolina men. The very idea! Only nine? My goodness. Well, well, well, and a couple of pooh poohs. Jake
Wade and Coach Monk put Gardner on their all-state team, while Floyd Simmons selected Mathis. Well, for our selection, these
will do:

Walker, Carolina: End
Cobb, State: Tackle
Mathis, Davidson: Guard
Gardner, Davidson: Center
Dupre, Wake Forest: Guard
Hodges, Carolina: Tackle
Brown, Carolina: End
Brewer, Duke: Quarterback
Slusser, Carolina: Halfback
King, Davidson: Halfback
Chandler, Carolina: Fullback

And now we are hearing and reading a lot of ballyhoo about a charity game to be played by players
from each team in the Big Five. It’s a good idea but impractical, not only from a financial standpoint, but—well,
in our opinion, it won't work. Neither will it pay. Practically all players are out of training. In playing they
will have little incentive to win. It'll be hard to get ’em together, and various other reasons. If the governors,
senators, etc., think a charity game is the thing to have, why not a post-season game between Carolina and Duke?

Then farewell. Not for thy faults, but mine.—Byron.

If a business man cannot laugh he has no right to get rich—Sir Thomas Lipton.

S. A. Gerskov — The Tailor
SUITS MADE TO ORDER
Cleaned 40c
Pressed 20c
Remodeled and Altered
All Work Guaranteed
Globe Pressing Company

Monk Younger Issues Call For Basketball Candidates

With the recent marking the close of the 1931 grid season, Coach Laird issued his first call for basketball practice
last Monday. Prospects for the 1932 quintet are far from dark with two lettermen in uniform, and a host of
aspirants from last year’s Freshman team, and from the scrubs. Captain G. L. “Doc” Mathis and Grier Martin are the
men who made letters last season, and who will be the nucleus around which Coach Laird expects to build a
capable Davidson quint. Mathis and Martin were both outstanding players of 1931, in which Davidson had a very creditable season,
two victories over the University of North Carolina being particularly impressive. Toward mid-season, however, the Wildcats lost two stars, and
slumped considerably, although the second victory over the Tar Heels came during this latter period. Other important victories included a
26-19 triumph over N. C. State in the initial contest of the year, and 27-23 and 22-20 wins over Erskine
and Virginia Poly respectively.

Among the outstanding players from last year’s scrubs are Bruce Peabody, Steve Brown, erstwhile gridiron luminaries, and Meade Bernard. These
boys saw a great deal of action in last year’s campaigns, but failed to amass a sufficient quantity of quarters
to be awarded the varsity “D.” Fans should hear a lot of racket from these boys this season, however. Among
the members of the 1931 Freshman squad, John Lafferty, Andy Manson, Jim Halverstadt, and Mac Holland look good, and should
get into a great many games before the season is over. Stars of Frosh teams are not only dependable though,
and at this early date one cannot tell whether these stellar players of former games will be able to hold
up against unexpected competition or not.

To date a tentative schedule has been arranged, and for only the first part of the season at that. One
new opponent appears on the list, Furman, who will be met on the local floor. The Purple Hurricane’s invasion of
the Wildcat stronghold should furnish a good scrap, for the Furman boys have a reputation for fight down there in
the Palmetto State quite similar to the one the ’Cats enjoy. Davidson's season opens with the formidable Tar Heels who
will be played in Charlotte on the evening of January 9. The rest of the schedule follows:

Monday, Jan. 11—Furman at Davidson.
Friday, Jan. 20—Duke at Durham.
Monday, Feb. 1—Duke at Charlotte.
Thursday, Feb. 4—Erskine (place undecided).
Wednesday, Feb. 10—N. C. State at Raleigh.
Thursday, Feb. 11—North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Saturday, Feb. 13—College of Charleston at Davidson.

New Brunswick, N. J.—(AP)—Warning against absorption in bridge, luncheons, dinner parties and the petty details of housekeeping, was issued to
500 alumnae of the New Jersey College for Women here by Dean Mable S. Douglass, who addressed them. “The danger
years for a college woman are those which immediately follow graduation, and extend ten or fifteen years,” she said. “It
is during this time that women sink themselves either in the petty details of their work or in the care
of their homes and children. They fail to realize that to achieve real success either in a home or in
a profession they must not let themselves deteriorate, but must be intellectually alive and abreast of the world’s events. Those
who marry think they are best serving their children by being completely absorbed in them; they are later to discover
that there are better ways to earn the respect and companionship of their children.”

For Mexico the Monroe Doctrine does not exist.—Salvador Urbina, Justice of the Mexican Supreme Court.

Sophs Win Inter-Class Basketball Tournament

The inter-class basketball tournament which was begun November 9 was brought to a close last Friday evening with a very
exciting game between the Sophomores and the Freshmen, the Sophs winning by the narrow margin of one point. The Fresh
put up a stiff fight to down the Sophs, who were handicapped by the absence of Lafferty and McLean, but
all too late. During the last half the Sophs only scored one point to the Fresh’s seven, but the whistle
came too soon, leaving the Sophs at the big end of a score of 14 to 13. Holland, the captain
of the Sophomore team, was high scorer of the game, ringing up eight of the Sophs’ fourteen points. Winning this
game gave the tournament to the Sophomores, who also won the volleyball tournament.

The same evening another exciting game took place between the Juniors and the Seniors. For the first quarter the Seniors
were scoreless, but in the last three quarters they ran up a small score, which nevertheless could not compare with
the score of the steady moving Juniors. The Seniors, however, stopped fighting during the whole game, which ended with them
at thelittle end of the 17 to 9 score. In another game, on Tuesday of last week, the Seniors were
defeated by the Sophomores. This time also the Seniors, who were handicapped by a scarcity of substitutes, fought till the
last whistle, but again were downed.

Game Statistics
W. F. Dav
First downs -------------- 8 8
Yds. gained from scrim.---129 139
Passes attempted --------- 6 11
Passes completed --------- 3 3
Passes intercepted -------- 2 1
Passes incompleted ------- 2 6
Ydge gained from passes---189 190
Average length kickoffs... 40 50
Ydge kickoffs returned... 20 32
Punting average --------- 36.3 37.6
Fumbles ------------------ 2 0
Fumbles recovered -------- 1 1
Penalties ----------------- 15

The score being 27 to 10. In the fourth quarter, they made a desperate attempt to even up the score,
but the Sophs, who were running at their best, already had the score well above their reach. The teams matched
this season were fairly well balanced. None went through undefeated and none lost all its games in the tournament. The
games were played in the college gym and were usually refereed by some member of the varsity basketball squad. The
captain of the Senior team was Patrick, of the Junior, Boucher, and the Fresh and Soph captains were appointed before
each game. The standings at the end of the tournament are as follows:

Team Wins Losses Pct.
Sophomores 2 1 .833
Juniors 2 1 .667
Seniors 1 2 .333
Freshmen 0 3 .167

Wildkittens to Encounter Tar Babies Next Saturday

Along with the other football teams of this and other states, the Davidson Wildkittens are going to do their part
for charity when they meet the Carolina Freshmen in a post-season game at Hickory next Saturday. This game will be
played at the Lenoir-Rhyne College field at 2:30 and the proceeds are to go to Watts Hospital.

The Kittens will be without two of their star backs and possibly a third. MackKorell, who is still out with
a broken leg, and Wingfield will not be in uniform. It is said, however, that Hutchins, who was injured in
the Duke game, will be in action before the game is over. The Kittens also have the disadvantage of a
ten days’ lay-off. Still, they will not enter the contest as the under-dog. The Tar Babies have lost to the
Freshmen of Wake Forest, Duke, and State, as well as to the Oak Ridge Cadets, who were defeated by the
Davidson Frosh 18 to 6. Davidson also lost to the State and Duke Freshmen, but both games were very close.
Coaches Laird and Unger are working their charges hard and late this week to round them into shape after their
long lay-off. The opening squad looked remarkably good in the practice Monday afternoon.

Probable line-up for Davidson:
Morgan ---------------- Left End
Siegler ---------------- Left Tackle
Rothen ---------------- Left Guard
Lee -------------------- Center
Bib -------------------- Right Guard
Mande ----------------- Right Tackle
Hutchins --------------- Right End
Quarterback ------------ Quarterback
Dismukes --------------- Right Half
Blum ------------------- Left Half
Cato ------------------- Fullback

Davidson Football Team Breaks Even in Number Of Games Won and Lost

Because of a defeat at the hands of Wake Forest on Thanksgiving Day, the Davidson gridiron representatives were able to
do no better than break even in their 1931 schedule. Of their ten games, they won four, lost four, and
tied two for a percentage of .500. The Wildcats were outscored by their opponents 72 to 54 points. They won
three games by seven-point margins and lost only one by a twenty-point margin. Three teams, N. C. State, V. P.
I., and Carolina each scored three touchdowns against the ’Cats to send them home in defeat. In only two games
did the Wildcats score more than one touchdown. They defeated Elon in the first game of the season 13-2, and
in their last home game downed the Citadel 14-7. On the other hand, the ’Cats were held scoreless only four
times and two of these games ended in scoreless ties, Carolina and Wake Forest being the teams to white-wash the
’Cats while scoring for themselves.

The Davidson offense clicked best against their opponents in the third quarters. Of their 54 total points, 21 were scored
in this period, 14 in the first, 12 in the second, and only seven in the last period. As the
offense clicked in the third period, so did the defense, and the Wildcats held their opponents scoreless in this period.
Their defense seemed to crack under strain in the fourth quarter when they allowed a total of 41 opponent points
to be scored. Twenty-five points were scored against them in the initial stanza, but only six in the second.

Individual scoring honors were won by Charles Pearce, who scored three touchdowns for 18 points. Don McQueen and Don King
followed Pearce with 12 points each. McQueen obtained his total by scoring two touchdowns while King gathered his by scoring
one touchdown and converting six extra points. Bruce Peabody and Bill Flinn were the only other Wildcats to tally, each
getting one touchdown.

Seven lettermen who helped carry the 1931 Wildcat team through a difficult schedule, which included six Southern Conference elevens, will
be lost by graduation this year. Captain Raker, Alternate Captain Mathis, King, McQueen, Johnson, Conway, and Brown are the ones
who have ended their collegiate gridiron careers.

Decathlon Is Now Being Held in Cup Competition

A group of fifty men answered the call for the annual Decathlon this year, from which keen competition has already
arisen. The Decathlon consists of twelve events from which each man may select the ten best qualified. Anyone who chooses
to do so may enter the contest, and a cup will be awarded to the one who compiles the most
points. Some of the marks made by the first-year men show promise of a good Freshman track team in the
spring. Allowance must be made for those who did not enter the events who might set still better marks. The
work being done now, however, is more or less preliminary, for the greatest speed and distances will be attained in
the spring when everyone will be given another opportunity to try his ability. The events are run off individually, and
a personal record of each man is kept. A specific number of points are given for qualifying in an event,
and additional points are given according to how far he exceeds the qualifying mark.

The first event run off was the hundred-yard dash, for which the qualifying time is 13 seconds. McCallie and Halyburton
clipped off the century in 10.8 seconds. Gullette and Potter, both Freshmen, hit 11 seconds. McCallie also took the 300-yard
dash in 34.2 seconds, for which the qualifying time is 40 seconds. Freshman Glasgow made the good time of 34.5
seconds. Rhyne easily excelled in the high jump when he soared over the bar at 5 ft. 6 in. McCallie
and McGehee each cleared 5 ft. 3 in. Freshmen Rogers, Dulin, and Dupuy all jumped 5 ft. 1 in. The
qualifying height was 4 feet. McCallie and A. G. Little both leaped 19 ft. 6 in. to win the broad
jump, with a qualifying distance of 15 feet. Freshman Dupuy covered 18 ft. 10 in., followed by Glasgow with 18
ft. 5 in., and Dulin with 18 ft. 3 in., both Freshmen. The shot put has not yet been finished,
but Cochran so far holds the record of 36 ft. 2 in. Freshman Potter looked good when he put the
shot 31 ft. 11 in.

Davidson Theatre
MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“SURRENDER” WARNER BAXTER
WEDNESDAY
“WEST OF BROADWAY” JOHN GILBERT—EL BRENDEL
THURSDAY
“HIS WOMAN” GARY COOPER—CLAUDETTE COLBERT
FRIDAY
“OVER THE HILLS” JAMES DUNN—SALLY EILERS
SATURDAY
“THE UNHOLY GARDEN” RONALD COLMAN

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
We ONLY Ask For A Trial

It is good to love the unknown—Charles Lamb.

“DRUGS” “SODA”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”
