THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1931

BASEBALL FIRST TRACK PRACTICE

THE SPORTS PARADE MEET

Wildcat Track Team to Open Season Monday
Both Varsity and Freshmen Squads Will Compete With Charlotte Hi

MEET TO BE HERE
Charlotte is Expected to Bring Well-Trained Team

The Wildcat cindermen will combine forces with the Wildkittens in a pre-season meet with Charlotte High Saturday afternoon at Richardson Field. All three teams will probably take advantage of this competition to feel men out and find the best combinations of strength. It is known that Charlotte has a powerful track team, both from last year’s left-overs and new material this year. Coach Galen Elliot has had them out getting into shape for about four weeks already and they are showing quite good form for this early in the season. Captain Pritchett will have his varsity squad in fair shape by that time as a majority of the varsity men have been out for over two weeks.

The sprinting department is in good shape for this early in the season as they have already been in one meet at the Tin Can at Carolina. Fleagle, McCall, and Kuykendall will probably enter the 100 for the varsity, while Fleagle, Kuykendall, and McCallie or Little will enter the 220. The high and low hurdles will have George, Little, and McCallie taking care of them. McGehee will run in the 440 and possibly McCallie. Neal, Drake, and Gwyn will enter the 880, while Earle and Howard will more than likely run the mile. Brannon and Murphy will be in the two-mile. In the weight department, there will be Boyle, Knox, and Bost in the shot put; Hall, Bettis, and possibly another will be in the discus throw. McCall, McCullough, and Cannon will take care of the javelin throw. The Wildcats will be represented in the high jump by George, Allen, McKinnon, and Bettis; in the broad jump there will be McCall, George, and possibly Flinn. The pole vault will be entered by Roane, Stroud, and possibly Flinn.

The Freshmen seem to be strong in the sprints and distances only. They have Halyburton, McMillen, Moffett, and Davies for the shorter distances. Morrow, Woodside, and Drake seem to be showing up better in the long distances. Nothing is known about the field men as none have shown up yet. One of the purposes of this early meet is to show up just such material as is needed. Gilmer, however, looks as if he will develop into a good pole vaulter in the future. Outside of him, not much Freshman material has shown up in the field division.

Many Men Try Out For Freshman Nine

For the past three weeks, the crack of wood meeting leather has been consistently heard around the athletic field, and many aspirants to the Freshman baseball team have been noted. Coach Laird has devoted his time largely in attempting to determine what positions the men are most capable of filling, but as yet not even a tentative line-up is available. The usual scarcity of pitchers is not as prevalent as in former years, though no unusual material has as yet been discovered. Koonce, Hudspeth, and Lineberry are showing up best, while Holland, Sneed, Burks, Maynard, Hawkins, and West are all showing comparatively good form. In the back-

Varsity Baseball Team Taking Daily Workouts

Lack of Experienced Pitchers Will Be Greatly Felt by This Year’s Team

Although varsity baseball practice has progressed well into its third week of activity, Coach “Monk” Younger isn’t taking any chances of losing any of his players because of sore arms; under no circumstances has he allowed any of the baseball aspirants to cut loose with any hard balls, especially is this true of the pitchers who as yet are not doing much more than lobbing the ball to the catcher. Hitting practice has been in progress now a little over a week with all of the pitchers seeing action by merely tossing the old pill over the plate as easy as possible and letting the batter hit it as far as he may. Each pitcher throws to about five or six batters and is then relieved by some other aspiring pitcher; this is done so that one man might not tire his arm so early in the season. As yet there has been no infield practice. Coach Younger is giving the infielders plenty of exercise before he turns them loose on the diamond to chase grounders. However, the outfielders have been put to it rather hard, for Coach “Monk” is limbering up

If You’re Air Minded

If you're air-minded you should be Aircraft-Property-Damage-minded too. Mind that, Mr. Property Owner. Aircraft Property Damage Insurance. Every day we read about airplanes crashing into and greatly damaging a home or business building. The property owner needs protection against such losses. An Aircraft Property Damage policy furnishes it for the small sum of 5c per $100 a year; no co-insurance needed.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McAlister Carson ('13), Manager
M. B. Speir (’26)

Spring Practice Closes

The end of the football game last Saturday brought to a close all football practice for the fiscal school year, and all uniforms and equipment have been cleaned and stored away for early practice next year. In spite of unfavorable weather conditions, spring practice this year has been unusually strenuous, with the result that reorganization at the beginning of next fall will be made easier. It is expected that fall practice will begin the latter part of August or the first of next September.

Reds and Blacks Tie In Final Grid Game

Spring football training was brought to a close at Davidson College Friday afternoon, when the Blacks played the Reds to a 7-7 deadlock. The contest was featured by the unusual uphill fight displayed by the Blacks, who were considered the underdogs, to end the game in a tie. The Reds were the first to score. Their marker came in the second quarter when Don McQueen intercepted a forward pass by King and by some shifty running raced 45 yards for a touchdown. McQueen also place-kicked the point after touchdown. The Blacks tallied in the third period, when King broke loose on a 30-yard sprint around left end, after the Blacks had recovered a Red fumble. The extra point was kicked by King. Another threat by the Reds was a 44-yard drive which ended on their opponents’ 24-yard line, when the Blacks put up a stubborn defense. McQueen of the Reds and King of the Blacks were the outstanding performers, with Micky Bradshaw and Buddy Gardner also doing some spectacular work. Rieves, Red guard, also showed up well.

The line-ups:
Blacks Pos. Reds
Milleneeseoo coos os 1B] ON ayepayanare Johnson
Mon fathveswecsess | rsd Beers meee Thompson
Pratteesccscuccctes Ii Geseece sess Gladstone
McConnell __-.-- Genterz22225222 Wooten
Ogden gisc2 22223 RiGee sS ee Rieves
RAKGr scodeous Rebiesscsees Whitefield
Harrison --------- Ry seseeuseos Howard
Wiestiics ceca ce QpB ese aee oa es Adcox
McQueen --------- |i) 2 heepccopepem ce Beacham
Bragshaw, ssesseee RAG sonic ae McKinnon
Gardner o2222e 22 RBs ooes eee Norfleethis pitchers by letting them knock out flys to the outer garden. As was predicted some time ago, Davidson’s weakness this year will be in the pitching staff, as last year’s two outstanding pitchers, Kugler and McInnis, graduated last spring. The team this year will have an abundance of southpaws in Thompson, Pearce, and Baily. Last year Thompson suffered the entire year with a sore arm, but he hopes to be able to use it to advantage this season, as he gave it a rest during the entire summer. In Pearce, Coach Younger has a pitcher who has plenty of control and has a good fastball, although he had hard luck in the games he pitched last season, he should develop into a very good pitcher. Baily, the third member of the left-handers, has a tendency to wildness, and last year this caused him no little trouble, but if he can overcome this handicap he will probably see some action this season. Probably the most outstanding right-handers on the squad are Croker and Cathey. Croker did very little pitching last year, but should see some service this season. Cathey pitched here some years ago, but did not make a letter. He has a good delivery and seems to have plenty of control and he will probably do some pitching this year. As there has been no infield practice held as yet, it is very difficult to say who will play these positions, but without doubt Captain Armfield will hold down the catcher’s job with Proctor at first base, Goodson on second. In the shortstop position there are three men available in Bernhardt and McMillan, both lettermen of last year, and Mills. In all probability Bernhardt will be shifted to third base, leaving Mills and McMillan at short. Of these two Mills is the faster and he is also a good hitter, but McMillan is probably his equal when it comes to fielding. Both of these men will see service. In the outfield Covington and Mathis are looking good, as is Bradsher, who played with the Freshmen last season. J. G. Morrison, and his brother, J. D., are also showing up well out in the gardens. Pepper games are still in progress and are being used mostly for limbering up purposes, but there is a great deal of interest in this part of the sport. Sliding practice is also being carried on and before long we won't be surprised to hear of a practice game in progress.

(Continued on page 5)

Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”

Clothing Furnishing
STETSON “D” STORE
PHONE 206
OPPOSITE CAMPUS
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
Friendly Five John Ward Sport Shoes

LOOKING ’EM OVER
With W. H. Matthews

SHADOWS OF COMING EVENTS

March 14th
Track—Varsity and Fresh vs. Charlotte High School. (Triangle meet). Davidson.

March 17th
Athletic Night. Dean S. V. Sanford to speak. Letter awards, etc., to be made.

This Saturday will give Davidson their first chance to see the Davidson track teams, both freshmen and varsity, in action. In fact, the meet here will open the spring sports scheduled on the campus, and be just another sign that spring is just around the corner. (It certainly is a long way to the turn, however.) Charlotte High School, the third member of the trio of teams which compete here this weekend, is this year as strong as usual, from all advance notices. Queen City boys always boast one of the best cinder squads in high school circles and the meet Saturday will be far from a walk-off for the varsity. It was carded primarily as a warm-up engagement for both the regulars and the yearlings, and should answer admirably to this purpose.

Dean S. V. Sanford, the speaker for the Athletic Night program, is one of the outstanding authorities on athletics in the South. He is one of the founders of the Southern Conference and presided over the body for ten years as president. He is at present a member of the executive committee of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, and is actively connected with athletics at the University of Georgia. The Athletic department is indeed fortunate to secure such a man for the exercise Tuesday. The program includes, besides Dr. Sanford’s address, the award of certificates to lettermen in football, wrestling, and basketball, and of gold footballs to the gridiron men. Footballs will also be presented to several alumni who have shown special interest in Davidson athletics. In addition to these, there will be the award of the gymnastic trophy, individual development award, and possibly one or two other cups and trophies.

A number of entries have already been received for the high school track meet here March 21st, and Davidson authorities are expecting one of the largest fields that has ever turned out for this meet. Captain Pritchett says that the whole afternoon’s events will be run off in a smooth and orderly fashion, and that there will be something happening all the time. A well-conducted meet is highly entertaining and in the past these high school affairs have produced some strong competition. It is likely that this year will be no exception.

A “Believe it or Not” happening which occurred at last year’s meet has recently been brought to light. It seems that the Raleigh team was late in getting here, and as the entries for the 880-yard run took their posts, the Raleigh boys were still dressing. Rankin of Wilmington jumped the gun for the start of the race and this gave the Raleigh entries time to get into the race. Final results gave Raleigh first and third, Rankin getting second. Won by a jumped gun!

The inclement weather has held back the work of the baseball team a good deal, and so it has been hard to get any definite line on the prospects. The general consensus of opinion seems to be that the team this year will be as strong or stronger than that of last, if the pitchers come through. The infield should be improved over that of last spring, the outfield should be as good, and the pitchers are an enigma. The Varsity won't go into action until Spring Holidays and the first home game is not on the card until April 9th. Devotees of the Nation’s pastime will have to wait almost a month before they get a glimpse of the Wildcats in action.

STATIONERY STUDENT SUPPLIES FOUNTAIN PENS NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE MAGAZINES BOOKS SUNDRIES W. S. HENDERSON

Davidson Theatre
Saturday, 14th
“BODY AND SOUL”
with CHARLES FARRELL and LISSA LINDI

Monday and Tuesday, 16th and 17th
“SIN TAKES A HOLIDAY”
with CONSTANCE BENNETT

Wednesday 18th
“HER MAN”
with HELEN TWELVETREES

Thursday, 19th
“UNFAITHFUL”
with RUTH CHATTERTON

Friday, 20th
“LONELY WIVES”