~The Davidsonian
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 2, 1931 No. 12

“SERVICE” IS THEME OF DR. HENDERLITE’S TALK AT Y. M. C. A. VESPERS

A river is a thing of beauty and potential. It quenches the thirst of plant life along its banks. Great rivers are halted in their courses by dams and reservoirs. The power which churns the dynamos and gives to us electricity comes from the “overflow” of these reservoirs. You ask, “What has this to do with Missions?” Missions is the “overflow” of Christianity. It is the power of Christ lighting up the night of heathenism. It is not a chance by-product of the church. It is the purpose of its existence.

Gastonia Minister Delivers Interesting and Instructive Talk at Regular Service
C. E. MOORE, JR., PRESIDES
E. S. Brannon and F. G. Rule Lead Opening Prayers

Dr. J. F. Henderlite, of Gastonia, conducted the Sunday Y vespers here last Sunday, November 29th. Dr. Henderlite was introduced by Charlie Moore, and the singing was led by Charlie Myers. Prayers were offered by E. S. Brannon and F. G. Rule. No scripture lesson was read because the speaker was delayed in arriving, but Dr. Henderlite outlined the lesson taken from the latter part of the 10th chapter of Matthew, using the last verse as his text. In this selection, Christ is giving His final instructions to His disciples. This lesson is expanded by a Dr. McDowell, whom Dr. Henderlite quoted as having said that it is a man’s business to do the will of God; that God takes care of such a man: and that that man need not fear anything because of that fact. Then, we see further that in this portion of Scripture, Christ also promises a reward to others—to the lay workers and business men who give their moral support and personal influence and prestige to the Kingdom of God on earth. Finally, Christ promises a reward to the man who gives a cup of cold water to one of the least of His kingdom. On this final thought, the speaker based his address. He pointed out that we are ever so prone to be ready only for the big things of life, and consequently we forget, or minimize or slur over the “cup of cold water” jobs or our little duties in life. Yet, so often has it been the case that these little things have proved to be the pivot for the apparently bigger things.

The audience’s attention was directed to the fact that originally the word “water” was not in the phrase “cold water,” but merely a “cup of cold.” This was so worded that the stress would be not on the service rendered but rather on the quality of service. Several illustrations were then given to illustrate this point. One of them was the case of two men who were being discussed by two other men, in which it was said that it was better to have favor turned down by one of the two men than to have it granted by the latter, because of the nasty manner in which the latter concurred a favor. Similarly, it was shown what a difference it makes when one goes to a farmhouse for a drink of water, and on asking for it is directed to a pail that has been drawn for some time. How easy it would have been for the farmer to have a fresh pail drawn! In each case the thirst was quenched, but in the latter the refreshment was so much more complete. This led us to the question of our type of service. Were we polluting the Lord's table with lukewarm service? Did we do half-baked preaching, or ill prepare a Sunday School lesson before teaching it? If so, we must remember that God not only treats us with kindness, (Continued on page 6)

“A Thousand Dollar Goal”

The Y. M. C. A. is this year sponsoring a Student Body Gift Campaign for Missions, both home and foreign. The proposed project is outlined below:
1. To raise $1,000 for the purpose of Missions by student body contributions.
2. Of this amount, $200 is to be used in maintaining the work in the local Mill Chapel. This is one of the most notable pieces of Home Mission work in this section of the state, founded by our student body.
3. The remainder of the amount raised shall go to the Executive Committee of Foreign Missions of the Southern Presbyterian Church. Under the experienced guidance of this group it shall be used in the name of the Commission, “Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature.” We get our command from the Highest Authority. Obedience to orders is the watchword of military discipline. Disobedience oftentimes means death. Neglect of the last command of our Supreme Commander means spiritual death, to others and to ourselves. Are you a Christian? You have the command. Have we accepted the security given us by the warfare of the Saints and refuse to obey His command? He did not give us the command until He had conquered death and proved His power. He has the right. He commands. What men of Davidson follow? The Spirit of Davidson in years past has stood the test of the “overflow.” We have contributed to worthy causes. It is an annual expression of the Davidson Spirit. This year the “Y” offers a cause that should strike a responsive chord in your heart. The appeal is not based upon loyalty to the Spirit of Davidson. It is based upon loyalty to Jesus Christ. It strikes at the source of our individual lives of the spirit. It is not an appeal that can be made to superficial Christianity. It is an appeal which has its force only when we consider it in the quiet of our souls.

Some Sunday afternoon go across the railroad tracks and attend a service in the Mill Chapel. You will see a need and note a response that will thrill you. Inquire into some of the details of the work. It represents a labor of love from some of the members of our student body. It was founded by our student body through the “Y.” To some man in years past came the vision and a call. We cannot be false to such a vision of truth. In “the chapel of your soul,” in the quietness of your spirit, let the story of Missions unveil itself before your eyes. See glorious visions of courage and sacrifice. Let us not allow our spiritual blind spots to blot out the glories of the power of Christ! See men and women sacrificing all that one holds dear to answer that clarion call of Christ. See them as they labor and at last fall and falling pass on the torch to eager youth. Think of the progress which has been made, the souls that have been saved from despair. Think of the tremendous force which Christianity has exerted on the world. Think of the golden opportunity of the moment. Some of the nations of the world long buried in the past are now emerging into the circle of progressive humanity. Think what it would mean if their articles of government and conduct were shot through with the Spirit of Christ! Out in the darkness there are outstretched hands and pleading eyes. Will the light of our souls be strong enough to pierce the shadows?

Mr. David Ovens to Lead “Y” Vespers Next Sunday
Speaker Is General Manager of Ivey’s Store and Very Prominent Business Man

Mr. David Ovens, general manager of Ivey's Department Store in Charlotte, will speak at “Y” vespers next Sunday evening, December 6th. This will be an unusual opportunity for the students of Davidson College, and every man on the campus should take advantage of it, because the service is sure to be unusual and exceedingly interesting.

As one of the most outstanding business men in Charlotte, Mr. Ovens has displayed a genuine interest in the civic life of the community, and also in the welfare of the unemployed, as is shown by the fact that he was chairman of the unemployment committee. While head of that organization, his abilities as a leader and business executive were again evident, because, in the drive for funds to help, the goal was not only reached, but it was surpassed. Yet, the thing which is of the supreme interest about this man is the fact that with all this capacity for leadership and with all his| business efficiency, Mr. Ovens has never been to college. He is a self-made man and everyone in Davidson College should look upon this opportunity to hear him as an unusual privilege. (Continued on page 6)

“HAUNTED HOUSE” TO BE STAGED ON DEC. 11
Cast Completed With Addition of Reeves Pope, Horace Ervin, and J. Womble

With December 11th more than a week away, the Masquers are whipping “The Haunted House” into fine shape. Today the last assignment on part-learning was reviewed, and tomorrow rehearsals of all three acts will commence. In these two and a half hour daily practices, the players are required to know their lines thoroughly so that all attention and criticism can be focused on stage action and dramatic technique, upon which such important phases of playmaking too little time has been reserved in past plays. The cast is now complete with the addition of Reeves Pope as Morgan the Tramp, and H. W. Ervin as Duncan, the All-Wise, mentally superior author of detective fiction, J. G. Womble again assuming the role originally assigned to him, as Mr. Evans, nervous owner of the troublous home in Cedar Point. The audience will have little cause to regret the Masquers’ choice in “The Haunted House,” for although a more melodramatic and serious...

(Continued from page 5)

DR. PIERSON TO SPEAK AT INITIATION OF NEW PHI BETA KAPPA MEN
Three Alumni and Nine Undergraduates to Be Initiated Here on December 7th
PROGRAM TO BE VARIED
Banquet in Honor of New Men Follows Services

Announcement has been made here that Dr. W. M. Pierson, dean of the Graduate School of the University of North Carolina, has accepted an invitation of the N.C. Gamma chapter, Phi Beta Kappa, at Davidson College to deliver the principal address here at the annual fall initiation for new members of this national honorary scholastic fraternity on Monday night, December 7th. These annual exercises represent one of the highlights of the fall calendar of the college, and is the occasion for the return of numerous alumni of this section. The local chapter’s officials consider themselves very fortunate in having obtained Dr. Pierson for the evening’s program since he is such an outstanding man in educational circles and is in much demand because of his oratorical ability.

Three Davidson alumni have accepted bids extended to them by the local chapter. They include Rev. J. A. McQueen, '05; Dr. John Walker Moore, ’06 and Dr. Algernon B. Reese, '17. Rev. McQueen, after graduation, taught at Jonesboro and at Thomasville. Then he returned to Davidson as an instructor and while here received his M.A. degree in 1907-08. He attended Princeton Seminary where he obtained his bachelor of divinity degree. Rev. McQueen has held pastorates in Concord, N. C., Orange, Va., and Rockingham, N. C. He was formerly professor of theology in Arkansas College. He is now head of the Department of Philosophy at Westminster College, Missouri.

Dr. Moore is a graduate of the class of 1906 and is a native of McConnelsville, S. C. He received his M.D. degree at the University of Pennsylvania, and was an intern at Episcopal Hospital. From 1915 to 1917 he held the position as instructor in pathology and bacteriology at the University of Louisville. During the war he was a major in the medical corps stationed at Hospital Center, Nantes, France. Since then he has been connected with the Medical School at the University of Louisville, and was made dean of that school in 1929.

Dr. Reese graduated from Davidson in 1917. He took his medical degree at Harvard and was a student at the University of Vienna for one year. Before starting his career as an eye, ear, and nose specialist in New York City, he served an internship at the Mayo Clinic.

(Continued on page 6)

Fifteen Students Try For Rhodes Scholarship
Twenty-seven Candidates Will Represent North Carolina at Sectional Meeting at Durham

The sectional meetings to determine the district representatives for the final selection for the Rhodes scholarship at Atlanta will be held this year on the fifth of December. At this time North Carolina will be represented by 27 candidates, which is at least ten more than have ever before applied. There will be four from the University of North Carolina, three from Duke, one from Guilford, three from N.C. State, one from Wake Forest, and five from Davidson. Davidson will be additionally represented by four men from South Carolina, two men from Virginia, two men from Florida, and two men from Georgia.

The first meeting of the candidates with the committee will be on Friday, the fourth of December, at supper at 6:30 to be served at the Duke University union. This will be merely an informal gathering of the candidates and the committee. Then on Saturday morning at 9:30 the individual conferences will begin. At this time the committee is assembled in a room, and the candidates are brought in one by one.

(Continued from page 5)

JUDGE PARKER SPEAKS TO FACULTY MEMBERS
“Relation Between Democracy and Constitutional Government” Is Subject Discussed by Speaker

The rising tide of socialistic thought, the growing power of organized majorities, the disintegration of local government, and repressed attacks on the judiciary were cited here last night by Judge John J. Parker, of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals, as serious dangers to American democracy and constitutional government. Judge Parker was speaking at Davidson before the Quadranglers Club, an organization made up of members of the college faculty. It was also ladies’ night for the club, and approximately 100 faculty members and invited guests heard this stirring appeal for the preservation of American democracy, which has been founded, said the speaker, upon the rights of individuals and the conception of a dual sovereignty, with a necessary result of a new conception of the judiciary.

The speaker's subject was the “Relationship Between Democracy and Constitutional Government.” He traced the history of democracy, how...

(Continued on page 6)

WAKE FOREST DEFEATS ’CATS IN HARD GAME AT CHARLOTTE, NOV. 26
Davidson Fails in Determined Drive and Loses by Close Score of 7-0
SCORE IN FOURTH PERIOD
Brogden Receives Pass to Make Lone Touchdown for Deacons

Although held to even terms in the first half, and considerably outclassed in the third quarter, the Wake Forest team came back late in the fourth period to score and to thwart Davidson's attempt to win her annual Thanksgiving Day football classic. This victory on the part of the Deacons strengthened their supposed jinx by one year and gave to them the record of not a defeat by the Davidson team since 1921.

The Wake Forest team, halted on the five-yard line a moment before, used just two plays in scoring from mid-field, to mark up the lone touchdown. The first of these plays came when Hutchins, quarterback, received Pearce’s punt on the 50-yard line and raced to Davidson's 25 before being pulled down. On the next play, Dune Wilson passed to Leon Brogden for 15 yards, and the latter evaded two Davidson men and stepped the remaining distance to the goal, scoring standing up. A pass was good for the extra point.

On the defensive side, Frosty Peters, diminutive halfback; Elsie Webb, Ed Williams, and Johnny Dupree were outstanding for the Deacons, with Wilson being the most consistent ground gainer and Hipps getting the longest run of the afternoon on a 35-yard off-tackle play.

For the Wildcats, Gardner and Mathis were outstanding in the line, while McQueen's defensive play and line smashing were particularly effective. Pearce once more proved himself to be a triple threat of no mean ability with his spectacular punting, his accurate passing, and his effective ball carrying.

In the first quarter, both clubs battled on even terms. The Deacons scored two first downs, but both were in mid-field and were more than offset by beautiful punts by Pearce, which kept the Wake Forest team within their own territory.

In the second quarter, the Wildcats received their first opportunity to threaten the Deacons’ goal line. One of Bradley's punts went out on the 24-yard line, and the ball was advanced by running plays to the Wake Forest 24-yard line. Here, however, the Deacons held and the ball went over after a pass over the goal line on the fourth down. The Wildcats threatened again when Captain Raker recovered Hutchins’ fumble of Mills’ punt on his own 25-yard line. But the drive was stopped on the next play when Dupree intercepted Mills’ pass.

After the half, the ’Cats came back with renewed vengeance. By a combination of running and passing, they fought their way to the 19-yard line. Here, however, Wake Forest held, and kicked out. Once more the Wildcats started a determined drive. This time the ball was carried to the five-yard line when a line plunge for a first down failed by a matter of inches and the ball changed hands. After this, the Wildcats failed to show their former punch, although they did drive to Wake Forest's 33-yard line a minute later, Pearce carrying the ball on every play, until he passed to Don King for a 17-yard gain, the last that the ’Cats were able to make.

Getting possession of the ball at this point, the Deacons showed their first offensive power. Here they ripped through Davidson's line and around end before being stopped on the Davidson five. It was here that Pearce punted out to the 50, and Hutchins, Wilson, and Brogden...

(Continued from page 5)

Sophomore House Party

The Christmas house party, which will be sponsored by the Sophomore class, will be held on the weekend of December 19th. The features of this party will be a free picture show in the afternoon, a Sophomore banquet in Chambers’ banquet hall, and an entertainment in Charlotte at the Charlotte Hotel, with music furnished by the Sunnyland Serenaders, who will also play at the banquet.