THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 28, 1931

The Old Wives’ Tale. Arnold Bennett. George Doran. New York.

Arnold Bennett, the author of The Old Wives’ Tale, is a modern in every sense of the expression. He is
a man who writes from a rich field of experience: he has been a lawyer, an editor, and an interpreter
of life in the novel, in the play, and in the essay. One might say that he is also a
modern in his great productiveness; he has written an incredibly long list of works. But if this Englishman has created
numerous works, he has also created some which have a good chance of taking their places in the ranks of
the English classics. One of the most worthy of these works, if not the most worthy, is that novel of
life in the Victorian age, The Old Wives’ Tale.

The author states in the introduction that his dominant thought throughout the creation period of this novel was the tragedy
that occurs in the average woman's life; the fact that, however beautiful and admired she is in her youth, slowly
without noticeable, easily recognizable or apparent change, she learns to know life in its bitterness, or, at least, its seriousness,
and at the same time ages into a complacent, perhaps ugly and stout, and altogether uninteresting person. And looking from
the point of view of the old woman, there is also the sad fact that once she, too, was all
that is lovely; that she, too, had charm, lively enthusiasm. Whether or not there is real tragedy in this transformation,
the fact remains that such a metamorphosis does occur; Arnold Bennett cleverly shows the causes of these changes in the
lives of three women by demonstrating how they are affected by things, by events, by other people, and by their
own personalities.

One of the things that helps to influence the characters is the locality in which they live. Had the Baines
not lived in the small town of Bursley, it is certain that their existence would not have been so very
provincial and restricted in nature; there would have been little desire on the part of the Baines’ daughters to run
away. While we are seeing the effect of locality, we are also getting a vivid picture of life in the
Five Towns. And when we see the effect of Paris on Sophia, we see the events which occurred in that
city. We notice the power one house had to mould one family. Thus, the author brings his reader in contact,
at the same time, with the lives of some highly fascinating people, the things and places which influence their lives,
and gives his reader a description of these things and these places.

Events have an important part in the futures of these lives. If Gilbert Scales, the weak villain, had not come
to the linen-draper’s shop, Mrs. Baines’ two daughters would have remained at home and together all their lives. If one
of these girls' husband had not died, her son would not have run off to London, leaving her alone at
home. So, events quite naturally change the whole course of the characters’ careers. Then, too, the very nature or character
of each person determines, to a great extent, how he acts in every circumstance. Constance, one example of a changing
woman, cannot, even in later years, get over a tendency to remain in her home. Sophia cannot be anyone but
a Baines, even with the temptations of Paris in a siege. In this same way, by giving many examples, Bennett
points out the profound effect other men and women have on his chief characters, Mrs. Baines, Constance, and Sophia.

The Old Wives’ Tale is a remarkable modern novel. It starts to point out a truth: it achieves its end.It
is convincing. Every situation seems reasonable and every result natural. Detail after detail is given to show why this or
that happens. We perceive a large section of life with all of its complexities. We witness the reactions of the
characters to various crises in their lives. Not only do the Baines become real, but we almost know their relatives,
Aunt Harriet, Aunt Maria, the Dick Poveys, and their neighbors, Miss Insull, and Mr. Critchlow. The novel is as inclusive
as a novel of George Eliot; we seem to be living a different life for a time. In theme, in
style, in characterization and the delineation of character changes, and in excellent workmanship, Arnold Bennett can place his work with
some of those of the masters. In fact, one critic says that fifty and a hundred years from now, The
Old Wives’ Tale will be read as Dickens is read today. We can hope that such a novel will represent
the ability of our contemporaries.

Frederick Hellegers.

DAVIDSON-ERSKINE BATTLE
WHAT SPORTS WRITERS THINK
(Continued from page 1)

Score by periods:
Erskine 0 0 0 0—0
Davidson 0 0 0 0—0

Substitutes: Erskine, Bussey for Carr, Gales for Ferguson, White for Caldwell, Gales for Carr, Bussey for Ferguson, Wallace for T.
Gettys, Carson for Mason, Moore for Bussey; for Davidson, Pearce for Peabody, Mills for Flinn, McQueen for West, Mathis for
Barrier, Brown for Raker, Kuykendall for Wagner, McConnell for Gardner, Flinn for McQueen.

A sorority house at Salem, Ore., has been leased and fitted up as a club house for the students from
foreign lands who attend Willamette University. There are seven Japanese, two Chinese, four Filipinos, and one Russian on the roll.
Hitherto they have lived in scattered lodgings all over the city.

It is not unlikely that in the next 50 years America will be divided into two worlds; the world of
Peter and the world of Pan.—Dr. Fulton Sheen.

It is as important for purposes of thought to keep languages efficient as it is in surgery to keep tetanus
bacilli out of one’s bandages.—Ezra Pound.

(Continued from page 4)

... inspired team that may upset the dope .... Anyway, Duke will know it has been playing football,” and then
after the game the same paper observed: “Some of the boys are tearing their hair about little Davidson’s holding mighty
Duke to a 0-0 tie—but not us. Anybody who doesn’t think Monk Younger’s fighting Wildcats are loaded for bear this
season had better not fool with them. They have a good team, lacking in reserves, but filled with more elan
and esprit de corps than all the rest of the North Carolina Big Five put together, fighting with its back
to the wall, but was carrying the game to Duke territory. ... And along came John Herndon, assistant sports editor
of The Observer, with this opinion: “A Wildcat may be cornered, but he won't be tamed. While there is a
fang or claw hooked on he carries out the law of the jungle that knows only victory or death. So
it is with the Davidson Wildcats.”

The Associated Press lead paragraph on the account of the game follows: “Davidson’s Wildcats, famed for their habit of fighting
gallantly against great odds, lived up to their reputation before a Home-Coming crowd of 5,000 here today and battled Duke
University’s Southern Conference team to a spectacular scoreless tie.”

And on Monday after the game, the News and Observer writer put it this way: “With those Davidson Wildcats again
up to their traditional antics... Doped to lose to Wallace Wade’s Duke outfit without any great exercise on the part
of the Durham boys, Davidson swept through four dazzling periods to hold the vaunted Blue Devils to a scoreless tie.”

“THE MAGIC SWORD”
(Continued from page 1)

... posed of Charles C. Lucas, cello; Horace Erwin, violinist; Edwin McNair, pianist, played “Salut D’amour.” Paul Brown, Bob McCallie
and Nat Speir were called on to pray. Miss Marion Burgess, supervisor of music in High Point, favored the audience
with a selection, “What Will You Give to Jesus?” It was brought out in the introduction that Dr. Nabers’ name
is appropriate, since he is such a good neighbor and friend to Davidson. Dr. W. L. Lingle closed the service
with a prayer.

Verbum Sapienti Satis

Unless Davidson spirit is limited to pep meetings and football games, it would seem plausible that any group of students
in the acting students’ name and for their entertainment is entitled to the support and at least the consideration shown
other groups. During a play by Davidson students, loud whisperings, booing, or other derogatory ejaculations are hardly a manifestation of
the aforementioned spirit and much less a mark of good breeding. If a passage in a play is not done
according to an individual’s own interpretation, the proper time for suggesting the cast’s error, it should be noted, is not
during the play, but after the performance, or better, at dress rehearsal, to which we are sure admittance for the
purpose can be gained. For the trend or outcome of the story the cast is not responsible. We know that
the Red and Black Masquers will gladly furnish the name of the author.

Verbum Sapienti Satis.
