THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1931

‘CATS DEFEAT V. M. I.
(Continued from page 1)

The Cadets retaliated with three first downs in a row as the first quarter ended. In the second canto, in
Davidson territory, the Cadets had to punt, and Gill got off a poor kick, giving the ’Cats the ball on
their own 30-yard line. From there Pearce punted to Smith, who raced through the entire Davidson aggregation until he was
brought down on the nine-yard stripe by the redoubtable Peabody. Here the ’Cats held for downs, and Pearce punted out.
After an exchange of punts, the whistle sounded the half.

Peabody again came into the foreground soon after the opening of the third period, and returned a punt from mid-field
to the Cadets’ 25-yard line. King gained consistently in his first five attempts at the line, but then the wall
held and the ball went over. Peabody returned Gill’s punt to the Virginians’ 36. A pass, Pearce to Raker, netted
six, and a five-yard penalty on V. M. I. gave Davidson a first down. Flinn then ran for a touchdown,
King converting.

Davidson continued superior in the closing chapter, which, with the exception of Peabody’s sensational 65-yard dash, passed uneventfully.

V. M. I. Position Davidson
Gill (C) LE. Brown
Hilliard LT. McElrath
Rochelle LG. Mathis
Kostainsek Center Gardner
Marklis RG. Conway
Straub RT. Whitfield
Gregory RE. Johnson
W. Smith QB. King
Travers LH. Pearce
Watkins RH. Peabody
Waite FB. Mills

V. M. I. 0 0 0 0—0
Davidson 0 0 7 0—7

Scoring summary: Touchdown, Flinn (for Mills). Extra point, King (placement).

Substitutes: V. M. I., Urick for Gregory; Kaylor for Rochelle; Lavinder for Travers; Smith for Gill; Bailey for Watkins. Davidson,
Raker (C) for McElrath; McQueen for Mills; Wagner for Raker; Brown; Flinn for McQueen.

Officials: Strupper (Ga. Tech), referee; Major (Auburn), umpire; Hartsell (N. C. State), headlinesman.

AWARDED MEDAL
(Continued from page 4)

In announcing this recognition, Carnegie authorities described Mr. Williams' rescue as follows:

“Williams saved Samuel T. Thorne, Jr., 15 months old, from burning to death at Charlotte, N. C., October 16, 1930.

“Samuel and his parents were asleep in a room on the second floor of an apartment house when the house
caught fire at night. His parents awoke, and while his father telephoned to the fire department, his mother carried him
into a room adjoining a hall, from which there was a stairway to the street.

“A sudden flare of flames and dense smoke poured into the upper part of the room from an adjoining room,
and Samuel’s mother became panic-stricken and dropped him.

“She reached the door leading into the hall, but could not open it and leaned against it on the verge
of collapse.

“Samuel’s father went to the room, called, became panic-stricken, and then ran to a porch. He returned to the room
several times but was forced back by flames and smoke.

“Williams and another man ascended the stairway, and Williams opened the door into the room. Smoke and heat rushed out
of the doorway, and the men dropped to their knees. Samuel’s mother fell through the doorway and was caught by
Williams’ companion and carried down the stairway.

“Williams heard Samuel cry. He layProne and crawled eight feet, under the smoke and the flames, to Samuel, and then,
holding him, backed to the door and rushed down the stairway. Neither was burned. Samuel’s mother was revived. His father
was rescued by firemen.

CAPTAIN SEIFERT (Continued from page 1)

The speaker pointed out the exact location, military importance, commercial value, and topographical features. Realizing the tremendous importance and value
of the Canal, the Army Engineering Corps have developed the canal zone into a perfectly organized, and perfectly equipped system
for the efficient conveying of ocean-going vessels from the Atlantic to the Pacific side and vice-versa. Although the operating and
maintenance costs of the canal are high, and although only a nominal charge per ship is made, the Canal yields
several millions of dollars net profit each year. After telling about the different races and colors of the Panama zone,
the speaker related several personal experiences of the greatest interest, notably a heroic escape from a tremendous “Bush Monster,” a
species of jungle snake, one of the most deadly known. In closing, Captain Seifert said that, by virtue of its
many points of interest, as well as its excellent climate, he could and would heartily recommend Panama to anyone in
search of adventure, whether for a summer vacation or a stay of longer duration.

OUTSTANDING SENIORS (Continued from page 1)

Manager of the Students’ Store, vice-president of the Senior Class, a First Lieutenant in R.O.T.C., and a member of Scabbard
and Blade. Phi Gamma Delta is Montgomery’s social fraternity. L. S. Raker, Lexington, N. C., is captain of the football
team, president of the “D” Club, was vice-president of the Junior Class, and is a Captain in R.O.T.C. He is
a member of Scabbard and Blade and of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity. N. G. Speir, Charlotte, N. C., is
manager of the Students’ Store, on the Student Council, a member of the “Y” Cabinet, and was president of the
Junior Class. Speir is a member of the International Relations Club and of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. The
other members of O.D.K. are E. C. Dwelle, R. P. Enloe, R. W. Gorrell, D. S. King, J. H. McKinnon,
D. M. McQueen, and D. G. Martin.

For Subscriptions or Extra Copies of THE YOWL See GAITHER JENKINS

New Price, 25 Cents
Year’s Subscription (Four Issues) $1.00

We'd rather have a Chesterfield and now we'll tell you why...

**Ziegfeld Follies of 1931**
Helen Morgan (on piano)
Ruth Etting (at right)
Three Stars of and Harry Richman
Three mighty good reasons,

“MILDER”—smoke as many as you like! That’s what every Chesterfield smoker knows. Just riper tobaccos!

“TASTE BETTER”—you’ll like as many as you smoke! That’s what more smokers are learning every day. Not over-sweetened, but just
sweet enough for constant enjoyment. The mild, rich flavor of the finest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos.

“THEY SATISFY”—in every way! The tobacco, the paper, the package... everything about Chesterfield is the best that money can buy
or that science knows about! And it’s not hard to prove, try this blend of milder, GOOD... they’ve got to
be good!

©1931, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Scene from "Unforeseen Desires," One of Three Plays to be presented by Masquers Saturday Night.
