THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 11, 1931

What Alumni Think

This week a column is going to be devoted to quotations from letters which have been received from Davidson alumni. If all of the quotations were taken from all the letters which have been received about Davidson's football team, almost an entire issue of The Davidsonian would be required. As it is, only a few of these will be given. The names of alumni are omitted, for they have not been notified that their letters are to be quoted.

An alumnus residing about two thousand miles from Davidson says that “My friends out here get quite amused at the way I always grab the papers with the scores to see how the team came out. I could go to a thousand other schools and my first interest would be in Davidson.” Later on, he wrote, “I don't think there will ever be any danger of any alumni discord as long as those two (Younger and Tilson) are guiding the football destinies of Davidson.”

A Davidson alumnus, who recently completed his seminary training, maintains, “My! But I am proud of Davidson. It is the old Wildcat spirit that helps all along through life. It helps me here in the heart of the Kentucky mountains... . My all is for my old Alma Mater.”

Last summer an alumnus visited on the campus for a short while one afternoon, and wrote afterwards, “It had been some twenty-two years since I was last on the Davidson campus. In that time, some great changes had taken place. The new building is a beauty, and a great improvement over the old one... . The more I reflect on it, the more I realize what the visit meant to me.”

“I want to make a change,” said an alumnus minister in a conversation, “so that I can be closer to Davidson, and do more for her by sending her some students.”

A graduate who finished two decades ago said in a recent letter, “I promise that I shall see Davidson play another game of football. I have already seen the team play a dandy good game and it fills this old alumnus’ breast with pride to see that the wonderful fighting spirit of Davidson of twenty or thirty years ago still survives.”

A man who is not an alumnus had this to say, “I am greatly interested in Davidson and watch with peculiar pride her every advanced step. At one time I hoped that I would be able to leave Davidson a very nice donation in my will, but this panic has hit me very hard and today I don’t know whether I am worth one cent or not.”

“Monk and Tex seem to develop wilder Wildcats every year and they have my vote as the best pair of coaches in the well-known world and deserve great credit for rejuvenating the justly famous Wildcat spirit in both students and alumni,” said an alumnus who finished here about six years ago.

Back in the ‘70s, they did not have football at Davidson, but one alumnus who graduated almost sixty years ago follows the team with an interest as keen as a recent graduate, “Tell the Davidson coach,” he wrote, “that I follow every play of the Wildcats with the intensest interest.”

This conversation ensued not long ago with the wife of a Davidson alumnus: “Are you going to the football game today?” “No,” was the reply. “I’m going to stay at home and take care of my boy so that he can play football for Davidson some day.” The young chap is seven months old.

Alumni Personals

Friends will regret to learn of the death of W. H. Thompson, father of M. A. Thompson, ‘20, editor of The Maxton Scottish Chief.

Sandy C. Marks, '30, student at the Atlanta-Southern Dental College, has been elected secretary of the Junior class.

Among alumni recently visiting Davidson, other than for the Citadel-Davidson football game, were: J. M. McConnell, '14, of Greenville, Miss.

Chas. W. Angle, ‘18, of Greensboro, contractor and president of the Angle-Blackford Company, will speak at the annual meeting of the Carolinas’ branch of the Associated General Contractors of America when they meet in Charlotte, December 9-10.

Rev. Norman Johnson, '15, of the Presbyterian Church at Blacksburg, Va., for the past nine years, has accepted a call to the First Presbyterian Church at Rocky Mount, and will take up his new work early in December.

L. A. Mills, Jr., '30, who is with the Standard Oil Company, is head of the service stations in Charleston, S.C., and is now located in Greenville, S.C.C. He was formerly lo- Alumni Marriages

Kluttz-Neale
Lex William Kluttz, 1915 graduate of Davidson, of Raleigh, and Miss Beverly Bosher Neale, '33, of Richmond, Va., were married on October 10th at the Brett-Reed Presbyterian Church in Lanesville. Rev. Joseph R. Walker, ’21, pastor of the West Raleigh Presbyterian Church, officiated; Dr. Richard C. Neale, '16, of Washington, was one of the ushers. Mr. Kluttz was best man, and at present is secretary of the Y.M.C.A. in Raleigh. Prior to his acceptance of this post, he was connected with the drives of the Near East Relief Association, which was preceded by several years’ stay in the Orient as a teacher. Mrs. Kluttz is a graduate of Westhampton College in Richmond, Va.

Lake-Mapp
James Albert Lake, Jr., graduate of Davidson in 1925, of Greenville, Miss., and Miss Jennie Scott Mapp, of Bridgetown, Va., were married in the Protestant Episcopal Church in Bridgetown on October 10th. After finishing here, Mr. Lake completed his law preparation at Harvard, and for a while was connected in the North. Later he started an individual practice at Greenville, Miss., and was recently chosen state legislator from that county. Mrs. Lake attended Randolph-Macon College. They are now at home in Greenville, Miss.

Houston-Moore
Clarence Eustace Houston, 1920 graduate of Davidson, and Miss Florence Elliott Moore, of Columbia, S.C., were married in New York on November 7th. Mr. Houston studied and graduated in law from the University of New York after finishing here, and is now connected with a law firm in New York City. Mrs. Houston attended Bon Air School and Coker College, and graduated from the University of South Carolina. Mr. and Mrs. Houston will be at home after November 16th at 65 Morton Street, New York City.

Wilson-Venable
Rev. Ronald Samuel Wilson, 1927 graduate, of University, Va., and Miss Margaret Cabell Venable, of Lynchburg, Va., were married in Lynchburg on October 6th. After finishing here, Mr. Wilson attended Union Theological Seminary, at Richmond, from which he graduated and won the Charles D. Larus fellowship that gave him a year of graduate study at the same institution. Last spring he accepted the call as University pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Charlottesville, Va. Mrs. Wilson is a graduate of Randolph-Macon. They are now at home at University, Va.

“I insist on Lucky Strike”
“There’s nothing like a microphone to show up the voice in its true colors. So I insist on Lucky Strike—the cigarette that I know will be kind to my throat. And you’ve certainly scored another hit with your new style Cellophane wrapper that opens so easily.”

Made of the finest tobaccos—The Cream of many Crops—LUCKY STRIKE alone offers the throat protection of the exclusive “TOASTING” Process which includes the use of modern Ultra Violet Rays—the process that expels certain harsh, biting irritants naturally present in every tobacco leaf. These expelled irritants are not present in your LUCKY STRIKE. “They’re out—so they can’t be in!”

No wonder LUCKIES are always kind to your throat.

“It’s toasted”
Your Throat Protection—against irritation—against cough

And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh

TUNE IN—The Lucky Strike Dance Hour, every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday evening over N.B.C. networks.

MOISTURE-PROOF CELLOPHANE
Sealed Tight—Ever Right
Zip—And it’s open! See the new notched tab on the top of the package. Hold down one half with your thumb. Tear off the other half. Simple. Quick. Zip! That’s all. Unique! Wrapped in dust-proof, moisture-proof, germ-proof Cellophane. Clean, protected, neat, more modern than ever—a package you’ll like. It’s the LUCKY STRIKE Humidor Package—so easy to open! Ladies—the LUCKY TAB is your finger nail protection.

Is Miss Eilers’ Statement Paid For?
You may be interested in knowing that not one cent was paid to Miss Eilers to make the above statement. Miss Eilers has been a smoker of LUCKY STRIKE cigarettes for 2½ years. We hope the publicity herewith given will be as beneficial to her and to Fox, her producers, as her endorsement of LUCKIES is to you and to us.

Copr., 1931, The American Tobacco Co.