2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 12, 1931

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Sports Editor
News Editor
Feature Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Subscription Manager
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President
Vice-President
Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN
J. M. BROWN
J. G. BERRY
G. E. BAILEY
A. R. BIRD
E. BOYD
N. B. DICKS
G. DUNKLIN
E. O. GUERRANT
W. T. HANCOCK
E. LAKE
R. L. McCALLIE
C. C. MATTHEWS
C. F. MYERS
V. F. MULLISS
H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
C. W. F. SPENCER
B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR
W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH
D. D. McBRYDE

FEBRUARY 12, 1931

Only when we paint our pictures with our blood and feed the fires with our bodies do we reach success.
Canon J. Forbes Mitchell.

SUGGESTIONS

It appears that the usual spring weather, usually reserved for baseball season, has broken earlier than usual. May it pass
sooner than it came. Don King and Bob Gorrell have been handling the student body in good style when it
was impossible for Goodykoontz to be there. There are some good lectures scheduled for this term, including both those of
the lecture committee and those provided by the Y. M. C. A. A college news service has recently offered a
substantial prize for editorials for and against the entrance of the United States into the World Court according to the
“Root Protocol.” We wonder how many editors could, off hand, give an adequate discussion of the Protocol and its provisions.
Sandlot basketball is claiming the attention of those who formerly sought the green “C” in campus football. It is merely
a suggestion, but it would not hurt Seniors to drop by the Registrar's office while the semester is still young
and check their hours and points.

SENSIBLE USE OF THE “Y” ROOMS

During the last four years there has probably been as much improvement in the equipment of the Y. M. C.
A. as any other one student activity. At the present time it is divided, roughly, into three parts. First, and
the one which is undoubtedly used the most, is the reading room with several current magazines and newspapers. The radio
is located in this room. It provides a handy loafing place for students with a few minutes to spare, passing
to and fro on the campus. It is particularly useful to those who, returning from town at lunch time, do
not wish to go to their dormitories before first period class. “Amos ’n Andy” generally draw an audience after supper,
or later in the evening. Likewise, the recreation room is frequented mainly by those who have a short time between
engagements or classes. Ping-pong—and there is a new table—and checkers claim greatest attention. Lastly, the social center, located beneath Eu
Hall, is open at any time. In the Senior Questionnaire it was overwhelmingly acclaimed as one of the most needed
institutions on the campus. The majority of students do not realize its great convenience for entertaining guests who are stopping
by for only a few minutes. It is near the street, and one can be certain of not disturbing anyone
else when going there. Freshmen are better acquainted with it than upper-classmen due to the class receptions held there in
the early part of the year. It is accessible to all.

--Review Editor

THE NEW CALENDAR

For some time there has been great agitation for either the revision of the old calendar or the introduction of
a new one. Societies, organizations, and clubs have sprung up overnight answering the call to arms in defense of their
pet system. Some of these appear to have been formed merely for the sake of principle; others evidently have hope
of financial gain if their particular proposal gains popular favor. One of these groups spreads propaganda under the title of
“The World Calendar Association, Inc.” Its platform bases itself chiefly in an attack against the International Fixed Calendar. This calendar
would introduce thirteen months of twenty-eight days each, New Year’s Day not being counted in any month. The World Calendar
and the “Swiss Plan” propose to keep the twelve-month year, but they have a different arrangement within the quarters. The
halves and quarters are equalized with a perpetual calendar in each. We can see no good reason for any drastic
change. When one begins to criticize numerical quantities and systems he is likely to run afoul of many established customs.
Eggs still sell by the dozen, not by tens; the farthing, pence, shilling, and pound currency is still used in
Great Britain. Finally, any change will work havoc with such things as birthdays, dates for the expiration of contracts, mortgages,
and what not. It will require the time of experts to revise and change all parts of the legal vehicle,
as well as placing some more facts in elementary school arithmetic books. Of course, no one would ever be likely
to forget and use the old calendar after the new had been introduced!

THE PRODUCTS OF THE COLLEGES

Editor’s Note: The following editorial is printed from The Charlotte News of February 8, 1931:

American colleges are glutting the market with white-collar applicants for jobs, handing out too many degrees, becoming mere machines for
producing a certain class of professionalists that some of these days are going to be unable to place themselves in
profitable positions of employment. All of this is the lamentation of a Milwaukee teacher who was recently voicing such conclusions
in a public meeting of his city. There is nothing especially new or startling about the complaint. Criticisms of the
same general character have been accumulating within recent years, but it is worth looking at if for no other reason
than to appraise properly what a college education is really intended to be. A college, after all, is not primarily
a place where a young man can be taught how to get ahead in life. Except for the technical and
professional schools, it is not greatly concerned with the earning power of the people it sends out into the world.
It is the process of living, rather than the process of earning a living, that a college deals with. A
graduate may become a millionaire or he may never in his life rise above a salary of $50 a week;
either way, the college has done its job if the graduate’s life is richer, fuller and freer because of his
college training. For if there is one thing on earth which any college worth its salt does teach, it is
that success in life does not at all depend on the amount of money one is able to make. If
that concept is wrong, then Harry Sinclair, Babe Ruth and Al Capone are more illustrious citizens than such a scientist
as R. A. Millikan, for example, or a jurist like Oliver Wendell Holmes, or a humanitarian like Jane Addams. But
if it is right—if there is something in life more important than the ability to command a large salary—then there
can never, by any stretch of the imagination, be so many college graduates that a Bachelor of Arts degree is
worthless. All of this is rather elementary, of course. But it is worth repeating, since the complaint of this Milwaukee
teacher expresses a rather common misconception. It is undoubtedly true that a great many young people spend four years at
college without really absorbing the lesson that the college is supposed to impart. To them, a college degree is valuable
only as an open sesame to some good job, and if it fails to function in that way they have
wasted their time. But to the young man or woman who has fully experienced the broadening influence that a college
education should give, a criticism like the one quoted here is the last word in pointlessness.

What Do You Know About?
1. Accepted Apologies?
2. Miles in next to nothing?
3. When we come out of it?
4. Freeman Gandhi?

The court-martial of Gen. Smedley Butler, one of the bravest and likewise one of the most talkative of all of
Uncle Sam’s Devil Dogs, was called off by the Navy Department and the now commander of the Quantico Marines received
a severe reprimand from the Secretary of the Navy Adams for his ill-chosen words concerning Mussolini of Italy. In a
talk before a club in Philadelphia, Butler had said that a “friend” of his had told him that Mussolini had
run over a child and killed it, and then had kept on, not stopping to investigate. In other words, a
common hit-and-run driver! Mussolini immediately denied the statement and demanded—and received—an apology from the United States. Court-martial proceedings for Butler
were immediately undertaken. Much to-do was gonethrough, and then, as has been said, all proceedings were withdrawn. The outcome was
satisfactory to all concerned—Navy, Butler, and Italy—and was much as had been expected. Butler wrote a letter to Adams, of
the Navy, saying he was sorry, and Adams severely talked to him, and that was that. If a court martial
had been held, the reprimand would likely have been the punishment meted out. One thing in Butler’s favor was his
past record. His bravery has won for him two congressional medals and a distinguished service medal.

“Women in general frighten me.” — Buddy Rogers.

Captain Malcolm Campbell, British speed king, raised the world’s record for the mile last week when he piloted his specially
built 1250 horsepower racer over the sands of Daytona Beach, Fla., at a speed of 245 miles an hour. This
broke the old record of 231 miles an hour, held by the late Sir Henry Seagrave, by almost 15 miles
an hour. And then not satisfied, the Britisher on the next day drove a car of 45 cubic inch displacement
a mere 95 miles an hour over the same course to establish a mark for cars of that displacement. Now
he returns to England to go into the races. For a thrill, we suppose!

Several amusing incidents occurred during the preliminary tests and the trials. On his record-making trip, the visibility was so poor
that the race officials would not let him open his machine up, so he had to loaf along at 245
per. In his first test, his car slipped out of gear just before he crossed the measured mile and he
“coasted” along at 195 miles to disappoint the crowd which had expected him to break a record. He says the
car can do 300 miles per hour, but he has never opened it up.

“No one who wears spats can get far in America.”—Lewis Gannot.

The saying that you can’t keep a good man down seems to have been taken to mind by the latest
dopesters of when the business depression will break. They say that in every one of them that America has had
to weather, she has always come out of it, and has gone on to higher things. Leaders point out that
the general trend has always been upward, and so it will continue to be. Business in the United States has
advanced at the rate of seven per cent per year over a period of the last fifty years. And so
it will continue. All very interesting. But when?

“Tradition wears a snowy beard; romance is always young.”—John Greenleaf Whittier.

Mahatma Gandhi, the sixty-five-year-old, ninety-five-pound man who is today causing Great Britain all kinds of worry by simply telling the
people of India to “do nothing” has been released from prison after eight months confinement, and has gone out into
the world again to continue his program of non-cooperation and non-violence. Jailed for making salt in direct violation of the
law forbidding its manufacture, Gandhi nevertheless had just as much influence on his followers there as he had when he
was free to move around as he pleased. Upon his release, he said that he expected to be back in
about two months. He seemed to like the quiet and seclusion of his cell, and thought it unjust that he
should be released while thousands of others were held in the political jails of India by the English. He did
not give any plan for his actions later, except that he would continue his previous policy.

New York—(IP)—Defining a university as “an institution of higher learning where scholars of high competence guide students, who have been
prepared by a liberal education, into advanced studies, with the aid of libraries, laboratories and seminars,” Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler,
president of Columbia University, speaking before the Associate Alumni of Barnard College here declared that there are only eight universities
in the United States, and only eight others bearing the name which in some degree carry on the activities of
a real university.

MUSINGS

Among everyday American institutions that call for a great deal of comment these days is the restaurant. It is an
important factor in our lives in that it concerns us all day long. It should concern us only three times
a day but the after-effects, i.e., indigestion, broken glass, and hunger, keep the eating places uppermost in our minds. Cafes
may be divided into several classes. The first is the fundamental and ground restaurant and is usually identified by the
so-called reasonableness of the rates. You can eat dirt cheap at these places, although you really shouldn’t eat dirt at
any price. However, my impression is that there is nothing better than good clean dirt. I never feel right all
day unless I get up in the morning, take a cold shower, and run out and eat a big handful
of dirt. I went into a railway station restaurant once and saw the kitchen. In the corner stood a large
boiler so I asked the man if that was a locomotive boiler there to make it tender, after which I
made no further inquiries into the artillery lying about; and which has no bearing on our subject.

The second class of restaurants is where you go into one hungry and come out hungry and broke. The price
is higher and the food smaller. If a waiter asks you after the meal how you found the steak tell
him you just moved the potato and there it was. (That is, if they give you a potato.) In these
restaurants, you will find that the food is the same, although camouflaged and diminished, and the waiters still stick their
thumbs in your soup just the same as in cheaper places (although they may have better thumbs.) In the more
efficient cafes they are putting salt on the waiters' thumbs so as to save the extra work on the part
of the cook.

The third class should really not be termed a restaurant at all but a place for people to stay who
can’t sleep and can’t find anything else to do. This is the night-club. It is an insult to the management
and the performer when you ask for something to eat in a night-club. I heard of one man who went
in one and asked for something to eat so he wouldn’t have to watch the performance; and the waiter he
asked didn’t even know what he was talking about. Said to please talk English or talk on his hands at
least. The main feature about these places is the tablecloths. They have a cover charge which you pay in order
to get your pencil. You then sit down and write on the tablecloth until you get sleepy; then you get
up and try to walk home before you get unsleepy and you walk so fast you wake up and have
to come back and write on the tablecloth some more. This keeps up until daylight when the restaurant closes because
they are afraid some old-fashioned person will ask for breakfast if they stay open. The only way to avoid these
evils is for us to quit eating—or get a wife to cook for you; it all amounts to the same
thing. I suggest that we eat smaller amounts of food every day until we have stopped altogether. Eating is only
a habit anyway and a bad one at that. Eaters are of two types, the soupers and the dunkers. A
dunker’s idea of helplessness is a doughnut without a cup of coffee; a dunker will starve to death under that
trying condition. Now, soupers are really musicians at heart. I once knew a bunch of soupers that formed what was
then known as the Sixteen Soup Syncopaters. They used to practice over the firehouse every night but they have grown
famous now and are radio artists; the leader started them to playing by saying “Alley soup!” and they all dove
into the soup and harmonized—the bass players having bigger spoons than the others. They are now known as “Rudy Vallee
and his Oughtastop.”

Considerable furore has been cast into the blushing ranks of the soupers by the discovering of what is commonly referred
to as alphabet soup. According to wisecrackers, soupers, when partaking of alphabet soup, must know their ABCs, mind their P’s
and Q’s and those of English descent must waste valuable time dropping their H’s. For those who want to mind
their Q’s an invention has been made to aid them in their minding; namely, the cuestick—and it has proved a
great aid. Now, if you want to get off a good one, the next time your host serves you alphabet
soup, when you have finished, say: “I enjoyed my soup—A to Z!” You might even laugh heartily as you say
it. Your host, however, will be dumb and probably say, “‘Aid to see’ what?” but I can’t take any responsibility
for your host—it is all I can do to look after your soup.

Citing the fact that there are several hundred universities listed in the World Almanac, the president said it was all
“nonsense,” and arose largely from the loose use of the terms college and university. New York and Pennsylvania protect the
word “college,” he said, but it is possible in many other states to have a “College of Horseshoeing” if one
so desires, and the term “university” is protected in no state in the country. The university should be a “power
house of wisdom,” he said. He did not name any universities or colleges in his talk.
