THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 6, 1931

BASEBALL SEASON CLOSES NEXT WEEK

THE SPORTS PARADE

INTER-FRATERNITY BASEBALL COMPETITION BEGINS

B. B. SHOTS

Barely two points behind State who took second, the Davidson Wildcats came in a close third in the state inter-collegiate track meet, which Carolina won by a safe margin of 30 points. There is no doubt about it, Carolina has a wonderful track team. They've got the men, and all they have to do is run ’em. However, we didn’t expect State to do as well as they did, and the highly touted Blue Devils were supposed to have taken second, at least. “The first shall be last.” Incidentally, we noticed from last Sunday’s paper that Bishop Cannon also failed to come through.

According to the Charlotte Observer, Dupre of Wake Forest threw the javelin 1,180 feet. Please now, Mr. Ripley. Of course, he might have thrown it 1,180 feet, but we sorta doubt it. He should have been credited with the first three figures at least.

George, McCallie, and Little took the first three places in the 120 high hurdles, George performing excellently. Mr. Slusser of Carolina must have been slowed up considerably as Grimy whizzed by him like a rabbit goin’ fast. Grimy has taken first in the highs and lows in every meet this year. A perfect record.

Soup Brannon, running a beautiful race in competition with men of high calibre, came in a close second in a two-miler race in which a new record of 9 minutes, 51.7 seconds was set.

Several early risers last Sunday morning were surprised to see a bunch of track men, returning from the state meet, getting out of a bus at about 9:30. Upon inquiry, it was found that the bus had broken down at about 1:30 a.m. outside of Salisbury, and the men had spent the night on the bus. Knowing those buses as we do, we could hardly approve of that as a perfect alibi. However, we give them the benefit of the doubt.

Capt. McCall has had his share of tough breaks this season, and because of an injured leg muscle, Joe has been unable to compete successfully in many meets. Pulling his muscles in his first try at the broad jump last Saturday, he was unable to compete in the State meet.

Well, our ball club came back from South Carolina with one victory and two defeats, which, considering all things, we would say is fairly commendable. Though badly beaten by South Carolina and Clemson, the ’Cats came through with a fine victory over Erskine.

Speaking of our good friend “Oskeegum,” a colored veteran shoe shiner of no mean repute. It is rumored that “Skeegum” Brummels, one of the mainstays on the Memphis club, is now paying alimony faster than he can shine shoes. Adding to his versatility, he is one of our most modern ball players. “Who is that Indian?” The escort, who couldn't see the point, replied sagely, “I mean Gur- neau.”

Crude Humor.—Who said that!

Attractive Cup Won By Davidson Golfers

A large emblematic loving cup, of collegiate golf supremacy in North Carolina, which was won by Davidson College golfers last week at Sedgefield, Greensboro, is now on display in the alumni office at Davidson and is attracting a great deal of attention from students and visitors. The trophy is about two feet high and is surmounted by a figure of “Fame,” carrying the wreath of victory in her outstretched hand.

The cup was presented to the winning Davidson team by the Sedgefield Country Club, over whose course the state championship was played, and it now becomes the permanent possession of the Davidson team. It will be kept on display through commencement, and then it will be placed among the other athletic trophies of Davidson.

The four-man team which won the trophy was composed of Captain Jack Pepper of Winston-Salem; A. L. Mills, Greenville, S. C.; Jack Wagner, Statesville, and T. P. Caldwell, Yazoo City, Miss. The latter two are sophomores and have two more years of competition. Pepper and Mills will graduate in June. This is the first time the championship has been won by any team except that of the University of North Carolina. Davidson’s team score was 17 below that of the Tar Heels, runners-up.

Davidson’s Tennis Team Downs Wake Forest and W. and L. on Trip North

Final Doubles Match With W. & L. Give ’Cats Margin of Victory

On April 27, the Davidson College tennis team defeated Wake Forest by the score of 6-3. Davidson took four singles and two doubles, while Wake Forest took two singles and one doubles match. All of Wake Forest’s victories came through Delmont Griffin, Rocky Mount lad, and Darwin Cobb, who won both singles and doubles. The feature contest was that between Griffin and Jean DuBose, both playing in the number one position. DuBose was finally defeated in a long three-set struggle. McLean played well to defeat Fletcher in straight sets. The summary follows:

Griffin (WF) over DuBose, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3; McLean (D) over Fletcher, 6-2, 6-3; Cobb (WF) over Roddey, 6-4, 7-5; Calder (D) over Glenn, 6-2, 6-2; Poe (D) over Smith, 6-1, 6-4; Myers (D) over Brown, 6-4, 6-1. Griffin and Cobb (WF) over McLean and DuBose, 2-6, 6-0, 6-3; Poe and Roddey (D) over Fletcher and Glenn, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4; Calder and Myers (D) over Smith and Minton, 6-4, 3-6, 6-2.

On April 30, the Davidson tennis team defeated Washington and Lee in a very close match, 5-4. Davidson won three singles and two doubles to take the match. The most exciting match of the meet was the doubles between McLean and Myers of Davidson and Pilley and Snyder of W. & L. With the darkness falling, since it was after 7 o'clock, and the meet hinging on this match, the former team broke through to win the final deciding set at 6-4. Shields and Wilson of W. & L. played beautiful tennis to defeat DuBose and McLean in the first two singles matches, and all the matches were exceptionally fast. The summary follows:

Shields (W & L) over DuBose, 6-3, 6-3; Wilson (W & L) over McLean, 6-3, 3-6, 6-4; Brady (W & L) over Roddey, 6-4, 7-5; Calder (D) over Pilley, 6-0, 8-6; Poe (D) over Graham, 6-4, 6-3; Myers (D) over Snyder, 6-3, 7-5. Shields and Brady (W & L) over DuBose and Calder, 9-7, 6-8, 7-5; Poe and Roddey (D) over Wilson and Graham, 1-6, 6-4, 8-6; McLean and Myers (D) over Pilley and Snyder, 6-2, 6-8, 6-4.

Clemson Hits Freely in Win Over Davidson Nine

On April 30, Clemson College downed the Davidson Wildcats by the score of 14 to 4. Clemson held the Wildcats at bay except in the third inning, when three runs were scored. Clemson touched three Davidson pitchers, Mathis, Bailey, and Pearce, for a total of 16 safe bingles. The Wildcats secured eight hits in the contest.

Davidson 003 000 100— 4 8 2
Clemson 203 320 40x—14 16 3

Batteries for Davidson: Mathis, Bailey, Pearce and Armfield. For Clemson: Davis and Proctor.

’Cats Play Good Ball To Win Over Erskine

On April 29, the Davidson baseball team made good use of timely hitting to defeat Erskine 6-3. Croker and his teammates, coupled with good backing, proved too much for the South Carolinians.

Davidson Team Takes Third Place in State Track Meet

North Carolina University Wins State Inter-Collegiate Track Championship for Eleventh Consecutive Year

GEORGE WINS HURDLES

Three New State Records Set

By scoring 30 more points than their nearest contender, North Carolina University won the state inter-collegiate track championship at the meet held at Greensboro last Saturday afternoon. It makes the eleventh consecutive year that the Tar Heels have won the championship.Tar Heels have a whole game for South Carolina, captured first honors. Hicks of South Carolina was what might be called the star batter of the evening. Far behind the winners were N.C. State, Davidson, and Duke, respectively, with only four points separating the three teams. N.C. State scored 33½, Davidson 31½, and Duke 29½ points to capture second, third, and fourth places. Wake Forest, with eight, and High Point with one point, completed the scoring.

Three new state records were set and an old one tied at the meet. Dameron, a Carolina athlete, broke the old record by three inches when he threw the discus 136 feet six inches. Ruble, also of Carolina, set a new mark in the pole vault by soaring to 12 feet eight inches, beating the old mark by six inches. The other record to fall was the two-mile run, when Baneon, Carolina captain, stepped it in nine minutes 51.7 seconds, clipping 4.3 seconds off the old mark. The Tar Heel relay team tied the old mark in the mile. Because of a soggy and slow track, old marks in other events were not endangered.

Davidson showed supremacy over the other state schools in the hurdle events, by placing three men in both the low and high hurdles. Grimy George, by coming in first in both events, won individual scoring honors with ten points. Other Davidson athletes to place in the events were: Earle, third in the mile run; Fleagle, third in the 100-yard dash, and second in the 220-yard dash; George, first in the low hurdles; McGallie, second in the high hurdles and fourth in the low hurdles; Little, third in both hurdles; Brock, tied for fourth in the pole vault.

In the added attractions, the Davidson Freshman relay teams placed second in the sprint medley (440-220-220-880), and third in the distance medley (220-440-880-1320 mile).

The summary:
100-yard dash: Won by Smith, N.C.; second, Brownlee, Duke; third, Fleagle, Davidson; fourth, Slusser, N.C. Time: 10.3 seconds.
Shot put: Won by Gurneau, N.C., 49 feet, 11 3-8 inches; second, Wilson, N.C., 40 feet 5 3-4 inches; third, Boyle, Davidson, 39 feet 1-4 inches; fourth, Brown, N.C., 39 feet 3 inches.
Pole vault: Won by Ruble, N.C., 12 feet 8 inches (new state record); second, Arnold, N.C.; third, Ripley, Duke; Brock and Flinn of Davidson tied with Sharpe and Turner of N.C.

In the first round of the Inter-Fraternity baseball League, many and varied types of ball playing have been displayed. In the first game, the S.P.E. nine walked away with the Beta’s, the final score being 9 to 2. Tom Britton handled Charlie Howard's curves for the winners, while Halverstadt pitched for the losers and Beacham caught. The second game was played the same afternoon, in which the K.A.’s won over the T.U.O.’s, 7 to 5. The batteries were: for T.U.O., Wilson and Parker; for the K.A.'s, Moffett and Marion. Kappa Sigma ran away with the S.A.E.'s in the next game, 23 to 3. Burks hurled for the Kappa Sigs and Brock caught. For the S.A.E.'s, Clark pitched and Wiley caught. In the last tilt so far, the Phi Gams defeated the Pi Kappa Phis 9 to 5. The batteries were: for the Phi Gams, Brohard, Pratt, Wright and Rule. Alderman and Hunter pitched and caught for the losers.

Freshmen Are Defeated By Powerful Charlotte Hi Track Men, 74 to 43
Halyburton is High Scorer With 15 Points From Three First Places

The Davidson Freshmen lost to Charlotte High in the track meet held in Charlotte on Monday, April 27, by a 74 to 43 score. The Freshmen gave keen competition throughout, but were overcome in field events, with Charlotte winning the first three places in the shot put, javelin throw, pole vault, and broad jump. The finishes of most of the running events were very close and the times were good, considering the slow track. Halyburton barely broke the tape ahead of Graham Allison in the hundred, and ahead of Duke Glasgow in the 220. Curlee was nosed out of a first place in the half-mile by Turpie in a great sprint. Halyburton of Davidson was the high scorer for the meet, garnering 15 points from firsts in the 100, 220, and 440. Harold Sutton won first in the shot put with a distance of 45 feet 1¼ inches, which is the best that has been done in high school this year. He won two other seconds which gave him 11 points for second best individual performance. Dill of Charlotte won the discus with a throw of 110 feet 1 inch for first place in this event. This is the best distance he has gotten this year. Morrow and Scott, both of Davidson, won first and second in the mile run by a good margin. The high jump was won by Pratt and Rhyne, who tied for first at a height of 5 feet 2 inches. The mile relay was a very interesting event. The Charlotte team of Bill Mock, Red Landis, Neill McGill, and Captain Hopson ran it in 3 minutes and 40 seconds, to lower the school record by a second and to smash the high school record. This is not accepted as official, however, as it was not made in the state meet, but the time was excellent and was a fast and exciting race.

Summary:
120 high hurdles: Hawthorne (C), Soule (C), Pratt (D). Time: 17.2.
100-yard dash: Halyburton (D), Allison (C), Graham (C). Time: 10.4.
Mile run: Morrow (D), Scott (D), Lloyd (C). Time: 4 min. 54.5.
220-yard dash: Halyburton (D), Mock (C).