6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1931

President W. L. Lingle Finds Old Document
Commencement Program of 1845 Given by Pittsburgh Man

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, travels extensively, and on one of his trips he returned with a prized possession. It was an 1845 commencement program of Davidson—the fifth graduation exercises of the institution, and is perhaps the only one of that year in existence today. The cut of this program was in last week’s Davidsonian.

Dr. Lingle was in Pittsburgh, visiting in the study of Dr. Stuart Nye Hutchison, pastor of the East Liberty Presbyterian Church of that city, when he saw the program hanging on the wall. Immediately the Davidson president expressed a wish that it were in his office at Davidson, but this time he left without it, the Pittsburgh pastor prizing it greatly because of the fact that both his father and uncle were members of the 1845 graduating class.

Once again Dr. Lingle was in Pittsburgh and a guest in Dr. Hutchison’s study. He could not resist the temptation of giving expression to his wish again, and this time Dr. Hutchison said that he could take it. Dr. Lingle brought it to Davidson, and today it is one of the most valuable documents that Davidson possesses.

Many interesting things are observed from the program. In the first place, graduation came toward late summer, the final exercises occurring on July 31st, 1845, while today the scholastic session ends about two months prior to this time. College extended over a ten months’ period in those days, and started in October instead of September, as is true of the present era.

With only a few exceptions, students who bear the names of men graduating in 1845, have been enrolled at Davidson during the last decade. They are names of men long identified with Davidson, in the capacity of students, benefactors, or officials of the college. Several of the second and third generations of these early Davidson graduates have been enrolled here as students within the last ten years.

Incorporated cities or towns were limited in those days, for a glance at the exercise convinces one of that fact. The cities and localities mentioned were New York, Charlotte, Greensboro, Sumpterville, S.C., Sumter, S.C., and York, S.C., while the others gave their residences in the different counties, such as Iredell, Robeson, Montgomery, Rowan, and Mecklenburg. Fifteen men were listed as graduates of 1845.

What was said about the identification of names with Davidson is easily discernible in the list of graduates that year: E. N. Hutchison, J. A. Fox, J. H. Houston, J. B. McCallum, W. M. Peacock, J. G. A. Dick, J. N. McNeely, J. J. Bossard, A. E. Chandler, J. M. Davidson, J. M. Gill, M. Lingle, H. McNeill, J. H. White, and S. Nye Hutchison. Davidson has had graduates within the last several years who bore the names of Houston, McCallum, Dick, McNeely, Chandler, Davidson, Lingle, McNeill, and White, and in many instances they have been direct descendants.

In those days, each Senior was required to make an address; in fact, many alumni today can remember when they were required to make speeches as Seniors, and Juniors, and no exceptions allowed. Modern-day topics of discussion, however, were of a more popular appeal, while in the early days of Davidson, the graduates dealt with abstract subjects, in a large measure. A few of them included, “Association of Ideas,” “The Importance of Enlightened Public Opinion,” “The Eccentricities of Genius,” “The Evil Effects of Delusive Principles,” and “Individual Effort.” Of the more practical were “Extension of National Territory,” “Old North State,” “The American Navy,” “The American Citizen,” “The Science of Government,” “College Recollections,” and “South Carolina.”

Perhaps the most interesting of all the topics of these Senior speeches was that on “The Progress of Modern Science and the Causes Which Operate Against Its Further Advancement.” Were a copy of this speech obtainable today, it would be an interesting document for the medical societies; to learn the trend of thought of a college graduate in 1845 toward that profession, and the reason he thought that medical science would not go forward.

Two brothers were honor men of the class of 1845, E. Nye Hutchison, and S. Nye Hutchison, salutatorian and valedictorian, respectively. Most interesting is the fact that the salutatory was delivered in Latin, and just how long this practice continued is not known. It is known, though, that as late as 1921 a Senior made his speech in Latin, though this was not a requirement.

Another interesting graduate of the 1845 class was Moses Lingle, an uncle of Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College.

The Honor Graduates

The Hutchison brothers, honor men, prominent in the fields of medicine and business; law and the ministry, and their descendants, have followed in their footsteps of leadership. Because of their close identification with Davidson and this section, a brief history of their lives is given below:

After graduating from Davidson, E. Nye Hutchison attended the University of Pennsylvania, where he graduated in medicine in 1848, and for a while he practiced medicine in Charlotte, later giving up this profession to enter business. Dr. Hutchison had much to do with the shaping of the policies that Davidson followed, for he was on the board of trustees of Davidson from 1859, 14 years after his graduation, until the time of his death in 1908—representing a span of over half a century. His interests extended to other fields, for he was a director of Union Theological Seminary, served as trustee of the General Assembly of the Southern Presbyterian Church for over 30 years, was an elder in the Presbyterian Church for over 50 years, and was largely instrumental in starting the North Carolina Presbyterian, which later changed its name to the Presbyterian Standard, a publication which has been discontinued, at least temporarily, according to a statement made ten days ago.

Dr. Hutchison was twice married. Four children were born to the first union, but none survive today. Of the second marriage, the living children today are Miss Charlee Hutchison; Miss Bessie Jenkins Hutchison, Mrs. Thomas Clancy Evans (nee Anna Locke), and Messrs. Joel Jenkins, Eben Nye, Robert Stuart, and Francis Hutchison, all of whom live in Charlotte.

Grandchildren of this early Davidson graduate, all of whom live in Charlotte, are Mrs. Charles F. Dalton, Miss Susan Nye Hutchison, Miss Louise Erwin Hutchison, Miss Bettie Jenkins Hutchison, and Messrs. Joel Jenkins Hutchison, Robert Stuart Hutchison, Jr., and Thomas Clancey Evans, Jr.

S. Nye Hutchison

The valedictorian of the 1845 class likewise gained distinction. For a few years after the completion of his course at Davidson, Mr. Hutchison practiced law in Charlotte as a partner of the late Judge Jas. W. Osborne, but before doing this he obtained his master of arts degree from Davidson. He later entered Princeton Theological Seminary, and after his graduation there in 1862, he devoted the remainder of his life to the ministry, largely in northern territory. He was also a trustee of Davidson, from 1850 to 1854, which was quite a distinction for he had graduated only five years previous.

His surviving children today reside largely in the north, where he spent the greater portion of his life. From his first marriage those living today are Miss Susan Amanda Hutchison, of Richmond, Va., and Mrs. Ernest Martin, of Indianapolis, Ind. Of the second marriage, surviving children are Dr. Stuart Nye Hutchison, of Pittsburgh; Seeley Hutchison, superintendent of schools at Mendham, N.J., and Mrs. J. B. Leport (nee Emeline) of Sussex, N.J.

On down the list of graduates of 1845, just as interesting an account could be written of the men and their descendants, but space is being devoted only to the two honor men, which also shows that success attained by the pioneer graduates of Davidson during their college days continued in later years.

1869 Society Program

Dr. Lingle has also come into possession of another interesting document, a program for the two literary societies, the Philanthropic and Eumenean, in the college, and today they are still in existence, though older alumni mourn the fact that their prestige in the campus life and their prominence in the minds of the present-day students has diminished within the past few years because of diversified interests which the students have.

Davidson commencement in 1869 conformed closely to the present-day time, for the literary societies held their joint meeting on June 23rd. Particularly interesting is the manner in which the time was expressed, 7 1-2 p.m., instead of the conventional way of writing it nowadays, as 7:30 p.m. Each society was allowed three orators, and they likewise chose the marshals.

Orators of the 1869 commencement have names that are likewise traditional with Davidson. From North Carolina there was W. J. McKay, B. G. Clifford, and E. W. Kerr. Tennessee gave R. A. Lowry as an orator; Missouri had M. F. Reinhardt, and South Carolina, W. H. Stewart, which shows that Davidson was becoming more widely known, and more than a few states were represented in the graduating class.

Marshals of 1869 were A. Malloy, H. McNeil, R. S. Williams, and T. L. Kelly, all of this state; E. E. Erwin, and G. B. Anderson, both of South Carolina; F. A. Ramsey, of Tennessee, and R. M. Kirkpatrick, of Alabama.

Davidson College is proud to have these two programs of the early days, and in the years to come efforts will be made to gather many other documents that will beValuable to this institution, and interesting to the alumni and friends of the college.

Students to Choose Junior Cheerleaders

Nine Candidates Are Aspirants for These Coveted Positions

As the Davidsonian goes to press on the eve of the election for Junior cheerleader, interest is shown in the student body, especially among the Freshmen. At the initial pep meeting for Freshmen, Ed Kuykendall, head cheerleader for the session 1931-32, introduced the candidates for election to the offices for Junior cheerleaders to the assembled students. The purpose of his introduction was to place these candidates before the new men, in order that they might recognize them on election day, as two had to be chosen from the group of nine aspirants for the honor. Those out for cheerleaders are: Brooke Allen, Tom Bowles, Joseph Bryant, Bob Glasgow, John Lake, Anderson Little, Leland McKeithan, Bruce Sugg, and Jack Stewart. Wednesday morning at chapel the balloting to choose the new cheerios will be conducted by the Senior cheerleader. The successful candidates will assist Kuykendall at all major athletic events, and one will be named Senior cheerleader for 1932-33. This is a distinct honor on the Davidson campus, and the holder of the position is awarded the varsity “D” for his services.

New Business Staff of Davidsonian Announced

The newly elected staff on the business end of The Davidsonian has been announced. P. M. Conway, business manager of the paper for 1931 and 1932, gives the eight names of the men who will succeed the present managers. The future managers will serve in the capacity of assistants to those in charge and are chosen from the Sophomore and Junior classes. The assistant managers selected from the rising Junior class are: A. L. Mebane, J. W. Whitted, and A. M. Manson. W. R. Morrow is the newly appointed subscription manager and it will be his duty to look after the mailing list and supply both the student body and alumni with a copy of Davidson’s weekly paper. The solicitors chosen are: W. T. Johnson, J. F. Neal, A. H. Manson, and L. B. Wooten. The solicitors are interested in the advertising side and solicit space from merchants in order to defray to some extent the current expenses made in editing a newspaper.

It makes no particular difference to anybody, I suppose, what my views are.—George Wharton Pepper.

THE GREATEST UNDERWEAR VALUE

You can pay more than HANES costs—but you can’t get more. Just try to match HANES values. There’s the Gold Label Light Weight Union Suit or Shirts and Drawers. SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war belt. That’s patented and can’t be imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and a variety that will make it easy for the most fastidious to choose from. All at prices that will make you wonder how it’s possible.

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.

I believe that sequestering private enemy property in time of war is unsporting—John Galsworthy.

DAVIDSON TEAMS INTRODUCE PASS

(Continued from page 1)

B. Huntington, of Wilmington, right end; W. A. Elliot, of Washington, D. C., quarterback; Miller, of ————, left half; R. E. Denny, of Durham, right half, and Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, of Charlotte, fullback and captain. The Davidson team was coached that year by R. S. Graham, a graduate of the University of Virginia. In the October issue of the “Davidson College Monthly Magazine” in 1906, this statement is made: “By the time of the publication of this number of the magazine, the new football rules will have been tested in a very important game, and we can only wonder what this trial will culminate. So it is with great interest that we look forward to this first game.” This same magazine in December, 1906, in speaking of the forward pass in the Davidson-Tech game, said: “Hightower of Tech made 25 yards on a forward pass. Davidson attempted but a single pass.” Another number of the magazine, in November, 1906, stated: “The new rules certainly have added ginger to the plays and as to the roughness, opinions are varied. But one fact we notice is that there are not so many players hurt.” Continuing with Fuzzy Woodruff, he said later on in his book: “In considering the football season of 1906, we must take into consideration the fact that this was the first year of the forward pass and that the game was largely one of experimentation. Coaches knew as little about the use of the overhead attack as the players, and they had made absolutely no progress in arranging a defense against this means of gaining ground. The passes that year were almost uniformly rainbow affairs, generally thrown pretty much at random in the hope that some eligible player would get close to one. Passing was used generally as a last resort or a forlorn hope.” In 1910 Floyd Simmons was coach at Davidson. He says that at that time the Davidson team was light compared with some heavy teams of the state and that it had to “go some” to compete with them. He mentioned Ev Booe who was a passer. It is interesting to note the way the coach trained Booe. Hoops were placed in a row across the field and used as targets. Booe was an expert shot and finally became so good that he could throw in the hoops from almost any angle. The forward pass was used widely that year and netted 316 points to the opponents’ 16.

VANDERBILT SPEAKER

(Continued from page 1)

Great men are judged by their great moments, and the advantage which they make of them. George Washington became great by the way he used his great moments. At a sermon, perhaps, you will catch some phrase that will be a “bright interval” in your religion, and therefore in your life. Eternity is not far away; we are not long upon this earth, therefore we should try to find our “bright interval,” our “great moment” in religion.

WILDCATS TO CLASH

(Continued from page 1)

thing, while Coach Monk and Tilson kept back practically all the plays and played straight football. Coach “Clipper” Smith and Frank Reese, backfield coach, attended the Davidson-Elon game to find out what sort of opposition they might expect. They didn’t find out much that was not already known and the Wildcats may have quite a few surprises for them on Saturday.

Wherever you see a poet, you will usually discover money somewhere in the offing.—Robert Lynd.

There are bright intervals also in religion.

WEEKEND PARTIES

(Continued from page 1)

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON: Misses May Grey Efird, Charlotte, N. C.; Agnes Watkins, Charlotte, N. C.; Margaret O'Hanlon, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Estelle Follin, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Sarah Stevens, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Elizabeth Price, Charlotte, N. C.; Elizabeth Johnston, Charlotte, N. C.; Eleanor Bell, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Beth Purvis, Charlotte, N. C., and Lucy Follin, Winston-Salem, N. C.

KAPPA SIGMA: Misses Virginia Knee, Charlotte, N. C.; Sarah Elizabeth Motte, Charlotte, N. C.; Celiste Reagle, Charlotte, N. C.; Elizabeth Sheldon, Charlotte, N. C.; Bertha Burch, Charlotte, N. C.; Jane Fallow, Charlotte, N. C.; Adeline Wooley, Charlotte, N. C.; Margaret Banks, Greensboro, N. C.; Bobbie Jean Truesdale, Charlotte, N. C.; Martha Morrison, Asheville, N. C.; Mildred Brown, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Neal Moody, Charlotte, N. C.; Frances Marshall, Rock Hill, S. C.; Helen Cox, Greensboro, N. C., and Heistand Scott, Davidson, N. C.

PHI GAMMA DELTA: Misses Tut Gorrell, Greensboro, N. C.; Nancy O’Hanlon, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Mary Elizabeth Cunningham, Greensboro, N. C.; Dot Ethridge, Suffolk, Va.; Eleanor Hayes, Charlotte, N. C., and Harriet Thompson, Charlotte, N. C.

PI KAPPA PHI: Misses Peggy Foreman, Charlotte, N. C.; Martha Johnston, Charlotte, N. C.; Polly Moore, Greensboro, N. C.; Stella Hall, Belmont, N. C.; Margaret Melchor, Mooresville, N. C., and Minna Caldwell, Charlotte, N. C.

THETA UPSILON OMEGA: Misses Nina Crawford, Albemarle, N. C.; Becky Rodgers, Albemarle, N. C.; Zilla Odell, Concord, N. C.; Ellen Hawkins, Charlotte, N. C.; Julia Josephs, Charlotte, N. C.; Mildred Beasley, Charlotte, N. C.; Billie Deaton, Statesville, N. C.; Dot Fredrickson, Charlotte, N. C.; Helen Yandel, Charlotte, N. C.; Emily Alexander, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Young, Charlotte, N. C.; Burdett Scales, Monroe, N. C.; Jane Clark, Monroe, N. C.; Dot Skinner, Charlotte, N. C.; Laura Wilkes, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Amelia Tipton, Charlotte, N. C.; Isabelle Martin, Charlotte, N. C.

PHI DELTA THETA: Misses Jane Secrest, Monroe, N. C.; Panky Allen, Charlotte, N. C.; Elizabeth Allen, Charlotte, N. C.; Celia Wadsworth, Charlotte, N. C.; Salley Couch, Charlotte, N. C.; Virginia Jenkins, Shelby, N. C.; Mouise Galloway, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Molley Gregg, Laurinburg, N. C.; Elizabeth Wills, Greensboro, N. C., and Mary Brant, Florence, S. C.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON: Misses Catherine Crowell, Charlotte, N. C.; Gwendoline Scruggs, Charlotte, N. C.; Frances Scruggs, Charlotte, N. C.; Sarah Erwin, Charlotte, N. C.; Christine White, Rock Hill, S. C.; Grace Jupson, Charlotte, N. C.; Fredrika Hallam, Davidson, N. C.; Carolena Moffatt, Davidson, N. C.; Myrtalie Wakefield, Charlotte, N. C.; Elizabeth McCanless, Rockingham, N. C.; Edress McFie, Rockingham, N. C.; Mary Lurch, Charlotte, N. C., and Jane Lurch, Charlotte, N. C.

National injustice is the surest road to national downfall.—Gladstone.

SCARLET TANAGER

TOBACCOS - - SODAS SUNDRIES and MAGAZINES

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY, SEPT. 28
“BAD GIRL”

TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 29 and 30
“SIDEWALKS OF NEW YORK”
WITH BUSTER KEATON

THURSDAY, OCT. 1
“AMERICAN TRAGEDY”
WITH PHILLIPS HOLMES

FRIDAY, OCT. 2
“REBOUND”
WITH INA CLAIRE

SATURDAY, OCT. 3
“MURDER BY THE CLOCK”