THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 16, 1931

New Library Books

The following is a list of the new books recently placed in the college library:
1. Hergesheimer.
2. The Commerce of Nations, by C. F. Bastable.
3. Essentials of Linoleum Block Printing, by Polk.
4. The Gentlest Art, by E. V. Lucas.
5. The Jungle, by Upton Sinclair.
6. The Magic Mountain, by Thomas Mann.
7. Sketches and Studies in Italy and Greece, by John Addington Symonds.
8. Sex and Youth, by Sherwood Eddy.
9. Alarms and Discursions, by G. K. Chesterton.
10. An Introduction to the History of Religion, by Frank Byron Jevons.
11. The Life of Charles Lamb, by E. V. Lucas.
12. All Things Considered, by G. K. Chesterton.
13. The Van Eycks and Their Followers, by Sir Martin Conway.
14. Local Government and Local Taxation in England and Wales, by Wright and Hobhouse.
15. Religious Art in France of the Thirteenth Century, by Emile Male.
16. The Modern Woodcut, by Herbert Furst.
17. The Gospel in Art, by Albert Edward Bailey.
18. The Fundamental Principles of Taxation, by Sir Josiah Stamp.
19. Recent Economic Changes in the United States, the Report of the President's Conference Committee.
20. George Washington, by Rupert Hughes.
21. Religious Values, by Edgar Sheffield Brightman.
22. Two Lives, by William Ellery Leonard.
23. The Winning of the Far West, by Robert McNutt McElroy.
24. White Jacket, by Herman Melville.
25. The Castle of Otranto, by Horace Walpole.
26. Field Book of American Wild Flowers, by F. Schuyler Mathews.
27. The Annals of a Parish, by John Galt.
28. William Oughtred, by Florian Cajori.
29. Track and Field, by T. E. Jones.
30. The Roman Festivals, by W. Warde Fowler.
31. Dynamic Psychology, by Dom Thomas Verner Moore.
32. John Galsworthy, The Grove Edition.
33. The Grub Street, by George Gissing.
34. Composition, by Arthur W. Dow.

Davidson Library Is Being Rearranged

Space is Being Provided for Number of New Books

Extensive changes and rearrangements of the interior of the Carnegie Library which have been going on during the holidays are
now nearing completion, and space for several thousand new volumes has been added to the present library facilities of the
college. This new space was badly needed in the building, which has become rather crowded due to the number of
new books which have been added during the year. According to college authorities, nearly four thousand new volumes have been
bought since the first of September, and this large influx of books had completely overrun facilities for taking care of
them. Additional shelf space has been provided by the rearrangement of the present bookcases and addition of a number of
new ones to take care of the overflow. At the same time the entire interior of the building is being
repainted. In order to make room for the added cases, it was necessary to do away with a great deal
of the available reading room space in the building. The main reading and magazine room has been converted into one
of the largest book rooms and a smaller space has been devoted to magazines and newspapers. Reading rooms on the
second floor have likewise been cut down to a great extent and more shelves put in. College officials state that
this additional space will not only accommodate the present contents of the library, but will also provide space for a
number of other new books which the college will receive in the future. Under a grant from the Carnegie Foundation,
Davidson annually receives $5,000 for the purchase of books. This fund was in effect for The Three Black Pennys, by
Joseph Hergesheimer.

Wake Forest Beats ’Cats by 8-1 Score

Deacons Make Seven Runs in First Three Innings

Wake Forest gave their pitcher, Joe Meador, perfect support, and coupled timely hitting with Davidson errors and the wildness of
Croker, Davidson hurler, to defeat the Wildcats Monday afternoon, 8-1, in the first Big Five tilt for the Davidsonians. Except
for the first three innings, it was a close diamond encounter. The Deacons tallied seven runs in those initial three
brackets. Croker hit two batsmen and issued two free passes. Wake Forest made six of the nine hits of the
afternoon and the only two miscues of the performance occurred in those same three innings that gave the visitors the
winning margin. Featuring Wake Forest’s attack was a home run by “Jit” Benton in the third with one on. After
that Croker and the entire Davidson team settled down except for the seventh frame, when Croker issued two walks, Wake
Forest hit safely a couple of times and Croker threw wild to the catcher to let in the Deacons’ additional
tally. Davidson obtained safe bingles in only three innings. Two came in the first stanza when Mills beat out an
infield hit, stole second, and later scored on Goodson’s single to right. Armfield garnered a double in the second, and
in the seventh Davidson added the only two other hits of the afternoon, a single by Armfield and a double
by Bradsher. The outfielders of both teams took honors. Cobb and Bethune, both of Wake Forest, pulled sensational shoe-string catches,
rolling over, but coming up with the ball in their possession. Bradsher and Morrison, of Davidson, both went far back
into their territory to snag hard-hit balls. Wake Forest pulled a couple of fast double plays, and “Buck” Mills of
Davidson did an unassisted double play stunt for Davidson. Bethune of Wake Forest and Captain Armfield of Davidson were the
only two players to connect safely twice.

Box score:
Wake Forest
Ab R H Po A
Cobb, rf 3 1 1 1 0
E. Mills, 2b 4 2 0 4 4
Lister, 3b 4 1 1 1 0
Earp, 1b 4 0 1 12 0
Benton, ss 5 1 1 1 3
Bethune, cf 4 1 1 2 0
White, lf 1 0 0 0 0
Furches, lf 3 1 1 0 3
Buck, c 3 1 1 6 0
Meador, p 3 0 1 0 4
Totals 34 8 9 27 14

Davidson
Ab R H Po A
B. Mills, ss/2b 4 1 1 5 0
Bernhardt, 3b 4 0 0 0 1
Goodson, 2b 4 0 1 2 2
LeFore, 1b 4 0 0 6 0
Armfield, c 4 0 2 6 2
Mathisen, rf 3 0 0 1 0
Morrison, lf 4 0 0 2 0
Bradsher, cf 3 0 1 5 0
Croker, p 2 0 0 0 2
Totals 30 1 5 27 7

Score by innings:
R H E
Wake Forest 232 000 100—8 9 0
Davidson 100 000 000—1 5 2

Summary: Errors, Proctor, Mills. Two-base hits, Armfield, Bradsher. Home run, Benton. Double plays, Benton to Mills to Joyner; Meador to
Earp to Joyner; B. Mills (unassisted). Stolen bases, E. Mills, Earp, B. Mills. Base on balls, off Meador 3; off
Croker 6. Struck out, by Meador 5; by Croker 6. Hit by pitcher, by Meador (Croker); by Croker (Lister, Mills).
Wild pitch, Croker. Left on bases, Wake Forest 7; Davidson 5. Umpire, Brandon. Time, 1:45.

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO
The class of ’26 is rapidly rounding its commencement plans into completion. The three speakers have been selected and have
consented to deliver the addresses. The commencement invitations have been ordered and should be ready for distribution in a few
days.

DAVIDSON TEN YEARS AGO
Murray, of A. and E., and Currie, of Davidson, staged a pitchers’ battle in Charlotte Saturday in which the former
was the victor by the count of 3-0. The game was the best exhibition of the national pastime seen in
Charlotte this year. Although two errors are chalked up against each team, none of these miscues affected the final result.

Wisconsin Conducts College Experiment

The Nation, New York Weekly, Publishes Criticisms by Professors

Madison, Wis.—(IP)—As plans were being made here to investigate the results thus far of the Experimental College at the University
of Wisconsin with a view either to abandonment or extension of the experiment, “The Nation,” New York weekly, on March
25 published an article of criticism of the college by Eliseo.Vivas, of the University of Wisconsin, along with a rejoinder
by Dr. Alexander Meiklejohn, who began the experiment in the fall of 1927. The import, briefly, of Vivas’ article is
that the Experimental College thus far has proved capable of giving only a more or less superficial education to its
students. Dr. Meiklejohn replies that when the university is attempting to find out what has been done thus far, it
is no time for criticism of the college by a professor who is not entirely familiar with its workings or
results. Described briefly, the plan of the Experimental College is as follows (keeping in mind that it is experimental and
subject to whatever changes the administration believes advisable): It is a two-year course, to which only students of the right
type are admitted, taking up the first two years of college. The course of study is based on two great
civilizations—that of the Greeks, and that of the modern United States. All other study hinges about this. Vivas contends in
his article in “The Nation” that it has been demonstrated that the students in the college are inclined to lack
discipline, that the teachers, because they are rather young, are not specialists in their subjects, and that discussions by the
students are apt to be a superficial means of obtaining an education. Dr. Meiklejohn replies that while he is not
entering into a debate as to the merits of the criticism, the student discussions are only a part of the
course of study, that frequent reports are required on outside reading. The experiment has aroused widespread interest in world educational
circles, and on its success is believed to depend largely the future trend in American education.

NEWS FROM OTHER HILLS

Harrisburg, Pa—(IP)—A plan whereby small colleges situated near large universities can cut down their teaching costs by drawing from the
university’s graduate body for members of its faculty, was proposed here recently by Dr. Robert T. Hance, of the University
of Pittsburgh, who spoke before the Pennsylvania Academy of Science. Dr. Hance told of the plan adopted at Pittsburgh whereby
one graduate student teaches for a semester in a nearby college for $800, returning to the university at the end
of the semester to continue his graduate studies.

Rochester, N. Y.—(IP)—After interviewing more than 2,000 candidates for admission to the University of Rochester, Charles R. Dalton has reached
the conclusion that the studious type of student has displaced the “rah-rah” kind of collegian. Prospective students, he says, now
shop around for the kind of courses they may obtain, instead of blindly going to college for the sake of
going to college. “Boys scarcely in their teens,” he said recently, “now approach me and inquire about specialized subjects and
what facilities colleges have for meeting their individual requirements. The seriousness of their inquiries leads me to believe that future
college generations will be far more intent upon scholastic work than were their predecessors.”

Athens, Ga.—(IP)—More than 700 students of the University of Georgia gathered in a mass meeting recently to protest the action
of the board of directors of the Y. M. C. A. in disregarding their election of Ray Woodall as president
of the organization. Woodall entered the race as a dark horse, and his name was written in by enough students
to give him a majority of 100. Officials ruled his name should have been announced nine days before the election.
At the mass meeting the students voted that unless Woodall was given the presidency, they would recommend the abolition of
the local organization. It has been charged by the students that the “Y” is not using its money wisely, and
they have asked an investigation of the expenditure of student-contributed funds. It is further charged that the students have not
been given a proper voice in the affairs of the organization.

Cambridge, Mass.—(IP)—One of the most impressive sights in years was enacted on the Charles River here recently when the entire
Harvard rowing flotilla took to the water in an array that stretched for almost half a mile. The display was
arranged for the benefit of moving picture concerns and photographers. Twenty-eight crews, varsity, freshmen, 150-pounders, class and house eights, lined
up three abreast, with the varsity combinations at the rear of the procession, just below the Weekes Bridge and facing
the Larz Anderson Memorial Bridge. In addition to the eight-oared boats, eight coaching launches and a dozen single sculls completed
the Crimson exhibition. After the Harvard fleet had been photographed, Coach Charles Whiteside put his varsity crews through a four-mile
workout.

New York—(IP)—In an article in the Journal of Higher Education telling of the results of a survey, Stephen H. Fisher
declares that contrary to a widely accepted belief about the work of the large privately-endowed universities, the state universities are
the ones that turn out the greatest scientists. The rank of institutions for numbers of good scientists turned out, Fisher
said, is as follows: Johns Hopkins, the University of Kansas, University of Chicago, University of Pennsylvania, Harvard, University of Indiana,
University of California, and University of Michigan. Johns Hopkins, he said, gained first rank because it attracted so many graduates
of other institutions, while the University of Kansas based its record on its own merits. The dislike of school administrators
for trade unionism among teachers is understandable enough, but we believe that the close association of teachers with labor groups
is a wholesome thing, and there is no question of the value of independent criticism of the educational machine from
within the system itself—The Nation.

KITTENS BEATEN (Continued from page 3)

West).
Motals: 29 0 3 24 9

Charlotte
AB R H PO A
Morris, cf 4 1 3 1 0
Black, 3b 3 0 0 1 0
Bell, ss 3 1 2 0 1
Gadd, 2b 4 0 1 2 0
Daniels, 1b 5 1 2 5 0
Funderburk, lf 1 2 0 3 0
Hood, rf 5 0 0 2 0
Beam, c 4 1 1 13 1
Mulligan, p 4 0 1 0 3
Totals: 33 6 10 27 5

x—Batted for Koonce in 8th.

Freshmen: 000 000 000—0
Charlotte: 004 000 20x—6

Errors: Blanton, McLemore. Two-base hits, Morris, Beam, Bell. Three-base hit, Morris. Stolen bases, Bell, 2. Sacrifice, Blanton. Double play, Koonce
to McLean. Left on bases, Freshmen 5; Charlotte 13. Base on balls, off Koonce 8; off West 1; off Mulligan
3. Struck out, by Koonce 3; by West 2; by Mulligan 13. Hits, off Koonce, 9 in 7 innings; off
West, 1 in 1 inning. Passed ball, Beam. Losing pitcher, Koonce. Umpire, Ferguson.

STOP THIEF!

74,546 cars were stolen last year, according to the reports of only 26 cities, made to the National Automobile Dealers’
Association. What was the total number of cars stolen? You guess. Let us prescribe for that “gone feeling” when you
can’t find the car you parked “just a little while ago.” Fire, Collision, Property Damage, and Liability “ills” can also
be prescribed for here.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McAlister Carson ('13), Manager
M. B. Speir (’26)

will bring public understanding and command public support of its solutions.—President Hoover as quoted by Collier’s in an editorial calling
on Wickersham to make clear the report of his committee.

Davidson Theatre

Monday, 20th and Tuesday 22nd
MARY PICKFORD “KIKI”

Wednesday, 22nd
“CHARLEY CHAN CARRIES ON” WARNER OLAND

Thursday, 23rd
“MAN OF THE WORLD” WILLIAM POWELL

Friday, 24th
“CITY STREETS” GARY COOPER

Saturday, 25th
“FAIR WARNING” GEORGE O’BRIAN
