THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25, 1931 — Alumni Meeting In Eastern Cities Drew Many Davidson Alumni

Eighty-Six Alumni, Representing Thirty Classes from 1875 Through 1932, Attended Three Dinner-Meetings

DR. HARDING SPOKE

Reports from Secretaries in Baltimore, New York, and Philadelphia Gave Glowing Accounts

Enthusiastic and decidedly encouraging reports have been received at Davidson from the secretaries of local alumni chapters located in Baltimore, New York, and Philadelphia, in which they told of the visit of Dr. C. R. Harding, senior professor at Davidson, gave a brief account of the happenings at the meetings, sent a list of the alumni attending, and newly-elected officers. The latter two are given elsewhere on this page.

A total of 86 Davidson alumni, representing 30 classes over a period extending from 1875 to 1932, were present at the three dinners. The class of 1928 led all of the others, with 14 of its members attending the trio of gatherings, and Davidson's most recent class, 1930, was second with 10 men.

At each of the three meetings, Dr. Harding was the principal speaker and guest of honor. His talk was informal in nature, and dealt with current happenings on the campus, issues up for discussion by the faculty and Board of Trustees, and what the loyalty of an alumnus to the institution meant to the latter. As one of the reports stated, “Dr. Harding made a very enjoyable address—one characteristic of him, and one which took most of us right back to the classroom in Shearer Hall.” Open forum discussions were conducted at each place, and Dr. Harding answered the many questions of the Davidson alumni, which questions dealt with every conceivable phase of the life on the campus. Another report stated that Dr. Harding combined his address and other remarks with “a good sprinkling of jokes.”

Dr. Harold C. Smith, '14, of Rockville, Md., attended the Baltimore meeting and told of the action of the Washington, D. C., chapter, which had sent a resolution to Curley Byrd, coach of the University of Maryland, urging that a football game be arranged, either in Baltimore or Washington, between Maryland and Davidson. The Baltimore chapter passed a similar resolution.

In New York a reception committee consisting of J. D. Woodside, '98; Clifton Murphy, '13, and W. R. Grey, Jr., '28, was appointed to welcome men from Davidson who go to New York. Letters from officials and faculty members of the college were also read. W. Barrett Taylor, Jr., '08, according to the report, “kindly supplied coca-cola as part of the refreshments.”

The Philadelphia group, which has several meetings during the year, definitely set April 23 as the time of their next dinner.

Officers Elected

Baltimore
President, Dr. H. C. Davis, ’02.
Vice-President, Frank M. Burst, ’75.
Secretary, Prof. John C. Bailey, Jr., ’22.

New York
President, Dr. A. B. Reese, ’17.
Vice-President, James Allen, ’23.
Secretary, Prof. R. C. Garth, '19.

Philadelphia
President, S. C. Harris, '17.
Vice-President, H. S. Shaw, ’08, Haverford, Pa.
Secretary, W. F. Stigler, ’28.

W. O. Puckett, ’27, who taught at Davidson for a while, and has been teaching and studying at the University of North Carolina, has been awarded a fellowship in biology by Princeton University, where he expects to complete his Ph.D. degree.

Those Who Attended

1875—Frank M. Burst, Baltimore.
1883—Dr. William Mack, Brooklyn.
1894—Dr. S. P. Watson, New York.
1898—H. V. Allen, Maplewood, N. J.; J. D. Woodside, New York.
1902—Dr. H. C. Davis, Baltimore.
1903—H. A. Johnston, New York; Dr. Thos. P. Sprunt, Baltimore.
1904—W. S. Dowdell and Natt T. Wagner, both of New York.
1906—Smith Richardson, New York.
1907—W. P. Anderson and Dr. Rufus T. Reid, both of New York.
1908—H. S. Shaw, Haverford, Pa.; W. Barrett Taylor, Jr., New York.
1911—Rev. W. P. McElroy, Montclair, N. J.; C. A. Mattison, New York; Rev. R. L. Riddle, Baltimore; J. I. Yohannon, Brooklyn.
1912—Dr. R. E. Watkins, Belmar, N. J.
1913—S. H. Kerr, Catonsville, Md.; Clifton Murphy, New York.
1914—W. R. Norris, Long Island, N. Y.; Harold C. Smith, Rockville, Md.
1915—Raymond F. Morrissey, Springs, N. J.
1916—Capt. LeRoy A. Mullen, New York.
1917—S. C. Harris, Philadelphia; Dr. A. B. Reese, New York.
1918—Geo. L. Bitzer, Jr., New York; Dr. Woodrow Clarke, Philadelphia.
1919—Emery Flinn and Prof. R. C. Garth, both of New York; Dr. Geo. M. Robson, Haddenfield, N. J.
1921—Hadley A. Hill, New York.
1922—P. O. Bethea, Philadelphia; Prof. John C. Bailey, Jr., Baltimore; Dr. C. A. Dunn, New York; W. S. Ratchford, Gibson Island, Md.
1923—James Allen and E. H. Mauze, both of New York.
1924—W. M. Cox and Dr. A. M. McBryde, both of Baltimore; A. M. Hillhouse, New York.
1925—Dr. J. P. Hendrix, Philadelphia; C. C. McMillan, T. F. Marrow, Jr., and T. F. Staley, Jr., all of New York; G. D. Rogers, Baltimore.
1926—J. C. Barrington, New York; Prof. H. H. Roseberry, Baltimore; Dr. J. M. Cooke and J. E. Moore, both of Philadelphia.
1927—T. F. Anderson, E. E. Lingle, and R. M. Menzies, all of New York; W. H. Bordeaux, Jr., and R. H. McIlwaine, both of Philadelphia; R. L. Mitchell, Newark, New Jersey.
1928—W. B. Bradford, Jr., J. C. Montgomery, Jr., J. L. Robinson, Jr., and W. F. Stigler, all of Philadelphia; J. D. Gwin, W. L. Lingle, Jr., J. S. McAlister, Rod McRae, B. F. Martin, D. O. Westbrook, Jr., and B. A. Wilson, all of New York; W. R. Grey, Jr., Brooklyn; T. T. Jones and L. B. McClain, both of Baltimore.
1929—John L. Ely, Jr., New York; G. H. Green and W. N. Middleton, both of Brooklyn.
1930—D. P. Anderson, Jr., A. L. DeCamp, J. Z. Preston, and D. E. Yow, all of Philadelphia; S. C. Booker and E. L. Roberson, both of Baltimore; C. H. Pettus, Jr., Ardmore, Pa.; S. L. Gant, J. Layton Mauze, and R. S. Reynolds, Jr., all of New York.
1932—E. Russell Smith, New York.

Births

Dr. Lauchlin M. Currie, '18, and Mrs. Currie, of Lakewood, Ohio, announce the birth of a daughter, Nancy Christian, on March 5. Harry G. Newson, ’28, and Mrs. Newson, of Charlotte, announce the birth of a daughter on March 15. Rev. R. S. Arrowood, ’13, and Mrs. Arrowood, of Concord, announce the birth of a daughter, Mary Dickson, on March 19.

Impressions By Dr. C. R. Harding

Well-worn, possibly outworn, is the proverb, “Actions speak louder than words.” But from my experience during the past week when I was privileged to visit the Davidson College alumni organizations in Baltimore, New York, and Philadelphia (in the order named), I would find it a difficult task if I were called upon to decide which of these two “categories” spoke the louder in manifestation of interest in, and loyal devotion to, the old and new Davidson—the acts that I witnessed, or the words to which I listened at these several gatherings of Davidson men assembled to greet each other and to welcome the college representative who had been invited to address them as the bearer of affectionate salutations from Alma Mater. We make all proper allowances for what common courtesy and kindness would suggest as a becoming welcome and a proper show of hospitality to this faculty messenger. And we discount, to the full, the pleasing flattery and kindly praise that effervescing jollity and buoyant mood in such reunions would naturally call forth. But with this prefaced, the gladsome smile, the graciously extended hand of welcome, the hearty greeting, the warmResponse to the appreciative remarks of the presiding officer—in Baltimore, Dr. Thos. P. Sprunt; in New York, Dr. Algernon B. Reese; in Philadelphia, Dr. James Hendrix—and the no less appreciative and generous reception of the address of the guest of honor—all of these individually and collectively left no room for questioning as to whether the fellows, young and old, felt that it was good to be present and that here was being enjoyed, in a high degree, a two hours or more of fine fellowship and good cheer. At each of the gatherings I was told, time and again, that the occasion was not a whit behind in interest and pleasure the celebrations of preceding years, and many declared that these reunions are on a distinctly ascending scale, both as regards numbers attending and in provision made for dual entertainment—the spread of things appetizing to palate and to soul; things that taste good and things intellectually good.

The visiting alumnus, deeply interested in Davidson's welfare and that of her sons through a period of more than half a century—a period beginning in his early teens and reaching well into a theoretic retiring age—could but experience a glow of emotion and a kindling afresh of optimistic expectancy in witnessing and taking part in these inspiring and enthusiastic gatherings of alumni—men of maturing and mature years, men in early manhood, and men as yet scarcely men if measured by birthdays—that have already attained, or that unquestionably in due time are going to attain, to positions of prominence, of distinction, of usefulness and noble service in almost every honorable walk of life.

Plan of Reorganization Now Before the Alumni
President Smith Richardson Asks for Approval—Classes Will Vote on Council Representatives

Smith Richardson, '06, of New York, president of the Davidson College Alumni Association, has mailed over 3,800 letters through the alumni office to that number of Davidson alumni, presenting to them a proposed reorganization of the Davidson association, a combined constitution and by-laws for consideration, and a ballot upon which nominations will be made for Alumni Council members. According to President Richardson, the basis of the new proposal is the plan of giving every Davidson alumni something to do, which produces an even greater interest than now manifested. The plan provides for an Alumni Council of approximately 200 members, as compared to the 15 which have been directing the work during the past several years. Class representation and representation-at-large is provided for in the proposal, each class being entitled to a certain number of representatives according to the year of their graduation from Davidson. Provision is made for an annual meeting, an executive committee, which will handle minor details, and methods of election of various bodies. Approval of the plan, with suggestions and criticisms and nominations for class council members is asked for by President Richardson. These will be tabulated in the office of the alumni secretary, and a committee, to be appointed by Mr. Richardson, will consider the suggestions and nominations. The present Alumni Council has been working upon the plan for the past year and a half, and have made the proposal after an exhaustive study.

They are occupying, or soon will occupy, high places in the ministry, in medicine, in education, in finance, in business, and in industry of manifold types. These sons of Davidson are gathering in considerable numbers in our large cities—many of them for graduate study, many of them for permanent residence; others of them, having to content themselves with a college diploma, are pushing out and making their way successfully in country and town. But all of these sons, with possibly an exception here and there, are loyal to the old college that grows bigger and better year by year, and they cordially allow that the training she offers, whether the sphere be physical, social, intellectual, ethical, and above all, spiritual, is such that no son need be ashamed to call her mother. It is their hope, their prayer, and their expectation that her future shall be as brilliant as her past has been honorable, and that her influence shall be as wide and as potent as that influence in all of the years since her founding has been wholesome and ennobling.

This reporter would make acknowledgments of his special indebtedness to our over-industrious and highly efficient secretary, Ernest Milton, who as pilot, helmsman, and general bureau of information, leaves nothing undone by way of keeping our alumni in touch with the campus and all that is embraced in that term; to Dr. A. B. Reese, whose guest the reporter was during his stay in New York; to Prof. John C. Bailey, Jr., who was host in Baltimore; to W. B. Bradford, Jr., who in Philadelphia piloted him through rain and storm from train to banquet hall and from banquet hall to train, and to all others (and these are several) to whom he is indebted for individual courtesies.

UNDERWEAR OF DISTINCTION - SHIRTS AND SHORTS

Some men say amusing things about color in shirts and shorts—but no one questions the unusual comfort in this two-piece underwear as made by HANES. We’ve taken track-athlete freedom and enlarged on it a bit for men who’ve dropped their calisthenics, but who love comfort none the less. We are a little tickled, too, that we can match the weird colors in your ties, your shirts, and your socks—though there is pure white, of course.

P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
Winston-Salem, N. C.

Alumni Personals

Alumni visitors to Davidson within the past two weeks include Dr. R. H. Lafferty, '99, Charlotte; W. D. Johnson, '06, St. Pauls; Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, ’06, Charlotte; E. M. White, ’14, Chester, S. C.; W. T. Long, ’24, China Grove; Olin Puckett, '27, Chapel Hill; Wade Leggette, ’27, Winston-Salem; R. M. Crosland, ’28, Charlotte; Ralph Glenn, ’28, Concord; Sam Allison, '29, Glade Spring, Va.; and R. W. McDermid, '30, Charleston, S. C. This does not include the names of six others who are at Davidson almost once a week.

James A. Abernethy, Jr., '19, mayor of Lincolnton, says that he will not be a candidate for re-election. The furniture company of which Geo. W. Hall, '95, of Hickory, is president, will probably be merged with two others into a million-dollar concern in April. Friends will regret to learn of the death of W. S. Wilkinson, father of Frank S. Wilkinson, '27, of Charlotte. Dr. W. H. Sprunt, Jr., ’14, has been elected president of the men’s organization of the First Presbyterian Church, Winston-Salem. P. S. Thompkins, ’28, a senior medical student at Washington University, St. Louis, has received an internship appointment to the University of Pennsylvania. After being at Davidson one year, Mr. Thompkins went to the summer school of William and Mary, and then graduated at Washington and Lee in two years, making Phi Beta Kappa there. Osmond L. Barringer, '97, was manager of the automobile show in Charlotte last week. W. B. McClintock, '01, Charlotte, has been renamed a member of the Board of Education of Mecklenburg County.

Notice TO THE COLLEGE BOYS

Why pay $1.25 for half soles when you can take them to the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP and get the same sole with better work for only 85c. Try Us and See

C. A. KENNEDY, Prop.