Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 11, 1931 | “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” | No. 9

Maj. Booth Delivers Address on “Britain’s Foreign Policy”
Noted Lecturer on Politics and Economic Affairs Speaks to Large Audience Here

PRESENTED BY DR. LINGLE
Speaker’s Visit to Davidson Sponsored By International Relations Club

Last Friday evening, November 6th, at 8 o'clock, Major C. Douglas Booth, noted lecturer on politics and economic affairs, gave an address in Chambers Auditorium on the British Foreign Policy. The speaker was introduced by Dr. T. W. Lingle, professor of European History at Davidson. In his introduction, Dr. Lingle said that about five centuries ago England was coming out of the Middle Ages, and the great problem that was confronting the people and government at that time was the problem of the supplanting of royalty with nationalism. This fact was finally accomplished to a high degree. It is this fact of nationalism that has caused so many of the European wars. These latter years have been years of intense nationalism, and now the problem that confronts us is the effort to form this nationalism into a greater, deeper internationalism. Dr. Lingle brought out the fact that before we are (Continued on page 5)

Fraternities Sponsor Week End Houseparty
Dramatic Club Plays and Entertainment in Charlotte Constituted Program

The house parties given by the various fraternities during the past week-end were among the most successful social affairs of the year. They were attended by a large number of guests and were featured by a number of entertainments. The Davidson-Citadel football game, a group of plays presented by the Red and Black Masquers, and an entertainment given at the Hotel Charlotte constituted a full program for the week-end. The guests included the following:

Kappa Alpha: Misses Elizabeth Lewis, Spartanburg, S. C.; Edna Harris, Converse; Adelaide Foil, Concord; Ruth Whitton, May L. Smith, May D. Marion, Charlotte; Billie Sapp, Concord; Claudia DeWolfe, Hollins, Va.; Amelia Webb, Charlotte; Elizabeth Gilmore, Converse; Elizabeth Fluck, Tarboro; Dorothy Hand, Charlotte.

Beta Theta Pi: Misses Susan Calder, Dorothy McClintock, Charlotte; Mary McKay, Caroline Ivey, Concord; Effie Murphy, Rock Hill, S. C.; Caroline White, Converse; Edith (Continued on page 6)

Initial Edition of Yowl Makes Its Appearance
“Birthday Issue” Marks Beginning of Bell’s Editorship

Last Saturday the “Birthday Issue” of The Yowl, Davidson's humorous magazine, appeared. As explained on the editorial page, entitled, “Editorially Speaking,” it received its appellation from the fact that practically an exact year had passed since the initial edition was printed. The Yowl, as many know, supplanted The Chameleon, an entirely literary magazine, just as the latter was about to fade out. It was intended that a part of the magazine should be humorous and the smaller part literary. But it so happened that in this “Birthday Issue” not a great number of literary articles were written, and consequently not many were printed. However, four beautiful poems by Woodrow Caligan made up for the absence of the other literary works.

The art contributors were: Skip Brown, originator of the cover page; Vereen Bell, editor-in-chief; Reeves Pope, Tom Wood, Kemp Lindsay, E. L. Powell, L. D. McPhail, George Gullette, Geddy Monroe, and W. C. Ragin, 731. And then, of course, there was the usual display of jokes, puns, and features. There was a list of seventeen advertisers who helped to defray the expenses of publishing such a magazine. Taken as a whole, the edition was unusually good and forecasts other good issues of the magazine that will follow.

Sigma Upsilon Gives Bids to Eight Men

At a recent meeting, the Davidson chapter of the Sigma Upsilon national honorary fraternity issued eight bids. This fraternity is for the purpose of recognizing student literary talent. The following men were invited to join the fraternity because of the interest and ability that they have shown in literary matters, and the work that they have done in that line: W. W. Franklin, D. G. Stephenson, D. G. Calder, C. S. Spencer, S. S. Wiley, E. A. Hancock, C. F. Myers, and R. L. McCallie.

W. W. Franklin is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity and a feature editor of The Davidsonian. He was also advertising editor of the annual last year and is a member of Delta Pi Kappa.

D. G. Stephenson is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and is a feature editor of The Davidsonian. He is also a member of Delta Pi Kappa, the International Relations Club, and assistant editor of the annual.

D. G. Calder is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and a member of the varsity tennis team.

C. S. Spencer has shown marked proficiency in literary endeavors, and was a member of the Freshman tennis team and is at present on the varsity tennis squad.

S. S. Wiley is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and is literary editor of the annual. He was also recently elected president of the Honorary Fraternity Council. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, International Relations Club, Omega Phi Alpha, and Delta Pi Kappa.

E. A. Hancock is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity and is a junior editor of the annual. He is also assistant basketball manager and a member of the Red and Black Masquers.

R. L. McCallie is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity and is one of the managing editors of The Davidsonian. He is also on the staff of the annual. He is a member of Delta Pi Kappa, International Relations Club, of the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control, of the Student Council, and is a member of the track team.

C. F. Myers is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, member of the Reporters’ Club, Delta Pi Kappa, and a member of Le Cercle Francais. Myers is a managing editor of The Davidsonian and a member of the editorial staff of the annual. Myers is also a member of the varsity tennis team and one of the vice-presidents of the Y. M. C. A.

Bids were issued recently, and the men will be initiated Wednesday night.

PROF. PEARSE OF DUKE TO LECTURE THURSDAY
Second Lecture of Series Is to Be Entitled “Tropical Nature”

Thursday night at 7:30 p. m., a lecture will be given in Chambers Auditorium by Prof. A. S. Pearse, of the Department of Zoology of Duke University. The subject of his lecture will be “Tropical Nature,” and it will be illustrated with colored lantern slides. Prof. Pearse is the second of a series of lecturers furnished by the Faculty Committee on Lectures. As the reader remembers, Dr. Mims was the first of the series.

Before Prof. Pearse came to Duke in 1927, he had been assistant professor of zoology at Harvard, University of the Philippines, and the University of Wisconsin. He has presented papers before the Academy of Science of both Wisconsin and North Carolina. He has also published two books, General Zoology and Animal Zoology, besides several articles in scientific magazines. Prof. Pearse has traveled very widely, doing zoological work in foreign countries, Japan, Indo-China, and India. He has recently been working in Nigeria. Those who have heard him say that he is an easy speaker and has a great knowledge of his subject.

(Continued on page 6)

REV. R. W. MILES
Fall Y Services to Be Led by Dr. Miles

Dr. Miles, of the Westminster Presbyterian Church, Lynchburg, Va., will hold a series of evangelistic services under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A., beginning next Tuesday morning at chapel. All the morning periods will be shortened five minutes in order to have a fifty-five-minute period for this meeting.

This announcement should be of especial interest to all Davidson men, first because of the blessing we are expecting to receive, and second, because Dr. Miles is a former Davidson man, being a “fighting wildcat” when he played football here during his college course. It is interesting to note that he was the first secretary of the “Y.” Besides these things, he is greatly interested in young people and is in demand as a speaker at Virginia colleges. Last summer he was a representative from the Lynchburg Rotary Club at the International Rotary meeting at Geneva, Switzerland.

Still another pleasant surprise awaits the students on the campus. At this time, Albert McClure, who graduated from Davidson last year, will be present to lead the singing. When McClure attended college, he was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, and was one of the most popular men on the campus. He was also a class officer and won the Sydney Sullivan award. He is at present a Junior at the Union Seminary in Richmond, Va.

Davidson Alumnus Leads Y.M.C.A. Vesper Service Sunday Evening, Nov. 8th
Dr. McSween, President of Presbyterian College, Was Guest Here for Week-end

MANY STUDENTS ATTEND
Theme Describes “God’s Call to Youth of Today”

“Businessmen who write me about young men aren't interested in their athletic ability, whether they have gone over big with the ladies, or even about their scholarship record; but if they will do to trust and have character that rings true,” Dr. John McSween, president of Presbyterian College, told those attending the “Y” vespers last Sunday evening. His subject was “God’s Call to the Young Man Today.” Reference was made to Gideon, whom God called to lead the people back to the truth. The speaker pointed out that in this ma-Age folks often forget God. He believes that things will not return to their normal state until people turn back to Him. He expressed the belief that God calls college men to lead the people and solve present-day problems. “This is the greatest age ever struck in human history,” he said. For his part, he would not have “the good ole’ days” back if such a thing were possible. He considers people living today to be a privileged class. He reminded the audience that it used to be considered a luxury to go to college. That 80 percent of today’s leaders come from the one percent of those who had the advantage of going to college. He outlined five problems that make conditions at present difficult: first, there is a revolution in thought; second, a revolution in politics; third, religion; fourth, what is right, and fifth, the relation between sexes. Dr. McSween claims that all these problems must be readjusted. This can be done by bringing back vital breath to the religion of Jesus Christ, maintaining that “it will only come when it means a living loyalty to a living Lord.” He told of a student that once said that loyalty to Jesus Christ was a beautiful idea, but that it couldn’t be applied in religion. The speaker declared that loyalty that couldn't be applied to religion was worthless.

Davidson Beats the Citadel in Last Home Game of Year

Dr. Chas. E. Scott Speaks at Davidson

Dr. Charles Ernest Scott, of the American Presbyterian Mission in Tsinanfu, China, was a visitor on Davidson campus during the past weekend. He spoke in chapel on Friday, painting a vivid picture of present conditions in the Orient, and on Monday concerning the needs in that section of the world. On Sunday afternoon he addressed the Student Volunteer Group, and filled the pulpit of the Davidson Presbyterian Church on Sunday evening. In his sermon Sunday evening he used as a text Matthew 28:18-20, placing the emphasis on the four penetrating “alls” of Jesus—“all power, all nations, all things, and always.” Dr. Scott stated that he would use this text as Wagner used the various motifs in his operas, as a central theme, to bind the whole into a complete unity. “There are several attitudes,” said Dr. Scott, “which we may take to this scripture. The first is indifference. A man may say, ‘Why should I be interested in my country’s needs when there are so many necessities in my city? And why be interested in the necessities of my city when there are so many in my community?’ and the logical conclusion comes right down to the person himself. This is grossly selfish. It is the last word in crampiness. And then I shall never forget the inscription on the Lindbergh beacon in Chicago: ‘The light that shines farthest shines brightest at home.’ With our present laxity in the Christian church, we should remember this.

“We cannot safely assume an indifferent attitude to Asia. You'd better be interested in Asia, one thousand million humans who resemble a volcano just before eruption. The fatal home plague comes from Manchuria. The ‘flu’ crept out of China. Napoleon said, ‘China is a lion asleep.’ No man can live totally to himself and all this anarchy is leading on to who knows what? Think of what it would mean: Soviet Russia with German science and all the manpower of China and the East. Can we safely ignore it?

“Then we can influence Asia to defiance by duping them commercially, cursing them diplomatically with shady deals, and harming them militarily. There is even a more dangerous way, however. It’s bad enough to kill them, but it is much worse to spoil what Christianity now exists in China. One of the leaders in the government of China was a student in a large American university. He and two Chinese friends decided to investigate the Christian religion. In order to do this, they made friends with a minister's son who lent them books entirely detrimental to Christianity, and led them to believe that it is merely a superstition. Now these three Chinese students are big men in the present government of that country.

“But then there is the final attitude, the right one, which we may take to the Orient. The attitude ‘to touch in order to bless.’ This is best proved in the lives of missionaries. Dr. G. W. Fitch of Shanghai started out printing on a small scale, and through slow progress began printing the ‘Chinese Recorder,’ the first great mission paper. He taught Chinese Christians his trade, and the boys he taught are now at the head of the great Commercial Press in Shanghai, one of the greatest influences for good in the Orient, both in its output and in the administration of business.”

“LIBRARIES” IS THEME USED BY DR. CUMMING

English Professor Gives Chapel Talk of Foreign and American Libraries

On Friday in chapel, Dr. W. P. Cumming delivered a most interesting speech, entitled “Libraries.” A condensation of Dr. Cumming’s speech follows:

“Man has two types of knowledge,” said Lord Macaulay, “that which he carries in his mind and that which lies where he can put his finger on it, in books.” The second type is of equal or greater importance than the first; thus we find our great need for libraries, which are surely the concomitants of civilization.

“Nowadays libraries are comparatively common place things and are readily accessible to (Continued on page 5)

In Saturday’s Contest Wildcats March Over Cadets for 14 to 7 Victory

5,000 FANS SEE GAME

Gardner and Whitfield Were Defense Stars, With King Offensive Star

With the aid of two perfect touchdown plays and a heads-up attitude throughout the game, Davidson defeated The Citadel of Charleston, S.C., 14-7. The touchdown plays which did the work were used at the beginning of the first and third quarters. At the opening kick-off, Buck Mills took the ball for Davidson on his own five-yard line and, behind perfect interference, ran the chalk sideline for 36 yards to the Cadets’ 38-yard line. Peabody made a yard through the line and on the next play, a pass from Mills to King, was knocked down. The identical pass play worked on the next play, however, and King took Mills’ pass for a touchdown and galloped 25 yards. King’s placement was good.

Davidson's second score came at the beginning of the second half. Jennings fumbled the McIntosh kick-off, which he had run back for 15 yards to his own 27, and Davidson recovered. Pearce made a yard, and Mills passed to King for eight yards. Then King made a first down on his own 16-yard line. Mitchell intercepted the pass from Mills on the Cadets’ 8-yard line, and returned to the 18, where he fumbled and the ball was recovered by Mills. On the next play, Pearce knifed through right tackle and reversed field across the goal line standing up. King’s extra point by placement was good.

Citadel’s score was the result of an 81-yard drive at the beginning of the fourth period. This drive began on the 19-yard line, and was featured by Jennings’ end run of 20 yards, and two passes, Jennings to Quarterman, and Jennings to Willard, for 10 and 19 yards respectively, which put the ball on the one-yard line. The Cadets were also aided by 20 yards in penalties. McIntosh bucked the line for the score, and kicked the extra point.

Davidson clearly had the upper hand throughout the first half. Besides the opening touchdown, the first period's only feature was Peabody’s run off left tackle for 19 yards. In the second period, the ball was always in Citadel’s territory, but the ‘Cats’ only threat, when they advanced the ball to the 20-yard line, was stopped, and on the next play McIntosh slipped off tackle for 26 yards. As the second half opened, things happened lightning fast and when the dust cleared away Davidson had seven more points to make the score 14-0. From then on Citadel took the offensive. Citadel drove the ball from her own 14-yard line to Davidson's 40, but the march was stopped there. The last quarter was by far the most bitterly fought. It was featured by Citadel's 81-yard drive for a touchdown, Mills’ 47-yard return of the kick-off and King’s 34-yard jaunt around end. With Citadel threatening to score again throughout, the outcome of the game was ever in doubt until the final whistle.

For sure consistency, McIntosh of the Cadets was outstanding. He always seemed to be good for four or five yards; he, however, must share the spotlight with the fast-stepping Larkin Jennings. This triple threat always kept the ‘Cats worried, but never quite succeeded in getting loose. On the defense, Holland and Metz shone for the visitors. Mills and King gave the best performances for Davidson as far as ground gaining was concerned, and Pearce was very consistent in his punting. Although the Bulldogs made twelve first downs to Davidson's four, the ‘Cats always seemed to have the situation well in hand. The Cadets gained 179 yards from scrimmage, to Davidson's 127. The Cadets also completed six passes, which was twice as many as Davidson.

Line-up:
Citadel Position Davidson
King LE. Baker
Holland LT. Wagner
McCraw LG. Mathis
Mitchell Center Gardner
Watts RG. Conway
Hobbs RT. Whitfield
Willard RE. Brown
Whittington QB. King
Jennings LH. Pearce
Metz RH. Peabody
McIntosh FB. Mills

(Continued on page 6)