THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1931

ATTENTION LITERATI

What About Winchell?

Examination Schedule---Session 1931-1932---First Semester

A. M. examinations begin at 9:00
P. M. examinations begin at 2:00

Jan. Freshman | Sophomore | Junior and Senior
Thurs. A.M. | French 1, 2 | French 3, 4, 5 | French 6, 7, 8
14 P.M. | Political Science 1, Education 3

Fri. A.M. | Mathematics 1 | Math. 2 | Mathematics 3, 4, Political Science 3
15 P.M. | Psychology 2, Business 1, Education 1 | History 4, 5, 6

Sat. A.M. | Latin A, 1 | Latin 2 | Latin 3, 4, Economics 3, Geology 2
16 P.M. | Philosophy 2

Mon. A.M. | 18
P.M. | History 1 | History 1 | History 2, 3, 7, Applied Math. 1, 2

Tues. A.M. | Biology 2 | Biology 2 | Biology 3, 4, 5, 6, Business 2
P.M. | Bible 1 | Bible 2 | Bible 5, 6, Astronomy, Geology 1, Philosophy 4

Wed. A.M. | Chemistry 1 | Chemistry 2 | Chemistry 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
P.M. | Economics 2, Education 2 | Greek 1 | Greek 2 | Greek 3, 4, 5, 6, Business 3,
Psychology 4

Thur. A.M. | Economics 1, Psychology 3, Geology 3
P.M. | English 1 | English 2 | English 3, 6, 8, 9

Fri. A.M. | Physics 1 | Physics 2 | Physics 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, Political Science 2
22 P.M. | Spanish A, 1 | Spanish 2 | Spanish 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, Economics 5, Physical Education

Sat. A.M. | Economics 4, Political Science 4
P.M. | ROTC 1 | ROTC 2 | ROTC 3, 4

“Whoopee,” “gaga,” “Renotoriety,” and other newly-invented words of the Walter Winchell variety, have their chance, along with other colloquialisms, dialect
terms, and verbal shortcuts, to take a permanent place in our language, according to eleven of a group of forty
college professors of English who responded to an invitation to discuss the probable effect of “Winchellizing” on our everyday speech.

Only three of those who ventured opinions on the subject professed themselves to be unfamiliar with “America’s greatest gossip,” and
his breezy chatter, which is disseminated through his writing and radio broadcasts on the Lucky Strike Dance Hours.

Opinions varied from that of Prof. H. W. Ward of Coe College, Iowa, who thought “Winchell’s many racy expressions and
often startlingly apt new coinages will make a very appreciable impression,” to the indignant pun of Prof. J. W. Rankin
of the University of Missouri: “Winch? Hell no!”

At the suggestion, however, that Winchell’s vest-pocket words, expressing what is on millions of tongues the day after they are
coined, might take a permanent place, Prof. Rankin responded, “Sad, but true.”

Profs Enjoy “Winchellizing”

Other English professors, on the other hand, who did not concede that “Winchellizing” would affect the language permanently, confessed that
they themselves enjoy his gossip and his high-handed treatment of the language of Chaucer and the Declaration of Independence.

“Unfortunate, if any,” commented Prof. Al- len Wade. “Corrupting,” was the term used by Prof. J. H. Chamberlin of Marietta
College, Ohio.

Prof. F. T. Baker of Columbia University thought the wide broadcasting of racy expressions like Winchell’s gives us a “more
picturesque language,” even if his words are short-lived. “No one can say that some of the Winchell contributions may not
filter into accepted use,” wrote Prof. Percy H. Boynton, of the University of Chicago. “Many will doubtless find a place
in the standard dictionaries, but in most, if not all cases, merely as forms of slang,” according to Prof. Z.
W. Coombs, of the Worcester Polytechnic Institute in Massachusetts.

Slaps “Slang-Slingers”

“The prime trait of slang-slingers seems to be the facility with which the words of the language are slung right
and left by them with a total disregard for propriety,” wrote Prof. H. J. Tunney of the University of Notre
Dame, in a long and entertaining discussion of Winchell’s English. “When Mr. Walter Winchell tells of a mismated married couple
who have gone to Nevada to ‘Reno-vate,’” Professor Tunney added, “we must, perforce, chuckle. That is a clever, witty expression;
and so is ‘Renotoriety.’ The only objection is that Mr. Winchell is too well aware of his wit and cleverness.”

“The English language has been subjected to many vicissitudes in the past,” said Prof. Carleton Brown of New York University,
secretary of the Modern Language Association of America, “and has shown remarkable toughness and power of persistence. My personal opinion
is that it will continue without any perceptible effect from the worst which Mr. Winchell can do to it.”

“Undeniably these intellectual flashes tend to quicken our national speech,” remarked Prof. Carroll S. Alden, head of the department of
English and history at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, “but coined expressions, especially those relating to temporary conditions,
will not be found to have anything of the vitality possessed by those that spring from the soil.”

“Language is constantly growing and constantly changing,” commented Prof. Robert Withington of Smith College, Northampton, Massachusetts. “We find words in
good order today which started as slang or were once re-

Prof. L. B. Schenck at ‘Y’ Vespers Makes Talk On Esau and His Birthright

Professor Schenck Talked Interestingly on Esau at Vespers Led by Charles Spencer

“Here they come after the years drifting during which selfishness and pride have swept away and which have been replaced
by regret and sorrow and remorse.” These are the Esaus we can see about us that Prof. Lewis B. Schenck
pointed out at last Sunday's Y vespers.

Professor Schenck took from Genesis 25:34, “And Esau despised his birthright” as the text for a most interesting and thought-provoking
talk, which was particularly appreciated because of its extreme clarity and pointedness.

“A man, short-sighted, along life, making much of trifling things, but neglecting really worthwhile things, a man, choosing things temporary
and perishable, and giving up things permanent and lasting, such a man was Esau who gave up his birthright,” said
Professor Schenck. In Esau’s birthright were included many great and valuable things, such as his father’s final blessing; but Esau
gave them up for a mess of pottage. Today, everyone, not only the eldest sons, has a magnificent birthright, which
means health, education, character, and finally, and most importantly, salvation through Jesus Christ. Yet, the world today is full of
Esaus. We see several types of them. There is the hearty, bluff, “hail-fellow-well-met” sort of all-around athlete and most popular
man on the campus. The man who finds no limits to his amiability and activity, yet who fails, in that
hedoes not take a definite stand; he does not have character enough nor vim. There is the over-eating, over-indulging, excessively
pleasure-seeking Esau, to whom satisfaction of the animal appetites is much more than good health. There is another kind who
lets social, athletics, and campus activities lose their proper proportions, so that he forgets to study and never knows the
old-time digging into books. “But here,” said Professor Schenck, “is the most common Esau of all. He has two things
to choose between: here, an upright character with soul kept clean and pure, and there, compromise with sin. ‘I've got
to go with the crowd, even if it is a little bit shady, or the fellows will laugh at me,’
he says. But did you ever notice that the crowd has a secret respect for him who is man enough
to step out and stand for something?” What the world needs are a few more Josephs and Daniels and Pauls
who will stick up for something; who will realize that it is of greatest importance for us, not to indulge
in excessive pleasure, but only so much as God wills, that we may have time to accomplish His other works;
who will wake up to the fact—the fact to which Esaus most frequently are blinded—that we not only hurt ourselves
by our lazy slackness and care exclusively for the things of this world, but that we also hurt others, hurt
men and wives and children and the chances for success of other men. Then, after this refutation of his birthright,
comes the return of the Esau of the Bible and, too, of our modern Esaus. It comes after their failure
to live out of the present, to look ahead; to resist the temptations of brief pleasure only to be followed
by remorseful expiation after their falling between two stools, their inability to serve either Jehovah or Baal, it comes after
their total blindness to the fate of aught but self. It is, indeed, a sad sight to see the Esaus
struggle in, with futile hopes of retrieving their lost birthrights, sold for a mess of pottage.

Philosophy of the World-Famous Royal Russian Chorus, to Appear Here Tonight

“ALENDA LUX”

A Burning Question

At a recent meeting of the administration of the college, the lighting situation was considered and the former rule (No.
7 of the dormitory regulations) was revoked. The old rule, which is as follows, NOT MORE THAN TWO ELECTRICAL CONNECTIONS
AND NOT MORE THAN TWO LAMPS OF SIXTY WATTS EACH ARE ALLOWED IN EACH ROOM, was found to be faulty
and the following official statement has been issued by the administration:

WITH A VIEW TO BETTERING DORMITORIES A CHANGE HAS BEEN MADE IN THE RULES. HEREAFTER IT WILL BE PERMISSIBLE TO
HAVE ONE DOUBLE SOCKET AND THREE LIGHT BULBS OF NOT OVER SIXTY CANDLEPOWER IN EACH DORMITORY ROOM. ACCORDING TO THE
LAWS MADE BY THE INSURANCE COMPANIES AND THE STATE, AN EXTENSION CORD MUST BE WELL INSULATED AND MUST NOT TOUCH
WOOD OR METAL. THESE LAWS CAN BE OBSERVED BY THE USE OF A STRING TO SUSPEND THE CORD FROM A
NAIL OR IRON PIPE. STUDENTS ARE URGED TO COMPLY STRICTLY WITH THESE LAWS. AN ELECTRICIAN WILL INSPECT CORDS, SOCKETS AND
LIGHTS FROM TIME TO TIME TO SEE THAT STUDENTS ARE MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE INSURANCE COMPANIES AND THE STATE.

Attention is pointed to the eighth rule of the dormitory regulations, which is as follows: OCCUPANTS OF ROOMS MUST NOT
TAMPER WITH LIGHT FIXTURES NOR MAKE ANY CHANGES OR ALTERATIONS. IF REPAIRS ARE NECESSARY, REPORT PROMPTLY TO THE SUPERVISOR OF
DORMITORIES. PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF THIS RULE IS $5.00.

Sunnyland Serenaders To Perform in Pinehurst

The Davidson Glee Club, accompanied by the Sunnyland Serenaders, are to render a concert in Pinehurst Thursday night, December 17.
The group of about 32 members of the Glee Club and about 10 of the orchestra will leave here Thursday
evening by bus, give the concert that night in the Pinehurst Carolina Theatre, and return later the same night. As
this is the club’s first trip to Pinehurst, each member is expected to be doing his best to make it
a most successful and enjoyable concert.

The Glee Club, with William Rule as director and George Pardington as business manager, is making rapid progress this year
and doing excellent work both on and away from the campus. In addition to the concert in Pinehurst, they are
sponsoring the Russian Chorus which is to be here Wednesday, December 16. After the holidays, under the auspices of the
Junior class, the Glee Club will give a concert at Queens-Chicora College. One or two other concerts are to be
given later in the spring, but as yet cannot be definitely announced.

“MONK” YOUNGER

In going to V. P. I, Younger returns to his alma mater, where he rose to heights as a college
athlete. While there in school he earned success in football, basketball, and baseball, and obtained a knowledge in these sports
which has brought him great success as a coach. It was while playing on the gridiron for V. P. I.
that “Monk” received the title of “Southern Panther.” He was later termed “the smartest end in the history of V.
P. I. football.” Younger will remain here until June. He will direct the baseball team next spring, but will not
coach basketball this winter, in order to handle spring football training which will start immediately after exams.

Prospective Frosh

Although it will be nine months before the next class to enter Davidson College arrives, applications are now being received
from a number of prospective students, according to Fred W. Hengeveld, registrar of the institution. No efforts have been made
urging the students to send in their applications now, but the registrar said that about 25 had already applied.

Mr. Hengeveld also commented upon the fact that almost every one is accompanied by a request for loan funds, or
inquiries about the possibility of obtaining work at Davidson. This same trend was potently evident in applications for the class
which arrived in September, and was true, in a large measure, of those who were returning.

SCARLET TANAGER

Wishes You A Merry Xmas and a Happy New Year

Phone 9143

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Look Neat For the Holidays

Stetson “D” Store

Nationally Known and Justly Famous

SPECIAL FOR 10 DAYS ONLY

Camel Pile Coats - $37.50
