IN THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 21, 1930

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN ........................................ Editor-in-Chief
P. M. CONWAY .............................................. Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Athletic Editor
Feature Editor
Feature Editor
Review Editor
Exchange Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. McMANUS ........................................ Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE ........................................ Assistant Business Manager
J. L. WHITTED ........................................ Assistant Business Manager
W. E. MORROW ........................................ Subscription Manager
W. A. BOND .............................................. Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
A. H. WHITEHEAD ........................................ President
B. C. GAUSS .............................................. Vice-President
B. O. MUDD .............................................. Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR
L. S. GAMBLE
G. E. BAILEY
R. E. LORRAINE
J. E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
S. P. PRESTON
R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
A. F. SCHENCK
O. CASALI
W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. CLARDY, JR.
W. T. THOMPSON
A. HUNTER

MAY 21, 1930

I wish our clever young poets would remember my homely definition of prose and poetry; that is, prose,—words in their
best order; poetry, the best words in their best order.
—Coleridge.

PARAGRAPHICS

Let’s don’t forget that there is always someone trying to study during the examination period, and remember we like silence
while studying.

This hissing in chapel is one of the most serious problems in the college. It’s hard to realize just how
distracting it is to anyone trying to speak, or what a bad impression it gives to visitors. The man who
hisses certainly wouldn’t do so if he had to stand out in the open to do it.

The paper is not very well organized this week, but we hope that we will be forgiven when the circumstances
involved in getting out a pictorial supplement are realized.

They tell us there’s a good time coming—they’re right, it surely is a good time coming.
—Duke Chronicle.

Davidson College loses one of its most-loved professors, one of its most ardent supporters, and a fine gentleman, when Captain
Otto goes to Fort Meade, Md. Good luck, Captain!

“Monk” Younger and Ernest Milton getting married; we cease to marvel at miracles when that happens.

AN EFFORT

In this, the last issue of The Davidsonian, we attempt to present to the readers of the paper, in pictorial
form, the leaders of the various fields of activity on the campus. So far as we know, this is an
innovation in journalism at Davidson, and when errors are noted this should be taken into consideration. The representation of leadership
on the campus is in no way complete, lack of space preventing it being so. The pictorial section is divided
into four classes, one page being devoted to each of the following phases: Student government, Y. M. C. A., Athletics,
and Publications. Apologies are offered to those who deserve recognition of this kind, but who, due to some mistake, have
been omitted. The co-operation of the staff of Quips and Cranks, and of the management of Queen City Printing Co.,
is deeply appreciated, as this issue could not have been possible without their assistance. The cuts used are all taken
from the 1931 edition of the annual. This edition is being sent to all men who have signed up to
come to Davidson next fall, and to all prospective high school students, in the hope that they will get a
clearer idea of what the school and its organization are like. To the new men who read this, may we
say that you will be welcome at Davidson next fall, that you have four years to live on this campus
which will mean as much to you as any other four years in your life.

The reorganization of the editorial page was necessary to make room for the athletic news, that page having been cut
out for this issue.

THE SPORTS PARADE

B. B. SHOTS
By B. B. SUGG

We gentlemen of the press, if you will pardon us, lead a hard life, and the “breaks” are usually against
us. But as Meester Chevalyeh says, “Eets a gareat life eff you don’ weeken.” Though we pretend we're gay—we never
feel that way. We're only painting the clouds with sunshine. Who would guess that behind our smiling faces there are
broken hearts? And why these ravings of a vacant mind? Why all this talk about broken hearts? Dear reader, imagine
yourself as being on the staff of this paper. Suppose the Ed had told you last week that there would
be nothing to write for the next issue—that the next issue would be entirely rotogravure. And then suppose that the
Ed told you later that there would be not only a rotogravure section, but the regular newspaper in addition. In
the Davidson campus jargon, wouldn’t you be “about as hot as you get?” Well, we were. Gerskov the tailor was
never aroused to such a fury as we, even when some of his collectors send four or five suits down
to be cleaned. Incidentally, Gersh is now having his spring “going out of business” sale. (He will go out of
business again perhaps in September).—Adv.

But to our duty. Space fugits—slowly. Well, our baseball tribe came back from the east with the scalps of neither
the Tar Heels, Blue Devils, nor the Wolf Pack, which is a regrettable but forgettable fact. We offer no criticism,
and only ask would-be critics to consider that two of these teams were among the strongest in the south. With
these three games, the Wildcat nine closes its 1931 season, and with it will go many seniors of the team
out into the cold wide world. We'll miss Nab’s catching behind the bat and Jim Proctor on first. Second base
won’t seem the same without the ever watchful Sleepy around. And without Hub in the field, we won’t lean back
in our seats any more when a fly is knocked out, confident that the old tar bucket is waiting.

It would seem that the Freshmen have been neglected in this column, but we assure you, gentlemen, that it has
been entirely unintentional. The Fresh have won several hard games, one of which is especially worthy of note, that played
Friday with Belmont Abbey. They played well and showed comparatively better form than that exhibited earlier in the season. With
the score tied in the ninth, the Freshmen rallied, and with the bases loaded, a sacrifice was sufficient to bring
the winning run in home. Odie Casali, who had previously come in with the tying run, did some beautiful base
running. He beat out a ball to first, stole second and third, and then came in on a weak sacrifice,
knocking the Belmont catcher about ten yards to the rear. Nice goin’, Odie.

Davidson Frosh Win In Last Inning Rally

Staging an old-fashioned rally in the last half of the ninth inning, theFreshmen baseball team from Davidson defeated Belmont Abbey
5 to 4. Davidson scored in the first inning of the game on Casali’s base on balls and Smyre’s single,
while Belmont got their first counter in the second. The freshmen took the lead again in the fourth, when Alexander
singled and Wilson brought him home. But they lost it in the sixth when Belmont went on a scoring spree
to put over 3 runs and pave the way for West’s withdrawal. Koonce went in to pitch for the fresh
in the eighth and held the Belmont squad scoreless for the remainder of the game. In the last half of
the eighth, they put across another run to make it 4 to 3. But their big rally came in the
ninth. Koonce walked but was thrown out at second, Casali singled and stole his way around, coming home on Smyre’s
bunt. Smyre stole second and Lineberry hit a line drive to right field to bring Smyre home with the winning
run. Casali’s work in the ninth was particularly notable as he was obviously hurt going into second. He fainted after
crossing home plate but was brought to shortly. Safe hits were distributed about evenly, each team getting ten. The fresh
made their ten just a little bit more effective. Wilson, West, Gladstone, and Alexander got two hits each for the
Fresh, while Gallagher and McCall each hit twice for Belmont. Both of McCall’s safeties were triples.

Davidson Team Suffers Three Defeats on Trip

First Game With Carolina at Chapel Hill Results in 8-1 Defeat for Wildcats

STATE VICTORIOUS, 4-2

Blue Devils Win Over Davidson in Final Game

Carolina defeated Davidson in a make-up game at Chapel Hill on Monday, May 11, by an 8-1 score. The Carolina
team bunched 10 of their 12 hits in two big innings early in the game and the Wildcats did not
threaten to overcome this lead at any time in the game. This victory gives the Tar Heels a Big Five
record of three wins and one loss. Cecil Longest, pitching for Carolina, allowed Davidson to get but five scattered hits.
He struck out six and set the Wildcats down 1-2-3 in five innings and was in trouble only a couple
of times. Ferebee, Croom, Wyrick, and Powell hit twice apiece to lead the Tar Heels at bat. Armfield made the
only tally for Davidson in the fifth inning.

On Tuesday, May 12, the Davidson Wildcats were defeated by North Carolina State College, in Raleigh, by a score of
2 to 4. Hank McLawhorn limited Davidson to five hits, and State touched Pearce, left-handed Wildcat hurler, for 11 safe
licks, scoring two runs in the first inning and one in both the seventh and eighth. Davidson scored a tally
in the third and another in the eighth. Mills and Goodson scored for the Wildcats.

Tim McKeithan gave the Davidson batters only three hits when the Wildcats played Duke on May 13. Two of these
were in the first inning when the ’Cats scored their run. Duke came out on the long end of a
5-1 score. Croker pitched a steady game and was given good support by his teammates.

Carolina Wins Over Fresh Tennis Team

The Tar Heel Freshman tennis team conquered the Wildcat Freshman team on May 13, by taking both of the doubles
matches and splitting the singles. The score was 4-2. This defeat was by the same score as the defeat of
the first encounter. The feature match was the number one doubles between Morgan and Shuford of Carolina and Halverstadt and
Lafferty of Davidson. All four played brilliant back court and net games, and the serve of Shuford was one of
the most terrific seen on the court this year, although it was very erratic. Halverstadt played beautiful and almost errorless
tennis to defeat Morgan, 6-2, 6-4, in the number one singles, while Schenck put up a stiff fight to win
his match after dropping the second set at 6-0. Schenck was playing in number four position. This meet contained some
of the finest tennis displayed on the Davidson courts this year, and all of the matches were exceptionally fine. A
summary follows: Halverstadt (D), defeated Morgan, 6-2, 6-4; Shuford (C), defeated Lafferty, 6-2, 6-2; Dillard (C), defeated Rowan, 6-4, 6-3;
Schenck (D), defeated Minor, 7-5, 0-6, 7-5. Doubles—Morgan and Shuford (C), defeated Halverstadt and Lafferty, 6-4, 2-6, 6-2; Dillard and
Minor (C), defeated Rowan and Schenck, 6-0, 6-2.

Seniors Defeat Faculty Nine in Second Contest

Students Clinch Game With Rally in Ninth Inning

By means of a last inning rally, the Seniors defeated the Faculty, 9-7, in a nip-and-tuck baseball game last Wednesday,
May 13. This is the second time the students have won in a series of three games. The Faculty got
off to a flying start in the first inning, knocking Jim Corbett out of the box and scoring five runs.
However, Rusk and Gabriel, relief pitchers, held them to two runs for the remainder of the game, allowing one tally
in the second and another in the sixth. For six innings the entire Faculty played good ball, but cracked in
a disastrous seventh. The Seniors were able to make only five runs in the first six innings, being held well
in hand by “Dutch” Hengeveld, Faculty pitcher. Nevertheless, they delivered the winning punch in the seventh inning that enabled them
to win. Lawrence, Meacham, Parker, and Ramseur crossed the plate to score the winning runs. Individual honors for the game
go to “Dutch” Hengeveld, who pitched masterful ball for six innings and let down the bars only in the seventh.
He got three hits and three runs out of four times at bat, connecting for a double in the second
and a beautiful triple in the sixth. Meacham and Parker led the scoring for the Seniors. The box score follows:

Faculty
Ab R H E A O
Cullum, ss ----4 0 1 0 0 0
Pritchett, 1b --4 1 1 2 0 1
Brown, 2b ----4 1 1 1 0 1
Watts, 3b ------4 0 0 0 0 1
Fulcher, c ----- 4 0 1 1 1 0
Otto, cf ------- 5 1 2 2 0 2
Mebane, rf ----4 0 1 0 0 0
Hengeveld, p --4 3 3 1 2 4
Totals ----- 38 7 11 5 3 9

Seniors
Ab R H E A O
McMillan, ss --4 0 2 0 0 2
Rusk, 1b ------ 4 0 1 0 2 3
Caldwell, 2b ---4 1 1 1 1 2
Ramseur, 3b ---4 1 0 1 3 0
Parker, c ----- 4 2 0 1 0 2
Meacham, lf --4 3 2 0 0 2
Lawrence, cf --4 1 0 2 0 0
Fraley, rf ------ 4 1 1 0 0 0
Gabriel, p ----- 2 0 2 0 1 1
Totals ----- 34 9 9 5 7 10

Davidson Theatre
Monday, 25, and Tuesday, 26
“SVENGALI” with JOHN BARRYMORE
Wednesday, 27
“SIX CYLINDER LOVE”
Thursday, 28
“GIRLS TOGETHER” JOAN CRAWFORD
Friday, 29
“WOMAN OF ALL NATIONS” GRETA NISSEN VICTOR McLAGLEN EDMUND LOWE EL BRENDEL
