NS > THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1931

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina. Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN.... Editor-in-Chief
P. M. CONWAY..... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
B. G. McRAE.... Managing Editor
D. A. McLEAN.... Managing Editor
J. M. McALISTER.... Managing Editor
C. F. MYERS.... Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG.... Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENS.... Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLIN.... Feature Editor
H. W. ERVIN.... Review Editor
J. H. BEALS.... Exchange Editor
J. C. DWELLE, JR.... Associate Editor
W. S. LASSITER.... Associate Editor
W. S. MATHES.... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. MANSON.... Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE.... Assistant Business Manager
F. W. WHITTED.... Assistant Business Manager
W. R. DORMAN.... Subscription Manager
W. T. JOHNSON.... Solicitor
J. N. INGRAM.... Solicitor
A. H. SACHS.... Vice-President
W. S. McMULLEN.... Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN
F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR
L. S. GAMBLE
G. F. BAILEY
R. E. LORRAINE
G. E. BOY
F. L. POWELL
S. P. PRESTON
R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
A. F. SCHENCK
O. CASALI
W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. CLARDY
JACK WILLIAMS

NOVEMBER 25, 1931

W. J. A. HUNTER

Can there be a more horrible object in existence than an eloquent man not speaking the truth? —Carlyle.

PARAGRAPHICS

The problem of the exact nature of the charity football game to be played in North Carolina has aroused a
great deal of interest among followers of the sport. A great many plans have been proposed by the Governor’s committee
and the public is to be allowed to choose the one they think most desirable.

This issue of the paper is dedicated to those members of the football team who are playing their last game
for the Wildcats tomorrow.

The amount of advertising in this issue of the paper makes necessary the use of eight pages rather than the
usual six.

The Thanksgiving service at the church should prove well worth the time. Thanksgiving Day is set aside as a day
for the giving of thanks and is, for that purpose, used very little.

The usual Davidson rains have been prominent this year through their absence. We venture that they will make up for
the lost time when they do arrive.

May we add as a reminder to anyone with a faulty memory—We play Wake Forest tomorrow in Charlotte!

THANKSGIVING

Over three centuries ago the Mayflower brought the Pilgrims to the shores of Massachusetts. They had come from Holland, and
after a rough voyage in which there was much hardship and suffering, they came in sight of the bleak cold
shores of the northern part of what is now the United States. Suffering from the lack of food, the cold,
and the hostility of the aborigines, they passed their first year in what seemed to them the hopeless task of
conquering an apparently barren land. Far from completing this self-given task, they came to the first harvest time. These Pilgrims
had much for which they were not thankful, and they were justified in not being grateful for their hardships. But
at the end of the harvest period the settlers gathered together in a period of general thanksgiving to their God
for His providence over them and His goodness to them. They could be grateful for their lives, for their freedom
of religion and government, for the task which lay before them; and they were grateful. Therefore they dedicated one day
in the year as one on which to render thanks for the favors and mercies of God. Since that time
the last Thursday in November has been declared “Thanksgiving Day” throughout the land. How much more do we have for
which to be thankful than did those courageous ancestors of ours three centuries ago! Yet we fail to show the
same spirit, and often any spirit at all, of praise and thanksgiving to Him Who has given us so much.

THE TEST

The student body extends to Dr. Miles and to the Y. M. C. A. a vote of thanks for the
fine fall services which they have conducted. Albert McLure was responsible for the musical side of the meetings and was
highly successful in this work. The interest and enthusiasm shown by the students was gratifying and there is no doubt
of the fact that a great many of them were highly impressed at the time. The real test of the
value of the services comes in the lasting effect that the services have on the student body. It is comparatively
easy to become interested in the talks of a

THE DANGER OF PROVINCIALISM

The average man considers that the whole universe revolves around his unique personality. Therefore if you tell him that he
is provincial, he will usually pass it off as a mark of jealousy or just gross ignorance. But whether he
is willing to admit it or not, one of the most prevalent of sins in the average American today is
that of provincialism. He cannot see beyond his limited horizon, even considering those who do as rank high-brows. Oftentimes he
is narrow and prejudiced in his views.

Of all localities that should be free of this, the college campus and town should certainly be far up on
the list; for with all their varied activities relative to the world at large, one would suppose them least guilty.
But this is not so, always. Some self-satisfied colleges crawl into their shells of indifference and grow aged and venerable,
totally oblivious to the pulse and thought of the world. Where this cankerous growth rests most securely is in the
average college undergraduate. He is, as a rule, provincial in both thought and interest. Ask the general student how he
divides his time in reading the paper, for example. Here will be the general answer: one minute on the front
page; two minutes on the daily comic section; ten minutes on the sports section. As a result, he is well
up on the current football standings, but pretty hazy as regards the British policy towards India. Ask him who plays
halfback on Notre Dame and he'll tell you, but ask him who is secretary of state and he will be
forced to guess. As for reading magazines dealing with contemporary thought and research, this is far beyond his ken. Therefore
his slant on current thought and affairs is influenced almost entirely by someone like Bernarr McFadden and his life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness magazines.

Destructive criticism does very little good unless accompanied by a generous portion of constructive criticism, as prohibitionists and anti-prohibitionists will
affirm. Why should provincialism be a particular characteristic of the American people, and even more specifically of the American colleges?
The European educational institutions seem to be less guilty than do their brother institutions in America. Perhaps it is because
they haven't subscribed to the commercialization so widespread in this country. Then, too, they are thrown into closer relationships with
foreign peoples and lands, a factor that is particularly broadening. It is to be greatly deplored that the average American
does not avail himself of the score of opportunities that would tend to give him a broader outlook and knowledge.
Libraries are seldom over-crowded. The much-abused radio brings the greatest of operatic stars to one’s own home. The leading figures
of the day are constantly speaking, but seldom listened to. A man will become broad when he will listen to,
know, and understand another individual or nation’s problems, and relate them to his own. We have a few men of
this type in public service today. A striking example is Owen D. Young. One of the leading business men of
the time, a keen and dependable man in an international crisis, Young, to quote Vanity Fair, “stands ready, if necessary,
according to a witness before the U. S. Senate Committee, even to furnish advice to nursing mothers.” Though perhaps a
bit strong, this is far more of a compliment than anything that could be accorded the average self-centered American.

Whether one lives in New York or Davidson, the same thing is true. The great majority never get out of
their rut of narrow, standardized, prejudiced provincialism. But those who do, experience a satisfaction and joy that will never come
to their fellows. Someone has truly said that the magnitude of the ends you seek and serve is the measure
of your personality.

GOD SEND US DREAMERS!

All great achievements have at one time been dreams in the minds of visionaries—in the good sense. The dreamer is
not necessarily merely a dreamer. Joseph not only dreamed, but could interpret dreams and outline and follow a wise course
of action. No other generation has seen so many dreams come true as this generation. The airship, the airplane, the
telephone, the submarine, and radio were mere dreams a few years ago. Now they are realities, because dreamers believed in
their dreams. Dreamers, men with imagination and faith, dreamed of the abolition of slavery, and slavery disappeared. Howard dreamed of
prison reform, which meant humanizing conditions of living in prison, and the whole penal system of England was changed. It
has always been dreamers that have fought against tyranny. Vacant thrones today show how far they have succeeded. Dreamersdreamed of
the time when the saloon would be banished, and it is gone. Dreamers today see the time when prohibition will
be effective, and the reptile press will cease to glorify violation of law. That day will dawn, too. Duelling has
gone because sane men saw the monstrous injustice of it. There are many today who dream of the abolition of
poverty. That seems a long way off, but it may be nearer than we suppose. Dreamers like Edison, Morse, and
the Wright brothers will continue to dream beneficent dreams along material lines; and others will dream of better living, nobler
aspirations, sublime achievements in the realm of spirit. We need dreamers today. God send us dreamers!

It is easy for a forceful speaker to be out for the meetings every night, to be enthusiastic at the
moment; but the hard test comes in putting some of the principles into practice. Will we as a student body
do this?

“...Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryde

We are both honored and delighted to print the following poem, and note, submitted by a friend of Davidson, Anne
Blackwell Payne, who has been living in New York City:

“Being a sort of daughter and sister to Davidson, I'd be pleased and honored to take up a little of
your space. May I?—A. B. P.”

MEN

Playing with strange, Momentous toys, Men are such funny Little boys. No matter how old, Important, wise— They like us
to listen And sympathize. And ask them questions Of things they know, And if this or that Is really so.
With a weakness for ruffles And curls and trains, And an old suspicion Of brogues and brains. Notwithstanding This year
of grace, There are still small echoes Of “woman’s place.” Though pedestals are passé They swear, I believe they’d rather
Have us there.

—Anne Blackwell Payne.

Miss Payne once lived in Davidson, and sends greetings to all her old friends. She has been living for some
time in New York, studying at Columbia University, and writing poetry. She has recently published “Released,” a book of verse
(The University of North Carolina Press), and poems of hers have appeared in many newspapers and magazines, such as The
New York Times, The New York Sun, Good Housekeeping, Carolina Magazine, and Buccaneer, Literary Lantern, and many others. We humbly
offer our appreciation of this recognition and interest, and hope that Miss Payne will let us hear from her again.

BELIEVE IT OR BELIEVE IT!

Strange as it seems, Mr. East and Mr. West, of the North, are rooming together in South Dormitory at Davidson.
The two students are Lee West and R. G. East, both of Barium Springs, and they reside at present in
16 South. This is really striking, since the two men, friends over a long period of years, had not considered
the dissimilarity of their names, when placed together, and that another direction than those indicated by their names would be
involved when they chose South Dormitory. O East is East, and West is West, and now the twain have met!

THERE IS SAFETY IN SLUMBERS. PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN STONE HOUSES SHOULD NOT THROW GLASSES. ANY DOG CAN BE A
COMMUNITY SCENTER.

CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT

“We sho’ gonna beat Wake Forest!”—Premier Enoch.

To date, Enoch has correctly predicted the outcome of eight out of nine varsity football games of the season. His
batting average stands at .8500, and will jump to .9000 if Davidson busts for once and all the Deacon Jinx
on Turkey Day, tomorrow, in Charlotte. And have you seen Doc Charley’s assortment of “rabbit foots”? If we don’t drive
those Deacons back to the Forest tomorrow, it won’t be the fault of Doc Charley. No sah!

Have you read “The Columnist Murder,” (Farrer and Rhinehart)? A column writer (*!$ace&) is “put on the spot,” and (mercifully)
murdered. For their clues the sleuths go to the column that he had written the day previous, for implications. 340
persons are mentioned in the past 4 columns! To track the wily villain among these hundreds of “uh-huh,” “really!”, and
“yeah?” types of human beings, is about as hopeless a search as looking for a certain paramoecium suffering dementia praecox,
in the Indian Ocean, or as finding a book by Elinor Glynn on the Davidson campus. The murdered columnist, it
seems, must go to his last resting place unavenged. Well, I won't ruin it for you by telling you the
rest of it. Because I didn’t finish it myself.

DES ENTREFILETS

The editor of the Columbia University Spectator has raised quite a stir by his attack on the “semi-professionalism” of college
football. The alumni and football players of Columbia at once set up a howl of protest and the staff of
the paper was threatened with personal violence by several members of the team. The Spectator has found an ardent supporter
in the person of Christian Gauss, dean of Princeton College. Dean Gauss in an article called “Our Professional Football Amateurs,”
charges that practically every college in the country has subsidized athletics. He does not exempt even those schools which escaped
from the censure of the Carnegie Foundation bulletin last year. In his article he tells of many cases in which
alumni had paid athletes and in some cases without the knowledge of the institute or the athlete. He tells of
one alumnus who increased the salary of an employee whose son was a good fullback; and of another who paid
a star a monthly fee in order to hold the young man’s services so that he might manage a farm
for him four years later. An editorial in the Columbia Alumni News urged that the University officials take action on
the statement of Reed Harris, editor of the Spectator, that he “is ready and willing to substantiate any of the
charges made against the football conditions at Columbia.”

According to William P. Tolley, president of Allegheny College, the liberal arts college, even in our highly specialized industrial age,
offers sounder vocational preparation than the regular vocational school. “Today, I suspect, it is the vocational school, and not the
liberal arts college that properly belongs on the defensive,” he asserted in his inaugural address. “The economic organization of our
country is being transformed at such a dizzy rate that the man who is prepared for only one task probably
faces the prospect of permanent unemployment. Specialists are needed in all vocations, but only as long as their vocations last,
and vocations have a tendency now to disappear almost overnight.” If this is true, is it not possible the finest
vocational training any school can offer is a broad understanding of our social and economic order and a thorough knowledge
of the laws and a science of learning?

The trouble in Manchuria is not clearing up any and the League of Nations has not been able to help
matters any. The proposed armistice was turned down by both the Chinese and Japanese. Since the occupation of Tsitsihar by
the Japanese the situation has become dangerous, for the Japanese troops are now on territory under the influence of Russia.
Ma-Shen-Chan has been unable to handle the situation and General Chiang Kai-shek, president of the Nanking Government, has been called
to direct Chinese troops in Manchuria. Chang Hsueh-liang, deposed governor of Manchuria, has placed all his troops at the disposal
of the president of the Nanking Government. Along with these movements there is a plot brewing to place the boy-emperor
Pu-Yi on the throne of his ancestors as king of Manchuria. Out of all these plots, battles, et cetera, there
may come forth a spirit of nationalism which will make China a powerful nation and enable her to throw off
the influence of other nations in her government. A united China could make progress just as the Japanese have in
the past few decades.

“The Chinese forces in Manchuria would have done ever so much better if in place of Ma Shen-chan they had
secured the services of Ma Ferguson of Texas or Ma Kennedy-McPherson of Los Angeles.”—The New York Times.

It wasn’t a surprise to many people that the Tunney baby turned out to be a “perfect physical specimen.”

“Only three weeks ago the only person in London wearing a loin cloth was Gandhi. He has now been joined
by the British Labor party.”

It is worth while going through college if only to know what is not there.—Lincoln Steffens.

Anyone who thinks science is trying to make human life easier or more pleasant is utterly mistaken.—Albert Einstein.

Before the coming of leisure, “life” was the monopoly of the very few.—Joseph Lee.

They say there is honor among thieves. I think there is something akin to honor among some gunmen, for when
a group of public-spirited gunmen get together to relieve the public of a columnist, well I suppose you will agree
with me, there is something commendable about them!

And now in conclusion, a little Mountaineer dialogue:

“Let me hold your Palm, Olive,” pleaded her boyfriend, Dutch Cleanser. “You are a little Fairy, and I’m all lathered
up about you.”

“You're off your Ivory, you poor Sapolio,” she answered. “Now if you could only be my Bon Ami, I Woodbury
all my other plans, but Lux against us.”

“Nay, nay, fair maiden,” bubbled Dutch, with beads of perspiration on his brow. “Don’t you realize I’m Grandpa’s Wonder and
my love is hot as Lava? Hop in my Supersuds and let’s make a clean getaway to my castle in
the hills. I'll make a Big Deal some day.”

So he sighed and gave her a Cashmere Bouquet and a Djer Kiss, and they rode away.
