THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1931

WILDCATS LEAD BIG FIVE

THE SPORTS PARADE

FRESH SHOW IMPROVED FORM

Wildcat Quintet Downs Two Big Five Members

State and Carolina Fall Before Onslaught of Wildcats as Season Opens in Charlotte

The characteristic fight and spirit of the Davidson Wildcats enabled them to stage a sensational rally to nose out the University of North Carolina Tar Heels in the Armory at Charlotte on Saturday night. Over a thousand basketball fans were present to see the Wildcats jump into the lead of the State title race by their 18 to 17 victory over Carolina’s lanky basketeers.

The game started off slowly with the Tar Heels showing marked superiority but towards the end of the game, with the outcome hanging on any counter, every spectator was on his feet shouting with excitement. The slick floor and height of their opponents so hampered the Wildcats that they were able to score but one field goal in the first half, and the rangy Carolina five came off the court at half-time leading, 13 to 6. Wilmer Hines, forward, and “Sandy” Dameron were the Carolina stars of the first half, each making some beautiful shots from the floor.

At the beginning of the second half, the forerunner of the rally-to-be showed itself. Captain Goodson made good a foul shot and then sank a beautiful shot from mid-court. This was immediately followed by a pretty under-the-basket shot by Pierce. Alexander and Dameron, however, offset these goals by sinking floor shots and made the score 17 to 11. At this point “Doc” Mathis entered the game and put his team in the running by sinking two beautiful shots from the floor. Proctor made good a foul to put the fighting Wildcats one point behind the Tar Heels. With everyone aroused to the highest pitch of excitement, the game continued at top speed. It was left to Captain “Sleepy” Goodson to slip under the Tar Heel goal and sink one to give the Davidson team its one-point lead and subsequent victory. With the closing gun ready to fire, the University team strove frenziedly to score, but each attempt rolled harmlessly off the basket or bounded from the backboard. Just as the closing gun was fired, Rusk sank a long one for the Wildcats, which was a hair too late to be counted.

Goodson, Mathis, and Rusk were the outstanding men in the Davidson line-up, while Marpet, Alexander, and Dameron shone for Carolina.

Davidson 26—N. C. State 19

The widely-heralded Red Terrors of North Carolina State found Captain Goodson and his 1931 basketball cohorts more than a match for their fast triple passes and were forced to take the short end of a 26 to 19 score. The game was played in the Charlotte High School gymnasium before a good crowd.

The State team started off in fine style and seemed to be in complete control of the game even before the ending of the first half. A bewildering short pass attack got the State team through the defense of the Wildcats time after time in the opening period, while a great man-to-man defense kept the Davidson score down. However, shortly before the ending of the half, Captain Bill Goodson made three beautiful counters in quick succession to tie the score as the half ended.

The Wildcats came on the floor in the second half in a fighting mood. So close was their guarding of the Red Terror threats in the last half that the State five could only register five points. At the same time, Martin and Pierce, playing their first year as regulars on the Davidson varsity, began running up the Wildcat score with some beautiful floor shots. As the Wildcats forged ahead, the game increased in speed with the State five striving desperately to make some of their shots good and still hold back the onrush of the Davidson counters. With only a few minutes left to play, the Wildcats put on a beautiful exhibition of guarding to hold in check the raging Terrors. Shortly before the end of the game, Pierce and Rusk added field goals to swell the Davidson advantage. Grier Martin was high point man of the game and put up a beautiful floor game. Captain Goodson was a power of strength for the Wildcats offensively as well as defensively, while the floor game of Rusk aided materially in the Wildcat victory.

Two Down

N. C. STATE G. FG TP
Atkinson, f ------------ 2 2 6
Johnson, f ------------ 0 0 0
Gurneau, c ------------ 2 0 4
Morgan, c ------------- 2 1 5
Ross, g ---------------- 2 0 4
Garr, g ---------------- 0 0 0
Totals ---------------- 8 3 19

DAVIDSON G. FG TP
Rusk, f --------------- 1 4 6
Martin, f ------------- 4 1 9
Mathis, c ------------- 0 0 0
Pierce, c -------------- 2 1 5
Goodson, g ------------ 3 0 6
Proctor, g ------------- 0 0 0
Totals ---------------- 10 6 26

NORTH CAROLINA (17) G. FG TP
Henry, f --------------- 0 0 0
Cleland, f ------------- 0 0 0
Hines, f --------------- 2 2 6
Moore, f -------------- 0 0 0
Appell, c -------------- 0 0 0
Dameron, c ------------ 3 1 7
Smith, g -------------- 0 0 0
Alexander, g ---------- 2 0 4
Marpet, g ------------- 0 0 0
Edwards, g ------------ 0 0 0
Totals ---------------- 7 3 17

DAVIDSON (18) G. FG TP
Rusk, f --------------- 1 2 4
Martin, f ------------- 0 0 0
Peabody, f ------------ 0 0 0
Mathis, f -------------- 2 0 4
Pierce, c -------------- 1 1 3
Goodson, g ------------ 2 2 6
Brown, g -------------- 0 0 0
Proctor, g ------------- 0 1 1
Totals ---------------- 8 6 18

No statesman in the world today equals in ability any one of half a dozen of those Americans who built our Constitution —William Lyon Phelps.

But innocence and youth are by no means all that make up the best attributes of women; character is more than innocence and more than youth.—Lafcadio Hearn.

That Wildcat Offense

Filed Foul Total
Players Goals Goals Points
Rusk, f --------------- 11 6 28
Martin, f, c ----------- 9 3 21
Goodson, g ------------ 7 2 16
Mathis, f -------------- 4 1 9
Pierce, c -------------- 3 2 8
Peabody, f ------------ 2 1 5
Manson, f ------------- 1 0 2
Enochs, g ------------- 1 0 2
Proctor, g ------------- 0 1 1
Totals ---------------- 38 16 92

A Complete Service for School Publications

Student Body Adopts Sportsmanship Code

Coach Younger and Capt. Pritchett Formulate Rules to Better Athletic Relations

At a meeting of the student body on Tuesday after chapel exercises, a code of sportsmanship, the joint work of Captain Norton G. Pritchett, of the physical education department, and Coach W. L. Younger, was voted on and adopted. The purpose of the code is to formulate better sportsmanship for basketball at Davidson. Similar codes, it was stated, will be drawn up for the other athletic sports here at Davidson College. This is the first time in the college history that such a policy has been adopted. The document as passed by the student body follows:

“In an attempt to formulate a definite policy or code of sportsmanship for basketball at Davidson College, I suggest that the student body adopt the following code:

1. I shall consider my athletic opponents as my guests.
2. I will always cheer the opposing team when it appears upon the floor.
3. I will clap for the opponent who makes a good play.
4. I will remain quiet while opponents are making free throws.
5. I will cheer an opponent who is injured in the game.
6. I will give the opponents a yell after the game.
7. I will never deride any official.
8. I will be courteous to all visitors.
9. I will remain until the game is over.
10. I will play fair and hard until the last whistle blows.”The gun is fired. 

11. I will remember that the reputation of the college depends upon my conduct during the game and after it. 

12. I will give opposing rooters fair opportunity for their yells. 

13. I will applaud good cheering by my opponents. 

14. I shall not indulge in personal remarks—whistling, hissing, or any other form of poor sportsmanship. 

15. I believe that good sportsmanship means the application of the Golden Rule. 

16. I will endeavor to make Davidson College known for its good sportsmanship. 

Signed: W. L. Younger.

Fraternity Tourney Nearing Completion

Kappa Sigma to Play Winner of S. A. E.-Kappa Alpha Game Championship

The interfraternity basketball tournament is drawing to a close with Kappa Sigma at present in the lead. They received a bye from the semi-finals to the finals and are awaiting the winner of the S. A. E. and Kappa Alpha game which will be played Tuesday night, the thirteenth. In the first round the following games were played: Phi Gamma Delta vs. T. U. O., 35-5; Kappa Sigma vs. Beta Theta Pi, 9-6; Kappa Alpha vs. Phi Delta Theta, 14-11; Pi Kappa Phi vs. S. P. E., 8-5, and S. A. E. vs. Pi Kappa Alpha, 16-14. In the second round Kappa Sigma defeated Phi Gamma Delta in a close, hard-fought game, 18-17, and Kappa Alpha put out Pi Kappa Phi, 23-8. S. A. E. received a bye to the semi-finals. Kappa Sigma is now in the finals by virtue of a bye and awaits the winner of the S. A. E. and Kappa Alpha game. The finals will be played after the exams. The date has not as yet been set.

"U. & O." or "I. O. U."

After the fire, if you have Use & Occupancy insurance you won't have to give an I. O. U. for maintenance charges during the time your plant is being restored. Use and Occupancy Insurance protects you against loss of profits and maintenance charges due to inability to use your plant by reason of total or partial destruction by fire, etc. Let us explain how "U. & O." takes care of this vital loss.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO. Insurance Department CHARLOTTE, N. C. McAlister Carson ('13), Manager M. B. Speir ('26)

LOOKING With W. H. Matthews

"EM OVER

Two of the best basketball games that have been seen in a long, long time were staged in Charlotte last week. And by their wins in these contests, the Davidson Wildcats established themselves as one of the strongest teams in the state. Both N. C. State and Carolina were strong; both had overcome strong opposition in preseason games; and these facts made Davidson's victories over them all the more impressive and important. It is hardly likely that a Davidson basketball team has had as strong opposition in its first week of play before. Meeting two of the leading teams of North Carolina and one of the most powerful of South Carolina within a week is a pretty big assignment for any group of players. And when it all comes in their first week of work, their good showing in those games is all the more to be marveled at.

This column was written before the Erskine game last night and so of course we do not know the outcome of that game. However, we are confident that it was as much of a thriller as either of the Big Five contests last week. And while on the subject, the last five minutes of the Carolina engagement produced as fast and as nerve-tingling basketball as we have ever seen.

Monk Younger's problem of finding a forward to work with Rusk seems to have been solved. In fact, he has uncovered two men, either of whom can be put in the game with no weakening whatsoever of the squad. Martin and Mathis have played heads-up ball throughout and the battle which should develop between the two for the first string berth will be well worth watching. Martin seems to have a slight edge because of his greater height. However, Mathis’ entry into the Carolina game in the second half seemed to mark the beginning of the rally and his two long, arching shots evened things up and put Davidson once more within striking distance of the then fast-moving Tar Heels. We don’t know what caused it but the game certainly moved much faster after he went in. Davidson showed much more fight and faster passing than they had at any time before.

Rawson, referee of the game, was derided more than any official at a Davidson game in a long time. We won't go into the rights or wrongs of the booing at that particular time, but certainly it was very unsportsmanlike. Much of the crowd was not made up of Davidson students, but nevertheless, a number of students joined in. It is very hard for one man to call a game as fast as basketball on a court the size of the Armory playing floor. The Athletic Association would have done well to use the two-official system in Saturday’s game which met with such success in the State affray. It would make the task of both officials much easier and would have given a much better game. But why wasn’t that last goal counted? It looked like the ball was in the air when the gun shot.

We think the student body owes the Athletics Association a great debt of thanks for the way they treated the students at the two games last week. It meant a larger sacrifice in the coin of the realm for them to let the student body in free to one game and at half-price to the other. We thank them.

Before passing on, what about that Duke game? We have had several comments on that suggestion that it be played here if possible. Most of those whom we have talked to have been more than willing to pay to see the game on the home court. If it has not been placed, we would like to see it come to Davidson.

For the next ten days athletics go into their coma whilst the profs have their semi-annual sports holiday called “shooting the students.” No interscholastic events are carded from last night until Saturday week when V. P. I. plays here at the close of exams. However, with the close of the scholastic tryouts, things begin to pick up appreciably. Four or five events are billed for the last week in January, and February shows 25 or more in its meagre 28 days.

Coach Unger says that a few more grapplers have reported but that there’s still room on the mat for as many as want to come out. And pitchers won't be so very scarce if we have many more snows. A swimming team wouldn't need a pool to practice in, just try to go downtown on some rainy day. Just try.

The freshmen basketball team evidently had a Merry Christmas and has come back to do big things. They looked much improved in their lone home appearance after the holidays.

No paper next week.

STATIONERY STUDENT SUPPLIES FOUNTAIN PENS NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE W. S. HENDERSON MAGAZINES BOOKS SUNDRIES

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia

HAS A Distinguished Faculty Nineteen Buildings, on a Fifty Acre Campus A Moderate Endowment, and Many Scholarships

For Catalogue and information, address Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President