THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1931

The Yow! Reviewed

Our historians can assure us of the fact that the good year 1929 is memorable for at least two important
events. There came the depression and there came the Yow. There is no desire to hint that these two occurrences
are in any way connected and the present reviewer believes that one finds here an additional reason for the conviction
that the law of cause and effect does not operate.

A reference to ancient history has been made and it is necessary to state that our stately college campus has
in recent times witnessed a scene which might interest A. Conan Doyle and McDougall. A magazine bearing the name of
the “Chameleon” for several reasons politely committed Hara-Kiri and is now wandering along the banks of the river Lethe and
searching for a literary Elysium. In place of the dignified “Chameleon” of such decorous behavior, we have in its place
the more vigorous Yow. “The king is dead. Long live the king.”

There seems to be no doubt that the Yow! is a more popular magazine than its predecessor. Surely, such popularity
must be deserved and with an interest which combines the detective attributes of Sherlock Holmes and the destructive mania of
a Freshman theme reader, the reviewer attacks this second edition of our own production which now enters the field of
the Harvard Lampoon, the Cornell Widow, the Virginia Reel and thus stands respectfully near Life and Judge.

The genial wildcats which adorn the decorative scheme of each page are indicative of the entirely humorous but generous attitude
of the magazine. The wildcat at times may be dangerous but he is, at least within these pages, not on
a rampage. It is an old adage that every humorist in time takes an acid bath and becomes a cynic
and that more than one person has laughed that he might not become mad. It is, therefore, with distinct pleasure
that one can report that the present issue has nothing indecorous, boorish or coarse and therefore nothing offensive.

While a small percentage of the witticisms is older than the oldest inhabitant of the village and has perhaps been
relished as long as the memory of man runneth not to the contrary, it is delightful to state that some
of these are as fresh and captivating as a new jest always is. It is an excellent point that originality
has been stressed and that no heavy borrowing has been made on the columns of other college humorous magazines. It
has been stated that all literature has but seven plots and but eleven humorous situations. Much credit should be given
the Yow! in that it did not overstress the notoriously funny combination of the mother-in-law, the Maggie-Jiggs motivation, the avarice
of the Scotchman, the pugnaciousness of the Irish, the eccentricities of the Semitics, the love of ease of the sons
of Ham—and the absent-mindedness of the Herr Professor. Indeed, much gratefulness is due the perspicacious editors that the scholars and
the pedants escaped with comparatively few casualties when the Game Laws give March as an open season.

The numerous short verses vary much in quality but Mr. McBride keeps a consistent grade of cleverness. One might remember
that all roads do not lead to Wit and that it is easy to fall into the slough of Parody
or the muddy path of Pun. A humorous versifier is not made in a day but suggestions might come from
the type of work one sees in Vanity Fair, the New Yorker, or even Hard Lines by Ogden Nash. Dorothy
Parker is not bad at society verse and the work of Austin Dobson or Thomas Hood is justly famous.

One of the most successful parts of this issue is that portion devoted to art work. Mr. Pope, Mr. Ragin
and Mr. McBride have an originality which should take them far in future work. There is a finish and a
correctness in Mr. Henley’s art which can be utilized for the more sophisticated scenes. Mr. Bell has a quaintness of
the Mid-Victorian wood-cut and should be more generous in his offerings. The student who signs himself “B. C.” keeps a
high level of performance.

The prose work has such variegated material as sketches, plays, short stories, letters—and miscellania. The ones who carry off the
honors in this work are Messrs. McCall, Bell, Ragin, Whitehead and Matthews. Space does not permit a discussion of these
selections but the reviewer refers you to the March issue. Place the Yow! on your parallel reading list.

The most gratifying point is that Davidson still has an outlet for talent and that she has produced a publication
of which she need not be ashamed. The major credit goes to Mr. W. C. Ragin, Jr., who has nurtured
the idea of such a publication through the

Glee Club Gives Concert Before Newton Audience

Davidson Musical Organization Presents Unusual and Varied Program in Neighboring Town

Last Friday the Davidson Glee Club gave a concert in Newton, N. C. The program was very enjoyable and met
with wonderful success. There was a large audience, consisting of crowds from Newton and from the surrounding towns, especially Hickory
and Lincolnton. Besides the usual program, there was also the additional number of a skit, prepared by Horace Erwin. This
concert, which was the second which has been given by our Glee Club this spring, gave sufficient evidence of the
fact that Davidson has indeed a very talented group of singers. The program is a varied one, and is always
enjoyed by any type of audience. The Glee Club is making plans for other trips this spring, including one to
Hickory, N. C., and one to Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C.

Faculty Declines to Give Girls Diplomas

Davidson College is notYet ready to give diplomas to girls. This was decided by the Davidson faculty last week, following
a consideration of the resolution passed by the Board of Trustees at its meeting in February. The resolution called attention
to the faculty to a motion passed in 1925, sanctioning the giving of diplomas upon the approval of the faculty,
but which had, according to the resolution, apparently been tabled. The action taken at the regular faculty meeting was that
the “faculty feels that it is inadvisable to proceed with the program suggested by the trustees.” Following a decided vote
in favor of continuing the present policy, a committee was appointed to frame a suitable reply to the trustees at
their next meeting in June. It was not the idea of the trustees to make Davidson co-educational when the motion
was passed. For many years Davidson has had a number of young women as students, some of them going three
years to Davidson and then to some other institution to take their final year and get their degree. Only girls
who reside in Davidson are allowed this privilege, as it now stands, and at no time in the history of
Davidson has the total enrollment of young ladies exceeded ten.

NEWS FROM OTHER HILLS

Augusta, Ga.—(IP)—Lecturing to an audience at his winter home here, Professor William Lyon Phelps, of Yale University, declared recently that
never in history has literature “been so consistently filthy and rotten as it is today.” This state of literature, he
said, is partly offset by the purity of popular songs. These modern musical offerings, he said, were never so clean
as they are now, and are growing more puritanical and prudish all the time. Today, he said, is an age
of biography, but writers thereof are more prone to select “victims” than “subjects.”

Berkeley, Calif.—(IP)—Edgar (Rip) Miller, All-American guard on the famous “Four Horsemen” eleven at Notre Dame in 1924, has been named
head football coach at the U.S. Naval Academy, succeeding Bill Ingram, who is coming here to replace Nibs Price as
head mentor of the University of California gridders.

SUNDAY VESPER (Continued from page 1)

Dr. Nabors asserted that a man’s religion vitally affects every person in the community in which he lives. He considered
the benefiting influence that clean, upright boys have over others on the campus, and the demoralizing effect the careless type
of boy has on others. He brought out forcefully that people either build up or tear down. The speaker focused
the attention of the audience to the wonderful compassion of the Lord, proven by his willingness to forgive the Ninevehites
after their repentance, and as his final thought claimed that the real miracle of the book of Jonah is not
the story of the whale, but the ever-abiding mercy of the loving Father.

MANY MEN (Continued from page 3)

McLean and Smith are doing good work, while Armstead, Evans, McClintock, and Alexander are alternating in covering second base. Smyre,
Hardy, and Casali are trying out for the shortstop position, while Blanton and Grant are on the hot corner. Many
aspirants for the outfield positions are having keen competition, and Wilson and Harrington appear to be showing best form. The
first game of the season will be played against Mt. Pleasant Collegiate Institute on March 26, and Coach Laird expects
to have his team well rounded out by that date.

O. D. K. CONVENTION (Continued from page 1)

FRIDAY, MARCH 6

9:30 A.M.—Business Session, Red Room, Lafayette Hotel. President G. L. Scramm, presiding. Roll Call of Delegates. (Each delegate is expected
to present at this time a 200-word report of the activities of his circle for the past two years.) Report
of National President. Report of Executive Secretary.

Col. W. R. Scott to Head Anniston R. O. T. C. Camp

Lieutenant Colonel William R. Scott, commandant of the Davidson R. O. T. C. department, has received official notice that he
has been appointed camp commander of Fort McClellan R. O. T. C. summer camp near Anniston, Ala. Further significance is
attached to this honor for this is the third consecutive year that Colonel Scott has received this summer assignment in
the Fourth Corps Area. The number of students from colleges and universities that have military units approximate 800. This camp
deals with infantry preparation alone. Colonel Scott has already received considerable information from the Fourth Corps headquarters and is beginning
preparation to handle the men under his supervision. The dates of encampment are June 10-July 20.

Recommendations from the General Council. Presentation of distinguished guests. Appointment of committees.

3:30 P.M.—Committee meetings.

7:00 P.M.—Formal Dinner Reception, Gold Room, Lafayette Hotel. Addresses by the National President and certain selected visiting delegates.

SATURDAY, MARCH 7

9:30 A.M.—Final Business Session, Red Room, Lafayette Hotel. Reports of Committees. Unfinished Business. Election of Officers. Adjournment.

12:00 M.—Luncheon for National Officers and Delegates, Red Room, Lafayette Hotel. Others are invited to attend this luncheon, for which
tickets may be procured at the registration desk.

3:30 P.M.—Tour of the Blue Grass Country with members of the Kentucky Mu Circle as hosts.

© 1931, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Which is wider, the gate or the opening? Maybe your eyes fooled you that time. Your eyes may fool you
but your taste tells the truth! MILDER...AND BETTER TASTE
