THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 13, 1931

’CAT NINE MEETS DUKE TODAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

ALL SPORTS ACTIVITIES CLOSE THIS WEEK

B. B. SHOTS By B. B. SUGG

If Pathe News, Inc., had only had a man here to cover the Senior-Faculty game, what a sensation it would
have created! If only the Charlotte Hornets had sent a man to scout the game, what vivid reports he would
have brought back to Charlotte! What form! What pitching! What hitting! Whatta game!

Frankly speaking, our admiration for the majority of the faculty’s intellectual capacities has more or less extended to cover their
prowess in the field of athletics. Indeed, the sight of several Phi Beta Kappa men, and supposedly confirmed intellectual fanatics,
smacking the ole apple out of the lot and fielding 100 percent was startling to say the least. Casting aside
all classroom restraint and decorum, the faculty donned old clothes, and though appearing to be holding a Bowery Ball of
its own, presented one of the most exciting ball games of the season. Cries of, “Pitch to ’em, C. K.”;
“smack it out, Ernie”; “atta way, Dutch”; rent the air, and the entire stands seemed at times to be keyed
up to a pitch approaching delirium.

C. K. Brown—Dr. to you, sir—pitched a fine brand of ball up to the seventh inning, when the ole soup
bone obviously weakened, and was relieved in the ninth by Captain Pritchett.

Ernie’s Inning

Professor Cullum was undoubtedly the star of the game. His big chance came in the fourth inning, and he was
waiting for it. Upon Parker’s long fly to left, Ernie backed up, ran around in circles once or twice, planted
his feet firmly, and with a snarl of defiance, reached up and pulled it into the ole tar bucket. Whatta
man! But wait; not content with this, Ernie handled two more in the same manner, one of ’em a shoe
string catch. Three outs unassisted, in one inning, in less than five minutes, and with the sun beaming down in
his eyes! As the professor came in from the field, the stand rose with one accord in acclamation of such
a dextrous feat. And then, Ernie modestly rendered his silent appreciation by smacking out a screaming single through second. Beethoven
in all his glory was not arrayed as one of these. Before the game was over, the professor had gotten
three more hits, long ones.

Much credit should be given Dutch Hengeveld and Kim Kimbrough for their excellent fielding and hitting. Both are old veterans
in the game and appeared much at home on the diamond. Their throws to first were especially commendable, as were
their timely hits in critical moments. Representing the “rotesey” department, Captain Otto came through with flying colors. He immediately made
himself known early in the game by his spectacular grandstand catch in center field. As the crack of a long
fly to center was heard, the captain quickly executed “to the rear, march,” and his following actions had all the
appearances of a jiu-jitsu expert executing “as skirmishers.” However, he managed to untangle himself just in time to get under
the ball and let it fall triumphantly in his glove.

We might continue in more detail the narrative of this epic battle between the scholars and blockheads, but space does
not permit it. However, regardless of space, far be it from us to leave unmentioned the spectacular playing of Professors
Fulcher and Lily, and Mr. Hobart. Fulch did well behind the bat, but couldn’t catch a foul ball to save
his neck. Henry Tracy badly misjudged one in right field, but made up for it by two scorching singles, one
of them scoring two men. And Mr. Hobart’s base running would have made Charlie Paddock blush with shame. Well, it’s
all over, but the memories linger still. Incidentally, the Seniors won the game.

Wildcat Athletic Teams Close Season This Week

Freshman Nine Meets Belmont Abbey in Year’s Last Game

The remaining Davidson College athletic teams still in training will all bring their schedules to a close this week, with
five athletic contests for the seven days marking the valedictory appearances of the various squads. The varsity baseball team has
played two games, the Freshman nine a like number, and one tennis match has completed the quintet of contests for
the Wildcat teams.

The varsity baseball team struck two tartars for its closing melees, when it met N. C. State at Raleigh Tuesday
afternoon, and the Duke University Blue Devils will be met in Durham Wednesday in the season finale. Both teams held
victories over the Wildcats in previous meetings this season, and were slated to win again. However, the best game of
the year for Davidson was against Duke here, and should the Wildcats be able to garner a few bingles off
the Blue Devil hurlers, there may be a different story in the offing.

The Davidson Freshmen were defeated twice this week, both times by top-heavy scores, but they will come back home for
their final two games in the hopes of doing better. The scheduled game with Charlotte High was rained out, and
they will ring down the curtain on all athletic contests for Davidson for the year in a game here Friday
afternoon with Belmont Abbey.

Davidson Wins Over Cadet Tennis Team

The Davidson College tennis team defeated The Citadel by a score of 4 to 3 on the afternoon of May
8. This was the first home match of the season for the Wildcat racqueteers. Davidson captured three of the five
singles contests, and one of the pair of doubles contests. Only two of the matches required more than two sets
to determine the winner. Results: Singles, DuBose (D), defeated Spann (C), 6-0, 6-3; McLean (D), defeated Holliday (C), 6-4, 6-2;
Dial (C), defeated Roddey (D), 6-2, 6-1; Duckett (C), defeated Calder (D), 6-4, 3-6, 7-5; Captain Poe (D), defeated Farr
(C), 6-1, 2-6, 6-3. Doubles: DuBose and Calder (D), defeated Dial and Spann (C), 6-1, 6-4; Farr and Duckett (C),
defeated Roddey and Poe (D), 6-2, 6-1.

Seniors and Faculty To Play Golf Match

During Thursday, Friday and Saturday of this week, a novel golf match will be held between members of the Davidson
College faculty and a team chosen from the Junior-Senior classes. The Junior-Senior team will probably be composed of the 14
high-ranking men on the golf team, and the opposing team will be selected from prominent golf players in the Davidson
faculty and the town of Davidson.

This match promises to be a closely contested one for the reason that the student team will have as its
members two of the men composing the North Carolina intercollegiate championship golf team. The faculty team will undoubtedly render strong
competition, since several of its players are golfers of no mean repute. The Junior-Senior team will probably be selected from
the following men: Jack Pep-

Varsity Baseball Team Meets Duke Nine Today

Blue Devils Hold One Early Season Defeat Over ’Cats

This afternoon Davidson meets one of its most powerful opponents, Duke University. Duke has recently completed a rather successful northern
tour of two victories and one defeat. On April 27, Pennsylvania broke Duke’s winning streak by a score of 11
to 10, in Philadelphia. McKeithan, Duke hurler, yielded thirteen hits. On April 29, Duke stretched five hits into six runs
to beat Princeton, 6 to 5. Three of Duke's five hits were homers, two by Shore, third baseman, and one
by Combs, pitcher. The Blue Devils downed the University of New York on May 1, on Ohio Field, by a
score of 12 to 11. So far, Duke has defeated every team in the Big Five, including Davidson, earlier in
the season. This game was a nip and tuck affair until the fourth inning when the WildcatsWeakened, and the Blue
Devils came out on the long end of a 4-1 score. Should Lefty Thompson pitch against the Devils today, there
is a strong probability that the ’Cats will give Duke a run for her money. It will be remembered that
the Wildcats performed the unexpected last year by defeating the Blue Devils in their first game of the series, although
they lost the second, as they were previously doped to lose.

Pearce Hurls ’Cats To Win Over Bears

The Davidson baseball team downed Lenoir-Rhyne by a score of 12-5 on May 5. The Wildcats rapped out a total
of 15 hits during the contest, sending two pitchers to the showers in the first five innings. Seller and Meismer
of the Bears allowed five runs to the Davidson nine in the first part of the contest, but Erdley held
the ’Cats scoreless for the last four rounds. Pearce went the whole route for Davidson. He allowed the opposition but
seven hits.

Score:
R H E
Davidson -------- 204 150 000—12 15 3
Lenoir-Rhyne ---- 201 000 002— 5 7 3

Batteries: Pearce and Armeld; Seller, Meismer, Erdley, and Hughes.

Davidson Beats Erskine In Tennis by 6-1 Score

On last Monday afternoon the Wildcat tennis team defeated the Erskine team by the score of 6-1. Davidson dropped one
of the singles matches, but came back victorious in all of the doubles matches to overwhelm the opposing team. The
most spectacular match of the afternoon was the one in which Gettys, of Erskine, after dropping the first set, 6-4
to Calder, Davidson, came back to take the only match won by his school in the afternoon. The summary of
the matches is:

Davidson, beat Reid, Erskine, 6-2, 6-4; Poe, Davidson, beat T. Gettys, Erskine, 6-2, 7-5; McLean, Davidson, beat Auten, Erskine, 6-3,
6-2; Gettys, Erskine, beat Calder, Davidson, 4-6, 8-6, 6-3; Roddey, Davidson, beat Bradford, Erskine. In the doubles, Calder and DuBose,
Davidson, beat Gettys and Auten, 6-1, 6-4; Myers and Poe, Davidson, beat Reid and Gettys, Erskine, 6-2, 6-2.

The faculty and town team will be selected from the following men: Dr. Watts, Dan McLemore, Dr. Moffett, Prof. Blythe,
Prof. Fulcher, Capt. Otto, Capt. Cochran, Dr. Lingle, Sam Black, Mr. Hobart, W. L. Younger, Tex Tilson, Flake Laird, and
Prof. Mebane.

College Printing books, Etc.
Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you.
P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON,
6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing
Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Hand-Engraved Cards and Invitations.
REPRESENTATIVE STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Many Compete for Athletic Fraternity

The Sigma Delta Psi competition which began last Monday, May 4 will end on Thursday, May 14. A great deal
of interest has been shown in this athletic fraternity by a number of the students. Seventy-one men have been working
on the different events and trying to qualify in as many of them as possible. The following is a list
of all the events and the qualifications that must be met by each man before he can become a member
of the fraternity: 100-yard dash, 11 3-5 seconds; 120-yard low hurdles, 16 seconds; 14 feet 3 inches; rope climb, 8.5;
broad jump, 17 feet; shot put, 30 feet; baseball throw, 250 feet, or javelin throw, 130 feet; football punt, 120
feet; one-mile run, 6 minutes; high jump, 5 feet; 100-yard swim, 1.45 seconds; hand stand, 10 seconds; hand spring, landing
on feet; fence vault, chin high; scholarship, eligible for varsity competition; posture, standard B (H. B. M.). Points are awarded
when these qualifications are bettered by the contestants and it is on this basis that the award is made.

The following men are trying to qualify in all events and become members of the fraternity: George, Gwyn, Flinn, Neal,
T., Kuykendall, Ed, Brown, H. S., Brock, T., Roane, Sugg, Rhyne, Hall, R. Morrow, Slaughter, Fleagle, Craft, Little, Corbin, Drake,
Pratt, Dill, Pratt-Thomas, O’Keefe, Kuykendall, “Cal,” Rice, Pennington, Adcox, Moffett, Allen, Gilmer, Shaw, Harrison, Hunter, Clark, Curlee, Johnson, Bettis, Huneycutt,
Currie, Covington, Brannon, Cannon, Tyack, Wiley, McMillan, Stroud, McFadyen, J. D., Knox, “Pete,” Halyburton, West, Coble, McFadyen, Taylor, McElrath, Cochran,
Howard, Ramseur, Wagner, Montgomery, Brohard, Tom, McCallie, Wilson, H. A., Creech, Rule, McBryde, Hardy, and Mathis. These students are trying
not only to qualify in all events but to get extra points as well: Flinn, Brown, H. S., Brock, T.,
Roane, Sugg, Little, Peabody, O’Keefe, Pennington, Curlee, Johnson, and Knox. A beautiful plaque or shield will be awarded to the
winner some time after the competition is finished.

OFFICERS FOR CLASS (Continued from page 1)

Men chosen on the basis of scholarship to take part in the final exercises. These will not be known until
after examinations. Representatives of the class of '31 on the Alumni Council were also elected.

Faculty Lose to Seniors In Baseball Classic 17-11

Brown Pitches Well for Faculty But Weakens in Eighth Inning

Seniors Make Hits Count for Runs

On Friday, May 8, the grey but proud heads of the Davidson faculty were forced to bow themselves in defeat
as the Senior class baseball nine administered them a 17-11 licking. At no time during the game could the faculty
gain the lead over the Seniors, but several times threatened to overhaul their lead. The lucky seventh was the only
inning in which the faculty approached within two runs of the Seniors, and the game ended with the score 17-11.

Dr. C. K. Brown pitched well for the faculty up until the seventh inning, when he showed signs of weakening,
and the Seniors’ ability to bunch hits was responsible for their victory. Moffett for the Seniors was wild and was
relieved in the fourth by Gabriel, who had better control over his curves.

Professor Cullum of the music department was easily the outstanding player of the game, getting four hits out of five
times at bat, and handling all his chances in left field without a miscue for a fielding average of 1,000
percent. The fielding of Kimbrough at short, Hengeveld at third, and Captain Otto in center field was also notable. Hengeveld
and Kimbrough showed that they were maestros in the old school of baseball by their smooth form in handling all
their chances well.

The box score follows:

Seniors
Ab R H
Ramseur, ss ----------- 6 3 4
Parker, c -------------- 6 3 4
Smith, 3b -------------- 6 2 4
Caldwell, 2b ----------- 6 1 3
Garbett, 1b ------------ 5 1 2
Rusk, lf --------------- 2 3 1
Orr, cf ---------------- 2 0 0
Lowrance, cf ---------- 4 2 2
Ingram, rf ------------- 2 0 1
McCutchan, lf --------- 3 1 2
Gabriel, p ------------- 2 2 2
McMillan, rf ----------- 2 0 1
Meacham, rf ----------- 2 1 1
Moffett, p ------------- 3 1 1
Totals ---------------- 50 19 31

Faculty
Ab R H
Otto, cf --------------- 6 1 2
Hobart, 2b ------------- 6 2 3
Hengeveld, 3b ---------- 5 2 3
Kimbrough, ss ---------- 5 1 3
Brown, p --------------- 5 1 4
Pritchett, 1b ----------- 5 2 4
Cullum, lf -------------- 5 1 4
Watts, lf --------------- 2 1 2
Moffett, ss ------------- 2 0 2
Fulcher, c -------------- 5 0 1
Totals ----------------- 47 11 28

Seniors 017 011 072—19 31
Faculty 030 100 430—11 28

Batteries: Seniors, Moffett and Gabriel, Parker; Faculty, Brown and Pritchett, Fulcher.

Davidson Theatre
Monday and Tuesday, 18th and 19th
JACK OAKIE
“DUDE RANCH”
JUNE PER
Wednesday, 20th
“MIN AND SINNERS”
DOROTHY JORDAN
Thursday, 21st
“NEVER THE TWAIN SHALL MEET”
Friday, 22nd
“HER WEDDING NIGHT”
CLARA BOW
