THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1931

TILSON SUCCEEDS YOUNGER AS HEAD COACH

THE SPORTS PARADE

LAIRD TAKES CHARGE OF VARSITY BASKETBALL

So Monk is leaving us. Tough on the home team, perhaps, but true nonetheless. We who were his pals in
victory or defeat—and did he “break the news gently to mother?” No. Right out of a clear sky like a
thunderbolt just when all seemed settled for the next five years came the news that Coach Monk had accepted an
offer from V. P. I., and had signed a five-year contract. It seems that wedding bells and butchers’ bills are
two entirely different stories and the landlord must be paid. The day is long and the boss is mean. “Two
can live as cheap as one,” says Mr. Younger, “but only about half as long.” Well, we can't blame a
man for leaving a small-salaried job for a larger one, that is, in so far as purely business is concerned,
but when one considers how long Coach Younger has been at Davidson, how long he and Tex have been associated
and working together, and the many friendships they both have formed at Davidson, it seems a pity that so many
relations should be disrupted.

What a pity, also, that the coaching staff should be changed just at this time when prospects for a real
team in 1932 seem so bright. New coaches, new systems, new ideas—everything, mean beginning all over. The Athletic Council, which
was meeting as this issue went to press, will doubtless announce the appointment of Coach Tilson as head coach, and
will take some action towards securing someone to replace Coach Monk. The council is in a position to take action
along any number of lines, among which would be the appointment of Flake Laird as head coach, or retaining Coach
Tilson in his present capacity and securing some other coach from elsewhere as backfield coach. One name we have in
mind which many of the student body seem to regard favorably is that of Capt. Norton G. Pritchett of the
physical education department. Of course, this would leave a vacancy which would be hard to fill, but in our humble
opinion, Captain Pritchett is the very man for the job as head coach. In the first place, he knows football.
Since he began his job here as physical director, he has shown himself to be a close observer, a man
of keen foresight, capable and able to perform any job, and last but not least of all, a man who
commands respect. It is doubtful as to whether Captain Pritchett would accept the position should he receive an offer, but
we would urge that his name be given serious consideration.

Thus ends the discussion on coaches. Perhaps the council will secure Chick Meehan of the New York Violets as head
coach. Chick, you know, has resigned as head coach—at a salary of only $18,000 too. Couldn’t stand a cut in
these hard times—or was it that he couldn’t stand the gaff of public criticism for his policies in regard to
the subsidizing of athletes? One thing the council must do. It must select a man favorable to the Davidson student
body. Without the co-operation of the students, no man can succeed, and you can take that for what it’s worth—as
the city slicker said to the organ grinder’s monkey as he threw him a phoney nickel. Merry Christmas.

"MONK" YOUNGER TO COACH V. P. I.

Will Leave Davidson in June and Assume New Position in September

Announcement Made at Blacksburg Is Surprise to Davidson Officials

Announcement was made at Blacksburg last Saturday that William L. “Monk” Younger, who has been head coach at Davidson since
1923, had accepted a position as assistant coach at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and will direct the athletics of the school
along with Henry B. “Puss” Redd, who was elevated to head coach to succeed Orville Neal. The addition of Younger
to the Virginia school’s coaching staff is a step to elevate the standing of V. P. I. in the athletic
world, it was announced. Younger had been approached several times before to accept such a position but had declined offers
until recently. News of Younger’s acceptance of the V. P. I. position came as a distinct surprise to Davidson, largely
because last September it was announced by Davidson officials that he had signed a new five-year contract here. When approached
concerning the announcement of his leaving Davidson, Coach Younger said that he had not renewed his Davidson contract and that
he would not leave here until June when his present contract ends. He will assume his new duties in September.
Younger also expressed regret to leave Davidson, stating that if he did not feel that he was bettering himself by
the move he would not make it.

In his nine years as head coach here Younger has met with great success in athletics. He has put the
Wildcats among the leaders in the state and has brought favor to himself from Davidson alumni and officials. In addition,
he is held in high esteem by Davidson students, who regret his leaving.

(Continued on page 5)

Much Progress Is Made In Fall Track Practice

Much progress has been made on the track in the past three months under the coaching of Capt. N. G.
Pritchett, athletic director, and Heath Whittle, assistant athletic director. The main purpose of fall track is to work for form
so that when spring comes around everyone will be in pretty good shape. Men out for the running events have
been working on arm action, stride, and pace, while the weight men have been working on the fundamentals of their
events. Many of the boys have been showing good form and will be the mainstays of the track team in
the spring. Cochran, a Sophomore, has been regularly hurling the discus around 116 feet, putting the shot around 38 feet,
and showing good form on the javelin. Dill and Pete Knox have been looking good in the weight events. Brannon,
Earle, Woodside, Morrow, and Moss have been working hard and training regularly for the distance runs. Corbin is also doing
good work on the half-mile run. Bob McCallie, Little, and Pratt have been training for the hurdle events, while Rhyne
and T. H. McCallie have been developing in the high jump. McGehee and Halliburton have been working on form in
the 440, while Fleagle, McMillan, and Kuykendall are on the sprints.

The Decathlon competition revealed a good many men who will be assets to this year’s Freshman team. Others, some of
whom have fine high school records, have been doing some hard and persistent fall track work, and show prospects of
a good team in the spring. Those who have been out so far are: Dulin on the half-mile run; Glasgow
and Gullette on the 440-yard dash; McFadyen, Hubert Morris, and Rose on the distance runs; Harris and Wordsworth on the
hurdles; Dupuy on the broad jump, and Quarterman and Voegtlen on the pole vault. Coach Whittle urges as many Freshmen
as possible to come out for track after Christmas and work on form, so as to get in shape before
track season in the spring.

Red Laird to Coach Varsity Basketball This Season

For the first time since 1923 Davidson's hopes on the basketball court will depend on someone other than “Monk” Younger.
Flake Laird, lately of the Freshman coaching staff, has taken over the coaching duties of the Wildcat court team and
will try his luck in presenting Davidson with a winning combination. Younger has declined the basketball coaching in order to
concentrate his efforts on football training. He intends to start the spring practices immediately after exams and continue them through
the second week of March, with hopes of improving Davidson's chances on the gridiron next fall. In addition to his
duties on spring football, Coach Younger will direct the Freshman basketball team.Team,

Coaching varsity athletics at Davidson is not new to Laird, since he successfully guided the Wildcats on the diamond last
spring. For the past three years, Laird has had charge of Freshman football, basketball, and baseball. His proteges on the
gridiron this fall enjoyed one of the most successful seasons of any first-year teams in Davidson's history. Laird graduated from
Davidson in the class of '26. While here, he played on the Wildcat football, basketball, and baseball teams, making letters
in all three sports for three years. He was also captain of the 1926 basketball team.

After leaving school, Laird spent several summers pitching professional baseball in Georgia, his home state. The first winter after his
graduation, Laird coached athletics in the City High School in Atlanta. The following winter, he returned to North Carolina where
he assumed duties at Catawba College in Salisbury. In 1929, he came to Davidson where he has guided the Wildkittens’
hopes ever since.

At the present time, Laird is coaching the Freshman basketball prospects in addition to the varsity. He will, however, release
the yearlings to Coach Younger who will direct them through their 1932 schedule, while also coaching fundamentals in spring football
training.

Many Men Practice for Fresh Basketball Team

Prospects for a Freshman basketball team at Davidson College began to materialize when an unusually large number of candidates answered
the initial call for practice. Men with splendid preparatory school reputations have been getting into shape through nightly practices under
the direction of Coach "Monk" Younger, who took over the yearlings when "Red" Laird was appointed head basketball coach. This
is extremely early in the season to attempt to say who will compose the first team. However, there are a
number of men with fine reputations due to past performances on the court.

Johnny Mackorell, Hickory High School star, will not report for practice until after the holidays. He has been unable to
practice up to now due to an injury received during the past football season. Bob Everett is a veteran of
six years’ experience, playing four of these on the varsity at Laurinburg High School. Charlie Harris, luminary from Virginia Episcopal
School, was high scorer in the state of Virginia last year, and captain of his team. Others who look particularly
good include such versatile performers as Smathers, Ivery, Yelverton, and West. These boys have all played good ball, and a
great deal is expected of them.

Businessmen at Flagstaff, Ariz., have started a movement to collect a fund to be used in painting on the side
of Mount Elden, nearby, a huge letter “A,” standing for the Arizona State Teachers College, located at Flagstaff.

Davidson Handicap Ping Pong Tournament Ends

The great All-Davidson Handicap Ping Pong Tournament has finally come to a breath-taking close. The winner, Judge Cathey, received the
trophy amid the playing of bands and the applause of thousands of spectators, thrilled by the desperate chances taken by
the players during the course of the tournament. This thrilling set of matches comes as a brilliant close to the
football season and is exceeded in popularity among the intercollegiate sports only by football and tiddledewinks.

In the finals, there was a silent, breath-taking pause while the contestants looked their paddles over and sized their opponents
up. The air was very tense, and it seemed as though the room was charged with electricity. Then, amid the
applause of the spectators, the match began. Crashing serves and multi-typed volleys were the minor features of this thrilling match.
In this corner, Steve Brown was trying valiantly to take the match from “Judge” Cathey, who was frothing at the
mouth. In the final scoring, Judge was found to be on the spot with his longer experience and his superior
knowledge of the game, so he lucked out on Steve, 21-17; 21-12; and 24-22. However, whatever the outcome, this match
was worth the many dollars the thousands of onlookers spent to witness it. There was never a moment of rest,
and at the close of the match, the contestants appeared to have been under the third degree for the past
few days.

In the semi-finals, Steve Brown played “Napoleon” Hind and also lucked out on him, and Judge Cathey had the luck
of drawing a bye. This was very handy, for at the end of four straight, steady, gruelling days of match
ping pong play, even the most sturdy of men crumble like dust.

Younger-Tilson Teams Have Enviable Record

Basketball Candidates To Start Practice Two Days Early After Xmas

Basketball players of Davidson College will return to the campus two days before the specified Christmas recess period terminates, to
begin an intensive five-day preparation for the University of North Carolina Tar Heels, who will be met in Charlotte in
the opening cage contest of the season. This announcement was made today by Red Laird, who this year is tutoring
the varsity. Between now and the beginning of the holiday period on December 22, the Wildcats will be mastering the
fundamentals of basketball and working out the system of offense and defense which will be used during the 1932 season.
The students are scheduled to re-assemble on Wednesday, January 6, but the basketball players will arrive on Monday, January 4.

For a number of years, the Wildcat court team has almost universally used the zone defense, but Coach Laird plans
to utilize two defensive systems. He will therefore use the man-to-man, and will decide whether his men will play the
zone and man-to-man defense according to the opponents which are to be met. Sometimes he will use both systems in
the same game, when one or the other does not seem to be working effectively against the particular team that
is being played.

In the early practices, he has been using Bernard at center, Peabody and Martin at forwards, and Captain Mathis and
Wagner as guards most of the time. Bernard is being used at center on the offensive, but takes the post
of guard on defense, with Martin changing positions with him on defense. The Davidson captain, Mathis, is being used as
a running guard, and when the Wildcats drop back on the zone defense, Coach Laird has Martin, Bernard, and Wagner
clustered about the basket, with the diminutive players, Mathis and Peabody, out in front.

A review of the nine-year record of the Younger-Tilson-coached machines at Davidson College shows that during that period, 88 contests
were played, 43 of which were won, 38 lost, and seven tied. The best years were 1924, 1925, and 1926,
when the Wildcats lost but two contests each year, winning the state championship in 1926. The leanest of all was
in 1928 when Davidson won but two contests, though the Wildcats only won three victories the first year that Younger
and Tilson coached here. Fifteen of the total 38 losses occurred these two years. In 1927, 1929, and this past
fall, Davidson broke even in wins and losses, and in 1930 the advantage was in favor of the win column.

Year W L T
1923 3 7 0
1924 6 2 1
1925 6 2 2
1926 7 2 1
1927 4 4 1
1928 2 8 0
1929 5 5 0
1930 6 4 0
1931 4 2 4

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.
Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.
Catalog and information on request.

Davidson Theatre
“THE CHAMP” with WALLACE BEERY
Monday, December 21st
