4 é ; LAST ¢ ‘ ¢ | = Ghee Vavidsoman == “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” Volume XVIII DAVIDSON
COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 21, 1931 4| No. 29

REPRESENTATIVES ON PUBLICATIONS BOARD CHOSEN BY STUDENTS

Martin, Dwelle, and Gorrell Are Elected to Serve on New Publication Board

SIX MEN ARE NOMINEES

Each Publication Names Two for Students to Vote On

For the past several years it has been the custom of the student body to elect annually a Publications Board,
which body represents the student body in matters of the college publications. The board audits monthly financial statements of the
three publications. Each publication nominates two men on its staff, usually the editor and business manager, for the board. The
student body by vote chooses three of them. The board of 1931-32 is composed of Bob Gorrell, Grier Martin, and
Ned Dwelle. Those nominated for the positions were: Grier Martin, P. M. Conway, Ned Dwelle, Bob Gorrell, Vereen Bell, and
Archie Baker. Gorrell and Martin were elected on the first balloting. In the casting of votes between Conway and Dwelle
for the third man, Dwelle was elected.

Robert W. Gorrell, of Winston-Salem, was elected business manager of the Annual, Friday, May 8. Several weeks ago Gorrell was
elected varsity football manager for next season, and was also elected by the members of the rising Senior class to
be one of their representatives on the Student Council. He was business manager of the Wildcat Handbook last year, and
he is to serve on the “Y” Cabinet next year. Gorrell is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social
fraternity.

Ned Dwelle, of Charlotte, is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity; Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary fraternity;
the International Relations Club; Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity; Le Cercle Francais; Beaver Club, and is a wearer of
the Golden Quill. Dwelle was on the Honor Roll the first semester this year, and is an outstanding student. Last
year he was one of the managing editors of the Davidsonian, and was a reporter during his Freshman and Sophomore
years.

D. Grier Martin, of Covington, Ga., was chosen by the student body to edit the Davidsonian for 1931-32. He is
a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, and of the “D” Club. He made his numeral in basketball
in his Freshman year, and during the past year made his varsity letter “D” in basketball. Martin was secretary and
treasurer of his class when a Sophomore; is a member of the Quips and Cranks staff. Next year he will
be in charge of the Freshman work as a member of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet. Martin is also
on the track squad as a high jumper. He succeeds Wilson McCutchan as editor of the paper.

“Yowl” Staff Picked For Following Year

The new editorial staff of the “Yowl,” Davidson’s literary-humorous magazine, has been chosen. Vereen Bell, editor-in-chief for the coming year,
has M. R. Pope, T. F. Henley, and D. D. McBryde for his managing editors. M. R. Pope is a
Sophomore; a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity. His home is in Talladega, Fla. T. F. Henley is from
Laurinburg, N. C. He is a Sophomore, and member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. D. D. McBryde, from Linden,
N. C., is also a managing editor on the Davidsonian staff. He is a Sophomore; a corporal in the R.
O. T. C. battalion, and a member of the Reporters’ Club.

The following men have been chosen to serve on the business staff of the “Yowl” for the ensuing year: Alec
Little, Mac Manson, Bill Flow, Ike Dickerson, and Arthur Ross. These men are to assist Archie Baker, the present business
manager. These appointments come as the result of their work during the past year.

Dwelle Names New Staff of Year Book

Ned Dwelle, editor-in-chief of next year’s Annual, will have the following staff to support him: W. H. Matthews, Jr., will
be sports editor. He is a Junior from Marlin, Texas. During the past year he served as sports editor on
the Davidsonian staff and was also on the Wildcat Handbook staff. The fraternity editor will be William Rule, who this
year held the post of photograph editor. He is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and member
of the Forensic Council. The photograph editor for next year will be J. R. Howard. R. L. McCallie, member of
the Reporters’ Club and managing editor of the Davidsonian, will be literary editor of the “Quips and Cranks.” Myers, another
managing editor of this paper, member of the Reporters’ Club, and assistant on the Wildcat Handbook staff, will be editor
of the classes.

The assistant editors will include C. E. Bettis, E. O. Guerrant, Davidsonian managing editor and Reporters’ Club member; E. A.
Hancock, D. M. McConnell, and S. P. Preston. The associate editors will be W. T. Hancock, member of the Reporters’
Club, who this year served as assistant editor on the staff; W. B. Hawkins, who was also an assistant editor;
D. G. Stephenson, vice-president of the Reporters’ Club and assistant editor of this year’s Annual, and S. S. Wiley, president
of the Reporters’ Club and literary editor of the 1930-31 Year Book.

CHANGES IN FACULTY AND PLANS FOR NEXT YEAR ARE UNDER WAY

Two Changes in Faculty and Several Campus Construction Prospects Are Being Formed

There have been a few changes in the faculty for the next year. Mr. Lothery will go to the Department
of Physics at Presbyterian College, Clinton, S. C. David Caldwell, of the Senior class, will be lab instructor in physics
next year. Mr. Lafferty will not be here next year, his place will be taken by Bob McCullough, who graduates
this year. Mr. Brown will continue as instructor in biology.

During the summer it is planned to continue the brick walk which is now in front of the Administration wing
of Chambers on over to the dormitories. Another walk is planned in front of Dormitory Row, to the library and
a cinder walk from the chemistry building to the post office. The plan also includes the grading of the ground
back of Chambers. It has been found necessary by the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control to move the
“Y” office into the back part of the reading room, in order to have more space. It is expected that
this alteration will also take place this summer. Of course all of these plans are tentative.

(Continued on page 7)

Freshmen to Lead “Y” Vespers Sunday

There are only two more services to be given by the Y. M. C. A. this year. The different classes
have had charge of the outdoor vesper services since they began on April 26. The Freshman class will have charge
of the exercises next Sunday. The speakers and the program have not been completed yet, and it is impossible to
give the details of the service at this time. These services have been turned over to the classes entirely and
they have arranged and carried out the programs as they wished.

The last service of the year is on May 31 and will be conducted by Rev. James L. Fowle, D.D.,
of Chattanooga, Tenn. He is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of that city and is an old Davidson alumnus.
He was active in the college life while he was here.

Dr. JOHN TIMOTHY STONE DR. JAMES L. FOWLE

Dr. John Timothy Stone, President of the Presbyterian Theological Seminary, Chicago, who will deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon, May 31, and
Dr. James L. Fowle, Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Chattanooga, who will deliver the annual sermon before the Y.
M. C. A. onthe same date.

PROGRAM FOR GRADUATION EXERCISES

Twenty-Seven Will Go to R.O.T.C. Camp

This year Davidson is to be ably represented at R.O.T.C. camp by Colonel Scott, Captain Cochran, Sergeant Kirby, and 27
Juniors. The following students expect to go: W. S. Lea, S. S. Wiley, R. P. Enloe, J. H. McKinnan, L.
S. Raker, D. S. King, P. M. Conway, Alec Montgomery, C. W. Harrison, D. G. Martin, L. M. Brohard, R.
B. Orr, E. B. Robinson, J. D. McConnell, R. K. Morton, J. N. Washam, H. L. Carr, J. O. Mann,
J. G. Hughes, H. M. Wilson, T. J. Dunn, W. V. Cashion, P. S. Knox, R. E. McCall, A. J.
Graham, H. H. Harris, and F. H. West.

The camp is located at Fort McClelland, near Anniston, Ala. Colonel Scott is commander, and has served in that capacity
for a number of years. He is to be assisted by Captain Cochran and Sergeant Kirby. The camp extends over
a period of forty-five days, opening on June 10. The first days are devoted entirely to close order drill. Then
practical training in military tactics is given. There is also practice on the range. Every man there shoots the regulation
Springfield rifle on 200, 300, and 500-yard range from prone, kneeling, and standing positions. Everyone also shoots the automatic rifle
on the 1,000-inch range. The Howitzer and machine gun company shoots the Howitzer, trench mortar, and Browning machine gun.

(Continued on page 8)

Beaver Club

The old members of Omicron Delta Kappa and the Beaver Club have chosen ten men to the Beaver Club for
next year. This is an honorary Sophomore club that recognizes leadership. The members come from the Freshman class and during
the football games greet the visitors and help to keep alive the spirit of the school. It is in reality
a junior order of Omicron Delta Kappa and has proven to be most successful in the past. The members elected
are: R. H. Evans, W. T. Johnson, John W. Lafferty, Andy G. Manson, E. L. Powell, Alex Schenck, Wee Thompson,
Julian W. West, Lyman W. Clardy, and Thomas H. McCallie.

IS ANNOUNCED

Dr. John Timothy Stone Will Deliver Baccalaureate Sermon on Sunday, May 31st

CLASS DAY ON MONDAY

Dr. Fowle to Deliver Annual Y.M.C.A. Sermon Sunday

The dates for the 1931 Commencement of Davidson, which is the 95th for the institution, are May 31-June 3. The
following is the program for the entire period:

Sunday, May 31st
11:15 a.m.—Baccalaureate sermon, Rev. John Timothy Stone, D.D., president Presbyterian Theological Seminary, Chicago, Ill.
8:00 p.m.—Annual sermon before the Y.M.C.A., Rev. James L. Fowle, D.D., pastor of First Presbyterian Church, Chattanooga, Tenn.

Monday, June 1st
4:00 p.m.—Y.M.C.A. reception.
5:00 p.m.—Class Day exercises.

Tuesday, June 2nd
9:30 a.m.—Meeting of the Board of Trustees.
12:30 p.m.—Alumni luncheon. Annual meeting of Alumni Association.
5:00 p.m.—Reception by the faculty.
7:00 p.m.—Class reunion suppers.
8:00 p.m.—Literary Society exercises.

Wednesday, June 3rd
10:00 a.m.—Academic procession.

(Continued on page 7)

“Quips and Cranks” Will Appear Friday

According to Andy Bird, editor of the Annual, the publishing company has informed him that the Quips and Cranks will
be ready for distribution to the students not later than Friday, May 22. It is understood that the Seniors will
be given their yearbooks before the members of the other classes receive theirs. This is done to permit the Seniors
to get away between their examinations and the commencement exercises. The students are anxious to receive their copies and the
various societies decided to pay up their bills in full when they heard that the members would not receive their
annuals until they settled all their accounts. Davidson always publishes a creditable yearbook, and in 1926 the annual was one
of the best in a school under a thousand students in the South.

SOPHOMORES HOLD INSPIRING SERVICE AT SUNDAY VESPERS

Bob McCallie and Bruce Peabody Are Principal Speakers of the Evening Services

J.D. KOONCE SINGS SOLO

Bill Flinn and Joe Tyack Offer Short Prayers on Program

Last Sunday evening the Sophomore class had charge of the outdoor Y.M.C.A. service. Jerome Clark, president of the class, was
in charge of the program. The first hymn sung was “Jesus, Saviour, Pilot Me,” and the second one, “Where He
Leads Me I Will Follow.” Jerome read for an opening scripture a portion of the fifteenth chapter of Proverbs, the
contrast of goodness and evil, after which Joe Tyack and Billie Flinn led in prayer. Jack Koonce then sang “Crown
Him King of Kings.”

The first speaker was Bob McCallie. He read a portion of John 17, which was an intercessory prayer of Christ
in which Christ prays for His disciples whom He had with Him and also those who were to come. Bob
put special stress on the third verse, “And this is life eternal, that they might know Thee, the only true
God, and Jesus Christ, whom Thou has sent.” Dr. Truett, Baptist minister from Dallas, Texas, was conducting evangelistic services at
a certain Southern college. He had noticed that one boy, who was one of the greatest leaders on the campus,
had not given his life to Christ. Dr. Truett was seated at his desk one day at the college, and
someone knocked at the door. The door opened and there stood the boy about whom he was thinking. The boy
said to Dr. Truett: “I want to ask you a question, not as a preacher to a boy but as
man to man.” Dr. Truett told him to ask it, and this is the question, “Is Jesus Christ real to
you?” Dr. Truett thought for a moment and answered, “Yes, He is real to me.” The next meeting at which
the doctor called for souls to be given to Christ, the boy leader came forward and his student friends followed
him. That is the question Bob asked the audience, “Is Jesus Christ real to you?”

Before Jesus Christ came on earth, the speaker remarked, the relation to God was emptiness. Jesus Christ gapped that estrangement.
He is the Perfect Mediator between us and God; He is essential to all of us because that great abyss
must be bridged. McCallie then came to the remedy. How to make Jesus real to us. These three words were
chosen which would furnish the remedy: Faith, Love, and Hope. Through faith, Christ can be made known to us. In
John 14, Phillip told the Lord, “Shew us the Father, and it sufficeth us,” and Christ answered, “He that hath
seen me hath seen the Father.” In the twenty-first chapter of John, Jesus said unto Thomas, the doubter,

(Continued on page 8)

Two Marriages Will Be Solemnized Soon

The many friends of Mr. William Ernest Milton learn of his engagement to Miss Rosa Jackson James, of Albany, Ga.,
with a great deal of pleasure. The wedding will be solemnized in June. Mr. Milton is the eldest son of
Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Milton, of Thomasville, Ga. He graduated from the Thomasville High School and afterwards came to
Davidson. Since his graduation he has been alumni secretary and in charge of publicity at the college. Mr. Milton is
a member of Theta Upsilon Omega, social fraternity, and was an outstanding leader on the campus, being a member of
Omicron Delta Kappa.

Miss James is the youngest daughter of the late C. B. James and is a sister of Mrs. J. Bennett
Riddle, Jr., of Morganton, N.C. Miss James attended Bessie Tift College, in Forsythe, Ga., where she was prominent in scholastic
activities. Her picture appeared Sunday in the society section of the Charlotte papers, and she is a woman of unusual
charm and personality. She was born

(Continued on page 7)
