6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 19, 1931

Best Novels Written by Older Men Says Erskine

Every Author Should Have Much to Do Besides Writing to Furnish Material for Himself

Cleveland, Ohio—“Few good novels are produced by writers under the age of 40,” Prof. John Erskine, author and president of the Juilliard Music Foundation in New York, said in an interview here. “I don’t want to discourage young writers, but too often they are sucked dry by their first success. Then they go into retreat in a closet with books and we hear no more of them.”

Erskine advises that every author have a lot to do besides writing. “Other work would furnish the writer material to write about,” he said. In writing a novel, Erskine rarely writes more than an hour a day. Usually, he puts down only 300 words, which is about a page of print, he said. This is his program in constructing a novel: a first draft with no revisions, after six months spent collecting data, then critical revision, and finally rewriting often two or three times.

Erskine is a tall, easy-mannered man with a heavy but pleasing voice. He doesn’t care to talk about his writings with most people, he said, because they try to be complimentary, and to “play up to a successful author.” Erskine is on leave from Columbia University, where he taught English. He is striving to “make America as much a music-loving country as Germany.” He dreams of seeing the majority of American schoolboys as pianists and most of the aldermen acquainted with the organ, and the whole country as versed in music as it is in baseball.

This country suffers more than any other from inhibitions, he said, and defined the term as “unwillingness to do the beautiful or delightful.” People are afraid of being laughed at, he said. Music is underrated as a method of mental training, he added, and is one of the things laughed at in many places. Too much money is wasted on private music lessons, he said, which stop in two or three years.

Wildkittens Downed By N.C. State Team

N.C. State Freshmen downed Davidson Freshmen in a game, remarkable for the scarcity of field goals, in the State gym last Friday night, 23 to 12. The defense of both teams was much better than the offense. The Wildkittens threatened a little early in the first half, but State had the game well under control throughout, leading at the halfway mark, 10 to 6, and still at the close of the contest, 23 to 12.

Jay, State center, provided most of the fireworks, being a power on defense and scoring 15 points to take high man. Evans played his usual good game at forward, shooting six points to lead his teammates.

Davidson N.C. State
Holland (5) ------ Raby
Roach Evans (6) ------ Brown (5)
Rowan ------ Cremer
Jay (15) Lawther (1) ------ McQuage (3)
Halverstadt ------ Kinken

Substitutes: Davidson—Lafferty. State—Leagans, Council, Gillispie, Palm. Referee—Hackney (U.N.C.).

DAVIDSON TO MEET (Continued from page 1)

Carolina ranks way down the list in Southern Conference play but they have turned in fine performances this season. Tonight may see the Wildcats have a hard time. It may be too hard. Tomorrow night the five will journey to Charleston and take on the Cadets from Citadel. The institute has only a mediocre team this year. This team does not measure up to their usual standard. Nevertheless, they tumbled South Carolina last week in a closely played game, 22-19. Citadel is known to fight very hard when playing Davidson, so it seems that the Wildcats are going to have a hard time.

Saturday night the College of Charleston will be met in Charleston. Not much is known about them, but it is known that Monk doesn’t regard any of these games as set-ups, and doubtless the Wildcats will be drilled to put all they have into all of these games.

Bobbie Coogan, brother of Jackie, has entered the movies at the age of 5, the same age Jackie became a star.

Book Review

Beethoven the Creator. By Romain Rolland. Harper & Brothers, New York, 1929, 432 pp. $5.00.

One finishes Rolland’s Beethoven with the conviction that he has read a book by a man who knows his subject. Beethoven the Creator is not a biography. It is the first of a series of analyses of the great creative epochs in Beethoven’s life. The present volume concerns itself with the composer in his revolutionary period, when he repudiates the inherited classical school and creates music flowing with life and human emotion, a music which knows no technical bounds.

After a preliminary chapter revealing Beethoven’s joys and sufferings during his thirtieth year, we are plunged into a detailed interpretation of the Eroica Symphony, that gigantic landmark in the development of music. Here for the first time a composer expresses the profoundest emotion, so inexpressible in words, in notes and harmony! It was a revolutionary, a daring achievement in the field of music, which had its equivalent in the contemporary political changes during the French Revolution and the Napoleonic wars. The Eroica was Beethoven’s revolt in symphonic form. The course of piano music underwent a similar upheaval in his Appassionata Sonata. Here the “unbridled Ego” of an indomitable will forces expression. “Appassionata” is an appropriate epithet for this work so teeming with irrepressible emotion and vital force. It is the awful cry of a despairing, yet determined, soul at sea. There is no stopping it. For the will of the unrelenting Titan has taken possession.

The third section of the book deals with the much-revised Leonora Opera, now called Fidelio. So unusual was it in style and form and so unorthodox that its reception by the public was feeble. His friends influenced him to revise it. M. Rolland is of the opinion that thus it lost much of its original beauty and unity.

The outstanding trait of the volume is the author’s presentation of Beethoven as an inventor, a creator, a spurner of rules which would bind unbridled emotion. “The rules,” says Beethoven, “forbid this succession of chords: very well, I allow it.” Beethoven puts himself into music. This is his creativeness. “The newest thing in this art is the man... Et homo factus est! ... Music is made man, the man of the new century.”

Romain Rolland’s style is forceful and authoritative. He speaks as one knowing. His remarks upon the composer’s works are not descriptive but interpretative. He does not surmise; he knows, and from a reliable source: Beethoven’s music. He gives us a “glimpse of the highest reaches of the human soul.”

Studies in Pessimism. By Arthur Schopenhauer. The Modern Library Series, No. 12. New York.

Schopenhauer is not very cheerful reading, and must be taken with the proverbial grain of salt. If it is not, the reader, after perusing the essays “On the Sufferings of the World,” “The Vanity of Existence,” and “On Suicide,” will be in no jolly frame of mind. But then, he is not so depressing if one can read him objectively and realize that after all his was only another slant on life, albeit a depressed one, according to the average opinion. If you don't believe it, witness such statements as these: “Life is a task to be done. It is a fine thing to say defunctus est; it means that man has ceased to suffer.”

Enochs and Caligan Broadcast at WBT

“Dus” Enochs and Woody Caligan scored again Tuesday night over radio station WBT at Charlotte. “Dus” has made quite a name for himself as a singer and Caligan is well known in Davidson and elsewhere as a capable guitar player. Enochs has had previous experience as an entertainer on the station at Bluefield, W. Va., his home town. The pair accepted the offer to take a few minutes of the WBT program early in the year and made their first broadcast in January. Woody also plays as a banjoist with the Sunnyland Serenaders. The program which they offered to hundreds of radio fans last Tuesday evening at 10 o’clock was as follows:

“You Didn’t Have to Tell Me.”
“Come a Little Closer.”
“Dem Dere Eyes.”
“Here Comes the Sun” (guitar solo).

These two musicians will continue to broadcast from Charlotte every Tuesday night at 10 o'clock.Past Five Years Ago, February 11, 1926

The Davidson Glee Club leaves next Tuesday on its annual Southern tour, traveling through South Carolina and Georgia before returning home. They expect to be away for one week. The tour includes stops at many towns and colleges. They will spend the weekend in Atlanta and broadcast over station WSB.

Ten Years Ago, February 11, 1921

The Gamma Sigma Epsilon chemical fraternity established a second chapter at North Carolina State College recently. This fraternity was founded last year by Davidson students and is now taking its first steps toward expansion. The fraternity hopes in time to extend to most of the colleges in this section of the country.

SECOND ISSUE OF “YOWL” (Continued from page 1)

Many of our brave men, you will agree that you are lucky to get one at all. Of course, after you read it, you may not think you are so lucky, but that is a very natural reaction after so much suspense, so pay no attention to it. Several new names will be seen on the pages of this marvelous little book, which fairly drips with sad jokes and wet cracks. So watch for its appearance at your nearest book dealers.

Editor “The Yowl.”

“Of how many a man might it not be said that hope made a fool of him until he danced into the arms of death!” “Perhaps there is no man alive who would not have already put an end to his life, if this had been of a purely negative character, a sudden stoppage of existence.” Schopenhauer is often rather dogmatic and he assumes that the majority of mankind have such morbid views as his own. A large portion of the book, which contains choice excerpts from his works, is devoted to sagacious “Psychological Observations.” His treatise “On Women” would without doubt shock the average American mind, but we judiciously forbear to quote what we ourselves can neither substantiate nor corroborate! A rather acrid condemnation of “Noise” and a few parables complete the edition.

H. W. E.

Davidson Theatre

Monday and Tuesday, 23 and 24
“EASIEST WAY” CONSTANCE BENNETT

Wednesday, 25
“DIVORCE AMONG FRIENDS” LEW CODY

Thursday, 26
“OTHER MEN’S WOMEN”

Friday, 27
“STOLEN HEAVEN” with NANCY CARROLL

Saturday, 28
“NOT EXACTLY GUEST”

Prof. Hoover Foretells War With Communists

Duke Professor Advises Capitalistic Nations to Offer Higher Living Standards

Durham, N. C.—Serious social conflict between capitalistic nations of the world and adherents of communism may be averted if the capitalistic nations are constantly able to offer labor a higher standard of living than could be obtained under communism, according to Prof. Calvin B. Hoover, of Duke University.

Describing Soviet Russia as a land in which “force and fear reign supreme and individual liberty, freedom of speech, of conscience and of the press are non-existent,” he characterizes their way of life as “further removed from the ‘good life’ of Utopian philosophers than is our bourgeois civilization. At the same time, the Soviet economic system has scored some impressive successes,” he says, citing the 16 per cent industrial production increase of the Soviets in 1928-29, while production in the United States increased at a rate of only 4 per cent.

Voicing his belief that peaceful co-existence of capitalism and communism is impossible, Prof. Hoover says survival of the Soviet regime through the next two or three years will mean a beginning, with the decade, of a desperate conflict between the two. The only question, he says, is whether the first conflict will come on the German or Oriental front. “Whether the Soviet regime can survive the present difficult situation,” he declares, “depends primarily upon the incredible capacity of the Russian population to endure strain.”

Born

To Mr. and Mrs. Frank D. Hobart, on February 1, 1931, a daughter, Edith Anne Hobart, at Presbyterian Hospital, Charlotte, and weighing, at birth, six pounds, four ounces. Mr. Hobart is Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings at Davidson, and well known by the students.

FACTS ABOUT RHODES (Continued from page 1)

...lation of half a million or less, received an appointment, while five states with populations running from two and a half millions to ten millions, had no scholars elected. Four states received two scholars each, namely: California, Minnesota, New York, and Oregon.

“Although the number of applicants, 529, was the largest that has ever competed for Rhodes Scholarships in any one year since the scholarships were established in 1904, there are indications that colleges and universities were more conscientious than usual in regard to the quality of the candidates whom they nominated. (Mr. Aydelotte tabulates the number of candidates in each state and shows that in several the number was considerably smaller than the average, and continues:) This is probably a natural result of the institution of a more rigorous method of selection and appears one of the greatest benefits of the change. ...

“The reports of the district committees give a most attractive picture of the energy and skill with which they conducted their elections. The problem of electing a Rhodes Scholar is not primarily an external summing up of ‘points’ and ‘grades’ and ‘recommendations’ of one candidate against another. It is the problem of estimating, in the light of all the evidence obtainable, the possibilities, both moral and intellectual, of the various candidates and then selecting the man who shows the greatest possibility of development and usefulness, first of all at Oxford, and more important, in his after life in the United States. ... Intense thought and keen attention are essential, and even then it is inevitable that committees should make a certain percentage of mistakes...

“The question of the effect of the new plan on the quality of the scholars cannot definitely be answered until they have had an opportunity to show what they can do at Oxford, and in the United States after they return. So far as it can be told from their credentials, the Rhodes Scholars elected in 1930 constitute one of the best, if not the best, group of scholars ever chosen. Certainly no group has ever been so carefully selected...

“The intelligence and good-will with which the whole selection was attacked this year by members of the state and district committees all over the country make the happiest augury. American Rhodes Scholars have an opportunity to make through their committees a distinct contribution to the whole problem of the selection of men, and thus accomplish the fundamental purpose of the plan—to improve the quality of the Rhodes Scholars of the future.”

Editor’s note: These excerpts from the article in the American Oxonian have been made with the permission of President Aydelotte. Several changes in the plan of selection of Rhodes Scholars have been made since the inauguration of the scholarships in 1904, all with a view to improving the quality of the men. It is particularly gratifying that in the year of the most severe competition a Davidson man, Dean Rusk, was among those selected. It is also gratifying to learn that the new plan, at least in the 1930 elections, was more favorable to small colleges than the old plan, and that the fear that the large universities would snap up all of the scholarships has so far proven groundless. This may well result in greater interest than ever in the scholarships at Davidson.

Literary Societies

Eumanean

The program of the Eumanean Literary Society on February 24 will be the same as had been planned for February 17. Professor Ernest A. Beaty will speak on “The Methods of the Romans—The Literary Efforts of Their Day,” and Rufus Morrow is to deliver a speech on “Mexico.”

Philanthropic

The Philanthropic Literary Society has scheduled for its meeting on February 24 a debate between two faculty members on the subject, “Conservatism vs. Fundamentalism.” Dr. Frazer Hood will uphold one side of the debate. The other speaker has not as yet been chosen.

STATIONERY STUDENT SUPPLIES FOUNTAIN PENS NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE W. S. HENDERSON

MAGAZINES BOOKS SUNDRIES

Garland Court Printing and Engraving of Every Description

P. M. CONWAY 27 Rumple

STANDARD PRINTING CO. 24 Ox Charlotte, N. C.