& Ma ave. f ¢ 4 : QUIPS AND CRANKS ADDRESS IS PLACED IN LOVERS OF HANDS OF LITERATURE PUBLISHERS: “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 18, 1931 No. 22 Famous American Poet And Lecturer Comes to Davidson on March 27 Vachel Lindsay Will Present His Poems to Davidson Students and Townspeople UNIVERSALLY POPULAR Has Recited His Poems Throughout the United States Davidson College students and townspeople will have the opportunity of hearing Vachel Lindsay, prominent American poet and lecturer, in a chanted recital of his own poems, when this outstanding contemporary writer appears at Davidson on March 27. Mr. Lindsay is being brought here under the auspices of the Faculty Committee on Lectures. Ten years ago this poet lectured at Davidson and attracted a great deal of favorable comment from his hearers. His fame and popularity, both here and abroad, have been steadily growing and he is today recognized as one of the leading modern writers. He has recited his poems before the English departments of schools and colleges all over the United States. All of Mr. Lindsay’s poems are intended to be read or chanted aloud, and in order to gain the complete appreciation of his rhythms it is necessary that the proper intonation be given each word. A number of his works have been written to be danced by, and played as games. In his recitals, he frequently calls on his audience to take part in the chorus and refrains. Some of his best-known works, which will be included in his repertoire at Davidson, include “The Congo,” “Springfield, Illinois,” “General William Booth Enters Into Heaven,” “The Chinese Nightingale,” and several critical works on the modern motion picture. Davidson Debaters Win First Decision Local Team Defeats Birmingham Southern in First Debate of Season The Davidson varsity debaters again proved their ability by defeating Birmingham Southern College last Thursday night. The query for discussion was an international question, “Resolved: That the nations of the world should adopt a policy of free trade.” The Davidson pair, composed of Riley D. Powell and John C. Matthews, convinced the judges that the nations should adopt such a policy, presenting a complete argument. They discussed the relative value of free trade in regard to international relations, economic conditions, and in regard to the individual. Walter Brown and Andrew S. Turnipseed presented the arguments for Birmingham-Southern. Dr. Dunlap and Mr. McNinch of Charlotte, and Rev. Mr. Ross of Davidson were the judges for the debate, which was held in the Eumenean Literary Society building. The Davidson team of debaters is scheduled to debate against Roanoke College at Salem, Va., on March 17; the University of Richmond at Richmond, Va., on March 18, and Washington and Lee University at Lexington, Va., March 19. Requirement Made For Letter Awards No Letter to be Awarded Without Recommendation of Head Coach At the last meeting of the Davidson College Athletic Association the following requirements for letter awards were adopted. None of the letters will be awarded without the recommendation of the head coach and with the approval of the Athletic Council. Football—The varsity D shall be awarded to those members of the varsity team who (Continued on page 5) Lecture on Medical Work is Presented Dr. Thomas H. Sparrow, of Charlotte, spoke to an enthusiastic group of students who are interested in medicine last Friday evening. This lecture is one of a series being sponsored by the Y. M. C. A. on vocational guidance. They prove to be very beneficial to men undecided about their life’s work, and are a great help to those who wish to become more familiar with their prospective occupations. The speaker restricted himself to a practical discussion of the opportunities and requirements of a doctor, rather than referring to the great doctors who have in the past labored faithfully in this profession. He claimed that opportunities in medicine for young, active men are innumerable and pointed out that new ideas, methods, and discoveries are welcomed gladly. In a most sincere manner Dr. Sparrow told of the great demands that medicine makes on an individual, and expounded on the heroism and sacrifice of a doctor. He considered two of the needed characteristics to be persistency and willingness to serve others. Dr. Sparrow reminded his hearers that many discouragements would likely confront them, and said that “it was not advisable to enter the medical profession to get rich.” As a final thought the speaker gave a short and comprehensive brief concerning preparation for medicine and directed attention to its requirements. He pictured also the untold possibilities for men of character and those possessed with the insatiable desire to work in this profession. College Glee Club Gives First Program of Year Well Rounded Program Featuring Sunnyland Serenaders and “Doodler Brothers” Proves Big Success On Wednesday night, March 11, at 8:30 o'clock, the Davidson College Glee Club, together with the Sunnyland Serenaders, rendered a delightful program in Chambers Auditorium. This was the first appearance this year of the Glee Club. The program included several features by the Glee Club, three numbers by the quartet, several song hits by the “Doodler Brothers,” and a short program by the Sunnyland Serenaders. A gratifying audience of more than a hundred and fifty students and townspeople was present. Following is the program in detail: I. Glee Club. College Ties. Shenandoah. Little Log Cabin of Dreams. II. Tenor Solo—Mr. Koonce. I Hear You Calling. III. The Davidson Quartet. IV. Glee Club. When Good Fellows Get Together. Brown Bird Singing—Solo by Gene DuBose, accompanied by Glee Club. (Continued on page 6) “Quips and Cranks” Will Appear May 15 Photographer Makes Final Appearance on Campus Tuesday The first section of the Annual went to press in the middle of January. Since then, different sections have been handed in to the printer as they have been completed by the staff. However, all the material will be in the hands of the printer within the next few weeks, and the book will come from the press on the fifteenth of May. The White Studio photographer came to Davidson Tuesday morning for the last time. He has been taking fraternity group pictures, pictures of athletic teams, and has finished up all the remaining pictures that needed to be taken. He also took a picture of the performance of the Glee Club along with the Sunnyland Serenaders. Junior Class Completes Plans for Annual Event Junior Speaking to be Held During Week-End of 27-28 CARNIVAL NEW FEATURE Members of Other Classes Urged to Co-operate as Formerly Plans have been completed for the traditional “Junior speaking” which will be held during the week-end of the 28th, according to the members of the Junior Speaking Committee. They announce, further, that every effort is being made to have one of the finest programs in the history of the occasion. Saturday afternoon there will be a track meet between Davidson and N. C. State on Richardson Field. At 6:30 there will be a carnival in the gymnasium. In the past, Junior speaking has been one of the most important occasions in the college calendar. It is an annual affair which has been held for many years. Junior speaking is sponsored by the Junior class but is an all-student affair. The members of the committee have urged that this traditional co-operation from the members of the other classes be followed this year. Many out-of-town guests are expected. The carnival is the only new feature which has been added to the program. There will be ten booths, each of which will offer separate bits of entertainment. There will be numerous prizes, and other unusual features. Sophs Hold Annual Class House Party Entertainment Includes Picture Show, Reception, and Novelty Attractions Last Saturday the Sophomore Class staged their annual week-end program. This entertainment started at 3 o'clock Saturday afternoon and ended at midnight Saturday. There were approximately fifty girls up for the house party. The entertainment was, in the main, exclusive for the Sophomores. The first thing on the program was the motion picture called “Body and Soul,” with Charlie Farrell and Lissa Lindi. This picture started at 3 o’clock and concluded at approximately 5:30. This was free to the Sophomores and their girls, and the house was filled almost to capacity. At the same time there was held at the stadium a track meetBetween the Davidson varsity, Davidson Freshmen, and Charlotte High. Shortly after the picture and track meet, there was held in the “Y” Social Center a reception for the Sophomores and their girls. At this reception, there were about forty persons present. Mrs. Schenck, Mrs. Vowles, and Mrs. Hengeveld assisted in serving at this reception. At 6:30, there was held in the banquet hall of New Chambers Building a banquet, exclusive for the Sophomores and their girls. (Continued on page 5)

Registration Period
April 13-18 has been designated as the period for registration of courses for the present Freshman, Sophomore, and Junior classes, and those students failing to register at this time will be charged an extra fee. The faculty advisers of the various groups of students are directing the attention of their men to prospective courses now, which is being done so that any problem arising now may be discussed between the student and his parents while he is at home during the Easter holidays. This should have each student prepared to sign for his course by April 13th. The college has had several copies of next year’s recitation plan printed, thereby enabling the students not only to sign up for their course but also to map out their daily schedule.

Dr. C. F. Myers Will Be Vesper Speaker
The speaker for this Sunday evening’s Y. M. C. A. vespers is the leader of the annual spring evangelistic services, Dr. Charles F. Myers. He is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, N. C. Davidson is very fortunate in securing Dr. Myers for these services, for he is always a very inspiring and helpful speaker. The Davidson students who have heard him speak, and those who have met him before, admire and love him for the immeasurable good derived from his messages and the inspiration radiating from his personality. Students feel that he belongs among our number, due to the association of members of his family with Davidson. Sunday morning Dr. Myers will conduct the morning worship in the church. That evening he will speak at the vesper service. Dr. Myers will also speak at chapel on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. Each evening of these three days, he will conduct services at 7 o'clock, all of which bid fair to be of great value and uplift to the students and the townspeople as well. It is hoped and expected that all the meetings will be well attended. Dr. Myers will get in touch with the Davidson students not only through public addresses but also by means of personal interviews. The boys have always enjoyed to the fullest these private talks and have always found in them a new light to guide them through any difficulties which they may have encountered. Dr. Myers will also be accompanied by special musicians. The following Sunday, March 29, a deputation will be here from Columbia Seminary, Decatur, Ga. The deputation will include young and inspiring speakers, and also the Columbia Seminary Quartet. The four members of this quartet are all very capable and talented singers, and indications point to an interesting program. The deputation will be in charge of the morning worship and of the vesper service as well.

New Davidson Catalogue Contains Many Changes
Old Color of Catalogue Replaced by a Brighter Back of Light Grey
The somberness of Davidson’s catalogue has been replaced by a brighter back of a light grey color. The new color scheme is not the only change, however, as the entire catalogue has been re-written (with the exception of some few paragraphs) by President W. L. Lingle. In this re-writing, the historical sketch was given in greater detail, and the student loan plan was more fully explained. In regard to courses, there has been practically no change with the exception of a History 7 to be taught by Dr. T. W. Lingle, who is taking on this extra course due to the fact that he is giving up his French classes. It is to be noted that the course of Fine Arts listed in the new catalogue is not to be offered next term. Dr. Gwynn’s re-writing of the under Education should be especially examined by those men preparing to teach after leaving Davidson. The only noticeable changes in the College Calendar for next year are that the Christmas holidays begin December 22, and end January 6, and that the spring holidays begin March 24, and end March 30.

Charlotte Minister To Deliver Lecture
Talk Intended for All Prospective Ministerial Students
Dr. E. D. Gammon, who is a graduate of Hampden-Sydney College, will speak tomorrow night to students interested in the ministry. This is the third of a series of talks given at the “Y” Social Center on vocational guidance. These talks have been very informative and helpful, and have been well (Continued on page 6)

Athletic Awards Made Last Tuesday at Annual Athletic Night Program
Dr. Oren Moore Presents Footballs to Members of Grid Team
DEAN SANFORD SPEAKS
Thirty-Six Receive Letters in Football, Basketball, and Wrestling
Davidson College students, who had shown ability in a diversified field of sports and athletic managerships, were Tuesday night publicly rewarded for their efforts, when trophies, gold footballs, and certificates were presented to them on the annual “Athletic Night,” which was largely attended and which was featured by an address delivered by Dean S. V. Sanford, of the University of Georgia. The exercises were opened by Dr. Edgar Gammon, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, and formerly college pastor at Hampden-Sydney, and following the mass singing of “Oh Davidson,” Dr. Oren Moore of Charlotte presented gold footballs to all lettermen on the gridiron team, and to one alumnus, Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, of Charlotte, for his manifested interest in the football team. Capt. Walter W. Fraley, on behalf of the team, presented two footballs to Davidson College for the athletic archives. These were called victory footballs, and were those used in the N. C. State and University of North Carolina contests, which the Wildcats won by scores of 12 to 0 and 7 to 6, respectively. (Continued on page 5)

Mr. Wheeler Gives Illustrated Lecture
Colored Slides Are Used in Connection With Talk on Forestry
Mr. H. N. Wheeler, chief lecturer of the United States Forest Service, gave a splendid illustrated lecture in Chambers Auditorium last Thursday night. His talk was divided into four parts, namely: Economic Side of the Forests; The Water Shed; Protection of Wild Things in the Forests; The Human Use of the Forests. Under the economic side, Mr. Wheeler remarked that of the 31,193,000 acres in North Carolina, 5,574,000, or nearly one-sixth of the state, are under cultivation. He also said that there were 21,000,000 acres of land capable of producing timber but that 2,000,000 of these acres were idle. He pointed out the different ways wood is used: in furniture, paper, and rayon. “There are 130,000,000 railroad ties used in the United States per year,” remarked the speaker. The lumber business totals $100,000,000 per year. Mr. Wheeler showed the systematic way of tapping the pine trees so that the tree might not be killed. He also showed how cyclones ruined forests and how the razor-back hogs destroy the young trees. The speaker showed the effect fires have on timber. He said that some people think that burning the land helps to make it a better pasture land; he said that this was not true, since the burned land had five fewer grasses on it than the land that had not been burned. He remarked that forests can be made beneficial to the cities; he said that five hundred German cities pay all their expenses through their timber sales. As to the forest’s part in the water shed, Mr. Wheeler said that the forests regulate the flow of water, and that the leaves from the trees form a blanket over the ground. This blanket absorbs the rainfall, thereby making the ground porous and providing a sufficient amount of water for the trees. From the average size tree, eight barrels of water are given off every twenty-four hours. This furnishes the air with water, thereby regulating the humidity. When there are no forests to regulate the flow of water, erosion occurs. When there are no forests on the borders of the rivers, the earth gradually washes away. This de- (Continued on page 5)