i) THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1931

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly
‘‘For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN Editor-in-Chief
CONWAY Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
POPU GUBRRAN Managing Editor
D. D. McBRYDE Managing Editor
R. L. McCALLIE Managing Editor
C. K. Managing Editor
B. B. Athletic Editor
D. Feature Editor
W. Feature Editor
H. Review Editor
Exchange Editor
E. Associate Editor
W. Associate Editor
W. Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. MANSON Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE Assistant Business Manager
H. W. WHITTED Assistant Business Manager
R. MORROW Subscription Manager
W. T. JOHNSON Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. M. President
Vice-President
Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
F. I. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR
L. S. GAMBLE
G. E. BAILEY
R. E. LORRAINE
J. E. BOYD
K. L. POWELL
S. P. PRESTON
R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
A. F. SCHENCK
O. CASA
W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. CLARDY, JR.
W. T. THOMPSON
J. A. HUNTER

SEPTEMBER 23, 1931

PARAGRAPHICS

Conversation of people often dwells on the subject of the weather. They have had plenty of subject matter for the
last few days. They have been the hottest that September has brought in several years.

Apologies are expressed for the late appearance of the paper last week. We hope that the printers will make it
this time.

Tonight over a hundred of the two hundred and fifty Freshmen will accept bids to the various social fraternities on
the campus. May we take this opportunity to congratulate them and the fraternities.

The staff will be glad to accept any letters on subjects of interest to the student body, providing they are
accompanied by the name of the author. These subjects will certainly include any improvements that should be made, the laundry
situation, or any other matters concerning the college. These letters will be printed in a column devoted to this type
of writing.

The Elon game was probably a disappointment to some, and the team makes no alibi; nor does it need one.
They'll beat State Saturday. You SEE if they don’t!

Campus life has settled down to a more regular thing after two weeks of rushing about aimlessly. With no special
event on the campus until Homecoming, October 17, the students will find some time for that work they have been
trying to do.

EXTRA-CURRICULA ACTIVITIES

At the beginning of every college year, there appear to the ambitious student the very debatable questions: Are extra-curricula activities
worth while, and does the gaining of extra-curricula honors warrant the time necessitated? Some college men contend that the time
thus spent could, with far greater profit, be directed towards the prescribed arts, sciences, etc. Certainly neither to the total
exclusion of the other would be highly profitable. It is the man who has gained the wisest blending of the
two that deserves and gains the laurels. Thus the accepted popularity and benefit of these extra-curricula activities seem to be
the only needed excuse for being.

Having reached this point we are in a position to consider the many extra-curricula fields that lie beckoning to the
interested student at Davidson. Athletics probably gain first place in the numbers involved, and surely no person today denies the
great benefit derived from athletics in moderation. The various college publications constitute another field that attracts a great many. Their
practice in expository writing is unlimited and priceless. Today, even the best business schools consider this art of paramount importance.
The work of the literary societies and various other honor groups goes on apace. The very important duties of social
life are met in numerous college functions and in the social Greek letter fraternities. Even the religious life of the
campus is largely supervised by the students and provides a great field for real unselfish service.

It should never be forgotten that scholarship is of primary importance, but the varied extra-curricula activities should certainly be ranked
a close and important second. Whereas the college man of yesterday left the portals of his Alma Mater primarily schooled
in the classics, today the college graduate, if he avails himself of his opportunities, can make himself a well-rounded citizen,
far more capable to succeed in this complex world.

Chas. F. Myers, Jr.

SYLVESTER B. McLEAN, JR.

Maxton people have heard sad news on many occasions, and we all know for a certainty that in future time,
we know not how soon, bad news will be brought to us again. The fact that we have heard distressing
news so many times in the past has never prepared us for it in the future. All of Maxton was
deeply grieved to learn of the death last week of Sylvester B. McLean, Jr., who died so suddenly in a
New York hospital. It was a blow to all who knew him. Not the least among those to miss him
are his playmates of childhood days, the days when Sylvester so gaily tramped the streets of Maxton just as do
other youngsters today. Even those who were not so well acquainted with him were deeply touched, because of the esteem
in which they held the young man’s parents.

Sylvester was so young. His future seemed so bright. It was hard for his friends to realize that in some
way, whether they understood or not, that it was infinitely better for Sylvester. If it had not been better, he
would still be here. This much we know. Sylvester is all right today, and he is happy, happier than he
has ever been, happier than we can possibly imagine him to be. Doubtless he would not return if he could,
unless to speak comforting words to those so sorely bereaved and to tell them how glorious is the life which
he is now living—Maxton Scottish Chief.

OPEN FORUM

THE HONOR SYSTEM

Long and loud have been the praises of the Honor System at Davidson sung by its loyal alumni, students, and
friends. So widespread has this commendation become, that it creates within us a spirit of real responsibility. To retain the
fine spirit of honor that Davidson is reputed to have, is a man’s size task. But is the Honor System
at Davidson a success, or have we been over-zealous in our praise?

Our Honor System, as it is set forth in the Student Constitution, consists of three sections, namely; cheating, stealing, and
perjury. Every student is honor-bound to refrain from all these things. We have reason to believe that Davidson is as
free from cheating as any school in the United States, and that it is far above most of them in
this respect. In this, then, we feel that we have lived up to our reputation.

On the other hand, it is common knowledge around the campus that any book or notebook left anywhere except in
one’s room can hardly be considered safe. And just prior to exam period, they are not invulnerable even in one’s
room. Slickers and raincoats are particularly susceptible during rainy spells. Toilet articles, light bulbs, etc., are subject to loss at
any time. Remembering that all Juniors and Seniors are on Dean’s pledge to attend Church each Sunday, an examination of
the Dean’s records, and a check-up on the Church attendance, is all that is necessary to convince us that perjury
is not uncommon in our midst.

In the face of such facts as these, how can we say that we have been faithful to our responsibilities?
Or how can we make anyone believe that our Honor System is successful? Knowing that the Honor System has worked,
and is working, in other schools, schools that do not profess to be Christian Institutions, can we fail to see
that there is something fundamentally wrong with our system?

Quite rightfully the faculty has maintained a hands-off attitude toward the Student Government. It is true however that they have
seen fit to burden us with a multitude of regulations which may tend to detract the attention of the student
from the enforcement of the Honor System. More important than this, however, is the fact that the Student Constitution has
become cluttered with numerous laws concerning offenses which should be dealt with by the Administrative Department of the College. This
forces the members of the Student Council into a position synonymous with that of a policeman in civil life. Like
more mature men, the student will protect his friend to keep him from falling into the clutches of these pseudo-policemen.
It is easily seen, then, that from the position into which they are forced by the attempted enforcement of these
other laws, it is impossible for the Student Council to secure the confidence of the students necessary for the successful
working of the Honor System. This is true to such an extent that a student who reports to the Student
Council a violation of the Honor System, instead of being regarded as a highly honorable man, worthy of admiration, is
looked down upon as a stool pigeon who has betrayed the confidence of his friend, and placed one who trusted
him in the clutches of higher authorities.

In order to escape this unhappy condition, there is apparent but one solution. Let us strike from the Student Constitution
all laws except the three sections of the Honor System, reverting the enforcement of these other laws upon the administration
of the College, that has so long escaped this part.of its rightful duty, and concentrate our efforts upon the achievement
of the fundamental purpose of Student Government and the Honor System, which is: the expulsion from our midst any, and
all, students that lie, cheat, or steal!

DIOGENES XXIII.

WHAT DO YOU THINK?

No doubt most of us saw Lloyd George’s statement in which he makes a plea that all the political parties
stand together in the crisis which has presented itself as a result of the sudden turn in the British financial
situation. It reads: “If the nation remains steady and united we shall pull through all right. Our resources are quite
adequate to meet the situation, but a factional fight among ourselves, at this juncture, would be unpatriotic lunacy. The mere
threat of such a fight has precipitated this second, and graver crisis. British common sense, if it is given a
chance, will find a way out.”

We cannot help but believe that there will be, in the immediate future, a direct upturning in the political and
financial worlds of not only England, but of the rest of the world as well. We sincerely hope that this
belief is not just another case of the wish being father of the thought.

“When the Moon Comes Over the Mountain” will recall to the minds of more than a few of us a
quite delightful sensation. Kate Smith, the Songbird of the South, with her Swanee Music, has won a place in our
hearts which even her two hundred and forty pounds cannot readily eradicate. Listen to her, if you haven’t already done
so. She can bring you something new in the way of “voix des femmes,” a voice which you cannot soon
forget.

As a severe blow to the world of the intelligentsia came the news of the death of Dr. David Starr
Jordan, who for some time up until 1913, at which time he retired, had been chancellor-emeritus of Stanford University and
Dean of American university presidents. Although known most widely as an advocate of world peace, Dr. Jordan was also a
great educator. In 1885, when he became president of the University of Indiana, he was said to be the youngest
college president in the country.

A war between China and Japan seems imminent enough. Manchuria, long a sore spot, was the scene of much excitement
when a bridge on the Chinese Eastern Railway was dynamited, and some Japanese guards were attacked, both acts allegedly being
done by Chinese soldiers. China also executed a Japanese officer as a spy. Let us here express the hope that
this is not the brewing of another great world conflict.

By the end of next June, it is estimated that the United States will have spent over $1,550,000,000 for relief
since the beginning of the depression. This includes, of course, the expenditures for federal construction, maintenance, and drought relief expenditures.

Expenditures for the first half of 1932 were estimated as follows: Public buildings and lands, $126,980,000; other construction work, $95,737,000;
construction under engineer corps, $40,000,000; repairs and maintenance, $37,283,000; roads, $75,593,000.

It was estimated, by Dr. E. C. Branson, head of the department of rural social economics in the University of
North Carolina, that there are now 47,000 native-born white women illiterates in North Carolina. “The public schools, the mission schools,
and the moonlight schools have made praiseworthy efforts to stamp out illiteracy, but they have had so far to go
that they have done comparatively little. The church can still do a great deal, and the adult education movement has
infinite possibilities. One reason so little has been accomplished is because the appeal is for home missions which always lack
the enchantment of foreign missions. Most of the white women illiterates are country women, their plight being suffocating loneliness and
sealed silence.”

It seems unreasonable to believe that there is this much illiteracy among just the white women of North Carolina alone.
Think of the forty-seven other states, not to mention the white men illiterates and all of the illiterate negroes, men
and women. Illiteracy today is distressing to even realize, it is a problem which should concern everybody.

Of interest to some will be the recent announcement that the Carolina Playmakers of the University of North Carolina will
present six plays during the coming year. This announcement was made by Frederick H. Koch, director of the Playmakers and
professor of dramatic literature in the University of North Carolina. Among the plays to be given are “Saturday’s Children,” some
Carolina folk-plays, “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” and “The Trojan Woman.”

EXCHANGE

This column, which started out on its career during the last of last spring, is written to keep the students
of Davidson in contact with the other schools and colleges of the nation, but especially those of the South. In
this column there will be quotations from the papers and summaries of the news found in the papers that will
be of the most interest to the student body. As The Davidsonian goes to press there are very few papers
on hand as there are not many schools starting as yet. We have papers from Clemson, V. M. I.; Catawba
College, Alabama College, Duke, and Gettysburg College.

The Clemson Tiger tells us that they are going to have a strong line this year but Coach Neely, new
Clemson coach, is searching for a pair of good ends and a relief center for their captain, “Red” Fordham. Neely
has a wealth of material in the backfield but as yet no one is sure of his position; he says
that everyone will have to prove his worth. The coach is also having a hard time getting a combination in
the backfield that will function.

Catawba College’s paper, The Pioneer, informs us that Dr. Howard R. Omwake, for twelve years Dean of Franklin and Marshall
College, Lancaster, Pennsylvania, was elected to the presidency of Catawba College on Saturday afternoon, July 12. He was unanimously elected
by the Board of Trustees of the college upon the recommendation of a special committee which had studied prospective leaders.
He is a member of the Pennsylvania Educational Association, Phi Kappa Sigma, Phi Beta Kappa, and Phi Delta Kappa fraternities.
He succeeds the late Dr. Elmer R. Hoke, president from 1924 until his death in March of this year.

Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings...

Duncan McBryde

BY WAY OF EXPLANATION

This is supposed to be a humorous column, but the funniest thing so far, that has happened in it, was
accidental. It was like this. “We” had drawn a cute lil’ boat to be put at the head of the
column, and also an inscription. Then I wrote a whole raft (riff raft), trying to explain the drawing at the
head of the column. (And then the printer didn’t put the picture up there at the top) They left it
out. In fact they wanted to leave it all out,—and you know, that would have been a good thing. They
could have left a blank column. And one thing this country needs is blank columns. Many of them that are
printed ought to be left blank. And there are many uses for blank space. Davidsonian readers could have used it
for playing tick tack toe, making a list of the capitals of all the states in the Union, or they
might have drawn some conclusions. I asked several fellows, and they said they hadn't read it anyway, so I think
I can get by with reprinting a brief paragraph of what was printed last week, in explanation. So here goes
(nothing).

Maybe I should explain... the title I have chosen for this column. (By the way this is not a CHAMBERS
COLUMN, and should not be confused with one.) ... I wish I could explain... the nautical little sketch... but I
don’t know... the inscription “CABBAGES AND KINGS”... means I have no particular subjects (or objects) about which to write... THE
MIRTH OF A NATION... well that was just some passing brainstorm... or nightmare... anyway that’s my story and I'll stick
to it... not being a “second story man”... (but a first Floor-ist)... Since I cannot explain the ship, I'll do
the next best thing... I will dedicate it to someone... to good ole Crisco Lumbus, with the plea: “Don’t give
up the ship.” To Christopher Columbus, nautically esteemed explorer, who took the words right out of my encyclopedia when he
said “Four Pintas equal one Galleon,” I dedicate the above drawn ship, therewith including all that it “holds,” any profits
that may be realized from its sails (sales), and just for a good turn, the steering wheel. Good Ole Crisco
Lumbus. Auf Wiedersehen, And bon voyage.

Mr. Adolf Hoopinkoff will now sing the popular prohibition song, entitled, “THERE’S ALWAYS RUM FOR ONE MORE.” (But please come
back in about fifteen minutes, so as not to miss the “SHIRT SHIRT STORY” (A Shirt Tale)

Since this is the “tail” end of my column, don’t you think we should take up the popular question of
the minute, “Should Smith Send Sixteen Shirts Simultaneously?” And the answer comes back, “NO!” Sixteen shirts should not suffer shrinkage
simultaneously. Because shrunken shirts are unkind to his Adam’s Apple. There is only one way out (of the shirt). The
laundry-man should press the button out of service. Thus with the (collar) button removed, the Adam's Apple would be released
from the press. This would improve the Times, benefit the Globe, and have a good effect on the Observer. This
shirt tale gives me a pain in the neck, so I'll collar the tale, with a cuff (from the Editor-in-Chief),
Good night, shirt.
