6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 26, 1931

John Erskine Criticizes Present Day Censorship

English Professor at Columbia University Speaks in New York Against Literary Censorship

New York—(IP)—The most dangerous form of literary censorship in the United States is not legislative action prohibiting certain forms of
literary expression, but the taboos placed on the author by the public and the editors and moving picture managers who
select what the public shall read and hear, Dr. John Erskine, professor of English at Columbia University and author of
“Helen of Troy,” told the New York Advertising Club at its weekly luncheon last week.

The author today has to choose between reaching a large audience and reaching an audience which will understand what he
is attempting to say, the Columbia professor said.

“The largest audience is reached through the talking pictures,” he said, “the next largest through the magazines, and the smallest
through books. However, the most permanence is found in books, and I think you will find that there always will
be books, even if the author has to publish his own, regardless of the development in the talking picture field.”

The real danger today, Dr. Erskine said, is that the American author will, because of the influence of magazine and
motion picture editors, become merely an entertainer. The American public, he said, does not like to learn the truth about
America, although it enjoys reading foreign books telling the truth about Europe, because, “we always are willing to believe the
truth about a foreigner.”

The minute an American magazine reaches a circulation of more than a million or so, Dr. Erskine said, the editor
begins to think his readers are all of a standard type, to which he must cater.

“How the editor arrives at the conclusion as to what type of matter his readers enjoy, no author has yet
been able to figure out,” said the author.

The opportunity to the author is greater today than ever before, he said, but the temptations to do inferior work
also are greater.

FACULTY ENTERTAINS (Continued from page 1)

the Yankee villain, and Miss Orrie Steele, the old black mammy. The musical element was supplemented by four students, E.
K. Eumurian, pianist; W. W. Caligan, banjo player; Dus Enochs, lyric tenor, and Bradford McLean, black-face tap dancer.

At the conclusion of this half-hour playlet, the guests retired to the banquet hall below for supper. The hall had
been beautifully decorated for the occasion, white trellis work being used on the posts, with a smattering of green vines
to lend effect. This color scheme was continued in the table decorations of green and white.

Supper was served by the faculty members and their wives, attired in their pretty colonial costumes. These costumes gave a
beautiful effect to the whole scheme. After supper, the guests were offered other entertainment, and the party was concluded about
11 o’clock.

Mrs. Lewis B. Schenck headed the social committee which planned the entire affair, and associated with her in various capacities
were Mrs. W. L. Lingle, Mrs. Geo. B. Watts, Mrs. Price H. Gwynn, Mrs. Emily Cullum, Mrs. Jno. A. Otto,
and Mrs. W. N. Mebane.

The CAMELS are coming.

This is the Camel package in which a significant change has recently been made for the best answers to this
question:

What significant change has recently been made in the wrapping of the Camel package containing 20 cigarettes and what are
its advantages to the smoker?

Wednesday Night

Tune in the Camel Hour on N.B.C. Network

9.30 to 10.30... Eastern Time
8.30 to 9.30... Central Time
7.30 to 8.30... Mountain Time
6.30 to 7.30... Pacific Time

Over Stations

WGAR, KYW, WLW, WRVA, WSJS, KWK, WJAX, WFLA, WIOD, WREN.

11.15 to 12.15... Eastern Time
10.15 to 11.15... Central Time
9.15 to 10.15... Mountain Time
8.15 to 9.15... Pacific Time

Over Stations

WHAS, WSM, WSB, WMC, WAPI, WJDX, WSMB, KTHS, WTMJ, KSTP, WEBC, WKY, WBAP, KPRC, WOAI, KOA, KSL, KTAR, KGO, KECA,
KFSD, KGW, KOMO, KHQ, KFAB.

Write on one side of the paper only.

No entries accepted that bear a postmark later than midnight, March 4, 1931.

Contest open to everybody except employees and executives of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company and their families.

In case of ties, the full amount of award will be paid to each of the tying parties.

It is not necessary to buy a package of Camel cigarettes in order to compete. Any store that sells cigarettes
will permit you to examine the Camel package containing 20 cigarettes.

All communications must be addressed to Contest Editor—R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N.C.

Conditions Governing Contest:
1. Answers limited to 200 words.
2. Write on one side of the paper only.
3. No entries accepted that bear a postmark later than midnight, March 4, 1931.
4. Contest open to everybody except employees and executives of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company and their families.
5. In case of ties, the full amount of award will be paid to each of the tying parties.
6. It is not necessary to buy a package of Camel cigarettes in order to compete. Any store that sells
cigarettes will permit you to examine the Camel package containing 20 cigarettes.

Judges:

CHARLES DANA GIBSON
Famous Illustrator and Publisher of “Life”

ROY W. HOWARD
Chairman of the Board, Scripps Howard Newspapers

RAY LONG
President, International Magazine Company, and Editor of “Cosmopolitan”

Contest open only until MIDNIGHT, MARCH 4, 1931

(Winners will be announced as soon as possible after contest closes)
