v THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 16, 1931

TRACK TEAM MEETS STATE SATURDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

WILDKITTENS OPEN SEASON TO-DAY

Davidson Trackmen Are Downed by Blue Devils

Duke Wins High Jump and First Place in Broad Jump to Take Meet

COLLEGE RECORDS FALL

Records in Two Mile Run and Pole Vault Broken

By taking all three places in the high jump and first place in the broad jump, Duke University was able last Saturday to nose out Davidson in one of the most thrilling and spectacular track meets ever held at Davidson. Up until these last two events, Davidson was holding a lead of eight points, and the outcome was by no means certain. However, Duke was able to make a clean sweep in the high jump and took first place in the broad jump, thus giving them a two-point margin to win by the score of 64 to 62.

Despite unfavorable weather conditions, two college records were broken, and many spectacular and close races were run. The first of these records to be broken was that of the pole vault, in which Billy Flinn, Sophomore, cleared the bar at a height of eleven feet, four inches, breaking the college record by one inch. Scarcely had the first record fallen when another old record fell into the dust. This time, Brannon, Davidson two-miler, came in almost half a lap ahead of his Duke opponent, to set a new record of ten minutes 7.6 seconds, breaking his old record by more than twelve seconds.

High scorer for the afternoon was Brownlee of Duke, who garnered 13 of his team’s points by winning first place in the 100 and 220-yard dashes, and in the hurdles.

Results of the meet are as follows:

100-yard dash—Brownlee, Duke, first; Hicks, Duke, second; McCall, Davidson, third. Time: 10.2 seconds.
Mile run—Simon, Duke, first; Earle, Davidson, second; Lewis, Duke, third. Time: 4 minutes, 37.8 seconds.
220-yard dash—Brownlee, Duke, first; Fleagle, Davidson, second; Little, Davidson, third. Time: 23 seconds.
120-yard high hurdles—George, Davidson, first; McCallie, Davidson, second; Lemon, Duke, third. Time: 15.5 seconds.
440-yard run—McGehee, Davidson, first; Tyack, Davidson, second; Hicks, Duke, third. Time: 54 seconds.
Two-mile run—Brannon, Davidson, first; Earle, Davidson, second; Flinton, Duke, third. Time: 10 minutes, 7.6 seconds.

Kittens Beaten by Charlotte High, 6-0

Failure to solve the slants of Bub Mulligan spelled defeat for the Davidson Freshman nine at the hands of Central High School last Friday afternoon in Charlotte. The score was 6 to 0. Mulligan, after a bad start in the first inning which cost him nothing, pitched superb ball throughout the rest of the game and was never in danger. He allowed the Wildkittens only three singles, each of which came in different innings, and struck out thirteen batters. Central High gathered their hits to score four runs in the third and two more in the seventh innings. Eight walks issued by Koonce were also taken to advantage by the Charlotte nine. Smyre at short played a nice game for the Freshmen, handling seven chances in good style. Alexander, Wildkitten left fielder, turned in the niftiest play of the game when he took Bell's line drive along the foul line with his bare hand. The Freshmen now have a record of one game won and two lost.

Freshmen
Ab R H O A
Alexander, lf 2 0 0 1 0
McLean, 1b 4 0 1 8 0
Ingle, 2b 4 0 1 2 1
Wilson, cf 4 0 0 0 0
Harrington, rf 4 0 0 3 0
Gladstone, 3b 3 0 0 1 0
Smyre, ss 3 0 1 1 5
McLemore, c 3 0 0 7 0
Koonce, p 3 0 0 1 3

(Continued on page 6)

220-yard low hurdles—George, Davidson, first; Brownlee, Duke, second; Little, Davidson, third. Time: 25.6 seconds.
880-yard run—Simon, Duke, first; Fisher, Duke, second; Neal, Davidson, third. Time: 2 minutes, 2.3 seconds.
Discus—Brewer, Duke, first; Knox, Davidson, second; Bettis, Davidson, third. Distance: 117 feet, 3 inches.
Shotput—Brewer, Duke, first; Boyle, Davidson, second; Wagner, Davidson, third. Distance: 39 feet, 9 inches.
Javelin—Brock, Davidson, first; Melarty, Duke, second; McCall, Davidson, third. Distance: 158 feet, 5 inches.
Pole vault—Flinn, Davidson, first; Ripley, Davidson, second; Gilmer, Davidson, third. Distance: 11 feet, 4 inches.

Freshmen Win Over Columbia Net Team

Henry Rhyne Clears Five Feet 11 Inches to Win First Place in High Jump

FRESH 71 CATAWBA 45

Freshmen Garner Majority of Points in Running Events

The Freshman track team took eight first places and most of the seconds and thirds to down the Catawba College cinder squad. The Freshmen amassed a total of 53 points out of a possible 63 in the running events, while Catawba showed up better in the weight and field competition. The final count was 71 to 45. Wildermoth of Catawba was high point man of the afternoon, winning first places in the discus, javelin, and shot-put, to total 15 points. Halyburton was second in points scored with 10, taking first in two sprint events, the 100 and 440-yard runs. The high jump provided most of the interest of the meet. After quite a bit of jumping, Rhyne of the Freshman squad finally beat out Campbell of Catawba, clearing the bar at a height of five feet, eleven inches.

100-yard dash—Halyburton (Frosh), first; McMillen (Frosh), second; O'Keefe (Frosh), third. Time: 11.2 sec.
Mile run—Morrow (Frosh), first; Scott (Frosh), second; Holshauser and Water (Catawba), third. Time: 4 min. 59 sec.
220-yard dash—O'Keefe (Frosh), first; Harrison (Frosh), second; Benny (Catawba), third. Time: 26 sec.
High hurdles—Pratt (Frosh), first; Winters (Catawba), second. Time: 20 sec.
440-yard dash—Harrison (Frosh), first; Curlee (Frosh), second; Wright (Frosh), third. Time: 54.1 sec.
Low hurdles—McMillen (Frosh), first; Winters (Catawba), second; O'Keefe (Frosh), third. Time: 29.3 sec.
880-yard run—Corbin (Frosh), first; Black (Catawba), second. Time: 2 min.
High jump—Rhyne (Frosh), first; Campbell (Catawba), second; Rouser (Catawba), third. Height: 5 ft. 11 in.
Pole vault—Campbell (Catawba), first; Roseman (Catawba), second; Dill (Frosh), third. Height: 9 ft.
Discus—Wildermoth (Catawba), first; Dill (Frosh), second; Covington (Frosh), third. Distance: 104 ft.
Broad jump—Campbell (Catawba), first; Shaw (Frosh), second; Wright (Frosh), third. Distance: 18 ft. 6 in.
Shot-put—Wildermoth (Catawba), first; Mecklrath (Frosh), second; Covington (Frosh), third. Distance: 42 ft. 11.5 in.
Javelin—Wildermoth (Catawba), first; Roseman (Catawba), second; McCanless (Catawba), third. Distance: 142 ft. 9 in.

LOOKING 'EM OVER

With W. H. Matthews

SHADOWS OF COMING EVENTS

Thursday, April 16
Baseball—Varsity vs. Lenoir-Rhyne at Davidson.
Golf—Varsity vs. Greenville Country Club at Greenville, S. C.

Friday, April 17
Baseball—Varsity vs. Guilford at Davidson.

Saturday, April 18
Track—Varsity vs. South Carolina at Davidson.

Monday, April 20
Baseball—Varsity vs. N. C. State at Davidson.

Wednesday, April 22
Baseball—Varsity vs. Duke at Davidson.

With the multiplicity of spring sports on our calendar for the first of this week and for the next seven days, it may be safely presumed that “Spring is here.” However, we will not commit ourselves on this subject until Davidson has a varsity track meet at home with bright, sunshiny weather and until the boys up in Rumple start going barefooted. Spring will be here then!

The Duke-Davidson track meet Saturday was the best we have ever seen, without a doubt. If the unfortunate ending could have been changed, it would have been perfect. It is indeed rare that a crowd will be held in their seats by any athletic event, much less a track meet, until the final event is over, but hardly a spectator left the stadium until the final jump.Breaking deal to the Flinn’s and Brannon’s performances added a great interest to the meet, from a local standpoint. Bill Flinn is another of the rapidly growing list of athletes developed at Davidson who, until they came here, had not been outstanding in their event. Captain Pritebett says he has not vaulted over 20 or 30 days since he has been in school. It is very likely that he will break his own record several times before he graduates and should place it somewhere in the neighborhood of 12 feet. Additionally, he is a coming broad jumper.

Soup Brannon easily smashed his own two-mile mark and did it in such a decisive fashion that it made it look like child’s play. His running form is pretty to watch, for the very simplicity and steadiness of it show it to be well-nigh perfect. He will be heard from in the state meet this year, unless we are far wrong. Baucom, Carolina’s two-mile ace, ran the distance four seconds slower than Brannon did last Saturday.

One or two more observations from the weekend’s track meet: Alec Earl has more plain fortitude than we have had the pleasure to view in quite a while. Running a grueling mile and coming back to pace through an impressive two-mile and finishing as strong as he did! Running both distances is equally hard and takes everything a man has. 

The most promising freshman track men are Halyburton and Henry Rhyne. Halyburton is consistently showing a clean pair of heels to all contenders in the 220 and 440. And Rhyne went 5 feet 11 inches in the high jump Friday. His form may not be orthodox, but it gets the desired results.

Both teams are sorely in need of another pitcher. No slight intended to any of the present crop, who are doing yeoman service every time they are called on, but it cannot be denied that one veteran hurler who could be counted on to hold the opponents to seven or eight hits a game would materially alter the circumstances on the diamond. We believe that the Davidson hitters could go out and drive in enough runs to win most of the games if they could get consistent hurling. However, not casting all aspersions on the hurlers, the support given them has not been of the highest at times recently.

The two final home baseball games of the season are on Monday and Wednesday, against N. C. State and Duke respectively. With the schedule as full as it is now, it is hardly likely that any more games will be brought here. State and Duke both present very good outfits and the games will be well worth watching.

Duke; Sharp, Duke. Height: 11 feet, 4 inches. High jump—Smith, Duke, first; Lemon, Duke; Brewer, Duke. Height: 5 feet, 7 inches. Broad jump—Fulmer, Duke, first; McCall, Davidson; Flinn, Davidson. Distance: 23 feet, 1 inch.

DAVIDSON NINE TROUNCES ELON

The Davidson Wildcats gained sweet revenge last week by trouncing the Elon nine on the home diamond by the score of 15 to 8. Playing under perfect weather conditions, the Davidson batsmen found their batting eyes to garner 17 hits off of two Elon pitchers and this, combined with frequent errors, gave them an easy victory. George Bailey hurled good ball for seven innings, allowing the Christians only six hits. However, he was touched for a trio in the eighth and gave way to Croker, who finished the last stanza.

Ross started in the pitcher’s box for Elon but was removed after the rampaging Wildcats had batted around, scoring five runs. Zeb Harrington, brought in from shortstop, stemmed the tide temporarily but soon the Wildcats solved his ball, and concentrating on three innings scored ten more runs. Extra base knocks were frequent, with Mathis leading the field with a double and a triple. Mathis and Proctor divided percentage batting honors for Davidson, both getting three hits out of four trips to bat. Williams hit best for Elon with three hits out of five to his credit.

Box score and summary:

Elon
Ab R H Po A
Fogleman, ss 4 2 2 2 1
H. Harrington, rf 3 1 1 0 0
L. Harrington, 3b 4 2 1 1 4
Latham, c 4 0 0 1 1
Williams, 1b 5 1 3 9 0
Caddell, cf 4 1 1 6 0
Roberts, cf 3 0 1 2 0
Asbery, 2b 4 0 1 1 4
Ross, p 1 0 0 0 0
Gordon, ss 1 1 2 0 0
a—Waters 1 0 0 0 0
b—Clarke 1 0 0 0 0
Totals 37 8 11 24 10

Davidson
Ab R H Po A
Mills, ss 6 2 1 2 1
Bernhardt, 3b 5 2 2 1 1
Goodson, 2b 5 5 3 1 5
Proctor, 1b 4 3 3 13 0
Armfield, c 5 2 2 2 1
Mathis, lf 4 2 3 3 0
Covington, rf 5 0 0 0 0
Bradsher, cf 5 0 1 2 0
Bailey, p 4 0 0 0 2
Croker, p 1 0 0 0 1
McCoy, cf 1 0 0 0 0
Totals 42 15 17 27 11

a—Batted for Ross in ninth.
b—Batted for Roberts in second.

Elon 200 000 060—8
Davidson 500 203 50x—15

Summary: Errors, Fogleman, H. Harrington, Latham, Gordon, Mills, Bernhardt, Goodson, Armfield, Bailey. Two-base hits, Armfield, Bernhardt, Mathis. Three-base hits, Harrington, Caddell, Mathis. Sacrifice, Mathis. Double play, Proctor (unassisted). Stolen bases, Mills, Bradsher. Struck out, by Harrington, one. Base on balls, off Ross, 1; Harrington, 1; Bailey, 7. Passed balls, Armfield. Left on bases, Elon, 10; Davidson, 8. Hits off Ross, 3, with 5 runs in one inning; off Harrington, 14 with 10 runs in 7 innings; off Bailey, 9, with 7 runs in 8 innings; off Croker, 2, with 1 run in 1 inning. Umpire, Brandon. Time, 2:10.

General Electric Contributions to Health

Sunlamps are a popular feature of the swimming pool at Hotel St. George, Brooklyn, N. Y. General Electric engineers cooperated with the medical profession in developing G-E products that safeguard health. Notable among these are the x-ray tube, the G-E refrigerator, and the G-E Sunlamp. Of these three, the Sunlamp is the latest development, but it has already been acclaimed for its service in helping build that vitality which maintains the happiness of good health. At Cornell University, members of “cold classes” (under brief, ultra-violet-ray lamp treatments) reported 40 percent fewer colds than were reported by classmates in a group without this treatment.

Beyond home and college, the use of Sunlamps has extended to swimming pools and indoor golf courses. In the future, you may enjoy the Sunlamp as a standard fixture in offices, trains, clubs, and many other places where people gather. And you may continue to see new, unusual, and useful developments from G-E engineering and research. Among such products, there will doubtless be further contributions to personal health, comfort, and convenience, as well as to the promotion of industrial efficiency.

GENERAL ELECTRIC