THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1931

WILDCATS MEET STATE IN GREENSBORO SATURDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

FRESHMAN TEAM ASSUMES SHAPE

When the ole home team fails to come through with the well-known bang, and when the annual big noise and
whoopee following a victory is observed to be lacking more than usual, a sports columnist finds himself in an unenviable
position. Should he be hypocritical in his comments or should he make alibis for the boys; should he attempt to
locate the root of the trouble or let matters take care of themselves?

For the second time in years Elon has scored on the Wildcats—admittedly by a freak this time, but a score
nonetheless. And a score of 13-2 for the Wildcats over the Christians is not the usual run of things. Comparative
scores in recent years in practically all cases show shut-outs for Davidson over Elon, with the ’Cats maintaining scores of
usually thirty points or over. It is obvious that Coaches Monk and Tex, in making numerous substitutions, were attempting to
discover the best line and backfield combinations, and this undoubtedly brought down the Wildcat scoring possibilities. In addition to this,
according to Coach Monk, the team as a whole displayed an attitude which was by no means a winning one.
In other words, they collectively played merely for the sake of playing and not to win. Time and again the
Christians threatened to score, and were it not for the fact that the breaks were against them, they would doubtless
have scored. Yards gained from scrimmage: Elon 119, Davidson 222. Not so bad. First downs: Elon 8, Davidson 9. Not
so good.

One fact should not be disregarded, however, and that is that Elon undeniably has a very good team this year
as compared with past years. That, to some extent, lowered the margin of their defeat by the Wildcats. Their passing
attack, led by Pete Williams, completely baffled the ’Cats, and five completed passes out of twelve attempted netted them about
53 yards.

However, despite the gloomy outlook, we are cheered up by the unusually good showing of Gardner in his new role
at half, and the flashy work of Pierce, who made both touchdowns for the ’Cats. When Gardner finds a hole,
we notice that he goes through it like a ton of bricks, and when he finds no hole, he immediately
proceeds to make one big enough for a house and lot. With Gardner as interference and Pierce carrying the ball,
we see no reason why ten or twenty yards shouldn’t result each time. Pierce’s run of about twenty-eight yards for
the first touchdown was one of the neatest pieces of running of the entire game, and his elusive side-stepping brought
the entire stands to their feet. Not forgetting the line, the work of Mathis at guard must not be overlooked,
as well as that of Brown at right-end, whose defensive work was especially noticeable.

Coach Younger is holding night sessions this week with all the backfield candidates, and we predict a good scrap in
Greensboro Saturday night when the ’Cats meet N. C. State. For the past two years Davidson has beaten the Wolfpack,
and from all reports Clipper Smith is truly gunnin’ for the Wildcats. It is reported that the Wolfpack has been
weakened by various and sundry injuries, but with the sting of two successive defeats in as many years, and considering
the mediocre showing of the Wildcats last Saturday, it will be an inspired Wolfpack which goes on the field next
Saturday. At least a fifty percent improvement in form will be necessary for the ’Cats to compete effectively and win.
This game with State will prove in some measure the acid test for the Wildcats. Whether Monk Younger’s pre-season pessimism
was justified or not will soon be proved; and if the showing of the ’Cats against Elon was no indication
of their relative strength, this game should confirm the point.

“Bud” Raker Will Captain Wildcat Football Team On Gridiron This Season

Doc Mathis Elected Alternate Captain

“Bud” Raker, of Lexington, will captain the Wildcats on the gridiron this fall. Selection of Raker as their leader was
made at a meeting of the lettermen last Thursday night. “Doc” Mathis was selected as alternate captain.

Since last season, the coaching staff had been wondering if a plan of appointing a different player to serve as
captain in each game would not prove superior to having a captain, selected by the lettermen, lead the Wildcats throughout
the schedule. Coaches Younger and Tilson had hoped to change the precedent and start out the new plan this year,
and for that reason selection of a captain was not made at the close of the 1930 schedule. But, after
much consideration, the staff changed its mind and called for a meeting of the lettermen last Thursday night, leaving the
matter up to them. Since only lettermen who are out for the varsity were present at the meeting, the voting
did not include lettermen who played on the 1930 Wildcat eleven and graduated last spring.

Raker, who is playing his third year as a member of the varsity, is playing an end position this fall.
He was shifted from tackle, where he has been the past two seasons, to the flank position when Coaches Younger
and Tilson thought he would prove more valuable to the team at the latter post. A scarcity of ends was
caused by the graduation of Jim Procter and the failure of Mart Miller to return to school this year.

Mathis, who was selected as Raker's alternate, is also playing his third year as a varsity member. He patrols a
guard post. Besides being a leader on the Wildcat gridiron, Mathis is also a stellar forward on the basketball court
and an outfielder on the baseball diamond. He was selected last winter to captain the Davidson five in 1931.

Freshman Squad Is Heavier Than Usual

The Freshman football squad is shaping into a Wildkitten eleven now after practice which has included the various forms of
early training. The squad is heftier than that of last year and at present seems a bit better. In addition,
it might be said that the boys are showing good spirit and working hard. The number of boys at work
is smaller than usual but new players are reporting and it is probable that there will be as many as
in former years. The coaches urge all men of size in the Freshman class to come out and draw uniforms,
which are still accessible.

Those who apparently look best in their respective positions are as follows: Centers, Lee, Van Story and Batte; guards, Rives,
Potter, Brewer and Ben and Charlie Forte; tackles, Hand, Sievers, Smith, Gomez and Macafie; ends, Morris, Morgan, Miller and Koenig;
quarterbacks, Mackorell, West and Hufford; fullbacks, Caton, Dupuy and Morrison; halfbacks, Wingfield, Hutchins, Rogers, Bernado and Bumgarner.

In addition to the above players, there are several who show promise of development and, since the team is not
picked, it is largely a matter of conjecture as to those who will make up the final selection.

Twenty-eight Men Compete in Tennis

The Davidson College fall tennis tournament opened last Monday, September 21, with twenty-eight entrants. This competition is for the purpose
of selecting a six-man team to play any matches which are scheduled for the fall. Five men were seeded in
the following order: Halverstadt, DuBose, Lafferty, Calder and Myers. All of these men, with the exception of Myers, drew a
bye in the first round of the tournament.

The results of the first matches were as follows: Morrow defeated McIlwaine, 6-0, 7-5; Lake defeated Dill, 6-2, 6-1; Bernhardt
defeated Marvin, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3; Enloe defeated McLean, 7-5, 6-4; T. H. McCallie defeated Sevier, 9-7, 7-5; McKeithen defeated Mullis,
4-6, 6-4, 6-0; Harrison defeated Caldwell, 6-0, 6-4; McCall defeated Rice, 6-3, 6-3; Myers defeated Kirkpatrick, 6-3, 6-4; Spencer defeated
Dwelle, 6-3, 6-3; Moss defeated Marvin, 6-1, 6-4; Schenck defeated McCallie, 6-3, 2-6, 6-3.

There is a match pending with the Greensboro Country Club for Saturday, September 26, to be played there. If this
match materializes, six men will make the trip to Greensboro.

(Continued on page 4)

Doc Mathis, Alternate Captain of Wildcats

’Cats Have Won Six Out of Twenty-one Clashes With State

When N. C. State and Davidson meet in their night football game in the World War Memorial Stadium at Greensboro
at 8 o'clock next Saturday, it will be the 21st meeting of these two institutions. State and Davidson started their
football melees in 1899, and in the intervening time the Technicians have won 11The victorious in six, and four of
them have ended in knots. The Wolfpack has twice as many points as the Wildcats. Four of Davidson's victories have
been chalked up since 1925, and two have been won in the last two years. The all-time record follows:

Year State Davidson
1899 0 0
1900 0 17
1901 27 6
1902 0 5
1907 6 0
1908 21 0
1913 26 6
1916 0 0
1917 7 3
1919 36 6
1920 23 0
1921 3 3
1922 15 0
1923 12 6
1924 10 10
1925 0 9
1926 0 3
1927 25 6
1928 14 7
1929 0 13
1930 0 12

Totals 225 112

Annual Cake Race Will Be Held Friday, Sept. 26

The Freshman Class will hold its annual cake race Friday, September 25, at 4:30 p.m., over a course 1.7 miles
long, and all Freshmen are invited to enter. Those men going out for Freshman football are not expected to enter,
however, as the purpose of the race is to find new track material. H. L. Whittle, Director of Intramural Athletics,
especially urged that as many Freshmen enter the race as possible for the reason that some man who thinks himself
not proficient in athletics may find that he has some ability in track work. As an extra incentive for entering
the cake race, there will be ten prizes awarded to the winners, presented by the local boarding houses and merchants.
This race is also being run to line up some of the men who will enter the cross-country meets, several
of which are to be held this fall. The Freshman record at present is held by Rufus Morrow, ’34, who
won the race last year with a time of 10 minutes, 30 seconds.

’Cats Defeat Christians Saturday Afternoon in Year’s First Game, 13-2

Game Marked by Much Fumbling and Spotty Blocking and Tackling

The Davidson Wildcats won over the Elon Christians with a score of 13 to 2, in the opening game here
last Saturday afternoon. It was a typical early season game, rather ragged with considerable fumbling and spotty blocking and tackling.
About three thousand witnessed the contest. Charlie Pearce scored both of Davidson's touchdowns, one in the first quarter and the
other in the second. A safety in the fourth period accounted for Elon’s two points, Brawley blocking a punt and
tackling Pearce, who recovered back of his own goal line. Davidson gained considerably more ground from scrimmage, but outscored Elon
in first downs only by nine to eight. The Christians reached Davidson's five-yard line on two occasions, and Rollins, Elon
end, let a pass from Williams slip through his fingers when he was but a few yards from the goal
line. Had he caught it, a touchdown would have been a certainty. The Wildcats had the upper hand in the
first half, but the Christians had them in a hole in the third period and threatened also during the fourth.
There were few flashes of spectacular form from either club. Pearce did a fine bit of running for the winners,
and Buddy Gardner did fine work in his new position as halfback, where he has been shifted from the line
this fall. Doe Mathis showed fine form in the line. The Christians showed that they were good at passes on
the opening of the game. Having received and beginning a drive from their 27-yard line, they ran a quick pass
play, Williams making a long heave to Rollins, who had sneaked out to the sidelines. Rollins missed this one by
inches. Elon was forced to punt after line play failures and Davidson started upfield from her own 45-yard line. Buck
Mills started in with an 8-yard slant off tackle, McQueen completed the first but fumbled when he was tackled, Pearce
recovering for the Christians. Again the Christians failed in an effort for a first down and kicked. Davidson began another
offensive, featured by King’s 12-yard end run and his 27-yard gain on a quarterback sneak that apparently baffled the Christians.
The march was twice summarily halted, however, when Mills was thrown for 7-yard losses on separate occasions, Barrier finally being
forced to punt for Davidson from his own 37-yard line. Elon kicked again and this time the Davidson offense clicked
better, Mills, King, and McQueen making a first down off tackle slants. They fell short of a second down, however.
The Christians gained possession of the ball on their own 23-yard line. A short punt by Caddell, for Elon, gave
Davidson the ball on the Christians’ 28-yard line, and after McQueen had failed on a line smash, Charlie Pearce, subbing
for Mills, cut off tackle, reversed his field, and dashed the 28 yards across the goal line standing up. It
was the niftiest running of the afternoon. King made a good placement kick. Pearce and Gardner did the chief carrying
of the ball in the second quarter, and without giving it up, marched to a touchdown. The touchdown play was
strange. Pearce, unaided by blocking, found a hole to dash across the stripe. He, himself, failed in a place kick
effort for the extra point, Rollins breaking it up. Elon took the play away from the Wildcats in the second
half and kept the ball throughout the third quarter. The Williams-Rollins flat passes were the most effective parts of the
drives, one for an 8-yard gain putting Elon on Davidson’s 5-yard line. Mauldin’s fumble and Brown's recovery stopped this threat.
When Barrier kicked out, Elon launched another attack, but Mills made the lone pass interception for Davidson. Barrier kicked out
again and a third passing attack brought Elon down short on Davidson's 6-yard line. One was good for 21 yards,
a beautiful flip from Williams to Rollins. Elon faltered again in the shadows of the goal posts and a grounded
pass on the fourth down gave Davidson the ball. Davidson rallied in the final period and was in possession of
the ball more, showing flashes of drive. It was in this quarter, however, that Rollins blocked Pearce’s punt deep in
his own territory, the ball rolling free over the goal line. Pearce picked it up and clung to it as
he hit a wire fence back of the goal posts. He was bumped pretty badly by the impact but sustained
no serious injury. Coaches Younger and Tilson made frequent substitutions and many second and third string men saw action though
the regulars were in when Elon did most of her damage.

Davidson Position Elon
Raker LE Rollins
Withheld LT Waters
Mathis LG Lewis
McConnell C Morphis
Bates RG Peoples
Widenhouse RT Rogers
Brown RE Brawley
King QB Roberts
Mills LH Mauldin
Gardner RH Dofflemeyer (c)
McQueen FB Williams

Score by quarters:
Davidson 6 7 0 0—13
Elon 0 0 0 2—2

Scoring summary: Elon, safety; Pearce, sub for Mills. Davidson, touchdowns, Pearce 2; point after touchdown, King (placement).

Substitutions: Elon, Reiber, Hughes, Winecoff, Duncan; Davidson, Clark, Baggett, Creech, Flinn, Cannon, McElrath, Blanton, West.

Officials: Rawson (Georgia), referee; Kirkpatrick (N. C. State), umpire; Davis (Davidson), head linesman; Hackney (Carolina), field judge.

We Cater to Davidson Men
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

“DRUGS” “SODA”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”
