THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1931

Varsity Debate Tryouts Soon

Although nothing definite has as yet been decided, tryouts for the Varsity Debating team will probably be held on Thursday, January 29, it was announced by Jas. A. Jones, who is in charge. About thirty men are expected to take part in the preliminaries, from which six men are to be chosen to represent Davidson College in the forensic field. A. R. Bird, William Rule, Edgar D. Kuykendall, P. S. Knox, and Jas. A. Jones, all members of last year’s debating team, are among those expected to turn out for the trials. From all indications, Davidson will be represented by an experienced team. The schedule will include meets with fifteen colleges throughout the United States.

Supt. Allen Recommends Consolidation of Schools

Biennial Report Advises Economy in the School Administration

Raleigh—“Are the administrative costs too high in North Carolina,” asks Supt. A. T. Allen in that part of his biennial report recommending economy in school administration and suggesting the consolidation of units. “In this state,” he says, “there are 195 separate and independent school units, 100 county systems and 95 charter systems within the counties, besides a great number of special tax districts which have many independent privileges. The counties vary in size from 17,150 pupils enrolled in Johnston County to 1,446 in Dare County. Charlotte represents the largest unit among the cities with an enrollment of 16,387. The smallest charter school is Dobbersville with 88 pupils.”

There are, according to this report, 22 units, county and charter, having more than 10,000 pupils, 17 having from 8,000 to 10,000 pupils, 19 having from 6,000 to 8,000 pupils, 27 having from 4,000 to 6,000 pupils, 37 having from 2,000 to 4,000 pupils, and 73 units having fewer than 2,000 pupils. “The combined enrollment in the 15 city systems with from 1,000 to 1,500 pupils is 18,039. They pay a total of $48,320 for the salaries of superintendents, or an average of $2.68 for each pupil enrolled. The average cost of administration in county units is less than 50 cents a pupil. If all of these 15 city units were combined, they would make a system about the size of Robeson County.”

Superintendent Allen recommends that all charter systems having fewer than 2,000 pupils enrolled be consolidated with the county system. “If the schools with fewer than 2,000 pupils now operating under special charters,” he says, “should come into the several county systems, there would remain only 129 systems of schools in the state as opposed to the 195 at present. This enlargement of administrative units, in my opinion, would add greatly to the efficiency of the public school system, and make it possible to do the administrative work with many fewer dollars.”

WILDCAT TEAM (Continued from page 1)

Wake Forest to their credit to give them undisputed hold on third place with a percentage of .500. The Tar Heels, using a man-for-man defense and utilizing the great height of their team and fast passing as their chief offensive weapons, are far from down and out as a result of their lone defeat at the hands of Davidson. These Carolina giants have a team that is right now just about on a par with any in the state and one which will cause plenty of trouble. Dameron and Marpet, veterans of former years, are polished players, and Wilmer Hines, Sophomore forward, showed a disturbing aptitude at the basket from a side court position.

Wake Forest has dropped decisions to both State and Duke and seems to be doomed to the basement. Several of their lettermen from last year’s squad who are still in school did not report for basketball this winter, and the Deacon mentor is handicapped by lack of material. The race this year seems to be more evenly balanced than ever before. No team can yet be made an odds-on favorite, and any one of the four leaders are in a position to hop to the lead with a single week's series of wins over Big Five opposition. The standing of the teams through Saturday night’s games is as follows:

W. L. Pet.
Davidson 4 0 1.000
Duke 1 0 1.000
N.C. State 1 1 .500
Carolina 0 1 .000
Wake Forest 0 2 .000

Report of Allen Shows Progress in Education

Raleigh—State Superintendent A. T. Allen, in chapter 2 of his report to the governor and members of the General Assembly, presents an array of statistics showing the growth in public education. “A review of the annual school statistics for the past several years,” he begins the chapter, “will disclose the fact that there are certain fundamental problems of education which have not been solved. It will be further observed, however, that considerable progress has been made towards the solution of some of these problems.”

Superintendent Allen then shows by statistical tables the changes that have been made. In the school year 1900-01 there were 431,358 pupils enrolled; now, 1929-30 there are 866,939. The length of school term varies from 120 days in many rural districts to 180 days in nearly all charter districts. The average term in all schools has just about doubled since 1900-01, having increased from 80 days to 154 days. At present 500,880 or 82.5 per cent of the white school enrollment and 99,164 or 38.2 per cent of the colored enrollment are in schools operating eight months or more.

There are still a number of small schools scattered through the rural sections of the state—2,111 one-teacher schools, 1,345 two-teacher schools and 530 three-teacher schools. Large consolidated schools are taking their place—in 1929-30 there were 988 schools of this type. Beginning in 1915 with six vehicles hauling 247 children, the activity of public transportation of pupils has grown until now there are 4,021 vehicles transporting 181,141 children to school.

The total cost of public elementary and high schools in 1900-01 was $1,248,157; by 1919-20 this amount had been multiplied by ten to $12,214,258; and by 1926-27 it had trebled this cost, $36,701,501.36. Since 1926-27 the cost of education shows a tendency to decrease. The cost per pupil enrolled was $44.53 in 1926-27, whereas in 1928-29 it was $41.99. This reduction is due largely to a decrease of building activities, the report states.

HIGHEST RATING (Continued from page 1)

versities of this country. In determining the standing of the colleges, said the bulletin, emphasis is placed on the character of the curriculum, the efficiency of the instruction, the standard of regular degrees, the conservatism in granting honorary degrees, the tone of the institution, and its success in stimulating and preparing students to do satisfactory work in recognized graduate, professional or research institutions. Other matters considered by this rating agency include the hours of work required for graduation, the size of the faculty in proportion to the student body, the annual operating income from endowment and students, and the material equipment and upkeep of the college.

Davidson is a member of two very high branches of education in the United States. It is a member of the Association of American Colleges and the Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools of the Southern States.

Seniors to Write Own Excuses

Changes Are Proposed in Intercollegiate Athletic

Cleveland, Ohio—(IP)—Limitation of intercollegiate schedules, reduction of intercollegiate athletic eligibility to one or two years, organization of two or more teams in each sport, and endowment of college athletics were proposed as possible means of reducing emphasis on intercollegiate football by Prof. Joseph E. Raycroft, speaking before the American Association of University Professors here.

Prof. Raycroft, chairman of the association’s committee on student health and athletics, admitted none of the proposals were original with him, but said he believed them the best of the many solutions being offered in the widespread discussion of the problem. He indicated little alarm over the situation, saying there was a general decrease of interest in intercollegiate football on the part of the undergraduates themselves, who often preferred other diversions while big games were going on.

Journalistic Awards Given by George Milton

The late George F. Milton, president and editor of theChattanooga News, in the considerable improvement in the condition,” he stated. 

An earnest desire to render permanent service to the cause of international peace—an ideal to which his life was devoted—established in his will a fund to be known as ‘the George F. Milton Awards in Journalism, the income from which is now available to Southern writers. For 1931, a cash award of $500 will be made to the writer who shall publish in any newspaper or periodical in the South during the calendar year of 1931 the best editorial or editorials advancing the cause of international peace. The term “South” shall be understood to mean the following states: Tennessee, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Maryland. Some Davidson students have a good chance to win this prize.

Writers should submit two clippings of their published articles pasted upon white sheets 8 1-2 by 11 inches. One sheet should be labeled with the name and address of the author, name of periodical in which the article appeared, and date of publication. The other sheet should contain only the clipping. All articles should be mailed to “The George F. Milton Award,” Division of University Extension, Box 4218, The University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tenn., and must be received by December 31, 1931.

In addition to the award in journalism, the Milton fund provides for a cash award of $200 to the woman writer in the South who shall accomplish most for her sex during the calendar year 1931. This award will be determined, without competition, by the administrators of the fund. The decisions will be announced as soon as possible after the first of the year, and checks will be mailed to the winners. The administrators reserve the right to withhold awards if no contributions are sufficiently worthy.

Dr. Fritz Pregl, Nobel prize-winner in chemistry in 1923, died of pleurisy at Graz, Austria, in December, at the age of 61.

Evidence that a race of cannibals once lived on islands just off the coast of what is now Texas, has been discovered by George C. Martin, one of the nation’s leading archeologists.

That a child 11 months old is more intelligent than the wisest of apes is the conclusion drawn by Prof. Helen Hetzer, of Berlin, after four years of experimentation.

Davidson Theatre
Monday and Tuesday, January 19th and 20th
“REDUCING” with MARIE DRESSLER AND POLLY MORAN
Wednesday, January 21st
“PAID” with JOAN CRAWFORD
Thursday, January 22nd
“OFFICE WIFE” with DOROTHY MACKAILL AND LEWIS STONE
Friday, January 23rd
“PRINCE OF PLUMBER” with CHARLES FARRELL
Saturday, January 24th
“THE LASH” with RICHARD BARTHELMESS

The plan 30 years ago. It was then proposed by Dr. Charles R. Harper, the first president of the University of Chicago.” Although the organization took no official action on Prof. Raycroft’s suggestions, there was considerable informal discussion of the entire athletic situation.

It has been reported that important helium supplies, sufficient to offer some competition to American sources of the gas which is used for the inflation of dirigibles, have been found in the Belgian Congo.

More dope about Solomon and his times is expected to be uncovered when scientists begin more extensive investigations into the buried relics on the site of the battlefield of Armageddon, which recently has been purchased by a group of Americans.

Clarence Darrow, noted criminal lawyer and one of the country’s outstanding agnostics, has expressed the desire that on his death his body be cremated. Darrow does not believe in an afterlife.

The finest of the three surviving copies of the fifteenth-century Gutenberg Bible on vellum, the gem of the Vollbeher collection, for the purchase of which Congress appropriated $1,500,000, is now in the possession of the National Library in Washington.

The United States has 150 places named after Lafayette, and 5,000 with names of French origin, according to Dr. Henry G. Bayer, associate professor of French at New York University.

When Arkansas schools opened after the holidays, they found in effect the new state law requiring that every student in the public schools, from primary to high school, shall hear the Bible read daily in the classroom.

Literary Societies
The two literary societies of Davidson College have suspended their meetings until after examinations, but some very interesting programs are being planned for the coming meetings. On Tuesday, February 3, the Philanthropic has a debate on the subject, “Resolved: That the United States should adopt the policy of free trade.” The speakers for this debate have not as yet been chosen. There will also be a short talk in addition to the business part of the meeting.

On that same night the Eumenean Society has planned an open forum discussion of the subject, “Resolved: Required that military training be abolished at Davidson.” This society also announces that all members having over three unexcused absences will be dropped from the society. Some time in the near future a deputation is to be sent from the Eumenean to Winthrop College to give a program at one of the literary societies there.

STUDENTS HEAR PIANIST
(Continued from page 1)
distinctly held in separate parts. This production of Brahms is truly momentous, and was happily fitted to open such a program. The C Sharp Minor Sonata (better known as The Moonlight) of Beethoven, followed the Brahms number. Very possibly Mr. Paderewski is peculiarly fitted to play Beethoven, for at his age and from his experience in life, it seems that he must have much of the Beethoven spirit. It is too bad that a carbon copy of this particular rendition could not be made. It was superb! In the final movement the chord in the second measure was not repeated, but instead struck only once. This lent, perhaps, a more forceful and stirring effect to those that so continually followed.

To many, Chopin’s B Minor Sonata was the highlight of the program. Here it was that the pianist displayed his tremendous range of dynamics; the tone colorings were perfect. Particularly noteworthy were the Largo and Presto movements.

The second half of the program was taken up by a shorter Chopin number, a Rachmaninoff group, and four Debussy selections. The last named are necessarily interesting to one fond of music. Perhaps the best single descriptive word is, enchantment. This, it seems, expresses the meaning of the Debussy group. It would be interesting to make a comparison of this with certain works of Cyril Scott.

The listed program was completed with a Liszt arrangement of Paganini’s La Campanella. The rendition of this brilliant and difficult number was flawlessly presented. The technical requirements are not easy, and to see the facility with which this master performed is not quickly to be forgotten.

Among the encores are found two Hungarian Dances of Brahms, a Chopin waltz, and finally a rather unfamiliar Moment Musicale of Schumann. In the huge audience it was interesting to note the large percentage of students. Davidson was represented by about one hundred and twenty-five.

STETSON “D” STORE
PHONE 206
Arriving on January 15th, bringing good news to Davidson men, Clothes “Made For You” under careful supervision of Stetson “D” Tailors for the startling low prices of $25.00
Also Stock Tuxedos at $25.00
FRIENDLY FIVE and JOHN WARD SHOES

“DRUGS” “SODA”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”