THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1931

Give Them a Chance Why Not? (Excerpt from August First Edition, Prison News.)

A momentous problem which confronts the citizens of the State of North Carolina is that dealing with the continued steady
increase in the population of the State’s penal institutions. Its seriousness affects in some measure every inhabitant of the State,
and while human nature is prone to side-step unpleasant situations, this question is one that cannot much longer be ignored.
There is no need, at this late date, to moralize upon the fact that the various crimes and offenses against
society, for which more than 2,600 individuals are now confined in the State’s Prison, should not have been committed. Many
of the prisoners themselves are fully aware of the truthfulness of such a statement, but all of this is beside
the point as regards the best solution of a situation which does exist and one which daily becomes more perplexing.
The humane side of the matter, alone, represents a grave responsibility. Hard-boiled indifference and fanatical adverse opinions of the self-righteous,
aggravated by grievous offenses on the part of the vicious, the depraved or the unfortunate, in nowise release anyone from
a moral obligation to serve as their “brother's keeper.”

The purely economic features involved in the prison problem are tremendous. General conditions make it no longer possible to profitably
employ any except a small percentage of prisoners and the expense of maintaining several hundred in idleness runs into a
surprising sum in the course of a year. And this unavoidable financial loss must of necessity fall upon the already
over-burdened shoulders of the taxpayers. Prisons are not only for the purpose of protecting society and punishing those guilty of
offenses against its laws, but at the same time an effort should be made to rehabilitate the offender. The length
of time necessary to accomplish this result varies with each different individual. Some will never reform, others have no need
of it since they are merely the victims of circumstances and ill-fortune and are in no sense criminals at heart,
while many have to be purged by this fire of imprisonment. Our opinion on the matter may be prejudiced but
at any rate it is a first-hand one resulting from several years’ close association with all kinds of prisoners and
we are firmly convinced that several hundred of our inmates could be released immediately at a gain to themselves, their
dependents and the taxpayers of the State. Rather than require that a prisoner serve a stated number of months or
years, as the case may be, and then be released to follow his own desires and inclinations, wouldn't it better
meet the ends of justice, as far as both society and the prisoner himself is concerned, to parole him when
he has completed one-half or two-thirds of his original sentence, provided that he has conducted himself in a seemly manner
and has given evidence that he will continue so to do if placed on probation?

The prison officials, through their daily contact with their wards, should be the judges as to an inmate’s worthiness for
parole rather than court officials who sat in judgment on his case in the past—dim distant past, in many cases.
Those released under this suggested parole plan, and by the word “parole” we do not in any sense mean merely
“turned loose,” should be required to find employment immediately and should continue to follow a gainful occupation. Evidence that they
are thus engaged should be furnished the prison officials once each month in the form of a statement from a
reliable person setting forth the nature of the employment, the amount received for same and the reason for any lapse
in their labors. A similar monthly report as to their good behavior or otherwise, should also be filed with the
prison officials. Reporting direct to the prison authorities once each month would prove to be a much more efficient deterrent
from further wrong-doing than would a haphazard method of sending word to some local county officer that their behavior has
been above reproach. These prison “bosses” are hard to fool as many have learned to their sorrow. And hence by
parole, we mean a definite period of actual probation. If this monthly evidence of employment and good behavior should be
required for two years without showing a relapse, we feel sure that the patient might reasonably be considered cured, and
the parole lifted.

Who would lose by the adoption of this plan? No one at all. And the gainer? The prisoner, by reason
of being given an opportunity to rehabilitate himself, his dependents and loved ones. And to the State of North Carolina
would accrue a two-fold gain—the expense saved in maintaining him in an institution as well as the material and social
advantage of reclaiming him to a future life of usefulness.

The Prison News, edited and published by the prisoners, is our only mouth-piece. We have tried as best we know
how for several years to correctly portray the prisoner’s viewpoint in regard to the various handicaps and

FACULTY DIRECTORY

Name | Office | Office phone | Res. phone
--- | --- | --- | ---
ATDUCKIE | Chemistry Lab. | 200 | Concord Road
Beaty | 207 Chambers | 47-J | Concord Street
Blanton | 303 Armory | Concord Street
Blythe | 303 Chambers | 190 | Dr. Grey’s Home
Brown | 221 Chambers | 62 | Concord Road
Blow | Biology Lab. | 212 | Mrs. DeVane's Home
Caldwell | 303 Armory | 113 | Concord Street
Gilmour | 2-B Chambers | S. Main Street
Gilfrie | 316 Chambers | 84 | Concord Road
Grey, W. | 118 Chambers | 181 | N. Main Street
Gwynn, P. | 136 Chambers | 129 | Concord Street
Harding, C. | 136 Chambers | 132 | Concord Street
Henreveld | 303 Chambers | None | Faculty Heights
Hobart | Basement of Watts | 128 | Mr. Jackson’s Home
Hood | Chambers | 55 | Faculty Heights
Hood | 103 Chambers | 114 | Carolina Inn
Jackson | 109 Chambers | 66-W | Faculty Heights
Baird | Gymnasium | 49- | Concord Street
Lilly, H. | 217 Chambers | 166 | N. Main Street
Lingle, T. | Chambers | 62 | Concord Street
McConnell, J. | 113 Chambers | N. Main Street
McConnell, J. W. | Infirmary | 68-J | 143 Concord Street
McCullough | 125 Chambers | 146 | S. Main Street
McGill | 107 Chambers | 19 | Concord Road
Nail | 106 Chambers | 112 | Dr. Hood’s Home
Rasmore | Library | 112 | 89 Concord Street
Rokene | Chambers | 55 | 202 Gymnasium
Pritchett, Carl | Chambers | 202 | Dr. J. W. McConnell's
Pritchett, N. | Chambers | 123 | Concord Road
Richards, G. | 202 Chambers | 125 | 101 N. Main Street
Richardson, M. | Infirmary | 94 | N. Main Street
Schongk | 210 Chambers | 187 | N. Main Street
Scott | Armory | 6 | 80 South Street
Santelle | 111 Chambers | 123 | Mrs. DeVane's Home
Shaw | Library | 134-J | Faculty Heights
Shewmake | 317 Chambers | 192 | Concord Street
Sith | Parlor of Watts | 85 | 157 N. Main Street
Steele | 114 Chambers | 177 | 192 Mount Mourne
Sho | Chemistry Lab. | 71 | Hotel
Winton | 110 Chambers | 90 | Faculty Heights
Wilson | Gymnasium | 147 | 174 Mrs. DeVane’s Home
Wingate | Gymnasium | 113 | 214 N. Main Street
Vowles | 23-A Chambers | 163 | Concord Street
Whittler | 108 Chambers | 57 | 80 Infirmary
Williams | Chambers | 46 | N. Main Street
Wood | 234 Chambers | 156 | 102 Main Street

HONEST MIRRORS

One of the most fashionable and expensive luxuries of today is a mirror of quartz crystal; not a large mirror,
of course, for such a thing could not be procured anywhere in the world, material of which to make it
being lacking—but a hand glass of small size. Quartz crystal is rarely found in flawless pieces weighing more than a
few ounces. The mirror of quartz crystal has one very interesting advantage over glass—it is colorless. No matter how fine
the “plate” may be, mirror glass is never perfectly white, if such a term may be used in signifying lack
of color. You can see this for yourself if you will take a look through it edgewise. So viewed it
will appear greenish. Now, this greenish tint is a serious misfortune in my lady’s toilet glass, for, on account of
it, the mirror does not do her complexion justice. It detracts from the rosy hue of her skin. With the
quartz crystal, however, it is different. A slab of it is just about the most colorless thing in nature; and
when skillfully cut and backed with a film of silver like an ordinary mirror, it gives back to the eye
of her who looks into it all the rosy tints, unmodified by greenish or other unpleasing rays. Hence, its popularity
as material for a costly looking-glass. “Costly” is an appropriate word, inasmuch as such a hand glass, of small size,
may easily be worth from one hundred to five hundred dollars—The Saturday Evening Post.

PAY UP NOW

An old hardened criminal in the Minnesota State Prison was asked recently what was the first step that led to
his ruin, and he answered: “The first step that led to my downfall was cheating an editor out of two
years’ subscription. When I had done that the devil had such a grip on me that I could not shake.him
off.” We are not printing this because we need money, but for your own sake. We don’t want to see
any of our subscribers in the same plight as that fellow. If you should owe some paper struggles under which
we are compelled to “carry on.” We will appreciate a frank expression from the press of the State regarding their
opinion of this suggested plan of paroling prisoners, it might be well to pay up before such a thing does
happen to you.—Tioga Gazette:

WHAT IS EXPECTED OF US

A boy just out of high school had secured a rather difficult position for one of his years, and a
friend who saw him afterward was making inquiries about it. “Pretty hard work, isn’t it?” “Yes, it’s hard.” “The men
who have had that job before you have been older than you, I imagine!” “Yes, I believe I’m the youngest
fellow who has ever tried to hold it down.” “Do you think you're going to be able to give satisfaction?”
A twinkle came into the boy’s eye. “Why, I rather think I'll have to,” he replied. “You see, mother expects
me to.” That answer was more than a jest. There is inspiration in the thought that our friends expect big
things of us. There are times in the life of almost everyone when self-confidence fails. Our faith in ourselves and
our future needs to be bolstered up by another’s faith in us. Blessed is he whose friends believe in him,
and who feels that he has no choice but to measure up to their faith. That is what Emerson meant
when he said that the office of a friend was to make us do our best.—Selected.

A “WANT AD”

One of our district superintendents will want a man for a hard charge, small salary, church in debt, people as
fine as God ever made. But it is not a case where “any dude will do.” He thinks the people
deserve the best and he wants a man such as a new Episcopal bishop recently described, in an address to
the clergy: “You are supposed,” he said, “to have the learning of a scholar, the logic of a lawyer, the
peripatetic energy of a family doctor, the exquisiteness of an artist, the wizardry of a financier, the popularity of a
Rotarian, the sanctity of a saint.” If you know such a man, we can steer him toward a hard job
next conference—Michigan Christian Advocate.

Certain winds will make men’s temper bad.—George Eliot.

Social Fraternities Issue Bids Tonight

The annual rushing season of the social fraternities on the campus of Davidson College comes to a close tonight. Each
year all fraternities are allowed about two weeks to look over and choose the men whom they wish to take
in as members. This year the official rushing season closes on the night of September 22. The day of silence
begins on that night at 10 p.m., and closes the following evening at 7 p.m. During this time fraternity men
are not allowed to speak to any Freshman. On the morning of September 23, bids or invitations to join will
be issued to those who are to be offered membership by each fraternity. After 7 o'clock of this night, two
representatives from each fraternity are allowed thirty minutes to talk with the men to whom it has issued bids. After
this time the representatives must leave and allow the Freshman the same amount of time to think things over before
seeing another fraternity’s delegation. If a Freshman “bid” decides to accept the invitation offered him, he does so by going
alone to the lodge of the fraternity, after waiting for thirty minutes from the time he is last talked to
by the representatives of that group.

Here is a list of the fraternities which will issue bids: Beta Theta Pi, Kappa Alpha, Kappa Sigma, Delta Tau
Delta, Phi Delta Theta, Phi Gamma Delta, Pi Kappa Alpha, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Phi Epsilon, and Theta Upsilon Omega.

Additions Are Made In College Handbook

The following is a Sigma Edition Dedicated to Carl Pritchett, Secretary of “Y”

Wildcat Handbook had few changes in it, being as usual a source of very helpful information, especially for Freshmen. The
1931-32 edition was dedicated to Carl Pritchett, “Y” secretary, in behalf of his beneficial and untiring efforts as secretary of
the Young Men's Christian Association of Davidson College. This year’s book contains the table of contents which indexes the handbook
into different books, thus aiding in finding various information. There is also a picture of the president or leader of
each particular division and an introductory sketch at the beginning of each section. This handbook also contains a historical sketch
of the college which it did not have last year. Another important addition is the “Who's Who at Davidson,” which
gives the names of all class and college officials. Probably the most important addition is a book dedicated to Freshmen.
This book gives much helpful information to Freshmen and saves a great deal of time. With these few changes and
additions, it makes the handbook a source of valuable information to every college student.

Freshmen Are Examined After Orientation Week

Change in Last Year’s Plans is New Feature

At a variance with last year’s plan of physical examinations, the Freshmen were not examined until after the orientation period,
so that this procedure would not conflict with any of the other features of that period. The examinations were not
begun until Monday, September 14th, and were completed by taking the men in alphabetical sections in the afternoons and at
night on last Thursday. The upper classmen will be taken care of in a similar manner, beginning with the Sophomores,
and taking the Juniors and Seniors consecutively. These examinations are holding to their regular rigidity and thoroughness, including a stressing
of typhoid and small-pox inoculation as well as urinal examination. Dr. J. W. MacConnell, college physician, is in complete charge.

Nowadays everybody wears chains and never thinks of getting them off. They juggle with them, outwit the laws.—Jonathan Leonard.

Book Review

Shadows on the Rock, Willa Cather. Alfred A. Knopf, N. Y.

A recent offering of the Book-of-the-Month Club, Shadows on the Rock, by Willa Cather, is a pleasant relief from the
usual cynicism and hurry-up tempo which characterizes so much present day fiction. It is being accorded as great a welcome
by literary critics as was her last success, Death Comes for the Archbishop, and, like it, is written with the
same serenity and calmness that is the outstanding feature of Miss Cather’s style. No complicated and fast-moving plot has been
built up, but instead the author has taken a half-dozen characters who lived in Quebec in the early eighteenth century
and has shown them to us as they went about their daily tasks. Not their great moments, not the dramatic
events, but the simple routine of the lives of these few people constitute the story. The household of Euclid Auclair,
the apothecary; his patron, Count Frontenac; Auclair’s motherless daughter, Cecilia; her little friend, Jacques; Monseigneur de Saint-Vallier; Bishop Laval; Pierre
Charron—these are the shadows on the rock of Quebec. These are the characters that Miss Cather with artistic simplicity makes
live again. If the action centers around any one person, it is perhaps little Cecilia whose devotion to her father,
whose kindness to Jacques, and whose affection for Pierre is all colored by the religious piety of the age. The
very fact that some of the lives of these people are deeply and beautifully religious proves that Willa Cather has
done a notable piece of work, for one does actually feel a sense of uplift as he reads the book.
Its main purpose seems to be the presentation of a group of beautiful friendships. In the midst of the rampant
popularity of realism, Shadows on the Rock is hopeful and idealistic.
—H. C. McFadyen.

Six Men Are Given Bids To Join Dramatic Club

Flinn, McConnell, McFadyen, Peabody, and Pope Selected

Six bids were issued Monday by the Red and Black Masquers for membership in the Key Club. They were made
to men who had done previous work on the Davidson stage or who had shown an interest in the club's
proceedings. The bids were issued to William Flinn, who in his Freshman year participated in plays; John D. McConnell, who
has both acted and assisted in productions; Henry McFadyen, who two years ago played a minor part in “Whappin Wharf”
and who was in charge of stage work in the major production of last year; Bruce Peabody and Reeves Pope,
both active in their Freshman year, and to Alfred Tong, who last year made such a notable debut as an
intrepid master-murderer in “The Perfect Alibi.”

NEW USE FOR COTTON

Ocracoke, N. C.—Add this one to the numerous proposed remedies for solution of the cotton price situation: Mrs. Murray Tolson,
of Ocracoke, reports she caught 23 bluefish and all that she used for bait was a piece of white cotton
cloth.

A firm in Massachusetts which manufactures pocketbooks, announces that it has more orders for its pocketbooks than it can fill.
Well, we also have more pocketbooks than we can fill.—Albany Evening News.

We've all seen better days, but let us not get too blue: Consider our old friend, Jonah. He got ’way
down in the mouth. But he came out all right. From the day you were born till you ride in
a hearse, things are never so bad that they couldn't be worse.
—Selected.

Magazines, Catalogs, Etc.

Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you. Handbooks, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Engraved Cards and Invitations.

6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE
