THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1931

College Calendar

Friday, March 20—Vocational Guidance Program at 8:30 p.m. in “Y” Social Center. Dr. Edgar Gammon of Charlotte will speak on
the Ministry.

Saturday, March 21—State High School Track Meet at Davidson.

Sunday, March 22—Spring Services begin with the Sunday morning service and extend through the 25th. Dr. C. F. Myers will
lecture at chapel and at 7:00 p.m. each evening.

Tuesday, March 24—Literary Society meetings in respective halls at 7:15 p.m.

Wednesday, March 25—Meeting of Student Sunday School Teachers at 9:00 p.m. in “Y” Reading Room. Professor Blythe will speak.

Infirmary News

While making a hurried run to the Cornelius fire, B. B. Taylor fell from the truck and fractured his clavicle.

Jerome Clark and Brantley Finch have had the plaster casts removed from their broken arms.

Scott Akers has returned to college after an attack of influenza and an appendix operation.

Don Leeper is in the Davis Hospital at Statesville, convalescing from an appendix operation.

The influenza epidemic has subsided and there have been no new cases this week.

Captain Otto to Be Here Another Year

Captain Otto, of the Davidson R.O.T.C. Unit, will be at Davidson for another year. In the past, each officer has
remained at Davidson for four years. Although Captain Otto has completed his four-year assignment, word has been received by the
authorities here at Davidson that he will be stationed here for the ensuing year. Captain Otto had expected to leave
here for the infantry school at Fort Benning, Ga., near Columbus, to take an advanced course.

GLEE CLUB’S FIRST PROGRAM
(Continued from page 1)

The Sea Song.

V. Baritone Solos—Mr. Pardington.
Non e Ver.
Kashmiri Love Song.
Border Ballads.

VI. The “Doodler Brothers.”
I’ve Found What I Wanted in You.
Medley: Running Between the Raindrops.
Come a Little Closer.
Wabash Moon.
When Day is Done.

VII. Glee Club.
Goin’ Home.
On the Road to Mandalay—Solo by George Pardington, accompanied by Glee Club.

VIII. Sunnyland Serenaders.

IX. O Davidson!

CHARLOTTE MINISTER
(Continued from page 1)

attended by those interested in the subjects discussed.

Dr. Gammon has spoken to Davidson audiences before and his messages are always enjoyable and interesting. He is a former
football player and because of his wide experience, is sure to give hints of information that will be invaluable to
aspiring ministers. The time is 8:30 o’clock and a large attendance is expected for the discussion.

What the NEW HUMIDOR PACK means to Camel Smokers*

COMPARE a package of Camels with any other cigarette and note the difference in the technique of packing. Note that
Camels are completely enclosed in an outer transparent cover of moisture-proof cellophane and sealed air-tight at every point.

We call this outer shell the Humidor Pack. It differs from the ordinary cellophane pack and while it is egg-shell
thin, it means a lot in terms of cigarette enjoyment.

It means, for instance, that evaporation is checkmated and that Salt Lake City can now have as good

25 DAY CHART OF CIGARETTE MOISTURE LOSS
Average 50 packages

The Humidor Pack insures that. It prevents the fine tobaccos of Camels from drying out and losing any of their
delightful flavor.

Aside from cheap tobacco, two factors in a cigarette can mar the smoker’s pleasure:

Fine particles of peppery dust if left in the tobacco by inefficient cleaning methods sting and irritate delicate throat membrane.

Dry tobacco, robbed of its natural moisture by scorching or by evaporation gives off a hot smoke that burns the
throat with every inhalation.

Camels as Winston-Salem.

While Camels are made of a blend of the choicest Turkish and mellowest domestic tobaccos, now the new Humidor Pack
prevents dryness.

It is highly important, if you are to get full benefit of this quality, that these cigarettes come to you
with their natural moisture content still intact.

*smoke a Fresh cigarette!

Check the difference yourself
It is a very simple matter to check the difference between Humidor Packed Camels and other ordinary dry cigarettes.

First of all you can feel the difference as you roll the cigarettes between your fingers. Camels are full-bodied and
pliable. A dry cigarette crumbles under pressure and sheds tobacco.

If you will hold a cigarette to each ear and roll them with your fingers you can actually hear the
difference.

The real test of course is to smoke them. And here’s where the new Humidor Pack proves a real blessing
to the smoker.

As you inhale the cool, fragrant smoke from a Camel you get all the mildness and magic of the fine
tobaccos of which it is blended.

But when you draw in the hot smoke from a dried cigarette see how flat and brackish it is by
comparison and how harsh it is to your throat.

If you are a regular Camel smoker you have already noticed what proper condition of the cigarette means.

But if you haven’t tried Camels in the new Humidor Pack you have a new adventure with Lady Nicotine in
store.

Switch your affections for just one day, then go back to your old love tomorrow if you can.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N.C.
