THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1931

Members of 1931 Class Are Following Diversified Vocations in Many States

Alumni Office Has Gathered Data About Majority of Alumni Who Finished at Davidson Last June

BUSINESS LEADS
Ministry and Teaching Next—Class in 16 States and Two Foreign Countries

Several months have passed since the class of 1931 graduated from Davidson, and in the interim between June and today
the majority of them have located positions of business, are teaching, or doing graduate work in schools of business, medicine,
law, or are doing purely academic work. Approximately 20 of the graduates have failed to notify the alumni office about
their present occupations, and consequently no information can be given about them. Efforts have been made to gather all of
the data, and letters of inquiry have been sent to the graduates on more than one occasion, but a few
did not respond.

Of the known vocations of the 1931 graduates, 25 are in business; 14 are attending seminaries; 13 are teaching; 11
are in medical schools; six are studying law and five are making further academic preparation. It is interesting that the
most recent graduates are in 16 states and two foreign countries, including North and South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana,
Texas, Tennessee, Kentucky, Missouri, West Virginia, Virginia, Pennsylvania, New York, Connecticut, and Massachusetts. The two foreign countries are Egypt and
England.

Union Theological Seminary obtained the majority of those studying for the ministry, with 12 out of the 14. Students there
are W. P. Boyle, L. F. Cowan, S. W. DuBose, E. K. Eumurian, Jas. A. Jones, A. B. McClure, W.
B. McSwain, M. W. Norfleet, Jr., R. D. Russell, W. G. Sugg, Jr., Earl F. Thompson, and Ferguson Wood. Chas.
E. Kramer and J. S. Meacham went to Louisville Presbyterian Seminary.

W. A. Mason, H. S. Munroe, Jr., and John F. Preston are studying medicine at Duke University, while James Watt
went to the University of North Carolina Medical School. A. R. Jackson and C. H. Goodykoontz are attending medical school
at the University of Pennsylvania, and Frank L. Wilson is in Philadelphia. Other medical schools are A. D. Bethea, at
Tulane; Albert W. Cowan, at Harvard, and B. M. Drake at Vanderbilt. W. S. Gershovitz delayed his entrance to medical
school a year.

Five 1931 graduates are studying law at five different institutions. J. A. Cannon, Jr., is at the University of North
Carolina; G. W. George, at Emory; W. M. Hunter at a New York institution; W. A. Rembert, Jr., at the
University of Texas, and Chas. A. Sisson, at Harvard.

Those who are doing purely academic work are H. F. Bost, obtaining a master of arts degree at Davidson; Kenneth
M. Jackson and J. C. Matthews, studying history at Vanderbilt and the University of Virginia, respectively; Frank Pilcher, Jr., at
the University of North Carolina, and Dean Rusk, at Oxford, England.

J. K. Pepper, Jr., is the only 1931 graduate in a business school. He is at Harvard.

Among the teachers, D. G. Caldwell and R. W. McCullough are both instructors at Davidson in the departments of physics
and chemistry, respectively. H. S. Covington is at Woodberry Forest; Walter W. Fraley, at Shenandoah Valley Academy, Winchester, Va.; J.
R. Caldwell, Jr., at Chamberlain-Hunt Military Academy, Port Gibson, Miss.; J. W. McCutchan at Assiut College, Assiut, Egypt; A. H.
Shepard, Jr., at Martha Berry School, Mt. Berry, Ga.; J. A. Ward at Webb School, Bell Buckle, Tenn.; W. E.
McAlpine, at Union, S. C.; Joe D. McCall, Gastonia; H. M. Moffett, Jr., at Elise High School, Hemp; Norman W.
Raies, at Pax, W. Va., and W. Clay Thompson, at Glade Valley. Of the above, those assisting in athletic coaching
and direction are Covington, Fraley, Shepard, Ward, McAlpine, McCall, Moffett, and Thompson.

P. R. Alderman, Jr., is with D. W. Alderman & Sons, lumber dealers, at Alcolu, S. C.; A. R. Bird,
Jr., Wachovia Bank & Trust Co., Winston-Salem; Thad Brock, Glasgow-Stewart Co., Charlotte; L. H. Corbett, with H. M. Corbett &
Son, merchants, Atkinson; J. Linwood Hall, shoe salesman with his father, with headquarters at Burlington; W. B. Hancock, with the
Equitable Life Assurance Society, at Rock Hill, S. C.; J. H. Henderlite, Jr., in a dye plant at Gastonia; R.
M. King, Virginia Dare Co., in New York; J. G. Knox, in a bank at Statesville; Dan S. LaFar, with
Boysell Company, rug manufacturers, at Gastonia; Hugh A. McAlister, with the Jefferson Standard Life Insurance Co., at Lumberton; D. F.
Murphy in the fire insurance business and a night student at Benton Law School in St. Louis, Mo.; F. M.
Pridgen, Jr., with the Equitable Life Assurance Society, recently transferred from Detroit, Mich., to Rocky Mount; T. S. Neal, Jr.,
with the American Tobacco Co., Reidsville; W. C. Ragin, Jr., a chemist with the Dow Chemical Company, at Wilmington.

Others in business, the exact nature of which is unknown, include W. A. Armfield, W. W. Beattie, J. G. Berry,
C. N. Burch, III, Geo. McClenaghan, Archie W. McLean, Van Middleton, Chas. T. Parker, J. L. Severance, and R. G.
Wilson.

Supplementary information about the 1931 graduates will be published from time to time as it is received in the alumni
office.

Alumni Death
Rev. Paul P. Winn, ’69

DUKE SHINE BOY LIKES WILDCATS

DURHAM, N. C., Nov. 16—“Coach Ralph,” Duke’s ebony-hued shine boy, likes the Davidson Wildcats. He gives shoe shines in various
degrees, such as “two-bit special,” “four-bit special,” or “dollar special.” Last week he came out with a new one: “Davidson
Special.” Asked the reason for the name, he replied, “Always good.”

as a missionary. He was 86 years old at the time of his death. After graduating from Davidson, Mr. Winn
returned hereAs a teacher between 1871 and 1874, and in 1872 was awarded his Master of Arts degree. Finishing his
seminary course, he was pastor at Lenoir and Concord, and was both a pastor and teacher at Clayton, Ala., for
many years. Mr. Winn was one of the founders of the West Asheville Presbyterian Church in Asheville some years ago,
while living at Montreat. He was doing missionary work and residing with his son and daughter and was en route
to visit relatives in this section at the time of his death. Among his survivors are two sons who are
Davidson alumni, James A. Winn, 1900, of Greenville, S. C., and E. L. Winn, ’08, of Asheville.

Alumni Marriages

Carroll-Lawton
Neill Louis Carroll, 1927 alumnus of Davidson, and Miss Mary Elizabeth Lawton, both of Columbia, S. C., were married in
the Trinity Episcopal Church at Columbia on November 7. Walter W. Gregg, ’27, of Bennettsville, S. C., was an usher,
and Caldwell F. Witters, ’28, of Columbia, was one of the groomsmen. After leaving Davidson, Mr. Carroll, who was originally
from York, S. C., graduated from the University of South Carolina. He is connected with the State Company in Columbia.
Mrs. Carroll attended St. Mary’s School at Raleigh and the University of South Carolina.

Houck-Cramer
Information has just been received in Davidson of the marriage of Rev. George F. Houck, Jr., of Mill Gap, Va.,
to Miss Vienne Cramer, of Louisville, Ky., the marriage taking place on August 26. Mr. Houck graduated from Davidson in
1869 and was one of the oldest living alumni of the institution. He died in Pasadena, Calif., on November 18,
shortly after his arrival.

Davidson Theatre
MONDAY: “THE GUARDSMAN” ALFRED LUNT
TUESDAY: “ARE THESE OUR CHILDREN?”
WEDNESDAY: “POSSESSED” JOAN CRAWFORD—CLARK GABLE
THURSDAY: “SUICIDE FLEET”
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY: “AMBASSADOR BILL” WILL ROGERS

ALUMNI PERSONALS
Alumni visitors to Davidson during the past week included Rev. H. A. Knox, ’03, Liberty, S. C.; Rev. R. S.
Arrowood, ’13, Concord; B. O. Clark, ’21, Salisbury; Walter H. Lynch, Jr., ’26, Statesville; and David G. Wilson, ’26, Greensboro.
Friends will regret to learn of the deaths of the father of W. G. Guille, ’23, of Salisbury, and a
brother of Prof. Ernest A. Beaty, ’21, of Davidson.

When the section, composed of North and South Carolina and Virginia, of the American College of Surgeons meets in Greensboro
on January 28-29, two Davidson alumni will be attending the executive committee of that body. Dr. Archibald E. Baker, '16,
of Charleston, S. C., is chairman of the executive committee of the section in South Carolina, and Dr. Robert E.
Abell, ’08, of Chester, S. C., is associated with him on the committee.

James H. Carson, ’16, of Charlotte, has been elected president of the Kiwanis Club in that city. J. Allen Wilson,
’30, is now associated with the advertising department of Radio Station WBIG, in Greensboro. Dr. W. H. Sprunt, Jr., '14,
of Winston-Salem, recently attended a two weeks’ post-graduate course in surgery at the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. Col. E.
L. Gilmer, ’86, has been re-elected chairman of the Christmas Cheer Committee in Greensboro.

The famous run of Thad Brock, ’29, for 108 yards against Duke University on Thanksgiving, 1929, recently appeared on a
full-colored page of unusual events, the feat being recorded by John Hix in his cartoon, “Strange As It Seems.” Friends
will regret to learn that Rev. Coyte Hunter, '20, of Bessemer City, is undergoing treatment at the United States Veterans
Hospital in Memphis, Tenn., and that Sam R. Coker, ’30, of Hartsville, S. C., is in Johns Hopkins Hospital at
Baltimore.

Tribute will be paid to the late Dr. D. M. Douglas, ’95, president of the University of South Carolina until
his death, at a memorial service to be held at the University chapel at Columbia, S. C., on November 24th.
James T. Maddrey, ’19, has been made cashier of the Raleigh branch of the Morris Plan Bank. Mr. Maddrey was
at one time connected with the main office at Winston-Salem, but for the past year he has been vice-president of
the Asheville branch.

Dates have been set for two weddings of Davidson alumni. Richard H. MacMillan, ’24, of Atlanta, Ga., and Miss Margaret
Wooten, (Continued on page 7)

SCARLET TANAGER
Sodas — Tobaccos — Sundries
OPEN ALL THANKSGIVING NIGHT
Phone 9143
Nationally Known Stetson “D” Store

SPECIAL... FOR 10 DAYS ONLY
Camel Pile Coats - $37.50
and Justly Famous HANES Gold Label Elastic for the changeable weather of autumn and winter. For Men and Boys

HANES IS “MASCULINE” FOR “UNDERWEAR”
Specialists in male comfort determine the best place for every seam in HANES. Soft, long-wearing materials! Expert tailoring! Over 25
years of manufacturing experience combine to make the greatest underwear values you’ve ever seen. Light-weight Union Suits are excellent for
men who work indoors. Luxurious in texture! If you wear summer-weights the year through, be sure to see how the
athletic union suits and shirts and shorts are made better by HANES.
