THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 11, 1931

MAJOR BOOTH DELIVERS ADDRESS
(Continued from page 1)

Americans, English, French, Germans, or other nationalities, we are human beings; this spirit of humanity has been brought about in
a great way by the International Relations Clubs of the United States. The club here at Davidson, which sponsored the
speaker, was established in November, 1914. The Institute of Politics at Williamstown, Mass., is one of the greatest outgrowths of
this movement. The nineteenth century has been called Great Britain’s century; this country was first in wealth, naval power, finances,
exports and imports, and in diplomats. Dr. Lingle said that Mr. Booth had seen service in His Majesty’s Forces during
the late war, and gained the rank of major. The Englishman is now a resident of Chantilly, a suburb of
London.

Dr. C. Douglas Booth said that his family had been inhabitants of America before 1776, but, being Loyalists, had to
retire after 1778. However, his family later “returned to the scene of the crime.” According to the speaker, he was
neither a diplomat nor a lay expert, and that he was inexperienced in English affairs, since he has lately been
connected with Balkan affairs. He informed the audience that he had not come to tell them new facts, but to
interpret those which they already had.

A nation's foreign policy is conditioned by certain principles: geographical, economical, and historical, the latter resulting from racial sympathies or
antipathies. A foreign policy arises out of self-interest of the nation, and self-interest is probably a great stimulus to any
kind of action. Great Britain’s international system no longer concerns only Europe, but also America. This has been brought about
because of the increase of this latter country’s transports and communications; Great Britain has been surpassed by America in industrial
processes, and all this material advance will bring about an advance in power. Since this preceding fact is true—that America
has surpassed England, the former nation should now become the guide in this world, which is a great field of
action.

The British commonwealth is daily faced with problems, just as the League of Nations. In truth, this commonwealth has no
real foreign policy, because the Imperial Conference so defined the constitutional structure that the dependencies and colonies of Great Britain
were free and independent (this was performed in the conference of 1923). In 1926, the conference decided that these countries
are equal in status and are not subordinate, but that they are united by the Crown and associated as the
British Commonwealth of Nations. The separate rulers of the countries are not agents of the King of England, but are
kings in themselves. These rulers have complete control, in collaboration with their advisors; as shown in Ireland, where the ruler
will not allow “God Save the King” to be played at public functions. These colonies are allowed to make treaties,
and to maintain foreign diplomats for themselves; therefore one may see that there is only a shadowy connection between them
and England. At the 1930 conference, various legislations were provided, and the countries were given the right of secession.

An incident which shows the present connection between England and her colonies is: When Mr. Lloyd George was preparing to
attack the Turks, he asked that all the Dominions send troops. New Zealand was the only country that readily responded;
South Africa finally sent them, and Canada responded by asking for further explanation. Canada was not belligerent when England was
belligerent, therefore if Canada needed troops from England, she would have to turn to the United States for help since
the latter has gotten all the benefits of the Monroe Doctrine and would like to have the responsibilities too.

Despite these pictures of disunion, there is a foreign policy. Before the war, England had a definite notion of foreign
policy. It is directed towards the power of maintenance of what we have. England has never engaged in war except
for high motives; Great Britain did not abuse her power. She watched the progress of Europe well, and placed her
influence, wealth, and naval and military power on the side that was greatly oppressed, as in the case of France
and Germany in the late war; England believed in and tried to maintain the balance of power. This war has
brought about a great change in England; she has lost her cocksureness, and there has been a change in the
state itself. The ruling power has been changed from the aristocracy to the working masses, who not only compose the
majority, but also bear the burdens. England has surrendered with her old ideas and thoughts, the idea of sovereignty to
the League of Nations and the World Court. National sovereignty, however, will continue until each state becomes internationally-minded. England has
thrown off secret treaties, and now files treaties with the League; it has lost belief in alliances, because they are
always directed against some power, and this inevitably leads to war. England wishes to rid the world of war. The
desire for national security comes where national moral security is lacking. France cannot be blamed for her rigid security, because
she has repeatedly been the center of many wars. The foreign policy in Europe is to maintain the spoils for
herself. Italy favors a redistribution of the land which the...Allies acquired after the war; because she was promised a slice
of Dalmatia and parts of Asia Minor if she would enter the war on the Allies’ side; she was very
disappointed when she did not get this land. Mussolini has shown to the world that Italy must expand or explode,
and there has been a treaty made with Hungary, Bulgaria, and Turkey, so that Italy will get territory if there
is a war. The distribution of land has brought about Italo-Franco opposition, and these two countries are constantly at loggerheads.
To reconcile these two people is one of Britain’s hard problems; Great Britain has many other difficulties. England has friendly
diplomatic relations with Soviet Russia. This new government does not exercise any Communist propaganda against the English in their own
name, but there is an organization, the Commentaire, which receives, every several days, gifts in money from Soviet Russia. This
organization is causing much disturbance in India at the present time.

England has to support Mahatma Gandhi, because if she did not, he would lose his prestige, and the Communists would
hasten in and take charge. England hopes to get Russia into the League of Nations, because this newly formed government’s
propaganda could do much to hinder the work and aims of the League. Mr. Booth said, “It is better for
Russia to be in the League where we can watch her, than some place outside.” There is serious competition between
England and the United States, but one does not see any propaganda between the two countries. Major Booth compared this
competition with the competition between Kiwanis and Rotary clubs, it is non-acrimonious. The greatness of the British was due to
the finding of coal and iron close together, and the hard work which followed. These resources are, however, becoming more
and more scarce, and Great Britain is ending her mission as a colonial and world power. The League of Nations
cannot operate unless the governing power of the world is in it, and it needs such a power, since England
gave it up. In closing, Major Booth said, “England wishes that a related people take over her work in the
League, and that people I know will be the Americans!”

“LIBRARIES” IS THEME
(Continued from page 1)

Most people, but in medieval times students, who were in great need of books and documents, were under a handicap.
At that time books were all manuscripts and very rare, consequently they were kept chained and sequestered, and scholars were
forced to copy from them, or take down their teachers’ lectures on slates, which they memorized before cleaning their slates
each day.

“There are a great many large modern libraries. The largest is the Bibliotheque National in Paris. However, the most valuable
and most important library is in the British Museum, London. Here, there are 3,500,000 books, 56,000 manuscripts, and 52 miles
of shelves. There is a huge, domed central reading room, where a motley crew of readers is always present, Hindus,
sailors, students, and middle-aged gentlemen. In the British Museum Library one has remarkable service at his disposal, for, within ten
minutes of the asking, one may have any of the library’s manuscripts in his hands.

“Davidson College has a good library, which under the present administration and since the Carnegie Endowment, has taken great forward
strides; but Davidson is much in need of a new library. When this need is finally filled, it is hoped
that the library will have three features: first, a browsing room with easy chairs and an open fire, where students
may sit and read at leisure through the classics and recent books; second, a room with desks fitted solely for
studying; third, a room with exhibition cases for rare editions and fine bindings and various trophies.”

CAMELS are never parched or toasted? Freshness and flavor in a cigarette trace right back to natural moisture. If you
overheat or process tobacco so harshly as to dry out all natural moisture you drive out freshness and flavor too.
Camel never parches or toasts the fine Turkish and mild Domestic tobaccos it uses—they are naturally smooth, cool, mellow, with
natural moisture retained.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company’s Coast-to-Coast Radio Programs
CAMEL QUARTER HOUR, Morton Downey, Tony Wons, and Camel Orchestra, direction Jacques Renard, every night except Sunday, Columbia Broadcasting System
PRINCE ALBERT QUARTER HOUR, Alice Joy, “Old Hunch,” and Prince Albert Orchestra, direction Paul Van Loan, every night except Sunday,
N. B. C. Red Network
See local paper for time

CAMELS Made FRESH — Kept FRESH
Don’t remove the moisture-proof wrapping from your package of Camels after you open it. The Camel Humidor Pack is protection
against sweat, dust and germs. In offices and homes, even in the dry atmosphere of artificial heat, the Camel Humidor
Pack delivers fresh Camels and keeps them right until the last one has been smoked. That’s why the Camel Humidor
Pack proves such a blessing to Camel smokers—it brings them a fine cigarette fresh to start with, and fresh to
smoke. If you don’t realize what natural moisture means in genuine freshness and flavor, switch to Camels and see. Try
this mild, slow-burning, throat-friendly favorite for just one day—then leave it, if you can!

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N. C.
HUMIDOR PACK
© 1931, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
