**THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1931**

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina. Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

WILSON McCUTCHAN..............--...-. Editor-in-Chief
JACK CANNON..................-........ Business Manager
E. H. HOLMES..................-Managing Editor
W. W. WALLACE.................-Managing Editor
D. G. McARTHUR.................-Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS.................-Sports Editor
A. B. WHITNER..................-News Editor
W. B. WILLIAMS.................-Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES.................-Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON.................-Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN.................-Associate Editor
G. A. BLACK..................-Associate Editor
A. C. RAGIN..................-Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
P. M. BROWN.................-Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BAKER.................-Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEWART.................-Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY.................-Subscription Manager
R. W. FALLS.................-Solicitor
A. M. MULLISS.................-Solicitor
H. F. NICHOLS.................-Solicitor
G. P. PARDINGTON.................-Solicitor
S. P. PRESTON.................-Solicitor
C. W. SPENCER.................-Solicitor
B. B. SUGG.................-Solicitor
B. B. TAYLOR.................-Solicitor
W. B. WARD.................-Solicitor
J. R. SMITH.................-Solicitor
D. D. McBRYDE.................-Solicitor

MARCH 11, 1931

Slogans are dangerous. I am afraid of them, not for myself but for the Empire. - Stanley Baldwin.

SUGGESTIONS

We wonder what would happen if anyone in Davidson would actually win the first prize of $25,000.00 offered by a
well-known company? Several students hurried to their seats the other morning when the organist played a march before the usual
prelude. We like the idea of music as men take their places in the auditorium.

Capt. C. S. Morrison, of Charlotte, was one of the best-known railroad men in the state. Having railroaded for 51
years without receiving as much as a reprimand, an elder in the Presbyterian church, a member of the Masonic lodge,
he had an exemplary life replete with friends. Many Davidson men have ridden on his trains.

When James C. Stone accepted the chairmanship of the federal farm board he succeeded Alexander Legge. It seems to be
a question of matter over flesh; nobody wants the job: Friends always pay! Tarzan placed Sublatus in some embarrassment because
of his previous association with the great apes.

SPORTSMANLIKE CO-OPERATION

A short time ago there was editorial comment upon the difficulties and inadequacies surrounding the infirmary. In that article was
suggested the need of action as far as possible on the part of the college officials and trustees. There is
another side which appears in connection with the same subject. Most students thoroughly appreciate the necessity and advantages of having
a college physician to whom they are free to appear at any time when they are troubled about their health
or upon emergency. It is attention which insures the best possible protection against ills of divers kinds. At the same
time men should not abuse this privilege. It is a peculiar fact that most people are never as sick as
they really think they are. Of course, anyone can recognize some ailments, but others work far more damage on the
mind than they do on the body. Because of the limited time and peculiar hours allotted to it, it is
necessary for the infirmary staff to examine every man within a certain time. Fully fifty percent of these are not
dangerously sick. Due to the necessity of every man being properly examined when he presents himself, the man who is
seriously ill must wait until later before he can receive a complete diagnosis. Out of consideration for the personnel and
sportsmanship for the other fellow, it hardly appears fair to contract symptoms on a moment’s notice in order to evade
a cut which might result in an unerased absence. Respect and sympathy for others is a prime requisite.

THE NEED OF A CHURCH

Davidson College is an institution founded peculiarly for the developing of young men to carry on the work of the
church, and glorious is her history in carrying out the plan for which she was first established. Her sons have
gone out from here to serve their Master in the four corners of the earth. For a single illustration of
this, one needs only to see what a large percentage of Davidson men were taking part in the World Conference
on Missions, held recently in Chattanooga. But what about her future? To maintain this high standing of the past we
send out a special entreaty to the Southern Church. Davidson needs a new church. This need seems to me to
be preeminent. Our campus is beautiful and beautifully kept. Our dormitories are comfortable and fairly adequate to house the boys.
We have, in the New Chambers Building, one of the South’s finest academic buildings. The classrooms and the offices are
among the very best; its auditorium is a delight to every eye. It lends grace, beauty, charm, and dignity to
each service held in it. All through the week the boys have access to this campus and these buildings, which
are in keeping with the spirit of Davidson. But on Sunday morning the scene changes. The big bell announces to
students and townspeople that it is the hour of worship. Immediately there is an undefinable feeling that creeps over one,
for the place to which one is called for worship, not only fails to inspire worship, but it actually smothers
the spirit of worship in the souls of those present. Addition after addition has been made to the building to
accommodate the growing student body. It is ugly, inadequate, and uncomfortable. It behooves the Southern Church to investigate at once
and see what can be done to remedy this situation. What a tragedy that men, six hundred of the finest
of the southland, should come to a church college to fit themselves for usefulness in the Master’s kingdom only to
find that Church on the campus is among the worst of the buildings! Instead of a closer relationship between these
men and their church, a feeling of estrangement arises and the prime purpose of Davidson is being defeated. What a
tragedy that the most important part of a man’s life, the worship of God, should appear to be of second-rate
importance because of the church building! Could the Presbyterians of the South really see the situation as it exists, one
believes that they would erect on this campus one of the most beautiful churches that it is possible to build;
not the most expensive, but one that will not detract from the spirit of worship and one that is worthy
to be called the Church of Christ.

Albert B. McClure.

DAVIDSON’S CHIEF PURPOSE

While various problems and factors have been keeping Davidson College before the eyes of the newspaper reading public more or
less continuously for the last two or three months, there are certainly other matters which have a far deeper reaching
effect at the present time and will have great powers of development as regards the future. We do not wish
to diminish the importance of the questions referred to above, but we do believe that the success of the college
depends more essentially on entirely obvious but little discussed ingredients already incorporated in its makeup. First, there looms the student
body with its system of internal government. Regardless of the amount of classical understanding and scientific data provided the students,
Davidson’s paramount mission is to train the minds of young men in such a way that they will prove to
be citizens who are well balanced mentally, physically, morally, and socially. Selection and environment decree that this should be the
natural result. In its curriculum Davidson ranks among the best. It is recognized and acknowledged by any and every leading
educational institution in the country. While the quantity or variety of courses offered may be small, the quality has never
been doubted. In equipment and faculty, the college is suited for excellent work in the Bachelor degrees of Arts and
Science. Likewise, does it excel in preparation for graduate work. All students preparing for law, medicine, teaching, the ministry, engineering,
or other professions, find adequate material with which to complete their preparatory work. While a degree is of immense value,
the results derived from two or three years in a liberal arts course are not to be underemphasized. A particular
field, one which was somewhat slower in coming to the front than others, is Business Administration. One reason for this
was doubtless the fact that it had long been a custom for the average man.

What Do You Know About?

Congress Quits? The End of the World? Soaking the Democrats? Radio City?

The 71st Congress of the United States adjourned Wednesday, March 4th with the usual fanfare and blowing of trumpets, and
all the legislators returned to their homes to rest from spending the people’s money until a new Congress goes.into session
next December. The short, “Lame Duck” division has now gone into history. The last days of the life of this
congress were marked with less of the filibustering that generally characterizes its proceedings in the off years. Although no lengthy
debates about nothing had held up the workings of the Senate all during the three months’ work, the last of
the necessary bills were scarcely gotten through many hours before closing time, and the usual number of unimportant small measures
were shot through during the last few hours. The work of this session was limited chiefly to the passage of
the money bills needful for the carrying on of the government for the next twelve months. The chief exception to
this was the modified bonus measure which Congress overwhelmingly passed over the President’s veto, making more loan money available to
veterans. Muscle Shoals also came in for its annual share of discussion and a bill on it was also passed,
but the President is due to stop it.

“I myself have been particularly careful never to say a civil word to the United States. And they just adore
me.”—George Bernard Shaw.

The end of the World finally came. The three New York papers, the morning, evening, and Sunday Worlds, which were
founded by Joseph Pulitzer, finally were sold into the Scripps-Howard chain of newspapers and merged with the Telegram to form
a new paper, the World-Telegram. In order to bring about the sale, it was necessary for the sons of Joseph
Pulitzer to get a court ruling enabling them to break the will of their father. By this will, the newspaper
holdings could never be sold, but must remain in the family always, and continue to be published by the descendants
of that great journalist. Continued losses on the running of the paper, however, were regarded by the court as sufficient
reason to justify the setting aside of the will and to transfer the holdings of the World to the hands
of the Scripps-Howard chain. The purchase price, $5,000,000, was the highest ever paid for the intangible assets of a newspaper.
$3,000,000 of the sum is to be paid in cash, the remaining amount to be paid out of the profits
of the combined newspapers. $500,000 of the initial payment was given to the employees of the World by the three
Pulitzer brothers. The World at one time was among the leading papers of New York City, but increased competition, poor
management, and lack of interest by the owners were the causes given as leading to the downfall of this once
paragon of newspaperdom.

“There is nothing new in the world. Everything that happens is nothing more or less than history repeating itself.”—Al Smith.

John J. Raskob, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, caused a serious upheaval in Democratic ranks by his recent stand
on prohibition, announced at the late National Committee meeting. Raskob was in favor of return to state control, and strongly
advocated that the party adopt it as its stand on prohibition. This statement brought forth an uproar among the members
of the committee. Al Smith, 1928 nominee for president, was inclined to endorse Raskob, as were a number of others.
But opposition was not lacking and words flew thick and fast all during the day. The outcome of the matter
was that it will be referred to the National Convention for action when it meets later. Will Rogers summed up
the situation when he said the next day that neither party would do anything definite until they found out where
most of the votes were, and then both would be for it.

“There seems to be more general interest in Thornton Wilder, Ernest Hemingway, and Hugh Walpole than there is in boxing,
golfers, and ball players.”—William Lyons Phelps.

The largest single unit of buildings in the world is rapidly passing from the planning stage into a more concrete
form, with work on it to start soon. “Radio City,” a large group of buildings to cost $250,000,000 and to
cover three city blocks in New York will bear the distinction of being the largest unified block of office buildings
and theatres in the world. It will occupy an important location in the heart of the metropolis. Backed by the
Rockefellers, the buildings will house offices of the Radio Corporation of America, and a number of its allies, R.K.O. motion
picture company, Radio-Victor company, and the National Broadcasting company. Other units, also in the same block, will be thirty broadcasting
studios of the latter organization, two theatres for R.K.O.; an opera house, and a number of shops and store locations
on Fifth Avenue.

I have just seen for the first time a genuine painting in the so-called modern art. The artist took me
up into his studio and pointed it out to me. For some reason he got it mixed up with his
palette—and could hardly tell the difference. Then he got mad because I asked him when he was going to finish
it.

“Why, I have already finished it! Are you trying to tease me? You mustn’t tease me; you know, I’m not
well.”

I said that I was looking at a different painting from the one he pointed out.

“Why, I have no unfinished paintings in here.”

I was up a tree then so I said that it was very good, but wasn’t the horse’s head just
a little too square?

“Sir,” he said, lapsing into the vernacular, “’at aint no hoss!” (He was quite beside himself and I was close
by. My hat was hanging in the vernacular, I could not do other than fight my way out, so I
rolled up my fisticuffs and planted my feet to the spot where they may be seen till this very day
unless I was in the wrong house).

“Well, what is it, if any?” I queried very queerly.

“At are Truth fishing in the Gulf Stream,” he answered, still you notice, in the jargon.

“I knew that’s what it was all the time but I still think you made that horse’s head too square.”

He jumped up and tore his hair who was playing dolls over in the corner.

“Listen, bo, let’s me and you eat some of dis good peanut brittle I got like mother used to make.
Those are very fine peanut brittle if I do say so myself or if’n I don’t,” he said with tears
in the back of his coat.

He wanted to get me in a good humor, I could see—even from where I stood. So we sat down
and started to eating the candy. It gummed my mouth together so I couldn’t chew.

“I’m stuck on this candy,” I mumbled.

“Gladja like it,” he mumbled back.

Finally we started to talking of his picture again. I decided that maybe it wasn’t a horse especially if I
was going to have to eat some more of his candy. I have since learned that that is the way
he makes everybody agree that his picture is not a drawing of a horse.

“You know,” I said, “that’s not a horse after all.”

“It’s not a hoss after anything. It’s just not a hoss,” beginning to drop his dialect, which fell to the
floor. “But don’t feel bad about it. I knew it wasn’t a horse. And, would you believe it, nine out
of ten people think it is a horse. I can give you a few more statistics that will surprise you.
Do you want to hear them?”

“Yes, only I don’t care for any more peanut brittle thank you.”

He began: 500 modernistic pictures are painted every day. 475 critics think they are horses. 8 of the pictures are
horses, though very poor ones, or nags. 463 artists try to sell their pictures. 900 men and women regret the
above fact. 82 tents could be made out of the canvas used, and a very good plan too. 463 artists
get haircuts once a week. 37 didn’t try to sell their pictures, so have no money to get haircuts. 73
horsemen will sue a like number of artists for making fun of their horses. And in conclusion, it is estimated
that if the Artists’ Ball is held as usual, lots of artists will attend.

A murder trial at Princeton, W. Va., was heard over the air recently when it was broadcast by a Bluefield
radio station. It was believed to have been the first trial thus broadcast.
