CONGRATULATIONS “TEX”! The Davidsonian “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” HOLIDAYS BEGIN TUESDAY, DEC. 22 Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 16, 1931 No. 14 “The Haunted House” Is Presented at Davidson By Local Dramatic Club Red and Black Masquers Present Their First Three-Act Performance of the Year PLAYERS ARE WELL CAST Play Is a Mixture of Sustained Mystery and Humor A large and appreciative audience witnessed the Red and Black Masquers’ “The Haunted House” by Owen Davis last Friday night in Chambers Auditorium. Everyone was held in a state of doubt and anxiety until the final curtain. By stage effects and ghastly noises, a supernatural and sometimes strained atmosphere was effected. Only at happy intervals was the intensity broken by roaringly good humor. This mixture of mystery and humor seasoned with a bit of love made a combination that proved a big success. This is the Dramatic Club’s first three-act performance of this year, and because it went over in such a big way it was shown again last Monday at Barium Springs, and will be shown at a later date at Queens-Chicora College. The adroit selection of the cast by Prof. E. J. Erwin, faculty advisor, showed the work of a master and one experienced in the art of play producing. Most of them are old hands and the footlights here at Davidson are by no means new to them. This experience among the characters helped to whip the play into fine shape and make it the hit that it was. As to just which one of the comedians brought down the house the most would be impossible for one to decide. Dave McClain and Gordon Wood, those two inimitable mimics, were unsurpassed in their roles. McClain, the deep-thinking but shallow-brained, cocky and garrulous detective right hot from New York with his cigar and tilted derby, proved a contrast to the equally comical Gordon Wood, the listless but well-meaning sheriff who collapsed at every mention of blood. Jack Williams, who also played in “Bound East for Cardiff,” very skillfully portrayed the humorous character, the milkman. Horace Erwin took the part of the novelist, a character who was more amusing than funny. His solution of the plot by psychoanalysis proved somewhat a failure, but his plea for “Cherchez la femme!” was answered by a familiar stage character, Bill McIlwinen, in the role of a woman. Miss McLemore and Jimmy Simpson, who have worked together before in similar parts, were aptly cast as the bride and groom, new residents in the haunted house. Other parts were filled as follows: the tramp, A. Rachal; the chauffeur, E. A. Hancock; the wife, Miss Moffett; and the father, G. Womack. Due credit must be allotted to the stage production of (Continued on page 6) Spanish Fraternity Installed Here Sat. Delegations From University of South Carolina and University of Chattanooga Introduce Omega Chapter Omega Chapter of Sigma Delta Pi, national Spanish fraternity, was installed at Davidson Saturday evening, December 12, the official ceremonies being held at 6:30 in the Phi Delta Theta fraternity house. Delegations from the Rho Chapter of the University of Chattanooga and from the Chi Chapter of the University of South Carolina had charge of the ceremonies. Those honoring us from these two chapters were, from Rho, Prof. Terrell Tatum and Miss Alberta Bush; from Chi, Dr. R. K. Timmons and Prof. Margaret Abel, and the following student members: Misses Vaila Allen, Susie Barnwell, Mabel Brodie, Dorothy Irby, Annie Kaminer, Helen Staples, Millie Taylor, and Messrs. A. S. Hodge, E. R. Kaminer and O. H. Skewes. The altar was adorned with the beautiful Sigma Delta Pi banner graciously furnished for the occasion by Xi and Omicron chapters of New York City, and with a small flag of the new Spanish republic. Miss Tatum, sponsor of the Rho Chapter, occupying the presidential chair, had direct charge of the ceremonies. Mr. Skewes, president of the Chi Chapter, performed the duties of the secretary, while Miss Bush of Rho acted as usher, and Miss Barnwell of Chi discharged the office of announcer from the outside. Those initiated into the Omega Chapter as charter members of the active society are: J. W. Allen, F. H. Bixler, H. S. Brown, S. Creech, J. G. Dunklin, J. C. Houston, W. A. McKnight, and as honorary members: Profs. F. K. Fleagle and A. V. Goldiere. Prof. I. L. Blythe, who is already a member of Mu Chapter of Middlebury College, Vermont, is also an honorary member of Omega. Prof. Blythe has been elected official sponsor of the chapter. After the installation of the new chapter, Dr. R. K. Timmons, in an appropriate ceremony, installed the new officers. These officers are: W. A. McKnight, president; F. H. Bixler, vice president; J. G. Dunklin, corresponding secretary; J. C. Houston, secretary; J. W. Allen, treasurer; R. All the installation and initiation ceremonies were given in Spanish. At the conclusion of these exercises, all repaired to the home of Mrs. W. S. Henderson, where a banquet was enjoyed. At each plate was found an artistic place card, on which was written the menu in Spanish. The honor guest at the banquet was Dr. Walter L. Lingle, who, at the close of the repast, in his inimitable way voiced his genuine (Continued on page 6) Monk Younger Christmas Musical To Be Held Sunday Glee Club and Stringed Quartet Will Furnish Music for This Very Popular Vesper Service Plans are forming for the “Y” Christmas vesper service to be held in Chambers Auditorium, Sunday, December 20, 1931. This sacred service will mark the close of vespers this year and because of its beauty is always anticipated with a great deal of interest. It has been the custom to have such a service like this for some time. The students and people of Davidson consider it one of the best services of the entire school year. Music will be furnished by the Glee Club, the stringed quartet and the organ. The stage will be decorated with pines, firs and hemlocks arranged in symmetrical order toward the front of the stage so that those who take part are hidden from view. Above all, a star will hang and along the sides of the auditorium candles are to be placed in the windows. The order of the program is: first, the prelude followed by the processional. The invocation will be given by one of the several students taking part. Both the prophecy and the nativity will be read as part of the exercises as well as the coming of the shepherds and wise men. The service will end with a benediction. The programs are to be printed and will add much to the effectiveness of the occasion. Christmas carols will be sung by both the audience and the Glee Club. Monk Younger, Davidson head coach since 1923, who returns to coach at V. P. I. Freshman Banquet The annual Freshman banquet is to be given Friday night, December 18, at 9 o'clock in the banquet hall of the Chambers Building. The banquet this year, which is to be given in the form of a supper-smoker, is sponsored by the Omicron Delta Kappa fraternity. The program of the evening, which is usually featured by talks, is not complete at present. It is expected, however, that Captain Pritchett, Mr. Jackson, and Dean Williams, who have made the talks for the last two years, will also make them this year. These banquets are given each year for the purpose of bringing the Freshman class as a whole closer together and to let them begin to feel that they are becoming members of the student body. Dean S. V. Colonel Dan E. McGugin To Address Members of Davidson Athletic Teams December Famous Vanderbilt Football Coach and Professor to Feature “Athletic Night” in March AWARDS WILL BE GIVEN Services Mark Third Anniversary of “Athletic Night” at Davidson Colonel Dan E. McGugin, for the past 27 years head coach of football at Vanderbilt University and known as the dean of Southern football, has accepted an invitation to speak at Davidson “Athletic Night,” March, Norton G. Pritchett, assistant of physicalEducation here, on early next Capt. professor has been notified by Colonel McGugin of his acceptance. Colonel McGugin is, in addition to being a football coach, a member of the law firm, McGugin and Kyans, at Nashville, Tenn. He holds a prominent position in his profession and taught engineering contracts and constitutional law at Vanderbilt during 1909-1913. Colonel McGugin is in charge of the student military activities at Vanderbilt and has been athletic director since 1921. He is a trustee of Fisk University, Nashville, and is a member of the American, Tennessee State, and Nashville bar associations. Vanderbilt's remarkable success with her football teams has been largely due to Coach McGugin’s efforts.

Several years ago “Athletic Night” was inaugurated at Davidson and considerable interest has been shown in this annual event and custom. Each year some prominent man in athletics is selected for the occasion. Last spring, Sanford of the University of Georgia, long identified with Southern football and Conference activities, was the speaker. The year before, N. W. Daugherty, faculty chairman of athletics at the University of Tennessee and at that time president of the Southern Conference, spoke at Davidson. During this occasion, football, basketball, and wrestling certificates are awarded to the students who have earned their monograms in these three sports. Gold footballs are presented to the gridiron players and several alumni who were leaders in athletics during their undergraduate days. “Victory” footballs, won by the football team, are formally presented to Davidson College. A number of special trophies and cups for individual improvement and gymnastic competition are presented.

Dr. Hood Is Honored
Dr. Fraser Hood, head of the psychology department of Davidson College, has been signally honored in being chosen a vice-president of the North Carolina State Art Society. Dr. Hood will represent the tenth congressional district in this society, which is composed of many outstanding North Carolinians. Dr. Hood was notified of his selection by Dr. M. C. S. Noble, Jr., secretary of the organization. Governor O. Max Gardner is honorary president of the society.

Decade of Growth
Physics Fraternity, Founded at Davidson, Celebrates Its Tenth Anniversary
Last Friday morning, December 11, Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary physics fraternity, had charge of the chapel services; it was the tenth anniversary of the founding of this fraternity. Prof. W. W. Wood, professor of mathematics, led the devotional, and then the president of the fraternity, I. S. Bettis of the Senior class, presented Prof. H. E. Fulcher, professor of physics, who gave the main address on Sigma Pi Sigma. To begin his talk, Professor Fulcher said: “I once heard the president of a very excellent college urge its students to learn all that they could about the institution during their stay. He invited them to study the courses offered, the laboratories and equipment, and to learn something about their institution. This morning we are giving you an opportunity to learn about one of the many organizations that we have here at Davidson.”

Sigma Pi Sigma was founded on the night of December 11, 1921, at the home of Dr. J. L. Douglas. The founders from the faculty were Prof. M. W. Currie, Dr. J. L. Douglas, and Professor Woods. The student founders were: J. K. Price, now in the security business at Alexander, La.; N. C. McCain, now dean of Palmer College, DeFuniak Springs, Fla.; and C. M. Dew, Raeford, N. C. These men felt the need of an organization in which faculty and students could meet on common ground to study and discuss the development of physics, and to lend encouragement, sympathy, and inspiration to each other. History shows us that in practically all contributions of man to civilization, the persons were encouraged and inspired in their efforts by a person or a group of persons who were interested in the individual or his work. This principle has been clearly confirmed in Sigma Pi Sigma.

The founders had in mind only a local organization, and it was not until after four years of successful operation here under the leadership of Mr. M. W. Trewick, did it expand into other institutions. The Beta Chapter at Duke University, the Gamma Chapter at Penn State College, and so on until now we have 21 chapters scattered all over the United States, and into the Philippines. The present list of colleges and universities that has a chapter of Sigma Pi Sigma is: Davidson, Duke, Penn State College, Centenary College of Louisiana, Furman University, William and Mary College, University of Texas, and others.

Tex Tilson Succeeds Younger as Head Coach
S. D. “Tex” Tilson is Made Head Coach at Davidson
To Follow W. L. Younger
Retiring Coach Will Go to V. P. I. Next Fall to Become Assistant Coach
COUNCIL MAKES CHOICE
Assistant for Tilson Will Be Selected in Several Weeks

S. D. (Tex) Tilson was this afternoon made head coach of athletics at Davidson College, succeeding Monk Younger, who next fall will go to V. P. I. as assistant coach. The action was taken at a meeting of the Athletic Council today. After the unanimous choice of Tilson for the post was made, he was called in and notified of the action, and accepted the appointment. This action also met the hearty approval of the administrative officers. The council took no other action today regarding an assistant for Tilson, and stated after the meeting was adjourned that it would be a matter of several weeks before a choice would be made. "The field will be reviewed carefully before we reach a decision," said the council members.

Comprising the Athletic Council are members of the faculty and alumni of the institution. Alumni attending the conference were I. P. Graham, of Cooleemee, and Dr. Oren Moore and Lawrence Wilkinson, both of Charlotte. The other alumni member of the council, Lunsford Richardson, was unable to be here this afternoon, but stated in a telephone conversation this morning his choice of Tilson as head coach. Coach Tilson has been at Davidson since 1923, coming here to assist Coach Monk Younger. He had just completed a brilliant career, captaining his senior eleven at V. P. I. Recently, he was voted the greatest all-time tackle that had ever attended V. P. I. Coach Tilson has been attending to the development of the forward lines, and he will continue at this task at Davidson following his election.

Russian Singers To Appear In Concert
Celebrated Chorus Sponsored by Glee Club Will Be Here Tonight
The Royal Russian Chorus, reputed to be the “undisputed peers of choral harmony,” will offer a concert in Chambers Auditorium at 8:30 o'clock Wednesday evening, December 16. The townspeople and students are cordially invited to attend this concert, the admission being 50 cents for townspeople, and 35 cents for students. The company, consisting of a mixed chorus of 20 voices, is directed by Princess Agreneva Slaviansky. Folk songs of Russian origin and Russian dancing are the principal features of the presentation. Acclamations by eminent critics in the New York Times, the Berlin Tageblatt, the Montreal Evening Journal, the New York Globe, the Vanguardia of Madrid, as well as in many other less prominent periodicals, have been made in superlative terms of the quality of the entertainment offered by this Royal Russian Chorus. This is the first time on record that this company has performed before an audience paying such a nominal admission as that cited above. The reason for this, as explained by the Glee Club, which is sponsoring the concert, is that the company is stopping over while en route to Greensboro for another concert to be given the following night. The original Royal Chorus was founded in 1858, and has been continued for several generations by the children of the former singers in the chorus. The chorus will be attired in native Russian costumes, and the program will consist not only of the chorus numbers, but instrumental selections as well. Following the concert, the members of the Senior class will give a reception in honor of the Princess.