THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 5, 1931

Announcement Is Made By Dr. E. F. Shewmake Of Lectures for March

The Hampton Institute Quartet is Scheduled to Appear Here on March 10

POPULAR HERE QUARTET

Other Lectures to Feature H. N. Wheeler and N. V. Lindsay

The lecture committee has made plans for some very interesting attractions for the new semester. Dr. E. F. Shewmake of the lecture committee announces that the Hampton Institute Quartet is scheduled to appear on March 10, following the Wertenbaker lectures. This popular quartet has performed at Davidson several times before and their program has always been attended by large and enthusiastic audiences. A representative travels with the quartet and between the numbers makes short talks on negro spirituals.

On March 12, H. N. Wheeler will deliver an illustrated lecture on “Forest Conservation.” Mr. Wheeler has been secured to lecture at Davidson by the North Carolina State Forester, J. S. Holmes. Forest conservation is one of the questions frequently discussed today, and the lecture is therefore timely and should prove to be unusually interesting, since colored slides will be used and many beautiful scenes of virgin forests will be shown.

The climax of the series will be reached, if present negotiations materialize, in the last presentation, for it is said that the distinguished American writer, Nicholas Vachel Lindsay, has been invited to give a recital the latter part of March. Mr. Lindsay is one of the best-known of the living American writers and has lectured and recited poetry before many celebrities. Mr. Lindsay believes that strongly emphasized rhythm can convey moods to people not reached by conservative verse. This writer visited Davidson ten years ago and the committee is very anxious to arrange for another appearance if possible.

CONFERENCE ON MISSIONS (Continued from page 1)

ity, Dr. H. W. DuBose, chairman; The Pastor and Missions—His Place and Leadership, Dr. W. M. Anderson, of Texas, chairman; The Offering of Possessions—Adequately Financing Enterprises, Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, of Charlotte, chairman; and Offering of Life—The Missionary Recruits Past, Present, and Future, Dr. W. Taliaferro Thompson, of Richmond, Va., chairman.

The program of the congress will include three principles: research, conference, and inspiration. The research has already been made by the six committees, and after the congress has convened this research will be presented to the delegates, and other committees will be formed to make further considerations. Probably the most vital question to come up will be the question of the proposed 40 per cent cut in the program of foreign missions for the coming year. However, it may be said that the purpose of the congress is to gather our whole denomination for an earnest study of foreign mission work so as to discharge as speedily as possible our obligation for the evangelization of the world, and to inspire the people of the Church to greater and more intelligent support of this great cause.

This congress was authorized by the General Assembly of 1929 and 1930, and marks the seventieth anniversary of the Church's missionary declaration adopted at the birth of our Church in Augusta, Ga., on December 4, 1861; and the 1900th anniversary of the birth of the Christian Church at Pentecost.

Dr. J. P. McCallie is head of the committee for making arrangements for the delegates of the convention, which will meet in the Memorial Auditorium. He has been kind enough to offer to Davidson boys a bed to sleep in, and breakfast. All of our delegates are going to drive down through the country, thus greatly reducing the expense. At the present time it is uncertain just how many Davidson men are going, but it is hoped that there will be a good representation.

That Martha Washington, the only woman who ever had her head on a regular United States postage stamp, and whose face was removed from the four-cent stamps last May to make way for that of former President Taft, should be given a place on a stamp, is contended by hundreds of women who have protested by letter to the postmaster general.

Many Children Enrolled In Elementary Schools

Approximately 185,000 Are in Attendance in North Carolina According to Superintendent Allen

Raleigh, Feb. 4—Approximately 185,000 children were enrolled in standard elementary schools of the state during 1929-30, it is learned from a section of Superintendent of Public Instruction A. T. Allen’s report to the General Assembly. This number represented more than a third of the total white elementary enrollment for that year. Of this number, 102,507 are rural children and 82,384 children in charter school districts.

A standard elementary school, according to Superintendent Allen’s report, is one providing a seven-year course of study with at least one teacher to the grade, a minimum term of eight months, and fulfilling certain other requirements as to organization and equipment.

“In the past few years,” the report says, “there has been a widespread realization of the vital importance of the elementary school as the foundation of our educational life. This desire to give the children a more effective opportunity for the fundamentals of an education has concerned itself with such essential factors as length of term, the size of the school, the training of teachers, adequate equipment for an enriched course of study.

The work of visiting the schools and applying the standards set up was begun in 1924. “At that time,” the report continues, “there were 270 rural schools which had seven or more teachers andAn eight months’ term. Today, there are 448 rural schools which meet these two requirements. “In 1924 there were only 62 large rural schools in which all teachers had at least one year of college or normal training, but this year, 1929-1930, we find that 406 rural schools employ teachers with the required training.”

The art of the lover consists not in loving but in showing his love to the best advantage.—Boreham.

Scabbard and Blade Initiation

The following men were formally admitted to the national R. O. T. C. officers’ fraternity, Scabbard and Blade, Monday evening: Captains J. F. Preston, H. S. Covington, R. D. Russell, J. W. McCutchan, and F. M. Cochran, captain infantry, U. S. A; first lieutenants, J. L. Brock, C. A. Sission, and A. R. Jackson. The ceremony took place at 7:30 in the dome room of Chambers. Many of the members residing in Davidson were present. Following the initiation, the members adjourned to the Scabbard and Blade Hall.

Tokio, Japan—(IP)—Adoption of the Roman alphabet for the Japanese language is being predicted here by educational leaders, although it is recognized that the present Chinese characters will be retained for literary and historical purposes. As a move in this direction, it is pointed out, every high school in Japan now teaches English, even in the rural districts, and school attendance is compulsory for children until they attain the age of 14 years. Thus within a generation, practically the entire population will have learned the Roman alphabet, and its application to the native language will be only a matter of course.

Warsaw—(IP)—Polish law now provides that private schools where the language is other than Polish may be opened provided Polish also is taught in the school. State elementary schools in sections with other nationalities may teach the language of that nationality.

Every college game that becomes a spectacle deteriorates.—Dr. Frank Aydelotte, President of Swarthmore College.

Giving me this cup, you have turned a loser into a winner in a most remarkable way.—Sir Thomas Lipton.

Dr. J. W. McConnell Will Attend Two Conventions

To Attend Medical Congress in Chicago, and Child Health Conference in Washington

On February 16, 17, and 18, Dr. John W. McConnell, local Davidson College physician, will attend the annual Congress on Medical Education, Medical Licensure, and Hospitals, which is to be held in Chicago. This congress is held under the auspices of the American Medical Association. Dr. McConnell, who is vice-president of that branch of the congress known as the Federation of State Medical Boards of the U. S., will preside as toastmaster at a banquet of this congress on Tuesday, February 17, which will have as its chief speaker Charles B. Pinkham, of Sacramento, Calif. This banquet will be preceded by a banquet on Monday the 16th, which will have as toastmaster the Hon. Ray Lyman Wilbur.

Recently Dr. McConnell also received an invitation from President Hoover to attend the meeting of the Section on Medical Services of the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection. This meeting will be held in Washington, D. C., from February 19 to 21. It is expected that Dr. McConnell will proceed immediately from the convention in Chicago to the one in Washington City.

CAPT. COCHRAN TALKS (Continued from page 1)

In the course of the address, the history of American occupation was traced from Dewey's victory to Aguinaldo rebellion and finally to the beginning of peace and progress, for which Taft and General Wood were especially praised. In closing, Captain Cochran displayed his valuable collection of Philippine novelties, including head knives, swords, and specimens of native brass work. An unusual number of members were present to hear the address. Election of new officers is scheduled for the next meeting. At present, Dr. Lyons is club president.

Small Fire Ignites On Thompson’s Roof

A great deal of furore and excitement was raised on the campus last Friday afternoon at about 5 o’clock when the fire siren went into action. The “fire” was located at Thompson's boarding house where it seems that sparks from a chimney had ignited some dry leaves which lay in the roof gutter. No damage whatsoever was done, since the flames were extinguished before they had even charred the damp roof. It was at first thought that the smoke which appeared in the gutter came from a serious fire in the house, hence the alarm. Several hundred would-be firemen rushed valiantly to the scene of action, bearing all sorts of extinguishing apparatus, including chemical equipment, axes, ladders, etc., only to discover that the alarm was false.

Cambridge, Mass.—(IP)—The sudden death of Dr. Edward Channing has brought to an end the work of this country’s outstanding historian, who was engaged at his death in completing the seventh volume of the most extensive American history ever written.

Listen, O my son, and treat thy bookseller as thy best friend and he will repay thee beyond the miser’s fondest dreams of unearned increment.—Van Loon.

Freshman Scoring

| Field | Foul | Total |
| Players | Goals | Goals | Points |
| Evans, f | 14 | 9 | 37 |
| Rowan, c | 8 | 1 | 17 |
| Lafferty, f | 4 | 3 | 11 |
| Holland, c | 3 | 4 | 10 |
| Morris, g | 4 | 2 | 10 |
| Halverstadt, g | 3 | 0 | 6 |
| Manson, g | 2 | 2 | 6 |
| McLean, f | 0 | 1 | 1 |
| Totals | 38 | 22 | 98 |

© 1931, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Which is the longer of these two horizontal lines? If you know the answer—try it on someone else.

YOUR EYES MAY FOOL YOU BUT YOUR TASTE TELLS THE TRUTH!

Milder... and BETTER TASTE