THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 7, 1931

Book Review

In Defense of Women. H. L. Mencken. Bernhard Tauchnitz, Leipsic, 1927.

Of course, everyone knows of the playboy of American literature, that “enfant terrible” of American thought—Henry Louis Mencken. During the last twenty years, he has thundered against American crassness, against American stupidity and gullibility. He has persecuted our “booboisie” with blunt epithet and cutting epigram. His path has been that of a whirlwind, leaving in its wake human puppets whirling in eddies of protest and dissension. His energy has been irrepressible—his enthusiasm boundless. His mind is that of a well-trained student; but his spirit is boyish and adolescent.

In the present work, Mr. Mencken takes up a theme which has been the discussion of ages—the question of man vs. woman in their various relations. In the preface, he forewarns that much of what he says is not startling or even original to the astute thinker. However, we cannot help but feel that the author's vigor and concentrated force constitute an originality of mood which will appeal to all. He tears down the sacred idols of our man-made and man-ruled world. We are brought to a shocking realization that perhaps after all society is matriarchal—that women are superior, not in actual position but in that sense of intuition which is the basis of intelligence. Women are the powers behind our earthly thrones. Men, entirely ignorant of the fact, dance to the tune composed by women. Women are entirely disillusioned. They know what is essential and go after it. The successful ones are content to let the men run politics and business—for women know these are merely a bag of tricks, the cavortings of a group of deluded mountebanks. The unsuccessful women, i.e., those who have not been able to capture a man in marriage—turn to suffragette movements or anti-vice crusades, thinking that by imitating the antics of men they can gain the latter’s respect.

That the success of woman has depended, until the present day, on their ability to contract a marriage is rather self-evident. Woman has allowed man to think that it is he who is the aggressor and the Head of the Family. She has allowed him to think this because, well, man is such an ego-centric fool—and anyway, why bother to strip him of his mantle of self-respect? At least, so says Mr. Mencken—and perhaps he is right; who knows?

The author makes rather disparaging remarks about men who allow themselves to be captured in marriage by women. In view of the fact that Mr. Mencken has, since the publication of this work, become married, some of us may be inclined to thumb our noses and adopt an I-told-you-so attitude. But wait! Just a moment, please. Mr. Mencken left himself a loophole. He has said that great men sometimes marry!

The book closes with a note of prophecy. Mr. Mencken, adopting the invisible mantle of a seer, states his belief that in years to come woman will enter the sphere of man’s activities and rival if not surpass the male in achievement. She will have to give up some of her native intelligence to do so—but this will be an act of self-sacrifice delightful to woman’s sense of martyrdom. When this enlightened day comes, says Mr. Mencken, men will see women in their true light—the female will be recognized as the more dangerous of the species—and then, what a war there will be between the sexes! Perhaps we now in college will witness our grandchildren participating in this life-and-death struggle. We will look on and meet news of each atrocity with, “Say, you ain't seen nothing. Why, now, back in ’18 my uncle told me that at Argonne—” and so on “ad nauseam”—convincing our descendants there is no fool like an old fool.

—E. Z. DuBose.

Fresh Y Receptions Started Wed. Night

The first of a series of Freshmen “Y” receptions was held last Wednesday night at the “Y” Social Center, with about twenty Freshmen, whose last names begin with A and B, in attendance. These receptions will be held each Wednesday night at nine o'clock until all Freshmen have been invited. The next one will be held tonight and all Freshmen whose last names begin with C through E have been extended an invitation.

The purpose of these informal get-togethers is to give the Freshmen a chance to meet some of the leaders and upperclassmen whom they ordinarily would not meet. This is the third year that these receptions have been held and they are under the direction of Carl Pritchett, the “Y” secretary.

James M. McCorkle, ’90, was recently appointed as assistant trust officer of the First National Bank at Salisbury.

WILDCAT ELEVEN

(Continued from page 1)

the 13 first downs that they made as compared to the four that the Wildcats made. But, just as runs and not hits win baseball games, likewise touchdowns and not first downs win football games, and although they presented the best yardage offense, the Generals lacked the punch to push across when they got in scoring distance.

In the first quarter, the Generals made a threat when an exchange of punts went to their advantage. Bailey, of W. and L., punted out of bounds on Davidson’s 3-yard marker, and Mattox returned Pearce’s punt to Davidson’s 30-yard stripe, but a 15-yard penalty for holding helped the Wildcats obtain the ball. This was followed by another break, when Whitfield recovered a W. and L. fumble midfield. Two passes, Pearce to Raker and Pearce to King, brought the Cats to W. and L.’s 24-yard line early in the second period. The drive continued with an 8-yard gain by Pearce and two nice gains by McQueen, which placed the ball on the 6-yard line, but a penalty forholding put the 'Cats so far back that they lost the ball on downs. The remainder of the half consisted of a punting duel between Pearce and Bailey. About the middle of the third period, Wagner recovered Mattox’s fumble of Pearce’s punt, giving Davidson the ball on W. and L’s 16-yard line. McQueen then skirted left end for the touchdown, and Don King added the extra point by a placement kick. On the next kickoff, W. and L. started their second touchdown drive only to lose possession of the ball on the 6-yard line as the period ended. The fourth quarter was marked by two more long drives by the Generals and some beautiful punting by the Wildcats. The Generals had possession of the ball on Davidson’s 25-yard line when the game ended. Collins was the main cog in the Generals’ offense, while the punting of Bailey aided them greatly in warding off the Wildcats. For the Wildcats, praise is due to every member of the lineup, but the defensive work of Mathis, Wagner, Gardner, and Pearce was especially commendable. King and McQueen, Davidson's monarch backfield men, both aided the Wildcats on the offense.

W. and L. (0) Position Davidson (7)
Tilson L.E. Raker (c)
Bailey L.T. Wagner
Bolen L.G. Mathis
Mitchell Center Gardner
Boland R.G. Conway
Morris R.T. Whitfield
Bacon R.E. Brown
Pride Q.B. King
Mattox L.H. Peabody
Martin R.H. Pearce
Almon F.B. McQueen

Score by periods:
Washington and Lee 0 0 0 0—0
Davidson 0 0 7 0—7

Scoring: touchdown, McQueen; extra point, King (placement).

Substitutions:
Washington and Lee: Wilson for Pride, Collins for Almon, Wertz for Bolen, Sawyers for Mattox, Mosovich for Bacon, Pride for Wilson, Wilson for Almon, Almon for Martin, Hanley for Tilson, Nesbitt for Morris.
Davidson: West for McQueen, Johnston for Brown, McQueen for West, Conway for Barrier, Jukendall for Wagner, West for McQueen, McElrath for Whitfield, Ogden for Mathis, Clark for Pearce.

Officials: referee, Brewer (Md.); umpire, Gass (Lehigh); head linesman, Bocock (Georgetown).

Davidson Five Years Ago
With Dick Grey’s kick in the early part of the game, Davidson’s Wildcat eleven trounced Presbyterian College 3-0, for the fourth consecutive time. Davidson clearly had the edge over P.C. in the first half, but the P.C. team rallied in the second half, led by Stamp’s brilliant passing and running. Monk Younger is smiling today because his prophecy of a hard-fought battle came true.

Dr. Pressely spoke last Sunday on “Life, That Greatest of All Experiences and Mysteries.”

Coincidental with President Coolidge’s announcing October 3-10 as “Fire Prevention Week,” Dr. Martin and Captain Weems have organized the R.O.T.C. battalion into a fire-fighting unit. J. L. Short has been announced as chief fire marshal. The organization is a real asset to Davidson and to the campus, for previous to this there was no organized force and no adequate fire-fighting machinery in Davidson.

The Pan-Hellenic Council set the date November 5 for bid day of the social fraternities. This change in date is a decided improvement over the longer date of preceding years that stretched out until the first of December.

The Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity is the winner of the James Cunningham Harper ’15 Inter-Fraternal Cup for 1925-26 by virtue of its average of 85.79, nearly two points higher than the nearest competitor.

Ralph L. (Abe) Lincoln, Davidson’s first-string tackle, will be out of play for at least four weeks because of a broken arm he sustained in practice. Abe has really worked his way up into the first-string defense and his loss is a great blow to the team.

H. M. Austin called for the first material for the Chameleon, Davidson’s literary magazine. October 19 will have a new magazine divided into three sections: short stories, essays, and poetry.

Prof. Frazer Hood’s new book, “Every Man’s Insurance,” has just been released.

W. S. Woods, of China, was elected president of the Reporters’ Club.

Billy Rice was elected president of the Volunteer Band. Say the members, “With the help of God and the cooperation of each member we hope to have the best year ever.”

OPEN FORUM DISCUSSION (Continued from page 1)
could explain either. These two things are: “Why does evil exist?” And “What is the relation between predestination and free will?” In conclusion, Dr. Foreman brought out the fact that God gave us faith to light the paths where we walked, and that we should be trusting and not question religion because of the fact there may be darkness around us that we cannot fathom.

Oh! You Lucky Tab-l!

MOISTURE-PROOF CELLOPHANE
The Unique HUMIDOR PACKAGE

Zip—and it’s open! In dust- and germ-proof Cellophane. Clean, protected, neat, FRESH!—what could be more modern than LUCKIES’ improved Humidor package—so easy to open! Ladies—the LUCKY tab is—your fingernail protection.

Made of the finest tobaccos—The Cream of many Crops—LUCKY STRIKE alone offers the throat protection of the exclusive “TOASTING” Process which includes the use of modern Ultra Violet Rays—the process that expels certain biting, harsh irritants naturally present in every tobacco leaf. These expelled irritants are not present in your LUCKY STRIKE! “They’re out—so they can’t be in!” No wonder LUCKIES are always kind to your throat.

“It’s toasted”

©1931, The American Tobacco Co., Mfrs.

See the new notched tab on the top of the package. Hold down one half with your thumb. Tear off the other half. Simple. Quick. Zip! That’s all. Unique! Wrapped in moisture-proof Cellophane—Ever Right—Ever Fresh.

TUNE IN—The Lucky Strike Dance Orchestra every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday evening over N.B.C. networks.