THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1931

SIGMA PI SIGMA
(Continued from page 1)

University of Chattanooga, West Virginia University, St. Lawrence University, Ohio Wesleyan, University of Kentucky, University of Oklahoma, Parks College, William Jewell College, Morningside College, University of Colorado, University of Washington, Lake Forest College, College of Wooster, Wheaton College, and the University of the Philippines. The growth has been the most phenomenal of any honorary organization of which there is any record. The aims and ideals as set forth by its founders were so clearly and aptly put that not a word has been changed in the ten years of its existence. They are as follows: “To reward high scholarship and promote interest in the advanced study of physics, to stimulate individual research, to enable its members to keep pace with the progress of the science, and to encourage a spirit of co-operation and friendship among those who have displayed marked ability in this study.”

The speaker paid an excellent eulogy to Dr. J. M. Douglas, the founder, in saying, “From each chapter and each member of the national organization comes praise to the foresight of the founders, and deep appreciation to these men whose inspiration and untiring efforts led to the founding and maintaining of the Alpha Chapter. Special praise is bestowed on Dr. J. M. Douglas, who was really the man back of the organization. I think that it is befitting at this point to pay an eulogy to Dr. Douglas for his excellent work with the fraternity, and with the physics department. He is not a research man, nor an experimenter, but away from the limelight in his calm and cheerful way, he has been giving for many years sympathy, encouragement, and inspiration to the young men who have taken his courses. I am sure that today he feels somewhat rewarded for his work when he looks over the list of the men who have gone into physics or engineering as a life work and are succeeding well.”

The requirements are as follows: Sophomores are eligible in their second semester, if they are taking their second course in physics and have made an average grade of 95 in their physics courses; Juniors and Seniors are eligible for membership if they are taking an advanced course in physics and their average in this subject is 90 or above and have no grade under 85. In addition to the above requirements, one must have shown interest in physics and have other desirable qualities as is known to the active membership of the chapter.

Sigma Pi Sigma is bringing honor to our college and is placing her before other institutions in a new light. Washington and Lee is proud of being the founder of O. D. K., and William and Mary of Phi Beta Kappa, and so on to other institutions which are founders of recognized organizations; so should Davidson be proud of having the Alpha chapters of both physics and chemistry honorary fraternities.

“To commemorate the founding of Sigma Pi Sigma, the associate members of the Alpha Chapter, who are alumni of Davidson, are sending funds which will make possible the making of a tablet which will later be presented to the college, and be placed by the side of other markers which show Davidson’s leadership in our American education.”

UNIQUE MATHEMATICAL BOOK
(Continued from page 4)

the square of the 100th part of the sum by $288,000. Required, the sum appropriated annually to the military academies, and the rate of interest.”

Slavery Questions
Since the book was published only a few years before the War Between the States was begun, it was only natural that the young professor should include problems that dealt with slavery. Here are a few of them:

“A planter purchased a number of slaves for $36,000. If he had purchased 20 more for the same sum, the average cost would have been $150 less. Required, the number of slaves and the average price.”

“A gentleman in Richmond, Va., expressed a willingness to liberate his slaves, valued at $1,000, upon the receipt of that sum from charitable persons. He received contributions from 24 persons; and of these there were 14-19ths fewer from the North than from the South, and the average donation of the former was 4-5ths smaller than that of the latter. What was the entire amount given by the latter?”

“A gentleman, who owns 20 slaves, had laid in a twelve months’ supply for them when he purchased ten more. How long will his supplies last?”

“A planter hired a negro man at the rate of $100 per annum, and his clothing. At the end of eight months the master of the slave took him home, and received $75 in cash, and no clothing. What was the clothing valued at?”

Fraud
“A Yankee mixes a certain number of wooden nutmegs, which cost him ¼ cent apiece, with a quantity of real nutmegs, worth four cents apiece, and sells the whole assortment for $44, and gains $3.75 by the fraud. How many wooden nutmegs were there?”

Major Hill was interested in charitable institutions, and presented a few problems along this line:

“A rich, but charitable man, gave $20 to the American Tract Society, twice as much as to the Board of Foreign Missions, four times as much to the Board of Domestic Missions, and so on in the same ratio. His last contribution was to his own church, and his entire charity amounted to $1,020. How much did he give his church?”

“A gentleman invested $1,000 for the benefit of a charitable institution, so that one-half less should be drawn from it each year than the preceding year, forever. How much must be drawn the first year?”

Many other unusual problems could be taken from the unique mathematical book of the young Davidson professor, but the above gives an idea of how fascinating the study of mathematics was under him.

PROF. L. B. SCHENCK
(Continued from page 5)

“who misused his body years ago. He used to do many things, but his constitution is undermined and broken now. He got just what he chose.”

“Then here's one with shoulders drooped from disappointment; he is what is left of a fine young fellow who neglected his books. He finds now that success comes only to him who knows, to him who stuck to his books back in college days.

“And here is the careless Esau who broke the laws of nature and God, who got along splendidly for a while, but for whom life has left a bad taste in the mouth.”

Thus we see here the temporary pleasures of sin, self, God-forgotten, then, unrest, fear, and remorse; there, fear of God, purity, and the birthright of man.

“But Esau,” Professor Schenck concluded, “despised his birthright; he sold youth and opportunity for present trifles, and he returns empty-handed—what then? God grant that he may not hear the words, ‘Too late.’”

The services were led by Charlie Spencer. Prayers were led by Laddie Scott and Stanley Hoffman. A musical selection of Massanet's Meditation from Thais was played on the violin by Byron Shriver, and he was accompanied by Ed McNair. Professor Schenck closed the service with a prayer.

College R. O. T. C. Unit Visited by Colonel Reed
Col. William L. Reed, officer in charge of R. O. T. C. in the Fourth Corps Area, with headquarters at Fort McPherson, Atlanta, made the annual fall inspection of the unit here December 9. Due to inclement weather, Colonel Reed did not inspect the battalion; however, he was quite well satisfied after his inspection of the armory and records. Colonel Reed visits all schools that have R. O. T. C. units in the Fourth Corps Area, which extends south from Virginia and Kentucky and includes Louisiana.

SPANISH FRATERNITY
(Continued from page 1)

appreciation for the privilege of being an invited guest, and expressed cordial words of welcome to our out-of-town guests. Prof. Fleagle presided at the banquet. Later the group assembled in the faculty room of Chambers Building where a very pleasing program was enjoyed. The members of the Chi Chapter delighted us with a short Spanish comedy and several songs.in Spanish. They also sang their Alma Mater song in English. The members of the newly installed Omega Chapter sang “O Davidson” first in English and then in Spanish. The reading of letters of felicitations from other chapters and other informal festivities brought to a close the very pleasant occasion.

“THE HAUNTED HOUSE” (Continued from page 1).

Managers, W. A. Flinn and his assistants, E. S. Hodge, Stuart Henry, and Bruce Peabody. The make-up artist was Johnny Marvin, assisted by Hodgen, Harris, and Gregg. Dramatics has proved itself an important factor in the curriculum of the college, and it is becoming more and more a distinctive service to be in the finished productions put on. Much interest is shown in it as an activity, and its support and backing by the student body have been the most important factors in its success.

Dartmouth College has a volunteer fire department and also a forest fire squad. Bill Morton, varsity quarterback, is chief of the volunteer department, which helped fight a recent fire at Sigma Chi fraternity house.

“Here is the man,” said Professor Schenck, “Let me say that at no time in the history of the Church, since I have been acquainted with it, has the need for the support of foreign missions been so apparent as today. I therefore consider that a gift from your organization to the Board will have a more far-reaching effect than in any way you could spend a similar amount, and I unhesitatingly endorse it.”

Dr. Oren Moore, Charlotte, N. C. “I am very much interested in the idea of the Davidson boys making a gift to the foreign mission work of our Church. The heroic ministry of our foreign missionaries is a challenge to every man. The testimony to Christ in the midst of strange lands and strange peoples has a great appeal. There is no cause of our Church that so deserves to be known and supported, and I am personally convinced that the best way to support it is through the Executive Committee at Nashville, which is doing its utmost to preserve and advance these interests of our Church in foreign lands.”

Dr. “Bill” Anderson, Dallas, Texas. “The proposed plan of turning your foreign mission gifts through the regular channels of the committee in Nashville is thoroughly sane. They have a grasp of the acute needs that it is impossible for us to have. Thus, your student body will share in all the great work of our foreign mission activities and the gifts will be placed where it will mean most and go farthest at this critical time.”

Dr. “Sam” Glasgow, Savannah, Ga. “I congratulate the Davidson students upon their good judgment and fine spirit in turning their gift this year to foreign missions. That cause is in urgent need of additional gifts. I am confident if we could see what our missionaries face from day to day we would not only not question but we would do far more than we have done in the past. My best wishes to Davidson.”

Dr. J. R. Cunningham, President, Louisville Theological Seminary. “Yesterday I received a letter from a friend in China. Graphically it pictured the flood situation: houses swept away or dissolved by the raging waters; crops gone and fields still inundated; tens of thousands without homes, or food, or any means of support! And I, well, I have three meals a day as usual in my own comfortable home! Then, I know Christ, and they are without the Bread of Life! How can any one of us escape the appeal of missions?”

Dr. “Tolly” Thompson, Union Theological Seminary. “There has never been greater need for financial aid in the foreign mission work of the Church than there is today. True religion is characterized by love for God and love for man; and love manifests itself in giving. If our religion is false, we ought to change it, if it is true, we ought to share it with others. Every new interest in others at home and abroad is an enlargement of one’s self; and every new activity in behalf of others is an enlargement of one’s own personality. To refuse to aid in the work of missions is to deny one’s self the privilege of sharing in the Divinest, most daring and most gloriously fruitful enterprise of the ages.”

Dr. Donald W. Richardson, Union Theological Seminary. “If our colleges are to retain the position of importance accorded them by the American people, if college-bred men are to occupy positions of leadership, then college students must learn that sacrificial giving is essential to living.”

Chas. McRae, ’28. “It is the duty and privilege of those of us who have, to share with those who have not.

“IMPRESSIONS AND OBSERVATIONS” Our greatest possession is Jesus Christ. His command is, ‘Go ye and teach— We can respond by willing, sacrificial giving to the causes upon which He has placed His Name. Such a response shall loose a flood of blessings, countless in number, upon those who have been so guided.”

Jas. A. Jones, ’31. “Each day we are made conscious of God's blessings, so we ought then to realize, that as we receive there is imposed upon us an obligation. We should share these rich blessings with our brothers less fortunate than we. They are eager to hear Christ proclaimed as the Saviour of the World.”

R. F. Sloop, ’29. “I think that the Mill Chapel is the one place that needs Davidson more than any other one place. I believe in taking care of one’s environment first. If something coming from the student body could be used in this way it would be a monument to our spirit. It would be a fine and splendid incentive to higher and better things both in the lives of the students and for the Church.”

Walter Fraley, ’31. “It seems a work of Divine Providence that this year when giving is harder than heretofore, the gifts of the student body can be directed into channels where they will count so signally in advancing the Master’s Kingdom; for a work instituted and carried on by the students, and for the strengthening of our Church’s missions so distressingly crippled by recent privations.”

Andy Bird, ‘31. “The campaign has my hearty approval. May it receive the support which it so richly deserves.”

Bill Goodson, ’31.

Dining Room on Fifth Floor Tea Room and Fountain in Basement

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

SHIRTS $1.65 Shirtcraft and Ide Shirts are the shirts that you can buy to stand the wear that laundries give them. White and colors. Collars attached or stiff.

MONROE SUITS $22.50 In gray, tan, or brown, in homespuns and worsteds... these are the famous Monroe Suits. In sizes 35 to 42. Be sure and try one on the next time you are in town. Other Men’s Suits priced from $11.95 to $50.00.

SOCKS 35c and $1.00 Interwoven Socks in both plain and fancy patterns. Silk and silk and wool combination. You can’t have too many... but buy good ones when you buy.

If You Can’t Come In—Just Phone 3-4141

WHERE UP-to-the-MINUTE COLLEGIANS LIKE TO CHOOSE THEIR CLOTHES

SHOES $4.95 Walk straight into this bargain! Brown-built Tread-straight Shoes for men. This national brand that fits the heel and supports the arch so perfectly. In black and brown.

SUEDE COATS $8.45 Glover and MacGregors Suede Coats in both sweater and coat style. Button or zipper fastenings as you wish. Sizes 36 to 44 in brown. This is ideal for campus wear.

UNDERWEAR Cooper’s Shirts and Shorts of broadcloth and rayon. They have quality-built comfort that you'll appreciate. Also Cooper’s Winter Weight Union Suits at $1.45 and up.

SWEATERS $2.95 to $3.95 You can find the Sweater here that you’ve been looking for. Something just a little different. Bradley Sweaters in slip-over and coat styles and both V and crew necks.

TIES—95c Silk Ties and silk and wool combinations... resilient lined to keep it in shape. All hand-made and a good selection of colors.

DAVIDSON HEADQUARTERS AT EFIRD’S Make your headquarters at Efird’s when you come to Charlotte. There are desks and phones on the mezzanine for your convenience... meet your friends here... we are always glad to see you.

Men’s Dept. - Street Floor