THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 30, 1931

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Among alumni visitors here recently were Rev. W. A. Nicholson, ’12, Pineville; H. C. Little, ’27, Albemarle, and Scott Brown, ’30, Chattanooga, Tenn. Dr. Porter P. Vinson, ’09, one of the leading staff members of Mayo Clinic, at Rochester, Minn., was again in Davidson for several days during the past week. Dr. Vinson had attended the dedication of the Duke Medical School, as the official representative of Mayo’s. Prior to that, he had made a lecture tour of Oklahoma, delivering four addresses.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of Mrs. R. M. Dulin, mother of N. B. Dulin, '14, Bowling Green, S. C.; P. M. Dulin, '26, Albemarle, and J. G. Dulin, '28, Columbia, South Carolina.

Rev. R. C. Long, ’13, secretary of the stewardship committee of the Southern Presbyterian Church, with headquarters in Atlanta, has been called to the First Presbyterian Church of Greenwood, S. C.

In the recent election of student body officers at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., three Davidson alumni were selected. They included T. E. Hill, ’29, president; R. F. Sloop, ’29, vice-president, and T. A. Freeman, ’22, secretary-treasurer. Frank Hall, ’29, was also elected president of the Society of Missionary Inquiry.

R. W. McCutchen, '95, of Bishopville, S. C., was recently elected president of the Rotary Club in that city.

Ralph E. Helper, ’01, has been elected mayor of Mangum, Okla. The Mangum Daily Star, in reporting his election on April 8, carried a two-column photograph of Mr. Helper, and in the cutlines under it he was described as a “popular civic leader.”

C. R. (Pat) Crawford, who is playing baseball with the Columbus, Ohio, club of the American Association, hit safely 11 times in 23 trips to the bat in one week. Included in the 11 safe blows were four home runs and three two-baggers.

J. M. McCorkle, ’90, polled the second largest vote among 17 candidates for aldermanic posts in Salisbury in the primary election held in that city Monday.

Among the speakers appearing before the North Carolina Bankers Association at Pinehurst this week was William H. Neal, ’17, of Winston-Salem, director of public relations of the Wachovia Bank and Trust Company. The subject of his address was, “Looking After Your Child.” Photographs of Mr. Neal and Paul P. Brown, ’03, of Raleigh, secretary of the N. C. Bankers’ Association, appeared in last Sunday’s issue of The Raleigh News and Observer.

J. C. Sanford, '09, has been renominated as an alderman at Mocksville, and R. B. Sanford, '98, has been renominated as a trustee of the city schools of the same locality. This primary vote is equivalent to election.

Rev. Ralston Bitzer, ’22, who has been assistant professor in Hebrew and Greek at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., has accepted a call to become assistant pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Charleston, W. Va. The April 19 bulletin of that church, among other things, said, “Mr. Bitzer is an A.B. of Davidson College; a B.D. and M.Th. of Union Theological Seminary; M.A. of Peabody Institute in Secondary and Religious Education. He has also spent a summer at the University of Chicago studying the Gospels and the Hebrew language. Mr. Bitzer has taught three years in high school and three years at the Seminary. He was Hoge Fellow at the Seminary in 1929.”

Bethel Presbytery, in a recent meeting at Lancaster, S. C., chose Rev. J. O. Mann, '06, of Chester, S. C., as moderator, and Granville Presbytery, meeting at Greenville, N. C., selected Rev. S. H. Bradley, ’23, of Roanoke Rapids, as one of the clerks.

Fred D. Hamrick, Jr., ’30, who went to the University of North Carolina from Davidson, has been elected president of the Senior law class at Carolina for next year. His home is at Rutherfordton.

T. J. Murphy, ’90, of Greensboro, and T. T. Allison, 1900, of Charlotte, both candidates for aldermanic posts in their respective cities, were in the upper bracket of the votes cast in the primaries last Monday. Mr. Murphy was fourth in a field of 16, and Mr. Allison was fifth in a field of 17 candidates.

Rev. M. P. Calhoun, ’23, is assistant pastor of the Bream Memorial Presbyterian Church at Charleston, W. Va.

Intensive Campaign Being Launched For the Re-Union of Twelve Classes

Letters From Presidents of Classes and Others Will Be Mailed Out During Next Thirty Days—Entire Alumni Body is Invited

One month from tomorrow, and the 1931 commencement of Davidson College will begin. During the next 30 days the office of the alumni secretary will be busy, sending out letters to the various classes from their presidents and classmates, and concentrating upon getting the alumni to return for the exercises and for their reunions.

Among the classes to have reunions at Davidson this year are 1876, which group is returning for its 55th year reunion; 1881, which returns for its half-century mark; 1906, for its quarter-of-a-century out of college, and 1930, forits first reunion since graduation. In addition, eight other classes are scheduled to be here, in two different contemporary groups: 1891, 1892, 1893, and 1894, and that of 1910, 1911, 1912, and 1913. As a preliminary to the letters, class lists of these men were recently mailed out to the individuals, showing the present whereabouts of the alumni. On the desk of the alumni secretary are numbers of letters from class presidents and others, all of which will be sent to the proper classes within the next ten days. Special invitations are being written to the men of ’76 and ’81. The entire alumni body is always invited to commencement, and many of them annually return for Alumni Day, which is Tuesday, June 3. The alumni luncheon is given by the college on that day. This year an addition to the program will be a meeting of a larger Alumni Council on Monday, the members remaining over through the Tuesday program. Dinners for the groups and special classes will be arranged for those desiring them, and these will be on Tuesday night of Alumni Day.

Alumni Marriages
Sturdevant-Prevost
James Aubrey Sturdevant, member of the class of 1929, and Miss Lelia Prevost, both of Columbia, S.C., were married on April 25 in the St. John’s Episcopal Church of that city. Mr. Sturdevant entered Davidson from Delray, Fla., and had completed his preparation for Davidson in the Berry Schools, Mt. Berry, Ga. Mrs. Sturdevant obtained her education at the University of South Carolina.

After graduation from Union Theological Seminary, Mr. Calhoun was in Brazil for some time. Gen. W. A. Smith, ’65, of Ansonville, wrote a tribute to the late Dr. Walter Pharr Craven, '72, of Charlotte, which tribute appeared in The Charlotte Observer of April 27. Dr. Craven was the surgeon general for his division before his death, a member of the State Commander’s staff, and one of the outstanding veterans of North Carolina. W. F. Carter, Jr., '12, has been elected commissioner-at-large by the citizens of Mt. Airy. R. S. Wilson, ’27, student at Union Theological Seminary, has accepted the college pastorate at the University of Virginia. Julian Lake, ’28, has accepted a call to the Presbyterian Church at Warrenton, Va. As soon as possible, a complete list of the Davidson men finishing work at the seminaries this spring, and the places to which they will go, will be given through these columns.

Approximately Forty Alumni Met In Richmond, Va.
Dr. C. M. Richards Addressed Chapter—Officers Were Elected
Tribute Paid to Dr. W. J. Martin—Dancing Question Discussed

Approximately 40 Davidson College alumni and guests met for a dinner-meeting on Friday night, April 24, in the dining hall of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., to listen to an address by Dr. C. M. Richards, '92, member of the Davidson faculty, to elect officers, to discuss Davidson and her affairs informally, and to sing college songs. Officers selected for the ensuing year were Dr. J. Allison Hodges, '79, president, and R. M. Christian, '30, secretary-treasurer. Reports from the retiring secretary of the Richmond chapter stated that Dr. Richards made a “fine” and a “good” talk to the assembled alumni on the conditions at Davidson, the changes that are taking place, and later on responded to questions brought before the chapter for consideration, giving the action which had been taken locally. Dr. W. J. Martin, ’88, president-emeritus of Davidson, was among those attending, and during the meeting a tribute was paid to him. He made a “fine and touching response,” said the report. Harry G. Goodykoontz, ’27, told about the meeting of Davidson alumni in Chattanooga during the World Congress on Missions, with particular emphasis upon the tribute paid Davidson by a non-alumnus, Dr. W. M. Anderson, of Dallas, Texas. A topic which has been universally discussed in Presbytery meetings and the church papers was that of dancing at Davidson, which was also discussed at the Richmond meeting. Many varied opinions were expressed by the assembled group, but no action, pro or con, was taken by the chapter. A motion was made and unanimously carried that Dr. Richards bring back to Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, a written vote of appreciation for the work he has done since (Continued on page 5).

Winston-Salem, the cigarette capital of the world. Every Package now a Humidor
Carrizozo, N. M., now gets Camels in as prime condition. Thanks to our patented vacuum cleaning apparatus and the new Humidor Pack, everybody, everywhere, can enjoy the Camel blend of fine Turkish and mellow Domestic tobaccos in prime, fresh condition. Switch to Camels today then leave them tomorrow, if you can.
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO Co.
Winston-Salem, N.C.
© 1931, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company

Factory-fresh CAMELS are air-sealed in the new Sanitary Package which keeps the dust and germs out and keeps the flavor in.