DEAN OF UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA TO VISIT DAVIDSON

The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

PLANS COMPLETE FOR ANNUAL JUNIOR SPEAKING PROGRAM

Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 11, 1931 No. 21

Dean Sanford of University of Georgia Will Speak Here

Prominent Leader of Southern Sports to Deliver Principal Address on Athletic Night

AWARDS WILL BE MADE

One of the Important and Interesting Events of the Year

Dean S. V. Sanford, of the University of Georgia, will be the speaker of the evening next Tuesday night, March 17, at Athletic Night, announced Captain Norton G. Pritchett, Davidson professor of physical education, Monday. This completes the preparation for this annual event of increasing interest and significance. Each year some prominent leader in Southern sports is invited to deliver the address, and, as students will recall, this address was made last year by Mr. N. W. Daugherty, of the University of Tennessee, then president of the Southern Conference, who talked on athletics in general and evidences of commercialization of collegiate sports, notably football. Dean Sanford was one of the founders of the present organization of the Southern Conference, and for ten years was the chief executive of that body. He is nationally known in athletic circles, and at present is a member of the Executive Committee of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, and for over 25 years he has been closely aligned with the best interests of athletics at the University of Georgia and throughout the South in general.

Athletic Night at Davidson is a comparatively new feature of the college calendar, but is fast becoming an outstanding affair. At this time, in addition to the address by Dean Sanford, athletic performances of merit in all fields will be rewarded. Certificates and letters will be awarded to those who have won them, and many other citations, in the form of cups and trophies, will be given to men outstanding in gymnastic ability, and physical development. At this time also, stars, gold footballs, and similar distinctions will be presented, and reports will be made by the Davidson Athletic Association.

Dr. Johnson Will Speak At “Y” Services Sunday

Annual Spring Services to Follow on Sunday, March 22

Davidson College will have the opportunity of hearing Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, at the “Y” vesper service on Sunday evening, March 15. Dr. Johnson is a graduate of Auburn and the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. For several years he preached at the South Highland Presbyterian Church, Birmingham, Ala., and from there came to his present pastorate in Charlotte, where he has been for the past twelve years. Dr. Johnson has a great interest in young people and will bring a message of value to his audience.

On the following Sunday, March 22, Dr. Charles F. Myers, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, N. C., will speak at vespers. Dr. Myers will conduct the spring evangelistic services here this year from Sunday, March 22, through Wednesday, March 25. His coming to the Davidson campus is always looked forward to with a great deal of enthusiasm and interest. Both of these men are well known at Davidson, each having spoken here several times in the past, and each having several students in college who are members of their congregations. Both Dr. Johnson and Dr. Myers have sons in school at the present time, William T. Johnson and Charles F. Myers, Jr. Each of these ministers took part in the recent Congress on World Missions held in Chattanooga, Tenn. As is customary, the Easter vesper service, which will be held March 29, will be a song service conducted by the students.

Sophs Stage House Party on Saturday

On Saturday, March 14, the Sophomore Week-end House Party, an annual affair of increasing interest, and staged by the class of ’33, will take place. The program, with four major divisions, will include a motion picture, free to all Sophomores and guests, a Sophomore reception at the Y. M. C. A. Social Center, a banquet in Chambers Building banquet hall, and another feature, the details of which have not been fully decided. “Body and Soul” is the caption of the picture that will be shown, starring Charles Ferrell and Lissa Lindi. The picture is to begin promptly at 3:00 o'clock, and upon its close, the Sophomores, with their lady guests, will proceed to the Y Social Center, where a reception will take place, and light refreshments will be served. At 6:30, and lasting till 8:30 o'clock, a banquet will be held in Chambers banquet hall, followed by several comic stunts, and two or three musical numbers. A performance will be given by a group of Queens girls, including an accordion solo; Calligan and Enochs, the “Doodle Brothers,” as they are popularly known over WBT, will render several of the latest song hits; and Clark and Sugg, Sophomore comedians, will present a short skit.

Kuykendall Elected Next Cheer Leader

Succeeds George McClenaghan After Successful Year as Junior Cheerleader

Last Wednesday, March 4, E. D. Kuykendall was elected cheerleader for the coming year, succeeding George McClenaghan, the retiring cheerleader. Kuykendall’s opponent in this race was E. L. Gorham, whom he defeated by a good majority. The number of votes that were cast in this election was over 575. Kuykendall, the victor, is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, of the debating team, of the Forensic Council, of the International Relations Club, of Alpha Phi Epsilon honorary fraternity, and of the track squad. Gorham, the loser, is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, of the wrestling team, of the “D” Club, of the Beaver Club, and a member of last year’s track squad. Kuykendall will serve in this capacity during this year’s baseball season and next year’s football, basketball, and wrestling seasons. During the baseball season he will have as assistants the boys in the Freshman and Sophomore class who came out for cheerleader. Then after the first football game next year Kuykendall will hold an election to decide who will be his junior assistants during the year. The newly-elected cheerleader urges that a few more members of the Sophomore class come out and he also announced that before the year is up there will be a class in cheerleading for those members of the Sophomore and Freshman classes who desire to come out for this position.

Philadelphia, Pa—(IP)—Radical changes, including the discouragement of proselyting, elimination of highly paid coaches, training tables, spring training camps for football squads, and most of all, athletic scholarships, are to be instituted at the University of Pennsylvania in the most sensational reform ever attempted by an institution of higher learning at one time. The reform involves the formation of a new department of physical education, copying the practice of a number of smaller colleges.

Junior Speaking Will be On 27 and 28 of March

Traditional Affair Planned After Last Year’s Program

TRACK MEET SCHEDULED

Carnival in Gymnasium Marks Close of Week-End Activities

One of the oldest traditional social functions of Davidson, Junior Speaking, will be held during the week-end of March 27 and 28. For Saturday there is a track meet between N.C. State and Davidson scheduled for 2:00 o'clock. Then there will be a carnival that will be held in the gym, beginning at 6:30. The committee in charge of the festival is composed of N. G. Spier, J. D. McConnell, H. C. McFayden, Frank Buckner, Jack McKinnon and W. S. Lea. Many members of the student body other than Juniors usually participate in this function and the Juniors have planned a full program for all.

O.D.K. Hold Convention At Kentucky University

At the ninth national convention of Omicron Delta Kappa fraternity, Davidson was represented by R. M. King, D. S. LaFar, and W. W. Fraley. Dr. G. L. Scramm, of the University of Pittsburgh, the president of O. D. K., presided. The convention headquarters were at the Lafayette Hotel and all sessions of the convention were held there. Local committees, R. King was on the committee for policy and resolutions, D. S. LaFar was on the committee for selecting the place for the next convention, and W. W. Fraley was on the committee of policy and resolutions. They entertained the university while there and they expressedTheir appreciation for the royal manner in which they were received. The representatives served on the committee of nominations for the next convention. The following is a copy of the program for the convention:

THURSDAY, MARCH 5
3:00 P.M.—Meeting of General Council, Red Room, Lafayette Hotel
8:00 P.M.—Opening Session of the Convention, Gold Room, Lafayette Hotel
Dr. G. L. Seramm (Pittsburgh Gamma Circle), National President of Delta Kappa, presiding.
Greeting from Kentucky Mu Circle by M. Spicer, president.
Response on behalf of the convention by Dr. G. L. Seramm.
Address—Dr. Frank McVey, President, University of Kentucky (Kentucky Nu Circle).
Address—Dr. William Moseley Brown, President, Atlantic University, Secretary of Omicron Delta Kappa (Washington Circle).

(Continued on page 5)

Fraternity Averages

Figures from the registrar's office show that the Kappa Alpha fraternity ranked first place in the inter-fraternity scholastic standing for the first semester of the 1930-31 session. Their average for the term was 86.59, which was 1.44 points ahead of the Sigma Phi Epsilon’s, who stood second with an average of 85.15. It is interesting to note that the entire variation of all ten social fraternities lacked .01 of a point of being exactly five points, as the highest average (which is mentioned above) was 86.59 and the lowest was 81.60. The following list shows the respective standing of each fraternity:

Kappa Alpha - 86.59
Sigma Phi Epsilon - 85.15
Gamma Delta - 85.04
Pi Kappa Alpha - 84.65
Sigma Alpha Epsilon - 84.64
Phi Delta Theta - 84.00
Kappa Sigma - 83.50
Beta Theta Pi - 82.75
Theta Upsilon Omega - 82.00

Davidson Places 3 in Car. Track Meet

In the non-conference meet held in Chapel Hill last Saturday night, the three Davidson varsity men, Fleagle, George, and Kuykendall, scored eight points to tie P.C. for first place, by placing first, third, and fourth, respectively, in the 60-yard dash. Although Haliburton, a member of the Freshman squad, got off to a bad start and had some very good competition, he placed fourth in the 60-yard dash. The teams entered in this non-conference competition were Davidson, Presbyterian College of South Carolina, Guilford, and Elon.

To the first three men finishing the 60-yard dash, medals were given. These medals were given to Fleagle, who won the race with the time of 6.6, thus tying the time of the winner in the conference meet; to Green of P.C., who finished second, and to George, who finished third, close on the heels of Green. P.C. also scored eight points by winning the mile relay and finishing second in the dash. Guilford finished second in the relay. Green, who was second in the dash, won the 100-yard dash in the S.I.A. meet last year.

In the Southern Intercollegiate Conference meet, the University of North Carolina was the winner with a total of 37.2 points; Washington and Lee was second with 18.7 points, and Alabama was third. Results of the non-conference meet: 50-yard dash—Fleagle (Davidson) first, Green (Davidson) second, George (Davidson) third, Kuykendall (Davidson) fourth. Mile relay—Presbyterian College of South Carolina, first; Guilford, second. Total points of teams—Davidson, P.C., eight; Guilford, eight; Elon, none.

Debate Schedule is Arranged for Year

Three Teams Will Meet Various Southern Colleges and Universities

The schedule for the debating teams has been made up, with two changes. It now stands as follows: Powell and Jack Matthews will debate Birmingham Southern College at Davidson on March 12; then will go north on a trip through Virginia. On this trip they will debate Roanoke College at Salem, Va., on March 17; University of Richmond at Richmond, Va., March 18, and Washington and Lee at Lexington, Va., on March 19. Jas. A. Jones and William Rule will go south on a trip, on which they will debate three colleges. These will be University of Florida at Agnes Scott College, Decatur, Ga., April 11; Sewanee at Sewanee, Tenn., on April 13, and Vanderbilt at Nashville, Tenn., on April 14. Pete Knox and George Riley will debate Emory at Converse College, Spartanburg, S.C., on April 26; University of South Carolina at Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S.C., on April 27, and probably University of Alabama here at Davidson. This information was released by William Rule, with the additional information that Wake Forest may be substituted for Washington and Lee, and that there may be other additions to the schedule.

Cleveland, Ohio—(AP)—With its magnificent new municipal stadium well under way, Cleveland already is negotiating for a big football game here in 1932, possibly between Purdue and Carnegie Tech. Coaches at both schools have been approached on the subject, and have promised to take the matter up with their athletic boards. The location is believed favorable to both, because it is about halfway between the two universities.

Phi Beta Kappa Fraternity Elects Five to Membership

Alderman, Caldwell, Cowan, McCutchan, and Rusk are Men Chosen at This Second Election

TO BE INITIATED SOON

Public Experiences of Chapter Will Be in the Fall

The second Phi Beta Kappa election took place last week, and five members of the Senior class were elected for their scholastic attainment, being chosen as members of this honorary fraternity. The men thus honored were: Paul R. Alderman, Alcolu, S.C.; J.R. Caldwell, Jr., Davidson; A.W. Cowan, Bristol, Tenn.; J. Wilson McCutchan, Warm Springs, Va.; and Dean Rusk, Atlanta, Ga. This completes the Phi Beta Kappa election for the year. Last fall five other Seniors were chosen and initiated into the local chapter, these being J.B. Black, Jr. of Red Springs; Kenneth M. Jackson, of Birmingham, Ala.; H. Stokes Munroe, Jr. of Charlotte; John F. Preston, of China; and W.C. Ragin, Jr., of Wilmington. The latest choices will be initiated soon, the public exercises of the chapter always occurring in the fall.

Paul Alderman is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, was sports editor of The Davidsonian last year, editor of the “Y” Handbook, member of the Reporters’ Club, Spanish Club, I.R.C., and is class historian. James R. Caldwell is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity and the Eta Sigma Phi honorary fraternity. Cowan is a member of both the Gamma Sigma Epsilon and Sigma Pi Sigma honorary fraternities. J.W. McCutchan is editor of The Davidsonian, ex-president of Delta Pi Kappa, and a member of Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternities, and is president of the Philanthropic Literary Society. Dean Rusk is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, wearer of the Rhodes scholarship, and president of the Y.M.C.A.

Sunday Vesper Address Delivered by Dr. Nabors

High Point Minister Speaks on Character of Jonah

Dr. C.H. Nabors, of High Point, made his initial visit to Davidson when he spoke on the teaching that everyone receives mercy at the “Y” vespers at Chambers Auditorium last Sunday night. I.I. Wood directed the singing and Bob McCullough and Andy Bird led in prayer. Horace W. Erwin played the violin number, Mrs. Thompson accompanying him at the piano, and Dr. H.M. Moffett introduced the speaker.

Dr. Nabors read as his Scripture lesson selections from the book of Jonah, saying that the book interested him because of its criticism, colorfulness, the different ways one might study it, and because every character in it was a heathen with but one exception. In treating the moral and spiritual side of Jonah, Dr. Nabors tied “tags” to the important parts of each of the four chapters. They are in order: Jonah’s running away from God, Jonah’s running to God, Jonah's running with God, and his running in advance of God. The speaker declared that the reasons why Jonah got into trouble were because he believed it was possible to run away from God. He thought when duty called, and he gave a negative answer, the question was settled, and because he thought his religion concerned only himself. He mentioned the fact that Elijah, Elisha, and David could have all warned him against these things. He quoted the lines, “It matters not how far we run…”

(Continued on page 5)