THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 26, 1931

DAVIDSON vs. V. P. I. WRESTLING

THE SPORTS PARADE

BASEBALL PRACTICE STARTS SOON

Wildcat Baseball Team Starts Spring Training
Prospects for Infield and Outfield Are Good, But Very Few Dependable Pitchers

With a long, gruelling schedule facing them, the Wildcat baseball squad has already begun workouts in the battery department, and the rest of the squad is expected to swing into action soon. A number of pitchers and catchers have been warming up stiff arms slowly, while the sun has been bearing down, but no hard work is expected until the latter part of next week or maybe further off than that. The complete strength will not report until spring football is over, which is scheduled for about three more weeks.

Indications point to a large squad which will be strong in spots only. The pitching department is to be especially weak with the absence of Kugler and McInnis felt strongly. The receiving staff held up fairly well under the strain of graduation, but Gladstone will be missed to aid Armfield in the burden. The hot corner is liable to come in for its share of trouble. Although there is a wealth of infield material, none are adept third baggers. It remains to be seen how Coach Monk will patch this up. The outfield seems fairly well fortified, but there is a dearth of applicants for the job at present.

(Continued on page 5)

Davidson Nine Will Meet Fifteen Foes

The Davidson nine will meet fifteen opponents this year on the diamond, six at home and nine away from home, with a possibility of a game before the spring holidays. This year the team will only meet teams of the two Carolinas, making four trips in all.

To begin the season, unless a practice game is scheduled, the team will make a trip through North Carolina during the Spring Holidays, playing Guilford, Elon, and Carolina in the order named; instead of playing Carolina at Chapel Hill, the Tar Heels will be played in Winston-Salem. After that, the team will return to Davidson and remain here for three weeks. During this stay, they will have six opponents: Elon, Wake Forest, Lenoir Rhyne, Guilford, N. C. State, and Duke. From then on until the end of the 1931 season, they will go out on foreign grounds to play. During this time, they will play the University of South Carolina at Columbia, Erskine at Due West, S. C., Clemson at Clemson, Lenoir Rhyne at Hickory, N. C., N. C. State at Raleigh, and Duke at Durham.

The 1931 baseball schedule as announced by T. M. Hunter, manager, is as follows:

Thursday, April 2 - Guilford at Guilford
Friday, April 3 - Elon at Elon
Monday, April 6 - Carolina at Winston-Salem
Thursday, April 9 - Elon at Davidson
Monday, April 13 - Wake Forest at Davidson
Wednesday, April 15 - Lenoir Rhyne at Davidson
Friday, April 17 - Guilford at Davidson
Monday, April 20 - N. C. State at Davidson
Wednesday, April 22 - Duke at Davidson
Tuesday, April 28 - U. of S. C. at Columbia
Wednesday, April 29 - Erskine at Due West
Thursday, April 30 - Clemson at Clemson
Tuesday, May 5 - Lenoir Rhyne at Hickory
Tuesday, May 12 - N. C. State at Raleigh
Wednesday, May 13 - Duke at Durham

JUST AS BAD

It's just as bad to be blown down as burned down. To repair or rebuild your property costs hard-earned money. Nothing can prevent windstorms and tornadoes from damaging or destroying your home, your place of business. BUT there’s nothing to prevent you from guarding against that loss through carrying adequate Windstorm Insurance, is there?

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McAlister Carson (’13), Manager
M. B. Speir (’26)

Game Cancelled

Failure to secure a sufficient number of contests to make a trip through North Carolina successful has caused the William and Mary College freshman basketball team to cancel its engagement with the Davidson freshmen. The game, which was to conclude the Wildkittens’ 1931 schedule, was to be played on the local court tomorrow night. However, with the cancelling of this contest, the Wildkittens have brought their season to a close in a climatic win over the strong Charlotte High quintet, which had been undefeated previous to its visit here. The cancelled game would have been the first meeting of the freshman teams of the two institutions.

U. of S. C. Defeated By Crippled Wildcats

Next Two Engagements Lost to College of Charleston and to the Citadel

MARTIN SCORES HIGH

Goodson and Peabody Are Unable to Play on Trip

Without the service of Captain Bill Goodson, star guard, and Bruce Peabody, first string substitute, the Davidson Wildcats invaded the Palmetto state and were able to win only one of the three engagements. The first game of the trip, that with the U. of S. C., was won 35 to 26, but games were dropped on the following nights to The College of Charleston and to Citadel by a two-point and then a one-point advantage. It was the remarkable second-half shooting of Dean Rusk that spelled defeat to the struggling South Carolinians. The Davidson Rhodes Scholar sunk five field goals in the second half that kept the Wildcats leading throughout. Grier Martin was high point man for the night with 12 points, closely followed by Rusk with 11 and Mathis with 9. Bedenbough was the big gun of the University offense, garnering 10 points for the evening.

The following evening, the College of Charleston downed the Wildcats 32 to 30. Inability to make good their numerous free throws cost the crippled Red and Black five this game. Mathis was the star of the contest both in floor work and in scoring, being high point man of the night with 13 points. He was followed by Martin who got four field goals. The shooting of Wilcox and Baker, garnering 12 and 10 points respectively, was too much for the Wildcats.

Wildkittens Administer Defeat to Charlotte Hi

Freshmen Quintet Score 17-11 Win Over Previously Undefeated Team

A scrapping Davidson Freshman basketball team kept a strong Charlotte High offense well covered to win by the score of 17 to 11 last Friday. It was the first defeat of the season for Charlotte. The Wildkittens put up the best game they have played this season, particularly on defense. They held Charlotte to two field goals in three quarters. Charlotte's passing game was well worth watching, but their men were too well covered to shoot successfully. The ball went back and forth for about two minutes before anything of note happened. Then Lafferty made two free throws for many points. Evans followed with a field goal to make good.as the score 4 to 0. Alexander got a couple of foul shots and Bell sunk one from the floor just before the quarter ended to tie the score at 4 all. The Wildkittens held a 12 to 6 lead at the end of the third quarter. Charlotte rallied but was unable to do better than shorten Davidson's lead to three points. But Holland charity and Evans got another field goal just as the toss gun went off. Capt. Evans of Davidson led the scoring with 9 points. He also played the best floor game of both teams. Alexander of Charlotte scored 6 points to take second honors.

DAVIDSON
Lafferty (3) Left Forward
Bell (2) Right Forward
Aitken Center
Evans (9) Right Guard
McCachren (2) Left Guard

CHARLOTTE HI
Alexander (6) Center
Holland (3) Right Guard
Morris Left Guard
Hatcher Substitutions: Davidson; Halverstadt, Rowan, Charlotte Hi; Peabody (1), Fort. Referee, Roberson (Furman).

much for the Wildcats.

LOOKING ’EM OVER
With W. H. Matthews

SHADOWS OF COMING EVENTS
Friday, February 27
Wrestling—Fresh vs. Barium Springs at Barium.
Saturday, February 28
Wrestling—Varsity vs. V. P. I. at Davidson.
Football—“Reds” vs. “Blacks”—Winter training squads.

And those are all the coming events that will cast their shadows over Davidson’s campus for another two weeks or so. Of course, there is the daily sandlot basketball game, but one who calls that a sporting event is, well, to say the least, careless of the strict truth. It’s lots of fun, however.

Another thing to entice students from their studies is the occasional invasion of Davidson by various girls’ basketball teams. But as we don't know who and when they play, we'll have to leave the chronicling of those events to the Drug Store window. You don’t see very much basketball there, anyhow.

Varsity basketball had its finale last week. Neither team has had a howlingly successful season, but victories over their final opponents would leave a good taste in our mouths to carry over into the dry month of March. The varsity’s auspicious start back in January was somewhat eclipsed by the results of last week’s games. We can’t for the life of us reconcile those defeats to poor basketball. A team shot with injuries as Davidson was on the South Carolina trip can hardly be expected to play winning ball. That, however, doesn’t go for the Duke game.

The inspired game turned in by the freshmen in defeating Charlotte High School—the first time this year any team has done that—was one of the best basketball games seen on the local court this year. We say it was inspired because the Wildkittens were certainly playing far over any form they have shown at any time previous. Bob Evans was all over the court at once, it seemed, and deservedly was the high point man of the game. More power to Coach Laird for the fine team that he has developed this winter.

For the other side of the question, Charlotte undoubtedly had a pretty passing team. Wally Skidmore’s boys shot the basketball around in the manner which the primers tell embryo cage artists to throw it. Charlotte supporters tell us they were sadly off in their shooting. That’s true, too, but as the “Charlotte News” admitted Davidson had the better team for the night at least.

You may take the scrimmage games of football any way you like, but we prefer to look optimistically at them. True, no outstanding back has been uncovered, but those lines don’t look so awfully bad. There are three or four men in there who were not on the varsity first string last fall who are set on making it next year, and they look like pretty good chances to do so. Backs, however, are none too plentiful. Don King turned in two or three nice plays Saturday, and handled the team in a manner that was satisfactory. McQueen seemed to be in his old-time form, and backed up the line in a hard-driving manner. West showed promise of future deeds. The punting of Barrier, a lineman, was high, wide, and handsome.

The decision of the Davidson coaches to use a shift next year came as a surprise to a number of the spectators. No intimation of the proposed hop in the signal calling had been mentioned in pre-training dispatches. Personally, we like it. Aside from all tactical reasons and all that, it looks good to see a backfield come out of a huddle, bark out a few signals, shift smartly to the right or left, and then smash off tackle.

The addition of Davidson to those who follow in the footsteps of Knute Rockne—Rockne is the father, supposedly, of the shift and is the most famous proponent of it in the modern game—will mean that at least three of the Big Five teams will utilize it next fall. Chuck Collins of Carolina has already said he will return to the full Notre Dame shift. Clipper Smith, new N. C. State coach and former Irish All-American, already has his Wolfpack hopping in order to get onto the idea. Come to think of it, Wake Forest used a shift last year, too. It is modified, we think, from the true Notre Dame style. Whether or not Duke Freshmen used a shift with their wing-back formation has slipped our minds at present, and we don’t recall whether Wallace Wade used it at Alabama or not. He will likely have enough other innovations at Duke to keep the customers talking without the added necessity of whether his Blue Devils will shift or not.

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“SODA” “SUNDRIES”

STATIONERY
STUDENT SUPPLIES
FOUNTAIN PENS
NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE
W. S. HENDERSON
MAGAZINES BOOKS SUNDRIES
Clothing Furnishing
STETSON
“D” STORE
PHONE 206 OPPOSITE CAMPUS
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
Friendly Five John Ward Sport Shoes

Davidson Theatre
Monday and Tuesday, 2nd and 3rd
“THE SOUTHERNER” with LAWRENCE TIBBETT
Wednesday, 4th
“PARLOR, BEDROOM AND BATH” BUSTER KEATON
Thursday, 5th
“FINN AND HATTIE” with LEON ERROL
Friday, 6th
“PART TIME WIFE” with EDMUND LOWE and LELIA HYAMS