THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 5, 1931

Florida West Coast Alumni Have Dinner

At the time of going to press, only one report had been received by the alumni secretary on the two
local chapter dinner-meetings held in Florida last week, at which Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson, was guest of
honor. This was the meeting at Tampa on Friday night, which included Davidson alumni on the west coast of Florida.
Officers chosen for the ensuing year were Chas. G. Baskerville, '28, Tampa, president; C. R. Anderson, '27, St. Petersburg, vice-president,
and J. C. Pressley, '26, St. Petersburg, secretary.

To quote from a letter sent by the retiring secretary anent the meeting: “We had quite a pleasant meeting of
the alumni chapter here last night. We enjoyed very much having Dr. Lingle here and can assure you that his
remarks were well received by the whole group. Dr. Lingle talked especially on the new plan of equipping the library,
stating that it was one of Davidson’s greatest needs now.

“The organization discussed both pro and con the question of compulsory church attendance and also dancing within the limits of
Davidson College. Dr. Lingle discussed it very liberally, admitting there were two sides to both questions. The discussion was helped
by having with us the Presbyterian pastors in Tampa, who were our guests also at the meeting.”

Dr. J. Frank Cranford, ‘06, retiring president of the chapter, was unable to attend, and wired his regrets. In addition
to the Tampa ministers, alumni present included J. G. Anderson, '06, Tampa; T. M. Towry, Jr., '22, and R. J.
Knight, '22, both of Safety Harbor; J. J. Stockard, '22, Tampa; J. C. Pressley, '26, St. Petersburg; J. B. Webb,
'27, Clearwater; C. R. Anderson, '27, St. Petersburg; C. G. Baskerville, '28, Tampa; Walter Anderson, '28, St. Petersburg; Chas. B.
Yancey, '30, Umatilla, and F. M. Scroggs, '31, St. Petersburg.

Other reports of the Florida itinerary of Dr. Lingle are expected to be reported in the next issue of The
Davidsonian.

Dr. W. J. Martin, Former President, Visits Here

Pertinent Problems Relating to Davidson Were Discussed by Alumni and Tampa Ministers

Dr. W. J. Martin, president-emeritus of Davidson College and head of the institution for 17 years, was a visitor to
Davidson last week. He spent several days here with relatives and renewed old friendships on the campus. He was en
route from Florida to Richmond, Va., where he resumes his duties as president of the Southern Presbyterian General Assembly’s Training
School, of which Dr. Walter L. Lingle, now head of Davidson, was president before he replaced Dr. Martin here in
1929.

While in Davidson, the former Davidson president was a guest of the Quadwranglers Club, an organization composed of faculty members,
at the regular monthly meeting of the club. He was asked to make some impromptu remarks, and feelingly told of
his attachment for Davidson and this locality. Dr. Martin spent his boyhood days in Davidson, later attended and graduated from
the institution, and afterward was connected as a faculty member and president in all a period of 33 years. “Davidson
will always be home to me,” Dr. Martin said, “and I shall always return here at every opportunity.”

James F. Pinkney, '27, completed his law course at the University of Colorado last June, and is now connected with
a law firm in Denver, Colo. Woodfin Rampley, '13, is connected with the faculty of Decatur (Ga.) High School.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Visitors to Davidson during the past month have included E. L. Baxter Davidson, '80, Charlotte; Dr. W. J. Martin, '88,
president-emeritus of Davidson, Richmond; Rev. W. S. Patterson, '03, Clover, S. C.; Rev. A. W. Shaw, '05, Fort Mill, S.
C.; E. T. McKeithen, '06, Aberdeen; W. S. Shepherd, Jr., '23, Winston-Salem; E. I. Morrison, Jr., '25, Concord; D. B.
Wharton, '25, New York; J. E. Singletary, '25, Winston-Salem; Geo. A. Batte, Jr., '27, Concord; J. S. Foster, Jr., '28,
Winston-Salem; S. M. Purcell, '28, Salisbury; W. K. Pritchett, '29, Durham; D. C. Hunter, '30, Belmont, and several others who
are weekly pilgrims to the Davidson campus.

Friends will regret to learn of the following deaths: The mother of R. W. Oeland, '25, Louisville, Ky.; the father
of Jas. H. Register, '27, Clinton, N. C., and the mother of A. L. DeCamp, '30, Philadelphia, Pa.

Information has recently been obtained on several of the 1930 graduates of Davidson. J. M. Smith is teacher of science
and athletic coach at Star High School, Star, N. C.; Hugh W. White is executive news editor of The Sandhills
Daily News, Pinehurst; V. A. Milton is connected with the Hand Trading Co., Pelham, Ga.; O. W. Morris is teaching
at Hollis High School, Hollis, N. C.; R. D. Croom, Jr., is a medical student at the Medical College of
Virginia, Richmond, Va.; J. M. Ulmer has left Charlotte and gone to work at Elmira, N. Y., 416 Robinson Bldg.;
and E. B. Wilkinson is with the Atlantic and Pacific Tea Co., at Jacksonville, Fla.

Dr. S. B. Fewell, '26, is a dentist at Greenville, S. C., with offices in the Woodside Building. Dan A.
Currie, '28, now a teacher in the high school at Clarkton, was one of 60 applicants who successfully passed the
North Carolina State Bar examination last Friday.

J. R. Covington, '29, of Raeford, was the author of a feature article on Gerald Johnson, appearing in last Sunday's
issue of The Charlotte Observer.

J. M. Roberts, Jr., '25, for four years a member of The Charlotte Observer news staff in the capacity of
state news editor and city editor, has accepted a position with the Associated Press. He will remain in Charlotte.

J. W. S. Gilchrist, '15, who has been with the Morris Plan Bank of Virginia for several years, has been
made assistant cashier of the Broad Street Branch of that bank in Richmond.

Dr. J. P. Price, '22, of Florence, S. C., has recently been chosen secretary-treasurer of the South Carolina Pediatric Society.
Dr. Price has been practicing in Florence about two years.

An article about Harllee Branch, '27, of Atlanta, Ga., has just appeared in the latest issue of The Emory Alumni,
published by the Emory University Alumni Association. A photograph of Mr. Branch is used, with a comment from one of
the British debaters. “Harllee Branch is the best debater that we have met so far on our American trip, which
includes 24 colleges,” said N. C. Oatridge, of the Cambridge team, without solicitation. Mr. Branch is a third-year law student
at Emory, and also teaches two courses at that institution.

Dr. G. D. Caldwell, '20, of Concord, has recently been re-elected county health officer of Cabarrus County, and has also
been re-elected as secretary-treasurer of the Cabarrus County Medical Society.Mayor of Winston-Salem has been re-elected first vice-president of the Winston-Salem
Y.M.C.A. Mayor Coan is also president of the Winston-Salem club, numerous civic enterprises, baseball, and a leader in W.T. Spencer.
'26, of Gastonia, has been selected first vice-president of the Carolinas Retail Lumber and Building Dealers Association. Geo. F. Harper,
'95, of Lenoir, has been re-elected president of the Whitnel Cotton Mill Company. Dr. W. I. Hill, '98, of Albemarle,
has been elected health officer of Stanly County, succeeding Dr. C. M. 06. Dr. Hill has also been made vice-president
of the Stanly Bank and Trust Company. Rev. E. P. Davis, D.D., '73, and Mrs. Davis, of Greenville, S.C., celebrated
their fiftieth wedding anniversary on December 29.

Crawford, '23, is now at Springfield College, Springfield, Mass., where he will this spring get his degree in physical education.
Dr. Hugh H. Smith, '23, a medical graduate of Johns Hopkins, is now with the Rockefeller Foundation, with headquarters in
New York. Geo. H. Zimmerman, '27, is connected with the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company at Wilkinsburg, Pa. Mr. Zimmerman
spent the past three years as a student of physics at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York.

New Addresses
Due to lack of space, not all of the two dozen changes of address obtained on the recent Birmingham-Atlanta-Greenville trip
were included. However, they are as follows, with other additional ones which the alumni secretary has obtained during the past
week. (Other new addresses are obtainable in the “Alumni Personals” column):

Garland Court
Printing and Engraving of Every Description
P. M. CONWAY
27 Rumple
STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Charlotte, N.C.

Davidson Alumni Will Be World Congress Leaders
Many Graduates of Davidson Are on the Six Commissions or Advisory Committee

Davidson College alumni are going to play an important part in the “Congress on World Missions,” to be held in
Chattanooga, Tenn., February 16-19. An examination of the names of the men on the six different commissions and the members
of the advisory committee reveals some interesting facts about the prominence of Davidson men connected with the Congress.

Half of the commissions are headed by graduates of Davidson. These include Dr. Walter L. Lingle, '92, president of Davidson;
Dr. Donald W. Richardson, '02, of Union Seminary faculty, Richmond, Va.; and Dr. W. T. Thompson, '05, also of the
Seminary faculty. Of the 64 different people on the commissions, 17 are Davidson alumni, or 26.9 percent. Excluding the ten
ladies, it is seen that 31.5 percent of the men are from Davidson. Besides the three leaders, other alumni who
have had a part in preparing material to study are Dr. W. E. Hill, 1900, Richmond, Va.; Dr. Wade H.
Boggs, '07, Atlanta, Ga.; Dr. W. J. Martin, '88, Richmond, Va.; Prof. K. J. Foreman, '11, Davidson; Dr. J. J.
Murray, '09, Lexington, Va.; Dr. John McSween, '08, Clinton, S.C.; Dr. H. S. Turner, '13, Staunton, Va.; Campbell Pancake, '98,
Staunton, Va.; Carl Pritchett, '30, Davidson; Rev. P. D. Miller, '22, Atlanta, Ga.; Dr. John L. Fairly, '09, Richmond, Va.;
Rev. Dwight Chalmers, '20, Charlottesville, Va.; J. M. Appleby, '26, Richmond, Va.; and M. W. Norfleet, '31, Davidson.

The advisory committee which has directed the program contains 59 men, and of this number, 23 are from Davidson, giving
the institution a percentage of 39 percent of the men who are acting in an advisory capacity. Plans are being
made by Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, to have a dinner for the Davidson men attending the Congress. Approximately 20 of
the student body are planning to go, and these would intermingle with the alumni at the dinner, and serve as
a medium of information to those who had not been on the campus for some time.

Births
1908—Mr. and Mrs. R. M. Wetherell, of Orlando, Fla., announce the birth of a daughter, Joyce, on December 23.
1916—Mr. and Mrs. Geo. B. Hoyt, of Atlanta, announce the birth of a daughter, in December.
1917—Rev. and Mrs. J. K. Hobson, of Luebo, Africa, announce the birth of a daughter, Mary Florence, on October 15.
1919—Prof. and Mrs. R. C. Garth, of New York, announce the birth of a daughter, Clara Souther, on January 18.
—Mr. and Mrs. L. C. McAskill, of Atlanta, announce the birth of a daughter, Margaret Joan, on January 4.
1921—Mr. and Mrs. W. W. McCorkle, of Birmingham, announce the birth of a daughter, Ruth White, on December 29.
1925—Mr. and Mrs. Dan F. Mallory, of New Bern, announce the birth of a son, on January 23.
1926—Mr. and Mrs. L. L. Deck, of East Point, Ga., announce the birth of a son, James David, in November.

Engagements
Carrell-Pfingst
Dr. and Mrs. W. C. Pfingst announce the engagement of their daughter, Mary, to Elmer Nevin Carrell, the wedding to
take place in Louisville, Ky. Mr. Carrell is a member of the class of 1931, and since leaving Davidson has
been in business in Louisville. He is now superintendent of the Carrell-Rogers Company of that city, interior decorators. Miss Pfingst
is a senior at the University of Louisville and a member of Sigma Kappa sorority.

Mauze-Dunn
Mr. and Mrs. F. Clyde Dunn announce the engagement of their daughter, Isabell, to J. Layton Mauze, Jr., of New
York City, the wedding to take place in the early spring. Mr. Mauze is a member of the class of
1931, and since leaving Davidson has been connected with a stocks and bonds concern in New York. No information is
available about Miss Dunn.

J. B. Thompson, '26, Fayetteville, Tenn.
Rev. F. F. Baker, D.D., '18, Oliveria, E de Minas, Brazil.
R. S. Reynolds, Jr., '30, Glencove, Long Island, N.Y.
A. F. Black, '10, 1013 E. Boulevard, Charlotte.
Rev. B. B. Long, '12, Union Springs, Ala.
J. G. Wharton, '28, 68 Revere St., Boston, Mass.
W. F. Shaw, '22, St. Charles, S. Ellerbe, N.C.
J. E. Steele, '72, Oglethorpe University, Ga.
C. J. B. Moriarity, '29, 150 Little St., Lafayette, Ind.
Dr. Hugh H. Smith, '23, Rockefeller Foundation, 61 Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Geo. H. Zimmerman, Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., 1106 Center St., Wilkinsburg, Pa.
Rev. J. T. Gillespie, '17, Agnes Scott College, Decatur, Ga.
E. L. Ferron, '30, care E. L. Ferron Co., Austis, Fla.

(Continued on page 6)

UNDERWEAR OF DISTINCTION
SHIRTS AND SHORTS
Some men say amusing things about color in shirts and shorts—but no one questions the unusual comfort in this two-piece
HANES. We’ve taken track-athlete freedom and enlarged on it a bit for men who’ve dropped their calisthenics, but who love
comfort nonetheless. We are a little tickled, too, that we can match the weird colors in your ties, your shirts,
and your socks—though there is pure white, of course.
P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
Winston-Salem, N.C.
