The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 16, 1931 No. 24

ROGER ENLOE IS ELECTED “Y” PRESIDENT ON THIRD BALLOT, SUCCEEDS RUSK
Howard and Myers Are Chosen to Be Vice-Presidents for Next Year

Roger Enloe, of Buchanan, Ga., was elected to the presidency of the Davidson “Y” for the year 1931-32, succeeding Dean
Rusk, of Atlanta, Ga., retiring president. John Howard, of Atlanta, Ga., was elected first vice-president, and Charlie Myers, of Greensboro,
second vice-president. Enloe was elected on the third ballot. His opponents in this race were Chester Arnold, who was eliminated
on the first ballot; Jack McKinnon, dropped on the second ballot, and Sam Wiley, who was eliminated on the last
ballot. The opponents of Howard and Myers in this election were Paul Brown, Bill Flinn, Bruce Peabody, all eliminated on
the first ballot, and Charlie Norfleet, who was eliminated on the second ballot.

Enloe, newly elected president, was one of the vice-presidents of last year, is a member of Eta Sigma Phi honorary
fraternity, of the International Relations Club, of the Ministerial Band, of the “Y” Cabinet, is the art editor of the
Quips and Cranks, and is vice-president of the Eumenean Literary Society. Howard, first vice-president, is a member of the Pi
Kappa Alpha social fraternity, of the Beaver Club, a member of the track squad, wearer of the Freshman numeral, and
secretary and treasurer of the Sophomore class. Myers, the other vice-president, is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social
fraternity, of the Le Cercle Francais honorary fraternity, of the Reporters’ Club, of the Wildcat Handbook staff.

Davidson Debaters End Northern Trip
Jones and Rule Also Close Southern Trip Tonight Against Southwestern

J. C. Matthews, of Lumberton, and R. D. Powell, of Lawrenceville, Ga., completed their spring debating tour for Davidson College
last week, with three victories and one defeat. The two debaters, constituting Davidson’s first team to enter the 1931 platform
field, won decisions over Birmingham-Southern by a 2-1 score, University of Richmond by a similar score, and Roanoke College by
a 3-0 score. Their only defeat was administered by the Wake Forest debaters by a score of 2-1. Matthews and
Powell debated both sides of the query, “Resolved: That the nations of the world should adopt a policy of free
trade.” Their best showing was made when they took the negative stand against Roanoke; while, when they contended for the
affirmative in all the other meets, the results were rather close.

Another team, composed of Jas. A. Jones and William Rule, left last Friday on a trip through the South. Jones
and Rule met the University of Florida at Agnes Scott College in Decatur, Ga., Saturday night, and the University of
the South in Sewanee, Tenn., Monday night. Results of these two debates were not available at press time. The team
concludes its trip tonight in Memphis, Tenn., when they meet Southwestern University.

Wednesday, Davidson's third and last debating team, composed of P. S. Knox, Jr., and G. P. Pardington, left for Rock
Hill, S. C., where they met the University of South Carolina debaters at Winthrop College.

Salt Lake City—(IP)—Telephone authorities here have threatened to remove pay stations from the University of Utah campus unless students desist
from tearing the receivers from the phones and mutilating the booths.

Dr. Fowle to Speak at Last “Y” Service

Announcement has been made by the Y. M. C. A. that Rev. James L. Fowle, D.D., pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church at Chattanooga, Tenn., has accepted the invitation of the “Y” Cabinet to deliver the annual commencement sermon before
that body during commencement week. Dr. Fowle will speak Sunday night, May 31, in the second exercise of the 1931
graduating program. This announcement follows that made several days ago by Dr. Walter L. Lingle that Dr. John Timothy Stone,
president of Presbyterian Theological Seminary, Chicago, would deliver the baccalaureate sermon this year. Selection of speakers for the first day
of commencement has therefore been completed.

Y.M.C.A. Installation

On next Sunday night at vespers the Y. M. C. A. will hold its annual installation service. At this time
the members of the newly appointed cabinet will be inducted into office. All of these members have not been chosen
yet, but they will be appointed and notified sometime during this week. Roger Enloe, as newly elected president of the
Y. M. C. A., will be installed along with the men who will compose the Cabinet for the coming year
as heads of the following departments: Publications, Life Work Guidance, Chapel Services, Deputations, Freshman Work, Social Life, Weekly Meetings, Student
Life, Church Relations, Boys’ Work, Social Center, World Evangelism, and Sunday Schools. The program has not been completed yet, but
it will contain special music, scripture, and a prayer.

Dr. Lingle Contributes To Christian Observer

Davidson President Will Write Articles to Appear in Weekly Issues of Magazine

Dr. Walter L. Lingle has recently become a contributing editor to the Christian Observer, the largest Presbyterian paper in America.
Dr. Lingle will write an article each week under the head, “Talks on Timely Topics.” In the issue of April
1, Dr. Lingle wrote an introductory article and last week his second one appeared. For the past six or seven
years, Dr. Lingle has been contributing articles to the Presbyterian of the South, published at Richmond, Va., but made a
decision some time ago to accept the invitation of the Christian Observer to write for that paper. The Observer is
published at Louisville, Ky., and has a circulation of over thirty-four thousand. Dr. Lingle's articles have been and

Theological

Dr. Fowle, who is a native of Washington, D. C., graduated from Davidson in 1918, and completed his undergraduate theological
training at Union Seminary, Richmond, Va. At the latter institution he won the Hoge Fellowship, and because of it he
did additional studying at Princeton Seminary. He was pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church, St. Louis, Mo., for a number
of years before he became pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Chattanooga two years ago. Davidson conferred a doctor
of divinity degree upon him at commencement, 1928.

Wildcats To Play Three Big Games within Week
Team Faces Strong Competition When it Meets Guilford, State and Duke Here

Monk Younger’s nine will oppose Guilford, N. C. State, and Duke here during the coming week. Guilford is slated for
tomorrow afternoon with N. C. State and Duke following up next week, on Monday the 20th and Wednesday the 22nd,
respectively. Davidson has a score to settle with Guilford for a trimming early in the season by a bare margin.
During the holidays the Wildcats met both Elon and Guilford and were defeated both times. One of these avenged, the
other is to be avenged, the Wildcats claim.

Monday afternoon Davidson will meet her second Big Five opponent when State journeys down here. The first Big Five game
with Carolina during the holidays was rained out and Davidson lost her game with Wake Forest, so to date she
has only one game on the won column. State will bring down a well-rounded club, many members of which have
appeared against a Wildcat team this year. Last week they lost a hard-fought game with Duke in which they displayed
some good hitting power, better than average fielding and a fine pitcher.

Next Wednesday Jack Coombs will bring his Duke Blue Devils to Davidson to show their wares. Last year the Wildcats
split even with the Blue Devils, beating them 5-0 in the first of the series, and losing the second, 7-0.
Duke, with a team which can in no way compare with their masterful team of last year, has nevertheless been
playing consistently good ball the whole season.

Annapolis, Md.—(IP)—Officials of the Naval Academy here have been rebuked by a candidate for admission whose grades were not good
enough to qualify him as a midshipman, for paying too much attention to studies and not enough to athletics. In
his letter the disappointed student wrote that he had been an active athlete in high school and college and that
he had fully expected to play on the Navy football team next fall. “You can’t expect a 217-pound all-round athlete
to have very much time for studies,” he said.will continue to be of a human interest nature. These articles will
deal with events, individuals, and topics that come to his mind while at his desk here in Davidson, or on
his trips throughout America.

Vachel Lindsay Gives Poetry Recital Here

"Readings of His Poetry to His Own Tunes" was the subject of a lecture-recital given by Vachel Lindsay, noted American
poet, Thursday evening, March 26, at 7:30 o'clock in the auditorium of Chambers Building. Omitting General William Booth Enters Into
Heaven, the Chinese Nightingale, and The Congo, three of his most famous poems, Mr. Lindsay chanted many of his less
important works. Among these were The Virginians Are Coming, The Galleons of Spain, and The Plains of Kansas. The poet
stressed (Continued on page 5)

Powell Named President

The class of '34 has completed balloting for next year’s Sophomore president. As a result of several ballots, E. L.
Powell was elected from a long list of nominees which included the following: Wee Thompson, Alex Schenck, James Halverstadt, John
Lafferty, Bob Evans, Julian West, and Boyd Morris. Powell is from Mobile, Alabama, and is a member of the Phi
Gamma Delta social fraternity.

This is the first set of elections held by the present Freshman Class since the class voted not to elect
any officers to serve during their fresh year. The election for the remaining class officers is scheduled for this week.

D. M. McQUEEN ELECTED NEXT YEAR’S PRESIDENT OF ATHLETIC ASS’N

Palmer Emphasizes Liberal Arts School

Dr. Archie Palmer, of New York, associate secretary of the Association of American Colleges and Universities, was among the visitors
to the campus last week, and while here he spoke to the student body at chapel. Dr. Palmer quoted many
authorities, in medical, educational, judicial, and business fields, who were emphasizing the necessity of a liberal arts education for students
who plan to enter these vocations. The visitor told of the increased requirements for entrance to graduate study, and the
tendency now to select those students who have had a groundwork in liberal arts. In the course of his address,
Dr. Palmer stated that Davidson was one of the few colleges in America that had steadfastly adhered to the policy
of giving only a liberal arts training, in preference to branching out and doing specialized work. He brought out the
character training that can be obtained at such institutions, and congratulated the college upon the standards it has maintained.

“In a few weeks now,” said the speaker, “college officers will find camped on their doorsteps representatives of our largest
and most progressive industrial and financial corporations, who will be sent to the colleges to recruit from the ranks of
the graduating classes additions to their own forces. The well-trained college man,” he went on to say, “grasps intricate situations
more quickly than the equally well-trained man who has not had the advantage of the broader fundamental education. Every employer
is looking for the man who will think.”

Junior Entertainment is A Success Despite Rain

Track Meet Rained Out, But Carnival Held in Gymnasium Draws Large Crowd

In spite of the fact that Junior Speaking was accompanied by an almost incessant downpour of rain, it nevertheless proved
to be a source of much pleasure for the students and their visitors. On Friday night, March 27, the Mystery
Trunk Entertainment was held at the Charlotte Hotel and from all reports it was quite a social success. The following
afternoon, the track meet with North Carolina State was postponed on account of the continued rain. As this left Saturday
afternoon open, Dr. Armitage, of the Stony Brook Preparatory School, graciously consented to give a program of his own in
Chambers Auditorium. Dr. Armitage rendered splendidly several impersonations from Dickens’ works, and also gave some sleight-of-hand tricks which were highly
entertaining. In closing his program, he performed an amusing ventriloquist skit with his dummy, “Tommy.”

Immediately after supper Saturday evening, a new type of diversion was presented in the gymnasium in the form of a
carnival. The gym was decorated with the Junior Class colors, and stationed around the walls were several booths, fashioned after
the regular street fair booth. The various prizes offered for feats of marksmanship and other skillfulness served as a motive
to materially promote the degree of hilarity.

Baton Rouge, La.—(IP)—Discovery by workmen of an old iron casket on the old campus of Louisiana State University here is
believed to have determined that the old campus was formerly a Spanish graveyard. In the casket was the well-preserved body
of a young man who appeared to have been killed in a duel, for there was a deep gash across
one cheek. His clothes were of the finest materials. Other caskets also are to be removed from the plot.

Gardner and Mills Named Vice-Presidents With Brown as Secretary and Treasurer

The officers of the Athletic Association for next year were recently elected by the Davidson student body. The officers were
chosen from the group of men that have been awarded “D's” and from those members of the Freshman Class who
have been awarded Freshman numerals for services rendered in different sports during 1930-31. The following men were nominated for president
of the association: G. L. Bernhardt, Emmett Brannon, Steve Brown, Gene DuBose, Ed Gorham, Sylvester McLean, Don MacQueen, Grier Martin,
G. L. Mathis, L. S. Raker, and P. M. Conway. All these men are Juniors and wearers of the Varsity
“D.” Five men were left in the race after the first ballot: Steve Brown, Don MacQueen, Grier Martin, G. L.
Mathis, and L. S. Raker. The second ballot left Raker, MacQueen, and Brown to be voted upon. Don MacQueen was
elected finally on the fourth ballot, Raker being in the finals with him. MacQueen is a member of Kappa Sigma
social fraternity, of the “D" Club, and has been on the varsity football squad for two years. He was a
member of the Freshman football and baseball teams.

Following are the men nominated for vice-president: Buck Mills, V. B. Gardner, Ben Taylor, Joe Tyack, George Vick, and Jack
Wagner. Gardner and Mills were elected on the first ballot. All these men are members of the “D" Club. Gardner
is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, of the “D" Club, and the varsity football squad. He was captain
of the Sophomore Class and Freshman football team. Mills is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, of the
“D" Club, of the football squad, and baseball squad. He was a member of the Freshman football and baseball squads.

All Freshmen who made their numerals were nominated for secretary and treasurer. All were eliminated on the first ballot except
Reid Brown, Odi Casali, Bob Evans, Julian West, Harvey Curlee, and Brown. Reid Brown was elected on the third ballot,
Evans being his competitor in the finals. Brown was a member of the Freshman football team and made his numeral
in this sport.

Columbia Students Conduct Y Vespers

Address Given By Mr. Peter Marshall—Dr. Cartledge Conducts Service

The vesper services for Sunday, March 29, were conducted by a deputation from Columbia Theological Seminary, the devotional address being
given by Mr. Peter Marshall, a graduate of the Technical College of Scotland. The program was conducted by Dr. Cartledge,
and he was assisted by several selections by their quartet, which was composed of Dr. Cartledge, Mr. Cecil Thomas, Mr.
Peter Marshall, and Mr. Henry L’Heureux.

Mr. Marshall's inspiring address was given in his rich Scotch brogue, which helped from the first to hold the attention
of everyone. During the course of his sermon, he gave many personal illustrations in an effort to show that the
only real happiness lies in a truly consecrated service to Christ. This thought was the general theme of his address.
One especially good illustration that Mr. Marshall gave was the story of a rich planter of the Far East who
came back to Ely to try to find someone who would be willing to go back with him to a
life of ease and comfort, and not necessarily godliness. The planter, after addressing the students, asked all who would like
to go, to see him after the meeting. Not one went. Then, Mr. Marshall said that a few weeks later
a poor, bent, and diseased missionary came to address the students and also make (Continued on page 5)
