ORGAN RECITAL TONIGHT

The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

DR. RONDTHALER SPEAKS MONDAY NIGHT

Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 6, 1931 No. 27

Formal Installation For Student Body Officers is Held Friday Evening

Newly Elected Men Pledge Services and Ask Support of the Student Body

BARBECUE THEN SERVED

Farewell Address is Made by President of Senior Class

Last Friday evening at 6 o'clock the student body officers were formally installed, with Dan LaFar, president of the retiring Senior class, serving as master of ceremonies. In opening the program, Dan stated that this year was only the second year that this installation had been held and that it was his hope that this time as well as on subsequent occasions there would be an attitude of serious purposefulness that was prevalent at the original installation exercises. The student body then sang “O Davidson,” after which the invocation was made by Carl Pritchett. Following this, Dan Goodykoontz led the retiring Student Council up the left side of the stage, and Don King led the incoming council up the right side of the stage, each meeting the other halfway. Goodykoontz, on turning the responsibilities of the president of the student body over to King, and the functions of the council to the new council, asked that the members of the student body rise and pledge themselves anew to the support of the new council while the new council was being installed. Upon giving the oath, he said in parting that though the retiring council had been somewhat criticized for many of its decisions during the year, they had acted always on precedents set by councils who had gone before, and that this fact should exonerate the actions of the retiring council on any questionable judgments. This being said, Don King made a plea for the earnest support of the entire student body for a better and more rigid student government throughout the coming year. The council members then filed off the stage, leaving King and Goodykoontz with LaFar. Dean Rusk, president of the Y. M. C. A.; Bill Goodson, president of the Athletic Association; Wilson McCutcheon, editor of the Davidsonian, and Andy Bird, editor of Quips and Cranks, then conferred their obligations and responsibilities upon the following men, respectively: Roger Enloe, president-elect of the Y. M. C. A.; Don McQueen, president-elect of the Athletic Association; Grier Martin, editor-elect of the Davidsonian, and Ned Dwelle, editor-elect of Quips and Cranks. Each of these retiring officers made remarks to the effect that they appreciated the manner in which the student body had supported them, and that they were happy to see that such capable men had been chosen to fill their respective positions. The incoming officers in their turn pledged their wholehearted efforts towards meeting the duties which their offices held, and also expressed their appreciation of the confidence which the students had shown in them by electing them to these offices. Bill (Continued on page 6)

Sophs Pick Mebane For Vice-President

The rising Junior class, in a recent election, elected W. Allen Mebane as their next year’s vice-president. Mebane was elected on the third ballot. Those nominated for that position were Fred Ogden, Billy Flinn, Allen Mebane, Bob McCallie, Tom Henley, and John Creech. The list was reduced to three after the first ballot, Flinn, Ogden, and Mebane. After the counting of the votes from the second balloting, Ogden and Mebane remained in the race, and Mebane was elected on the third voting. Mebane is from Burlington, N. C., and is very active in campus activities. He is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, next year’s business manager of the Wildcat Handbook, on the business staff of the Annual, solicitor for the Davidsonian, one of the Junior football managers, and made his numeral last year in tennis.

Senior Class Holds Open Air “Y” Vesper

The vesper program sponsored by the Senior class Sunday evening, May 3, was unlike any others held this year. The meeting took place on the campus by “Phi” hall and proved to be stimulating. Dan S. LaFar, president of the Senior class, directed the singing and with the group repeated the responsive reading. Walter W. Fraley and Andy R. Bird offered prayer. In the quiet of the evening, the violin quartet played a suitable musical number. “The Invisible Cup” was the subject for the first speaker, Fergie L. Wood. He read from the 44th chapter of Genesis, which tells about Joseph in Egypt, his placing the cup in Benjamin's sack, and Jacob and his whole household coming to live with Joseph in this land. He also read part of Romans, beginning with the 8th chapter. Mr. Wood asked why God brought sorrow into lives if He loved His people. The answer the speaker gave to the question was that distress turns out to be a blessing because in the final analysis things usually happen for the best. He related the well-known story of Joseph's birth and motherless childhood and by analogy emphasized the importance of a mother’s love. Stressing this point, he claimed that it is second only to God’s love. Then, the speaker outlined the history of Joseph from the time he entered Egypt as a slave until he accepted and forgave his brothers. Mr. Wood asserted that Jesus is willing to forgive if the sinner repents. He pointed out that John Bunyan thought when he was in jail that since he had only the prison bars to preach to, that there was nothing he could do. When you consider how much “Pilgrim's Progress” affects folks, you see at once the blessing of this confinement. The reflection mentioned in the closing part of the discourse was to place your talents at the Master’s service and see them multiply. Charlie E. Kraemer took his text from the 20th chapter of John. This book tells about Mary’s looking for Christ, and of her full realization of what He means to her when she discovers Him. Jesus asks her to tell the brethren that He had arisen. In doing this, Mr. Kraemer maintained that (Continued on page 6)

Dr. Minor C. Baldwin To Be Here Tonight

Noted Organist Will Give Recital in Chambers Auditorium

The information was released last Thursday that Dr. Minor C. Baldwin, described by music critics as the “master of the modern organ,” the “dean of American organists,” and the “Paderewski of the organ,” would give a recital in the auditorium of Chambers Building at Davidson College on Wednesday night, May 6. This announcement was made by Prof. Ernest J. Cullum, head of the music department at Davidson. The appearance of Dr. Baldwin was in connection with the observance of “Music Week,” which is being sponsored by the National Bureau for the Advancement of Music. Prof. Cullum outlined a week’s musical program beginning Monday, May 4, that included the special emphasis at the chapel exercises each day, a recital by Charlotte and Queens-Chicora musicians on Monday night, and the local audition of the fifth National Atwater Kent contest on Thursday evening. Dr. Baldwin is a world-renowned organist, and his name for the last several generations is synonymous with the organ. He has played at World Fairs for the past 50 years, and has given concerts at expositions in Chicago, St. Louis, Philadelphia, Omaha, and the Pan-American Fair. Concerts have been given in every capital of European countries, and other cities which include London, Brussels, Lucerne, Paris, and Antwerp. During the past winter, the noted artist has been playing in Orlando, Fla., at the church which John D. Rockefeller attends. On his return North, he was a guest of friends in North Carolina, and accepted the local invitation to give a recital on the $20,000 Skinner organ, installed at Davidson a year and a half ago.

Capt. Otto Transferred

According to a recent announcement, Capt. John A. Otto, a member of the Davidson College R. O. T. C. Department, will not return next year. Captain Otto has been at Davidson for the past three years. Some time ago Captain Otto received orders from the War Department that the regular term of four years would be extended to five years in this case, but recently this order was countermanded. According to the new order, he is stationed at Fort Meade, Maryland, where he will remain at least one year. Captain Otto will be attached to the Tank School at Fort Meade.

College Will Confer Six Doctors’ Degrees

Outstanding Men of Various Fields to be Honored at the Approaching Commencement

Davidson College will honor six outstanding men at the approaching commencement of this institution, when a doctor of laws will be conferred on two, a doctor of literature upon one, and a doctor of divinity upon three, according to an announcement made at the office of President W. L. Lingle last Saturday. These men were elected at the February meeting of the Board of Trustees.Trustees and all of them have accepted the honor. Mr. George G. Allen, of New York, and President Frank P. Graham, of Chapel Hill, are the two to receive the doctor of laws degree; Prof. J. A. Tillinghast, of Spartan- (Continued on page 6)

Montgomery is Elected V.-Pres. of Class of ’32

In the voting conducted last week, Alex Montgomery was elected vice-president of the rising Senior class on the third ballot. There were nine men running for the office: Mickey Bradshaw, Frank Buckner, John Keller, Cal Kuykendall, Bill Matthews, Mutt Roddey, Allan Whitehead, and Hal Wilson. Three of these were left in the race after the first ballot, Montgomery, Kuykendall, and Roddey. On the third ballot, Montgomery was elected, defeating Kuykendall.

This is the third honor that Montgomery has received within the past two weeks. First, he was selected as one of the two managers of the Student Store, being chosen to handle the buying part of the business from the first of May through next year. Then in the past week, he was given a bid to Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity, besides being elected to the vice-presidency of the Senior class. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity and is prominent in class athletics.

Five men were nominated for secretary and treasurer of the class: Pete Knox, Bill Rule, Henry McFayden, Kemp Morton, and George O’Hanlon. Two of these were eliminated on the first ballot, leaving Knox, McFayden, and Morton in the race for this office.

Scabbard and Blade

The following officers have been invited to membership in B Company, 5th Regiment, National Society of Scabbard and Blade: First Lieutenant C. E. Kraemer, First Lieutenant E. F. Thompson, and Sergeants P. M. Conway, C. W. Harrison, D. S. King, W. S. Lea, D. G. Martin, A. G. Montgomery, J. H. McKinnon, L. S. Raker, and S. S. Wiley. First Sergeant J. S. Meacham read the names of these men and extended them the invitation to join Scabbard and Blade, military fraternity, last Monday afternoon at the drill period. This is the second time that the fraternity has issued bids this school year, the first issuing being made last fall.

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA IN SPRING CEREMONIES, TAPS 11 STUDENT MEMBERS

Vereen Bell Chosen Editor of the Yowl

In one of the student body elections last week, Vereen M. Bell, of Cairo, Ga., was elected editor-in-chief of the Yowl, Davidson’s humorous magazine. Bell defeated Allan Whitehead, of Wilmington, N. C., after a very close vote. The election is the culmination of a year’s work as assistant editor of the publication for each of these men. The new editor succeeds Croswell Ragin, of Wilmington, N. C., who has headed the Yowl staff for the past year. Bell is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, the Reporters’ Club of the Davidsonian, Delta Pi Kappa, and Upsilon, national honorary literary fraternity. He has served during the past year as feature editor of the Davidsonian, each week editing his column of a Matador. During his Freshman year, he was a member of the Freshman football team.

The Yowl is the newest of the campus publications, taking the place of the literary magazine, The Chameleon, which was published in preceding years. Three issues of the new publication have appeared this year and each has met with enthusiasm from the student body. However, next year, instead of being entirely humorous, the magazine will be forty percent literary and sixty percent humorous. The complete staff of next year’s Yowl has not been announced.

Fraternities Issue Annual Spring Bids

Several honorary fraternities have recently sent out their annual spring bids: Delta Pi Kappa, journalistic; Eta Sigma Phi, classical; and Delta Phi Alpha, German. The International Club will issue bids next week; the prospective members are now writing their papers. Sigma Delta Psi competition began last Monday, and since there was such a large number competing, the bids will not be issued soon.

Those that received bids from Delta Pi Kappa are: R. L. McCallie, H. O. Guerrant, B. B. Sugg, Jr., D. D. McBryde, C. H. Myers, Jr., W. W. Franklin, A. H. Whitehead, D. G. Stevenson, and W. T. Hancock. Eta Sigma Phi issued bids to the following: P. F. Brown, D. R. Brandon, J. C. Calhoun, J. C. Caligan, C. W. Harrison, G. A. Little, D. D. McBryde, W. E. McNair, J. R. Sneed, C. S. Spencer, W. B. Ward, C. F. Myers, J. G. Dunklin, H. W. Erwin. Those bidded to Delta Phi Alpha are: R. A. Steadman, C. M. Wildman, E. O. Guerrant, and P. F. Brown.

Lecture on Oxford Presented Tuesday

Dr. Vowles Gives Illustrated Lecture on Ancient English University

On Tuesday night, Dr. Guy R. Vowles, head of the German Department at Davidson, gave an illustrated lecture on Oxford University and Rhodes scholarships. Dr. Vowles, who is himself a Rhodes Scholar, described the selection of men to go to Oxford, and presented slides to illustrate the lecture. Since the death of Cecil Rhodes, various changes have taken place in the selection of Rhodes scholars. During the past two or three years, a system has been put into practice which increases the chances for the appointment of students of colleges enrolling less than a thousand men. Under this system, the United States is divided into eight divisions, each of which furnishes four representatives out of the twelve candidates chosen by the committees in the six states of that district. By this plan, the number of men (Continued on page 5)

Dwelle, Enloe, Gorrell, King, McKinnon, McQueen, and Martin Are Juniors Chosen

DR. LINGLE MAKES SPEECH

Cannon, Covington, Jones, Smith With Faculty Members Complete List

Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa on last Tuesday morning, at the chapel exercises, extended its annual spring bids which included three faculty members, four Seniors, and seven members of the Junior class. Following a short address on the principles of Omicron Delta Kappa by Dr. Lingle, the active members of the circle proceeded with the “tapping.” As the chairman struck the table with his gavel, a student arose, went rapidly into the audience, and designated the one to whom the bid was extended by striking him on the shoulder. Faculty members of the organization were seated on the platform throughout the ritual.

Faculty members receiving bids were: Dr. C. K. Brown, Prof. K. J. Foreman, Lieut.-Col. W. R. Scott. Dr. C. K. Brown, a Davidson graduate, is professor of economics. Having had the degree of doctor of philosophy conferred on him by the University of North Carolina, he has gained much recognition through the publication of several books on transportation problems. Lieut.-Col. W. R. Scott has been stationed for the past three years at Davidson as P.M.S. & T., and commandant of the R.O.T.C. unit. He is a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point.

Of the four Seniors extended bids, only three were actually tapped. J. A. Cannon, Jr., of Concord, was absent, now being enrolled as a student in the University of North Carolina Law School. Cannon was president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, business manager of The Beta. Theta Pi, social fraternity. H. S. Covington, Red Springs, N. C., member of Pi Kappa Alpha, is president of the Davidsonian, and belongs to the D Club, wears varsity football and baseball letters.

(Continued on page 6)

Lafferty is elected Vice-Pres. of Class

In an election held several days ago, John Lafferty was elected vice-president of the rising Sophomore class. He was elected to that honor on the fourth ballot. Those nominated for that position were John Lafferty, John Fitzgerald, Alec Schenck, Don Davies, Bob Evans, Harvey Curlee, Jim Halverstadt, Bill Johnson, Tee Thompson, and John O'Keefe. On the first ballot this group was reduced to five, Davies, Evans, Lafferty, Schenck, and Fitzgerald; on the second ballot it was reduced to three, Schenck, Lafferty, and Fitzgerald; on the third to Lafferty and Fitzgerald, and on the final casting Lafferty was elected.

Lafferty, from Rome, Ga., has become one of the outstanding men on the campus. He is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, and is one of the two student council members from the rising Sophomore class. Lafferty made his Freshman numeral in basketball this year, and is a member of the Frosh tennis team.

Nominations have been made for the secretary and treasurer. The following were nominated: Jim Halverstadt, Rufus Morrow, Owen Ravenel, Sam Alexander, Don Davies, Sam Wilson, Bob Evans, Bill Stanly, Alec Schenck, Buck Kirkland, Alec Halyburton, Andy Manson, Harvey Curlee, Joe Dill, and Albert Colwell. On the first voting the following remained in the race: Morrow, Schenck, Alexander, Davies, Evans, and Manson.