THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 16, 1931

LARGE CROWD EXPECTED FOR OPENING GAME

THE SPORTS PARADE

B. B. SHOTS By B. B. SUGG

Here we are, folks, outside the big tent of the greatest show on earth, Bunyan and Beatty, where the first
act in the Big Five ring exhibition is about to begin. Even now we can hear the Davidson Wildcats, the
wildest wildcats known to man, growling for meat, but to no avail, for they will not be fed until the
whistle blows for the opening act of the Big Five Circus on Saturday.

But let us take a look at those famed wildcats and the two premier wildcat tamers, Monk Younger and Tex
Tilson. As usual, Monk seems to see no hope beyond the grave for his team, but upon close observation, we
find that he is building an unusually strong line and has developed at least one good backfield combination. We admit
that he is lacking in reserve power, especially in the backfield, but we cannot help but believe that his second-choice
men will come through in a big way. Then, too, since the adoption of the shift, an optimistic spirit seems
to have developed, and with it, a rise in Wildcat stock.

Shifting our focus to the center ring of the Big Five, we find Wallace Wade, famous Alabama coach, giving the
works to Dook’s Blue Devils. Mr. Wade has put out many an outstanding team in his day and is particularly
noted for building strong lines. Already it is reported that the Devils have a strong line, and if the whole
team is as good as some Duke alumni say it will be—well, look out Carolina.

But hark. The sound of Tar Heel voices reaches us, and the loudest of all is that of Chuck Collins
lifted in a cry of dismay because half his men “hardly know the signals.” Poor Carolina! She does have the
worst luck. And on top of all that, is a schedule including six conference games in six Saturdays. It’s a
funny thing about Collins. Always crying about what a sorry team he has, and then winning about two-thirds of the
season’s games.

Another new face in Southern coaching circles is that of Clipper Smith at N. C. State who makes his debut
before North Carolina fans this fall. Smith has a good reputation up north and will doubtless build a strong team
for the Wolfpack. He has been holding secret practices for the past week, so very little is known of what
kind of team he has, except that his first and second teams are reported to be of almost equal calibre.

Finally, on the eastern side of the big tent in ring number five, we find Pat Miller and his Demon
Deacons. Again a heavy line seems to be the main point of interest. Wake Forest opens up with Carolina on
the weekend following the Davidson-Elon game, and if Mr. Miller has the team he had last year, those Tar Heels
will have a tough time.

Well, there you are. Five teams. Take your pick. The battle for the Big Five championship will soon be underway.
Get your tickets for the Wild West show at the treasurer’s office. It is an obvious fact that the ’Cats
have a hard row to plough this season because of the lack of reserves, but with their share of the
breaks and barring unexpected developments, a successful season should result.

Davidson Attack to Feature New Shift

Davidson's 1931 edition of the Wildcats will use a shift in their attack on the gridiron. This new style of
play will replace the old set formation style which has been employed here for many years. It is the first
time “Monk” Younger and Tex Tilson have tried the shift in their formations, and from all indications, Davidson’s attack will
be entirely revolutionized. Development and perfection of this new style of play has been by far the most important feature
of the first ten days of practice.

The Raleigh News and Observer Courtesy, Davidson

Football Team Has No Regular Captain

Coaches Plan to Appoint Captain For Each Game

Few major college football teams in the country are without a captain at this stage of the season, but this
is just the case at Davidson. The Wildcats will open their season this Saturday with Elon, and as yet no
captain has been elected.

Walter Fraley captained the Wildcats through their 1930 schedule. He was chosen by members of the 1929 team to lead
the Davidson gridiron team, but at the end of the last season, members of the coaching staff wondered if a
plan of appointing a different player for each game could not be worked out successfully. And with this idea in
view, Davidson does not yet have a captain for its football team. Coach Younger announced that the staff was still
undecided just whether a permanent captain or a different captain for each game was to be the plan. However, if
the latter is to be the custom, Coach “Monk” will undoubtedly make his selections from members of the team who
are Seniors in the college. This group includes Don King, Don McQueen, Mick Bradshaw, Bud Raker, Steve Brown, and Doc
Mathis.

Fifty-Four Men Report For Freshmen Football

When a call for Freshmen football candidates was made last Wednesday, fifty-four men reported to Coach Laird for practice. Although
very little data is yet available, it may be said that the prospects are decidedly good for a successful season.
Several all-state and all-conference men are among the candidates.A complete list of the men who have reported is as follows:
Adams, Batte, Bernardo, Bumgarner, Caton, Cathey, Dupuy, Fort, Charlie Fort, Fergerson, Griffith, Gregory, Hannon, Hand, Hutches, Hufford, Holt, Koenig, Lee,
Le Gare, MacKorell, McClintock, Morgan, Brewer, Jen Morris, Morrison, McInvaille, Macafee, Miller, McCall, Milford, Nicholson, Paine, Potter, Quarterman, Ravenell, Richardson,
Rives, Rogers, Sigmond, Sievers, Smathers, Smith, Sprunt, Stuttz, VanStory, Wallace, Williford, Watkins, Wilson, West, Wyche, Walker, and Wingfield.

Freshmen Schedule
Davidson vs. Wofford Fresh, at Davidson, October 16th.
Davidson vs. N. C. State Fresh, at Davidson, October 23rd.
Davidson vs. Asheville School, at Asheville, October 30th.
Davidson vs. Oak Ridge, at Oak Ridge, November 13th.
Davidson vs. Duke Fresh, at Durham, November 20th.

Wildcats Open 1931 Season Saturday With Elon College

Jim Halverstadt Takes Georgia Tennis Honors
James A. Halverstadt, Sophomore at Davidson College, brought fame upon himself and increased the hopes of Davidson's tennis team when
he won honors at the Georgia State Tennis Tournament held at Macon, Ga. In the singles matches, Halverstadt reached the
semi-finals only to be eliminated by Wilmer Hines, who won the championship. The scores were 6-0, 6-4, 6-4. Hines, who
hails from Columbia, S.C., holds the singles championship of several states and was the 1930 National Junior Singles Champion. He
was No. 1 player on North Carolina University's champion college team last year and was also one of the first
ten ranking United States tennis players in 1930.

Halverstadt paired with Reese, of Atlanta, Ga., to win the state doubles championship, defeating Hines and Shuford 9-7 and 6-2.
Shuford, a North Carolina lad from Hickory, and last year a member of Carolina’s Freshman court team, came from behind
to win the doubles championship. Hines and Shuford, having five games to one and 40-love on the first set, failed
to keep up the pace and the winners took five straight games, finally winning 9-7. The match was shortened when
the third set was stopped because of darkness.

Halverstadt, as a member of last year’s Freshman court team, failed to lose a singles match in ten meets with
college Freshman teams, and, paired with Lafferty or Rowan, lost only one doubles contest. Before entering Davidson, he starred on
Darlington Junior College tennis team of Rome, Ga.

LOCAL CLERK DRAWS PERFECT HAND
John Bost, of Cornelius, and resident clerk in the Davidson post office, neither fainted, bid no trumps, nor became unduly
excited several nights ago when he drew a perfect hand in a bridge game played at his home in Cornelius,
but does say that he will never doubt any newspaper recounting this unusual array of cards. “Seeing is believing,” he
said.

Playing with Bost were Miss Elizabeth Kirk, of Lancaster, S.C.; Vernon Stuart and Teddy Muchachos, both of Davidson. Miss Kirk
dealt, and Bost, who had the first bid, opened with seven spades. It developed that he closed the bidding. Silence
reigned for some moments while each member of the party glanced at one another in consternation. It finally occurred to
Miss Kirk that perhaps he held 13 spades, and asked that question. “Yes, I have them,” said Bost, and spread
before their amazed eyes the perfect hand. “I could hardly believe I held 13 spades,” he calmly said, “and searched
around among all those black cards for a club, but none was there.”

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS” “SODA” “SUNDRIES”
Make Our Store Your Store
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

Davidson gridiron. Shift to Get First Trial as ’Cats Make First Appearance
The initial game of the Wildcats takes place Saturday, September 20, when they take the field against the Elon Christians.
Elon will be without Pete Williams, stellar back of last season, but reports coming into the Wildcat lair indicate a
strong team. The 'Cats triumphed over Elon last year with a 38-0 score, but the contest was not without its
thrills. The losers reached Davidson's two-yard line on a determined drive, but were halted by those fighting red and black
linesmen.

The game will be a real test for Coach Monk’s new type of attack featuring the shift which will probably
revolutionize the entire Davidson offense. Present indications seem to point to Bud Raker, veteran tackle, being shifted to end and
Buddy Conway shifted to fullback. The probable lineup of the Wildcats will be Raker and Brown at ends, Wagner and
Whitfield at tackles, and Mathis and McConnell at guards, while King will hold down the pivot position. In the backfield,
McQueen, Mills, Pierce, and either Bradshaw or Gardner will be the starters.

Warren, present heavyweight boxing champion of North and South Carolina, and whose boxing exploits have carried him up and down
the ladder for the past two years, will soon desert the ring to become boxing coach at the University of
North Carolina. Warren's disappearance from fistic encounters will only be temporary, as he hopes to return after a few years.

But woe awaits a country when She sees the tears of bearded men.
—Sir Walter Scott.

Bost has also had the unusual experience of making a hole-in-one on two different occasions, which leads to the speculation
as to what unusual thing will happen to him next.

WILDCATS MEET ELON SATURDAY

CROSS-COUNTRY TEAM HOLDS FIRST MEETING
The members of the 1931 fall cross-country team had their first meeting last Monday afternoon. Under the direction of Captain
Pritchett and “Pete” Whittle, the team is getting into shape for the first of their four meets this fall. The
Davidson cross-country team this year meets South Carolina, Duke, V. P. I., and another team which has not been settled
upon yet. The Duke meet is to be held here on Home-Coming Day, October 17. The varsity team will probably
be built up around Brannon, Earle, Morrow, Woodside, and Drake. Brannon and Earle both did good work last year on
the varsity. The last three, Morrow, Woodside, and Drake, ran on the Freshman squad last year. This year’s Freshman team
has not been organized long enough to tell much about the prospects.

RUSK VISITS DAVIDSONIAN
Dean Rusk, of Atlanta, Ga., June graduate of Davidson College and one of the 33 Rhodes scholars selected in the
United States last spring, was a visitor to Davidson this summer. Rusk has been conferring with military officials here about
attending a military camp before he departs for foreign climes. Rusk, who was student head of the R. O. T.
C. corps here, was commissioned a second lieutenant in Uncle Sam's army in June, and prefers to visit a second
encampment this summer before sailing for England, where he wants to spend his three years uninterruptedly. Rusk spent two weeks
at Fort Bragg this summer, but if he can get an additional two weeks before sailing in late September, he
will have the required amount of time to last him over a three-year period. He is the sixth Davidson graduate
to win this distinctive honor since the establishment of the Rhodes scholarship fund. He is considered one of the most
outstanding students to graduate from Davidson in recent years. Rusk headed the R. O. T. C., was president of the
Y. M. C. A., captain of the basketball team, and while he was here, earned his way through college. All
of this was recognized by honorary fraternities, and he accomplished the entire feat by the time he was 21 years
old.

YOUNGER AND TILSON SIGN NEW CONTRACTS
(Continued from page 1)
With inexperienced material, the coaches have a big problem on their hands, but alumni have often expressed the opinion that
win or lose, they know the coaches are giving the best of their ability. Both of the Davidson coaches have
had repeated offers at other institutions, but only a few of these offers have been known publicly. Coach Younger was
prominently mentioned for a post at N. C. State, but the Davidson head coach has remained here, and has been
satisfied. Younger is head coach of football, basketball, and baseball, while Tilson is assistant coach in football and head coach
in track. Coaches Younger and Tilson are now in the midst of their preparations for the beginning of the 1931
football season, and will be ready when their squad reports for the first workout on September 7.

STATIONERY COLD DRINKS
Students Store
Operated for the Student Body; by the Student Body.
Trade With Yourself
SUPPLIES CANDIES
