President of the International Olympic Com-  
THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 7, 1931  

1932 Olympic Games Announcement Made  
Tenth Olympiad to be Held in Los Angeles Next Summer  

Los Angeles, Calif—First announcement of the final and complete official program of the Games of the Xth Olympiad to be held in Los Angeles from July 30 to August 14, inclusive, 1932, was made by the Los Angeles Organizing Committee, following receipt of a cable of confirmation from Count de Baillet-Latour, from Lausanne, Switzerland. The program will open in Olympic Stadium (Coliseum) on Saturday afternoon, July 30, with the historic Opening Ceremony, a part of which will be the impressive Parade of Nations, in which 2,000 sons and daughters of 35 nations, led by their respective national flags, will participate in the march past the Tribune of Honor. One athlete will then step from the drawn-up ranks to take the Olympic oath for all the teams of the participating nations. As the oath is administered, the Olympic flag will be raised; the Olympic torch will blaze forth atop the massive peristyle of the stadium and in the presence of representatives of foreign countries, world-wide Olympic organizations, and officials of state, the games of the Xth Olympiad will be declared officially opened. Many other beautiful features of pageantry will mark the opening ceremony.

The Olympic Games will bring to Los Angeles the greatest gathering of dignitaries ever to assemble on the Pacific Coast. Members of royal houses from all parts of the world will attend the opening ceremony as will official delegations from their governments. In accordance with Olympic traditions that the ruling head of the nation pronounce the games opened, President Hoover will be officially invited to open the Games of the Xth Olympiad.

Something of the magnitude of the program is suggested by the fact that during the 16 days the games are in progress, more than 135 distinct programs of competitions from 15 branches of sports will be held mornings, afternoons, and evenings at nine or more stadiums, auditoriums, or water courses. Competitions will be held in the following world-wide sports: track and field athletics, boxing, cycling, equestrian sports, fencing, field hockey, gymnastics, modern pentathlon, shooting, rowing, swimming, diving and water polo, weight lifting, wrestling, yachting, national demonstration, international demonstration, and fine arts.

Olympic Stadium (Coliseum) in Olympic Park (Exposition Park) with a seating capacity for 105,000 persons, will be the center of Olympic activity. In it will be held, in addition to the opening and closing ceremonies, the track and field athletics, gymnastics, field hockey semi-finals and finals, equestrian jumping events, and the demonstrations of national and international sports. In addition to these competitions, the first and official announcements of the final results of all Olympic events, regardless of where they are held, followed by the historic ceremony honoring the countries represented by the victorious athletes, will occur several times daily in Olympic Stadium.

Track and field, boxing, wrestling, swimming, diving and water polo, and rowing are the most popular sports on the official program. Beginning July 31 and lasting for eight days, Olympic Stadium will be the scene of one of the world’s greatest programs of track and field athletics, with champion performers of every country participating. Trials and finals will be held in the men’s 400-meter hurdles, high jump, shot put, 100-meter race, 800-meter race, 10,000-meter race, hammer throw, 3000-meter steeplechase, 110-meter hurdles, broad jump, 200-meter race, 5000-meter race, pole vault, discus throw, 1500-meter race, 400-meter race, javelin throw, hop, step and jump, 4x100-meter relay, 4x400-meter relay, decathlon events, and the marathon.

Events for women in Olympic Stadium during the same period will include javelin throw, 100-meter dash, discus throw, 80-meter hurdles, high jump, and 4x100-meter relay.

Swimming events for men include the 100-meter freestyle, springboard diving, 4x200-meter relay, 100-meter backstroke, 400-meter freestyle, 1500-meter freestyle, 200-meter breaststroke, high diving, 200-meter breaststroke, and 1500-meter freestyle and water polo. The aquatic events for women will include 200-meter breaststroke, 100-meter freestyle, 100-meter breaststroke, springboard diving, 4x100-meter relay race, 100-meter backstroke, 400-meter freestyle, and high diving.

All rowing events will take place in Long Beach Marine Stadium, which forms a part of Alamitos Bay. The Olympic yachting course will be at Los Angeles Harbor and is ideally adapted to this form of sport. The dates for the rowing are August 8, 10, 11, 12, and 13, while those for the yacht races are August 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12. Throughout the period of the games, fine arts exhibits will be on display at Los Angeles County Museum.

Sunk When a word fits, you know it! "Satisfy" just fits CHESTERFIELD. A smoker picks up a package, and he likes its neat appearance—no heavy inks or odors from ink. That satisfies him. Then he examines a Chesterfield. It is well-filled; it is neat in appearance; the paper is pure white. And that satisfies him. He lights up. At the very first puff he likes the flavor and the rich aroma. He decides that it tastes better—neither raw nor over-sweet; just pleasing and satisfying. The old slogan hits me just right—no bamboozling about that! Then he learns it is milder. That’s another way of saying that there is nothing irritating.about it. And again he’s satisfied! Satisfy—they’ve got to satisfy! The right tobaccos, the CHESTERFIELD kind, cured and aged, blended and cross-blended, to a taste that’s right. Everything that goes into CHESTERFIELD is the best that money can buy and that science knows about. CHESTERFIELDS do a complete job of it. They Satisfy!

Elvery Downs James to Win Freshman Singles

The Freshman elimination tennis tournament, which started Tuesday, September 29, came to a close Saturday, October 3, with F. C. Elvery defeating J. B. James in the finals by a score of 6-2, 6-2, 6-1. The Freshman tournament will doubtless decide the members of the Freshman tennis team. The men that came out in the first six of the tournament will compose this team. Elvery, James, Bob Coit, and Skip Brown will be sure of a place on the team, and two others from those who lasted as long as the quarter-finals will complete it. There was some very good material in this tournament, and it is very probable that they will make a very creditable showing in their matches this season. The matches for the Freshman team have not been decided yet, but they are sure of some very strong competition.

In the semi-finals, James defeated Skip Brown, 6-4, 7-5, in the upper bracket, and Elvery defeated Bob Coit, 6-4, 6-1, in the lower bracket. In the quarter-finals, Brown defeated Little, 6-1, 6-2; James defeated Gullette, 6-2, 4-6, 6-3; Coit defeated McFarden, 6-3, 7-5, and Elvery defeated Walker, 6-2, 6-2. Some of the men that are sure of a place on the team have had some very good experience on tennis teams in prep schools and camps, but only time will tell how they will turn out in the matches this year.

Football Programs

The first issuance of football programs will be on October 17, Home Coming Day, when the Wildcats play Duke, as announced by Mr. Ernest Milton, Alumni Secretary. Mr. Milton said that the program will be essentially the same as last year’s; its cover will be adorned by a ferocious wildcat, and its general appearance will be similar. There will be a program issued for each of three games subsequent to Duke. These are with Virginia Military Institute, with Citadel College, and with Wake Forest. Mr. Milton also stated that the advertising contracts will be let some time this week. He added that he regretted a program exactly as he would like one could not be had this year on account of the lack of necessary funds.

Inter-Fraternity Games Attract Much Interest

Much interest is being shown on the fraternity court at the approach of intra-fraternity touch football competition. This is one of the most important of intra-mural sports on the Davidson campus, and great are the boastings of each chapter concerning the scores by which each expects to win. The series starts this week and is to be held in the form of a tournament, each chapter team being matched with that of another chapter by drawing. The drawing was done by Allen Whitehead, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council. In the first round of the five-round tourney, Sigma Alpha Epsilon plays Sigma Phi Epsilon; Theta Upsilon Omega opposes Kappa Alpha; Beta Theta Pi meets Kappa Sigma; Phi Delta Theta vies with Pi Kappa Alpha, and Phi Gamma Delta engages Pi Kappa Phi. Many are the predictions as to the outcome of these first-round games. Last year Beta Theta Pi was victor and Kappa Sigma was “runner-up.” As these two are matched together in the first round, a hot fight is expected.

W. & L. PEP MEETING (Continued from page 1)

great spirits and enthusiasm at high pitch. “Bud” Raker, captain of the Wildcats, spoke for the football players assembled at Shearer Hall and said that he knew all of his men would put their best into the fray, win or lose. The team left for Lexington last Friday morning, and the student body assembled at the bus stop to give them a big send-off.

NOT RUN DOWN YET

When your wife starts to talk does she know when to stop? I don’t know yet; we've only been married nine years.”—Answers.

Student Volunteer Group Has Meeting

The Student Volunteer Union of Davidson College began its work for 1931-32 with a meeting held Sunday afternoon, September 17, at which time plans and projects for the coming year were discussed. These include the sending of deputations to other colleges for the purpose of organizing unions there, and also for the exchange of programs and ideas. Some other projects such as the collecting of old razor blades, athletic goods, and postcards, to be sent to the foreign fields, which worked very successfully last year, will be carried on again together with several others. The Student Volunteer Union is a fellowship of students and out-of-college volunteers vitally interested in the Christian missionary movement. Our local union is a member of the state organization, which is sponsoring a Missions Institute in Charlotte, October 26th and 27th. At this meeting several nationally-known speakers, who are closely connected with Student Volunteer work, will be present and contribute to the interest and value of the institute. The officers of the local unit are: R. C. Morrow, President; L. T. Newland, Vice-President, and F. H. Scott, Treasurer.

He knew the precise psychological moment when to say nothing —Oscar Wilde.