THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1931

The first three petitions deal with God: His Name, His Kingdom, and His Will; the sanctity of His Name, and
the petition that His Kingdom and Will shall be done on this earth. Reverence must be essential in the worship
of God; we must have a respectful approach to Him. The beauty of nature should make one more in tune
with God, since this is His beauty. A man’s name defines him. There is a tendency to be disrespectful in
the using of His Holy Name. Dr. Miles told his audience that swearing and profanity is an inversion of prayer;
instead of asking our Father to bless something we ask Him to damn it. The speaker said that Whitman said
in regard to war, “I say this reverently, God damn all Wars.” There is a difference in this and the
profanity that many use irreverently.

The second petition is that of His Kingdom. “Thy Kingdom Come.” Jesus Christ was sent into this world for a
definite purpose, and that purpose was to establish His kingdom. The kingdom of God is established in you when you
accept and acknowledge Him. The basis of this is that Jesus taught the absolute worth of human beings, and by
realizing the prominence of man we can see His kingdom established. The kingdom of God is not brought about by
material force or power (except the power of God). The students on this campus are here to build the kingdom
of God on Davidson campus. The kingdom does not come through lightning from the heavens, or by Jesus coming from
the skies in a chariot of fire, but comes into the life of an individual through God’s power.

On November 17, at chapel, the Young Men’s Christian Association of Davidson College began its series of fall services. The
opening feature of this program was a solo by Mrs. G. R. Vowles, following which Albert McClure, after a short
introduction, took charge of the singing. Then, immediately following the scripture reading and prayer by Billy Rule, Dr. Walter Lingle
introduced the speaker, Dr. Robt. W. Miles, of Lynchburg, Va., who was to hold the fall services. The topic for
the morning was, “Establishing the Relation between ourselves, our society, and our God.” There are ten requirements which must be
met before we can do this—seven to establish the relation between ourselves, two to establish the relation between our society,
and one to establish that relation between our God. “Those temptations which Christ had to overcome in the wilderness represent
mainly those which we have to deal with in our own life,” said Dr. Miles. Some of the hardest struggles
which a person has are caused by physical temptations, or those that deal with the bodily desires of the individual.
But these ruin the body and also destroy the soul, therefore we must overcome them in order to establish the
relation between ourselves. Another beguilement is the one which urges us to take “short cuts” in preparing ourselves for our
position in life, and establishing our relation to others. Those who resist this temptation are the ones who make the
greatest success in life, and to prove that fact Dr. Miles told about Roy Douglas; who, instead of—wealth and fame,
spent four years in college.

“Thy Will Be Done.” Not my will but Thy will, is what the speaker stressed in this. The will of
God does not change external events but changes a man from within. Dr. Miles told of a missionary in the
Congo region in Africa who was prevented from returning home because of insufficient funds in the treasury of the Missions
Board. This did not faze her, and she said that she was in this work for God's glory and not
for her own. “Thy Will be done not mine.”

“Give us this day our daily bread.” In Moffett’s translation it reads, “Give us today our bread for tomorrow.” This
means to free us from the dominion of fear. We incessantly worry about our health, classroom work, what is ahead,
money, positions, and achievements. We are to be freed from fear, through Jesus Christ. A happy Christian is one that
does not worry.

“Forgive us our debts.” What is a debt? A debt is something that you owe a man.

(Continued on page 8)

SCHEDULE OF HONORARY FRATERNITIES

FIRST AND THIRD WEEKS

Hours | Monday | Tuesday | Wednesday | Thursday | Friday
---|---|---|---|---|---
P. M. | Glee Club | Eu and Phi Lit. | Glee Club | Sigma Pi | Glee Club
7:00 | “D” Club | Societies | Band Practice | Mu Beta Psi | Sigma Alpha
8:00 | Court of Control | Scabbard and Blade | Alpha Phi Omega | Phi Epsilon | Alpha Omicron
9:00 | Gamma Delta Kappa | Le Cercle Francais | Delta Sigma Pi | Kappa Epsilon | Kappa

SECOND AND FOURTH WEEKS

Hours | Monday | Tuesday | Wednesday | Thursday | Friday
---|---|---|---|---|---
P. M. | Glee Club | Eu and Phi Literary Club | Glee Club | Band Practice | Glee Club
7:00 | IRC. | Societies | Court of Control | Sigma Delta | Delta Eta Sigma
8:00 | Pi Phi | Phi Alpha | Sigma Sigma | Ministerial | Delta Upsilon
9:00 | Band | Psi | Taking a “short cut” to and through law school, but as a reward for
these long years of preparation, he is now the youngest law dean in America. Another example is that of Robert
E. Lee, who, after the war, turned down offers of large sums of money to head a large business concern,
just to be the head of an institution of learning and help educate others. What better example could we desire?
“It takes only a few days to make a brush pile, but on the other hand, it takes many years
to make a tree,” Dr. Miles stated. “Are you going to be a brush pile, or are you going to
be a tree?”

“Leadership in Prayer”

On Tuesday evening, November 17th, at 7 o'clock, Dr. Miles conducted the first of the evening services of the Fall
Y.M.C.A. Evangelistic services. Albert McClure led the singing, and John Howard was the leader. The first song was “Jesus Calls
Us o’er the Tempest.” The scripture was taken from the sixth chapter of Matthew, fifth through the thirteenth verses; this
portion includes the Lord’s Prayer. Before Dr. Miles began his address, the song “Break Thou the Bread of Life” was
sung, as was sung before each of the meetings in the series.

The speaker announced that the purpose of his morning services would be “Adjustments,” and for the evening services, “Leadership of
Jesus in Life.” His phase of Leadership for the Tuesday night meeting was “Leadership in Prayer.” Prayer has four functions,
namely: Appreciation of God, Fellowship with God, Creative Living for God, and Discipline for Him. The preface is the Lord’s
Prayer; Jesus taught it, and it portrayed His wishes, His formula, and His pattern. The Lord’s Prayer alone is sufficient
for one man if he enters into it whole-heartedly and puts himself into it. There are six petitions in this,
and one could take one petition a day and pray about it, and develop it as one goes along. Prayer
is something in which we should engage often, in order that we might feel the presence and nearness of God.
We pray the Lord’s Prayer so glibly and casually. The disciples, seeing that Christ obtained power from prayer, asked Him
to teach them how to pray; and He gave them the Lord’s Prayer. This prayer is different in the books
of Luke and Matthew. It was probably first given as it is in Luke, and since the Jews liked to
say it over and over again, it finally came down into the balanced form, which is found in Matthew’s Gospel.
There are three petitions on one side, and three on another. This prayer may be called the platform of our
Lord; it is a pocket Testament; a Gospel in small compass. It gives us the key to Christian living as
nothing else can do.

LUCKY STRIKE

Made of the finest tobaccos—The Cream of many Crops—LUCKY STRIKE alone offers the throat protection of the exclusive “TOASTING” process
that expels certain harsh, biting irritants naturally present in every tobacco leaf. These expelled irritants are not present in your
LUCKY STRIKE. No wonder LUCKIES are always kind to your throat.

“It’s toasted”

“I protect my voice with LUCKIES. It’s that delightful taste after a cup of coffee that makes Luckies a hit
with me. And naturally, I protect my voice with Luckies. No harsh irritants for me... I reach for a Lucky
instead. Congratulations on your improved Cellophane wrapper. I can open it.”

Who can forget Edmund Lowe as “Sergeant Quirt” in “What Price Glory?” That mighty role made Eddie famous in filmland—and
he's more than held his own in a long line of talkie triumphs. We hope you saw him in “The
Spider.” And see him in the Fox thriller “The Cisco Kid.”

Your Throat Protection—against Irritation—against cough

And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh

TUNE IN ON LUCKY STRIKE: 60 modern orchestras, and Walter Winchell, whose gossip of today becomes the news of tomorrow,
every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday evening over N.B.C.

MOISTURE-PROOF CELLOPHANE

Sealed Tight—Ever Right

The Unique Humidor Package

Zip—And it’s open! See the new notched tab on the top of the package. Hold down one half with your
thumb. Tear off the other half. Simple. Quick. Zip! That's all. Unique! Wrapped in dust-proof, moisture-proof, germ-proof Cellophane. Clean, protected,
neat, FRESH—what could be more modern than LUCKIES’ improved Humidor package—so easy to open! Ladies—the LUCKY TAB is—your fingernail protection.

Is Mr. Lowe’s Statement Paid For?

You may be interested in knowing that not one cent was paid to Mr. Lowe to make the above statement.
Mr. Lowe has been a smoker of LUCKY STRIKE cigarettes for 6 years. We hope the publicity herewith given will
be as beneficial to him and to Fox, his producers, as his endorsement of LUCKIES is to you and to
us.
