THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25, 1931

Books We Have Read

Lee the American. By Gamaliel Bradford.
Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston and
New York. 283 pp.

Lee the American is not a biography in
the strict sense of the word. Gamaliel Brad-
ford, in this work, swings clear of the formal
sequence of chronological detail, and uses
only those deeds and words and happenings
of Robert E. Lee that are spiritually signi-
ficant. Although the volume gives an intel-
ligible biographical narrative, much more, it
gives a clear, consistent, sympathetic por-
trait of a great soul. Not a perfect soul, but
a soul made greater because of its weak-
nesses.

The reader lays down this book with the
conviction that the author knew his subject
thoroughly; and that knowing, passed his
knowledge on to the reader free from prej-
udice, and free from exaggeration. This work
could easily have been made sensational had
Bradford chosen to emphasize either the good
or the evil in his subject more than nature
warrants. But this is never the case. The
authenticity or the lack of authenticity of
the material used is invariably given the
reader, regardless of the cost. This cost may
consist, as is often the case, in the direct
refutation of a prepossession established
earlier in the study. The high lights of the
life of Lee are never painted incredibly high,
nor the shadows very deep. It is always a
natural and happy medium.

Bradford handles the work in such a way
that the subject is treated from eleven dis-
tinct points of view. Thus it is that Lee is
turned before us from all possible angles.
Lee's military life, his social life, his spir-
itual life, his domestic life, and other aspects
are all revealed in unusual fullness before
our eyes. Yet through it all, and by means
of it all, the soul of Lee is laid bare. The
soul is impressively great, essentially human.

LOOKING ’EM OVER
(Continued from page 3)

third base with it practically a toss up as
to which will start against Guilford a
week from today in the opening game of
the season.

Only six home games are on Davidson's
baseball card this year, and they all come
within two weeks. Most of the melees
will be on the diamonds of the Wildcats’
opponents. Personally we wish that more
had been carded for the local field. Per-
haps several other games will be added
during the season.

At the age of 13, Robert Wadlow of Alton,
Ill., is seven feet four inches tall and weighs
282 pounds. He added the four inches since
his 12th birthday, and if his growth continues
at its present rate, he will be nine feet tall
when he reaches 18. He wears size 25 shoes,
reads 300 or more adventure books a year,
has a great interest in midgets, and wants to
go into the movies when he is old enough.

Smoke a

Kresu Cigarette!

Chart Showing

Moisture Loss of Cigarettes
— + —{___
THIRTY DAY TEST

Unwrapped Package

6.0—+

Each curve represents average
Ordinary Cellophane
Wrapped Package

Cigarettes in prime
condition have a
moisture content
of about 10%. It will
be seen by the
Pittsburgh Testing
Laboratory Chart
that cigarettes in
the ordinary
wrapped package
lose more than
half of their total
moisture in thirty
days and that only
the Camel Humi-
dor Pack delivers
cigarettes to you
in prime condition

Camel Humidor Pack
Moisture-Proof Cellophane

MOISTURE LOSS-PER CENT

Prepared for R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
Certified Report No. 11891
Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory
Chemist

aroma of the choice Turkish and Domestic tobaccos
of which Camels are blended.

Make these tests yourself

It is so easy to tell the difference between parched dry
cigarettes and fresh prime Camels that it is no wonder
everybody is reaching for a fresh cigarette today.

Your fingers identify stale, dried-out tobaccos at once.
While a Camel is flexible and pliant.

Your ears can tell the difference too. For a dust-dry
cigarette crackles under pressure.

But the real test is taste and there is simply no com-
parison between the rich mildness of a Camel and the
hot, brackish smoke from a stale, dry cigarette.

Switch to Camels just for today then leave them
tomorrow if you can.

The whole country is talking about the throat-
easy mildness and the prime freshness of Camel
Cigarettes in the new Humidor Pack.
The above chart prepared by the Pittsburgh Testing
Laboratory tells you why.

Please examine it carefully. It is an unfailing guide
to cigarette selection and enjoyment.

As you can quickly see by the three upper curves on
this interesting chart, cigarettes that lack the protec-
tion of the Humidor Pack lose their moisture rapidly
from the day they are manufactured.

And day by day as this moisture disappears, the
smoke from these cigarettes becomes harsher, hotter,
more unkind to the smoker’s throat.

Not so with Camels!

The Humidor Pack is moisture proof and sealed air-
tight at every point. It protects the rich, flavorful

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N. C.

CAMELS

Artificial heat in houses and
apartments soon dries the mois-
ture out of cigarettes wrapped
the old fashioned way. It is the
mark of a considerate hostess,
by means of the Humidor Pack,
to “Serve a fresh cigarette.”
Buy Camels by the carton—
this cigarette will remain fresh
in your home and office.

© 1931, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.