‘KING WINS STUDENT BODY ELECTION

Junior Speaking Issue

The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

LANGUAGE MEET IS SCHEDULED FOR APRIL 9-11

Volume XVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 25, 1931 No. 23

JUNIOR SPEAKING BEGINS TOMORROW

KING TO PRESIDE OVER STUDENT BODY

Varied and Interesting Program is Planned for Annual Junior Speaking

Thirty-Seventh Junior Week-End to Take Place March 27 and 28

DUAL MEET SATURDAY

Event Expected to Reach New High Level This Year

This week-end, March 27 and 28, the thirty-seventh annual Junior Speaking will be held at Davidson and in Charlotte. Junior Speaking is a traditional affair which was started in 1894 by the Junior class. At that time any member of the class was eligible to participate in the competitive speaking. The speeches were not very lengthy, but it was considered a great honor to win in the competition. Since that time the class has grown so large that such a procedure would be impossible, but the tradition has continued to the present day. For the past few years, this has been one of the major entertainments, and Junior Speaking this year is expected to reach a new high level. A great many more things are being planned this year which have never been attempted in the past. The program is as follows:

On Friday night will be held the Mystery Trunk Entertainment. As yet no definite information has been given out concerning this, but it is expected to be unusual and entertaining. On Saturday afternoon at 2:30, a dual track meet between Davidson and North Carolina State will be held for guests who will be on the campus. This should be interesting because both Davidson and N. C. State have strong teams, and the meet is expected to be close and hard-fought. That evening at 6:30, a carnival will be staged in the gymnasium. All the details of that are not known, but there will be a Pit of Horror, amusements to make it a real carnival, a Medley Group, and other attractions. Many handsome prizes are to be given away. To make this more like a carnival, soft drinks will be sold at ten booths. The committee in charge of this carnival is composed of Henry McFayden, Jack McConnell, Nat McKinney, and Frank Buckner.

After the concluding event of Junior Speaking, another entertainment to which the student body is invited will be held.

Date For Language Meet is April 9-11

Business Reports and Other Matters of Importance Will be Discussed by Delegates

The Carolina Modern Language Meet is scheduled for April 9-11, according to an announcement made by Dr. B. Watts, president of the association and professor of French at Davidson College. The meeting of the North Carolina Education Association, which has also been changed to the same date, will be held in Raleigh. Due to crowded hotel conditions because of the session of the state legislature, it was deemed advisable to make this change until it adjourned. A very important matter to be decided at the next meeting of the language association is an adequate program of modern languages for North Carolina. This will include a program for French, Spanish, and German.

(Continued on page 5)

Recital To Be Given Tonight By Lindsay

Vachel Lindsay, one of the most prominent American poets, will give a chanted recital tonight. The date of this appearance was first set for March 4, but Mr. Lindsay was unable to come at that time. This is the poet’s second visit to Davidson, having appeared here about ten years ago. Since that time, his fame has increased, and he is now considered one of the outstanding poets of the country. Mr. Lindsay is probably the most competent spokesman we have for America as a whole. He is the only important American writer, except Mark Twain, who has known the South, the East, and the West with greater intimacy. Besides being a poet and lecturer, Mr. Lindsay is also an illustrator. Many of his poems have been set to music. The poet will chant his poems tonight, and through this method, a complete appreciation of rhythm can be acquired. Mr. Lindsay has also promised to recite some of his newer poems.

Dr. Charles F. Myers of Greensboro Conducts “Y” Vesper Service Sunday

Dr. Charles F. Myers of Greensboro will conduct the vesper service this Sunday. Mrs. Farrell, who accompanied him on his trip here, will present special music. The subject of Dr. Myers' sermon will be “Eloquence of Religious Experience.”

Davidson To Receive Peabody and Enochs

A deputation from Columbia Theological Seminary will conduct our services here next Sunday. The deputation is composed of Dr. Cartledge, head of the Greek department and New Testament literature, and his wife, Mrs. Cartledge; John McIlwaine, a Davidson graduate; Henry L’Heureux, a graduate of Presbyterian College; and Richard Gillespie, another Davidson graduate.

Freshmen Begin Election of Their Next Year’s Officers

The election of officers for next year was begun last week by the Davidson student body. The president and the two vice-presidents have already been elected, but the secretary and treasurer have not been elected yet. The issue goes to press before the final results are known.of the nominating committee of the Student Council. He is a regent and was elected Poems out and wrote a great many. Peter Marshall, of the Technical College, is for president of the student body. Don Vachel Lindsay, born in Scotland, will speak on “Supreme Lesser” at the evening service. The “Y” vesper service will be conducted by John Kinnon. Don King was elected the first president of the student body by ballot. He is a member of Kappa Alpha, a social fraternity. The service will be conducted by a quartet composed of Cecil Thomas and Catherine Fraser, and Peter Marshall. They will be assisted by Dr. Cartledge, who will conduct the Sunday church service.

(Continued on page 9)

Two Financial Meetings

Dr. Gammon Speaks To Ministerial Candidates

Dr. Stone Will Deliver Baccalaureate Sermon

Business Reports and Other Matters of Importance Will Be Discussed

Stresses Need for Highest Type of Well-Rounded Men for the Ministry

On Friday evening at 8:30 o'clock, a meeting was given at the Social Center by Dr. E. G. Gammon, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. Dr. Gammon said that the ministry is a very difficult calling and that men of the highest type are needed. It is impossible for a minister to get away with half-baked talks because the congregation is often better educated than the pastor. He said that we are now passing through a crucial age in which people are thinking along radical lines. The ministry, according to Dr. Gammon, is a man’s job and a man must be called to this work by God before entering it. A man must also be well-rounded. He needs campus, athletic, and social life. One of the things he needs most is to know people and make them feel at ease.

Dr. Gammon closed his talk in this manner, but he remained open to any questions which anyone wanted to ask.

Dr. Stone is the author of a number of books and is intimately associated with many church boards. His education was obtained at Amherst, where he was class orator, and he later graduated from the McCormick Theological Seminary. He is a former moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A. and has been associated with the Fourth Presbyterian Church in Chicago before he became president of the seminary.

MARCH 27, 28

Mystery Trunk Entertainment — Friday, March 27, Charlotte, 10:00 P.M.

Track Meet — Davidson vs. North Carolina State, Saturday, March 28, 2:30 P.M.

Carnival — In Gymnasium, Saturday, March 28, 6:30 P.M.

Entertainment — Saturday, March 28, Charlotte, 9:00 P.M.

Dr. Stone will attend a meeting of the committee on standardization of financial reports in Chicago. The national committee on standardization of financial reports will meet in Atlantic City on March 17. Mr. Jackson will attend by special invitation of this committee. The meeting in Atlantic City is sponsored by a committee of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America and includes national representatives from various church boards and church-owned institutions. Mr. Jackson has attended previous gatherings, two in Washington and one in Baltimore. The outcome is to be a uniform system of college financial reports, as recommended by this committee, studied and revised by the national organization.

(Continued on page 5)