THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 8, 1931

Intercollegiate News

Cleveland—(IP)—Speaking here in the interest of a $2,500,000 endowment fund, Hamilton Holt, former editor of the Independent and now president
of Rollins College, Winter Park, Fla., described the Rollins conference plan of education as a revolt against the usual lecture
and recital system. He declared that the traditional “cut-and-dried lecture and quiz system” turns students into sponges and that “no
one ever got an education by being a sponge.”

“The conference plan is an adventure in old-fangled education,” he said. “It works on the theory that the student’s mind
is immature, that frequently he does not know how to study, that he most needs the professor when he is
preparing his lesson and not after he has learned or failed to learn it. Instead of professors quizzing students, President
Holt said, the students quiz the professors.”

New Brunswick, N. J.—(IP)—Mrs. Thomas A. Edison was a guest of honor at the meeting of the Women’s Intercollegiate Association
for Student Government, November 13 to 15. Mrs. Edison believes that a co-ed should take both practical and cultural subjects,
including in her curriculum economics, sociology, psychology, chemistry, philosophy, biology, genetics, literature, history, art, and music. She does not consider
higher mathematics necessary.

Professor Abraham Harris, acting head of the economics department at Howard University, Washington, D. C., has completed the work for
the doctor’s degree in economics at Columbia University, and is believed to be the first Negro ever to receive a
doctor degree in that subject in this country.

Cultural standards for women have been thoroughly revolutionized in the past century, in the opinion of Dr. Blanche Colton Williams,
head of the English department at Hunter College, New York.

The following colleges and universities lead in the number of holders of bachelor of arts degrees among their alumni who
are listed in Who’s Who:
1—Harvard: 1,374
2—Yale: 937
3—Princeton: 480
4—Michigan: 470
5—Columbia: 402
6—Cornell: 401
7—Amherst: 296
8—Wisconsin: 287
9—Brown: 268
10—Chicago: 261
11—MIT: 240
12—USMA: 235
13—Dartmouth: 222
14—USNA: 186
15—California: 185
16—Wesleyan: 182
17—Williams: 177
18—Indiana: 176
19—Hopkins: 171
20—Chicago: 170

Percentage of living alumni in Who's Who:
1—Hampden-Sydney: 7.45
2—Amherst: 6.27
3—Harvard: 6.60
4—Wesleyan: 5.98
5—Trinity (Conn.): 5.45
6—Yale: 4.78
7—Hobart: 4.75
8—Williams: 4.54
9—Princeton: 4.50
10—Haverford: 4.20
11—Bowdoin: 3.74
12—Hamilton: 3.73
13—Bowdoin: 3.48
14—Centre: 3.28
15—Union: 2.97
16—Marietta: 2.70
17—Lafayette: 2.65
18—Dartmouth: 2.64
19—MIT: 2.61
20—Earlham: 2.58

It has been estimated that a trip around the world is worth more than a four-year college education, and that
it can be made for a little less than the cost of one year in college.

University, Ala—(IP)—To the grid fan who sits in the stadium on a Saturday afternoon and watches the Tide roll, the
rusty, threadbare trousers that Mike Szencsi, Alabama trainer, wears are “just another pair of pants.” But to the Alabama football
players they are “touchdown pants.” Mike no sooner would leave for a game without these pants than he would leave
behind his iodine and adhesive tape. And the players feel the same way about it. When Mike has his touchdown
pants on, the Tidesmen just can’t go wrong. Once the trainer forgot his pants, and the team couldn’t get going
until the final period. Thereafter he never forgot them.

DR. HOOD SPEAKS (Continued from page 1)

...being carried on along much the same lines as the way in which employers rate their employees. In other words,
the students there are rating their professors, of whom there are 392. In this way, the university hopes to determine
the status of its faculty. This same system is being carried on in many of the larger universities of today
so that the administrative staff can find out the real worth of the instructors from the students’ standpoint. In order
to keep Davidson College abreast of the modern movements in education, Dr. Hood expressed his intentions to ask that a
similar experiment be conducted here. All in all, Dr. Hood stated, the meeting was most interesting and instructive and brought
out many new points.

RHODES SCHOLARSHIP (Continued from page 1)

...fraternities. Rusk belongs to Kappa Alpha, social fraternity. Honorary fraternities in which he holds membership are: Omicron Delta Kappa, national
leadership; Scabbard and Blade, national military; Alpha Phi Epsilon, forensic; International Relations Club, and Le Cercle Francais, honorary French club.
His scholastic record is above the average. In addition to his curricular and extra-curricular activities, Rusk has been active in
social work and business affairs off the campus.

Departing from the former custom of electing Rhodes scholars by states, the organization now requires its candidates to meet a
state committee, and if successful there, they must meet the district committee which selects the final winners from the state
finalists. In this district, there were six states included in the district division. Upon the outcome of the Atlanta committee,
there were only two of the states entered which failed to place a candidate, these being South Carolina and Tennessee.

Rusk is the sixth Davidson man to win a Rhodes scholarship and to enter Oxford as a consequence. The list
includes W. P. Mills, ’03, now in China; Dr. Benjamin R. Lacy, '06, president of Union Theological Seminary in Richmond,
Va.; Professor S. T. McCloy, ’18, Duke University; Rev. McDowell Richards, ’22, Clarkesville, Ga., and son of Dr. C. M.
Richards of the Davidson faculty, and Rev. R. F. Davidson, ’23, now a faculty member at Hiram College, Ohio.

DR. KIRK LECTURES HERE (Continued from page 1)

...values are not invalid in relation to general culture. The arguments of the first three lectures were designed to show
that while the progress of science has indicated the very insignificance of man’s earthly home in the general scheme of
the universe, “it has also brought to light,” he said, “many remarkable evidences of the immense importance of man’s personality,
inasmuch as the earth is the home of the mind.” By indirection, the speaker showed the significance of mind as
a factor to determine reality through three positions of science: comparative rarity of planetary systems; the idea implied in the
finiteness of space that man would circumnavigate the realms of the physical universe, and the knowledge that science has that
the universe began and will end. “All this shows,” he said, “that we must look for the rationality and purpose
and meaning of the universe in something beyond nature, in human nature, in mind, in a word, man’s personality which
he declared to be “the clue to reality.”

Two contributions of science, brought out in successive addresses, were, “First, the most profoundly significant contribution to pure science at
the present time is that each step forward brings out more and more distinctly that the one element in the
universe which is permanent is mind,” and secondly, “the remarkable positions at present reached by science in the exploration of
the universe are entirely in keeping with the belief in a personal God.”

In his fourth lecture, Dr. Kirk said that man’s needs are not primarily intellectual, but are definitely moral, “and the
only vital religion must be one that can deliver a man from himself, one which can effectively adjust him to
the moral imperatives of the universe. That is why,” he contended, “there is so...Much blind or confused religious curiosity abroad
today. Men are trying to satisfy their spiritual needs in speculations about the validity of religion, and are as yet
but dimly aware that what they need is a definite revelation, a veritable act of God upon which they can
depend and in which they can confide.”

Dr. Kirk concluded his fourth dissertation by urging his hearers “not to judge Jesus by our imperfect notion of what
God is, but to understand who and what God is, as we approach Him through Jesus.”

This noted minister said a sense of dependence, a sense of not being right before that on which one depends,
active efforts to bridge this gap by some form of atonement and sacrifice, and a longing for a human life
that manifested God were the four elements which must be satisfied in the revelation of God through Jesus Christ, but
chose the second element, a sense of not being right before God, as the most representative, and as the basis
of his final lecture. His conclusion was that the “most significant way to realize man’s place beyond and above nature
is to reflect upon the impressive fact that God holds man responsible for his life and character, and that we
are utterly unable to help ourselves. We belong to a fallen race, a lost race, and without God we have
no hope in the world,” was his closing remark.

In answer to numerous queries already made, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, has announced that the lectures
would not be published in book form.

Rubio Boys Make Hit as American Undergraduates
Sons of Mexican President Begin Successful College Careers

Atchison, Kans. (IP)—After two months contact with Fernando and Guillermo Ortiz Rubio, sons of the president of Mexico, students at
St. Benedict’s College here have voted the boys “good fellows.” The two young Mexicans, 17 and 19 years of age
respectively, are known as “Freddie” and “Bill” by their fellow undergraduates. Both are taking their freshman course here, having spent
a year at an academy at Gettysburg, Pa., to learn the English language after having been graduated from private schools
in Mexico City. They are good students and are active in campus life, where they have dates and mix with
the students freely. The Rubio brothers came to this college mainly because their cousin, Salvadore Reyes Cortez, is a senior
this year. Cortez is acting as their guide and advisor while they are freshmen.

Authorities Investigate

Norman, Okla. (IP)—Once more authorities of the University of Oklahoma are investigating into the activities of a secret order on
the campus, known since its organization in 1907 as The D.D.M.C. For years the purpose of the organization seemed to
be that of playing harmless campus pranks, but in 1918 the society set out to prevent cheating in examinations. A
few years later when the society, masked, was attempting to discipline a student, he shot two of its members. University
authorities immediately outlawed the order. But the secret order seems to have flourished in spite of the authorities.

What we suffer from today is the subtle undermining of the ethical senses such, —Rabbi Samuel Schulman.

STATIONERY STUDENT SUPPLIES FOUNTAIN PENS NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE W. S. HENDERSON MAGAZINES BOOKS SUNDRIES

Baseball Schedule Is Near Completion

The baseball schedule for Davidson this year has as yet not been completed. Only a few games have been definitely
scheduled. In the very near future the complete schedule will probably be announced. The season opens on April 2nd, when
Davidson plays Guilford College at Guilford. Following this other games and their tentative dates are as follows:
April 3—Davidson vs. Elon, at Elon.
April 6—Davidson vs. Carolina (?).
April 9—Davidson vs. Elon (here).
April 20—Davidson vs. N. C. State (?).
April 22—Davidson vs. Duke University (here?).
May 12—Davidson vs. N. C. State, at Raleigh.
Davidson vs. Duke University, at Durham.

Freshman Ages Remain

New Brunswick, N. J. (IP)—Ten cigarette butt receivers have been placed at strategic points about the campus of the New
Jersey State College for Women here, by the undergraduate officers. They are made of concrete. Although comprehensive figures never have
been compiled, the trend in many universities appears to indicate, he says, that freshmen are as old, and in some
cases older, than in college generations past. At Harvard, Dean Riesen points out, the average freshman of 100 years ago
was 16 years and 3 months. Fifty years later, in 1880, the average freshman age had advanced to 18 years
and 7 months, which is not far from today’s figures at Harvard and most other institutions of higher learning.

To die is only not to be; And better to be dead than grievously Living—Euripides.

Victory does not count nearly so much as how you play the game.—Gene Tunney.

The all too common depreciation of men in public service is at once shallow and cruel.—Felix Frankfurter.

War is like an earthquake or a flood: after the disaster there is less material wealth to hand on to
succeeding generations. Whatever is destroyed is gone; that is the immediate and certain result. —Foster and Catchings.

The student must, while in school, come in contact with the opposite sex—this daily meeting tends to abolish his fear.—Prof.
Vivien Fisher.

Nothing hypnotizes a woman more speedily than noble sentiments from the mouth of a man.—William Lyon Phelps.

Walt (Whitman) did not bear a good reputation in Philadelphia . . . yet dogs followed him and children loved
him.—James Huneker.

The man capable of growing rich in a year should be hanged twelve months beforehand.—Premier Benito Mussolini.

Alas, a woman’s bosom bears But woman’s courage, a thing born for tears.—Euripides.

Correction

The Davidsonian wishes to make a correction of an error published in the last issue just before the Christmas holidays.
It was stated in the last issue that the Junior Class won the intramural volleyball competition. This is an error
as the Senior Class won the championship in a playoff with the Juniors, whom they tied for the championship. The
Sophomores and the Freshmen tied for third place as the Freshmen defeated the Sophomores in the last game played. The
final standings of the teams in the intramural volleyball competition:

| Won | Lost | Pct. |
|-------|-------|-------|
| Seniors | 4 | 2 | .667 |
| Juniors | 3 | 3 | .500 |
| Sophomores | 2 | 4 | .333 |
| Freshmen | 2 | 4 | .333 |

In an interview with the Daily Princetonian, Princeton undergraduate publication, Dr. Henry Van Dyke denied having called the award of
the Nobel literature prize to Sinclair Lewis “an insult to America.”

Albert S. Tousley, of St. Paul, Minn., traveling secretary of Delta Phi, now retiring, declares that so long as alumni
drink, fraternity men will drink and make no bones about it.

Col. Edwin A. Parrott, Princeton’s (N.J.) oldest resident, who as Colonel of the First Ohio Infantry during the Civil War,
sat on the platform with Abraham Lincoln when the president delivered his Gettysburg address, recently celebrated his 100th birthday anniversary.

Authorities in charge of the preparations for the Army-Navy football game December 13, at New York, have declared that they
expect the gate receipts to amount to a total of $1,250,000, the largest football gate receipts in the history of
the game.

Sport experts are declaring that this year’s football team at the University of Utah is the best ever put in
the field by a Rocky Mountain Conference team. The team is seeking intersectional games for next year.

In all the Southland there is no state more favored by nature as a harbor for wild game than Mississippi,
the American Game Protective Association reports.

The happiest country would be one that practiced socialism, having neighbors addicted to private enterprise—Bertrand Russell.

FAMOUS REGAL SHOE all one price, $6.60, on display Saturday, January 10th NORTON’S BARBER SHOP By J. Sadler Hayes Charlotte
Location 231 S. Tryon St.

Davidson Theatre January 12th and 13th MIN AND BILL WALLACE BEERY and MARIE DRESSLER January 14th, Wednesday SUNNY MARILYN MILLER
January 15th, Thursday PASSION FLOWER KAY FRANCIS and CHARLES BICKFORD January 16th, Friday LIGHTNING WILL ROGERS January 17th, DOORWAY TO
HELL LEWIS AYRES
