THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE BULLETIN

Cotton Exchange Head
—Courtesy The Cotton Trade Journal

WM. S. DOWDELL, ’04
Davidson Alumnus at Helm of N. Y. Cotton Exchange

Wm. S. Dowdell, ’04, Elected to This Office in June. Has Been in Cotton Business 25 Years

William S. Dowdell, 1904 alumnus of Davidson, has been accorded the unusual distinction of being elected president of the New York Cotton Exchange for the ensuing year, this election taking place at a June meeting of members of this exchange. The elevation of Mr. Dowdell to the presidency follows an active participation in the cotton business for the past quarter of a century.

The new Cotton Exchange president is a native of Alabama, and after attending Davidson, he went to Alabama Polytechnic Institute. On completing his education, he entered the employ of Weil Brothers, an Alabama concern, and has been associated with that firm continuously ever since. Mr. Dowdell comes from a family which has been identified with the cotton business in one phase or another in Alabama and Georgia the past three generations.

This Davidson alumnus, in his work with Weil Brothers, was in charge of developing and handling the buying activities of this firm, which work took him on extensive trips throughout the South. In building up and conducting its selling operations, Mr. Dowdell traveled throughout Europe, and is one of the most prominent figures in the cotton markets of this country. Until 12 years ago, Mr. Dowdell had his headquarters in Montgomery, Ala., but then he went to New York to be manager of the New York office of Weil Brothers, handling both spot and futures business.

FOOTBALL PREDICTIONS
(Continued from page 1)

Experience to make their performance worthwhile. The difficulty is not in the backfield this fall, for Gene McEver has a fine allotment from which to choose his quartet. Each backfield candidate will have to hustle this fall to make a regular berth on the Wildcat eleven, for in addition to the trio of veterans named above, McEver will have Bill Flinn, the two West brothers, Johnny Mackorell, Caton, Wingfield, Dickerson, Fleagle, Clarke, Hutchins, Hufford, Creech, Norfleet, O’Keefe, Bernado and Bumgarner. Fully 20 men will be fighting to obtain places in the backfield. As passers, Mills, Pearce, Julian West and Mackorell will be on hand. All of these, with the exception of West, are punters, and in addition, Morgan, a strong Sophomore end candidate, can be called back to boot the pigskin for 60 yards or more in the pinches. Davidson can almost offer a backfield entirely of triple-threat men if such was desired. It may be that McEver will divide his candidates into two backfields of practically equal ability.

Greater difficulty faces Doc Newton, however. Experience will favor Buddy Gardner for the pivot position, though Lee will be pushing him for first choice, and will be a good substitute when Gardner tires. Wootten, Batte and Van Story are other center possibilities. Whitfield and Wagner no doubt will get the first call for tackle, but Hand and Siewers, and one or two others will be giving them keen competition. But when it comes to guards and ends, there are complete vacancies. For the latter, Morris and Morgan, Freshmen last fall, have the inroad. Both are well over six feet in height, both are

Engagements

1927—Warren Cox Ogden, of New Orleans, La., to Miss Mary Frances Johnston, of Asheville, the wedding to take place on August 28th.
—Archibald Clarke Slaymaker, of Alexandria, Va., to Miss Mary Bolling McGinnis, of Greensboro, the wedding to take place in early fall.

1928—Samuel Wilson Smith, of Charlotte, to Miss Elizabeth Arbogast Gudger, of Asheville, the wedding to take place in October.

Scott Candler Commands Georgia American Legion

Selection for This Post Follows Long Period of Active Participation. Is Also Mayor of Decatur

Scott Candler, 1907 graduate of Davidson, was selected last June to be the 1932-1933 commander of the American Legion of Georgia, and his choice of leadership of this body was the culmination of a continuous period of activity in the annals of that organization since it came into existence. Selection of Mr. Candler also added to the important posts which he already held in other fields.

In announcing the selection of Mr. Candler, the Associated Press stated that he “had an outstanding war record. He enlisted as a private in 1917 and by November, 1918, had won the rank of captain. He was a member of the 328th Infantry, Eighty-Second Division, A. E. F., and was in command of Company O of that branch during the Saint Mihiel and Meuse-Argonne offensives. He was wounded in action in the Saint Mihiel battle. He received two citations for bravery beyond the call of duty, in the Meuse-Argonne battle.”

Mr. Candler is mayor of Decatur, Ga., and recently embarked upon his 19th consecutive term as director of that city’s affairs. His first choice as mayor came shortly after the completion of his law course at the Atlanta Law School, from which he graduated in 1913, six years after finishing his undergraduate work at Davidson. With the exception of the two years he spent in the army he has been actively practicing this profession in Atlanta and Decatur.

This active Davidson alumnus has been chairman of the Decatur City Commission for eight years and served without pay on that body this year in order to be eligible as commander of the Decatur Legion Post. He served that post as adjutant for the past three years. He was chairman of the Georgia Legion’s membership committee during the past year. In 1928, Mr. Candler was a member of the executive committee of the Young Men’s Democratic League of Georgia and took an active part in the presidential campaign of that year. He is a trustee of Davidson, and is also a member of the trustee body of Agnes Scott College in Decatur.scrappers, and it will be hard for anyone to displace them if they continue their performances of last fall and in winter practice. Charlie Rives is almost sure of a guard place. Rives was ineligible for varsity competition last season, but worked with the Freshman team, and showed unusual power. For the other one, Fred Ogden has the inside track, on the basis of his work in the winter drills, but Potter, B. Forte, and Brewer will have much to say about this. Other line candidates include C. Forte, Gregory, Nicholson, Miller, Cannon, Goodykoontz, Jake Mackorell, Rice, Thompson, and others.

Births

A Familiar Scene—Oak Row

1902—To Dr. and Mrs. I. F. Hicks, of Dunn, a daughter, Mary Alice, on March 21st.
1909—To Rev. and Mrs. J. C. Grier, of Charlotte, a daughter, Julia Cook, on January 13th.
1911—To Mr. and Mrs. A. B. Taylor, of Winston-Salem, a daughter, Mary Margaret, on November 25, 1931.
1912—To Mr. and Mrs. Wm. M. Shaw, of Fayetteville, a daughter, Gillie Darst, on June 4th.
1914—To Dr. and Mrs. James W. Gibbon, of Charlotte, a son, on March 29th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. J. Edward Johnston, of Baltimore, Md., a daughter, Matilde, on June 16th.
1915—To Mr. and Mrs. Jas. C. Harper, of Lenoir, a son, James C., Jr., on August 27, 1931.
1916—To Mr. and Mrs. Spencer R. Cranford, of Charlotte, a daughter, Elizabeth Ann, on February 20th.
1917—To Mr. and Mrs. J. P. McNeill, Jr., of Florence, S. C., a son, Artemas Legare, on November 20, 1931.
—To Mr. and Mrs. Wm. H. Neal, of Winston-Salem, a son, James Archer, on February 20th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Nisbet, of Charlotte, a daughter, Mary McClure, on July 26th.
1920—To Rev. and Mrs. C. J. Hollandsworth, of Raleigh, a son, Walter Ned, on May 17th.
1921—To Dr. and Mrs. J. R. Boulware, Jr., of Lakeland, Fla., a son, James Richmond, III, on October 2, 1931.
—To Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Brown, of Ivanhoe, a son, Ernest Hyde, Jr., on October 1, 1931.
—To Rev. and Mrs. C. N. Morrison, of Greensboro, a son, Clarence Clapp, on June 19th.
1922—To Dr. and Mrs. T. A. Boaz, Jr., of Winston-Salem, a son, Alan Wright, on July 30th.
—To Rev. and Mrs. L. A. Taylor, of Little Rock, Ark., a son, Lindsey Arnold, on March 6th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. Forrest J. Wright, of Winston-Salem, a daughter, Cassandra Penn, on June 21st.
1923—To Rev. and Mrs. P. H. Biddle, of Cuba, Ala., a son, Perry Harvey, Jr., on July 1st.
—To Dr. and Mrs. J. H. Davis, Jr., of Clinton, S. C., a daughter, Emma, in June.
—To Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Miller, of Pineville, a son, John Stephen, on April 2nd.
—To Rev. and Mrs. Geo. W. Mauze, of St. Joseph, Mo., a son, Hampton Brown, on December 21, 1931.
1924—To Mr. and Mrs. Mason D. Field, of Polkton, a son, Mason Dillard, Jr., on February 16th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. C. B. Washam, of Charlotte, a daughter, Martha Frances, on December 15, 1931.
—To Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Young, of East Orange, N. J., a son, Gerould Alanson, on September 15, 1931.
1925—To Mr. and Mrs. F. H. Lindley, of Greensboro, a daughter, Frances Cannon, on February 15th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. Harry B. Price, of New Haven, Conn., a daughter, Joan, on February 16th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Wells, of Teacheys, a son, in December, 1931.
1926—To Rev. and Mrs. T. C. Barr, of Nashville, Tenn., a son, Thomas Calhoun, Jr., on September 6th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. John A. Bouvier, Jr., of Miami, Fla., a daughter, Helen Elizabeth, on January 19th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. A. Y. Bowie, of Birmingham, Ala., a daughter, Lillian Eugenia, on November 2, 1931.
—To Rev. and Mrs. A. Hayden Hollingsworth, of Georgetown, Ky., a daughter, Marian Everett, on February 22nd.
—To Mr. and Mrs. Alex McMillan, of Charlotte, a son, Rex, Jr., on May 10th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. E. T. Pullen, Jr., of Winston-Salem, a son, Edwin Tilmon, III, on August 4th.
1927—To Mr. and Mrs. R. A. Brand, of Charlotte, a daughter, Margaret, on May 19th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Dew, of Charlotte, a son, James Marion, Jr., on February 2nd.
—To Mr. and Mrs. M. D. Haney, Jr., of Charlotte, a son, Marcus Dean, III, on August 6th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. W. W. Kiser, of Charlotte, a son, Sidney Caldwell, on March 9th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. Eustace E. Lingle, of New York, a daughter, Jean, on April 4th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Little, of Advance, a daughter, Joy Marie, on April 7th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. R. H. Ratchford, of Gastonia, a daughter, Patricia Ann, on May 7th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. Wm. R. Sparrow, of Gastonia, a daughter, Ann Baity, on May 29th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. Harrison Hicks, of Greensboro, a son, Harrison Hicks, on June 23rd.
1928—To Mr. and Mrs. D. W. Johnston, of Fayetteville, a son, David Wellington, Jr., on December 17, 1931.
—To Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Sells, Jr., of Oliver Springs, Tenn., a son, William Samuel, III, on November 4, 1931.
—To Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Thompson, of Gastonia, a son, John Proctor, Jr., on March 25th.
1929—To Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Crawford, Jr., of Chicago, Ill., a daughter, Renaye Ann, on February 14th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. S. E. Proctor, of Charlotte, a son, Sidney Eugene, Jr., on March 17th.
1930—To Mr. and Mrs. W. F. Gaffney, of Davidson, a son, William Franklin, Jr., on January 14th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. D. K. Miller, of Cleveland, a son, David Kenneth, Jr., on December 10, 1931.
1931—To Mr. and Mrs. James I. Robbins, of Tulsa, Okla., a son, James Howard, on February 12th.

Football Captain

—To Mr. and Mrs. Vardell Williamson, a son, Gudo Y. Droner, Center.