aX) THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 9, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

D. GRIBROMAR TIN - Editor-in-Chief
P. M. CONWAY - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. O. GUERRANT - Managing Editor
De Die MGBRY - Managing Editor
Ma MOGAUI - Managing Editor
Ci Ri MMR - Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG - Athletic Editor
D. STEPHENSON - Editor
W. FRANKLI - Editor
H. - Editor
- Editor
W. - Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
- Assistant Business Manager
- Assistant Business Manager
- Assistant Business Manager
- Subscription Manager
- Solicitor
- Solicitor
- Solicitor
- Solicitor
- Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
PWHITHH BAD - President
Fe IGA - Vice-President
W. Reem - Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR
L. S. GAMBLE
G. E. BAILEY
R. E. LORRAINE
E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
P. PRESTON
R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
A. F. SCHENCK
O. CASALI
W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. WP
W. T. THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAM
A. HUNTER

MARCH 9, 1932

Labour to keep alive in your breast that little spark of celestial fire—conscience. — George Washington.

PARAGRAPHICS

Just as a great many people have predicted, winter just delayed a little while and then struck a broadside blow when she was least expected.

Davidson’s new coaches completed last Friday the winter football training for this year. Followers of Davidson’s teams are optimistic over the outlook for the 1932 season.

Davidson men are interested in all the activities of Dean Rusk, Rhodes Scholar of the Class of 1931. A story in this issue of the Davidsonian tells of his winning of the coveted “half-blue” for his playing for the University against Cambridge.

It seems to be the desire of the student body to have the magazine shelf in the library placed in a position where it will be accessible even though the regular reading rooms are closed. It would seem that this could be accomplished with a minimum of trouble.

Student body elections begin next Tuesday, according to an announcement by Don King. It is hoped that the elections of the presidents of the student body and the “Y” may be completed before the Spring Holidays.

Congratulations to the new cheer leader, Brooke Allen. The student body feels confident that he will keep the morale of the school at the same high level at which Kuykendall has maintained it.

EFFECTS OF MILITARY TRAINING

It has often been said that “experience is the best teacher.” Some have said of this that it is also an expensive instructor. But there are times when experience teaches and charges very little for the education; this is true when the experience is pleasant and still has an educational value.

The Department of Interior recently questioned 16,416 graduates of fifty-four institutions having Reserve Officers’ Training Corps as to their views on the subject of military training. Of this number, 10,166 answered the questionnaire. The question of main importance which was asked was, “In your opinion does the R. O. T. C. course of instruction tend to produce a militaristic attitude inimical to world peace?” In replying, 93.6 per cent answered this question in the negative. The Interior Department summarizes this by saying, “Actual education in the destructiveness of war is conducive to a sane patriotism and an enlightened attitude toward peace.”

Answers to other questions indicated that 97.1 per cent believed that the course has a definite educational value of its own; 94.9 per cent said that military training contributed something important or unique to their education, and 98.5 per cent were opposed to the abolition of R. O. T. C. from collegiate institutions.

These replies are from men who have gone through the course and are now out in life and are able to look back with clear vision on their education. They are men who have had experience in the matter. It would seem that their testimony should have a great deal of weight, especially with those who have not had the experience.

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

The writer recently had the pleasure of attending a conference on international relations at Winter Park, Florida. The conference was held under the able direction of Dr. Hamilton Holt, President of Rollins College, and a leader in the national peace movement as well as in the field of education. Assembled together as leaders of the meetings were some of the nation’s greatest workers in international relations, together with leaders in other fields. Jane Addams, founder of the world-famous Hull House and a leader in social work; Irving Fisher, prominent political economist of Yale University; Edward A. Filene, one of the leading business men of the country, and James G. McDonald, Chairman of the Board of the Foreign Policy Association, are a few of those who led the conference.

The discussion centered around the general topic, “The United States and World Peace,” individual conferences being held on the relation of the United States to the League of Nations, the World Court, the Kellogg Pact, and the outlook for disarmament and the United States’ position in this movement.

Dr. Fred B. Smith, Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Church Peace Union, struck the keynote of the whole conference in his opening address. He said that there are three factors which are outstanding in the whole peace movement, that the world is looking to three places for leadership in this movement. He named Geneva, America, and religion as these three all-important factors.

Another thing which Dr. Smith brought out in his talk was the importance in an economic sense of world peace. He quoted a prominent New York banker as saying, “If there could be a true guarantee of world peace for the next twenty-five years, the New York Stock Exchange prices would rise thirty per cent within twelve hours.”

Jane Addams told in a very interesting way of the quarrel which she had with President Wilson over certain clauses in the Versailles Treaty, and of the resulting strain in their friendship which lasted until his death.

Contrary to expectations, little was said in regard to the present situation in the Far East. Several of the leaders strongly favored an economic boycott of Japan, but only if it were possible to effect it in co-operation with the League of Nations.

Collegiate Ramblings

J. E. Lake

Georgia
At the Georgia spring dances on April 15-16, Ozzie Nelson will furnish the music, which will, in all probability, be broadcast over the Lucky Strike Dance Hour on the 16th.

Washington and Lee
The first straw vote preliminary to the National Democratic and Republican Conventions was taken by the Des Moines Register and Tribune. The results of 17,000 votes showed that only 4,377 were cast for Hoover, while the other votes were given to the Democratic candidates, with “Alfalfa Bill” Murray leading with 4,311 votes and Roosevelt next with 3,290. In 1928 in this straw vote nearly 10,000 votes were cast for Hoover, thus the Democrats show a gain of about 50 per cent over the last straw vote.

Converse
The Sophomore class of Converse will put on their annual musical comedy in the school auditorium on March 12. Last year this met with much success and was almost brought up here to Davidson for the Sophomore weekend. The name of the play this year is “Pickles.” This play has been seen by more people than have attended performances of “Show Boat,” and was played by thirty-two different companies recently in one week.

Roanoke
“Sophistication”
“America’s college students have become sophisticates. Not real honest-to-gosh sophisticates because championship football teams still awaken an urge to cheer at least a little bit, but the day of “plus twelve” knickers, ties in the college colors, collegiate flivvers, and the like has pretty generally passed.

“However, the collegiate newspaperdom has been lately bemoaning the fact that the outside world has not as yet realized the change, and that the college student of musical comedy, magazine, and the screen fame remains the “rah-rah” boy of five or six graduation classes ago.

“The college student is in a class by himself as far as popular portrayal goes. He is characterized as a more or less indolent individual, but he is immensely popular with the American public.

“In fact, higher education as a whole is pretty popular with John Public of these United States. It is this feeling of good-natured approval for the college student that is one of the mainstays of our education factories.

“Collegians will do well if they do not bemoan too loudly their representation in stage and story. The conservative young man and woman seriously pursuing an education hasn’t the glamour of the rah-rah type. Betty Co-ed and Freddie Fraternity may be Elizabeth and Frederick inreality, but Betty and Freddie will always be a little more colorful and popular. Let collegiate editors beware that they do not disillusion their public, and that the change is kept a secret. We must preserve our public; otherwise, where is the thrill of a college education? — Daily Northwestern.

“Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryd
East Rumple
Second Barrel
Cell No. 2
Thirstday

Deer Eaters:

It’s 12 o’clock, Rumple sounds like one big sawmill. My midnight oil burns low. I think it’s time to have my oil changed. Everything will then be oil right. (There’s no fool like an oiled fool.) I’m scared to go to bed, ’cause I’ve heard that more people die in bed than anywhere else. Someone said you should always read a newspaper standing. You should read this column in bed. Just before or after going to sleep. It’s guaranteed to cure insomnia and somnambulism. But it is liable to cause nightmares. We make no guarantees against such developments as neurosis, dementia praecox, or insanity. Anyone that believes all this is either a moron, or else he had a hard lick in the head in infancy (i.e., “recent injury”).—(“There ain’t no justice,” said the accused as he shot the judge.)

“NO!”

I think that I shall never see
A girl as pretty, dear, as thee;
But I shall try with all my might—
Remembering what you said last night (see title).

“Poems are made by fools like me”
To girls of beauty, such as thee.
I should have known you'd think mine worse—
I should have written you blank verse!

Our Advice to Damsels:
Never let a fool kiss you, and never let a kiss fool you.

Sayings of Sagacious Sam:
“It’s all right to know your onions, but don’t dare breathe them to a soul.”

CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT
“It’s a great life, if you don’t waken.”—Bill Carter.

QUESTION AND ANSWER DEPARTMENT
Bar None Ranch

Dear Dorothy Stix:
I am engaged to a Davidson man; in fact, have been for over eight months, and as yet have not let him kiss me, though I am sure he has wanted to numerous times. Please tell me how soon I can let him, and advise me how to act toward him. I love him all that it is possible for any girl to love a college man, but I am not sure he reciprocates. For that reason I have thus far refused to let him kiss me. Knowing that you would give only the best advice, I now await your answer.
“Puzzled.”

P.S.—I am a faithful reader of your notes to girls, and get a kick out of your advice, so please answer this.

Dear Puzzled:
My dear, it is not you who needs advice. Your Davidson man needs it—if all you say is true. Eight months and he hasn’t kissed you! Get him to write for my booklet on “Loving Anne Howe” and “How to Acquire a Line Low Enough for the Ladies to Trip Over.” Send money for express (they are not allowed through the mails). As for your part, just wait until he studies these pamphlets. He could convince a telephone pole of his love after reading these marvelous works.
Yours very truly,
“Little Miss Emily Post Haste.”

(Editor’s note: Miss Post Haste will probably not be able to appear next week. She is doing graduate work in her line. It may interest our gentle readers to know that Miss Post Haste is considered very educated. She has only three and a half inches more of the five-foot shelf of books to read.)

CHOOSE YOUR FRIENDS AS YOU CHOOSE YOUR GLUE; GET THE KIND THAT'LL STICK TO YOU!

“P.S. TO PROSPECTIVE HUSBANDS”
The lives of married men remind us,
As their scraps we read about—
That for wives we’d better find us
Some that aren’t so strong or stout.

DUMB? ANNE HOWE
1. My girl is so dumb she thinks a smoked ham is a colored actor.
2. Some flappers are so dumb they think hold-up men are swimming instructors.
3. He is so dumb he thinks Scott’s best work is Emulsion.
4. Then there was the frosh who thought the Whitehouse Spokesman was the man who fixes the wheels on the President's car.
5. Last, but not least, Oscar, the world’s dumbest mechanic, who tried for three weeks to buy a single-file.

DES ENTREFILETS
With the passage of the Glass-Steagall bill by Congress and its approval by President Hoover, another measure has been taken to inspire hope and confidence in the bankers of the nation. This bill provides that the Federal Reserve System can now lend money to its members, in groups of five, on assets which before were ineligible for rediscount. It allows the substitution of United States securities for gold and commercial paper as coverage for currency. With the release of this gold, the banks are now in a better position to withstand the foreign raids on the dollar. Senator Glass included in the bill a measure for the protection of the small banks. No bank with a capital of over five million dollars can individually rediscount at the Federal Reserve Bank assets now eligible for such borrowing. In regard to this bill, Hoover said: “In a sense this bill is a national defense measure. By freeing vast amounts of gold, it enables the Federal Reserve Banks to meet any conceivable demand on them at home or from abroad... . I trust that our banks now will reach out to aid business and industry in such fashion as to increase employment.”

Mrs. Dolly Curtis Gann, half-sister of the Vice-President, has taken up speechmaking as an avocation. Topeka, Omaha, and Chicago have heard her. In substance, her addresses wave the flag of the United States, laud President Hoover, belittle the depression, and exude good Republican cheer. She then returns to Washington to encourage national headquarters with reports that women everywhere are enthusiastic about a Hoover-Curtis ticket this year.

Senator Salvador de Madariaga, the Spanish Chief Delegate to the Geneva Disarmament Conference, told an animal story to the Conference a few days ago. Russia’s delegate had just said: “I must apologize for suggesting once again that there be total disarmament, but where should this proposal be made if not in a disarmament conference?” The Spanish delegate then arose and asked permission to tell an animal story. Here is the story he told: “When the animals met to discuss disarmament the Lion looked at the Eagle and said: ‘We must abolish talons.’ “The Eagle looked squarely back into the Lion’s eyes and said: ‘We must abolish claws.’ “Then the Bear said: ‘Let’s abolish everything except universal embraces!’”

Rumania lacks gold, so the government has provided a new metallic currency of cheap alloy which looks like gold. This will, King Carol hopes, restore the people’s confidence in the coin of the realm. The only objection is that it has such small value that in order to pay a debt of any size one has to take a truck along as a pocketbook. On the face of the new coins is the image of H.M. King Carol II, the last reigning Hohenzollern.

Alexander McGarvock, of Glenarm, County Antrim, Ireland, was informed that his brother had left him $17,200 and dropped dead from excitement. Mrs. Blanche Hamilton Karsch, of Memphis, once an inmate of a Manhattan orphanage, was informed, while shopping for fresh vegetables, that her foster mother had left her $3,500,000. “Really!” said Mrs. Karsch. “That's nice.” And she continued to shop.

Michael Dilazzaro, of Landisville, N.J., was fined eight dollars for interfering with firemen. While the firemen were engaged in putting out a blaze in the kitchen of a frame house, Dilazzaro criticized their technique. The firemen stopped to argue with him and while doing this the fire got out of control and the house burned down.

A Presidential campaign is our regular period of large promises to sufferers of all kinds. — Herbert Hoover.

I don’t think of these times as depression. Instead of a great big boom, what we’ve got now is a small boom. — Al Jolson.

The average American is not the man he was three years ago. — Gerald W. Johnson.

A speculator becomes an investor when the price does not hold up and he holds on. — Charles E. Mitchell.

Prohibition has done more to clean up politics than anything in the past century. — Rev. Dr. Clarence True Wilson.

War is not pleasant. — Arthur Brisbane.

LAUNDRY LAMENTATIONS
1. The laundry has to put pins in your shirt when they return it to you. What else would hold it together?
2. Our laundry has the wisdom of Solomon. When they can’t decide who a shirt belongs to, they split it in half.
3. “Shirts that laugh at the laundry” are advertised by a certain firm. One of ours, bought elsewhere, has such a keen sense of humor that it arrived the other day with its sides split.
4. When Lindbergh sends his shirts to the laundry they steal them for souvenirs. Of course, we're not so popular; they only take parts of ours.