THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1932

WOFFORD TERRIERS BATTLE WILDCATS FRIDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

VARSITY TENNIS TOURNAMENT NEARS FINALS

Favorites Lead Way in Fall Tennis Tournament

Lafferty Enters Finals Over Myers; Scott Defeats Star Performer by Victory Brown in Upset

The annual Davidson College tennis tournament, both in the upperclassmen and Freshmen divisions, has advanced a good deal since the last issue of this paper. The former lacks one match of going into the semi-final and the latter is now in the second round.

A series of startling upsets marked the 1932 tourney. Foremost among these was the defeat by Francis Scott of that titan of the courts, Brown, who last year as captain of the Freshman team went through the season without losing a match. It was a hard-fought struggle from beginning to end, Scott finally proving himself to be the steadier, and pulling out the victory.

Marvin defeated Griffin, 6-3, 2-6, 8-6; Dudley defeated Barnette, 8-7, 6-5; Gold defeated Dillard, 6-2, 6-3.

Frazier Sets Record In Frosh Cake Race

The annual Davidson Cakes Race for Freshmen was held last Thursday afternoon at 4:30 o'clock. Approximately eighty-five contestants turned out, hoping to test themselves over a 1.7 mile course to win for themselves one of the prizes offered. Twenty-one prizes were offered by various drug stores, boarding houses, the barber shops, and Ace.

The first place was copped by Earle Frazier as he breezed by in the excellent time of 9:35.5 minutes, setting a new record on the course. This easily overshadowed the record which Rufus Morrow set in 1930. Frazier is from Oxford Orphanage, Oxford, N.C., and last year he set the state record in the mile, which was 4:39 seconds over our own record. Frazier also won the half-mile and he will probably be one of the best track men in the state this year. Bill Murchant came in second, also breaking the school record by 15 seconds. Murchant won track honors at Episcopal High School last year and he, too, shows much promise for the track squad. The others coming in were Dees, Harlan, Smith, Furnesse, Fraley, Woodward, Bulwinkle, Marvin, Lewis, Gold, Dillard, and Stuart.

Davidson's Wildcats showed a great deal of improvement in their game Saturday against Washington and Lee over their play last week. The Wildcats immediately started a drive which finally resulted in a score. If the Wildcats improve as much this week as they did last, then Wofford College is in for a lacing. In our estimation, the Wildcats should defeat the South Carolinians by any two touchdowns. They will have to battle to defeat the Terriers, but we have confidence in our Wildcats and rule them the favorites.

It seems as though Monk and Tex carried that fighting "Wildcat Spirit" to V. P. I. with them, from that team’s 7-6 victory over Georgia Saturday. It was considered an upset for V. P. I. to defeat a team which had smothered them 44-0 last year, but Davidson’s former coaches long held the reputation of producing teams which could upset the dope any old time.

An elimination tournament in campus football will be started next week among the social fraternities on the hill. The different fraternity captains will assemble one day this week to make the drawings.

Rhodes Scholarships

Alumni and students desiring to try out for the Rhodes Scholarships are again reminded to give written notice to Dr. Vowles on or before Saturday, October 8, indicating in each case the state in which the candidate wishes to appear. Every year quite a number of students from the Senior class try out for this highly desired and much-coveted honor. All of those who are eligible are urged to give their notice as soon as it is possible.

By Appointment Only
Telephone Davidson No. 2005
Location: 2 Miles West of Mt. Mourne, N.C.

"DRUGS" "SODAS"
Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
"SUNDRIES"

Theatre

WEDNESDAY
"TWO AGAINST THE WORLD"
CONSTANCE BENNETT

THURSDAY
"THE CRASH"
RUTH CHATTERTON

FRIDAY
"HOLD 'EM JAIL"
ROBERT WOOLSEY—BERT WHEELER

SATURDAY
"THE NIGHT OF JUNE 13TH"
CLIVE BROOK

MONDAY
"LIFE BEGINS"
LORETTA YOUNG

TUESDAY
"AGE"

"Parson" Peabody At Ivey’s Davidson Shop
"Cal" Kuykendall, '32, Manager
"Goof" Clark, Student RepresentativesMatch in two W. & L. David. opponents in the Duke game a week ago, and as a result emerged on the long end of a 7-0 score. The progress in the tournament for the CHARLEY PEARCE -HALFBACK is a DUKE 44, V. A. for their first victory of the season. It was by a similar score that the Wildcats defeated the Generals last fall at Lexington.

The Washington and Lee-Davidson game uncovered another Sophomore star for the Wildcats in the person of George Wingfield. Although Wingfield gave Davidson her only first down in the Duke game a week ago, his playing did not stand out until Saturday, when he showed his heels to the W. & L. boys on several occasions. If he continues to improve it wouldn’t surprise us to see him start as a regular before long.

Charlie Pearce played a great game for the Wildcats while he was in the contest. His punting kept the ball in enemy territory throughout the first half, forcing the Generals to kick out of danger every time they got possession of the ball. One of his boots went 73 yards before being downed on the Generals’ six-yard marker. He also carried the ball for several nice gains and was credited with Davidson’s only touchdown.

The defensive power the Wildcats showed in the second quarter when they held the visitors for downs just under the goal posts must have pleased Coaches Newton and McEver. It was a tense moment when Wingfield allowed a W. & L. punt to be downed on Davidson's 12-yard line, and more tense when the visitors recovered a Wildcat fumble on the next play. In three downs the visitors gained five yards through the line.

The progress in the tournament for the Freshmen is not progressing with the rapidity that had been anticipated, but the lack of alacrity is made up for partially by the class of the field. Eighteen men have signed up to play in these matches, and outstanding among them are Billy Marvin, who bears quite a reputation north of the Mason-Dixon line in prep net circles, and Carlyle Lewis, who gained quite some prominence as the runner-up in the South Atlantic Junior championship this past summer.

A summary of both tournaments to date appears below, with the varsity results preceding the Freshmen:

First round: Halverstadt drew a bye; Garrett defeated Marvin, 7-5, 6-3; Morrow defeated Fugate, 6-0, 6-1; Smith defeated Manson, 6-0, 6-0; Scott drew a bye; Lake defeated Hellinger, 6-1, 6-1; Rice defeated Simms, 6-0, 6-3; Brown drew a bye; Mullis defeated Bogart, 6-0, 6-1; Myers drew a bye; Phifer defeated Kirkpatrick, 6-3, 6-2; Coit defeated Sutton, 6-1, 6-1; Elvery drew a bye; Gullette defeated West, 6-4, 8-10, 6-3; McKeithan defeated Voegtlen, 6-1, 6-2; and Lafferty drew a bye.

Second round: Halverstadt defeated Garrett, 6-1, 6-2; Morrow defeated Smith, 6-3, 6-1; Scott defeated Lake, 6-1, 6-2; Brown defeated Rice, 6-4, 6-2; Myers defeated Mullis, 6-1, 5-7, 6-0; Phifer defeated Coit, 6-2, 6-3; Elvery defeated Gullette, 6-3, 6-0; Lafferty defeated McKeithan, 6-2, 6-4.

Quarter-finals: Halverstadt and Morrow have not played as yet; Scott defeated Brown, 11-9, 7-5; Myers defeated Phifer, 6-2, 6-3; and Lafferty defeated Elvery, 3-6, 6-4, 6-3.

Semi-finals: Lafferty defeated Myers, 6-3, 7-5, 6-3.

Freshman tournament: Hassell defeated Cassidy, 6-3, 6-3; Bell defeated Murray, 6-1, 6-0.

ANNOUNCING THE OPENING OF
The Oaks Tavern Tea Room
Mrs. Harry Y. Mott, Manager
Dinner Parties Picnics Card Parties
Lawn Parties Club Meetings Banquets

"Charley" Myers