THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1932

BOOK REVIEW

The Harbormaster. William McFee.

In any discussion of a book, the task seems futile unless the hand that wrote it is also known. William McFee, an author who has but few times emerged on the crest of literary fame in his interesting and somewhat chaotic career, was born at sea in 1881, in a little three-masted square rigger, the Erin’s Isle, of which his father was designer, builder, owner, and master. Despite efforts to give William a terrestrial footing, his spirit took to sea when he became of age and at 24 McFee took a berth as a junior engineer on one of his uncle’s ships, the Rotherfield, and sailed for Genoa. To one who was born at sea, lived on the sea, and loved the sea, we might well contribute such an accurate chronicle of the seamen as is depicted in the Harbormaster. He has laid his scenes in both the Mediterranean and the Caribbean, with a good deal of London and New York thrown in to give a totally rich background. He uses an old method of one man narrating the entire story. Of course, it is hard to conceive of one telling such a long coherent story out of his own mind, extemporaneously, but this is all quite forgotten in the enjoyment of Mr. Spenlove’s own unique personality. Though Mr. Spenlove contends the story is about Captain Fraley and his beautiful French wife, who came up out of the Aegean sea like a goddess of old—one of those blessed beings who came into our lives from another world and play the devil with them. Yet it is the story of old Spenlove, the cynical salt who is only the innocent bystander but always gets hit.

Captain Fraley and his beautiful wife had always been the object of public interest and gaze, probably on account of the generous wife. They had both been buried just recently down in Puerto Balboa, and Mr. Spenlove’s ship lay at anchor in the harbor of Puerto Balboa. Everyone who visited that country heard of Captain Fraley and now more than ever, Mr. Spenlove was prevailed on to tell this ever-interesting story of how Captain Fraley met his wife. So he began at the beginning when he and Fraley first formed a friendship in England. Frank Fraley met the girl who lived just across the hallway and fell in love with her. The courtship lasted a long time, the engagement lasted longer only to tell Frank that he was not meant to marry Emily Simpson. War came on, carrying Spenlove and Fraley to the Mediterranean, where they were stationed in Salonika. Fraley was then captain and Spenlove, chief engineer of the Glorioso, fitted out now with guns and torpedo shaft to combat submarines in the Mediterranean. Because of brief space and limited time we will have to hurry through the story, barely mentioning Theroigne le Grand, a night club beauty, whom Fraley escaped barely whole, adventures at the Olympiina, torpedoing boats, ramming submarines and the like. But it was on one of those black stormy nights on the Mediterranean when the Glorioso was signaled by a ship in distress. Captain Fraley maneuvered his boat to pick up refugees after one lifeboat had emptied its contents and they were struggling up the iron steps, Captain Fraley saw her come up, the last one, and as she came on deck, her last supply of strength gave way, and she fell into Captain Fraley’s arms where she has been ever since. That was how he found his wife, but how did they ever come to live and die in such a godforsaken place as Puerto Balboa?

The rest of the story is a chronicle of the sorrows and joys of two people in love, totally unsuited for each other, the one English, typically so, unruffled, undaunted, stubborn, conventional, and very faithful; the other, restless, easily ruffled, high-strung, prideful, unconventional, and amorous, a mixture of temperaments. William McFee found joy in giving his ideas on women, and the conventions of love, through the mouth of Mr. Spenlove, the faithful confidant of both sides of this strange match. Their love resulted in a continuous war, but they wouldn't leave each other and would both become highly indignant if it should be mentioned. They were unhappy together, but miserable apart.

The story goes on briefly that Fraley took Francine to New York after rescuing the crew from a sinking boat, but was soon forgotten and fired for allegedly insulting the daughter of one of the directors of the line which necessitated Francine and himself moving from New York to Puerto Balboa. He had a small job, Francine was dissatisfied and wanted Frank to make money as other company officials did but Frank refused. She goaded him into allying himself with some shady men who betrayed Frank’s trust and caught him in the coils of the law. Just at that time Francine, who had always had a weak heart, succumbed to a severe attack. Fraley, who had nothing more to live for, whose only impetus in life had been taken away by chance, first, his boat, then his sense of honor, then his wife, shot and killed himself in the next room to where his wife’s body lay.

Devils Trounce ’Cats By the Score of 21-6

The basketeers from ’way down at Durham proved too strong for the Wildcats last Friday and defeated them, 21-6. The game as a whole was featureless and uninteresting. Both teams presented very erratic offenses which clicked only at intervals few and far between. Duke started her second string, which grabbed an early lead and held it through the entire contest. The half ended with Duke leading, 8-5. Horne, giant pivot man, amassed seven of these tallies.

The second half found the ’Cats more off than ever and they scored only one foul shot. Duke continued her winning ways and amassed a total of 13 points. During the closing minutes of the game the Devils injected their third string and reserves, which held the ’Cats at bay until the final gun. Maybe it was one of those bad, bad nights for the Wildcats. Certainly, they played a miserable brand of ball and unless they have a change for the better the rest of the season may prove to be a nightmare.

The line-ups were:
Davidson (6) Pos Duke (21)
Pathickic (0) Forward Thompson (3)
Mathis (1) Forward Mattine (1)
Horne (11) Center
VAR TC (0) Guard Lewis (0)
Peabody (3) Guard Hendrick (0)

Scoring substitutes: Davidson, none; Duke, Garber (1), Alpert (4).

Photographer Here

The photographer for the Annual was on the campus last week. His work this time was made up mostly of group pictures and a few individual ones. Little “Tex” Tilson, cheerleaders, captain of basketball and varsity squad, captain of track squad, captain and varsity wrestling squad, tennis squad, Beta football champions, Senior football champions, Sophomore basketball champions, Sophomore volleyball champions, Freshman basketball squad, and Freshman wrestling squad. Also Glee Club, Senior class mascot, had his picture taken.

Sport Writers Say Baseball Still King

Cleveland—(IP)—A survey made by the Associated Press for its members of sports writers throughout the country on the most popular sport shows that baseball is still king of the American sports world, although it is being closely pushed by football, the collegiate game. Other popular sports were found to be favored in the order: golf, boxing, basketball, horse racing, fishing and hunting, track and field, ice hockey, tennis. The survey also showed golf to be the sport requiring the most skill. It was followed in the order by: baseball, tennis, billiards, and distance running. Sports requiring most strength or stamina were in the order: rowing, wrestling, boxing, football, basketball.

PAN-HELLENIC (Continued from page 1)

Haves (2) Va.; Evelyn Brooks, Charlottesville, Va.; Pat Sedgefield; Flora McKinnon, Red C.; Dolly Rogers, Albemarle, N. C.; Miller, Springs, N. C.; Mabel Wilkie, Charlotte, N. C.; Kappa Sigma Adelaide Fortune, Greensboro, N. C.; Gladys Fortune, Asheville, N. C.; Celeste Peigels, Dayton, Ohio; Sue Horner, Durham, N. C.; Del Ford, Bennettsville, S. C.; Sophie Stevens, Sweet Briar; Margaret Gorrell, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Maggie Morson, Charlotte, N. C.; Frances Ravenel, Charlotte, N. C.; Martha Benson, Charlotte, N. C.; Connie Boggs, Charlotte, N. C.; Bertha Burch, Charlotte, N. C.; Lib Brown, Clarksburg, Va. Thompson, Sigma Alpha Epsilon Louise Middleton, Monroe, N. C.; Elizabeth Davidson, Fayetteville, N. C.; Martha Clark, N. C.; Betsy Brock, Jacksonville, Fla.; Mary Sheldon, Lexington, N. C.; Hazel Emery, Jacksonville, Fla.; Dorothy Walton, Jacksonville, Fla.; Clemmie Gene Teague, Laurens, S. C.; Lib Price, Charlotte, N. C.; Nancy Bell, Charlotte, N. C.; Nancy Nalle, Charlotte, N. C.

DR. W. T. ELLIS (Continued from page 1)

erect a fence somewhere on the campus here, provide each student with a knife and sticks, and make him sit for an hour each day, whittle away, and think. The thing most needed today,” he continued along the same line, “is for men who can go off, sit for a while, and think things through. We need to develop into our students the ability to think and understand, and to think in terms of life. Thinking in any terms but that is not worthwhile. Taking up his three points, Dr. Ellis told the students that more important than the college president, the faculty, or the buildings was the fact that “you are you, and you are here. You are here,” he said, “to tap the resources of the college and should say to yourself that you are not one of a herd of students, but that you are a separate part of God. While here,” he urged, “develop your personal dignity, personal power, opportunity, and sacredness.” Dr. Ellis maintained that a development of a closer fellowshipand interrelationship with other people enables the individual to co-operate more efficiently and more effectively with other people. This was his second point. “Stand for your faculty, your books, and for the authority of wisdom,” was his third presentation. He decried that the people of today are slipping away from authority, and that many would consent to let the younger generation express itself without authority. “The prime and essential factor of wisdom is authority,” he declared, “and we need to realize that God is King of all. The one who does not attune himself with the seat of authority is going to find himself in difficulty.” His closing remark was, “authority alone will save the world from anarchy and will give us a philosophy of life that will save us.”

MY WORD
(Continued from page 4)
“No, West, I—”
“Now, young man, no joking please—”
“But I'm not joking, sir. My name's really West. My roommate’s name is East, but just now he happens to be visiting in ‘North.’”
“Yes?”
“Yes, I’m telling you the truth. I know it sounds like a joke. Come with me, and I'll find him for you.”
“Well—er—ah—”
“I insist. Come along. I’m sure East's in ‘North.’” They go to North Dormitory, but the stranger says not a word. He's afraid to. They find East. Although Davidson College doesn’t offer a course in doping the outcome of football games, a number of prognosticators of the state might well come to this college to learn the gentle art of picking the winner. No one knows what it is, but nevertheless, the local student body is certainly gifted in that field. To prove this contention, in a recent football score predicting contest conducted by a Southern shoe firm, three of the first six prizes were won by members of the Davidson College student body, including two of the first three.

McFee philosophy is the most interesting subject in the book. He is cynical to some extent, highly ironical and drives shaft after shaft into the conventions of modern society. He is ironical in dealing with both American and English life, probably more so with the English than he is with the American. His attitude toward morality is broad. Francine and Fraley were never married. Francine was a little unconventional, a spit-fire, who wouldn't hesitate to go out with other men if she chose, yet McFee stamped her as superior to Mrs. Henderson, the conventional doctor's wife, in Puerto Balboa, who was the epitome of morality, virtue, chastity, and wifely devotion, because Francine was sincere and not a reveler in mining for dirt about your neighbors.

He defends the suicide of Captain Fraley, evidently. Is it moral to live when the world is a thing of hatred to you, causing your life to be a show, always pretending that it is bearable, or isn't it the moral thing to be honest and sincere and get out of a place that is unbearable and torturous? He looked on the illegal union of Francine and Frank as more holy than most marriages because you could break the marriage vows by a legal procedure, but these two were plighted before God’s heavenly throne, he said, and try as they might, they could not break themselves apart until death. He attacked marriage in various places throughout the book. The book is one of the main thought-provoking and the style is winning in its evident portrayal of one personality—William McFee. The author is well informed, forceful in his presentation of character, but as a storyteller, he lacks cohesion, unity, and emphasis. His story is too involved, too long, and travels too many channels to reach its end.

Theta Upsilon Omega
Laura Riser, Greenville, S. C.; Ellin White, Concord, N. C.; Ruth Ammons, Concord, N. C.; Mary Alice Dunning, Williamston, N. C.; Peggy Ashcraft, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Lou Beans, Lincolnton, N. C.; Billie Deaton, Statesville, N. C.; Esther Rawlins, Statesville, N. C.; Margaret Richardson, Charlotte, N. C.; Susie Wilkie, Charlotte, N. C.; Jane Howard, Charleston, W. Va.; Harriet Pitts, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Elizabeth Wakefield, Charlotte, N. C.; Katherine Crowell, Charlotte, N. C.; Mildred Beasley, Charlotte, N. C.; Margaret Rutter, Gastonia, N. C.; Nettie Irby, Blackstone, Va.; Dorothy Blair, Albemarle, N. C.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Josephine Taylor, Suffolk, Va.; Anna Boyce Rankin, Gastonia, N. C.; Eda Walters, Greensboro, N. C.; Jenny Harrison, Greensboro, N. C.; Elsie Miller, Hartsville, S. C.; Mildred Hendrix, Easley, S. C.; Sue Corbin, Fremont, N. C.; Pervy Yelverton, Fremont, N. C.; Margaret Gilliam, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Lib Nolan, Spartanburg, S. C.; Sarah Floyd, Spartanburg, S. C.; Anna Bolton, Union, S. C.; Mel Lever, Charlotte, N.C.

At last the stranger found his man, “I’m glad to know you, Mr. East,” he says. “North is my na——”

The above is part of a column which Mr. Dew, a 1922 graduate of Davidson, wrote for the News-Journal, of which he is associate editor. Occasionally Mr. Dew prepares this column by taking unusual incidents of the day as he reads about them in the newspapers, and preparing his own comment, which is very interesting and cleverly written. The portion of his column quoted above was inspired by an article sent out from Davidson some time ago, and which was also later used in the cartoon, “Strange As It Seems.”

Pi Kappa Phi
Raeford, N. C.; Margaret Rutter, Gastonia, N. C.; Nettie Irby, Blackstone, Va.; Dorothy Blair, Albemarle, N. C.

PROF. E. A. BEATY
(Continued from page 1)
and left off all the extra matter which was of no value in the lesson. He struck a medium of knowledge, emphasizing only the essentials. If we would have our minds like Christ's, we should try to learn to retain only that which is valuable and reject all the knowledge and thinking which is dross. If we want to have Christ-like minds, we should attempt to have humility, be sincere, and grasp the essential things of life.

COMMISSION SETS HIGHER STANDARDS
(Continued from page 5)
three and a half times that of the first five-year plan. Solve the cattle breeding problem. Increase the oil output by two and a half or three times. Produce 250,000,000 tons of coal as against 90,000,000 at present. Build from 25,000 to 30,000 new kilometers of railroads, and completely reorganize railway transportation. Reach, by 1937, an annual electric output of 100,000,000 KW as against 17,000,000 in 1932.

Davidson Theatre
“PASSIONATE PLUMBER”
THURSDAY

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“UNION DEPOT”
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, JR.
“TOMORROW AND TOMORROW”
RUTH CHATTERTON

FRIDAY
“THE BIG PARADE”
JOHN GILBERT—KARL DANE

SATURDAY
“CHARLIE CHAN’S CHANCE”
LINDA WATKINS

The skill of the local collegians was further attested by the fact that the contest required that not only the winners of 10 big games be correctly named, but also that the scores by which the games would be won must be included. Davidson men winning places included J. L. Tyack, of Winston-Salem, who won second prize; J. M. Brown, of Greensboro, third man in the contest; and J. W. Lee, of Ronceverte, W. Va., who placed sixth. The contest attracted entrants from all over the South.

WILDCATS DOWN GUILFORD
(Continued from page 3)
combination, and a set of more accurate basket eyes. The line-up:
Davidson (22) Pos. Guilford (18)
Patnick (8) Forward Pastine (5)
Mathis (4) Forward Haworth (5)
Martin (2) Center Jamieson (1)
Waples (2) Guard Chisholm
Peabody (6) Guard Purnell (7)
Substitutes—Davidson: Holland, Lafferty, Dickerson, Boucher. Guilford: Wildman, Carson. Referee: Dunham (Chicago “Y.”).

Oak Ridge Quintet Downs Wildkittens
The Davidson Freshmen were defeated last Thursday night by the fast Oak Ridge quintet in a game that turned out to be one of the best that has been played in the Davidson gym. During the first half, neither team had made a deciding number of points, but in the last two quarters Oak Ridge gained a lead that the Fresh basketeers could not equal. The game ended with the Cadets holding the long end of a 27-12 score. Glasgow and McCachren were the two outstanding men on the visiting team, while the Harris and Smathers combination made the game interesting from the Wildkittens’ point of view. Both teams missed the basket after shooting from all angles of the court and the guarding of both sides was extremely good. The line-up was as follows:
Oak Ridge (27) Pos. Davidson (12)
Harris (6) Forward West (3)
Glasgow (10) Forward Rogers
Mushinski (2) Center McCachren (6)
Wooten (6) Guard Morgan
Seifret (3) Guard Smathers (3)
Substitutions: Everett, Morris, Smith, Bernado, Yelverton, Bumgarner. Referee, Pritchett (Davidson).

DAVIDSON DRAMATISTS
(Continued from page 1)
terious injections on the men is too jolly to be revealed here. The characters for the two plays to be put on by the Masquers have not been completely chosen. Immediate work, however, is to commence on rehearsals. The Masquers contemplate a serious difficulty in emulating the gifted players of the Little Theatre. The program is looked forward to as the most attractive evening of one-act plays yet staged at Davidson.

DUKE School of Medicine
DURHAM, N. C.
Applications for admission to the first and third year medical classes entering October 1, 1932, should be sent as soon as possible, and will be considered in the order of receipt. The entrance qualifications are intelligence, character, two years of college work and the requirements for grade A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.