THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 21, 1932

Where East Meets West

San Francisco’s Chinatown is exotic... bizarre... a touch of the Orient in a cosmopolitan city. Temples, joss houses, and strange shops are lures in this section, far-transplanted—from Californians Inc. & Chinatown.

(NOTE: This is one of a series of requested articles written by Jack Williams, Jr., in connection with his visit to the National Editorial Association meeting in California this summer.)

Like Rome, San Francisco is built on seven hills. These hills give the city a picturesque effect, making it seem to jut out of the Pacific with a thrust of eternity. On the second day of our stay, we assembled at the Whitcomb Hotel where we started on the “25-Mile Wonder Drive.” Passing the Civic Center, we came to the auditorium facing the square, which is one of the magnificent buildings set down in the heart of this great city.

We saw the Palace of Fine Arts, a priceless heritage of the 1915 Exposition, and the Presidio. The cliffs of this historic spot are studded with sixteen-inch guns, and the stucco barracks gleam on their tree-covered slopes. Lincoln Park marks the termination of the Lincoln Highway which crosses the United States. Mounting Camino del Mar, we saw the Cliff House and Seal Rocks. At Golden Gate, a thirty-minute stop was made at the M. H. de Young Memorial Museum, a wonderful monument to the public spirit of the people of San Francisco. Other spots of interest were the Palace of the Legion of Honor, a white marble building holding many priceless collections of art, and the California School of Fine Arts on Russian Hill.

Golden Gate is the largest man-made park and is a fine expression of landscape engineering. It was transformed from a vast waste of sand dunes to a veritable fairyland of gem-like lakes, forests, streams, waterfalls, and gardens. There are miles of drives lined with evergreen trees, smooth lawns, bosky dells, and lakes. The paths are flower-bedecked and along their sides are rare tropical plants, lilies, and ferns. On the hill above is the Aviary filled with birds bright as flowers in their dazzling plumage.

Fleischhacker Pool is municipally owned and is the largest open-air warmed saltwater pool on the globe, having a capacity of 6,000,000 gallons of water. The Dutch windmill nearby pumps the water into the park that is used in watering the shrubs and flowers. Returning to the beach via South Drive, we saw miles and miles of automobiles parked on the highway running parallel to the ocean. As we turned inland, the estate of Adolf Sutro, Comstock millionaire and ex-San Francisco mayor, was pointed out. At Twin Peaks, the bus made a figure “8” driving up to the top of Telegraph Hill. Here in the early days, a semaphore announced the approach of ships through the gate to the town below. It rises between the docks and the Latin Quarter, commanding a superb view of the expanse of water and encircling mountains. On its sides hang artists’ shops and studios made so famous in literature. From its heights is a panorama representing 1,500,000 population, or about 30 percent of the whole population of California. Across the bay, we noticed Sather Campanile, an imposing tower on the campus of the University of California, at Berkeley.

San Franciscans themselves like to go to Fisherman’s Wharf, where the Madonna-blue boats bob with the tide. This is a sight that makes a person realize something of the cosmopolitan nature of this city. All along the waterfront are heard strange tongues, strange faces seen. The treasures of the Orient are discharged here. The docks being covered with silks and teas from Japan and China. The fishermen are entirely of the Old World, both in their rapid soft speech and of tams, baggy trousers, and high rubber boots. Following the Embarcadero towards the Ferry Building, we passed Meiggs Wharf. From this spot, Stevenson got many of his strange tales from bold sailors who had breasted many a stormy gale and visited foreign climes. On the way back to the hotel, we passed Crissy Field just inside Golden Gate on San Francisco airport.

That night we were driven to Chinatown in a fleet of Yellow Cabs. On the fringe of the shopping district, the pagoda gables of Chinatown are seen overhanging the street. The Far East and Moon cafes served us a delicious Chinese dinner high above the streets below. Grant Avenue presents an exotic picture at night. A narrow street piercing the largest settlement of Chinese in the...Western Hemisphere peopled chiefly by merchants and artisans with their wives and their American-born children, including boys and girls as smartly dressed as Americans. Here are imposing bazaars packed with lacquers, embroideries, sandalwood boxes, and curios. Women attired in gorgeous silks and satins passed on the street and men in black alpaca shuffled along, their slippers making a soft sound on the pavement. We paused before the windows of some of these shops. Behind the glass were beautiful works of art, in gold and jade. Beads, chains, carved charms—all in a setting of richness. Inside another shop, we saw sharks’ fins, candied ginger, and other delicacies that delight the palate of the Chinaman. 

Chinese children receive two educations at one time. Besides the instruction given in the American schools is the program studied in the arts and Chinese history learned at one of the many Chinese evening schools. We visited Nam Kue Academy, a place modeled after a temple in Pekin. Of particular interest is the Joss House maintained by the Kong Chow Society. Here are the images of many of China’s heroes, and also the ever-peaceful Buddha. A Joss House is a House of God and this is one of the most famous temples in Chinatown. The Chinese telephone exchange is one of the curiosities of Chinatown. It has more than 2,400 subscribers all listed by names, no numbers being used. A Chinaman seldom calls by the designated number—he just asks for “Ching Lee,” and the operator connects him with the party. This makes it necessary for the Chinese girls to memorize all the names.

Later we visited the Chinese “Six Companies,” which acts as a court or board of arbitration in industrial and domestic disputes. The Chinese Four Families corresponds to our Bohemian Club and is one of the richest societies in the country. The Lees and Wongs, and others, are organized into family associations for protection, or the advancement of all persons having their surnames. Next, we visited two Chinese theaters, the Great China and Mandarin. These are two of the best legitimate Chinese theaters outside of China. A great deal is left to the imagination for most of the acting is in pantomime. If a person wants to go through the action of climbing upstairs he lifts up one foot and then the other. To set something on fire is indicated by throwing a red rag tied to a stick. We were greatly impressed with the great drama unfolded before us. During the entire performance strange music was heard coming from one side of the stage. We were told that the plays last even longer than Eugene O'Neill's, in fact from 7:30 until 1 a.m. Stars from Canton and Shanghai appear in these two theaters regularly. After the great din heard at the theater, our ears were still ringing when we returned to the hotel.

JUNIOR ELECTION (Continued from page 1)

Y. M. C. A. Board of Control, and the Forensic Council. The office vacated by McClintock, Student Councilman, remained unfilled and at the same time the voting for the vice-president was going on, voting for this office was carried out. The following men were nominated: Charlie Rives, Lyman Clardy, and Fred Smyre. On the first ballot, Lyman Clardy was eliminated, leaving either Rives or Smyre to be elected. At the count of the last ballot, Fred Smyre had been elected. Smyre is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and Sigma Delta Psi. He is also a Junior basketball assistant. The election of these men placed the class in a normal condition, ready to carry on their usual activities as a class.

Too much, Aa © 1932, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Turkish tobacco is to cigarettes what seasoning is to food... the “spice,” the “sauce.” You don’t want too much seasoning in food. Or in a cigarette. But you do want enough! Chesterfield uses just the right amount of Turkish tobacco--Not too much, but just enough to give to Chesterfield the finishing touch of better taste and aroma. Smoke a Chesterfield... and taste the difference.

Chesterfield

“DRUGS” “SODAS”

Make Our Store Your Store

Student Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

DAVIDSON, N. C.

I have enclosed $2.00, for which please send me THE DAVIDSONIAN to the address below, for the school year 1932-1933.