THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 28, 1932

OVERLOOKING THE GOLDEN GATE

This picturesque golf course at Lincoln Park rides above the famed Golden Gate Strait and its passing ships. — Californians Inc. Photo

Monterey Peninsula

NOTE: Below is one of a series of request articles written by Jack Williams, Jr., in connection with a visit to the National Editorial Association meeting on the Pacific Coast.

As Kipling wrote, “The only bad thing about San Francisco is that it is hard to leave.” But it had its compensations because on leaving we started on the peninsula highway down the Pacific Coast toward Los Angeles. One hundred thousand Shriners arrived in San Francisco the next day to hold their convention, and so it goes, San Francisco seems to have more than its share of conventions.

At Palo Alto, we visited Stanford University and attended an organ recital given by Walter Allen in Memorial Chapel. The gates of the Hoover estate on San Juan Hill were thrown open to the party for an inspection which I understand is a courtesy accorded for the first time since Mr. Hoover was made President.

At Salinas, we heard the “yipees” of cowhands and the thud of pounding hoofs at the annual California Rodeo. The association were guests of the city of Salinas and watched a program packed with rangeland thrills as 200 cowboys matched their skill with the strength of bucking broncos, wild bulls, and long-horned steers. The contestants were spurred to the greatest effort in a race for four world championships and $60,000 in prizes.

There are 32 events in all, including bronco riding, bull riding, steer decorating, and roping. Horse races were held, including relay and pony express for both men and women. Probably the favorite event was steer decorating, the placing of a rubber band around the steer’s nose while on the run—the task of jumping from a horse running at top speed to the head of the steer and then snapping the band into place. It is a matter of letting go at the right time while going at this terrific speed.

Among the West's greatest bucking horses seen in action were Steamboat, the horse that throws the best of riders; Reno, Crying Jew, the horse that knows when he hears the whistle blow after eight seconds and stops bucking; Smoky Snyder, world champion steer rider; Johnny Schneider, world champion cowboy.

While there, we were treated to an old-style Spanish barbecue. On the big day of the rodeo, Colmo del Rodeo, 50,000 people from the surrounding towns and cities assembled to play and enjoy this old western sport. Californians like their rodeos and fiestas. Santa Barbara has its “Old Spanish Days Fiesta” at which time business is suspended and everybody dons costumes and devotes two days to revelry and the entertainment of visitors.

Leaving the car at the Salinas railway station, we accompanied the party on a special train to Monterey. At Del Monte, we were taken by citizens on the famous 17-Mile Drive, visiting historic Monterey, Carmel-by-the-Sea, Pacific Grove, Del Monte Forest, Monterey Peninsula Country Club, Cypress Point, Pebble Beach, and Carmel Bay. Carmel nestles back from the beach in a grove of Monterey pines. Along its winding streets are curious...Little art shops of English design with thatched roofs and bow windows. Somebody laughingly told us that vacationers are not allowed to carry guns at Carmel because it would be too great a temptation for them to shoot their eccentric neighbors. The place is full of artists and they wear the most individual clothes and live in the queerest houses. You will remember that Carmel is where Aimee McPherson was “kidnapped” a few years ago. That night the Hotel Del Monte entertained the association at dinner. Del Monte was built by Croker, a San Francisco financier, costing him millions of dollars, and they called it “Croker's Folly.” It is the social and sports mecca of the Pacific Coast and is the last word in hotels. Situated in the center of unsurpassed beauty, its tower rises majestically in the midst of an immense park of twenty thousand acres, said to be the largest grounds of any hotel. It is in reality a little principality—an enchanting kingdom. On every side are matchless vistas of gnarled cypress. Superlatives sound out of place when describing this spot for it is indeed “California at its best.” After dinner we went down to the Spanish Grill where the Del Monte orchestra was playing. Returning to Salinas by train at midnight, we sleepily crawled into the car and drove for two hours to Paso Robles, 90 miles to the south. This was one time I wished we were going with the others by train, for they had gone right to bed after leaving Del Monte. The next morning we arose at 7 o'clock and arrived at Santa Maria, where we joined the convention again, and were breakfast guests at the Santa Maria Inn. Our last day in San Francisco we saw Ina Claire, then Mrs. John Gilbert, in “Reunion in Vienna” at the Curran Theater. This play is from the pen of Robert E. Sherwood and (Continued on page 6)

NOTICE.
Have your shoes rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Work done while you wait.
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

Who sings it better than the Boswells? Every Monday and Thursday... Connie, Vet and Martha, in that bubbling Boswell rhythm ... as irresistible as Ol’ Rivuh himself! Man, and while you listen, light up a Chesterfield. Enjoy their fresh fragrance, their mildness and better taste. They’re mild... and yet they Satisfy. Chesterfield Radio Program—Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays—10 p.m., Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays—9 p.m., E.S.T.; Columbia Network.

THE CIGARETTE THAT'S MILDER THAT TASTES BETTER
© 1932, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

The Student Store SERVES Davidson Students
B. E. ALLEN
A. L. THOMPSON
MANAGERS

Union Theological Seminary
Richmond, Virginia
B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., LL.D., President

A graduate of Davidson and of Union studying abroad writes: “There are able scholars here whose books are known and read all over the religious world. None of them can surpass some of our professors at Union as teachers, and none of them can challenge a student to joyous, practical Christianity as did our professors there.”

“DRUGS”
Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS”
“SODAS”
“SUNDRIES”