THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 20, 1932

Dr. M. E. Sentelle and Dr. C. M. Richards Have Consented to Umpire the Faculty-Senior Baseball Game at Commencement

This Classic Contest Will Be Staged on Alumni Day, June 1st, and May Become Annual Event of Graduation

OTHER APPOINTMENTS

Admission Price Will Be a Dime, for Purchase of Baseballs and Liniment, Say Managers

Ten cents for the purchase of baseballs and liniment will be the price of admission to the Davidson Faculty-Senior Class
baseball game which will be the classic event here on Alumni Day, Wednesday, June 1st, of Commencement. For the past
several years the faculty and Seniors have participated in a series of diamond tilts, and after deliberating with one another
during the past few weeks, it was decided to perform before the visiting alumni this year. If it proves successful
it will be made an annual affair.

Managers, coaches, and captains of the opposing clubs consider it quite a feather in their caps that they have obtained
the positive and definite consent of Dr. M. E. Sentelle, dean of Davidson, to call balls and strikes that day,
and Dr. C. M. Richards, of the Bible department, to umpire bases. Both of these men are ardent baseball followers,
thoroughly know the game, and can be depended upon to make unbiased decisions, even though their overwhelming sympathy may be
with the faculty.

Profs. H. E. Fulcher, Fred L. Blythe, and J. T. Kimbrough will be manager, coach, and captain, not respectively, of
the faculty aggregation, and orders issuing from the headquarters of this trio are that training rules for the faculty will
go into effect on May 1st, and that there are to be from two to six practices a week, depending
upon the laxity of muscles. No disclosure has been made as to the context of the training rules which will
be invoked, but it is expected that they will be rigid and exacting of the professors.

On the basis of past experience in faculty-senior baseball games, the faculty managers are preparing to have a bevy of
heavers on hand, in order that they will have sufficient replacements if a hurler breaks before an inning is over.
Last year, the faculty held a substantial lead over their opponents until the sixth inning, when their repertoire of pitchers
was exhausted, and the seniors forged ahead to a decisive and humiliating defeat of their former tutors.

At present, there are four possible offerings for the mound, and it is believed that this quartet will hold the
soon-to-be-alumni in check if their teammates and colleagues can handle the willow effectively enough to give the faculty a lead
which it will be well-nigh impossible for the budding seniors to overcome. Three right-handers and one port-sider will be working
out during the next month in an endeavor to get a call for mound duty. Included in the group will
be Fred W. Hengeveld, registrar of Davidson, and former Wildcat hurler and pitcher for the Little Rock, Ark., club; Prof.
J. T. Kimbrough, one-time Davidson slab artist, and Prof. W. N. Mebane, the deceptive port-sider, and Dr. C. K. Brown.
Both Mebane and Brown have seen considerable service in previous games.

Around the initial bag will be hovering Prof. J. P. Williams, elongated professor of business administration; Capt. Norton G. Pritchett,
of the department of physical education, and Professor Mebane, in case the latter is not in sufficient form for pitching
duty. Professor Williams gets the inside track from a fielding standpoint, because of the several-foot reach he has which will
enable him to take care of the overhead throws of the infield. However, the faculty managers feel that the best
hitter of the three will have the advantage, because a few errors will be permissible if the faculty can counter-attack
with a number of tallies.

Should Hengeveld show sufficient ability to oust other candidates for mound performance, F. D. Hobart, superintendent of the groups, will
have a positive grip on the keystone position. In previous games, Hobart has demonstrated his ability to cover a lot
of territory, and also has better than usual control once he scooped the liners from seniors’ bats. This will give
Professor Blythe the hot corner.

The faculty managers have assigned Kimbrough and Blythe to third base, and should Kimbrough fail to qualify as a hurler,
that position is left wide open to Professor Blythe. If Kimbrough is wild and Blythe ousts him from third, he
and Captain Pritchett will fight it out for the shortstop berth. Captain Pritchett is also a candidate for first, but
he has Mebane and Williams to contend with there. His shifty ability might give the Captain a first choice for
shortstop, because of past experience and a good batting eye.

When it comes to the outfield, the managers have a large number from which to choose the occupants of the
outer gardens. At present, the most potent candidates are Dr. Geo. B. Watts, Frank R. Brown, Robert W. McCullough, Frank
L. Jackson, Dr. Price H. Gwynn, Prof. H. T. Lilly, and Prof. O. J. Thies. They also gave out for
publication the following list of other men who will be candidates for outfield posts: Dr. Fraser Hood, Prof. W. L.
Porter, Prof. F. K. Fleagle, Prof. W. W. Wood, Prof. K. J. Foreman, Dr. G. R. Vowles, Dr. W. P.
Cumming, Capt. W. L. Blanton, Prof. L. B. Schenck, and Carl Pritchett.

The managers are determined that the faculty-senior game will have all of the earmarks of both professional and college baseball.
With that end in view, they have made a number of appointments, all of whom have accepted so far, and
within the next few days they expect to see every member of the faculty and assign him his duties at
the game.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson, has been appointed trainer for the club, and Prof. Archibald Currie will be
czar of baseball that day, a position kindred to that held by Kennesaw Mountain Landis. In case of a particularly
heated argument, Dr. J. Moore McConnell will be called in as arbitrator. The attending physician will be Dr. J. Wilson
MacConnell, but no ambulance driver has been appointed. Should this be necessary, one of the players warming the bench, or
a member of the faculty in the cheering section, which will be composed of Dr. C. R. Harding and Dr.
W. R. Grey, will be detailed for that duty.

Dr. S. C. Lyon has accepted the post of head cheerleader for the day, and he will be assisted in
his contortions by Dr. H. B. Arbuckle and Prof. Ernest A. Beaty. A touch of the football game is brought
into being when it is announced that the waterboys for the day will be Dr. G. R. Vowles and Capt.
F. M. Cochran. It was felt that it was too much to ask two men to act in the capacity
of both bat-boys and waterboys. The bat-boys will be Dr. Thomas W. Lingle and Capt. Chas. W. Seifert.

Col. W. R. Scott will patrol the fence to see that all alumni members of the “D” club do not
gain entrance by scaling the barbed wire, and will call into assistance any loiterers that he thinks can be trusted
with this assignment. Ticket sellers will be Dr. J. M. Douglas and Prof. E. J. Erwin, and the two ticket
takers will be David Caldwell and Dr. E. F. Shewmake. The proceeds will be of such an enormous amount, it
is believed by the managers, that an accountant will be necessary after the close of the game, and to this
has been assigned Dr. J. L. Douglas, since the two regular accountants, Williams and Jackson, are candidates for the nine.
M. W. McGill will be the auditor, checking and double-checking the tabulation sheet until it balances in acceptable fashion to
the faculty members who make applications for portions of the fund for liniment.

Sergeants Kirby and Burton will furnish peanuts and soft drinks to the visitors free of charge (?). (Neither of the
two sergeants has

(Continued on page 6)

Davidson of Long Ago

April 19, 1928

J. R. Covington, of Raeford, will be the editor of the 1929 annual. He won this honor in the recentelection,
defeating R. W. Grady. The election of the Student Council men brought the spring elections to a close. The Juniors
elected Monroe Gilmour as president and M. C. McQueen as vice-president of their class. The Sophomores elected Zeb Long, president;
Heath Whittle, vice-president, and Bill McQuire, secretary and treasurer. Whittle was the only wearer of the Red and Black to
place in the recent Tech relays. He came in second in the 220 low hurdles. Alfred E. Smith defeated Herbert
C. Hoover in the Presidential poll held on the campus by the Davidsonian. Governor Smith got a plurality of thirty-two
votes over Secretary Hoover. The faculty picked Hoover. Over eighty per cent of the student body voted in the straw
election. Davidson’s tennis team, winner of the intercollegiate doubles championship of North Carolina for three consecutive years, beat the Gettysburg
netmen Saturday, 6-0. Roddey, Halverstadt, Johnston, and Carr of Davidson composed the team.

April 19, 1923

W. T. Jones has been elected president of the Y. M. C. A. for the 1923-24 session of school. The
Sophomore class of ’25 staged a brilliant affair in Charlotte last night. Piggy Martin acted as toastmaster for the occasion.
Harry Price, class historian, gave a history of the first two years of the class. Red McComb forgot to take
his bathing suit to Raleigh and so he couldn’t enter the two-mile swim. It was a pity, because he was
so anxious to get in on the distances. The resignation of A. M. Hillhouse as football manager, subsequent to the
student body presidency election, has caused W. Z. Bradford to be shifted to the football managership, while J. I. Smith
receives the position of manager of basketball.

April 17, 1918

Those who follow the plow will not be exempt from exams. Last year the “Farmer Boys” were permitted to leave
college and farm because of the war, but not so this year. They will have to stay here just like
the “City Slickers.” W. M. Currie was elected president of the Ministerial Band last Sunday night. D. M. Chalmers, vice-president,
and R. C. Clontz, secretary and treasurer. Major J. W. MacConnell gave an interesting talk on the Y. M. C.
A. work in the training camps at the Y. M. C. A. meeting. Major MacConnell was a former member of
the Davidson College faculty. John Roddey, ’23, is now associated with his father in the management of the W. J.
Roddey Agency, in a reorganization perfected by W. J. Roddey, for 34 years manager for South Carolina and Western North
Carolina of Equitable Life Assurance Society. Dr. M. C. S. Noble, ’79, of Chapel Hill, has been elected chairman of
the North Carolina Historical Commission. He has been a member of that body since 1907, and was winner of the
Mayflower Society cup in 1931.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.
Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.
Catalog and information on request.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

The past week have been F. E. Hashagen, Jr., ’07, Gastonia; A. T. Walker, ’07, Greensboro; Rev. J. W. Foster,
’12, Cooleemee; J. H. Gentry, ’13, Advance; Rev. C. D. Whiteley, ’14, Albemarle; Rev. Smiley Williams, ’14, Welch, W. Va.;
M. D. Thomasson, ’25, Charlotte; T. R. Nunan, ’30, Crossnore; J. C. Laurence, ’30, Smithfield, and J. D. McCall, ’31,
Gastonia. Friends will regret to learn of the following deaths: Mrs. D. F. Cannon, sister of T. B. Brown, ’85,
of Salisbury; Miss Jennie Alexander, sister of J. B. Alexander, ’88, of Charlotte; Mrs. W. B. Gaither, mother of W.
C. Gaither, ’21, of Newton; Mrs. Annie E. Hall, mother of R. D. Hall, ’19, and M. N. Hall, Jr.,
’28, both of Belmont, and Rev. M. S. Kennedy, D.D., father of M. S., Jr., ’18, of Pulaski, Tenn. Due
to business connections in Gastonia, W. B. Garrison, ’20, will not be a candidate to succeed himself as a member
of the Mecklenburg County Board of Commissioners. Mr. Garrison’s term expires in December, 1932. Robert A. Gordon, ’25, is one
of the managers of a Jefferson Standard Life Insurance Agency that has been opened in Gastonia. Mr. Gordon has been
connected with the Spencer Lumber Company for the past four years. A. S. Rose, ’28, who is completing his medical
training at Harvard University this year, will serve his internship at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass. Mr. Rose studied
under a fellowship at Harvard this year. Davidson alumni on the program of the North Carolina Medical Society, which is
now holding its annual session in Winston-Salem are Dr. J. K. Burns, ’15, of Gainesville, Ga.; Dr. J. R. Alexander,
’93, of Charlotte, and Dr. John T. Burrus, 1900, of High Point. Dr. Burrus is president of the North Carolina
State Board of Health. The date for the wedding of Chas. A. Sisson, ’31, now a law student at Harvard,
and Miss Tone Calhoon, of Grenada, Miss., has been set for June 30th. Miss Calhoun was graduated from Ward-Belmont School
at Nashville, Tenn., and attended the American Academy of Dramatic Art in New York City. Jas. C. Harper, ’15, principal
of Lenoir High School and director of the Lenoir High School Band, and Edgar H. Tufts, ’22, president of Lees-McRae
College, are financial advisors for the Southern Appalachian Music Camp for high school musicians of the South, which will be
opened for the first time this summer at Banner Elk. Associated with them in the direction of the camp are
some of the leading musicians in the South, and it has been arranged to meet a demand of those who
cannot attend a national music encampment. Rev. Albert C. Wildman, ’24, who has been pastor of a Louisville, Ky., Presbyterian
Church for several years, will go to Booneville, Ky., during the latter part of this month, where he will do
mountain work. Davidson alumni elected to office at recent Presbytery meetings include Dr. C. M. Richards, ’92, of Davidson, moderator
of Concord Presbytery; Rev. R. H. Stone, ’18, of Jefferson, permanent clerk for Winston-Salem Presbytery; Rev. W. S. Golden, ’13,
of Carthage, moderator of Fayetteville Presbytery, and Rev. W. A. Nicholson, ’06, of Pineville, temporary clerk of Mecklenburg Presbytery. When
a full list of commissioners elected to the General Assembly at Montreat is published, the names of Davidson alumni chosen
will be given in these columns. The Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company has transferred Glenn A. Price, ’29 from
Owensboro, Ky., to Madisonville, Ky. Alexander Sprunt, Jr., ’18, of Charleston, has had more than one hundred articles and stories
appearing in 14 magazines and several newspapers during the past four years. Some eight or ten writings are scheduled to
appear this spring and summer in such magazines as The American Legion Weekly, Holland’s, Blue Book and two juvenile publications.
It is definitely known that Holland’s will run another story in its June issue. Rev. W. M. McLeod, ’22, of
Pinehurst, was a speaker before the second annual meeting of the Presbyterian Young People’s League when it met last week
at Raeford.

Engagement Fox-Grey

“Mr. and Mrs. Charles S. Fox announce the engagement and approaching marriage of their daughter, Beatrice, to William Richard Grey,
Jr., of New York, N. Y., the wedding to take place on Saturday, May 7th, at the Moravian Chapel, Heckewelder
Place, Bethlehem, Pa.” Mr. Grey, better known as Dick Grey, is a native of the town of Davidson and is
a 1928 graduate of this institution. Since June of that year he has been connected with the personal trust department
of the Chase National Bank in New York City. Miss Fox is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Mount Holyoke
College, Massachusetts, and since her graduation she has been doing chemical work in New York.

A Complete Service for School Publications
Annuals, Magazines, Catalogs, View Books
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte.

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“WET PARADE” with DOROTHY JORDAN

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY
“THE WORLD AND THE FLESH” with GEORGE BANCROFT

SATURDAY
“YOUNG AMERICA” with SPENCER TRACY
