THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRANT................. Editor-in-Chief
A. M. MANSON......................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. W. GUARD.......................... Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK......................... Managing Editor
M. THOMAS............................ Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS....................... News Editor
ODI SALI.............................. Athletic Editor
ANCHR GEORGE....................... Exchange Editor
J. W. WHITE.......................... Feature Editor
S. GAMBLE............................ Feature Editor
J. T. GOODYKE....................... Contributing Editor
E. A. HANCOCK....................... Review Editor
D. D. McBRYDE....................... Associate Editor
R. L. McCALLIE....................... Associate Editor
C. F. ERS............................. Associate Editor
B. B. SUGG............................ Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. LEWIS.......................... Assistant Business Manager
A. H. MANSON......................... Assistant Business Manager
ALVIN BAYER.......................... Solicitor
H. B. DANIEL.......................... Solicitor
J. M. DOUGLAS......................... Solicitor
G. L. GREEN........................... Solicitor
W. P. SPRUNT.......................... Solicitor
R. TAYLOR............................ Solicitor
A. C. WADSWORTH..................... Solicitor
E. WHITE............................. Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
J. E. LAKE............................ President
S. GAMES............................. Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG........................ Secretary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN
J. L. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN
V. L. McILWAIN
G. E. BAILEY
E. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY
W. C. NEILL
C. BARNES
W. L. NORTHEN
E. BOWERS
C. E. NORVELL
J. E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
H. COVINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
S. K. E. JOY
P. M. ROGERS
J. B. FICKEN
B. L. ROSE
G. L. GULLETTE
T. H. SUTTON
H. HELLINGER
N. W. WALLACE
C. HENRY
K. D. WEEKS
A. HUNTER
W. R. WARD
E. LORRAINE
W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD
W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS
R. PRATT THOMAS

OCTOBER 5, 1932

All the American people expect of a President is that he be a combination of Moses, Demosthenes, St. Paul, and
Santa Claus.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

As the Freshmen approach their first college reviews, we wish them the best of success. Our advice is to study—and
remember that your parents at home are counting on you.

The big bats of the New York Yankees seemed unstoppable as they clouted homers to win the World Series in
short order.

The offensive of the Wildcats last Saturday was much improved.

After the lacing Duke gave V. M. I., we do not feel so badly about the 13-0 victory over Davidson.

Davidson is proud of the success of Monk Younger and Tex Tilson in leading V. P. I. to a 7-6
victory over the University of Georgia. Quite a difference from last year’s score: Georgia 40, V. P. I. 0.

To the Freshmen who have not yet attended a “Y” vesper service, we wish to urge you to do so.
Vespers are an integral part of Davidson. The habit of attending each Sunday evening is an excellent one to form.

The publicity given Davidson by neighboring papers is sincerely appreciated.

In former years the most active groups on the Davidson campus were the literary societies. These societies accomplished a great
deal in those days, and as the purpose is still essentially the same, great benefit can be derived by those
seeking it. We are sure that both Freshmen and upperclassmen will find it profitable to affiliate with one of the
societies.

According to those who were in attendance, the dance held in Charlotte last Saturday night by the Pan-Hellenic Council was
a success.

With the work which the team will receive this week we should place an eleven on the field against Wofford
at the end of the week which will be more elusive and powerful than they were in the W. &
L. game.

The kicking of Pearce so far this season has been excellent. He would be an asset to the team for
this ability alone.

Let’s try to remember that chapel exercises are essentially a religious service, and we should conduct ourselves with this view
in mind.

We feel that there are many conflicting views about the coming election this fall, and if any student would like
to express his thoughts in writing, we will gladly publish any articles which are handed to any of the managing
editors or to the editor.

DAVIDSON AND HONOR

Among the various institutions which we cherish here at Davidson, our honor system ranks very high. This is something any
college or university may well be proud of, and although there are some minor defects in our system here, on
the whole it has always functioned most satisfactorily and in accordance with the will of the entire student body. Otherwise,
it could not function at all.

The word honor has had various meanings as interpreted by various types of people of different ages, mentalities, localities, races,
and moralities. One person might consider some act perfectly honorable, whereas someone else might differ in his interpretation.

Each year students fail to realize that cheating on reviews and examinations is a very serious breach of the honor
system, and as a result of this they have become very seriously involved with the Student Council. Some new students
come from high schools where such conduct as this is not dealt with as severely as it is dealt with
here at Davidson, and many times the realization of this fact has come too late to benefit them. Most students
here would inherently refrain from cheating or even the appearance of such actions, but unfortunate cases of this have arisen
in the past and probably will arise in the future where some student has not lived up to the code
set down by the Davidson student body.

Each Freshman is supposed to have read the Constitution of Davidson College and part of it has been read in
the hearing of the entire student body at the chapel services, but there are always some who do not seem
to realize the importance of this question at Davidson. The standard of morals and ethics at Davidson is higher than
at many institutions, but it is not any higher than it should be, and it is the duty of every
student of this college to lift it to even higher levels than it has been in the past.

OUR COACHES

This article in praising the work of our new coaches may seem to be appearing at a rather inauspicious time,
since we waited until we had won a game before we printed it. This, however, is not the reason that
it is in this issue, for both games played this season have reflected the time, energy, and ability which both
“Doc” Newton and Gene McEver have spent on the team. It is a difficult task for two men who have
never worked together in the capacity of coaches to come to a college and install an entirely different system of
football as successfully as these two men have done here at Davidson.

Although we lost the first game, we have the satisfaction of knowing that we lost this game to a team
which probably will rank high in the Southern Conference this fall, if we can judge from the game they played
with V. M. I. last Saturday. Duke may claim that they have improved by playing us, but anyone who saw
the Duke and Washington and Lee games must certainly admit that our team has greatly improved also. Although some of
the plays lack the precision that will undoubtedly come later in the season, we could see from the number of
different plays in this game last Saturday that McEver has been teaching his backfield men some excellent football.

The performance of the line so far this season has been a tribute to the work of Newton. Of course,
the loss of Captain Buddy Gardner for the time being anyway, has been unfortunate, but the number of reserves this
year have been very beneficial. These new coaches seem to have come upon the correct solution when they added more
deception to our attack. We usually have very light teams, and with a deceptive attack we can gain far more
than with sheer power plays.

Although we shall not attempt to predict the results of any of the remaining games this season, we can rest
assured that whatever the outcome, our team is doing its best under the instruction of the most capable pair of
coaches we could secure.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Duke

So Wallace Wade only had to open his bag of tricks for one minute in the Duke-Davidson game in order
to overcome Davidson. Why didn’t he use his great bag of tricks when Duke was down on Davidson’s five-yard line
so that Duke could beat us a little more? Perhaps he didn’t have but one trick and that worked.

Duke will have their homecoming on October 15 with Maryland as their opponent. To add to the attraction of the
day there will be an organ recital before the game and afterwards the fraternities are holding house parties.

There are 2,343 students registered in Duke University proper. This is not counting the graduate school.

University of South Carolina

There are 1,047 students registered at the Gamecock school of Columbia.

The students in this college have formed a Roosevelt-Garner club. Long live the Democrats!

WORLD SPECTATOR

Modern science has developed many ways of cutting hard substances. Steel may be cut by an oxy-acetylene torch, or by
harder steel. The latest method for cutting steel is to use common water. This may sound unreasonable, but the liquid
may be used to cut metal, not slowly, but swiftly. A machine has been made which revolves plugs of steel
at a very high rate of speed. In fact, the plugs travelAt a velocity greater than that of sound in
air, the plugs pass through small jets of water at this high speed. The result is a rapid wearing away
of the metal. The machine has been built in Oakland, California, and is used to determine the erosive effect of
water upon ship propellers and of fog upon airplane propellers.

When is a gift not a gift? This question might well be asked by Jose Frassel, a tailor in Elyria,
Ohio, who sent a pair of overalls to a friend in Germany as a gift. The overalls were returned, and
Frassel received a letter from his friend saying that he was not able to accept the gift because the duty
on the garment would amount to over two dollars, or the equivalent of the friend’s week’s wages. This peculiar incident
shows not only the high protective duty on imports into Germany but also the extremely low wage scale in that
country.

The government has been called upon to do many rare and impossible things, but possibly the most peculiar request was
that made by a housewife in Colorado. During a heavy downpour recently, the housewife called up the police station, telling
the police that the heavy rains were flooding her basement and asking the officer to “come up and shut this
water off.” Some day in the future man may be able to control the weather, but at present this is
impossible, so the housewife’s request was not granted.

Herr von Bohlen, head of the Krupp munitions factories at Essen, Germany, is a very strong advocate of German arms
equality. He urges that the arms of Germany be permitted to be on an equal basis with the other countries,
declaring, however, that it is not a desire on his part for getting orders for his factory, but that he
thinks this step necessary to ensure peace and economic soundness in Europe. In fact, Herr von Bohlen does not want
to increase the German arms but to reduce the arms of the other countries.

The United States Coast and Geodetic Survey has perfected a transit which measures angles so accurately that the error would
be one foot in forty miles. This very accurate instrument has a scale so fine that the readings must be
made with a microscope. This accurate instrument is used to measure a baseline, and after getting that, to measure the
angle between this line and a desired point. For this work, it is necessary that special instruments be used, and
that the work be done at night to prevent the sun from heating and expanding the instruments unequally and causing
an error.

Mahatma Gandhi, by his recent fast, has again brought up the question often asked by medical authorities: How long can
a man live without food? Many records of past periods of fasting are on file, and the medical students have
at least come to a rough estimate. This estimate must necessarily be very inaccurate since each man has a different
length of endurance, and the conditions under which he fasts vary. It is known that without either food or water,
life is limited to fifteen or twenty days. Food without water cuts down the life limit. Water without food increases
the length of time one can fast. The size, weight, and sex of the subject have a great deal to
do with the time since the length partially depends upon the amount of energy stored up in the body tissues.
Up until the present time, there is no absolutely scientific data on the effect of fasting. Partial starvation has been
closely observed, but as yet no one has cared to starve to death for the sake of science.

With the approach of the formation of the new German Reichstag, the Nazis, Hitler’s party, have been called upon to
present their platform. Up to this time, the Hitlerites have taken a very aggressive and radical stand, trying to tear
down the government but not attempting to substitute a better system. They have worked against both the present conservative government
and the Communist party. Now, with a fair possibility of gaining control of the Reichstag, the National Socialists must adopt
a platform, and if they succeed, defend it against their opponents. The Nazis have thus given their views, which include
hatred for the French, Jews, and rebellion against the Versailles Treaty, opposition to trade unions, and many other petty objections.
The Nazis have many anti-capitalistic doctrines which they will enforce if they gain control of the German government. One of
these is the desire to drop the gold standard, placing in its stead the productive power of the country itself.
Rather socialistic in principle is their desire to have all business under the control of the state instead of in
private hands. The Nazis also want to cancel the foreign debts and control the foreign trade. They want to make
Germany free from foreign suppression, but with the present hatred of the French for them, they will probably bring more
foreign intervention. If they get into power and attempt to practice some of their ideas of hatred against the French
and Communists, Germany, in its present weak state, could not defend itself against its enemies. It is very doubtful if
Hitler would be so foolish as to stir up trouble, even if he does hate France and Poland.

The Yo-Yo, the toy top which was seen all over America about three years ago, has been introduced to Europe
and has been accepted with the same enthusiasm which was shown for it here. The English have fallen for the
fascination of the discs of wood running up and down the string, and the popularity of the Yo-Yo has been
traveling eastward, via Paris, Berlin, and Leningrad. L’Illustration, the French news magazine, compares this Yo-Yo contagion to an epidemic of
some disease. The English consider the toy a valuable character judge. Some have advanced the theory that the speed with
which one learns to master the toy gives an indication of the ability of the subject to master life’s problems.
At least, the lowly Yo-Yo has created a new demand for wood and twine, a thing which may have a
slight effect upon the unemployment situation.

V. M. I. The corps of V. M. I., together with the corps of V. P. I., is planning to
go over to Richmond for the unveiling of the Virginia World War Memorial carillon on October 15. The Cadet gives
us a list of the CBS's broadcast of football games this season. Here is a list of the more important:

October 15—Army-Pittsburgh, at West Point.
October 22—Yale-Army, at New Haven.
October 29 (tentative)—Notre Dame-Pittsburgh, at Pittsburgh.
November 19—Yale-Harvard, at New Haven.
November 26—Army-Notre Dame, at New York.
December 3—Army-Navy, at Philadelphia.
December 10—Southern California-Notre Dame, at Los Angeles.
December 17—California-Georgia Tech, at San Francisco.

“If Gene McEver, late of the U. of Tennessee, can coach as well as he can play football, Davidson is
sho’ going to be a tough team to beat this year.”—The Cadet. Amen, brother.

There are about twenty or more papers down at the “Y” reading room. Al Stevens of Schenectady, New York, arrived
in town about 8:30 Wednesday morning after an all-night hike from Charlotte. He went over to see a girl and
had to walk back. He left Charlotte at 10:30 p.m. and was just in time for his first-period class. Arthur
Ross confidentially tells me that he is “just like an old lady about cold weather and when winter comes the
only thing he can do is sit on the radiator.” B. B. Sugg threw out a “bon jour” to some
friends as he passed through the portals of Chambers Building last Thursday morning and then majestically ascended the stairs. Pete
Whittle tells about chasing a porcupine up a mountain on his trip West. The animal started such strange tactics that
Pete decided it wasn’t a porcupine after all. When asked why he fled down the mountain, he said for his
“dear ole alma mater.” Sonny Freeman was circling over the campus Tuesday afternoon in his airplane. We guess it was
Sonny. You can't keep up with all the student body, it seems, if you don’t fly a plane. But then
if it wasn't Sonny, who was it? The owner of the locket with the name “Ellen” on it, about which
an announcement was made in chapel, came up sheepishly to claim it afterward. Buck Ross was scuffling with Red Stewart
in front of the speakeasy Wednesday night. “Watch out, Buck, you've got my watch,” yelled Red. Buddy Gardner, his roommate,
was standing nearby. He said, “You mean my watch, it’s the only one I've got.” Mrs. Francis Neal, Mr. Jackson's
secretary, was trying to get hold of Mrs. Smith to check rooms with her Tuesday morning. All boys who are
in the wrong rooms had better move back to their original rooms for a few days because if you are
in the wrong one these two will soon find it out. Mrs. Smith was out in front of Watts Saturday
morning talking with Walter Sprunt and Fred Smyre. I overheard them talking about the W. & L. game as I
passed. Prof. Goldiere was having dinner at the Little Pep Thursday. His wife was out of town and he was
trying the fare at one of Davidson's newest establishments. As pretty a bunch of girls at the dance Saturday night
as I have seen in a long time. While hopping with Sally Couch, she told me she wished she had
a nickel for every mile she'd danced. Parson Peabody was carrying a sneaker up Sunday night after supper. He told
me he just had to do it because he got too hungry when he tried to wait for breakfast Monday
morning.

TIP-OFF.
