THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 2, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. O. GUERRANT - Managing Editor
D. D. McBRYDE - Managing Editor
R. L. McCALL - Managing Editor
J. YERS - Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG - Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENSON - Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLIN - Feature Editor
H. W. ERVIN - Review Editor
G. C. DWELLE, JR. - Associate Editor
W. S. EBA - Associate Editor
N. V. O. MATEDH - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. MANSON - Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE - Assistant Business Manager
J. W. WHITTED - Assistant Business Manager
W. D. DURRION - Subscription Manager
W. Y. JOHNSON - Solicitor
R. E. NAG - Solicitor
L. R. WOOTTON - Solicitor
A. G. THOMANSON - Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
A. H. WHITEHEAD - President
V. E. DARR - Vice-President
W. B. MUBRISS - Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR
L. S. GAMBLE
G. E. BAILEY
R. E. LORRAINE
F. E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
J. P. PRESTON
R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
A. F. SCHENCK
O. CASALT
W. M. THOMPSON
T. W. CLARDY, JR.
W. T. THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAMS
J. A. HUNTER

MARCH 2, 1932

Let knowledge grow from more to more.
—Tennyson.

PARAGRAPHICS

A continued slump in vesper attendance has made itself evident in the past few Sundays. The Y. M. C. A.
has gone to trouble and expense to bring notable personages to the Davidson campus. We owe our appreciation by attending.
We also owe it to ourselves.

We have been gratified in the constant improvement of the football squad in mastering the new system. They showed spurts
of real class out there Saturday. They play their last spring game this coming Saturday.

Yes, Jerome Clark said that as soon as the Juniors had made expenses off the pre-sale of their “week-end” tickets
the prices would then be increased. He really meant by about March 5. Get your tickets now.

The Davidsonian extends its heartiest congratulations to those recently extended the Phi Beta Kappa bid.

We have unconfirmed wind of the fact that student body elections will begin about March 15, or in about two
weeks.

We see that Vanity Fair nominates for oblivion Senator Sol Bloom, chairman of the Washington bicentennial celebration, for making the
father of our country the object of twentieth-century ballyhoo. What do you know about that? We will not add ours
for fear it will not carry much weight.

FRIENDSHIPS

The subject of friends and the forming of friendships has been dealt with in literature since the beginning of time
as one of vital importance. Cicero, Emerson, and Bacon put down their reflections in writing in an excellent manner, and
they have survived and are frequently read at the present time. Bacon says that he “who delights in solitude is
either a wild beast or a god.” This phrase is as true now as in Bacon’s time or any other
time.

It is generally conceded by the majority that the primary purpose of attending college or university is to gain knowledge.
Many want this knowledge merely to be better equipped to gain material wealth; others seek after knowledge for its own
sake. Whatever is the aim of the student at an institution of higher learning, if when he graduates all he
can assert is that he has gained knowledge and nothing else, he will lack one of the essentials of education.
There is no way to estimate the real value of forming friendships, but certainly their value is very high, and
he who does not use the opportunity offered to make friends is suffering an irreparable loss.

The value of a college course in a scholastic sense is not being depreciated, because its value is very well
known. However, scholastic attainment is not sufficient unto itself. The opportunity of forming friendships is present at any institution, but
as very few colleges in the country are recognized as having as high caliber students as Davidson, it would naturally
seem that those of us who are content with few friends here are doing an injustice to ourselves. Of course,
many strong and firm friendships have been and are still being formed on this campus, but some students who confine
themselves too closely, for various reasons, do not realize precisely what they are losing.

Friendships can mean much to a man while he is still in his student days, but they may mean still
more after graduation. The old adage that friendships formed during one’s college days will be truest and firmest seems very
true, because students can know each other much more intimately at this stage of life than after it. Before this
stage is reached, the person in many instances is too immature to form friends who will have the same interests
in after life. After the college days are over one may become set in his ways and form fewer friendships,
but during one’s years in college he is very much more closely associated with a great many more people than
he ever will be after college. It seems logical that if one can’t or doesn’t make friends when so closely
associated with people, he won’t have the tendency to do it in later life when he is not so closely
connected with them. These are truly the halcyon days of our life in many respects, and every effort ought to
be exerted to reap all the benefits possible.
—E. O. Guerrant

Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings...
Duncan McBryde

“BULL-DOG” McINNIS GROWLS
A Short Story

“Bull-Dog” McInnis and “Spud” Harliss breathed a sigh of relief as they closed the door to the latter’s dingy hideout,
and found themselves protected by the steadily gathering darkness. “Not a bad night, ‘Spud,’ for the little job—there’s anHere is
the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"Ungodly storm brewin’ outside, and the chances are that the Belhaven ‘Special’ won't have many passengers aboard her tonight, which’ll
make things all the easier for us,” drawled McInnis, as the two settled themselves comfortably to enjoy a pipeful of
what “Spud” had insisted was “real ole Virginia tobacco.”

“Yep,” grunted Spud, trying hard to enjoy his last smoke, in spite of the gathering storm and the thought of
the “job” that was before them, “and we gotta get a move on. It’s not every coon’s age that a
ten grand payroll finds itself on a hick train like that, and we don’t want to miss the chance to
cash in on it. Now remember, I'll be waitin’ at the Cross Creek Gap; an’ all you gotta do is
to watch out for the right place, and then pull like hell on that air brake cord in the passenger
coach. As soon as the train slows down, I'll hop in the mail car and give that lousy mail clerk
a swat on the cocoanut before he knows what it’s all about, and then scram with the ten grand before
anybody gets wise. I'll meet you down the hill at the place you were talking about. You be sure and
clear out before anybody lamps you, and gums up the works.”

And with that the two parted, Harliss returning in the direction of the hideout, where he had a roadster hidden
in a back alley, and “Bull-Dog” McInnis heading for the small railroad station a few blocks away, to await the
midnight “Special,” a one-horse rattler from Belhaven, said to have the $10,000 payroll aboard.

There was only one other passenger in the coach when McInnis shuffled on board about 12:30. “I'd better ‘feel him
out’,” he decided, “and see if he is wise to anything.” He took a seat directly opposite the stranger, and
temporarily shielded himself behind a newspaper that he had found lying conveniently near. After a few minutes he casually laid
it aside to peer at his new traveling companion. As he did so the latter suddenly looked up.

“By jove!” he exclaimed, “It’s McInnis! Where the dickens have you been in the last year or so?”

“Well swat me, if it ain't McGraw!” said McInnis, greatly relieved, “D—n if this ain't a break! Been makin’ good?”

“Not so good. Hard times. You remember Jerry, the pal of mine whose life you saved—don't you? He died last
week. Left a widder and six brats. I been helpin’ them out a little, but they're in a bad way.
You seem to be going strong, just judgin’ from appearances—am I right, or am I right?”

“You are partly right, and then again you're partly right, Mac. But listen here, get a load of this, Mac.
I got a scheme hatched up now that oughtta mean ready cash before the night is over. An’ I ain't
forgettin’ you on this deal, either, and I'll give you some dough to help out Jerry’s widder. Of course, now,”
he grinned, “I wouldn't tell this little scheme to just anyone, you know—for instance a cop! Now the idea is
this...”

The Belhaven “Special” pounded its way on into the night, emitting one lone screech as it drew near the Cross
Creek turnpike, the only crossroads within fifty miles of that God-forsaken spot. A trim blue roadster was parked near the
crossing, but the inky blackness hid it completely. “Spud” Harliss was waiting a hundred yards or so on down the
track, and for a moment his uncouth, contorted face beamed with a gloating joy, as the shrill blast of the
oncoming locomotive rent the night air.

McInnis, with one hand on the air brake cord, and his face pressed against the window pane, peered intently into
the blackness outside, striving to locate the exact spot at which he was to pull the cord, and stop the
train. As he did so, he failed to see McGraw whip out a gruesome revolver and advance a step closer.

“All right, Mac, your little game is up. Pull that cord and I'll pull the trigger—sorry to interfere with your
‘little scheme,’ but orders are orders. You said only a little while ago that you wouldn’t have told your scheme
to just anyone, especially a cop! Hah, that’s just what you did, practically. You see I quit the racket a
long time ago, and now have a job as a detective for the Belhaven Trust Company. And I was told
not to let any bad boys play hide and go seek with the fat payroll, under any conditions—so you see
where I stand. You once saved a pal of mine, and I haven't forgotten it. I shall do equally as
much for you. As we speed past Cross Creek Gap, toward Little Falls, we shall leave your pal, “Spud” Harliss,
alias “Mike” Ilitz, to beat it back to safety. And another thing. You said that you were going to help
me out with some dough. You were going to give me part of some money that was to come easily
into your hands—well, again I’ll do the same for you. Do you remember that little ‘job’ you staged over in
Ohio? The time you ‘did in’ Lefty O’Brien? Well, in case you didn't know, or hadn't heard, there’s an awful
big price on your head—they’ve been offering it since September. Well, the next time I get a day off, I'll
drop by and give you part of that easily earned money! A hard-working guy like myself might as well get
that dough as anyone. You remember the time I tried to get you to go straight? I told you what
you wuz headin’ for—oh well, I ain’t goin’ to do any preaching to you; you'll have plenty of time in
the near future to figure it out for yourself—only it'll be too late.”

“Well, here we are at last. Just to be sure that we ‘pals’ shall ‘stick together’ for a little while,
you'll pardon me if I slip these ‘bracelets’ on. This is a helluva night for you to be out playin’
around. I think I better take you to a place where they got free rooms and board—since your ‘ready cash’
didn’t turn up.”

And “Bull-Dog” McInnis only growled, “All I wanna know is why in the hell did I agree to go on
the train, and let ‘Spud’ wait out in th’ gap? Anyway, I hope he ‘catches his d—n death of cold
out there waitin’ fer me.”

THE END

---

What Do You Think?

Business men’s art clubs, a rapidly growing cultural phenomenon in the larger American cities, had their origin in Chicago, according
to Karl Buehr of the Art Institute. Now in twenty cities the tired business man with a secret yearning for
the brush, pen, or pencil, has an opportunity to exercise his artistic urge during his leisure hours. In 1920 Mr.
Buehr had a business men’s class for men who had taken up art as a hobby. They found relaxation in
the evenings drawing and painting, with occasional sketching trips to the country. Mr. Buehr suggested that a permanent organization be
formed. Eighteen men became charter members with Elbert G. Drew, a telephone company official, as president. The organization now boasts
115 members.

Against the obvious assumption that most bankruptcies are to be laid at the door of the well-known depression, the study
by the Department of Commerce of 612 bankrupt cases and other business failures in New Jersey in 1931 established the
fact that the major cause was inefficient business methods and practices, according to an article in the United States Daily.
More than half the firms subjected to this post-mortem investigation either kept no books at all or kept inadequate records,
and 39 per cent of them never took an inventory.

Another aspect of the depression is thrust upon us by Dr. Franz Boas of Columbia University when he tells us
that children born during the depression will probably be smaller than those born during other times. This supposition is made
more clear by the results of the study and observation which he has been making for some time. He has
issued the following statement: “Economic conditions influence the size of growing children. Among the poor the period of adolescence is
delayed and the final structure is shorter than that of the well-to-do.”

For any of those who might feel a fear as to the religious trends of modern college thought, the following
statement by Dr. Herbert W. Searles of the School of Philosophy at the University of Southern California comes as a
relief and a comfort: “Less than five per cent of college students are atheists and twenty-four per cent of them
find prayer valuable in strengthening the will or moral power. Implicit faith in God was professed by an average of
81 per cent of the students enrolled in five colleges and universities. Approximately 44 per cent of the students undergo
some sort of change in their conception of God during the years they spend in colleges and universities. The general
trend of student thought is from belief in a personal God to belief in an impersonal God, and away from
orthodoxy. The greatest change is noted in the junior and senior years, and there is a swing back to a
personal conception of the Almighty after graduate study.”

It was estimated by Dr. E. C. Branson, head of the department of rural social economics in the University of
North Carolina, that there are now 47,000 native-born white women illiterates in North Carolina. “The public schools, the mission schools,
and the moonlight schools, have made praiseworthy efforts to stamp out illiteracy, but they have had so far to go
that they have done comparatively little. The church can still do a great deal, and the adult education movement has
infinite possibilities. One reason so little has been accomplished is because the appeal is for home missions which always lack
the enchantment of foreign missions. Most of the white women illiterates are country women, their plight being suffocating loneliness and
sealed silence.”

It seems unreasonable to believe that there is this much illiteracy among just the white women of North Carolina alone.
Think of the forty-seven other states, not to mention the white men illiterates and all of the illiterate negroes, men
and women. Illiteracy today is distressing to even realize; it is a problem which should concern everybody.
