**The Davidsonian, January 27, 1932**

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN.................. Editor-in-Chief
J. M. CONWAY....................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
J. E. LAKE............................ Managing Editor
R. H. ALDERMAN............... Managing Editor
F. H. COVINGTON.............. Managing Editor
B. B. TAYLOR....................... Managing Editor
L. S. GAMBLE....................... Athletic Editor
G. E. BAILEY......................... Feature Editor
R. E. LORRAINE................... Feature Editor
J. E. BOYD............................ Review Editor
K. L. POWELL....................... Exchange Editor
S. P. PRESTON..................... Associate Editor
R. PRATT-THOMAS............. Associate Editor
W. R. WARD.......................... Associate Editor
A. F. SCHENCK..................... Associate Editor
W. M. THOMPSON............... Associate Editor
R. W. T. THOMPSON............ Associate Editor
J. A. HUNTER....................... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
W. R. WARD......................... Assistant Business Manager
A. F. SCHENCK.................... Assistant Business Manager
W. M. THOMPSON............... Assistant Business Manager
R. W. T. THOMPSON............ Subscription Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
H. C. WHITEHEAD............... President
J. I. DAKIN........................... Vice-President
W. S. FARRIOR.................... Secretary

JANUARY 27, 1932

Art creates an atmosphere in which the proprieties and the virtues unconsciously grow.—Robert G. Ingersoll.

PARAGRAPHICS

Dean Herring, of Duke University, made one of the most inspiring talks that we have had the pleasure of hearing
last Sunday night at the afternoon service. The “Y” is getting some powerful speakers for these meetings, and anyone who
is missing the opportunity to hear them is certainly doing himself an injustice.

With a new semester’s work facing them, Davidson students readily realize the necessity of some good hard work.

It was reported that the halls of Converse were crowded with Davidson men last weekend. Spartanburg seems to hold some
attraction for a great many men in the student body.

We have been informed that there are 148 Smiths attending Columbia University this year, as compared with 91 Millers, 68
Cohens, 60 Browns, and 49 Joneses. And we thought the Macks at Davidson were bad!

Some remarks (we hesitate to say complaints because we hardly feel that the matter is that vital to anyone) were
made regarding the non-appearance of the Davidsonian for the week just following the holidays. We beg to make excuses for
the staff. There was too much other work to be done, and such a short time in which to do
it.

OUR MODERN AMERICAN COLLEGE

This may seem a rather prosaic subject, but there are certain characteristics and phases of the modern American college or
university which are interesting to note. It is generally conceded that their purpose is to give the youth of the
nation who are fortunate enough to reach college a broad and wholesome outlook on life and to develop them to
the fullest extent. Whether all our institutions of higher learning do this is a debatable question.

A graduate of Davidson who is now a professor in one of the leading Southern universities once said that he
was proud to say he was a “Davidson man” because a “Davidson man” did not mean just a certain type
as the phrase “a Princeton man” or a “Harvard man” did. Although he admitted that those two Northern institutions had
contributed a great deal and are still contributing a great deal to the advancement of education in this country, he
said the students in both of these institutions represented a type in which there was very little if any variation.
This is not only true of these two institutions, but of many others also, and to some extent of every
college in the country. The freshman class at any college is made up of a great many different kinds of
students with varied interests and temperaments, but the longer they remain the more they are made to conform to certain
kinds of speech, modes of dress, and views on life. They know very little of what goes on in the
outer world, and when graduation comes we have not the class of four years ago, as they are much more
alike than they were in their freshman year. Instead of being broadened they have had narrower views of life forced
on them in many instances. They have gotten a veneer and polish, but have their individual talents been developed so
that they can be leaders in the world?

This was a great tribute to be paid to us by one of our former students, and let us hope
that Davidson will continue to develop men who will be able to think clearly for themselves, who will have the
nerve and ability to stand out from the crowd.

—E. O. Guerrant

THE COACHING SITUATION

Davidson students and Wildcat supporters throughout the South have had their interest focused for the last several weeks on the
field of available coaches, and on the activity of the Davidson Athletic Council in selecting these coaches. Since the announcement
that “Tex” Tilson would follow “Monk” to V. P. I., where he will serve in the capacity of line coach,
the task of the Council has been doubled, in that it must now select two coaches. There is of course
a large field from which to make the selections, but that in itself only makes the choice harder.

The press has been active in its selection of probable choices, and has selected and pushed many men that have
not been seriously considered by the selecting body. But that only serves to make the public more interested in the
final choice. The newspapers are naturally thankful for the opportunity to play up a story of this kind, which has
all the attributes of a good story. They even went so far as to discover by some “fair” means that
Leonard Dick had turned down the offer made him by the Council.

The student body, busy with holidays and with examinations, has had little chance to really seriously consider the matter, and
to discuss it at length. It is certain that this group is most vitally interested in the outcome of the
thing. It matters a great deal to the students just what action the Council takes in selecting coaches. There are
certain attributes that a man must have in order that he may satisfy the students that he is worthy to
be their coach. In the first place, he must be able to coach and train athletic teams, and must have
in some way demonstrated this ability. Next, he must be able to get along with the student body. In a
school like Davidson harmony between the coaches and the student body is an important factor in the success of the
athletic teams. In the third place, the character of the man must be unquestionable. Although they desire a winning team,
that is not the primary thing in athletics at Davidson—they want the game played, in the fullest sense of that
word. Thus, if the Council is to secure a man who will accomplish something at Davidson, it must get a
man with those characteristics which will meet with the approval of the student body.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake - Washington and Lee

The National Press Convention will be held at this institution, named after two famous generals, next December. This convention will
be held in the Robert E. Lee Hotel and in the Lee Chapel.

Rev. Walter Russell Bowie, a very noted Episcopal preacher, is to be the baccalaureate speaker at the commencement exercises in
June.

The Ring-tum Phi quotes an editorial on “Student Drinking” from Kentucky Kernel. In this editorial the writer commends the present-day
student on his attitude toward the question of drinking. In the old days a boy could not enjoy his college
course without a good amount of drinking and drinking to such an extent that he would be intoxicated. This applied
not only to a few boys but to the majority of the students in college. Today the situation is quite
changed, there are only a few boys in this class who are known as “sots” while the majority of the
boys look down on the boys in this class and do not wish to associate with them, especially when they
are under the influence of alcoholic liquors.

Allegheny College

Admiral Richard E. Byrd, famous trans-Atlantic and polar flyer, spoke to the students of Allegheny last Saturday in the Meadville
High School Auditorium. He spoke on his antarctic trip and illustrated it with pictures. The program was thoroughly enjoyed by
all that had the pleasure of seeing and hearing it.

University of Georgia

Dr. George W. Truett, widely known minister and pastor of the First Baptist Church of Dallas, Texas, will be the
principal speaker at the Eighth Annual Religious Welfare Conference to be held at this Southern institution on April 6 and
7. The predecessors of Dr. Truett as speakers at this conference are very famous, James I. Vance, a notedPresbyterian minister
and author, former Secretary of War Newton D. Baker, Dr. S. Parkes Cadman, and others.

N. C. State
There has been much alarm over at this school on account of the number of deaths from automobile accidents within
the grounds of the campus. There were three deaths during the football games held over at State this past gridiron
season. To aid in the reduction of deaths and the possible elimination of deaths from this source on the college
grounds, the student body has asked the City of Raleigh to place a stop-light at the college entrance and to
have police to regulate the crowd that attends athletic contests at State. The Technician, to emphasize the needs of stop-lights,
has a cartoon showing the Grim Reaper and three graves. The title of the cartoon is “Three Dead Men and
No Stop-light.”

Georgia Tech
Bernie Cummins, nationally and internationally famous dance orchestra, will furnish the music for the mid-term dances at Tech. There will
be four dances: Pan-Hellenic, Freshman hop, Senior ball, and tea dance.

“Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...”
Duncan McBryde

IN MEMORIAM
The dear departed (examinations)
(Before the exams): “Coming events cast their shadows before.”
(During the exams): “These are the times that try men’s souls.”
(After the exams): “Bring me no more reports.”

PULLING A FAST ONE ON THE PROFESSOR:
Certain Professor: “It gives me great pleasure to mark you 85 on your examination.”
Certain Student: “Why not make it 100 and give yourself a real thrill?”

THE POWER BEHIND THE THRONE—THE FACULTY
But the exams are dead (let the dead bury the dead). We've heard enough of exams. They’re enough of a
joke in themselves. So if exams are jokes, then let’s lay aside all jokes. (Humor reminds me of history. It
repeats itself.) If Adam came back to earth, the only thing he’d recognize would be the jokes.

Have you heard the one about the Scotchman who sued a baseball company because he was hurt while watching a
ball game? He fell out of a tree. (That’s almost as bad as the Scotchman who, every time he shaved,
went out on a date to powder himself.) We know of a Scotchman who refused to drink out of a
bottle because it had to be tipped.

LINES COMPOSED UPON OVERHEARING A CONVERSATION
“Love me, love the lady I adore;
Give her but of your best regards, and I’m yours right off!
Love me, love the lady I admire;
Give her but half the admiration due, and you
Shall be my pal—but soft—!
Just tell her that you love her; whisper, too,
You’ll always care; and I
Will knock your block off!”

CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT
“Nerts!”—L. T. Newland, Jr.
(NOTE: Mr. Newland was NOT paid for this statement, but simply chooses Tom's Toasted (nerts), because they are toasted for
your throat’s protection.)

RUMPLE REPARTEE:
(Any Inmate of Rumple): “I have a suit for every day in the week.”
(Any Other I. O. R.): “Yes?”
(Ak, CO, IRD) g Manet sig ot?
(But the second boy got it back on the other one later by remarking, “Well, the joke’s on you!”)

WHISPERS FROM WATTS:
Dream: “My girl took the engagement ring as a joke.”
Train: “Yeah?”
Dream: “But before the evening was over, the joke was on her.”
Train: “(Censored).”

SHADOWS OF COMING EVENTS
“They say that one person’s humor is another's poison. Well, we've decided to give you a chance to ‘choose your
poisoning’ (as the drug store clerk said to the lady as he laid the Rough-on-Rats on the table). In the
near future (tomorrow never comes, so we don’t care what we predict), we shall present for your detainment, among other
things, such items as ‘ROTC WIT THE LID LIFTED’ (i.e., the military salute); WHAT TO DO ABOUT THE DEPRESSION (deploy
the unemployed); and last (but not least), ‘WOMEN,’ or ‘AFTER THE BAWL WAS OVER.’ Also added detractions. Be sure to
look out for them (they can’t look out for themselves).

We will close by slinging song number—well, it’s a bunch of couplets that appeared in the Clayton Bunk (Nov. 8,
1931). It has no name, so we suggest one: ‘FEMME FUN’

Taxi for to keep the date
Just set me back $3.98.
The show we saw was very nifty,
It ought to be—it cost $6.50.

DES ENTREFILETS
The United States has, of late, been the object of much unjust criticism made by the Belgium press. In fact,
the Belgium newspapers have developed a virulent hatred for America and its “ignorance” on reparations. Recently one Belgium paper declared:
“This ignorance is general, America being too busy recording the doings of gangsters to study politics. It is America’s attitude,
inspired by its ignorance of realities, that is compromising peace.” This rather harsh and partially unjust criticism from a nation
to whom the United States rendered great service during the late war seems unnecessary to say the least. Ambassador Gibson
acted immediately and without instructions from Washington. From the Belgium Foreign Minister, he received an official disavowal of the offensive
articles by the government and a public expression of regret: “Belgium cannot forget the help which the United States afforded
her during the war and the admirable tactics Mr. Hoover showed in the organization of relief.”

For his “splendid service” rendered in penalizing Chicago gangsters, President Hoover promoted U. S. District Judge James Herbert Wilkerson to
the Circuit Court of Appeals. A few days ago, Wright Patman, a young Democratic Congressman from Texas, arose in the
House of Representatives and brought impeachment charges against Secretary of Treasury Mellon. He charged the Secretary of the Treasury with
having violated a statute of 1789 which provided: “No person appointed to the office of Secretary of the Treasury shall
directly or indirectly be concerned or interested in carrying on the business of trade or commerce or be the owner
in whole or in part of any sea vessel.” The argument presented by the prosecution was: Mr. Mellon is a
heavy stockholder in the Aluminum Company of America, therefore he is in trade. The Gulf Oil Corporation owns tankers and
Mr. Mellon is a large stockholder in Gulf Oil, therefore he is an owner of sea vessels. He has caused
“millions” of dollars in taxes to be refunded to Aluminum Company and Gulf Oil, and also “thousands” to himself. The
argument of the defense was as follows: Mr. Mellon owns only 15 percent of Aluminum Company, therefore he controls no
corporation. Stock ownership does not constitute “trade or commerce.” Every secretary since the time of Hamilton has owned stock without
violating this statute. Mellon does not personally own any sea-going vessel. Although he did receive a tax refund, he was
assessed an additional amount which made his net loss $118,000. With such a defense to face, the Congressman from Texas
had very little chance of making the Secretary nervous, much less impeach him.

After the meeting of the Supreme Court last week, Associate Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes returned to his home and tendered
his resignation to President Hoover. The Associate Justice, who is ninety years old, gave the following reason for his resignation:
“The condition of my health makes it a duty to break off connections...” Mr. Holmes has been a member of
the Supreme Court for 29 years and his resignation brought from President Hoover the following statement: “No appreciation I could
express would even feebly represent the gratitude of the American people for your whole life of wonderful public service...” Senators,
Congressmen, editors, and leaders in every field heaped praise upon this infirm old gentleman.

Two thieves worked all night to blow open the door of an unlocked safe in Lafayette, Ind., which contained 24
cents. Axel Svanson, of Chicago, dined on pigeons which he had caught while they were eating the peanuts he had
bought with a dime he begged from a stranger.

“No man has earned the right to intellectual ambition until he has learned to lay his course by a star
which he has never seen—to dig by the divining rod for springs which he may never reach.”—Oliver Wendell Holmes.

“The social and economic structure of Europe is steadily moving toward an abyss, and if it continues it will leave
no alternative between repudiation of debts and chaos...” —Benito Mussolini.

“The hope of the Republican party is in Calvin Coolidge. The hope of the Democratic party is in John N.
Garner. Failing these, the hope of the public is in a third party.”—William Randolph Hearst.

She said the candy was divine,
It nicked me for $2.89.
Her bouquet made a hit with me,
It was so cheap—$5.93.
The night club was a bit of heaven,
The bill came to $12.87.
Oh, well, a soldier hollers,
Even when he blows his $$$$$$$.
