THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1932

Schedule of Honorary Fraternity Meetings

FIRST AND THIRD WEEKS

He spends his summers at Montreat in Assembly Inn. Greensboro, announce the marriage of their daughter, Dorothy Elizabeth, to Daniel
Glenn Oden on Monday, September 19th, at Greensboro. Mr. Oden is a member of the (Continued on page 6)

Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday

7:00 P.M. Omicron Delta Kappa
8:00 P.M. Alpha Phi Epsilon
9:00 P.M. Sigma Delta Psi

Scabbard and Blade
Eta Sigma Phi
Y. M. C. A. Cabinet

Pi Delta Alpha
Sigma Upsilon
International Relations Club

SECOND AND FOURTH WEEKS

Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday

7:00 P.M. Delta Phi Alpha
8:00 P.M. Le Cercle Francais
9:00 P.M. Gamma Sigma Epsilon

Sigma Pi
Delta Pi Kappa
Red and Black Masquers

Sigma Mu
Omega Phi Alpha
Y. M. C. A. Ministerial Band Club

Beta Psi
Kappa Alpha
Sigma Delta Pi

Alumni News

Editor's Note: The following alumni items have been received in the mail of Ernest Milton, former alumni secretary at Davidson
but now treasurer of Barium Springs Orphanage. He has prepared this news matter for The Davidsonian.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Friends will regret to learn of the death of the mother of Thomas W. Brohard, '29, and M. L. Brohard,
'32, at her home in Grafton, W. Va. Mrs. Brohard died two weeks ago. Tom Brohard has returned to Stony
Brook School, Long Island, N. Y., for his second year as a member of the teaching and coaching staff of
that institution.

Major Harlee Morrison, '16, of Terrell, Texas, has been elected a member of the Texas State Legislature, as representative from
the 52nd District. Mr. Morrison defeated two dyed-in-the-wool politicians. In the first primary, a former member of the Texas Legislature
was eliminated, and in the run-off, Mr. Morrison defeated the incumbent from that district. This was the first political office
to which Mr. Morrison has aspired, and he was victorious by a substantial majority.

Joe D. Welborn, '28, of Pelzer, S. C., was recently elected a member of the House of Representatives of the
State of South Carolina. Mr. Welborn has the distinction of being one of the youngest legislators in the country. He
is only 25 years of age now. When Mr. Welborn was 21 years old, he was elected mayor of Pelzer,
which was another distinction for a young man.

The Rev. James T. "Tim" Pharr, '12, is now living up in West Virginia, the pastor of the Presbyterian Church
in the town of Cass, W. Va. He has recently conducted a very successful evangelistic campaign of two weeks in
the old Alexander Memorial Presbyterian Church in Pocahontas County, West Virginia.

M. Camper O'Neal, '28, of Chicago, Ill., has returned to the law school at Columbia at New York, and will
next spring complete his work on a law degree. Following his graduation in '28, Mr. O'Neal was for two years
Y. M. C. A. secretary at Davidson.University, Francis Ghigo, ’29, of Valdese, is now connected with the Spanish department of
Hampden-Sydney College in Virginia. Mr. Ghigo replaced William R. Weaver, ’29, who was in that department there for two years.
Mr. Ghigo taught two years at Riverside Academy, Gainesville, Ga., and last year at his home in Valdese.

Albert Hillhouse, '24, who is now a student at Northwestern University at Evanston, Ills., expects to complete his Ph.D. degree
next June. Mr. Hillhouse has studied at the University of North Carolina and Columbia University in New York, and for
a while was connected with the Loan and Exchange Bank in Columbia, S. C.

Rev. D. P. McGeachey, Jr., ’22, has accepted a call as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Monroe, N.
C. Mr. McGeachey has been connected with the Home Mission office in Atlanta, Ga. Rev. W. B. S. Chandler, '07,
was pastor of this church but resigned a year ago because of ill health.

BIRTH
Rev. W. E. Phifer, Jr., '29, and Mrs. Phifer, of Farmingdale, N. J., announce the birth of a son, William
Everette, III, on September 14th.

ALUMNI MARRIAGES
Anderson-Futch
Mrs. Annie Futch, of Asheville, announces the marriage of her daughter, Celestine, to Charles Rowland Anderson, of St. Petersburg, Fla.,
on Thursday, September 22nd, at Asheville. Mr. Anderson is a member of the class of 1927, and since leaving Davidson
he has been in business at St. Petersburg.

Recommended by the English Department of Davidson College
The Best Abridged Dictionary because it is based upon Webster's New International—The “Supreme Authority.” Here is a companion for your
hours of reading and study that will prove its real value every time you consult it for the wealth of
ready information that is instantly yours. 106,000 words and phrases with definitions, etymologies, pronunciations, and use in its 1,268 pages.
1,700 illustrations. Includes dictionaries of biography and geography, use of synonyms, abbreviations, and a dictionary of foreign phrases; and other
helpful special features.

See it at your college bookstore or write for information to the publishers. Free specimen pages if you name this
paper.

G. & C. MERRIAM CO.

Wherever you buy Chesterfields, you get them just as fresh as if you came by our factory door... all you
could ask for!

THERE’S romance in a Chesterfield—the romance of fine tobaccos from all over the world. The search begins in far-off Turkey
where Chesterfield buyers visit every important tobacco-growing section... and continues throughout our own Southland where buyers inspect every crop. Year
in and year out Chesterfield gives to its smokers the “pick” of all these fields.
