THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 9, 1932

Incomplete Returns Show Over Half of Student Body Had Relatives Here

During the Coming Week Questionnaires Continue to Be Filed With Alumni Office. Beaver Club Is Helping to Make Poll Complete

OTHER DATA PREPARED

Statistics Show Students Have 142 Brothers Either Enrolled Now or Preceding Them

Returns are still coming in to the alumni office from the poll being made of the present student body to
ascertain the relatives that preceded them, why they came to Davidson, and who influenced them. The Beaver Club, progeny of
Omicron Delta Kappa fraternity, is this week assisting the secretary in further gathering data so that complete and accurate data
might be assembled.

On the basis of incomplete returns Monday night, it was learned that over 51 percent of the students who have
returned their blanks filled out have had relatives in Davidson prior to their entrance here, and it is believed by
alumni officials that this percentage will be altered but slightly when the remaining blanks are received and tabulated. It is
interesting that some members of the fourth generation are now enrolled at Davidson, and a report made in last week's
issue of The Davidsonian revealed that 64 of the students have had fathers here.

No attempt has been made to prepare data on the reasons why the students chose Davidson as their college, though
a predominating number of the answers will be highly complimentary to Davidson. Neither will information be prepared as to who
influenced them until all of the reports are in the alumni office.

Although he chose to give another answer as to the reason why he came to Davidson, one of the students
might have given the following reasons: Both grandfathers. His father. Five great-uncles. Four uncles. Ten cousins. All of these, he
said, came to Davidson, and added, “I have many other cousins who were enrolled here whom I can’t remember, and
neither does my father.” This particular student also has a first cousin in the present student body. It is believed
that this record of 22 relatives will not be broken by any other member of the student body.

Last Monday the alumni secretary went over the present registration at Davidson, and found that 142 brothers of members of
the student body are either enrolled at Davidson at the present time, or have preceded them. In this 142 are
19 sets of brothers now at Davidson. Excluding these, it means that 104 brothers of the present students have already
left Davidson. One of the students has had five brothers ahead of him, one of them has had three, eleven
of them have had two each, and the remaining 74 have had only one. Twenty-eight of the Seniors have had
31 brothers here; 23 of the Juniors have had a similar number; 21 of the Sophomores have had 23 brothers,
and 15 of the Freshmen have had 19 ahead of them. None of the latter includes the sets of brothers.

Davidson 6 Years Ago
March 11, 1926

Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer and professor of Davidson College, will be speaker at “Y” vespers on next Sunday, March
14th. W. R. (Dick) Grey, Jr., of Davidson, N. C., popular athlete and student, has been elected to the position
of secretary and treasurer of the student body. His competitor was Mutt Nesbit. At an election last Monday, W. R.
Story, of Marion, N. C., was elected cheer leader for next year, over C. W. Williams, of Montgomery, Ala. Harllee
Branch and Don Wharton will represent Davidson against Sewanee and Clancy Williams and Yancy Bowie will meet V. P. I.,
according to the results of the varsity debating preliminaries held Tuesday night. A. Franklin Frickler, secretary of the class of
’21, has recently sent out circular letters to the members of the class announcing the first reunion of the class
to be held at commencement this year.

Davidson 9 Years Ago
March 15, 1923

Junior Speaking this year promises to be a “blaze of glory,” for there ought to be enough “fire” on the
hill to make the Chambers conflagration sink into oblivion by comparison. Guy Weeks, of Davidson College, presided over the twelfth
annual North Carolina Student Volunteer Movement, which was held at N. C. State College in Raleigh, N. C. The Blue
Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon, national literary fraternity, has issued bids to the following men: R. R. Jones, W. F.
Galloway, W. M. Heston and L. D. Elkins. Henry McNair is so fast in the dashes that he finds it
necessary to wear a football uniform in practice to keep from flying. Quite a number of the students insist on
letting everyone know they're from the country by patting their feet during the playing of a musical number or the
singing of a hymn in chapel.

Davidson 15 Years Ago
March 7, 1917

The following men were selected at the Junior oratorical contest to be the commencement speakers: Phi—W. C. Cumming, J. Thames.
Eu—G. C. Bellingrath, L. A. Chambliss, W. G. Humphrey. L. Fowle, J. A. Mr. Robert Smallwood, of New York, was
a visitor recently on the hill for a few days in the interest of the new gymnasium, of which he
is the architect. D. W. Roberts will lead Christian Endeavor Sunday night. L. A. Chambliss was unanimously elected editor-in-chief for
the 1918 volume of Quips and Cranks.

Alumni Meetings Planned For Three Eastern Cities

Definite Information Has Been Received About Dinners in New York and Philadelphia, on March 16 and 17, Respectively

DR. J. W. MacCONNELL TO GO

Other Meeting Scheduled for Baltimore on March 18th. Many Alumni Will Be Accessible

Definite arrangements have already been completed for two of three alumni meetings in eastern cities next week, and while no
information has been received by the local alumni office regarding the Baltimore meeting, it is believed here that officers of
the chapter are proceeding with the arrangements and invitations to alumni of that vicinity. The two definitely arranged are to
be in New York and Philadelphia. Notices have been sent to 130 alumni in the metropolis and its suburbs that
the annual dinner will be at the Hotel LaSalle, 30 E. 60th St., at 7 p.m., Wednesday, March 16th, and
that the Philadelphia dinner will be in the grill room of the Hotel Rittenhouse, 22nd and Chestnut Streets, at 6:30
p.m., Thursday, March 17th. Alumni in Philadelphia and that section number thirty-seven. Dr. John W. MacConnell, '02, local physician, will
attend from Davidson and will be the guest of honor and principal speaker. He was invited by Dr. A. B.
Reese, '17, president of the Philadelphia chapter.New York chapter, to be their special guest, and consented to attend two other
meetings before he returns to Davidson. He selected Philadelphia and Baltimore because those were the medical centers, in which field
of endeavor he is personally interested.

The New York alumni chapter is one of the oldest in existence. At the first meeting when an official delegate
attended from Davidson, 224 attended. Last year the number approximated 55, and has been increasing for the past several years.
The Philadelphia chapter was formally organized only two years ago, though there had been two preceding informal meetings with officers
from Davidson. The Philadelphia chapter is largely one of “floating” membership, because it is composed of many medical students. Prof.
R. C. Garth, '19, of the physics department of Columbia University, is secretary of the New York group, and S.
C. Harris, '17, is president of the Philadelphia organization. The alumni office has been in co-operation with them in arranging
these meetings, and has sent out lists of alumni in those sections, and self-addressed return postal cards to the officers,
as well as a full notice about the gathering.

Alumni Marriage Caldwell-Neel

Information has only recently been received by the alumni office of the marriage on December 17, 1932, of William James
Caldwell, Jr., ’29, and Miss Margaret Elizabeth Neel, both of Louisville, Ky. Mr. Caldwell, who is a native of Yazoo
City, Miss., attended the University of Mississippi after leaving Davidson. He is now connected with Brown-Williamson Tobacco Company, of Louisville,
Ky. Mr. and Mrs. Caldwell are residing at 724 Brookline Ave., Apt. 2, Louisville, Ky.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Among alumni visitors to the campus during the past week were Rev. C. S. Matthews, D.D., '95, of Lumberton; L.
H. Smith, '12, of Easley, S. C.; Jno. A. Scott, '12, of Statesville; Geo. H. Miley, '21, of Charlotte; Paul
Jamison, '22, of Charlotte; W. W. Flowe, Jr., '29, of Concord; J. A. Haney, '30, of Winston-Salem; J. L. Severance,
'31, of Columbia, S. C.

Friends will regret to learn that the three-month-old daughter of Alex Sprunt, '11, of Wilmington, was found smothered to death
last Friday; of the death of Dr. H. W. Corbett, brother of Rev. H. D. Corbett, '13, of Bowling Green,
S. C., and of the death of Mrs. Phereba McLean, mother of Rev. J. Lee McLean, '24, of Capron Bridge,
W. Va.

Because of ill health, Rev. W. B. S. Chandler, '07, last week resigned as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church
of Monroe. Mr. Chandler suffered an apoplectic stroke last fall, from which he has partially recovered. He felt, however, that
it was best to resign his pastorate. He has been in Monroe since 1923.

Last Sunday Rev. T. G. Tate, '10, and all organizations of the Olney Presbyterian Church in South Gastonia, celebrated his
tenth anniversary as pastor of that church. Mr. Tate has been instrumental in a remarkable growth in that church, and
has been active in many other lines than church endeavor. He is a trustee of Davidson.

Rev. W. I. Howell, '27, of Nitro, W. Va., has accepted a call extended him by the First Presbyterian Church
at Mocksville, and will assume his duties as pastor there on April 1st. Mr. Howell has been located at Nitro,
W. Va., since he graduated from Union Theological Seminary in 1930.

Chas. A. Cannon, '13, and Geo. A. Batte, Jr., '27, both of Concord, and party are now on a cruise
of the West Indies.

James H. Carson, '16, of Charlotte, president of the North Carolina Association of Real Estate Boards, will deliver an address
in Greensboro on March 8, in Winston-Salem on March 14, and expects to speak in Asheville about April 1.

Dr. C. S. McCants, '12, of Winnsboro, S. C., is on the program of the 84th annual meeting of the
South Carolina Medical Association. This will be held in Columbia, S. C., April 19-21. The chairman of arrangements for this
gathering is Dr. M. H. Wyman, '08, of Columbia.

The home of Dr. M. A. Lackey, '15, of High Point, was recently entered during his absence from the city,
and a thousand dollars’ worth of valuables were taken by the culprit or culprits.

Marshall A. Thompson, '20, editor of The Scottish Chief, at Maxton, will be a candidate for a seat in the
North Carolina House of Representatives from Robeson County. In addition to his editorial duties, Mr. Thompson is a farmer and
lumber manufacturer. He has also studied at Princeton and Harvard, and is making his first bid for political office.

Rev. James M. Appleby, '26, who is now studying under a Union Theological Seminary fellowship at New College, University of
Edinburgh, will leave London next Friday for a trip of several weeks, the particular destination being Palestine, where he will
spend two weeks. He will be in Jerusalem for Easter. Some of the points he will touch will be Cairo,
Beirut, Cyprus, Rhodes, Constantinople, Athens, and Brindisi, Italy. Mr. Appleby will not complete his degree work until next December.

Dr. Fred W. Rankin, '05, one of the chief surgeons in the Mayo Clinic at Rochester, Minn., and a teacher
in the post-graduate medical school of the University of Minnesota, was in Greensboro last week and delivered an address to
the Guilford County Medical Society on Thursday. Dr. Rankin was in Birmingham, Ala., Monday and Tuesday, where he attended and
spoke before the Southeastern Surgical Congress.

J. A. Haney, '30, who taught school at Danbury, N. C., last year, is now in the advertising business on
an individual scale. At present, much of his work is along the poster line.

Dr. Hugh H. Smith, '23, is now at Kingston, Jamaica, where he is doing research work in physics and working
in the hospital studying tropical diseases for the Rockefeller Institute.

S. L. McCarty, '29, is a radio operator for the Radio Marine Corporation, and is stationed in Savannah, Ga. While
a student at Davidson, Mr. McCarty specialized in the field of radio, and for two years after leaving here was
a radio operator on a ship.

Rev. C. E. Rankin, '17, who has been in China for a number of years, is now in America, and
is studying at Columbia University. He is located at the International House, 500 Riverside Drive.

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“SODA” “SUNDRIES”

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
For the Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.
Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.
Catalog and information on request.

Stetson “D” Store
Get Dressed Up at Stetson D’s
BIG EASTER PARADE MARCH 27
Clothes For the College Man
