CATS MEET UPPERCLASSMEN DUKE SEE DR. VOWLES ABOUT RHODES SEPT. 24 SCHOLARSHIPS

Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 14, 1932 No. 1

PRES. WALTER LINGLE LEADS FIRST VESPER SERVICE OF THE YEAR

Spiritual Growth Should Be Chief Aim of All Our College Life

MEBANE LEADS MEETING

John Lake and George Bailey Lead in Prayer Last Sunday

Y. M. C. A. vespers were held as usual in Chambers Building. The speaker of the evening was Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of the college, who took as his text II Peter, 3:18, “But grow in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To Him be glory, both now and forever,” and from I Peter 2:12, “Wherefore laying aside all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envies, and all evil speakings, as newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye grow thereby.”

“Mark,” said Dr. Lingle, “the word ‘grow.’” All of us regardless of our ages want to grow physically, intellectually, socially, spiritually, especially spiritually. None of us feel that we have done more than touch the fringe of a true spiritual life, of a Christian life, regardless of our ages. Surely, then, a young college man should want to grow spiritually. Peter exhorts us to this in these epistles. Let us take advantage of the opportunities offered at Davidson, physically on the athletic fields, intellectually in the classroom, socially at the homes of the professors, which are always open, and spiritually at chapel, church, Y. M. C. A., and in the Bible courses. Indeed there are many fields and directions to develop ourselves in. Let us speak of the spiritual side. Peter says: “But grow in the grace of God,” of Christ that we may conform to the greatest ideal: to become like Jesus, in character, in life, in service, in conduct. How may we do this? The text says like children, kept free from dreadful diseases, “Wherefore laying aside all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envies, and all evil speakings.” We shall examine some of these evils. Malice is bitterness and hate toward an enemy; envy is the same, only against a friend; guile and hypocrisy are much alike, the first is duplicity or trickery, the other is acting a part. We must veer aside from the evils as we meet them in our college life, for the opportunities of coming in contact with them are numerous. But growing in grace includes development as well as elimination of evil. Peter says: “Feed on the sincere milk of the word.” And it seems that this means more than simply to feed on food of any sort; it means to feed on the proper food. Many Christians starve to death for lack of proper food. They starve amid plenty of money and pleasure and business. The Word of God is the best spiritual food. Jesus said: “Man shall not live alone by food, but by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God.” As well as food, atmosphere is needed for growth. Many people live in the low infected swampy lands rather than in the highlands, and they die because they will not seek the freer air of the mountains. Exercise, too, is needed. We must put into practice what we read—take into our bodies the good food and air around us by exercise. Oliver Cromwell once, seeing the silver statues of the apostles around the walls of Westminster Abbey, ordered that they be taken out, broken up, minted, and put into circulation, where they might do more good than as ornaments around the walls. We must not be like the apostles, but get out and obey the Word of God, develop our souls, minds, and bodies and circulate the good therefrom.

The services were led by Allen Mebane, President of the Senior class. Music was provided by Mrs. Vowles, John Lake, and William Hart. George Bailey led in prayer.

Rhodes Scholarships

Members of the Senior class who are interested in becoming candidates for the Rhodes Scholarship at Oxford University are requested to confer with Dr. Vowles early in the semester, preferably the first or the second week. If we know early who are to be candidates, the work of the local committee will be greatly simplified, and the results more satisfactory to all concerned.

Two New Physicians Aid Physical Exams.

On account of the recent illness of Dr. J. W. MacConnell, two doctors are here to assist in examining the students as they enter this fall. Davidson College has had compulsory physical examinations for entrance longer than any institution in the South. These examinations were begun by Dr. MacConnell in 1908.

The two physicians assisting in this work are Doctors E. D. Apple, formerly of Reidsville, and W. E. Wilkinson, a native of Mebane. Dr. Apple is a graduate of the University of North Carolina and Washington University, St. Louis. He spent two years as resident surgeon at the Barnes Hospital at St. Louis and he is now connected with the X-ray department at Duke Hospital in Durham. Dr. Wilkinson finished here at Davidson and took his M.D. at Duke University. He is now resident in surgery at the hospital connected with that school.

Dean W. C. Davison of the Duke Medical School has been kind enough to give these men leave from their duties, to assist Dr. MacConnell. They are paid by Dr. MacConnell individually.

Dr. MacConnell said: “The compulsory physical course under the R. O. T. C. department and Prof. Pritchett of the department of Physical Education is productive of increased physical vigor, and it is noticeable that each class progresses in strength and muscular development. Thus the Sophomore class shows great improvement over the Freshman. The Senior class averages far above the Freshman.” Statistics of these examinations will be published in an early issue of The Davidsonian.

Frosh Orientation Week Proves Striking Success

ERNEST MILTON

Ernest Milton Assumes New Position at Barium

Has Been Alumni Secretary and Publicity Director at Davidson for Six Years

Ernest Milton, who for the past six years has been alumni secretary and publicity director at Davidson College, recently resigned his dual position here to accept the treasurership of Barium Springs Orphanage. Mr. Milton will take up his new duties at Barium Springs September 15th. He will also have charge of publications at Barium Springs.

New Men Attend Series of Interesting and Instructive Lectures

On Tuesday evening, September 6th, the first part of the Orientation program of the Freshmen began. Paul Brown, president of the Y. M. C. A., led the devotional exercises, after which Dr. J. R. McGregor, of Lexington, N. C., spoke to the new students on the subject of “Ideals in College Life.” The following morning at 8:30 the second of these programs was given. After the devotional exercises, which were conducted by Dr. H. M. Moffett, Dr. J. M. McConnell gave a talk on “Student Scholarship,” and Prof. F. K. Fleagle on “Use of Time in College.” The president of the student body, Jerome B. Clark, explained the “Honor System at Davidson.” Wednesday afternoon the two speakers were Dr. Sentelle, dean of students, and Samuel S. Wiley, secretary of the Y. M. C. A. They spoke respectively on “College Regulations” and “Campus Organizations.” The program of orientation was concluded on Wednesday when Mr. Jackson, treasurer, talked to the men on “Handling of Money and Care of Property,” and the president, Dr. W. L. Lingle, on “What Davidson Should Mean to a Student.”

The practice of the orientation period for the Freshmen of Davidson was instituted some time ago here. Its purpose is to help the new student to get acquainted with the college and to offer helpful suggestions to those men who are confronted with difficulty. As usual they were very much appreciated by those who entered the college. The interest and enthusiasm of the new men was shown by their attendance and attention.Milton has filled his position exceptionally well and his resignation leaves a place that will be hard to fill. During his six years of service, Mr. M. A. Degree Abolished From Davidson Program When it was decided to establish an alumni, Milton was the dean of alumni secretaries of colleges and universities in North Carolina. “Ernest,” as he was better known then, graduated from Davidson College in the class of 1926. When he graduated from Davidson, he had during his four years accumulated many honors among which are the following: Reporters’ Club; library assistant, ’24; Spanish Club; Golden Quill; class historian; Freshman-Sophomore debating team, ’24; president C. E. Training Class, ’25; “Davidsonian” staff, ’25-’26; Junior-Senior debating team, ’25; “Y” Cabinet, ’26; first vice-president North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, '26; Omicron Delta Kappa.

“Quips and Cranks” of 1926 said of him: “A student of ability, an outstanding journalist, a Christian gentleman, a true friend. Ernest is well known on the campus and is most respected by those who know him best. He is a leader in literary circles and takes a prominent part in the religious life of Davidson.”

The last master of arts degree has been conferred by Davidson, for the faculty of this institution has decided to confine the degrees awarded each commencement to the bachelor of sciences and bachelor of arts. This action was passed by the Davidson faculty this year, to become effective during the 1932-1933 scholastic year. Davidson therefore becomes an undergraduate institution in the strictest sense of that word. Officials of educational agencies and boards have commended Davidson in the past for its adherence to the policy of remaining an undergraduate liberal arts college, without any attempt to delve into the graduate field. The latest action of the Davidson faculty will bring further approbation from educational leaders and authorities.

“Y” Gives Reception For Freshman Class: On Monday night, September 12th, at 8 o'clock, the Freshman reception, sponsored annually by the Y. M. C. A., was held in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. The receiving line, as in past years, was composed of the members of the faculty and their wives, together with all of those connected with the administration of the college. Refreshments of sandwiches and punch were served by the young ladies of the town. The hall was attractively decorated.

The Freshman reception has for many years been carried on by the Y. M. C. A. and was this year under the supervision of Sam Wiley, the new secretary. The “Y” takes a very active part in welcoming the Freshmen to the school in the registration period and for this reason is well suited to furnish them with an early bit of social life on the campus. The reception furnishes an excellent opportunity for the new men and the faculty members to become acquainted, and as well gives the Freshmen a chance to meet the members of their class. For these reasons it is regarded as a valuable and entertaining function. Although this is the largest social function for the Freshmen which is sponsored by the Y. M. C. A., it is by no means the last. At intervals of a week or two, small groups of Freshmen are invited to the “Y” social center, located in the Eumenean Literary Society hall, for informal “feeds.” By this method, the work of welding the Freshman class into a compact group and promoting friendship on the campus is carried further.

Davidson Swimmers Win Meet at R.O.T.C. Camp Manson Presented Trophy for Individual Score and Championship Relay Team Given Cup

The swimming contingent of Davidson College, composed of members of next year’s Senior class attending the R. O. T. C. summer encampment at Fort McClellan, Anniston, Ala., won the annual swimming meet of the camp by amassing a total of 27 points, and A. M. Manson, of Jacksonville, Fla., Davidson student, was high scoring individual competitor, according to an official bulletin issued by the camp. This fact is unusual, since Davidson does not have either a swimming pool or swimming team. Ten institutions obtained two or more points in the meet, in the following order: Davidson 27; University of Florida 22; Presbyterian College 11; Clemson 7; The Citadel 6; Wofford 3; University of Tennessee 3; Riverside Military Academy 3; N. C. State 2, and the University of Georgia 2.

The Davidson relay team, composed of Bruce Peabody, Charlotte; A. M. Manson, Jacksonville, Fla.; C. R. Wright, Knoxville, Tenn., and B. B. Taylor, Jr., Baton Rouge, La., won that event, with the University of Florida second, and Presbyterian College third. Manson took first in the 50-yard backstroke swim, and second in the 200-yard event. Taylor won first in the 50-yard freestyle, and W. H. Coble, Douglas, Ga., won the 200-yard swim to account for Davidson's 27 points. Davidson's winning relay team was presented a cup, Manson received a trophy as high point competitor, and a gold and silver medal for his first and second places, and Taylor and Coble each were awarded gold medals for their first places.

Davidson's track team also took third place at the camp this summer, Bruce Peabody and Bill Flinn featuring. Peabody is not a candidate for the track team at Davidson, but showed up exceptionally well in the contests. Presbyterian College won the meet, with the University of Florida second. According to reports brought back to Davidson by the officers, the Davidson representatives disported themselves in excellent fashion in other affairs of the summer encampment.

One of the pleasing developments in industrial America is the recognition that beauty pays.—Otto H. Kahn. Sheer necessity—the proper parent of an art so near allied to invention—Richard B. Sheridan.

WILDCATS PREPARE IN SECRET FOR OPENING GAME SEPTEMBER 24th

Mentors Fail to Give Definite Information as to Prospects for Season

SOPHS SHOW UP WELL

Newton and McEver Round Out New System of Plays

With the first football game of the season less than ten days distant, Coaches “Doc” Newton and Gene McEver have taken the 1932 Davidson football squad behind closed gates for secret scrimmage and workouts. In preparation for a game with Duke University on September 24th, Newton and McEver have been putting their squad of 50 men through stiff workouts since the beginning of training, on September 5th, in order to round out a system of play which is entirely new to the Davidson team. The Wildcat mentors have so far hesitated to give any definite information as to prospects for the season, intimating that almost everything depends on how well the players assimilate the football knowledge which will be tendered them between the present time and September 24th.

The team this year suffers the loss by graduation of Don King and Don McQueen in the backfield; Baker, Johnson, and Brown, ends, and Conway and Mathis, guards. However, the varsity receives very promising material from the unusually good 1931 Freshman eleven, of whom several will be making bids for first string positions. Coach Newton will have more trouble with his line than will McEver in the backfield. McEver’s chief difficulty will be in selecting his first string quartet from the numerous backfield candidates. The three returning lettermen in the line are Jack Wagner and Dick Whitfield, tackles, and Captain Buddy Gardner, center. The three returning lettermen in the backfield are Buck Mills, Charlie Pearce, and Bruce Peabody. This seems to be a slender foundation upon which to build a team, and necessitates the use of much new material this season.

Among the men fighting for line positions, in addition to the veterans, are: Morgan, Morris, and Potter, ends; Hand and West, tackles; Rives and Ogden, guards, and Thompson, McElrath and Norfleet, center. Lee, center on last year’s Freshman team, is on the sidelines recovering from an appendicitis operation, but is expected to be in action later in the season. For backfield positions, in addition to the veterans, will contend the following: Flinn, Wingfield, Hutchins, Mackorell, Fleagle, Caton, and Wilson. In the backfield are good prospects who have come to Davidson from junior colleges. The coaches expect to have a heavier team than that of 1931, with a line averaging about 180 pounds, and a team average of about 175 pounds. This estimate is probably based on the use of “Tubby” Hand as a defensive guard and offensive tackle. At the beginning of practice, Hand tipped the scales at 262 pounds. Since the coaches are unwilling to discuss the outlook for the season, it remains to be seen whether the 1932 eleven will carry on the precedent set by former Wildcat teams.

I had a very strange and affecting boyhood; very curious and fascinating. In winter I went sliding. In summer I went swimming.—Sinclair Lewis. You always glorify the home in the same proportion that it doesn’t exist—Earl Bertrand Russell. As good be out of the world as out of fashion.—Colley Cibber.

Football Schedule
Sept. 24—Duke at Durham.
Oct. 1—W. and L. at Davidson.
Oct. 8—Wofford at Davidson.
Oct. 15—V. M. I. at Lexington.
Oct. 22—Citadel at Charleston, S. C.
Oct. 29—Clemson at Davidson.
Nov. 5—N. C. State at Charlotte.
Nov. 12—North Carolina at Davidson (Home-Coming).
Nov. 24—Wake Forest at Davidson (Thanksgiving).