BEAT WAKE FOREST

The Davidsonian | Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

BEAT WAKE FOREST

Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 23, 1932 No. 11

Dr. A. S. Johnson Speaks at Y. M. C. A. Services on “Christian Testimony”

John C. Whitley and Charles E. Moore Lead Assembly in Prayer

RICHARDS LEADS SERVICE

Dr. Johnson States That Christians Are Not Fervent Enough

Dr. Albert Sydney Johnson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, was the speaker at a most inspiring vesper service last Sunday night. The service was opened with the singing of two hymns, “Love Divine” and “Must Jesus Bear the Cross Alone.” John Richards, the leader, then read as the scripture the twenty-fourth chapter of Luke, beginning with the thirty-sixth verse. After this, John Whitley and Charles Moore led in prayer. A vocal solo was then rendered by Grainger Williams, after which the speaker was introduced by John Richards.

Dr. Johnson took as his text Luke 24:48, “Ye are witnesses of these things.” In developing his subject, the speaker said that among the true grounds for criticism of the Christianity of “Christians” was its lack of fervor. He said that if we believed in Christ with all our hearts and souls, we could bring others to follow us. To illustrate this point, he told the story of a man who, upon leaving one of Dr. Moody’s services, remarked that he did not believe a word the doctor had said. “What is your trouble, then?” asked a companion. “Why, he seems to believe it so strongly himself,” the man replied. Unless we believe in Christ and bear witness to Him at all times, we cannot expect to be able to bring others to Him.

The speaker continued by saying that before we can carry out this purpose, there must be four primary facts true in our lives. First, if we testify for Christ, we must have had personal experience of Him. In regard to this point, the story was told of an outstanding woman, whom the doctor had recently met in Chicago. When asked where she was born, she replied that physically she had been born forty-eight years ago, but spiritually, fifteen years ago, in Chicago. In the second place, the doctor remarked that we must use the weapons God has given us for winning others to Him. All Chris- (Continued on page 6)

Little Theatre Offers New Play at Charlotte

The Little Theatre of Charlotte will present “Declassee,” a three-act drama by Zoe Akins, on November 29-30, at Charlotte. Arrangements had been made to give the new play, “Declassee,” in Davidson this weekend, but due to the absence of one of the chief characters from Charlotte, it has been necessary to cancel the engagement. Thomas B. Humble, director of the Little Theatre, expressed his regret in a letter to Mr. Erwin, and stated that he hoped it would be possible to come to Davidson sometime after the first of the year with one of the Little Theatre productions.

The success of the previous Little Theatre productions indicates the fine caliber of the present play, presenting, as it does, an especially able cast. The Little Theatre’s first production of the current season was Philip Barry’s “You and I,” presented in a highly entertaining manner, and one that received much favorable comment. In accordance with its usual custom, the Theatre will offer reduced admission prices to Davidson students. A large number are expected to attend the performance.

Supper Hour

The supper hour which has been at six-thirty o'clock since the opening of school will be changed to six o’clock sometime this week. The later hour has been maintained until now because of football practices which made it impossible for players to get to supper at an earlier time. When practice is resumed next spring, the present hour will be resumed.

Glee Club Presents Program at Queens

The Davidson College Glee Club rendered its first musical entertainment of the Fall Tour at Queens-Chicora College, on November 18th. The program was sponsored by the Junior class of the college, and, at its close, the club was the guests at the Junior class reception, which was held in the main hall of the school. Before a packed house, members of the Glee Club, the Pills Brothers, and the Southernaires entertained for an hour and a half. Mr. Oliver Beard, guest soloist, contributed much to the success of the night, and was given repeated encores.

The first part of the program was three songs by the whole club. The three selections were: “Sailor’s Chorus,” from “The Flying Dutchman,” by Wagner; “Hymn to the Virgin,” and “The Scissors Grinder.” Grainger Williams next rendered a solo, “Invictus,” by Huhn. Following this, the Davidson Male Quartet sang two pieces entitled, “We Meet Again Tonight” and “A Cowboy Song.” Next was a piano solo, “Waltz in C Sharp Minor,” which was given by Edward McNair. The Glee Club then sang “Joshua Fit the Battle of Jericho,” “Dreamin’ Time,” and “Old King Cole.” The guest artist, Oliver Beard, next rendered his much-liked solo, “A Spirit Flower,” by Campbell-Tipton, and “I Love Life,” by Manna-Zucca.

After a short intermission, Bill Northern, Dave McLain, and Geddie Monroe gave their ever-popular act of the Pills Brothers. Reeves Pope and his Southernaires afterward gave four well-liked selections, which were, “We Just Couldn’t Say Goodbye,” “By the Waters of Minnetonka,” “Medley of Old Favorites,” and “I Don’t Care.” The program was concluded by both the Glee Club and the orchestra in a grand finale. They gave four selections, “What Shall We Do With a Drunken Sailor,” “In a Persian Market,” “The Luxembourg Gardens,” and “O Davidson.”

Captain Cochran Speaks to Le Cercle Francais

Le Cercle Francais held its third meeting of the year last night at the home of Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Cumming. One of the high spots of the meeting was a most interesting talk given by Captain Cochran on how the French celebrate Armistice Day. This program followed the outline made by the club concerning programs for the year, in which they decided to follow the celebration of all the French holidays.

Following the talk given by Captain Cochran, a most entertaining French play was presented, entitled, “Knock.” The quack doctor, played by Bob Coit, has been approached by two country hicks who ask him to cure them. The first country hick was played by L. T. Newland, while Jack Williams, Jr., had the role of the other country bumpkin. After much examination by the doctor, both of the little country boys become frightened and leave. Following the program, a delightful course of ice cream and cake was served. It was decided that the Christmas motif was to be carried out at the next meeting for the purpose of celebrating Noel.

Language Teachers to Attend Meeting

The South Atlantic Modern Language Association will convene on November 25 and 26 at Atlanta, Ga. This conclave marks the fifth annual meeting of the association. The association is composed of teachers of English, and modern foreign languages in the leading colleges and universities of the states of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida.

Dr. G. B. Watts, of the French department of Davidson, is on the committee in the French section of the meeting. Dr. G. R. Vowles, of Davidson’s German department, has been similarly honored in the German section. Prof. E. J. Erwin, of the English department at Davidson, has been placed on the committee in the English section. Arrangements in the Spanish section have not been completed as yet. The chief speaker on this occasion will be Dr. J. Q. Adams, of Cornell University. (Continued on page 6)

Sophomore Week-End

Final plans have been arranged for the annual Sophomore Week-End, the date for which has been set for December 16-18. Jelly Leftwich and his twelve-piece Duke University Orchestra will provide music for the event, which includes two dances. A formal one will be given on Friday night, and an informal one on Saturday night. Both dances will take place in the Charlotte Armory. Tickets for the set will be sold for three dollars, while tickets for the individual dances will be sold for two dollars and one dollar and fifty cents for the respective nights. There will be an entertainment on the campus Saturday, the nature of which will be announced definitely in the early future.

Jelly Leftwich’s orchestra is well known all over the state, and is very popular. He has played for the Debutante Ball for the last two years and this summer played at Wrightsville Beach. The date for the house party has been so arranged as immediately to follow the close of the review period—psychologically placed with reviews behind and the holidays shortly ahead.

Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa to Initiate Six Alumni of Davidson

Prominent Men Gather From Various Parts of East for This Occasion

REPRESENT FOUR CLASSES

Banquet Will Follow Meeting in the College Dining Room

Professor Archibald Currie, secretary of the Davidson GammaChapter of Phi Beta Kappa, announced Monday that six prominent alumni will be initiated into the chapter here December 5th. The names of the men who will be initiated into the chapter are: Prof. H. B. Overcash, class of 1915, now professor of biology in Hampden-Sydney College; Mr. F. L. Jackson, class of 1905, treasurer of Davidson; Dr. E. H. Sloop, class of 1897, of Crossnore School, Crossnore, N. C.; Dr. S. T. McCloy, class of 1918, professor of history, Duke University; Dr. J. Woodrow Clark, class of 1918, physician of Philadelphia, Penn.; Rev. Lavens Thomas, class of 1918, professor in the Candler School of Theology, Emory University, Georgia. These prominent men will be invited to Davidson especially for this occasion and will be honored and entertained by various speakers of the meeting. The main address will be delivered by Dr. J. Southall Wilson, Poe Professor of English in the University of Virginia, in Chambers Auditorium on the evening of December 5th. The meeting will be followed by a banquet in the college dining room.

New Style Blazers Chosen by Seniors

Dark oxford grey will be the color of the traditional Senior blazers this year, it was reported by W. Allen Mebane, president of the graduating class. They are quite different from any previous blazers, and there is a striking improvement over last year’s, both in style, cut, and color. They are form-fitting sport coats, with half-belts and pleats in the back. On the breast pocket is embroidered a small D, inside of which are the numerals 33. They are one-buttoned with notch-lapels. A sample of the blazers may be seen at any time in Morton’s barber shop, and the tailoring company’s representative, George W. LaPitz, will be there on Thursday to receive orders. All orders should be in by December 1, since they wish to make all blazers at one time. After that date, the price will be increased, according to B. O. Ravenal, company representative. Mr. LaPitz states that pants to match the blazers can be had if so desired.

DAVIDSON WILDCATS MEET WAKE FOREST DEACONS ON HOME FIELD IN ANNUAL THANKSGIVING CLASSIC

Plans Announced by

Last night at 9 o’clock the Philanthropic Literary Society held an important meeting. Stuart Noblin, newly-elected president of the society, presided and opened the meeting with remarks relating to the coming term. He spoke on the type of work and means of publicity which the society hoped to carry through. In addition, President Noblin stated that the essay would be studied more intensively, and the society would devote more of its time to this form of composition. After President Noblin’s opening speech, William Fugate gave a talk on “The Rules of Parliamentary Law,” with specific reference to certain important points. He noted certain commonplace defects and mistakes which existed at the various meetings and which might easily be corrected. Following this, “The Essay” was discussed by W. M. E. Rachal. Joe Johnston, recently elected a member of the society, made a short humorous talk as a part of his initiation. Major Rhett and Captain Cochran, who have spoken at not long past meetings, were elected honorary members of the society. Both these gentlemen made excellent talks. Major Rhett chose “The Military Policy of the United States” for his subject, while Captain Cochran spoke on “The Philippines.” D. D. McBryde, new critic, gave an outline for the work of the coming term, and appointed a committee of Marsh, Neil, and Fugate to arrange and prepare the program.

(Continued on page 6)

Seniors Given Additional Privileges Upon Request

At the request of the members of the Senior class, the Executive Committee of the Faculty recently granted the following privileges, which will be counted as having taken effect on September 8, 1932, to the members of the class:

1. Members of the Senior class may attend church services anywhere, provided attendance is reported to the Dean.
2. Members of the Senior class shall be allowed sixteen chapel absences during a semester.
3. Those members of the Senior class who have made a general average of 87.5, or more, since entering Davidson College, shall be allowed as many additional absences in any course as there are credit hours per week in that course.

The Senior committee which drew up and presented the petitions for privileges was composed of E. O. Guerrant, Bob Morrow, W. C. Thompson, D. D. McBryde, B. B. Sugg, Moffat McConnell, and Bill Mullis. The granting of further privileges is under consideration of the faculty.

Dr. Sparrow Talks to Pi Delta Alpha

Dr. Thomas D. Sparrow, a prominent surgeon of Charlotte, was the guest speaker at the first open meeting of Pi Delta Alpha, honorary medical fraternity, held last Friday. Dr. Sparrow was introduced by Dr. J. W. MacConnell, the college physician, who sketched the early history of biology at Davidson, telling of the enthusiasm shown for the subject by the early students. Dr. Sparrow gave his audience an interesting lecture on “Surgical Treatment of Lesions of the Lungs.” “Medicine,” noted the speaker, “is a jealous science. It calls on all that is in a person. Anything that creates interest in science is of help to would-be doctors. Medicine is not a bunch of facts in a textbook; each case is a separate problem.” Dr. Sparrow gave a brief history of surgery, discussing the development of lung treatment. Surgical treatment for disorders of the lungs is new; but it is rapidly developing.

(Continued on page 6)

New Officers of Phi

Presbyterians Have Not Won Victory Over Baptists for Past Eleven Years

WAKE FOREST FAVORED

Teams Expected to Be in Excellent Shape for Contest

The Davidson Wildcats and the “Demon Deacons” of Wake Forest will fight it out again, when they meet on their annual Turkey Day classic, November 24. The game will be played on Davidson's field this year for the first time in several years. Everyone knows the added fight that the Wildcats display on Richardson Field, and for this reason a great game should be the outcome. These two teams have met each year since 1908, with Davidson winning every game through 1920; but since that time, four games have been tied, and Wake Forest has come out on top in the other games by very narrow margins. This game has the tradition of being the hardest fought game of the season, for both teams, regardless of comparative scores, and both teams are due to have strong backing on Thanksgiving. Both schools have stronger elevens this year than last. According to comparative scores, however, Wake Forest is favored. The Deacons tied Carolina, 0-0, in the first game for both teams; but Carolina has a much stronger eleven now, and on Saturday, November 12, defeated Davidson, 12-0. Duke defeated Davidson, 13-0, for their first appearance of the season. Several weeks later, Duke defeated Wake Forest, 9-0. Wake Forest tied another game with State, 0-0, while, on the other hand, State later beat Davidson, 7-3, in a game which showed the superiority of the Wildcats over State, but, due to several bad breaks, gave them the smaller score. To sum up all these comparative scores, N. C. State, a team which Davidson outplayed, defeated Duke in the biggest upset of the year in the Big Five, when they won over the Blue Devils 6-0. Thus we can hardly determine the outcome by the comparative scores of each team and its opponents.

(Continued on page 6)

Dr. Gwynn Conducts Ten Day Course at Richmond

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, professor of Education at Davidson, returned Saturday from Richmond, Va., where for the past ten days he has been conducting a course of study on Adolescent Psychology. This course was given in connection with the Annual Leadership Training School for the church workers of Richmond and the surrounding territory, at that time being held in the Grace Covenant Church. Dr. Gwynn spoke twice a day during the session of the Training School, his general subject dealing with the Behavior Problems and Interests of Young People. Dr. Gwynn has done a very great deal of study and research in fields of psychology and sociology and is consequently a very capable lecturer on the subject. He has conducted several study courses, and has delivered many lectures before along these lines. During the past summer he conducted a similar course of study at the Leadership Conference at Montreat. That Dr. Gwynn should be chosen to do this is a distinct honor both to himself and to Davidson College.

Pep Meeting

The pep meeting tonight will feature a talk by Mr. J. B. Johnston of Barium Springs, and there will possibly be one by Dr. Oren Moore of Charlotte. There will be a bonfire and a shirt-tail parade. The parade will take its course from Shearer Hall through town and down to the Freshman athletic field. The pep meeting tonight promises to be the biggest and best of the year. BE THERE!