THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1932

REV. MARSHALL WOODSON
(Continued from page 1)

before his Maker never to drink again. A few hours afterward he tore the tiny shoes from the corpse and went out to buy liquor with what money he could get for them. But finally, the rebirth came to him, and he was able to resist the power which had overcome the strength of his body and mind with the power that came from heaven. The regeneration of the spirit leads to a spiritual life.

In the third place, a man is not fit for spiritual things without a second birth. Sin ruins us, but God can cleanse us. David cried out, realizing his trespasses: “Purge me, O Lord, with hyssop.” There was once a man who dreamed he went to heaven. Arriving in all its splendor, he saw that a brilliant light made every soul transparent. And then he saw that many were turned upon him. He looked down, and there, around his heart, was a black blot of sin. This man had never been born again on earth; heaven was hell to him.

In the fourth place, a man has no right to a real life of the spirit until he has been born again. In the beginning, God made man in His own image, but sin marred the image, and ever since man has been born in sin. Then Christ purchased a new right for man. Faith, acceptance, appropriation in the eyes of Christ gives a man the right to a new birth.

A great example of a rebirth is the story of Uncle Jaggers. Uncle Jaggers was born a slave. He was an exceedingly old negro; none of the students at the Seminary, to whom he was very well known, could tell how old he was. Uncle Jaggers was a great Christian. He helped the poor and the needy and the hungry, and he took in the widows and the orphans, and out of all the money he ever had left over at the end of the year he took for himself the sum of one cent. When Uncle Jaggers came to the Seminary in his old, broken-down surrey, driving his old horse, you could never tell, when he got out, which would fall to pieces first, the surrey, the horse, or the man. Uncle Jaggers was an enthusiastic student in some of the Bible courses at the Seminary, and when the lesson under study became particularly inspiring, a fervent “Amen, Amen” was heard from Uncle Jaggers’ seat.

At a great age Uncle Jaggers died. The State Legislature adjourned, the Governor came, white pallbearers bore the coffin, white ministers held the service, for all who had known him sorrowed for Uncle Jaggers, because, while it was true that Uncle Jaggers had been born a black slave, he did not die a slave, for he had been reborn a Christian. The service was closed with the benediction by Dr. Moffett.

TEN SOCIAL FRATERNITIES
(Continued from page 1)

ley; Martin Barnett, Meridian, Miss.; J. K. Biddle, Dover; H. K. Boucher, Senior, Damascus, Va.; Charles Donnelly, Charlottesville, Va.; Phifer Erwin, Davidson; T. B. Gold, Shelby; J. L. Kayser, Glenn Ridge, N. J.; James Knox, Liberty, S. C.; T. D. Miller, Mooresville; R. M. Porter, Jr., Sophomore, Waycross, Ga.; W. R. Satterfield, Roxboro; C. G. Smith, Rocky Mount.

Phi Gamma Delta: Harvey Glass, Richmond, Va.; Jerome Taylor, Knoxville, Tenn.; Linwood Mann, Greenville, Miss.; Coleman Branton, Greenville, Miss.; Ed Wooten, Cleveland, Tenn.; Paul Harlan, Jackson, Tenn.; Dick Hayworth, High Point; Dick Cann, Greensboro; Jack Swain, Nashville; J. B. Goslen, Winston-Salem.

Theta Upsilon Omega: Gillespie Murray, Black Mountain; Charles Sutlive, Savannah, Ga.; Frank Parker, High Point; William Fraley, High Point; Jesse Hogan, Junior, Mobile, Ala.; J. B. McKenzie, Rockingham; John Dolan, Long Island, N. Y.; Tom Neal, Millen, Ga.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Alison Kuhn, Davidson; Bud Hunter, Charlotte; W. W. Burns, Hickory; Frank L. Cade, Cathrine, Ala.; Charles Hammrick, Gaffney, S. C.; Jim Hodgin, Greensboro; William Archer, Salisbury; Sam Milton, Albemarle; Eb Wilson, Junior, Athens, Tenn.; George Walker, Columbia, Miss.; W. T. Johnson, Richmond, Va.; James Morgan, Sophomore, Albemarle; William Morton, Farmville; Henry Cathey, Charlotte.

REV. G. B. WATTS
(Continued from page 1)

attention. In the same publication there are fourother articles by the Davidson French professor. The Modern Language Journal, official organ of the National Federation of Modern Language Teachers, has recently published several critical articles by Dr. Watts, in which he has reviewed the works of prominent French authors. The most recent is his discussion of the new edition of Racine’s works, “Theatre Choisi,” Paris, 1931. Worthy of note have also been articles on the work of Jean de la Brete’s “Aimer Quand Même,” and Alain Fournier’s “Le Grand Meaulnes,” from the pen of this gifted reviewer and literary critic.

MONTEREY PENINSULA (Continued from page 3)
is a bit of the history of the Hapless Hapsburgs. Miss Claire did some unusually good acting and kept it from being a boring occasion. Her every movement was graceful and the highlight of the performance was her acting at the famous breakfast scene. No matter how trifling the situation, when she faced the audience it was with her chin up and her head thrown back. San Francisco has many “legitimate” houses where the year’s New York successes appear throughout the cool summer.

CATHEY ELECTED HEAD (Continued from page 1)
Under the able leadership of Captain Cathey and Alternate Captain Windham, the Wildkittens have proven themselves to be a smooth-working and hard-fighting team, and a team worthy of representing Davidson.

FRESHMAN “CAKE RACE” (Continued from page 1)
course. His time of 10 minutes and 30 seconds was the fastest ever recorded for 1.7 miles. Last year E. B. McFayden and Hubert Morris tied for first place at 10 minutes and 37 seconds.

Big Five Standings
W. L. T. Pet
Duke ____________ 3 0 0 1.000
North Carolina ____ 0 0 1 .000
Wake Forest ______ 0 0 0 .000
N.C. State ________ 0 0 0 .000
Davidson _________ 0 1 0 .000

Student Tickets, $2.40
Adults, $5.00

The Little Theatre Presents on October 12, at their auditorium, the first of six plays...
“Pou and J” By PHILIP BARRIE
THESE TICKETS FOR THE SIX PLAYS
See Professor E. J. Erwin (for Tickets)

FAST TRACK (Continued from page 5)
Meets have been scheduled for the Wildkittens with Winston-Salem and High Point high schools, and negotiations are being made with Duke Freshmen, Charlotte High School, and Guilford Freshmen. Among the varsity candidates, the most promising are Howard, Morrow, and Woodside of last year’s varsity, and McFayden and Morris, Sophomores, who were aces on the Freshman team last year. Gwinn, Richardson, Gullette, Corbin, Coble, McGhee, and Fitzgerald are other prospects. Meets will be held with V. P. I. and Duke, while plans are being arranged for contests with N. C. State, Guilford, and Carolina teams.

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 28TH
“NIGHT OF TIGER”
“A SUCCESSFUL CALAMITY” GEORGE ARLISS
THURSDAY, SEPT. 29TH
“BRING ’EM BACK ALIVE” The Big Buck Picture
FRIDAY, SEPT. 30TH
“THE BLONDE VENUS” MARLENE DIETRICH
SATURDAY, OCT. 1ST
“JUNE 13TH” with CLIVE BROOK
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, OCT. 3RD AND 4TH
“ATTILA—THE SCOURGE OF GOD” with EDWARD G. ROBINSON

We buy the finest, the very finest tobaccos in all the world—but that does not explain why folks everywhere regard Lucky Strike as the mildest cigarette. The fact is, we never overlook the truth that “Nature in the Raw is Seldom Mild”—so raw tobaccos have no place in cigarettes. They are not present in Luckies... the mildest cigarette you ever smoked. These fine tobaccos, after proper aging and mellowing, are then given the benefit of that Lucky Strike purifying process, described by the words—“It’s toasted.” That’s why folks in every city, town, and hamlet say that Luckies are such mild cigarettes.

“It’s toasted”

“If a man write a better book, preach a better sermon, or make a better mouse-trap than his neighbor, tho he build his house in the woods, the world will make a beaten path to his door.”—RALPH WALDO EMERSON. Does not this explain the world-wide acceptance and approval of Lucky Strike? That package of mild Luckies.