HOLIDAYS BEGIN THURSDAY AT NOON

The Davidsonian

"ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS"

VARSITY TRACK MEET WITH FLORIDA TODAY

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 23, 1932 No. 23

J. B. CLARK TO LEAD STUDENT BODY

Annual Junior Speaking Appropriately Observed By Students Last Week

Edward’s Collegians of Cincinnati Furnish Music for the Three Social Events Held

MISS GORRELL IS QUEEN

Freshman Track Meet and Varsity Baseball Game Are Held

The thirty-eighth annual Junior Speaking was held in Davidson and Charlotte last weekend, March 18th and 19th. On Friday night, the first feature of the program took place as an entertainment in the Hotel Charlotte ballroom, from 10 to 2. It was at this time that the famous “Sugar-Foot Contest” took place. Several couples entered the event, and Mr. W. F. Mulliss, of Martinsburg, W. Va., and Miss Sally Couch, of Charlotte, were declared the winners. Both were presented with suitable gifts.

On Saturday afternoon from 4:30 to 7 the dansant was held in the Charlotte Armory. The ballroom was all decorated in black and white. The sides were of black and white partitions, and black and white spiral streamers coming from the sides to a high ring in the center completed the motif. On the evening of the same day another soiree was given in the Armory. It was at this time that the Queen of Junior Speaking was crowned. The ballots for the most beautiful young lady were cast on Friday night, and the majority were for Miss Margaret Gorrell, Winston-Salem. The queen walked to her throne, which was formed of black and white, through an avenue of black and white streamers, and was there crowned with a golden coronet. This entertainment lasted from 9 to 12. The music for all of the entertainments was furnished by Edward's Collegians of Cincinnati with Phil Edwards, director, at the piano.

In addition to the other events, a triple track meet was held Friday afternoon between the Davidson Freshmen, Charlotte High, and Greensboro High. Charlotte was the victor with a bare margin of one point over Davidson. On Saturday afternoon, a baseball game was staged between Davidson and Union Theological Seminary. The latter was named victorious.

Junior Speaking is a traditional affair, which was started in 1894 by the Junior class. At that time any member of the class was eligible to participate in the competitive speaking. The speeches were not very lengthy, but it was considered a great honor to win in the competition.

(Continued on page 5)

Davidson Has Part In Recent “Y” Drive

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. sent several deputations last week to the city and county schools of Charlotte and Mecklenburg County as speakers in the “Come Clean” campaign put on by the Charlotte Y. This campaign is staged every year by that organization for the purpose of impressing on the boys of high school and grammar school ages the great importance of clean living, clean speech, and clean thought.

Two deputations were chosen by the Y, one to speak in the city schools, while the other was to visit a large number of the county schools. The first group was composed of eight men: Frank Buckner, Jerome Clark, Jack McKinnon, Cal Kuykendall, Bill Matthews, Charlie Myers, Bruce Peabody, and Bill Rule; the second of only six men: Paul Brown, E. L. Powell, Allen Mebane, Roger Enloe, Sam Wiley, and Nat Spier. Another deputation, consisting of Bill Johnson and Lynn Huie, was sent to the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. Sunday afternoon to speak to the boys there on a similar subject. In their talks these men stressed such points as the necessity of clean living in early and later life, clean living and character, urged clean sports, clean habits, and clean books, and last urged loyalty to convictions. Together they delivered talks in over forty different schools during the whole campaign, which began Monday the 14th and ended Tuesday the 22nd. The Statesville schools have requested the Davidson Y to send the same deputations to them to help put on a similar campaign in and around Statesville.

Lorraine Sanders Is Speaker at Vespers

Last Sunday the student body had the pleasure of hearing Mr. Lorraine Sanders of Union Theological Seminary at “Y” vespers. Mr. Sanders talked informally on his reasons for attending the seminary and on his present profession. By relating his experience, he hoped to guide and direct not only those who have the call to the ministry, but also those who receive the call to lead Christian lives. For the scripture, a selection from the hymnal, Psalm 27, was read responsively. The singing was led by John Howard. After a prayer by Sam Wiley and Roger Enloe, the speaker was introduced by Nat Spier.

Before entering the Union Theological Seminary, Mr. Sanders graduated at Hampden-Sydney, where he was a three-letter man. There he was also president of the Senior class. Having grown up with the thought of the seminary and Davidson being connected, he considered it a privilege to be here for the first time. When he told a friend that he had a speech prepared to deliver to the students, he was advised to throw it away, whereupon he did so and delivered an informal address. He gave a resume of his life, so that possibly the young men in the audience might profit by his experience. He lived a normal life in his youth, going through all the ups and downs which a young man has. Having finally arrived at college, he entered just as a great many students, not knowing what he was going to do or be in later life. He felt the urge to become a minister, but hesitated for two reasons. First, he was so interested in athletics and other activities that he never thought very deeply of the subject. And secondly, because the candidates to the ministry whom he knew seemed sanctimonious. On finishing college, he entered various professions for which he thought he was best suited, such as coaching and teaching. But the urge continued to hang on to him, until finally the call came so strongly that he could withstand it no longer. He realized that God wanted him as one of His servants, so he entered the field of religious teaching. He then addressed particularly the Freshmen and Sophomores who had not determined their life’s work, saying that the call to the ministry or religious work would come to some of them, and for them to in no way repel or hinder it. It may be contrary to one’s temperament, and may come most unexpectedly, but in any case he should not attempt to fight it. He hoped that all those who would not be privileged to administer God’s Word, would receive the call to lead Christian lives. No matter what profession one might enter, he will at some time receive that call. May he heed it and welcome it, and cherish it as a blessing all his life.

Nominations For “Y” Offices Held Friday

Last Friday morning in chapel, the nominations for the president and two vice-presidents of the Y. M. C. A. for the next school year were held. The nominees for president, chosen from the present Junior class, were: Paul F. Brown, Jr., Atlanta, Ga.; Robert L. McCallie, Chattanooga, Tenn.; W. A. L. McKeithan, Aberdeen, N. C., and Charles F. Myers, Greensboro, N. C. The nominees for vice-president, two of whom will be elected, were: Lyman W. Clardy, Talladega, Ala.; Frederick R. Hellegers, Passaic, N. J.; William T. Johnson, Charlotte, N. C.; Rufus C. Morrow, Jr., Zitacuaro, Michoacan, Mexico; Edward L. Powell, Mobile, Ala., and William M. Thompson, Richmond, Va. The vice-president nominees were from the present Sophomore class. In the balloting Saturday W. A. L. McKeithan was eliminated from the presidential race and Lyman Clardy, Frederick Hellegers, and William Johnson were eliminated in the voting for vice-presidents. Tuesday morning another balloting was run, but the results could not be learned before the Davidsonian went to press.

Instead of shortening the working day (the obvious thing to do) we go on giving all the leisure to an increased and increasing number of parasitic people—George Bernard Shaw.

JEROME B. CLARK

Lafferty and West Are Chosen Vice-Presidents

Mackorell of Freshman Class is Chosen as Secretary and Treasurer

The election of officers held last week by the Davidson student body for next year was completed. For the election of president and the two vice-presidents, three ballots were necessary, while the secretary and treasurer were elected on the second ballot.

The following were nominated by the Student Council Nominating Committee for president of the student body: Jerome B. Clark, Fayetteville; William A. Flinn, Atlanta, Ga.; Robert L. McCallie, Chattanooga, Tenn., and I. Bruce Peabody, Charlotte. W. Allen Mebane, Burlington, was nominated from the floor. Jerome Clark was elected on the third ballot, Flinn and McCallie having been eliminated on the first ballot, and Mebane on the second. Clark is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He is also a member of the Beaver Club, of the Student Council, of the varsity football squad, and is president of the Junior class. He played on the Freshman football and baseball teams and was vice-president of the Sophomore class.

The following were nominated for the office of vice-president: William T. Johnston, Charlotte; John W. Lafferty, Jr., Rome, Ga.; John G. O'Keefe, Bluefield, W. Va., and Julian West, Barium Springs. Edward L. Powell, Mobile,Ala., was nominated from the floor. Lafferty was elected second vice-president on the third ballot, while Johnson and O’Keefe were eliminated on the first ballot, and Powell on the third. Lafferty is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. He was a member of the Freshman tennis and basketball teams, is a varsity letterman in basketball, a member of the Beaver Club, vice-president of the Sophomore class, and a member of the Student Council. West is a member of the Beaver Club, varsity football and baseball squads, and is secretary and treasurer of the student body. He was a member of the Freshman baseball team and captain of the Freshman football team.

The following men were nominated for the combined office of secretary and treasurer: Dewey M. Hutchins, Lexington; John C. Mackorell, Hickory; and Joseph A. C. Wadsworth, Charlotte. Mackorell was elected on the second ballot, Hutchins having been eliminated on the first ballot. Mackorell is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity and played on the Freshman football and baseball teams.

Courtney MacConnell

Courtney MacConnell, a member of the student body and the son of Dr. J. W. MacConnell, was seriously injured when the motorcycle he was riding crashed into a car about 11:30 Sunday morning. The left side of his face was smashed in by the terrific impact. X-ray pictures revealed that he suffered skull fractures in two places. His left jawbone was broken in three places, and one rib on his left side was fractured. Painful lacerations on his left hip were also suffered, and several of the muscles of his back were torn loose. At the time that the Davidsonian went to press, his condition was considered critical.

Athletic Night Held On Monday Evening

Davidson College’s annual Athletic Night was held in the Maxwell-Chambers Auditorium last Monday night and was featured by a talk by Mr. Joe Johnston of Barium Springs, who spoke in the place of Colonel Dan McGugin, athletic director at Vanderbilt. The program included the presentation to the college of victory footballs, awarding of certificates in football, basketball, and wrestling, and the awarding of gold footballs to the members of the 1931 football team. To open the program, Dr. Davidson of the Bible department led the assembled group in prayer. This was followed by the singing of “O Davidson,” which was led by Brooke Allen, newly elected cheerleader. Allen L. “Buck” Mills, president of the Davidson Athletic Association, presided over the program and presented Dr. J. M. Douglas, who presented football certificates to the following: R. Z. Johnston, Calvin Kuykendall, Hal Wilson, Richard Whitfield, John D. McConnell, Bruce Pea, Mick Bradshaw, R. W. Gorrell, and J. H. McKinnon. He gave out basketball certificates as follows: J. G. Dunklin, H. K. Boucher, John Lafferty, J. M. Holland, T. L. Patrick, and R. K. Morton. Alex St. Clair, manager of the 1932 wrestling team, was awarded his certificate. At the same time, H. D. Kuykendall, Jr., received his certificate for services rendered as varsity cheerleader for 1931-32. Lieutenant-Colonel W. R. Scott then presented gold footballs to all members of the 1931 football team. They were, in addition to those named as receiving certificates, S. King, Steve Brown, U. B. Gardner, Jack Wagner, L. S. Raker, captain; C. W. Pearce, D. M. McQueen, G. L. Mathis, and P. M. Conway. A special football, known as the “Wildcat Football,” which is given to a man who is a real Wildcat and is vitally interested in Davidson and her teams, was presented by the “D” Club to Dr. M. I. Sentelle, dean of students. Professor Fleagle presented the Physical Improvement trophy to J. M. Smith of the Freshman class, who had added 21 5/8 inches to his muscular development and 23 pounds in weight during his first semester at Davidson. Professor Wood then presented the gymnastic competition trophy to Paul Brown, a Junior. Mills then asked Dr. Archibald Currie to introduce the guest speaker of the evening, Mr. Joe Johnston. In a very witty speech, Dr. Currie presented Mr. Johnston to his audience. Mr. Johnston's speech was highly enjoyable and seemed to be charged with a sparkling wit that held the attention of the crowd throughout. His talk was short and to the point, and was merely a few sound suggestions for success in life along all lines. These he put over in such a pleasing and interesting style that his speech made a great impression on everyone. He said to always play the game fairly, so that if you meet an opponent in later life, you can always look him in the face. He also pointed out to those who had played their last game, to take (Continued on page 6)

Professor Heck, of State, Speaks Here

Professor Charles M. Heck, head of the department of physics of North Carolina State College, gave a most interesting and instructive lecture here last night. He came under the auspices of the General Lecture Committee of Davidson College. The subject of his lecture was “Exploring the Universe.” It was illustrated in an unusual and entertaining way. Professor Heck received his A.B. degree from Wake Forest and since then has done several years of graduate work here in America and also in Germany. He is much in demand as a lecturer and speaker. His main field of research at the present time is radio and he is in coordination with the Bureau of Standards. One of his achievements was to promote the teaching of physics in high schools. He has also done much work for the North Carolina Academy of Science. Professor Heck is an intimate friend of Dr. Hoad and is well known to all the men of the science department. The students should also be interested to know that the lathe which was recently given to the science department by Mr. R. Hayes has been installed.

Evangelistic Spring Services Will Begin At Church, Sunday, April 24

Outstanding Leaders of the Southern Presbyterian Church to Lead Program This Year

FOUR MEN TO SPEAK

Dr. W. T. Thompson Will Open Church Services Sunday Morning

On Sunday morning, April 24, the Y. M. C. A. Spring Evangelistic Service will begin. Departing from the usual custom of having one man conduct every service, the “Y” has obtained four of the most outstanding and brilliant men of the Southern Presbyterian Church to lead the services, one on each day. Dr. Toly Thompson, of the Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, will conduct the morning church service on April 24. He will also lead the “Y” vesper service in the evening. Dr. Thompson has been selected to conduct the baccalaureate sermon at Princeton University this spring. On Monday night, April 25th, the service will be held by Dr. Charlie Myers, of Greensboro, a well-known leader of our Church. The following day, Dr. Henry Wade DuBose, of Spartanburg, will deliver two addresses, one in the morning at the chapel hour and one in the evening. Dr. DuBose has one of the most attractive personalities of any man in the Southern Presbyterian Church. Dr. Samuel McPheeters Glasgow, of Savannah, Ga., will close the series on Wednesday, delivering one address at chapel and one that night. Dr. Glasgow is well known to many members of the student body. “Above all things in this series,” the Y. M. C. A. “wants to present Christ to the student body in the most attractive way possible and has chosen these four outstanding men of the Southern Church that they believe present Him in all His fullness and reality.” Each of the four speakers will have a different angle on Christ to present to the students. These different presentations should show Christ to the student body in a truer and more wholesome view.

Dr. Ralph McGoffin Speaks on Classics

Dr. Ralph V. McGoffin, head of the department of Classics at New York University in New York City and past president of the Archaeological Institute of America, addressed the Davidson student body and faculty at the chapel period on Saturday, March 19th. The speaker is one of the world’s foremost archaeologists. He obtained his early training at the University of Michigan, and later studied at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Md. Dr. McGoffin has carried on excavations in Italy, Greece, Egypt, and in various parts of Asia. He has been elected a life member of the Archaeological Institute of Germany, commander of the Order of the Saviour in Greece, and royal commander of the Crown of Italy. Dr. McGoffin’s subject for the talk was “The Cure and Lore of Archaeology.” He showed how the modern development of archaeology had made it possible to establish the age and period of events referred to in history, but not definitely placed. To illustrate this point, Dr. McGoffin cited a modern instance. He told graphically of his unusual experience in the subterranean burial ground of an old Italian village, and of finding evidence which proved that Rome was founded two hundred and seventy years earlier than the usually accepted date. He also showed that other sciences like geology aided archaeology in its discoveries. According to Dr. McGoffin, the Australian secret ballot originated in early Roman political assemblies, and the so-called modern safety pin was in general use among the early Romans.

The majority of good leaders have always been on the side of the oppressed—Aldous Huxley.

If we want polygamy, let’s have it, but let’s not camouflage it as monogamy.—Bishop Booth of Vermont.