SN THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1932

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina. Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN Editor-in-Chief
P. M. CONWAY Managing Editor

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. O. GUERRANT Managing Editor
D. D. McBRYDE Managing Editor
R. L. McCALLIE Managing Editor
C. F. ERS Managing Editor
B. B. GG Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENSON Feature Editor
W. W. ANKLIN Feature Editor
H. W. ERVIN Review Editor
E. LAKE Exchange Editor
C. DWELLE, JR. Associate Editor
W. S. LEA Associate Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. MANSON Assistant Business Manager
J. L. MEBANE Assistant Business Manager
J. W. WHITTED Assistant Business Manager
W. R. MORROW Subscription Manager
W. T. JOHNSON Solicitor
J. B. WOOTTON Solicitor
A. H. MANSON Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
A. H. WHITEHEAD President
P. M. CONWAY Vice-President
W. B. MOORE Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. YLO
L. S. GAMBLE
G. E. BAILEY
R. E. LORRAINE
E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
P. PRESTON
R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. RANKIN
A. F. SCHENCK
O. CASALI
W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. CLARDY
W. T. THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAMS
J. A. HUNTER

FEBRUARY 10, 1932

Certainly nothing is unnatural that is not physically impossible —Richard B. Sheridan.

PARAGRAPHICS

Students will find it a pleasant sensation to have the “Y” pledge paid up. The longer you wait, the harder you will find it to pay.

A brilliant Senior’s contribution to the recent questionnaire, “I do not choose to run.”

Captain Cochran has donated a batch of Chinese newspapers to the Davidsonian. They were sent to him by a friend in China. As soon as we get some of the boys from the Far East to translate them we will publish a true account of the state of affairs in China.

Kuykendall’s talk on etiquette in “bumming” was certainly needed. It has been suggested that it would now be a good thing if someone would talk on the subject of etiquette after the ride has been caught.

In the talks on Washington the faculty is presenting to the student body an excellent opportunity to really learn something of the life of the nation’s greatest man.

Students will have the pleasure of hearing Dr. Frazer, president of Queens College, at vespers next Sunday.

A GOOD JOB

The Athletic Council can now sit back and take things a little easier, having completed a good job. The Council, since the announcement of Younger’s resignation several months ago, has been on the trail for coaches, first for an assistant for Tilson, and since his decision to follow “Monk” to V. P. I., for two varsity mentors. And the Council may feel that it has been successful in its attempt to secure two good coaches, and also two men who would work well together and with the student body.

The Davidson student body, in its speech and actions, has shown its approval of the action of the Council. It is felt among the students that these two men will be able to make the best of the material that Davidson has, and that they will be able to fill the shoes vacated by that great pair, “Monk” & “Tex.”

The press has been full of praise of William “Doc” Newton, new head coach here. His possibilities for the position have been known for some time. He leaves behind him a good record, having coached successfully at Birmingham-Southern and Howard, played professional baseball with the Baltimore Orioles, and during the last season contributed a great deal to the remarkable success of the University of Tennessee football team.

It is hardly necessary to say anything of Gene McEver. It is well known that he has for the last three years been one of the outstanding backs of the country, making All-American for two years. It is enough to say that his coach at Tennessee, Neyland, stated that he was the smartest and the greatest football player that he had ever coached. That is certainly the highest praise that an athlete could desire. Pointing to his success is the fact that Tennessee had already signed him as one of their backfield coaches for next year.

The student body welcomes these two new men, and offers to them its wholehearted support. And while welcoming new coaches, it might not be irrelevant to wish “Monk” and “Tex” all the success in the world in their new positions.

REGARDING THE QUESTIONNAIRE

That the results of the questionnaire offer a true expression of the sentiment of the student body in regard to certain vital questions is doubtful. There is a likelihood that many of the answers were made with very little or no thought on the subject. But such a study at least gives us an idea of how the student body stands on some of the most important topics under discussion in the world today.

One fact which leads us to believe that there was a certain amount of interest aroused is that around 550 members of the student body filled out the questionnaire completely. When we consider the fact that there were a great many men absent on the day they were to be answered, we see that this is a very good percent of those who were present.

An interesting thing to note is the majority with which each question was decided in the affirmative or negative. It would seem that the student body thinks alike to a certain extent. Yet there were some questions which had a rather large minority, showing that there are plenty of men at issue with the majority.

It was expected by many that the two lower classes would vote almost unanimously against R. O. T. C. training at Davidson. Although the voting was closer than in the two upper sections, there was a majority of the Freshmen and Sophomores who favored the course.

The student body voted four to one against the theory that R. O. T. C. makes a man war-minded. It was decided by a good majority that Davidson is in favor of the entrance of the United States into the League of Nations, founded by the greatest alumnus of this institution.

Another rather surprising fact was the huge majority against total disarmament. It seems that the students do not favor the idea of our government ridding itself of every means of defense. On the other hand, a good majority were in favor of partial disarmament.

Regardless of whether this questionnaire shows the true feeling of the student body, it will certainly make some men think, and that is what is most needed in this day.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Washington & Lee

There has been much controversy over the question: Who does the song, “The Washington and Lee Swing,” belong to? The manager of the Tulane band wrote Washington and Lee a letter telling the university that it was originally W. & L.’s and they were within their rights to protest anyone else claiming it as theirs. This letter was written after the authorities of W. & L. had protested Rudy Vallee’s calling it the Tulane school song when he played it on a national broadcast while he and his orchestra were in New Orleans. Tulane, to avoid confusion, is going to have a new school song written, which will not be to the tune of the Washington and Lee Swing. This “Washington and Lee Swing” is famous all over the South and many high and prep schools have adopted it as their school song. In thanking Tulane for the letter and changing their song, The Ring-tum Phi “sincerely hopes that the Green Wave will enjoy its school song originating there, for Washington and Lee feels heart and soul that she owns the Washington and Lee Swing.”

University of Georgia

Those Tech and Georgia boys are once more at it; another feud seems to be on hand. In an editorial, still burning it is so hot, the Red and Black condemns the Tech students for the manner in which their (Ga.’s) basketball team was treated on a recent visit to the “Gate City of the South.” At the basketball game the Tech students booed the famous Catfish Smith while he bottled up “the cocky Mr. Katz.” Tech, far-famed as the “Golden Tornado,” was called the “Golden Breeze” by this Bulldog. He said that at this game the Tech supporters were in true Yellow Jacket form when they booed “one of the greatest athletes the South has ever produced.” We quote the concluding paragraph of this editorial which was entitled, “Tech Cordiality”:

“Win or lose tomorrow night (this was Feb. 6), let’s have the Georgia supporters show their true sportsmanship by overdoing the welcome, even though it is not deserved by the boys who pound the anvils and consider themselves educated.”

From Georgia we find out that their Pan-Hellenics will be held April 15 and 16, with the possibility of having the world-famous dance orchestra, Coon Sanders, to furnish the music for the dancers.

Emory

Eight undergraduate students were initiated into Phi Beta Kappa, honorary scholarship fraternity, last Saturday night, six from the Senior class and two from the Junior class.class. There were no alumni initiated.

Presbyterian College of S. C.
Recently the Blue Stocking, the newspaper of P. C., made application and was accepted to membership in the National Scholastic Press Association. Their Pan-Hellenics will be held March 18 and 19, the same time as our Junior Speaking.

Sewanee
This Tennessee school had quite an honor conferred upon one of the organizations within the school. The Sopherim chapter of Sigma Upsilon, mother chapter of Si Upsilon, was awarded three of the five prizes given by Sigma Upsilon and conducted among the forty chapters. One man, Frank Dearing, won two prizes, the prize for the play and the prize for the poem. P. W. Lambert, Jr., won the short-story prize.

DES ENTREFILETS
“. . . Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings...”

At present the eyes of the whole world are fixed upon the Sino-Japanese situation. During the past few months the trouble has changed from an invasion of Manchuria by the Japanese, which involved only the bandits and the Japs and brought up no international complications. However, within the last month the entire situation has changed; it is no longer merely something to try the influence of the League of Nations, it has become a question of international rights and international interests.

Following a boycott of Japanese goods by the Chinese in Shanghai, the Japanese sent troops to this city in order to enforce what they claimed was a treaty. This would not have involved the other nations of the world had not the Japanese begun to use the international settlement in Shanghai as a base of operations. The international settlement was established by treaties and these threw open the ports of China to the trade of foreign nations. The best part of the city of Shanghai was given to the foreigners. Here not only the United States, Great Britain, and Italy have settlements but almost every other country of any importance in the world. France has her own concession which adjoins the international settlement. All foreign governments which are members of the settlement have troops stationed there to protect their interests in case of civil war in China. However, it has formerly been the custom for a country before sending in additional troops to gain the consent of all the other nations represented. Japan has, of late, neglected to go through this formality. The international settlement has a legalized status which makes the concession of the United States equivalent to American soil. So it is with every other nation. Thus if Japan invades the international settlement, it is equivalent to invading every important nation on the globe. This is a situation which Japan must avoid or else they will bring down the wrath of the nations upon their own heads.

Within the last week the United States, France, and Great Britain have all sent reinforcements to Shanghai to protect their citizens and their interests. The United States has approximately five thousand citizens located in Shanghai. The United States, together with Great Britain, France, and Italy, presented to the Chinese and Japanese governments proposals for the cessation of hostilities and for negotiations to settle all controversies between the two countries. These proposals provided for the cessation of all acts of violence, mobilization, or preparation for violence; the withdrawal of the two forces from all points of mutual contact in the Shanghai area; for the protection of the international settlement by the establishment of a neutral zone patrolled by neutral nations; and for negotiations to settle the controversies between the two nations in the spirit of the Pact of Paris and the resolution of the League of Nations of December 9th, without prior demand and with the aid of neutral observers or participants. However, this was not a demand for peace but merely a proposal which the four powers hoped the Chinese and Japanese officials would accept. Japan immediately answered that they accepted the neutral zone arrangement but could not accept the remainder of the proposal. Thus the whole of the proposal fell through and matters are as bad as before. All the while the Japanese are storming the area around Shanghai and unless the neutral nations intervene they are sure to destroy the Chinese troops within a very short time.

A rather amusing thing happened with the Sino-Japanese affair at Shanghai—amusing since no harm was done. A Japanese warship was passing the plant of the Texas Oil Company. A group of Chinese in the village behind the plant began to shoot off firecrackers, which is customary in Chinese religious ceremony. The warship, thinking it was being fired upon, opened fire with machine guns. Over fifty bullets entered the buildings of the Texas Company but no damage was done.

Andrew Mellon, who resigned as Secretary of the Treasury a few days ago in order to accept the position of Ambassador to the Court of St. James, has been the object of many comments in the daily papers. Mellon has received the blame for our present financial condition and he was nobly defended by Will Rogers. Perhaps Mr. Rogers is not aware of the fact that it was Mellon who secured the low discount rate in 1926 in order to aid the European countries. He was successful in this, but he also started a movement of speculation and inflation, the results of which we are still contending with and shall have to endure for several years more.

According to Dr. Arthur D. Bevan, ex-president of the American Medical Association, the doctors of the United States are also bootleggers. In his testimony before the Senate he stated that 90 percent of prescriptions for whiskey are for its use as a beverage.

Trustees of the University of Illinois have announced that they have no intention, for the present at least, of sanctioning a policy which would permit students to attend or cut classes according to their whims. They also said there was little chance that the no-auto rule would be abandoned at the university.

The New York University Daily News, undergraduate publication, has merged with the Nite News, student organ of the university’s Washington Square College, which is now issued as an evening edition of the Daily News. The merger gives the combined papers a circulation of 7,000, which is exceeded in the country only by the circulations of the Daily Californian and the Carnegie Tech, a weekly.

A SOUTH SEA SPASM
In the stillness of the night time,
So many, many miles away,
I strive to forget, but pause to think
Of you, who should never have let
Me depart.
’Neath the spell of Southern clime,
Bathed in tropic moonlight, and the spray;
I see once more, in memory’s glass,
You, whom I’ll never again unclasp
From my heart.
The schooner nears the land of palm trees;
The silver surf is beck’ning me.
W-h-e-w! The lurid ’chanment of the seas
Only makes me long the more to see
Y-O-U!

IN THE MORNIN’ MAIL
We don't know who that letter was from, calling for our views of the modern girl, but here’s hoping that the following will do:

“PITY THE POOR IRKING GIRL”

I.
A long-legged sheep in the Himalayas is able to run 40 miles an hour. That’s the kind of lamb to follow Mary nowadays.

II.
The modern girl has been tried and found wanting—everything under the sun.

III.
This can be said in defense of the modern girl—she dearly loves the spinning wheels.

IV.
The question is not why girls leave home, but why don’t they try to get back a little earlier?

V.
She’s a rare modern girl if she wears the same face during the day that she got up with in the morning.

VI.
There is one great difference between the girl of today, and of the old times. The distinction is found between “swooning” and “passing out.”

VII.
A boyish bob, a cigarette, and knickers make a great deal of difference. But they don’t fool a mouse.

VIII.
Time was when the girl who had nothing to wear was out of style.

IX.
According to the Arkansas Gazette, women’s clothes were never funnier—if brevity is the soul of wit.

X.
ALL THE OLDER FOLKS ARE FLAPPER-GASTED!

XI.
Modern girls are fond of nice clothes, but they are not entirely wrapped up in them.

XII.
Ann was certainly a smart girl—she started out with Nichols and now she’s a millionaire.

XIII.
SHE WAS ONLY A TAXI-DRIVER’S DAUGHTER BUT YOU OUGHT TO METER.

(Concluding Note)
If you’ve managed to keep on reading this far, congratulations! I hate to take up your time like this, but you know the old saying, “There’s always room for one bore.” That is my motto. With that I will stop and hang out my “close”... “M.O.A.N.” (pronounced sometimes, “Mirth of a Nation,” but more appropriately, “moan”).

The French government has given 50,000 francs to Harvard University, to be used in “strengthening the friendship between this country and France by spreading the knowledge of the French language.” The interest on the fund will be used every two years to provide a scholarship to some student in the French department working for a doctorate who could not complete his thesis without several months’ study in French libraries or archives.

When the University of Wisconsin alumni dinner was held at Philadelphia on the occasion of the Wisconsin-Pennsylvania football game, the proceedings were broadcast. Three times the broadcast was broken into by the radio station. The reason: Three times profanity was used by speakers at the dinner.