THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1932

WINTER SPORTS END SATURDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

SPRING FOOTBALL CONTINUES

The old maestro sits down before his nineteenth-century model typewriter, considerably harassed by the president of Salem College’s account of
George Washington’s impressions of the writer’s home town (note the possessives) but partly mollified by the father of our country’s
further impressions of nearby cities. Should the great George himself chance to dash by on the Prussian white horse, he
would doubtless hear this columnist’s pleading call to “tarry a bit, George, and give us your opinion of the coaching
situation.”

We wonder what old George would have to say if he were interviewed at length concerning the athletic phases of
college life. Perhaps it would run something like this:

Reporter: Mr. Washington, now that you've seen the boys scrimmage, what sort of team do you suppose we'll have next
year?

Washington: My son (father of the country, you know), methinks you will have a goodly portion of success during the
fiscal year.

Or would he rumble in an Al Smith cement mixer voice: Say, kid, dat’s great.

So much for so much space-filling piffle. These lame duck sessions for managing editors are quite bothersome at times for
all concerned.

Unless additional games are booked during this week, which the official bookers have a distressing habit of doing at odd
intervals, the basketball season for 1932 will be officially concluded by Saturday, as also will the wrestling schedule. Little success
has been achieved in either sport, though the Wildcat basketeers did show some improvement along toward the end of the
season, being beaten by Carolina, State, and the College of Charleston recently by margins of two and three points. The
Freshman basketball and wrestling teams, however, came through in a big way, the quintet winning a big majority of its
games and the wrestlers taking every match to date. To the Freshmen we can say—congratulations, and to the varsity, we
can only say—tough luck. Better luck next year.

And with the close of basketball and wrestling, some interesting developments in Spring football should take place. Several of the
mainsprings in last year’s varsity have been engaged in these two sports, and their additions to the number of candidates
now engaged in spring practice should enable one to accurately observe just what prospects are for next year’s team. Our
observations so far have been limited to the two Saturday scrimmages held in the past two weeks. Last Saturday’s scrimmage
showed much improvement over the previous one and showed the gradual perfection of the Neyland system being used by Coaches
Newton and McEver. Both teams performed erratically, at times executing the plays well and at other times running them with
considerable mediocrity. One notices, however, that when a play is executed with precision and accuracy, each man doing his part
as intended, the results in yardage can be measured in figures of 20.

Charleston Downs ’Cats By Final Quarter Rally

The College of Charleston basketeers staged a garrison finish against the Davidson five last Saturday night in the final encounter
of the current season for the Wildcats, by a 28-22 count. The game was played in Charleston and came as
the close of an invasion of the Palmetto State by the ’Cats.

On the short end of a 15-6 score at halftime, the Charlestonians rallied and in the closing minutes bagged six
points, which proved decisive. Silcox, Maroon forward, was the big gun with thirteen points, with which Charleston was pulled out
of the rut. Martin, rangy ’Cat center, led the Davidson quint with seven counters.

Line-up:
Charleston (28) Davidson (22)
Silcox (13) Lafferty (4)
Baker (0) Beasley (2)
Mathis (5) Martin (7)
Peabody (2) Wagner (4)

Wrestlers Meet Carolina Tonight

With the experience of nearly a whole season to their credit, the Wildcat wrestlers will meet the University of North
Carolina team here tonight in the College Gym. This match is the last one scheduled to be held on the
Davidson campus and promises to be one of the best contests of the 1931-32 season. The 155-pound class match should
especially be interesting as Carolina’s man, Tsumas, threw an Army wrestler last week in 40 seconds. Saturday, the Davidson Grapplers
will travel to Blacksburg, Va., where they will meet the V. P. I. Cadets in the final match of the
year.

Kittens Score Easy Win Over All-Stars

Saturday, February 20, the Davidson Wildkittens defeated the Lincolnton All-Stars, 36-21, at Lincolnton. The first of the game was a
complete walk-away for the Kittens, as the All-Stars could not seem to start functioning. The half ended 22-8, with the
Kittens on the long end of the score.

In the second half, the second team played the whole period for the winners. The All-Stars showed a little more
pep this time to bring the score up a little closer than it was at the first half. However, the
Wildkittens held them successfully and the game ended 36-21 in favor of Davidson.

Drills in Fundamentals Continue as Important Phase of Grid Practice

Saturday brought to a close another strenuous week of spring football practice for the Wildcats under the tutelage of Davidson's
new grid coaching staff of Doc Newton and Gene McEver.

Drills in fundamentals and basic plays continued to be the most important phase of the daily two-hour workouts. Doc and
Gene have been sending their charges through long sessions of blocking and tackling drills, and then after dividing them into
elevens have been sending them through long, steady drills on signals and plays.

About twenty plays, based on two formations, one a punt and the other a single wing back formation, have been
given the candidates to try to perfect for next fall. Other plays on the same formations will be given as
the spring session continues.The Davidson Wildkittens defeated Darlington cagers in a spirited contest in the Davidson gym last Friday night
by a score of 32 to 21. The Wildkittens were ahead all of the time and at the half the
score stood Davidson 15, Darlington 5. West bagged 12 points for the Freshmen and Rogers sank several pretty shots.

Monday saw several new candidates, mostly members of the Freshman basketball squad, out for the first time. Members of the
varsity quintet are expected out before the end of the week.

Saturday's game between the Reds and Blacks was won by the Reds, with Buck Mills playing the star role in
a four-touchdown display. Mills scored three of the markers, while Fleagle, who started with the Blacks but later switched to
the Reds, scored the other. The first touchdown came when the Reds recovered a fumble and followed with a 39-yard
march. Mills bucked across the line after carrying the ball 23 yards to the one-yard line. The final tally came
when Mills broke through the Black line and dashed 80 yards for a score. The Reds also led in first
downs, chalking up ten to their opponents’ two.

Elon Defeats Wildcats In Extra Period Contest. Wednesday saw Davidson defeated in an extra-period game by Elon College. The visitors
began with two foul shots rung up by Fite and Caddell. Mathis, however, evened this with a field goal. Then
Martin shot one that was promptly tied by Caddell. Except for the closing minutes of the game and the extra
period, play was slow. Elon led most of the way through, holding a 10-point advantage several times, and at the
intermission was leading 17-9. At the final whistle, the score was 26-26, and an extra period was declared.

Candidates For Track Team Report For Spring Training. Spring track is now getting into full swing as Davidson's hopes on
the cinders and field begin to round into good shape. Although the weather has been rainy, the warm temperature has
been favorable and conducive to exercise. Captain Pritchett, track coach and athletic director, has been centering his attentions on spring
football, leaving his track responsibilities to Pete Whittle, his assistant, who has been very busy in all departments. With a
large aggregation back from last year's team and no small number of men from last year’s Freshman team, it seems
that berths will be amply filled by outstanding men fully capable in their positions.

The prospective men for the various events are as follows:
- 100-yard dash: Fleagle, McMillan, McCallie, and Kuykendall.
- 220-yard dash: Fleagle, McMillan, and Halyburton.
- 440-yard dash: Creech, Halyburton, and Tyack.
- 880-yard run: McGehee, Wright, Corbin, and Gwyn.
- 1 mile: Earle, Morrow, and Howard.
- 2 mile: Brannon, Earle, and Woodside.
- High jump: Martin, Rhyne, McKinnon, Allen, J. W., Coble, and C. E. Bettis.
- Broad jump: Flinn, Little, McKinnon, and Wright.
- Pole vault: Flinn, Roane, and Gilmer.
- Shot: Cochran, Knox, and Wagner.
- Discus: Cochran, Spencer, and Bettis.
- Javelin: Brown, Cochran, and Bettis.
- High hurdles: McCallie, Little, and Pratt.
- Low hurdles: Same as in highs.

Deacons Down Wildcats 30-19 in Big Five Game. Tuesday night, February 16, Wake Forest won their first Big Five basketball
victory of the season and thereby settled the Davidson Wildcats definitely in the cellar of the state race. The score
was 32 to 19. At the half, Davidson had the Baptists trailing 10 to 8. But during the latter half,
the Deacons placed some remarkable shots. Lafferty, who featured the evening with 14 points, flipped the deciding goal a minute
and a half before the end of the game.

Dr. McConnell Speaks on Washington’s Character. Dean of Faculty Heard in Interesting Address on America’s First President. Unselfishness, patience, perseverance,
poise, and physical and moral courage were the elements of character that were brought out by Dr. J. M. McConnell,
in speaking on “The Character of George Washington.” The dean of the faculty prefaced his remarks about Washington by defining
character. He maintained that the character of a man is not only that which is carved into his life by
experience and environment, but that it is also the product of his nature. As examples of Washington's unselfishness, the speaker
cited his absence from home for five years during the Revolutionary War; his refusal to receive a salary for his
military services; the fortune left to Washington College; his consent to serve as President for eight years; and his willingness,
before his death, to serve in the threatened war with France. “Washington's patience and perseverance were demonstrated by his conduct
through the (Continued on page 4).

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP. The Well-Groomed Man Goes to Norton’s. Prompt Service.

Stetson “D” Store. Come In and Look the New Spring Patterns Over. Clothes For the College Man.

Davidson Theatre:
- THURSDAY: RONALD COLMAN in “LADIES OF THE JURY”
- MONDAY: “TAXI”
- TUESDAY: “POLLY OF THE CIRCUS”
- WEDNESDAY: “WAYWARD”
- FRIDAY and SATURDAY: “ARROWSMITH”
