THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 19, 1932

THE SPORTS PARADE

DEPUTATION TO ’Cats Go to Charleston To Encounter Bulldogs Of The Citadel Saturday

Davidson Eleven Expected to Face Strong Opposition in Coming Grid Contest

The Wildcats will leave their lair next Saturday afternoon to stalk down to Charleston, on the east coast of the
Palmetto State, and there encounter the Bulldogs of The Citadel. Davidson and The Citadel are rivals of long standing, and
the game is expected to be a scrap from whistle to whistle. The Cadets have a reputation for fight, similar
to that accorded the Wildcats of Davidson, and the Flying Squadron of V. M. I. An improved V. M. I.
eleven presented a stubborn forward wall against Davidson last Saturday at Lexington, Va. and held the Wildcats to a two-touchdown
victory, causing us to miss our guess on the outcome of the game. However, despite the 12-0 score, we think
that Newton and McEver sent a team on the field which played at least a four-touchdown better game than the
Cadets played.

This year the fleet-footed Mills is again wearing the Red and Black moleskins, and is aided by an array of
pony backs, which includes Pearce, Mackorell, Flinn, Fleagle, Wingfield, and Willson, to say nothing of such excellent blocking backs as
Hutchins and Peabody. In the Wildcat line, two Sophomores of great merit, Morgan and Morris, hold down the flanks, and
two veteran campaigners, Wagner and Captain Whitfield, give the “They shall not pass” at the tackles. New talent at the
guards is found in Rives, and the 235-pound “Tubby” Hand, who has proven a tower of strength in the Davidson
forward wall. At center, Coach Newton has Percy McElrath, who is ably taking the place of the injured tow-head, “Buddy”
Gardner.

Johnny Mackorell and Joe Wingfield, McEver’s stellar Sophomore backs, furnished the fireworks for the game Saturday. The two kept V.
M. I. players busy trying to get hold of them. Mackorell reeled off the longest run of the afternoon when
he galloped 43 yards in the first quarter. He made several other good gains, one of which netted 11 yards.
Wingfield, who, incidentally, is the lightest man on the squad, chalked up four long runs, which added 126 yards to
Davidson's yardage from scrimmage. Three of Little Joe’s runs were punt returns of 20, 40, and 41 yards. The other
was a 25-yard jaunt which ended in Davidson’s first score.

Tubby Hand, Davidson Sophomore who alternates at the guard and tackle position, received the thrill of a lifetime Saturday when
he intercepted a pass, which had been blocked by Jack Wagner, and ran for a touchdown. Another V. M. I.
pass was intercepted by Bruce Peabody, who carried the ball 40 yards before being downed.

Dewey Hutchins, another Sophomore back, who has carried the ball on few occasions this season, had an 18-yard run to
his credit Saturday. Because of his excellent blocking ability, Hutchins is seldom called upon to tote the ball, but Saturday
he showed that he could do it if assigned to.

Charley Pearce continued to get off some beautiful punts in the V. M. I. game. One of his boots Saturday
was good for 73 yards, and it was largely due to his kicking that V. M. I. was kept with
its back to the wall all afternoon.

The Bulldogs have two great backs in Symmes and Kings, not to mention Faulkner and Jennings, who can also lug
that leather in great style. Ed Mitchell, the Titan of the line, holding down the pivot position, has proved an
insurmountable barrier for the other Citadel opponents, and should be very much in the way of the Wildcats. Clark, star
Bulldog flankman, will be out of the game due to a broken leg suffered in the Florida imbroglio, and his
absence will be greatly felt by the Charleston boys. Jennings and Quaterman will be remembered as the boys who caused
a great deal of trouble for the Wildcats on Richardson Field last year.

We base our opinion on the facts that the Wildcats carried the ball within V. M. I.’s 16-yard line no
less than six times and that the game was played in V. M. I. territory almost entirely. Had V. M.
I’s line not improved so much, we actually believe that the ’Cats would have enjoyed at least a 25-0 victory.
A great amount of reserve strength is also at the disposal of the Davidson coaches with such stars as Potter,
West, Ross, Caton, Dickerson, Ogden, Howard, and Cannon, sitting on the sidelines just itching to get into the fray.

The outstanding victory obtained by The Citadel is the 12-6 conquest of V. M. I. two weeks ago. Last Saturday
they fell before the attack of Al Rogero and his speedy Gators from Florida, 27 to 7. However, Florida has
a great team, and this does not in itself rate The Citadel below Davidson, as the ’Cats tasted defeat in
the opener, bowing 13-0 before the Wade-coached Duke Blue Devils. Davidson boasts a 7-0 victory over Washington and Lee, and
a 40-6 rout over the highly-touted Wofford Terriers. Last Saturday they topped V. M. I., 12 to 0, and consistently
outplayed them throughout the game.

The Wildkittens gave a good account of themselves Friday afternoon when they defeated Wofford Freshmen, 21-6. Johnny Pearce, little brother
of Charley, furnished the thrills of the game by scoring the Kittens’ first score with a 70-yard run. He scored
another when he tucked Pittman’s pass under his arms.

Next Saturday will mark the halfway mark in the present football campaign. Davidson will play her fifth game by meeting
the Wildcats.

Big Five Standings
W. L. T. Pet.
Duke 1 0 0 1.000
State 2 0 0 1.000
Carolina 1 0 0 1.000
Wake Forest 1 0 0 1.000
Davidson 0 1 0 0.000

Wildcat Quarterback
JOHNNY MACKORELL - QUARTER

Johnny Mackorell, who is playing his first year in the Davidson backfield, was one of the stars in the Wildcat
offense Saturday against V. M. I. Mackorell calls signals for the Davidson eleven.

Wildkitten Runners Conquer Charlotte

The Davidson Freshman cross-country team on Friday afternoon won eight out of twelve places to defeat the Charlotte High School
long distance runners over a two-mile stretch. The Wildkittens, led by Captain Frazier, Merchant, Shuford, and Glass, who took first
four places, respectively, had a total of 23 points to 64 points for Charlotte. Earle Frazier captured first place and
his excellent time of ten minutes and twenty-two seconds broke the college record of ten minutes and forty seconds, which
was previously held by Rufus Morrow. This is the second record Frazierhas shattered as he set a new cake race
record two weeks ago. Marsden, Charlotte’s chief threat, could do no better than take fifth place. The runners finished in
the following order: Frazier (D), Merchant (D), Shuford (D), Glass (D), Marsden (C), Harlan (D), Young, H. F. (D), Foy
(D), Morse (C), Haake (D), Edwards, R. (C), Edwards, C. (C). Coach Whittle was greatly pleased with the showing of
his men and is looking forward to a most successful year for his Wildkitten cindermen. The remaining meets scheduled are
as follows: Oct. 28, Duke Fresh at Durham; Nov. 5, Guilford Fresh at Davidson; Nov. 12, Winston-Salem High at Davidson;
Nov. 24, High Point High at Davidson.

Varsity Tennis Team Beats Gastonia Club

On last Saturday, October 15, the Davidson tennis team played and won their first game of the year, defeating the
Gastonia Country Club team on their own courts. The Wildcat racqueteers, consisting of Halverstadt, Lafferty, Myers, and Scott, did not
lose a single set in either the doubles or singles matches and did not have to play over ten games
in any set. In the singles: Halverstadt defeated Ryan, 6-2, 6-3; Lafferty defeated Wykoff, 6-2, 6-2; Myers defeated Julian, 6-0,
6-1, and Scott defeated Brown, 6-1, 6-1. In the doubles: Myers and Halverstadt downed Ryan and Wykoff, 6-0, 6-4; while
Lafferty and Scott downed Julian and Brown, 6-2, 6-4. This is probably the only match this team will have this
fall, the next being some time in April.

S. A. E.’s, Beta’s and Pi K. A.’s Advance

Three games of the intra-fraternity football tournament have been played with the result that the S. A. E.’s, Beta’s and
Pi K. A.’s have victories respectively over the Phi Gam’s, K. A.’s and the S. P. E.’s. In the first
game, the S. A. E’s defeated the Phi Gam’s by a 6-0 score. The only touchdown of the game came
on a pass tossed from Harry Mixon to Jerome Clark into the end zone. The Beta’s eliminated the K. A.’s
in the second game of the tournament by a two-touchdown margin. Richardson ran the first touchdown over from the five-yard
line and passed to Smyre for the second score. The Pi K. A’s won a hard-earned game from the S.
P. E.’s by the slender margin of ten yards. The two regular 15-minute periods were played with neither team being
able to score. An extra 15-minute period was played and again no score was the result. It was then decided
to give the ball to each team for five minutes and decide the game by yardage. The Pi K. A.’s
won, collecting 29 yards to the S. P. E’s 19!

Frazier Is Selected As Freshman Leader

Earle Frazier, who has been performing brilliantly on the Freshman cross-country team this year, was recently honored by his teammates
when he was chosen captain for the season. Frazier was elected at a meeting of the team just before the
meet with Charlotte High School. Frazier, who was a shining light on the track team at Oxford Orphanage last year,
has been showing up well in his performances thus far, and within two weeks he has chalked up two college
records to his credit. After setting a new Freshman cake race record when he ran the 1.7 mile course in
9:35.5 minutes, Frazier went on to set the two-mile record in the Charlotte High School meet by running the course
in 10:22 minutes. This chipped eighteen seconds from the record held by Rufus Morrow in 1930.

Davidson’s 1932 Opponents

DUKE 34, Maryland 0.
W. & L. 7, Kentucky 53.
WOFFORD 0, South Carolina 19.
CITADEL 7, Florida 27.
CLEMSON 19, Erskine 0.
N. C. STATE 0, WAKE FOREST 0.
CAROLINA 6, Georgia 6 (tie).

Pearce Leads Wildkittens to 21-6 Victory Over Terriers

Davidson Freshmen Combine Near-Perfect Blocking With Aerial Attack to Defeat Wofford

With Johnny Pearce leading the way with his two touchdown jaunts, the Davidson Freshmen gridders took a 21-6 victory over
the little Terriers of Wofford last Friday in Charleston. Cumbie scored once for the Wildkittens on a pass from Burns,
and Pearce scored twice, once by the aerial route and again on a scintillating 70-yard gallop off tackle. Davidson appeared
to have the upper hand throughout the contest, and only for a short while near the close of the game
did the Wofford aggregation show any tricky play. The younger generation of Terriers put on a dazzling passing attack that
placed the ball on the Kittens’ two-yard stripe, but here the thin red line held, and the ball went over.
The Wofford touchdown in the first quarter was made on a pass, and no really great offensive was shown by
them until that last-quarter drive. Pearce, Pittman and Burns were outstanding performers in the Davidson backfield, and Captain Henry Cathey
stood out in the line. Hawes, Anderson and Milliken were the best the Wofford boys could offer. After the early
Wofford touchdown, Davidson kicked off. Unable to gain, the Terriers punted. On the first down Johnny Pearce slid off tackle,
and with perfect interference was away for 70 yards and the initial Davidson touchdown. Pittman converted from placement. The second
Davidson touchdown came (Continued on page 6)

“You and I” Given to Charlotte Audience

The play, “You and I,” by Philip Barry, was presented in Charlotte last Wednesday, Thursday and Friday nights by members
of the Little Theatre. The opening night found a large crowd in attendance. The lovers of the histrionic art spent
a most enjoyable evening as this light drama was being well portrayed. The play dealt with the old theme of
love and duty, with love, as it should, carrying off the honors. The cast, including Miss Celia Wadsworth, Mr. Lawrence
Miller, Mrs. Samuel Walker Brown, Mr. Harry Blaising, Miss Virginia Deane, Mr. Frank Green, and Mr. C. M. Hassell, presented
the play in a most creditable manner, avoiding the usual awkwardness of amateurs. The maid “Etta,” as played by Miss
Virginia Deane, furnished the comic relief. The acting of Mr. Harry Blaising as “Maitland White” and Mr. Lawrence Miller as
“Roderick White” was above the average.

Johnson’s Barber Shop
“Four Out of Five College Men Come Here”
115 W. 4th St., Charlotte

LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOPPE
“The Original Sandwich Shop”
VISIT US and Davidson

NOTICE
Have your shoes rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Work done while you wait.
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

Bulldogs of The Citadel at Charleston, S. C.! As for the outcome, we think Davidson will have no great difficulty
in annexing another victory. The Citadel holds a 12-6 victory over V. M. I., while Davidson is just back with
a 12-0 victory. Comparative scores would indicate a one-touchdown victory for the ’Cats. We, however, consider the fact that Davidson
should have beaten V. M. I. by a greater score than 12-0, and also the fact that the Bulldogs will
be without the services of Jeff Clark, their star end, who broke his leg in the Florida game last Saturday,
and predict a three-touchdown victory for Davidson.

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”
Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“SODAS” “SUNDRIES”

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
PRINTING AND ENGRAVING
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE
EDW. O. GUERRANT

See Our DAVIDSON REPRESENTATIVES
A. M. MANSON
