THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 4, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRANT................. Editor-in-Chief
P. M. CONWAY.......................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
G. S. LEAGUE.......................... Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK......................... Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON....................... Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS......................... Managing Editor
ODI CASALI............................ Athletic Editor
E. E. WHAW............................ Exchange Editor
H. H. HILL............................. Feature Editor
G. P. NORWOOD......................... Feature Editor
D. D. DIXON........................... Associate Editor
R. L. HARRIS.......................... Associate Editor
C. F. HARRIS.......................... Associate Editor
B. B. BROWN........................... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. BROWN.......................... Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE.......................... Assistant Business Manager
W. J. WHITTE.......................... Assistant Business Manager
A. R. ORR............................. Subscription Manager
W. T. TURNER.......................... Solicitor
J. F. NEAL............................ Solicitor
J. B. WOOTTON........................ Solicitor
A. H. HUNTER.......................... Solicitor

I. B. VARNER.......................... President
P. S. ROAN............................ Vice-President
LEWIS................................. Secretary-Treasurer

M. W. ALDERMAN
L. L. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN
V. L. McILWAIN
G. E. BAILEY
E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY
W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES
W. L. NORTHEN
J. E. BOWERS
C. E. NORVELL
J. E. BOY
E. L. POWELL
J. H. COVINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON
P. M. ROGER
J. B. FICKLIN
R. L. ROSE
G. L. GULLETTE
T. H. HELLEGER
N. W. WALLACE
J. C. HENRY
K. D. EKS
A. HUNTER
W. R. WARD
E. L. LORRAINE
W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD
J. W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS
J. PRATT-THOMAS

MAY 4, 1932

We are never without help. We have no right to say of any good work, it is too hard for me to do; or of any sorrow, it is too hard for me to bear; or of any sinful habit, it is too hard for me to overcome. —Elizabeth Charles.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

The second anniversary of the student body banquet was run off successfully and also very impressively last week. One of the main features of the affair was the playing of the North Carolinians. This orchestra has improved greatly in the last two months and they seem more harmonious to us than many better-known orchestras.

This past weekend the pulchritude at Salem College was resplendent at the annual May Day program. Those members of our student body who were fortunate enough to attend, enjoyed themselves to the fullest extent.

This new honorary pre-medical fraternity, Pi Delta Alpha, has proved itself to be one of the most active organizations on the campus, despite its youthfulness. They are to be commended on securing such a man as Dr. O. L. Miller to lecture here.

According to various authorities on music, and among them Dean Vardell of Salem College, Miss Charlotte Lockwood is one of the foremost organists in the country. Everyone on the campus on May 5, when she will appear here, should make every effort possible to attend this recital.

A TRIBUTE

In writing an editorial of this kind it is extremely difficult to treat with the subject successfully, since the facts are so well known. This short article contains nothing which is not already evident, and it would take an abler pen than ours to do justice to this subject. We wish this sketch merely to be taken as a reflection of the facts already widely known on the campus at Davidson.

Carl Pritchett came to Davidson in the fall of 1926 as a freshman and in each of the four years he spent here as a student he attained great distinction, climaxed by his election to the position of president of the student body in his senior year. Throughout the four years he was a student his work was largely connected with the Y. M. C. A., in which he was vitally interested. At his graduation in June, 1930, the position of Y. M. C. A. secretary was left vacant when Camper O’Neal left at the end of this college year. Mr. O’Neal was a very efficient and effective worker, and as this place is a very important one, it was doubly hard to fill. Because of his interest in the “Y,” and in working with boys, this position was offered to him. His acceptance was enthusiastically received, and this position has been extremely well filled in the past two years. His executive ability coupled with his personality and understanding of college students and their vicissitudes, has made him invaluable as an advisor and a friend. After two years in this position he has decided to leave Davidson and enter the Seminary. It is with a feeling of regret that we are forced to part with a person with such a character and personality, but we are sure that his future will be even more outstanding than his past. We are confident that Carl Pritchett will succeed in whatever branch of the ministry he undertakes and that he will leave his mark of Christian service on everything which he may undertake in the future. Although we dislike to see him leave, we rejoice to know that he will have a far wider, but no more appreciative, field for his work.

OPEN FORUM

We have been wondering about thought. So many of our speakers come here and flatter us by presenting numberless problems which they say we college students must solve. They tell us that the problems of the world are ours and yet we cannot even so much as prophesy the outcome of the next track meet. They tell us to get a stick, go down to our stone wall, sit, whittle, and meditate. And yet we wonder whether or not we would accomplish anything by sitting there a whole day. Somehow we do without thinking—no need for it, perhaps. And then, the world will get along without our efforts. We tried keeping a journal, imitating, as it were, our old friend, Emerson, jotting down all of those brilliant flashes which come to all of us once in a while, as surprises and revelations of old, yet new truths, but the journal looked rather bare with one or two weeks between every thought. We asked what was the matter with our thought-life and our mode of living. After all, all of us spend most of our college days under our present system discovering and correlating facts and practically none of our time in wise generalization and direct application. Our minds are supposed to be golden treasuries; but the heaps of gold have tumbled over and we stand confused to know where we are. Is it only the genius or the fanatic who has thoughts, who believes he knows his mind, who can influence the lives of others? Here is the epitome of the whole matter: a student comes to our campus, becomes adjusted to our life, attends classes for a while, goes to our meetings, all the time expecting great inspiration and stimulation; he expects to lead a new life, to see new vistas unfolding before him, to be almost lifted out of his former self. But he fails to find that new inspiration, the greater stimulation, only too often, and at the end of four years, except for the increase in factual knowledge, he leaves school intellectually, culturally, and sometimes even spiritually the same man he was when he entered. Where shall we look for our weaknesses? Of course, we must first examine ourselves. Some of us enter Davidson poorly prepared for college work; some of us are immature and youthful not only in body but also in mind; and worst of all, some of us enter without that quickening desire for knowledge, for understanding, for truth, for that breaking out of these bodies of ours into something less earthly, more spiritual. Then, too, we are rather provincial in both speech and thought, and we lack that cosmopolitanism which only the convention of students and professors from many sections of our country can give. We need a certain infusion of new, even startling ideas, ideas which will break through our crust of indifference and self-satisfaction. We need the leavening agency of personalities, queer personalities, personalities hard to understand but delightful when fully appreciated. And almost paradoxically perhaps, we need the drive from home. The Jewish people, like every other people, has its faults, but serious as their faults may be, they never restrain or hold this race back from taking every opportunity and pushing it to the limit; theirs is an inward drive from the father and mother and family; theirs is the desire to cut through every barrier in the road to success. We are blessed, to be sure, by ample bank accounts and checks, but all of us need more the moral support of a cheering team back home. Further than that, we suffer from a dearth of courses in which the major emphasis is placed upon thought. How much thought is provoked or evoked by the average curriculum? Our language courses deal with thoughts, but emphasize expression and form and correctness. Our mathematics courses deal with thinking, but stress the method. And those vital courses which should lead to the revelational and stimulating are too often so guarded as to leave no place and sometimes no inclination for questioning or discussion. And finally we are children of our age. There is no reason to believe that our predecessors did much more thinking than we; they had other activities to occupy them even as we; they had their agricultural pursuits, taking no small part of their time; they had less equipment and a smaller library; they had a smaller student body and an outlook on life more provincial by reason of slow transportation and communication. But we of nineteen thirty-two have other affairs—our sports, our social engagements, our trips over the states, our weekends abroad. And while these engagements have their broadening influences, they cause forgetfulness of the “sweet food of academic institution,” of “plain living and high thinking.” But why look at the seamy side of the picture? We are the children of our age and our country: America as a whole is suffering from growing pains, but she is awakening from her great cultural sleep to find that she has one opportunity denied to Europe, to see the beginning, the development, the fruition of a new culture; her dance, her music, her painting, her poetry, her theater, even her great cathedrals are just in the period of conception. And particularly during these more serious times, the minds of workers are turning from foolish spending to work, and the minds of the students from “collegiatism” to study. This great movement is reflected in our lives: our professors hail an increased interest in study on the students’ part and on the part of the professors, the students are constantly demanding more and more approach to perfection. So it is onward then, to a bigger and better Davidson!

—Frederick Hellegers.Deeply appreciated, field in which to work after his Seminary days.

Keyhole Komment
By CASKIE NORVELL

Well, the latest one they’ve tried on us is that they’re not going to let the Pan-Hellenic Council have final dances this year. How much truth there is in it, we don’t know, but that noted woman, Dame Rumor, hath it that final dances, shin-digs, and similar celebrations will be taboo this year. If you want to know more about it, meet the committee (any of them) and ask them about it.

Another irrepressible freshman came through in Dr. “Jerry” McConnell’s first period history class the other day, and said that the illustrious senatorial prospect’s brother had made public that Dr. “Jerry” was running for Senator on his (Dr. J. W.’s) popularity. Our good professor vociferously denied the statement, and also announced that he did not choose to run for Senator in 1932. Amid many huzzahs and catcalls, his class was summarily dismissed.

This grieves us deeply to print this, but we feel that we owe it to our scandal-loving public to let them know that our football captain, “Bud” Raker, was narrowly defeated in a heated campaign for class poet.

Another thing that has come to our attention is that the freshmen and sophomores have two exams on the last day. And not only that, but they’re going to let us go to school two extra days.

Your correspondent was recently informed by one of his sleuths that one of the more broad-minded Freshmen was now having his underwear made by the Mammoth Tent and Awning Co. This isn’t who you think it is, so we fooled you on that. Just look around you for Mammoth labels, and you'll soon find out who he is.

One of Davidson’s most prominent fraternities broke into the limelight last Thursday night by running off one of the most delightful games of hide and seek seen on the campus in some time. However, alas, alack, and other expressions! One woman drove up in a car, and the game ended on the spot as she was showered with attention by the assembled “Greeks.”

Marbles are again with us. Captain Bill and Manager “C. R.” will be glad to arrange for matches in front of Georgia for any afternoon in the week. Due to the former’s uncanny skill with the spheres, he has been declared campus champion, and will take on all comers. Look what The Observer tournament missed.

We were looking over the absence list recently, and we've come to the conclusion that several of our number are taking an hour’s credit course in meeting the committee.

The yellow sweater club of the fourth floor West appears to be the newest social organization on the campus. The flower is the pansy, and the members all dress in yellow sweaters, and the pledges only have yellow spots on their sweaters. Rushing prospects include anyone who wears yellow ties or socks. There is such an organization. My fourth-floor man told me of the goings-on in the penthouse of West.

One of the inmates of Penthouse Watts has taken to keeping mice for a hobby. He has a fine collection of five, which he caught with an ingenious device, an invention of his, and which he is justly proud of. He has all of his rats named and well trained. They are on exhibition, and he will be glad to show them at any time.

“The Wet Parade” and “The Mouthpiece” were well worth seeing at the local cinema shanty during the past week. According to advance rumors, you shouldn’t miss “Tarzan, the Ape Man,” and “The Woman in Room 13.” They’re both here this week.

During the speeches, supposedly short, at the student body banquet last week, one of the more austere gentlemen waxed eloquent, and orated at extreme length, in fact for a good fifteen minutes or longer. There ought to be a law. Aside from that, it was a rip-roaring success, and a fine custom, and deserves the support of all the students.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Converse
Converse has secured for its commencement speakers this year Dr. Andrew Sledd, professor of New Testament Greek in the School of Theology at Emory University in Atlanta, who will preach the baccalaureate sermon Sunday morning, May 15, and Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, president of Washington and Lee University, who will deliver the commencement day address on Wednesday morning, May 18.

Washington and Lee
A while back a few of the Washington and Lee boys attended the first dance that Hollins has ever held. Naturally, as the dance was held at Hollins, the girls asked the boys up, had to introduce them, and break on them. A good many of the supposed “power-houses” with the women found that they were not so powerful but had to sit out many a dance alone or with some other fellow-sufferer. The boys who were least expected to be popular got the biggest rush. If any Davidson boys do anything like that it is up to my friend across the page, Keyhole Komment, to find it out and tell us something about it.

V. M. I.
From Air Echoes, a part of The Cadet:
Remember?— “One-tube sets that squealed and squeaked to high heaven... “My Blue Heaven”... Ted Husing describing the Floyd Bennett funeral in a driving rainstorm... “Ro-World Spectator

The University of Pittsburgh has adopted a new system of instruction in which the classroom will be a thing of the past. The students will sign up for a course and will study whenever and wherever they please. If they have any questions or difficulties, they are to confer with their professors. The only meeting of the class is at the time of the final examination, at which time they are tested on all the subject matter they have covered. This new system is not to be applied to all the classes, but certain requirements are necessary for the student to be allowed to take the “informal or conference” courses. If the progress of the students is not satisfactory, back they go to the classroom. This system of instruction has been experimented with for several years and it has been found that with some students the plan works, while in other cases the freedom is too much.

The trial of Lt. T. M. Massie, Mrs. Massie, Mrs. Fortescue, E. J. Lord, and A. O. Jones for the murder of Joe Kahahawai in Honolulu has possibilities of setting up racial trouble in Hawaii. This trial, which was caused by the death of Kahahawai some time after he and some other Hawaiian half-casts had assaulted the wife of the naval officer, has about drawn to a close. The thing which is most likely to stir up racial trouble is an incident in the process of the trial in which Mrs. Massie tore up some of the state’s evidence without any of the court officials intervening. Since Hawaii is populated by many races, the natives may conclude that great partiality is being shown in the halls of justice on the islands. They may consider that if a native woman were to be in Mrs. Massie’s place, the court would not have let the incident pass, but would have inflicted some penalty for the tearing up of the document. At present, no actions have been seen, but it is known that Hawaii is a very fertile hot-bed for any racial trouble which might start from a very small source.

If you use newspaper space as the test for the best-known American in England, it has been found that Al Capone is the most familiar to the English. The British papers, which after all are no different from American ones, play up all the happenings of the gangster and any other famous (or infamous) character whose actions are exciting or different. After all, people read papers for entertainment and would rather read something exciting or daring than the everyday happenings which probably have a greater influence upon them.

A proof that the world is not satisfied with the present conditions is the outbreak in New Zealand in which a riot raged on the streets of Auckland, the capital, for two nights. However, some think that the rioting was not caused by social unrest or unemployment because of the fact that food shops were not bothered in the looting of the stores of Auckland. This shows that it was not a hungry mob, and the large percent of youths in the mob shows that serious social unrest was not the cause either. Therefore, the only solution for the question is to believe that the mob was made up of hooligans who were desirous of vandalizing the shops for no good reason whatsoever. However, the fact remains that a great deal of damage was done, and the riot was quelled only after the police, marines, and firemen had been called to the scene. It may be that there is an underlying reason for this outbreak which has not been disclosed to the rest of the world.

In an English schoolroom recently an amusing incident occurred. The Prince of Wales was visiting the school, and all the pupils were thronging around him. In the congestion, the Prince stepped upon the foot of one of the little boys. When he found this out, His Royal Highness presented his foot and gave the little schoolboy permission to step upon it. The boy took him at his word and clamped his foot down upon the toes of the Prince.

The United States Treasury Department is soon to start the circulation of a new twenty-five cent piece. The reason for this change is that the experts believe that the present quarter does not have the wearing qualities that it should have. It has been said that instead of having the figure of a woman on one side and an eagle on the other, the new coin will be stamped with the head of George Washington. How soon the new coin will appear is not known.

“Ramona” (who wouldn’t?)... Moran and Mack, the two black crows... Gene Austin... Vincent Lopez broadcasting the first Sunday jazz program and the sensation he created.”

Walter Winchell is out for about a month with a nervous breakdown, Louis Sobol, another New York newspaper man, is taking his place. Carry on Louis and Caskie.

Good Victor records of recent recording are: “Somebody Loves You” (Pickens Sisters), “Sing a New Song” (Coon-Sanders), “Lovable” and “Too Many Tears” (Leo Reisman), “You're the One” (Waring Pennsylvanians), “Downhearted” (George Olsen), and “Who Played Poker With Pocahontas—When John Smith Was Away” (Fletcher Henderson).

Auburn
We may have crips up here at Davidson, but look at some of the subjects that credits are given in other schools throughout the country. At Temple University, credit is given for courses in social etiquette; at Barnard, for a course in resting; New York University for the course in personality development, and Southern California gives credit for a course of genealogy to get the students to look up their family tree. Why not a course in bull sessions?