THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 21, 1932

WILDCATS OPEN AGAINST DUKE SATURDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

P. J.C. MEETS FRESHMEN HERE FRIDAY

When we were considering the chances of the Wildcats for the year in last week’s issue, we had high expectations for them, but after listening to Coach Newton’s opinion and noticing that several of the state’s sports writers have picked Davidson to take possession of the cellar berth in the Big Five standings, we're almost afraid to even predict an outcome for the Duke-Davidson game. We were all ready to prophesy a 12-0 victory for Davidson over the Blue Devils, basing our opinion on several facts. Davidson's varsity outplayed Wallace Wade's team here last year and, despite a 0-0 score, showed that the Wildcats were the best team on the field during the day. Hence, we concede Davidson six points. Davidson's Freshman team, despite a 6-0 defeat, played the Duke Freshmen on even terms, having scored one touchdown which officials ruled void because a pass was caught beyond the end zone. The Wildkittens played at Durham and without the services of several regulars. Both varsity teams lost seven regulars by graduation, but Davidson lost no Kid Brewer. Any vacancies filled by the reserves or members of the 1931 Freshmen teams could not boost one team's chances above the other, but Kid Brewer's loss to Duke means gain for Davidson. Hence, we boost Davidson’s chances again, and concede her twelve points.

Wildcat Gridiron Generals

Captain U. B. Richard A. Whitfield, Jr., of Hackettstown, N. J., will guide the Wildcats against their opponents on the football field this fall. Alternate Captain “Buddy” Gardner, of Decatur, Ga., has been the pivot man for Davidson for the past two years, and was captain of the 1929 Freshman eleven. Whitfield, a tackle, earned the title of “Iron Man” last season by playing almost every minute of all the Wildcat games. Both are Seniors.

Davidson Wildcats Will Wear Lighter Equipment

New and lighter football equipment will be worn by the Wildcats on the gridiron this fall. In fact, Coach Newton was so concerned in the weight of the uniforms that he had them tailored to measure for his best thirty-five prospects. The pants will be made of windblown balloon cloth, the same kind of goods used in making air balloons. The color will be brown, with a knitted strip of red cloth up the side of the legs. Jerseys will be of knit cloth, red in color, with black numerals on the back. The same jerseys will be worn for all games which the Wildcats play. Shoulder pads are of special design and lighter than those used at Davidson in past years. They are made of canter layer cloth, and instead of being padded are composed in two sections in order to offer more protection than the ones used last season. The helmets are black in color with red stripes running over the top. They are similar to, but lighter than, helmets used at Davidson in past years.

Freshmen Open Season Here Friday Afternoon

Presbyterian Junior College Will Furnish Opposition to Wildkittens in First Game of Schedule

Davidson students will be able to see just how well Coaches Laird and Mathis have molded a Freshman team for this year, when their proteges take the field here Friday afternoon against Presbyterian Junior College. In scrimmages held against the varsity this week, the Freshmen showed unusual strength, although not so powerful as the 1931 yearlings. The Wildkittens should win, however, by a three-touchdown margin.

Intramural competition in campus football will begin some time next week, it was announced by Heath Whittle, who is in charge. Captains for the different classes are being chosen. The schedule includes one game between each of the classes. Coach Whittle is making plans for the annual Freshman cake race, which will be run on a 1.7 mile course again this year. Prizes will be awarded to the 20 Freshmen who run the distance in the shortest time. The race is held annually to discover material among the Freshmen for distance running.

But Coach Doc Newton is of a different opinion, “First,” says Newton, “we're playing in Duke’s stadium, and then besides the 0-0 tie which Davidson held them to last year will make it all the harder to beat them this year.” Newton also reminds us that Wallace Wade has had two years in which to install his system at Duke, while a new style of play is being used here for the first time this season. And in addition to all this, Wade has been working with his squad two periods each day since Labor Day, and will continue to hold two workouts until September 22nd when the school opens. Newton, on the other hand, has had to be content with only one practice session daily since September 8th. This means that the Blue Devils will be better drilled in fundamentals, will have a smoother working offense, and will be better on the defense than the Wildcats. To put it in Newton’s own words, “Davidson’s squad is not mentally equipped to furnish any great opposition to a first-class ball club.” “If Davidson holds Duke to two touchdowns,” says the Wildcat mentor, “we'll be tickled to death. And if Duke does not beat us by at least three touchdowns, then the Blue Devils are a rotten bunch of football players.” No, personally, we do not think that Duke will beat Davidson. We've heard about and seen Wildcat elevens, far inferior to this year’s team, which have defeated teams more powerful than anything Wallace Wade will be able to trot out this year. And we think that Davidson can beat Duke if the Wildcats can be aroused to that determination.

Newton and McEver to Make Debut Saturday When ’Cats Meet Devils

Squad of Thirty-five Men Will Journey to Durham—Battle Duke in Opening Game

A band of thirty-five Wildcats will journey to Durham Friday afternoon to engage their first football game under the new coaching team on the following afternoon, when they encounter Duke.Duke University’s Blue Devils. It will be the first time since 1923 that a Davidson team has taken its position under the direction of a coaching staff not composed of Monk Younger and Tex Tilson. A new combination consisting of Doc Newton and Gene McEver will make its bow to the football world Saturday afternoon when the Wildcats take the field at Durham. The spectacle will be novel in several respects as the Davidson team is concerned. The Wildcats will be playing the season's opener away from home for the first time in many years. For the past few seasons, Davidson has opened her schedule by meeting Elon College on Richardson Field, but the Christians do not appear on the Wildcat card at all this year.

Davidson's representatives will employ the Tennessee style of play for the first time when they take the field this weekend. This type of play is somewhat different from the V.P.I. style which they have utilized in the past and calls for a balanced line with the quarterback receiving the ball just under the center or faking back. A single wing back formation is characteristic of the style which necessitates plenty of speed as well as power.

One of the heaviest lines which has ever represented the Maroon and Black will appear in the opening game. Coach Newton has not picked his possible starters, but should he trot out the line combination he has favored the past week, Davidson will present a line averaging no less than 194 pounds. Davidson's backfield, on the other hand, will not be as heavy as usual. No possible backfield combination that McEver can assemble will average more than 165 pounds, while it may average several pounds less.

Last year the Wildcats held a strong Duke eleven, coached by the famed Wallace Wade, to a scoreless tie in a gridiron battle filled throughout with thrills. Duke kicked off and on successive plays the Wildcats drove the ball to the Blue Devils' 16-yard line, only to lose possession of it when a Davidson pass went incomplete over the goal line. For the first three quarters, the Wildcats, roused to an unbeatable spirit before a small Home-Coming crowd, kept the ball in Duke territory, and it was not until the final period that the Blue Devils were able to even threaten Davidson's goal, when they completed several long passes which placed them in scoring distance.

Duke will be represented this year by a team almost entirely different from the 1931 Blue Devils. Seven regulars were lost by graduation, but their berths have been filled by snappy sophomores and reserves who are exceptionally well drilled in the fundamentals of the game. Just what Wade’s starting lineup will be is not known, but he will present a team which has already been picked by Coach Collins of North Carolina University and several prominent sports writers to win the state championship. Duke should put a better-drilled eleven on the field Saturday than Davidson.

Practice opened at both schools on Labor Day with each holding two practice sessions a day. Davidson had to reduce its workouts to one a day after September 8th, when the school opened. Duke, on the other hand, has been able to continue with two sessions a day, as that university does not open until September 22nd. In addition, Coach Wade has had his style of play installed at Duke for the past two years, while Davidson is using a new one for the first time. Although Newton and McEver have given no starting lineup, the selection will be made from the following: Morris, Morgan, Howard, Cannon, and Batte, ends; Ross, Rives, center; Whitfield, Wagner, Severs, and Fleagle, tackles; Hand, Ogden, Forte, McCraven, and Potter, guards; and Captain Gardner. A starting combination of backs will be selected from Pearce, Peabody, Mackorell, Wilson, Dickenson, Hutchins, Wingfield, West, Mills, Caton, Flinn, and Clark.

FINE SPIRIT SHOWN (Continued from page 1)

To Duke from here, Mr. Allen has said that it will be possible to run two buses. One leaving at 8:30 in the morning and one leaving after chapel on Saturday morning. Allen also said that if it is possible, the wildcat will be taken along to tear the Blue Devil up in Durham. As has been previously announced, students will be able to get into the game Saturday for fifty cents if they present their student ticket at the gate in Durham.

Duke-Davidson Scores
Year Duke Davidson
1922 12 0
1923 18 6
1924 13 21
1925 0 26
1926 0 20
1927 48 7
1928 33 0
1929 12 13
1930 12 0
1931 0 0

NOTICE
Have your shoes rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP. Work done while you wait.
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

For real artistic service in barbering go to NORTON’S BARBER SHOP. SERVES Davidson Students

The Student Store
B. F. ALLEN, MANAGER
A. L. THOMPSON