THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 19, 1932

The Silver Screen

Wednesday, Oct. 19—Pack Up Your Troubles—(M-G-M) Laurel and Hardy in their second full-length comedy and guaranteed to make you “buck
up.” The story is involved with their adventures as two discharged doughboys entrusted with the care of a dead pal's
little daughter. As in most stories of this type, the two comedians attempt to solve a problem, but each solution
creates new problems of increasing complexity until at last, chance solves the original problem. Jacquie Lyn, as the child, plays
her part well. This is the type of picture that always brings the laughs.

Thursday, Oct. 20—Madison Square Garden—(Paramount) A colorful and thrilling classic of the world of sport as it passes in this
center with such stars as Jack Oakie, Marion Nixon, Zasu Pitts, Thomas Meighan, and William Boyd; such famous champions as
Jack Johnson, Tom Sharkey, Tommy Ryan, and Mike Donlin; and such sports writers as Damon Runyon, Jack Lait, Grantland Rice,
and Westbrook Pegler.

Friday, Oct. 21—Thirteen Women—(RKO) Myrna Loy as an Indian mystic sets about the task of killing thirteen sorority sisters who
snubbed her ten years before when she was at St. Albans. The method she chooses, mental suggestion, is new to
the cinema. The three most important of the thirteen women are Irene Dunne, Myrna Loy, and Kay Johnson. The chief
male actor is Ricardo Cortez. The disconnected scenes are a bit confusing at first but otherwise it is good entertainment.

Saturday, Oct. 22—Night After Night Constance Cummings (“Washington Merry-Go-Round”) plays in her usual pleasing and entertaining style while George Raft
ably portrays his role.

Monday, Oct. 24—Cabin In The Cotton—(First National) The story, by Professor Paul Green of the University of North Carolina, is
concerned with the rise of Richard Barthelmess from the son of a poverty-stricken tenant farmer to a leader of the
new South. After the death of his father, Barthelmess is taken into the household of a rich planter to be
educated, but while he is growing up the tenants and landlords are constantly at war. Finally, matters come to a
crisis with the burning of a landlord's store. At this point, Barthelmess presents a plan of co-operation which is accepted
by both landlords and tenants and seems destined to lead the South to new economic progress. The problem presented is
unique to the cinema, the story is well written, the acting as a whole is fine, and the photography is
occasionally striking. But, oh those affected Southern accents!

State Game Will Aid Junior League Cause

Part of Proceeds Will Be Used to Forward Organization’s Work

When Davidson plays North Carolina State College in Charlotte on Saturday, November 5th, it will be under the auspices of
the Junior League of Charlotte. This league is composed of one hundred representative Charlotte women. In it, certain civic work
is carried on by the members, these women giving a great amount of aid to the hospitals there. Another main
purpose of the organization is the operation of a baby home where small children whose parents are unable to give
them the proper attention they need are well provided for. The Junior League makes its money to a great extent
by sponsoring various activities in and around Charlotte and by contributions from all those who are able to help. Each
year they undertake a various number of things to make money, and this year one of them is the sponsoring
of the game between State and Davidson. This game will be played in Charlotte at the Central High School Stadium.
Certain proceeds from the gate receipts will go toward the maintenance of the league. In return for getting proceeds from
the game, the league is trying to interest as many people as they can to come to the game so
that a big crowd will be in attendance.

N. C. C. W. HOLDS IMPRESSIVE SERVICE

(Continued from page 1)

direction. We can’t always do this; we sometimes must call for aid.” Miss Bowles declared that there is presence around
us, and we see a picture of Christ with His crown of thorns, and He is saying, “I came here
that you might be saved.” Christ is the God of the living. As everything fades we come back to real
things; from thought to actuality. The teachings of Christ are a philosophy that works. We realize that we must live
an abundant life. Great men live and die, but when Christ was crucified, His fellowmen called Him King. Miss Bowles
concluded her talk by leading the congregation in prayer. The young ladies in the deputation were Miss Lucy Crisp, secretary
of the Y. W. C. A.; Miss A. V. Poe, president; Miss Mildred Bowles, Miss Sue Ray, and Miss Edna
Williams.

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago

FIVE YEARS AGO

Five men from among the student body received the highestHonor that can be awarded in collegiate circles when they were
extended bids last Saturday by Phi Beta Kappa, national scholarship society. The men so distinguished were: D. H. Howard, Lynchburg,
Va.; H. B. Arbuckle, Jr., Davidson, N. C.; C. G. Davidson, Chester, S. C.; J. S. Grey, Richmond, Va., and
J. S. McAllister, Greensboro, N. C.

Captain “Dick” Grey and his red and black teammates ran roughshod over Elon Saturday afternoon on Richardson Field to ring
up their fourth consecutive victory of the season. Elon brought out trick play after trick play in an effort to
cross the Davidson goal line, but all in vain. Grey and his ’Cats came out on the long end of
a 27-0 score.

Again members of the Davidson faculty have published books. Dr. Frazer Hood's “Every Man’s Insurance,” and Dr. C. K. Brown’s
“State Movement in Railroad Development,” are the latest works completed by Davidson men. Both these books are on economic questions.
Dr. Hood's “Every Man’s Insurance” has been off the press for some time, while Dr. Brown’s work is expected off
the press during the middle of December.

TEN YEARS AGO, OCT. 19, 1922

New Chambers, for months a beautiful dream to the students and alumni of Davidson, has emerged from the infant stage
of fancy, and is now a concrete, tangible thing toward which the eyes of Southern Presbyterians are focused. The new
building will be situated on the site where historic old Chambers stood and in general make-up will resemble the old
structure from the exterior view. An effort will be made to use the four old columns that now stand as
a relic of the early days of the college, but in case this cannot be done they will be reproduced
as nearly as possible.

The Davidson Wildcats were held to a tie on Wearn Field last Saturday afternoon by Wake Forest when Heckman shot
a 30-yard pass to Johnnie Johnstone, who raced down the field 45 yards to a touchdown. The final score was
6-6. When the final whistle blew the Baptists had staved off defeat for one more year.

Senior week, 1922, will usher in a new era in the annals of Davidson College, a new precedent in the
history of classes, and, above all, the wittiest and best-looking bunch of Seniors that have ever trod these sacred walks
of learning. The Seniors are going to don derbies!

RHODES SCHOLARSHIP CANDIDATES APPROVED

(Continued from page 1)

Take place December 10, at which time all candidates must appear personally. Two men will then be appointed to go
before the District Committee (including six states), which will in turn choose four men from the twelve as the 1932
Rhodes Scholars from the district. North Carolina is in the district with Virginia, Georgia, Florida, Tennessee, and South Carolina. As
there are eight other districts, there will be 32 Rhodes Scholars selected from this country for next year.

Dr. G. R. Vowles, who has charge of the group at Davidson, wishes to make it clear that those appearing
before the State Committees are not required to stand an examination. They merely are interviewed and questioned by the committee,
which then proceeds to make its selections. To win one of these scholarships is not only a great financial aid
in studying at Oxford, but also a most coveted honor. Only those who have high scholastic ability and are of
high character are chosen.

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY
“PACK UP YOUR TROUBLES”
STAN LAUREL—OLIVER HARDY

THURSDAY
“MADISON SQUARE GARDEN”

FRIDAY
“THIRTEEN WOMEN”
IRENE DUNNE—RICHARD CORTEZ

SATURDAY
“NIGHT AFTER NIGHT”
GEORGE RAFT—CONSTANCE CUMMINGS

MONDAY
“CABIN IN THE COTTON”
RICHARD BARTHELMESS

The tobacco that is cut best for pipes might be termed “whittle cut” or “rough cut,” like Granger. It requires
a type of tobacco different from the tobacco used for chewing tobacco or cigarettes. Then again, Granger is made by
Wellman’s Method. Granger has a pleasing aroma. It is slow burning and cool. Just try it!

You can depend on a Liggett & Myers product.
