THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 16, 1932

BOOK REVIEW

The Green Bay Tree. By Louis Bromfield.

The withering of the bay tree was dreaded as an omen of death in mythological history. Lily Shane in this
novel was the bay tree, which remained green. Although she became aged in years, she was not aged in beauty
and spirit. The dread of excessive avoirdupois and wrinkles and other betrayals of antiquity was held by her, and she
took the necessary precautions with the aid of beauty specialists of the Rue de la Paix.

The first scene of The Green Bay Tree is in a thriving, middle-western city. The Shane family, inhabitants of Shane’s
Castle on Cypress Hill, was the pioneer family to this present metropolis. The immediate household was composed of the mother,
Julia Shane, and her two daughters, Irene and Lily. The two girls were in complete antithesis in character. Irene, the
younger, was childish, undeveloped, and neurotic; her actions were queer at times, due probably to her timidness. Lily became a
woman early in her life; she loved crowds and good times, different, and thus farther apart.

Lily, undoubtedly the heroine of the novel, has a questionable encounter with a male visitor to their home; and in
several months leaves for Paris to live with an old friend, Gigon. A son, called Jean, is born and is
reared thinking his mother is a widow, Madame Shane. Irene goes to the opposite extreme, and becomes a welfare worker
in the steel factories, which border on Cypress Hill. Here she falls in love with a Ukrainian worker, Krylenko. Her
love would not seem to be the passionate type of love of Lily, but just a stilted and Puritan type
of love. She devotes her present life to this work, since her mother forbade her entering a convent. She is
ashamed of her sister’s life and repeatedly prays for them.

Julia Shane, the mother, is a pitiful character. Her husband was untrue to her; while she was attempting to learn
how to become the mistress of the Shane home in a school in France, John Shane was having a good
time with his mistresses in Southern France. The only pleasure she got out of life was fighting the town officials,
who wanted to buy Cypress Hill, so that they could raise on its site a railway terminal; another pleasure was
the nursing of her antagonism toward the Harrisons, owners of the mills. She was a very interesting character, and dies
much too soon, leaving Irene her legacy in currency (which she uses in the interest of the poor), and bequeathing
Lily the home, the famous Shane jewels, and some currency.

Lily, having come home from Paris because of the sickness of her mother, was found by Irene in a suggestive
position with Krylenko, whom the former had begun to love. Nothing had gone on between these two, and Irene’s accusation
was false. Lily returned to Paris, and Irene later went to France and entered a convent. Madame Shane gave numerous
salons in Paris enjoying life to the utmost. Her son Jean was a young man now, and Ellen, whom she
has helped become a famous pianist, lives with her. The World War breaks out. Lily and her son are enlisted.
The former is killed, and Jean loses one of his legs. Madame Gigon dies. Lily marries M. de Cyon, one
of her suitors, who was a widower. Lily finally sells the much-coveted Shane's Castle. Irene dies in the convent after
thirteen years of seclusion. The father of Lily’s son is in Paris at a political convention; they meet for a
moment and then part. Krylenko, who had been deported to his country by the United States government, dies of typhus.
Lily lives the remainder of her life in Paris with de Cyon.

Louis Bromfield is interesting mainly for his description. One of the first beautiful passages that surpasses everything that I have
ever read: “On her thin fingers she wore rings set with amethysts and diamonds, and about her neck hung a
chain of amethysts caught in a setting of old Spanish silver. The chain reached twice about her thin throat and
hung to her knees. She had been standing on the piazza, a little withdrawn from her guests, all the afternoon
because she knew that the mauve of her gown and the dull lavender sparkle of the amethysts blended superbly with
the wisteria.” Anyone who had not previously been fond of amethysts or anything of like color would be made to
love it. You can see the scintillations from these lavender stones, and also the handsome, drooping clusters of the purple
wisteria.

The hate of steel is portrayed. First, Julia Shane despising the close-by steel mills. The steel described by the German
soldier, of the war, “The ladles have overturned. The white-hot steel has spread across Europe. There is gold in it,
too... red-hot gold... melted gods... idols which we worship today.” The steel of the knives, guns, bayonets. Capital versus the
common. The millionaire was calm—all in contrast to Irene. As the story progresses these sisters grow more apart.

Chesterfields are more satisfying to the cultivated palate. For one thing, there’s never any attempt to skimp on Turkish leaf.
These richly flavored Turkish tobaccos are added with a generous hand. THEY'RE MILDER... BETTER... They Satisfy.Chesterfields is whiter... purer. It
burns without taste or odor. Smoke Chesterfields whenever you like... They’re mild and pure. They'll never tire you as an
over-sweetened cigarette might easily do. Light up and see for yourself. They satisfy!

Listen in... Hear the Chesterfield Radio Program. Nat Shilkret’s brilliant orchestra and Alex Gray, popular baritone. Every night, except Sunday...
Columbia Broadcasting System... 10:30 E.S.T. © 1932, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

A keen insight into the conditions which surround the workers and strikers is given here and is of sociological value.
Social service work by Irene helps to put this idea across. This superb author has even excellent humor in his
work (showing his versatility). Madame Blaise, a crazy old woman in a purple hat and bright Venetian shawl, was led
away on the promise of a wonderful adventure to a house in Versailles, where well-to-do lunatics were cared for and
allowed to indulge to the utmost their idiosyncrasies.

Philosophy of marriage by Lily shows what is probably the modern conception by many a woman. “Most people get married,
not because they like being tied together by law, but because it is the only way they can live together
and still be respected by the community. Most people would like to change now and then. It’s true. They're like
that in their deepest hearts... far down where no one ever sees. The strange thing is that I could never
have married a man whom I could own. You see, that is the trouble with marriage. It is difficult to
be rid of your husband.”

Louis Bromfield rises to the height of perfection. He must be a careful writer in order to have produced such
excellent passages. He is so realistic. You grow to love the book, so that when the book is finished you
feel as if you have lost friends in the characters. The Green Bay Tree surpasses Twenty-Four Hours, by the same
author, in its description, but it hasn’t as much action as Twenty-Four Hours; naturally, because the latter's story lasted only
one day, while the other lasted a whole lifetime. The characters, however, of both novels are excellent that it is
difficult to discern which is the better and more interesting book. What the public needs is more books like this
one. Books that arouse your interest in different subjects, like music; the author knows composers and their compositions extra well;
books that have a good word selection, and that still reach the quintessence of the interesting. All praise to Louis
Bromfield!

COLLEGE PRESS NEWS

Cleveland—(IP) Universities in New England and in California are being visited by Dr. Salli Finkelstein of Warsaw, said to be
one of the fastest human calculators in the world. It is said that the doctor recently obtained a position with
a large concern and displaced more than twenty workers and nearly as many adding machines. He is capable of adding
a column of fifteen figures in a quarter of a second, not appearing to look at the figures the while.
On his arrival in this country a reporter handed him a paper on which were three figures to be multiplied
by three others. Dr. Finkelstein, according to the New York Times, simply glanced at the paper and wrote down the
correct answer.

Lima, Peru (IP)—If students in the United States think they are the victims of paternalism on the part of their
college administrators, they have only to look to this country to see how much freedom they actually have. The Peruvian
government recently passed a law regulating the private lives of students in colleges throughout the country as to personal cleanliness
and punctuality in attendance and attention to their studies. Improper and political stories involving violence to teachers are outlawed. Penalties
for violations of the rules range from suspension for short periods to expulsion for good. Smoking is forbidden on the
campus, and demonstrations, politics, religious trouble, and reducing class time are over! Rambling, improper, and political stories involving violence to
teachers are outlawed. Penalties for violations of the rules range from suspension for short periods to expulsion for good.

Durham, N.C.—(IP)—A letter received by the alumni office of Duke University here from Miss Helen Clark, a graduate of Duke
who joined the faculty of Soochow University in China, related that the president of Soochow and his family had to
flee for their lives after threats from students of the University. Miss Clark wrote, “The expulsion of the strike leader
who insulted President Yang the other day because he refused to let them have a mass meeting is over! Rambling,
improper, and political stories involving violence to teachers are outlawed. Penalties for violations of the rules range from suspension for
short periods to expulsion for good. If only so much enthusiasm and patriotism can be purged of its lawless elements
and turned into constructive rather than destructive channels, then the China of the future will be the truly great nation
that she ought to be.”

DEPUTATION TO HOLD SERVICES

(Continued from page 1)

This deputation is brought to the Davidson campus every year by the Y.M.C.A. and through the courtesy of the seminary.
In the past years that they have visited the campus they have been exceptionally good, and it is hoped that
the student body will turn out and hear them as often as possible, as they will have a message for
all. Those who have heard the Seminary deputations before know how good they always are, but to those of the
College who have never heard them it may be said that they are by far the best to visit the
campus during the year.

Bridgeport, Conn.—(IP)—Beatrice Christie, pretty 20-year-old former Boston University co-ed who has only two years to live as a result of
an automobile accident last April, has sued a Somerville, Mass., resident for $50,000 because of the injuries which she says
have shortened her life. She is said to be suffering from leukemia, an incurable disease of the blood in which
there is an excess of white corpuscles.
