2° THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 16, 1932.

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina. Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

D. A. MARTIN Editor-in-Chief
P. M. CONWAY Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. S. C. BAKER Managing Editor
B. M. SPRUILL Associate Editor
R. L. McCALLIE Associate Editor
C. F. MYERS Associate Editor
B. B. SUGGS Athletic Editor
R. H. W. VINSON Review Editor
C. C. DWELLE, JR. Associate Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. MANSON Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE Assistant Business Manager
W. WHITFIELD Assistant Business Manager
J. R. MORROW Subscription Manager
W. T. NEAL Advertising Solicitor
J. F. NEAL Advertising Solicitor
F. B. McCALLIE Advertising Solicitor
A. H. MANSON Advertising Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
A. H. WHITEHEAD President
J. B. AIR Vice-President
J. F. McMULDIN Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ROGERS
F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR
L. S. GAMBLE
G. E. BAILEY
R. E. LORRAINE
E. E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
J. P. PRESTON
R. R. BATT-THOMAS
W. R. WADE
A. F. SCHENCK
O. CASA
W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. CLARDY
W. T. THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAMS
J. A. HUNTER

MARCH 16, 1932

Kid the other fellow if you want to, but don't kid yourself; there's nothing in it—J. J. Bernet.

PARAGRAPHICS

Following the custom of past years, this issue of the Davidsonian is the official annual Junior issue of the paper.

Leap Year does have its advantages. Because of the superfluity of days in this year, the college is to give
one extra day in the Spring holidays.

Vereen Bell, verbose editor of the campus humor magazine, writes a scathing editorial in this issue denouncing the plagiarism of
school publications—the Tennessee “Mugwump.”

Elections of the leaders of the student body for the coming year were started in chapel yesterday morning. The student
body should realize their full responsibility in the selections.

Junior Speaking should be a great success, considering the prevailing depression prices, and the general good feeling caused by the
approaching vacation.

Newspapers have an abundance of material at the present time; the Lindbergh affair is overshadowing both the Sino-Japanese tangle and
the Geneva meeting. Still, that doesn’t seem to help out the Davidsonian any, in particular.

THE NEED FOR RETRENCHMENT

Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity at Emory University, surprised the campus inhabitants one day early in the year by the
announcement that they were giving up their charter, going out of business. The members offered as reasons for this action
the inactivity of the club for a long period of time and the uselessness of continuing an organization which was
doing no one any good. Their action was highly laudable and was presented to other such organizations as a model
to be imitated.

On the Davidson campus, there are nineteen honorary organizations, recognizing ability and effort in the many various lines of curricula
and extra-curricula activities. It would be no exaggeration to say that over half of these fraternities do not serve the
purpose for which they were created. They serve only as a means of getting more space under a person’s name
in the annual; they are purely honorary. And yet they take the valuable money of the members and the supposedly
valuable time of those concerned. Are they worth this expenditure of time and money? No. Could not the dollars and
hours be used to a much greater advantage elsewhere? Yes. Then is there any reason why some of these groups
should not willingly and by their own power dissolve themselves?

Some will come forth with ideas for reform, but they will not be the first. The trouble is too deep-seated
to be remedied by surface rejuvenation. Plans for the creation of interest in these same organizations have been tried many
times in the past and have failed in every instance. The difficulty comes from the fact that the same students
usually belong to several of the clubs, making it practically impossible for them to attend all of the meetings. The
general tendency is to attend none. This reduces the efficiency of the meetings and therefore the accomplishments of the clubs
to practically nothing.

The time is ripe for some of these inactive honorary fraternities to “turn in their uniforms.” The leadership of that
Emory organization is worthy of a following among the group of living corpses to be found on the Davidson campus.

OF LITERARY HIGHWAYMEN

The Yowl has recently had the experience of being extensively and brazenly plagiarized. The thief was none other than the
old, established Tennessee Mugwump, humorous magazine of the University of Tennessee. In its February issue, the Mugwump had around thirty
supposedly original jokes; in other words, it had thirty jokes to which no acknowledgment was added, thus implying that they
were original. Of this number, fifteen were copied verbatim from the last issue of The Yowl. One article in the
offending magazine was from The Yowl and was given credit for its origin. The fifteen others were as bare of
acknowledgment as the Panama Canal is of snowstorms.

The Yowl is still at a tender young age; be-diapered and innocent, but is capable of emitting, as are other
youngsters, a full, healthy squawk—which it did to the editors of the snatch-thief Mugwump. These editorial buccaneers probably reasoned that
the prominence of their publication would so intimidate The Yowl that it would make no protest, but their reasoning was
fallacious. If The Yowl must be plagiarized, we would much rather it be foraged by a magazine of a quality
superior to that of The Yowl, instead of the putrid Tennessee Mugwump (whose humor is not especially dirty, only stupid).
To be sure, it is a left-handed compliment for our jests to be so admired that they are capable of
making an organization forget its scruples, if any, to obtain possession of them, but we will take our compliments from
the right hand or not at all.

All of us must admit that we reluctantly admire the bold robber who holds up a bank and relieves it
of a big sum. We admire his courage rather than his morals. But the sneak-thief who steals a bar of
candy from a drug store shelf we only despise. Such is the nature of plagiarists who, under the cloak of
legal red tape, steal the sentences and paragraphs of others and print them as their own. Everyone realizes that the
absolutely original joke is indeed a rarity. There are probably not two dozen such in existence, and the editors of
humorous magazines make due allowance for such a dearth. Even when there is a striking similarity between two jokes, no
mention of this likeness is made. But when page after page of material is copied, word for word, bitter indignation
is entirely in order. Such unsportsmanlike, flagrant violation of journalistic ethics and copyrights cannot be condoned nor tolerated and, unless
some explanation or apology from the simple Tennessee Mugwump is made, legal acrobatics may ensue.

Vereen Bell

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake
Washington and Lee

The writer of the “Political Parade” is of the opinion that Mel A. Traylor, of Chicago, will be one of
the darkest dark horses at the Democratic National Convention this fall. He says that at the present time the odds
are against him for ever becoming nominated, but by the time of the convention he may be the man for
the post. He also tells us that William Randolph Hearst, the well-known newspaperman, is backing John Garner for the Democratic
nomination. The odds on Garner have dropped from 12 to 1 to 6 to 1 in six weeks. “Alfalfa” Bill
Murray's platform is “Bread, Bacon, and Beans.” Murray carried the Iowa straw vote recently. This writer ventured into trouble by
making two predictions in regard to the nomination: that Hoover will be nominated for a second term on the first
ballot; and that Franklin D. Roosevelt would be the Democratic nominee, and that he would be nominated on or before
the fifth ballot.

There were thirteen students and five alumni of the Generals’ school elected to and initiated into Phi Beta Kappa recently.

Emory

There will be five dances given by two Emory students of the council, which will replace the Little Commencement that
was done away with this year for financial reasons. Ozzie Nelson and his Brunswick Recording Orchestra will furnish the music.
There will be three night dances, on Thursday evening, March 24, from 10 to 2; on Friday evening from 10
to 2, and on Saturday night from 9 to 12. There will also be two tea dances, on Friday and
Saturday afternoons from 4 to 6. These dances are from March 24-26, during our spring holidays.

N.C. State

State has named its speakers for its graduation exercises. Honorable Merle Thorpe, editor of the “Nation’s Business,” official publication of
the United States Chamber of Commerce, will deliver the graduation address on June 9. Rev. A. D. P. Gilmour, pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church of Wilmington, N. C., will deliver the baccalaureate sermon on June 6.

Wake Forest

Since the Lindberghs are once more back in the limelight and occupying most of the front pages, perhaps it wouldn't
be amiss to quote something from the Wake Forest paper that it quoted from the February issue of the Baptist
Student: “In part Lindbergh says, ‘I came to the conclusion that if I knew the difference between the right and
wrong way to do a thing, it was up to me to train myself to do the right thing at
all times. So I drew up a list...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of character factors at the left of a sheet of paper, and then I numbered the top of the sheet
1 to 31, ruling the sheet both up and down and sideways.

“Each night I would read off my list of character factors, and those that I had fulfilled satisfactorily during the
day I would mark with a red cross. Those I had not been called upon to demonstrate would get no
mark. But those character factors which I had actually violated during the day would get a black mark. Then I
would compare the marks and I was glad to notice an improvement as I grew older.”

What Do You Think?

A nearly total eclipse of the moon will be visible in the Western United States and much of the Pacific
Ocean on the morning of March 22, according to the calculations of astronomers. The moon eclipse will be one of
a series of four eclipses on schedule for the present year. The sun eclipse that paired with the March 22
moon eclipse was visible in Australia and other South Sea localities on March 7. The other pair of eclipses, the
scientists said, will be the total eclipse of the sun, visible across the New England States, August 31, and a
moon eclipse on September 14.

The moon eclipse of March 22, the astronomers have calculated, will begin at 1:58 o'clock in the morning, Pacific standard
time. At that hour the moon is due to enter the outer shadow of the earth. Growing increasingly dark, the
moon will reach the maximum of 97 per cent darkening by the earth’s shadow, at 4:32 a.m. Due to the
fact that the moon will set on that morning at 5:54 o'clock, Los Angeles time, it will be impossible to
witness the emergence of the moon from the eclipse shadow, which is not due to occur until 7:05 o'clock.

Teachers at Weaver High School and instructors at Trinity College in Connecticut compiled a list of the worst “boners” made
in examinations held recently in both institutions and it was hard to decide whether the college students had the edge
on the high school students or vice versa.

A Weaver student wrote brightly that Paul Revere was buried in the same cemetery where John Adams and John Hancock
were born. Another wrote, “Henry Clay was leader of the Night Hawks (really War Hawks) who favored war in 1812.”
Other samples were: “The little seamstress had nothing else to do so she went to the guillotine with Sydney Carton.”
“Louis Pasteur bought the first Protestant church.” “Louis Pasteur established the brain system of reading for the blind.” “Elaine was
the girl who loved Lancelot and who had his sleeve on in the joust.”

A Trinity student wrote, “Work is the ability to do something.” Another wrote, “Since women can vote, voting has ceased
to be a privilege.” Another, confused by a question, preceded his answer with the interrogation, “When it says here compare
with civilized communities, would it be all right to take the United States?” Probably the most cautious of all answers
was given by a student who defined mass in this fashion—“Mass is any object that contains weight. Weight is what
an object weighs.”

Figures just made public by the Geological Survey show that in the field of hydro-electric development the South is still
leading the nation with an installation in 1931 of 332,631 horsepower of hydro-electric capacity out of 581,000 additional horsepower for
the nation. At the beginning of 1932 the total installed hydro-electric horsepower of the United States was 15,562,805, and of
this installed capacity, 4,699,700 horsepower was in the South. The rate of increase in installation last year was more than
twice as great in the South as in the remainder of the country. During the past ten years, the hydro-electric
development of the South has far outstripped that of the nation, in spite of the fact that the hydro-electric capacity
of the nation has practically doubled during this period. The Manufacturers Record observes, with manufacturers seeking locations, that the manner
in which the South has expanded its resources in this particular has created a major advantage for the South.

Do girls go to college solely to seek husbands? Yes, emphatically declares Miss Margaret Rippler, editor of a University of
Arizona student literary magazine, who has thrown the campus into turmoil by her caustic statements. “The average girl goes to
a university because it’s the best place to meet men with money,” Miss Rippler avows. “They can sort the bright
and wealthy ones out from the chaff, something the home-town folks wouldn't let them do. Only about two per cent
of the men students have any real intelligence. Witness the many June marriages every year of gold-digging co-eds and dumb
males.” She continues, “Most girls get about one proposal out of every twenty dates, but they don’t want to experiment
too far with love until they are certain they have the best-looking, most capable, and the wealthiest man they can
possibly get.”

Following are the character factors mentioned by Lindbergh: “Altruism, ambition, brevity in speech, concentration, calmness in temper, clean body, clean
speech, clean thought, clean conduct, cheerfulness, courage, decisiveness, determination, economy, energy, enthusiasm, firmness, faith, gracefulness, honesty, hopefulness, industry, initiative, justice,
judgment, love toward all, loyalty, moderateness, modesty, neat appearance, no argument, no sarcasm, no fault finding, no talking about others,
no talking too much, optimism, perseverance, physical exercise, pleasant voice, punctuality, patience, politeness, reverence (divine), parent, home, country, respect superiors,
respect fellowmen, readiness to compromise, recreation—‘manful, not sinful,’ self-esteem, self-control, self-confidence, sense of humor, sleep and rest, sympathy, sincerity, tact,
truthfulness, thoroughness, unselfishness.”

Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings...

Duncan McBryde JUNIOR SPEAKING SPECIAL

This column is cheerfully dedicated this week to the “Jolly Juniors,” in keeping with the Junior Speaking Edition of DAVIDSONIAN.
After a short poem (also with the theme of Junior Speaking), I shall attempt in a few words to recount
some of the merits of that distinguished group.

TO NELLE, (This is a Junior speaking)

“May I print a kiss on your lips?” he said She nodded her sweet permission. So they went to press,
and I rather guess They printed a full edition. “But one edition is hardly enough,” She said, with a charming
pout; So the forms were set once more in place And they got some extras out.

Since it fell to my lot to write the history of our class for the 1932 Quips and Cranks, I
am going to throw two stones at one bird, and print below the same short history.

THE RISE AND SHINE OF THE CLASS OF THIRTY-THREE

With three-fourths of its journey completed, the class of '33 pauses briefly to take a fleeting glimpse into its life
of yesteryear. A life so rich in activity and full of never-to-be-forgotten experiences that nothing short of a volume would
suffice for a complete class history. This writing must speak for the class as a whole; individual experiences as numerous
as the tolls of the Chambers bell since the advent of our class in 1929, must henceforth remain a closed
volume, except to those of our group for whom they will always remain as cherished memories.

A brief glance shows the pre-eminence of our class of “Jolly Juniors”—turn tho you may to athletics, scholarship, or activities.
The class of '33 continues to constitute the backbone of our teams on grid, diamond, court, mat, cinder path, and
hardwood floor. The class is, as well, the stabilizing element in campus thought, undeniably a leader in scholastic achievement, and
unusually well represented in every phase of extra-curricular activity. To see the calibre and attainment of '33 it is not
necessary to look far back. A look at the class now as the year ends shows it in the full
blown flower of its progress and leadership—with scores of men who, as the year wanes, stand out for this reason
or that, many on the varsity teams, many on the honor roll, and many others outstanding in still other phases
of endeavor.

New Chambers was completed in 1929. Our class, the first privileged group of Freshmen to enjoy it, has not ceased
to bring honor upon its halls and classrooms (and give its fine steps a deeper, more rounded appearance). We pride
ourselves as the first group to abolish that period of ordeal for the Freshmen called Soph Day, and a beautiful
tree flourishes in front of Chambers now, which we planted on the last Soph Day in the college’s history—as an
ever-increasing, resplendent tribute to that great class to whom be due laudation and fame, the class of '33!

A TOAST TO ’33

Here’s to the Class of ’33, The apple of Davidson's eye; Here’s to the Jolly Juniors, And the Spirit of
“Never say die.” Here’s to the Class of '33, Here’s to that noble band— Here's to the Jolly Juniors, The
best class in the land!

QUESTION AND ANSWER DEPARTMENT

(This little note comes from the city in Alabama which is the dentists’ heaven—where the Tuscaloosa.)

Dear Dorothy Hix:

I am a young girl in the late ‘teens. I have an invitation to come to Davidson for “JUNIOR SPEAKING”
on the week-end of March the 9th. What kind of a climate do you have up there? Should I bring
a fur coat? Is ice skating in vogue now up North there in Davidson? Just what should I bring to
wear?

(Signed) “Perplexed.”

Perplexed:

Thanks very much for the letter and the enclosed picture. Judging from the picture, you had better forget about evening
dresses, fur coats, and the like, and bring along a troop of Boy Scouts to keep the crowds back. My
advice is for you not to come at all. You shouldn't do anything to keep the other girls from getting
a rush. You would do well to bring a gondola, as it seems that we are going to continue to
have typical weather.

Dorothy Hix (by slashed wire special to this column.)

PARTING ADVICE

—Put a little water on your comb— My Tale is told.
