° & THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 13, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN.................Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
J. GUERRANT....................Managing Editor
E. O. D. McBRYDE.............Managing Editor
R. L. McCALLIE.................Managing Editor
C. F. MYERS.........................Editor
B. B. SUGG..................Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENSON........Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLIN...........Feature Editor
H. W. ERWIN.................Review Editor
F. B. LAKE................Exchange Editor
J. C. DWELLE, JR...........Associate Editor
W. S. LEA....................Associate Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS........Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. MANSON........Assistant Business Manager
J. MEBANE... Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Subscription Manager
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
A. H. WHITEHEAD.............President
Vice-President
Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. COVINGTON
B. TAYLOR
S. GAMBLE
G. E. BAILEY
E. LORRAINE
F. BOYD
L. POWELL
S. P. PRESTON
PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
F. SCHENCK
O. CASALI
W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. ARMSTRONG
W. T. THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAMS
J. A. WINTER

APRIL 13, 1932

PARAGRAPHICS

This writer’s desire for a real “scoop” for the Davidsonian is realized in this issue of the paper. The result of the election of the editorship of the paper is first announced in it.

If we had a wish to make now that would be fulfilled in the coming year, we would wish for the new editor to have a larger audience than has been habitual in the past.

Spring Services begin soon, and an entirely new thing is being tried by the Y. M. C. A. It is up to the student body to get the most out of these services. The men who have been secured to talk are among the most prominent in the Presbyterian Church.

Student body elections have been practically completed; now the various classes will hold their elections, which will about complete the voting.

Seniors are rather disappointed in the fact that they are not to be given the usual week holiday before commencement. That is something which the whole class has been anticipating with pleasure.

The student body is looking forward to a fine weekend, with the “Bowery Ball” as the high spot in the entertainment program. This is always one of the best functions of the year.

So long, Folks.

FAREWELL

When one comes to the end of a period of time over which he has been making an effort in one direction or another, and looks back over the time to see whether anything of good has been accomplished, he finds himself at a loss to decide just what has been done. Especially is this true when the results of the efforts are not in themselves self-evident, but are, if any, more or less intangible things. It is with a feeling of pleasure, not unmingled with regret, that we “turn over the reins” to someone else. It is good to feel that you have completed a task, seeing that it is impossible to say that the whole thing has been a fiasco, but it is not so easy to give up a work that offers a distinct enjoyment as its reward, a position which offers untold opportunities for service. We feel that we are leaving behind something that we will never regain again, an experience that will not be repeated, and that is not a pleasant feeling. But in human life always the old order giveth way to the new. Thus we take our leave. To the new editor we wish “bon voyage,” and a success that will surpass that which has preceded. To the members of the staff who have served so faithfully and so efficiently—to the business manager, the managing editors, the assistant editors, and the reporters—many thanks. To the student body which has so patiently borne with us through all our mistakes and failures, we express our appreciation. And so we end the seventeenth year of publication of “The Davidsonian” with the hope that it may grow to be a stronger and a more powerful factor in campus life as the years go by.

INSIGHT AND FORESIGHT

“Let knowledge grow from more to more,
But more of reverence in us dwell;
That mind and soul according well,
May make one music as before,
But vaster.”

The evil spectre of spiritual neglect hovers over our campus seeking a resting place in the lives of the men of our campus. When we realize that spiritual neglect is spiritual death it behooves us to look inward before we look forward to our Spring Services. The average college man is interested in his studies, his extra-curricular activities, his relations with his fellow students. He seeks to develop his mind, improve his personality and train his body. The aim of his preparation is to enjoy a full life. Though achieving a normal growth in these avenues of expression, many of us are still unsatisfied—the “full life” is not yet. Perhaps some become disillusioned and cynical, others sorely perplexed. A skepticism of the reality of spiritual experience steals into our thinking. It is the inevitable result of spiritual neglect. It is an experience which is not uncommon among college men. When a man comes to college his knowledge rapidly increases and his mental abilities are quickened and refined. As is so tragically true our spiritual life is ofttimes not nurtured with the same care and attention. Our spiritual life then becomes static if indeed it does not slowly die. When one increases his mental capacity, his capacity for God should likewise be enlarged. Else there is no certainty and satisfaction, but doubt and frustration. Many of us seek to satisfy our souls with a spiritual life that is four years behind us. With increased knowledge and quickened mental ability we turn our eyes on that spiritual life and are not satisfied with our discovery. Indeed it would be a wonder if we were not. The spiritual life of a high school student will not satisfy the thoughtful college man. Though it be the same it needs to be recast. We demand perhaps more reason, more knowledge, more historical proof of the verities of our faith. We demand of religion practical attitudes for our daily life and mystical values for the satisfaction of our souls. The soul also has its demands. The Master said, “Seek and ye shall find.” Where there is discovery of life there must be an unending search. This spiritual quest is an individual search. One cannot give this discovered life to another. He can only reveal it and testify to its reality. When this revelation and testimony is evident in groups however it has an added authority. When combined spiritual forces are pressing upon the souls of men the revelation perhaps is clearer and the testimony more sure. The Holy Grail of our quest is Christ. We have secured men for our Spring Services whom we believe can reveal Him to us in all the beauty of His character, the simplicity of His way and make us feel the gentle tug of His Spirit. Their lives and message give a clear testimony as to the inner life which He brings. We are praying that every spiritual force on our campus shall be an ally to those who shall search for Him in these days ahead. These services enable us to have a season in which we shall examine our soul-life. We need fearless insight for our daring foresight. We need to examine our life in the light of The Life that shall be before us. Let us therefore prepare our hearts for great visions of truth and the full acknowledgment of the leadership of His Spirit.

C. R. Pritchett.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Washington and Lee

On April 26 and 27 Washington and Lee will hold a mock Democratic convention, which will be carried on in a similar manner to that of the real Democratic National Convention. The school authorities will grant a holiday for this festivity. This is no novel idea with the Generals, for they have held similar conventions in 1908, 1916, 1924, and 1928. Yesterday W. & L. held its Washington Celebration with many prominent national figures, such as the Hon. John W. Davis, Democratic nominee for the Presidency in 1924, and the Hon. Newton D. Baker. Both of these men are Washington and Lee alumni.

Radio bits—Listerine has signed Erno Rapee and his orchestra instead of B. A. Rolfe. . . . Rubinoff’s first fiddle cost $1.75 and his present instrument cost $10,000. . . . Wrigley has booked Ely Culbertson for a sustained series of bridge broadcasts over the NBC-WEAF chain; he will appear on Monday and Wednesday afternoons at 4:30 and Saturday nights at 8:00. . . . This makes three broadcasts that Wrigley is putting on (he also broadcasts “Myrt and Marge” and “The Lone Wolf”). . . . Isham Jones is now playing over the Columbia network on Tuesdays and Thursdays at noon and Fridays at 12:30 p.m. Washington and Lee has not been able...to obtain either Guy Lombardo, Coon-Sanders, or Bernie Cummins for their Finals. They all have previous engagements. Isham Jones or Leo Reisman will probably be the orchestra to furnish the music for this set of dances. The Inter-Fraternity Conference, which dictates the work and activities of the fraternities, may go so far as to take fraternities away from sixty schools of America; this would take away charters of 214 chapters! This would not affect Davidson. Here are some of the important schools in the country that would be affected if the Conference enforced this rule: Auburn, U. of Charleston, Hampden-Sydney, N. C. State, P. C., Rollins, Wake Forest, and others. This motion was passed at the November session of the Conference and if this rule is enforced it will be just another case of too bad at those schools. (Continued on page 6)

DES ENTREFILETS

April 5th was the first day in thirteen years that the people of Finland were able to legally purchase alcoholic beverages. The whole country is congratulating itself on the order of the first night of the wet regime. The report of the police showed that there were not as many arrests for drunkenness as had been customary on Saturday nights during prohibition. The twenty-four beer depots and sixty spirit shops throughout Finland drew the equivalent of $35,000 in business the first day. In Helsingfors, the largest store took in $1,000 in five hours. The hotel cafes, restaurants, and dance places were packed until midnight on the first evening of the wet regime. There was great jollity but no evidence of drunkenness. The places patronized by the wealthy and those patronized by working men proved to be equally crowded and equally orderly, even at the moment of closing. From the price lists printed by the government-controlled liquor monopoly, one finds that the prices of drinks are comparatively low. The best places sell a drink of liquor for the equivalent of from 22 cents up. French cognac costs 28 cents, beer 10 cents, and a very small glass of cheap Estonian brandy brings 3 cents. In the fashionable places, French wines and cognac and Swedish punch are the most popular drinks. Prices there are reasonable, even with dancing, music, and other entertainment. The hotels are crowded with liquor salesmen from all over Europe, hoping to sell their wares to the monopoly. So far the liquor buying from the stores has been done by the poorer people; those of more means prefer to obtain their drinks at cafes and restaurants rather than be compelled to wait in line at the stores. Also, they realize that at a later date they will be able to obtain a better grade of goods.

Columbia University had quite a time last Wednesday as a result of the student riot following the expulsion of Reed Harris, editor of the Spectator, by Dr. Butler and Dean Hawkes. The riot was part of the strike which the students declared as a protest against the action of the college authorities. About fifteen hundred students cut classes and pickets with handbills were posted at classrooms. The strike, which started merely as a protest against the injustice of the administration, soon developed into a war between the sympathizers and the athletes. The crowd assembled at the library and speeches were made—the sympathizers, perhaps, made the better but the aim of the athletes made up for their handicap when the egg-throwing started. And all the while the architectural students were bombarding the crowd with water thrown from the fifth floor of Avery Hall. The university, as universities have a habit of doing, officially, did not know the riot was going on. The dean scurried out for a moment and asked a picketer for a handbill, saying he did not feel like working either. In order to protect the property of the university, plainclothesmen were called in who were dressed in clothes of collegiate cut, needing only books in order to be mistaken for law students. The occasion was formally under the auspices of the National Student League and Columbia Social Problems Club. The students carried banners bearing the words, “Free Speech” and “Reinstate Harris.”

In the newspaper Le Matin last week, the following advertisement was found: “Village for sale because of depopulation. Price 500,000 francs.” The village offered for sale is L’Aubepin, in the wine-producing region of Burgundy. It is more than two thousand years old and covers 900 acres of land. At present, there are but 150 inhabitants. This offer comes as a result of the post-war migration of the peasants to urban industrial centers.

Charles Sweeney, an American student at Oxford who was recently elected captain of its golf team, was selected by the Prince of Wales as his partner in the Navy and Royal Marines thirty-six hole handicap golf competition. The Prince plays with a handicap of eleven strokes.

Guglielmo Marconi, the inventor of the wireless, has developed a successful ultra short-wave radio telephone, capable of both sending and receiving. The new radio can establish contact with an ordinary telephone system. As a result of this, a person equipped with a radiophone will be able to converse with anyone on a wired telephone circuit. The first test was conducted over a distance of eight miles on the Ligurian coast. The inventor, seated in the villa of a friend, conversed for several minutes with the engineers of the Marconi Company at Villa Gualino, eight miles away. The secret of the invention is said to lie in the transmission of waves of fifty centimeters in length. At present, the engineers of the R.C.A. Communications use waves of sixty centimeters. According to radio men, the shortest wave practicable in commercial wireless at present is thirteen meters.

Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings...
Duncan McBryde

Gentlemen, this will probably be a farewell. The Mirth of a Nation shall become the Dearth of a Nation. Applications are now in order for the next editor of this column. (Oh, yes, believe it or not, we'll inveigle someone into writing it—eventually. Because Barnum was right: there’s one born every five minutes.) Before going on with the rest of the column, we wish to draw up an application blank for those luminaries who might like to take over the position.

Name (middle name will do)
Occupation (or what have you?)
Experience (don’t get personal)
What typewriter are you anyway?

Remember that success in writing depends entirely upon hitting the right keys on the typewriter. With this little hint, you should have no trouble. The sole requirements are that you write lots and lots of something about nothing. Fold your application neatly and give it to the nearest janitor, who will either dissuade you or help you pack for a trip to Dix Hill. If still determined, however, fill out your application in something like the following manner:

“Next!”
“Who, me?”
“Born?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Where?”
“Russia.”
“What part?”
“All of me.”
“Why did you leave Russia?”
“I couldn’t bring it with me.”
“Where were your forefathers born?”
“I only got one father.”
“Your business?”
“Rotten.”
“Where’s Washington?”
“He's dead.”
“I mean the capital of the U.S.”
“Oh, they loaned it all to Europe.”
“Do you promise to support the constitution?”
“How can I? I’ve got a wife and six children to support.”

WHAT WOULD TENNYSON HAVE SAID?
—I am a part of all that I have met.
Gus MacZelch.

PONDERINGS AT THE BOWERY BRAWL—
(as reported to me through the Saturday Revue)

That she
Has charms
I must
Confess
BUT WHAT
Are charms
Without
Access?

SAYINGS OF SAGACIOUS SAM, THE SHORT STOP

There are cigarettes now that will stop coughs, help the singing voice and make one feel happy and contented, but we are not going to rest satisfied until some manufacturer puts on the market one that will stop hair from falling out.

Many a nobody who isn’t known by anybody becomes a somebody and is known by everybody, and everybody tells him they knew him when he was nobody, and that they knew he would be a somebody someday.

A flying rumor never has any trouble in making a landing.

“This means a good deal to me,” said the poker player as he stacked the cards.

Nowadays, whatever is not worth saying is sung.

Then the Scotchman who was seen frying his bacon with Lux, to keep it from shrinking. (We don’t see why a Scotchman can be called close. Because you can touch anybody that’s close. But you can’t touch a Scotchman.)

FAMOUS EPITAPHS
—On the Grave of an Atheist—
“We dressed him up in his very best,
His Sunday tie in a perfect bow,
Folded his hands;
Placed a lily there,
And gently laid him here to rest,
All dressed up and no place to go.”

May I take this opportunity to say that I have greatly enjoyed this weekly, may I say weakly, attempt at humor in the Davidsonian, and appreciate all interest (any little bit of interest) shown in my work in it. While I welcome the end of the Mirth of a Nation (in which group I am not alone, I am sure), and deeply feel for the next chap that steps in, nevertheless it has been a most interesting, enjoyable experience.

Yours with beers in my eyes,
Duncan MacBryde.