BEAT V. M. I. Vol. XX The Davidsonian Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 12, 1932 No. 5

W.C.U.N.C. STUDENTS TO HOLD NEXT VESPER SERVICES

Annual Fall Services to Be Conducted This Year By Dr. Dwight Chalmers

Speaker Is Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Charlottesville, Virginia

GRADUATE OF DAVIDSON

Was Secretary of “Y” in Year After His Graduation

The annual fall Y. M. C. A. services will be held on the 13th, 14th, and 15th of November. The conductor of these services will be Dr. Dwight M. Chalmers, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Charlottesville, Va. Dr. Chalmers is a graduate of Davidson, having attended here during the years 1916-1920. He is also a graduate of the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. Dr. Chalmers was secretary of the Y. M. C. A. in the year 1921 at Davidson, and therefore is well acquainted with the workings of the “Y.” He was for a number of years the pastor at the “Church-by-the-Side-of-the-Road” in Greensboro and was extremely popular while there. Dr. Chalmers was the featured speaker at the “Young People’s Conference” here during June of last year and presented a series of most inspiring and instructive talks to the assembled congregation. Dr. Chalmers will be very happy to give a personal interview to any who may desire it during his visit here. He will speak at church on October 13, that evening at “Y” vespers, and twice Monday and Tuesday. This series of “Fall Services” is an annual affair, sponsored by the Young Men’s Christian Association of Davidson College, and has long been an event of great interest and benefit to the students. In giving to the college these edifying talks each year, the Y. M. C. A. has done a great work on the campus, and it will be (Continued on page 6)

Ministerial Group Has First Meeting of Year

The Ministerial Fellowship, formerly called the Ministerial Band, held its first meeting of the school year at the social center Friday night, October 7, at which a goodly number were present, most of them being new men. Leslie Thompson, the president, read a selection from the Bible, which expressed the charge of Christ to the minister, after which the group was led in prayer by Courtney Ross and Woodrow Thrower. Since no program had been planned, the meeting took the form of a business discussion. First, an introduction of both new and old men was made, and the officers, namely, Leslie Thompson, president; Woodrow Thrower, vice-president, and Murphy Smith, secretary and treasurer, who were elected last spring at the meeting held on April 23, were proclaimed to the new men. Since the Y. M. C. A. has charge of the deputation work, there is not much left for this organization to do but to try to familiarize ourselves with the popular problems of the church and ministers of today, and to become edified in the art of speaking. Therefore, the programs will probably be in the form of special speeches by some member of the faculty and different members of the fellowship, formal and informal debates, and especially open forums, all of which were discussed at the last meeting.

Dr. Gwynn to Broadcast

On Thursday morning, October 20, Dr. Price Gwynn will deliver an address over radio station WBT, in Charlotte. The address will begin at 11:40 a.m. and end at 12 a.m. Dr. Gwynn’s topic will be “The Home, the First School of Religion.” It is one of six talks to be given that week by outstanding citizens of Charlotte and the surrounding communities. The purpose of this series of addresses is to further stress the importance of religion in the home. That Dr. Gwynn should be chosen is a distinct honor to him and to Davidson College.

Boys’ Work of “Y” Is Progressing Rapidly

The Boys’ Work Division of the Davidson Y. M. C. A., under the supervision of Bruce Peabody, has made excellent progress so far and is looking forward to a most successful year. Under this department, seven different clubs are organized among the boys of the community. Six of these are among the white boys, and one among the negroes. The work is divided under two main heads, the “Hi-Y” work with Peabody in charge, and the Scout work with C. R. Wright in charge. Hi-Y clubs are already functioning in Cornelius, under the leadership of Paul Brown, and in Davidson under the leadership of Bruce Peabody, Archie Shuford, W. A. Merchant, and Bob Smith, while still another is being formed in Huntersville, which will be in charge of M. E. Baggett, R. Forbis, C. B. Ross, A. J. Gillespie, and W. B. Singleton. Three Scout troops have been organized, one in Cornelius, which is supervised by W. B. Ward, G. L. Gullette, B. F. Ormand, Thompson, and J. L. Drake, and two in Davidson, one for the white boys, supervised by E. S. Hodge, R. H. Page, Odi Cassali, Wood, and J. F. Fay, and another for the negroes, supervised by Rig Dees and Ed Garrett. Another is being organized at Mt. Mourne. Another phase of this work is the boys’ athletics which is under the direction of Sam Nickey and Bill Matthews. This work consists of organizing and coaching the midget football team at Davidson. This team is made up of high school boys and plays other (Continued on page 3)

Dr. James Hardie Talks to Students at Vespers

Again last Sunday evening the Y. M. C. A. presented a fine speaker. He was Dr. James F. Hardie, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte and former pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Houston, Texas. The services were led by Lanier Pratt. Prayers were led by John Lake and Leland McKeithan and Carlton Chapman offered a vocal selection. The Scripture reading selected for the text was Colossians 1:1-12. The subject of Colossians, Dr. Hardie explained, is the Ideal Christ. Christ is the Ideal or Standard of our living and thinking. Only Paul could portray Christ as He is seen in this book. The Ideal Christ as seen in Ephesians, Dr. Hardie continued to expound, lives and directs its life according to the Ideal Christ of Colossians. If he were able to know a man’s prayers, Dr. Hardie stated, he could tell how true that man’s character was, and he could tell the true feelings of that man’s soul, for in a prayer a man is straightforward and frank, if he never is otherwise. In the first of two great prayers of Ephesians, Paul prays that our minds may be enlightened in order to know the hope of His calling. This may mean that we should look forward to each day to bring forth something new and better, as did our Master. Also, this may mean that all of God’s great doctrines were revealed to man by His talks with man, and we should look forward to (Continued on page 6)

Debaters Will Try for Places on Team

The tryouts for the Davidson debating team are to be held Thursday, November 3. The query is to be, “Resolved: That all commercial banks should be national banks, and a part of the Federal Reserve System.” A large number are expected to compete in the tryouts. There are usually between thirty and forty men that respond to the call for debating candidates. The speeches usually consist of five-minute talks in which one point is developed. Tryouts are judged by five members of the faculty and are sponsored by the Forensic Council. Leland McKeithan is the only old member of last year’s debating team that is back in school this year. Last year the Davidson team won eight of the nine debates, debating against such schools as Bucknell University, University of Florida, Emory, and other outstanding schools. Good material from last year’s Freshman team should add strength to the one this year.

HONOR ROLL

The following is a list of the men who made the Honor Roll for the whole of last year:

Senior Class
Bettis, E. S., 95.64; Enloe, R. P., 97.35; Hand, L. N., 97.14; Harrison, C. W., 96.53; MacLean, T. W., 97.35; Wiley, S. S., 97.74; Carr, H. L., 96.14; Hancock, W. T., 96.16; Hawkins, W. B., 95.04; McQueen, D. M., 98.62; Matthews, W. H., 95.37; Spencer, C. S., 95.72; Stephenson, D. G., 95.60; Welch, J. T., 95.10; Mann, J. O., 96.10.

Junior Class
Bettis, C. E., 97.15; Brown, P. F., 96.64; McBride, D. D., 95.58; McConnell, D. M., 95.25; McNair, W. E., 95.54; Mullis, W. F., 96.61; Ward, W. B., 95.51; Shackelford, E. W., 95.90; Paton, A., 96.55.

Sophomore Class
Blair, J. T., 96.05; Hellegers, F., 95.36; McGeachy, J. A., 98.23; Thompson, Jr., 96.43; Thompson, W. M., 97.72.

Freshman Class
Rhodes, A. B., 95.55; Porter, R. M., 95.78; Neill, W. C., 96.41; Johnston, Sara L., 97.08; Hamilton, Lois Neal, 96.70; Exum, A., 96.52; Douglas, J. M., Jr., 97.29; Coit, R. T., Jr., 97.10.

Sunday Vespers to Be Led by N.C.C.W Group

Y. M. C. A. vesper services next Sunday will be held by the Y. W. C. A. of the Women’s College of the University of North Carolina, formerly known as North Carolina College for Women. The services will be in the charge of Miss A. V. Poe, president of the “Y” organization at W. C. U. N. C. The exercises will be in the form of a candle-Light service with musical selections, vocal part of the young ladies participating, instead of the usual talk given by a featured speaker. This type of service has been presented at W.C.U.N.C. by its Y.W.C.A. and has met with remarkable success. It is given at Davidson in return for a deputation formed of Jack McKinnon and J.D. MacConnell which the Y.M.C.A. sent to Greensboro last year. The prospect of this return deputation has provoked a great deal of interest among the student body, and it is hoped that the large attendance in Chambers next Sunday evening which is anticipated may be realized.

Statistics Indicate Surprising Changes

Physical Measurements Reveal Students Are Taller and Weigh Less

According to statistics recently issued by the Physical Education Department, the average Davidson student weighs one pound less and is almost one inch taller than the average student of the 1931-1932 session. The figures below show surprising differences in the weight and height of the classes:

1931-1932 (Average)
Freshmen—Weight, 140 pounds; height, 5 feet, 8.7 inches.
Sophomores—Weight, 144 pounds; height, 5 feet, 8.7 inches.
Juniors—Weight, 146 pounds; height, 5 feet, 9.1 inches.
Seniors—Weight, 147 pounds; height, 5 feet, 9.3 inches.

1932-1933 (Average)
Freshmen—Weight, 140.3 pounds; height, 5 feet, 8.3 inches.
Sophomores—Weight, 143.6 pounds; height, 5 feet, 10.2 inches.
Juniors—Weight, 144.2 pounds; height, 5 feet, 10.2 inches.
Seniors—Weight, 145.2 pounds; height, 5 feet, 10.3 inches.

Student body average, 1931-1932—Weight, 144.3 pounds; height, 5 feet, 9 inches.
Student body average, 1932-1933—Weight, 143.3 pounds; height, 5 feet, 9.7 inches.

The present Sophomore class average shows an increase of 3.6 pounds in weight and 1.5 inches in height. The average Junior has gained two-tenths of a pound in weight and 1.5 inches in height. The Senior average (Continued on page 3)

DAVIDSON OVERWHELMS WOFFORD FOR SECOND WIN OF 1932 SEASON

Annual Tryouts Held at Glee Club Meeting

On Monday evening of October 3rd, the Glee Club held its first meeting. Mr. Eugene Craft, pianist and organist from Charlotte, who is the new director of the Glee Club this year, took charge of the tryouts. Approximately seventy-five men appeared and from this number forty were selected. Later the number will be reduced to thirty-two. Practically all of the old men were retained and quite a few Freshmen were added. Each man was put through a strenuous and separate vocalizing test and only the best were selected.

The second meeting was held on Wednesday night and those men who won in the tryouts started working on the new pieces for the coming year. The officers of the Glee Club for the coming year are: W.W. Calligan, president; J.T. Blair, vice-president; Leland McKeithan, business manager, and Edward McNair, pianist. The Glee Club feels particularly fortunate in getting the services of Mr. Craft. He has shown himself to be a director of the first rank and a man of marked ability. He comes to Davidson highly recommended and with wide experience in choral work. The Glee Club was also pleased with the number of men that came out and expect a successful season. The following is a tentative list of the members of the Glee Club. Only eight men will be selected for each part and therefore is subject to revision at any time: (Continued on page 6)

Rives, Powell, and Page Take Over Court Duties

The three new members of the Court of Control, Charley Rives, “Duck” Powell, and Rufus Page, have been installed in their offices and the Student Court is now functioning smoothly. When school met the first of September this year, this court was confronted with the absence of three of its members and an election was held to take care of these absences. The court is a body whose duty is to settle all matters concerning Freshmen relations to upperclassmen and to serve as a supervisory board for the new men.

Of these three men, two are Junior representatives, Powell and Rives. Powell is a member of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and was president of his class last session. Rives is a guard on the football team, is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, and present secretary and treasurer of his class. Rufus Page, Sophomore representative, is a member of the Beaver Club, honorary Sophomore society for leadership. The present members of the court of which W.A. Flinn is judge, are as follows: Seniors, D.M. Bernard, F.L. Dickerson, C.R. Wright; Juniors, “Duck” Powell and Charley Rives; Sophomores, B.M. Hutchins and Rufus Page.

Orchestra Name is Selected by Burns

A.L. Burns won the five-dollar prize for giving the orchestra a new name, which is “Reeves Pope and his Southernaires.” With over three hundred names submitted, the choice was a difficult one. This unique contest was put on to help find a permanent name for the orchestra. Last year it was changed twice, finally ending the season as “E.B. Robinson’s North Carolinians.” It is hoped by the members of the orchestra that the new name will be a lasting one.

This year the orchestra is composed of the following men: Henry Hodgin, piano; Dave McLain, snare drum; Frank Tucker, bass horn; W.W. Calligan, banjo; Reeves Pope, the leader, first sax; Buddy Robinson, second sax; Sam Hines, third sax; Bob Orr, trombone, and A.M. Cunningham, trumpet.

The contest caused a lot of interest on the campus. The check was presented to the winner in chapel Tuesday morning.

Swift and Evasive Attack Made Possible by Excellent Blocking and Team Work

LONG RUNS THRILL FANS

Terriers’ Lone Tally Comes Shortly After Second Half Begins

Last Friday afternoon at Richardson Field the Davidson Wildcats severely trounced the Wofford Terriers by a score of 40 to 6. The Wofford team was completely swamped by the brilliant running and passing attack of the Wildcats. This swift and evasive attack was made possible by the excellent interference and teamwork of the whole squad. The ‘Cats played a fast, hard-hitting, and hard-running game throughout, although they did not get started on their victory march until the second quarter.

Wofford started the first quarter so briskly that it looked for a while as if it would be a close game. The ‘Cats were held at bay during the first quarter and at the end of the half the Wildcats were leading by 13 to 0. Most of this was due largely to the great punting of Bauknight, Terrier halfback. All during this period the Wofford aggregation stayed menacingly in Davidson territory.

At the beginning of the second period, the Wildcats got started. When the quarter began, the ball was on Davidson’s own 43-yard line. Mackorell got through a hole at tackle and made 11 yards and a first down. Then Pearce found an opening and got away for 27 yards more before he was downed by a Wofford man on Wofford’s 17-yard line. The ball went through tackle on third down for a 14-yard gain. The Terriers held Davidson for downs and Bauknight kicked out. After a few plays, a pass from Mackorell to Morgan for an 11-yard gain started Davidson down the field. The first touchdown of the game came when Pearce took the ball and eluded the whole Wofford team to cross the goal line. Mackorell kicked the extra point, making the score Davidson 7, Wofford 0.

A few plays after the next kickoff, a pass from Mackorell to Morris gained 32 yards for the Wildcats and again the ‘Cats started on a rampage. This play left the ball on the Terriers’ 29-yard line. After a few futile attempts, Mackorell shot a pass and he gained 25 yards, leaving the Wildcats 10 yards to go for a touchdown. Davidson tried two line plunges which resulted in only a gain of three yards. Mackorell then took the ball and spun outside of tackle for seven yards and a score. The placement kick was wide and the score was 13 to 0 in favor of Davidson as the half ended.

The last half had not been going long before the Terriers, invested with new vigor, started smashing the Davidson line on straight plays and after two first downs were resting on Davidson’s eight-yard line. Gault got five through left guard and Munroe bucked the pigskin over the goal line, but his try for the extra point was blocked by Jack Wagner.

After the next kickoff, the Wildcats put the ball in scrimmage from their own 26-yard line. Mills took the ball and shot down the field, but was called back and penalized five yards for crawling. He made up for all his bad breaks by cutting through a hole and scampering 73 yards down the field before being downed by Gault on Wofford’s eight-yard line. Mills again took the ball and circled left end for a touchdown. The (Continued on page 6)

Patronize Our Advertisers

The Davidsonian takes this opportunity to ask the students of Davidson to co-operate with us as far as possible in patronizing the establishments which advertise in this paper. As this publication is dependent to a large extent on the advertising which we receive, we feel that the Davidson students should make every effort to co-operate with us in this respect.