THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 23, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
GUERRANT.................Editor-in-Chief
McBRYDE.................Managing Editor
McCALLIE.................Managing Editor
MYERS....................Managing Editor
SUGG.....................Athletic Editor
STEPHENSON...............Feature Editor
FRANKLIN.................Feature Editor
ERVIN....................Review Editor
McGAW....................Exchange Editor
DWELLE, JR...............Associate Editor
PUGH.....................Associate Editor
MATTHEWS................Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
A. M. A. L. MEBANE........Assistant Business Manager
W. WHITTED...............Assistant Business Manager
R. MORROW................Subscription Manager
W. T. ORR................Solicitor
F. WAM...................Solicitor
R. WOOTT.................Solicitor
A. H. MANSON.............Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
A. O. WHIT...............President
W. B. LAKE...............Vice-President
C. R. OM.................Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR
L. S. GAMBLE
G. E. BAILEY
R. E. LORRAINE
E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
P. PRESTON
R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
A. F. SCHENC
O. CASALI
W. M. THOMPSON
V. T. THOMPSON
L. W. CLARDY
JACK WILLIAM

MARCH 23, 1932

W. T. J. A. HUNTER

I know of no two governments with absolute mutual confidence, and that is one of the gravest calamities weighing upon
the nations of the world.—Foreign Minister Estrada of Mexico.

The student body extends its sympathy to Cecil Neill and John Siewers in the great losses they have suffered in
the deaths of their fathers.

PARAGRAPHICS

The student body learned with a great deal of regret of the injury of Courtney MacConnell Sunday morning.

Junior Speaking was one of the most successful parties of the year. The Junior class under Jerome Clark is due
the congratulations of the student body.

There will be no issue of the Davidsonian next week. The next edition will appear on April 6.

The track team opens the season this afternoon against the University of Florida. The prospects seem to be the best
in several years.

An editorial in this issue of the paper describes to some extent the ideal teacher. It is taken from the
bulletin of the American Association of University Professors.

Congratulations to the student body leaders who have just been selected. They have a great task before them.

COMMENCEMENT

For the next several weeks the students of the college will be busy voting almost every morning, selecting the men
who are to lead the student body in the coming scholastic year. To every student, this voting should be a
great responsibility; each vote should be cast with only one purpose in view—that of selecting the best possible man for
the position.

To those men who are chosen for the various positions on the campus, these elections bring honor, a just reward
for work done well. They deserve this honor which comes to them, and this editorial does not advocate the removing
of any of the honor attached to the positions of authority on the campus. It merely wishes to add to
the honor something more vital. In receiving this vote of confidence from the student body, the men selected are receiving
a responsibility, a trust which it is to be their duty to uphold.

In this sense, then, these chosen men are at the beginning of their career of service to the school; their
election marks a commencement rather than an ending. They are the ones who must carry on, must keep the school,
its ideals, and its spirit alive. Thus we see that although their election is an honor to them, it also
offers them a greater opportunity to bring more glory to the school and in this way to themselves. By being
persistent in their efforts and true to their purpose, they will ultimately justify the confidence placed in them by the
student body.

GOLD AT THE RAINBOW’S END

“There are professors and professors. Some meet their classes every week, dole out their work as so much merchandise to
be sold over the counter, spring the customary number of quizzes, average up a list of grades, and let it
go at that. Everything is as cold and impersonal as an automat. The process is strangely like the regular persistent
appearance of the cuckoo when the hands of the clock mark the hour. The bird appears on time, pipes its
piece, and pops back out of sight again.

“Then there are other men who likewise meet their classes regularly. But for them, each session is an adventure. Each
class is another experience with the young men, an hour not to be endured but to be lived. Here for
them is the high enterprise to work with growing minds, to open up the way, to fire the imagination and
kindle the will, to initiate men into the social fields of study without destroying the broad sweep of the horizons
ahead. Here the human element must never be lost. Here the personal inspiration of an enthused leader must never be
absent. Consequently, there forms a warm bond between the student and the teacher. The one thrills to the quest, the
other leads. He responds to the friendly beckoning onward. He warms to the glowing personality as the sun. He develops
under it and finds no small part of its influence woven into his life. Such leaders build themselves into their
students’ lives. Such professors are powerful factors in college life.”—Bulletin of the American Association of University Professors.

For the first time in the history of Wellesley College dramatic productions, men’s parts were taken by men when members
of the Harvard Dramatic Club took part in the Wellesley play, “The Man of Destiny.”

Dr. Nicolas Metalnikov of the Pasteur Institute at Paris has successfully tested a new type of water filter which has
been found to confer on the filtered water the power to destroy living bacteria. The filter was invented by Georges
Lakhovsky.

Excavators repairing an old sewer recently discovered, only a few yards underground, the wall which David built around the ancient
capital of his Israelite kingdom when he captured Jerusalem from the Jebusites 3,000 years ago.

Eighteen graves containing the richly ornamented bodies of a people living nearly 5,000 years ago have just been discovered at
Ur of the Chaldees by the joint expedition of the University of Pennsylvania Museum and the British Museum.

Ferdinand Buisson, one of the founders of the Third French Republic’s free public schools andknown in France as “the world’s
most persistent pacifist,” died recently at the age of 91.

“Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryde

IN LOVE’S DOMAIN

Prelude:
When lights are lowered in the hall, if we
Into the Future’s hidden face could see
And know that but a little span remains,
How tender would the good-night kisses be!
—(H. E. Harman.)

(A note comes from Miss Louise N., of Peace Institute, requesting a column on “CO-EDS”! But what do we know
about co-eds, when the ratio of them at Davidson is about 6 to 600 boys? We might try to give
a dissertation on the closely related subject of love. But again we must pause in semi-ignorance. One’s knowledge of love
depends upon the way one grasps the subject. As for co-eds, we will reluctantly run a little scrap of a
story that had already started for the waste basket, only to be stopped because of the lack of material, the
lateness of the hour at which this column was written, and the usual empty-mindedness of the writer.)

“PETTY CO-ED”

(Theme: “Love conquers all”)

Alpha Chapter
Oscar Later was a disillusioned Pre-Med. Student. He had had lots of “affairs,” but still he was not understood. College
was beginning to pall, but he gradually came to be a pallbearer. A loving disposition was his, but a mysterious
nature caused his actions to be misinterpreted. He longed to meet someone who would understand him.

The Next Chapter
Rose Bushe was just as pretty as she could be. (Most girls are, judging by their praiseworthy efforts at make-up.)
Dark eyes and a retreating nature hid a most affectionate inclination, and a pent-up longing in this fair co-ed’s heart
for someone who could understand her ways.

The Last Chapter
They met.

QUESTION AND ANSWER DEPARTMENT

West Virginia
Thirstday, 1932

Dear Dorothy Hix:
I live way up here in West Virginia, where men are men, and the women are glad of it. I
am deeply in love with one of your upperclassmen at Davidson and until recently I believed that he entertained the
same feeling for me. About a month after I wrote him last he sent me some very pointed pamphlets on
“The Art of Writing Love Letters.” Please tell me: does this mean that his affections have begun to wane? He
was only a poor, ignorant country boy (from West Virginia), and I would die if one of these city chorus
girls got him.
Hopelessly,
Anne Howe.

Dear Anne Howe:
You poor dear. I know how you must suffer. But I assure you that you should not fear. Not one
of these gold-digging chorus girls would trifle with the affections of your big Davidson brute after one date. Because imagine
them going to a ten-cent show, maybe having a dope* after, and a prospect of a pound box of candy
at Christmas. Anne, money is not everything, but it can buy pretty nearly everything—and the affections of a chorus girl
won't be found in the Bargain Basement. So your little Oswald doesn’t like the way you write! Well, maybe he’s
right. But maybe not. You should change your policy toward him. Tell him that he may mean the world to
his mother, but that he’s just a grain of sand to you. Maybe he has heard the old saying, “Do
right and fear no man; do not write, and fear no woman.” Maybe you should try to make him jealous.
Write him something like this: “I could have loved thee, dear, so much; Loved I not Robert Moore.” But whatever
you do, remember that you are dealing with a delicate subject. ’Tis love that makes the world go ’round (with
that worried expression). If love has an alphabet—and why not?—it probably consists in avowals and consents. When a woman really
loves a man, he can make her do anything she wants to. Love is the feeling that makes a woman
make a man make a fool of himself. A critic says that modern fiction runs too much to love. Yes,
and modern love runs too much to fiction.

SAYINGS OF SAGACIOUS SAM THE SHORT STOP:
“A prominent American doctor says that in fifty years kissing will be a thing of the past. As if we
would care—then.”

DES ENTREFILETS

April 5th promises to be a red-letter day in the history of Finland, for on this day the nation will
discard prohibition and freely enjoy liquor. The state-controlled liquor distributing company, in order not to disappoint the public, has placed
large orders with Dutch, French, Italian, and other concerns for prompt delivery of their products. Estonia, which has been the
source of Finland’s illicit alcoholic beverages for the past twelve years, has received an order for 650,000 bottles. This has
been done because of the shortage of distilling apparatus and in spite of large quantities of smuggled alcohol that now
fill the government warehouses. Scotland received an order for 75,000 bottles of whiskey and France an order for 150,000 bottles
of brandy. The Parliament on January 30 passed a bill repealing prohibition following a referendum in Finland in which the
wets polled over 70 percent of the nation’s vote. The new plan is based upon the principle of government-controlled sources
of liquor without private profit. A corporation has been set up for the importation, manufacture, and sale of liquor in
which the government holds a controlling interest.

A beer pipeline has been discovered in the sewer system of Lancaster, Pa. An employee of the city found the
pipeline and severed it with a hatchet. They were unable to discover its source, but the line was found to
exist in the city’s new three and a half dollar sewer system. The line had proved to be a disappointment
to the bootleggers because, instead of a cold beverage, it turned out hot beer, due to the discharge of steam
into the sewer by industrial plants.

It has been often stated that justice moves slowly in the United States, and England is usually pointed out as
a country where criminals receive their deserts speedily. But this is not always the case. Take Iowa for example: On
Tuesday four men robbed the City National Bank of Clinton of $106,000 and on Wednesday they started life sentences in
the State Reformatory for their crime. Eight hours after the robbery they had been captured and the loot recovered. The
men pleaded guilty and were immediately sentenced. This may not be a record, but it is hitting pretty close to
one.

When the Governor of Texas and the Governor of Chihuahua met recently at the International Bridge the following conversation took
place:
“Well, it’s not a long time between drinks now,” said Governor Sterling.
“No,” replied Governor Fierro, “not here in Juarez.”
The Texas Governor, however, refused the invitation to come over and have a glass of beer. “I’m a teetotaler,” he
explained.

Not satisfied with just a new government in Manchuria they are also changing the name of the capital. The name
has been changed from Changchun to Hsinching, meaning “new capital.” A planning and construction commission has been appointed to take
charge of the task of building a new presidential palace and government office buildings. The new government, headed by Henry
Pu Yi, has decided to appoint several foreigners to official positions regardless of race, and it is understood that these
will be mostly Japanese and “White” Russians, although Americans and Europeans will be eligible also.

The government is being kept busy these days issuing new stamps. On April 22 the Post Office Department is bringing
out a 2-cent issue to commemorate the sixtieth anniversary of the foundation of Arbor Day. Arbor Day was first observed
in Nebraska City, Neb., and was instituted by J. Sterling Morton, who was a resident of that city. The stamp
will be of the same size as the ordinary two-cent stamp, and on each side there will be two trees,
the intertwining branches of which form an arbor. In the center will be a boy and girl planting a tree.

An American woman, Countess Folke Bernadotte, was instrumental in bringing about the reconciliation of King Gustaf of Sweden with Prince
Lennart and his commoner bride. At first the king would go no farther than to send congratulations but a few
days later the Countess and King Gustaf went shopping in Nice. The king bought a magnificent dinner set of gold,
with the royal coat-of-arms engraved on it, as a wedding gift for the prince and his bride.

Dr. H. T. Hunter, president of Cullowhee State Normal College, stated a few days ago that government bleeding was, in
a large part, responsible for the inability of the state of North Carolina to meet its educational expenses. The trouble,
stated the educator, “is that the United States Government is bleeding the state of approximately three hundred million dollars in
internal revenue annually.”

“That is almost exactly 10 percent of the state’s value,” he continued. “Up goes the tobacco tax and we shout,
‘See how rich we are. Only New York pays more to the Federal Government.’

“Then what happens? The Federal Government gets four times as much as do the farmers. That’s why we are poor.”

SECOND SAYING OF SAGACIOUS SAM THE SHORT STOP:
“All’s fair in love and fraternity houses.”

IN CONCLUSION, WE PAUSE TO DEDICATE THIS COLUMN TO THE PEDESTRIAN WHO “DID NOT CHOOSE TO RUN”
