NS THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Athletic Editor
Feature Editor
Feature Editor
Review Editor
Exchange Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Subscription Manager
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President
Vice-President
Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN
F. H. COVINGTON
B. B.
L. S. GAMBLE
TAYLOR
G. E.
R. E. LORRAINE
B. E. L. POWELL
P. PRESTON
R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
A. F. SCHENCK
O. CASALI
W. M. THOMPSON
W. T. THOMPSON
L. W. CLARDY
C. JACK WILLIAM
J. A. HUNTER

FEBRUARY 3, 1932

You can get a lot out of life just by looking at it—Louise Kennedy Mabie.

PARAGRAPHICS

That long-expected cold weather has finally arrived. We need not be surprised to see it last well into the spring,
or even to view the commencement exercises in heavy coats.

Mr. Wade, in his column in the Sunday Observer, remarked, “There are just some lean years in everything and this
seems to be the one in Davidson's basketball history.” It would seem that he is right.

Pan-Hellenics seem to have been run off in great style. The Council is to be congratulated on its success.

Winter football training has started in earnest. Fundamentals are being taught; other things will be taken up by the new
coaches when they are selected.

And we are still wondering who will be the new mentors for the coming season! One Charlotte paper has already
been forced to retract a statement they made regarding the situation.

The wrestling match was evidently closer than the score would indicate. Most of the matches were won by a small
margin, and only one man lost by a fall.

A STUDENT PROBLEM

One of the greatest benefits of a vacation is that it allows us to view our school from a moderate
perspective in the light of all other schools. Also hear from students from other schools, of their problems and their
viewpoints on ours. In speaking of our honor system to other people, we are always tempted to say that we
believe that it is one of the best working systems in the country. But as one fine educator from the
West said, “a really fine Student Government which is working under the honor system will not load its system with
many things irrelevant to honor.” He said on learning of the various enforcements which our Student Council has to undertake
that it was a very remarkable thing that our honor system worked so well under its existing condition of being
loaded, but not as heavily as some. It may be safe to say the enforcement of liquor abstinence on the
Davidson campus by the Student Council does noticeably weaken the three main points of our honor system, which are lying,
stealing, and cheating. It may be said, but not safely so, that the requirement that fellow students enforce this regulation
which it must be admitted is not under the unanimous sympathy of the Student Body weakens the Council as a
governing body, and is not fair to them individually. But on the other hand, there can be no argument that
this regulation has cut down drinking at Davidson to a minimum because it is under the jurisdiction of the Student
Council. We believe that if the faculty had complete charge, there would be more drinking here. Therefore as it stands
now, the regulation is beneficial to the whole.

This brings us to a problem which is difficult to answer. Which is of paramount importance—the reducing of drinking in
the Student Body, or the perfection of a near-perfect honor system government by a Student Council thoroughly honored and respected
by its students?
—R. L. McCALLIE.

THE SINO-JAPANESE AFFAIR

This world has for several weeks been watching with increasing interest the encroachment of the Nipponese on Chinese soil. There
are several reasons for this great concern over happenings on the other side of the globe. The powerful trading nations
of the world have economic interests in China; many countries have citizens residing in this country; Japan has been watched
for several years as a growing power—even as an aggressive nation; various treaties cause other nations to be interested in
this seemingly strictly Mongolian affair. What are the chances of a Sino-Japanese war, and of other countries being drawn into
the fray? This is a question that has been in the minds of thinking people the world over, and has
been brought even more vividly to mind recently by the Japanese invasion of Shanghai and of the international settlement there.

Closer to home, Americans are wondering just what is the proper attitude for the State Department to assume in this
case. The United States has repeatedly refused to join the League of Nations, supposedly because they have wanted to stay
out of European and Asiatic affairs. Yet at this present crisis America finds herself as much or more involved than
any nation in the League. Does this indicate that we have been wise to stay out of it? Some would
say that there are other factors entering into the decision of our government to stay out of the American-founded League,
but that is the basic reason for our isolation in international affairs. And at the present, if the press reports
are reliable, the United States is nearer to war than any other power. The enforcement of the “Nine-Power” pact has
been left almost exclusively to the United States although Great Britain has co-operated in the matter probably as well as
her internal condition will allow her. There have been rumors of Japanese-French and Russian-French understandings which might cause these countries
to overlook this and other treaties which are being broken by the Japanese.

It is sufficient to say that there is a cloudy horizon in the East and that this horizon forebodes no
good for these peace-loving United States. There are many in the country who are even now scolding the government for
being so little prepared for war, and who prophesy all kinds of evil things which the Japanese can do to
us with our present defense. We feel that the United States will be able to take care of herself, but
that does not by any means imply that she is anxious to demonstrate that ability. It must be realized, however,
that until there is a surer and a more certain way of preventing war than by making treaties, countries will
find it necessary to keep themselves armed for defense at least. Treaties have been shown to be so violable as
to be practically ineffective. It seems to careful observers that the Japanese have decided to take advantage of the economic
distress in the world, and, while other nations are worried over internal and other matters, to step into the neighboring
state of China and take over a little territory for the Empire of Japan. Whether this is their motive and
whether they will be successful in such an outrageous breach of international law will be seen in the near future.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake Oglethorpe

There are several students of this Atlanta institution that are trying to establish an Omicron Delta Kappa Chapter there. They
have the approval of their president, Dr. Thornwell Jacobs, and are now trying to obtain approval from the national headquarters
of O. D. K. The fourth chapter of O. D. K. was established here at Davidson, the order of the
first five chapters being: Washington and Lee, Johns Hopkins, Pittsburgh, Davidson, and William and Mary.

N. C. C. W.

On January 13, the students of this college had the pleasure of hearing a well-known Scotch poet, Edward Davison, who
spoke on the subject, “Poetry From the Standpoint of the Reader.”

Georgia State College for Women

This Milledgeville, Ga., college had the extreme honor and pleasure last Saturday of hearing the Welsh Imperial Singers, who are
making a tour of this country. These singers have also made a tour of various European countries, Canada, and Newfoundland.

Wake Forest

Wake Forest celebrated its Founders’ Day yesterday, Judge R. Clyde Allen, of Tulsa, Oklahoma, being the chief speaker. This is
the celebration of the ninety-eighth anniversary of the college. Aiding in the celebration there will be a debate on the
subject of: “Resolved, That the present system of national advertising is detrimental to the best interests of the American people.”
There will also be two students to declaim for the benefit of the visitors.

University of Tennessee

Another sport, indoor this time, has been added to inter-fraternity competition at Tennessee. The great indoor game of bridge, well
known to Davidsonians, was inaugurated as an inter-fraternity sport recently and the contest is in full swing now with all
the nineteen fraternities represented.

What Do You Think?

A writer on Russian affairs in one of the Sunday papers says the food of a worker in that country
is not so good and nourishing as that distributed in theFree bread lines in the United States. Perhaps with the
final completion of the much-talked-of “five-year plan,” Russians will be given a real square meal. The year 1931 saw the
nation more prosperous in health than any similar period in its history, according to information given out Sunday, two weeks
ago, by President Hoover. A letter from Surg. General Hugh S. Cumming, addressed to the chief executive, asserted this comparative
freedom from disease was due, in part, to the aroused interest of the people and to the increased efficiency of
state and local health authorities. Cumming is chief of the Federal Public Health Service. In matters of cold mortality statistics,
Cumming attached data to his statistics to show that among 75,000,000 insurance policyholders, the death rate during 1931 was the
same as that during 1930, but appreciably below the 1929 and 1928 rates. Despite economic conditions, he said, infant mortality
dropped from 58.1 per cent in 1930 to 55.8 per cent in 1931, the lowest in the nation’s history. These
statistics were computed on a basis of deaths under one year of age per 1,000 live births in 70 large
cities.

Even with a 700,000 increase in the population of France, there are still not as many as fifty million. So
fifty million can't be right or wrong either. The latest census taken shows that there are, at present, 38,944,000 Frenchmen.
In 1914, there were 2,495,642 foreigners in France, and according to this latest census, there are now 2,890,923.

There has been a great deal of debate on the campus as to which is the worse of two very
apparent evils: Walter Winchell or Davidson's own Bohemian Club.

British diplomats may go on strike because of their financial plight, owing largely to the depreciation of the exchange. This
applies especially to those who are stationed in countries where the cost of living is appreciably higher than in England,
and where commodities are 30 to 40 per cent dearer. The case of a British consul in Holland or Switzerland
is an example. If he gets one thousand pounds a year, he is earning a good salary. But on the
exchange, he loses one-third of this to begin with, and then his income tax will be fifty to sixty pounds,
deducted at the source. Accordingly, his salary, instead of being one thousand pounds, will be no more than about six
hundred ten pounds. A cut in salary of this description is devastating to a man with heavy fixed charges and
hits all except those who have ample private means.

Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, nearing his ninety-first year, has resigned from the United States Supreme Court. He has been an
ornament to the bench and upheld its best traditions. His opinions have been noted for their clearness and liberality.

Travel by air grew safer last year on the regular scheduled airlines. Figured on the number of miles flown, there
was a slight decrease in the number of fatalities over the year before. Accidents in the air where private and
stunt planes are concerned should not be confused with those which occur with the regular commercial aircraft. For instance, in
a certain paper on one day, there were three accidents with four deaths, but none of them occurred with commercial
or mail planes. Two of the fatalities were Pennsylvania society women who had taken up flying, a third was a
stunt flyer in Florida, and the fourth an army aviator. A check-up on plane fatalities would no doubt reveal the
vast majority of deaths occurred outside the realms of commercial flying, where the airlines exercise the utmost care to ensure
the safe delivery of passengers.

Against the obvious assumption that most bankruptcies are to be laid at the door of the well-known depression, the study
by the Department of Commerce of 612 bankrupt cases and other business failures in New Jersey in 1931 established the
fact that the major cause was inefficient business methods and practices, according to an article in the United States Daily.
More than half the concerns subjected to this post-mortem investigation either kept no books at all or kept inadequate records,
and 39 per cent of them never took an inventory.

Another aspect of the depression is thrust upon us by Dr. Franz Boas of Columbia University when he tells us
that children born during the depression will probably be smaller than those born during other times. This supposition is made
more clear by the results of the study and observation which he has been making for some time. He has
issued the following statement: “Economic conditions influence the size of growing children. Among the poor, the period of adolescence is
delayed and the final stature is shorter than that of the well-to-do.”

What next?

RUMPLE REPARTEE

First Rumpleite: “I’d hate to buy powder and rouge for Ruth.”
Second Ditto: “Why?”
First Rumpleite: “Because she is two-faced.”

"Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings..."

Duncan McBryde

WOE MAN

A Treatise on the Fairer Sex (Or, The Origin of the Species)

Enter Man (A ready-made man): “In the beginning, when Twashtri came to the creation of woman, he found that he
had exhausted his materials in the making of man, and that no solid element was left. In this dilemma, he
did, after profound meditation, the following: He took the rotundity of the moon, and the curves in creepers, and the
clinging of tendrils, and the trembling of grass, and the slenderness of the reed (including the “rushes”) and the blooms
of flowers, and the lightness of leaves, and the tapering of the elephant's trunk, and the glances of the deer,
and the clustering of rows of bees, and the joyous gaiety of sunbeams, and the weeping of clouds, and the
fickleness of the winds, and the timidity of the hare, and the vanity of the peacock, and the softness of
the parrot’s bosom, and the hardness of adamant, and the sweetness of honey, the cruelty of the tiger, and the
warm glow of fire, the coolness of snow and the chattering of jays, and the cooing of the kekila, and
the hypocrisy of the crane, and the fidelity of the chakrawaka: and with the compounding of these together, he made
woman and gave her to man.”—Selected (by PROXY.)

But I claim that the above account is (just as it says on the first line), just a “beginning.” Woman
possesses more characteristics than that. And she has been accruing them ever since. We might also say that a woman
is known by the company she keeps WAITING. Out of the above-mentioned traits, she has gained a dual personality and
become as changeable as the weather. Someone has said that women are two-faced: one for home and one for street
wear. (Like the modern wife, who tries to love, honor, and display.) Women like to be told over and over.
In other words, you can never get them “told.” A word to the wife is NOT sufficient, contrary to the
old adage and subtractage. Judge said a long time ago: “Many a man lives by the sweat of his frau.”
(Wives of great men all remind us of it.) The only man who can tell a woman where to get
off is the streetcar conductor.

MAN IS BUT DUST: AND WOMAN SETTLES HIM.

A doctor says that the chemical value of a man is ninety-eight cents. The chemical value of a woman, however,
depends upon the drug store she patronizes. We see where a New York woman married the speed cop who held
her up for speeding. Trust a woman to even scores with a man. At man’s birth, his mother is the
important character; at his marriage, the bride is; at his death, the widow. Someone else has said, “women are like
money; keep ‘em busy or they lose interest.” (Maybe it should be put—women like money; keep them busy at home,
or you lose the principal as well as the interest, and pretty soon it will be converted into alimony, and
so on, far far into the night.)

Mrs. Peck: “We've been married 20 years today, John.”
John (with a sigh): “Yes, for 20 years have we fought—”
Mrs. Peck (scowling): “What?”
John (quickly): “Life’s battles together, Maria.”

Just this last remark, and I’m through. Someone remarks that women’s dresses are well cut out these days. And someone
else ups and says, “Yeah, almost entirely.” Now I'll close by disappointing you with a remark something to the effect
that man is probably even worse off, and that they are lucky in having been entrusted with these of the
fairer rank, who “make-up” the chief object of interest in his life. We thank you.

THE END (of ME, if I don’t watch out!)

From Other Papers

SMALL COLLEGES IN DANGER (The New Orleans Tribune)

The president of Atlantic University, Norfolk, Va., regretfully announces that his school is so embarrassed financially that it probably won’t
open again, and its hundred or so students will be aided in transferring to other universities. National educational leaders, championing
the small college, have recently called attention to the part it has played in the cultural advance of the United
States. The work of the small college did not end, either, with the advent of the great universities on a
scale of investment, equipment, and enrollment comparable to Ford factory figures. The standardization of teaching and the isolation of the
teaching staff from the individual student inevitable to such a mass-production education system leave much to be desired. Independence of
thought among faculty members and the cultural benefit to be had from close association of faculty and student body are
obtainable at their best in the small college. It would be a serious national loss if the good ones were
crippled by the depression. For they supply opportunities that thousands of young men and women would lose if they had
to go far from their own homes for higher schooling.
