THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1932

Dr. R. A. White Speaks at Vesper Service

Dr. Burwell Introduces Mooresville Pastor, Who Speaks on Reality of Christ

At our regular Sunday night vesper services held in Chambers Auditorium, Dr. R. A. White last Sunday night made a
most inspiring talk. Dr. White is at present pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville and has held this
pastorate for a number of years. The speaker was introduced by Dr. Burwell in a most appropriate way. Dr. Burwell
said that Dr. White was a native of the state of Virginia, but had been in North Carolina long enough
to get tar on his heels. Dr. White, at the beginning of his talk, responded to Dr. Burwell’s introduction by
saying that he was very glad to be located in North Carolina and was proud of being called a Tar
Heel.

George Bailey, prominent member of the Junior class, led the devotional by reading a portion of the first chapter of
First Peter. After the scripture had been read, Bill Flinn and Sam Wiley led in prayer. Granger Williams rendered a
vocal solo, accompanied by Ed McNair at the piano.

Dr. White took his theme from the Epistle of Peter, “Whom having not seen, we love.” He then began his
talk that we generally think that things which are unseen are unreal. Many of us think that Jesus is not
real because we have not and cannot see Him. We think unseen things are uncertain and this makes us doubt
what we can’t see, which accounts for the proverb, “Seeing is believing.” This uncertainty of the unseen, Dr. White said,
causes unbelief even in true Christians. One who prays and feels near to Jesus and that Jesus is in his
presence can pray much better and gets better results than the one who prays and feels that the unseen is
unreal. This feeling comes from the feeling we all have in our hearts about the unseen. We seem to think
that things which we are conscious of by our five senses are the only real things. This is not true,
Dr. White said. Character and personality are real things, yet we cannot see or feel them. They are undefinable things
within that shine outward. We can’t touch them, but we all have these two qualities, and it is Jesus in
the true Christian that makes these qualities stand out and have reality and it is Jesus that makes them real.
Jesus is the Unseen Friend that stands by our side, whom not seen, we love. We can by faith touch
and know Him. Union with Him is Friendship beyond earthly conception and is the greatest factor in our spiritual lives.
The consciousness of the reality of Christ makes our lives successful. Jesus showed reality while on earth, but we should
see reality in Him now.

The speaker went on to say that Jesus is also an Unseen Helping Hand. He used the child learning how
to walk and the blind man reaching for the unseen hand as examples. This Unseen Hand is here if we
will accept. Sometimes Jesus does not wait for us to reach for the Unseen Hand, but helps us when we
don’t know it until we finally become conscious of it. We need a hand that we can lay hold on
and find help and inspiration from. The Everlasting Hand is always with us. We should develop a knowledge of His
constant fellowship. He is the unseen power and life within us. The life of Jesus in us tears away powers
of sin; drives out sin by its upgrowth in us; Christ in us is our hope, whom having not seen,
we love.

After the closing hymn, Dr. Burwell brought the service to a close by a prayer.

Freshmen Donate Many Boners in Examination

Boners Compiled by Reporter Show Interesting Slant on Frosh Intellect

Davidson College students showed a marked tendency toward naive misinformation in their mid-year examinations, it is learned. The Freshmen head
the list for prize “boners,” presenting some choice morsels of their college training. Even so, it is believed that this
year’s Freshman class knows what it is all about more than those of the past. Some of them even answered
questions that they did not know, like sophisticates.

One intellectual giant insisted that “Montaigne and Bridget were editors of a new English dictionary.” Another student declared that “murrain
was something priests stood on when offering sacrifices.” An aspiring Freshman spelled misdemeanor “mistermenor.” In one of the Bible courses
the statement was made that: “The covering of the tabernacle was composed of ram skins dyed red.” One youth, answering
a question concerning euphemism, conceived this remarkable definition: “Euphemism is the philosophical idea of eat, drink, and be merry, for
tomorrow we will die.” Freshmen in other classes have been known to say that “on arriving the Jews made a
golden cafe and fell down and worshipped it.” Another wrote that “Esau ate a bowl of potash because he was
so hungry.”

Jack Williams, Jr.

Copr., 1932, The American Tobacco Co.

CHIP OFF THE OLD BLOCK

Cash in on Poppa's famous name? Not Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.! For months he labored as a five-dollar-a-day “extra.” Then he
crashed into a part like a brick through a plate-glass window. Doug boxes like a pro, and we don't mean
a palooka... he has muscles like a wrestler. When undressing, he hangs his clothes on the chandelier. The box offices
like his latest FIRST NATIONAL PICTURE, “UNION DEPOT.” Doug has stuck to LUCKIES four years, but didn't stick the makers
of LUCKIES anything for his kind words, “You're a brick, Doug.”

“It’s toasted” Your Throat Protection—against irritation—against cough

“LUCKIES are my standby”are my standby. I buy them exclusively. I’ve tried practically all brands but LUCKY STRIKES are kind
to my throat. And that new improved Cellophane wrapper that opens with a flip of the finger is a ten
strike.” And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh.

TUNE IN ON LUCKY STRIKE—60 modern minutes with the world’s finest dance orchestras and Walter Winchell, whose gossip of today
becomes the news of tomorrow, every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday evening over N. B. C. networks.

Board of Trustees To Meet on Feb. 17

The regular annual meeting of the trustees of Davidson College will be held in Davidson on Wednesday morning, February 17,
at 10 o'clock. No special business is on the docket for consideration by the board, except the regular routine of
preparing the financial budget for the next fiscal year. Also at this time, the honorary degrees to be conferred in
June are decided upon. The Board of Trustees of Davidson College is made up of fifty-three members. Forty-one of the
men come from either the Presbyteries of North Carolina or Florida, while the other twelve are selected from among successful
alumni. The alumni trustees may be chosen from alumni all over the world.

Yowl Is to Appear On Saturday, Feb. 13

The second issue of The Yowl, Davidson’s humorous magazine, is to appear Saturday, February 13. This number will be the
March copy and from all reports promises to be an unusually good edition. The main feature of the magazine will
be a one-act play by Henry McFadyen that has been highly endorsed by the English department. Reeves Pope is the
originator of the cover and there will be the usual number of drawings used to illustrate the jokes. It is
reported that there will be a great deal of literary matter included this time, composed of stories, skits, plays, jokes,
and funny sayings. Poetry lovers will enjoy this coming edition, for it will have many poems to suit their taste.
Vereen Bell is the editor and will furnish the reader editorial comment. Crosswell Ragin, Jr., of the class of '31
and editor emeritus, is to write an article. The Yowl is only a little more than a year old, but
has become popular on the campus since it first began publication. It furnishes a means for those who have literary
talent or a good sense of humor to develop these qualities. It is also an agent that encourages drawing since
many of the jokes are illustrated.

Rabbi Morris Levine To Speak Here Soon

On Tuesday evening, February 16, at 7:30, Rabbi Morris Levine, D.D., of the Hebrew Synagogue in Charlotte, will deliver an
address on “The Contribution of the Jew to Civilization.” This lecture will be open to all students and is expected
to be of very great interest, for Rabbi Levine is an interesting speaker. He is a native of Lithuania and
has had an extensive education, having studied six years in Oxford University and also in Hebrew seminaries in both London
and Palestine. His lectures have carried him to Birmingham Southern University and elsewhere. Besides, he is popular with his congregation
in Charlotte. This address will be presented in Chambers Auditorium and is under the auspices of the Faculty Committee on
Lectures.

Gordon Brown Selected For Oratorical Contest

Will Represent Davidson in American Legion Declamation Contest at Raleigh

Gordon L. (Skip) Brown has been chosen to represent Davidson College at the annual Inter-Collegiate American Declamation Contest which is
to be held at Raleigh, N. C., the night of February 22. The subject this year is on any phase
of George Washington’s life, preferably Washington as a statesman or Washington the patriot. This is to help celebrate the bicentennial
anniversary of Washington. In the tryouts, which were held Friday night, January 29, in Phi Hall, Mr. Brown was selected.
Mr. Brown is a member of the Freshman debating team and shows promise of becoming a very good orator. The
judges for the tryouts were Dr. Brown and Dr. Gwynn.

Vesper Speaker

Dr. W. H. Frazer, President of Queens-Chicora College, will be the speaker at the vesper services conducted by the Y.
M. C. A. Sunday night.

Old students need no introduction to Dr. Frazer, who is a well-known speaker at these services. He has always drawn
large audiences here.

Carl Pritchett, secretary of the “Y,” has made tentative plans to have a quartet selected from the college janitors sing
at the services.

Dr. T. R. Garth to Give Lecture Here Thursday

Noted Speaker From University of Denver to Talk in Chambers Auditorium February 11th

On Thursday evening, February 11, at 7:30 o'clock, Dr. T. R. Garth, from the University of Denver, will deliver a
lecture in the Chambers Auditorium, his subject being, “Race Psychology.” Dr. Garth, who is connected with the Division of Education
and Psychology at the university from which he hails, has done extensive research in this branch of psychology and has
written one or two books on the subject. Since January 19 he has been on a tour through the country
lecturing to schools and colleges. In addition to Davidson, he will visit Smith College, Wellesley, Queens-Chicora, Winthrop, The Social Science
School of New York, and a number of other eastern institutions, lecturing at each. Dr. Garth, although a very noted
lecturer, generally speaks in such a manner that he can be easily understood by the average student, and at the
same time be most interesting to persons of higher education. Besides this, his lecture is to be illustrated by a
series of lantern slides which will add to its interest. The lecture will be free of charge and a most
cordial invitation is extended to students, faculty members, and the general public to come and hear this renowned lecturer.
