THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 19, 1932

The Bookshelf

Secret Sentence. By Vicki Baum. Doubleday, Doran and Company. 1932.

Can a man, by his mode of living after a crime, reconcile himself in the eyes of society? This question
has arisen often upon the occasion of the discovery and apprehension of a man who at some time in the
distant past was wanted for a crime, but who afterwards has lived an honest and useful life. Frau Baum treats
this theme in a novel which is better in characterization of the criminal than in the action of the story.
Is the man who killed the minister really a criminal, since through the propaganda of a secret society he was
convinced that the man was an enemy of the welfare of his country?

The book is vivid in its recounting of the precarious existence of the fugitive from the law. He finds in
a mine a temporary retreat, but the authorities trace his trail and he is forced to move on. Very life-like
and realistic are the escapes and the terrible life of an outlaw. In dealing with her subject, Frau Baum divides
the book into three parts: The Deed, Flight, and Expiation. The first part portrays the gradual “working up” of Joachim
to the point where he is willing to commit the crime. He is influenced by his companions. Because they consider
him incapable of the deed, he seeks to show them. This desire to prove himself loyal preys upon his mind
until he commits the murder. Consequently, he makes his escape when the situation becomes tense.

The second part relates the perils incident to the flight, the precautions against identification, and the necessity of isolating himself
from his fellowmen. The law is an unrelenting pursuer and the criminal the determined fugitive. The last division tells how
after his return from a sojourn in America he re-establishes his life. He settles in a quiet fishing village and
through patience, knowledge, kindness, and character, he reinstates himself as a useful and worthy citizen. The climax comes when he
meets his former allies in the secret society, the man largely responsible for his committing the crime. He is offered
a chance to regain his former rank in the society, but he refuses, choosing to remain in the little fishing
colony to serve his self-imposed “secret sentence.”

The author has related the events of the story so that the reader feels that he has experienced them and
follows the central figure with great interest. The characters are mostly from the lower class and they are natural and
well depicted. The novel, while a most engrossing story on the subject, leaves the question open. This particular man served
sentence for the remainder of his life by separating himself from family, friends, and society. Was, then, his crime expiated?
During his period of expiation, it seems that everything would culminate in complete happiness. The man, Joachim, lives a life
of toil. He has no goal toward which to aim but finds a measure of solace in hard work. He
has no social ambition, no desire for material wealth. His love affair also ends unfavorably. Thus, he imprisons himself from
the joys of life in “secret sentence.”

EU SOCIETY DISCUSSES POLITICAL PLATFORMS

(Continued from page 1)

Republican Presidents. He stated that their platform was the only one able to cope with the grave condition of the
country. In speaking for the Socialist party, Taylor declared that Socialism is not to be confused with Bolshevism. He stated
that, although the party could not hope to get into power in November, a vote would be more than a
protest and would not be wasted. It would help to build up a party in the future. He showed that
government control of industries was practical and a movement that would eliminate many industrial evils. He praised Norman Thomas, the
Socialist candidate, as a man who had sacrificed his political future to a principle.

Richards, in speaking for the Democrats, showed that their platform was clear-cut and left no room for doubt on its
issues. He flayed the Republicans because of their indecision and tendency to straddle questions. He showed the marked tendency toward
lawlessness under the Republican regime and predicted that people, tired of this state of affairs, would turn to Roosevelt and
the Democrats in November. He stated that Roosevelt was a man of progressive principles and would take the place of
the other great Democratic leaders.Leaders in a time of crisis. Several new members were initiated into membership of the society.

Honored at Stag Dinner | Entertainment Given by Dr. Frazer | Hood at Charlotte Hotel

Among the other honors for Prof. John T. Kimbrough, whose wedding was solemnized Tuesday night, October 18, was a dinner
given last Wednesday. After a delightful repast was served, the gentlemen engaged in conversation rather than having any formal speeches.
This was a unique and very enjoyable part of the program. Present were as follows: Professors L. B. Schenek, F.
L. Blythe, E. A. Beaty, J. C. Bailey, A. V. Goldiere, W. P. Cumming, C. K. Brown, Dr. J. W.
McConnell, the guest of honor, Professor Kimbrough, and the host, Dr. Hood. On the afternoon of the same day, Mrs.
T. S. Stough gave a tea in honor of Mrs. Kimbrough. Professor Kimbrough’s mother and father, Mr. and Mrs. L.
O. Kimbrough of Owingsville, Ky., were the guests of Dr. and Mrs. Hood during the wedding.

NORTH CAROLINA GAMMA OF PHI BETA KAPPA (Continued from page 1)

He has the following honors: President of Delta Phi Alpha, member of Eta Sigma Phi, International Relations Club, Gamma Sigma
Epsilon, Beaver Club, varsity baseball, captain of the Rifle Team, Omicron Delta Kappa, and winner of the physical development trophy.
Bill Mulliss is president of the Pan-Hellenic Council and a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, Reporters’
Club, Phi Alpha, and assistant manager in economics. Moffett McConnell is Junior track manager, assistant editor of Quips and Cranks,
varsity debater, a member of International Relations Club, Glee Club, and Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Ed McNair is vice-president of
the Eumenean Literary Society, and a member of Eta Phi, Sigma Pi, and the Glee Club, being the accompanist. Charlie
Bettis is a member of Sigma Pi Sigma, Delta Phi Alpha, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and is advertising manager of Quips
and Cranks and assistant baseball manager. He is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

RED AND BLACK MASQUERS (Continued from page 1)

E. A. Hancock, president; Jack Williams, Jr., secretary-treasurer; Henry Hodgin, manager; Wills Hollingsworth, head of play selection committee. The other
members of the Red and Black Masquer Key Club are Paul Brown, Billy Flinn, John Marvin, Bruce Peabody, Reeves Pope,
Adolphe Rachal, and Grainger Williams.

INTERWOVEN SOCKS

In a recent national survey among colleges, the result showed that Interwoven is the most popular brand of half hose
with college men.

IVEY’S DAVIDSON SHOP

Always Leading with College Men

Chesterfield presents the cigarette that's milder, the cigarette that tastes better. Across the corner and down your way he comes
with his mellow accordion, a song on his lips and the love of song in his heart, like a wandering
troubadour of old. Light up your Chesterfield, fling wide your radio window and listen... for he has many tales to
tell you!

Chesterfield Radio Program—Mondays and Thursdays, Boswell Sisters; Tuesdays and Fridays, Arthur Tracy; Saturdays, Ruth Etting. Shilkret’s Orchestra and Norman Brokenshire
10 p.m. (E.S.T.) Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays; and 9 p.m. Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays. Columbia Network.
