THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 7, 1932

“The Davidsonian”
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915
Rates: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the College year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor: E. SCHENCK
Managing Editor: W. M. THOMPSON
Managing Editor: J. WILLIAMS
Managing Editor: D. CASALI
Athletic Editor: E. LAKE
Exchange Editor: W. WHITE
Feature Editor: S. GAMBLE
Feature Editor: T. GOODYKOONTZ
Contributing Editor: K. A. HANCOCK
Review Editor: D. D. McBRYDE
Associate Editor: R. L. McCALLIE
Associate Editor: C. F. MYERS
Associate Editor: B. B. SUGG

BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager: W. T. MOORE
Assistant Business Manager: A. H. MANSON
Advertising Manager: ALVIN BAYER, JR.
Assistant Advertising Manager: H. B. DANIEL
Circulation Manager: W. P. SPRUNT
Assistant Circulation Manager: A. C. WADSWORTH
Assistant Circulation Manager: E. WHITE

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President: S. GAMBLE
Vice-President: LEWIS GREGG
Secretary-Treasurer: J. L. McCLINTOCK
Members: R. N. ALDERMAN, W. G. BAILEY, E. F. McPHAIL, D. B. BAILEY, W. C. NEILL, B. C. BARNES, W.
L. NORTHEN, J. E. BOWERS, C. E. NORVELL, J. E. BOYD, E. L. POWELL, J. H. COVINGTON, S. P. PRESTON,
J. S. K. EATON, P. M. ROGERS, J. B. FICKLIN, B. L. ROSE, J. L. GULLETTE, T. H. SUTTON, JACK
HELLINGER, N. W. WALLACE, J. C. HENRY, K. D. WEEKS, J. A. HUNTER, W. R. WARD, J. E. LORRAINE, W.
T. THOMPSON, T. F. WOOD, W. WHITE, W. F. MULLISS, J. PRATT-THOMAS

DECEMBER 7, 1932

“It is not what a poet takes, but what he makes out of what he has taken, that shows what
native force is in him.” —James Russell Lowell on Spenser.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

South Carolina deserves a great deal of praise for tying Auburn, 20 to 20. In reality, Auburn is the superior
team, but the Gamecocks battered their way in a thrilling comeback to tie the Plainsmen, hitherto undefeated or untied.

South Carolina’s victory threw the Southern Conference race in a muddle. Whether Tennessee is recognized as the leading Southern Conference
team or not, we feel that she should be. Tennessee came through a stiff schedule with one tie only to
mar her record. That tie with Vandy will always be questioned in the minds of those who saw Feathers of
Tennessee dash to a touchdown only to be called back for stepping outside.

Southern California in the West, Notre Dame in the Mid-West, Pitt in the East, and Tennessee in the South are
the four leading teams in the country, in our opinion.

The Southern California-Notre Dame game this Saturday in Los Angeles promises to be one of the best of the entire
season, and one of the most interesting. Here two of the nation’s best teams will clash.

The selection of Pitt as the opponent of Southern California in the annual Rose Bowl tournament came as a surprise
to many, but Pitt, undefeated, is undoubtedly the best team in the East and should offer worthy opposition to the
Trojans on New Year's Day.

Davidson wishes to extend its heartiest congratulations to Queens-Chicora College as the result of their admission into the Southern Association
of Colleges and Secondary Schools.

This has been a year of many upsets in football. Superior teams were defeated or tied by inferior teams more
often than ever before. Somehow we cannot help but feel a little sorry to see a great team’s record marred
by an inferior team, but that is what makes football the greatest game of all—opportunity for a winning spirit to
win.

The Davidson Student Body will await with a great deal of interest the action of the Southern Conference on her
application for admission to that body. Admission to this body will help Davidson, her student body, and team. We trust
that we will have the good fortune to be admitted into the Southern Conference for it will mean much to
us.

The craze of selecting All-American teams is again abroad in the land. We trust the South with its great backs
and good linesmen will be duly recognized. It looks like the South has the greatest array of backs in the
country, Robert Zimmerman, Hitchcock, Feathers, and Cain, are a quintet that is hard to beat.

The student body ought to back basketball with more of the spirit with which they get behind football. Basketball season
will soon be with us. May we have a successful basketball season.

OPEN FORUM

I SAW WORLD SPECTATOR

THE DEBT NOTES

The official notes of England and France advocating postponement of the December payments of War Debts give us the outlook
and attitude of the debtor nations on this problem. The English note expresses the consensus of opinion of the other
nations. England has taken the lead in the move for postponement because her debt is by far the largest (95
billion dollars). In the notes the powers threaten our trade relations. This is the most effective weapon which they possess
and also the most valid argument for postponement and revision. For is it a wise policy to undermine the financial
stability of our largest customers? England definitely declares that it will be impossible to buy as much from the United
States as formerly if the December installment is paid.

Furthermore, England points out the inconsistency of our erecting high tariff walls and at the same time demanding that our
debtors pay their debts over these walls. In order to pay, the debtor nations must obtain a market for their
goods. The United States by high tariffs has closed her own market.

Another argument set forth in Britain’s note is the probable effect which payment will have upon the pound sterling and
thus upon all prices, for more than half of the world’s business is transacted in terms of the pound sterling.
Some English economists even think that the pound sterling will succeed gold as the world’s monetary basis. This might conceivably
happen if the United States and France gained control over the entire supply. At present these two nations have a
large part of it.

Despite these logical arguments set forth in great detail, it is extremely doubtful if the notes will influence Congress in
its attitude toward the matter, and it is Congress, in the last analysis, which has the power of decision. Congress
conceives its first duty to be the balancing of the national budget. If the debts were postponed, a sizable part
of the appropriations would be reduced. It is fairly certain, then, that the December payments will not be deferred. As
to revision, both President Hoover and Governor Roosevelt have expressed themselves as favoring it, through different channels; Mr. Hoover wishing
immediate action on the question. We have, therefore, reason to hope that the solution will be forthcoming in the near
future.

THE CENTENNIAL CLASS
(Continued from page 1)

in this direction and work for its success. This fall we have heard some comment by various members of the
student body to the effect that the present student body could aid in this endeavor by attempting to bring more
students here next year. Such a campaign for students was carried on very successfully in 1919, as was stated before,
and we believe that interest can be stimulated at the present time for the carrying on of such an endeavor.

It is our opinion that the Centennial Celebration would be materially benefitted if a class of one hundred and fifty
seniors were graduated in 1937. No class of that size has ever graduated from Davidson College, and in order to
achieve such a result, we would have to obtain between two hundred and fifty and three hundred freshmen next fall.
The student body at Davidson has always been above the average, and to gain mere numbers by lowering the quality
of students would be detrimental rather than beneficial. The only way this could be successful would be to induce students
of the highest type to come here. We do not feel that we should lower the standards in any respect,
but undoubtedly there are three hundred students of superior quality in the southeastern part of the United States who would
come to Davidson, if the proper efforts were exerted to bring them here. Since we had over two hundred new
students this year, a goal of three hundred is certainly not out of reason. It would undoubtedly mean a greater
Davidson, and certainly would be an eminently worthy endeavor for the student body this year to enter upon.

No very definite plans as to how this should be carried out have been formulated as yet, but it could
be aided by us as members of the student body, if we would approach high school seniors who would be
a credit to Davidson, and influence them to enter college here. It is our earnest desire that such a plan
as this can be completed successfully, and we believe that there would be no doubt concerning its ultimate result, if
the student body would support it wholeheartedly. This is certainly one way in which Davidson spirit in its highest phase
can be manifested. We shall gladly accept and print any articles written by members of the student body on this
subject, and we trust some valuable suggestions as to how this can be carried out will be forthcoming in the
near future.

Do you know, or don’t you? They say that Cupid strikes the match that sets the world aglow. But where
does Cupid strike the match? That’s what I’d like to know.
—Theresa Crowd.

Joe Wadsworth telling this story. In case you haven’t heard or did you know that he and Dick Whitfield spent
a Saturday night in a car? They missed their ride back from Charlotte and asked the negro watchman at the
Poplar Apts. if they could sleep in one of the cars parked out front.He urged, “Pick out de’ bes’ one
and crawl in.” They selected a Lincoln and thus passed the night. I hear the next a.m. Dick’s knees were
so stiff he could hardly move. Yup... or rather heard the play in Charlotte Tuesday night was pretty melodramatic. It
was like this, you see. In the second act, the skulking villain descended upon the farm and foreclosed the mortgage
on poor Uncle Zeke’s radio. They say there were tears in the eyes of all who saw this touching scene.

... our “Y” secretary, Sam Wiley, buying a paddle ball at White’s Thursday afternoon. He was getting it for the
big ping pong tournament. This is always a big moment in the lives of the contestants and as the tourney
progresses, excitement is at a high pitch. You simply must take it in if you crave that Park Avenue chic!

... and overheard a discussion between Davidson’s prize orator, Skip Brown, and our newest playboy, Bill Brewer, Friday night. Skip
asked Bill if he had been exercising enough lately. Bill replied in the affirmative. “He had just come from the
Charlotte Country Club where he had been swinging dumbbells around all evening.” What we'd like to know is how he
got in the Country Club. It wasn’t so easy the night we tried it!

... The S.A.E.’s playing “Murderer” at their house the other evening. This is the last word in entertainment and no
casualties were reported. Those engaged in this popular indoor sport were Bill Reid, Jack Plunkett, Bill Johnson, Lamont Brown, Kenneth
Weeks, and Mark Senter. They seemed to be having a jolly time!

... a persistent rumor circulating that a Davidson student was seen at a Charlotte florist’s ordering gardenias lately. Dame Gossip
has it that he gave the girl’s address and charged the flowers to himself. The florist said, “And your name?”
He answered, “Never mind, she’ll know who it is.” Oh, sure!

... manly little Bob Wood, son of Prof. Wood, got away for a touchdown while playing Cornelis one afternoon last
week. This Davidson team has also had a good season and the players should be congratulated on their successful year.
Besides winning games, they’ve had barrels of fun.

... those who have lately been into the Cripples Club for various and sundry reasons are: Charlie Rives, Gus Maynard,
Chink Thompson, and Avery Patton.

... everybody in the library Friday night ran out, leaving books and everything, to attend the fire. The co-eds present
did themselves proud and were the first to arrive at the scene of action. Girls are like that!

TIP-OFF. Collegiate Ramblings A. M. MANSON J. E. LAKE V. M. I.

There is being held a nation-wide popularity contest to decide the most popular radio entertainers. The following were the temporary
leaders in order named: Ben Bernie, George Olsen, Guy Lombardo, Rudy Vallee, Paul Whiteman, and Walter Damrosch were the victors
for the orchestra leaders. Rudy Vallee was the most popular of the men singers with Lawrence Tibbett, Arthur Tracy, and
Bing Crosby following in order named. Jessica Dragonette, Kate Smith, Ruth Etting, Julia Sanderson, and Ethel Shutta were the topnotchers
among the women singers. Rubinoff, Little Jack Little, and Ann Leaf lead the instrumentalists. First place among the announcers was
won by Graham McNamee, Jimmy Wallington, Milton Cross, Ted Husing, and Bill Hays following close behind. Ed Wynn, the perfect
fool, is leading the comedians with Jack Benny, Eddie Cantor, Jack Pearl, and Burns and Allen close behind.

Georgia Tech

In 1917 Davidson made the best record against the great Georgia Tech team by holding them to a 32-10 score.
The fighting team from Davidson, led by the first “Buck” Flowers, came to the Flats and fought like mad for
the closest game on Tech’s schedule. Davidson was defeated, 32 to 10. The other scores for Tech of that year
were very large in favor of Tech: Tech 33, Wake Forest 0; Tech (second team) 25, Furman 0; Tech 41,
University of Pennsylvania 0; Tech 63, Washington and Lee 0; Georgia Tech 83, Vanderbilt 0; Tech 48, Tulane 0; Tech
98, Carlisle Indians 0; Tech 68, Auburn 7. The Technique called that team the “world’s most powerful eleven.”

Until recently the Soviet government in Russia has not permitted Russians to emigrate. No passport visas were given to Russian
citizens to leave Russia except under rare conditions. Now the rule has been changed, and Russians may emigrate if they
follow the course laid down by the Soviet. They are required to pay to the government a sum, varying from
$250 to $500, the payment to be in foreign currency. The workers must pay about $250 while all others must
pay twice that much. The hardest part of the rule is that which requires payment in foreign currency. For the
ordinary Russian who has no friends or no foreign bank account, this is almost impossible. Thus the Soviet, with an
outward show of liberalism, is almost as strict about emigration as before.

The new Italian liner, Conte di Savoia, on its maiden voyage to New York, has reached Gibraltar with satisfaction to
all except several American engineers aboard. For them, the sea has been entirely too calm and thus they have not
been able to observe the effect of huge gyroscopes which were installed in the liner to increase stability in rough
seas. The Mediterranean Sea has been very quiet, so the stabilizing machinery has been unnecessary. The gyroscopes have been kept
running in order to get them “broken in,” but have not been geared to the hull. The engineers are very
hopeful about a report of rough weather west of Gibraltar. It only is a question of time before the experts
will know if the gyroscopes are efficient in producing stability.

A device to determine the comfort of the air in a room has recently been patented in England. It not
only is affected by the temperature of the air, but it is affected by drafts, so that the relative comfort
of the room is found. It has one limitation in that it does not determine the relative humidity of the
air, a very important factor in the comfort of a room. The instrument is a metal tube about two feet
high and eight inches across. Inside is an electric light and a thermal regulator which keeps the outside of the
tube at a slightly higher temperature than the room. The electricity used is an indicator of the amount of heat
that is given off, and so the comfort of the room may be determined. Drafts cause more current to be
used, and thus are accounted for, whereas thermometers are not affected by drafts.

The London Times, a conservative English paper, has broken away from two traditions within the last two months. In October
it changed the style of type of its masthead which had been in use since 1788. The second change was
a breaking of a tradition of 147 years’ standing. Up until December 2, the Times had never printed a two-column
headline, even during all the important crises of the World War. On December 2, the Times put a two-column head
over the British note to the United States on the subject of war debts. This shows how the British feel
on the question and shows the importance of the question to the British and, for that matter, to the world.

Hindenburg, the old and esteemed President of Germany, was about to change from his bulldog power, and was on the
verge of resigning as President of Germany. This low, depressed feeling was largely due to the inability of the German
political parties to agree upon a Chancellor. Hindenburg, who is over eighty years old, is a steadying force in Germany,
and his resignation would cause great political changes in the country. It is thought by many that should Hindenburg resign,
a vice-regency would be set up, with a Hohenzollern as vice-regent. Up to the present, though, the old man has
held his place as President.

Dr. Albert Einstein, famous scientist who is planning to come to America to conduct a scientific school in Princeton, N.J.,
may be refused admission to the United States if the petition of the Woman Patriotic Corporation to the State Department
is carried through. The petition, sent in by Mrs. Randolph Frothingham of Brookline, Mass., asked that Dr. Einstein be refused
a passport to America because he was a member of “several Communist organizations under Moscow management.” The State Department wired
the accusation to the American consuls in Europe. It is left up to them to decide whether Einstein will be
allowed to come to New Jersey. It is thought that this idea about Einstein’s being a Communist originated through his
strong support of pacifism and interest in anti-war congresses at which Communism was well represented. The Berlin Communist headquarters deny
that he is a member of the Communist party. This should be proof enough that the great scientist is no
Communist, for were he a “Red,” it would be natural for the Communist party to let his affiliation be known.
After all, even if he were a Communist, his political attitude would be submerged by his mathematical work and the
United States would derive much more benefit than harm.

Consider the lowly oyster. He is now being cared for and incubated just like poultry is sheltered in early life.
The “oyster incubator” is not a very elaborate affair, with trays and a kerosene heater, nor does it require careful
watching. It is only a cardboard tube covered with cement and placed upon the ocean floor so that the infant
oyster may attach himself to a firm support. After reaching a mature state, the oyster is transplanted and left to
grow independently. Many of the young oysters are not allowed to mature, but are ground up and made into poultry
feed or the lime is extracted from their shells. The incubation of oysters by this method is used by the
United States Fisheries Biological Station at Beaufort, North Carolina.
