TRACK MEET WITH V. P. I. SATURDAY

The Davidsonian

“LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

BASEBALL GAME WITH DUKE THIS AFTERNOON

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 13, 1932 No. 25

Charlie Pearce Elected New President
Lafferty and Holland, Only Two Sophomore Lettermen, Were Elected Vice-Presidents

MANY ARE NOMINATED
West of Freshman Class Was Chosen Secretary and Treasurer

During the last week, the student body elected the officers of the Athletic Association for the year 1932-1933. In the first ballot, which was cast to decide the president for the coming year, all except three of those who were nominated were eliminated. All of the Junior lettermen were nominated for this office. They are: Bruce Peabody, Buck Mills, Charlie Pearce, Charlie Myers, Buddy Gardner, Harry Boucher, June Morrison, Bill Flinn, Bob McCallie, Alec Little, Dick Whitfield, George Bailey, Earle Bradsher, Fred Fleagle, Jack Wagner, Tom Caldwell, John Howard, and Ben Taylor. Those who were voted on in the second ballot were Peabody, Pearce, and Mills. In this vote, Mills was eliminated, and in the next, which was the third and last, Charlie Pearce was elected to the office. The two nominees for the two vice-presidents, Mack Holland and John Lafferty, were unanimously elected. All of the Freshmen who were granted numerals in any sport during the past year were nominated for the combined office of secretary and treasurer. In the first ballot, all except the following were eliminated: West, Potter, Hutchins, and Lee. In the next vote, West was elected.

Pearce is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He played on the Freshman football team and also on the varsity team in his Sophomore year until he was injured in such a way that he was no longer able to play. However, he played on the team last year. He was picked for the all-state team by some, and many people of the state consider him to be one of the best punters which the collegiate teams afford. Pearce also made his letter in baseball in his Sophomore year as a pitcher. During the year 1931-1932, Pearce has been vice-president of the student body. The installation date for these officers has not been stated as yet, but it is understood that it will be in the near future.

Le Cercle Francais Has Entertainment
Goldieres Are Hosts to French Club on March 23

Le Grand Cafe du Chat Qui Dort (The Great Cafe of the Cat Who Sleeps), 13 Place de la Madeleine, was host to the Davidson College Le Cercle Francais on Wednesday evening, March 23rd, at 8 o’clock. This Grand Restaurant is known throughout the world for its famous hors d’oeuvres and French pastries, the latter of which is prepared by the wife of the proprietor. Upon arriving at 23 Place de la Madeleine (the home of M. and Mme. Goldiere), the Americans had their money changed into French banknotes of 5, 10, and 20-franc denominations, and into coins of 25 and 50 centimes and one franc. The Restaurant presented a play in one act, called “Les Martins au Restaurant.” The cast was:
M. Martin .......... M. Goldiere
Mme. Martin ....... Mme. Goldiere
M. Louis Hand
Mme. Watts
M. Watts

The scene was laid in Paris, in the present time. The price of the program was 1.50. This presentation was a very amusing story of a French couple with their mischievous son coming to the cafe and eating a full course dinner. The waiter with his mustache and goatee performed his duties admirably and continuously held the audience spellbound by his marvelous acting. The acting laurels, however, go to the entire cast. After this entertainment, the American guests took their respective places at tables, seating four, and the two garcons, Messrs. Goldiere and Watts, with M. Hand as the petit garcon, served the guests. M. Hand sold the newspaper Le Temps and then returned to his duty as an assistant waiter. The vin blanc was served first and alternated (Continued on page 6)

Dr. W. S. Lee Bid By Physics Fraternity
Dr. W. S. Lee of Charlotte and New York, rated as one of the three leading hydroelectric engineers of America, has accepted an invitation for honorary membership in the Davidson College Alpha chapter of Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary physics fraternity, and has also accepted an invitation of the local chapter to deliver an address here on April 21. Dr. Lee's address, which will be delivered in the auditorium of Chambers Building at 8 o'clock, will follow his private initiation into the local chapter. He has announced that it will be an illustrated lecture, in which he will show moving pictures of projects he has constructed, and explain some of the obstacles he has surmounted. Selection of this eminent engineer by the Davidson mother chapter is pursuant to its policy of choosing only the most eminent leaders in the field of physics in America. Among members of Sigma Pi Sigma are Dr. W. F. Swann, director of the Bartol Research Foundation of Philadelphia; Dr. K. T. Compton, president of Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Dr. R. C. Miller, of the department of physics, Case School of Applied Science; Dr. Arthur Haas, theoretical physicist at the University of Vienna; Dr. W. I. Forsythe, head of the research laboratory of General Electric Company; Dr. A. H. Compton, director of research at the University of Chicago, and Dr. E. Richtmyer, physicist at Cornell University.

The latest addition to this honorary fraternity was educated at The Citadel, Charleston, S. C., and in 1929 was honored with a doctor of science degree by Davidson. Dr. Lee entered the hydroelectric field in its pioneer days and has made valuable contributions as an inventor, designer, and builder. Practically all of the network of high tension lines, as well as the dams and steam power plants in the two Carolinas, have been built under his supervision. Dr. Lee’s endeavor has not been limited to this area, for he has built plants in Canada and is now consulting engineer for the St. Lawrence hydroelectric project. He is president of the W. S. Lee Engineering Co., president of the Piedmont and Northern Railway, vice-president and chief engineer of the Duke Power Company, and a trustee of the Duke Foundation. He is affiliated with all engineering societies in America, and is now president, or has been president of most of them. Dr. Lee has also been in charge of the construction of Duke University.

Sigma Pi Sigma was founded at Davidson ten years ago, and today it has 23 chapters in the United States and the Philippines. The latest addition is Purdue University. The local (Continued on page 5)

Masquers Issue Bids
At a recent meeting of the Key members of the Red and Black Masquers, the following men were issued bids on the basis of their histrionic ability and interest in dramatics: D. W. Hollingsworth, G. W. Easton, A. S. Rachal, Jack Williams, Jr., P. F. Brown, H. H. Hodgin, E. G. Williams, and J. J. Klooster. Hollingsworth has appeared in “Bound East for Cardiff,” and “In the Zone,” as “Yank”; Easton has also appeared in “Bound East for Cardiff,” and as the tramp in “The Haunted House”; Jack Williams, Jr., will be remembered for performances in “Bound East for Cardiff,” “Haunted House,” and “Well, I Declare”; Grainger Williams has appeared in an important part in “Monkey’s Paw,” and also worked as stage manager; Brown, Hodgin, and Klooster have done considerable work in make-up, stage lighting, and acted as stage managers in productions. The Red and Black Masquers under the direction of Horace Erwin have just closed a successful season. During the past year, they have presented meritorious productions of several groups of one-act plays and one three-act play.

Student Body Banquet
On Thursday, April 28, the Student Body Banquet will be held in Chambers Building. The installation of all the new student officers will be held in Chambers Auditorium during the beginning of the evening. Afterward, supper will be served in the banquet hall. It is hoped a full attendance will be had, and Don King, president of the student body, has said that it is most important that everyone will come in order to witness the installation and give encouragement for future success to the new officers.

Prof. Archie Currie Speaks at Vespers
The Y services were held Sunday night in Chambers Auditorium. The speaker of the vesper services was Professor Archie Currie, who is a professor of political science here. The devotional services were conducted by William Matthews of the Sophomore class, who took for his scripture reading the sixth chapter of Joshua. The music was rendered on the violin by Charles Reed, accompanied by Ed McNair at the piano. George Bailey and Cal Kuykendall led in the singing. The subject of Professor Currie’s talk was “The Fall of Jericho.”

The city of Jericho had heard of the mighty deeds of the Israelites before they attacked the city. Their former deeds had instilled fear in the hearts of the people of Jericho. As the Israelites were about to enter into the Promised Land, it did not seem promising at all with this well-fortified city which was armed to the teeth. They did not see how they were to enter it. God gave instructions as to the campaign which he was to lead. These instructions seemed foolish and with no purpose. It is undecided

Pan-Hellenic Council to Hold Its Annual Spring Socials This Week-End
Friday Night Entertainment at Hotel Charlotte; Saturday Afternoon and Evening at Armory

Davidson College Orchestra to Furnish Music for the Entertainments

FEATURES BOWERY BALLthe Hotel Charlotte and the Charlotte Armory. The time set for these affairs is Friday and Saturday, April 15th and 16th, respectively. The music will be furnished by “B. B. Robinson and his North Carolinians,” formerly the Davidson College Orchestra, known as the “Sunnyland Serenaders.”

The first of these entertainments will be held at the Hotel Charlotte on Friday evening. The annual spring socials of the ten social fraternities here will be held on Saturday at the Charlotte Armory. The afternoon social will be from 4:30 to 7, and will be an informal affair. The last event, known as the “Bowery Ball,” will be from 9 till 12. This brilliant event will be a costume ball, and anyone not appearing in costume will not be admitted to the floor. Special features of the evening will be the awarding of prizes to the boy and girl wearing the best costume.

There are house parties this weekend, and the “Bowery Ball” is to be the main attraction of the period. These entertainments will probably be the most outstanding set of the year, with everyone who comes being assured of a good time. The price for the set will be $3.50, or the Friday night affair will be $1.50, the Saturday afternoon one will be $1.00, and the Saturday night costume “Bowery Ball” will be only $1.50. These entertainments are under the supervision of the Pan-Hellenic Council, of which Allen Whitehead is president.

Col. James H. Little Will Inspect Corps
Official Rating for Davidson Unit Will Be Determined

Colonel James M. Little, of Winston-Salem, will inspect the R.O.T.C. department of Davidson College on April 21 and 22. On Tuesday, Colonel Little will inspect the armory, physical equipment, and will meet with several R.O.T.C. classes for reviews in military tactics. He will attend more classes on Wednesday. The local chapter of Scabbard and Blade will entertain at a luncheon in his honor at 12:30 o'clock on the same day. At 2:10 the battalion will form for calisthenics, after which a parade will be given for him. Colonel Little will afterwards officially inspect the battalion. A field problem will be given, and a certain company, platoon, and squad selected by the officer will execute military maneuvers. The report of Colonel Little will be filed with the War Department at Washington to determine the rating of the local unit for this year. Colonel Little is now attached to the First Division of the organized reserves and is with the infantry branch of the service. During the Mexican disturbance, he was with the Twentieth Infantry on the Mexican border, and when the United States entered the World War, Colonel Little was detailed for overseas service. While in Davidson, the visiting inspector will be the guest of Lieut.-Col. W. R. Schenck.

Reporters Club Bids

At a meeting of the Reporters’ Club last Monday night, 22 new men were elected to membership in the literary organization. The men honored in this way are:
Mattison Alderman, Donald Bailey, Ben Barnes, Enid Bowers, Sam Eaton, Jim Ficklen, George Gullette, Jack Hellinger, Stuart Henry, Latimer McClintock, Bill McIlwinen, Fred McPhail, Cecil Neill, Bill Northen, Caskie Norvell, Mims Rogers, Ben Rose, Tom Sutton, Wilson Wallace, Kenneth Weeks, Tom Wood, Lewis Gregg, and Jim White.

It was agreed at this meeting that on next Tuesday evening at 9 o'clock the initiation of the new men would be held, together with the election of the new officers for the fiscal year of 1932-33. At this time the club will be host at a feed to the entire editorial staff of The Davidsonian.

Edward O. Guerrant Chosen As New Head of Davidsonian
Student Body Selects New Editor During Tuesday Chapel Hour on Third Ballot
SUCCEEDS GRIER MARTIN
Will Be Installed at Student Body Banquet April 28

During the past week, the student body has been voting in the election of the editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian for the next scholastic year 1932-1933. Three ballotings were necessary in order to complete the election. On Tuesday morning in chapel, the third balloting was held, which resulted in the election of Edward O. Guerrant to head the college newspaper for the next year. The candidates for this position were the five managing editors of the past year: Edward O. Guerrant, Pasadena, Calif.; Duncan D. McBryde, Linden, N.C.; Robert L. McCallie, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Charles F. Myers, Greensboro, N.C.; and B. Bruce Sugg, Greenville, N.C. In the first round of ballots last Friday, R. L. McCallie and B. B. Sugg were eliminated. On Saturday, another voting was held in which C. F. Myers was put out of the race in a very closely drawn vote. Finally, on Tuesday morning, the last voting was held, with the student body choosing between Guerrant and D. D. McBryde. As a result of this balloting, Guerrant was elected to the position.

The new editor is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. He is also a member of Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, and the Reporters’ Club, and is secretary and treasurer of the International Relations Club. He is assistant editor of the annual, the Quips and Cranks, and is assistant editor of the Wildcat Handbook, which is published by the Y.M.C.A. He also holds a student assistantship in Bible under Dr. Sentelle.

Grier D. Martin, the present editor-in-chief of the paper, gives up the paper with this issue, and the new editor takes charge at once. He will be formally installed at the student body installation services.

Y.M.C.A. Cabinet Is to Be Installed
New Officers Will Officially Take Charge Sunday at Vespers

On Sunday, April 17th, the new Y.M.C.A. Cabinet members will be installed at the regular “Y” vesper service. At this special service, the old cabinet will officially hand over to the new cabinet the leadership of the Y.M.C.A. The new president and his cabinet members will be charged with their responsibilities and their privileges for the coming year. The new officers elected recently by the student body are: Paul Brown, president; E. L. Powell, vice-president; Rufus C. Morrow, vice-president. The names of the men of the new cabinet and of the general secretary have not been announced as yet. As soon as they have become installed, they will work together with the old cabinet until the end of the Spring Services.

The retiring officers are composed of the following men: Roger Enloe, president; J. H. Howard, vice-president; C. F. Myers, vice-president; Carl R. Pritchett, general secretary. The retiring cabinet is composed of the following men: C. W. Arnold, Church Relations; R. W. Buckner, World Evangelism; H. W. Erwin, Music; R. W. Gorrell, Jr., Social Center; J. R. Howard, Deputations; D. S. King, Chapel Services; C. W. Kuykendall, Student Life; D. G. Martin, Freshman Work; W. H. Matthews, Publications; J. H. McKinnon, Sunday Schools; C. F. Myers, Jr., Attendance; William Rule, Boys’ Work; N. G. Speir, Social Life; R. L. Torrence, Vocational Guidance; S. S. Wiley, Weekly Meetings.

This year Carl Pritchett is retiring as general secretary of the Y.M.C.A. after two years of service. During this time, he has handled his numerous duties in a most efficient way. During the summer, Mr. Pritchett is going to assist Dr. Myers with his church in Greensboro, and next year he is to leave Davidson to attend one of the Presbyterian seminaries. The name of the new secretary has not at the present time been made public.