THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1932

TREKKING WEST
By JACK WILLIAMS

Visit to Santa Barbara Mission Interesting

California! A word known to almost every tongue because it is endowed with charm, beauty, and romance and is reminiscent of days past. Along its shores are miles of gleaming sands washed by a tireless ocean, swaying palms, snow-capped peaks seen through the fragrant branches of orange trees, jutting cliffs standing above a blue sea and over it all hovers an air of unreality which makes it a land of dreams.

Santa Barbara stands out in my mind as one of the most interesting places visited on our tour. After arriving we parked the car at the railroad station and joined the party that had just come by train. We were taken to the famous El Paseo for lunch. This open court surrounded by shops and studios of Spanish architecture. Strips of bright awning were stretched across the top of the patio, allowing only flashes of the glowing California sun to come through, leaving bright spots of light on the tiled floor. Old hand-made tables were set around a huge fountain in the center of the court.

TASTE OF ROMANTIC OLD SPAIN

During the meal we got our first taste of old Spain. A group of musicians were strumming beribboned guitars on the balcony above and came down into the patio playing lilting old-time melodies. A pretty senorita sang Spanish songs and another beautiful Spanish girl danced. I ate my first hot tamale here and how I did enjoy it!

The mayor of Santa Barbara told about the coming festival. The “Old Spanish Days” fiesta held every year revives the romance and customs of the time when Spain ruled California. Its purpose is to perpetuate traditions of the old days. The male inhabitants fare forth as brave caballeros and the women adopt wide skirts, high combs and flowered shawls of Spanish times. During “Old Spanish Days” Santa Barbara tosses aside its workaday routine and relives the romantic, carefree days of early California.

After luncheon we walked down two blocks to the new $2,000,000 County Court House Santa Barbara has recently erected. This structure is a glorious tribute to the early Spanish days and is acclaimed by world travelers as one of the most magnificent public buildings of modern architecture. We visited the Supervisor's Room and the main court room. From the tower we got a remarkably fine view of the city and surrounding country.

The jail is built in connection with the court house. One of the members of the party remarked, “I wish I knew how much the prisoners have to pay to stay in this jail. It seems that to have such nice quarters would be an incentive to break laws in Santa Barbara.”

All through the history of Santa Barbara the Spanish influence has perpetuated. It is strikingly reflected in the homes, shops, and even the business houses for Santa Barbara is a true child of Spain. Some of the citizens carried us on a tour of the city. The first place of importance visited was the old San Franciscan Mission. This is one of the city’s most cherished landmarks and has played an important part in the history of California. The church stands on a slight elevation overlooking the town and seems to give a benediction to all who approach. This “Queen of Missions” consists of twin towers, a monastery, cemetery, and two large gardens. Since its founding in 1786 it has been used continuously and the light on the altar has never gone out. It belongs to the old Franciscan Order and thirty friars take care of the grounds and buildings.

INTERESTING DRIVES IN EVERY DIRECTION

Santa Barbara has excellent roads and in every direction are interesting drives. Some of the places visited were: El Encanto, Alameda Park, containing 280 varieties of trees and shrubs; El Mirasol, Lobero Theatre, an outstanding influence of Spanish architecture and the home of the Community Players; the Santa Barbara Biltmore, and Plaza Del Mar, where we saw bathers sunning themselves on the sandy beaches. On one of the mountain drives we saw W. G. McAdoo's estate. He was in San Francisco while the convention was there and went with some of his newspaper friends in the party. From the new breakwater we obtained a magnificent view of the city and mountains, catching sight of Mr. Fleischman’s yacht far out in the harbor. It is a beautiful mahogany boat and palatial in appearance. Santa Barbara is regarded as one of the big yachting centers on the Pacific Coast.

Santa Barbara is noted for its lavish hospitality and courtly manners. Richard Henry Dana in his book, “Two Years Before the Mast,” tells something of its courtesy in his day. He says, “A common bullock driver on horseback, delivering a message, seemed to speak like an ambassador at a royal audience.”

We had such a good time in Santa Barbara we were loathe to leave, but when the N. E. A.’s moved on we had to go too.

The Bookshelf

The Fountain. By Charles Morgan. 449 pages. New York. Alfred A. Knopf.

A novel even in its introductory pages will impress or fail to interest the reader. Before many pages have been turned, or, more appropriately, thought over, in “The Fountain,” the reader realizes that he has begun an unusual novel of depth and distinction.

Among a group of English officers imprisoned in a Dutch fortress during the great war is the quiet and philosophical Lewis Alison. Since he is engaged in writing a history of the contemplative life, he welcomes the imprisonment as he feels that he must live a contemplative life to write such a story. “Contemplation, by which he meant the stilling of the soul within the activities of the mind and body that it might be still as the axis of a revolving wheel is still.” The reading and meditation of Lewis are temporarily interrupted by a plan of the prisoners to dig under the walls. The plot is discovered and Lewis is quite happy in his renewed mental freedom. He refuses leaves of absence but listens with interest to what his friend Ballater tells him after a sojourn. He has met Julie Narwitz, an Englishwoman living in Enkendaal at the castle of the van Leydens, a Dutch family of ancient lineage. She is married to a Prussian nobleman now an officer at the front, but Lewis once tutored her when she was a child in England. Ballater and Lewis move to the peaceful castle at Enkendaal and occupy a cottage on the large estate, being interned here for the duration of the war. Lewis is free to create a new life within himself and in the isolated library of the castle tower, can achieve spiritual detachment within a war-torn world. Soon he meets the lovely Julie on the castle paths and although she seems to scorn his solitary life, they become gallant friends. Julie later believing that she is perhaps the external world, knocking at the gates of meditation, sends Lewis away to Leyden University. Through reflection and correspondence, Lewis regains calmness and returns to the seclusion of his cell so is the castle, knowing now that there is no peace equivalent to the peace of loving. Except for Sophie, neither the splendid old Baron nor

The Student Store
SERVES Davidson Students
B. E. ALLEN MANAGER
A. L. THOMPSONNone of the castle people suspect the relationship between Julie and Lewis. Meetings in the library and the music chamber are threatened by the news that Julie’s husband is on the way home. Suddenly, Rupert, Julie’s German husband, returns from the front, a wounded and maimed man. Rupert's only consolation is his love for Julie; now Julie is all his life, all that the world had spilled. Strangely, Rupert and Lewis develop a deep and communicative friendship and spend hours pondering the meaning of existence. Their philosophical discussions lead them to agree that life is an inward experience and that truth is to listen and be still. The tragic situation is swept to a climax when Rupert perceives the love of Julie and Lewis. Remorseful at first, Rupert, nearing death, makes peace with Julie and asks simply that they bid goodbye as travelers setting out. To the suffering Lewis, he tells that the purpose of the contemplative is to develop the faculty of wonder. “The wonder which is in God and in children and in the gentler saints.” There is shining a distant and absolute beauty, calling, but by human beings, unattainable. Serene, Rupert dies. Lewis goes away but Julie remains at the castle. When the Baron discovers with horror that she is in love with Lewis, Julie leaves. She goes to marry Lewis and they sail for England. Though they have come out of an enchantment into reality, they are brave and Lewis understands finally that Julie is the bridge to his own truth. The sustained mood of this rare novel cannot be recaptured. The story is related in a beautiful style characterized by refinement and restraint. The lovely scenes are described with tenderness and insight. About the ancient castle with its lofty library tower and surrounding lakes and fountain, move a group of interesting and contrasting characters. Several minor characters such as the splendid Pieter, the ambitious Baroness, and the malicious Sophie are given excellent and convincing interpretation. The author is a London dramatic critic and several passages both in dialogue and construction are reminiscent of the technique of a drama. Deep problems and the eternal questions of life and love are interwoven through the action and rise quietly from the pages to summon the reader to thought. Each man must discover the perfect tension of his being—in action or solitude; in love or asceticism, in philosophy or faith, by continual adjustments of thought and experience.

E. A. Hancock.

LE CERCLE FRANCAIS
(Continued from page 1)

manifested in the club by its members. The big event of the year is the annual French restaurant which is held at one of the professor’s homes. The meeting is more in the form of a social gathering and every year is the highlight of the club calendar for the members.

The Silver Screen

Wednesday, Oct. 5—Two Against the World (Warners)
Constance Bennett co-starred with Neil Hamilton does some worthy acting to make a very incredible story seem believable. The story is that of a gay young person made to face reality. Perhaps the outstanding feature is Bennett's ultra-smart clothing. Allen Vincent, who plays the brother, comes through this clash with the camera with flying colors.

Thursday, Oct. 6—The Crash (Warners)
George Brent and his wife Ruth Chatterton are the stars in this picture of the effects of the depression among the rich. The story, taken from Larry Barretto's novel, “Children of Pleasure,” is concerned with the matrimonial troubles of a stock market operator who gets his tips by having his wife make herself attractive to other operators. As Time observes, if the chief characters had been presented as bad examples rather than victims of circumstance, the picture might have had considerable power; as it is, it is difficult to become aroused over matrimonial complications which result from such unethical conduct.

Friday, Oct. 7—Hold ’Em Jail (RKO)
Wheeler and Woolsey in a ridiculous story chock full of impossible yet amusing gags. The story concerns the antics of a jail football team. If you like Wheeler and Woolsey you will enjoy this picture.

Saturday, Oct. 8—The Night of June 13th (Paramount)
The story is concerned with the domestic life of most of the families living in the suburb of Glenwood Park and the confusion resulting in that neighborhood when one of the residents kills herself “to make her husband sorry.” By an extraordinary twist of circumstances, the husband is implicated. Because of several petty prejudices, the case against the husband is made to seem airtight. The wife, Elna Curry, is played by the British star Adrianne Allen. Clive Brook plays the husband. Most cutting is the satire on meddling women and the pretense of courtroom justice; and most sympathetic is the attitude toward harassed and badgered men. The direction is unique and meritorious.

Monday, Oct. 10—Life Begins (Warners)
This picture is the answer to the call of many for new cross-life stories. The fact that the whole story is laid in a maternity ward affords an excellent opportunity to observe the many conflicting characteristics of human nature which manifest themselves in the ward, where “all those funny, pathetic, and curious currents of life intermingle,” where life begins but much too often ends also. In spite of its serious theme, the picture has some very genuine humor intermingled with the pathos. The acting is unusually good, especially Eric Linden as the husband of the unfortunate girl (Loretta Young).

Tuesday, Oct. 11—The Age of Consent (RKO)
This picture presents, in a very vivid way, a problem that is becoming more and more pressing in the educational world, especially in co-educational colleges. The story involves a rather complicated college love affair which finally terminates in a satisfactory manner. The picture is unique as a college picture, in which there are football games, cheers, banners, and no gin party. The star, Dorothy Wilson, is a new “find” and plays her part to perfection. She is capably supported by the other members of the cast.

For Quick and Accurate Reference on all facts concerning words, persons, and places you are in daily need of Webster’s Collegiate. The Best Abridged Dictionary because it is based upon WEBSTER'S NEW INTERNATIONAL—The “Supreme Authority.” Here is a companion for your hours of reading and study, real value every time you consult it for the wealth of ready information that is instantly yours. 106,000 words and phrases with definitions, etymologies, pronunciations, and use in its 1,208 pages. 1,700 illustrations, and geography; rules of punctuation; use of capitals, abbreviations, etc.; a dictionary of biography and other helpful special features, that will prove its worth. See it at your College Bookstore or write for information to the Publishers. Free specimen pages if you name this paper.

G. & C. MERRIAM CO.
Springfield, Mass.

TIME Offers This Special Combination Offer:
TIME---One Year ; ; $ 5.00
COLLEGE HUMOR---One Year ; ; 2.50
VANITY FAIR---Nine Months ; ; 2.00
THE YOWL---One Year ; ; 1.00
Total ; ; $10.50
SPECIAL COMBINATION OFFER ; $ 8.50
(If you are now a subscriber to some of these magazines or do not wish to purchase the whole combination, we can offer you any one of these magazines at a great saving.)

See Someone on the Yowl Staff Immediately
REEVES POPE, Editor
ARTHUR ROSS, JR.
213 West 14th St., Atlanta, Ga.