2 _ The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915
10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief
F. W. ARNSPARGER
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
L. McCLINTOCK
Managing Editor
M. NORRIS
Managing Editor
R. M. McILWAIN
Managing Editor
G. E. BAILEY
Feature Editor
E. F. McPHAIL
Exchange Editor
B. CHARLES
Feature Editor
B. BARNES
Feature Editor
W. L. NORTHEN
Contributing Editor
J. E. BOYD
Review Editor
E. L. POWELL
Associate Editor
H. COVINGTON
Associate Editor
S. P. PRESTON
Associate Editor
S. K. EATON
Associate Editor
P. M. ROGERS

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
B. L. ROSE
Solicitor
B. FICKLEN
Solicitor
H. HELLING
Solicitor
B. WEEKS
Solicitor
H. HUNTER
Solicitor
R. THOMPSON
Solicitor
T. F. WOOD
Solicitor
W. WHITE
Solicitor
W. F. MULLISS
Solicitor
PRATT-THOMAS

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 14, 1932

RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS

During the latter part of last week twelve Davidson men went to appointed places in North Carolina, South Carolina, West
Virginia, Virginia, and Georgia to appear before the Rhodes Scholarship State Committees of Selection, and out of this number three
men were designated as one of the two candidates in their respective states. These men were Paul F. Brown of
Georgia, Duncan D. McPhaul of North Carolina, and William F. Mulliss of West Virginia. The candidates from the six Southeastern
States assembled in Atlanta this last Monday and two of our candidates were among the twelve, four of which were
chosen to attend Oxford University. The other person was in a different district and had to appear before a different
committee. At the time of the writing of this article we do not know the final result of the selection,
but whatever the outcome we feel that Davidson College and the Class of ’33 should be proud of these three
men. To be chosen as one of the two candidates in a state is a distinct honor to the man
as well as to this institution.

Two years ago Dean Rusk of the Class of ’31 was selected as a Rhodes Scholar, and is at Oxford
University at the present time. We sincerely hope that all of these men or some of them will have been
chosen by the time this article goes to press, but if not we know we have the sentiment of the
whole student body as well as The Davidsonian staff in congratulating them. We would also like to take the opportunity
at this time to urge any underclassmen who are at all interested to obtain all the information possible about this
scholarship and to apply in the Junior or Senior year. There is all to gain and nothing to lose.

THE FOOTBALL SEASON

Four games won, four games lost, and one game tied is how the final results of this past football season
will be tabulated. On the surface this record may not seem very impressive. A little closer inspection of the facts,
however, will reveal that under the circumstances we enjoyed a very good season. In the first place we had two
new men who coached a different style of football from that which was taught by the two previous coaches. A
new system had to be installed in its entirety here, and this certainly is no easy matter, since the Seniors
who had played football two years on the varsity and who necessarily would have to bear most of the brunt
of the game, had to change their style completely. It was much easier for the Sophomores to adapt themselves to
this type of football than it was for the others. The difficulties of changing schools can be proven by the
record made by Mr. Wallace Wade of Duke. Although he has now been there two seasons, he has never turned
out a team equal to several teams

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

As this is the last issue of “The Davidsonian” before the holidays, we want to take this opportunity to wish
the Davidson faculty, student body, and friends a happy Christmas and a joyous and prosperous New Year.

Davidson is proud of her three sons who are to represent her and their respective sections of the country as
acceptable applicants for the Rhodes Scholarship.

The Davidson student body is much elated over the prospect of admission to the Southern Conference within the next few
months. We have long desired this end and feel that the goal is in sight.

The general consensus of opinion over the split of the Southern Conference is that it is a good thing. The
Conference has long been too large and now that it has divided, each Conference should benefit by the change.

The basketball season swings under way this week. Prospects are good, and with the undivided support of the Davidson student
body, the team should make a good showing against all opponents.

It looks now as if the Trojans of Southern California will gallop their way over the Pitt Panthers for a
second consecutive national championship in the annual Rose Bowl game on New Year's Day at Pasadena.

As Christmas approaches, there will be many chances for Davidson students to be of service to the poor in their
home towns. In this year of all years they need our help most. Let us do what we can.

There are many who are doubtless discouraged over affairs in general and perhaps wonder what we have to be happy
about this Christmas. We wish to quote Abbi Ernest Dimnet, “Can we give our children a rarer present than the
art of looking for happiness inside us, instead of chasing mirages?”

A FISH STORY

Fish
Wish
Own
Bait
Wait
Bite
Flight
Roam
Home
A
Tied
Buy
Lie
Theresa
Crowd.

Prof. Williams, the authority on business matters, alight from a swélegant Chrysler Tuesday and enter the P.O. The man at
the window complimented him on his new car. The prof. assured, “It isn't mine, and I'm sorry to say it
isn’t going to be.” If the agent waiting outside was like most auto salesmen I know I bet he tried
to tell him differently.

I read by the paper that a prof, who started about twenty years ago with only fifty-five cents is now
worth $100,000. Yes, he accumulated his wealth by frugality, good habits, strict attention to classes, and then his uncle died
and left him $999,999. Funny doin's!

Mrs. Robson, of the infirmary, who is such an expert at ailments, passed down dorm row Tuesday afternoon from the
library on her way to Mrs. Smith's. You know Mrs. Smith hurt her hand in a fall recently, but we
are glad to announce that she is better now and things are running smoothly again. Right now Mrs. Robson is
enjoying that interesting book, “Martha Berry.”

I saw our president of the student body, Jerome Clark, open the Xmas present sent him by some pals lately.
In case you haven't heard, it contained two hymnals. Now who's been taking out the hymnals? Jerome enjoyed the joke
as much as anybody else. Buck Kirkland, Doc Mathis, Charlie Harris, Sam Daniels, and Charlie Pearce enjoyed teasing him about
it, too, downtown later in the day. This is just an example of one of the things that tries the
patience of our president. Another is his roomie, Bruce Peabody, who just adores to put his finger in his mouth
and then stick it in Clark’s ear. Exquisite, please. What a funny man!

I peeked in the Phi Beta initiation atwhich he had previously coached at the University of Alabama. When we consider
this along with the fact that we faced harder opposition this year than usual, we must arrive at the conclusion
that our coaches and team performed very creditably this fall. Nearly every year we have faced some smaller schools, but
we met nine teams this season which were supposed to play as good or a better brand of football than
Davidson. Such a schedule undoubtedly had its effect on the Wildcat eleven. It was a constant strain from the opening
game with Duke to the Thanksgiving game with Wake Forest. Our victory over Wake Forest was the high point of
the year. It was not that we considered them our arch-rivals, but the fact that we had not beaten them
since 1920. Even when we had the State Championship in 1926, we had to be content with a tie. This
task, however, was accomplished by our coaches in their first year at Davidson. This was a noteworthy feat, and much
credit should be given to them along with credit to the team for the attainment of this long-sought-for goal.

It is true we lost four games, but we do not believe we are being prejudiced when we say that
with even breaks we would have won at least one or two more games. However, this is a matter of
history, and we believe that next season will prove even more successful than this one, and that every confidence should
be placed in our coaching staff.

SOPHOMORE WEEK-END

This next week-end, December 16-17, there will be an entertainment under the auspices of the Sophomore Class. Each year the
three upper classes regularly put on some sort of entertainment, usually in the form of a dance, but the second-year
class has never put on anything very elaborate in the past. This year, however, the members of the Class of
'35 have laid plans to transform this, which has always been one of the minor social affairs of the year,
into something which will be much more elaborate than usual. Jelly Leftwich, who has one of the best orchestras in
the state, has been secured, and they have made plans to have two dances, one Friday and one Saturday. Besides
this feature, there will be the added attraction of a mock cabaret on Saturday afternoon in the Davidson gymnasium from
four till six o'clock. Members of the Sophomore Class will act as dancers, and according to the members of the
class who are in charge of the affair, attendance at any and all of the different features will be well
worth the time and money of any of the members of the student body. According to the custom set by
other classes, all the members of the student body are invited, and it is not restricted to members of the
Sophomore Class in any manner.

So in Russia today, the peasants are enduring the terrible housing conditions, the shortage of food, and all other inconveniences
in order to allow the Soviet to obtain money for machinery. Duranty notes that, at the present time, the people
have grown tired of their hardship, and predicts that Russia will soon have to start importing something besides machinery, and
will be forced to supply consumers with foreign products. He states, however, that this change will probably be only temporary,
and that soon the Soviet will start in again, just as it did before.

Ignacio Neavin, an inventor of Spain, has been working along a new idea in the field of aviation and has
made a model airplane which is of rather radical construction. The model has no wings or propeller, but has a
pair of wheels, resembling mill wheels, projecting from the side of the body. The craft is able to go either
forward or backward, and is able to rise or descend vertically. If Neavin's model is perfected, the present type of
airplane may become obsolete. After all, one of the chief drawbacks to the present design of planes is their inability
to take off in a very limited space and their inability to hover over a spot without motion in any
direction.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. LAKE

University of South Carolina
The Gamecock has as one of its heads, Auburn Plainsmen Hold Gamecocks to Tie Score. This is probably just as
true as our headline of last year that read Wildcats Held to 0-0 Tie by Duke.

Emory
The fad of having chair-boards has come to Emory and The Emory Wheel says that the chair-boards are all over
the Davidson campus, a bit to the contrary but still there are a few here. The Wheel says: “We see
the innovation of chair-boards on the campus, which in itself is a great addition to the already ample facilities for
study. Reports are that at Davidson and the University of Virginia everyone has one and couldn't do without it, so
I guess they’ll be just as widespread as the Yo-Yo in no time at all.” Grier Martin must have let
that fact out. By the way, the Emory boys think that Grier is quite a basketball star. They say that
he is the best player that Emory has had for a good many years.

Winthrop
About one fourth of the population of the United States is now enrolled in schools. There are 31,000,000 people in
schools from kindergarten to university age.

and Courtney MacConnell, who own planes, are “flying high” these days. So it isn't soph!

and overheard a conversation between two playboys about the campus who were gabbing about Us and Our column. The more
handsome of the pair said, “I don't see how in the world Tip Poff gets around so much; why he
knows everything.” You would too if you made it your business. And what's more, but I'd better not tell that.

that the old-fashioned girl who used to be told there was a bear in the blackberry patch now has a
grown daughter who doesn't believe that ice cream cones make freckles. This was demonstrated to the satisfaction of all present
at the episode taking place at a local soda fountain recently. But the funniest thing I've heard this week is
the one about the farmer's son who was taking a correspondence course and came home like he had been through
a tornado. His daddy asked what was the matter and he explained he had just received a letter from the
sophs telling him to haze himself. And I still maintain that the way for a man to get ahead and
to stay ahead is to use his head.

—TIP POFF.
