members: WILDCATS MEET BULLDOGS THIS SATURDAY

The Davidsonian

Alenda Lux Ubi @rta Libertas

LEWIS WINS: FRESHMAN TENNIS TOURNAMENT

Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 19, 1932 No. 6

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA TAPS EIGHT SENIORS

North Carolina Gamma of Phi Beta Kappa Issues Bids to Six Outstanding Seniors

Dr. Watts, President of Local Chapter, Announces Pledges in Chapel Last Friday

MEN DISTINCTLY HONORED

Organization Is Oldest and Largest Honorary Greek Letter Fraternity in America

Last Friday Dr. G. B. Watts, president of the Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, announced the following names of men who recently received the distinction of being issued bids to this honorary fraternity: P. F. Brown, Atlanta, Ga.; W. F. Mulliss, Martinsburg, W. Va.; D. M. McConnell, Chester, S. C.; W. E. McNair, Atlanta, Ga.; E. C. Bettis, Morristown, Tenn.; and A. Patton, Greenville, S. C.

Phi Beta Kappa is the oldest and largest honorary Greek letter fraternity in America. Starting at William and Mary College, Virginia, in 1776, it had soon established chapters at Yale, Harvard, and Dartmouth during the eighteenth century. Since then many chapters have been added until now there are over 100 chapters in the best institutions of the United States and Canada, and its enrollment has grown to sixty thousand. Although it started at William and Mary as a social fraternity, it developed into an honorary society as a reward for excellence in scholarship. Its motto is “Philosophy, the Guide of Life.”

Gamma Chapter of North Carolina was chartered at Davidson in 1922, at which time there were five faculty members who represented chapters of William and Mary, Yale, University of Virginia, and Harvard. Elections are held twice annually in which the highest-ranking members of the Senior class are selected. The date for the public address and fraternity banquet has been set for December 5, 1932.

Paul Brown, president of the Y. M. C. A., (Continued on page 3)

Dr. G. R. Vowles Speaks to Eta Sigma Phi Group at First Meeting of Year

Duncan McBryde and Lanier Pratt Entertain Club With Debate

Eta Sigma Phi, national honorary fraternity for students interested in Greek and Latin, held its first meeting of the year in the Social Center on Monday night. The meetings this time will differ greatly from those of the past, in that they will be both humorous and serious. At this meeting the serious part was a talk by Dr. G. R. Vowles on “The Classics as a Benefit to Students of Modern Languages.” There was a debate with the query, “Resolved: That Helen of Troy Was a Greater Siren Than Cleopatra.” Lanier Pratt defended the former, while Helen was championed by Duncan McBryde. After a social hour, the meeting was adjourned.

The officers are: W. E. McNair, president; W. T. Thompson, vice-president; W. M. Thompson, secretary; J. A. McGeachy, treasurer; and Parks Harrison, sergeant-at-arms.

Texas Colleges Ask Dr. Hood to Lecture

Dr. Frazer Hood has the honor of being invited to give several lectures at various institutions in Texas. The first will be made at Austin College, Sherman, Texas. This lecture will be on “Psychology and Student Problems.” Later he will go to Austin Theological Seminary to lecture on “Psychology and the Bible.” Dr. Hood will next visit the University of Texas, and speak on “Psychology and Education.” These lectures are scheduled for January.

Saturday, the 22nd, is Home-Coming Day at Lees McRae. It has become almost an annual custom for the Y to send a group of men to Banner Elk for this occasion. These men will leave Saturday afternoon to attend the game between Lees McRae and Springs. Three members will act as officials in the game. On Sunday morning, they will conduct a Sunday School class. One of the delegation will lead the morning church service at Banner Elk and other members will conduct the services at two neighboring churches. The deputation will also have charge of the vesper service on Sunday night, and the chapel service Monday morning.

Rhodes Scholarship Candidates Approved

At a meeting of the Rhodes Scholarship Committee of the college faculty held Thursday, the following were approved as representatives of Davidson before the State Committee: E. O. Guerrant, W. F. Mulliss, Duncan McBryde, R. L. McCallie, and Leland McKeithen. These men will appear from North Carolina. J. S. Mackorell will appear before the South Carolina Committee, while Paul F. Brown, Roger Enloe (Class 1932), John R. Howard, Edward McNair, and H. E. Russell (Class 1930) have elected to come before the Georgia Committee. The above named are required to have their written applications in the hands of their respective State Committees of Selection on or before October 22. Selection of those to represent the various states will (Continued on page 3)

David Wingfield Pre

CADETS

Davidson has downs to five

Sy its back to their goal line most of the time, making only one or two major scoring threats which fell short by a fumble or in

the ing ends,

from the University of North Carolina in the form of readings, and impressive, h light. There hear the servic

An organ played by Miss Edna Williams the Y. M. C. remarks to the welcomed the duced Miss A. tation of the Univer- he vespers—were sections, scripture The service was t glow of candle crowd present to as played by Miss Brown, president of a few introductory at Davidson College ion. He then intro- Poe, president of the Y. W. C. A. of the Women’sCollege of the University. Miss Poe said that this was their initial deputation of the year. The reason for coming here was to promote fellowship, she declared. After the singing of a hymn by the congregation, Miss Poe read from John 15:27, in which she pointed out the meaning of friendship. Following this, another hymn was sung, after which Miss Poe led in prayer, while the organ softly played. Miss Mildred Bowles, in a talk, gave the reasons why the deputation was being sent. She averred, “It’s a meeting of us bound by human nature. Still more we have our duty tonight to fulfill the heritage of youth. We must search for God. Someone has said that the way to accomplish something was to begin where you are and keep in that (Continued on page 4)

Delta Circle of National Honorary Leadership Group Honors Davidson Leaders

A drama, “Moon-,” by Ed Hancock and Nich- was performed, and the actors gave creditable performances. Mr. Hancock had considerable experience in dramatics. He was a member of the William and Mary Players and the Carolina Playmakers before coming to Davidson. Most of the parts have already been cast among members of the present key club, but tryouts among new men, both of the Freshman class and the upper classes, are to be held at a later date. The officers of the club chosen for the coming year (Continued on page 3)

Eu Society Discusses Political Platforms

Political discussions dominated the program of the Eumenean Literary Society in its weekly meeting Tuesday night. Vice-President Matthews presided, taking the place of President Moore. The discussion was in the nature of three talks expounding the platforms of the three major political parties. Andy Little spoke on the Republican platform, B. B. Taylor took the side of the Socialist party, and J. E. Richards defended the Democratic side. Little, in his talk, denounced the Democrats for having no constructive program and showed that their whole platform was based on the one view, that of getting into power. He praised the Republican party in the past and pointed to their many achievements, and to the almost unbroken line of (Continued on page 3)

Howard, Myers, Glasgow, Flinn, Allen, Gardner, Manson, and Mulliss Are Men Chosen

DR. W. L. LINGLE IS SPEAKER

Bruce Peabody Presides at the Exercises

The Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa tapped eight prominent Seniors in the Annual Fall Tap Day services held Tuesday, October 18. These men were John R. Howard, of Atlanta, Ga.; Charles F. Myers, of Greensboro, N. C.; Robert Glasgow, Jr., of Charlotte, N. C.; William A. Flinn, of Atlanta, Ga.; Brooke E. Allen, of Wilmington, N. C.; U. B. Gardner, of Decatur, Ga.; A. M. Manson, of Jacksonville, Fla.; and William F. Mulliss, of Martinsburg, W. Va. Omicron Delta Kappa is the outstanding honorary leadership fraternity on the campus, and to be chosen by this group is considered a great honor. Only Seniors who have attained some noteworthy distinction on the campus or have manifested their leadership in some line of activity are chosen. This is a national fraternity and it has chapters in most of the leading colleges and universities in the southern portion of the United States. Bruce Peabody, the president of the local group, presided at the tapping exercises, while Paul Brown conducted the religious part of the program. Dr. Walter L. Lingle was the guest speaker of the occasion, and in his talk he outlined briefly a history of Omicron Delta Kappa and then gave a summary of the ideals which the fraternity strives to uphold. After this part of the program was over, the student members of the Circle left the platform, and proceeded to tap the men they desired to have with them in the fraternity, and these new members signified their desire to accept the invitation by rising and walking to the platform. With this, and the singing of “O (Continued on page 6)

Spanish Honorary Society Holds Initial Meeting to Discuss Plans for Year

Decides on New Objectives for Men Taking First Year Spanish

Sigma Delta Pi, Spanish honorary fraternity, opened its year’s work with a short business meeting on October 11. The new officers elected at the close of last year took charge. They are: Frank Bixler, president; John Creech, vice-president; Duncan McBryde, secretary; and Fred Fleagle, treasurer. Several interesting plans have been worked out for the year’s work and committees were appointed for various phases of this work. One of the main objectives this year will be to form a club for men just beginning the study of Spanish. This is being done in order to stimulate interest in that line for future members of Sigma Delta Pi. This society is one of the most outstanding honorary fraternities on the campus, being formed for those who are interested in the study of Spanish.

Medical Fraternity Bids Four New Men

Pi Delta Alpha, pre-medical fraternity, issued bids to Rufus C. Morrow, Jr., Michoacan, Mexico; Rawling Pratt-Thomas, Wedgefield, S. C.; John S. Steele, Lafayette, Ga.; and James S. Wilson, Soonchun, Korea, at their last meeting. These men will be initiated at the meeting of the fraternity to be held Friday, October 21. Dr. Stokes Munroe, a prominent surgeon of Charlotte, N. C., will be the principal speaker on that occasion.