JUNIOR SPEAKING ATHLETIC NIGHT TO BE MARCH 21

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

ISSUE

The Davidsonian

JUNIOR SPEAKING FRIDAY—SATURDAY

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 16, 1932 No. 22

Colonel Dan E. McGugin Will Feature For Athletic Night
He Is Distinguished as Lawyer and Civil Worker as Well as Coach

MARCH 21 IS DATE SET
Occasion Previously Postponed Because of Illness in Speaker’s Family

March 21 is the date set for Athletic Night, held annually in Chambers Auditorium, according to Captain Pritchett, athletic director,
who has received a wire from Colonel Dan E. McGugin, the chief speaker of the event. On March it was
learned that Athletic Night would be indefinitely postponed due to much illness in the noted colonel’s household. It was impossible
for him to keep his former engagement as Mrs. McGugin and one of his sons were sick with influenza, while
Dan McGugin, Jr., had contracted pneumonia. The date is now definitely settled for Monday, however, unless something equally as serious
intervenes.

Colonel McGugin not only holds the position of President Athletic Director at Vanderbilt University, but is distinguished as being the
Dean of Southern Coaches. His widespread fame, which is so familiar to us at present, is the climax of an
eventful background. He was a member of the most famous University of Michigan team in history, known as the “point-a-minute
team.” This team ran up 500 points while its opponents were recorded with nothing. McGugin is the brother-in-law of Yost,
who is the coach at Michigan now. From Michigan, the colonel went directly to Vanderbilt, where in 27 years he
has racked up a remarkable record. He is accredited with having developed more all-southern players than any other man. In
addition to his athletic honors he holds other distinctions. Being one of Nashville's leading lawyers and civic workers, he is
much in demand as a speaker. He also holds the rank of colonel on the government staff.

The program this year will be much on the same order as it was last year. It will be opened
by a prayer, followed by the singing of “Davidson.” This will be followed by the awarding of certificates in football,
basketball, and wrestling. Then victory and gold footballs will be awarded. These awards will be followed by the presentation of
trophies for the greatest physical improvement during the year and to the winner of the gymnastic contest. After this procedure,
there will be an address by the guest speaker of the occasion. Then the singing of “College Ties” will bring
the annual Athletic Night to a close.

Davidson President Talks at New Bern

“Christians themselves, for fear of sectarianism, have taken the study of the Bible from our public schools, and as a
result we are rearing a generation that knows nothing about our Bible teachings,” declared Dr. Walter Lingle, president of Davidson
College, in an address Monday afternoon at the First Presbyterian Church in New Bern, N. C., sponsored by the Craven
County Ministerial Association. He was also chief honor guest at a largely-attended banquet of Davidson alumni from various parts of
that section Monday night at the Presbyterian lecture room. Accompanying him were Mrs. Lingle and their daughter, Miss Louise Lingle.

Speaking on “The Bible in Our Schools,” Dr. Lingle in his afternoon address urged that children be given some religious
instruction. He told of three plans in successful operation: one by which money for the employ of Bible teachers was
raised by public patrons in cooperation with the schools which furnished time and school rooms for the instruction; another by
which the schools released the pupils each day for religious instruction under trained Bible teachers at their respective churches; and
the third by which Biblical courses were given at the schools by the regular teachers, without compulsion on the part
of the pupils or sectarianism on the part of the teachers. “We need to have moral and religious ideals set
before our children,” asserted Dr. Lingle. “The present generation, without knowledge of the Bible and its teachings, is growing up
dif- (Continued on page 6)

Major Rhett Is To Replace Col. Scott

Davidson’s new R. O. T. C. officer will be Major John T. Rhett, according to an announcement recently made by
the War Department. Major Rhett will probably arrive here sometime in August. He replaces Lieut.-Col. W. R. Scott, who completes
in June his period of four years at Davidson. Colonel Scott will attend the Army Industrial College at Washington, D.
C., this September.

Major Rhett is a native of South Carolina, born there in 1885. He received his A.B. degree from the University
of South Carolina in 1904. From 1906 to 1911 he was in the South Carolina National Guard. He entered the
regular army in 1911, graduated from the Infantry School Advanced Course, Fort Benning, in 1925, and graduated from the Command
and General Staff School, Fort Leavenworth, Kans., in 1926. During the war he rose to the rank of major and
is now a major in the infantry. The new Davidson officer comes here from the Army War College at Washington,
D. C. He graduates from this college in June and will assume his duties here in August.

Major Rhett has a superior rating with the War Department and is on the eligible list of the General Staff
Corps. His training in the various schools, coupled with his experience, gives him this high consideration. Colonel Scott, the retiring
Davidson commandant, likewise rates high in military favor. He has attended the Infantry School at Fort Benning, and the Command
and General Staff School at Fort Leavenworth before he was de- (Continued on page 6)

Masquers Present Play at Charlotte
“The Haunted House” to Be Performed Tonight at Queens-Chicora College

The Red and Black Masquers will make a trip to Charlotte Wednesday evening, March 16, to present a three-act play,
“The Haunted House,” at Queens-Chicora College. This play was presented here at Davidson on December 12 of last year and
met with great success. It is a mystery play written by Owen Davis and directed by H. W. Ervin. The
first performance was given at the Geo. M. Cohan Theatre in New York City on September 2, 1924. This entertainment
was the first three-act performance of the year given by the Dramatic Club and because of its auspicious outcome it
will be shown at Queens-Chicora this evening. (Continued on page 6)

Student Body Nominations

Davidson College students nominated and seconded their student body officers Saturday. The nominating committee proposed for president of the student
body the names of Jerome B. Clark, Jr., Fayetteville; William A. Flinn, Atlanta, Ga.; Robert L. McCallie, Chattanooga, Tenn.; and
E. Bruce Peabody, Charlotte. W. Allen Mebane, Jr., Burlington, was nominated from the floor.

Of the candidates for vice-president two will be chosen, William T. Johnston, Charlotte; John W. Lafferty, Jr., Rome, Ga.; John
G. O’Keefe, Bluefield, W. Va., and Julian West, Barium Springs. Edward L. Powell, Mobile, Ala., was nominated from the floor.

Those nominated for secretary-treasurer, were, D. M. Hutchins, Lexington, N.C.; J. C. Mackorell, Hickory, and Joe A. C. Wadsworth, Charlotte.
Tuesday morning a vote was taken on the men nominated for president of the student body. The person elected is
to serve for the scholastic year of 1932-1933.

“BUDDY” GARDNER
Newly Elected Captain of the 1932 Football Team

Dr. Boyd, of Charlotte, Talks to Student Body During Vesper Service
Horace Ervin Gives Violin Solo—Bob Torrence and John Steele Conduct Devotional

ADVISED RIGHT THINKING
Opens With Startling Question “What Are You Thinking About?”

At the Sunday evening vesper service held last week in Chambers Auditorium, the Davidson student body had the privilege of
hearing Dr. C. M. Boyd, pastor of the Westminster Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. Bob Torrence, member of the Y. M.
C. A. Cabinet, led in the devotional and John Steele led in prayer. The services opened with a very appropriate
violin solo by Horace Ervin, accompanied at the piano by Ed McNair. Dr. Moffett introduced the speaker with a brief
introduction, stating that Dr. Boyd and he had been close friends for quite a while. Dr. Boyd had been previously
located in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.

Dr. Boyd opened his talk by asking the question, “What are you thinking about?” This was in- (Continued on page
6)

Junior Class Plans Program For Week-End Social Events
J. C. Baker Delivers Speech on BusinessC. Baker, assistant dean of the Harvard School of Business, delivered an address to
the classes in business last Friday, March. Any interested in attending the lecture were invited, it being given at the
period after chapel, 10:45, in a large classroom in Chambers. A comparatively large crowd was present to hear a very
interesting and informative lecture on the different aspects of business. He mentioned that this was the second representative from the
Harvard Business School, a school which quite a few Davidson graduates attend.

The first part of the lecture was a treatment of business from the educational side. Different views on profession and
business were presented. He showed how professions are rather new, being unknown years ago, the medical profession being the first
to come into existence. It is very hard to become a professional man, and when one does attain those heights,
he is somewhat isolated from other means of making a living, whereas business is not confined to one field. The
fact that some fields are becoming professions was also brought out.

The second part of his lecture was concerning business from the side of business itself. In that portion, he dealt
with the well-recognized depression and showed how a man with practical ideas can take a business out of a hole.
Several illustrations of railroads were given.

Edward’s Collegians Will Furnish Music for Three Socials on Friday and Saturday

"QUEEN" TO BE CROWNED

Freshman Track Meet and Varsity Baseball Game Are Scheduled

Junior Speaking, long regarded as one of the outstanding social events of the college year, will take place on Friday
and Saturday of this week under the auspices of the Junior class. A great variety of entertainment has been planned
for members of the student body and visitors who will attend. This function has been observed for many years at
Davidson.

The outstanding part of the program will be three dances in Charlotte for which Edward's Collegians will play. The first
of these is to be given on Friday night in the ballroom of the Charlotte Hotel from ten o'clock until
two. On Saturday afternoon, from four-thirty until seven, a tea dance will take place at the Armory Auditorium, and that
night the last of the three entertainments is to be given in the same hall at nine and will last
until twelve. Two features of the Friday night dance will be a “Leap Year Feature” and a Sugar-Foot Contest. The
former will be a short period in which the girls are allowed to break in on the boys. This will
last during one special number. Rules for the competition in the Sugar-Foot Contest have not yet been announced.

On Friday night at the Armory Auditorium, the “Queen of Junior Speaking” will be chosen, and Saturday night she will
be crowned. In addition to other entertainment, there is a track meet planned for Friday noon between the Freshmen and
Greensboro High Schools. On Saturday afternoon at 2:30 o'clock, the varsity baseball team will open its 1932 season in a
game with the team from the Union Theological Seminary of Richmond, Va.

The committee in charge of Junior Speaking this year is made up of Jerome Clark, president of the Junior class;
C. R. Wright, Bruce Peabody, Bill Flinn, and Leland McKeithan. These men have been busy for the past several weeks
in preparation for this house party and have made every effort to present an excellent program at the least possible
individual price. They request the co-operation of the entire student body. Special tickets were sold to students through last Monday,
and a great many were disposed of. An unusually large crowd is expected to attend the various features of the
program.

Musical Program Is Given at Newton Hi

Sunnyland Serenaders and Glee Club Present Entertainment in Auditorium Friday Night March 11

An attractive program was rendered by the Davidson Glee Club and the Sunnyland Serenaders in the Newton High School Auditorium
on Friday night, March 11th. The program was very enthusiastically received by the audience, and several encores were called for.

The Glee Club opened the program by singing the Alma Mater, College Ties; O Beauteous Heavenly Light, by Bach, and
The Bells of Saint Mary's, by Adams. The varsity quartet, composed of Hubert Morris, first tenor; Bill Stone, second tenor;
Gene Rule, baritone; and Dave McLain, bass, followed. The popular modern pieces were then played by the Sunnyland Serenaders. A
violin solo by Byron Schriver, accompanied by Ed McNair, was one of the many features of the program. His first
selection was a composition of Hubay, Hejre Kati, and following this, as an encore, he played one of Wieniawski’s Mazurkas.
A piano solo, Schu-

Debating Team News

A negative debating team composed of Ed Kuykendall and Pete Knox has had three meets during the past week. The
meets were with Florida, Birmingham Southern, and Emory University. The debates with Florida and Birmingham Southern were non-decision. Davidson won
over Emory University, 2 to 1 in a three-judge decision. The boys should be congratulated and should be very proud
of their win over Emory. Emory does not go in for any of the major sports and concentrates most of
their time on debating. They have been the Southern Champions for the past two years, and their teams are known
far and wide. This is the first time that Davidson has won a debate from them in the past eight
or ten years.

Deputation to Hold Week-End Services

The annual deputation from the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond will be at Davidson this week-end and will have charge
of the morning church service and also the vesper service next Sunday. They are bringing with them a baseball team
which will play Davidson's varsity next Saturday afternoon at 3:00 o'clock here at Davidson.

In addition to the church and vesper services, they will speak before the Ministerial Fellowship Sunday afternoon and will also
have charge of the Monday morning chapel service. The deputation will consist of three men: Jas. A. Jones, who was
a member of the 1931 graduating class of Davidson and who is known to many of the students, will probably
talk at vespers; John Bright, a graduate of Presbyterian College of South Carolina, will be the speaker at the morning
church service; and Luther Price, who was president of the student body at Hampden-Sydney last year, will most likely talk
to the Ministerial Fellowship and at chapel Monday. All of these men are now in their first year at the
Seminary and will speak in such a manner that they will be most interesting and inspiring to all who hear
them.
