» Ne bs THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 11, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief: EDWARD O. GUERRANT
Business Manager: P. M. CONWAY

EDITORIAL STAFF
L. W. CLARDY: Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK: Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON: Managing Editor
ACIS WINSSTAIM: Managing Editor
ODI CASALI: Athletic Editor
E. LAKE: Exchange Editor
W. WHITE: Feature Editor
C. E. NORVELL: Feature Editor
D. D. McBRYDE: Associate Editor
R. I. MOGA: Associate Editor
C. F. MYERS: Associate Editor
B. B. G.: Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. MANSON: Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE: Assistant Business Manager
W. H. WHITTE: Assistant Business Manager
R. BROW: Subscription Manager
W. T. JOHNSON: Solicitor
F. O. VINSON: Solicitor
J. B. WOOTTON: Solicitor
A. H. HICMAN: Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
P. G. GAR: President
N. S. G. AMIS: Vice-President
W. S. GREGG: Secretary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN
J. L. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN
W. L. McILWINEN
G. E. BAILY
E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY
W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES
W. L. NORTHEN
E. BOWERS
C. E. NORVELL
E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
H. COVINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON
P. M. ROGERS
J. B. FICKLIN
B. L. ROSE
G. L. GULLETTE
T. H. SUTTON
ZACK HELLINGER
N. W. WALLACE
S. C. HENRY
K. D. EKS
A. HUNTER
W. R. D.
E. LORRAINE
W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD
J. W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS
PRATT-THOMAS

MAY 11, 1932

A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favour rather than silver and gold. —Proverbs
22:1.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

The baseball team seems to be a bit unlucky this season in the ninth inning. That was a hard game
to lose last Friday.

The playing of Miss Charlotte Lockwood was excellent and we students at Davidson were indeed fortunate to have such an
artist render a recital for us.

According to Ned Dwelle, the Annual has been unavoidably delayed a little, but it will appear in the near future.

The assassination of President Doumer of France is one of the most atrocious crimes in recent times in political history
and it is to be deeply regretted by all the nations of the world.

The Olympic Games will undoubtedly be a drawing attraction for many college students this summer and Davidson is no exception
to this rule. If all our students who claim they will be there do attend the games, Davidson should have
a representative group in the West.

The Davidsonian staff extends its congratulations to the men recently initiated into Phi Beta Kappa.

The running of Fleagle bordered on the sensational this week in coming so close to Farmer when he won the
hundred in 9.8 seconds and the two hundred and twenty yard dash in 21 seconds.

The running of Bradley’s horse, Burgoo King, was as unexpected as it was sensational last Saturday. According to most critics,
Tick On was widely favored to win the Kentucky Derby.

Now that summer weather is with us again we expect that the Catawba River will be the scene of a
good many swimming parties on sunny afternoons till the end of school.

COURTESY

The students at Davidson have a commendable reputation for conducting themselves as gentlemen when on the campus and when away
from the college, and we believe that this is not undeserved. We pride ourselves on asserting that we are Davidson
men because of the fine standing in the South and throughout the Nation which Davidson enjoys. Generally, we do not
seem to realize, however, that this reputation has been built up by the students of the college in the past
and that we have to maintain a certain standard of conduct to perpetuate this same good name for the future.

In one respect we seem to have fallen far short of the conduct which is becoming to a Davidson or
any other college student. It seems to us that hissing during the chapel services which has been rather prevalent recently
is one of the most discourteous exhibitions possible. This is without doubt thoughtless on the part of the students, and
there is only a minority of the students who participate in this, but these few give an unsavory reputation to
the student body as a whole. There is absolutely no excuse for this action and it only shows the poor
breeding of those who engage in such actions. The person who is conducting chapel or making an announcement is conscientiously
doing what he believes is his duty to the best of his ability and certainly should have the respect of
everyone in the hall, whether the material presented interests us or not. In common courtesy to the person before the
student body in the future let us show more consideration in our actions and strive to uphold the traditions which
are Davidson’s.

THE OLYMPIC GAMES

Once every four years the most outstanding athletes from practically all the nations of the world gather to compete with
one another. The recent Olympic Games were re-established about forty years ago, and were in reality a continuance of the
Olympic Games held in Greece in ancient times when youths assembled to test their strength with others from all parts
of the Aegean region. In the last forty years, of course, these games have been much greater in scope because
many more athletes participate and more events are scheduled.

This coming summer in Los Angeles a whole city will be built for the three thousand athletes who will come
from approximately forty nations. This city will have its own roads, water system, transportation system, hospital, fire and police departments,
moving picture theatre, and every convenience of a modern town. In this city the representatives of each nation will have
the privilege of residing in houses constructed after the architecture of the native lands in many instances. Olympic Village, as
this settlement will be called, is being constructed at a cost of one-half million dollars and will be one-half mile
square. The cottages are to be constructed in four different general types—Norman-French, English, Mexican farmhouse, and Indian pueblo. The people
of each nation also will have the kind of food they have been accustomed to in their homeland, especially prepared
for them. Undoubtedly this is an arrangement which is very desirable and should make the participants feel very much at
home and add materially to their comfort and enjoyment.

From the point of view of the American public this is an opportunity which they probably will not have again
in many years, and everyone who can possibly reach the west coast should do so if it is within his
power. It seems logical that in such a gathering as this where athletes will compete in every sport possible, that
this is one way in which world peace may be furthered. Truly this is a lofty ideal toward which to
work, and if the Olympic Games do foster an international friendliness to the slightest degree, they are well worth all
the effort and expense necessary to conduct them—aside from the many other aspects which make them highly desirable and profitable.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Air Echoes, a part of The Cadet, tell us that Tony Wons, Morton Downey, and Jacques Renard’s orchestra will leave
the air on May 28. Too bad for the Wons and Downey fans. Here’s a little poem written by the
writer of Air Echoes, which will cheer up the Ben Bernie fans:

Lombardo and Whiteman?
Just so much clatter
When compared to Ben Bernie's
Music and chatter.

Washington and Lee

At the mock Democratic National Convention held at W. & L. recently, Franklin D. Roosevelt, governor of New York, was
chosen to be the Democratic nominee for President on the ninth ballot, and Henry Flood Byrd of Virginia was chosen
to be his running mate; Byrd was chosen on the fourth ballot. In the final tabulation the voting stood: Roosevelt,
607 and Newton D. Baker, 208. The balloting showed plainly that the two favorites were Roosevelt and Baker. Smith and
Garner also ran, but they ran entirely too slow to even touch Roosevelt. Byrd had a total of 634 votes
on the fourth ballot to win the honor of being the Democratic candidate for Vice-President. Other candidates for the Vice-Presidency
were: Cordell Hull of Tennessee, J. Hamilton Lewis of Illinois, James A. Reed of Missouri, Thomas J. Walsh of Montana,
Alben William Barkley of Kentucky, Joseph T. Robinson of Arkansas, David I. Walsh of Massachusetts, Pat Harrison of Mississippi and
Paul V. McNutt of Indiana.

Henry Theis and his famous orchestra will play for the Washington and Lee Finals.

Here’s a good one on Eddie Cantor. He had been down in Florida basking in the sun, and had turned
a very dark brown from the rays of the sun. Following this he returned to a southern city further north
and went into a very fashionable hotel with his chauffeur, who was of the Ethiopian color, and applied for a
room. The clerk at the desk very indignantly said, “Sorry, but we don’t take colored folks.” The man that makes
the queer noise made the queer noise and whipped over to the other good hotel in town and there he
engaged a suite, much to the chagrin of the first hotel.

Wake Forest

A. V. Washburn of Greensboro, newly elected editor of the Howler at Wake Forest, was elected president of the North
Carolina Collegiate Press Association for next year. John Minter of Duke, and Miss Virginia Allen of N. C. C. W.,
were named first and second vice-presidents, respectively, of the association; Miss Edith Storm of Queens-Chicora, secretary, and Jimmy Creech of
State, treasurer.

Keyhole Komment
By CASKIE NORVELL

Tarzan’s unearthly call to his fellow jungle creatures seems to have taken the campus by storm. The night following the
showing of the movie at Mr. Stough’s picture emporium, the campus was kept awake all night by the fierce noise.

These North Carolina educational institutions seem to have a propensity for having their May Days, and other May functions, out
of date. First the Chapel Hillites ran their May Frolic off the last weekend in April, and then Salem had
to ring one in on the boys by throwing on April May Day. It’s too much for me.

One of our rising track men in the Freshman class seems to be well interested in Greensboro. This stopping over
between trips toChapel Hill is bad. He’d better watch himself. We read John Lake’s column every week, and we noticed
that the old boy had some dope on a few of the snap courses offered by some colleges. The “Ring-Tum-Phi”
of Washington and Lee University published an article that told of a credit course in love-making given at Rollins College.

One of the students residing in East dormitory has taken to keeping a crow. This nature lover captured the fowl
somewhere in the wilds of Davidson or surrounding districts.

We saw the silent of “So Big,” and if Barbara Stanwyck can’t do Edna Ferber’s character of Selina any more
justice than Colleen Moore did it, she’s sorry. It’s a swell book and should make a good talkie. We'd see
it.

Some of the faculty members were out last week warming up for the impending diamond classic. We'll bet there were
some sore professors giving lectures the next day. They seemed to look pretty fair.

The Yellow Sweater Club of Penthouse West continues to thrive. Several new men have been added, and they are thinking
about petitioning a national for a charter. Some of those yellow knickers Belk’s showed last week would help them out
during rushing season. You can easily spot their men on the campus.

The companies in the local R. O. T. C. battalion ran off a little competitive drill last week. It’s rumored
that after today we ain’t gonna study war no more this year.

My pal across the page asks me to give him some dope on “girl-break dances.” A number of Davidson Freshmen
took it upon themselves a while back to gird up their loins and be off to Charlotte to give the
fair femmes a break at the leap-year dance, as leap-year only comes once in four years. Joy was in the
hearts of the Davidson dynamoes as they departed to slay Charlotte’s fairest with the gift of the most perfect of
lines. Strange to say, the comments on said dance aren't nearly as enthusiastic as we had expected. On the contrary,
they are quite bitter over their failure to receive the rush they had expected. “Never again,” declare the local power-houses.

The Concord delegations don’t function at all like they used to. This several times a week club isn’t even going
any more, to say nothing of the regular old Saturday nighters. A rather stumpy student up on the fourth floor
of West is still thrilling the Concord women, and keeping up the reputation of the old guard. Come, come boys,
get back to seeing the little girls, and give them a great big break, or else let us in on
what the trouble is, as this column can also be used for advice to the love-lorn, or what have you?

WORLD PEACE

It is still open to Mr. Stimson, if he chooses, to render a service to mankind in general and his
own country in particular by favoring the international limitation of armaments on the only basis this side of the millennium
which is workable—namely, by frank recognition that the upholding of world peace is properly a matter of cooperative concern among
law-abiding nations, precisely as the support of law and order in any human community is a matter of cooperative concern
among all law-abiding citizens. Let Mr. Stimson remember that before becoming Mr. Hoover’s Secretary of State he was Secretary of
War and in the Cabinet of President Taft. Let him recall the meeting in Washington under the chairmanship of Mr.
Taft of the League to Enforce Peace, in 1916, and the principles there enunciated. The plan presented by France at
Geneva is in exact accordance in letter and spirit with the principles laid down by the League to Enforce Peace.
In other words, it is in essence an American plan which France is now promoting. Why do the many leaders
of public opinion who were prominent in the League to Enforce Peace keep silent at this time? If what they
advocated in 1916 was sound then, it is sound now and should have their active support. It is now, when
measures are being considered to prevent a repetition of the world conflict, the aftermath of which wrecked the artificial prosperity
born of the war profits, that the real friends of the principles advocated by the League to Enforce Peace should
make themselves heard. This is the acid test between the real upholders of those principles and those who take up
causes only to betray them by desertion in the hour of need. —From New York Times.

Emory

Six undergraduate students and four alumni were elected to Phi Beta Kappa at Emory recently.

State

Those poor State boys. They are so poor that they can't afford to have any better orchestra for their Finals
than Ted Weems and his famous orchestra. Finals at State will be June 3, 4, and 6. If those boys
are poor, the rest of us must be paupers and headed for the good poor house. Cheer up, State.

World Spectator

Russia, at the present time, presents a greater enigma than usual. Various reports come from that vast area, telling of
wonderful successes of the Five Year Plan and at the same time many dismal failures are reported. Probably the most
encouraging things are the reports put out by the Soviet itself. In these articles the plan is pictured as working,
with the people having control of the government, and all the living conditions greatly improved. The people are contented, are
being educated, and are all very patriotic and anxious to see the success of the Five Year Plan. Great industrial
plants are being built, and Russia is appearing as one of the rising powers of the world.

However, other tales come out which present the other side of the question. Among the first of these, and the
most recent, is the threat of famine in the country. This is something which is very hard on the reputation
of the country and the Soviet system. It shows the grim humor of the Five Year Plan. It was only
a short while ago that the United States was flooded with wheat from Russia. Now these same Russians are starving.
Not only is it true of foodstuffs, but the Five Year Plan has used the same system for many other
commodities. Shoes are sent abroad to market in order to get money while the Russians themselves go without shoes. The
leaders tell the people that this is all for the good of the Five Year Plan, but at the same
time the fact that it is helping along does not ease the life of the daily worker.

This brings up a point of thought. Since the people are deprived and made to do without the essentials of
life, it would seem that it is not they, after all, who are running the government. Many Russian observers have
decided that as far as political freedom goes, the average Russian has no more than he did while the Czar
was in power. It has been shown quite clearly that the day worker in Russia is made to do certain
required things, whether they are to his liking or not. He is allowed certain commodities, certain holidays, certain living quarters,
and certain jobs. If he does not accept the dictates of the leaders, he is ostracized, a condition which is
as bad or worse than excommunication.

Probably one of the strongest evidences against the Soviet rule is the fact that along the border line between Russia
and Romania, many Russians attempt to cross the Dniester River in order to escape the tyranny of the Soviet. These
fugitives hide on the Russian side of the river, and at a convenient time they either swim, or in winter
cross on the ice of the river. The Russian government has posted guards along the frontier with powerful searchlights, machine
guns, and bloodhounds. It is estimated that an average of three people are killed every day while attempting to cross
into Romania. Many of these are women and children who are seeking to get into a free land where they
do not have to obey the orders of a small group of men.

The reason for all the different opinions given by travelers in Russia is that some see only a small portion
which the Soviet wants to let the tourist see. Others penetrate into the distant provinces and see the conditions which
prevail away from Leningrad and the more prosperous looking regions. But in spite of the fact that there may be
discontent and oppression in Russia, that country, because of its great size and manpower, presents a grave figure in European
affairs.

Now is the time for all the young ladies to get out their bicycles. Back in the “gay ’90s” all
the young girls used to ride, but for the past few years this habit has been confined mostly to certain
girls’ colleges. Recently, many young married ladies of Chicago have started making their social calls, not by automobile, not even
in Austins, but on bicycles. Maybe it is the depression, but whatever it is, now is the time to bring
out the old tandem.

The world may be in a terrible condition, but this is not the first time that it has had serious
problems which disturbed all phases of society. The following quotation may well have appeared in yesterday's paper, but it didn’t.
It was taken from Harper’s Weekly, dated October 10, 1857, about seventy-four years ago:

“It is a gloomy moment in history. Not for many years—not in the lifetime of most men who read this
paper—has there been so much grave and deep apprehension; never has the future seemed so incalculable as at this time.
In our own country there is universal commercial prostration and panic, and thousands of our poorest fellow citizens are turned
out against the approaching winter without employment, and without the prospect of it.

“In France the political caldron seethes and bubbles, with uncertainty; Russia hangs, as usual, like a cloud, dark and silent
upon the horizon of Europe; while all the energies, resources and influences of the British Empire are sorely tried, and
are yet to be tried more sorely, in coping with the vast and deadly Indian insurrection, and with its disturbed
relations in China.

“It is a solemn moment, and no man can feel an indifference (which, happily, no man pretends to feel) in
the issue of events.

“Of our own troubles no man can see the end. They are, fortunately, as yet mainly commercial, and if we
are only to lose money, and by painful poverty to be taught wisdom—the wisdom of honor, of faith, of sympathy
and of charity—no man need seriously to despair. And yet the very haste to be rich, which is the occasion
of this widespread calamity, has also tended to destroy the moral forces with which we are to resist and subdue
the calamity.”
