THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1932

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North
Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief: EDWARD O. GUERRANT
Business Manager: A. M. MANSON

EDITORIAL STAFF
L. W. CLARDY - Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK - Assistant Managing Editor
THOMAS McPHERSON - Athletic Editor
Exchange Editor
Feature Editor
Contributing Editor
FLAY Editor
DIPS Editor
Sophomore Editor
Junior Editor
Senior Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON - Assistant Business Manager
A. H. MANSON - Assistant Business Manager
ALVIN BAYER, JR. - Solicitor
G. L. GREEN - Solicitor
W. P. SPRUNT - Solicitor
R. TAYLOR - Solicitor
A. C. WADSWORTH - Solicitor
E. WHITE - Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
E. E. LAKE - President
S. GAMBLE - Vice-President
L. ALDERMAN - Secretary-Treasurer
W. ALDERMAN
L. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN
W. L. McILWAIN
G. E. BAILEY
E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY
W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES
W. L. NORTHEN
E. BOWERS
C. E. NORVELL
E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
H. COVINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON
P. M. ROGERS
J. B. FICKLIN
B. L. ROSE
G. L. GULLETTE
T. H. SUTTON
ACE HELLINGER
N. W. WALLACE
C. HENRY
K. D. WEEKS
A. HUNTER
W. R. WARD
E. LORRAINE
W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. D
W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS
PRATT-THOMAS

OCTOBER 12, 1932

Of all the things which wisdom procures for the happiness of life as a whole, by far the greatest is
the acquisition of friendship. — Epicurus.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

With the paddle ball craze running wild, one almost takes his life in his hand to walk down dormitory row.

We wish to congratulate both of the coaches and the team on the splendid all-around exhibition of good football which
was displayed against Wofford. It has been a long time since a Davidson offense has clicked so well.

We are glad to see a continued good attendance at “Y” vespers. We feel safe in saying that those who
have attended have found it well worth their while.

Wake Forest displayed power in defeating South Carolina. They will be a hard team to beat, but this fact should
make the ’Cats fight all the harder when we meet them next month here on our own field.

The running of Wingfield, Mills, Pearce, Fleagle, Mackorell, and Wilson was very pretty to see in the Wofford game. It
has been many a year since Davidson has had such an array of backfield talent as we have this year,
and it certainly is being used to good advantage.

Many North Carolina fans were surprised to see Auburn beat Duke. From all indications, Auburn is headed for a season
like they were accustomed to having fifteen years ago.

Among other gridiron surprises this week were the victories of Michigan over Northwestern and the tie between St. Mary’s and
California. During this past summer, Golden Bear supporters freely predicted that their eleven would be the team chosen to uphold
the honor of the West on New Year’s Day in the Rose Bowl at Pasadena, but we doubt if this
will be the case now, as they have been defeated once before this tie.

Professional football was played in Charlotte for the first time last Saturday night when Johnny Branch, ex-Carolina star, led his
team to victory over another eleven composed of hired players.

With the completion of the first reviews and the sending out of reports soon, we feel that college is at
last in full swing.

Because of the showing of the team in the last game, we should not become over-confident. We have a difficult
schedule and still have some hard teams to face, particularly Clemson, N. C. State, Carolina, and Wake Forest. Also, we
certainly cannot consider V. M. I. and Citadel as pushovers.

Anyone who is planning to build a tennis court has the problem of cost and upkeep to consider. After taking
statistics on a great many high school athletic association tennis courts, it has been found that although clay courts are
cheaper in initial cost, the concrete courts have no upkeep, so in the long run the concrete ones are cheaper.
In addition, the concrete courts are able to be used earlier in the spring and are not as greatly affected
by weather conditions.

OPEN FORUM

WORLD SPECTATOR I SAW

Editor’s Note: The views expressed in this column are not necessarily those of The Davidsonian, and we will gladly run
any article handed to us which we deem advisable to print.

Since there are many conflicting views about the Presidential election this fall, and since the editor of “Thoughts in Passing”
has extended such an invitation for an article of this sort, I shall in brief words express the opinion of
what I believe will be the sentiment of the majority of the voters on November 8th. Of course, I express
the minority view of this campus and normally that of North Carolina—always of South Carolina.

We who live in the South usually see a democratic President elected about this time every four years. Is it
because of newspaper propaganda and demagoguery of mud-slinging politicians who attack every sound economic proposal made by that administration which
has and will continue to pilot this country safely through one of the most severe crises in history? Is it
right that we should elect a new President merely because a diseased and discontented element desires a change? This is
a time for clear thinking and straight speaking, and not for honeyed words, promises, and political ballyhoo. The Republican candidate
is not putting on a road show for re-election. Its candidate is not speaking in every section of the country,
promising such relief as is needed in that particular section. Neither is bidding for the support of these radicals and
waywards, often called “sons of wild jackasses.” Governor Roosevelt has shown this inclination throughout his tour of the West, attempting
always to please such notables as Long, Wheeler, Dill, Norris, and Johnston. His farm relief speech at Topeka was, if
possible, the vaguest and weakest of his talks. He claims to hail from a farm, when in reality it is
a typical Hudson River country estate, which as someone has said, “grows enough vegetables for home consumption, and enough hay
to feed the cows to furnish the milk for the family and where he gets the corn to feed the
chickens to supply the needs of his estate with eggs, I do not know, but probably from Topeka.” On other
issues, he has never made himself clear. There is doubt and ambiguity as to where he stands on such vital
and important issues as the bonus, sales tax, dole, and duty on sugar and presumably on copper, oil, lumber, and
coal. Does this governor of New York, who has had an easy time in the governor’s chair following in the
footsteps of his illustrious predecessor, Alfred E. Smith, who had already instituted far-reaching reform, owing to his intimate knowledge of
state affairs, think that he can fool the American republic? If so, he will be bitterly disappointed on November 8th.

G. O. P.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

University of North Carolina

Our friends, the University of North Carolina Tar Heels, seem to have the erroneous idea that Davidson will be the
vanquished when the sun has set on Richardson Field on the afternoon of November 12, 1932. “The Daily Tarheel” gives
us the following opinion: “Right now it looks as if it will be a long time before the Tarheels take
a game. Georgia, Tennessee, Tech, State, Duke, and Florida are not easy meat for anybody and Davidson and Virginia may
spring a surprise.” Here's hoping that they are wrong in this opinion that we are to go down in defeat.
However, Carolina is no set-up as indicated by the strong words of praise that were given them by Dan McGugin,
Vandy coach, and some of the Vandy players.

Wesleyan

From out of the good state of Georgia (pronounced Gawga by all good Southerners) comes this rather humorous poem, called
“Latin Gone Modernistic.”

“Boyibus kissabus sweet girl-orem
Girlibus likeibus, wantis someorum
Poppabus hearibus sweet kissorum
Kickobus boyibus out-a-the doororum.”

Perhaps this was Isham Jones’ sentimental gentleman from Georgia in action.

Georgia Tech

Down at Tech, the student body rooting section has adopted the card display to aid in the cheering. This card
display system is much in vogue out on the Pacific Coast with the University of California and the University of
Southern California. Ramble them around Tech.

Washington and Lee

The Generals suffered two mishaps in their game with Davidson that will be detrimental to their future success. Two of
their star players, Boland and Ruffner, Boland, a guard, broke his leg and will be out all the rest of
the season. Ruffner, a center, tore a ligament in his knee and will be out of the game for four
or five weeks. It is not to be wondered.

The University of Maryland, like Davidson, gives a course in R. O. T. C. which is required of Freshmen and
Sophomores. Two students, Ennis Coale and Wayne Lees, have refused to take the course, saying that they were “conscientious objectors”
and that military training was against their religious views. Since they refuse to enroll for this course, the two boys
have been given their notice of suspension. The boys are now wanting the university to refund all their tuition, even
though they have used up part of it in board and room rent. They are at present preparing their case
to present to the trustees.In order to have their tuition refunded, a railroad crew was digging at a grade crossing
and came upon an interesting bundle. It was about ten old whiskey bottles and the remnants of an old military
coat. The buttons from the coat bore the inscription, “King George, III,” and one of the bottles had the word
“London” on it. The bottles were empty because the corks had decayed and allowed the whiskey to evaporate.

A report from St. Denis, France, states that Pierre Degayter, composer of the “Internationale,” the famous Communist song, is dead.
He had, up to the time of his death, been honored by the Soviet and had been supported in his
old age by that government. Degayter was a wood carver and became famous when he set the words of a
poem by Eugene Pottier to music, calling it the “Internationale.”

Mr. Denver M. Wright plans to go lion hunting but thinks Africa is too far away. Therefore, Mr. Wright, a
Missouri manufacturer, has bought two full-grown lions from a stranded circus and is going to take them into a secluded
section of Missouri and release them. He and his friends, armed with high-powered rifles, will then go out and hunt
the lions down. People have asked the sportsman what he will do if he cannot find the lions and they
are free to roam all over the country, probably with danger to other animals and even humans. Mr. Wright has
not answered this question but goes on with his plans for a lion hunt in Missouri.

Recently, a New York night club put an advertisement in the paper for a genuine nobleman who would be willing
to work in the night club for forty dollars per week as a host and secretary. The office of the
club was soon flooded with noblemen, princes, counts, earls, dukes, and lords. In all, there were a hundred applicants for
the job, some well dressed, others shabby in their appearance. The manager who interviewed the group learned a great deal
of history, genealogy, and modern economic and political changes. The manager of the club gave his reason for wanting a
nobleman: he wanted his club to be different and to have an attraction not found in the other night clubs.

Mussolini, the dictator of Italy, was recently fined about twenty-six cents at a rifle tournament for not opening the breech
block of his rifle when he was through firing. During the tournament, the premier tried his hand at shooting and
fired twenty-five shots, twelve of which were bull's eyes. When he was through firing, he arose without opening the breech
of his rifle. He paid the fine without comment.

The New York police arrested about seventy men for vagrancy several nights ago. Among the prisoners was a man who
claimed that he was heir to $20,000 in England, but that he could not get to England to claim it.
Therefore, he was jobless and hungry because he was unable to get to his estate. He claimed that he had
tried to get help from the British consulate but was refused because he had taken out his naturalization papers to
become a citizen of the United States. What is to be done with him is not yet known.

The Bank of France has finally completed its vault underneath the city of Paris. This vast cavern is ninety feet
below the surface of the ground, cut out of solid rock, and reinforced with concrete and steel. It is a
self-sustaining unit, so that in case of the capture of Paris, the French bank will still be intact and can
remain so for two and a half months. The vault is bomb-proof and cannot be gotten into without months of
drilling unless the secrets of the passageways are known. The air is brought into the vaults through special zig-zag ventilation
tubes with electric fans. In case poison gas is put into the entrances to these tubes, the fans will reverse
and blow the poison fumes out. The air is filtered, warmed to the correct temperature, and moistened to the correct
humidity. The vaults are connected to a huge underground kitchen which has supplies for feeding the bank personnel for eighty
days. There are also dormitories for the bank clerks and every convenience is provided. In the vaults proper are stored
eighty billion francs of gold, and in case of war, a great many priceless paintings and pieces of art are
to be brought from the Louvre to be kept safely in a portion of the vault assigned to them. There
is one secret of the vault which only two living people know. That is the secret escape passage, through which
the bank clerks could escape as a last resort if the enemy succeeded in breaking through the thirty yards of
rock.

PERSEVERANCE

Perseverance is the keyword to the success of every man of today. Four hundred and forty years ago, on the
night of October 11th, three tiny ships were beating their way across an uncharted sea. Mutiny had broken out among
the crew, and they demanded that the admiral turn back. A less determined spirit would have quailed before their advance;
but not Columbus. Thus, on this eventful night did this grizzled old seaman hold at bay these fierce and treacherous
hearts—hold them at bay until the first light of dawn revealed a long, low shoreline just ahead, and the cry
of “Land!” sounded on the morning air of the long-to-be-remembered day—Friday, October 12, 1492. Christopher Columbus had discovered a new
world—had won for himself great honors and immortal fame, simply because he would not turn back. It makes no difference
where you start; it is the finish that counts. It makes no difference how you start when you come to
college, or what you are then, but if you persevere diligently and keep your eye straight forward you will gain
the goal of your desires.

This is not only true in college life, but in the life after you get out into the world. Columbus
would have undoubtedly made a fine businessman because he would not give up or turn back. Some people say there
are no opportunities today for the man who has to make his way in the world. Big businessmen are today,
more than ever before, simply combining their organizations for men to build on. Business is developing so rapidly that it
is almost impossible to develop men fast enough for the bigger positions.

LYMAN W. CLARDY.

Land!” ... a number of folks speculating as to who writes this column, I'll tell you this much, I have
assistants who keep me informed as to what’s going on and you have no idea how many things I know
that I can’t tell. I wrote about a few things I knew last week and then my column was cut
in half. So you know a portion of my uncanny knowledge. Even though I don’t like to do it, I
have to keep from telling you many things. So many requests come in to suppress news and I am such
a sympathetic creature.

... Brass. MacConnell’s dog followed him into chapel unobserved by his master Monday morning. I heard that this is one
of the smartest dogs imaginable and it is not only a pet of Brass but also a favorite with the
whole family.

... Joe Bryant arguing a political question with Paul Brown as they came back from dinner Thursday. I hear that
Joe has just studied the subject under discussion in History that morning and was telling Paul what he thought about
the matter.

... the paddle ball craze take the campus by storm. It looks now that everybody has bought a paddle ball.
If the fad continues maybe we can persuade the faculty to have a chair of paddle ball. By rights, we
ought to have at least one crip course here in college.

... about 20 students riding bicycles one afternoon last week out on Richardson Field. No, the college hasn't gone mad
over bicycling. It was just Pete Whittle giving the boys a workout by having them lie down on their backs
and paddle with their legs.

... Sonny Hengeveld kick his new football his father gave him and then run and fall on it. You ought
to go over and watch him some afternoon. He is a sight. Of course, you could expect nothing less of
Mr. Hengeveld’s boy. He will probably turn out to be a great baseball player like his father. Like father, like
son.

... Honeysuckle, efficient janitor, yodeler, and general handyman, turn in the names he suggested for Reeves Pope’s orchestra. A prize
of $5.00 goes to the winner and Honeysuckle has been caught more than once taking out the rabbit foot he
keeps in his pocket.

... Mac Manson and Tom Boles discussing that ever-fascinating subject of golf. Mac said, “Look at my pair of golf
socks.” “Golf socks,” questioned Tom. The other replied, “Yes, eighteen holes.”

For fear that some of the column will be cut out, I am ending the chatter this week with L’Allegro,
apologies to John Milton. Some of my items are sure to be omitted and this will take up the necessary
space. It is “Invitation Au Bal.” I hope you like it!

Haste thee, Nymph, and bring with thee
Little case called vanity,
File for nails and shammy skin,
(Powdered nose is not a sin),
Plaster white and beauty spot
Changing you to what you're not,
Dental polish, cream provide
Danderine and Herpicide,
Modest looks and coy assume,
Pencil brows and strong perfume,
Curling tongs for blondine hair,
Female tricks so debonair,
Blushes—twenty cents apiece—
Creamy ones with deep cerise,
Such as used by Geraldine,
Beauty’s charm is what’s unseen,
These your natural charms enhance,
Make you stunning at a dance,
Come and trip it as you go
O’er your partner’s pained toe;
All these charms if you'll display,
Maid, with thee I'll gladly stay.
—Harvard Lampoon.
