SPRING SPORTS BEGIN | The Davidsonian

"ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS"

McGUGIN UNABLE TO SPEAK

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 2, 1932 No. 20

Colonel W. R. Scott to Be Transferred to the War Industrial College

Head of R. O. T. C. Department to Leave After Four-Year Stay at Davidson

Lieutenant Colonel William R. Scott, head of the R. O. T. C. department here, has been designated by the War
Department as a student at the Army Industrial College at Washington, D. C. Officials of the college requested that he
be allowed to stay here another term, but the request was not granted, as it is a rule of the
Army to transfer its officers every four years. Colonel Scott came to Davidson from the Command and General Staff School
at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. Under his able direction, the R. O. T. C. unit here has received distinguished rating for
the past three years.

The Army Industrial College is located at Washington, D. C., and is for Army officers. The purpose of the school
is to teach the officers procurement and the mode and means of getting supplies cheaply and quickly during time of
war. It is a one-year course, beginning in September and ending about the first of June.

During Colonel Scott’s four-year stay here, the following officers have served under him: Captain John W. Elkins, Jr., now in
the Hawaiian Islands; Captain John A. Otto, now stationed at the Tank School, Fort George G. Meade, Md., near Washington;
Lieut. Robert C. Beckett, now retired and at the Army and Navy General Hospital, Hot Springs, Ark. The present officers
are: Captain Franklin M. Cochran, Captain William L. Blanton, Captain Charles W. Seifert.

Colonel Scott will go to Anniston, Ala., the first of June to direct the R. O. T. C. camp, which
he has commanded for the past three summers. He will come back about the middle of August and he and
his family will then move to Washington.

Spanish Fraternity Has Varied Program

On Friday night, February 26, Sigma Delta Pi, honorary national Spanish fraternity, held its regular meeting, with a program featuring
two special items, the first the reading of a poem, “Castellana,” by Bill McKnight, and the second a play, with
the following title and cast:

“DON PASCUAL Y DON CRISPIN”
Don Pascual - Duncan McBryde
Don Crispin - Johnny Creech
Criada (Maid) - Bob Torrence

The characters, regaled in imitation Spanish paraphernalia, gave the entire play in Spanish. The play treats of two Spanish caballeros,
who have moved to New York with their families, and whose wives, attracted by the liberties of the North American
women, spend the entire day “running around.” The play ends with Pascual and Crispin crying on each other’s shoulder over
their loneliness, and also over the fact that Don Crispin’s son, away at the university, has flunked out and must
return home. Professor Blythe assisted in the preparation of the play. A short business meeting concluded the program.

At the last meeting of the fraternity on February 9, the group met for the first meeting after its installation
as a chapter of the national order, Sigma Delta Pi. The following men were initiated as new members at that
time: Ed Bettis, Allen Mebane, Duncan McBryde, Bob Tor-

(Continued on page 6)

Varsity Debate

On Monday, March 7, at 7:30 p.m., the varsity debating team will open its season here by staging a debate
with the team from Southwestern. The debate, which will be held in Chambers Auditorium, will be on the following subject:
“Resolved, That Congress Should Enact Legislation to Provide for Centralized Control of Industry.” The Davidson debaters, William Rule, III, and
Jack H. McKinnon, will uphold the affirmative side of the question.

Athletic Night Will Be Indefinitely Postponed

On Thursday, March 3, at 8 p.m., the annual Athletic Night was to be held in Chambers Auditorium, with Colonel
Dan E. McGugin as the guest speaker. Colonel McGugin is the present athletic director at Vanderbilt University, and has been
for a number of years outstanding in athletic circles throughout the country. But on Monday, Captain Pritchett received a wire
from Colonel McGugin stating that Mrs. McGugin and one of his sons were sick with influenza, while his other son
had contracted pneumonia. On account of these facts, the telegram stated, Mr. McGugin would not be able to keep his
engagement, but was hoping at some later date to pay a visit to Davidson.

At the time that this paper goes to press, it is indefinite as to just when Athletic Night will be,
or who will be the speaker. When Captain Pritchett got the telegram Monday, he wired Colonel McGugin, asking him if
he thought that he would be able to leave and visit Davidson to speak at any time between the 3rd
and the 23rd. If Colonel McGugin is able to do so, Athletic Night will be postponed. Otherwise, it will continue
as planned, with the exception that another speaker will be obtained for the occasion.

The program for this year will follow along much the same lines as last year’s program. It will be opened
with a prayer, followed by the singing of “O Davidson.” This will be followed by the award of football certificates,
basketball certificates, and wrestling certificates. Then victory and gold footballs will be awarded. After the awarding of the certificates, the
trophy for the greatest physical improvement during the year will be awarded. Then a trophy will be presented to the
winner of the gymnastic contest. After the conclusion of this part of the program, there will be an address by
the guest speaker for the occasion. Then the singing of “College Ties” will bring the annual Athletic Night to a
close.

Dr. McConnell Speaks to Gastonia Rotarians On Washington’s Character

Davidson Professor Addresses Gastonia Rotary Club—Has Many Close Ties in Gastonia

CONCLUDES CELEBRATION

Eulogizes First President for Patriotism, Patience, Poise and Courage

“George Washington was the forerunner and progenitor of all American statesmen, and his career is a challenge to all others,”
said Dr. J. Moore McConnell, of the chair of history of Davidson College, to the Gastonia Rotary Club today in
an address on the “Character of George Washington.”

“George Washington has been rightly called ‘The Father of His Country,’ because he made the United States. This country is
his only offspring and heir and the title is rightly bestowed.”

Dr. McConnell, a brother of Dr. D. E. McConnell, of Gastonia, and uncle of Drs. H. R. McConnell and W.
M. Jones, of Gastonia, was introduced to the club by Sam Robinson, a classmate at Davidson College. Dr. McConnell referred
to the many ties of kinship and friendship that bound him to Gastonia and to Gastonia people. He said that
he felt very near to the people here. Another fact was that he was teaching many of the sons of
Gastonia in his classes at Davidson.

The outstanding features of Washington were, according to Dr. McConnell, his unselfish patriotism, his patience and perseverance, his poise and
his courage. Taking up these points in order, Dr. McConnell developed each one. He showed how Washington served his country
nearly all his life, first as soldier and then as statesman and president. His patience and perseverance gave him vision
and made him the leader of men that he was. His poise gave him determination and dignity. He had a
habit of withholding speech until he had thought things through. He weighed the affairs of men and nations carefully. The
fourth quality of the man was his courage, both physical and moral.

Dr. McConnell closed his address with a beautiful word picture in which he pictured the similarity of the character of
Washington to

(Continued on page 6)

Phi Beta Kappa

The North Carolina Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, honorary scholastic fraternity located at Davidson College, has completed its selection
of members from the Senior class, and have chosen six additional men to the nine that were honored with bids
in the fall. Fifteen men from one class is an unusually large number, and indicates the scholastic prominence of the
1932 graduates. Over 13 per cent of the membership was chosen.

Those chosen at the spring elections were Eugene Z. DuBose, Camden, S. C.; Donald M. MacQueen, Little Rock, S.C.; H.
L. Carr, Burgaw; W. T. Hancock, Bluefield, W. Va.; Roscoe Prince, Raleigh; and J. G. Dunklin, Laurens, South Carolina. The
nine Seniors honored in the first election were Thomas W. McLean, Charlotte; S. S. Wiley, Salisbury; Chas. W. Harrison, Davidson;
Roger Enloe, Buchanan, Ga.; L. N. Hand, Jr., East Spencer; E. S. Bettis, Morristown, Tenn.; E. C. Dwelle, Jr., Charlotte;
John D. McConnell, Davidson; and J. T. Welch, Mt. Holly.

Davidson Summer School To Open Sixth of June

Prof. Fleagle, Director of Summer Session, Has Added Extra Course in Education

On February 26, 1932, an announcement was made here of the fourth organized summer session of Davidson College, to run
for six weeks from June 6 to July 15. According to Prof. Fred K. Fleagle, director of the summer school,
it is planned to offer an even larger number of courses this summer than have been given heretofore, especially in
education.

Since its inception, Davidson’s summer school has each year attracted a larger and larger number of students. Last year the
number in attendance during the six-week session exceeded 150, and with the greater number of courses to be offered this
year, the number is expected to be much beyond that figure. All college buildings and athletic fields are open for
the use of the summer school students, and it is plannedto again add several professors, notably in education, to offer
courses especially designed to meet the demands of the school teachers. Professor Fleagle emphasized this summer that all courses offered
will be of full college standing, and are so recognized by Davidson and other colleges. Any education courses are fully
accredited by the State Department of Public Instruction and will apply toward teachers’ certificates. Classes will be under the instruction
of regular Davidson professors, or special instructors in certain subjects.

Registrar Reports List of Honor Men

Thirty-three per cent of the 1932 graduating class of Davidson College have a chance to graduate with honors at the
96th commencement of the institution, according to a list which has been published by the registrar of Davidson. Twenty-eight of
them have a three and a half average over 90 per cent, and seven of the 38 will possibly graduate
with summa cum laude honors, which requires an average of 95. The ten men below 90 per cent, which gives
a student cum laude honors, have a chance to raise their average during the last semester.

(Continued on page 6)

Faculty Briefs

Dr. Thomas W. Lingle has been appointed as a delegate to represent the State Literary and Historical Association at the
meeting of the American Academy of Political and Social Science. The association meets in Philadelphia, April 15th and 16th.

Rev. Kenneth J. Foreman, of the chair of Bible at Davidson College, spoke at the meeting of the Rock Hill
Business Men’s Evangelistic Club, which was held at the Stevenson Theatre Sunday afternoon at 3 o'clock. The subject of the
address was “The Devil and the Church.”

Junior Speaking Set For Week-End of March 19

On Friday and Saturday, March 18 and 19, the class of '33 will put on the annual Junior Speaking house
party, which is to be featured this year by three informal dances in the Charlotte Hotel and Armory. The first
of these dances will be Friday night in the hotel with dancing from 10 'till 2. The second will be
a tea dance Saturday afternoon in the Armory, beginning at 4:30 and lasting ‘till 7; and the last is to
be Saturday night from 9 ’till 12, also in the Armory. The week-end entertainment will be officially concluded at the
end of the Saturday night dance. Aside from these, no other entertainment will be afforded, due to the fact that
the track meet with the University of Florida, which was previously announced to have been for the 19th, has been
postponed until a later date. The music for all three dances will be furnished by Edward's Collegians, who are nationally
known for solo work as well as for harmony, and especially for dance pieces. Only last year the Collegians closed
their third consecutive season in the Greystone Ballroom in Cincinnati, where they were famed to be one of the best
negro orchestras in the country. In addition to this they have played in the Lakeside Ballroom in Flint, Mich., where
they also attained fame as harmonizers. The orchestra is now on a tour through the Southern States, broadcasting over several
stations and playing at dances in order to build up a bigger reputation.

The Juniors this year are endeavoring to present a most enjoyable week-end for the least cost. In view of this
fact, the members of the student body are urged to have girls up, as this will probably be the best
and most economical house party of the year.

Masquers Will Present Group of One-Act Plays On Tues. P. M. March 19

Prize Play Will Be “The Valiant,” Given by Little Theatre of Charlotte

FOURTH PROGRAM OF YEAR

Students Will Participate in “Well, I Declare,” and “In the Zone”

The fourth program of the Red and Black Masquers will be offered on Tuesday evening of next week, March 8th,
at 8:00 o’clock. Final arrangements have been made with the members of the Little Theatre of Charlotte, who are to
present “The Valiant,” and it is believed it is to be the best group of one-act plays yet presented.

The first play on the program is a drama of Eugene O'Neill, one of his sea stories taken from the
log of the S. S. Glencairn. The leads are taken by Hugh Johnston, the insulted and brutally treated Smitty, and
Henry Hodgin, who takes the part of the eavesdropper, Davis. The cast is as follows:

IN THE ZONE

The play is directed by H. W. Ervin, while George Gullette is stage manager. The second feature is, “Well, I
Declare!”, a farce involving the discovery by Dr. Dalton of an amazing fluid which is believed to change the natures
of men. Hard-guy Cassidy is to be changed into the learned professor. Dr. Rabinowitz, a scientist from one of those
foreign countries, has come to witness the spectacle. The newspaper reporter also forced entrance. The result of the experiment is
indeed astonishing. The cast of “Well, I Declare!” is as follows:

Dr. Dalton - Gordon Wood
Assistants - Charlie Moore
Dr. Rabinowitz - Dave McLean
Cassidy - Reeves Pope
The Professor - Jack Williams
Reporter - Duck Powell

It is under the direction of Henry McFadyen. The prize play of the evening is “The Valiant.” Although it is
not given officially as a (Continued on page 6)

Davis - Henry Hodgin
Scotty - R. Lessem
Smitty - Hugh Johnston
Olson - Oscar Normand
Yank - Jack Easton
Driscoll - H. W. Ervin
Cocky - T. Wood Wanless
Dr. Green, of Columbia, Makes Unusual Address At “Y” Vesper Service

“Do Thyself No Harm, Physical or Spiritual,” Is Subject of Vesper Speaker’s Talk

Last Sunday evening Dr. J. B. Green, professor of theology and ethics at the Columbia Theological Seminary, delivered an inspiring
address at the regular Sunday evening vespers, held in Chambers Auditorium. The speaker was introduced by Professor Beaty of the
language department. His text centered around the 28th verse of the 16th chapter of The Acts, “Do thyself no harm.”
Prayers were made by John Morgan and Jerome Clark. Frank Tucker rendered a vocal solo, accompanied by Miss Hattie Thompson.
The name of the selection was, “There Is a Green Hill Far Away.”

Dr. Green’s subject was given in the form of a command, “Do thyself no harm!” The story is of the
Apostle Paul and his companions, who, after they had commanded an evil spirit to leave a certain young damsel, were
brought before the magistrates by her masters, and thrown into prison. At midnight Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises
to God, and they were answered by a severe earthquake, which tore apart the foundations of the jail. The jailer,
supposing the prisoners had fled, drew out his sword, and would have killed himself had not Paul cried out unto
him, “Do thyself no harm: for we are all here.” Then the jailer sprang into the cell at their feet,
and asked what he must do to be saved. Paul answered, “Believe on the Lord, Jesus Christ, and thou and
thy house shall be saved.”

Dr. Green went on to say that this was a day of suicides, not only physical, but spiritual as well.
He said spiritual suicides were worse than physical ones. This subject is a good command and counsel, and if everyone
would follow it, he would be bettered by it. A synonymous subject of his theme was “self-injury of the sinner.”
If we injure ourselves, we will undoubtedly injure others. Injuring others is far worse than injuring ourselves. Another specific example
of this is that Joseph’s brethren sold him to merchants, but he kept his faith, and was not spiritually harmed.
He also kept his faith against Potiphar’s wife. Other general examples of this are Jesus Christ, Daniel, and Paul. Sin
is a boomerang. No man can benefit himself by self-injury. There is no way out by yourself, but by God
alone. Jesus came into the world to take on the sins of the world, as none other would or could
do. The only way we can be saved is by believing on Him. There are two possible destinies, the way
of suicide or the way of salvation of Jesus Christ. By the grace of the Lord we may reach that
eternal city of happiness, where no one harms himself or others. He then closed his service with a prayer, and
after the service he met all of the ministerial students, especially those in his district. Dr. Richards pronounced the benediction.

New Phi President Addresses Society

The Philanthropic Literary Society, at its regular meeting February 23, held the quarterly installation ceremony, the main feature of the
program being the inaugural address of the incoming president. The officers for the new term are: William Vogler Carter, president;
William Rachal, vice-president; Herbert Lucas, secretary; Duncan McBryde, treasurer; Roger Hall, critic and program chairman, and Francis Scott, chief supervisor
and monitor. In his inaugural address, Mr. Carter stressed the fact that in the past activity of the society most
of the effort had been placed along the line of speech, and that writing had been greatly neglected, and that
the future policy of the pro-

(Continued on page 6)

Honor Roll

Due to a regrettable oversight, the names of Miss Sara Louise Johnston, a member of the Freshman class, and that
of W. F. Mullis, of the Junior class, were omitted from the honor roll list in last week’s issue of
the Davidsonian. This unintentional omission evidently occurred in the printer's office, and the reportorial staff gladly makes the above addition
to the list.
