THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1932

McEVER & NEWTON BEGIN WORK

THE SPORTS PARADE

’CAT WRESTLERS MEET V. M. I. HERE SATURDAY

“The old order giveth way to the new.” New blood. Young blood. New systems and new methods. These are the
things one sees in the new Davidson athletic reorganization. But one has only to reflect upon the scientific effects of
blood transfusions to conclude a practical result. Doc Newton and Gene McEver have come to Davidson bringing with them the
principles installed by Coach Neyland of Tennessee, principles of football which brought only two defeats to the University of Tennessee
in six years. Newton was associated with Major Neyland last year and seems to be absolutely sold on the Neyland
system, while McEver, the Wild Bull of the gridiron, has had direct contact with the system, having played on three
of the highly successful Tennessee teams.

The two new coaches will not find things around here similar to those at Tennessee. They will not find candidates
sufficient for six or seven teams—and then some for reserves. They will not discover All-Americans hanging around. Neither will they
observe any man-mountain types obscuring the horizon. They will find, on the other hand, able and willing men who will
fight to the last ditch, men who give all they can and then keep giving. Perhaps they will find enough
men to make up three or four teams. Now and then they may discover some outstanding man with more than
the usual ability—such as Thad Brock, Dick Grey, Joe McCall, and others. But in the long run, Doc and Gene
will be dealing with just ordinary fellows.

Davidson students and alumni will do well not to expect anything spectacular from the teams Newton and McEver put out
in the beginning. Considerable confusion will doubtless be in evidence because of the change in systems. Once the systems are
grounded, however, with an average amount of material, everything should be jake. Having witnessed the first session of the spring
practice under the guidance of the new coaches, this writer was impressed with the way McEver and Newton stepped right
in and started things going. Only a small number of players was in evidence, the majority of regulars being engaged
in other activities, but despite this fact, both coaches started in teaching the essentials in a way which showed they
knew their business. A word of commendation for those doing their work well, constructive criticism for the uncertain, laconic comments
for the grand-standers—these marked the first practice.

Doc Newton: Apparently nonchalant, but sees everything. He'll get what he wants done the way he wants it done or
we'll know the reason why. Those little cracks of his go in a mile deep.

Gene McEver: Knows his business. Ambitious and earnest.

Newton and McEver: Posted.

SCARLET TANAGER
Sodas — Tobacco — Sundries
All Sundaes—15c
Ice Cream Sodas—10c

’Cats Display Reversal Of Form to Down Fast Lenoir-Rhyne Five, 41-22

During a hard-fought game, the Davidson Wildcat quintet triumphed over the Lenoir-Rhyne five here last Friday night to the tune
of 41-22. After a slow start, the boys under the tutelage of “Red” Laird cut loose and had their opponents
22-11 when the half period ended. Mathis, Wildcat forward, led the scoring of both teams with 13 points. The line-up
is as follows:

Davidson
Fg. Fp. Tp.
Mathis 6 1 13
Langley 4 0 8
Patrick 1 0 2
Mann 0 3 3
Winstead 2 4 8
Ranson 1 2 4
Totals 17 7 41

Lenoir-Rhyne
Fg. Fp. Tp.
Overcash 3 1 7
Weatherman 1 3 5
Atkinson 1 1 3
Stasavitch 1 1 3
Boger 2 0 4
Totals 8 6 22

Referee: Durham (Chicago Y).

Final Rally Fails to Win for Wildkittens

Despite a spirited final quarter rally, the Davidson Wildkittens fell before the Lincolnton Athletic Club five at Davidson Monday night.
The final score was 17 to 16. During the first half the lead switched hands several times, being a deadlock
no less than three times. The visitors pulled ahead and were leading at half time, 10-6. In the last stages
of the game the Wildkittens renewed their hopes, only to fall short of victory. The playing of Carl Pritchett and
Jim Proctor, both former Davidson stars, was outstanding for the winners. Pritchett scored eight points to tie for individual scoring
honors with West of the losers. The line-ups:

Lincolnton A. C.
Lewis (5)
Rogers (1)
Pritchett (8)
Deans (2)
West (8)
Proctor (2)

Davidson Fresh
Harris
Poe
Morgan (2)
Smathers (3)

Substitutes—Lincolnton: Sigmon. Davidson: Everett (2), Yelverton, Bumgarner, Bernado. Referee: Morris (Davidson).

Kittens Downed by Fast Belmont Five

The Davidson Wildkittens suffered defeat at the hands of the Belmont Abbey cagers last Wednesday night in the Davidson Alumni
Gym. The final score was Belmont 24, Freshmen 18. At the half the Abbey quintet was leading, 13-8. Harris was
the high scorer for the Wildkittens, scoring 13 of their 18 points. Canty and Campbell played very well for the
Abbey.

Davidson
Harris (13)
Everette (1)
West (1)
Smathers (3)
Morgan (1)

Belmont Abbey
Canty (8)
Wheeler (3)
Murphy (1)
Feldman (2)
Campbell (4)

Substitutions—Davidson: Sigman (1), Rogers (1), Morris (1). Abbey: Dunn (1). Referee: Morris.

1932 Football Schedule

Sept. 24—Duke at Durham.
October 1—Washington & Lee at Davidson.
Oct. 8—Wofford at Davidson.
Oct. 15—V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.
Oct. 22—The Citadel at Charleston, S.C.
Oct. 29—Clemson (place undecided).
Nov. 5—N. C. State (place undecided).
Nov. 12—Univ. of N. C. at Davidson (Homecoming).
Nov. 24—Wake Forest at Davidson (Thanksgiving).

Basketball Games Start Among Ten Fraternities

Davidson's ten national fraternities have begun elimination in the series of intra-fraternity basketball games, which should be completed within the
next few weeks. The first round pairings include: Pi Kappa Phi vs. Theta Upsilon Omega; Sigma Alpha Epsilon vs. Kappa
Alpha; Kappa Sigma vs. Phi Gamma Delta; Phi Delta Theta vs. Sigma Beta Theta Pi. All except the contest between
the Pi Kappa Alphas and the Beta Theta Pis have been played. The Pi Kappa Phis opened the season by
taking the Theta Upsilon Omegas into camp by a 36-19 score. The Sigma Alpha Epsilons, 1931 champions, started the current
season auspiciously by defeating the strong Kappa Alpha team, 13 to 10. The Manson brothers proved valuable tothe Sy Zak
10; the five, while King performed nobly for losers. The Phi Gams put a fast team on the floor to
crush the Kappa Sigs, 14 to 8. The Phi Delts and the S.P.E.'s are the ones who really put up
the scrap of the tournament. These two fives, next-door neighbors on the court, went at it with all they had,
but the Phi Delts finally came out ahead, 16-15. The Pikas and the Betas had not played as the Davidsonian
goes to press.

Strong Erskine Quintet Downs Davidson Varsity

Thursday night, February 4, spectators witnessed one of the most thrilling basketball games that has been played in the Davidson
Alumni Gym this year, between Erskine and the Wildcats. Erskine’s 28-27 victory was largely due to a tall, lanky center
named Bradford who scored 10 of the 28 points. The second half was the most exciting. With only five minutes
left to play, the score was tied. Both teams caged a field goal within the next three minutes. In the
last few minutes of play, it was one mad scramble for the ball. Captain Mathis of Davidson led Bradford for
high scoring honors by one point, and Captain Carson of Erskine and Peabody of the Wildcats were tied with eight
each. The line-up for the game was as follows:

Davidson Erskine
Rathick Simonton
Forward
Mathis (C) Carson (C)
Forward
Peabody Bradford
Center
Sough Miller
Guard
Peabody Caldwell
Guard

Substitutes—Davidson: Lafferty, Wagner. Erskine: Stone, Reid. Referee: Hackney (Carolina).

“PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE”
College Printing Magazines, Catalogs, Handbooks, Etc.
Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you
P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE
6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing, Always Best
STANDARD PRINTING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Engraved Cards and Invitations, Exclusively.

Duke wrestlers scored a victory over the New Wildcat Coaches Began Actual Work Here Monday

Blue Devils Take Meet From Wildcat Matmen

Taking seven of the eight matches, three of them by falls, Duke scored a 27-5 victory over the Davidson varsity
grappling crew at Durham last Saturday. Vincent Onisko and Captain Johnny Gamble, Duke's first two wrestlers, put their team far
in front by pinning their two opponents in short order. Onisko put Jenkins’ shoulders to the mat in 3:40, and
Gamble bettered the time by getting his fall over Corbin in 2:45. In the 165-pound class, however, Conway, last year’s
captain, came back to throw his opponent and gain five points for the Davidson team. The Davidson wrestlers were at
a disadvantage on account of the absence of Captain Ed Gorham, who is out temporarily because of injuries.

Summary:
118—Onisko, Duke, pinned Jenkins with bar arm and half-Nelson in 3:40.
126—Captain Gamble, Duke, pinned Corbin with bar arm and half-Nelson in 2:45.
135—Joyce, Duke, got advantage of 1:44 over Tyack after extra period.
145—Reed, Duke, got advantage of 5:42 over Ashcraft.
155—Apple, Duke, got advantage of 6:10 over Hodges.
165—Conway, Davidson, pinned Anderson with body hold and half-Nelson in 6:30.
Unlimited—Bryan, Duke, got advantage of 6:52 over Whitfield.

As a preliminary to the varsity match, the Davidson Freshmen wrestlers took six of their eight matches with the Imps
to win with the score of 20-10. The following Davidson Freshmen won by a time decision: Jones over Ormond, Owen
over Taylor, C. Forte over Graves, Quarterman over Wilson, Potter over Cooley. Griffith, Davidson, won by a fall over Gray.
Siewers, Davidson, lost by a fall to McDonald. In the unlimited division, Riblett, Duke, won by forfeit.

Freshmen Name Harris To Captain Quintet

Charles C. Harris, of Welch, W. Va., has been named by his teammates as captain of the Davidson College Freshman
basketball quintet, and will be their leader for the remainder of the season. Harris obtained his training at Virginia Episcopal
School at Lynchburg, Va. Harris is high point scorer for the Freshmen in their games so far this season. In
addition, he is a good floor man and an all-around basketball player.

Newton and McEver Well Pleased With Wildcat Gridiron Prospects

“Doc” Newton and Gene McEver, Davidson's new coaches, were well pleased by the response of the Wildcat gridiron candidates in
their first workout last Monday, held under the new leaders. McEver, especially, was impressed by the showing of several backfield
candidates who displayed speed and blocking abilities. Newton was satisfied with the large number out for line berths, but stated
that size seemed to be the thing lacking in the forward wall. He realized that several others were not out
for spring practice because of basketball and wrestling.

The new leaders have already put the candidates to work on perfecting plays which are to be used next fall.
Fundamental plays were given to the candidates Monday and others will be practiced and perfected during the spring session. Drills
in blocking, tackling, and other fundamentals will also be taken up. Newton and McEver hope to start regular scrimmages Friday.
Their spring program will include a game each Saturday afternoon during the session between two evenly divided squads.

Davidson's system of attack will be changed altogether. Newton and McEver will introduce the style of play used at the
University of Tennessee to supplant the style which the Wildcat teams have used for the past ten years under “Monk”
Younger and “Tex” Tilson. The faces of Captain Pritchett and “Tex” Tilson will also be seen on the Wildcat gridiron
for the next few weeks, until the new leaders become fully acquainted with the candidates. Younger will also render his
services to spring practices when not busy with the Freshman basketball team.

Both Newton and McEver expressed a belief that they would like Davidson. They were impressed with the spirit here and
stated that they believed they could continue in the success of “Monk” and “Tex” with the full co-operation of the
student body and especially those out for the varsity.

Complete Service for School Publications
Annuals, Magazines, Catalogs, New Books
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.
Established 1878

THOS. H. “DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“SODA” “SUNDRIES”

We Buy With You in Mind, Davidson!

There’s a very definite type of merchandise that appeals to the collegian. We know that, and our buyers are ever
on the alert to be able to show you the latest and the smartest in men’s wear. Be sure and
see us when you're in Charlotte.

The Friendly Store
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
