BEAT DUKE — The Davidsonian Alenda Lux Ubi @rta Libertas BID DAY TODAY Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.,
SEPTEMBER 21, 1932 No. 2

CHARLOTTE PASTOR LEADS STUDENT BODY IN SERVICE

“Remember the Days of Thy Youth” Was Subject of Inspiring Talk

BROWN HEADS PRAYER

Bill Flinn and Jake Mackorell Conduct Prayer

Last Sunday evening, September 17, the usual Sunday evening vespers were held in the auditorium of the new Chambers Building.
This was the second service of its kind in this year, 1932-33. The first “Y” vespers of this year, Dr.
Walter Lingle, president of the college, made a very interesting talk to those attending. Last Sunday it was also our
good fortune and pleasure to have as our speaker Dr. Edgar G. Gammon, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church
in Charlotte. Dr. Gammon has spoken to us before on previous occasions of this nature and each time he has
delivered an unusually good address to us, and this time was no exception, for everyone was paying such close attention
to him that you could have heard a pin drop.

The service was led by Paul Brown, president of the Y. M. C. A. The service was opened by the
singing of a song, after which followed another song. Jake Mackorell and Bill Flinn led in prayers. Both of these
prayers were very inspiring and helpful. The speaker was then introduced by Paul Brown and he read his text, the
substance of which was, “Remember the days of thy youth.” Dr. Gammon then delivered his message from the above text,
citing various cases and points to bring out his text. He also dwelt on the question of sex—stating that the
modern college man or university man would not flinch at the subject when it was brought up, but that years
ago they would have blushed if the subject had been mentioned. He brought before our minds many instances in which
said question would have to be brought out sooner or later. He conscientiously expressed the fact that he believed if
the fathers of today would tell their children the right things about sex at the right time that they would
know what was right and what was wrong, and that the inner force which aroused within us might be quieted
down at the right times. He spoke of some sons who could cuff their (Continued on page 6)

Junior Election Held To Replace Officers

When the Junior class met for the first time this year they were confronted with the absence of both the
class president, “Shine” McMillan, and one of the Student Councilmen, Jim McClintock. Neither of these two officers returned to school
and consequently a meeting was called in order that these two vacancies might be filled as soon as possible. Lanier
Pratt, vice-president from the voting last year, was made president by a motion from one of the members of the
class, this being the usual procedure in a case of this sort. He is a member of the Kappa Alpha
social fraternity, Eta Sigma Phi, and the D Club. When Pratt became president this left a vacancy in the office
of the vice-president. Tee Thompson, Lynn Huie, Buck Kirkland, Mack Holland, and Bill Brown were nominated for this position. In
the voting by the class Tee Thompson, Holland, and Brown went out on the first ballot. On the second vote
Lynn Huie was elected. Huie is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, (Continued on page 3)

Duke Game Announced

It was at the pep meeting last Monday night that a date in the absence September 24, the date of
the Duke game. In order that students may more easily attend, single cuts instead of double will be counted against
those going to the contest at Durham. It was also announced that busses or a train would be run to
the game at special prices.

Houseparties Are Given By Social Fraternities To Rushees and Guests

Many Girls, Alumni, and Visitors Are Present for First House Party of Year

DANCES HELD SATURDAY

Clock Presented to Retiring Secretary

Last Monday morning at chapel, Ernest Milton, retiring alumni secretary, was presented with a mantle clock. The gift was made
by Captain Norton G. Pritchett, track coach, on behalf of Davidson College and also on behalf of the Davidson Athletic
Association, for the wonderful service that Ernest rendered Davidson during his seven years. Captain Pritchett told of the high esteem
that was held for Ernest all over the campus, praised his work here, of his untiring efforts in his work
for the glory of Davidson and its athletic associations. It is with a feeling of regret that Davidson sees Ernest
Milton leave its portals. Ernest has left to go to take his position as secretary-treasurer of Barium Springs Orphanage at
Barium Springs, N.C. His position will be filled by some of the members of the faculty.

Ernest has been alumni secretary for seven years and it was a well-known fact that he knew every alumnus that
came back if he was in the classes from the class of 1920-1932. He traveled all over the state and
neighboring states to work for Davidson to bring money to help out the Alumni Association. He did not miss any
football games and there were few athletic events that he missed, whether here or elsewhere. If the football games were
too far away to go, he would stay here and give a play-by-play description of the game for the benefit
of the students. After Captain Pritchett’s talk, Ernest thanked him for his gift and then Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president
of Davidson, closed with a few remarks about Ernest.

Much Spirit Shown For Game Saturday

Newton, McEver and Pritchard to Speak at Duke Pep Meeting Thursday Night

One of the best pep meetings of the year was held Monday night in Shearer Hall. Under the able direction
of Head Cheerleader Brooke Allen, the Freshmen have been learning the Davidson yells in almost no time, and have been
showing up better than expected in such a short time. Allen says that almost all last year's yells will be
used again this year and about three or four new ones will be added as the season goes on. According
to Allen there will be one more big pep meeting before the Duke game and this pep meeting will be
held tomorrow night at 7 in Shearer Hall. This promises to be the best pep meeting that we have had
so far and should be the very thing to put the final touch on that famous “Davidson Spirit.” Both of
the Wildcat coaches, Doc Newton and Gene McEver, have been asked to say a word to the students and Captain
Pritchett has been asked to give a pep talk. Captain Pennington has been asked to have the college band at
the meeting in uniform and so he is rapidly whipping the band into shape as it is also expected that
the band will accompany the team to Duke for the game Saturday. As usual cough drops will be distributed and
therefore everyone is expected to be at his best.

Changes in regulations as prescribed by the local department of R. O. T. C. state that the ends of the
black ties shall be inserted between the second and third buttons of the shirt instead of above the second button
as it was last year. The Junior class office has heretofore beenThe Junior cheerleaders will again assist Allen at leading
the cheers Thursday night. The following men are out for cheerleaders: Charlie Gold, J. A. Hunter, Ralph Hunter, Smith, T.
H. McCallie, E. J. Humphrie, H. M. Hawkins, Woodrow Thrower, John Fitzgerald, Ben Moore, and J. T. Blair. From this
group of men, two will be elected sometime in the near future to be Allen’s assistants all year. Allen has
been working hard trying to secure a Glee Club Announcement day of the Duke game but has been unable to
do so. After being in conference with the faculty, the latest developments are that cuts taken for the game will
only count single instead of double. However, this matter is still pending and the final results will be announced in
chapel at some later date. If there are enough boys that wish to go (Continued on page 5).

Many students have inquired about the Glee Club functions. The officers of the club wish to announce that the director
employed for the coming year is ill at present but should be ready to take over his duties this week.
Tryouts will be held as soon as possible.

LITERARY SOCIETIES HOLD FIRST MEETING OF YEAR

September regulations regarding: Dr. Woodson Leader of Next “Y” Vespers

Davidson is very fortunate in having Reverend Woodson of Greensboro back again to speak at “Y” Sunday evening, 25th. He
is very interesting to college men, and being a young man himself, he is likewise interested in young men. Reverend
Woodson is a graduate of Presbyterian College and the Columbia Theological Seminary. He has had an active life, having served
in the navy during the late war. He lived in Thomasville, Ga. where he moved from Salisbury, N. C. There
he has served as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church for three or four years. He is one of the
best and most well-liked speakers who come here for the Sunday evening volunteer services. He has had a good deal
of experience in giving talks to college crowds, and Davidson is fortunate to have had her turn even more than
once. Those who heard him last year know that he is accredited with being quite broad-minded and sympathetic with the
college man’s viewpoint. Last year Dr. Woodson gave several pointers on being a Christian, and no doubt it affected a
great many who will be back to hear him again. The student body is looking forward to Reverend Woodson’s return,
and everyone should be there to hear the message he has to deliver.

Librarian Announces New Books Received

Varied Topics Found in Titles of New Books Recently Shelved in Library

Miss Shaw has given the following list of new books which have just been received into the library:

“The Dynamic Universe” by James Mace—A modern philosophical conception of the universe we live in.

“History of Ten Years” by Buell—Mr. Buell’s work is without bias, non-technical—an admirable compilation for the intelligent layman.

“Drums in the Dawn” by John T. McIntyre—A bold young sea captain and an American heiress throw away a fortune
and find romance. By the author of “Blowing Weather.”

“Europe” by Raymond Leslie Buell—A clear, concise history of life in Europe.

“Saint Saturnin” by Jean Schlumberger—The most remarkable novel to have been published in my country for the past ten years.
Its construction is in the tradition of the great French novels. It is written with a poetic intensity and originality.—Andre
Maurois.

“People of the Plains” by Pal Szabo—A first novel by a Hungarian peasant, which has gained praise from the literary
world for its beauty of language and the true pictures of peasant character.

“The Fountain” by Charles Morgan—A beautiful and accomplished novel. It gives Mr. Morgan a place to himself among contemporary novelists.—Sylvia
Lynd, in the News Chronicle.

“Heaven and Earth—A Modern Astronomy” by Oswald Thomas, formerly chief of the Urania Observatory, Vienna.

“The Cambridge Medieval History” Volume VIII—Decline of Empire and Papacy—Planned by the late J. B. Bury, M.A., F.B.A.

“Night Flight” by Antoine de St. Exupery—The 1931 Femina Prize Novel and a gay novel packed with gusto and richly
humorous.

“A Guide to the Best Fiction” by Ernest A. Baker, Director of the School of Librarianship, University of London—This guide
includes translations from foreign languages and English and American.

Prof. C. K. Brown Makes Interesting and Enlightening Talk to Phi Society

STUDENTS TALK TO EUS

New Men Are Cordially Invited to Attend Society Meetings

Last Tuesday, September 16, the first meeting of the Literary Society for this school year was held in the society's
hall. This was the first meeting over which the new officers who were elected last spring had presided. These officers
were: President, C. E. Matthews; vice-president, W. H. Moore; treasurer, Hugh Hawkins; secretary, Rufus Page. This first program, which was
said to have been an exceptionally successful one, was held by Ed Hodge. The critic at the meeting was Edward
McNair. There were three features on the program. The first was a talk by Jake Mackorell on “Faculty Nicknames.” In
his talk, Jake brought up the nicknames applied to well-known and beloved members of the faculty by the students of
Davidson. “These nicknames have, in some cases, been used by some of the professors now actually on the faculty, when
they themselves were students at the college. This talk was most amusing and occasioned much interest by its information concerning
the origin of the nicknames. The second feature on the program was a talk by Ed Hodge under the title
of “Literary History at Davidson.” In this speech, it was shown how the literary societies were first founded at Davidson
about 1836 amidst bitter rivalry. During these early days, membership in these societies was almost unanimous amongst the student body,
and the great competition and furious rivalry between the Eumenean and Philanthropic societies were very intense. Every famous man who
has claimed Davidson as his alma mater has been a member of one of these societies. Amongst those who belonged
to the Eumenean was Woodrow Wilson, the first project accomplished by these clubs was the erection of their halls. This
was brought about by canvassing, and kind and welcome contributions by interested friends. These halls were erected early in the
history of the college and are really very closely connected with its past, remaining as picturesque and traditional edifices on
the campus of today. The third and last feature of the program was a talk, “The R. O. T. C.
Summer Camp at Anniston,” by John E. Richards. In this talk, it was seen that the speaker had not been
completely impressed by the Nirvana-like qualities of the summer camp, but had retained memories of hot and sweaty drills, cold
and sweaty drills, and tiring sweaty drills. He remarked that in most cases travelers returning from that summer camp bore
tales of enjoyment and wholesome labor, but that he, for his part, could only stick to the wholesome aspect of
the thing, and not very steadfastly to that. As has been said, this meeting was deemed a very successful one,
and the members of the Eumenean Society look forward to many more during the year.

Last week was held the first meeting of (Continued on page 6).

Bid Day

According to the custom at Davidson, Bid Day for the social fraternities will be Wednesday, September 21. The day of
silence will begin at 10 p.m. Tuesday and end at 7 p.m. Wednesday. During this time, the fraternities will maintain
a silence towards the Freshmen and no Freshman will enter a fraternity house. Bids will be issued through the post
office and at 7 o’clock Freshmen will go to their rooms and will be allowed to talk to two fraternity
men from each fraternity that has issued them a bid. The time allotted for each fraternity is 15 minutes. After
this, the Freshmen take 15 minutes alone, and if he desires to join a fraternity, he will go to that
fraternity house alone and pledge himself.

Changes Are Made In R. O. T. C. Rulings

Conformance to Regulation in Uniform and Drill Will Be Stressed in Future

There have been no official changes as regards R.O.T.C. regulations in reference to uniforms but the rules for military dress
will be more rigidly followed than heretofore. For example: Senior cadet officers will be the only ones allowed to wear
torch buttons. Shirt collars and collar and coat insignia will be followed more carefully as prescribed by the War Department.
For all other students, the rule shall be that the torch insignia will be worn on shoes and leggings, which
will match in color, may be worn by the Juniors. Slacks, which are the straight breeches, may be worn at
drill by Juniors provided all this is authorized to wear boots, but this is non-regulation and will be permitted this
year.
