THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 2, 1932

BASEBALL PRACTICE NOW IN PROGRESS

THE SPORTS PARADE

GOLF AND TENNIS SCHEDULES ALMOST COMPLETE

Hotcha! Spring has come. Off with the long undies and on with the short, for spring is in the air.
And so are baseballs. Like a desert oasis, the good old gym stands in wondering perplexity. No longer does its
hall resound with the laughter of youthful voices. It has been deserted. It has been supplanted by the diamond, the
tennis courts, the track, and the golf course. The mellow sound of horsehide against willow, the swish of tennis racquets,
the rhythmical tap-tap on the cinder path, and the crack of a perfect drive—all bear witness that it is spring.

In track, golf, and tennis, Davidson should achieve much success. Several lettermen in these sports will be available, together with
the members of the Freshman teams of last year. Baseball prospects are uncertain and far from being bright. Developments will
be awaited with interest. The hangover of what mediocre success was achieved in basketball and wrestling should soon subside and
be forgotten in the anticipated success in the spring sports. Our congratulations to the two veterans, Martin and Captain Mathis,
for their past basketball records, and to Conway, Taylor, and Captain Gorham on their success in wrestling.

Why not a marble tournament? There must be quite a few crack shots within the Davidson city limits. And what
man wouldn't like to take off his shoes and stockings, kneel down on the ground, and with knuckles to the
grit, aim at a bunch of bright, shiny marbles, and be a kid again.—"Watch the movements of the hand—get all
the marbles in the land.” For keeps? Tut, tut, the very idea!

It has been suggested to this writer that, in view of the depression, we should all start going barefoot, saving
our shoes for the hard winter to come. Good idea. Who'll start it?

We have just recently learned in a roundabout way that Davidson officials are planning on instituting a new system here
whereby every man in the student body will have ample opportunity to engage in some phase of sports. These rumors
have it that tennis and golf instructors are to be hired, and that boxing as a minor sport is to
be established. In our opinion, this is not only what Davidson needs badly, but is exactly what Davidson students want.
Many students are kept from engaging in these three fields of sports because of the lack of adequate instruction. Not
only this, but many students have no desire to pursue along one of these three lines of activity unless they
are able to become reasonably proficient. Should these plans be put into effect, it is certain that they would meet
with the approval of the entire student body.

The faces of Doc Newton and Gene McEver are gradually becoming familiar to everyone at Davidson. They appear to like
this part of the country very much and seemed to have had little trouble in adapting themselves to the situation.
Each Saturday scrimmage shows much improvement, and if things continue to improve, the Duke Blue Devils should have their hands
full when the season opens against the 'Cats next fall.

Davidson Matmen Lose To Strong U.N.C. Team

The Wildcat matmen were defeated here last Wednesday afternoon by the University of North Carolina wrestling team, 24 to 8.
This match concluded a very successful tour, on which the Tar Heel matmen tied the Army and defeated the Brooklyn
Polytechnic Institute. The Wildcats’ points came from a fall won by Captain Gorham, 2 minutes and 25 seconds, and a
time advantage by Conway of 1 minute and 37 seconds. Carolina had three time advantages and a similar number of
falls for their total.

First Call for Baseball Answered by 30 Men; Schedule Not Complete

About thirty men answered the first call for baseball candidates issued Monday of this week. Pitchers and catchers have been
working out for the past week, without the guidance of a coach, but organized practice was not begun until Monday
afternoon. “Monk” Younger now has charge of the prospects, but he will direct their work only for the next ten
or fifteen days, after which time “Red” Laird will assume the coaching duties. At the present time Laird is busy
with spring football, getting an idea of the new system being introduced by Davidson's new mentors, so that he may
direct the Freshman play accordingly next fall. Varsity baseball coaching is not new to Laird, since he served in that
capacity last spring.

The 1932 baseball schedule is not complete as yet, but several important games have been booked. Dartmouth is making a
southern trip and will stop here to engage the Wildcats on April 1. Games will also be played on Richardson
Field against members of the Big Five, with whom the Wildcats will play two games. For the first time in
years, Davidson will make no tour into South Carolina. Most of the South Carolina schools are entered in a state
league and this year have canceled out-of-state games. Two trips are being composed for the year's 'Cats, however. One will
be during the Easter holidays when the team goes north state, and will include a game with Carolina at Winston-Salem
and another with Elon. On their other trip, the Wildcats will invade the eastern part of the state and will
probably meet Carolina, N.C. State, and Duke University.

Martin and Harris Are High Scorers for Year

By scoring 38 points in the last five basketball games of the season, Grier Martin, of Covington, Ga., Davidson College
center, wrested the lead for high point honors from Captain Doc Mathis, of Rural Hall, forward, who was out in
front during most of the season. Martin’s total for the year was 97. Mathis chalked up 21 in the last
quintet of games, to give him a season's record of 83. Bruce Peabody, of Charlotte, a guard, was third with
64, followed by Lafferty, of Rome, Ga., forward, with 57. Lafferty broke into the line-up late in the year and
garnered 32 points in the last five tilts. This quartet scored 301 of Davidson's total of 363 points in the
16 games the Wildcats played this winter.

Captain Harris, of Welch, W. Va., of the Wildkittens, was not ousted from his lead, however, and scored exactly one-third
of the total points the Freshmen made in their 14 games. Harris, a forward, accounted for 108 points of the
324 total. Lee West, of Barium Springs, center, was responsible for 92 counters, the remaining points being divided between almost
a dozen Freshmen. These two Freshmen basketeers together made an even 200 points for the season, which was over 60
percent of the total.

Season’s Prospects for Linkmen Very Promising

With the return of two members of last year’s state championship golf team, the prospects for the Davidson linksmen seem
very favorable. Jack Wagner and Tom Caldwell take the places of Jack Pepper and “Sparrow” Mills in leading the Wildcat
quartet. The other members are now in the process of being selected by preliminary matches here, which will be finished
up by a 36-hole medal tourney in Charlotte. The heavy schedule is to be started off with a meet in
Charlotte with W. & L., on March 30. Immediately following this, the team goes to Atlanta for matches with Emory,
Georgia Tech, University of Georgia, and Furman. A return match will be played with Furman in Charlotte on the 16th,
and the following Tuesday they leave to defend their crown at the State meet in Greensboro. The routine there will
be matches with Carolina on Wednesday, Duke on Thursday, State on Friday, and the State Tournament on Saturday. An indefinite
trip to Virginia to play three teams is contemplated but not yet settled.

In a preliminary meet, the Wildkittens lost their first match of the season to the Carolina Freshmen by a score
of 18 1-2 to 9 1-2. The meet, however, was much closer.Closer than the score indicates. Forte won his match
by a fall; Owens and his man battled to a draw, and Hand gained a time advantage over his opponent.
The Carolina men had one fall and four time advantages.

Flake Laird’s All-State Selections

First Team
Pos. | Name (School)
Forward | J. Thompson (Dk.), Weathers (C)
Forward | Hines (C), Muhlerhn (W)
Center | Alpert (Dk.), Martin (Da.)
Guard | Rose (S), Malloy (W)
Guard | Alexander (C), Shaw (Dk.)

Wildcat Football Team To Open 1932 Schedule With Devils at Durham

Athletic authorities at the University of North Carolina, Duke University, and Davidson College have reached a three-ply two-year agreement, whereby
Davidson opens Duke's schedule in 1932 and Carolina's card in 1933, with Carolina playing at Davidson's Home-Coming next fall, and
Duke coming to Davidson in the fall of 1933 for the Wildcat Home-Coming celebration.

It has been known for some time that Davidson would open the Duke schedule next fall, but it is news
that the Wildcats will open the Carolina slate in 1933. This agreement between the three institutions was made with the
knowledge of Wake Forest, who has been customarily starting their season with the Tar Heels. Carolina and Wake Forest will
play later in the 1933 season. The date of the Tar Heel-Wildcat tussle in 1932 has already been set and
agreed upon as November 12, Davidson's Home-Coming date. No agreement has yet been reached for the Duke-Davidson date here in
1933, but the understanding is that it will be late in October or early in November, with a possibility that
it will be on the corresponding date that Carolina plays here next fall.

Tennis Eliminations Are Run to Decide Rankings

According to J. B. Stevens, manager of varsity tennis, the 1932 tennis team will be selected by March 24. The
team last season was composed of DuBose, Calder, Roddy, and Myers, but a process of elimination is now being run
off and it is possible that there will be changes. The following is a tentative schedule:

April 9, Hampden-Sydney College, here
April 11, Emory University in Atlanta
April 12, University of Georgia, in Athens (Pend.)
April 13, Furman University at Greenville
April 14, University of South Carolina at Columbia (Pend.)
April 16, University of Richmond, here
April 25, U. N. C. at Chapel Hill
April 26, William and Mary at Williamsburg
April, open
April, Hampden-Sydney (probably)
April, U. of Richmond at Richmond
April 29, open
April 30, U. of Virginia at Charlottesville
May 11, Duke at Davidson
May 14, N. Y. U., here

Last year's tennis team won state-wide recognition by advancing to the quarter-finals in the intercollegiate tourney at Chapel Hill, and
since all members of last year’s team are now in school, this season's developments will be watched with interest by
Davidson students.

A Complete Service for School Publications
Annuals, Magazines, Catalogs, View Books
City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.
Established 1898

SCARLET TANAGER
Sodas — Tobacco — Sundries
THIS WEEK
Skrip Ink 10c
Carter’s 5c
Stock Limited
Prompt Service

Second Team

Buck Mills Leads Reds To Victory In Spring Practice Tilt

“Doc” Newton and Gene McEver, Wildcat mentors, put their charges through a regulation grind last Saturday, when they sent two
picked squads against each other for sixty minutes of hard scrimmaging. The Saturday scrimmages between the “Reds” and the “Blacks”
have become a feature, and next Saturday's fracas is slated to be the last of the spring training season.

In last Saturday's imbroglio, the “Reds,” led by the elusive Buck Mills, who ran roughshod over the “Blacks,” defeated them
decisively by a 47-0 score. The enviable total compiled by the “Reds” came as the result of seven touchdowns and
five extra points, due mainly to the efforts of a sextet of flashy ball carriers, composed of Mills, Fleagle, Caton,
Wingfield, Flinn, and Hutchins. These boys literally tore the “Blacks” forward wall to shreds and knifed it repeatedly for long
gains.

The game was a regulation sixty-minute affair, with all rules being carried out. However, it was a walkaway from the
start, with Mills, despite an injured leg, taking a major share of the glory. The “Red” line looked good also,
and kept the “Black” backs completely in check throughout.

P. F. Brown Winner Of the Gym Trophy

Paul F. Brown, Jr., of Atlanta, Ga., a member of the Junior class, has been declared winner of the gymnastic
trophy, offered annually by the Davidson College Athletic Association to the student scoring the highest number of points in 36
competitive events. Brown's total was 2600. The competition extended over a period of six weeks.

For the second time in as many years, B. L. Adcox, a Sophomore, of Pine Bluff, N. C., was second
with 224 points, and L. I. Quarterman, a Freshman, of Macon, Ga., came third with 199. The trophy was won
last year by J. C. Ramseur, of Lincolnton, a 1931 graduate.

The Junior class, as a unit, scored 1,461 points to lead the Sophomores, who totaled 713. The Freshmen were third
with 445, closely followed by the Seniors, with 435. The class standing was determined by taking the 20 highest men
in points and computing it from this.

V.P.I. Wrestlers Down ’Cats, 22-8, in Final Match

The Wildcat wrestlers ended their season last Saturday night by losing to V. P. I., 22-8, at Blacksburg, Va. The
Gobblers won every bout except the 155 and 165-pound matches. Taylor and Conway, 165 and 155 pounds, respectively, were the
two Davidson men to win their events. Taylor won his match by a fall in five minutes and 17 seconds.
Summary:

115-pound class—Price of Tech defeated Forbis, time advantage, 6:30.
125-pound class—Mitchell, Tech, defeated Captain Gorham, time advantage, 2:57.
135-pound class—Captain Graves defeated Tyack, fall, in 6:33.
145-pound class—Allison, Tech, defeated Ashcraft, time advantage, 5:40.
155-pound class—Conway, Davidson, defeated Hardwick, time advantage, 1:56.
165-pound class—Taylor, Davidson, defeated White, fall, in 5:17.
175-pound class—Waldrop, Tech, defeated Wilson, time advantage of 7:45.
Unlimited—Gibbs, Tech, defeated Whitfield, fall, in 4:21.

S. A. E.’s Take Inter-Frat Basketball Tournament

On Monday night, February 29, the Sigma Alpha Epsilon basketball team won for the second consecutive year the inter-fraternity basketball
tournament by defeating the Pi Kappa Alpha team, 16 to 10. The game started rather slowly on account of the
S. A. E.'s strong defense, which held the Pi K. A.’s scoreless for the first quarter, while they themselves rang
up four points. However, in the second quarter the Pi K. A.’s broke this defense and pulled down four points
to only two of their opponents. Thus the half found the score 6 to 4 with the Pi K. A.’s
at the little end, but working hard to pull their score up.

During the first period of the second half, the S. A. E.’s ran the score too high for the comeback
which the Pi K. A.’s staged in the last quarter to be of any avail. Much praise is due to
Roane and Mills for this hardy comeback, while Manson also deserves credit for his defensive work.

J O JONES CO
“Davidson Headquarters in Charlotte”
COMPLETE OUTFITTERS TO COLLEGE MEN
208 South Tryon Street
Charlotte

HANES IS “MASCULINE” FOR “UNDERWEAR”

Specialists in male comfort determine the styles and measurements, and place every seam in HANES. Soft, long-wearing materials! Over 25
years of manufacturing experience! combine to make the greatest underwear values you've ever seen.

HANES Gold Label Elastic-knit Light-weight Union Suits are excellent for the changeable weather of autumn and spring—ideal winter garments for
men who work indoors. Luxurious in materials and finish. Low in price. If you wear summer-weights the year through, be
sure to see how athletic union suits and shirts and shorts are made better by HANES.

HANES UNDERWEAR

All HANES low prices!
