6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 13, 1932

Prof. Shewmake Has Novel Teaching Idea
New Method of English Instruction Proposed in Educational Magazine

An article by Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake, head of the English department at Davidson, on “An English Teaching Plan for
the Whole Teaching Staff,” appeared in the April 2 issue of “School and Society.” Dr. Shewmake has for many years
been interested in this method of teaching and in this article he gives a working plan which makes this method
practical. The article follows:

“The teacher of literature is not expected to permit habitual carelessness in the simple arithmetical processes or in handling of
whatever historical, scientific materials students may need to use. Is it unreasonable, then, to ask teachers of other subjects to
require of the members of their classes something more than occasional conformity to the fundamental principles and details of standard
English usage?

“Special measures for improvement adopted in the past have been used mainly with freshmen, apparently with the hope that young
students could be so grounded in good English that acceptable speech and writing would follow them all the days of
their lives. A more comprehensive and effective plan is needed. The one outlined below is passing through its second year
of experiment at Davidson College and gives promise of success.

“The first step was the adoption by the faculty of a requirement which is explained in the college catalogue in
a paragraph reading in part as follows: ‘Students whose oral or written English is at any time unsatisfactory to one
or more professors are regarded as conditioned in the use of English. When a student is thus conditioned he is
required to take each test given thereafter by the English department for such conditional students until he makes a satisfactory
grade. When a student has removed his condition in the use of English, he may be conditioned thereafter as often
as his speech or writing becomes unsatisfactory to one or more professors.’

“A short time after the mid-year examinations the dean asks all members of the teaching staff to give him the
names and the points of special weaknesses of students in their courses who are not meeting the requirement stated above.
From the reports handed in a general list is compiled. The members of the English department then confer with those
reported and suggest to them means of improvement. Towards the end of the academic year

Cunningham Speaks At Chapel Exercises
The church is the biggest business in the world today, and the world is looking to the church for leadership
during this period of depression and bewilderment,” declared Rev. R. S. Cunningham, D.D., president of Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary, Louisville,
Ky., in talking to the Davidson College students at chapel exercises on Thursday.

Dr. Cunningham used as a text for his talk the words which Paul wrote in Timothy 1:12, “For I thank
Jesus Christ, our Lord, for putting me into the ministry,” and he spoke particularly about the challenge of the ministry
as a life work.

The speaker quoted Roger W. Babson, noted statistician, who had recently declared that the present depression is the result of
dishonesty and disobedience to God's will, and that the depression will only be cured by a “moral awakening, a spiritual
revival, and a rehabilitation of righteousness.” “This,” declared Dr. Cunningham, “represented the task of the church today.”

He stated that the problem of the ministry is one of quality and not of quantity, and said that surveys
showed that unemployed ministers are those who are not properly prepared and equipped. “The minister, prepared as he can be
prepared, and armed with that weapon, can do more to right the relations of human beings and assist in a
proper relationship of them than any other agency.”

Dr. Cunningham urged those who possess leadership and other necessary qualifications to enter the ministry, and advised them to consider
three points in making their decision. “These,” he said, “are a consideration of personal qualifications, whether providential circumstances enabled the
student to fit himself properly, and finally, the motive.” “Face these questions honestly and seriously,” he urged.

Letter Reveals the Sentiment of South
South Swept by Sorrow at News of Lincoln’s Assassination

Fort Wayne, Ind.—Two newly found letters, written by a Confederate prisoner of war, were offered today, the 67th anniversary of
Abraham Lincoln’s assassination, as fresh evidence of the genuine sorrow which swept the Southern States when news of Lincoln’s death
became known.

The letters were made public by Dr. Louis A. Warren, director of the Lincoln Historical Research Foundation, into whose hands
the letters recently were delivered for preservation in the foundation’s museum here. They were written in April, 1865, by John
D. Williams, a young law student, who was in “Block G, Co. 18” at Johnson's Island, Ohio.

In the first of these letters, dated April 14, and apparently written only a few hours before the assassination, Williams
wrote:

“Our cause has met with disaster. Through the clemency of the President of the United States, I think we all
will soon be set free to go to our homes or elsewhere at our option. Lincoln has it in his
power to make himself one of the greatest men now living, and I am inclined to believe he will not
let the golden moments pass without making the most of it.”

Six days later, on April 20, Williams wrote: “Strange features have occurred in the awful drama that has been now
for four years on the stage. The assassination of President Lincoln is in my opinion one of the most diabolical
deeds that ever blackened the escutcheon of a great nation. The assassin is the most horrible and despicable shape that
humanity can assume. A brave man takes up arms and enters the open field, but a dastardly coward masks himself
behind smiles and stabs in the dark. My honest opinion is that we had more to hope from Lincoln than
any man north, and if we are compelled to submit, let it be to a brave and magnanimous foe, for
is it possible for a sane man to rejoice when his best ‘friend in power’ is struck low by the
fell knife of the assassin?”

These letters present fresh evidence, Dr. Warren said, of the fact that many men and women of the South were
as deeply grieved and shocked by the assassination of Abraham Lincoln as the people of the North.

Davidson Netmen Win Over South Carolina
The Davidson Wildcats gave the University of South Carolina her second defeat of the season in her invasion of North
Carolina here Wednesday afternoon by beating the South Carolina tennis team by the close score of 4 to 3. The
best singles matches were the Holman-Myers and Enloe-Crum contests, while the doubles played between Killingsworth and Collins against Calder and
Myers was the most interesting.

Summary:
Singles—Halverstadt (D) defeated Killingsworth (S C), 6-3, 6-2. Lafferty (D) defeated Collins (S C), 6-3, 6-3. Holman (S C) defeated
Myers (D), 6-1, 0-6, 6-2. Enloe (D) defeated Captain Crum (S C), 5-7, 6-1, 6-1. Ellison (S C) defeated Roddy
(D), 6-3, 6-0.
Doubles—Lafferty and Halverstadt (D) defeated Holman and Crum (S C), 6-1, 6-3. Killingsworth and Collins (S C) defeated Captain Calder
and Myers (D), 5-7, 7-5, 6-3.

N. C. State Marksmen Nose Out ’Cat Team
North Carolina State’s rifle team closed its season here last Saturday afternoon by defeating Davidson College’s marksmen by a score
of 1885 to 860.

Individual scoring honors were won by Daniels, of State, who hit the target for 184 points. Leroy, of State, and
Graham, of Davidson, were tied for second honors with 178. Each team member fired five shots from each position of
prone, kneeling, sitting, and standing.

State—Daniels, 184; Leroy, 178; Stone, 175; Whitehead, 174; Pleasants, 174; Nail, 174. (Only two of the latter three counted in
the team total.)
Davidson—Graham, 178; Green, 174; Wiley, 173; Brohard, 172; Mills, 163.

COLLEGIATE RAMBLINGS
(Continued from page 2)

Presbyterian College
Blue Key, national honorary leadership fraternity, was recently installed at Presbyterian College.

Duke
The next Duke Pan-Hellenic dance, sponsored by the Men’s Council, will be in the women’s gymnasium on April 15 from
9 to 1. Music will be furnished by Jelly Leftwich and his orchestra. S. A. E. is holding its district
convention at Duke at the same time.

Auburn
Ten men were recently tapped by Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity.

Lenoir-Rhyne
Their paper, The Lenoir Rhynean, put out an April Fool number. Here is an excerpt from it:

MENU FOR SPRING ANNOUNCED BY DIETITIAN
The new menu for the spring months is announced as follows:
Monday
Breakfast: Grits and gravy.
Dinner: Beans and rice.
Supper: Rice and beans.

Tuesday
Breakfast: Gravy and grits.
Dinner: Rice and beans.
Supper: Beans and rice.

Wednesday
Breakfast: Grits and gravy.
Dinner: Meat bones without the meat.1) Lieut.-Col. W. R. Scott, commandant of the R.O.T.C. unit at Davidson College, has received
notice from the U.S. War Department of his appointment, for the fourth consecutive year, to the post of camp commander
at Fort McClellan, near Anniston, Ala., for the summer encampment of 1932, which begins on June 19th and concludes on
July 20th.

Colonel Scott will have under his supervision 25 officers and approximately 800 students from college and university R.O.T.C. units south
of Kentucky and Virginia and east of the Mississippi River. Generally, about 30 different institutions are represented at the camp.
Following the closing of the summer camp, Colonel Scott will return to Davidson for a month before reporting in Washington,
D.C., on August 20th, where he will study next year in the Army Industrial College. He will conclude his four-year
stay at Davidson this June and will be relieved by Major John T. Rhett.

Other local military officials have also received their orders for the summer months. Captain W. L. Blanton and Captain Chas.
W. Seifirt will report to Fort McClellan and continue their work under Colonel Scott. Captain F. M. Cochran has been
delegated to attend the Citizens Military Training Camp at Fort Bragg.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle To Fill Engagements
Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, has a busy three weeks ahead of him on the platform, his
speaking engagements being featured by his acceptance of an invitation to deliver greetings from the colleges and universities of North
Carolina at the inauguration of Dr. Howard R. Omwake as president of Catawba College on Saturday, April 16th.

Next Tuesday, the Davidson president will appear before the Concord Presbytery twice at its meeting at Thyatira Presbyterian Church. He
will deliver the opening sermon Tuesday morning for Dr. J. Moore McConnell, dean of the Davidson faculty and moderator of
the Presbytery, and that night he will speak to the same body on the subject, “Religious Education.”

This will be followed by a series of commencement addresses. He appears as speaker before the Waxhaw High School on
April 22nd. On April 24th, he delivers the commencement sermon to the Paw Creek High School, and on the 29th
he delivers the baccalaureate address to the Claremont High School. The Davidson president is already booked for a larger number
of engagements during the month of May.

A practical test is given to all students on the list. In this test, special attention is given to spelling,
punctuation, and other fundamental aspects of usage. “The advantages of the plan are several. Instead of being observed in only
one or two departments of study, each student's use of English is under quiet supervision in all classes throughout his
college course. Official responsibility is thus shared by all members of the faculty, though the burden actually borne by those
who do not teach English is very light. Their duty is simply to report students to the dean. The student
is held to strict accountability. Accurate writers are made as well as born, and almost every student worthy to be
in college can and will measure up to a satisfactory standard of English usage if he is required—not merely urged—to
write and speak acceptably. When college seriously takes an official stand in the matter, the right use of language is
effectively impressed upon the careless student, who learns at last that he is facing not a formal artificial requirement of
one academic department, but a body of doctrine to be mastered and regularly applied in daily communication.

Wherever the general plan outlined here may be adopted, it can easily be varied in its particulars according to the
views of different teaching staffs. The one thing needful is cooperation, and the secret of securing it seems to lie
in making participation easy for those faculty members who do not teach English.

Dr. Vermont Speaks To French Students
Converse Professor Tendered Reception at Conclusion of His Address
Dr. A. Vermont, head of the department of French at Converse College, was a guest of Le Cercle Francais, honorary
organization of leading French students at Davidson College, on Tuesday evening, and delivered an address before the society and interested
guests in the auditorium of Chambers Building at 8 o'clock. His talk was given in the French language and was
on some phase of French life. Dr. Vermont addressed some of the advanced classes in French on Wednesday morning.

The Converse professor is a native of Belgium, and before going to the South Carolina institution, he was a member
of the University of North Carolina faculty. He is a frequent visitor to Europe, generally making an annual trip, and
is thoroughly familiar with conditions in the Old World. At the conclusion of his address Tuesday night, he was tendered
a reception by Le Cercle Francais in the Quadranglers club room in Chambers Building.

Bringing Dr. Vermont to Davidson by the French organization is a continuation of their policy of annually offering some noted
speaker to the membership of the society, as well as to others interested in this language. Prof. Rene Hardee, of
the N.C.C.W. faculty at Greensboro, has been here on several occasions, and some natives of France and Switzerland have spoken
here. Officers of Le Cercle Francais are Roscoe Prince, of Raleigh, president; Chas. F. Myers, Jr., of Greensboro, vice-president, and
L. N. Hand, Jr., of East Spencer, secretary-treasurer.

Mr. Francis Harmon, secretary of the International Y.M.C.A., spoke at chapel Monday morning. The subject of his talk was, “Responsibilities
of Youth.” He quoted Colonel Burch, prominent in the Montreal “Y,” who said, “Youth the world over has struck its
tents and is on the march.” He recalled the words of President Hoover who claims, “That life goes the way
that youth finally takes.” He urged the students to allow the good influences of home and school to help them
to march along and make the best contribution to life possible.

Dr. Harmon spent 19 months in France and came into contact with war in all its horror. He recognizes the
futility of war and because he felt he could be of more service in the “Y” he left his position
as a newspaperman in Mississippi to forward the program of the Young Men's Christian Association.

“In the South, people are inclined to limit their thinking to the particular state in which they live,” he asserted.
It is true that the primary responsibility is for the state, but the nation, and the world should not be
overlooked. We are all neighbors and it is the task of the “Y” to bind the people of the earth
closer together. How true it is, he declared, “that no nation liveth to itself and no nation dieth to itself.”
Yet, he continued, there are some people who would like to build a great Chinese wall around the United States.

The three contributions of the Young Men’s Christian Association to the world are: International goodwill, practical racial judgment, and better
cooperation. In closing, he advised the students to accept the captaincy of the One who gives eternal life. A beautiful
ending to the timely message was a description of the King’s Highway as painted by Van Dyke.

Supper: Beans and rice.
Thursday
Breakfast: Gravy and grits.
Dinner: Bones, beans, and rice.
Supper: Rice and beans.
Friday
Breakfast: Grits and gravy.
Dinner: Bones, beans, and rice.
Supper: Beans and bones.
Saturday
Breakfast: Gravy and grits.
Dinner: Rice.
Supper: Beans and bones.
Sunday
Breakfast: Grits and gravy with grapefruit.
Dinner: Rice, sweet potatoes, bones.
Supper: Paper bags.

The hors d'oeuvres were: sardines à l'huile, saucissons divers, beurre normand, salade de tomates, concombres au persil, olives espagnoles, et
céleri en branches. The salad was laitue et pommes de terre, poissons, fromage de Roquefort, pâtisseries assorties, et pain français.
Because of Lent, there were no meats.

This café is highly recommended by all members of Le Cercle Francais. It has special rates for societies and has
à la carte service at all hours. Telephone Gutenberg 32-41. At a short business meeting at the end of the
dinner, the club voted unanimously to admit Mms. Goldiere and Watts as honorary members to Le Cercle.

New Brunswick, N.J.—(AP)—Rutgers University has recently dedicated a new $700,000 gymnasium, erected on the spot where Rutgers and Princeton played
the first game of intercollegiate football in 1869.

Complete Service for School Publications
Annuals, Magazines, Catalogs, Books
City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.
Established 1897

“DRUGS” “SODA”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”

Davidson Theatre Presents
The Choicest Pictures
Come Here For Your Entertainment
