. The weight of the lightest man in Davidson was not disclosed.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 27, 1932

Davidson Students Like To Keep Their Appendix
Statistics Prove That Only 47 Out of 641 Students Have Undergone Operation

HEALTH PREVAILS HERE
Physical Condition Improves Greatly During the Four-Year Period

It is popularly believed nowadays that the average young person has had his appendix removed, and it is further thought
that unless this has been extracted, you are not in keeping with the style of the day, and are therefore
unable to participate in a conversation where “speaking of operations” commonly holds the spotlight of attention.

Number 12 Rumple Holds Attraction for Calhouns
Because of the many inquiries sent in by alumni, the editor of the Davidsonian wishes to announce that this is
the first issue of the Davidsonian published since the holidays. Due to the stress of examination period, it was thought
wise to forego the regular issue.

BROTHERS HOLD RECORD
Amount Spent for Rent Alone Would Have Built Small Cottage

When J. C. Calhoun graduates from Davidson College, his father, L. Calhoun, of Laurinburg, might well put in a claim
for a financial interest in Davidson; or at least, for an interest in Rumple Dormitory. He might even claim that
he owns Room 12, in Rumple, for the present Calhoun is the sixth brother to attend Davidson, and every one
of them has occupied the same room in the same dormitory during his four-year stay here. Ever since 1916 there
has been a Calhoun in Room No. 12, and with the exception of the scholastic session 1923-1924, it has been
one of the brothers. More often, it has been two of them. During the 1923-1924 session, L. E. Calhoun, a
cousin of the sextette of brothers, was an occupant of Room No. 12. In other words, for 17 consecutive years
a Calhoun will have been in this room.

For the six boys, Mr. Calhoun has paid into the Davidson treasury for the use of this room alone an
amount barely short of $2,000, and as he looks back over the years since the first one came here in
1916, he perhaps wishes that he had built a small bungalow to take care of the Calhoun brothers and their
kin. The five who have already graduated from Davidson are Rev. L. C. Calhoun, of Lavras, Brazil, in 1920; Rev.
M. P. Calhoun, of Charleston, W. Va., in 1923; D. M. Calhoun, in 1927, of Elizabethtown; R. G. Calhoun, in
1929, of Laurinburg. J. C. Calhoun is the last brother of the family, and he will graduate in 1933.

Enthusiasm in Athletics Shown by Student Body
Statistics Show That Majority of Students Participate in Some Form of Athletics

If this contention be true, members of the Davidson College student body are not up to the average, they are
not stylish, and the majority are utterly at a loss to converse when operations and their attendant experiences are recounted.
This is based upon the cold facts prepared jointly by the college physician and physical education department at Davidson, which
shows that only 47 of the 641 members of the present student body had been under the knife for this
operation. In other words, only 7.3 percent of them are average, stylish, and good conversationalists.

Removal of the appendix is such a frequent occurrence that frequently it is not classified as a major operation nowadays.
Some contend that it is, however, though the majority look upon the extraction of adenoids and tonsils as a minor
one. Local anesthetic is more often given for this operation, and as a result, fantastic dreams are infrequent, and complications
are rare.

But when it comes to this operation, the majority of the Davidson students are in the average class, for 355
of them have had their tonsils and adenoids removed, giving them a percentage of 55.1. It has been suggested that
the absence of these two impediments is largely responsible for the vociferousness and noisiness of organized cheering at Davidson, since
over half of the students have no nasal hindrance to muffle the sounds, nor tonsils to impede the progress of
the lusty throaty yells.

Taking the Davidson student body as a criterion, it can also be concluded that college students, as an entirety, are
a pretty healthy lot. The majority have already had the usual common childhood ills before they come to Davidson. A
look at the four major diseases of childhood proves this. Mumps, measles, chickenpox, and influenza constitute the “big four,” but
the greatest of these is measles. Of the 641 members of the Davidson student body, all but one hundred have
had measles, 434 have been afflicted with influenza, 404 of them have had the mumps, and 397 have been victims
of chickenpox. It is not mannish to have mumps in the young manhood days, and when there was an epidemic
of them among the Davidson students a few years ago, the students were derided for postponing this youthful ailment.

A surprisingly small number of the Davidson students have been seriously ill during their younger days, as the prepared statistics
disclose. Eighty-one of them have had scarlet fever, 83 malaria, 70 diphtheria, 10 smallpox; and the closely akin affliction of
pleurisy and rheumatism have claimed only 17 and 20 students, respectively. Thirty-two boys said that they had had typhoid fever,
but Dr. John W. MacConnell, college physician, believes that they confused it with typhoid vaccination, for that is too large
a number for the student body of today.

Some Davidson alumni, who like to see big, husky athletes come to Davidson, have jokingly said that any applicant who
weighs over 145 pounds has a difficult time gaining entrance. A glance at the student body average weight shows that
the average Davidson student does not weigh but 144.3 pounds, which they might interpret as proof of their contention, but
which must be remembered as an average. Today there are but four students in Davidson who weigh over 200 pounds,
and during the football season this was reduced to two men, for the other two lost weight when they began
training for the eleven. The heaviest man weighs about 253 pounds. He was a football player and lost approximately 20
pounds during the season, and during this period the weight of the student body is reduced almost a pound.

Although there are only 640 members of the Davidson College student body, athletic officials at Davidson have estimated that during
the past year, over one thousand participated in some organized sport. This number has been conservatively estimated by the physical
education department, headed by Capt. Norton G. Pritchett and assisted by Heath Whittle, and does not take into consideration a
vast number of men who have daily taken exercise in unorganized sports in the physical education program here.

The field covered varsity and freshman intercollegiate competition, inter-fraternity contests, and intra-mural sports. The figure is also surprisingly large, when
it is considered that Davidson has only seven active sports in which they compete intercollegiately. These are football, baseball, basketball,
track, wrestling, golf, and tennis. Neither swimming nor boxing are on the Davidson program, and were these included, the number
of participants would be tremendously augmented.

An examination of the report shows that 335 Davidson students are candidates for the intercollegiate sports. Football claims the largest
number, 90 men, for both the freshman and varsity elevens; basketball is allotted 20, baseball 45, track 65, wrestling 35,
golf 30, and tennis 40.

Inter-fraternity competition, however, leads in numbers, though there are only three sports used in this phase, football, baseball, and basketball.
It is estimated that 150 fraternity men compete in the football games, an even hundred in basketball, and 75 in
baseball competition.

When it comes to intra-mural activities—track and wrestling competition are eliminated, and organized gymnastic endeavor and the competition for Sigma
Delta Psi, national honorary athletic fraternity, and the individual improvement trophy, are included. The latter and football have an equal
number of participants, 75; basketball 40, baseball 45, gymnastic work 60, Sigma Delta Psi 75, physical improvement trophy, tennis, and
golf, 20 each.

ALUMNI PERSONAL NOTES
(Continued from page 4)

Rev. E. L. Siler, D.D., '87, of Maxton, has been appointed temporary stated clerk of the Synod of North Carolina,
filling the unexpired term of the late Rev. J. M. Rose, D.D., '77. Dr. Siler is also president of Presbyterian
Junior College.

Dr. Oren Moore, '08, of Charlotte, spoke before the Rotary Club of Chester, S. C., early this month, and before
the Belmont Kiwanis Club recently.

Dr. John T. Burrus, 1900, of High Point, head of the High Point Hospital, president of the North Carolina State
Board of Health, and North Carolina Senator, has accepted a place as visiting lecturer at Duke University. Dr. Burrus will
conduct two or more clinics in the fall and spring terms. This prominent Davidson alumnus has also announced his candidacy
to succeed himself in the State Legislature.

Charles R. Hunter, '09, has been made assistant president of Presbyterian Hospital, at Charleston, S. C.Junior College at Maxton, following
the death of Mr. McLeod. Mr. Hunter has been connected with this institution since it was founded, and during the
summer has been studying at the University of North Carolina. He has been teaching history.

Compiling figures another way, it is found that 315 Davidson students participate in football, 210 in basketball, and 145 in
baseball—the three major sports—for a total of 670, or over half the competitors. No varsity participant or candidate can take
part in inter-fraternity or intra-mural sports, either, and while there is some duplication in the last two named organized activities,
the number is unusually large for a student body the size of Davidson's.

DR. H. J. HERRING

(Continued from page 1)

In college, we should learn to be leaders in life. Such a small percentage of the population has a college
education that those who do should use it to lead and direct the others. Those who have the desire to
lead and be serviceable to mankind are challenged never to let the gleam of this desire get out of their
eye. The trouble with our condition is our indifference, not to large laws, but to small ones. Violations of small
laws now will later turn into violations of large and important laws when we get out into life. College men
should use ward laws that they may be freer and happier. Let us be subject unto law that it may
make us free.

Fielding E. Wallace, ’11, of Kinston, who became critically ill while on a business trip to New York early in
January, has recovered and returned to his home, where he is continuing his law practice.

J. R. Covington, '29, has accepted a position with the Jefferson Standard Life Insurance Company and is located in Greensboro.

It is now Dr. Martin M. Teague, '26. He has completed his medical preparation at the Medical College of South
Carolina and is doing his intern work on the staff of Roper Hospital in Charleston.

Chas. A. Cannon, '15, of Concord, has been named a member of the International Y. M. C. A. Committee, and
he was also recently elected president of the Cabarrus Bank and Trust Company of Concord. Mr. Cannon is president of
the Cannon Mills Company of Kannapolis.

This Family Has Been Represented in Record Enrollment

The total yearly enrollment of Davidson this year surpasses any enrollment in the history of the college. The enrollment at
the first of the year was 641, and an additional six men who came in for the second semester makes
a grand total of 647. At present, it is expected that around ten or fifteen men will drop out of
school for various reasons, but as yet this number is not certain. It is interesting to note this increased enrollment
in the time of the “depression.”

College Views

Colleges should provide their graduates with sound advice on earning a living during the critical period immediately following commencement, in
the opinion of Dean Archibald L. Bouton of the New York University College of Arts and Sciences. A liberal arts
course, he said, “of itself rarely qualifies a young man for earning his living.” Dean Bouton said that a young
man who has trained in the liberal arts should supplement his education with professional and practical studies. “In too many
cases,” he said, “this lack comes as an unwelcome discovery to the liberal arts graduate and, for a time, he
finds himself nonplused by the difficulty of getting a start in the business of a livelihood. At this point, the
college should provide wise, kindly, and efficient counsel. There can be no doubt that we need a fuller recognition of
the difficult problems that confront our students upon graduation.”

How the theft of a truckload of the most important costumes and make-up used by the Princeton Triangle Club produced
the most hilarious performance of that group's “Spanish Blades” yet put on the stage was told by members of the
audience who came from the show during the holidays holding their sides with mirth. Seven hundred and fifty patrons had
gathered at the Mount Hebron School in Upper Montclair for the matinee performance of the show when it was announced
to them that the club's properties had been hijacked. The audience refused to accept the suggestion that they go away
and return for the evening performance, when it was hoped to have some kind of costumes and make-up ready for
the cast. So the show “went on,” and the result was ten times funnier than it had ever been, the
audience declared. The “girls” appeared in trousers, the beards of the leading “ladies” glistened under the spotlight. The audience showed
uproarious preference for a chorus that looked like a cheerleader's squad exercising.

What the philosophy of wealth getting offers faithful savers everyone knows. What the philosophy of the spender offers him is
not, apparently, so well known.—Emily Newell Blair

No one, it has been observed, is ever completely miserable while sucking a chocolate caramel.—Ivor Brown

Senior Mascot Chosen

At the last meeting of the Senior Class, at a smoker given just before the Christmas holidays, Sumner (Little Tex)
Tilson was elected mascot of the class. Sumner is the five-year-old son of Coach and Mrs. S. D. Tilson. He
will fulfill his most important duties in the spring when he will accompany J. H. McKinnon, the president of the
Senior Class, in the commencement procession. At the next meeting, which will be a banquet held in Chambers at some
time during the early part of February, it is hoped that definite action will be taken as to the Senior
gift. A committee is now busy on the matter of selection, and at the banquet, it will be put before
the class. Also to be discussed are class business and the appointment by election of certain officers, including class marshal,
valedictorian, and salutatorian.

Amsterdam—(IP)—Rub your blue fingers, you college students up in Idaho, and shiver a bit when the sun goes under a
cloud down at Rollins, if you wish, but neither of you knows what it is to be cold—speaking relatively. Over
here at Leyden University, Dr. W. Keesom has succeeded in cooling a space of ten cubic centimeters to 0.75 of
a degree K. If you don’t think that’s cold, listen—K is the abbreviation for the absolute zero, which is 491
degrees below zero on your frat house thermometer. The cold that Dr. Keesom has created, therefore, is just 489 degrees
below zero as you boys and girls figure it. Put that in your pipe and watch the barrel crack!

Ada, Ohio—(IP)—Students of dancing at Ohio Northern University have won a partial victory in their campaign to overthrow an ancient
ban on dancing at the school. Fraternity brothers and sorority sisters, under rules announced by university officials, now may dance
to radio and phonograph music twice a week in fraternity and sorority houses off-campus, and they may have three formal
dances with orchestras in the coming year. Students recently declared war on the old ban but were rebuffed by university
officials. However, when it was announced that a meeting of the Board of Trustees would be held in January, university
officials decided to canvass the 800 students and ascertain if they wanted to dance.

Inferiority complexes have been created in American culture and in American art.—Richard J. Neutra.

If present statistics can be interpreted as normal, the increasing weight of Davidson students averages seven pounds during their four
years here. The biggest jump is between the freshman and sophomore years, probably accountable by the habits he forms, for
he would gain four pounds, and add three more for the remaining three years he is at Davidson as a
student. Class averages were freshmen, 140 pounds; sophomore, 144; junior, 146; and senior, 147. And while he is increasing in
avoirdupois, the Davidson student increases in height, but this would probably be less than an inch in stature. At least,
six-tenths of an inch is the marginal difference between the average of the freshman and senior classes here now, though
this is not absolutely accurate unless the statistics follow a man through his four years at college.

John D. Baker, Jr., '25, is connected with the business firm of Park & Walbridge, at No. 1 Broadway, New
York City.

Sam R. Coker, '30, who has been a patient at Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Md., for some time, has returned
to his home at Hartsville, S. C.

Harry B. Elliott, '18, who has been in Spartanburg, S. C., with Jefferson Standard Life Insurance Company, has been transferred
to Charlotte by this concern.

Rev. M. L. Murray, ’24, has accepted a call to the Presbyterian Church at Banner Elk.

Stetson “D” Store Clothes For the College Man

TUXEDOS AND VEST FOR $22.50 Only

FOR EXTRA TROUSERS CALL

Pan-Hellenic Dances

One man’s meat being, as we know, another man’s poison, it is foolish and presumptuous for a man to prescribe
for other men, to tell other men what their way of life should be.—Robert Hichens.
