THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 9, 1932

CROSS-COUNTRY TEAM BEATS GUILFORD

THE SPORTS PARADE

FRESHMEN JOURNEY TO NORFOLK THIS FRIDAY

Congratulations, Wildcats! That was a great game you played Saturday against State, and you certainly deserved victory, but luck, fate, jinx (or whatever you want to call it) was unkind. Despite the defeat, Wildcats, the Davidson student body is proud of you; just as proud of you in that defeat as they would have been had you won. If you play as well and as hard this Saturday against Carolina, then we feel that the Tar Heels will return to Chapel Hill with drooped lips.

The Wolfpack won the game 7 to 3, but we wonder how many of those State players really feel that victory was theirs. At least those Terrors who saw Willson cross the goal line in Davidson's first touchdown drive in the third quarter, only to have the ball placed just back of the final marker by the referee, don’t think State deserved victory.

Eb Willson, who has replaced Hutchins at the fullback position for the Wildcats, played an unusually good game Saturday. The Tennessee boy backed up the Davidson line in excellent style, making numerous tackles during the game, and in addition added 38 yards from scrimmage on the offense. In previous games, Willson had been used wholly as a blocking back, but Saturday he showed that he could also buck the line for consistent gains.

Ray Rex and Red Espey, State’s highly-touted stars, certainly didn’t show all-state calibre in the Davidson game Saturday. The 210-pound Terror fullback gained 35 yards in ten tries against the Wildcats and on two occasions failed to gain. He did return the opening kickoff 50 yards, thanks to his interference. The redhead captain and center must have been way off his game, for on several occasions we saw little Potter put him on the ground. It certainly is a shame that Davidson’s “Buddy” Gardner is injured, for he showed more ability in the five minutes he played in the Duke game than State’s “one of the South’s best” Espey showed all afternoon Saturday.

Carolina will bring a team to Davidson this Saturday anxious to defeat the Wildcats, for upon this game depends the Tar Heels’ chances for the state championship. If North Carolina can win this game and then defeat Duke the following weekend, the crown will be hers. Despite two defeats at the hands of Big Five members, Davidson still has a chance to win second place in the state race. Take a look at these possibilities! If Davidson defeats Carolina and Wake Forest, then she will have two victories against two defeats for a .500 percentage. If Duke defeats both Carolina and State, then the Blue Devils will have four victories for 1,000 percentage, Carolina will have one victory (that over State), two defeats (mentioned above), and one tie for .333, State will be tied with Carolina in the standing, and Wake Forest will have two defeats with two ties for zero percentage.

Again the Wildcats appear the underdogs against Carolina. The Tar Heels have won their last two games, defeating State 13-0 and Florida 18-13, while the Wildcats have not tasted victory in their last three contests. Nevertheless, Davidson can beat Carolina, and personally we think the Wildcats will satisfy the Homecoming enthusiasts with a well-earned victory.

Roy’s 92-Yard Run Gives State Wolfpack Victory Over Davidson Wildcats

Wildcats Drop Second Game to Big Five Opponent by Score of 7 to 3

Before a crowd of 5,000 spectators, the State College eleven defeated the Davidson Wildcats by the narrow margin of four points last Saturday afternoon on the Central High field in Charlotte. The game, which ended with the score 7 to 3, was one of the most spectacular of the Big Five series played so far, and its outcome had a decided bearing on the state championship.

Three quarters of scoreless scrimmage and exchanges of punts were clocked off before either team scored. Immediately after the fourth period started, however, Peabody kicked a field goal from the two-yard line to chalk up the first score of the game. Davidson did not hold the lead long, for on the next play Roy, of the Wolfpack, received Pearce’s kickoff on his own eight-yard line and returned it 92 yards for a touchdown. McQuage accounted for the extra point with a place-kick. These were the only scores of the game, but both teams had plenty of offensive power and both threatened their opponents several times. The 'Cats carried the ball to State’s one-foot line on one occasion only to fumble and have it recovered by Espey. Although the Pack never pushed the pigskin inside of Davidson's 10-yard line, they started several long drives which gave the crowd a thrill, but each time were stopped before damage was done.

Neither team was able to get its offensive clicking early in the first part of the game and the quarter was taken up mostly with a punting duel. However, toward the end of the period State started a drive which ended on the Wildcats’ 27-yard line, when Rex fumbled twice as the quarter closed. On the fourth down, as the second period opened, McAdams passed over the goal to Roy, but it was incomplete and Davidson gained the ball on her own 20-yard line. On the next play, Charlie Pearce stepped off-tackle for 13 yards, but in the next series was forced to punt. State was unsuccessful in the next scrimmage and punted on the third down. Pearce ran left end for another 13 yards, but again was forced to kick. The two teams punted back and forth for most of the remaining quarter until Cumiskey dashed off-tackle for a long gain which was followed by others by Rex and Roy. The attack was stopped on the 'Cats’ 40-yard line and the half ended with the ball in Davidson’s possession on the 40-yard marker.

The Wildcats kicked off to their opponents as the second half opened. Rex received the ball on his own eight-yard line and returned it to his 44. In the next series, Peabody recovered Bohannon’s fumble in midfield and from here Davidson started its offensive drive that ended on the one-foot line. Pearce got five, Willson twelve, Mackorell ten more and the ball rested on Davidson’s one-foot line.

CHARLIE RIVES - GUARD

Although Charlie Rives, 170-pound Davidson guard, is playing his first year in the Wildcat line, he has distinguished himself as one of North Carolina’s best forwards. Rives played every minute of the State-Davidson game Saturday under the handicap of a bruised shoulder, but the injury did not keep him from stopping State’s plays through the line.Time after time, the 11-yard marker. Mackorell and Willson made another ten yards and first down, and the pigskin was on the one-foot line with four downs to go. The worst break of the game came in the next play when Mackorell fumbled the ball and Espey recovered. McQuage kicked out on the first play, and from State’s 40, the Wildcats started another drive. A pass, a penalty, and several beautiful runs put the ball on the two-yard marker as the quarter closed. With one down to go, the 'Cats lined up in the place-kick formation with Mackorell holding the ball. The ball sailed off Peabody’s toe and between the uprights to account for Davidson's only three points. With victory almost at their fingertips, the 'Cats lined up for the fatal kickoff, which was returned by Roy of the Wolfpack for the only touchdown of the day. The halfback received the ball on his own eight-yard marker and headed straight for midfield. As he passed the 50-yard line, he cut for the sideline and then straight down it and across the goal. The excellent blocking of his teammates was largely responsible for his beautiful run. McQuage place-kicked for the extra point. Faking a quick kick after the kickoff, Pearse instead tossed a forward to Mackorell, who ran to midfield for a gain of 30 yards in one of the prettiest plays of the game. Here State gained the ball after Davidson had failed. The Wolfpack started (Continued on page 6).

Freshmen Will Oppose W. & M. Team at Norfolk This Friday

The Davidson Wildkittens journey to Norfolk, Va., to encounter William and Mary Freshmen, Norfolk division, in their fourth game this season. William and Mary Frosh have one of the best teams this year they have had in years, having lost only one game and that by the narrow margin of six points to the powerful Wake Forest Freshmen. They defeated the V. P. I. yearlings earlier in the season and last Friday downed Louisburg College by the score of 29 to 0. Maxie and Cavish are their most dependable backs; the former, in the game with Louisburg, ran 70 yards on the kickoff for a touchdown. The scrapping Wildkittens need have no fear of this Virginia team, however, for already they have shown their mettle, having been defeated only once themselves. In the first game of the season, they trounced P. J. C. 26 to 0, and later Wofford 21 to 6. Although State Freshmen heaped defeat upon their heads last Friday, a more experienced team travels to Norfolk and should give a good account of themselves.

Morrow Leads Harrier Team to 18-37 Victory

The Davidson varsity cross-country team easily defeated the Guilford distance men here last Friday, November 4th, to the tune of 18 to 37. Both teams competed with a combination of the Freshmen and Varsity, and the surprise of the evening came when Freshman Billy Merchant, diminutive but of everlasting endurance, sprinted in for second place. Captain Rufus Morrow took first place by covering the three-mile course (beginning on the Concord road and ending in front of the stadium) in 16 minutes and 41 seconds.

CHARLOTTE LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOPPE
Famous for Good Waffles and Sandwiches

DAVIDSON
117 GARLAND COURT

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
PRINTING AND ENGRAVING
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE

EDW. O. GUERRANT
See Our DAVIDSON REPRESENTATIVES
A. M. MANSON

The remainder came in the following order: Merchant (D), Newlin (G), McFadyen (D), Gullette (D), Morris (D), Hardin (G), Meihbohn (G), Woodside (D), Budd (G), Matthews (G). This weekend (Homecoming) the varsity will meet the Winston-Salem All-Stars.

MADE BY ALBIE BOOTH and FRANK CARIDEO
Wearing new “All America” sweaters, the official sweater of “All America” football stars. We present the most unusual sweater of the year. Saddle shoulder construction, all wool, brushed, in the new Fall shades.

ALL AMERICA
On Display at Ivey’s Davidson Shop

Statistics STATE-DAVIDSON GAME
State Dav.
First downs 10 12
Yds gained at scrimmage 187 155
Yds lost at scrimmage 18 15
Passes attempted 5 7
Passes completed 1 4
Passes incompleted 3 2
Passes intercepted 1 1
Yds gained at passes 8 63
Yds lost intercepted passes 0 30
Average length of punts 39.4 38.1
Yds punts returned 42 47
Average length of kickoffs 55 51
Yds kickoffs returned 125 15
Yds lost by penalties 20 50
Fumbles 6 3
Opponents’ fumbles recovered 1 2

Wildkittens Beaten by State Freshmen in Last Ninety Seconds of Play

Twenty-two Yard Pass Gives State Yearlings 12-7 Victory Over Davidson

A pass good for 22 yards from Davis to Dusty gave the N. C. State Freshman team a 12 to 7 victory over the Davidson Wildkittens last Friday in Greensboro. The pass came in the last minute and a half of play, turning defeat into victory for the State yearlings. Pittman had made a low kick, the ball going out on Davidson's 25-yard line, and after being repulsed at the line, Davis hurled the pass to Dusty who stepped over the goal line for the winning margin. The kick for point went wide. State made her first touchdown in the closing minutes of the first half, Davis slipping through right tackle for 10 yards to make the score. Davidson's score came in the opening minutes of the second half on a 35-yard pass from Pittman to Burns over the goal line. The first half saw play around the middle of the field, with both teams punting frequently. Then in the last few minutes of play, the Wolflets marched down the field and Davis stepped down the sidelines for his counter. Windham blocked the try for point. In the second half, Zori kicked off to Verble who returned his kick to the 50-yard line. Verble almost got away for a touchdown, the safety man being the only man between him and a clear field. The Wildkittens then drove to the 35-yard line, where State’s defense tightened and on the fourth down Pittman faded back and threw a pass to Burns over State’s goal line. Pittman kicked the extra point. Davidson threatened several times after this but failed to score. In the closing minutes of play, State began a drive towards Davidson's goal line which was stopped just short of the line. Pittman, kicking from behind his goal line, got off a kick to his 25-yard line and State threatened again but was held for downs. Pittman was rushed and made a poor kick, the ball going out of bounds on the 25-yard marker. Davis then got off his pass to Dusty for the score.