6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 2, 1932

Should the Compulsory Drill Be Stopped by Congress?
This question is being raised by the Committee on Militarism located in New York.

VIEWS ON SUBJECT VARY
“Lure of the Uniform” Should Not Be Over-Emphasized

Will the advocates of military training succeed through a flood of propaganda in preventing Congressional leaders from reducing such War
Department expenditures and in abolishing the compulsory feature of drill? Students opposed to compulsory military training—and the results of several
recent student polls show a majority against compulsory drill—now have an opportunity to promote their side of the case. Certain
facts should be kept in mind:

1. Many military and “patriotic” opponents of the proposed reductions actually favor compulsory military training for all young men.
2. The present R. O. T. C. and C. M. T. C. are admittedly ineffective as military training but are
urged as “training in citizenship.”
3. This training in “citizenship” is largely training to believe in the necessity and efficacy of military preparedness and has
little to do with social and political issues, other than to urge a generally reactionary attitude.
4. Modern educators are almost unanimously opposed to military training as a substitute for modern physical education or for courses
in the problems of citizenship.
5. Our unprecedented Federal deficit makes necessary rigid curtailment of every possible expenditure.
6. Congressional leaders are said to favor cuts in the military budget, but military advocates are using the Far Eastern
crisis as an argument for a large army, overlooking two facts: (a) The military patriotism of the Japanese is largely
responsible for this stupid and suicidal destruction of the bases of peace and prosperity in the Orient; (b) If America
actually went to war with Japan, it is quite probable that the importance of devoting public energies to the prosecution
of the war would lead us to abandon such activities as the C. M. T. C. and the R. O.
T. C. or to convert them into effective military preparedness.

The R. O. T. C. and the C. M. T. C. prepare most of their members poorly for the use
of either pacifist or militarist techniques. Military-minded, but not military “effectives,” the cadets are opposed by those who believe in
peaceful methods and are accepted by the militarists solely because they consider them better than nothing and they may build
sentiment for a larger fighting force. Many editors and other citizens who believe in “reasonable defense,” but who are not
acquainted with the above facts, are opposing the proposed reductions. Students who have had an opportunity to observe the weaknesses
of the training should counteract the propaganda of the militarists by informing and arousing the public now.

Oklahoma A. & M. College, which was the scene of a lively fight over compulsory drill last fall, now has
the honor of presenting the first R. O. T. C. girl colonel to turn in her uniform. Miss Jeanette Thompson
says she accepted the position as an honor with no other particular significance. Then a Y. W. C. A. conference
upon disarmament brought her to see that she was being used to glorify war. “It was a different trend of
thought to what I had known. From this discussion I started reading and getting people’s points of view from both
sides. After thinking it through, I resigned as colonel because I couldn't possibly do anything else.”

The “Red Chasers” may see here a new reason for abolishing the Y. W. C. A. and other groups that
try to get students to think for themselves. We must never allow youth to get the notion that military training,
preparedness, or the uniform have anything to do with war, for bloodstained puttees do not shine. Congratulations to Miss Thompson!
May her kind increase until every woman can look straight through the lure of military parades and see war’s destruction
and folly.

NEW PHI PRESIDENT
(Continued from page 1)

grams should include both of these fundamental elements for the promotion of which the society was founded. Duncan McBryde was
elected respondent, or representative of the college commencement. The hope was expressed that the Phi Society might be so fortunate
as to continue its activity uninterrupted on until 1936, which will mark the hundredth anniversary of the organization, and at
which time appropriate celebration will be made of a century’s activity of one of the oldest organizations of any kind
on the Davidson campus. A committee was appointed, and active plans have gotten under way for the selection of some
prominent alumni speaker.

Insanity Goes With Genius Says Writer

Of all the geniuses of history, few have been mentally healthy, according to W. Lambe-Eichbaum, German author, who has written
“The Problem of Genius,” recently published by Macmillan. In almost every instance, he says, recognized genius has been coupled with
insanity. Asserting that among modern peoples a reverence for genius has often become a substitute for dogmatic religions of the
past, the author went on to point out that genius has become a goal toward which everyone is supposed to
be working.

“Yet,” he said, “genius cannot be considered the foreshadowing of the higher evolution of our race, but rather as something
which may foreshadow the ultimate extinction of our race.”

Among the few geniuses whom he believes to have been mentally healthy, Lange-Eichbaum names Titian, Raphael, Andrea del Sarto, Rubens,
Verdi, Durer, and Leignitz. Those whom he says have created their principal works before they were seriously affected by psychosis
include Kant, Copernicus, Stendhal, Faraday, Linnaeus, and Huygens. “The following,” he says, “died of general paralysis of the insane: Beaudelaire,
Donizetti, Lenau, Leuthold, Jules Goncourt, Makart, Hugo, Wolff, and Lautensack. The following were affected with schizophrenia when they died: Tasso,
Newton, Lenz, Holderlin, and Panizza. “Almost everywhere, and especially in the subjective fields of imaginative writing, religion, and music, gifted
‘insanity’ gains the victory over simple, healthy talent.”

Phi Delta Thetas Move Into Temporary House
Decay of Substructure Necessitates Temporary Move Into Old Alpha Omega House

The Phi Delta Theta social fraternity moved into a new temporary home this past week. The new arrangement was made
necessary because the floor of the old house had begun to give away. Due to the lack of ventilation and
perhaps the presence of a few termites, the substructure of the floor has rotted away and caused the floor of
one room to bulge upward and of another to sink in. The new home into which they have moved is
the old Alpha Omega home in the left-hand corner of fraternity circle as one enters. The members of the fraternity
are very well satisfied with the new home as a temporary arrangement, but will be glad when they can move
back into their original building. This future moving is expected to take place in about a month, by which time
the college is expected to have completed the building of a new substructure for the floors and remedied the cause
of the decay. This is the first serious misfortune.

Vesper Speaker

On Sunday, March 6, Prof. Archibald Curry will speak at “Y” vespers. Carl Pritchett, secretary of the Davidson Y. M.
C. A., has been very fortunate in securing him for this occasion. Professor Curry, who is a member of the
Social Science Department, is a professor of political science and economics; he is also an alumnus of Davidson. Those who
have heard him before can verify the statement that he is a most charming and entertaining speaker. It is with
great pleasure that the student body looks forward to hearing Professor Curry.

University to Seek Precocious Youths
Northwestern President Hopes to Admit Six Boys This Fall

Northwestern University is on the lookout for precocious students. President Walter Dill Scott announced last week that he hoped to
admit into the university next September as many as six precocious youths who meet all the entrance requirements, but who
are only 13 to 15 years old. Special provisions will be made to meet the needs of these superior students.

“Our experience with precocious students has been satisfactory,” said President Scott. “There have been so few of them, however, that
they have lacked the stimulus that comes from cooperation and competition with equals. It is planned to have these six
freshmen live together and enjoy an environment favorable to them.”

A letter has been addressed by President Scott to a selected list of high school principals appraising them of Northwestern’s
desire to aid the precocious student. By precocious, President Scott pointed out, is implied an I. Q. of more than
130, or such youthful attainments as were characteristic of Jeremy Bentham, who wrote Greek and Latin at the age of
5 and prepared to enter Oxford at the age of 10; Lord Byron, who began to write at 10 and
was distinguished at 15; Benjamin Franklin, publisher of a newspaper at 17; Alexander Hamilton, a successful business executive at 15;
Albrecht von Haller, German anatomist, who prepared a Chaldean grammar and 2,000 biographies of famous persons at 9; Johnthat has
occurred to the fraternity structures which the college completed at an average cost of five thousand dollars each in 1928.
The Davidson College plan of fraternity housing has gained nation-wide eminence in its uniqueness and its immediate success on the
campus. Norman Raies, S. P. E., Senior of the class of 1931, wrote a splendid and well-illustrated article in the
latest issue of “Banta’s Greek Exchange,” giving high praise and prominence to Davidson’s unique plan of fraternity housing.

MASQUERS WILL PRESENT GROUP OF PLAYS
(Continued from page 1)

Little Theatre production, the entire cast is comprised of its members. George Farrington, of the Charlotte High School faculty, directs
the play and takes the lead. The play has been given many times by this group. The cast is as
follows:
Warden Holt - John McNeely
Father Daly - Wallis Moulding
Dan - Paul Worley
James Dyke - George Farrington
Josephine Paris - Sarah E. Motte

Paul Brown is stage manager for this play. Stuart Mill, who was proficient in higher mathematics at 8; W. A.
Mozart, who performed and composed constantly from the age of 5; Napoleon Bonaparte, known as the “little mathematician” at the
age of 8, and organizer and leader at the age of 14; James Watt, interested in higher mathematics at 6,
and who began experimenting with steam at 15; and George Washington, a professional surveyor at 15.

SPANISH FRATERNITY
(Continued from page 1)

rence, Ed Gorham, and Pete Knox. A feed was given, and each neophyte was asked to tell a “chistecito” or
joke. The meeting was held in the T. U. O. fraternity house, and the faculty members present were Profs. Fleagle,
Blythe, and Goldiere. The present officers of the organization are: Bill McKnight, president; Francis Bixler, vice-president; Joe Houston, secretario; John
Allen, treasurer.

SURVEY WELFARE CONDITIONS
(Continued from page 5)

Brasher, Mebane; Lewis Gregg, Ranger, Texas; W. G. Stanley, Lumberton; James P. Wood, Jr., Roanoke, Va.; J. M. Fidler, Davidson;
G. W. Easton, Middlesborough, Ky.; Roy McDonald, Sanford; Harvey Morrison, Davidson; F. L. Cherry, Tampa, Fla.

DR. McCONNELL SPEAKS
(Continued from page 1)

the solidity and beauty of the Washington monument, which was noted for its simplicity, ruggedness, and strength.

Stetson “D” Store
Come In and Look the New Spring Patterns Over
Clothes For the College Man

New Book Published On Life of Pres. Cleveland
Interesting Medical Facts Revealed in the Account of the Curing of President Cleveland’s Cancer

NEW BOOK TELLS OF CANCER
Cleveland Operated On by Dr. Bryant on Commodore Benedict’s Yacht

How two carefully concealed operations were performed on Grover Cleveland shortly after his second inauguration as President of the United
States is revealed in a new book by Dr. James H. Tobey: “Cancer: What Everyone Should Know About It.”

“About three months after his second inauguration,” Dr. Tobey reports, “Grover Cleveland sent for an army surgeon, Dr. R. M.
O'Reilly, to look at an ulcerated patch on his mouth. Dr. O’Reilly immediately suspected a malignant condition.” An immediate removal
was advised when the suspicions were verified, and on June 30, 1893, the President and a party of medical men
and personal secretaries boarded the yacht Oneida of Commodore E. C. Benedict in New York Harbor, and the next day
the yacht steamed up the East River and into Long Island Sound. Dr. Tobey continues: “In the main cabin a
dramatic event was taking place. A great President of the United States, whose life was precious to his country, was
being operated upon for cancer. Dr. Keen, an eminent surgeon from Philadelphia, had examined Mr. Cleveland and confirmed the diagnosis
of cancer. After Dr. Hasbrouck had extracted two of the upper teeth, Dr. O'Reilly administered the anesthetic, and Dr. Bryant,
assisted by Dr. Keen and Dr. Erdmann, operated upon the jaw, removing the entire upper section of it. The operation
was done wholly within the mouth, with the help of a cheek retractor which Dr. Keen had brought back from
Paris in 1866. By this means all external scars were avoided.

“The yacht arrived at Buzzard’s Bay on July 5, and Mr. Cleveland walked ashore unassisted. At this time he was
56 years of age and rather corpulent. On July 17 Dr. Bryant performed a second operation to remove some of
the tissue that had eluded him in the first operation. Shortly thereafter Dr. K. C. Gibson, a New York dentist,
fitted the President with an artificial jaw made of vulcanized rubber. There was no impairment of the President's power of
speech.”

Kiwanis Club Hears Davidson’s Coaches

When the Charlotte Kiwanis Club last held its weekly luncheon, it had as its guests Captain Norton G. Pritchett, director
of physical education at Davidson College, and Davidson’s two new football coaches, William (Doc) Newton and Eugene McEver. The Davidson
mentors had as their subject, “Football,” about which they made brief talks. Captain Pritchett discussed the new football rules briefly.
He said that he was convinced that the new rules will help the game, in that they will protect the
players and will place more emphasis on cleverness rather than strength. But he said he did not know how the
rule, making a man “down” when any part of his body other than his hands and feet are touching the
ground, would be interpreted. Coach Newton, in his brief talk, said that he was molding his system to fit the
material he had here at Davidson. He explained parts of the Rockne and Warner systems and pointed out that without
material, systems are nothing. McEver said only a few words, acknowledging his introduction and expressing his pleasure at being at
the luncheon.

Local Civic Leader, E. W. Kimbrell, Dies
Prominent Davidson Merchant Succumbs Unexpectedly to a Prolonged Illness

Edward W. Kimbrell, 64, prominent merchant and civic leader of Davidson, died at his home here on February 23 after
a lingering illness of arthritis. Although he had been suffering considerably since last June, death was unexpected. The body was
taken to Fort Mill, S. C., where funeral services were held at Unity Presbyterian Church. The Rev. A. W. Shaw,
pastor of the church, assisted by Dr. C. M. Richards, Dr. H. M. Moffett, and Dr. R. S. Burwell, Davidson
ministers, conducted the rites. Active pallbearers were Frank and Marion Kimbrell, of Charlotte; Rupert Kimbrell, of Fort Mill; Curtiss Kimbrell,
of Gastonia, and Brice and Oscar Culp, of Gastonia. Honorary pallbearers were officers of Unity Presbyterian Church, in which Mr.
Kimbrell was an elder at the time of his death.

Mr. Kimbrell was born in Fort Mill and had spent his entire life there until he came to Davidson three
years ago and established a mercantile business. He was one of Fort Mill's leading merchants for over 40 years before
coming here. He is survived by his widow, four sons, F. O., Edward, and Henry Kimbrell, all of Syracuse, N.
Y., and Jasper Kimbrell of Davidson, and a daughter, Miss Myra Kimbrell, of Davidson. One brother, W. M. Kimbrell, of
Columbia, S. C., also survives.

REGISTRAR REPORTS LIST OF HONOR MEN
(Continued from page 1)

Men whose grades for their first three and a half years have been this high are: T. W. McLean, Charlotte;
S. S. Wiley, Salisbury; C. H. Harrison, Davidson; Roger Enloe, Buchanan, Ga.; L. N. Hand, Jr., East Spencer; E. S.
Bettis, Morristown, Tenn.; D. M. McQueen, Little Rock, S. C.; H. L. Carr, Burgaw; E. C. Dwelle, Jr., Charlotte; J.
T. Welch, Jr., Mt. Holly; J. D. McConnell, neon Wot. Hancock, Bluefield, W. Va.; Rostoe Prince, Raleigh; E. Z. DuBose,
Camden, S. C.; J. G. Dunklin, Laurens, S. C.; P. T. Shanks, Selma, Alabama. J. C. Houston, Leeds, Ala.; W.
H. Matthews, Jr., Martin, Texas; T. L. Patrick, Lexington; W. W. Franklin, Bluefield, W. Va.; A. J. Graham, Jr., Greenville,
S. C.; D. G. Stephenson, Covington, Ga.; H. H. Harris, Jr., Greenville, S. C.; T. M. Gignilliat, Seneca, S. C.;
H. C. McFadyen, Donelson, Tenn.; W. B. Hawkins, Jr., Chester, S. C.; P. M. Conway, Henderson, Ky.; C. S. Spencer,
Statesboro, Ga.; D. G. Martin, Covington, Ga.; A. S. Morrow, High Point; C. W. F. Spencer, Jr., Rock Hill, S.
C.; H. W. Ryburn, Erwin, Tenn.; A. M. Earle, Jr., Stovall; D. R. Williams, Jr., Lancaster, S. C.; E. D.
Bolich, Denver, N. C.; P. S. Knox, Jr., Thomson, Ga.; R. E. C. Roane, Winston-Salem; J. O. Mann, Jr.; Chester,
S. C.

Laws regulating parking in this country are based on a decision handed down in 1812 in England by the distinguished
jurist, Lord Ellenborough. The jurist ruled it was an indictable offense for stage coaches to stand at long intervals waiting
for passengers in public streets. “No one,” he said, “can make a stableyard of the King’s highway”—probably the first ruling
on parking.

The thrill of Harvard students gained by a report that unchaperoned women would be allowed to visit Elliot House, a
student dormitory, vanished as university officials denied the report.

Davidson Theatre
MONDAY
“COCK OF THE AIR”
CHESTER MORRIS

TUESDAY
“STREET SCENE”
SYLVIA SYDNEY

WEDNESDAY
“ARSENE LUPIN”
JOHN BARRYMORE—LIONEL BARRYMORE

THURSDAY and FRIDAY
“BUSINESS AND PLEASURE”
WILL ROGERS

SATURDAY
“GAY CABALLERO”
GEORGE O’BRIEN
