THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 6, 1932

Richmond and Washington Alumni Chapters Hold Annual Meetings

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Wharton-McKnight

Rev. W. T. Thompson, D.D., '05, of Richmond, and Washington Alumni Representatives from the Sixth Congressional District attended the meetings.

Fifty-four Attended From 25 Classes Extending From 1879 Through 1932. Class of 1931 Led All Others

UNIQUENESS DISCUSSED

Thirty Alumni and Others Interested Also Attended Meeting at Bluefield, W. Va.

Davidson College alumni in Richmond, Va., and Washington, D. C., have held their semi-annual dinner-meetings within the past ten days, with 38 in attendance at Richmond, and 16 in Washington. Both gatherings were attended by Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, who discussed current affairs on the Davidson campus, and at Washington two moving picture films of the campus were also shown. Elsewhere on the alumni page will be found the names of the alumni in attendance, and the officers of the ensuing year who were chosen.

These two meetings represented a wide distribution of alumni, for 25 different classes were represented by the 54 men, covering a period that extended from 1879 through 1932. More recent classes had a predominating number present, because of the ministerial candidates in Richmond. Thirty-four of the 54 men left Davidson since 1922, and the classes of 1931 led with 11 of their members present at the two meetings.

At the Richmond meeting Mr. Milton told of an address made by Prof. Archibald Currie, in which he advanced three reasons why Davidson was unique, viz, because it had not become co-educational, because it had remained strictly an undergraduate institution, and because Davidson had never been influenced in its policies by the great benefactors of the college. After elaborating upon these, Mr. Milton supplemented Mr. Currie’s contentions with three additional reasons why Davidson was unique, maintaining that other contributing factors were Davidson's position in the educational world, its financial condition as compared to other institutions, both religious and secular, and because of its unusual alumni body.

The Washington meeting was more of an informal affair. Difficulty was experienced in operating the projector for the moving pictures, and during that time Mr. Milton talked informally to the alumni and answered queries that were offered by the alumni. After the regularly adjourned meeting a number of the alumni discussed affairs at Davidson for a while longer.

At Bluefield, W. Va. Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson, attended a meeting of alumni, parents of Davidson students, and prospective students at Bluefield, W. Va., on Monday, March 7. Approximately 15 people met together at supper, and a similar number joined the group afterwards to hear Dr. Lingle. Davidson alumni in that vicinity are small in number, and no effort was made to perfect an organization. It was through the efforts of Rev. S. W. Moore, D.D., '93, of Bluefield, and Rev. Smiley Williams, '14, of Welch, W. Va., that this meeting was arranged to give the Davidson president an opportunity of meeting with interested parties in that section.

Those Who Attended

1879—Dr. J. Allison Hodges, '79, Richmond.
1882—J. E. Mason, Washington.
1885—Hon. W. F. Stevenson, Washington.
1888—Dr. W. J. Martin, Richmond.
1900—Rev. W. E. Hill, D.D., Richmond.
1902—Rev. D. W. Richardson, D.D., Richmond.
1905—Rev. T. K. Currie, D.D., and Rev. W. T. Thompson, D.D., both of Richmond; Hon. J. Bayard Clark, Washington.
1906—J. H. VanLandingham, Petersburg, Va.
1907—Rev. J. E. Hemphill, D.D., Petersburg, Va.
1909—W. A. Elliott and R. S. Marshall, both of Washington.
1910—F. S. Blue, Richmond.
1913—J. R. Minter, Washington.
1914—Rev. D. T. Caldwell, D.D., Petersburg, Va.; Harold C. Smith, Rockville, Md.
1917—J. R. Morton, Jr., Washington.
1918—J. A. Thames, Washington.
1919—J. H. Townsend, Richmond.
1922—T. Archie Freeman, Richmond.
1923—H. M. Morris, Washington.
1926—C. L. Bragaw, Washington.
1927—Rev. C. G. Davis, P. F. Jones and Rev. T. H. Hamilton, all of Richmond; J. A. Washington.
1928—Tyree Dillard, Washington; C. F. McRae and Knox Poole, both of Richmond; Rev. J. M. Murchison, Providence Forge, Va.
1929—A. N. Brown, D. F. Helm, J. A. Ricks, R. F. Sloop and R. F. Whitley, all of Richmond; W. E. Hill, Jr., Hopewell, Va.
1930—R. M. Christian, R. D. Croom, Jr., and J. M. Smith, all of Richmond; W. W. Harrison, Jr., Washington.
1931—W. P. Boyle, L. F. Cowan, S. W. DuBose, Jas. A. Jones, A. B. McClure, W. B. McSwain, M. W. Norfleet, Jr., W. G. Sugg, Jr., E. F. Thompson and Ferguson Wood, all of Richmond; Archie W. McLean, Washington.
1932—T. M. Lemly, Richmond; J. E. Ruff, Washington.

Alumni Marriages

Erwin-Godwin

"Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Godwin, of Charlotte, announce the marriage of their daughter, Sara, to Frank L. Erwin, of Greensboro, on Saturday, March 26th.” Mr. Erwin is in the 1928 class at Davidson. After leaving here he was in business and is now connected with the Standard Oil Company, with the Greensboro branch. Mr. and Mrs. Erwin will be at home in Greensboro after May 1.

Births

1914—To Dr. and Mrs. James W. Gibbon, of Charlotte, a son, on March 29th.
1927—To Mr. and Mrs. Eustace F. Lingle, of New York, a daughter, Jean, on April 4th.

Deem not life a thing of consequence. For look at the yawning void of the future, and at that other limitless space, the past.—Marcus Aurelius.

As long as war is regarded as wicked, it will always have its fascinations. When it is looked upon as vulgar, it will cease to be popular.—Oscar Wilde.

"Dr. and Mrs. R. L. Wharton, of Cardenas, Cuba, announce the engagement of their daughter, Elizabeth, to John P. McKnight, of Shelby and Havana, Cuba.” Mr. McKnight graduated from Davidson in 1928, and immediately was employed on the reportorial staff of the Charlotte News. He became connected with the Charlotte branch of the Associated Press a year later, and over a year ago was sent to the Havana, Cuba, branch. Within the past several months he was made manager of the Havana office of the Associated Press. Miss Wharton obtained her education at Queens-Chicora College.

Sherfesee-Withers

"Mr. and Mrs. Louis Sherfesee, of Greenville, S. C., announce the engagement of their daughter, Louise, to Frank Caldwell Withers, Jr., of Columbia, S. C.” Mr. Withers is also a 1928 graduate, and was president of his Senior class. After graduation he worked as a reporter for the Charleston (S. C.) News and Courier, but for the last two years has been connected with the Columbia (S. C.) State. No date for the wedding has been set.

Keesler-Gilmour

"Mr. and Mrs. S. R. Keesler, of Greenwood, Miss., announce the engagement of their daughter, Mary Nash, to Monroe Taylor Gilmour, of Wilmington, the marriage to take place in early summer.” Mr. Gilmour was president of the 1929 graduating class.At Davidson, during 1929-1930, he was a student in the Princeton Graduate School and spent part of last year at Union Theological Seminary at Richmond and in the University of North Carolina Medical School. He is now attending Harvard Medical School. Miss Keesler obtained her education at Sophie Newcomb, in New Orleans.

Taft-Mills
"Mr. and Mrs. H. R. P. Taft, of Charleston, S.C., announce the engagement of their daughter, Elizabeth Burbridge, to Ladson Arthur Mills, Jr., of Greenville, S.C., the date of the marriage to be announced later."

Following his graduation in 1930, Mr. Mills was employed by the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and was stationed in Charlotte. He was transferred to Charleston, where he was located until the past week, when he was promoted and sent to Washington, D.C. Miss Taft obtained her education at Warrenton School, Warrenton, Va.

Reynolds-Smith
"Mr. and Mrs. J. F. Cannon, of Concord, announce the engagement of their daughter, Anne Cannon Reynolds, to Frank Brandon Smith, Jr., of Charlotte, the wedding to be solemnized at Blowing Rock sometime in April."

Mr. Smith is a member of the 1930 class at Davidson and since leaving here he has been in the hardware business in Charlotte.

Calhoun-Sisson
Information has been received at Davidson of the announced engagement of Miss Ione Calhoun, of Grenada, Miss., to Charles Augustus Sisson, of Winona, Miss., the marriage to take place in early summer. Mr. Sisson graduated from Davidson in the class of 1931 and is now a first-year law student at Harvard University.

The belief that man can conquer his environment is the actual benefit Columbus conferred on humanity.—Struthers Burt.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.
Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.
Catalog and information on request.

Dr. Thos. A. Lacy, '20, who has been with the State Hospital in Raleigh for several years, is now with the Cooper Hospital at Camden, New Jersey.

Two Union Theological Seminary students who graduate in May have already accepted calls. Robert F. Sloop, '29, will go to the Aliceville, Ala., Presbyterian Church, which vacancy was caused by the death of Rev. J. S. McFall, '26, who was killed in a football game, and DeWitt I. Helm, '29, has accepted a call to a group of three churches and will be stationed at West Jefferson.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of L. A. McGeachey, of St. Pauls, brother of Rev. D. P. McGeachey, D.D., '96, of Decatur, Ga., and Rev. D. M. McGeachey, '17, Tryon; of the death of Walter G. Phipps, of Greensboro, father of Rev. James R. Phipps, '24, of Littleton, and brother of Rev. C. H. Phipps, '08, of Waynesboro, Va., and Rev. J. Robert Phipps, '13, of Pollocksville; and of the death of Mrs. Claud G. Allen, Sr., mother of Claud G. Allen, Jr., '27, of New Bern.

David H. Howard, Jr., '28, graduate student in chemistry at Cornell University, has been awarded the Sage Fellowship and Graduate Scholarship by that institution. Mr. Howard was one of 50 successful applicants who were given fellowships and scholarships that total approximately $35,000. He was valedictorian of his class, was at Davidson two years as instructor in chemistry, and since then has been studying at Cornell.

Alumni who have visited Davidson within the past two weeks include Prof. H. S. Shaw, '08, Haverford, Pa.; E. L. Winn, '08, Asheville; Karl Sherrill, '12, Statesville; Woodrow McKay, '15, Lexington; Prof. R. C. Garth, '19, New York; Leonard W. Dick, Jr., '23, Woodberry Forest, Va.; W. H. Lynch, Jr., '26, Augusta, Ga.; H. G. Goodykoontz, '27, Richmond, Va.; C. J. Hansel, '30, Old Fort; Zeb V. Long, Jr., '30, Lynchburg, Va.; and R. F. Norton, '32, Chevy Chase, Md.

Walter H. Lynch, Jr., '26, has accepted a position with Geo. C. Baird & Company, certified public accountants, and left Charlotte this week to assume his new duties.

Alexander Sprunt, Jr., '18, of Charleston, had another article in the April issue of Holland's magazine. It was entitled, "$25 Reward."

D. G. Wilson, '26, has been made divisional manager for the Equitable Life Assurance Society. His headquarters continue in Greensboro.

C. P. Greyer, '30, is now located in Washington, D.C., and is connected with the Reconstruction Finance Corporation.

J. R. Wilkinson, '15, is connected with the American Consulate at Havana, Cuba. He was formerly stationed at Helsingford, Finland.

Harold C. Smith, '14, of Rockville, Md., has announced his candidacy for the Republican nomination to the United States House of Representatives from the Maryland District. Until a few days ago he was unopposed.

W. M. Lemly, '32, is field traffic representative for the Byrd Airport at Richmond, Va.

After May 25th, Major F. L. Black, '04, with the quartermaster department of the U.S. Army at the Presidio of San Francisco, Calif., will be transferred to Fort Stotsenburg, Pampanga, Luzon, Philippine Islands.

B. R. Lowrance, '31, recently accepted for the U.S. Army Flying Corps, is stationed at Randolph Field, San Antonio, Texas, instead of Langley Field, Va., as announced a short time ago.

O. M. Brown, '25, is connected with the United States Customs Office at Durham.

W. G. Hodgin, '27, is now working for the Gate City Life Insurance Company, but continues his residence in Raleigh.

Dr. J. M. Cooke, '26, who is now with the University Hospital in Philadelphia, will be connected with the Somerset Hospital, Somerville, N.J., after July 1st.

Rev. W. M. Currie, '19, of Belmont, was last week's speaker before the Belmont Rotary Club.

W. K. Wilkinson, '28, will have the distinction of being the only Davidson alumnus in the first graduating class of the Duke University Medical School.

Rev. John McSween, D.D., '08, president of Presbyterian College, was the speaker before the weekly meeting of the Spartanburg (S.C.) Kiwanis Club last week.

J. J. Barnhardt, '12, vice-president of the Cannon Mills Company, has been made president of the Cabarrus County chapter of the Isaac Walton League of America.

Rev. W. T. Thompson, D.D., '05, of Richmond, Va., will address a meeting of Asheville Presbytery on April 12th.

Hon. L. M. Blue, '86, of Gibson, has announced that he will be a candidate for the Democratic nomination for the North Carolina Senate. Mr. Blue has already served several terms in the upper house and is not expected to be opposed.

Duke University has announced a series of ten lectures on public health to be delivered to the medical students during the next two months, and included among the prominent lecturers is Dr. A. M. McBryde, '24, who is connected with the Duke Hospital.

SCARLET TANAGER
Sodas Tobacco Sundries
Stetson "D" Store
Get Dressed Up at Stetson D's
Clothes For the College Man