THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1932

“OF HUMAN BONDAGE”
Book Review by Fred Hellegers

Of Human Bondage. New York. 1915, G. H. Doran Company.

Of Human Bondage is a highly realistic account of a hum-drum existence. Life is a burden to Philip Carey from
the first day when, his mother and father dead, he goes to live with his unsympathetic aunt and uncle. Morbidly
sensitive, he soon becomes a slave to the fear that people will find his club-foot ridiculous and finds forgetfulness of
a real world in the new-found world of books. But his guardians, unable to understand his mental complexes, send him
off to Tercanbury, in hope that superior instruction will iron out all difficulties.

Tercanbury, however, can offer only more human cruelty, torture, and less kindness; even when Carey has the opportunity to win
a scholarship at Oxford, he chooses to get away from the life that has been slavery for him by removing
to Berlin and Heidelberg. These cities bore him. He returns to England. Again he finds himself a slave to unhappiness,
to restlessness, to the desire for an abundant life and he thinks that freedom waits for him in Paris in
the pursuit of art. He has already discovered that he is unfit as a student, and through a year’s apprenticeship
as a bookkeeper that he is unfit for business, and now art or no art, adventure or no adventure, he
finds that he is destined, if he remains in Paris, to become the servant of mediocrity. Still running from bondage,
he seeks a better channel for self-expression in the medical profession in London.

There he meets Mildred, a contemptible waitress in a cheap restaurant, a girl of no attainments, physical, mental, or spiritual.
Love becomes another chain which prevents Philip Carey from achieving anything worthwhile, which causes him to squander years at a
hospital unnecessarily, his meager fortune, and later his health. An artist friend of Philip gives him one day a Persian
rug of intricate design as an explanation of the meaning of life, but which for Philip is for years a
hopeless enigma. After years of experiences of the most bitter kind, the answer comes to him. “He thought of his
desire to make a design, intricate and beautiful, out of the myriad, meaningless facts of life: had he not seen
also that the simplest pattern, that in which a man was born, worked, married, had children, and died, was likewise
the most perfect? It might be that to surrender to happiness was to accept defeat, but it was a defeat
better than many victories.”

The argument of the author is that happiness lies in the simply ordered life, in the sane, healthy, enjoyment of
the present. As one reads this novel it strikes him that the setting is almost as arbitrary and as artificial
as that of Reade’s “The Cloister and the Hearth.” The scene changes from England to Germany, to France, and back
to England and then almost to Spain for a really good reason. And at no time does the reader feel
that he has been at the places mentioned. They are a background for the story, but they are unreal. There
is an atmosphere sensed, but never actuality. There is none of the glorious detail of Galsworthy or Bennett or Walpole.

Some of the characters are well treated; others merely support the plot like the minor characters in Macbeth. The descriptions
of the guardians are brief and shrewd. “Mrs. Carey arranged that her husband should win, because he did not like
losing.” As a reward for good behavior, Mr. Carey let Philip have the top of his egg on Sunday. On
the other hand, the sketches of Philip's German and French friends are hazy and blurred. Cronshaw, Hayward, Lawson are so
many names. When Maugham becomes interested in a character, he paints that character with clear-cut lines. Miss Wilkinson, the amazing
old maid, is caricatured like a Dickens character. Miss Price, the dirty young woman of the brown dress, is easily
remembered. One learns to love good old Athelny, the London clerk who recites poetry, loves flowery speech, and tells of
the glories of Spain while sitting in the very heart of London dirtiness. Sally, his robust, healthy, sane daughter, is
treated in bold outline. She represents the only example of pure animal vigor in all the characters of the novel.
Mildred, who with Philip takes the center of the stage, is treated with great care. She is seen in her
conversation, in her actions and her reactions to be the epitome of all that is base in woman or mankind.
The reader wonders at Philip's mawkish love for her, his long-enduring patience. It is difficult to formulate any conception of
him as a distinct character. He is, it is true, a rolling stone. He is the ordinary, unglorified individual whose
wishes are constantly frustrated, whose goals are never attained.

For what it sets out to be and do, “Of Human Bondage” is excellent. Certain passages remind one of George
Meredith. But the general treatment of the setting, the plot, the characters and W. Somerset Maugham's intelligent use of them
make the novel a significant work.monkey. You see the monk in the new FIRST NATIONAL PICTURE, and not a cent
was paid for her sweeping bow and saying, “Thanks, Dorothy Mackaill.” Copr., 1932, The American Tobacco Co.

“Give me Lucky Strike every time”

“My throat is all important to me. No harsh irritants for yours truly. Give me LUCKY STRIKE every time. And
pat yourself on the back for your new Cellophane wrapper with that tab which makes the pack so easy to
open.”

“It's wonderful!”

Your Throat Protection — against irritation — against cough.

Dorothy has smoked LUCKIES for six years. We're making a Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh.

TUNE IN ON LUCKY STRIKE—60 modern minutes with the world’s finest dance orchestras and Walter Winchell, whose gossip of today
becomes the news of tomorrow, every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday evening over N.B.C. networks.

Maugham’s style hardly merits the serious consideration of this work as a future classic.
FREDERICK HELLEGERS.

Same Old Controversy: Ed and Co-ed Intellect. No Co-eds Appear Among First Eleven Ratings in Test at Chicago University

Chicago—(IP)—Another chapter was written in the controversy over who is smarter, the man or woman student, when a test conducted
by the University of Chicago in its freshman classes showed that in the first eleven ratings not one co-ed appeared.
This, in spite of the fact that women outnumbered men in the 750 freshmen who took the examination. First place
went to William K. Traynor, 19, of Chicago, son of William T. Traynor, vice-president and director of Swift & Co.

Knowledge didn’t count in this examination, for it was a psychology test to measure intellects. For instance, an artificial language
was supplied with the instructions to translate a passage from it into English. Simple problems in arithmetic, which were not
quite so simple after all, made up another part. The test by no means settled the question, however, for in
other tests in other colleges and universities men have been outscored by women.

Columbia, Mo.—(IP)—Prof. M. H. Cochran of the history department of the University of Missouri, author of a new book, “Germany
Not Guilty,” received this letter from William Hohenzollern, former Emperor of Germany:

“Sincerest compliments and warmest admiration for your brilliant book ‘Germany Not Guilty,’ in which you deal with Prof. B. Schmitt’s
withering blow. There is not the slightest doubt about who were the real culprits that started the World War. They
stand arraigned before the tribunal of history awaiting her verdict. The world crisis the Allies are suffering from is the
punishment Providence is meting out to them for their crimes in 1914 and at Versailles in 1918.”

Students and Slang

Northampton, Mass.—(IP)—College students, once past masters at the creation of new slang words, are now mostly imitators in that respect,
according to Dean Marjorie Nicolson of Smith College. Dean Nicolson is no enemy of slang, which, she says, is accepted
as a natural part of our language, even by scholars, because it is brief and pungent. In a recent chapel
talk to the undergraduates throughout the country, she said there was a period when college students used to set the
pace, while now they seem content to imitate. Until they can come across with something better than “OK” or “yes,”
they might as well say nothing, she declared, in effect.

New York—(IP)—Bearing peace petitions signed by more than a million peace workers, the S. S. President Harding left here last
week with Dr. Mary E. Woolley, president of Mount Holyoke College, and Senator Claude A. Swanson, both of the United
States delegation to the disarmament conference. Several thousand persons, representing virtually all the organizations in this country working for the
end of war, took part in ceremonies just before the liner sailed.

While Dr. Woolley is to represent the country and the colleges officially at the conference, college students of this country
will be represented by James Frederick Green of Yale, being sent to the first three weeks of the conference by
the Intercollegiate Disarmament Council and the American Student Christian Movement. Green, who also sailed last week, is the first college
student ever to represent his group at such a world event. He plans to send from Geneva a series of
articles to be written from a college student’s viewpoint especially for college student reading.

Association of Standards in Athletics

Ten Recommendations Made by Athletic Commission for Higher Standards in College Athletics

Cincinnati—(IP)—Recommendations for higher standards in college athletics, especially football, made by the commission on athletics of American Colleges, were, in
short:

- Shorten the season to six or seven games.
- Eliminate pre-season practice.
- Ban subsidizing.
- Abolish recruiting and proselyting.
- Reduce coaches’ salaries to the general faculty level.
- Return the game to student management.
- Abolish drudgery in training.
- Eliminate training houses entirely.
- Schedule only competitors of equal strength.
- Educate alumni to respect well-developed athletic programs rather than lop-sided stress on one sport.

Moscow—(IP)—An outline of Soviet Russia’s new five-year plan has been announced. It includes:

- A speedier rise in living standards than under the first five-year plan.
- Technical reconstruction of industry, transportation, and agriculture.
- Increase the output of machinery by at least (Continued on page 6)
