THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1932

Halverstadt Wins Fall Tennis Tournament by Victory Over Lafferty

Freshmen Progress to Semi-Finals With Bowman, Lewis, Gold, and Barnette Surviving

James Halverstadt defeated John Lafferty in three straight sets and by so doing won the fall tennis tournament for upperclassmen. Halverstadt, a Junior this year, who also won the tournament last year by defeating Eugene DuBose, easily defended his crown by downing his classmate by scores of 6-4, 6-3, 6-0. Jimmy’s victory was marked by his steadiness and by his beautiful placements which frequently won points for him. Lafferty put up a game fight but the smoothness and the consistency of his determined opponent proved too much for him.

Halverstadt drew a bye in the first round of the tournament and then routed Garrett, 6-1, 6-3, in the second round. Jimmy had no trouble in trouncing Morrow, 6-3, 6-4, in the quarter-finals and entered the semi-finals. He then breezed into the finals by pounding his way through Scott, 6-1, 6-0, 6-4.

Lafferty, after drawing a bye in the first round, went on to defeat McKeithan, 6-2, 6-4. In the quarter-finals, Johnny found his opponent, Elvery, not quite so easy and, after losing the first set to the star courtman of last year’s Freshman team, settled down to take the match, 3-6, 6-4, 6-3. Lafferty was forced to the limits in winning his semi-final match with Myers, 6-3, 7-5, 6-3.

The Freshman tournament progressed to the semi-finals with Bowman, Lewis, Gold, and Barnette still surviving. The finalists will be decided when Bowman and Lewis meet in the upper bracket while Gold takes on Barnette in the lower bracket.

Arrangements are being made for a match between the Gastonia Country Club and the Davidson varsity to be played Saturday in Gastonia. The Davidson team will be picked from Halverstadt, Lafferty, Scott, Myers, Elvery, Brown, Phifer, and Morrow.

TREKKING WEST (Continued from page 3)

met him and he is a most interesting conversationalist. After lunch many of the crowd took airplane rides over the city. Glendale is outstanding among the cities of the United States emphasizing aviation and is the leading air terminal on the Pacific Coast. Mrs. Simpkinson and Mrs. Randall of Pasadena drove us to Pasadena and showed us the city. We saw Civic Center, situated in the center of Pasadena’s business district. Probably the outstanding edifice of this group is the City Hall, a gem of architecture nestled among trees, flowers, and shrubs. Other places visited were the Rose Bowl, the scene of the annual East-West football classic, and California Tech, which is one of the best technical institutions in the country.

The Community Playhouse in Pasadena is one of the most noted community theaters to be found. Robert Young received his training here. We enjoyed his acting in the world premiere of “Strange Interlude” at Grauman's Chinese. While in Hollywood it was my good fortune to meet him. He gives the Community Playhouse in Pasadena due credit for starting him off before entering the films.

Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Glendale, a beautiful residential city about seven miles north of Los Angeles, is where we found two quaintly beautiful little churches where more than five thousand couples have been wedded. From all sections of Southern California and many distant points, almost one thousand couples come each year to be married in this setting of fragrant flowers and singing birds.

One of the churches, the Wee Kirk o’ the Heather, is an exact reproduction of the little Glencairn Church where Annie Laurie worshipped in Scotland. It nestles on the side of a hill purpled with Scottish heather. Inside the church are the actual communion tokens used by Annie Laurie, her portrait, and her will. Its companion, the “Little Church of the Flowers,” was inspired by the quaint village church of Stoke Poges in Buckinghamshire, England, where the poet Gray wrote his “Elegy.”

ANNUAL TRYOUTS HELD AT GLEE CLUB MEETING (Continued from page 1)

First tenor—T. H. Morris, C. H. Little, D. S. Currie, E. B. Garrett, C. B. Lewis, W. B. Stokes, W. G. Bradley.

Second tenor—W. L. Northen, L. T. Newland, J. E. Dill, J. S. Stelle, Blanton Little, Paul Warren, George Gullette, Dwight Santiago, Stuart Henry, Geddy Monroe, Reed Flow, Jack Williams, Jr.

Baritones—N. M. Gladstone, L. D. McPhail, J. M. Williams, W. H. Marvin, C. B.

DAVIDSON OVERWHELMS WOFFORD ON FRIDAY (Continued from page 1)

placekick by Mackorell was broken up by Nantz. The Wildcats seemed to literally gallop all over the field; after a few exchanges of punts Fleagle slipped away for a 25-yard gain as the quarter ended. The ball was on the Terriers’ 45-yard marker when the final period opened. Again Fleagle, agile Wildcat, cut through left tackle and dashed 45 yards for another touchdown on the first play. Peabody made the extra point good from placement.

Following the kickoff, Bauknight attempted a pass which was intercepted by Fleagle, giving the Wildcats the ball on their own 49-yard line. Peabody passed to Morgan for a 15-yard gain and Flinn slipped through left tackle for17 yards, putting the ball on Wofford’s 15-yard marker. Flinn ran around the right end for 12 yards and Peabody pushed over for another touchdown. Fleagle obtained the extra point from placement. The last touchdown was obtained by a spectacular broken field return of one of Wofford’s punts from the 45-yard line by Wingfield, a Sophomore back. He also made the extra point from placement as the game was about over. Wofford made a 21-yard gain by a lateral pass from Bauknight to Gibson in the last few minutes of play, but the time was too short for the Terriers to carry out this last threat. This battle Friday was replete with thrills throughout the entire four quarters and was an honor to the two coaches, “Doc” Newton and “Gene” McEver, as well as the Wildcats themselves.

Lineup:
Wofford Position Davidson
Roper LE Morgan
Nantz LT Wagner
Jones LG Rives
Jackson Center McElrath
Berry RG Hand
Hardin RT Whitfield
Quattlebaum RE Morris
Williams QB Wingfield
Bauknight LH Flinn
Funderburke RH Pearce
Monroe FB Hutchins

Summary: Scoring touchdowns—Pearce, Mackorell, Mills, Fleagle, Peabody, Wingfield, Monroe. Extra points—Mackorell, Peabody, Fleagle, Wingfield (placements).

Substitutions: For Wofford—Robinson, Gault, Parnell, Mims, McCravey, King, Gibson, Humphries. For Davidson—Mackorell, Peabody, Wilson, Mills, Ross, West, Caton, Ogden, Sievers, Potter, Dickenson, Fleagle, Howard, Cannon, Batte.

Officials: Perrish (V. P. I.), referee; Sholar (Presbyterian), umpire; Rawson (Georgia), headlinesman.

DR. JAMES HARDIE TALKS TO STUDENTS AT VESPERS
(Continued from page 1)

talking with God. But, according to Dr. Hardie, the meaning is that when we heed Christ’s call to follow Him, He has hopes for us to fill His plans. There is a place for us in the Master’s plans, and if we do not fill it in this generation, the place will be vacant. The Master has expectations and confidence in us. But how can we fulfill this expectation? To solve this question, Dr. Hardie told of a friend of his, a champion wrestler who was injured very badly. When he called on the injured man, who has since taken Christ to guide him through life, the wrestler framed this question for Dr. Hardie, “What do I owe Him for all He has done for me?” He could see only in terms of money, so Dr. Hardie told him to tithe. The fellow later gave Dr. Hardie his tithe which was $2,000.00. This was sent to all parts of the globe. But the wrestler’s question should be applied to all of us, and the answer is to fulfill His expectations to the best of our ability. His confidence is a source of encouragement. Dr. Hardie explained that Paul's prayer, therefore, meant that Jesus has great hopes for us and that our duty is to strive for their fulfillment. The meeting was closed by a prayer led by Dr. Hardie.

ANNUAL FALL SERVICES TO BE CONDUCTED THIS YEAR BY DR. DWIGHT CHALMERS
(Continued from page 1)

worth the while of every student to attend all of these services. There are but a few schools and colleges in the entire country that can and will offer to their student bodies anything of this nature, and those who are students of Davidson College are indeed privileged to be able to hear some of the South’s most eminent ministers in a series of “heart-to-heart” talks on the vital problems of religion in relation to our life, for a certain time each fall and spring. Last year Davidson students were fortunate in having Dr. Rob W. Miles of Lynchburg, Va., who gave a very interesting and instructive set of talks.

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”
Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“SODAS” “SUNDRIES”

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY
“BILL OF DIVORCEMENT”
JOHN BARRYMORE
THURSDAY
“LOVE ME TONIGHT”
MAURICE CHEVALIER
FRIDAY
“SMILING THROUGH”
NORMA SHEARER
SATURDAY
“MOST DANGEROUS GAME”
JOEL McCREA
MONDAY
“HAT CHECK GIRL”
TUESDAY
“PACK UP YOUR TROUBLES”
STAN LAUREL—OLIVER HARDY

Chesterfields are Milder, They Taste Better — the things smokers want most in a cigarette

In CHESTERFIELD there is no harshness— no bitterness. They are made from ripe, sweet Domestic tobaccos and the right amount of Turkish. The taste and aroma are just right.

CHESTERFIELD
© 1932, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.