THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 30, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the College Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor W. Y. SCHENCK
Managing Editor W. M. THOMPSON
Managing Editor JACK WILLIAMS
Managing Editor D. CASALI
Athletic Editor E. LAKE
Exchange Editor P. W. WHITE
Feature Editor J. S. GAMBLE
Feature Editor T. GOODYKOONTZ
Contributing Editor F. H. CRANFORD
Review Editor D. D. McBRYDE
Associate Editor R. L. McCALLIE
Associate Editor C. F. MYERS
Associate Editor B. B. SUGG

BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON Assistant Business Manager
A. H. MANSON Assistant Business Manager
ALVIN BAYER, JR. Solicitor
H. B. DANIEL Solicitor
A. C. WADSWORTH Solicitor
E. WHITE Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President J. S. GAMBLE
Vice-President LEWIS GREGG
Secretary-Treasurer W. ALDERMAN
L. McCLINTOCK
W. ALDERMAN
L. McILWAIN
G. E. BAILEY
E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY
W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES
W. L. NORTHEN
E. BOWE
C. E. NORVELL
E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
H. COVINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON
P. M. ROGERS
B. FICKLIN
B. L. ROSE
L. GULLE
T. H. SMITH
J. ACKHELLINGER
N. W. WALLACE
C. HENRY
K. D. WEEKS
A. HUNT
W. R. WARD
E. LORRAINE
W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD
W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS
PRATT-THOMAS

NOVEMBER 30, 1932

Let us therefore follow after the things that make for peace, and things wherewith one may edify another—Romans xiv 19.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

We wish to offer our heartiest congratulations to the teams and coaches for their splendid victory over Wake Forest.

The running and all-round playing of Charlie Pearce was unusually good. His 84-yard gallop for an unofficial touchdown and his 54-yard run for a touchdown after intercepting a Wake Forest pass constituted two of the most brilliant runs we have ever seen a Davidson player make. They will be classed in the minds of all along with Thad Brock’s famous 106-yard scoreless run against Duke in 1929. They are runs that will live in the history, memory, and spirit of the Davidson student body.

It was true justice for Pearce to be able to score a touchdown after his first had been called back by officials.

We are inclined to class Charles Pearce, not only for his brilliant work against Wake Forest, but his...

The jinx did its best to defeat Davidson or cause another scoreless tie, but a fighting, clawing Wildcat eleven seeking to wreak the wrought-up vengeance of eleven years was not to be denied.

Wake Forest played a good game of football on which they should be commended, but it was Davidson’s day.

Anyone who felt the Davidson spirit was not what it used to be, certainly changed their minds after the Wake Forest game. The Wildcat spirit went wild and we were certainly glad to see it.

According to press reports from V. P. I., Davidson, Furman, Loyola, and Richmond were being considered as applicants for membership in the Southern Conference. We think that Davidson has a good chance and should she receive the bid, she ought to accept. It would mean a higher standing in athletics, not only in the South, but in the country at large. Another advantage of such a move is that it would attract more football talent.

Davidson is proud of the showing her football players made on the All-State teams. Pearce and Rives were on the Charlotte Observer's All-State team. In fact, Pearce was mentioned on almost every state selection. Wagner and Rives were each on one selection. Mackorell and Willson also received recognition.

We think the choice lies between Colgate and Auburn since Pitt’s record has been somewhat marred by two ties. Auburn has faced more opposition as a rule and naturally we are hoping the bid will come to a Southern Conference team.

“CITIUS, FORTIUS, ALTIUS”

The motto of the 10th Olympiad means “Swifter, stronger, higher.” In ancient times the Greeks held the Games only for the Greeks and now the whole human race is included. The world is our field today. I heard Dr. Rufus B. von KleinSmid, president of the University of Southern California, speak this summer at a newspaper conference in which he discussed the Olympic Games and internationalism. Dr. von KleinSmid said that no nation nor people ever again will be able or desire to live an isolated existence, and that co-operation and universal good will are to be the watchwords and essence of humanity’s future progress. “When 2,000 athletes, representing every sort of nation, carry on their gruelling contests in sportsmanship and amity and plan to meet next time in Berlin four years hence,” in the opinion of the Baltimore Sun, “it seems reasonable to conclude that this is the way the human race could get along with itself all the time, if its energies and enthusiasms were enlisted by something as compelling as a dash down the cinder track or a pitch of the javelin.” The New York Times said, “Lovers of both peace and prowess found a common meeting-place and there was international amity, yet competition among the nations. There was rivalry but it was the rivalry of peace. It provided a less individual test of the strength of nations than those measured by fleets, and armies, area, population, or foreign trade.” “The rules of the athletic field,” remarked the Pasadena Star-News, “are sound and wholesome for everyday life—in business and all human relations. Honesty, honor, clean living, respect for the rights and immunities of others, good sportsmanship, in victory or in defeat; good fellowship, thoughtful consideration of others—in a word, the observance of the Golden Rule.” Undoubtedly, the best part of the Games was the fine spirit which dominated them, fostering international good will and the spread of good sportsmanship as the result of friendly international competition.
—JACK WILLIAMS, JR.

TIMES HAVE CHANGED

The changing economic conditions have wrought a great change in almost everybody today and it has not failed to leave its impress on the modern college student. The boy today who comes to college to “have a good time” doesn’t belong in college and it would save wasting his time and that of the college if he would go somewhere else. We have been too prosperous in times past to appreciate our good fortune and give things their proper rating in the scale of values. And we are now paying for placing dishonest officials in places of authority who did not discharge their duties faithfully and honestly.

It is agreed that the college student today is more serious than he was before the depression. A noted educator recently pointed out that there is a need for a more vigorous idealism in college affairs as a forerunner of an improved attitude toward public affairs. If a student does not have the courage to stand up against questionable practices in fraternity and his student activities, how can he be expected to develop courage against corruption in politics and affairs of the government?

It used to be that the campus sheik drove a sporty roadster, wore a raccoon coat and was inclined more to correct dress than to the careful studying of his lessons. But all that is a thing of the past.

Collegiate Ramblings
A. M. MANSON.

Florida
The Florida Alligator tells us that for the weekend of the Tech game twenty dances were scheduled. Day must have been turned into night in the ’Gators’ lair.

Tulane
Quoting from the Hullabaloo, Dr. Harley M. Gould, Professor of Biology at Newcomb, we read: “The Southern girls are thinner than the Northern girls, weighing on the average six pounds less for their relative height. Their chests are smaller and flatter and their hands a little narrower in proportion to their lengths. However, an observer cannot tell a Southern girl from a Northern one by these slight differences.” Oh, Yeah?

Duke
Doris Kenyon, screen star, appeared at Duke last Monday night. Miss Kenyon’s repertoire demands ten languages, including Japanese. Thus she was able to make herself well understood at Duke.

El Azhar University
Entrance requirements at El Azhar University, in Cairo, Egypt, call for a verbatim knowledge of the Koran, the Mohammedan Bible. What would a Davidson student do if he had such a requirement?

Princeton
News arrives from the Daily Princetonian that in a questionnaire sent to this year’s Freshman class, nearly all of them ask only “brains, money, and...

WORLD SPECTATOR

France is put in a peculiar position as the time approaches for the next installment on war debts to be paid. France has up to this time regulated the payment of her debts to the United States upon the amount that has been paid into the French government by her debtors. This time there have been no receipts, so France, through the Chamber of Deputies, is opposed to payment. However, France is in stable financial condition and could easily remit the debt payment, which is less than that which England is supposed to pay. England will not be required to pay all her dues on December 15 because of her present low financial condition, and France desires to be in the same status with England, even though their economic conditions are exactly opposite. Premier Herriot is opposed to the general opinion of the Chamber of Deputies, because, realizing the position...of France and her ability to pay, he wants France to meet her debts honestly and fairly. What the result of this rift between Premier and Parliament will be is not known, for if Herriot fails to have his measure passed, he automatically loses the premiership.

The Dead Sea has at last proved itself of value because of the quantities of chemicals which have been taken from that body of water recently. Starting in 1911, experimentation with the chemical content of the Dead Sea has been underway with the result that only a few days ago the first shipment of fertilizer from the Dead Sea arrived in New York. Besides valuable fertilizer materials in the form of potassium chloride, the Sea yields bromine, magnesium chloride, and sodium chloride. The method of obtaining these valuable products is by conducting the water of the Dead Sea into shallow evaporating pans, from which the tropical sun quickly drives the water, leaving the residue which is separated into its different parts.

At a luncheon in Schenectady recently, three outstanding scientists were honored by the great scientific men of that center of electrical research and manufacture. These men were: Dr. Willis R. Whitney, retiring director of the General Electric Research Laboratory; Dr. William R. Coolidge, his successor; and Dr. Irving Langmuir, an associate who has just received the 1932 Nobel Prize in Chemistry. The speaker of the meeting was the president of Union College, who spoke on behalf of the citizens of Schenectady in praise of their great scientists. All three of these men have made a name for themselves in the pages of scientific history and all have a great many rewards and medals to their credit. Dr. Langmuir, who has just received the Nobel Prize, was a prodigy. At the age of three years, he had read the Bible from cover to cover, and at the age of six, he had discovered a new chemical element. In spite of this abnormal youth, he is a well-rounded man, engaging in ski jumping and mountain climbing when he is not busy adding to the field of science.

In a recent confidential survey of the co-eds by the New York University Daily News, it was found that only 40 percent of the young ladies came to that college for an education. Another 40 percent go to N.Y.U. “because they have nothing else to do.” Fifteen percent are enrolled in order to please their parents, while five percent are students at the University to “have a good time.” Contrary to popular belief, none described her reason for enrolling as a desire to find a husband. There is no doubt that the present economic conditions have decreased the group of students who attend “because there is nothing better to do.” A similar survey of Davidson students would probably bring forth some very interesting figures.

A great aid to electrical contractors is a man-hour estimate manual recently completed by Theodore Heinzerling of New York after eleven years of observing the time required for electrical installations in 15,000 buildings. This manual gives three estimates of the time required for wiring any form of electrical connection. There are conservative, competitive, and compensative estimates giving the time under adverse conditions, the time under good conditions, and the average time. All forms of connections were observed and recorded in order to determine the mean time. This manual will be very valuable to all contractors when they prepare to give their estimates on the cost of, and time required for, the installation of electrical connections.

A Scott centenary exhibit of some of the original manuscripts of Sir Walter Scott was recently on display in the library at Columbia University. One of the manuscripts, that of “Guy Mannering,” was stolen from the exhibit and has not yet been recovered. For a while, the theft was kept a secret in the hope that the manuscript would be returned. Now the theft has been widely broadcast, and a reward of $500 has been offered if the stolen document is returned. No questions will be asked. This, it is hoped, will bring results, since the document could not be sold without attracting the attention of the police. Up to the present time, there has been no word from the thief.

Since Abraham Lincoln issued the first Thanksgiving Day proclamation, there has been only one President who has made any mention of economic troubles in the nation as he drew up the document. That President was Wilson, who in 1914, just after the outbreak of the World War, mentioned the effect of the great disaster upon the industrial affairs of the United States. All the other proclamations are of a very religious nature and are similar so that the reader of the proclamations is unable to tell from them the economic conditions of the country.