THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 27, 1932

Cameron Beck Advises Preparedness for Men Entering Into Business

Personnel Director of New York Stock Exchange Addressed Student Body Here Saturday

On Saturday morning at the chapel service, Mr. Cameron Beck, personnel director of the New York Stock Exchange, addressed the student body. The speaker was introduced by Mr. Williams, professor of business administration. Mr. Beck began his speech by saying that the America of today is not the America of five years ago. Economic conditions have caused students to think in more serious terms from cost. Mr. Beck said he came as a business executive, but if he had the opportunity to do it over he would be a teacher or a preacher. He said that this calling in life probably did more for humanity than any other. As personnel man in his firm, he said he had found out that the employees had to grow or go. If they grew it was because they were prepared; if they had to go it was on account of lack of preparedness. Rockefeller, when asked how to be a success in business, replied: “Success comes to the man that does the common things uncommonly well.” The dean of New York banks said that hard work was the surest means of success. Mr. Beck said that other failures of employees were due to the fact that they had lied on their application blanks. Seventy-five per cent of people who apply for jobs lie on their application cards. Honesty is an indispensable essential to success. We must be honest to our parents, our teachers, and to ourselves if we wish to advance. Other essentials to success, Mr. Beck said, are courtesy and cleanliness. We should always act gentlemanly and should keep tidy and clean about our person. Cleanliness, however, does not necessitate extravagant quality of clothing. Punctuality also has great influence upon success. Now is a good time to train to be punctual. In his conclusion, Mr. Beck cited that the Bible was the Great Book of Efficiency. He said a constant study of the Bible would help prepare us for success. Start thinking now, Mr. Beck said, as we must live our own lives. Have a plan, a purpose, perseverance, leadership, and the passion for right living, and we are on the right road to success. Mr. Beck concluded by saying he was issuing “a challenge to dedication of life of service to benefit of mankind.” Gardner Green, a graduate of Davidson College now in the employment of Mr. Beck's firm, was said by him to be doing very well.

“Main Street” Is Topic Of Dr. Myers’ Sermon For ‘Y’ Spring Services

Mrs. Farrell Renders Two Numbers in Song Service Led by William Rule

Dr. C. F. Myers, second speaker for the annual Spring Services, spoke on Monday night in Chambers Auditorium on the topic, “Main Street.” The song service was led by William Rule. Mrs. Farrell sang two solos, accompanied by Edward McNair. The speaker was introduced by William Rule. Dr. Myers pointed out in the first part of his sermon that he intended to speak on the truly great “main streets” of the world. He said that although there were many “main streets” in the United States and elsewhere which were important, there were such “main streets” as those which led the Pilgrims to Massachusetts. He said that the roadway of our country is filled with schools and colleges and prosperity and panic. Dr. Myers also pointed out that it is the street of contrast. At one end is found the sunset; there are people there who are making money; there is Henry Ford, who has cluttered the streets with cars, and there is the lower end where are the great masses of people. The important thing, according to Dr. Myers, is to influence the street rather than have the street influence you. Those people who live at the lower end of the street are there because the mysterious make-up of their brain keeps them there. That kind of people is not the kind which influences the other end of the street. They must move up. Through the example of Jesus, we learn how to help them to move up. In forgiving the woman who washed His feet while He was at the house of Simon, He was helping her to move up. It was then that He told His parable of the forgiven debts. Dr. Myers showed that the street is a cross-section of life. It wants many things, but it needs only one. The question to the college man is whether he will settle down to conquer sin or be conquered by sin. Little devils are easy to control, but big ones present graver problems. Success is dependability and not talent; it is moral and not mental. Dr. Myers related the inspiring story of the Japanese boy who, while still young, gave his life to his people. He, Dr. Myers, told of how Sati fell upon his sword. We are sharpening swords: to succeed we must not put them aside. We, like the youth who for the sake of his king's message sacrificed his hands, must sacrifice, if we let the message of Christ our King go through us. Dr. Myers’ sermon had been pleasantly anticipated by all the students who had heard him before, and it was not only of great interest but of much help.

Officers for Rising Soph Class Elected

Brown, Wadsworth and Weeks Are Officers Elected to Positions

During the last two weeks, beginning Thursday, April 14, the annual election of officers for the rising Sophomore class was held. Skip Brown was elected president; Joe Wadsworth, vice-president, and Kenneth Weeks, secretary-treasurer. Besides these, two men were chosen as members of the Student Council for next year, who, with the president of the class, will compose the future Sophomores on the Council. These were Duke Glasgow and Fred McPhail. In the nominations from the committee, headed by Sam Wiley, Senior head of the present Freshman class, the following were chosen for the race: For president, Skip Brown, Mims Rogers, and Walter Sprunt; for vice-president, Joe Wadsworth, Dewey Hutchins, and A. J. Potter; for secretary-treasurer, Kenneth Weeks, George Gullette, and Bob Coit. In the nominations from the floor, the following were also chosen: For president, Rufus Page; for vice-president, Jim Batte; for secretary-treasurer, Charlie Harris, Dudley Elvery, and Johnny Mackorell. In the first ballot for president, all except Skip Brown and Mims Rogers were eliminated, Brown being elected on the second. For vice-president, all except Wadsworth and Hutchins were eliminated, Wadsworth being elected on the second vote. Weeks, Gullette, and Coit survived the first cast in the race for secretary-treasurer; Weeks and Gullette, the third, and on the fourth Weeks was elected. The following were nominated for Student Council representatives: Glasgow, Fred McPhail, Dewey Hutchins, Joe Wadsworth, Billy Northern, and Teil Rogers. Glasgow, McPhail, and Hutchins remained after the first ballot and Hutchins was eliminated on the third, Glasgow and McPhail being elected. For the past year, the Freshman class has been run on a different plan. By open vote, it was decided not to elect officers for this year but to choose some upperclassman to represent them, calling all the meetings, appointing committees, etc. Sam Wiley was chosen to fill this position, this consequently giving him charge over the above elections. The newly elected officers will assume their respective duties next year.

Morgan Leads Fresh In Batting Averages

Only three members of the Freshman baseball team had an average of .300 or better after the Wildkittens’ first six games. Morgan, third baseman; Morris, first baseman, and Mackorell, shortstop, stand out as the only members who have been able to hit opposing hurlers with any degree of success. Morgan, who has played only in the Wildkittens’ home games, has possession of the leading place with five hits in ten tries for a .500 average. Morris, with 11 safeties in 23 tries, is next with an average of .478, while Mackorell, with seven hits in 22 tries, follows with .318. Mackorell and Baumgardner lead in scoring with six runs apiece, while Morris and Rogers are next with five runs each. Mackorell also has possession of first in extra base knocks with a total of 14 bases. Stolen base honors go to Morris and Rogers, who have pilfered three bases each. Freshman batting averages:

Examination Schedule--2nd Semester--Session ’31-’32

A.M. examinations begin at 9:00
P.M. examinations begin at 2:00

May

Freshman | Sophomore | Junior and Senior
A.M. | German A | German 1 | Polit. Science 4, Philosophy 2.
Fri. | | Education 2, German 2, 3, 4. | | Philosophy 1, Economics 4, Geology 1.
P.M. | Psychology 4, Polit. Science 2.
Sat. | A.M. | R. O. T. C. 1 | R. O. T. C. 2 | R. O. T. C. 3, 4 Spanish 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
P.M. | French A, 1 | French 1, 2. | French 3, 4, 5, 6. Economic Problems.
A.M. | Polit. Science 1, Education 3,
P.M. | Philosophy 3, Applied Math. 2.
Math. 1 | Math. 2 | Math. 3, 4. Sociology, English 3, 6, 8, 9.
Polit. Sc. 3, Psychology 2, Business 1
P.M.| | Geology 2, Physical Education Wed. 9 A.M. Biology 2A, | Educ. 4, Economics 2, Psychology 1. 25 P.M. | History 1 History 1 | History 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. | Business 2, Applied Math, 1. A.M. | Economics 1. Thu. | 26 P.M. Latin A, Latin 1, 2 | Latin 3, 4. Business 3, Geology 3, Astronomy. Philosophy 4. A.M. | Chemistry 1 | Chemistry 2 | Chemistry 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9. Economics 3 27 | P.M. | Physics 1 | Physics 2 | Physics 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. A.M. Biol. 2B, C, D | Biology 3, 4, 5, 6. Theory of Biology. Sat. 28 | P.M. | Bible 1 Bible 2 | Bible 5, 6. Greek 3, 4, 5, 6. Mon. | 30 | P.M. | Greek 1 | Greek 2 | A.M. Spanish A | Spanish 1 | Tue. | 31 P.M. English 1 English 2 | | | | | | | Plans Announced for Ft. McClelland Camp From June 9 to July 20 the annual summer camp for advanced R.O.T.C. will be held at Fort McClelland, which is seven miles from Anniston, Alabama. This fort is a regular army post now occupied by a regiment of anti-aircraft post artillery, as the camp contains a large aviation field. Colonel Scott, head of the Davidson R.O.T.C. unit, is to be again in charge of this six-week session. Captain Blanton and Captain Seifert, both officers with Colonel Scott here, are to be there as staff officers. At this session, there are to be eight hundred students representing the R.O.T.C. units in the colleges of Southeastern United States, of which 30 will be from Davidson. The work taken there will be entirely practical in contrast to the theoretical course as taught here. The main items to be considered are: Physical training, first aid, hygiene, military administration, military supply, drill and command, combat principles, marksmanship with rifles, machine guns, and howitzer weapons, ending with a practice march and an overnight maneuver camp. On the rifle marksmanship training, a week will be spent. In addition to the regular R.O.T.C. training, organized athletics will be held in the camp, such as baseball, boxing, swimming, track and field events, and rifle matches. Vesper Advance Next Sunday evening at “Y” vespers, Allan Frew will make the address. His talk is anticipated with a great deal of interest because the speaker has always been very closely connected with Davidson College. He graduated from the college in the class of 1930. While here he held several honors, some being: membership in O.D.K., membership in the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, president of his Freshman class, and a state winner and national third place in the National American Legion oratorical contest. Frew is now pastor of the “Church by the Side of the Road” in Greensboro, N.C., although he has not yet attended theological seminary. He hopes, however, to do so later. Player Ab R lbh 2bh 3bh Hr Pet. Morgan 10 4 3 0 1 1 .500 Morris 23 7 7 0 2 1 1 .478 Mackorell 22 6 3 1 1 2 .318 Weeks 15 4 2 1 1 0 .267 Rogers 27 7 7 1 0 .259 Harris 19 4 2 0 0 0 .231 Wingfield 13 2 1 0 0 0 .231 Lessem 5 1 1 0 0 0 .200 Baumeg’dner 27 6 4 0 0 0 .148 Ravanel 18 3 2 0 0 0 .111 Burns 20 3 1 0 0 0 .050 Keith 1 0 0 0 0 0 .000 Wilkes 1 0 0 0 0 0 .000 Becher 3 0 0 0 0 0 .000 Koenig 4 0 0 0 0 0 .000 Everett 5 1 0 0 0 0 .000 Ashton 7 0 0 0 0 0 .000 Totals 216 43 33 6 5 5 Team batting: .227. NORTHERN PREP SCHOOL (Continued from page 4) Present student body. Four have come from Southern States, and nine from those in the North and Middle West. Kappa Sigmas Down Kappa Alpha Outfit The annual spring baseball elimination tournament among the ten Greek letter social fraternities at Davidson began last Thursday with a game between the Kappa Sigmas and Kappa Alphas in which the former romped over the latter by a 15-2 score. Bennet Moseley is captain of the Kappa Sigma team, while Everett Hall leads the Kappa Alphas. On every afternoon when the Freshman field is available the teams will have tilts to finally decide which fraternity excels on the diamond. The next match will be between the Theta Upsilon Omegas and the Beta Theta Pis. The order of the other games will be: Phi Delta Theta vs. Phi Gamma Delta; Sigma Phi Epsilon vs. Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and Pi Kappa Phi vs. Pi Kappa Alpha. Members of all the teams have donned the old gloves and have been working earnestly and diligently for several weeks, and keen competition is expected from all sides. Several of the clubs already show promise of being flashy teams. At a recent meeting of the Reporters’ Club held Tuesday night, April 19, the officers for the coming year were elected and the new members were initiated. The meeting was opened by the president, who proceeded with the initiation ceremony. After this, the floor was opened for the nomination of officers. J.E. Lake, of Atlanta, Ga., was elected president; L.S. Gamble, Greenville, Miss., was elected vice-president, and Lewis Gregg, of Ranger, Texas, was elected to the secretaryship. The retiring officers were A.H. Whitehead, president; J.E. Lake, vice-president, and W.F. Mulliss, secretary-treasurer. Complete Service for School Publications Catalogs New Books Queen City Printing Co. Charlotte, N.C. Presbyterian Freshmen Win Meet From ’Kittens Visitors Cop Nine Firsts to Pile Up Commanding Lead Tuesday, April 19, the Freshman track team of Presbyterian College met and defeated the Davidson Wildkittens, at Davidson. The Freshmen of P.C. had an exceptionally strong team, which was proved by the fact that the score was 81-36. The visitors won nine out of the thirteen first places and had shutouts in two events, taking all three places in the javelin throw and the broad jump. Carothers led the scoring for the visitors with 17 points, while Potter came first for the Wildkittens with one first and one second for eight points. The results: 100-yard dash—Yearout, P.C., first; McElreath, P.C., Hufford, D. Time: 10.5 seconds. Mile run—McFadyen, D., first; John, P.C., McDuffie, P.C. Time: 4:59.9. 220-yard dash—Yearout, P.C., first; McElreath, P.C., Hufford, D. Time: 23.3. 120-yard high hurdles—Dulin, D., first; Waldrop, P.C., Harris, D. Time: 17. 440-yard run—Clarke, P.C., first; Yearout, P.C., Glasgow, D. Time: 52.6. 220-yard low hurdles—Carothers, P.C., first; Perrin, P.C., Hufford, D. Time: 28. 880-yard run—Clarke, P.C., first; Rose, D., Dulin, D. Time: 2:9.3. Shot put—Potter, D., first; Reeder, P.C., McCaskill, P.C. Distance: 37 feet 4 inches. Discus throw—Reeder, P.C., first; Potter, D., West, D. Distance: 113 feet 7 inches. Javelin throw—Reeder, P.C., first; Carothers, P.C., McElreath, P.C. Distance: 152 feet 4 inches. Pole vault—Underwood, P.C., and Carothers, P.C., tied for first; West, D. Height: 10 feet 9 inches. High jump—Harris, D., first; Clarke, P.C. and McIlwinen, D., tied. Height: 5 feet 6 inches. Broad jump—Carothers, P.C., first; Underwood, P.C., McCaskill, P.C. Distance: 19 feet. JUSTIFIED PRIDE (Continued from page 4) continued their studies in other institutions, and following their record throughout would give you an exalted feeling that you are a Davidson alumnus. Review almost any professional field, or tarry a while in any community in which there is a centralized body of Davidson men, and you would leave there with tears of joy in your eyes and a warmer glow in your heart that you are a Davidson man and are a part of that great body of men who have left the walls of this institution firmly determined that their life shall not have been lived in vain. What a massive portfolio it would be were an exhaustive account prepared on the life of each man; if each activity he participates in were listed, each office he has ever held in any body! A minute study of this would be revealing, it would be enthralling, it would be inspirational. And such a review would be fully convincing that Davidson is justified in her pride, a pride that sometimes may seem boastful to those unfamiliar with the records, but which nevertheless is backed up by fact. Omission Through an error last week the names of three men were omitted from the list of the members of the new “Y” Cabinet. These men are: Bob McCallie, in charge of the weekly meetings; Charlie Moore, in charge of attendance, and Edward McNair, who will have charge of the music. Four Out of Five College Men Visit Our Shop Beyond the Bank Johnson’s Barber Shop NORTON’S BARBER SHOP Davidson Men Are Invited To Visit Our Shop Prompt Service The New York Hospital School of Nursing DIRECTOR OF THE SCHOOL 1300 York Avenue New York City