NS THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN, Editor-in-Chief
P. M. CONWAY, Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. O. GUERRANT, Managing Editor
D. D. McBRYDE, Managing Editor
R. L. McCALLIE, Managing Editor
C. F. MYERS, Managing Editor
Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENSON, Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLIN, Feature Editor
Review Editor
Exchange Editor
C. C. DWELLE, JR., Associate Editor
Associate Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS, Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. M., Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE, Assistant Business Manager
W. WHITTED, Assistant Business Manager
C. MORROW, Subscription Manager
W. JOHNSON, Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
A. H. MANSON, Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
H. WHITEHEAD, President
Vice-President
Secretary-Treasurer
F. MULLISS
E. LAKE
R. H. ALDERMAN
H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR
S. GAMBLE
G. E. BAILEY
E. LORRAINE
E. BOYD
L. POWELL
P. PRESTON
PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
A. F. SCHENCK
O. CASALI
M. THOMPSON
L. W. WILLIAMS
W. T. THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAM
J. A. HUNTER

FEBRUARY 24, 1932

“Do the duty which lies nearest thee, which thou knowest to be a duty, thy second duty will have become
clearer.”—T. Carlyle.

PARAGRAPHICS

If some of the backs show up as well next fall as they have in the scrimmages this spring, we
should have a powerful and also very fleet backfield for Coach McEver to work with. Mills, Flinn, and Fleagle did
exceptionally fine work in the last scrimmage.

These talks on Washington which we have been hearing during the past two or three weeks from members of our
faculty and others have been very illuminating as well as interesting and entertaining.

Now that basketball and wrestling seasons have drawn to a close, we can turn our thoughts to the spring sports,
Junior Speaking, and Spring Holidays.

We were indeed fortunate in securing such a man as Dr. C. Darby Fulton to be with us for two
days last week. Besides being a forceful speaker, he had many ideas which he presented to us that many in
our student body were unfamiliar with.

The cold weather this winter seems to have changed places with the warm. While the East has had one of
the warmest winters in recent years, the West has had the coldest one on record. Many trains have been snowbound
for days in the Rocky Mountain States, and snow has fallen almost to the Mexican border in California.

DAVIDSON—WAKE FOREST

Augustus Thomas, in one of his plays, deals at length with the story of a man who would lose all
sense of propriety at the sight of a certain tie pin having the figure of a cat’s eye as its
head. Upon seeing the cat’s eye, the man would immediately become insanely angry and absolutely irresponsible for his actions, upon
one occasion actually stabbing another man with a knife. The author goes on to show by action of the play,
how the man ultimately learned to control himself, how the cat’s eye ceased to affect him, and how he became
a better man by virtue of this victory over himself.

To draw a practical application from this story, one must avoid all subtle and veiled references, using only concrete facts.
Plainly speaking, it seems that such a condition as the above exists in some of the sports relations between Davidson
and Wake Forest, not to the extent, however, that such drastic results should occur. In part the situation is this:
For the past eleven years Davidson has not beaten Wake Forest at football. Because of this fact, an unnatural atmosphere
has been stimulated in which the desire to beat Wake Forest has been paramount, not only in football but in
other sports as well. And this desire, though characterized on the whole by a spirit of friendly competition, has been
distorted because of previous consistent defeats, giving rise to a situation similar to the one described in the above story.
In effect, this situation is one comparable to that aroused by waving a red flag before an angry bull. Upon
seeing the red flag, the bull plunges; upon seeing the cat’s eye, the man became enraged. Thus with Davidson-Wake Forest
contests. Wake Forest seems to represent the red flag and the cat’s eye. In the mad struggle for victory, it
seems that all sense of co-operation vanishes, resulting in an organization of individuals hopelessly disunited. Self-control must be preserved.

-B. B. Sugg, Jr.

A PRECIOUS HERITAGE

While war clouds loom and envelop the Orient, and economic disorders harass the rest of the world; while lawlessness runs
rampant; and our very religion seems all but uprooted not only by bolshevism, atheism and foreign elements, but even by
some of our leading scientific minds of the present day—there comes to us a sudden calm, and a chance to
reflect. From across two hundred years there comes a voice—from one who was and still is, “first in the hearts
of his countrymen.” From the president to the farm hand, from border to border of these United States, a nationwide
realization, of a most precious heritage, is taking place. And with thoughtful hearts we pause to commemorate the birth of
this great man, this great benefactor, this voice of two centuries ago that speaks to our troubled hearts—this Washington.

Consider him as gentleman, scholar, soldier, or statesman, though we may, this four-square embodiment of a nation’s precepts must still
be looked to for guidance, and still towers among, if not above, the greatest influences that have ever been felt
among our people: as a gentleman, humble; as a scholar, steeped in wisdom and foresight; as a soldier, patient and
enduring; as a statesman, diplomatic and resourceful, and, added to these, a Christian in the fullest sense, whose life, unspotted
from the world, so embodied his faith that we can well hope that his ways may be our ways, and
his God our God.

Then the question comes, “Can we apply any of this to present-day conditions? Of what value to us is this
review of the life of such a man? What is the XXth Century significance of this bicentennial celebration?” Some may
consider our idea Utopian, yet why should this pause for reflection, this retrospect into the existence of one of the
greatest personalities that has permeated our national thought—why should it not have a great significance, as well as a practical
value? Coming at the time it does, this commemoration should be most beneficial. When one hundred and twenty million people
(our population today) turn with one accord to consider the merits of one of its greatest leaders, can we not
with reason expect favorable results of a practical nature? A new patriotism—a return from our materialistic, mechanistic chaos—a return from
lawlessness to adherence to “civil rules for conduct”—a new foreign policy that should help us better to adjust ourselves to
the Sino-Japanese affair, and other disturbances in foreign areas—a new conception of the values of life and happiness—more worship of
the Almighty God, and less of the Almighty Dollar!

—Duncan McBryde.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

V. M. I.

The Cadets will have a new commandant for next year, Major John Magruder will succeed Colonel Dodson, who is the
present commandant. He will take charge August 1, 1932. Major Magruder is a graduate of V. M. I., and son
of Major William Magruder of the Confederate Army. According to the V. M. I. paper, and other papers, General Summerall
has resigned as president of The Citadel. However, he has been asked to reconsider his action.

Tennessee

The Volunteers will have a new gymnasium next year, which will include a swimming pool, perhaps the largest enclosed pool
in the South, a solarium for artificial sunbaths by use of violet rays, an auditorium for both stage productions and
basketball games, with a seating capacity of 3,800; also there will be several handball courts and some practice tennis walls
for the classes in tennis. From The Orange and White, the Tennessee paper, we quote the following excerpts on our
new backfield coach, Gene McEver, from the February 5th edition:

“Eugene Tucker McEver, Tennessee’s immortal Bristol Blizzard, will say adieu to his beloved Alma Mater this week and go out
to make a name for himself in the coaching world.

“The famous Vol All-American, one of the greatest players ever to tread Dixie gridiron soil, has been named backfield coach
at Davidson College.

“Major Neyland said Davidson College is to be congratulated on signing one of the smartest players it has ever been
his privilege to coach.

“The signing of McEver is just another name to the long list of players being sent into the coaching world
each year by Neyland. The system of football used at Tennessee can stand on its merits and every institution in
the South is naturally eager to grab Neyland pupils. Davidson could not have made a better selection.”

Agnes Scott

Dr. Charles F. Myers, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church ofGreensboro and well known to Davidson, having spoken here several
times in the past, will be the baccalaureate speaker at Agnes Scott’s commencement exercises this year. The Junior class’ choice
for the name of the paper was The Tom-Tommer, News Crier of the Hottentots. Four members of the Senior class
were elected to Phi Beta Kappa at Agnes Scott: They were Penelope Brown, Susan Glenn, Saxon Pope, and Miriam Thompson,
N. C. C. W. This Greensboro college had the privilege last night of hearing Sylvia Thompson, internationally famous English novelist
and short story writer. She spoke on the subject, “The European Novelist’s Workshop.”

“Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings...”
Duncan McBryde

QUESTION AND ANSWER DEPARTMENT

Dear Dorothy Diggs:
I am a student at Dismal (Swamp) College. (It rains here almost continually.) And I have a girl that goes
to Cream-Chicory Institute. But she says I no longer carry any interest (but how can I, when the bank fails?).
She says I have no imagination. Will you tell me what I should do—something that will bring back those Pepsodent
smiles, and draw us together again? She keeps saying something about Ennui, but I don’t know who he is. I
have asked her to reconsider, but she is obtuse. And, being a timid soul, I hesitate to press her for
an answer. Possibly you may be able to give me some set of rules for handling women.
Anxious Alex.

My Dear Alex:
You ought to advertise yourself. Doing any business without advertising is like winking at a girl in the dark. You
know what you are doing, but nobody else does. I will give you a set of rules entitled:
Why Not Handle a Woman Electrically?
If she is willing to come half-way—Meter.
If she will come all the way—Receiver.
If she wants to go still further—Dispatcher.
If she gets too excited—Controller.
If she talks too long—Interrupter.
If her way of thinking is not yours—Converter.
If she picks your pockets—Detector.
If she sings badly—Tuner.
If she wants candy—Feeder.
If she gossips too much—Regulator.
If she is wrong—Rectifier.

After putting this into practice, write her some poetry. If she is still living, let me know. I suggest something
like this:

SIBYL QUIBBLE

Sibyl, please don’t think that this
Is just a lot of idle verse;
Or that I don't mean what I say—
Please think just the reverse.
Since I have known your friendship dear,
I can in all truth say
That life has meant much more to me:
How can I e’er repay?
Beauty is made to be admired,
Grace to be adored;
So for my part I'll cherish these,
Which in your heart are stored.
I'll ever love, admire, adore
The one who's all to me;
And dimly hope that as I love,
I may be loved by thee.
(Gee whizz, I’m hoping this attempt
Will help draw me to you—
At any rate I’m going to close,
And with this thought I’m thru.)

Remember, Alex, a man should always chase a woman until she catches him. And faint praise never won fair lady.
Courtship, you must bear in mind, is the period during which the girl decides whether or not she can do
any better. And, by the way, Alex, if by next week you haven't committed suicide, write us how you came
out (by the front, or back door).

MISSING LINKS (or, Thoughts While Listening to a Lecture)

“Filler up,” cried the motorist to the waiter as he dined with his sweetie. Contemporary.

Thought: “My girl is the luckiest person in restaurants! She’s always finding money under plates.”—Arnold (Constance) Pate.

(Suggested motto for some of these expensive humorous magazines): “Laugh and grow flat.”

We see where the infant king of Rumania studies ardently while he rules his country. We might say—“When it reigns
it pores.”

(For a plastic surgeon): “We maim to please.”

We agree with the man who says that it’s the mink in the closet that is responsible for the wolf
at the door.

We think these new black-tipped cigarettes on the market ought to be called “Widows’ Weeds.”

That advertising slogan—“DRINK CANADA DRY”—reminds us of something that the United States is trying mighty hard to do.

A FOOL AND HIS FLIVVER ARE SOON CARTED!

When better records are made, Davidson athletes will break them.

DES ENTREFILETS

Since the collapse of the stock market in the fall of 1929 there has been much agitation in regard to
short selling. At present there is a House Judiciary Sub-Committee conducting hearings on the subject and the advisability of legislation
restricting short selling. For the last two years Richard Whitney, president of the New York Stock Exchange, has been defending
its practice. The first restriction on short selling of any importance was made by the governors of the New York
Stock Exchange last Friday. By this new ruling, after April 1, 1932, all member firms will be required to obtain
the express consent of customers before their stock can be lent to protect commitments on the down side of the
market. The rule states that the right to lend a customer’s securities “shall be evidenced by a separate authorization.” At
present there is some doubt in the minds of members whether this specific permission shall have to be obtained for
each individual lot of stock or whether a single written authority will be sufficient in the case of each customer.
This ruling was the first time the authorities of the stock exchange had taken cognizance of what is perhaps the
most persistent objection on the part of critics of short selling—that brokers, under blanket authority given to them by margin
customers, are permitted to lend to shorts stock that was bought in hope of an advance in prices and thus
depress the price of the stock. It has been contended that the stock of margin holders is, therefore, a weapon
to be turned against them. Under this new ruling bears will find it difficult to enter large-scale operations because holders
of stock will not readily give permission for the use of their stock as a means of depressing the price.
It has been estimated that, unless a way is discovered to get around the new rule, short selling operations will
be cut down about 50 per cent.

The first tabulation of the 1932 Literary Digest nationwide prohibition poll shows the country to be 84 per cent in
favor of repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment. The figures were 272,265 votes for repeal and 51,285 votes for continuance of
the prohibition amendment. New York’s figures are the wettest of the eight states included in the first tabulation and show
87 per cent in favor of repeal. The other states in order of the vote for repeal were: Illinois, 85
per cent; Maryland, 83 per cent; Virginia, 73 per cent; Ohio, 71 per cent; Georgia, 68 per cent; Indiana, 64
per cent; North Carolina, 49 per cent. This announcement did not include many states which are reputably dry but it
stated that heavy voting was beginning in these states. The poll held by the Literary Digest in 1930 showed about
40 per cent urging repeal, 29 per cent advocating moderation, and about 30 per cent for enforcement. A smaller poll
held in 1922 showed by the returns of the first tally that in that year there were 32,445 in favor
of strict enforcement, 39,665 in favor of moderation, and 22,547 for repeal. The figures for five cities in the 1932
poll were made known in the Literary Digest announcement. Their vote was as follows: Savannah, Ga., 213 for continuance and
987 for repeal; Winston-Salem, N. C., 535 for continuance and 528 for repeal; Indianapolis, Ind., 2,966 for continuance and 11,571
for repeal; Bangor, Me., 233 for continuance and 777 for repeal; Oklahoma City, Okla., 1,115 for continuance and 1,810 for
repeal.

Frederick Tolman Jr., a Pittsburgh booster of “Garner for President,” is planning something novel in the way of spreading political
propaganda. “Garner for President” will be emblazoned across Pennsylvania on the backs of horses ridden by impersonators of Paul Revere.
“When clubs have been organized throughout the state,” he stated, “riders will visit every country community and town, and when
the Democratic convention is held in Chicago we will all take our horses to the Windy City to pull for
Garner.”

Two farmers of Rutherford County, North Carolina, of the same name, age, and church denomination, died on the same day
and were buried at the same hour. They were not related and did not know each other. Both were named
William Thomas Blanton. They died February 5 and were buried the next day twelve miles apart. One lived near Ellenboro
and the other near Kistler’s Chapel.

A watchmaker of Geneva, Georges Pellaton, has invented, and succeeded in putting on the market, an electric watch of the
size of an ordinary watch. This invention is the result of twelve years of experiment. He invented an accumulator small
enough to fit in the watch and which will operate the watch for one year. When the charge expires it
can be recharged with an ordinary wireless set.

Jimmy, the office boy, says he has eaten three yeast cakes but hasn’t gotten a raise yet.

Then there’s the absent-minded farm hen who ate with his fork.

“I call my dog Jason because he is always looking for fleece.”

And we will close with the definition of a dachshund. A dachshund is half a dog high by a dog
and a half long!

Well, as the elderly single lady said, “AH, MEN.”
