THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly
“For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

DeGRID AMAR LEN ........................................ Editor-in-Chief
P. M. CONWAY .............................................. Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
B. F. GURRAN .............................................. Managing Editor
D. D. McBRYDE ............................................. Managing Editor
R. S. OWEN .................................................... Managing Editor
C. F. MYERS .................................................. Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG .................................................... Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENSON .................................... Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLIN ........................................ Feature Editor
H. S. OWEN ................................................... Review Editor
V. W. WILLIAMS .......................................... Exchange Editor
B. G. WILLIAMS ........................................... Associate Editor
W. S. WATSON .............................................. Associate Editor
W. S. MAIDEN ............................................... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. SMITH ................................................. Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE .............................................. Assistant Business Manager
J. W. WHITTED .......................................... Assistant Business Manager
W. R. MORROW ........................................... Subscription Manager
W. C. ROBINSON .......................................... Solicitor
F. M. TINNIN ................................................ Solicitor
H. B. WOOTTON .......................................... Solicitor
ASHMAN ......................................................... Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
A. H. COWHERD .......................................... President
J. W. WALKER ............................................. Vice-President
W. R. McMULLAN ....................................... Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR
L. S. GAMBLE
G. E. BAILEY
R. E. LORRAINE
J. E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
S. P. PRESTON
R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
A. F. SCHENCK
O. CASALI
W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. CLARDY, JR.
W. T. THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAMS
J. A. HUNTER

FEBRUARY 17, 1932

Honor lies in honest toil—Grover Cleveland.

PARAGRAPHICS

The new coaches, to all appearances, are getting right down to work with the business before them. This “start-right-in” attitude
is to be commended. And to live up to the reputation that has been made by Younger and Tilson they
will find it necessary to keep right on going in much the same manner.

Interest in the practices in football thus far is encouraging. It shows that the student body is behind the new
coaches and that the men in the student body will give them their support.

One need only read a copy of the “Buccaneer” of Carolina, or any other similar humorous college publication, to realize
fully the value of the two-year-old “Yowl.” The gratitude of the student body is due the editor and his staff.

Scales certainly added to the honor of “Old Rumple” Sunday night by having the “Janitors’ Quartet” at Vespers. The student
body seems to like this type of feature at the services.

Coach Laird’s first season as coach of the varsity basketball quint has been practically beyond reproach thus far. Starting with
poor material, he has succeeded in building up a team which has improved as the season has gone by.

The winter sports close their schedules within the next few weeks. Track, baseball, tennis, and golf will be open to
any and all aspiring candidates.

Last year while Don King was being inaugurated as President of Davidson’s efficient student government his raincoat was “accidentally” taken.
Thursday, while representing Davidson at a student government meeting in Knoxville, another raincoat was stolen from him. This time, however,
he had a hat, gloves, and the keys to his automobile taken.

OUR COUNTRY’S FATHER

Led by Congressman “Sol” Bloom of California, who is the Chairman of the House’s Committee established for the purpose, the
nation celebrates from February 22 to Thanksgiving Day the two hundredth anniversary of the birth of its savior, its first
President, its most glorious character, George Washington.

Hundreds of biographies of this great character have been written, numerous paintings and statues of him have been made; his
life has been told in such detail in so many American histories that he is probably the most well-known character
in American history. Both praise and reproof have fallen to his lot. By far the majority of the biographers of
Washington have depicted him as the great character that he undoubtedly was. Others, seeking to make their works sensational and
popular, have attempted to discredit the work of this great figure, to show that all his work was for personal
glory, to prove that his character was base, and finally to prevent that honor and esteem which true Americans give
to the “Father of Our Country.” But they have failed to formulate any such opinion among the people of the
United States, who can see clearly the lasting results of the work of a man who gave himself so unselfishly
to the service of his country.

Great preparations have been made by the Bloom Committee. Throughout the country local committees, newspapers, educators, and others are planning
celebrations in honor of Washington. At several places throughout the nation there are to be great festivals in his honor.
The authorities at Davidson have offered as their share of the “Bi-Centennial Celebration.”

A TRUE WILDCAT SPIRIT

Many people, seeing the heading to this editorial attempt, will probably say as did Madame Roland, the French Revolution heroine
who was guillotined, “O Liberty, the crimes that are committed in thy name!” And it is true that a good
percentage of the editorials that have been written by enterprising collegiate editors have been in some way concerned with the
subject, “College Spirit.” Yet we cannot help feeling that all this seemingly useless work is done in good faith and
for a good cause. A school which can truthfully say, “We have a fine school spirit,” really has something of
which it can be justly proud; it has something which few institutions may claim as their own. So any effort
on the part of editorial writers to further this cause is not entirely in vain if it promotes even in
a small way the spirit of the school.

The writer recently had the opportunity of seeing on exhibit the spirit as shown at athletic contests of the three
largest “Big Five” schools. Regretfully we say that it was not what we would classify as an ideal spirit. Of
course there were outsiders at the games and they undoubtedly contributed to the general appearance of the crowd; but the
student bodies of the schools themselves made up the greater part of the spectators. Their attitude toward the referee and
their actions with regard to the visiting team were hardly up to the standard to be expected from these schools.
This is not a criticism of the spirit of these schools; they evidently count it only a small matter. It
is brought out only to show one way in which a college spirit may manifest itself very clearly to a
visitor. And we do not by any means claim that Davidson is innocent of such a charge; but rather would
we plead that she endeavor in every instance to make herself more ideal in this respect.

There is a “Sportsman’s Code” in the back of the “Y” Handbook, but it is hardly necessary because men instinctively
know what is the correct thing to do. They know what a true sportsman would do under the same circumstances.
So let us make another plea for the uplifting of that spirit for which this institution has long been famous,
for actions on the part of the student body which will show outsiders that we keep and will maintain such
a spirit.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Agnes Scott

Recently there was held a contest at this old Southern institution to change the name of their paper, The Agonistic.
This was carried on because when mail was sent to the paper it was addressed sometimes to The Agnostic, which
means “a know-nothing”! The paper had the name of The Scott Scroll for a trial issue this past week.

Miss Caree Lingle, daughter of our president, Dr. W. L. Lingle, won the title of “Miss Health” for 1932 at
this Decatur institution in a contest recently held there.

Two distinguished speakers have been to Agnes Scott recently, Dr. Will Durant, well-known writer and speaker, who lectured on “The
American Crisis,” and Dr. Frank Crossley Morgan, of Augusta, Ga., and son of the famous Dr. G. Campbell Morgan, who
conducted a week of religious services there.

Washington and Lee

Twenty men were tapped by Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity, last Wednesday; seventeen were undergraduates, two alumni, and one
member of the faculty. The speaker for the assembly was Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, president of Washington and Lee University,
who was tapped here at Davidson while he was president of Wake Forest.

Clemson

On February 26, at Clemson, there will be held a Bowery Ball, probably similar to the Davidson Bowery Ball. Fred
Hamilton and his Florida Collegians will furnish the music.

Salem

The Salemite published a list of the old Salem Academy Rules, quite funny beside the present day rules. The Old
Salem Academy Rules are as follows:

1. Baths can be taken only by special permission and at times indicated by the teachers.
2. During the day the sleeping apartments are not to be visited by the scholars.
3. From breakfast to 8 A.M., the pupils are to remain in their rooms and devote the time to study
and to preparation for recitation hours.
4. The strictest order is to be observed in the Embroidery Room.
5. During recess and recreation hours, all boisterous plays and games, rudeness and unladylike conduct must be avoided.
6. When walking out, the pupils are never to stay out of sight or hearing of the teacher.
7. Standing in crowds at the front doors, leaning out of windows in an unbecoming manner, and especially rude or
loud talking at such localities, are entirely prohibited.

These rules were in effect in 1772, just before theAmerican Revolution. Talks at the chapel exercises during the past several
weeks on the various phases of the life and character of George Washington. The student body has been given an
insight into the life of Washington as exhibited by him in several different phases of life. These talks have proved
most interesting and informative to the student body and comprise a part of the nation-wide program of honoring Washington.

“Of Ships & Shoes— & Sealing Wax— Of Cabbages & Kings...”
Duncan McBryde

MILLINERY TRAINING

ROTC, in the eyes of the grammarian, would probably be an indefinite article. This (I’m not referring to the indefinite
article) is a great mistake. It is the science of Major Conflicts. And the Major is a fine fellow. Perhaps
the professor of Logic would reason: “ROTC is a study of WAR, EVANS AS Asien eek HELE: “Therefore ROTC is...
well, figure it out for yourself.

But this millinery training is not so bad (even though the little boy did say that it was “rotten to
the Corps”). It is a lot of fun (for the reviewing officer). They are always asking the fellows to PASS
IN REVIEW, but they can’t even pass muster. Once a boy passed, though, and that’s where we get the expression,
“I shall not pass this way again.”

I would like to dedicate the following little quatrain to ROTC, since it deals with a veteran, not only of
many wars, but of ROTC, as well!

BEN BATTLE

BEN BATTLE WAS A SOLDIER BOLD, AND USED TO WAR'S ALARMS; BUT A CANNON BALL TOOK OFF HIS LEGS, SO
HE LAID DOWN HIS ARMS.

“NEVERMORE” QUOTH BRAVE BEN BATTLE, AS HE TRIPPED DOWN TO THE SEA; “I’M THRU WITH THE PRATTLE OF BATTLE AND
SADDLE, AND THE SAME GOES FOR R. O. T. C.!”

But after all’s read and flung (into the wastebasket), ROTC is interesting. The drills bring out interesting facts. That is,
if you drill deeply enough. Some of these facts brought out in drill are as much as six feet tall,
broad-shouldered, and very amiable (meaning they have pretty good aim).

An ROTC drill is a test of your manliness. If you can go through a whole drill period without asking
the man behind you to stop stepping all over your feet, and the man in front of you to stop
cracking you in the head with his rifle, you’re a real soldier. And if you're a real soldier, you'll join
in with good spirit, and step on the man’s feet in front of you, and crack the fellow behind you
in the head with your rifle. This is called esprit de corps.

One of the things you have to learn to do is to execute SQUADS EAST and SQUADS WEST. Usually, the
execution of these is like most any other public execution, which you may have witnessed. They used to use this
command, SQUADS EAST and SQUADS WEST in Horace Greeley’s day. One day when he was drilling a platoon of men,
forgetting the correct command, he bawled out: GO WEST, YOUNG MEN, GO WEST! That boner made him famous.

And while we're on the subject of boners, let me tell you one that Carl Pritchett told me: Several years
ago, when a certain captain was giving an ROTC student his practical test, he asked him, among other questions: “Where
is the balance of your rifle?” And the poor, nonplussed student replied, meekly: “I don't know, sir. This is all
they gave me.”

Which is about as bad as the man this year on his ROTC exam, who was describing how to execute
ABOUT FACE. He said that to do this you place your right foot six inches to the rear, and turn
about on the palm of your left foot.

And then there was the Davidson student who, when asked if he were going to major in ROTC, replied: “No,
if I get to be a captain, that will suit me o.k.”

These are not RANK jokes, but simply what an aviator might call a “take-off.” One of the great men that
we hear a lot about in ROTC is a famous Frenchman: “Count De Cadence.” But he is not so well
liked, for whenever his name is called out, the boys—who must have their fun—begin “counting” at the top of their
voices in derision. (Though I never did know derision why.)

FILOSOPHY OF FREDDY THE FROSH: “I used to think that the Saint Louis Cardinals were appointed by the Pope.”

As Dr. MacConnell said when he inserted the hypodermic needle in the boy’s arm, “I think this has gone far
enough.” That’s what I think about this column. But I promise you I'll close after just a few more remarks
on the general subject of WAR, which some students are so dumb as to think that it is a subject
closely allied to ROTC.

Students will profit by the example of a Chinese general, who ordered that none of his soldiers marry until the
end of the war. He was right. One war at a time is enough. Did you hear about one of
our would-be-war-minded students, who said that he had quite a war record? He went over to Charlotte and bought “Over
There” for his phonograph.

But war is not worth all that it has cracked up. The wages of war is debt, as the old
saying goes. All the world needs is an agreement not to have any more wars until the old ones are
paid for. The last war was fought to end all wars; The next war will be fought to end all
debts. Few war-time atrocities are remembered, but occasionally you hear a fragment of French with a West Virginia accent!

Anyway, another thing against war is that it seldom, if ever, kills off the right people.

THE ARMISTICE IS SIGNED! I'VE QUIT. WAKE UP! THE WAR’S OVER.

What Do You Think?

The world needs everything except a pestilence, a famine, and a war, but if war comes, the others will follow
in short order. A general war of the powers would lead to cannibalism in Paris, London, Berlin, Rome, Tokyo, within
two years. The last war destroyed so much of the world’s wealth that the world economic structure has not yet
been able to rebound. The World War is the primary and principal cause of the universal depression thirteen years after
the Armistice. The simple fact is that modern war destroys wealth at a greater ratio than the wars of other
days did. A war of the powers now would destroy wealth more rapidly than the one which began in 1914.
A generation hence a war of powers would be more destructive of all powers and values than any which has
gone before. There is not a respectable economist on earth today who does not believe that a general war at
this time would be ruinous to civilization. A war between Japan and another power of the first rank would be
a catastrophe to both countries and highly injurious to all others, even granting that there might be a temporary increase
in the price of such basic commodities as cotton, meat, grain, and metals. Why? Because in war these basic commodities
are bought on credit and have to be paid for years after when the earning power of taxpayers is reduced,
and because of the sheer waste of materials that occurs with the firing of every gun.

The world does not need another war to revive business. What it does need is a hundred years of unbroken
peace. The time has passed when the world can pay for war.

Accidents will happen, but Detroit traffic experts say there is no excuse for them, after making a detailed analysis of
10,118 injuries and deaths in 1931. The analysis showed a great majority of the accidents occurred in daylight hours on
normal, dry streets in clear weather. Not one of the 330 persons killed last year died as a result of
an obstacle or defect in the road, and only twelve were killed because of snowy, icy streets. Other facts brought
out by the analysis were: 138 killed during daylight hours, 17 killed where artificial light was used; most dangerous hour
of day was 7 P.M. to 8 P.M., when 37 were killed and 922 injured; most dangerous weekday was Saturday,
with 57 dead and 1,746 hurt; accidents at intersections caused fewer deaths than those along the streets, and of the
motorists involved in fatal accidents, 263 were male and 17 female.

Business men’s art clubs, a rapidly growing cultural phenomenon in the larger American cities, had their origin in Chicago, according
to Karl Buehr of the Art Institute. Now in twenty cities, the tired business man with a secret yearning for
the brush, pen, or pencil, has an opportunity to exercise his artistic urge during his leisure hours. In 1920 Mr.
Buehr had a business men’s class for men who had taken up art as a hobby. They found relaxation in
the evenings drawing and painting, with occasional sketching trips into the country. Mr. Buehr suggested that a permanent organization be
formed. Eighteen men became charter members with Elbert G. Drew, a telephone company official, as president. The organization now boasts
115 members.

Life is just two steps ahead of everybody else for William H. Sweet, of Centralia, Washington, recently named Rhodes Scholar.
At 2½ he could repeat whole passages from children’s books after he had heard them two or three times. At
5 he was a student of United States History. At 10 he had finished the eighth grade. At 11 he
decided to follow his father, Dr. Paul W. Sweet, as a surgeon, and at 12 was a second assistant to
his father in performing operations. At 16 he was first assistant on the operating tables. At 17 he performed one
appendix and several hernia operations while his father acted as first assistant.
