THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1932

ALUMNI DEATHS

M. H. Wooten, ’71
Matthew Henry Wooten, who was one of the five remaining graduates of the class of 1871, died at his home
at Clayton, N. C., on January 11th. Mr. Wooten was 80 years of age, having been born on April 1,
1851. He had paid two visits to Davidson within the past four years, and each time was accompanied here by
his college roommate and close friend, Sidney H. Hearne, of Albemarle. Before entering Davidson, Mr. Wooten attended Hillsboro Academy. Following
his graduation he was a merchant for a while, and he became a lawyer, largely by self-education. He soon became
associated in the program of education, however, and a few years before his death he resigned as superintendent of schools
of Duplin County after over two decades of service in that capacity. He was president of the Wooten family association
of North Carolina.

A. W. Brown, ’99
Alfred William Brown, an alumnus of Davidson in the class of 1899, died at the State Hospital in Morganton on
January 18th, death being self-inflicted. He had become an inmate of this hospital about a year ago, suffering from melancholia
and nervous disorders. His condition had greatly improved within recent weeks, and he was allowed considerable liberties because of his
improved condition. Mr. Brown was 54 years old at the time of his death. His particular interest was real estate,
but he was for many years actively identified with a number of civic enterprises in Charlotte. He was president of
the Mecklenburg Industrial Home, and did a considerable amount of charity work, both the administration of his own funds and
as committed to his keeping.

D. M. Eaves, ’01
Donald Matheson Eaves, 1901 alumnus of Davidson, died at his home at Union, S. C., on December 17th, following a
brief illness. He was stricken with pneumonia a week before his death, and the ravages of this disease took his
life. He was 54 years of age at the time of his death. Mr. Eaves entered Davidson from Bamberg, S.
C., and after leaving here he was in business there for many years. He then became a planter and moved
his home to Union, S. C.

Rev. R. A. McLeod, ’09
Rev. Randall Alexander McLeod, 1909 graduate of Davidson, died suddenly at his home at Maxton on January 5th. A heart
attack was the cause of his death. He was ill only three days. At the time of his death he
was serving as president of the Presbyterian Junior College at Maxton, which institution he had headed since its founding three
years ago. Before coming to Davidson from Carthage, Mr. McLeod attended Raeford Institute, and after his graduation here he went
to Union Theological Seminary, at Richmond, where he obtained his bachelor of divinity degree. He held a pastorate in Virginia
and several in North Carolina. Before he assumed the presidency of the Maxton institution he was business manager of the
Elise High School, a Presbyterian institution. Mr. McLeod was a veteran of the World War, serving as chaplain. At the
time of his death he was stated clerk of Fayetteville Presbytery and stated clerk of the Synod of North Carolina,
both of which positions he had held for a number of years.

Dr. M. A. Siske, ’19
Information was only recently received of the accidental death from drowning of Dr. Manley A. Siske, which occurred on October
20, 1931. He was senior assistant physician of the Kings Park State Hospital, Kings Park, Long Island, N. Y., at
the time of his drowning. Dr. Siske entered Davidson from Troy. He was in business for a number of years
and served with the U. S. Army during the World War before he entered upon his medical preparation. He graduated
from the Virginia Medical College, at Richmond, Va., in 1926. In August, 1927, he entered the Binghamton State Hospital, and
transferred to the Utica (N. Y.) State Hospital in October, 1927. He remained there until January, 1930, when he was
appointed assistant physician of the Kings Park State Hospital, and his work was so efficient that a year later he
was promoted to the position he held when he died.

John W. Pope, Jr., ’20
John W. Pope, Jr., 1920 alumnus of Davidson, died in St. Luke’s Hospital, New York, on November 21, 1931, following
an operation for a lung infection. Just a short time before his death he spent three weeks at Johns Hopkins
Hospital in Baltimore where a minor operation was performed. At the time of his death, Mr. Pope was a member
of the New York Stock Exchange, though he was only 32 years of age. After leaving Davidson, he traveled extensively,
and spent some time in European schools. He returned to America to graduate from the University of Alabama, and later
he graduated from the Harvard Business School. During the World War he was in the aviation corps. Mr. Pope, at
31, was a self-made multi-millionaire, and newspaper dispatches from New York reported that he began his career with $1,000, and
amassed a fortune of $20,000,000 in nine years’ time, though information from relatives say that this amount was exaggerated. Leaving
Harvard he became connected with Eastman Dillon Company, and as an individual began his financial climb. So powerful a figure
did he become that his firm made him a member of the exchange. He acquired a seat in his own
name in April, 1930. A column and a half was devoted by the Associated Press to the rise of Mr.
Pope, in which he was classified as a genius and a wizard. Editorial comment stated that the story of John
W. Pope would one day be a legend in Wall Street. Two years before his death, Mr. Pope was charged
with the violation of one of the rules of the exchange’s constitution. He was required to appear before a board
of governors of 33 men, but he cleared himself of the charge, and the vote was unanimously “not guilty,” the
only time any member of the exchange has ever been exonerated unanimously when a charge was made against him.

P. B. Johnston, ’31
Preston B. Johnston, member of the class of 1931, died at his home at Benson, N. C., on January 25,
death being caused by pneumonia. Mr. Johnston was only 23 years of age when he died. He did not graduate
from Davidson, but left here to become connected with the firm which his father had established 35 years ago. He
had shown unusual business ability, and friends had predicted a great success for him when death intervened.

My Word
By M. C. Dew
At Davidson College there is a Mr. East rooming with a Mr. West in South Dormitory. With this fact in
mind it would not be hard to imagine a stranger on the Davidson campus looking for East meeting with some
difficulty, such perhaps, as the following:
“Can you tell me which way is East?” inquires our stranger of a student.
“Yes. That direction,” the student points.
“But you do not understand. I mean a student by the name of East.”
“Oh! You will find him ‘South.’”
“Now, young man, I don’t mind a joke; I was once a student myself. But I’m in a hurry. Won't
you please tell me where I can find East?”
“I wasn’t joking. Inquire for him at ‘South,’” and the student points with his thumb in the general direction of
two dormitories, but his thumb, weary from much thumbing, fails to indicate definitely which dormitory. Our stranger, with West in
Davidson Student Body! Reached New High Peak so efficient that a year later he was promoted.

Enrollment This Semester
Registration of Six Additional Students Here Last Week Gave the Institution a 1931-1932 Enrollment of 647

FEWER WITHDRAWALS
Expenditures Being Watched. College Said to Be in Relatively Good Financial Condition

Student enrollment at Davidson College reached a new all-time peak here this week, when six additional students registered for the
second semester, giving the college a total of 647 for the two semesters, according to figures which have been released
by the registrar’s office. On top of this announcement came...The additional encouraging statement that there have been fewer withdrawals from
Davidson this year than ever before, and that the average student body enrollment for the scholastic session, 1931-1932, will be
above the normal figure. The treasurer’s office at Davidson reported that less than half a dozen students had withdrawn at
the close of the first semester solely because of the lack of finances, which figure was considerably lower than expected
in the face of numerous bank failures that have recently occurred in North and South Carolina, from which states Davidson
draws about half of her student body. From the president's office came the announcement that while no public campaign had
been conducted to boost the loan funds of the college, a number of people who are in a position to
do so had been approached and had contributed to the loan funds of the institution, which enabled the college to
assist more than the usual number of students who apply for loans from the college. However, the authorities still need
funds to assist students whose financial condition is precarious.

What one father wrote to Davidson authorities is considered typical of many parents, it is believed. He stated that it
was practically impossible for his boy to get a job because of the scarcity of positions nowadays, and that it
would cost but little more to keep him at Davidson than for him to remain at home without work. This
parent was consequently stretching the point to keep his son in college.

Davidson is a privately endowed institution, and the income of the college has not been materially reduced the first half
of the scholastic year. The financial situation of Davidson is therefore relatively good. This should not be interpreted to mean
that the institution is not having to watch its finances carefully. Officials are limiting their expenditures and are curtailing any
expense that is not absolutely necessary. “This is done,” they said, “not because of present necessities, but to anticipate the
possibility of a shrinkage in income from investments, or from a decrease in the size of the student body.”

The manager decides to try someone else and walks to one of the dormitories where he interviews another student. “Is
this ‘South’?” he asks. “No, ‘North,’ that's ‘South’ just opposite.” “Of course. Thanks.” He leaves before a chance is had
to get in any more words and walks in the door of South Dormitory and finds East’s name on the
directory opposite number 313. He climbs the stairs, makes his way to room 313, and knocks. “Come in the house,”
a voice shouts. “Thanks,” he says after entering. “Is this East?” (Continued on page 6)

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS” Make Our Store Your Store Students’ WHITE DRUG CO., Inc. “SODA” Supplies “SUNDRIES”

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Among alumni visitors here this weekend were Walter H. Lynch, Jr., ’26, of Charlotte; Sam Smith, ’29, of Charlotte; W.
B. Hancock, ’31, of Rock Hill, S. C., and Spencer McCallie, ’32, of University, Va. Friends will regret to learn
of the deaths of: I. W. Durham, father of Dr. Albert Durham, ’92, of Tuxedo, and of Sloan M. Robinson,
father of Coit M. Robinson, ’10, of Lowell. Walter H. Lynch, Jr., ’26, who has been working in Statesville for
some time, is now connected with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co., accountants, in Charlotte. Rev. J. B. Sloan, Jr., '23,
who for the past several years has been studying at the Yale University Divinity School, has become pastor of the
Presbyterian Church at Waynesboro, Ga. L. B. Huie, ’26, has been transferred from Charlotte to Columbia, S. C., by the
Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company. Dr. R. H. Crawford, ’10, member of the medical staff of Rutherford Hospital, yesterday
spoke before the meeting of the Rutherford County Medical Society. At a meeting last week of the North and South
Carolina and Virginia section of the American College of Surgeons, Dr. Robert F. Abell, '08, of Chester, S. C., was
re-elected secretary of the South Carolina division of that body. Jas. H. Carson, ’16, of Charlotte, president of the North
Carolina Real Estate Board, is being urged to run for the Democratic nomination of the North Carolina House of Representatives
from Mecklenburg County. Rev. C. L. King, D.D., '14, pastor of the Grace Covenant Presbyterian Church at Richmond, Va., has
accepted a call to the First Presbyterian Church of Houston, Texas, and will enter upon his work in Houston the
first of March. Neill R. Currie, ’23, is a research chemist with the Upjohn Company, at Kalamazoo, Mich. Since graduating
from Davidson Mr. Currie has taken graduate work at Cornell and Northwestern, taught at Hiram College in Ohio, and last
year did research chemical work for a New York concern. C. C. Carson, Jr., ’28, is now in charge of
the group department of the Aetna Life Insurance Company for the state of Kansas. His headquarters are in Topeka. J.
F. Hurley, '93, editor of The Salisbury Post, was last week made vice-president of the Salisbury Medical Foundation, an organization
founded for the purpose of erecting and equipping a $125,000 office and hospital building. Rev. Q. N. Huneycutt, Th.D., '19,
has accepted a call to the Indian Trail and Siler Presbyterian churches. He has been pastor of a group of
four churches near Waxhaw for the past 11 years. Rev. W. M. Fairley, D.D., '95, pastor of the Presbyterian Church
at Raeford, has been given a leave of absence for 60 days, during which time he will be closely identified
with Presbyterian Junior College at Maxton in carrying out his duties as chairman of the expansion committee of that institution.
Geo. F. Harper, ’86, of Lenoir, has been re-elected president of the Nelson and Whitnel cotton mills of that city.
G. T. Preer, '29, is now studying at the University of Virginia, working toward his doctorate’s degree in philosophy. Since
graduation, Mr. Preer has studied for a year at Brown University, Providence, R. I., and spent another year at Harvard.
Alvin T. Rowe, Jr., ’25, is connected with the American Legion at Bogota, Columbia. Prior to going there in August,
1931, he was stationed at Bluefields, Nicaragua. Mr. Rowe completed a diplomatic course in Washington, D. C., preparatory to foreign
service with the government. Dr. S. M. Wrenn, ’23, is an intern at the United States Veterans Hospital at Lincoln,
Nebraska. Dr. Wrenn completed his medical training at the Medical College of South Carolina, at Charleston. The Greensboro Daily News
last Sunday carried a column and a half feature article about Jas. C. Harper, ’15, of Lenoir, and his work
with the Lenoir High School band, perennial winner of state championships and nationally known musical club. Mr. Harper was described
as “a banker, a trust expert, an authority on corporate stock, and a furniture manufacturer and a builder of citizenship
and character in young boys.” Jas. H. McConnell, Jr., ’25, formerly in the insurance business, is now connected with Southern
Dairies, Inc., in Asheville. Paul B. Price, ‘24, is state representative of Arkansas for Allyn and Bacon, book publishers, of
Boston, Mass. Mr. Price’s headquarters are at Marianna, Ark. V. A. Milton, ’30, recently resigned his position with the Hand
Trading Company at Pelham, Ga., and is now connected with the Investors Syndicate. His headquarters will be at Thomasville, Ga.
C. R. (Pat) Crawford, '23, who played baseball with the Columbus, Ohio, club last season, led the American Association in
the number of runs driven in during the season. Mr. Crawford played in 157 games and drove in 154 runs.
He was walked 67 times during the season. He will be with the St. Louis Cardinals next season.

Complete Service for School Publications Annuals Magazines Catalogs View Books Queen City Printing Co. Charlotte

Without Extra Cost. Come in and Look Stetson “D” Store Offers With Every Spring Suit Bought During the Month of
February A Free Pair of Pants or Knickers Patterns Over Clothes For the College Man
