WELCOME TO DAVIDSON COACHES

~The Davidsonian
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

QUINT LEAVES FOR STATE TRIP

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 10, 1932 No. 17

NEW GRID MENTORS ASSUME DUTIES

Dr. C. Darby Fulton Will Conduct Mission School Here on February 17-18

Prominent Mission Leader to Tell Students of Great Needs in Foreign Field

HEAD OF MISSION BOARD

Coming to Davidson Under Auspices of Foreign Mission Committee

On Tuesday and Wednesday, February 16 and 17, Dr. C. Darby Fulton, of the Foreign Mission Board of the Southern Presbyterian Church, will conduct at Davidson a two-day mission study institute. The main purpose of this study is to present to the student body of this college certain information about the mission fields which they should know, and to stimulate interest in missions, which is so vital to the continuance of the present mission program. Further, this institute is for the purpose of clearing up any questions or doubts which the students may have in mind concerning any phase of the foreign missions of our Church.

This purpose will be carried out to a large extent by informal discussions on the proper Christian attitude towards missions and the purposes which should be accomplished along the line of this work.

EUGENE McEVER
Courtesy Charlotte News

GENE McEVER READY TO TAKE NEW DUTIES AS BACKFIELD COACH

NEWTON AND McEVER ARE NAMED COACHES

Newton Succeeds Coach “Monk” Younger as Head Coach of Athletics at Davidson

BOTH FROM TENNESSEE

McEver, for Two Years All-American, Will Coach Backfield

William (Doc) Newton, member of the University of Tennessee athletic staff last fall and Eugene McEver, all-American halfback at the same institution, have since Monday been directing the spring practice of the Davidson Wildcats. Newton and McEver succeeded Monk Younger and Tex Tilson, who next fall go to Virginia Polytechnic Institute as assistant coaches after nine years of excellent service at Davidson. Selection of these two men followed weeks of deliberation by the Athletic Council, during which time the field has been minutely surveyed. These men were also approved at a special meeting of the executive committee of the college.

Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, professor of physical education at Davidson, spent Monday and part of Tuesday in Knoxville, interviewing McEver and athletic officials of the University of Tennessee. The latter had already named McEver to a varsity backfield coaching position. Tennessee authorities, however, were willing to release him to Davidson, and McEver wired Pritchett Wednesday afternoon, accepting the offer. Newton has been under consideration at Davidson for some time. It was announced by newspapers a few weeks ago that the combination would be Newton and Leonard Dick. The latter was unavailable, however, but the Athletic Council kept in touch with Newton, and was endeavoring to work out a combination that would include him on the staff. Newton accompanied Captain Pritchett on his trip to Knoxville Monday.

The new head coach at Davidson scouted for the University of Tennessee last fall, and comes to the Presbyterian institution with high recommendations from institutions where he formerly coached and from the authorities. He has coached at Birmingham-Southern and at Howard College, both in Birmingham, Ala., where he made excellent records, and during the summer months he played professional baseball. He was at one time with the Baltimore Orioles. While acting as scout for the Tennessee Volunteers last fall, he was the man largely responsible for the defense which Tennessee put up, for Coach Neyland and Newton spent several hours together each day outlining the defense and discussing the system which was to be met each week. Newton visited Davidson in October, when he scouted Duke University.

McEver's record at Tennessee is one that is well known. Those who have closely followed the work of the Volunteers during the past four years know the important cog that McEver made in that football machine. It is said that he virtually coached the backfield while playing on the eleven, and that he was adept at any position behind the line. He has made all-Southern for three years, and has been selected as an all-American halfback.

“DOC” NEWTON
Courtesy Charlotte Observer

“DOC” NEWTON BRINGS ENVIABLE RECORD AS MENTOR TO DAVIDSON

The “Bristol Blizzard” Finishes a Brilliant Career at the University of Tennessee

FORMER ALL-AMERICAN

Eugene Tucker McEver, variously known as “Wild Bull” and the “Bristol Blizzard,” who has been named backfield coach of the Davidson College Wildcats, came to Davidson last Monday fresh from the realms of competition, and arrived here with an up-to-date knowledge of what a backfield man should do. Incidentally, he will know how to practice what he preaches. He comes to Davidson directly from the University of Tennessee, where his performances for a number of seasons have led to emblazoned headlines in which his name was frequently used. Following him are words of high praise and comment from the man who has taught him the football he knows, and who has watched him scamper to heights of glory on a football field. Major Bob Neyland clearly indicated what he thought of Gene McEver when he was going to add him to the Tennessee athletic staff and turn over the backfield coaching to him. He has proved to be a great football player, but he has also indicated that he possesses a thorough knowledge of the game. In addition to classifying him as the “greatest and smartest” player he has ever coached, Major Neyland has declared that he is “a keen and absorbing student of the game.” McEver comes here with plenty of enthusiasm. Defeat has never been tasted by this all-American halfback, for he has never played on a Tennessee team that lost. The one game dropped by the Volunteers during the last five years took place during the season that McEver was out with injuries. There are those who believe that if McEver had been available that one loss would have been a victory.

This year the greater part of the money raised from the $1,000 campaign went to foreign missions. It has been felt by those in charge of Y. M. C. A. work here that the students should know more specifically just where their contributions went, the number of mission fields which the Southern Presbyterian Church is supporting, and more about the missionaries working in these fields. During the present year the “Y” has had three objectives along the lines of a missionary program for Davidson: educational, inspirational, and financial. The financial phase has been carried through with the $1,000 campaign. This mission institute, although held for only two days, is intended to help carry out the other two objectives. For the leader of this institute the Y. M. C. A. officials have secured Dr. C. Darby Fulton, than whom they feel no one in the entire Southern Presbyterian Church is better equipped to undertake such a task as he will have. Dr. Fulton is a young man and the type that should appeal to a college crowd. He has an attractive personality, and while in Japan as a missionary, he won, in that great tennis-playing (Continued on page 6)

Three Plays to Be Given By Masquers

To make up the casts for two of the three plays to be offered by the Masquers on Thursday night, February 25, five new and nine or more old players are being used. Those who are appearing for the first time are Tom Wood, H. Hodgin, Geddy Monroe, and J. Harris, in “In The Zone,” and E. L. Powell in “Well, I Declare!” Two of these, Hodgin and Harris, have already worked for performances making up characters. The casts as they stand at present are:

“In The Zone” and Baseball| IS U. OF S. C. ALUMNUS | Pitched for the Baltimore Orioles For Two Consecutive Seasons |

“A man of personality, one who knows how to handle men, and a person who knows football”—that is the way that a number of people have described William (Doc) Newton, new head coach of the Davidson Wildcats. A few minutes of conversation with Coach Newton convinces one of the first and last, and his record of coaching attests to his ability to handle men. Newton would be a likely choice for one of the two coaching positions open at Davidson. When an announcement was made that coaching positions were open at Davidson, letters and telegrams started pouring in to athletic authorities at Davidson. They came particularly from the Birmingham section, where most of the athletic coaching career of Newton had been staged. A full investigation of his record revealed his success as a coach, and when Captain Pritchett went to Knoxville this week, he obtained additional data from the Tennessee authorities which verified the conclusions already reached.

Newton began his athletic competition at Cluster Springs Academy, an institution that formerly existed near South Boston, Va. It was there that his first tutor was Irwin P. Graham, of Cooleemee, member of the Davidson College Athletic Council. At this preparatory school, he participated in four sports. Although he was not a native of South Carolina, he chose the University of that state for his higher education, and at that institution, he was coached by another Davidson alumnus, the late Dr. “Red” Edgerton. He made an enviable record at South Carolina, was an all South Atlantic end on the football team, a pitcher on the baseball nine, and center on the basketball five. Standing six feet three inches and weighing 196 pounds during his undergraduate days at South Carolina gives an idea of his powerfulness. His education was interrupted, however, by the World War. He volunteered, went to an officers’ training camp, which he left with a first lieutenancy, and before he was discharged from the army in 1919, he had been made a captain in the infantry. He played football with the various camp teams at which he was located.

After his discharge, Coach Newton joined the Baltimore Orioles and was farmed out to the Brantford, Ont., club, which led the Michigan and Ontario league that year. He was a pitcher and won 11 and lost four of the contests he twirled. Baltimore recalled him in 1920, and it was in (Continued on page 6)

DR. C. DARBY FULTON
Who Will Conduct the Mission Institute Here February 16, 17

Result of Questionnaire Proves Non-Militaristic Views of Student Body
Students Do Not Sanction Intervention of United States Into Sino-Japanese Controversy
FAVORABLE TO LEAGUE
Answers Show: That R. O. T. C. Does Not Make a Man War-Minded

As a result of the interest in the Sino-Japanese controversy shown by the students of Davidson College, this paper arranged a questionnaire, which was answered by the students of the college at the chapel assembly last Thursday morning. The results have been tabulated and in the majority of the cases the expected was the result, but in some notable cases this was not true. The disarmament question has been before the world ever since the Great War, and this question headed the list. A list of the questions follows:

1. Do you favor total disarmament?
2. Do you favor partial disarmament?
3. Would you voluntarily bear arms for the United States in event of war?
4. Would you refuse to bear arms if the objectives of the war were contrary to your personal convictions?
5. Would you refuse to bear arms under any conditions?
6. Granting safety of American lives and property, would you favor the United States’ intervention in the Sino-Japanese controversy?
7. Do you favor the entrance of the United States into the League of Nations?
8. Are you in favor of R. O. T. C. training at Davidson?
9. Do you think R. O. T. C. in any way makes a man war-minded?

All questions were answered “yes” or “no.” There were no explanations of the answers given. Total disarmament met with great disfavor among the students, with a vote of 471 to 81 against it. The Juniors and the Freshmen were particularly vehement in their renunciation of it, the former answering negatively at 109 to 14, and the latter at 165 to 29. Partial disarmament met with more favor, all classes ratifying it by a good majority. Although the voting was close in each class, particularly in the Senior class, the school voted to volunteer to bear arms in case of war. The plurality in this year’s graduating class was but twelve, however. The Freshmen voted 124 to 66 in favor of volunteering. A recorded vote of 82 to 37 was against United States’ intervention in the Sino-Japanese affair, the Seniors being strongly against it, voting 26 in the negative. The poll was fairly close in the Freshman class, where 177 voted against intervention.

(Continued on page 6)

Bids Issued to Ten By Omega Phi Alpha
Last Thursday, Omega Phi Alpha, honorary fraternity, issued bids to the following men: T. A. Bowles, D. G. Calder, G. W. Easton, W. Holshouser, D. D. McBryde, R. L. McCallie, D. M. McConnell, W. H. Matthews, W. F. Mulliss, and C. F. Myers. These men were elected to the fraternity at its last meeting. Omega Phi Alpha is an honorary fraternity organized for the purpose of bringing together those men on the campus interested in, or specializing in, philosophy and psychology. Its officers are: S. S. Wiley, president; R. P. Enloe, vice-president; and W. V. Carter, secretary and treasurer. Its faculty members are Dr. J. K. Foreman, Dr. Frazer Hood, Dr. D. W. Richards, and Dr. M. E. Sentelle. In the past, the fraternity has held meetings at which such interesting topics as “Truth,” and “Modern Trends in Psychology,” were discussed by the members. During the remainder of this year, several similar discussions are to be held. The first will be at the next meeting, February 19, when reports on the various phases of the book, “Living Philosophies,” will be read by the members.