THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 21, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina. Articles for publication
must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRANT
Editor-in-Chief

A. M. MANSON, Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
L. W. ARDY, Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK, Managing Editor
W. M. OLIN, Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, Managing Editor
ODL CASALI, Athletic Editor
J. E. LAKE, Exchange Editor
J. W. WHITE, Feature Editor
R. L. GAMBLE, Associate Editor
D. D. McBRYDE, Associate Editor
C. F. MYERS, Associate Editor
B. B. SUGG, Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. LORENSON, Assistant Business Manager
A. H. MANSON, Assistant Business Manager
ALVIN BAYER, JR., Solicitor
W. E. NEILL, Solicitor
J. E. FICKLIN, Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
J. E. LAKE, President
J. W. ALDERMAN, Vice-President
J. L. ALDERMAN, Secretary-Treasurer
J. L. McILWAIN, Reporter
F. McPHAIL, Reporter
L. C. NEILL, Reporter
L. NORTHEN, Reporter
E. NORVELL, Reporter
L. POWELL, Reporter
P. PRESTON, Reporter
M. GERS, Reporter
L. SEARS, Reporter
H. GULLETTE, Reporter
H. HELLINGER, Reporter
H. HENRY, Reporter
W. MULLISS, Reporter
S. THOMAS, Reporter

SEPTEMBER 21, 1932

Adversity gauges the caliber of great souls. Prosperity sifts out the small ones.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

With the opening game of the season with Duke coming this Saturday at Durham, the Wildcat eleven is very rapidly
being rounded into shape. There is still some uncertainty as to the starting lineup, however, because of the great amount
of material, especially in the backfield. This is a rather unusual case at Davidson, so let’s make the most of
it.

The writer of “Tip Off” does not wish to reveal his identity to the student body, so we would appreciate
it if no more inquiries were made about him.

We feel sure that many members of the Freshman and also the upper classes will be greatly relieved shortly after
this edition makes its appearance with the closing of the fraternity rushing season. It will mean that the regular life
on the campus will be resumed after a rather strenuous two weeks.

As has been the custom in the past, The Davidsonian will conduct a straw ballot to find out the trend
of thought of the Davidson student body about the coming Presidential election.

We wonder if many students in the hurry of going to and from town and classes ever take time to
note the beauty of our campus. It is considered by many to be one of the most beautiful college campuses
in the South.

For the Freshmen—A good start now will go a long way to help minimize any small shortcomings scholastically later on.
It will give a good impression which is always helpful.

A holiday really would be welcome news to many of our students this next Saturday. Two years ago about half
of the student body went to Durham, and Duke certainly is a much improved team from that eleven of 1930.

Among other differences in the cut system this year from that of last is that the one this year is
much more easily understood than that of last year.

Although it is a bit early to tell anything about the Freshman team, from all appearances they will produce a
very creditable team. They will be lighter than the 1931 eleven, however.

Many of those in the Junior and Senior classes will be interested to know that Charlie Sisson, ’31, came through
Davidson the other day accompanied by his wife on his way to the Harvard Law School.

Reeves Pope should have a good orchestra this year, as only one member of the group last year failed to
return this year. This was E. B. Robinson, last year’s leader. One valuable addition this year will be Bob Orr,
who was not in college last year because of an injury.

Among other visitors on the campus this last weekend were Roland Parker, ’26, who has many friends in Davidson, and
Grier Martin, '32, editor of The Davidsonian last year.

A good amount of interest is being manifested in the Freshman cake race which will be held soon, and we
hope as usual that some track talent will be discovered here that would not otherwise be revealed.

OPEN FORUM

WORLD SPECTATOR

I SAW HISSING IN CHAPEL

Recently there has been an excess amount of hissing during the chapel hour, especially when the students are asked to
rise to sing a hymn. Perhaps it is very tiresome to stand up after going through two hard classes or
else running all the way from your room to your chapel seat, but it is a sign of discourtesy, of
impoliteness, and of improper rearing. It is a hurt to the pride of our president, it hurts those members of
the student body who do not approve of such doings, and it is a bad influence on the new men,
who seeing the upperclassmen doing the hissing, think that it is the thing to do, thus they will take up
hissing, and continue it on down through the history of the school and Davidson will have a reputation of a
school for cowards and the like. Last year the same thing occurred on the football field and the students were
given a good talking to by one of the members of the coaching staff. Two things, he said, hissed, and
they were a snake and a coward. A snake will hide in the grass and hiss, and when he has
a chance he will bite until he poisons his victim. Those hissers only hiss because someone is doing it, they
are afraid to hiss alone. They know what people think of such persons and will refrain from doing such because
they are cowards. You upperclassmen set the Freshmen a good example and refrain from such childish and cowardly acts, think
of the honor of Davidson, of the tradition which is firmly against such underhanded methods of showing disapproval. You only
have to stand up about two minutes in all, and standing up two minutes will not hurt anyone unless they
are crippled or paralyzed. Consider that we are singing praises to God, that chapel is a devotional period and not
a period to show our disapproval of something that is contrary to our own opinion. We all are (or at
least we all should be) very willing to stand up when “O Davidson” is played. Why shouldn’t we be more
willing to stand up and sing praises to God, who created us and gave us this college that we honor
with the song that He gave us? Stop your hissing immediately, for if you don’t you will in all likelihood
take it out on the football field with you, and Davidson will lose all the reputation it has for clean
sports and clean rooting. Fight a good fight, be a leader, not a follower. All of those hissers are merely
followers, not leaders. “And when that great Scorer comes to write against your name, He writes not whether you won
or lost, but how you played the game.” We must play this game in the stands and in all phases
of life. Stop hissing.

A GREAT LOSS

Once in a great while do we find a person so wrapped up in his work that it becomes a
part of him, because of the time, consistent thought and work he has put upon it. Such a person is
Ernest Milton, who has served as Alumni Secretary for the past six years. After his graduation in 1926 he was
offered this position and accepted it. Starting from nothing six years ago, he has built this department up till it
is a model of efficiency. Keeping in touch with the alumni of Davidson is a stupendous task, the magnitude of
which few of us realize. He has the names of thousands of Davidson graduates, and the position requires that he
become so familiar with all their names that he can immediately recognize them in any newspaper which he might read.
This information is then transferred to his Alumni page in The Davidsonian. By this method Davidson alumni may keep up
with each other as well as learn the current news at Davidson. Outside of this he has sent out news
dispatches to papers throughout the South about events at Davidson. The work of sending out news dispatches will be carried
on by Professor Beaty and Professor Kimbrough, but the alumni work will be discontinued for a while at least. No
person is capable at the present time, in view of the fact of the large acquaintance Ernest Milton now has
with the alumni, of taking over the work just as he left it. It would require a great amount of
time and energy for any other person to ever get this work to a point where it now is. We
feel that Davidson will lose a person who has always been a loyal worker, but we congratulate him on his
appointment as treasurer at the Barium Springs Orphanage. Although we realize that we have suffered a loss, we know equally
well that another Presbyterian institution has gained a person of excellent Christian character who will serve it faithfully.

THE ACID TEST

There wasn’t much trouble in getting ahead in the years that followed the great war. Almost anybody could find a
job. Almost anybody could make more money than he needed to support him. Men were so much in demand that
they all, good or bad, imagined they were good. But now the acid test has come. The depression has put
a premium on ability. The man who can hold a job now is the man who is really worth something.
The man who can get ahead now is the man who has real ability. The man who can make money
now is the man who has real brains. The depression is a great leveler. It is a great tester. It
is a great sifter. It is a great winnower. It is a great acid test. The man who can stand
up under it is the man who is really worth something. The man who can’t stand up under it is
the man who isn’t worth much. The depression is a great opportunity. It is a great chance to find out
what you are really worth. It is a great chance to find out what you can really do. It is
a great chance to find out what you are really made of. It is a great chance to find out
what you can really accomplish. It is a great chance to find out what you can really achieve. It is
a great chance to find out what you can really become. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really be. It is a great chance to find out what you can really do with your life.
It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of yourself. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your life. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your future. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your destiny. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your fate. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your fortune. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your career. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your profession. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your business. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your job. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your work. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your occupation. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your trade. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your calling. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your vocation. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your mission. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your purpose. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your goal. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your aim. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your objective. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your target. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your ambition. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your aspiration. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your dream. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your vision. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your hope. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your desire. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your wish. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your longing. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your yearning. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your craving. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your hunger. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your thirst. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your passion. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your zeal. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your enthusiasm. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your fervor. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your ardor. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your devotion. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your dedication. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your commitment. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your loyalty. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your faithfulness. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your fidelity. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your allegiance. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your obedience. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your submission. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your compliance. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your conformity. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your acquiescence. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your agreement. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your consent. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your approval. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your endorsement. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your sanction. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your authorization. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your permission. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your license. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your warrant. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your certification. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your validation. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your confirmation. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your ratification. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your endorsement. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your support. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your backing. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your assistance. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your help. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your aid. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your succor. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your relief. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your comfort. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your solace. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your consolation. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your encouragement. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your inspiration. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your motivation. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your stimulation. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your excitement. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your exhilaration. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your elation. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your joy. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your happiness. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your delight. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your pleasure. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your satisfaction. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your contentment. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your fulfillment. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your achievement. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your accomplishment. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your success. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your victory. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your triumph. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your conquest. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your win. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your gain. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your profit. It is a great chance to find out what
you can really make of your benefit. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make
of your advantage. It is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your edge. It
is a great chance to find out what you can really make of your lead. It is a great chance
to find out what you can really make of your head start. It is a great chance to findexecuted on
the guillotine. It will be remembered that the French president was shot by Dr. Paul Gorguloff, a Russian physician, while
he was attending an art exhibit. Gorguloff was captured, but the authorities were unable to find if he had any
connection with the Soviet or communism. But whether he was hired by any organization or not, he paid for his
deed on the guillotine Wednesday.

The federal tax on luxuries will not be placed upon Metropolitan Opera tickets. It was thought that opera tickets would
be taxed, but the Metropolitan Opera Company has managed to evade the tax. This was partially accomplished by changing the
organization from a stock corporation to a membership corporation. The new corporation does not distribute any profits or declare dividends.
To further help the company to be exempt from tax, it was shown that the Metropolitan Opera Company is an
educational institution, approved by the Commissioner of Education of the State of New York. Thus, by legal means, another tax
has been evaded. It seems that if there is much more of this evasion of the tax, there will be
no income at all from the new federal tax. In spite of accurate phrasing of the tax law, there seems
to be always some way of getting out of having to pay.

The depression has affected not only the businessman and the laborer, but it has even caused kings and princes to
think of economic management of their households. They, like any other government officials, are provided a salary, and like the
salaries of most of the other government officials, theirs have been reduced too. In Bulgaria, King Boris has a very
limited income and has abolished all official receptions and entertainments for this year. He dresses very simply, almost badly dressed,
but he has one thing on which he cannot economize. That is his food. The king enjoys good food and
plenty of it, so in spite of the depression, he keeps up the standard of his meals.

In Romania, one of the richest of the Balkan states, the payroll of all government officials, from King Carol to
the most lowly dog catcher, has been cut twenty percent. Carol has cut down on his receptions and has also
cut the costs of his menu and cuisine. Instead of elaborate menus, Carol has chosen simple food. Like Boris of
Bulgaria, Carol has one thing upon which he cannot economize. This is his interest and love for automobiles. This is
a rather expensive interest, but it is not so bad now with the low price of gasoline in Romania.

The depression may be a very pessimistic and doleful topic of discussion, but in spite of all the unemployment and
business reverses, there are a few bright spots in this time of business deflation. One of the greatest things the
depression has done is to make a great many people realize that money is not necessary to happiness. Many have
also discovered things around them which they never before noticed. They have become more sociable and many have become more
literary, since reading a book is a very inexpensive way to spend an evening. Many have found that they had
some special qualities which made them desirable to employers. Wage rises and promotions were frequent. As a consequence, it was
really impossible for anybody, including the man himself, to tell how much a man was really worth. That is all
changed now. In the paring down process, employers went over the records of the men who worked for them. When
it was needful to lay men off, the least valuable were the victims. This was tough, for many of them
were good fellows and needed the jobs, but it couldn’t be helped.

Today, when so little work is to be had, you may be sure that the most useful people, the most
attentive to business, and with the best-trained minds are those at work—barring a little favoritism here and there. Today is
the time for a young man to put himself to the test. If he gets a job and holds it
but a few days, he may know there is something the matter with him. It will be worth his while
to find out what it is. And it will be well for boys who are just beginning to work to
understand that they must make good or they will be asked to get out, politely or impolitely.

“Sweet are the uses of adversity,” sang Shakespeare. That sounds satirical now, but the present state of affairs may teach
many a person the necessity of using all his mind at his job, and sacrificing a good many of his
pleasures to do it. If it leads to higher effort, more industry, and clearer thinking, the depression will in time
pay many times over for the losses it has caused. Think about it now, try to live up to your
ideals, and put forth the best efforts you have in you. In that way, and in that way only, you
will make effort a habit. Then when the next streak of hard times comes along, if another does come in
your lifetime, you will not be one of those to be dropped, but the one to be kept on working
and helping to get the firm out of its troubles.

—Pasadena Star-News.

Mrs. Doc Newton waiting in the gym for her famous husband last Wednesday afternoon. When the coach came in the
office, she was looking at a card outlining some of the plays of the team. Suddenly she looked up and
said, “What is a wedge?” He chuckled to himself and replied, “Oh, you know what a wedge is. A wedge
and a sledgehammer are about the same thing.”

Soup Brannon and Pete Whittle practicing their sprinting as they ran from Smith’s boarding house past Chambers to the physical
ed building.

Kalista Hood and her father in White’s drug store Friday afternoon buying a toothbrush. This was her first purchase since
she returned to Davidson from England. She is as brown as a berry. I don’t know how she got sun-tanned
in foggy England. Probably she went over for a stay on the Riviera and basked in the sunshine. Anyway, she
was the cynosure of all eyes in her chic sports costume. As I passed, Dr. Hood was advising her by
all means to buy Squibbs toothpaste.

Wills Hollingsworth, Caskie Norvell, and Bob Matthews going to the river. Wills claims he takes Caskie and Bob with him
every time he goes swimming. “It makes me look like Apollo,” he added. Now, if you know Billy Lyon, you
might go swimming in his pool. Then it isn’t necessary to swim in the muddy Catawba. Billy has a pool
in his backyard and it is as nice a plunge as anyone could want.

The cook at the Foreman’s house made a complete failure of her batter cakes. Dr. Foreman has a weakness for
batter cakes and they were made specially for him. However, he didn’t let it ruin his day and took it
like a true philosopher.

Dr. Walter Lingle smiled when he recently remarked that allowing a student to be excused from a class on account
of illness had “seriously injured the health of this institution.”

John Richards and Bill Matthews arguing whether John ought to pay a fine of 10 cents for using slang in
Eu Hall at the literary society meeting. To John’s great relief, Ed McNair informed the society that John had not
used slang but a metaphor.

A Freshman from Georgia running all over the campus for a geography book, “I’ve got to find a geography or
atlas or something or I'll flunk Dr. Lingle’s history course,” he explained.

A certain young man who hails from Virginia walking out Concord road to the Arbuckles’ Sunday night. I can’t decide
on which member of the family he was calling. You know there is more than one good reason for calling
at the Arbuckles’ now.

That half of the students in one of Dr. Foreman’s Bible classes are Juniors when they really ought to be
Freshmen.

Dr. Harding left by auto for Lenoir to spend the weekend about 1:30 o’clock Friday afternoon. He announced in chapel
that morning that he wanted to see the boys from Lenoir. He afterwards offered to take them with him. It’s
a good thing the co-eds didn’t know what he wanted for some of them might have tried to go along
with him.

Doc Mathis has the best way of speaking to Tee and Wee Thompson that has yet been discovered. When he
passes one of them on the street, he says, “Howdy Twee.”

Charlie Myers back at school from the tennis matches at Forest Hills. Now when you see him exhibit fancy drives
this season, you will know he is doing it a la Forest Hills.

Many Davidson men at the opening of the new S. & W. Cafeteria on West Trade Street in Charlotte. The
place was full of flowers and looked more like a florist’s shop than a restaurant. They have the handiest devices
in the kitchen, new equipment, cozy nooks, and dumbwaiters.

Somebody gave an old yell that used to be a favorite when the school colors were pink and blue. It
goes like this: Rah! Rah! Run! Run! Pink and blue DAVIDSON! Rah! Run!

TIP POFF.

Returned to a simpler diet and a more simple and wholesome life.

The costs of war run on to the third and fourth generation. This is well illustrated by the fact that
it was only a few months ago that the United States Government made its final pension payment for the War
of 1812, which was fought one hundred and twenty years ago. This may sound like an impossibility, but the cause
of this long extension of pension was the fact that a very young girl married a very old veteran. When
the veteran died, his young wife received a widow’s pension until her death a short while ago. If this idea
is used by World War veterans, the government will probably still be paying pensions in 2032. As far as the
actual war debts are concerned, it will be a great many years before these are paid up.
