= THE SPORTS PARADE =

°CAT-TALES By ODI CASALI

Davidson’s track season was brought to a close Saturday when the Wildcat cinder representatives administered defeat to a hitherto unbeaten
University of South Carolina team. The victory made Davidson's fourth of the season against two losses. The Wildcats lost their
first two meets, one with Florida and the other with Duke; but soon hit their stride to defeat V. P.
I., V. M. I., Wake Forest, and South Carolina in consecutive meets.

Led by Bostick, the South Carolinians tried hard to avenge a one-sided defeat handed them by Davidson last year, and
were leading by one point at the beginning of the final event, but Dickerson, Little, and Flinn placed one, two,
three for the Wildcats in the broad jump to make a clean sweep of the final event and give Davidson
a well-earned 67-59 victory.

Alex “Nuts” Earle, Davidson distance runner, furnished the surprise of the meet by actually leading the field in the mile
run from the start of the race. Heretofore Earle had a habit of staying behind until the final lap when
he would always sprint to place in the event. But not Saturday. Instead, “Nuts” set his own pace and finished
the mile in 4 minutes 38.8 seconds to tie the college record for the mile run. And after winning that
event, Earle entered the two-mile run and tied for second with John Howard, who also placed in the mile run.

In defeating Wake Forest, the Wildcats had things their own way, and piled up more than 117 points while permitting
the Deacons only 8 2-3 points. The Deacons got four of their total by taking third place in events that
Davidson had entered only two contestants. Who dares say that such a victory doesn’t avenge the defeats Wake Forest teams
handed the Wildcats in other athletic contests?

The Freshman track team contributed its part to the joy of Captain Pritchett and Coach Whittle by turning in impressive
victories over Wake Forest Freshmen and over Salisbury High School. The ’Kittens crushed the little Deacons by a 96-30 score
last Wednesday, and turned back the high school lads 72 to 45 on Friday, to end their season with better
than a fifty-fifty average.

N. C. State’s baseball team will invade Richardson Field Friday to engage the Wildcats for the second time this season.
That is, the visitors will be here if all the members of the Wolfpack squad are able to thumb their
way from Raleigh to Davidson, since it seems that State College has run out of funds with which to finance
athletics. Let’s all turn out and support the Wildcats in their last home game of the season. And don’t forget
to STAND during the seventh inning.

Mount Pleasant Gives Freshmen First Loss

The Wildkitten baseball team suffered their first defeat this season on last Thursday when Mount Pleasant Collegiate Institute nosed them
out by a score of 7 to 4. It was the Freshmen’s second game with the Cadets, the former one
ending in a 6-0 victory for the ’Kittens. Fink, pitching for Mount Pleasant, held the Fresh to seven hits, while
his teammates slugged thirteen off Ashton and Coble. In the ninth inning the ’Kittens made a brave but unsuccessful rally,
running in three men.

Davidson MPa Osslece oe aes 7, Ashton, Coble and Burns; 2 13 4 Fink and Hahn.

Harris Allows Five Hits as ’Kittens Win

On last Tuesday, April 26, the Davidson Freshman baseball team scored a very decisive victory over the Charlotte High School
nine here, downing the visitors 10 to 3. Harris, of Davidson, and Mulligan, of Charlotte, both pitched nice games and
starred in the hitting. Harris hit safely three times in four attempts and Mulligan got a single and a homer
in three trips.

Charlotte Davidson Harris and Burns; Mulligan, King and Beam.

TRACKMEN TAKE TWO VICTORIES

Mills Cops Lead as ’Cat Batters Slump

The general run of averages of the leading Wildcat hitters went downward as the Davidson baseball team lost two games
during the week, but “Buck” Mills managed to hit safely three times to bring his average to an even .400
for first honors. “Doc” Mathis, who was tied with Mills for the lead last week, dropped eighteen points during the
week, but retained second place in the hitting. No changes occurred in the other departments as last week’s leaders retained
their places.

Individual varsity standings:
Player Ab R tbh 2bh 3bh Hr Pet.
Millis: cosece Ge} abt als) 2 4 0 .400
Mathis ---..52 12 16 2 1 0 .365
Bradsher --.47 8 15 1 1 0 .362
Peabody --.45 7 9 2 4 0 = .333
McLean --..12 4 2 2 0 0 333
Croker ._--- 16'- 72 3 1 0 0 .308
Smyre -.--- 10 3 3 0 0 0.300
Morrison -.21 4 6 0 0 0 286
Whitley -...27 6 5 1 0 Le 7209)
Blanton -.-.63 13 10 2 2 Zoos
Morris --...34 3 5 3 0 0 233
Bernhardt 2.65 10 12 2 1 0 231
Morrison “739 9 8 1 0 0 23!
Pearce -.... 25) 233 3 1 0 0 174
Alexander -. 7 0 1 0 0 0 143
Bailey —.... 5 1 1 0 0 133
Wiestiscoclas Weel 0 0 0 0 000
McClemore 1 0 0 0 0 0 .000
Totals -.530 97 115 21 13 3 .287.

Wildcat Cindermen Will Compete in State Meet

Team batting: The Davidson varsity track team and a few members of the Freshman team will leave here Friday for
Chapel Hill, where they will participate in the North Carolina state track meet. The meet, which is held annually at
the university, will begin Saturday afternoon at 2:00 o'clock and will be a regular meet for both varsity and Freshmen
separately. The colleges to be represented by teams this year are: Carolina, Duke, Wake Forest, Davidson, State, Guilford, Elon, and
High Point.

The varsity men making the trip from here are: Fleagle, McMillan, Hallyburton, McGehee, O'Keefe, Cannon, Gwynn, Corbin, Earle, Howard, Morrow,
Brannon, Cochran, Knox, Dill, Bettis, Martin, Rhyne, Flinn, T. H. McCallie, R. L. McCallie, Little, Pratt, Roane, Johnson, and Brown.
The Freshmen are: Dulin, Glasgow, Gullette, Gammon, H. Morris, E. F. McPhail, McIlwinen, McFadyen, Potter, Lee, and B. Rose.

Last year Davidson showed up exceptionally well at the state meet which was held in Greensboro. Brannon placed second in
the two-mile run; R. L. McCallie placed second in the high hurdles, and fourth in the low hurdles; Little placed
third in the high hurdles and third in the low hurdles, and Earle took third in the mile run. The
Wildcats took the first three places in the high hurdles and the first, third, and fourth in the lows as
Graham George, '31, of Davidson took first in both events. The teams have been working hard this week in order
to be in the best trim for the big meet, and it is hoped that the Wildcats will make an
even better showing this year than they did last year.

N. C. State and Carolina Baseball Teams Defeat Wildcat Nine Last Week

Lose by Scores of 14-5 to Tar Heels and 16-2 to Wolfpack

The baseball team of Davidson College returned last Thursday from a most unsuccessful two-day invasion of Chapel Hill and Raleigh,
being completely routed in games with the University of North Carolina and N. C. State. The first of the two
contests between Davidson and the Tar Heels resulted in an overwhelming victory.For the boys from Chapel Hill by a 14
to 5 count. Fourteen hits, coupled with five miscues, spelled defeat for the Wildcat nine, as the Heels let loose
a barrage of heavy artillery that drove Southpaw Pearce from the hillock in the seventh, after he had been touched
for thirteen bingles, including a double, triples, and a pair of circuit clouts. Peacock, Carolina centerfielder, led the attack on
the Wildcat slab artist by taking four out of four for a perfect day at the bat. Buck Mills led
the local contingent with two hits out of four trips to the platter. However, Carolina was in fine form, turning
the Davidson boys back with nine bunched in only one frame. The big inning for Davidson was the seventh, when
they scored their last three runs on singles by McLean, Mills, and Mathis, accompanied by three Tar Heel errors. Carolina
appeared to be able to score at will throughout, and their batting sprees were rather well distributed throughout the eight
brackets in which they came to the plate.

Summary:
Davidson
Bernhardt, 3b
Hinton, p
West, p
Pearce, p
McLean, cf
Mills, ss
Mathis, lf
Blanton, c
Bradsher, rf

North Carolina
Peacock, cf
Weathers, 2b
Dunlap, 3b
Brown, rf
Groom, 1b
Dixon, lf
Mathis, c
Hinton, p

Two-base hit: Dunlap. Three-base hits: Peacock, Ferebee. Home runs: Dunlap, Weathers. Runs batted in: Mills 3, Mathis, J. D. Morrison,
Peacock 2, Weathers 6, Ferebee, Dunlap 3, Powell. Earned runs: Davidson 1, North Carolina 10. Hits: off Pearce, 13 in
6 2-3 innings; off West, 1 in 1 1-3 innings. Base on balls: off Pearce 9; off West 1; off
Hinton 2. Struck out: by Pearce 4, West 1, Hinton 4. Losing pitcher: Pearce. Sacrifices: Morris. Stolen (Continued on page
6)

Davidson Theatre
MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“SYMPHONY OF SIX MILLION”
WEDNESDAY
“WHILE PARIS SLEEPS”
VICTOR McLAGLEN
THURSDAY
“SINNERS IN THE SUN”
FRIDAY
“SO BIG”
BARBARA STANWYCK
SATURDAY
“SKY BRIDE”
RICHARD ARLEN

Davidson Racquet Team Downs Virginia Colleges
The Wildcat tennis team returned last Saturday night from a very successful trip in Virginia. On this trip North Carolina
and Duke were also met. The Wildcats copped three matches and lost two. In the Carolina pairings, Davidson fell before
the Tar Heels, 7-0. Led by the brilliant Bryan Grant, Carolina overwhelmed the 'Cats in easy fashion. The Wildcats then
met Duke and lost by the score of 9-0. Upon entering Virginia, the ‘Cats found foreign soil to their liking
and dropped the Hermitage Country Club of Richmond. Continuing their winning ways, the Wildcats defeated the University of Richmond decisively
by a 9-0 tally. The University of Virginia was then met and turned back after a terrific afternoon of tennis.
The score of this match found Davidson on the large end of a 5-4 score.

Betas and Phi Gams Win in Frat Tourney
The Beta Theta Pi baseball team last Thursday defeated very decisively the T. U. nine by the score of 22
to 6. The Betas in the opening innings obtained a lead which proved too great for their opponents to equal
during the remaining time. Brewer starred on the mound for the winners. On Monday, the Phi Delta Thetas received a
severe beating from the Phi Gams on the diamond. The game, which was called at the end of the fifth
inning on account of supper, ended with the Phi Gams leading, 25 to 15. The Phi Dels rallied in the
fourth to bring in six runs, but to no avail. Wright and Montgomery pitched their team to victory, while Lafferty
and P. D. Guerrant hurled for the losers. Yesterday, the S. P. E.’s met the S. A. E.'s and today
the Pi Kappa Phis meet the Pi K. A's in the closing games of the first round of the tournament.
Tomorrow, the Kappa Sigs will meet the Betas in the first game of the second round.

Davidson's undefeated Freshman tennis team will meet the net representatives of Columbia High School on the local courts Saturday afternoon.

Four Out of Five College Men Visit Our Shop
Beyond the Bank
Johnson’s Barber Shop

Wildcat Cindermen Win Meets From Gamecocks And From Demon Deacs
Wake Forest Defeated Decisively as Davidson Piles Up Over 100 Points
Last week the Davidson trackmen succeeded in toppling two arch rivals, both meets being held on the home cinders. The
first contest on Wednesday with Wake Forest was a walkaway for the Wildcats and ended in the complete rout of
the Deacons, 117 1-3 to 8 2-3. The second meet with South Carolina on Saturday was a more exciting struggle,
with the Wildcats capturing a 67 to 59 victory. The meet with Wake Forest was a double-header in which their
Freshmen were trounced by the Wildkittens, 96 to 30. South Carolina suffered its first defeat of the year, which made
it the most notable victory the Wildcats have captured. The Gamecocks held on with a powerful grip, leading the Wildcats
by one point until the final event, the broad jump, in which Davidson took all three places. Davidson also showed
up well in the distance runs, taking clean sweeps in the mile and two-mile. In spite of a steady drizzle
that softened the track, Davidson tied Brannon’s former record in the high hurdles. Bostick, of the visitors, took high point
honors by winning the high jump and low hurdles and taking second in the high hurdles for a total of
13 points. Fleagle, of Davidson, was second with 10 points by winning the century and 220-yard dash.

The summary of the South Carolina meet is as follows:
100-yard dash—Won by Fleagle, D; Fishburn, S. C.; McMillan, D. Time, 9.8 seconds.
Mile run—Won by Earle, D.; Morrow, D.; Howard, D. Time, 4:38.8.
220-yard dash—Won by Fleagle, D.; Duval, C.; McMillan, D. Time, 22.
120-yard high hurdles—Won by Brannon, D.; Bostick, S. C.; Smith, S. C. Time, 16.
440-yard run—Won by Wetmore, S. C.; Donelan, S. C.; Halyburton, D. Time, 53.1.
Two-mile run—Won by Earle, D.

Complete Service for School Publications
Manuals, Magazines, Catalogs, Annuals, Text Books
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.
Established 1895

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.
Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.
Catalog and information on request.

Stetson “D” Store
Stock Linen and Nurotex Suits $12.50
Clothes For the College Man
