THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 2, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRANT, Editor-in-Chief
A. M. MANSON, Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
L. W. CLARK, Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK, Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON, Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, Managing Editor
ODI CASALI, Athletic Editor
E. L. KEITH, Exchange Editor
W. S. GAMBLE, Feature Editor
F. T. GOODYKOONTZ, Contributing Editor
J. A. HANCOCK, Review Editor
D. D. McBRYDE, Associate Editor
R. L. McCALLIE, Associate Editor
C. F. MYERS, Associate Editor
B. B. SUGG, Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. GIBSON, Assistant Business Manager
A. H. PRINCE, Assistant Business Manager
ALVIN BAYER, JR., Solicitor
G. L. GREEN, Solicitor
W. P. SPRUNT, Solicitor
E. WHITENER, Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
E. LAKE, President
W. S. GAMBLE, Vice-President
LEWIS, Secretary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN
R. L. McCLINTOCK
R. A. ALDERMAN
L. McMILLAN
G. LYON
E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY
W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES
W. L. NORTHEN
E. BOWERS
C. E. NORVELL
E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
H. COVINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON
P. M. ROGERS
J. B. FICKLIN
B. L. ROSE
G. L. GULLETT
T. H. SUTTON
JACK HELLINGER
N. W. WALLACE
HENRY K. D. WEEKS
J. A. HUNTER
W. R. WARD
E. LORRAINE
W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD
W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS
PRATT-THOMAS

NOVEMBER 2, 1932

Destiny bears us to our lot, and destiny is perhaps our own will—Disraeli.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

Many of our students were surprised to find that we have over one hundred students who would vote the Republican
ticket if they had the chance. A three to one majority is not especially impressive for a college in this
section of the country which is normally nearly all Democratic.

Despite the small score, Saturday’s game was most interesting from the standpoint of the spectator. There were more thrills in
that game than in many others we have seen when touchdowns came much oftener.

Last Saturday brought more upsets than any other weekend this season. Few expected that Pitt would whip N. C. State.
We have no doubt that the Tennessee supporters at Knoxville were very thankful for their three-point margin over Duke. The
kicking of Pearce verged on the spectacular several times in the Clemson game. He also did some extraordinarily good running.

With just N. C. State, North Carolina, and Wake Forest remaining on our schedule, we hope that Buddy Gardner, Wingfield,
and Hand will speedily recover so that they can enter the lineup. All the strength we possess will be needed
in these games.

The talk in Vespers Sunday night by Mr. Tom Glasgow of Charlotte was one of the most inspiring addresses that
we've heard this year.

Ole Miss deserves a lot of credit in the game with Auburn this past Saturday. Ole Miss led Auburn at
the beginning of the fourth quarter. The Plainsmen had to resort to the air, gaining their winning touchdown in the
closing moments of the game.

The sportsmen of Bristol are asking for a postseason game in their city between V. P. I. and Tennessee.

Despite their defeat at the hands of U. N. C., N. C. State will be one of the hardest games
we will play. Let’s back the team to the fullest.

Percy McElrath has performed nobly this season to fill in for Buddy Gardner who was injured in the early games.
The loss of J. B. Lee for the season is also significant.

We've heard a number of the members of the Senior class say that they would like to have Dr. Swan
return to the campus and give some lectures of the same type which he delivered to the students here two
years ago. He is an excellent speaker and could give us a great deal which would be beneficial.

We are sure that the Davidson students enjoyed the recent visit of our trustees to the campus for their short
stay.

DRAMATICS AT DAVIDSON

On Wednesday evening the Red and Black Masquers open their season with a presentation of three one-act plays in Chambers
Auditorium. Dramatics struggle for a none too prominent place on the Davidson campus. Unlike athletics, the publications, and debating, there
are no funds appropriated by the college for the work. Thus the activity is somewhat limited as there are no
means for purchasing scenery, costumes, make-up, or books of plays. Just as much as other campus activities, dramatics demand a
large amount of the student’s time and effort. A classical college as large as Davidson should encourage worthwhile study in
the production of drama. Acting creates a certain amount of poise and self-control as well as sympathy and understanding in
impersonating other characters. Some of the noblest masterpieces of literature are plays and their intelligent presentation is interesting and stimulating.
The pure fascination for the footlights can be converted into a worthy use of leisure time. After college, there usually
come opportunities to work in Little Theatres, or similar organizations. The Little Theatre is becoming quite typical in the American
city and these conscientious groups are centers of culture and aesthetic appreciation. Dramatics develop the critical power to judge what
is good in the fields of radio and talking pictures. Time spent on college dramatics is a wise investment in
artistic taste and future benefits.

At the present time there is waging a conflict between good and bad drama. Never before has there been such
a crying need for wholesome amusement. If clean and superior drama is encouraged in the colleges, the coming years will
see the stage casting away sordidness and regaining its dignity and high place among the arts. The coming dramatic club
productions, although far from perfection, are at least worthy of attention. The wholehearted support of the student body will show
the Masquers that their efforts are appreciated and they will be encouraged to more ambitious undertakings.

E. A. HANCOCK.

FALL SERVICES

Twice a year, once in the fall and once in the spring, some distinguished minister is brought to the Davidson
campus by the Y. M. C. A. to hold a series of talks and conferences. We have many religious exercises
at Davidson, but these two services held twice yearly are always very popular with the students. One reason for the
popularity is that an outstanding man is always chosen. Among those who have spoken in the past are Dr. William
Anderson, Dr. C. F. Myers, Dr. S. M. Glasgow, and many others of that same caliber, and this fall will
prove no exception. Dr. Dwight Chalmers of Charlottesville, Virginia, will be the leader of the fall services which will be
held later on in the month. He is a young man with a brilliant mind, and those who know him
personally feel confident that he will fill a definite need at Davidson. A man must possess ability and personality and
religious convictions to interest any group as large as the Davidson student body, when he must speak to them twice
a day for three or four days straight and have personal conferences in between times. The men we have had
in the past have lived up to this requirement and we know that Dr. Chalmers will have a great influence
over this student body. Something else is needed, however, before the desired results can be obtained. This speaker, or any
other, must have the entire cooperation of the student body. Attendance at these services has always been very good in
the past, and for any results to be achieved the attendance must be kept up to a high level. We
come to college admittedly to gain all we can culturally, physically, socially, and spiritually; and to gain a complete education
none of these should be neglected. We have chances every day for spiritual development along with the rest of these,
but rarely do we get as splendid an opportunity as this, and to miss these fall services or any one
of them is to do ourselves a great injustice.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

University of North Carolina
The final result of the straw vote at Carolina for the present Presidential election was Roosevelt, 240; Thomas, 179; Hoover,
82. The German Club of Carolina will put on a series of dances on November 18th and 19th. There will
be a dance on Friday afternoon, one Friday night, and one Saturday night.

Georgia Tech
The Student-Faculty Committee of Tech has passed a ruling on the dishonest work of the students in classes. This inaugurates
the honor system at Tech.

Clemson
To those who might be interested in taking in a few of the Clemson dances, here is a list of
their dances for 1932-33:

WORLD SPECTATOR I SAW

Now that the Red and Black Masquers are about to present their first series of plays this year, it might
be well for the stage managers to observe what happened at Minnesota University in order to prevent any similar occurrence
here. At Minnesota, the dramatic club was presenting a melodramatic play which had a scene of a burning tenement house.
In order to get realism into the play, the stage manager asked some national guardsmen for some kind of smoke-making
apparatus. He was supplied with smoke bombs. Little did theInnocent student manager realized that one bomb would give off enough
smoke to cover a forty-acre field. During the play, when the tenement fire scene approached, the property man lit the
bomb, and soon the black clouds filled the whole theatre, choking the spectators and making everybody in general miserable. The
play went on, and it is said that the same manager, not yet recovered from the smoke incident, committed the
stage manager’s mistake so frequently shown in comedy. He produced a heavy confetti snowstorm in the midst of the love
scene.

Difference of political views caused the beating of four American students at the University of Vienna recently. The cause of
all the trouble was the fact that the Americans did not wear the Fascist emblem. It has been said that
the terrorizing of students not wearing the Fascist emblem is a frequent occurrence. As a result of the attack upon
the Americans, the head of the university as well as the Austrian Chancellor went to the American embassy and apologized
for the conduct of the students of the university.

Many and varied are the reports from Russia upon the financial, industrial, and sociological conditions in that country. Some reports
picture Russia as an approach to Utopia, with everyone happy, unselfish, and working under good conditions for the common good.
Other observers of Russia describe the Five Year Plan as a strong tyrant, oppressing the people and driving from them
all individualism. One of the reports of the latter type was recently made by an American woman, Paula Leclerc, who
has just returned from traveling in Russia, not guided by Soviet tourist guides, but free to go where she wanted.
She described the position of the Soviet women as tragic. “The whole system of civilization has crashed about the heads
of Russia’s women. ... They exist wretchedly under a system of cajolery and coercion, bereft of all feminine consideration, and
worked like serfs by the government. ... They are spiritually starved, and the hideous thing is that they know it.
They are aware of their degeneration. Everything they value as women has been wiped away in the name of progress
and they are a broken-hearted lot.” Of course, this is the opinion of only one woman, and there have been
other women who have praised the present Russian system, so the American citizen, presented with so many conflicting descriptions, does
not know what to believe. It is an established fact that Russia has advanced along economic lines.

The Minneapolis police are rejoicing over one product of the depression. The municipal police force had been planning on conducting
a school for the removal of extra inches from the waists of their police. The depression, with the resulting shortage
of funds in the department, put an end to the plans. The fat police had resisted the move all along,
contending that they were more efficient when they were “fat and comfortable” than if they were “slender and hungry.”

Reno, the divorce capital of the United States, had better look to its laurels, for it has recently been found
that a great many cases which formerly would have been tried in Reno are now being tried in small Nevada
county seats, far away from the swarms of lawyers, news reporters, and all the publicity which goes with Reno divorces.
Two of these rural divorce centers are Minden and Fallon, Nevada, which are little more than crossroads with courthouses.

It is Senior Dance—November 11. Junior Dance—November 25. Sophomore Dance—December 16. Military Ball—January 13. Mid-Winter Prom—February 10. Athletic Ball—March 10.
Junior-Senior—April 14. Taps Ball—May 12. Three Finals—June 2, 3, 5. Florence State Teachers College.

Here’s a little puzzle that you might work out in your spare time; figure it out if you can, we
haven’t as yet:

A brakeman, a fireman, and an engineer are employed on a train. Their names are Robinson, Smith, and Jones, NOT
RESPECTIVELY. On this same train are three passengers with the same names, Robinson, Smith, and Jones, hereafter referred to as
Mr. to distinguish them from the three trainmen.

1. Mr. Robinson lives in Detroit.
2. The brakeman lives halfway between Detroit and Chicago.
3. Mr. Jones earns exactly $2,000 per year.
4. The brakeman’s nearest neighbor, who is one of the three passengers, earns exactly three times as much as the
brakeman.
5. Smith beat the fireman at billiards.
6. The passenger living in Chicago has the same name as the brakeman.

QUESTION: WHAT IS THE ENGINEER’S NAME?

An interesting exhibit of the various stages of bookmaking at the library shows the process from the time the book
is printed until it is bound in its leather jacket. You simply must run up and take a look at
this display before it’s too late!

Friends congratulating Ernest Milton who served up until a short time ago as our efficient alumni secretary. It’s a girl.
Of course, it is not necessary to say they are as proud of her as they can be.

Good-natured Mrs. Smith looking for her telephone book up in the parlor of Watts. While searching for it she declared
that when she found it she was going to tie it to her desk so that it would be there
when she wanted it.

John Miller, Junior transfer from Citadel, left his room at 2:00 o’clock for the game Saturday. He is not taking
any more chances for he was locked in his dorm and missed a game once.

A group of students mailed a wedding present to a popular member of the faculty who has just married. They
said they would have sent it sooner but they didn’t know anything about his plans.

Heard that Sid Tomlinson is the one who had the patience to figure how many holes there are in the
roof of Chambers. There are 6,467,312. We won't dispute it!

A real joke sprung by a student last week. This student suffers from obesity. After a particularly unsuccessful recitation in
English, the Prof. said, “It’s too bad Mr. So-and-So. You are better fed than taught.” The student replied, “That’s right,
Prof., you’re teaching me—I feed myself.”

The Selwyn Entertainers put on a good performance Saturday night. I went thinking twenty seconds of it would be enough.
Perhaps ten seconds. I hadn’t the slightest idea it would be so good!

Jack Stewart got his left beamer closed tight in a touch football classic one afternoon last week. Thursday night he
asked the pretty lady at the local cinema to let him in for half price. I’d heard of it happening
but I never thought it would come to pass. She said, “I’m sorry, but I can’t do that.”

A party discussing my future career. He thinks that since I have such an unconquerable fancy for minding other people’s
business I ought to be a lawyer. While I’m at it I might as well get paid for it sure
enough. I’ve climbed fences, listened at keyholes, entered rooms unannounced, for the sake of this column. Indeed I’ve poked my
nose into every nook and cranny on this campus with utter sangfroid, just for you newsmongers.

A group assembled at the Goldieres’ Saturday night for a Halloween party. I hear the high spot of the evening
was a piano duet by Professor and Mrs. Goldiere.

Davidson students attending the performance at the Carolina Theater raised the roof when a Davidson pennant appeared during a college
medley.

Little Peggy Beaty celebrated her birthday with a party at the home of her parents on Concord Avenue Saturday afternoon.
They played games on the lawn and “the refreshments were delicious.”

TIP OFF: It is said that recently several prominent New York women took up residence in the villages and according
to the Nevada law, were granted divorces without any news of their actions getting into the papers.

The Irish do not have the great love for Admiral Nelson, British hero of the great battle of Trafalgar, which
is present in the hearts of the English. Yet in the center of Dublin stands a monument to the hero,
a monument similar to the one in Trafalgar Square, London. The Irish Nationalists think that the Nelson monument should be
replaced by a statue of some great Irish hero. In fact, an attempt was made at one time to blow
up the column. The explosion tore away part of one side of the base. It seems that now the Irish
may not have to resort to force, but will be permitted to remove Nelson’s statue from the top of the
column and replace it with a figure of an Irish hero.

Further diplomatic correspondence between Germany and France over the holding of a German war prisoner until recently was brought to
a close when it was discovered that the subject of the controversy was an impostor. This summer a man appeared
in Berlin, claiming that he was the last prisoner of war to be released by the French. He claimed that
he had served in the German army, had been wounded and captured by the French. They had sent him to
Africa as a prisoner and he had only recently been freed. He had been able to get to Naples, Italy,
where he visited the German minister, who gave him transportation to Berlin. Recently, however, the police discovered this was all
a false story, and that the “prisoner” had been a poor tailor, a friend of a man who disappeared during
the war. He had assumed the friend’s name and had used the story to get back to Germany from Italy,
where he had gone from Germany. All his knowledge of Africa had been obtained from picture postcards.
