THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 18, 1932

ENGAGEMENTS
(Continued from page 4)

Fowler-McCain
“Mrs. Paul D. Womack, of Orangeburg, S. C., announces the engagement of her daughter, Berta, to Watt McCain, of Lexington, and Kansas City, Mo., the wedding to take place in July.” Mr. McCain completed his degree at Davidson in 1924, and almost ever since graduation he has been connected with the Mathieson Alkali Works. For several years he was located in New York, was transferred to Tulsa, Okla., and more recently has been sent to Kansas City. Miss Womack obtained her education at Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S. C.

DeBusk-Helm
DeWitt Frederick Helm, of Kenly, 1929 graduate of Davidson, and Miss Blanche DeBusk, of Saltville, Va., will be married on May 24th. After completing his work here, Mr. Helm went direct to Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., where he obtained his bachelor of divinity degree on May 10th. He has accepted a call to a group of churches at West Jefferson, where he is to be installed on June 5th. Miss DeBusk obtained her education at Emory and Henry.

Coleman-Covington
“Mr. and Mrs. P. M. Coleman, of Gallivants Ferry, S. C., announce the engagement of their daughter, Frances Louise, to Robert Thomas Covington, of Clio, S. C., the wedding to take place early in July.” Mr. Covington is a 1932 alumnus of Davidson, and since leaving here has been in business at Clio.

Heyerdale-Martin
Information has been received at Davidson of the engagement of Dr. William Joseph Martin, Jr., 1923 graduate of the college, to Miss Louise Heyerdale, both of Rochester, Minn., the wedding to take place in June. After finishing here, Dr. Martin attended the medical schools at the University of North Carolina and the University of Pennsylvania. He did his resident internship in Philadelphia, and for the past two years has been studying under a fellowship at the Mayo Clinic.

DAVIDSON GRADUATES
(Continued from page 4)

Hamilton, '27, Davidson, and Rev. R. H. Poole, '22, Elizabethtown. Frank Hall, '29, won the Hoge Fellowship; T. E. Hill, '29, was named the Salem Fellow; R. F. Kirkpatrick, '29, was awarded the Larus Fellowship, and Chas. F. McRae, '28, was reappointed to the Thomas Cary Johnson Fellowship. Among the graduates who have accepted calls are P. F. Jones, '27, assistant pastor, First Presbyterian Church, St. Petersburg, Fla.; A. N. Brown, '29, Ronceverte, W. Va.; W. E. Hill, Jr., '29, Hopewell, Va.; R. F. Sloop, '29, Aliceville, Ala., and D. F. Helm, '29, West Jefferson. Vernon Broyles, '27, who did post-graduate work at Union this year, and Rev. Julian Lake, '28, pastor at Warrenton, Va., are now touring Palestine. Mr. Broyles will join a group of three others who will study in Germany next year. These men, most of whom will be at the University of Tubingen, will be Mr. Broyles, T. E. Hill, '29, Rev. T. H. Hamilton, '27, and Chas. F. McRae, '28. Davidson alumni holding offices at Union next year include E. H. Clarke, '30, vice-president of student body and director of social life; Jas. A. Jones, '31, treasurer of student body; T. Archie Freeman, '22, president of senior class; A. B. McClure, '31, president of middle class, and Fred V. Poag, '30, secretary of middle class.

ALUMNI MARRIAGES
(Continued from page 4)

Mrs. Grey is a graduate of Mount Holyoke College, and has been doing chemical work in New York. Davidson alumni in the wedding were Gardner H. Green, '29, and W. H. Middleton, '29, both of New York.e Smith-Reynolds

Frank Brandon Smith, Jr., of Charlotte, 1930 alumnus of Davidson, and Mrs. Anne Cannon Reynolds, of Concord, were married at Blowing Rock on May 4th. After leaving Davidson, Mr. Smith was in the hardware business, and more recently has been connected with Thies-Smith, a real estate firm. Mrs. Smith was educated at Salem College and at Holton Arms in Washington. They are at home at 2701 Briarcliff Place, Charlotte.

LETTERS TO BE AWARDED
(Continued from page 3)

Rogers, L. Wilkes, and G. W. Wingfield. Numerals will be awarded to the following men for service on the Freshman track team: W. W. Hofford, A. A. McFadyen, C. C. Harris, D. M. Glasgow, G. L. Gullette, R. W. Dulin.

STUDENT BODY LEADERS
SAM WILEY IS NEW SECRETARY
(Continued from page 1)

His sincerity, and his real interest in men about him; they know what a great respect he commands from those who chance to touch upon his life, and of the devotion and zeal which stamp him as a real man. Besides this, Wiley’s native ability, together with a rather unusual attractiveness, and a hearty good humor, enable him to draw men to him to be a genial companion, and to exert an influence for good on those around him.

Davidson regrets Carl Pritchett’s leaving. A certain sparkling cheerfulness and a great force will be missing because he is here no longer. Davidson pays tribute to him now, and will continue to do so to his memory when he is away. Yet Davidson rejoices that Sam Wiley is to return next year in such a capacity and extends a genuine welcome, feeling the utmost confidence in his ability to carry a noble work to an even nobler height. So here is to Carl with all good wishes as he goes, and here is to Sam with all good wishes as he enters in.

(Continued from col. 1, this page)

F. Legare, L. C. West, Sam Bernardo, L. Quarterman, F. H. Morris, A. J. Potter, A. Gammon, W. L. McIlwinen, L. P. Byerly, F. McPhail, J. A. Wordsworth, George Wingfield, Ben Rose, J. B. Lee, and W. J. Morris.

Those who will receive numerals for service on the Freshman tennis team are as follows: P. Vanstory, K. D. Weeks, M. B. Brown, D. Elvery, T. Phifer, and Bob Holt.

Certainly... 7 out of 10 smokers inhale knowingly... the other 3 inhale unknowingly

Do you inhale? Seven out of ten smokers know they do. The other three inhale without realizing it. Every smoker breathes in some part of the smoke he or she draws out of a cigarette. Think, then, how important it is to be certain that your cigarette smoke is pure and clean—to be sure you don’t inhale certain impurities!

Do you inhale? Lucky Strike has dared to raise this much-avoided subject... because certain impurities concealed in even the finest, mildest tobacco leaves are removed by Luckies’ famous purifying process. Luckies created that process. Only Luckies have it!

Do you inhale? More than 20,000 physicians, after Luckies had been furnished them for tests, basing their opinions on their smoking experience, stated that Luckies are less irritating to the throat than other cigarettes.

“It’s toasted”

TUNE IN ON LUCKY STRIKE—60 modern minutes with the world’s finest dance orchestras, and famous Lucky Strike news features, every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday evening over N.B.C. networks.