THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 26, 1932

———

TREKKING WEST

VISIT STUDIO DURING FILMING OF “BIG BROADCAST”

By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

(NOTE: This is one of a series of request articles written by Jack Williams, Jr., in connection with a trip
to the Pacific Coast this summer to attend the National Editorial Association meeting with his father.)

On Saturday night there was no entertainment planned for those attending the convention and Mr. Herman Roe and son, Kirk,
took Daddy and me to see Norma Shearer and Clark Gable in the premiere of “Strange Interlude” at Grauman’s Chinese
Theater. Mr. Roe is the former president of N. E. A., and is now field director of the association. A
Sid Grauman Prologue started off the show. It was called “A Night at the Olympics.” Moffett McConnell and many of
the others from Davidson who went West this summer saw it, too, and praised it highly. It must have been
difficult to cut down a play taking six hours on the stage to a performance lasting only two hours. This
is the first picture in which thought sequences are found. The effect is said to be more compelling than the
stage production because the lips of the actors are still and their unspoken thoughts are heard. It was, I know,
hard to train the players to show emotions of their thoughts while they spoke the opposite words. We happened to
meet Clark Gable at a party in Hollywood the following Tuesday and enjoyed it a great deal because we had
just seen him in this show. The play may be summed up in “It’s a wise child that knows its
own father.” The screen version tries to avoid the feeling of depression and melancholy of the book. When I called
to make an appointment for an interview with Eugene O'Neill this summer at his home at Sea Island Beach, Ga.,
he had not seen it himself. However, he later made a flying trip to New York just for curiosity’s sake.

“THE BIG BROADCAST”

When we traveled south we visited the studio where they were filming “The Big Broadcast,” with Bing Crosby and Sharon
Lynne. This was an exciting experience to see these two in action and an additional thrill came when we realized
that Cab Calloway was standing close by looking on. We met Stuart Erwin and Burns and Allen. I was sorry
we didn’t have the chance to meet Kate Smith, but I am sure that if she were there we would
have recognized her. She is the type that is not easily overlooked.

On tour of the galleries and gardens of the Henry E. Huntington Library and Art Gallery in Pasadena the newspaper
folks viewed an exhibit of forty rare newspapers dating from 1515 to 1918, put specially on exhibition. Human interest and
feature stories were apparently as popular centuries ago as today, judging from the exhibits. The political side of an important
meeting of royalty in Vienna in 1515 was overshadowed by descriptions of the elaborate costumes of the participants. The appearance
of “monstrous fishes” in an English river in 1568 prompted a news broadside with a fantastic picture of one of
the creatures. The exhibition of newspapers was intended to illustrate the development of journalism from its beginnings in the sixteenth
century to the present time. It was mainly concerned with English and American material. The presence of a few foreign
items in the display is to be explained by the fact that Mr. Huntington often acquired papers outside the scope
of his collection, and in some cases these were retained for special reasons.

GAINSBOROUGH’S “BLUE BOY”

The Art Gallery is said to contain the greatest collection of English portraits under one roof. It wasn’t hard to
find the “Blue Boy,” which cost the collector three-quarters of a million, because it was surrounded by enraptured admirers. In
fact, it wasn’t hard to find anything, since Mrs. Simpkinson of Pasadena who showed us around, had been a friend
of the Huntingtons and was thoroughly familiar with the estate. I have listed here a few of the interesting papers
that were on exhibition. The newspaper crowd was greatly interested in them and I think they will be interesting from
a historical point of view if not for their literary value.

First copy of the London Gazette published in 1665. It was the first “newspaper.” Prior to its issue, news invariably
appeared in pamphlets.in smaller form. Pepys in his diary said of this paper, “Very pretty, full of news, and no
folly in it.” Athenian Gazette published in London in 1691. This paper claimed to answer all questions in regard to
love and marriage, history and philosophy, religion and politics, nature and science, and “all subjects on the earth, in the
heavens above, and in the waters under the earth.” It evidently met a long-felt need for we learned the publisher
was overloaded with letters written for advice on all matters. The Spectator published in London in 1711 is undoubtedly the
best known of all literary journals. The first number appeared on March 1 and of the 555 papers Addison contributed
274 against 236 for Steele. A copy of the Pennsylvania Gazette published in Philadelphia in 1728 contained the Prospectus of
a lottery for raising money for the College and Academy of Philadelphia, now the University of Pennsylvania. The Massachusetts Spy
was a most unusual newspaper. It contained these words, “A Weekly, Political and Commercial Paper; Open to ALL Parties, but
Influenced by None.” Of course, it is unique in that there is no such paper nowadays. An issue of the
Philadelphia Evening Post contained the text of the Declaration of Independence for July 6, 1776. The Pennsylvania Gazette, dated October
24, 1781, contained Washington’s dispatch to the Continental Congress, announcing the surrender of Cornwallis on October 19. An edition of
the Connecticut Courant published in Hartford was in honor of George Washington, whose death had occurred at Mount Vernon, Va.,
December 14. The Saturday morning edition of the New York Times in 1851 told of the assassination of President Lincoln.
The most interesting publication was La Libre Belgique, published somewhere in Belgium. The history of this little paper is one
of the most romantic in newspaper annals. This paper first appeared in 1915, six months after the German occupation. An
idea of the editor’s difficulties may be understood from the fact that it was frequently necessary to hurriedly secrete copy
in radiators in the editorial offices when raids impended, and, when ready for the printer, to transport it in a
hollow walking stick. The printing was done in sixteen different places altogether, and often quick changes were necessary.

Booth Favors Hoover
Conn.—(IP)—Albie Booth, Yale football star, has made his debut as a political speaker by urging the re-election of President Hoover
before a crowd of 2,000 here. “Hoover,” he said, “is a quarterback who hasn’t called the wrong play once.” “It
has always been the policy of teams I've played on, when in a jam,” he continued, “to keep the same
quarterback in there until the field was clear again.”

Sasse Will Leave
West Point—(IP)—Major Ralph I. Sasse, head coach of the Army football squad, will not return to the Cadets next fall,
it was announced here. His place will be taken by Lieut. Garrison H. Davidson, a graduate of the academy in
1927, now coaching the Plebes. Major Sasse had expressed a strong desire to return to active service with his troops,
and his wish was granted by the War Department.

Short Schedule
Pa.—(IP)—The shortest football schedule in the history of the school is to be played by the University of Pennsylvania football
squad next year, it has been announced. Only seven games have been scheduled. All games will be played at Franklin
Field.

GET U-Push-Ems At M. P. Henderson’s Gulf Station

Tuesday, November 1

Everything for the College Man
BELK BROTHERS COMPANY at DAVIDSON
Representative, Don. Mower

They Satisfy.

What on earth are you up to now?
ING things out, smarty! I thought I’d examine the tobacco in a cigarette. “Look here... this is Chesterfield tobacco. Notice
its lighter color... you don’t see any dark heavy types, do you? I guess that’s why Chesterfields are milder. “I’m
told that uniformly lighter color is due to cross-blending. It sort of welds all the tobaccos into one. “And here’s
something else. Notice that these long shreds are all cut the same width. It stands to reason they burn smoother
and cooler. “I don’t pretend to be an expert but it looks to me as if they make Chesterfields right.
“Here, light one. That’s the best test after all.

The Cigarette that’s MILDER
TASTES BETTER
Chesterfield
