6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 23, 1932

Social Fraternities Are Hosts to Many Guests During Junior Speaking

Pan-Hellenic Council Sponsors Several Entertainments During Historical Occasion

VARIED PROGRAM IS HELD

Margaret Gorrell is Crowned First Queen of Junior Speaking

During the past weekend, the ten social fraternities at Davidson were hosts to many guests. Junior Speaking is one of the six house parties that are held at the college, the Pan-Hellenic Council being the sponsor. Several entertainments of interest were held. The following is a list of the guests who were present:

T. U. O.
Ellen White, Concord; Frances Boger, Concord; Elizabeth Gatewood, Pelham; Mary Taylor, Statesville; Frances Quinn, Statesville; Alice Rieves, Charlotte; Peggy Ashcraft, Charlotte; Kitty Vanshop, Charlotte.

Phi Gamma Delta
Margaret Gorrell, Winston-Salem; Tut Gorrell, Greensboro; Dougie Long, Greensboro; Sally Pat Kafer, New Bern; Frances Perry, New Bern; Mary Emma White, Raleigh; Sally Couch, Charlotte; Nell Ward, Converse, S.C.; Marie Leonard, New York City; Mary McKay, Concord; Mary McNinch, Washington, D.C.

Beta Theta Pi
Sara Erckman, Hendersonville; Anne Davis, Manteo; Mary Meadows Duke, Henderson; Jennie Harrison, Greensboro; Nancy Moore, Greensboro.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Elizabeth Muldrow, Converse College; Isabel Sims, Converse College; Mary Barr Prince, Converse College; Polly Webb, Converse College; Mary Elizabeth Cunningham, Greensboro; Virginia Bailey, Hickory; Kitty Moore, Charlotte; Charlotte Umpstead, Durham; Mabel Wilkie, Charlotte; Mary Alice Darby, Florence, Ala.; Isabel White, Concord; Elizabeth McInnis, Red Springs; Julia McIver, Jeffersonville, Ind.

Kappa Alpha
Lib Lewis, Chester, S.C.; Elizabeth Gilmour, Wilmington; Harriet Cobb, Durham; Elise Cross, Columbia, S.C.; Martha Benson, Charleston, S.C.; Mary Shemwell, Lexington; Edith Killian, Charlotte; Harriet Townsend, Atlanta, Ga.; Alice Davis, Atlanta, Ga.; Nell Thomas, Winston-Salem; Eleanor Hayes, Charlotte; Mary D. Marion, Charlotte; Eleanor Payne, Charlotte; Jean Ritz, Winston-Salem; Heistand Scott, Davidson; Mary Smith, Forcesville, Texas; Ruth Whitton, Charlotte.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Mary Margaret Lee, Ronceverte, W. Va.; Frances Blake Moore, Staunton, Va.; Marjorie Mower, Staunton, Va.; Bessie Cheatham, Durham; Emily Moore, Mt. Olive; Lib Sheldon, Charlotte; Virginia Knee, Charlotte; Katherine Crowell, Charlotte; Ethel Begg, Charlotte; Harriet Moore, Charlotte; Lee Shackelford, Durham; Martha Ware Pitts, Charlotte.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Marcia Lane, Buffalo, N.Y.; Sheila Elliot, Tampa, Fla.; Marion Carlisle, Sarasota, Fla.; Louise Tate, Charlotte; Anna Preston, Charlotte; Betty Young, Albany, N.Y.; Mary Blackwell, Lexington, Ky.; Mary Wisdom Lambeth, Charlotte; Mary Ann Cutter, Charlotte; Cynthia Barnes, Anderson, S.C.; Margaret Crawford, Rome, Ga.; Mr. and Mrs. W.A. Armfield, Winston-Salem.

Phi Delta Theta
Elizabeth Grey, Salem College; Katherine Maynard, N.C.C.W.; Bell Reid Martin, Florence, S.C.

Kappa Sigma
Susan Gregory, Greensboro; Adelaide Fortune, Greensboro; Maggie Morson, Charlotte; Susan Horner, Durham; Annie Joe Webb, Raleigh; Bertha Burch, Charlotte.

FRESHMAN TRACK TEAM
(Continued from page 3)

Shot put—Harold Sutton (C), Wrenn (C), Morris (D), Potter (D). Distance, 46 feet, 9½ inches.
Discus throw—Harold Sutton (C), West (D), Morris (D), Brown (G). Distance, 111 feet, 8 inches.
Javelin throw—Harold Sutton (C), Howard Sutton (C), Gill (C), Brown (G). Distance, 157 feet, 8 inches.

ATHLETIC NIGHT
(Continued from page 1)

An interest in some struggling young athlete, and try to help him, and his thrills and successes would be thrills and successes for them. The evening's program was closed with the singing of the Davidson Alma Mater, “College Ties.”

Don King, of Johnson City, Tenn., Retiring President of Student Body.

Intercollegiate Press

Because he undertook to write at some length in the editorial columns of the Centre College Cento on the “Stupidity of Marriage,” Charles J. Thurmond is no longer editor-in-chief of that newspaper. Before the Christmas vacation, Thurmond had announced that he had been doing some thinking on the subject. Some of the results of his cogitations follow:

“Marriage is the stupidest of all institutions in existence today! Nature’s creatures are designed to attract each other, and after attraction to procreate and perpetuate their kind... . This mutual attraction between two persons is a purely physical thing and purely for the purpose of procreation and perpetuation. The attraction is ephemeral; of all the things in the world, it is the most ephemeral. Intellectual compatibility is quite another thing. Two persons, properly mated in their interests, ambitions, abilities, capacities, and intellectual endowments, do well to become companions and live together. Two persons of the same gender can enter into this marriage. It is platonic.”

The paper’s new editor is Larry Woboril.

Students of the College of Law at the University of Arizona have presented to President H. L. Shantz a petition asking that graduating seniors of the college be presented with diplomas of a larger size and more suitable nature than those which have been given in recent years. The petitioners complained that the diplomas have been too small and insignificant for purposes of framing as is customary with professional men who display their certificates on the walls of their offices. The petition also stated that the leather cover used is an unnecessary expense. The diplomas of other law colleges are as a rule approximately three times the size of that given by Arizona.

Not only does instruction in the best American colleges in many respects equal that of Oxford and Cambridge, but the American college student of 1932 is superior to his predecessor of a generation ago. This at least is the belief of President A. Lawrence Lowell of Harvard University as expressed in his annual report to the board of overseers for the academic year 1930-1931.

“Our college students as a whole appear more mature than a generation ago, not only in scholarship but also in their outside interests and in the sense of proportionate values which is the flower of maturity,” President Lowell said. “And this in spite of—perhaps to some extent because of—the fact that they enter a year younger than they did in the early nineties. Maturity is by no means wholly a matter of years. It depends much more on environment, and above all on responsibility. A youth who enters college at 19 and is treated like a schoolboy matures less rapidly than one who enters at 17 and is treated like a man. To enter at the appropriate age and be expected to be rather above than below his maturity is the best way to develop manly character.”

What two Yale students started as a college prank last week ended up with the wrecking of three automobiles, and the placing of civil cases and theft charges against the boys. The two, Charles M. Kase, a sophomore, and Allan M. Ferguson, a junior, took a large wooden horse from an antique shop, dragged it along the highway near Milford and caused the wrecking of three automobiles which could not pass the heavy traffic when they saw the horse loom up before them.

Economics Class Leads Investigation Into Trips Taken by 130 Students

Average Number of Trips Taken Away From Campus by Each Student is 7.88

SOPHOMORES TRAVEL LEAST

Period of Observation Extends Over Six Weeks

If figures don’t lie, there are a number of modern Gullivers in the student body of Davidson College. At least there are some who like to travel and this is evident when you take into consideration facts that have been recently compiled. The Economics Class in Statistics made a survey of the departures from the campus and selected 130 students to help them in their study. During a six weeks’ period lasting fromSeptember 15 to October 27, 1931, it was discovered that these students made 1,024 trips and traveled a total of 75,737 miles. This group represents about 20 percent of the student body, and the average number of trips per student was 7.88. There were three men who didn’t leave the campus during the entire period. These men maintained a record to which no doubt the teachers wish others would aspire. The Seniors left the campus more than any of the other classes, and the Juniors followed. The Sophomores someday will make ideal husbands because it was found that they went away the least of the four classes. The reason why this class stayed on the campus the most is not known, unless they were too busy studying and could not go or were financially embarrassed and were not able. When the subjects for the study were asked the purpose of their trips, no doubt some of them had trouble explaining why they went. Most of the journeys were of a social nature, and the investigators would probably have done better if they could have interviewed the ladies on this point. The number of trips made for social reasons was 670, and the average number of hours was 6.6. Twenty-two excursions were made by athletes to take part in games and 76 to witness athletic contests. Davidson has potential financiers and captains of industry under her wing as shown by the 120 trips made for business reasons. Visits to relatives were longer than most of the other trips and totaled 110. Trips of a religious nature were also included and helped to increase the total number of trips and hours. No wonder the railroads are having a hard time when you consider that only four trips were made by rail, and in two of them, the journey one way was by another method. Trips made by bus numbered 113, and those in the family car totaled 196. A distinction was made between making arrangements with a friend beforehand or being offered a ride and bumming on the highway. Those made with friends numbered 230, and 456 were made through public courtesy. Trips made by railroad and bus were longest, and those enjoyed through the courtesy of the public were shortest. Public courtesy rides headed the list with 35.1 percent of the total 75,737 miles, and bus rides ranked next. An unusual thing was that the student who went away often did not remain on the average as long as those who seldom left. This all goes to prove that Davidson students will be world travelers if they continue to travel more as they grow older.

Student Council Gives Resignation at Temple
Six Members Resign After an Attempt at Dissolution Proves to be Unsuccessful

Following an unsuccessful attempt to dissolve the student council of Temple University, six members of that body tendered their written resignation in an open letter to the student body. This move, the six said, was taken as a protest against the alleged failure of student government at the university. The letter in part read: “We feel that we, under the present system of student government, are unable to represent the students who have elected us. We cannot legislate for them. We simply ratify measures which have been suggested, authorized, and put into effect by the university authorities. We have taken office under oath to support the constitution and by-laws of the student council of Temple University as signed and ratified by the president of Temple University and other university authorities. This document gives student council certain rights and privileges which have been withdrawn in all instances. The following are three: “Student council is authorized to legislate with regard to expenditure of student funds. This power was withdrawn. Council was allowed to approve budgets already drawn up. Council voted a subsidy to the Owl, then in straightened circumstances. This was overridden, and the Owl did not receive the subsidy. “Student council is authorized to legislate in regard to class dances and other social functions. This power has been withdrawn. “Student council is authorized to supervise and control all undergraduate elections. This power has been withdrawn. “In each case, council has been left only the nominal power of ratifying existing measures when failure to ratify them for any reason, no matter how significant, could have no effect.”

DR. W. L. LINGLE (Continued from page 5)
itual Things of the Church.” In his address, Dr. Lingle said that the church has many missions and that it performs many functions, the chief of which is the winning of men for Christ.

March 24, 1927
Boyce Martin, of Atlanta, Ga., was chosen editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian by the student body last week. Dick Grey, all-state half, was selected as captain of the 1927 football team. W. B. Rice, of China, was the lone member of the class of 1927 to be elected to the North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at the last election of that body. Charles McRae was elected president of the “Y” for the ensuing year by the student body, and Dick Flynn and Bill Hill were elected vice-presidents. Athletic Night was held on Thursday night, March 17th, and proved to be an overwhelming success.

March 21, 1917
At a meeting of the Junior class, held yesterday morning, L. A. Chambliss was unanimously elected editor-in-chief for the 1918 volume of Quips and Cranks. Last Friday morning, R. H. Stone was elected editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian for 1917-1918. Thursday morning, the student body elected O. J. Thies, business manager, and O. C. Williamson, circulation manager. At a meeting of the student body, J. B. Daffin, ’18, and H. K. Aiken, ’18, were elected assistant managers of the baseball team for the coming season.

Musical Deputation Travels to Hickory
A quartet of Davidson musicians journeyed to Hickory last Tuesday, March 15th, to be the main attraction on the program of the Hickory Kiwanis Club’s ‘Ladies’ Night’ celebration. The quartet was composed of Bill Hart, piano; Richard Vowles and Don Leeper, violins; and A. B. Rhodes, accordion. Dr. Vowles, of the Davidson German department, accompanied the boys on the trip and won one of the prizes offered in the word-building contest. He made up the largest number of words from the letters contained in the two words, “Kiwanis Club.” Incidentally, Dr. Vowles is a charter member of the first Kiwanis Club established in South Dakota. The program was greatly enjoyed by all present. It follows:
1. Prelude—Chopin, Piano solo, Bill Hart
2. Kreisler’s “Old Refrain,” Violin solo, Don Leeper
3. “Over the Waves,” Accordion solo, A. B. Rhodes
4. “Oh! Susannah,” Ensemble, Richard Vowles, Ward, and Rhodes
5. “Neapolitan Waltz,” Accordion solo, Ward
6. “Sweet Jennie Lee,” Accordion solo, Ward
7. “Drifting and Dreaming,” Ensemble
8. Gavotte—Gossec, Violin Solo, Leeper
9. Medley of College Songs: Washington and Lee Swing, Eyes of Texas, The Good Old Ship of Zion, State College Goes Fighting Along, O! Davidson

With all the new styles of Men’s Department for an Easter Suit, the spring is here in the latest and best dictates of fashion. We are all ready for Easter. If you aren’t, the only thing to do is to come over to see us in the very near future. There are others also at $18.95. Street Floor.