THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 14, 1932

SPORTS

College Calendar

Dec. 15—Basketball game, Freshmen vs. Independence Trust team from Charlotte.
Dec. 16—Sophomore Dance, Charlotte Armory, 10:00 P.M.
Dec. 17—Sophomore Cabaret in the gym from four until six P.M. Sophomore Dance, Armory, 8:00 P.M.
Dec. 18—"Y" Vespers, Christmas service by the students.
Dec. 20—Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary Societies meet at 7:00 P.M.
Dec. 21—Christmas Holiday begins at 12:30 P.M.

Freshman Cage Team to Play Ten-Game Schedule

Coach "Doe" Mathis has for the past two weeks been working hard to whip his freshman basketeers into shape for their first game, Thursday night, with the Independence Trust team from Charlotte.

The squad has been cut to sixteen men, including four candidates for center, six for forwards, and six for guards. Those out for center are Burns, Joe Johnston, Stephens, and Benfield. Remaining forward candidates are Sanders, Lewis, Dillard, Tipton, Branton, and Vutaif. The ones competing for guards are Parker, Cumby, Windham, and Red Johnson.

Gridiron Stars Turn To Other Activities

Now that the 1932 football season has come to what could be termed a very successful close, the gridiron warriors have turned in their moleskins and are preparing to lend their talent to other fields. Quite a number, led by Captain Buddy Gardner and ably aided and abetted by such stellar players as Charlie Pearce, Dewey Hutchins, Buck Mills, Percy McElrath, Tim Morgan, Joe Morris, Fred Ogden, Charlie Rives, Julian West, Eb Willson, George Wingfield, Gene Cannon, Fred Weagie, Billy Flinn, and Charley Loward, have joined the army of the unemployed for the present. However, after Christmas such stellar court stars as Mills, Hutchins, Morgan, West, and Mackorell will represent their respective fraternities and classes in the intramural basketball league.

As stated in the Davidsonian of last week, Jack Wagner, star tackle, who was prominently mentioned when the all-state teams came out this year, is especially interested in academic audiences. He admitted that they were in revolt against present industrialism but were nevertheless seeking to discover the "Forgotten Man." In Dr. Wilson’s opinion, the most hopeful part of our present literary schemes is that America's better authors honor life more than the mere machinery of life.

SOPHOMORES PREPARE FOR THE HOLIDAY SEASON

(Continued from page 1)

Jelly Leftwich will furnish the music, and a complete floor show, including several novelties, will be presented. Refreshments will be served throughout the evening's entertainment, which will last from 4 to 6 and will be held in the Alumni Gymnasium. Black and yellow will be the color scheme for the "35 Night Club." On Saturday night, an informal dance will be given in the Armory from 8:30 until 12 o'clock. Several no-breaks will feature this dance also. Tickets for the dances are on sale by the press.

The Southern Intercollegiate Conference has closed its session without considering Davidson's application for membership. One thing occurred during the meeting of the Southern schools, however, which rather indicates that Davidson's next plea for admission will not be denied. The split of the 23-school organization into a 10-team and a 13-team conference should be to Davidson's advantage. For the past decade, teams which pulled out of the conference have not been admitted before. But Davidson teams have long been on a par with the ten teams which remained in the conference, and every year more than half of the Wildcats' games are played with schools which compose the group. For this reason, we think Davidson will be in the S.I.C. in another year. Had Davidson been in the conference, she would have tied for fifth place in the standings this year. The Wildcats won two, tied one, and lost three games playing against S.I.C. teams. Davidson defeated V.M.I. and W. & L., tied Clemson, and lost to Duke, Carolina, and N.C. State, which would give them a .400 percentage in the standings.

With five lettermen and several promising sophomores to work with, Coach "Red" Laird should have a great basketball team this year. Captain Bruce Peabody, Jack Wagner, H.K. Boucher, seniors, and John Lafferty and Mack Holland, juniors, who made letters last winter, should show up even better this year. Despite the prospects, however, the Wildcats may find it difficult to go high in the Big Five, since Duke, Carolina, and N.C. State all boast of representatives which are among the best in the South.

DID YOU KNOW THAT:

Six lettermen from last year's team will return for basketball at N.C. State.
Notre Dame played before 434,000 spectators this fall, a 12 percent increase in attendance.
Brown and Columbia played before twice as many fans this year as they did last year.
Connie Mack, boss of the Philadelphia Athletics, has a son, Connie Jr., enrolled at Duke University. He is a candidate for the basketball team.
Monk Younger will coach basketball at V.P.I. this winter. When Davidson meets V.P.I. at Blacksburg, Va., on February 3, Monk will see players who used to try to win for him struggle to defeat him.
Coach Newton may shift Morgan to a tackle position next fall, and try Cole Windham, star freshman tackle, at end.
Jack Wagner, star Wildcat tackle, made the All-Pika, All-American eleven.
Captain Buddy Gardner, Davidson center, was "just too cute to be left off" the All-Beauty All-American eleven selected by University of Southern California co-eds for The Daily Trojan.

DR. J. R. McGREGOR IS LEADER AT VESPERS

(Continued from page 1)

Christ answers such questions with the Golden Rule. "What is my reason for speaking to you thus?" asked the speaker rhetorically. "Forty-two years ago it was said that America was raising a generation of spiritual orphans. We are the ones to bring truth and honor back into the business world. Since Jesus Christ has an answer to every question, may we express our desire to know that answer in the words of the text or in those similar to them, 'Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth.'"

Coach Mathis has been drilling the squad in a few of the fundamentals and in how to conform to the rule changes that have been made since last season. The material, he says, looks very good, and hopes are bright with Burns and Joe Johnston looking best at the jumping position, while Sanders, Lewis, and Tipton did some stellar work at forward, and Parker, Cumby, Windham, and Red Johnson showed excellent form at guard. The complete schedule is:

Dec. 15 - Independence Trust of Charlotte, here.
Dec. 20 - Belmont Abbey, there.Back at his accus- gram—at” dramatic. impersonations ia” both) on the basketball team, with -German and English at 7:30 p.m., Monday, - Captain Bruce Peabody as his running mate. January 3, in Chambers Auditorium. All Peabody, it will be remembered, was elected members of the college as well as the gen- as Davidson’s best blocking back for the eral public are invited to be present. past season. Mr. Montor, who is travelling under the Dick Whitfield and Peabody stand are on auspices and management of the Carl Schurz for wrestling. “Tubby” put up a good show Memorial Foundation, is internationally last season, and was awarded his numerals. known for his unusual interpretations of Dick is one for the varsity in the unlimited drama and poetry. He was born in Vienna class, and turned in some good perform- and studied at the Imperial Conservatory. ances. Members of the Sophomore dance commit- tee, consisting of Wadsworth, Brown, Weeks, Norvell, Harris, Rogers, A. C. Rogers, P. M., Varnes, L., Dees, Prosser, Hurst, Yel- verton, Atwater, Brown, P., and Phifer, and may be secured at a price of three dollars for the set, or may be gotten at the dance for two dollars for Friday night, and a dol- lar and a half for Saturday night. The social fraternities are all giving house parties over the weekend, and girls from all over the country will be here. The fra- ternities have co-operated splendidly with the committee, and will hold open house to the entire student body during the coming house party. These boys should be heard from this year. A. J. Potter is another football man who will bear watching when the mat comes into action. He, too, is a Soph- omore, and made numerals on the Freshman squad last season. The American career of Mr. Montor be- gan nine years ago. He has appeared on Broadway in Strindberg’s “Dance of Death” (Captain Edgar), in Ibsen’s “Rosmersholm” (Rosmer) opposite Harriet Walter, in “Master Builder” (title part), with Walter Hampden in “Hamlet” (the Ghost), in Los Angeles in “Merchant of Venice” (Shylock), in Suderman’s “Magda” (the Pastor), and recently in Elmer Rice’s “Street Scene.” The Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation is an unintentional oversight. In the last issue of the Davidsonian, the name of Charles E. Bettis was omitted from the list of initiates into Gamma Upsilon Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. New Rates The principal English author given here will be the Assumption of Hannele (Hannele’s Himmmelfahrt), by Gerhart Hauptmann, the acknowledged leading dramatic writer of Germany, still active at seventy. This play combines naturalistic and romantic elements and has as its scene a poorhouse. A four- teen-year-old girl, whose whole life has been one of suffering and privation, is brought in half dead from cold and exposure. The de- lirious imaginings of the girl are all acted out on the stage. One sees her dreams. Among the characters are the girl’s de- ceased mother, her drunken father, the black angel of death, four white angels, etc. The beauty of her dreams contrasts strikingly with the sordid background of the poor- house. Regarding Mr. Montor’s work, Professor Robert Herndon Fife of Columbia Univer- sity says: “Mr. Montor has reproduced en- tire plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities.” Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from memory with a highly inter- esting dramatic effect. I regard his work as accomplished at the sacrifice of other desir- able qualities. Briefly the speaker surveyed the plays from