THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1932

Library Purchases Varied Assortment

Large Amount of Books Were Purchased With Carnegie Fund

During the past weeks, the library has been receiving a few new books. A great portion of these are a part of the purchases for the Carnegie Fund’s 1931-32 addition. Below are listed several of the latest. These are not departmental books, but rather general.

Books pertaining to religion: Religion in a Changing World, by Rabbi Abba Hillel Silver; The Religion of Jesus, by Toyohiko Kagawa; John Calvin, by Georgia Harkness; The New Leaven, by Stanwood Cobb.

Included in this list are two biographies: Edith Wharton, by Robert Morss Lovett, and Jenny Lind, by Edward Wagenknecht.

There are also two volumes of short pieces of narration. One of these is in prose form and one is in verse form. The former is Greatness Passing By, by Hulda Niebuhr; the latter is The New Spoon River, by Edgar Lee Masters.

The fictitious novels are as follows: The Road Back, by Erich Maria Remarque; Hotel, by Vicki Baum; The Pinkertons, by Richard Wilmer Rowan; The Green Bay Tree, by Louis Bromfield.

Other miscellaneous productions pertaining to such things as ancient Greece, art, health, expository matter, etc., are as follows: Hellas Revisited, by W. Mackneil Dixon; The Land of Troy and Tarsus, by J. E. Wetherell; Readings in Art Appreciation, by A. M. Brooks; What Everyone Ought to Know, by Oliver T. Osborne; The Gothic North, by Sacheverell Sitwell; The Austrian Tyrol, by Ian F. D. Morrow; The Quick and the Dead, by Gamaliel Bradford; Spokesmen, by T. K. Whipple; Effective Study Habits, by Charles Bird; The History and Ideal of American Art, by Eugene Neuhaus.

Debaters to Leave On Scheduled Tour

Knox, Kuykendall, Rule, McKinnon, Powell, and McKeithan to Speak

Plans are now under way for the debating team to make three important trips during the month of March which will include debates with the University of Florida, Birmingham-Southern, University of Tennessee, William and Mary, and others. Debates with Southwestern and Bucknell on March 3rd and 7th, respectively, have also been tentatively arranged.

The query, “Resolved, That Congress should enact legislation to provide for the centralized control of industry,” has been selected, with the Davidson debaters taking the affirmative side in the two contests here, and the negative in those trips away.

According to the present arrangement, Ed Kuykendall and Pete Knox will make a trip south during the first part of March to debate Emory, Birmingham-Southern, and University of Florida. Bill Rule and Jack McKinnon have been selected to represent the college against the University of Tennessee and Southwestern about the same time. And at a time later in the month, Riley Powell and Leland McKeithen will journey northward to compete with William and Mary and Bucknell.

Other arrangements are now being made for several more home debates as well as numerous trips. The definite schedule will be announced at a later date.

Davidson Glee Club Will Give Concert

Sunnyland Serenaders and Members of Dramatic Club Will Make Trip

The Davidson Glee Club is now making plans for four trips it hopes to make during the month of March. The first of these is to be to Belmont, N. C., where a concert will be rendered on the 15th. This trip will be sponsored by the Davidson Alumni Association. Another trip will be taken to Newton, N. C., on the 11th, where the club will appear in the high school auditorium. The third will be to Mary Baldwin College in Staunton, Va. On the way to Staunton, the club plans to stop at Greensboro College for Women. As yet, a date has not been set for this trip, but it will probably be made around the middle of March. The club is also trying to make arrangements for a concert at Converse College the latter part of the month, but this, too, has not been definitely arranged.

On these trips, the Glee Club will be accompanied by the Sunnyland Serenaders and also by several members of the Dramatic Club, who will present a short comedy skit. The club this year, with George Pardington as manager and Bill Rule as director, is doing excellent work both on and away from the campus. In addition to the trips here mentioned, the club hopes to take a few others and give a number of other concerts before the end of school.

Save, they taste LIKE TO HEAR A REALLY GOOD RADIO PROGRAM?

Tonight... tune in on the Chesterfield broadcast at 10:30 Eastern Standard Time and listen to music by Nat Shilkret’s Orchestra and Alex Gray, popular baritone. It’s on the Columbia Network every night, except Sunday.

THEY'RE MILDER + + THEY’RE PURE + + THEY TASTE BETTER

© 1932, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Import of taste better to reason... a better... has the day is as mild and satisfying as the first. Better restless... always on the lookout for something that hits the old taste spot... and clicks! But I’ve noticedthat I never get tired of Chesterfields. They always satisfy me. “That can’t be an accident. It stands to reason that a cigarette that always tastes better has got to be made better. You know what I mean . . . purer materials . . . more up-to-date ways of working. I’m willing to bet that’s why my last Chesterfield of the day is as good as my first.”

Twelve Men Are Bid By Alpha Phi Epsilon

Bids were issued by the Alpha Phi Epsilon honorary fraternity to twelve Davidson men. They are: Kuykendall, C. W.; Hall, R. F.; Ryburn, H. W.; Wiley, S. S.; McKinnon, J. H.; McKeithan, W. A. L.; Hellegers, F. R.; Richards, J. E.; Moore, C. E.; Fulton, J. W.; McDavid, M. F.; and Carter, W. V.

Alpha Phi Epsilon has existed at Davidson as an honorary forensic fraternity for some years. Membership is based upon ability and outstanding achievements in debating and oratory, and several of the men who were honored are members of the debating team, while others have attained note through other forms of public speaking. They were selected with due regard to these attainments. These men will receive their formal initiation into the fraternity this week.

A private little school room, fitted out with a book-cupboard, desk, and easel, has been presented to six-year-old Princess Elizabeth of England. Her mother has employed a daily governess for her. Her mother is the Duchess of York.

Swarthmore College grants a yearly prize to the student who, during the college year, collects the best personal library. Quality, not size, is the determining element in awarding the prize.

McEver Takes Part In Scrimmage Here

Gene McEver, varsity backfield coach, momentarily forgot himself during the scrimmage last Saturday afternoon and temporarily thought he was a player. He was trailing behind one of the elevens, coaching and suggesting, and when the play got under way, he yelled to the ball-carrier, “There's your hole; there's your hole! Cut! Cut! Cut!" The halfback followed his advice, successfully did his side-step, and Coach McEver, running behind him almost at his heels, yelled, “That's the stuff, that’s the stuff!" Then realizing what he was doing, he pulled up short, and laughed. The players laughed themselves with mirth as they saw how he had gone back to his playing days. That play gained eight yards.

Primitive societies are the most happy because they can always solve their social problems, according to Prof. Alfred R. Radcliffe-Brown of the department of anthropology at the University of Sydney, Australia. Civilized manners and codes do not allow ready solutions for new social problems, he said.

College Briefs

An all-metal airplane designed to travel 1,000 miles an hour in the stratosphere has been constructed and is undergoing tests at Lessau, Germany. The plane is expected to make 1,000 miles an hour easily at an altitude of 15,000 meters, or about ten miles. It is a monoplane with a wingspan of 40 feet and a tail 60 feet long. Its two-passenger cabin is air-tight and designed to resist internal pressure when the plane climbs to the thin atmosphere ten miles above the earth's surface. It carries oxygen tanks and devices to condition the air within the cabin as well as other devices to dispose of carbon dioxide. It will be heated by motor exhaust. If the plane proves successful, it will be able to fly from Berlin to New York in about three and a half to four hours, and would naturally revolutionize air travel, making trips around the world events of only a day or so.

A photograph recently was made from an airplane above Washington, D. C., which showed Washington, Alexandria, Va., Baltimore, Md., the Potomac, and the Chesapeake Bay. The view was for more than 85 miles.

An expedition headed by Prof. William T. Thom of Princeton has gathered data which throws new light on the method by which the Rocky Mountains were formed.

The Princeton University Press has published a pamphlet describing intimately the life of Woodrow Wilson as an undergraduate at the university of which he later became president.

Smith College trustees have announced they will seek an addition of $1,500,000 to the present endowment of $6,000,000, the increase to be applied directly to scholarships.

Final tests are being given at Pittsburgh to the largest astronomical mirror ever made in this country and the third largest ever made in the world.

Educational authorities in Washington are credited with the belief that while education by radio is still in the experimental stage, broadcasting has already proved its merits as an aid to education by helping materially to reduce illiteracy throughout the nation.

Negotiations are under way to make it possible for everyone in the United States to listen in on productions of the Metropolitan Opera Company at New York through broadcasts of their operas from the Metropolitan stage.

Ernest Dimnet, author of “The Art of Thinking” and noted French philosopher, is optimistic about the depression. He believes it will stir the world out of a mental lethargy in which it found itself during good times.

Dean Inge of St. Paul’s Cathedral recently predicted the fall of the British Empire, with only a spiritual bond holding the English-speaking race to the mother country.