THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 18, 1932

More Alumni News
(Continued from page 4)

P. O. Bethea, ’22, is now in charge of the Cleveland, Ohio, agency of the Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company,
and has already begun his work there. The Cleveland agency has $60,000,000 of business in force. Mr. Bethea has been
located in Philadelphia.

J. M. Akers, ’28, has been awarded a fellowship in the department of economics at Duke University; he studied this
year under a scholarship at the University of North Carolina.

W. G. McGavock, ’30, who has been teaching at Branham and Hughes Military Academy for two years, was awarded a
scholarship in mathematics at Duke, and John T. Welch, Jr., member of the 1932 graduating class, was awarded a scholarship
in economics.

Dr. R. N. Brackett, ’83, member of the Clemson College faculty for the past 41 years, has reached the retirement
age at that institution, and shall automatically be retired from active work at the close of the present session. For
the last 21 years he has been director of the department of chemistry. Dr. Brackett has the unusual distinction of
being the last surviving member of the original Clemson faculty in service.

John R. Schenck, ’21, has accepted a position with the Clearwater Manufacturing Company of Augusta, Ga., and has already begun
his duties there.

John D. Laws, ’25, of Columbus, Miss., has been elected as a member of the City Council there. Mr. Laws
polled the largest vote of any of the three men elected, and overwhelmingly defeated a candidate from his ward. He
is the youngest man ever to serve on the Columbus (Miss.) Council.

Dr. D. R. Pridgen, ’20, of Fayetteville, was elected vice-president of the North Carolina Dental Society at its recent three-day
session at Elizabeth City.

H. E. Fries, ’78, has been re-elected president of the Southbound Railway and Winston-Salem Terminal Company.

Dr. Bernard R. Smith, ’06, of Asheville, who was attending physician to Herbert Hoover when the President’s son was in
Asheville, and Mrs. Smith were guests ten days ago of President and Mrs. Hoover at the White House. The Asheville
Citizen had the following to say after his visit:

Dr. and Mrs. Bernard R. Smith returned yesterday from a trip to Washington, D. C., and New York. They spent
Thursday and Friday last week in the White House as invited guests of President and Mrs. Herbert Hoover. Dr. Smith,
back in his offices yesterday afternoon, said he and his wife found their stay with the Hoovers a memorable experience.
They were entertained royally, he said, and the White House courtesy even extended to New York, where naval officers at
the command of President Hoover helped facilitate their activities. Dr. Smith was the physician chosen to attend Herbert Hoover, Jr.,
when the President’s son came here late in 1930 for a six months’ stay for his health. The friendship between
the Smiths and the Hoovers began then and Dr. Smith has visited the White House before, though in a professional
capacity. The trip last week was the first purely social visit. Mrs. Hoover took Dr. and Mrs. Smith with her
Thursday for the formal opening of the huge Washington Cathedral, which it is predicted will become an “American Westminster Abbey.”
Mrs. Hoover participated in the ceremonies, in the absence of President Hoover, who was kept away by the pressure of
his duties.

Chas. T. Parker, ’31, is now assistant sales manager of the Consumers Hosiery Company, of High Point.

Dr. John T. Burrus, 1900, of High Point, will not be a candidate for the State Senate because of the
attorney general's ruling that he cannot be president of the North Carolina Board of Health and also serve in the
Legislature. Dr. Burrus was a member of the Senate last year. He recently addressed the N. C. Dental Society at
its annual meeting.

J. S. Morse, ’04, of Abbeville, S. C., has been made vice-president of the Bank of Abbeville.

Dr. Robert W. McKay, '17, of Charlotte, was second in the contest for the case records prize, established by the
surgery, gynecology and obstetrics department of the American College of Surgeons. The prize is awarded in recognition of comprehensive study
and records of the patients under his care, and is participated in by all of the latest initiates into the
American College of Surgeons.

RUTH ETTING
Distinguished radio and musical comedy star. Every Wednesday and Saturday at 10 p.m. E.D.T.

BOSWELL SISTERS
Famous for the rhythm and harmony of their vocalizing. Every Monday and Thursday evening at 10:30 E.D.T.e Or So Wy
ALEX GRAY & , / 7 Yo, Ire One of the outstanding 7 ‘on, Of voices it dio. Eve Tuesday
and Friday eve Ta Dy sail atu ... all you could ask for! - 2. © 1932, Licarrr « Myers
Tobacco Co.

Rev. O. M. Anderson, D.D., '08, of Water Valley, Miss., who was at Davidson a short time ago before attending
a meeting of the trustees of Columbia Theological Seminary, had in his possession while here a degree which was awarded
to the late H. H. Kimmons, member of Davidson. It is the property of a family in Dr. Anderson’s church.

Alumni who have sons in the 1932 graduating class are Dr. G. A. Brown, ’04, Mt. Ulla; R. S. Abernethy,
'99, Winter Haven, Fla.; Dr. J. M. McConnell, '99, Davidson; Rev. A. M. McLauchlin, '99, Chester, S. C.; Rev. E.
B. Robinson, 1900, Talladega, Ala.; Jos. B. Johnston, '01, Barium Springs; Dr. E. W. Phifer, ’01, Morganton; Dr. W. W.
Washam, '01, Cornelius; Rev. P. C. DuBose, D.D., '02, Camden, S. C.; Rev. R. D. Daffin, D.D., '03, Ripley, Miss.;
T. D. Morrison, ’03, Asheville, and Rev. J. O. Mann, ’06, Chester, S. C.

ROGER ENLOE DONALD S. KING

There are already eight alumni sons enrolled for the class of 1936. Alumni who have already registered their boys are
Jos. B. Johnston, '01, Barium Springs; Rev. H. A. Knox, ’03, Liberty, S. C.; Prof. E. J. Erwin, ’06, Davidson;
Rev. J. M. Walker, ’07, Charlotte; J. B. Huntington, '09, Wilmington; J. J. Summerell, '10, Raleigh; Rev. W. A. Benfield,
'11, Sinks Grove, W. Va., and Chas. A. Cannon, ’15, Concord. This number will be augmented before the class enters
Davidson next September.

Among Davidson alumni who will appear on the program of the Tri-State Hospital Conference at Richmond, Va., this week will
be Dr. E. W. Phifer, ’01, Morganton, and Dr. N. C. Daniel, '96, of Oxford.

GRIER MARTIN DONALD M. MacQueen

Zeb A. Morris, Jr., '23, Concord city attorney, spoke before the Eastern Cabarrus Democratic Club. Mr. Morris has also been
appointed manager in Cabarrus County for J. C. B. Ehringhaus, gubernatorial candidate in North Carolina.

It is now Dr. Geo. W. Gignilliat, Jr., '15. Dr. Gignilliat was awarded his doctor of philosophy degree by Columbia
University in April. He wrote his thesis on “The Author of Sandford and Merton,” a life of Thomas Day, which
has been published in book form by the Columbia University Press. A copy of this book will be placed in
the Davidson library.

PUBLICATIONS BOARD (Continued from page 1)

Board lie all the campus publications, for which the board regulates all finances and also elects all managers for the
following year. As yet the officers for the new board have not been elected, but the election is expected to
take place within the next few days. The members of the board for the past year were: E. C. Dwelle,
of Charlotte, editor of Quips and Cranks, president; D. G. Martin, of Covington, Ga., editor of the Davidsonian, secretary, and
R. W. Gorrell, of Winston-Salem, business manager of the Quips and Cranks.

DR. P. H. GWYNN, JR. (Continued from page 1)

He had no “ifs” and “ands”; he stripped life of self. If we are to follow God as Abraham did
we cannot tell where we may be led and we must be willing to sacrifice anything we possess. It takes
faith to do the things Abraham did. The people of today have lost faith in the integrity of man and
faith in God. Abraham's faith never wavered. Dr. Gwynn concluded his talk by saying that we need men like Abraham
to meet the challenges of today.

It may be said here of Dr. Gwynn that he has accepted an invitation to teach in the Presbyterian Summer
Training School, which is held at Wooster, Ohio, during the first two weeks of August. This is the leadership training
school of the Northern Presbyterian Church, and is widely attended by religious workers from all over the United States. Acceptance
of this invitation by Dr. Gwynn means that he will teach in the training schools of both the Northern and
Southern Presbyterian churches during the coming summer months. He has already agreed to teach again at Montreat, the Southern training
center, where he has been a member of the faculty for the past two years.

At left are the men who have been leaders on the campus during the past year. The offices which they
have held are: Donald S. King, Bristol, Tenn., president of the Student Body; Roger Enloe, Buchanan, Ga., president of the
Y. M. C. A.; Grier Martin, Covington, Ga., editor of the Davidsonian; Donald M. MacQueen, Little Rock, S. C., president
of the Athletic Association; J. H. McKinnon, Jr., Jacksonville, Fla., president of the Senior Class, and E. C. Dwelle, Jr.,
Charlotte, editor of Quips and Cranks, college annual.
