THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1932

The Silver Screen

Davidson 5 Years Ago

Wednesday, Oct. 12—Bill of Divorcement—(RKO)
Director George Cukor has followed very closely the stage play of the same name by Clemence Dane, and with very
good results. All the major actors have had experience on the stage and Mr. Cukor was himself once a stage
director. As a result, this is a very superior story resembling a play, but with the necessary scope allowed to
the camera. John Barrymore is excellent as the war veteran who escapes from an asylum where he has been confined
for fifteen years as a result of shell-shock. When he returns to his home he finds that all has changed;
his wife has divorced him and is about to marry another man; his daughter whom he remembers as a little
girl is also about to become a bride. Upon learning of the strain of insanity in her father’s family, the
daughter gives up her marriage. Katharine Hepburn, newly discovered by RKO, plays the role of the daughter sincerely and convincingly.

Thursday, Oct. 13—Love Me Tonight—(Paramount)
This picture directed by Ernst Lubitsch possesses, perhaps even to a greater extent than earlier Chevalier pictures, that air of
light poetry and farce characteristic of the French comedies of Rene Clair. Chevalier, a tailor, woos and wins, in his
inimitable and entertaining way, a princess (Jeanette MacDonald). The music is an outstanding feature.

Tonight—Friday, Oct. 14—Smiling Through
The rather sad story of lovers who are held apart by actions which took place in a preceding generation. The
advent of the war further complicates matters. In the end, however, the cause of true love emerges victorious over all
obstacles. Norma Shearer displays her usual ability, and Frederic March and Leslie Howard portray their roles well.

Saturday, Oct. 15—The Most Dangerous Game (RKO)
Originality seems to be the chief factor in this picture. Leslie Banks plays the part of a Russian who has
become so satiated with life that he gets a thrill only out of hunting down men. Banks undoubtedly takes the
honors of acting, but he is very ably supported by the whole cast and by Joel McCrea especially.

Monday, Oct. 17—Hat Check Girl
Sally Eilers as a “hat check girl” in a night club becomes involved with a bootlegger, a gangster, and a
scandal sheet writer all in the process of a love affair with Ben Lyon. Excitement is not lacking.

Tuesday, Oct. 18—Pack Up Your Troubles—(M-G-M)
Laurel and Hardy in a full-length comedy guaranteed to make you “buck up.” Stan and Oliver find themselves unexpectedly in
the trenches and then the riot begins. Jacquie Lyn takes off her share of the glory also.

The Bookshelf

“The Store”—By T. S. Stribling. Doubleday-Doran. June, 1932 ($2.50).
Novels of the Old South are usually so crammed with either saccharine sentimentality or gnawing satire that one finishes them
with a distinctly nauseated feeling. From sketchy studies of withered negro mammies they have begun lately to make a broad
leap at realism in its last throes. Hence the debut of a book that seems to attempt to bring forth
neither tears nor gulps is a decidedly blessed event.

Such a book is “The Store.” A study of Northern Alabama just after the Civil War, it manages to make
its characters happy without being giddy, tragic without being melodramatic, real without being repulsive. Mr. Stribling makes his negroes individuals
without creating a potential tear-jerker in each character; he makes his whites breathe without giving Dr. Freud a few more
patients; he makes his South glamorous without draping wisteria over a magnolia tree every hundred yards; he makes his story
move without a single negro baptism. The story concerns the rise of Miltiades Vaiden to well-deserved notoriety just after the
Civil War. An ex-overseer, he steals some cotton and becomes moderately wealthy. He is faced by the problems that confronted
every Southerner just after the war, namely the negro-poor white problem. Mr. Stribling treats his theme with an etching-needle exactness
that recalls the Russian masters of the last century. We have, for the first time, an unsparing appreciation of the
negro’s side of this question. The temptation of going North and the proverbial Dope Bucket suffered what was probably one
of the most humiliating days of its contrary existence, when the crossing over, the impossible task of getting along with
the poor whites, the desire to educate the ignorant blacks to a literate level are all magnificently portrayed. Underneath there
is a strain of irony—usually restrained, but sometimes reaching the...obvious heights of Ellen Glasgow... The characterization of Ponny, Milt’s wife,
is executed with a profound sympathy, while his second wife is treated with an ironic kindness. There is a noticeable
absence of the usually exaggerated Southern gentility. This may be deliberate, but the straightforward tone of the book implies that
the omission was unintentional. The only family which might be considered the cream of the Old South is juggled around
in tolerant satire. Like Ibsen, Stribling makes no suggestions as to the solutions to his problems. He merely shows his
readers the facts—and then washes his hands of the whole thing—except for the fact that he must have a profound
interest in the outcome of his problems—and throughout the whole book there is an undertone of optimism—a wisp of haze
that some day these enigmas may be suitably solved.

Davidson College Wildcats romped away with a 12-0 victory over the University of Florida ’Gators at Gainesville Saturday afternoon. Practically
all of the 8,000 interested spectators had predicted a drubbing for the Wildcats, who were too fast in their tearing,
ripping, clawing tactics for the heavy Florida team, which wilted away when the Davidson team opened its drive in the
second quarter. This was one of the games added to the Davidson schedule in the process of widening their field
of play. Down in the Sunshine State they are talked about as the team from somewhere up in North Carolina
and the thin red line that seemed to be built of steel, so hard was it to break.

Red and black blazers will be worn by this year’s Senior class. This was decided by a very large majority
at a recent meeting. They will have inch and three-quarter stripes. This form of garb for Senior distinction is very
much in contrast to that of last year’s Seniors, derbys and canes.

Davidson 10 Years Ago
A rumor has been spread over the campus that Dr. Frazer, president of Queens College, has consented to the proposition
of a special train for the girls to visit Davidson on Home-Coming Day, October 21. We find, however, that the
rumor was started by a dreamer in the historic domicile of Rumple. Now that the rumor has been started, it’s
up to the 540 Davidson students to get that trainload of Queens girls up here. Dr. Frazer has proven himself
a very reasonable man on many occasions, and we believe that he will sanction a request to allow his beauties
to come over and beautify our campus for just one short day. Think what it would mean to the student
body, and especially to the team with such an audience of beauty to spur them on. Come on up, Queens,
and give Davidson the “Once Over.”

Golf enthusiasts at Davidson will welcome the news that the course is being cleaned, and inside of a week it
will be in fair condition. It is hoped that continued interest will be shown as two matches are scheduled with
nearby teams to get a line on the material for the year.

117 GARLAND COURT
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
PRINTING AND ENGRAVING
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE
EDW. O. GUERRANT
See Our DAVIDSON REPRESENTATIVES
A. M. MANSON

—and raw tobaccos have no place in cigarettes
They are 70% present in Luckies ... the mildest cigarette you ever smoked

We buy the finest, the very finest tobaccos in all the world—but that does not explain why folks everywhere regard
Lucky Strike as the mildest cigarette. The fact is, we never overlook the truth that “Nature in the Raw is
Seldom Mild”—so these fine tobaccos, after proper aging and mellowing, are then given the benefit of that Lucky Strike purifying
process, described by the words—“It’s toasted”. That’s why folks in every city, town and hamlet say that Luckies are such
mild cigarettes.

“It’s toasted”
That package of mild Luckies

“If a man write a better book, preach a better sermon, or make a better mouse-trap than his neighbor, the
world will make a beaten path to his door.”—RALPH WALDO EMERSON.

THE FORT DEARBORN MASSACRE
“Nature in the Raw”—as portrayed by the artist, N. C. Wyeth ... inspired by the heartless treachery of a band
of vicious Miami Indians, who massacred the settlers with inhuman ferocity ... August 15, 1812.
