re) ‘eo ) : FINAL ll | S (®) Mi ll al BACCALAUREATE ISSUE & \ SERMON MAY 22 “ALENDA
LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 18, 1932 No. 30 Commencement Schedule Is Set
For Closing Ceremonies Baccalaureate and Y. M. C. A. Sermons Will Be Given Morning and Evening, May 22nd TRUSTEES TO
CONVENE East Dormitory Will Be Turned Into “Alumni Hotel” The dates for the 1932 Commencement of Davidson College, which is
the 96th of this institution, have been slightly changed from last year. Both the baccalaureate and Y. M. C. A.
sermons will be given on May 22nd. The following is the program for the entire period: Sunday, May 22nd 11:15
A. M.—Baccalaureate Sermon, by Rev. R. F. Campbell, D.D., Asheville, N. C. 8:00 P. M.—Annual Sermon before the Y. M.
C. A., by Rev. James W. Jackson, D.D., Columbia, S. C. Tuesday, May 31st 10:00 A. M.—Meeting of Trustees. 8:00
P. M.—Meeting of Alumni Council. Wednesday, June 1st 9:30 A. M.—Meeting of Alumni Council. 12:30 P. M.—Annual Alumni Luncheon. (Meeting
of Alumni Association) 2:30 P. M.—Faculty-Senior Baseball Game. 4:30 P. M.—Reception by the Faculty. 5:30 P. M.—Senior Class Day Exercises.
8:30 P. M.—Literary Society Exercises. Thursday, June 2nd 10:00 A. M.—Academic Procession. 10:30 A. M.—Graduating Exercises. Commencement this year will
be featured by a great number of special class reunions. Special invitations have been extended through class officers and others
interested to the classes which are scheduled for reunions on June 1st. Alumni of 1882 will return for their fiftieth
anniversary, the class of 1907 for its twenty-fifth, and the class of 1931 for its first. Three contemporary groups will
reunite, 1887, 1888, 1889, and 1890; 1906, 1907, 1908, and 1909; and 1925, 1926, 1927, and 1928. East Dormitory, the
last on dormitory row, is being set aside as “Alumni Hotel” during the Commencement exercises. Returning alumni will be allotted
rooms in the building according to classes as far as possible. Assignments for rooms will be made by the alumni
secretary. After the Alumni Luncheon there will be a baseball game between the seniors and the faculty, which is to
be followed by the reception by the faculty. As the 1931-32 session draws to a close, a retrospective review of
the college work since last September leads to the conclusion that Davidson has experienced an exceptional year. However, to make
the year a complete success, it is necessary to make the 96th celebration one of the greatest in the history
of this institution. Interest in Davidson commencements has been gradually increasing, and statements are made at the conclusion of each
that the last one excelled the others. O. D. K. Officers The new officers for 1932-33 O. D. K. have
been announced. Bruce Peabody was elected president. He belongs to Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and was last year’s Student
Body vice-president, and was president of his Freshman class; he is also captain of the basketball team and a member
of the football team and baseball team. Jerome Clark was elected vice-president. He belongs to Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity,
was last year’s Junior class president, and Junior member of the Student Council, and was on the football squad. He
is 1932-33 Student Body president. Allen Mebane was elected secretary and treasurer. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta
social fraternity. He was vice-president of the Junior class last year, and is president of the Senior class of 1933,
business manager of football, and was elected business manager of the Davidsonian, but was forced to resign. Caan L. PRITCHETT
Retiring “Y” Secretary Publications Board Elected Last Week At a popular election by the student body last week the following
men were elected to the Publications Board for the year 1932-33: A. M. Manson, of Jacksonville, Fla.; R. L. McCallie,
Chattanooga, Tenn.; and M. R. Pope, of Talladega, Ala. These men were chosen from the editors-in-chief and the business managers
of the three publications on the campus, who are: E. O. Guerrant, editor of the Davidsonian; A. M. Manson, business
manager of the Davidsonian; R. L. McCallie, editor of Quips and Cranks; W. C. Thompson, business manager of Quips and
Cranks; M. R. Pope, editor of the Yowl, and Arthur Ross, business manager of the Yowl. One man was selected
from each publication. A. M. Manson is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, has been on the
business staff of the Davidsonian for two years, is a member of the golf team, and played Freshman baseball and
basketball. R. L. McCallie is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa honorary
fraternity, a member of the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control and Cabinet, and is a member of Omega
Phi Alpha, Sigma Upsilon, and International Relations Club. M. R. Pope is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social
fraternity, director of the orchestra, and editor of the Yowl. Pope is also a member of the Red and Black
Masquers. Under the jurisdiction of the (Continued on page 5) Marshalls Selected For Commencement Norfleet, Peabody, Mulliss, and Little Are
Juniors to Serve Publications At a meeting of the Junior class on Wednesday, May 11, the following were nominated for
the position of Junior marshals: C. M. Norfleet, Winston-Salem, N. C.; F. B. Fleagle, Davidson, N. C.; E. B. Peabody,
Charlotte, N. C.; W. R. Morrow, High Point, N. C.; A. G. Little, Valdosta, Ga.; A. L. Thompson, Gastonia, N.
C.; W. F. Mulliss, Martinsburg, W. Va.; T. A. Bowles, Decatur, Ala.; and Robert Glasgow, Jr., Charlotte, N. C. In
the first balloting, which was held in chapel Wednesday morning, Norfleet, Peabody and Mulliss were elected, leaving the remaining position
between Little and Bowles. In the second voting, held on Thursday morning, Little was elected to the position. These men
are all members of the Junior class. Their duties will be to officiate at the commencement exercises on June 1
and 2. In the commencement exercises these marshals will serve as ushers. It has been a custom for a number
of years at Davidson to have marshals for these exercises and to have a Senior, who served as a Junior
marshal the year before, to direct these men in their duties. At the last Senior smoker Vereen M. Bell was
selected to serve in this capacity. ANNUAL FINALS TO BE HELD MAY 31-JUNE 1 BY RETIRING COUNCIL E. B. Robinson
and His North Carolinians Will Furnish the Music SENIORS TO BE HONORED All Three Events of This Set Will Be
Informal The annual final dances of the Pan-Hellenic Council will be held the nights of May 31 and June 1.
These will naturally be the last set to be under the supervision of the council that has reigned for the
year 1931-32. The music will be furnished by none other than our own local boys, E. B. Robinson and his
North Carolinians. However, this orchestra will, for these dances, be one of eleven pieces instead of the usual ten pieces,
for Robert Orr, of Asheville, who was with the old Sunnyland Serenaders of last season, will be with them these
two nights. This is of particular interest to the upperclassmen who will recall that Orr was the trombone player and
could not return to school this year because of his health. It might be fitting to also mention here that
he will return next year and continue his usual courses. Gene DuBose, head vocalist, will be there to entertain in
said manner. The North Carolinians have grown rather popular during the past few months, giving several programs over station WBT
in Charlotte, key station of the Dixie Broadcasting System, and also playing for quite a few dances in Charlotte and
other nearby towns. All three dances of this set will be informal and will be given in the ballroom of
the Hotel Charlotte. As mentioned above, there are three dances to this set and individually they are: One Tuesday night
of the 31st from 10:00 to 2:00, the price of which will be $2.00; a tea dance Wednesday from 7:00
to 8:30, which will be free, and the last, Wednesday night from 9:30 to 1:30, priced at $2.00. These dances
come right in the midst of the commencement exercises but after exams, as a tribute to the Seniors. The tea
dance Wednesday afternoon will be dedicated to them. Dr. Henry L. Smith Talks to Students Former President of Davidson Speaks
On the Presbyterian Church “Vote on week-days as you pray on Sunday, and don't let any political boss tell you
which way toCast your Dr. Davidson was the advice which Henry Louis Smith of Greensboro gave to students in a
talk on May 10. The former president of Davidson and now president-emeritus of Washington and visitor in his former home
for the purpose of making the address before the Omicron Delta Kappa fraternity at its initiation on the night of
May 9, Dr. Smith held that one of the weaknesses of the Presbyterian Church, or any other for that matter,
was its reticence in taking a definite stand upon matters which, although vital moral questions, were mixed up in politics.
Born as it was during the Civil War from a political schism, the fathers of the church have always steered
clear of becoming involved in political quarrels. “A declaration was adopted,” said the speaker, “that no decision on a political
question should be passed in session, Presbytery, Synod, or Assembly of the Southern Presbyterian Church, and this stand has prevented
the church as a whole from taking a definite stand on many moral issues.” However, the southern educator pointed out
that “practical religion should be concerned with every vote cast. Nearly every issue voted on today by legislative bodies is
important as a moral as well as political issue. As a Christian citizen, be a citizen, and carry Christ into
your political tangles.”

The speaker went on to point out that the church was more and more coming to realize “that right conduct
in everyday life is more and more the product of right belief,” and that it was urging its members to
take stands on questions that would reflect the principles of Christ.

Fleagle Is Elected

Sam Wiley Is New Secretary of Y. M. C. A. For Next Year

WILEY

Who succeeds Carl Pritchett as “Y” Secretary

Next Track Captain

Last week at a meeting of the varsity track lettermen, Fred Fleagle was elected to captain next year’s team. Sherrod
was elected varsity manager, and Moffet McConnell was elected Freshman manager. Bill Brown, Jack Williams, and Jim Harris were also
elected Junior managers. Those who voted were the lettermen, and the coaches. Fleagle was elected from three who were nominated,
the other two being Bill Flinn and Bob McCallie. He will be a most fitting leader for the Wildcat tracksters
as he has distinguished himself considerably in the last two years in the hundred and two-twenty yard dashes. Having beaten
Brownlee, Duke flash, and having come only a step behind Farmer, noted sprinter from North Carolina University, Fleagle is rated
as the second fastest man in the State. Fleagle is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. From the
three Junior managers, viz., Sherrod, Moffet McConnell, and George Preston, Sherrod was elected varsity manager and McConnell Freshman manager. Sherrod
is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity and McConnell is a member of Kappa Alpha. Brown, Williams, and
Harris were elected as Junior managers over the other Sophomore managers, Gold and Stevens. Gold was elected alternate manager in
case one of the others should drop out.

Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr. Speaks at Vespers

“Character of Abraham” Is Subject of Dr. Gwynn’s Inspiring Talk

At the regular Y. M. C. A. vesper services held each Sunday evening in Chambers Auditorium, Wee Thompson led in
the devotion. For the scripture, he read the passage from the eleventh chapter of Hebrews, verses eight through nineteen. Jimmie
Harris and Bill Matthews led in prayer after which Charley Reid, accompanied at the piano by Ed McNair, rendered a
violin solo. Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr., professor of sociology and education of Davidson College, was the speaker for the
evening. “The Character of Abraham” was the topic of his most inspiring talk. Dr. Gwynn said that he had been
a hero-worshipper ever since his childhood. He said that he had revised his list of heroes from time to time
and had molded many of his life habits after these favorites. Of all these he placed Abraham at the head
of the list as the greatest. Abraham, he said, had not only accomplished great deeds but he had lived a
life which was worthy of copy. Abraham made vital contact with God and learned to know and be at home
with God. Attainment of the Divine Will is the greatest attainment in life, Dr. Gwynn said, and without this, the
attempts at all other things in life are futile. Abraham had a true sense of spiritual and material values.

(Continued on page 5)

Prominent Man of Senior Class Appointed to Fill Vacancy Left by Pritchett

CAMPUS LEADER CHOSEN

Carl Pritchett Will Pursue Studies at Union Seminary

An announcement from the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control declares that Samuel S. Wiley, of Salisbury, N. C.,
a member of this year’s graduating class, will assume the position of the Davidson Y. M. C. A. secretary for
the coming year. Wiley is to fill the vacancy created by Carl Pritchett, as the latter resigns after two years
of most efficient service, and goes to Union Seminary to continue his study. In all the various fields of campus
activity, there is hardly one in which the new secretary has not been actively engaged. In his Freshman year, he
started work on the Davidsonian and was rewarded for his work by election into Delta Pi Kappa, and to the
presidency of the Reporters’ Club. At the end of his first year, he was made a member of the Beaver
Club, junior order of O. D. K. In class affairs, he was secretary-treasurer of the Junior class, and this year
he was chosen by the Freshmen to act as their adviser and representative in matters concerning that class in relation
to the student body and Student Council. During the past year, Wiley served as major of the R. O. T.
C. battalion, and was also captain of the rifle team; he is a member of the Scabbard and Blade, national
honorary military fraternity. He is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, and besides this, a member of
numerous honorary fraternities, including Sigma Upsilon, International Relations Club, Le Cercle Francais, Omega Phi Alpha, and Alpha Phi Epsilon, and
because of his varied interests in these organizations, he was chosen president of the Honorary Council. Notwithstanding all this, Wiley
is a member of the two most coveted honorary fraternities on campus, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Phi Beta Kappa. He
received the latter honor last fall, and is one of the highest-ranking men in his class.

That is a great deal of work for one man, yet he had done much more than just that. In
fact, the above has been only a part of his interest and activity. Men observing the work of the Y.
M. C. A. for the past two years especially have seen clearly one student who has thrown his very soul
into service in its behalf. That man is Sam Wiley. Starting on the Wildcat Handbook staff, he was next chosen
to serve on the “Y” Board of Control. He has been most vitally connected with more or less all the
phases of the work, serving on the Cabinet in charge of the weekly vesper services. During this year, he has
sought continuously to further His Kingdom on the campus through work in and among the men around him. No man
ever stood more squarely for a thing he thought was good; never a more loyal worker; never a more faithful
member of a Y. M. C. A. Such a man is Sam Wiley, and Davidson College owes to him a
great debt of gratitude. And now he comes to make that debt larger as he enters the office of secretary.

There is hardly need to speak of his qualifications for the position. Men know of his earnestness, and now he
was chosen because of his varied interests.

(Continued on page 6)

Senior Auction!

By the order of the president of the Senior class, Jack McKinnon, all articles that Seniors have to dispense with
which are not of use will go under the hammer of the auctioneers Thursday at 3 o'clock in front of
Georgia Dormitory. The auctioneers in charge of this unusual sale will be Bennet Mosely and George O’Hanlon. Both Mr. Mosely
and Mr. O’Hanlon are auctioneers of great renown. Many bargains in the line of clothes, furniture, sporting goods, and other
miscellaneous articles may be had at this remarkable auction for CASH ONLY. Lemonade and soda crackers will be served after
the auction—that is, if everything is sold.
