THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1932

’CATS PLAY LAST HOME GAME TONIGHT

THE SPORTS PARADE

NEWTON AND McEVER PLEASED AT PROSPECTS

Having witnessed the first football scrimmage of the year under the Newton-McEver system, we are inclined to take a more optimistic view of things. Folks, those two fellows are drivers! When they say, “frog,” those Wildcats really hop—perhaps not so creditably, but a hop just the same. And considering the fact that the majority of regulars are not engaged in spring practice, Newton and McEver are doing good work with those who are out for practice.

Heigh ho! Stocks go up—cotton goes up—banks begin to re-open—Davidson wins a basketball game—football prospects look better—etc. et cetera, et als. Not bad.

This Tennessee formation is a novel thing around this part of the country, and one is inclined to view it skeptically until he sees it work. The plays are run like lightning and appear to be very deceptive. After being used to the Monk and Tex system, this formation in which the quarterback squats just back of the center looks sorta peculiar. One back stands about three yards behind the right guard, one a bit further behind the left guard, and the other back on the left wing. The plays involve considerable faking on the part of the quarterback.

The more we see of Gene McEver and Doc Newton, the better we like ’em. How they get all their information about the various players we do not know, but when it comes to getting the low-down, they’ve got Walter Winchell beat a mile and a quarter. Both Doc and Gene knew the names of all the players, first and last, before they'd been out three days, knew their positions, their faults, their family history and their good and bad points from A to Z. And when Mr. McEver begins to call out the names for a couple of backfields, it sounds like a cross between a battalion roll call and the drone of an auctioneer at a tobacco sale in September.

What a shame that the Wildcat basketball quintet had to wait until the season was (Continued on page 6)

Wildcat Cagers Rally in Second Half to Defeat South Carolinians, 32-19

Davidson's Wildcats staged a sensational last-half comeback here tonight when they scored 21 points in the second period while limiting their opponents to a single field goal, defeating the College of Charleston quint 39-19. The Charlestonians held supreme sway during the first bracket and at one time were leading Davidson by a nine-point margin. The Wildcats reduced this to a rest period score of 17-11.

Line-ups:
Charleston (19) Davidson (32)
GONE (A) .......... Lafferty (11)
BUNDAGE (4) ....... Mathis, C (6)
THOMPSON (8) ...... Martin (8)
HITTO (G) .......... Peabody (4)
BUDS .............. Wagner (1)

Scoring substitute: Boucher (2). Referee: Dunham (Chicago Y).

Davidson Defeated By Carolina, 32-28

Overcoming a six-point lead held by Davidson 13 minutes after the start of the second half, the University of North Carolina basketball team defeated the Davidson quintet 32 to 28 at Chapel Hill, Thursday night, February 11. The first half was very slow, and closed with Carolina two points in the lead. There was an early second-half spurt by the Wildcats, but Carolina overcame Davidson's six-point lead in the last two minutes of play. Grier Martin was the high scorer for Davidson, with 12 points, while Wilmer Hines was high scorer for Carolina with 13 points.

Red Terrors Down ’Cats in Fast Game

The Davidson Wildcats were defeated in an exciting and spirited contest by the N. C. State Red Terrors last Wednesday night in Raleigh by the score of 27-26. The Davidson team led 16-9 at the half, after holding State without a field goal for 12 minutes of play. With the help of three free shots, one by Gurneau and two by Rose, the State quint staged a spirited rally, and as Davidson attempted to freeze the ball the Terrors let loose the most exciting playing of the night, scoring three field goals.

Davidson Wrestlers Lose to V. M. I., 29-3

V. M. I’s matmen decisively defeated Davidson College’s grapplers here last Saturday night by a score of 29-3. The visitors obtained four matches by falls and three by time advantages, while losing only one time advantage. Conway, by winning a time advantage over Ruker, was the only Davidson wrestler to tally. Forbis, Tyack, Hodges, and Whitfield lost by falls.

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“SODA” Supplies “SUNDRIES”

Davidson Theatre
Monday and Tuesday
“THE GREEKS HAD A WORD FOR THEM”
INA CLAIRE—JOAN BLONDELL—MADGE EVANS
LOWELL SHERMAN
Wednesday
“FREAKS”
LEILA HYAMS—ROSCOE OTES
Thursday
“PALMY DAYS”
EDDIE CANTOR
Friday
“WOMAN’S COMMANDS”
POLA NEGRI
Saturday
“RAINBOW TRAIL”
O’BRIEN

’Cats Meet Christians In Final Game at Home

The Davidson College Wildcat basketball team will tonight make their last appearance on their home court when they will be hosts to the Elon Christians. The game will be played in the Alumni Gymnasium here, and will start at 8:30, instead of the usual hour of 7:30. Like several other contests which the Davidson varsity five have played this season, this affair was not on the original schedule. The remarkable improvement of the Wildcats since their first game of the season has led to optimism among the Wildcat followers for the remainder of the card. The Davidson boys take their longest journey of the winter next weekend, when they go to Charleston, S. C., to meet the Citadel next Saturday night and play a return game with the College of Charleston on Monday evening.

March 19 Officially Set For School Track Meet

Davidson College athletic authorities have tentatively set the date of March 19th for the annual high school track carnival, which for the past five years has been staged on Richardson Field. Notices were mailed out to almost a hundred coaches of the state this week, inquiring whether they would be able to send a team to Davidson this spring. Last March, 17 high schools sent entrants here, but in view of the limited finances this year, and the curtailing of expenses in many places, it is extremely doubtful if thatnumber will enter this spring. In fact, Winston-Salem authorities stated that in all likelihood they would be unable to compete this year. It was written to sound out the coaches that officials here this week sent out this preliminary questionnaire. They stated that if ten high schools signify their intentions to participate, the carnival will be staged. This assembling of high school track stars has been arranged by officials for the purpose of giving the candidates early preliminary competition, which enabled the mentors to view the material in prospect for the remainder of the season. Over 100 runners, field, or weight men participate each year. A metaphysical impossibility: a poet without love were a physical impossibility. — Thomas Carlyle.

Falls, while Jenkins, Wilson, and Taylor lost by time advantages to the visitors.

S. A. E.’s Meet Pi K. A.’s In Fraternity Finals

Next Thursday night the basketball teams of Pi Kappa Alpha and Sigma Alpha Epsilon will play the finals of the tournament which has been held among the ten social fraternities on the campus. The Pi Kappa Alpha five won against Beta Theta Pi and Phi Delta Theta and drew a bye in the semi-finals. The Sigma Alpha Epsilon quintet won their way to the finals by defeating the Kappa Alphas, Phi Gamma Deltas, and Pi Kappa Phis. In the first play-off between the ten, Pi Kappa Phi eliminated Theta Upsilon Omega, 39-10; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Kappa Alpha, 13-10; Phi Gamma Delta, Kappa Sigma, 14-8; Phi Delta Theta, Sigma Phi Epsilon, 16-15, and Pi Kappa Alpha won over Beta Theta Pi, 18-14. In the second bracket, Pi Kappa Phi drew a bye; Sigma Alpha Epsilon won over Phi Gamma Delta, 27-12, and Pi Kappa Alpha downed Phi Delta Theta. In the semi-finals Pi Kappa Alpha drew the bye, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon won against Pi Kappa Phi by 44 to 10. Last year Sigma Alpha Epsilon won the championship against Alpha Kappa Sigma, and this year’s results are being anticipated with interest.

Freshman Wrestlers Down Salisbury, 24-0

The Wildkitten wrestlers proved too alert for the Salisbury High School matmen last Friday when they decisively defeated them, 24-0. Although it was a continuation of an undefeated season, they showed much improvement and promise of being a champion wrestling team. They had previously taken victories from Oak Ridge and Duke. The first two struggles ended with time advantages, while the last three were climaxed by falls with the powerful Davidson men on top. The results were as follows: 115-pound class—Jones won over Peeler, Time advantage, 2 min, 20 sec. 125—Owen won over Webb, Time, 6:31. 135—Sprunt won over Aldridge, Time, 3:2. 145—Fort threw Rice in 6:3. 155—Quarterman threw Ennis in 1:18. 165—Otter threw Scarlett in 3:41.

The world is a comedy to those that think, a tragedy to those who feel. — Horace Walpole.

Experts are people who know more and more about less and less. — Senator King of Utah.

Economy does not mean parsimony, but value for value. — Ernest J. P. Benn.

Way in Which Charges Absorb New System of Play Satisfies Coaches

After the first week's contact with the Davidson football candidates, Coaches ‘Doc’ Newton and “Gene” McEver seemed well satisfied with the progress shown by the Wildcat gridiron prospects. The interest shown by the candidates and their willingness to absorb the new system of play which the new mentors are introducing, impressed Newton and McEver. Both were satisfied with the way in which the candidates responded to their orders and worked for them. Last Saturday the squad went through the first of a series of regular Saturday afternoon scrimmages, and although the play was ragged at times, Newton and McEver were not discouraged. They contend that within a short time the squad will come around and run the new plays with near perfection.

Backfield Coach McEver expressed satisfaction over the way some of the backfield prospects performed for him, but realized that they had lots to learn. Newton is still at a loss to know the real value of his line prospects, since there are several who have not reported because of wrestling and basketball. Captain Pritchett, head of the athletic department, has been working daily with Newton and McEver. Besides familiarizing the new mentors with the charges, he has been spending a great deal of time trying to develop several good kickers. Coaches “Monk” Younger and “Tex” Tilson have completely turned over the gridiron duties to Newton and McEver. Younger is still working with the Freshman basketball team and will assume baseball practice duties as soon as his Freshman work is completed. Tilson has already assumed his duties as track coach and is busy working with the weight and field prospects.

In the scrimmage game between the Reds and the Blacks, the former came out victorious by scoring three touchdowns while holding the Blacks scoreless. Mills and Wingfield were the big gunners for the winners and were indirectly responsible for all of the Reds’ points. Twice passes by Mills put the ball within scoring distance from where it was taken over by West on the first occasion and Caton on the second. Another pass from Mills to Wingfield resulted in the third tally.

The supreme cause of our confusion is our contemptuous dismissal of ethics. — Professor Charles A. Beard.

SALES AND ENGINEERING SERVICE IN PRINCIPAL CITIES

DEPTH SOUNDERS FOR AIRCRAFT

With the application of electricity to aircraft instruments, another chapter was written in the annals of air transportation. Today’s ship is not only swifter but safer and more dependable. Modern depth-sounding devices indicate instantly the height of the ship above the ground surface. A unique feature of General Electric's recently purchased monoplane is the almost completely electrified instrument panel. The most recently developed instrument is the sonic altimeter, which provides a quick means of indicating changes in height above ground. Sound from an intermittently operated air whistle is directed downward. The echo is picked up in a receiving megaphone, and the sound is heard through a stethoscope. The elapsed time between the sound and the echo determines the height. Tests show that water, buildings, woods, etc., produce echoes that are different and characteristic. Besides developing a complete system of aircraft instruments, college-trained General Electric engineers have pioneered in every electrical field—on land, on sea, and in the air. GENERAL ELECTRIC.