THE DAVIDSONIAN. APRIL 27, 1932

Chesterfield Radio

MON. & THUR. TUES. & FRI. WED. & SAT.
BOSWELL ALEX RUTH SISTERS GRAY ETTING
10:30 p.m. E.D.T. 10:30 p.m. E.D.T. 10 p.m. E.D.T.
SHILKRET’S ORCHESTRA every night but Sunday
NORMAN BROKENSHIRE, Announcer
COLUMBIA NETWORK

They Satisfy
mildness better taste
millions of smokers
Chesterfield ...ALL YOU COULD ASK FOR
© 1932, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Blue Devil Linkmen in a comedy of errors, and blanked the ‘Cats, 8 to 0. Big Jim McKeithan pitched that game for the Devils, and is expected to hurl against the Wildcats.

The Wildcat golf team returned Saturday from a rather unsuccessful golf trip to Sedgefield Country Club in Greensboro, dropping matches to Carolina and Duke and winning by forfeit from N. C. State. On this trip the Cats also competed in the State College Golf Tournament, placing third.

In the Carolina match Davidson fell before the Tar Heels by the score of 15-3. Manson alone of the ’Cats took his match, winning over O’Brien, 2-1. In the Duke match Davidson lost, 13-5. John D. McConnell, the only successful Davidson player, defeated his opponent, June Caldwell, 3-1. The State golf machine broke up on the eve of the day of play and forfeited to Davidson. After this match the ’Cats competed in the State Collegiate Tournament over the same course. In this meet the ’Cats placed third, Duke and Carolina finished first and second, respectively. Wagner, number one man and captain of the Wildcats, placed third in individual scoring by turning in a card of 76-74—150.

BALL SQUAD WILL PLAY

contests with the University of North Carolina, Duke, N. C. State, and Wake Forest. Coach Laird is taking a strong squad along with four capable hurlers in Croker and West, right-handers, and Bailey and Pearce, portsiders. The game with N. C. State will be the first encounter the two teams have had this year, as the Red Terrors have not invaded Richardson Field this season. However, the ’Cats will be out for revenge in the Tar Heel imbroglio, as the boys from Chapel Hill nosed out Davidson, 8-7, in their annual Easter Monday classic in Winston-Salem. The Demon Deacons and the Blue Devils have both been met previously, and rather disastrously for the locals, as Wake Forest sank them by a 4 to 1 score, and Duke ran rampant in a comedy of errors, and blanked the ‘Cats, 8 to 0. Big Jim McKeithan pitched that game for the Devils, and is expected to hurl against the Wildcats.

Miss Lockwood's playing: whatever there is in a set of pipes she will discover and bring out in the most effective manner and the result will sparkle with more than a touch of genius. This recital was no exception and everyone in the large audience remained to the end and doubtless wished it might have been longer, which is saying a great deal.

The following is an extract from a recent letter of Dean C. G. Vardell, Jr., of Salem College: “I have known Miss Lockwood for years and heard her play several times. She is a master of the highest attainments. She is nationally known and has played recitals all over the United States. The last recital that I know of was at Ann Arbor at the University of Michigan where she was received with enthusiasm. Her playing is scholarly, clean cut and well planned; at the same time it is very poetic in feeling and is brilliant to a high degree. She plays the most difficult compositions with ease and mastery. I think it is fortunate for Davidsonians to have the privilege of hearing her.”

WILDKITTEN NINE WINS

a slow procession of runs during the entire contest. Ball Creek had seven men left on bases and lost several chances to score because of bad base running. Tuttle, of Ball Creek, pitched a nice game, fanning 14 men, but his teammates gave him little support. Becker, Kgeshman southpaw, fanned only five men, but only two of the nine hits resulted in scores.

DR. THOMPSON

the last thing, he went on to say, is the books that we read. This above all should be watched so that we will not begin to read cheap stories or books and thus clutter our minds with evil rather than good. A good book will, however, lead the mind through a clean and more wholesome line of thought. Dr. Thompson stated that he had often felt, and that he knew that most of ushad at some time felt that he had worked himself into such a place that he just must quit and give up to the temptation of the easy way. He stated there was but one way to get out of such a position, and that was to just pitch right in and tackle the job and carry through with the thing until the end. To do this, a man must, as it were, wake up. He must realize that life is not as easy as it may seem and that he must fight to win if he ever expects to. This waking up could be done by separating the temptations for good from the temptations for evil and following the former. 

“The greatest temptation for right living,” Dr. Thompson proceeded, “is our Lord Jesus Christ, who by His life and His death challenged us to higher things. The Cross on which Christ hung symbolizes Sin. Can we who profess to love and follow Him, follow the very thing to which He was nailed? Sinful men put Him there; can I who profess to be a Christian, turn from Him and follow this throng?”

The speaker urged us, therefore, to prepare ourselves by Bible reading and by prayer. He said that some of us are too busy to prepare for temptations or are too busy to ask Christ's help. He pleaded that we avoid this attitude and have an open heart to all the things of God. In closing, Dr. Thompson stated that the fact that Christ is here today is the glory of religion; the fact that Christ, though He died, yet rose again, is present today sending to us temptations for right living that we may follow them and be more like Him. “That thing which holds the center of all our attentions is the thing,” the professor said, “that almost completely makes our life.”

MR. W. S. LEE (Continued from page 1)

Jeauharnois on which consulting engineer. It is now practically completed and will be the largest plant on the St. Lawrence. It is the largest plant of its kind in the world. After the lecture, Mr. Lee was a guest at a reception given by the faculty members of Sigma Pi Sigma for the members of that fraternity, the members of the faculty, and their wives. After the reception, Mr. Lee was made an honorary member of Sigma Pi Sigma. He is the first honorary member ever to be initiated into the Alpha chapter of that organization. It is an interesting coincidence that Mr. Lee will speak next week at Purdue, where another chapter of Sigma Pi Sigma has just been installed.

PEARCE LIMITS HORNETS (Continued from page 3)

Pearce. Losing pitcher: Kermode. Wild pitch: Kermode. Umpires: Mathis. Time of game: 1:59.

MANAGERS OF CAMPUS (Continued from page 1)

kins, still another of the campus’ important men. All three of these men will assume their responsibilities next fall.

Deputation Attends Y.M.C.A. Conference

A delegation representing the local “Y” and consisting of Sam Wiley, Paul Brown, Jerome Clark, Leland McKeithan, Jake Mackorell, and Duck Powell, last weekend attended a conference of the student Y.M.C.A. leaders of this state at Chapel Hill. The conference lasted from Friday afternoon until Sunday morning. During this period, the delegates were the guests of the Carolina Student Y.M.C.A., and were lodged in two of the fraternity houses.

On Friday night, the members of the conference attended a lecture on “Religion and Science,” by Dr. Robert Millikan. Dr. Millikan is the director of California Tech and is the man that Albert Einstein came to this country to consult. 

Saturday morning, Dr. Frank P. Graham, president of the university, addressed the representatives, taking as his subject, “America Needs Leaders.” Following this inspiring message, Dean Milner, of Guilford, led a discussion. The Saturday afternoon session was the business session. At that time, Sam Wiley was elected treasurer of the conference for next year and Paul Brown was elected to serve as vice-president of the State “Y” Cabinet for the same period. Bill McKee is president of the conference for next year and Archie Ward is president of the cabinet. McKee is from Carolina; Ward is from State. The conference is to be held at Duke University next year. The name which was selected is “The North Carolina Y.M.C.A.-Y.W.C.A. Officers Training Conference.”

The first exercise on Sunday morning was Morning Watch and it was conducted by Rev. Thomas Wright. Following this service, Miss Elizabeth Smith installed the new officers. The closing feature was a talk by Dr. Shelton Smith of Duke. About sixty delegates attended and those from Davidson brought back glowing accounts of a profitable and enjoyable meeting.