Oo THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 14, 1932

WILDCATS DRILL HARD FOR BLUE DEVILS

THE SPORTS PARADE

NEWTON GIVES UP SPLIT SQUAD IDEA

After nine straight years, a Wildcat gridiron team will take the field next Saturday, a week hence, minus the guidance of “Monk” Younger and “Tex” Tilson. Everything connected with the 1932 Wildcat eleven seems to be new this year, in fact. New coaches, new equipment, a somewhat new and different schedule, a new style of play, and a team which will be composed to a great extent of new faces.

Just what effect the many changes will have upon the Wildcat chances on the gridiron this fall is hard to say, but if you'll accept our opinion, then you will have high expectations. Davidson should have the best team in the history of the school this season. If you will recall the success of the Freshman team of last year and be informed that almost every candidate of that squad is out for the varsity this year, you may be a little closer to our opinion.

It is true that Davidson lost several good men last spring by graduation. Dan King, Don McQueen, Doc Mathis, Bob Johnson, Bud Raker, Steve Brown, and Pie Conway served Davidson well, but there is plenty of material among the fifty or more candidates who can and should serve just as well. In addition, there will be plenty of reserve this year; something which has been lacking in past years.

New and better equipment are at the disposal of Doc Newton and Gene McEver, Davidson’s new coaches. Heretofore Davidson had to make the most of what she had and most of the materials were not up-to-date, but with the difference in equipment, chances of success should be greater. The new style of play which Newton and McEver have put in at Davidson should also add its bit to the success. The plays are faster and built for speed rather than weight, a fact which should fit in with the fast, light backs who characterize Davidson teams.

When confronted concerning his Freshman candidates this year, Coach Red Laird stated that they were the lightest he has had to work with in years. In fact, he stated that he had doubts if the backfield candidates would average over 140 pounds to the man. We called his attention to one candidate who tipped the Fairbanks above the 180 mark and he immediately burst forth with the names of a dozen or more who would not weigh 140 pounds.

Yes, that is expecting a great deal, but Wildcats Meet Blue Devils

Only Nine Opponents Listed on Schedule Which Includes Six Southern Conference Teams

For the first time in several years, Davidson's football team will not make its initial public appearance in a game at Richardson Field. This year the Wildcats will inaugurate their schedule at Durham when they meet Duke University’s Blue Devils September 24th. Elon College, who has been Davidson's foe in her opening game, which has been played at Richardson Field the past few years, will not meet the Wildcats on the gridiron this season.

Another change occurs in the number of games to be played under the 1932 schedule, the Wildcats meeting only nine opponents this year, whereas ten were met in previous seasons. Seven teams which were on the 1931 schedule are carded again this season. Wofford College, who was on Davidson's 1930 schedule, but not last year, and Clemson College, who has not been a Wildcat foe since 1929, are the two newcomers to this year’s schedule.

The list of foes includes six Southern Conference elevens, the same number met by the ’Cats last year. Duke, Washington and Lee, V. M. I, Clemson, N. C. State, and Carolina will be the conference representatives to encounter Davidson. After the Duke game, which will undoubtedly be the ’Cats’ hardest of the year, Washington and Lee will journey to Davidson to try to avenge a 7-0 defeat administered them by a light Wildcat team last year at Lexington, Va. Wofford College will be the guests at Richardson Field the following Saturday. The last meeting of these teams resulted in a 13-0 victory for the Davidson eleven.

The next two games will find the Wildcats away from home, with a game in Virginia when they encounter V. M. I. in Lexington, October 15, and the other in South Carolina when they engage The Citadel at Charleston on the following weekend. Davidson came out victorious over both these teams last season, defeating the former by a 7-0 score and the latter by a 14-0 verdict.

On the next Saturday, the Wildcats will be hosts to Clemson College. The South Carolina school gained a victory over Davidson when the two met in 1929, defeating the ’Cats 32 to 14. The next contest is scheduled to be played in Charlotte with N. C. State furnishing the opposition. The Red Terrors defeated Davidson in a night game at Greensboro last year by an 18-6 score. Carolina University journeys here on November 12th, and Wake Forest, for the first time in years, has agreed to come to Richardson Field for the Thanksgiving Day game, which will be the Wildcats’ final. In 1930, the Wildcats defeated Carolina 7 to 6 at Davidson, but last year the Tar Heels avenged the defeat by crushing the ’Cats, 20 to 0. Wake Forest has not been beaten by a Davidson team in the past ten years.

Junior Cheerleaders Hold First Tryouts

Junior cheerleader candidates at Davidson held their first practice of the semester at Durham on September 24th.

Freshmen Prepare for Hard Football Schedule

“Doc” Mathis, Former Davidson Star Athlete, Assists Coach Laird With Freshman Line

More than sixty Freshmen answered Coach Laird’s call for yearling candidates last Thursday, and have been hard at work ever since in preparation for a five-game schedule which will open September 23rd against Presbyterian Junior College of Maxton. Light scrimmages were begun Monday afternoon, but the workouts will get stiffer as the season progresses. Because of the lightness of the Freshman material, no practice will be held between the Freshmen and varsity candidates, it was stated.

Assisting Laird with the Freshmen is “Doc” Mathis, star guard of the Wildcats who graduated last spring. Mathis is coaching the Kitten line in the place of “Doc” Unger, who is helping the varsity line candidates this season. Those among the sixty candidates who have shown up well in the first few days of practice include Verbel, Burns, Kaysal, Pittman, Sears, Sanders, Slaughter, Matthews, Pearce, and Johnson, backs, and Harris, Clark, Cumbie, Lee, Tipton, Barringer, Cathey, Windham, Brown, Faison, Johnston, and McKenzie, linemen.

The Wildkitten schedule includes: Presbyterian Junior College at Davidson, September 23rd; Wofford Freshmen, at Spartanburg, S. C., October 14th; N. C. State Freshmen, at Raleigh, November 4th; William and Mary, Southern Division, at Norfolk, November 11th, and Duke Freshmen, at Durham, November 18th.

Idea of Split Squad Abandoned by Coach

Coach Doc Newton, head mentor at Davidson College, has given up his idea of dividing his squad of more than fifty football candidates into two separate groups, which were to be known as squads A and B. Newton's original plan was to use Doc Unger as a coach for the varsity B eleven, and to play a regular schedule. Promotions from the B team were to be made to the A team on the basis of performance in the scheduled games.

The feasibility of carrying out the organization of the B team was questioned when college authorities considered it inadvisable to attempt the arrangement of three separate football schedules for three different Davidson elevens this year. Several engagements, including one with Oak Ridge and another with Mount Pleasant, had been tentatively scheduled, but since these games conflict with other major tilts in the state they were cancelled.

"Doc" Unger, who has been aiding Red Laird, head Freshman coach, for the past two seasons, was supposed to be in charge of the B eleven. Although Newton's original idea has been abandoned, it has been decided to keep Unger as an assistant in the varsity training. Unger’s work will be somewhat similar to what it would have been as coach of the B team.Freshman squad of sixty candidates whose combined weight is 600 pounds is what Laird says he has to work with. Davidson’s coaching staff was increased this fall by the addition of “Doc” Mathis to the Freshman department. Mathis returned this semester to take up some work in order to get his degree and was utilized to take over the duties of coaching the Freshman line this fall. While in Davidson as a student, Mathis starred in football, basketball, and baseball, earning no less than eight letters. He served as alternate captain of football and captain of basketball in 1929.

In a recent dispatch from Blacksburg, Va., we notice that “Monk” Younger and “Tex” Tilson have instigated a ban on cursing on the football field at V. P. I. While here at Davidson, the two coaches had a similar ban on profanity. In our opinion, it goes to show that “Monk” and “Tex” are coaching to build characters of high morals. Don’t look askance at those caught in an expose, but look into your own heart.—Dr. Augustus Steimle.

Monday afternoon in Shearer Hall. Practices will continue each afternoon until the latter part of next week when two will be selected from the group as junior assistants by vote of the student body.

Although the candidates first reported to Brooke Allen, head varsity cheerleader, last spring and performed at some of the Freshman baseball games, they did not take their work earnestly until Tuesday night when they took part in the initial Freshman pep meeting of the semester. Those who reported to Allen for the first tryouts include C. F. Gold, J. A. Hunter, T. H. McCallie, E. J. Humphrey, Ralph Smith, H. M. Hawkins, Emmett Thrower, Dallas Waner, John Fitzgerald, and Ben Moore.

For he will train a group of the varsity candidates in the signals and plays of the opponents, and will pit his drilled proteges against those of Newton and McEver.

M.A. DEGREE ABOLISHED (Continued from page 1)

This matter of degrees was discussed some time before a vote was taken, and the general consensus of opinion of members was that the equipment of Davidson was insufficient for even this minimum of graduate study, and eliminating the master of arts degree would permit further concentration on undergraduate work.

WELCOME STUDENTS

Johnson’s Barber Shop
Four Out of Five College Men Come Here

San Francisco

(Note: The following article is the first of a series by Jack Williams, Jr., who by request has consented to write an account of the National Editorial Association convention which was held in California this summer. Some of the interesting places visited on the tour were Salt Lake City, Nevada, Colorado, New Mexico, and the Grand Canyon. The trip of 8,000 miles was made by automobile.)

San Francisco rises majestically on her hills that look down to the Bay on one side and to the Pacific on the other. Piquant and serious, modern New York, ancient China; thundering with traffic, glorious with parks and countless ocean vistas. As we approached the city on the ferry, the site of the $75,000,000 San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge to be erected was pointed out. The bridge will be constructed in two sections, meeting at Buena Vista, where the traffic will be routed through a 500-foot tunnel. There will be a series of spans on the island with towers and cable suspensions high enough to allow the largest ships to pass below.

Golden Gate is a deep channel a mile wide, a place of strong tides and cool sea winds where the waters of San Francisco Bay meet the ocean. In fact, San Francisco is surrounded on all three sides by the sea. The ocean’s clean, salty spray dashes on the cliffs and the flow of Pacific tides washes its docks. You feel the sea in San Francisco, for you breathe it, smell it, see it. Frank Norris called it a story city, along with New Orleans and New York. He said, “There are just three big cities in the United States that are ‘story cities’—New York, New Orleans, and the best of the lot, San Francisco.”

We went immediately to the LaSalle Hotel which we made headquarters. Overcoats feel good in July and we slept under blankets that night. San Francisco has many fine hotels and is noted for its good restaurants. One feels with Fremont Older, the famous editor, that this city always had the urban instinct; it never wore rompers and knickers, but arrived poised, sophisticated, and topped with a silk hat. San Francisco is a happy town. People on the streets are cordial. They smile easily and like visitors enjoying themselves. It is hard to feel downhearted even during the depression when you breathe its bracing air and look at the hills that rise in the sparkling sun above the blue bay.

This city has a strong individual character. It is the portal to the Orient and ships from many lands dock at its piers. Freighters from far-off European ports, round-the-world liners, and all along its waterfront there are signs of activity. The streets are animated and colorful. Florist shops and flower stands are on almost every corner. The stores are attractive and the salesmen are most polite. I can try to describe San Francisco but it takes more than descriptions and even pictures to tell about this place. You must visit the famed Golden Gate City to sense its charm.

In Richard Henry Dana's “Two Years Before the Mast,” we find San Francisco a prophecy fulfilled. I will quote him in his book that was written in 1836: “If California ever becomes a prosperous country, this bay will be the center of its prosperity. The abundance of wood and water, the extreme fertility of its shores, the excellence of its climate, which is as near to being perfect as any in the world, and its facilities for navigation, affording the best anchoring grounds on the whole western coast of America, all fit it for a place of great importance; and it has attracted much attention, for the settlement of ‘Yerba Buena,’ where we lay at anchor, made chiefly by Americans and English, bids fair to become the most important trading place on the coast.”

That night we assembled at the Hopkins Hotel, high on Nob Hill, which commands an excellent view of the city and bay front. Dinner in the Room of the Dons was followed by several addresses of welcome by prominent San Franciscans. Afterwards, we crossed the hall to the Peacock Court where Anson Weeks’ orchestra was playing. The whole history of California is depicted in the mural decorations of the Room of the Dons in this great hotel.

But I don’t want to live there.—Ray Long.

ANNOUNCING THE OPENING OF
The Oaks Tavern Tea Room
Mrs. Harry Y. Mott, Manager
Dinner Parties
Lawn Parties
Telephone Davidson No. 2005
Location: 2 Miles West of Mt. Mourne, N. C.
Picnics
Card Parties
Club Meetings
Banquets
By Appointment Only

Davidson Theatre

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY
HORSE FEATHERS
with THE MARX BROTHERS

SATURDAY
GUILTY AS HELL
with EDMUND LOWE AND VICTOR McCLAGLEN

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
BLESSED EVENT

WEDNESDAY
MAKE ME A STAR
STEWART ERWIN