STUDENT BODY BANQUET TOMORROW AT 6 O'CLOCK

The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

SENIOR SMOKER TONIGHT

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 27, 1932 No. 27

DR. THOMPSON OPENS FIRST SPRING SERVICE AT SUNDAY VESPERS

Speaks on “Temptation to the Right” in an Inspirational Sermon

MUSIC GIVEN BY DUET

Mrs. Pritchett and Mrs. Vowles Render Sacred Vocal Selection

At vespers last Sunday, Dr. W. T. Thompson, professor at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, delivered a most interesting and inspiring talk on “Temptation.” The service was opened by Bill Rule, after which Henry McFadyen read a portion of Scripture from the 26th chapter of Matthew. Following this, Bill Lea and Charlie Moore offered short prayers. Special music was rendered by Mrs. N. G. Pritchett and Mrs. G. R. Vowles with Miss Hattie Thompson accompanying at the piano. Dr. Thompson, after having been introduced by Henry McFadyen, announced his text to be, “Watch and pray that ye enter not into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing but the flesh is weak.” He then proceeded to explain temptation, stating that there are two kinds of temptations, one which draws us to things that are sinful and wicked, and the other which draws us to finer and nobler things, the latter being the one which he would treat during the course of his talk. It is these kinds of temptations that urge us to live better and more perfect lives.

Going further the speaker said that there were several things that inspired these temptations for doing right in us: First, our mothers who had given us our starts and directed our feet aright during our childhood; next, our fathers, who had not guided us the same as our mothers, but had supported us and helped us out of the evil temptations that assailed us in later years. Then Dr. Thompson said that our brothers and friends are often sources of temptation for the better. We admire sometimes a brother or a friend so much that we attempt to follow the good qualities in him that we may have such qualities for ourselves.

(Continued on page 5)

Mr. W. S. Lee Talks on Hydroelectricity

Is Initiated Into Sigma Pi Sigma After Address

On last Thursday evening a large crowd gathered in Chambers Auditorium to hear a lecture by Mr. W. S. Lee. Mr. Lee is the head of his own firm of consulting engineers and is consulting engineer for the Duke Power Company and several other large companies. Ed Bettis, president of the local chapter of Sigma Pi Sigma, asked Dr. J. McD. Douglas, head of the physics department here at Davidson, to introduce the speaker. Dr. Douglas introduced the speaker as one who had raised himself above the crowd as an inventor, engineer, businessman, lecturer, and writer. That Mr. Lee is a leader is shown by the fact that during the past two years he has been president of the American Electrical Engineers Association.

Mr. Lee took as his subject, “Doing a Common Thing in an Uncommon Way.” He said that the great feats of today are studied out in a quiet place before they are enacted. When we hear about a bridge being rebuilt on the main line of one of our great railroads where a train passes every few minutes, and yet not a train is even slowed, we think what a wonderful world we are living in; yet Mr. Lee says that all such feats are, in a large measure, accomplished in the quiet of an office before the actual work ever is begun. He used the blackboard to illustrate a project at Lake St. John on the Saguenay River in Canada where he built a large plant for the Canadian government. He showed a moving picture of the building of a large dam farther down the same river where he erected an obelisk vertically and dynamited it so that it would fall into its place as part of the coffer dam. Although the obelisk weighed several tons, he figured within two inches of the place it would fall, allowing for the water to break the fall. A sensitive recorder showed that the water absorbed 96 percent of the force of the fall. He showed another moving picture of a

(Continued on page 5)

New Student Store Managers Appointed

At a meeting of the Student Store Board on Wednesday, April 20, Brooke Allen, Wilmington, N. C., and Leslie Thompson, Gastonia, N. C., were elected managers of the Student Store for the coming year. These men, both members of the rising Senior class, were elected from fifteen or more candidates. It has not yet been decided what the duties of these men will be, but the Student Store Board will announce later what positions each will hold. Thompson and Allen will take charge of the business on May 1. Leslie Thompson is a member of the Ministerial Fellowship and has taken an active part in Y. M. C. A. work. Brooke Allen is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity and was elected varsity cheerleader for next year. The Student Store Board, who elected the Student Store managers, is composed of the following: M. W. McGill, L. S. Raker, D. S. King, R. W. Gorrell, N. G. Speir, and A. G. Montgomery.

Famous Organist to Appear Here in May

Mu Beta Psi Sponsors Famous Artist’s Recital at Davidson

Charlotte M. Lockwood, one of the most famous women organists in America, is to appear before a Davidson audience on the evening of May 5, at 8:15 o’clock. Miss Lockwood comes to Davidson under the auspices of the Mu Beta Psi musical fraternity. The mere announcement of Miss Lockwood's coming speaks for itself. Music lovers of Davidson and Charlotte will be delighted to have the opportunity of hearing Miss Lockwood before she returns to Europe for further study. Adult tickets will go on sale at the extremely low price of 50 cents. Student tickets will be 25 cents. These prices will be appreciated when it is recalled that at Miss Lockwood's last appearance in Greensboro, the house was sold out at $1.50 per ticket.

Miss Lockwood's life reads like a romance. At the early age of 11 she was the church organist in her native town. After her graduation from Salem College, she went to New York City as a pupil of Dr. Clarence Dickinson, and within two years won the degrees of Associate and Fellow member of the American Guild of Organists. She has spent considerable time in Europe studying with Vidor in Paris. Her associations with this great teacher, who is generally considered the foremost organist and composer of organ music in the world, meant much to her. A testimony of the high regard which Vidor had for her and her work is evidenced in the following: At the completion of her lessons with Vidor, as Miss Lockwood was telling him good-bye, he presented her with his own photograph, bearing the autograph, “To my colleague for whom I have high admiration.” It goes without saying that Miss Lockwood was delighted with this salutation, for she had only dared hope and expect that Vidor would address her as Pupil.

An extract from a leading newspaper of Montreal, during the Canadian Musical Convention, is typical of Miss Lockwood's enthusiastic receptions: “The event of the evening was a recital by Charlotte M. Lockwood, guest recitalist repre-

(Continued on page 5)

Student Body Banquet

Tomorrow night in Chambers Building the annual Student Body Banquet will be held. Preceding the banquet, the installation of the 1932-1933 officers of the student body will be held in the auditorium. This will mark the beginning of the new regime. Following this exercise, the students will go down to the banquet hall, and it is here that the elaborate banquet will be held. It is planned that the boarding house, as is customary, will not serve the evening meal Thursday night, but will contribute some food for the banquet in order to make the banquet fee as nominal as possible. It is important that every man be present at this meeting to let the new officers know that the entire student body is behind them for the coming year.

Pan-Hellenic Council For 1932-33 Elects Officers With Mullis President

W. A. Mebane, Jr., Is Chosen as Secretary and Treasurer of Council

FINALS TO BE PLANNED

New Council Plans Banquet in Honor of Old Council

At a recent meeting of the newly elected members of the Pan-Hellenic Council, W. F. Mulliss, of Martinsburg, W. Va., was elected president of the council for 1932-33. W. A. Mebane, of Burlington, N. C., was elected secretary and treasurer. Bill Mulliss is the representative of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity and Allen Mebane is the representative of Phi Gamma Delta. The new council members are Fred L. Smyre, of Gastonia, Beta Theta Pi; William F. Mulliss, of Martinsburg, W. Va., Pi Kappa Alpha; D. Meade Bernard, Jr., of Jacksonville, Fla., Kappa Alpha; Alex G. Little, Jr., of Valdosta, Ga., Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Fred B. Fleagle, of Davidson, Kappa Sigma; Robt. H. Alderman, of Florence, S. C., Pi Kappa Phi; W. A. Mebane, of Burlington, Phi Gamma Delta; George C. Neal, of Ruffin, Theta Upsilon Omega; John G. O'Keefe, of Bluefield, W. Va., Phi Delta Theta, and J. W. Lee, of Ronceverte, W. Va., Sigma Phi Epsilon.

The old council will have charge of the one remaining social function of the year, but no definite plans have yet been made for the “Finals,” which are to be held in Charlotte. At the same meeting of the new council, the members decided to give a banquet in honor of the retiring men. This banquet will be held at “The Hearthstone” in Charlotte, some time during the “Finals.”

O. D. K. Tap DayTo Be Held May Third Initiation Is to Be May 9 With Dr. Smith as Speaker

Next Tuesday, May 3, the Delta chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary fraternity which recognizes leadership in student activities, will hold its annual spring services in chapel. The formal initiation will be conducted Monday night, May 9, at 6:30. Following the ceremony, Dr. Henry Louis Smith will make an address in Chambers Auditorium. A banquet will be held in honor of the new men immediately after Dr. Smith’s address.

Jack McKinnon, president of the local chapter, will preside at the exercises Tuesday morning. A member of the faculty will speak on the aims and ideals of the fraternity. At the conclusion of this address the “tapping” begins. The ceremony is unusually impressive and distinctive. As the president taps the gavel, each student member rises successively and goes down into the student body, tapping the man who has been issued a bid. The one tapped signifies his acceptance by following the man to the platform.

Dr. Smith, who will make the address in Chambers after the secret initiation Monday night, May 9, is a former president of Davidson from 1901 to 1912, and is now president-emeritus of Washington and Lee University. He is a charter member of the Alpha chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa at Washington and Lee and has long since been interested in O. D. K. work. After his graduation from Davidson in 1881, Dr. Smith held the presidency of Selma Academy for five years. Immediately upon the completion of graduate work at the University of Virginia in 1886, he came to Davidson as professor of physics. In 1906 the University of North Carolina conferred upon Dr. Smith the honorary degree of doctor of laws. He is a well-known lecturer and was at one time guest of the British government and the King of England when he presented a Washington statue to the English people for the State of Virginia. The student body is cordially invited to attend Dr. Smith’s lecture in Chambers Auditorium. Every year some outstanding speaker has been chosen to present this address to the newly initiated men, and to the student body at large. The organization feels that in securing Dr. Smith as speaker they have obtained a man who should prove to be not only interesting but highly stimulating.

Myers Selected As Editor of Handbook

Charles F. Myers has recently been selected as editor-in-chief of the Wildcat Handbook for 1932-1933. Robert Glasgow is to work with Myers as business manager. They stated that they had already begun work on the twenty-fifth volume, which will be the next and latest issue of the handbook. The following are members of the staff who will aid in compiling data for the book: W. T. Thompson, Alec Schenck, Ody Casali, James White, Jack Williams, Lyman Clardy, and W. M. Thompson. The handbook will be published in June. The last issue of the book was dedicated to C. R. Pritchett, but as yet it hasn't been decided to whom it will be dedicated. This will be decided at an early date by members of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet. As has always been the custom, a copy will be sent about three weeks previous to the opening of school to each member of the incoming Freshman class. This little book has always been very helpful to the beginner in helping him to become acclimated to the school. It is not only helpful to Freshmen, but it is also very valuable to upperclassmen, as each issue contains much new information that is indispensable to them.

Managers of Campus Publications Elected

Those Chosen Are W. C. Thompson, W. A. Mebane and Arthur Ross

The Publication Board, in a recent meeting, selected the managers of the three campus publications for the coming year. The men selected were: W. C. Thompson for “Quips and Cranks,” college annual; W. A. Mebane for “The Davidsonian,” college weekly, and Arthur Ross, Jr., for “The Yowl,” humor magazine. These men were selected from the assistant business managers and assistant circulation managers of this current year and are members of the rising Senior class.

W. C. Thompson served this past year as assistant circulation manager of “Quips and Cranks.” He did a great deal of work in connection with the photographic department of the annual, and is decidedly capable of handling the responsible position to which he has been elected. W. A. Mebane is affiliated with Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. He was assistant business manager of “The Davidsonian” this year, and an excellent man for his new position. He is vice-president of the Junior class, president-elect of the Senior class, manager-elect of the varsity football team, and on next year’s Pan-Hellenic Council, of which he is secretary-treasurer. Arthur Ross, newly elected business manager of “The Yowl,” won his position over a host of able candidates, and should prove himself a good financial manager of the young humor publication. He belongs to Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, and is manager-elect of the Freshman football team.

The predecessors of these recently elected business managers are all well-known men about the campus. Thompson, in assuming the managership of the annual, succeeds Bob Gorrell, recent manager of football and an important factor in other campus extra-curricular activities and honors. Mebane will fill the shoes of P. M. Conway, wrestling captain, member of the football team, and likewise participant in other important campus activities. Arthur Ross will take over the responsibilities vacated by F. G. Jen- (Continued on page 5)

Senior Smoker

Tonight at nine o’clock the Senior class will hold its last smoker for the year in the Chambers Banquet Room, where a plate supper will be served. At this meeting plans for commencement will be made, and the officers for the Class Day exercises, namely, valedictorian, salutatorian, poet, and orator, will be elected. A novelty program, consisting of songs, skits, etc., has been planned by the program committee, and all of the Seniors are urged to be present as this is the last meeting that this class will hold as students.

SENIOR CLASS ELECTS W. ALLEN MEBANE AS PRESIDENT NEXT YEAR

New Class Leader Is Outstanding in Other Campus Activities for Coming Year

EIGHT MEN NOMINATED

Other Officers Will Be Elected in Near Future

In the recent Senior class elections, W. Allen Mebane, of Burlington, N. C., was named president on the third ballot. The list of nominees presented to the class was: Mebane, Bill Flinn, Ed Guerrant, Bob Glasgow, Bob McCallie, Leland McKeithan, Charlie Norfleet, and Bruce Peabody. After the first run-off the following were left to be voted on: Mebane, Peabody, Norfleet, and Flinn. The third ballot presented the names of Mebane and Peabody.

Mebane is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, Sigma Delta Pi honorary Spanish fraternity, and holds the following outstanding positions for next year: business manager of The Davidsonian, varsity manager of football, and secretary-treasurer of the Pan-Hellenic Council. This year he was vice-president of the Junior class and business manager of the Y. M. C. A. Handbook. Last year Mebane was a member of the Beaver Club, the honorary Sophomore organization, and vice-president of the Sophomore class.

The nominating committee for officers of next year’s Senior class presented the names of the following men as nominees for the Student Council: Gene Cannon, Fred Dickinson, Bill Flinn, John Howard, Bob McCallie, Bruce Peabody, Bob Glasgow, and Paul Brown. Three men were also nominated from the floor: Byron Shriver, Duncan McBryde, and Blair Gwynn. Six out of these eleven men are to be elected to succeed this year’s Senior members: E. S. Brannon, R. W. Gorrell, J. H. McKinnon, L. S. Baker, C. M. Miller, and N. G. Spier. The vice-president and the secretary-treasurer of the Senior class have not as yet been nominated, but the election of all the officers will take place in the near future.

Officers For Rising Juniors Are Named

McMillan Is Elected President; Pratt, Vice-President; Rives, Secretary-Treasurer

The election of officers for the rising Junior class has recently been held, in which H. T. “Shine” McMillan was made president; Lanier W. Pratt, vice-president, and Charlie Rives, secretary-treasurer.

Three ballots were required before a president could be selected. Those nominated by a committee for this position were: Alec Schenck, John O'Keefe, Andy Manson, and Sam Nickey. Those nominated from the floor were “Shine” McMillan, Charlie Rives, Lyman Clardy, and Boggs Corbin. On the first voting all were eliminated but Alec Schenck, John O'Keefe, Andy Manson, Sam Nickey, and McMillan. On the second ballot only O'Keefe and McMillan were left in, and on the third ballot the latter won. McMillan is on the track team, in the Glee Club, and is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

Those nominated for vice-president were Lanier Pratt, Lynn Huie, Fred Smyre, and John Hunter. For the second voting only Huie and Pratt remained, and Pratt finally took the position. Pratt is a member of the track team and Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Those on the ticket for secretary-treasurer were: Charley Rives, John O'Keefe, Frank Holt, Everett Escott, and Ed Humphrey. Only Rives and Humphrey survived the first elimination, and on the next ballot the number of votes for Rives prevailed. Rives is on the football squad and is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

Nominations for Student Councilmen from the Junior class have also been made. Those made by the present council are: Lyman W. Clardy, John Drake, Bill Johnston, John Lafferty, and Julian West. Those nominated from the floor are: Andy Manson, Jim McClintock, Mack Holland, and Owen Ravenel. Three of these men will be elected.