THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 30, 1932

WILDCATS SCORE TOUCHDOWN TO BREAK JINX OF 11 YEARS

(Continued from page 1)

returning punts. DeAngelis, at guard, showed up exceptionally well in the Deacon forward wall. Seven Wildcats closed their careers in
a blaze of glory. Jack Wagner, Dick Whitfield, Bruce Peabody, Charley Pearce, Buddy Gardner, Fred Ogden, and Billy Flinn played
their last game for Davidson, and made a most creditable showing, and left the field with the knowledge that they
were on the first team to beat Wake Forest since 1920. Jack Wagner, redoubtable tackle, played one of the finest
games of his entire college career, dumping Wake Forest plays behind the line of scrimmage with regularity. Captain Buddy Gardner,
with his knee still in bad shape, played one of his best games, and closed his career with the true
Wildcat spirit. In the backfield, Charley Pearce stood out like a beacon light, but he was ably supported by that
dependable little quarterback, Bruce Peabody, and a dynamic fullback, Eb Willson, who had the distinction of being in the Davidson
line-up, and playing in the Wake Forest backfield, until he was removed from the game on account of injuries in
the third quarter.

The Deacons opened strongly, ripping off two consecutive first downs, aided, however, by a brace of penalties. After an exchange
of punts they got another, and Lawhorn fumbled, Whitfield recovering for the ’Cats on the Davidson 45. The ’Cats punted
again, and Wake Forest took to the air, and on a successful toss were on the Davidson 16-yard line. Here
the ’Cats held, and the threat ended when Russell passed into the end zone, giving Davidson the ball on their
own 20-yard line, the quarter ending shortly after.

To open the second canto, Wake Forest made it first down on a series of thrusts with Wilson and Lawhorn
carrying the ball, but were forced to kick in the next series of downs. Davidson then made a pair of
first downs, with Wingfield doing most of the gaining. The ball then went over, and Pearce had just intercepted a
pass as the half ended.

It was on the kickoff that opened the second half that Pearce made his brilliant

Cheety, Clark, Dudley, Kessler. Davidson—Wingfield, Gardner, Ogden, Potter, Hutchins, Flinn. Officials: Referee—Arnold (Auburn). Umpire—Sholar (Presbyterian). Head linesman—Collins (Vanderbilt). Field judge—Gass
(Lehigh).

Wildcats May Become Conference Members

Davidson Among Four Schools Considered as Possible S. I. C. Additions

Davidson College is one of four schools being considered as possible additions to the Southern Intercollegiate Conference, it was announced
recently by C. P. Miles, president of the association. William and Mary, Loyola, of New Orleans, and the University of
Richmond are the others considered. Action will not be taken concerning the additions until the annual meeting of the conference
in Knoxville, Tenn., December 9 and 10, but preparations for the convention revealed that the taking in of these schools
was being considered.

This will not be the first time that Davidson has been brought before the body as a possible newcomer into
the conference. Several times in the past the conference has mentioned the possibility of taking in Davidson, but no invitation
has ever been extended. Records show that Davidson has done exceptionally well against Southern Conference teams in past years, and
even this year won two, tied one, and lost three games to conference teams.

DR. RICHARDS SPEAKS FOR SUNDAY VESPERS

(Continued from page 1)

After naming many other ways in which the two are similar, Dr. Richards closed by saying: “The greatest way in
which the two correspond is that the all-important thing is not winning. The greatest mistake we make in our zeal
for football today is our lust for victory. Many great coaches have taught that we should play the game for
the game’s sake. Alonzo Stagg, Chicago’s recently retired mentor, always put character building before winning games.”

Dr. Richards’ talk, though short, was one of the most interesting heard on the hill this year. Leslie Thompson led
in prayer and Dr. Richards closed with the benediction.

PHI SOCIETY ENJOYS INSTRUCTIVE PROGRAM

(Continued from page 1)

debate on the query, Resolved: That a centipede with corns is in a worse predicament than a giraffe with a
sore throat. The crippled centipede was supported by Cochrane, while the condition of the giraffe’s throat was minutely examined by
Beatty. Duncan McBryde, the critic, announced the program for next week, the feature being a serious debate, Resolved: That the
U. S. should cancel the war debts of the European countries. The coming program is anticipated with much interest by
all theSupporters of this organization. New men interested in literary society work are cordially invited to join. The society meets
every Tuesday night at 6:30 in the Phi hall over the Y.

At Trenton, N. J., a hungry five-foot king snake and a hungrier rattlesnake were put in the same cage. The
king snake won the fight while moving picture machines clicked away for the future edification of the state’s students.

What Davidson’s 1932 Opponents Did:
DUKE 13, W. & L. 0.
CITADEL 13, WOFFORD 0.
V. M. I. 0, V. P. I. 26.
CLEMSON 0, Furman 7.
N. C. STATE 7, South Carolina 7.
CAROLINA 7, Virginia 14.

STUDENTS WILL HEAR DR. JAMES SOUTHALL WILSON
(Continued from page 1)
This distinguished speaker has been the editor of the “University of Virginia Alumni Bulletin” and the “Virginia Quarterly Review” since
1925. He is a member of the State Board of Education, Modern Language Association of America, and the American Association
of University Professors. He has edited “The Enchanted Years,” 1921; “An Appreciation of Edgar Allan Poe,” 1923; “Letters of Edgar
Allan Poe to George W. Eveleth,” 1924; “Facts About Poe,” 1926, and “Tales of Edgar Allan Poe.” It is hoped
that the Davidson students will avail themselves of this opportunity to hear their accomplished guest on this occasion.

IS COMING!

A 66-yard touchdown gallop, that was called back by the alert official. Captain Green kicked off for Wake Forest, and
Pearce caught the ball on his own 16-yard line, and checked out down the center of the field, with his
cohorts blocking perfectly, and was soon ahead of the pack, and crossed the goal line standing up. Davidson supporters were
depressed considerably when the play was called back, and penalized five yards for an illegal formation. With Wilson doing most
of the leather toting, Wake Forest moved up to Davidson’s 33, and from here Wilson punted out on Davidson’s two-yard
line. Here Pearce exhibited a piece of daring, and on faking a kick, passed from behind his own goal. However,
it was incomplete. The kick that followed went straight up, and the game appeared over for Davidson, but Captain Green
fumbled, and Davidson recovered on their own six-yard line. Pearce kicked again, and it was Wake Forest’s ball on Davidson’s
32-yard line. Here the Deacons began a drive, but were repulsed on the 16-yard marker, and the ball went over.
To begin the final chapter, the Deacons were in possession of the ball in midfield. A pass, Shinn to Myers,
was good for 15 yards. Russell to Myers was then good for 12 and another first down, the Deacons having
the ball on Davidson’s 18-yard mark. Wake Forest made another first down, placing them on Davidson’s four-yard line with first
down and goal to go. Two bucks and a lateral pass failed to gain, and then Myers attempted a field
goal from placement. It was low and wide, the ball going to Davidson on their own 20-yard stripe. After an
exchange of punts, the Deacons started another drive. Wake Forest had just gotten a 15-yard penalty when Pearce took Shinn’s
pass out of the air and ran 55 yards to a touchdown, Peabody adding the extra point from placement. Wake
Forest’s passing attack had been checked as the game ended.

The line-ups:
W. Forest - Position - Davidson
Hardie - L.E - Morgan
Grant - L.T. - Wagner
DeAngelis - L.G. - Hand
Owens - Center - McElrath
Hood - R.G. - Rives
Swann - R.T. - Whitfield
Green - R.E. - Morris
Wall - Q.B. - Mackorell
Wilson - L.H. - Peabody
Peters - R.H. - Pearce
Lawhorne - F.B. - Willson

Scores by periods:
Wake Forest 0 0 0 0
Davidson 0 0 0 7

Davidson scoring: Touchdown—Pearce. Point after touchdown—Peabody (place-kick).

Substitutes: Wake Forest—Holton, Shinn, Russell, Myers, Swing, Griffin, Falkenburg.

THEY’RE MILDER
THEY TASTE BETTER

Look at that Baby!

You would be astonished too, if you could see this machine that turns out 750 Chesterfields a minute... and every
one as near perfect as cigarettes can be made. But please bear this in mind. It is what happens before
the tobacco goes into this machine, that matters most. Rolling and packaging are important, but not nearly as important as
the selection, blending and treatment of the tobacco.

That’s why we keep telling you about the tobaccos used in Chesterfields. They’re fine, mild, pure tobaccos. We tell you
about ageing and curing the tobaccos... about blending and cross-blending them... because they are things that count. Chesterfields are milder.
They taste better. Prove it for yourself... Just try a package.

Chesterfield Radio Program—Every night except Sunday, Columbia coast-to-coast Network.
