THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1932

Alumni Personals

Alumni visitors here during the past week included R. H. Guerrant, ’07, Chicago, Ills.; John A. Scott, ’11, Statesville; Paul
Browning, '17, Greenville, S. C.; John I. Smith, ’24, Greenville, S. C.; D. M. McComb, ’25, Hickory; D. G. Wilson,
’26, Greensboro, and W. H. B. Simpson, '29, Greenville, S. C. There were a number of other alumni, who are
frequent visitors, who were here Saturday for the football scrimmage.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of Mrs. W. B. Parks, of Derita, mother of Rev. J. L.
Parks, '22, of Spencer, and of the death of Mrs. R. T. Gillespie, Sr., of Rock Hill, mother of Rev.
J. D. Gillespie, '10, of Quitman, Ga., and Rev. J. T. Gillespie, '17, of Decatur, Ga.

Dr. Bernard R. Smith, ’06, of Asheville, has been appointed a member of the Buncombe County Board of Health. Dr.
Smith obtained national recognition recently when he was selected as the Asheville physician for President Hoover's son.

Dr. S. W. Moore, ’26, has returned within the past ten days from Vienna, where he had been taking special
courses. For the next two years, he will be connected with New York Hospital. Dr. Moore graduated at Harvard Medical
School, and before he went to Vienna last fall, he was connected with the Cleveland (Ohio) City Hospital.

A. J. Cox, '29, is studying at San Francisco Seminary, San Anselmo, Calif.

W. J. Armfield, III, ’28, of Asheboro, has been selected as president of the Chamber of Commerce of that city.

J. C. Sanford, ’09, and Knox Johnstone, '26, both of Mocksville, who were recently made directors of the Davie County
Fair Association, have been named second vice-president and treasurer, respectively, of that organization.

J. Will Pless, Jr., ’18, of Marion, will not seek re-election this year as district attorney for McDowell County, for
the very good reason that his term does not expire until 1934.

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, ’81, of Greensboro, frequently speaks throughout the state, and one of his larger acceptances was the
invitation to speak in Charlotte on Sunday, February 28th. He is one of four men to address mass gatherings in
Charlotte on successive Sundays, these meetings being arranged under the direction of McAlister Carson, ’13, chairman of the “Committee of
100.”

Dr. Frank A. Sharpe, ’10, is one of the stockholders in the Greensboro Hospital, Inc., to which a certificate of
incorporation was granted last week by the Secretary of State.

Rev. C. M. Gibbs, ’15, of Erwin, has been elected stated clerk of Fayetteville Presbytery, to fill the unexpired term
of the late Rev. R. A. McLeod, ’09.

Rev. Robert King, D.D., '06, formerly pastor at Pulaski, Va., has accepted a call to the First Presbyterian Church at
Johnson City, Tenn., and began his pastoral duties there in the middle of January.

W. Gettys Guille, ’23, has been transferred to Salisbury by the Wachovia Bank and Trust Company. Mr. Guille was formerly
in Salisbury with this concern, but for the past three years, he has been located in Winston-Salem.

Eighteen Davidson Men Now Residing in China
Ten of That Number Live in the War Sector. Seven Are in Japan, and Four Live in Korea

Eighteen Davidson College alumni are now located in China, either as missionaries, doctors, or businessmen, although a dozen of these
are in Shanghai or Nanking, or within a radius of two hundred miles of the war sector. The alumni records
also show that seven Davidson alumni in all countries would be larger, except for the fact that at least half
a dozen of the missionaries are in America on furlough at the present time.

Those in Shanghai proper are Julian R. Briggs, ’25, with the National City Bank of New York; William B. Rice,
'27, with the Raver Trust Co.; and Dr. Philip B. Price, '18, and Rev. S. C. Farrier, '12. Rev. Frank
W. Price, ’15, is in Nanking, and other alumni in that section include Rev. Henry L. Reaves, '11, Soochow; Rev.
A. R. Craig, '17, Kashing; Rev. G. A. Hudson, '18, Kashing; Rev. J. B. Woods, Jr., Chinkiang, and Dr. N.
G. Patterson, ’25, Suitsien, Kiangsu.

Other Davidson alumni in China include Dr. A. A. McFadyen, '99; Dr. Thornton Stearns, '06; Rev. W. C. McLaughlin, '07;
Rev. E. S. Currie, '12; Rev. J. R. Woods, '18; Rev. Edgar A. Woods, ’19; Rev. C. W. Worth, '19,
and Rev. W. W. Moore, '22. None of the latter, however, is in imminent danger.

Many Ministers Supplied To Church by Davidson
Survey Shows That 20.7 Per Cent of Southern Presbyterian Ministers Are Alumni of This Institution

Davidson College is at the present time supplying 20.7 per cent of the ministers in the Southern Presbyterian Church, according
to a survey which has been completed in the alumni office. This is based on the 1931 minutes of the
General Assembly of this Church, which listed the total number of ministers as 2,409. Of the total, 498 of them
are alumni of Davidson. A few of the 498 are not graduates of Davidson, however, for some of them completed
their college training elsewhere after attending here.

This supplements a previous survey made by the alumni office, which revealed that 57.1 per cent of the fellowships awarded
by Union, Columbia, and Louisville Theological Seminaries had been won by Davidson men. Another research of the same office showed
that 55 Davidson alumni are now preparing themselves for the ministry at the above three seminaries, and also at Princeton,
Westminster,in Philadelphia, and at Erskine. J.D. McDowell, Jr. '19, is connected in Valdosta, Ga., with Neville, McIver, Barnes and Company,
certified public accountants. Rev. George W. Mauze, '23, has accepted a call to the First Presbyterian Church at St. Joseph,
Mo., and will enter upon his duties there. He has been pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Kinston for three
years, and has spent four years in Japan and four in Korea.

Alumni Marriages
Alumni Deaths

(Editor's note: The following announcements of marriages were prepared for last week's issue of The Davidsonian, but were held over
until this week because of a lack of space.)

Smith-Shulenberger
Warren Waitt Smith, an alumnus of the 1928 class, and Miss Margaret Sadler Shulenberger, both of Charlotte, were married at
the home of the bride on December 24th. Mr. Smith is a native of Wilmington, but since leaving Davidson he
has been connected with firms in Charlotte. He is now with the Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company. Mrs. Smith was
educated at Mont Amoena Seminary, Mt. Pleasant. They are at home at 1912 Bay St., Charlotte.

McLeod-Henderson
George Patrick Henderson, 1930 graduate of Davidson, and Miss McIver McLeod, both of Maxton, were married in the First Presbyterian
Church of that city on December 3rd. The ceremony was performed by Rev. R. L. McLeod, '23, of Winter Haven,
Fla., assisted by Rev. E. L. Siler, D.D., '87, of Maxton. Fred Ratchford, '29, of Statesville, was best man, and
ushers included J. B. McCallum, Jr., '23, and R. D. Croom, Jr., '30, both of Maxton. Since graduation, Mr. Henderson
has been connected with Presbyterian Junior College and now holds the position of director of athletics. Mrs. McLeod obtained her
education at Peace Institute, in Raleigh, and N.C.C.W., in Greensboro.

Kennedy-Barnett
Herman Charles Kennedy, a 1930 post-graduate student of Davidson, of Atlanta, Ga., and Miss Alice Evelyn Barnett, of Decatur, Ga.,
were married at Decatur during the latter part of December. Before attending Davidson, Mr. Kennedy graduated in 1929 from Tusculum
College, and after leaving Davidson he took further graduate work at the University of North Carolina. He is now connected
with the Blue Diamond Coal Company, of Atlanta. Mrs. Kennedy received her education at Agnes Scott.

Births
1926—Mr. and Mrs. John A. Bouvier, Jr., of Miami, Fla., announce the birth of a daughter, Helen Elizabeth, on January
19th.
1927—Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Dew, of Charlotte, announce the birth of a son, James Marion, Jr., on February 2nd.

SCARLET TANAGER
Sodas — Tobacco — Sundries
All Sundaes—15c
Ice Cream Sodas—10c

Dr. J. M. Dunlap, '73
Dr. James Mendenhall Dunlap, 1873 graduate of Davidson, died in the Anson Sanatorium at Wadesboro last Sunday, February 14th, after
a period of failing health extending over a period of several years. The immediate cause was a stroke of paralysis
Saturday night, from which he did not rally. Dr. Dunlap’s home was at Ansonville. After graduating from Davidson, Dr. Dunlap
went to the University of the City of New York for his medical work, and obtained his degree from that
institution in 1876. He returned to his native section to practice, and in that vicinity he remained all the years
of his life. He was interested in other activities of the section, and served several terms as county commissioner. Dr.
Dunlap’s last visit to Davidson was on Home-Coming Day, in 1928, when he, with his sight failing rapidly, returned with
Gen. W. A. Smith, '65, of Ansonville, a Confederate veteran.

A. C. Springs, '79
Alva Connell Springs, an 1879 alumnus of Davidson, died at his home in Charlotte on February 12th. Death came after
a lingering illness that extended over a four-year period. Before coming to Davidson, Mr. Springs attended the celebrated Bingham School
at Mebane. He did not finish here, but continued his education at the University of North Carolina.

(Continued on page 6)

Armfield-Follin
Wyatt Albion Armfield, who graduated from Davidson last June, of Asheboro, was married on December 30th to Miss Lucy Reynolds
Follin, of Winston-Salem, the ceremony taking place in the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem. Among the groomsmen were Robert S.
Overman, '28, of High Point; J. Archie Cannon, '31, of Chapel Hill, and John Stevens, Tom Bowles, and Alex Little,
members of the present student body. Since his graduation last June Mr. Armfield has been connected with the Farmers National
Bank at Winston-Salem. Mrs. Armfield was educated at Gunston Hall School in Washington, D.C., where she specialized in Marks-Harris.

Joseph Rufus Marks, 1930 Davidson graduate, of Acme, and Miss Marion Beatrice Harris, of Seaboard, were married in the Seaboard
Baptist Church on December 30th. Since his graduation in 1930, Mr. Marks has been working at his home in Acme.
Mrs. Marks was graduated from Meredith College, and had been teaching in the Acme-Delco High School.

Stetson “D” Store Offers
With Every Spring Suit Bought During the Month of February
A Free Pair of Pants or Knickers Without Extra Cost.
Come in and Look the New Spring Patterns Over
Clothes For the College Man

College Printing
Magazines, Catalogs, Handbooks, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Etc.
“PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE”
Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you
P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE
6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing,
STANDARD PRINTING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Engraved Cards and Invitations. Exclusively. Always Best

For Subscriptions or Extra Copies of THE YOW See GAITHER JENKINS 1 EAST
New Price, 25 Cents
Year’s Subscription (Four Issues) $1.00

J O JONES CO
“Davidson Headquarters in Charlotte”
COMPLETE OUTFITTERS TO COLLEGE MEN
208 South Tryon Street
Charlotte
