THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 2, 1932

Dr. O. L. Miller Talks To Quadwrangler Members

Head of State Orthopedic Hospital Gives Lecture Showing Development of Orthopedic Surgery

CLUB GIVES RECEPTION

Says That Daily Cost of Child in Hospital is $1.50

Dr. Oscar L. Miller, head of the State Orthopedic Hospital at Gastonia, was the guest and principal speaker here this week before the Quadwranglers Club, an organization composed of the faculty members of Davidson College, at which time he gave an illustrated lecture reviewing the historical development of orthopedic surgery since its origin, with particular discussion of the work in North Carolina.

The speaker was introduced by Dr. John W. MacConnell, Davidson physician and secretary of the North Carolina Board of Medical Examiners. Two Mooresville doctors were also guests of Dr. MacConnell, and after the lecture, they were tendered a reception at his home.

Dr. Miller said that orthopedic surgery originated in England, where men who described themselves as bone-setters started practicing. Its introduction to the United States came from Liverpool through Boston. This type of surgery, he said, received its greatest impetus during the World War, when the United States started training physicians to care for men maimed in battle.

The Gastonia physician then showed many slides, which pictured the different types of cripples. He also showed the results obtained by operation and rehabilitation treatment, by picturing the same children after their physical defects had been rectified. He maintained that such cases should be treated in an institution designed for the purpose, because they were of a prolonged type, and he informed his hearers of the nominal cost of $1.50 a day to keep an individual in the hospital.

Dr. Miller spoke briefly of the founding of the State Hospital for crippled children at Gastonia, and spoke particularly of the work of Mr. Babington, of Gastonia, who gave generously of his time and effort to get the bill through the North Carolina Legislature; the Shriners, who gave gifts to the children, and of Benjamin Duke, who gave and endowed a section for colored children.

War Dept. Is Criticized By Columbia Spectator

New York—(IP)—The War Department not only has taken upon itself the work of educating college youth in the military sciences, it has gone beyond that and tried to develop patriotism of the worst Ku Klux type, the Columbia Spectator, student newspaper at Columbia University, charged in an editorial last week.

“We can only suggest,” said the editorial, “that the less the War Department tries to ‘muscle in’ on fields not its own, the better younger America will like it.

“The War Department, we believe, is supposed to be an organization which keeps the army going in case a war should turn up. No one, unless it be a few Legionnaires and those numerous generals and admirals who pass their time making silly speeches, believes that the War Department and the Navy Department are supposed to guide our thinking. But the War Department tries to do just that, and in addition evidently wants to dictate the whole conduct of human affairs. It takes upon itself far more than it has a legal right to assume, and most of the legal rights under which it now functions were created during periods of hysteria.

“We feel that it would be an excellent thing if every nation had a law forbidding members of the army or the navy from making public speeches or writing books or magazine articles. We would even go farther and suggest a regulation which would keep all members of the army and navy shut up in army posts and naval bases and battleships, to be let out only when muzzled.”

The editorial forcefully criticized the activities of military men at City College who caused the arrest of a youthful member of the National Student League for distributing handbills urging Freshmen to refuse to register for military training. The editorial declared that the paper would be glad to see the R. O. T. C. and C. M. T. C. disappear entirely.

Jack Shea Honored By Fellow Students

Hanover, N. H.—(IP)—For the first time in the history of the college, Dartmouth students turned out to heap honors on an individual instead of an athletic team. The recipient was Jack Shea, Sophomore, who won the 500 and 1,500 meter Olympic speed skating titles at Lake Placid.

Although it was too cold for band members to play, 500 undergraduates braved a stiff win-

© 1932, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

“I hate to be called an Outdoor Girl!”

Listen in... Hear Chesterfield’s Radio Program. Nat Shilkret and his brilliant orchestra. Every night, except Sunday... Columbia Broadcasting System... 10:30 E.S.T. Music that satisfies!

“WHAT usually means a girl’s a total loss in a tete-a-tete...and takes up ‘nature’ as a last resort! But I must confess a liking for hills and forest trees... and all genuine natural things.

“I like the simple sincerity of Chesterfield’s advertising. Have you noticed it? There’s no extravagance in the claims. Just everyday facts about the fine tobaccosthey select and the painstaking way they develop the flavor and aroma. “I’ve never smoked a milder cigarette! And I never tire of the flavor... a fine natural tobacco taste. They burn evenly, too. Either they’re rolled more carefully... or the paper’s better. I feel the greatest confidence in Chesterfields. They satisfy me!”

THEY TASTE BETTER
They Satisfy

...ter wind to greet the skater as he arrived in town. “I’ll cherish the memory of this reception,” Shea said, “as one of the greatest things that has ever happened to me.” The Sophomore champion plans to continue his training in Hanover on Dartmouth’s skating pond. He has declined a trip to Norway.

Survey of Welfare Conditions Is Made

Eighteen Davidson College students have been conducting an unemployment survey for the welfare department in an effort to secure detailed information on all men doing charity work. The students, who are members of the Junior and Senior classes in educational sociology of Dr. P. H. Gwynn, volunteered their services after Mr. M. M. Grey, superintendent of public welfare, had asked for assistance. All the places where the men have been put to work by the welfare department will be visited and the workmen interviewed. Cards will be filled out with information which is secured from the men. The group includes the following men: C. W. Spencer, Jr., Rock Hill; W. M. Belk, Lancaster, S. C.; W. A. McKnight, Shelby; R. E. Conoley, Avon Park, Fla.; C. S. Spencer, Statesboro, Ga.; W. H. Coble, Douglas, Ga.; J. H. Lineberry, Randleman; J. C. Calhoun, Laurinburg; W. W. Caligan, Wadesboro; B. E. (Continued on page 6)

INTERCOLLEGIATE PRESS DISPATCHES

Houghton, Mich—(IP)—A fountain pen is to be awarded to the student of the Michigan College of Mining and Technology who suggests the best new name for the student newspaper, now called The M. C. M. Lode. “When first chosen ten years ago,” said the announcement, “the name Lode was most suitable for this college’s student publication. With the expansion of the college, however, the staff feels that a title more clearly indicating the broadened field of engineering work given here is essential.”

Tucson, Ariz.—(IP)—When the Steward Observatory of the University of Arizona was first established here it was far enough away from the rest of the city to be almost isolated. Now, student reporters for the Arizona Wildcat have found, the directors of the observatory have found that the city has grown up about the conservatory in such a manner that the city’s lights are a great hindrance to the work of the observatory.

Huntington, W. Va.—(IP)—Members of Phi Tau Alpha fraternity at Marshall College gave the first of a series of broadcasts over station WSAZ, sponsored by a local clothing store, and to include various programs by groups and individuals about the campus. The program is broadcast each Tuesday from 7:45 to 8:15 p.m.

Loretto, Pa—(IP)—They are going to find out at St. Francis College here if athletics are essential to a college. Beginning with the college year 1932-33 next September, all intercollegiate athletics will be suspended at St. Francis. The action was taken by the board of trustees and announced by Father John P. Sullivan, rector of the college. “The decision,” he said, “was reached partly because of economic reasons and due to a desire on the part of St. Francis to experiment for a large student body.” The athletic staff members have been notified that their services will not be required for one year. This year’s baseball schedule will be played out as usual, but the 1932 football schedule has been cancelled.

Middletown, Conn.—(IP)—The ire of President McConnaughy has been aroused by the $3,000 budget for the approaching junior prom at Wesleyan University. When so many men are out of work, he told the students in an address, that is too much to spend for a good time. He also pointed out that a fifth of the members of the Junior class are receiving scholarship aid. He added, however, that the faculty would make no attempt to curtail the expense. “It is just psychologically unfortunate,” he asserted.

Oberlin, Ohio—(IP)—In a special ceremony marking the 50th anniversary of her educational interests in China, now torn by war, Oberlin students and faculty members last week chose two seniors to carry on her work at Oberlin-in-Shansi. They were Elizabeth James, president of the student Y. W. C. A., and Richard Irwin, vice-president of the Y. M. C. A. here.

Los Angeles, Calif—(IP)—Miss Lillian Copeland, American women’s record holder in the discus, shot and javelin events, has added another weighty subject to her activities. It is the study of law at the University of Southern California, where she is a student.

Hanover, N. H.—(IP)—President Hopkins of Dartmouth College has sent an apology to Dean Hawkes of Columbia University as the result of booing of officials and players by the Dartmouth students at a Columbia-Dartmouth basketball game. Columbia won the game, 42-32, thus taking the lead in the Eastern Intercollegiate League.