— THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 9, 1932 —

DAVIDSON WILL CLASH WITH TAR HEELS HERE
(Continued from page 1)

fullback, and giving the signals. George Barclay, guard, injured in the set-to with N. C. State, has recovered and will take his place in the Blue line against the Wildcats. June Underwood, the highly-touted Carolina center, who was converted from a tackle, will have a chance to show his wares. The Heels have an array of second-string backs that can also be called into action, and give a good account of themselves. This list includes Peacock, Croom, Martin, Lassiter, and Woolen.

Davidson has easily as brilliant an array of stars to send against “Chuck” Collins’ boys. McElrath, who has played a whale of a game at center all season, will in all probability be out of the Carolina fracas, due to injuries received in the game with State last Saturday. It is likely that West will get the call, although the injured Captain Gardner is speedily recovering, and may see action Saturday. Jim Batte, understudy, made an excellent showing against State. Willson at fullback made an excellent showing. That little dynamo showed his heels to the State boys several times, and turned in great defensive work. Peabody’s place-kicking ability may be needed against Carolina, and he is an almost sure starter, as he is an exceptionally fine blocking back.

A good punting duel should ensue between the two southpaws, Charlie Pearce of Davidson and Henry Burnett, Sophomore flash from Carolina. Johnny Mackorell can handle Davidson’s punting assignment in a pinch, as can Jim Morgan, versatile Wildcat end. Johnny Peacock can hold his own, too, if the Tar Heels should need him. Both teams are sprucing up their passes, and it may be that on Saturday the air will be filled with passes in an effort to score. Martin and Walker are star Carolina receivers, but Morgan and Morris will be in there to snag them for the ’Cats.

The probable starting line-ups are listed below:

Davidson Position Carolina
Morgan .......... L.E. ........ Walker
Warner .......... L.T. ........ Hodges
Hand or Ogden .. L.G. ........ Kahn or Philpotts
West or Garner .. Center ...... Underwood
Rives ........... R.G. ........ Barclay
Whitheld ........ R.T. ........ Smith
Morris .......... R.E. ........ Brandt
Peabody ......... Q.B. ........ Burnett
Mackorell ....... L.H. ........ Daniel
Willson ......... R.H. ........ Phipps
DR. C. DARBY FULTON SPEAKS ON JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
(Continued from page 1)

Kagawa, the great Christian of the Orient and one of the greatest in the world, was born the son of a wealthy land-owner. His father was a dissolute man in moral character and at a rather early age Kagawa’s uncle adopted him. His uncle was also a very rich man and of good social standing in Japan.

While in Tokashiwa, where he now lives, Kagawa met Dr. Charles Logan, a Presbyterian missionary who taught a small group of Japanese the Bible along with some English. The Japanese were very anxious to learn English and in this way Dr. Logan taught them about Christ. Kagawa soon became more interested in the Bible than in just merely the English and asked for special lessons from Dr. Logan, which were readily given. Kagawa told his uncle he was going to be a Christian, which brought forth many threats, but they were of no avail. As he learned more, he wanted to tell the rest of Japan about Christ and decided to become a minister. Kagawa was about eighteen years old at this time. His uncle told him if he became a minister he would be disinherited. With nothing to gain, and riches and position to lose, he entered a theological seminary at Kobe.

While there he not only showed genius in his studies but also he seemed more interested in helping the people in the slums of Kobe. The people there lived in the most wretched conditions and he went down there daily to help them. He contracted tuberculosis from working in the germ-infested slums and had to go to a little city on the seashore to, as most people thought, die. While there he wrote an autobiography of himself to pass away the time. Eventually he recovered and went to the mountains to preach until he was fully strengthened. He then went back to the seminary and finished his course.

Dr. Fulton met him while he was at Princeton and graduated in the same class with him in 1915. After graduation, Kagawa went back to Japan and back to the slums of Kobe. He is now at the head of the largest Christian movement in Japan, called the Kingdom of God Movement, which has as its goal one million converts to the Christian religion in three years.

THREE ONE-ACT PLAYS GIVEN BY DRAMATISTS
(Continued from page 1)

the cabin of a moonshiner in the mountains of North Carolina. That inimitable Dave McLean, a seasoned trouper, had the role of Luke Hazy, a moonshiner who was determined to kill that which threatened his still. Nicholas Moss, a newcomer to the Davidson stage, was excellent in the role of the revenue officer. Moss comes to Davidson from William and Mary College where he was quite active in dramatics and is quite talented along that line. This sketch was thoroughly entertaining throughout.

The next play that the Masquers presented was under the direction of Jack Williams, Jr., and was entitled “The Ghost of Jerry Bundler,” written by Jacobs and Rock. The cast of this production was drawn entirely from the Freshman class. As the title implies, this play was one of mystery and supernatural elements. A group of travelers that were thrown together in an old English tavern gave the background for the events. Jerry Bundler, a highwayman that was killed in the tavern, haunted the place with his presence. Due to stage effects and dimmed lights, an air of mystery was well carried out through the entire performance. An undetermined wealth of Freshman talent wasUncovered in this production, the cast of characters for the play was as follows:

Joe Dees
Bob Lindsay
Bob Johnston
Mills Taylor
Paul Harlan
Mosely Faison
Roger Riley

Director—Jack Williams.
Stage Manager—Lyman Clardy.
Stage Assistant—Don Stewart.

The last play in the series was a most entertaining and delightful one. “A Game of Chess,” by Arthur Goodman, was under the direction of Edward Hancock, president of the Red and Black Masquers. The scene was laid in the chamber of a royal house of Russia, several years before the World War. Wills Hollingsworth as the Crown Prince Alexis showed much talent and gave a very convincing performance. Grainger Williams as the peasant that tried to poison the Crown Prince was also good in his part. After being convinced that the Crown Prince was his foster brother, the peasant, Boris, loses his first desire to kill the prince and decides to take poison with the Prince instead. The peasant dies from the poison while the Prince does not as he had prepared himself for such an emergency by previously taking poison in small doses to accustom his system to it. This play was a fitting conclusion to an excellent performance given by the Masquers.

The cast of characters for “A Game of Chess”:
Alexis Alexandrovitch—Wills Hollingsworth
Boris Ivanovitch Shamrayoff—G. Williams
Constantine—Gordon Wood
Footman—Henry Hodgin

Stage Director—Ed Hancock.
Stage Manager—Fritz Byerly.
Stage Assistant—Frank Cade.

CAPT. COCHRAN GIVES TALK AT PHI MEETING
(Continued from page 1)

More than a figurehead. As to the matter of independence, the captain declared himself in favor of our retention of the Islands, on the grounds that if they were freed, though they themselves do not seem to recognize the fact, their export trade in sugar, now free from duty into this country, would be considerably crippled, and the native government would probably run amuck. He said, in conclusion, that he expected, in the event of the Democrats winning the election, the Filipinos might finally receive their independence.

Another interesting feature of the evening was an exceptional reading by Stuart Noblin of excerpts from Miss Cornelia Shaw’s fine history of Davidson College. The selections had to do with events in the history of the Philanthropic Society, notable among which revealed the little-known fact that several well-known Confederate Generals, such as Lee and Johnson, were honorary members of the club.

The meeting was terminated by the initiation of six new men into the society. It was said that the next meeting will have on its program the initiation of several more new members, and a debate by the new men just received into the organization, with refreshments served. Also, new officers will be elected. The present officers are: President, D. D. McBryde; Vice-President, Wilbur Fugate; Secretary, Cameron Deans; Treasurer, Herbert Lucas; Critic, Stuart Noblin, and First Supervisor, John Vass.

SIGMA DELTA PI FRAT FORMS SPANISH CLUB
(Continued from page 1)

Who shall perform their usual duties in both organizations.
4. The only fees in connection with membership in the Spanish Club shall be a fee of one dollar for initiation.
5. The meetings of the Spanish Club shall take place at the same time and place as those of Sigma Delta Pi, unless otherwise stated by the president.
6. Members of the Spanish Club may be assigned work on programs and committees by the proper officers of Sigma Delta Pi.
7. All members of Sigma Delta Pi are ex-officio members of the Spanish Club, without payment of any fee.
8. All business of Sigma Delta Pi shall be conducted only by members of said fraternity.
9. Matters concerning the Spanish Club, as distinct from Sigma Delta Pi, shall be handled by members of the club, but Sigma Delta Pi may veto any proposition approved by the Spanish Club, by a two-thirds vote of Sigma Delta Pi members, and this vote shall be final.
10. Sigma Delta Pi may invite to membership, at any time, such members of the Spanish Club as qualify for membership, but membership in the Spanish Club does not, in itself, render a student a future member of Sigma Delta Pi.

At the next meeting, names of men eligible for the Spanish Club will be submitted and voted upon.

MEDICAL STUDENTS TO TAKE APTITUDE TESTS
(Continued from page 1)

To complete his work in time for entrance into some medical college in the fall of 1938. The test is given only once a year. The test will be given in all the colleges on the same date, according to the plans of the committee. It will begin at 3 o’clock on the afternoon of December 9, and will last an hour and a half. A fee of one dollar will be charged to each applicant in order to defray the expenses of the committee.

SCABBARD AND BLADE BIDS PROMINENT MEN
(Continued from page 1)

Organization are Captain Paul Brown, Captain George Bailey, Captain R. E. Conoley, First Lieutenant Bill Flinn, First Lieutenant A. M. Manson, and J. C. McConnell. The members of Scabbard and Blade are carefully chosen from the Senior class for proficiency in military tactics and high character. The regular Scabbard and Blade initiation will be held in the near future.

To the ALUMNI
When our college days are over,
And our ways shall part,
Still in thee we'll be united,
Still be one in heart.

THE DAVIDSONIAN WELCOMES YOU TO HOMECOMING, NOVEMBER 12
YEARLY SUBSCRIPTION, $2.00

A. M. MANSON
CHARLEY PEARCE
BRUCE PEABODY
ALTERNATE CAPT. WHITFIELD

PROBABLE BACKFIELD TO MEET CAROLINA
EB WILSON

WATCH THESE BACKS SATURDAY