» 6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 9, 1932

Undergraduates Start Incorrect English War
Professors Urged to Use Correct Diction in All Daily Lectures

New York—(IP)—Columbia University professors are getting some of their own “medicine.” It is in the form of a war on the part of the undergraduates to force the faculty to use correct English in the classroom.

Several days ago an editorial appeared in the Spectator, undergraduate newspaper, in which 26 members of the faculty were accused of “murdering the English language.” With the ingenuity belonging only to college students, stenographers were immediately rushed to the classes of these “profs” and word-for-word reports were made of their lectures. But the faculty were wise enough to have taken the editorial to heart, and not a split infinitive was caught. The students promised, however, to continue their efforts until every offender had been caught red-handed.

Then the sniping went right up to President Nicholas Murray Butler himself, with doubtful success. One of the president’s sentences was submitted to Frank H. Vizetelly, dictionary editor, and it came back marked, “O. K.” as to the point raised, and “N. G.” as to a point the students had missed. Dr. Butler was reported to have said: “Save the ancient Roman Empire and Great Britain, no people in history have ever been so closely interviewed with the wholly civilized world as are the American people today.” The students had their fingers on the usage of “has” and “are.” Vizetelly said that was permissible. But, the dictionary editor ruled, the word “other” should have been placed between the words “no” and “people.” Otherwise, he said, the sentence excluded in the characterization the very people it included later. He called it a very common error.

One of the chief errors charged against the faculty as a whole by the students was the use of the word “don't” when it should have been “doesn't.” One instructor was accused of concluding a lecture with: “If anyone has any questions to ask they should ask them now.”

College Briefs

Cumberland University has a Greek graveyard in which are buried the memories of fifteen chapters of Greek-letter fraternities which have passed on here since 1854. Four of the chapters died during the Civil War, and the other eleven just died natural deaths in years since then.

In their fight for the right to smoke in sorority houses, co-eds at Northwestern University have used the name of no less than Frances Willard, founder of the Christian Temperance Union. Miss Jean Van Evera, women's editor of the Daily Northwestern, undergraduate newspaper, said she had discovered in old files of the paper that the temperance leader at least once had been tempted to try a cigarette—and got caught. “According to the files,” Miss Van Evera said, “a preceptress came into Miss Willard’s room and saw smoke curling from a bureau drawer. Pulling open the drawer, she was horrified to find a half-burned cigarette. Miss Willard apparently was like any other girl.” Mrs. Edson Fowler, president of the Quadrangle Club, at the university, issued the ban against smoking in the sorority houses. The club supervises the houses.

Students at Ohio Northern College have petitioned the university officials to end the ancient ban against dancing at the institution. The petitions called the condition on the campus “grossly unfair, unjust and oppressive,” and appealed to the university administration for social freedom.

An X-ray taken by Dr. Victor Gottheiner, sports physician, revealed that the heart of Paavo Nurmi, the Finnish record sprinter, is three times normal size.

Movie technique is being used by University of Pennsylvania authorities, cooperating with the Board of Religious Education of the Presbyterian Church, to increase church attendance. Among other attractions is a moving picture with the well-known jumping ball, thrown on the screen to lead the audience in singing hymns. Slides illustrating the life of Christ are thrown on the screen, and phonograph instead of organ music accompanies them.

Among the acquisitions of the Columbia University Library in the last year is the oldest dictionary extant in Japan. The book is a manuscript dating from 1181 A.D., covering 500 pages and containing 3,000 words.

The British love liberty for themselves; it is only a step further to love liberty for others.

Copr., 1932, The American Tobacco Co.

“There are no better cigarettes”

“I have always used LUCKIES—as far as I am concerned there are no better cigarettes—congratulations also on your improved Cellophane wrapper with that little tab that opens your package so easily.”

BOB MONTGOMERY BOBBED UP SMILING

Bob Montgomery has been an iron worker, deck hand, railroad extra, and a bit player in Hollywood. He zoomed to the top in noise-reels because the gals were crazy over his grin. And they'll go completely zooey when they see him in his latest M-G-M, “PRIVATE LIVES.” He's stuck to LUCKIES these last 7 years. Not a buffalo nickel was paid for his statement. He gave it just for a pleasant “Thank You.”

“It’s toasted” Your Throat Protection —against irritation—against cough

And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh

Thursday and Saturday evening over N. B. C.C. network! TUNE IN ON LUCKY STRIKE—60 modern minutes with the world’s finest dance orchestras and Walter Winchell, whose gossip of today becomes the news of tomorrow, every Tuesday.

A Trophy Presented Local Social Group

Delta Kappa Chapter of Phi Gamma Delta, national social fraternity located at Davidson College, has been formally presented with the Newton D. Baker Social Service Cup at the annual initiation banquet. Cecil J. Wilkinson, of Washington, D. C., national secretary of the fraternity, made the presentation to A. R. Bird, Jr., of Winston-Salem, a 1931 graduate of Davidson and last year president of the local chapter of Phi Gamma Delta. The cup, a beautiful sterling silver bowl about 18 inches high, is presented annually in honor of Newton D. Baker, himself a member of the fraternity, to the chapter which ranks highest in religious and social service activities. The Davidson group was given the cup over 72 chapters in the national fraternity. This is the first time in the 14 years that the award has been made that it has come to a Southern college.

Corps Riflemen to Fire Gastonia Team

Announcement was made Wednesday that Gastonia’s Rifle Club has arranged a match with the rifle team of Davidson College that will be held in the local shooting gallery near the city lake at Gastonia on next Tuesday night, March 8th, at 7:30. Gastonia’s competing team will be chosen from the Gastonia club, which consists of R. J. Frieze, H. M. Van Sleen, Dr. R. H. Parker, Mart Shuford Reid, Dr. W. M. Jones, Dr. D. E. McConnell, W. G. McLean, A. J. Melvin, and Dr. H. R. McConnell. The rifle teams use special .22 calibre target rifles and shoot at minute targets from a distance of 75 feet. Anyone interested in this type of shooting is cordially invited to attend the match next Tuesday night.

FACULTY ENGAGE IN MANY MEETINGS

(Continued from page 1)

duty in the islands and his lecture will be supplemented by two motion picture reels of life in the islands. The reels also include the sinking of the old U. S. S. Alabama by gunfire and aerial bombing.

A telephone that uses a beam of light instead of a copper wire for transmitting sound has been developed at the University of Idaho by Dr. Gustaf W. Hammar, head of the physics department, and Lawrence W. Foskett, one of his graduate students. Originating as a scientific experiment, the discovery opens up an entirely new field of sound communication which may be used by such agencies as the United States Forestry Service and the Army and Navy Signal Corps. Dr. Hammar and Foskett modestly explain that they simply made practical use of scientific principles which have been known before. A sensitive photo-electric cell makes the new light telephone possible. Much like a radio tube in appearance, the cell detects minute changes in the intensity of light to which it is exposed.

A year’s investigation into the cause of the poison fog which killed cattle and persons in Belgium last January has resulted in a report that the fog was caused by unusual atmospheric conditions, which mixed with factory fumes to form a heavy gas, deadly to those with weak lungs.

Ernesto Loeck, a German treasure hunter, has found what he believes to be the stronghold containing $25,000,000 worth of coins of the Tarascan King Calzontzin, in the State of Michoacan, Mexico. The king disappeared in 1522 after the Spanish conquest.

The child is father of the man.—Wordsworth.

PROF. C. M. HECK

(Continued from page 1)

are helping with this work and report that the work is coming on wonderfully well. The students and the professors of the physics department appreciate Mr. Hayes’ gift very much and are extremely grateful to him for the interest he has taken in Davidson.

Members of the Massachusetts legislature are incensed by the discovery that the tablet recently placed in the State House in memory of recipients of the Congressional Medal of Honor contains two misspelled words. An investigation has been asked to place responsibility for acceptance of the work. The words “conspicuously” and “intrepidity” appear on the tablet as “conspicously” and “intrepedity.”

Exploiters now wear dinner coats and buy toys and ice cream for children—Dr. Parkhurst.

I don’t mind red-hot bolshevism or socialism, but what I object to is hypocrisy and humbug.—Lady Astor.

If a nation is required to cut its cloth according to a pattern not of its own making, a misfit is inevitable—Rear Admiral Chase.

The true use of speech is not so much to express our wants as to conceal them—Oliver Goldsmith.