THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1932

BOOK REVIEW

Job, by Joseph Roth. Viking Press. New York.

“Many years ago there lived in Zuchnow in Russia, a man named Mendel Singer. He was pious, God-fearing, and ordinary, an entirely commonplace Jew. He practiced the simple profession of a teacher. In his house, which was merely a roomy kitchen, he instructed children in the knowledge of the Bible.”

His family was composed of one daughter, Miriam, a dangerously seductive daughter, who had numerous escapades with the Cossack troopers; there were two elder sons, one clever and one plucky, and an epileptic infant, Menuchim, the most loved. His wife, Deborah, worked and slaved with him in order to make ends meet. Shemariah, afterwards called Sam, deserted the army, in which his brother Jonas was conscripted, and sailed for America, where he soon became wealthy. He sent money to his parents and sister for them to follow him to “The Promised Land.” They set out, leaving Menuchim in the care of others.

Here in America Mendel is surrounded by comfort, everyone seems happy, when the crash comes. The World War breaks out, the plan to bring Menuchim over fails, his son Sam goes overseas and is killed, his wife dies on hearing of her son’s death, and his daughter goes insane. He then refuses to live with Sam's wife and his grandson, and becomes a hard worker in the Jewry. A concert orchestra director seeks Mendel out in New York, and tells him that he is a relative of his, and that Menuchim is alive. Mendel is rejoiced to find that his son is living, and then the stranger tells him that he is Menuchim, who has been cured of his disease. “Pain will make him wise, ugliness, good, bitterness mild, and sickness strong,” thus had the Rabbi told Deborah of Menuchim. The modern Job’s newly found son tells him that his other son, Jonas, is alive, and that they will get Miriam from the sanatorium and have her cured by excellent European doctors. Mendel is again happy and in comfort and “he rested from the burden of his happiness, and of the greatness of the miracle.”

Joseph Roth is a superb writer. His technique is excellent. The theme, which is common yet extraordinary, is treated so well that all may understand it and enjoy it. The ending is happy, but not of the usual common novel type. Job is both a romance and a realism. The author shows life in poverty-stricken Russia, and then life in the Jewry of New York City. The comparison of these two different places is good, and Mendel’s reaction to both of them is of a psychological value. The characters seem to stand out and be acting before you. Mendel Singer is a different type of hero; he lives in a state of humble fear—fear of officials, fear of novelty, fear of violence, fear of God—and his head is always drooped. His wife, Deborah, is also heroic, but it is only the blind heroism of motherhood. She bears countless hardships to go to the graves of her ancestors to pray for her children, to go to the Rabbi’s and ask his blessing on her deformed son, and to buy her sons from the conscription of the Tsar’s army.

Mendel’s likeness to the Biblical character Job is clear. In the opening of Job, he is pictured as prosperous, possessing many flocks and herds, and a numerous family. Mendel was earning a fair living, and had a happy family. Job is then bereaved of his family. Mendel’s wife bears him an epileptic son, his only daughter is discovered to be a common harlot, his son has to join the army; but all this does not lessen his faith in God, he continues to pray. Just as Job’s faith triumphed over difficulties, and he is finally restored to more than his former prosperity, so it happens to Mendel. The latter was restored once and then he fell again, only to be restored again to a still higher place than any of those before.

Since the author was born in the German colony of Schwalbendorf in Volhynia, and his mother was a Russian Jewess, he knows much about the life of the Russians. He portrays the feast days and the fast days of the Jews with excellence, since he has first-hand knowledge of them. Roth is especially good in his similes; speaking of Deborah, “Her hands were like pale, fleshy, five-footed animals, feeding themselves on hair. Her eyes were dry and empty, like two little pieces of glass.” Of Miriam, “Her laugh sounded like the ringing of the clear, continuous signals at railway stations, and as though someone beat with a thousand brass hammers upon a thousand thin crystal glasses.” Through these superior figures of speech he makes his book more real and interesting.

This novel is a proof that we are getting away from the crude and merely informative naturalism. Sentiment is coming back, but with a depth not common in the last period, and springing from realism that is quite ruthless in searching human experience. Books have not been “touching” in recent years, though often sentimental, of which the public often tires.

1932, The American Tobacco Co.

POOR LITTLE RICH GIRL

Sue Carol's wealth was a hindrance rather than a help. Hollywood thought she was ritzy, but Sue soon proved she was a “regular guy”... she made 14 pictures her very first year... her latest is UNIVERSAL'S “GRAFT.” She has reached for a LUCKY for two years. Not a farthing was paid for those kind words. That's white of you, Sue Carol.

“Now I use LUCKIES only”

“I have had to smoke various brands of cigarettes in pictures, but it was not until I smoked LUCKIES that I discovered what a really fine cigarette is. The flavor is grand.”

TUNE IN ON LUCKY STRIKE—60 modern minutes with the world’s finest dance orchestras and WalterWinchell, where gossip of today becomes the news of tomorrow, every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday evening over N.B.C. network, covered the only cigarettes that did not irritate my throat. Now I use LUCKIES only. The added convenience of your improved Cellophane wrapper that opens so easily: 

It’s toasted | Your Throat Protection against irritation—against cough And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh.

Thomas Mann, who represents Germany on the Book-of-the-Month Club’s International Advisory Board, says, “It would be a great task to tell you in detail about the book, nor would it be possible to do justice to its poetic subtlety, but I can vouch for its extraordinary literary merits.”

L. W. Clardy.

FOREIGN MISSION PROBLEMS (Continued from page 1)

His hearers not to “lay smugly and complacently while these were in progress.” In discussing his second contention, Dr. Fulton spoke enthusiastically of the manner in which the natives are proclaiming Christ. “The second, third, and fourth generations of the early Christians are establishing their own national churches and are holding up Christ as Lord and Savior of their own people, instead of a foreign Christ. These younger generations are the nursery of believers, the cradle of the church, and the hope of the missionary enterprise of the future.”

Trustees of Williams College have agreed to establish for 100 years two new annual scholarships to be named “A Dog’s Tale,” because they will be supported by the sale of first editions of a pamphlet containing Mark Twain’s story by that name, presented to the college by an alumnus, Irving Slee Underhill, a collector of rare copies of Mark Twain’s works.

RABBI LEVINE SPEAKS (Continued from page 1)

Philosopher of his race was Moses Maimonides who, born in Spain, went to Egypt and while there studied medicine, becoming not only a great physician but a great philosopher to whose works Einstein has referred for help in advancing his theory of relativity. Benedict Spinoza is called to our attention. It was Spinoza who originated the philosophy now known as Spontanism. As the outstanding Jewish philosopher of the eighteenth century, Moses Mendelssohn was featured. Today, the outstanding example of Jewish philosopher and scientist is Einstein.

Next, he brought to our attention the contributions of certain rich Jews from their material share of this world’s goods to go for public welfare. Jacob Schiff is probably the best-known Jewish philanthropist of today. Dr. Levine mentioned Rufus Isaacs (Minister of War to America from England at the outbreak of the Great War in 1914), along with Disraeli, as two outstanding examples of Jewish statesmanship. He brought out that sixty percent of German musicians of note are Jews or of Jewish origin. Probably Felix Mendelssohn, composer of the famous Mendelssohn Wedding March, heads the list. “The Jews,” Rabbi Levine told us, “always play in a minor key, due to the suffering they have undergone since the formation of the Jewish nation.”

In conclusion, Rabbi Levine points out that the idea of peace as set forth by Isaiah in the first few chapters of his manuscript is as old as the idea of brotherly love; that knowledge is the main principle of the Jew; and that we must proceed with more definite research work in the Bible in order to gain more of this desired knowledge, for to know is to live, and “Our footsteps shall become sacred as did our forefathers’.”

DAVIDSON COLLEGE JOINS (Continued from page 1)

Only tavern in the East in which George Washington has not spent the night.” He concluded with a humorous remark at the expense of the great commander and first president, and the applause showed that the audience enjoyed the talk fully. Dr. T. W. Lingle, who has been in charge of the Washington celebration, then briefly outlined the remainder of the program, and Dr. Raynal said a few words about why a tree should be planted as a memorial of the occasion. The ceremonies at the tree were led by D. S. King, president of the Davidson student body. The presidents of the four classes put soil on the tree, and George Pardington sang a melody, which has been written for the words of “Trees,” that immortal poem by Joyce Kilmer. McDavid of the Senior class recited a reading on trees. The students then sang “America.” This officially closed the exercises in connection with the observance of Washington’s birthday, and the remainder of the day was declared a holiday by the college.

TRUSTEES FAVOR R.O.T.C. (Continued from page 1)

Composed of three trustees, Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of the college, and Dr. J. M. McConnell, dean of the faculty, to study the whole question of physical education, athletics, and the method of electing coaches. The committee was made with instructions to make certain reports at the next meeting of the trustees, in June, as may be wise as to these questions. The main purpose of the committee was to gain information on the forming of one large physical education department, in order to make all forms of athletics more closely related. The proposed department is to formulate regulations so that every student may gain the proper amount of exercise. This committee is for constructive and not critical purposes.

As to the method of electing coaches, the Athletic Council, which is composed of four faculty members and three alumni members, has this power at the present. The questions that arise are, “Should the decision of the council be final, or should the faculty or the board have the final word?”

DR. C. DARBY FULTON (Continued from page 1)

In speaking their language, in traveling about those countries and adopting their point of view, I have never heard anyone claim that they had obtained a single conversion to the religions of the East. They have never heard of such transformations.”