THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRANT - Editor
A. M. MANSON - Editor

EDITORIAL STAFF
L. W. CLARD - Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK - Managing Editor
W. M. THOM - Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS - Managing Editor
DI CASALI - Athletic Editor
E. LAKE - Exchange Editor
W. WHITE - Feature Editor
S. GAMBLE - Feature Editor
T. GOODYKOONTZ - Contributing Editor
A. HANCOCK - Review Editor
D. D. McBRYDE - Editor
R. L. McCALLIE - Editor
C. F. MYERS - Associate Editor
B. B. SUGG - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. JONSON - Assistant Manager
A. H. NSON - Assistant Business Manager
ALVIN BAYER, JR. - Solicitor
H. B. DANIEL - Solicitor
A. M. DOUGLAS - Solicitor
L. GREEN - Solicitor
W. P. SPRUNT - Solicitor
R. TAYLOR - Solicitor
A. C. WADSWORTH - Solicitor
E. WHITE - Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
E. LAKE - President
S. GAMBLE - Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG - Secretary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN
JAMES McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN
L. McILWINEN
G. E. LY
E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY
W. C. NEILL
P. BAUS
E. BOYD
E. L. WE
H. COVINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
S. K. TO
P. M. ROGERS
B. FICKLIN
B. L. ROSE
L. GULLETTE
T. H. SUTTON
A. HELLINGER
N. W. WALLACE
C. HENRY
K. D. WEEKS
A. HUNTER
W. R. WARD
E. LORRAINE
W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD
W. ITE
W. F. MULLISS
PRATT-THOMAS

NOVEMBER 16, 1932

They conquer who believe they can.
He has not learned the lesson of life who does not each day surmount an obstacle.
—Emerson.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

The talks given by Rev. Dwight M. Chalmers in the Fall Vesper Services should go a long way in aiding
the spiritual life of the students of this campus.

It looks like Auburn in the Southern Conference race. Tennessee has been virtually eliminated by their tie with Vandy, and
the Plainsmen have only one more hard game, which is the one with the Georgia Bulldogs. State sprung a big
surprise in beating Duke. This puts the state race in a turmoil. It looks like a triple.

With Homecoming past, all of our thoughts are now concentrated on the Thanksgiving game with Wake Forest. A win over
this ancient rival would give us an eminently successful season in football. We feel like we have not played our
best in several games this fall, so we hope this added rest will put the eleven in the best form
possible.

The Davidson orchestra, as in years past, is very good and deserves the support of the student body.

We were very glad to see Buddy Gardner back in the line-up, and hope he will not be injured before
the Wake Forest game, so he can contribute his share in stopping the opposition.

THE DEMOCRATIC VICTORY

A week ago last Tuesday the people of the United States chose a Democrat to lead them for the first
time in twelve years. Franklin D. Roosevelt carried the United States in landslide proportions which some few predicted, but which
very few believed very firmly, would materialize. Hoover was the third Republican President who has ever been defeated in an
effort to be re-elected since the inception of the party. Besides this, the Republican party also lost control of the
Congress of the United States along with the Presidency in the landslide which swept from coast to coast.

In 1928 Herbert Hoover carried the country by a large majority in the electoral college, and he had a slight
majority in the Senate and House of Representatives, but he was hampered in his actions by the lack of support
from these two bodies, and later on in his term even that small Republican majority was overthrown. This situation, however,
is very different. Out of numerous Senators running for re-election, only five Republicans were elected. The rest were replaced by
Democrats. Among the more notable ones who failed to be re-elected were Reed Smoot, Watson, and Bingham. States which never
before in history left the G. O. P. standards were willing to give the reins of government for the next
four years to the Democrats.

There are probably many explanations of this great reversal of form. Most agree that it was not so much the
inefficiency of the present administration, although it had a large part, but it was the universal desire for a change.
There are many people in the United States who probably think that Mr. Hoover brought on the depression, and that
Mr. Roosevelt will lead us back to prosperity. We believe that the present depression was brought on by underlying causes
and would have come no matter who occupied the White House. Of course, the President can take a large part
in alleviating the suffering and doing his part in bringing about the speedy close of the economic disorder, but the
Democrats nor any other have any sure formula to end the depression. If by some chance this depression should end
before 1936 it would redound to the fame of Franklin D. Roosevelt, but if it does not end in the
next four years, we are sure that the country will not again elect a Democratic President, for the same reason
precisely that they did not re-elect the incumbent. The Socialists base their hopes on just such a circumstance, and although
the election of a Socialist seems unlikely at this time, it may come to pass in shorter time than we
might have reason to expect.

The Democrats have a golden opportunity before them now. They have a President and complete control of Congress. If they
carry out the programs for reform which they have been advocating, and if these turn out for the good of
the country, undoubtedly it will strengthen the party, but on the other hand, if they do not succeed in carrying
out their reforms or campaign promises, they will have no one to blame except themselves. No one can tell just
how the situation will work itself out, but for students in political science it will be a very interesting problem
to observe.

OUR GLEE CLUB

Davidson spirit is something about which much has been written in many different publications, and something of which we should
be justly proud. This word “spirit” has been connected in most instances with our sports, namely football, basketball, baseball, track,
etc. Naturally we should support our teams and we do support them exceptionally well, but we are capable of expressing
that spirit in many other phases. Not long ago an article appeared in these columns written by one of the
students advocating our support of dramatics at Davidson. There are other activities here to which we should give more time
and thought. Our Glee Club is such an organization which deserves much more attention than most of us at Davidson
devote to it. Twenty or thirty men in our student body spend a large part of each year in this
activity and very few in the rest of the student body recognize the time that is spent by these boys.

One manifestation of this is the reception they receive in chapel some mornings. These men were selected to lead the
singing in the student body in order to improve it as much as possible, and they are not there of
their own volition. In proper respect of their efforts, we ought to at least recognize that they are expending their
time, not only for their own development but for the improvement of Davidson. Another point which we might bring up
at this time is that they represent the student body in many instances, just as much as the football team
does. They give concerts in many colleges throughout this part of the South, and the impression they leave has much
to do with the high reputation which Davidson College enjoys throughout the whole South.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Converse
Dr. E. M. Gwathmey, director of the Norfolk branch of William and Mary College, has been elected to become president
of Converse College, succeeding Dr. Robert P. Pell, who retires after thirty years of active and faithful service. Dr. Gwathmey
will take this position on January 1, 1933.

“Monk” Younger and “Tex” Tilson, our former coaches, who put out very good teams for Davidson.

WORLD SPECTATOR

I SAW

Robots are becoming more and more like humans. Now they have even developed a sense of taste. This discovery was
recently made accidentally by Mr. Hitchcock, of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company. While eating his luncheon one day it
occurred to him that the acid content of a food could be used as the electrolyte of a battery, the
amount of current produced depending upon the amount of acid in the food. He tried this on an apple, then
on an orange, and found his theory was well founded. This method of determining the sweetness of a food would
be very valuable in the canning industry.

Evangeline Adams, the famous astrologer, died recently in her studio home in Carnegie Hall, New York. She had for years
been very popular as an astrologer and had conducted a program over the radio for several years. She claims to
have predicted correctly the death of King Edward VII and many other important events.events. Her popularity is shown by the
fact that while she was broadcasting on the radio, she received an average of 4,000 letters daily, most of which
were from people asking for their horoscope. She was the originator of the Adams Philosophy, “a compound of truths of
all truths, applied in the light of an intelligent optimism to the requirements of Western everyday life.”

Inventors have recently been working on a fire alarm system which will prevent anyone from turning in a false alarm
without being caught. Several forms of alarm boxes have been tried, all of which are based on the idea of
making the operator of the alarm a captive until he is released by the firemen who answer the alarm. One
form is a sort of handcuff affair which holds the operator by the wrist until he is released by the
firemen. Another alarm station is in the form of a telephone booth into which the operator must enter in order
to give the alarm. Pulling the alarm lever automatically locks the operator in the booth. These inventions not only tend
to decrease false alarms but make the person turning in the alarm wait until the firemen arrive so that he
can direct the firemen to the fire without delay.

President Hindenburg, in a recent conference with Chancellor Von Papen of Germany, expressed confidence in the present cabinet and showed
his willingness to allow the cabinet to continue as it is. Hindenburg also desired that Von Papen confer with the
leaders of all the German political parties in order to get the co-operation of the parties in the support of
the present cabinet. It is not known what attitude Adolph Hitler will take toward this proposal of the Chancellor.

Now that the elections are all over and the votes are counted, it is interesting to note the success of
the Literary Digest poll predicting the outcome. When figured according to the popular votes, the Literary Digest was 98.85 percent
correct, which is the best record the poll has ever made. “For the third time in succession,” said William S.
Woods, editor of the magazine, “the huge nation-wide straw vote of the Literary Digest has foretold correctly who would be
elected President. Weeks in advance it was clear from the Digest figures that Governor Roosevelt would sweep the country in
a landslide. The straw vote gave Roosevelt 474 electoral votes; he actually will have 472. The straw vote gave Hoover
57 electoral votes; he will have 59. It would be harder to hit it straighter than that.”

According to the results, it looks as if Henry Depping would have gotten more votes in his race for Republican
nominee for attorney-general of Missouri if he had not campaigned at all. The only county of the 114 in Missouri
in which Depping did not make a speech was the only county he carried in the election. Perhaps if he
had stayed quietly at home, or perhaps taken a trip around the world instead of making speeches, he might have
been elected.

So well was a cat mummified by the Egyptians over 2,000 years ago that the English customs officials are holding
the mummy at the offices because the cat has such an air and look of newness. They admit that the
cat doesn’t look over 100 years old, and therefore could not be considered an antique to be admitted duty-free. They
are awaiting the decision of technical experts on the age of the mummy before they will let it enter England.
This is said to be an almost perfect specimen, with the ears and even the whiskers in perfect condition. It
is a great monument to the science and civilization of the ancient Egyptians.

Everyone has heard the expression, “It was so quiet you could hear a pin drop.” The origin of this saying
has been explained by a writer in the London Morning Post. It seems that in the old days auctioneers, instead
of having hammers, were supplied with a candle and a pin. The auctioneer stuck the pin into the side of
the burning candle about an inch from the top and started the bids. The last bid made before the candle
burned down to the pin and let it drop was the accepted price. It is said that quiet always prevailed
just before the pin fell, so the crowd could hear the pin drop in this important moment. These “candle auctions”
were usually held for the sale of ships. There is one place in England where these auctions are still held.
In Aldermaston, in Berkshire, the church wardens in the Parish auction off every three years some land known as God’s
Acre. The pin and candle method is used in this affair.

Ten years and who are now coaches at V. P. I., crashed both the V. P. I. paper and also
the University of Alabama paper. Their pictures are in both papers and there is a very good write-up about them
in The Crimson-White, the paper that terms itself: “The South’s Leading College Newspaper.”

Wesleyan recently held its annual superlative contest and the pictures of the winners are in the November 4th edition. The
young ladies are not a bit hard to look at. Most of them are from the good state of Georgia,
“Georgia Peaches,” but there is one girl from Jacksonville, Fla., and one from Brevard, N. C.

Dr. Robert W. Miles, who spoke to us at our Fall Services last year, will speak to the students of
Agnes Scott during their annual Week of Religious Services from February 14-18.

In the paper that the swimming tank at Converse has a capacity of 20,000 gals. That’s all there is to
it.

The election has come to an end. We want to see everybody be friends and forget there ever was such
a thing.

A complete renovation is going on at the P. O. The walls have been painted and we think it’s quite
an improvement, to say the least. It was worth the trouble to put up with “wet paint” to have our
mailing station done over.

One soph told another that the reason a friend of his is called human dynamo is because everything he wears
is charged. Can you bear it!

Accommodating Dr. Brown told Mr. Lore, the pleasant cashier at the bank, Wednesday last that with Armistice and Homecoming there
were too many holidays last week.

The small son of one of the prominent profs. yelled to a little comrade, “I bet you didn’t have a
good time at your birthday party yesterday, because you’re not sick today.”

Several other beau brummels about the campus join the ever-increasing turtle-neck crowd. If my resistance lasts I’ll not buy one
of the things. However, I don’t know how long I’ll be able to say this. Perhaps while you are reading
this I’ll be running about in a turtle-neck myself!

An amused member of the faculty told about asking a fresh if he had “proved” his problem in math. The
fresh replied that “proved” was a strong word, but he had rendered it “highly probable.” What a whirl we live
in!

Dr. Cumming brought over his entire fresh English class en masse to inspect the new display of interesting books. I
went there myself in order to personally inspect it. Oh my, I’ve had a literary accident; by dropping into the
vernacular I bumped a hard word and split an infinitive!

Or rather heard, about a date a certain Senior had with a Charlotte dame on a Sabbath. He and the
girl were standing on the doorstep saying goodnight. I hear the father leaned from the upstairs window and told him
he had no objections to his coming and sitting up half the night with his daughter, but, in consideration to
the rest of the household, would he please take his elbow off the doorbell so others could go to sleep?
Heheheh.

Dear reader, we are closing this time with a short short story. We are better at poultry but we think
our stories are good. We understand that the nut and his money are soon parted, but we’d like to know
how the idiot got his money to begin with. But let us go on with the story.

One stormy night 20 years ago, 2 students were walking back to Davidson from Charlotte and they saw a strange
light at one place along the road that aroused their curiosity. They were unable to explain it but made a
mental note of what happened to see if it would have any significance in their lives. Within ten days one
of the boys received a telegram stating that he had fallen heir to an estate near Asheville. The other boy,
who was working his way through college by waiting on tables, had a dream the following night that he saw
an interesting item in the Charlotte Observer appearing at the bottom of the first column on page three. The next
morning he turned to the place mentioned and found an article telling about his uncle’s death which left him a
bank account sufficient to complete his college course. Since then it has become a custom with students each year to
try and discover this light, and strange to say, it has been repeated and an unusual experience has come into
the lives of those who saw it.

TIP POFF.
