THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1932

DUKE CRUSHED HER JINX WHY CAN’T WE? FOURTEEN SENIORS MAKE GRIDIRON EXIT

THE SPORTS PARADE END COLLEGIATE GRIDIRON CAREERS THURSDAY

From the glimpses we got of Duke's Freshman team last Friday, we judge that Wallace Wade is striving to have as heavy a team at Duke in the future as he had at Alabama several years ago. “The lightest but the fightingest” is what Coach Laird calls his 1932 Wildkittens. Those Freshmen showed plenty of fighting spirit in their final game against Duke, and that spirit had no little part in keeping a hefty Blue Imp team from running wild.

Duke Freshmen Defeat Davidson’s Kittens 13-6

“Doc” Mathis has gotten results in his first year as a coach. The Freshmen’s Mathis-coached line put up a stubborn attack throughout the game Friday, and several times we saw the light forward wall check powerful Duke’s offense in midfield for slight or no gains. That line led by Captain Cathey and Windham did not wait until those Blue Imps got near the goal line before they stopped them. Those Kittens stopped them when and where they got the ball.

Imps Intercept Two Passes to Score Their Touchdowns

The Blue Imps from Duke converted two intercepted passes into touchdowns to defeat Davidson Freshmen 13 to 6 in a thrilling game at Richardson Field last Friday, to keep their season’s record clean. After the Wildkittens had driven deep in Duke territory in the first, and played the second, a Duke back intercepted a pass and ran it back to midfield. A few minutes later, another interception led to a Duke touchdown. Whitener carried the ball over on a line play. He converted from placement. The Wildkittens came back in the final period to drive almost the length of the field, Midget Verble carrying the ball over. The Wildkittens were back on the Duke 20 and still marching when the game ended.

Davidson Position Duke
Murray --------- LE --------- Doar
Sizemore ------- LT --------- Bolling
Cathey --------- LG --------- Giese
Kayser --------- C --------- Migdal
Brenizer ------- RG --------- Durner
Windham ------- RT --------- Quinn
Saleeby -------- RE --------- Alexander
Verble --------- QB --------- Ferguson
Pittman -------- LH --------- Ward
Slaughter ------ RH --------- Mizelle
Score by periods:
Duke 0 0 13 0—13
Davidson 0 0 0 6—6
Touchdowns—Duke, Whitener, Alexander; Davidson, Verble. Extra point—Duke, Alexander (placement).

We Davidson students pride ourselves as showing the best school spirit in the state. Should we really feel proud? Davidson has always been represented by the scrappiest bunch of football players in the state and this year is no exception. People throughout this state recognize this fact and compliment the school for it. In other words, all of us students get credit for the spirit that our football team shows. How can we students deserve any of the final credit? Well, we can cheer for those Wildcats for the full sixty minutes of the game. And after the final whistle, we can carry our heroes, victorious or vanquished, to their dressing room. Davidson has one more game which comes tomorrow. Let’s back those Wildcats every minute of the game and as soon as the final whistle toots, let’s shoulder our heroes off the field whether they win or lose to Wake Forest.

Tomorrow will be the renewal of the feud between Wake Forest and Davidson which started back in 1908. From that year until 1921 the Wildcats always had the best of the argument and never lost a game, but since 1921 the Demon Deacons have never permitted a Davidson team to get a majority of points. Things which surround tomorrow’s game are different from those which have surrounded the classic in the past few years. “Monk” and “Tex,” who never had the satisfaction of defeating the Deacons while they were at Davidson, have been replaced by Newton and McEver. The game will be played on Richardson Field instead of in Charlotte, where the Wildcats have met the Deacs heretofore.

Davidson Opponents Suffer Mild Defeats

Duke University was the only team on Davidson’s 1932 schedule who won over an opponent in games played last Saturday. One Wildcat opponent tied in her game, three suffered defeats, and four others did not play during the weekend. Among those that played, Wofford was tied by Newberry, while Washington and Lee, Carolina, and The Citadel fell before Maryland, Duke, and South Carolina, respectively. V.-M. I, Clemson, N. C. State, and Wake Forest were the idle teams. Scores for Saturday’s games were: Duke 7, Carolina 0; Washington and Lee 0, Maryland 6; Wofford 20, Newberry 20; and The Citadel 0, South Carolina 19.

Wildkitten Harriers Defeat Charlotte Hi

Davidson’s FreshmanThe cross-country team took the first five places to defeat the Charlotte High runners by a 15-40 score here last Thursday afternoon. The victory was the second scored over the Queen City lads by the Wildkittens this fall. Frazier ran the two-mile course in ten minutes and 40 seconds to finish ahead of Merchant, Shuford, Young, and Glass, his teammates, who reached the tape in the order named. Frazier’s time was twenty seconds slower than his record time for the same course. The victory was the Wildkittens’ third of the season against one defeat. They won from Charlotte twice and once from Winston-Salem, while losing to Duke Freshmen. Their schedule will be brought to a close tomorrow morning when they run against the harriers of High Point High School.

This has been a year of upsets and of jinx. The fight which Wake Forest put up against Carolina and N. C. State, the defeat she handed South Carolina, and her general play throughout the season, stamp her as one of the strongest teams in the Big Five, despite her present position in the race. Neither Wake Forest nor Davidson had games last Saturday, and both should be primed for the game. The Deacons are the favorites, and all we can say is, “Deacons Beware.”

University downs in the third quarter and defeated the intercepted a pass deep in his own territory and ran almost to the Davidson goal. Alexander’s place-kick missed on the and a 15-yard penalty gave the Duke Freshmen the ball on Davidson's 15, whence Alex.

Tentative Schedule for Cage Games Announced Wildcats Will Open Season Here With Furman on January 5th

Davidson's 1933 basketball schedule neared completion as eleven games have been definitely booked and several others were being arranged, it was announced several days ago by Bailey, basketball manager. George varsity Furman will be the Wildcats’ first opponent in a game which is scheduled for January 5th at Davidson. Two other games, one with N. C. State and the other with Elon, have been definitely arranged for the home court. Although the season does not open until after the Christmas holidays, negotiations are being made for at least one game on the local court before 1932 goes out. Two of the Wildcat games will be played at the Central High School gymnasium in Charlotte against Duke and Carolina Universities early in January. One out-of-state trip into Virginia has been booked, and another into South Carolina is being arranged. On the Old Dominion journey, Roanoke College, V. P. I., and Lynchburg College, three teams which were not on the 1932 schedule, will be met. The South Carolina trip will probably include games with S. C. University, Wofford, and Furman. Dates have been definitely decided upon with Duke, Carolina, and N. C. State, members of the Big Five. Whether Wake Forest, the remaining member, will be played is not known.

Several members of the Little Six have been written for games and will in all probability be played, but no dates have been assigned to any except Elon, who will be played here on February 14th. A game will be played with Erskine also, but the date has not been agreed to.

The temporary schedule is:
Jan. 5—Furman, at Davidson.
Jan. 7—North Carolina, at Charlotte.
Jan. 9—Duke, at Charlotte.
Feb. 2—Roanoke College, at Salem, Va.
Feb. 3—V. P. I., at Blacksburg, Va.
Feb. 4—Lynchburg College, at Lynchburg, Va.
Feb. 7—Duke, at Durham.
Feb. 9—N. C. State, at Davidson.
Feb. 14—Elon, at Davidson.
Feb. 16—N. C. Carolina, at Chapel Hill.
Feb. 17—N. C. State, at Raleigh.

Sophomores Emerge Volley Ball Victors

The Sophomores won the intramural volleyball tournament last week by defeating the Juniors and Freshmen twice and the Seniors once. Their record for the second half of the series was perfect, giving them five victories to one defeat for the tournament. Second place was won by the Juniors, who turned back the Freshmen twice and the Seniors and Sophomores once. Third place was copped by the Seniors, while the Freshmen held the cellar position without a single victory to their credit. How they finished:

Sophomores ------------------------ 5 1 .833
Juniors ---------------------------- 4 2 .667
Seniors ---------------------------- 3 3 .500
Freshmen -------------------------- 0 6 .000

Duke Defeats Carolina To Take Big Five Title Carolina and N. C. State Tie for Second Honors in Race

Duke University, by defeating Carolina for the first time since 1893 at Chapel Hill last Saturday, won the Big Five championship with three victories and one defeat for a percentage of .750. The state champions won the title through victories over Davidson, Wake Forest, and Carolina, while losing only to N. C. State. Second place was tied for by Carolina and N. C. State, who have two victories, one defeat, and one tie apiece for a .667 percentage. Neither Wake Forest nor Davidson has won from a Big Five opponent this season and as a result are tied for the cellar berth. Only one Big Five game, that between Wake Forest and Davidson, remains to be played.

Around 1864, farmers began to grow White Burley Tobacco. A few casks were taken to the St. Louis Fair in 1867 and sold for 58c a pound. White Burley Tobacco is used to make Granger. It is the best pipe tobacco that grows. You will notice the difference as soon as you light up your pipe of Granger. It burns slower, smokes cooler, and never gums a pipe.

You can depend on a Liggett & Myers product.