BASKETBALL | PLAYS SEASON ENDS

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 24, 1932 No. 19

Trustees Favor R. O. T. C. Continuance at Davidson

Profs. Beaty, Blythe, and Gwyn Are Made Full Professors in Their Respective Departments

LILLY GRANTED LEAVE

Committee Appointed to Study Whole Question of Athletics

At the recent meeting of the trustees of Davidson College on the seventeenth, they adopted a report made by the Committee on R. O. T. C., which recommended the continuance of military training at Davidson with some modifications. For two or three years this matter has been before the trustees, and the recommendation was made only after exhaustive investigation in all fields. Twenty-eight of the body were present to vote on this measure.

Military training will no longer be compulsory for those students whose parents are conscientious objectors, those who have already had a two-year military course under government supervision, and those pre-medical students, whose crowded two-year course is conflicting. Physically disabled students have always been exempt. These rulings have been in effect for a good while, under the supervision of the faculty, but the Board of Trustees had never accepted them before this.

The trustees adopted all of the recommendations made by President Walter L. Lingle, and listened to a report of Mr. Frank L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, which indicated that the college would end its fiscal year with a balance on the basis of estimated income and expenditures for the remainder of the year.

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, of the department of education, and Associate Professor F. L. Blythe, of the Spanish department, were made full-time professors. Their installation will take place at the next commencement. Announcement was also made of the election of Prof. Ernest A. Beatty, of the language department, to a full professorship of Latin. This action was taken at the June meeting of the trustees, but was not made known until this recent meeting.

Dr. G. R. Harding, head of the department of Greek, and Dr. W. R. Gray, head of the Latin department, and who have passed the retirement age, were re-elected for another year, but provision was made to assign them to only part-time work. Prof. J. C. Bailey, graduate of Davidson, will return here from Johns Hopkins in the fall to do the major teaching of Greek. Professor Beatty will assume the majority of the Latin teaching.

Prof. Henry T. Lilly, of the English department, was granted a year’s leave of absence, during which time he will take post-graduate work. The trustees appointed a committee, (Continued on page 6)

Foreign Mission Problem Explained By Missionary

The open door of China, the accumulating momentum of missionary enterprise, and the fact that Christianity is the only religion today which can meet the ideals of the world were three reasons advanced by Rev. C. Darby Fulton, D.D., in his talk on February 16, as encouraging factors in the missionary enterprise in foreign lands.

“It may seem odd for me to talk of the ‘open door’ in China, when our missionaries in 1927 suffered untold indignities, were held at the point of guns, and the mob was clamoring for their lives,” he said, “but not since the Boxer uprising in 1900 has there been such a propitious moment for the Christian religion today. Only one man out of a thousand in China is a Christian, and only one out of 400 in Japan has professed Christ.”

Dr. Fulton told of the internal turmoil in the economic, social, and political life of China, and spoke on how the Chinese were re-arranging the foundations of the whole national order; how temples and shrines were being turned into market places and schools, how idols were burned because the people there have lost faith in the old religions. “The church today has the opportunity of implanting Christ at the very root of China’s life. Shall it be Bolshevism or Jesus Christ?” he asked. “It shall be one or the other because China is changing. The last quarter of a century has witnessed great stirrings,” and urged (Continued on page 6)

Five I. R. C. Members Attend Conference

Five members of the International Relations Club of Davidson left here last Monday to attend the International Relations Clubs’ Southeastern Conference being held at Rollins College, Winter Park, Fla., February 24 and 25. They were D. Grier Martin, E. C. Dwelle, Jr., Chas. F. Myers, S. S. Wiley, and Arthur Ross. These men are representing Davidson at the conference, which is being conducted under the auspices of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Martin has the distinction of being vice-president of the Southeastern Division of the clubs and will deliver the response for the delegates after the address of welcome by President Hamilton Holt, of Rollins, on the first day of the conference. He was elected to this office at the eighth annual convention last year, which was held at Duke University.

An interesting and elaborate program has been planned for this year’s conference, and many nationally known speakers and leaders have been secured. On the opening day, Dr. Cullen B. Gosnell, of Emory University, faculty advisor of the convention, will deliver an address on “The International Relations Clubs.” That evening another lecture will be given by Dr. Fred B. Smith, chairman of the executive committee, Church Peace Union, on “America and the New Internationalism.” In the concluding address of the conference, Mr. James G. McDonald, chairman of the Board of Foreign Policy Association, and vice-chairman of the National Council for the Prevention of War, will speak on “The United States and the World Crisis.”

Among the conference leaders will be Jane Addams, founder of Hull House and president of the Woman's International League for Peace; Charles C. Bauer, secretary of the League of Nations Association; Irving Fisher, professor of political economy at Yale University, and Rear Admiral C. L. Hussey, United States Navy.

Dr. C. Darby Fulton Speaks to Students

Concludes His Two-Day Stay With Informal Discussion

“Christ is unique in meeting the needs of the world today in that He provides the world with its own perfect ideal, in the experience He imparts, in the power of moral and spiritual transformation, and in the salvation He offers,” declared Rev. C. Darby Fulton, D.D., executive secretary of the foreign mission board of the Southern Presbyterian Church, in the second and last public address he will deliver to Davidson students during the two-day mission institute he conducted under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. He delivered this talk last Wednesday.

Dr. Fulton concluded his two-day stay here with an informal discussion with interested students in foreign missions of any nature. He spoke to the Bible classes, and related some of his own experiences as a worker in the foreign fields, and effectively presented the cause.

“Non-Christian faiths,” said Dr. Fulton in his address, “are built around principles, and not personalities. Buddha admitted that he was not able to live out his system of ethics and morals, and Confucius never claimed he could conform to his own. Contrast this with Christ. He taught His own ethics and set the example for us to follow. Jesus is morality incarnate. He is not an architect’s drawing, but the building itself; He is not a survey map, but the whole panoramic view itself.”

In discussing his second point, Dr. Fulton said that the world is clamoring for religions of experience. People in the Orient, he said, first approached their religions from an intellectual viewpoint, but today they are seeking for an anchorage for the soul—a contentment they do not have. He maintained that the Oriental youths are more in quest of things of the Spirit than the youth of America, and yet he said that no young people are more dissatisfied with their own religion than those of Japan, China, and the other countries without Christ.

Dr. Fulton told from personal experience the lack of moral and spiritual transformation he had observed in the Orient. “In all my experience of identifying myself with these people, (Continued on page 6)

Honor Roll

SENIOR CLASS
Bettis, E. S.
Carr, H. L.
Enloe, R. P.
Hancock, W. T.
Harrison, C. W.
Hawkins, W. B.
McLean, T. W.
McQueen, D. M.
Mann, J. O.
Spencer, C. S.
Stephenson, D. G.
Welch, J. T., Jr.
Wiley, S. S.

JUNIOR CLASS
Bettis, C. E.
Brown, P. F., Jr.
McBryde, D. D.
McConnell, D. M.
McKeithen, W. L.
McNair, W. E.
Patton, A.
Schackelford, E. W.
Ward, W. B.

SOPHOMORE CLASS
Blair, J. T.
Hellegers, F. R.
McGeachy, J. A.
Thompson, W. T., Jr.
Thompson, W. M.

FRESHMAN CLASS
Coit, R. T.
Douglas, J. M., Jr.
Exum, W. A.
Hamilton, Lois Neal
Porter, R. M., Jr.
Rhodes, A. B.

Seniors Hold Feed and Smoker February 15th

Representatives of the Alumni Council For the Class of 1932 Were Elected

NEW COACHES PRESENT

Hold Effective Discussion in Regard to Class Gift

On Monday night, February 15, at 9 o'clock, the Senior class held a smoker in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. In connection with the smoker, an election of the representatives of the class of 1932 on the Alumni Council was held. The affair was a “feed” and smoker. The new athletic coaches, Newton and McEver, and Captain Pritchett, were present, each making a short talk. Other entertainment during the evening consisted of some musical selections by Caligan and Cunningham, after which three Freshmen, McLean, Monroe and Northern (The Pills Brothers),Produced some other songs. In the election of the Alumni Council representatives, the following men were automatically elected by virtue of their present offices: D. S. King, president of the student body; J. H. McKinnon, Jr., president of the Senior class; R. P. Enloe, president of the Y. M. C. A.; D. M. MacQueen, president of the Athletic Association, and D. G. Martin, editor of The Davidsonian. Sam Wiley was selected from a group made up of the ten highest in scholastic standing and the Senior varsity debaters. From a group composed of the business managers of varsity athletic teams, business managers of the three major publications, and the treasurer of the Senior class, Bob Gorrell was chosen. Nat Spier was elected from the group of the Seniors on the Pan-Hellenic Council. From the group of the captains of varsity athletic teams, L. S. Baker was elected. The representative from the Senior class at large was Cal Kuykendall. Vereen Bell was elected class marshal, in which position he will take part in the commencement program. The Seniors also discussed their class gift and narrowed the decision down to a choice between the establishment of a loan fund and the giving of a trophy case. The final decision will be made in the near future.

Charlotte Editor Is “Y” Vesper Speaker

Mr. Julian Miller, editor-in-chief of the Charlotte News, delivered a sincere and inspiring address at Y. M. C. A. vespers last Sunday evening. Calvin Kuykendall read a portion of the Scripture from which the speaker took his text, John 10:10, “I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.” A violin solo was rendered by Byron Schriver, with Edward McNair as accompanist, before the speaker made his talk. Mr. Miller is a graduate of Erskine College and is a member of the Board of Trustees of that institution. He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and has been the editor of the Charlotte News for many years. Mr. Miller spoke here last year and was greatly enjoyed by the Davidson students. The speaker's topic was “The Abundant Life,” or, as he expressed it, “Getting a Kick Out of Religion.” Mr. Miller began his address with the following illustration: He was going to a country church for services and had his little son with him. The weather was bad and the sand clay road, composed for the most part of clay, was wet and slippery, so that one had to drive slowly and carefully to keep from skidding into the ditch. His little boy suddenly said, “I wish this road was a hundred yards wide and didn’t have ditches on either side. Then I would drive as fast as possible, try to keep straight, and see what would happen.” Mr. Miller went on to say that he desired a tangible Christ, a real being to whom one might take faults and troubles and be praised, reprimanded, or shown the right way. A religion that is the personification of this, a religion that one can reach in everyday life and not one that is cut and dried and comes out of a book, ought to be the desire and aim of every man. The speaker said that the younger generation ought to have a better attitude towards the church and Christ. We often underestimate the value of our lives because we do not have the correct respect for Christ. The following illustration was used in connection with this point: Two boys flew an airplane to the height of three thousand feet, knowing scarcely anything about the operation of the machine, but laughing at fate and taking a chance. The plane soon crashed to the earth and they lost their lives. Waywardness and the willingness to do dangerous things with little thought for the outcome are characteristics that should be discouraged. Christian lives are important and extremely valuable. They are not to be taken for granted and thought little good. Because we only go to church on Sunday and have a one-day-of-the-week religion as some people think, that is no reason why we shouldn't practice being a true Christian in our lives every day.

Plays Are Postponed Until Another Week

The Little Theatre is to Present “The Valiant”

According to an announcement of the Masquers, the date for the three plays has been postponed for a week. Rehearsals continue underway. Last week Mr. Farrington, who is associated with the Little Theatre of Charlotte, made a visit to Davidson to look over the stage and scenery. In the cast of “The Valiant” is included a Davidson alumnus, John McNeely. The Dramatis Personae has been submitted as follows:
James Dyke John McNeely
Father Daly Wallis Moulding
Warden Holt Paul Worley
Josephine Paris Sarah Elizabeth Motte

All these are members of the Little Theatre of Charlotte and have taken parts in plays presented by that organization. Mr. Farrington appeared in their latest production, “Butter and Egg Man,” when it was produced at Pinehurst, N. C. He is director of dramatics in the Charlotte High School and an instructor in English. “The Valiant” is under his direction.

Davidson College Joins In Bi-Centennial Affair

Dr. Howard E. Rondthaler, President of Salem College, Was Principal Speaker for Occasion

DR. RAYNAL IS HEARD

Four Classes Join in Planting of George Washington Tree

Davidson College culminated its participation in the nation-wide celebration of the bicentennial of George Washington's birth with an address and a tree planting exercise at the college on the morning of February 22. The principal speaker for the occasion was Dr. Howard Rondthaler, president of Salem College, Winston-Salem, N. C. The service began at 11:15 a.m., in the auditorium of the Maxwell-Chambers Building with the singing of “America.” Following this national hymn, Rev. C. E. Raynal, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Statesville, N. C., led the assembled group in prayer. Following this, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson, presented Dr. Rondthaler. Dr. Rondthaler immediately gained the attention of all present by a few witty remarks at the expense of President Lingle, and he then proceeded to enlighten his audience upon a most unique phase of Washington's life. For weeks previous to his talk, various members of the faculty had made talks concerning the integrity and veracity of our great first president, and had renewed the things usually said of George Washington at a time like this, and Dr. Rondthaler’s message came to the students like a bolt out of a clear sky, and was greatly enjoyed by all of them. By the time we reach Washington's two hundredth birthday the story of the cherry tree is indeed familiar to every American citizen, and to have someone swerve from the trite path, so long trodden by speakers on “Washington,” was a refreshing treat, and it was deeply regretted by both students and faculty that time forced Dr. Rondthaler to close his address at noon. The title of the address was “Washington's Trip to the South.” The main portion of this theme dealt with the then stubborn colony of North Carolina, which remained as a holdout from the union until 1791. He told all of the amusing details found in Washington's diary, in which he paid no great tribute to several cities of North Carolina, which have ardent supporters in the Davidson student body. He pointed out that the North Carolinians took particular pride in saying that George Washington had spent the night in their town, when in truth, there were very few in which he did not spend the night. One of the most amusing things in the entire talk was his narrative of a New England tavern keeper, who placed a sign in front of his hostelry which read, “The (Continued on page 6)

Rabbi Levine Speaks of Jewish Gifts to World

Rabbi Morris Levine, D.D., of the Hebrew Synagogue in Charlotte, spoke very interestingly the evening of February 16 on “The Contribution of the Jew to Civilization.” Rabbi Levine has studied at Oxford University and at many Hebrew seminaries and has lectured extensively. “The Holy Bible,” says Dr. Levine, “is responsible for the civilization of today. The Bible has been and still is a help to science, a model of literature, and a key to knowledge in general.” He reminds us that Abram was the first man to show the world a monotheistic religion, that, while seeking God in the vastness of the great wilderness in which he made his home, Abram was assured of the verity of this conception by God Himself. The voice of God had come to Abram while only a lad, and it was at this stage of Abram's development that a firm foundation was laid for his religious beliefs from then on. Dr. Levine deals first with the contribution of the Jews to the literature of civilization. He holds before us the Bible as a source of literature of the most masterly sort. “The Book of Psalms,” Dr. Levine informs us, “is translated into 242 dialects.” He touches upon the beauty of the Song of Solomon, and upon the practicability of Proverbs as applied to present-day times and conditions. Next, Jewish philosophy was made mention of. His most outstanding illustrations of a great (Continued on page 6)