THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 7, 1932

TREKKING WEST TO ATTEND WORLD’S LARGEST AIR REVIEW

By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

(NOTE: This is one of a series of guest articles by Jack Williams, Jr., describing a visit with his father to the National Editorial Association meeting in California this past summer.)

White, sparkling San Diego, curving down to meet the blue waters of its land-locked bay, is often called America’s prettiest city. We just arrived there from Agua Caliente in time to catch the press party and, after parking the car at the railroad station, started on a tour of this historic city. On the heights overlooking the city lies Balboa Park, one of the showplaces of the city, with its 1400 acres of semi-tropical trees and plants. The San Diego airport is named after Col. Charles A. Lindbergh, who took off from this city on his flight to Paris.

Next, we went to Broadway Pier for lunch as the guests of the City of San Diego. Many of the important admirals and other officers of the navy and army were there. San Diego is such a progressive city that even the mayor has a name signifying progress. Mayor Forward was present and made a talk. The government officials looked resplendent sitting there with their gold-braided shoulders and polished buttons.

DISTINGUISHED VISITORS

Among those present were Brig. Gen. Frederic L. Bradman, Adm. Frank H. Schofield, Rear Adm. Thomas J. Senn, Rear Adm. Harry E. Yarnell, Capt. Wilheim Friedell, Capt. Chester W. Nimitz, Comd. Lyal A. Davidson, Lieut. Comdr. Ralph E. Davison, Capt. John H. Tower, Col. H. Thorp, Col. Henry H. Arnold, Major Carl Spatz, Major Francis T. Evans, Col. B. Yant, Adm. Halligan, Adm. Calfers, Adm. Worth, and the assistant secretary of the navy, Ernest Lee Jahncke.

Jahncke, his wife, and two daughters, Cora and Adele, flew from San Francisco to witness the mass flight to be staged that afternoon. Rumor has it that Adele Jahncke is engaged to wed Allan Hoover, son of the President. She considers the rumors preposterous, for she has only met him once and doesn’t know where these reports originated.

AMELIA EARHART

A moment later Amelia Earhart entered, having just made a non-stop flight from New York to San Diego. She is the only woman on earth who has flown alone across the Atlantic. My place at the table was right next to hers and I was so excited I could hardly eat. She asked to borrow my pencil and I made the most of my opportunity and got her autograph at that time. As soon as she was seated, reporters sprang up as if by magic and started hurling questions at her. One of them leaned over and asked in a low voice, “Mrs. Putnam, you were late in arriving from New York this morning, weren't you?” She replied, mischief dancing in her eyes, “You mustn’t say that with all these admirals around, because you know I came in a navy plane.”

She was two hours late because her gas line gave her trouble coming over the mountains. She said it never could have happened if she had been in her own plane and had lots of fun teasing the army and naval officials at the table. Whispering to James R. McMillan, she said she had no idea of what to talk about and he suggested that she tell some of the intimate details of her flight across the ocean. He thought that would appeal to the editors present. The Prince of Wales was also scheduled to be in the party, but wrote at the last minute that he would be unable to attend.

GREAT AIR SHOW

Following luncheon, we were taken by United States Navy launches to North Island to witness the largest air review ever held in the United States or abroad, which was staged by the Army and Navy in honor of the arrival of the National Editorial Association in San Diego. What a drama was unfolded before our eyes! Four hundred and twenty-three Army, Navy, and Marine planes flew in a line 22 miles in length. When the giant formation passed, 800 men were in the air. Eleven different types of flying machines took part in this ten million dollar flight, from the 100 single-seaters capable of 200 miles an hour to the 27 sea planes, each weighing seven and one-half tons, carrying a dozen men. In between were scouting planes, pursuit planes, army observation, marine observation, coastal patrol, and offshore patrol.

The fuel for these ships cost tens of thousands of dollars. The navy alone used 8,250 gallons of gas and 3,000 men were employed to get the planes off the ground at the same time. Each plane flew two hours and the flight that took place was exactly twice as big as the one held after the signing of the armistice in 1918. We went away from San Diego convinced that “San Diego knows how.”

Leaving San Diego, we started for Riverside, which is a drive of three and a half hours. On our way, we passed the Mission of San Luis Rey and drove over the famous bridge of the same name. The present bridge is of cement and replaces the crude hand-built bridge described in the book, “The Bridge of San Luis Rey.”

Arriving at Riverside Inn, we were dinner guests of the Riverside Chamber of Commerce. The dinner was given in the Patio flanked by balconies from which hung the flags of the nations with a fountain in the center of the court. Mr. and Mrs. McGrath of Atlanta were at our table. It was like a reunion in California and we enjoyed being with some people from our state. The court is filled with eucalyptus trees as well as the feathery pepper tree. A group of Spanish musicians sang, danced, and played throughout the meal, creating an old-world atmosphere. This Inn is a famous old hotel and underneath it is a real dungeon. There was a bolted door in our room and I think it must have led to this musty old dungeon. The owner has traveled all over the world collecting an investment representing seven million dollars. This hostelry is complete in every detail and even has its own chapel for the convenience of its guests.

FONTANA INN

Next morning we were taken by citizens of the Fontana Rotary Club. Stephen... (text cuts off)Scheduled for a United States Senator, Samuel M. Shortridge of California extended the official welcome from Southern California to the editorial party. Thence through San Bernardino to the Fontana Inn for breakfast as guests of the Navy and Marine Corps planes flew by in the morning. Examinations begin at 9:00 A.M. and 2:00 P.M.

Examination Schedule---Session 1932-1933---1st Semester

A. M. examinations begin at 9:00
P. M. examinations begin at 2:00

Jan. 13
A. M. English 1, English 2, English 4, 5, 10, 12
P. M. Physics 1, Physics 2, Physics 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, Political Science 2

Jan. 14
A. M. Spanish A, Spanish 1, Spanish 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, Economics 5
P. M. Education 1, 13, Philosophy 1, Economics 4, Political Science 4

Jan. 16
A. M. French A, French 1, French 2, 3, 5, Sociology
P. M. German A, German 1, German 2, 3, 4, Political Science 1, Education 3

Jan. 17
A. M. Mathematics 1, Mathematics 2, Mathematics 3, 4, Political Science 3, Business 1, Psychology 2
P. M. History 3, 5, 6

Jan. 18
A. M. Latin A, Latin 1, Latin 2, 3, 4, Economics 3, Geography 2, Philosophy 2
P. M. Education 4, Psychology 1

Jan. 19
A. M. History 1, History 2, 4, 7, Applied Mathematics 1, 2
P. M. Biology 1A, Biology 1, Biology 2, 3, 4, Business 2

Jan. 20
A. M. Bible 1, Bible 2, Bible 3, 4, 6, Astronomy, Geography 1
P. M. Chemistry 1, Chemistry 2, Chemistry 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, Economics 2, Education 2

Jan. 21
A. M. Greek 1, Greek 2, Greek 3, 4, 5, 6, Psychology 4, Business 3
P. M. Economics 1, Psychology 3, Geology

Jan. 22
A. M. R.O.T.C. 1, 2
P. M. R.O.T.C. 3, 4, Art, Italian

Later, a typical western dinner was served on the terrace of the Lodge overlooking the lake. Further entertainment consisted of a unique horned toad derby given at the village.

(Continued on page 4)

Coat, Pants, and Silk Vest, at very special price of $10. Overcoats at BELKS.

MISS MINNIE'S 50 TUXEDO SUITS Also, regular $15 to $20 grey double-breasted suits at a special price of $10.

DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
NOTICE---Have Your Shoes Rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP. Work Done While You Wait. C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor.

Writing Paper FOR SO LITTLE MONEY
300 Note Sheets Formerly 200
450 Envelopes Formerly 100
450 Pieces Formerly 300
All Printed with your Name and Address

"I DON’T see how you do it!” That's the gist of the flood of letters we have received from old friends and new since announcing our new “450” Package. We knew the “450” Package would amaze everyone. Here's why. The ordinary box of stationery contains 24 sheets and 24 envelopes. The "450" Package contains 300 sheets and 150 envelopes! Cheap paper? Not a bit of it. Finer paper is used in the "450" Package than in many boxes of high-priced social stationery! And each sheet and envelope is neatly printed with your name and address — the smart and logical way to have your stationery finished. It is convenient—protects your letters from loss in the mails—helps business houses get your name accurately and lends a neat distinction to your notes. Two million people can’t be wrong—and two million people have sent to Peru, Indiana, for American Printed Stationery! Try it. It’s the same style note paper we have sold for 18 years—same printed name and address—same correct size, 6 x 7 — same price. But the quantity is now 50% greater! Send one dollar — check, bill, or money order ($1.10 west of Denver and outside of U.S.). Your package will be printed and mailed within 3 days of the receipt of your order. Sold by mail only. No agents or dealers. Absolute satisfaction guaranteed.

THE AMERICAN STATIONERY COMPANY, 700 PARK AVE., PERU, IND.
Originator and World's Largest Manufacturer of Printed Note Paper

Here is $1.00 for a box of "450" Stationery to be printed as shown below. ($1.10 west of Denver and outside of U.S.)

IT’S THE NEW “450” PACKAGE 50% BIGGER

AS CHRISTMAS GIFTS
Being printed with the recipient's name and address, American Stationery makes a distinctly personal gift —and a most pleasing one. Simple, neat, fine quality, in good taste—and inexpensive. Make up your Christmas list at once. All orders printed and mailed within 3 days of receipt of instructions.

Name: ______________________

OVER 2,000,000 CUSTOMERS — ALL OVER THE WORLD