FOOTBALL PRACTICE STARTS ON LABOR DAY, SEPT. 5TH

The Davidson College BULLETIN

FRESHMEN REGISTER SEPTEMBER 6TH
OTHERS, 7TH

DAVIDSON, N.C., AUGUST 23, 1932

Davidson College Will Formally Open Its 97th Session on September Eighth

Two Days Are Allotted for Registration; Freshmen on 6th, and Upperclassmen, 7th; Faculty Convenes, September 5th

GOOD ENROLLMENT

No Official Figures Available, But Preliminary Registration Indicates Excellent Attendance

As the day approaches for the 97th opening of Davidson, administration and other officials at the college are busy in their final preparations for the registration and reception of the 1932-1933 student body. Letters are being mailed out to the new and old men from the offices of the registrar and treasurer; room and laundry assignments have been made, and many other details have been attended to in order that the two-day registration period may be concluded in an expeditious manner.

The first vanguard of students will reach Davidson on Monday, September 5th, when the varsity football candidates report for their uniforms. They will register that day, too, which will clear the way for intensive preparation on the gridiron. The second contingent arrives Tuesday, when approximately 250 Freshmen come in during the day for registration purposes in order to be ready for their orientation program which begins Tuesday night. The greatest number, however, come in on Wednesday, September 7th, when all of the old men arrive, which will include about 350, excluding the football men.

This rushing and trying period to the administration officials will pave the way for the formal opening of Davidson with the convening of classes on Thursday, September 8th. The faculty of the college hold their first official meeting of the scholastic session on September 5th and will be available to assist in the registration of Tuesday and Wednesday. Most of the assignment of courses will be done by the registrar before the students arrive.

During the summer months, workmen have been busy about the campus and in the dormitories, renovating the latter and making minor improvements on the former. The faculty of the college has been interested in various activities, as outlined in another article in this publication, and as intimated above, the administrative officers have been busy in their separate departments getting ready for the opening. While no one was inclined to give out any official pre-registration statistics on the total enrollment for the coming fall, indications were (Continued on page 4)

Selection of Assistants Made Public by Faculty

Sixty-seven Students Will Help in Various Departments. Will Earn Over $4,000.00

Sixty-seven students at Davidson will partially sustain themselves financially next year through their appointment by the faculty as assistants in the various academic and administrative departments of the college. These men were selected from a large number of candidates, and their choices were determined by the heads of the various departments, supplemented by a careful study of a special committee of the faculty appointed particularly for this purpose. It is estimated by administrative officials that students earn over $4,000.00 through their assistance in the different departments.

The list of appointments made public by the registrar is as follows:

Library: E. A. Hancock, Bluefield, W. Va.; R. M. Porter, Jr., Waycross, Ga.; H. C. Shapard, Shelbyville, Tenn.; G. R. Wood, Charleston, W. Va.; W. L. McIlwinen, Fayetteville; D. F. Blue, Jr., Midville, Ga., and Ellis Oakes.

Monitors: B. E. Allen, Wilmington; J. B. Caldwell, Davidson; J. R. Howard, Atlanta, Ga.; J. M. Harris, Jr., Rome, Ga.; A. M. Manson, Jacksonville, Fla.; W. C. Matthews, Lumberton, and R. B. Moffett, China.

Recorders: W. B. Ward, Timmonsville, S.C.; and L. W. Clardy, II, Talladega, Ala.

Greek: D. D. McBryde, Linden, and G. A. Little, Charlotte.

Latin: J. A. McGeachey, Jr., Fayetteville.

Mathematics: J. T. Blair, Albemarle; O. N. (Continued on page 2)

Faculty Members Return From Their Vacations

Summer Occupations Included Teaching, Studying, Traveling and Attendance at Camps

Members of the Davidson faculty are now beginning to return to their homes here after spending the summer recess in various capacities and in different parts of the country. Some of them have been teaching in summer sessions, at Davidson and other institutions; others have been studying; some have been attending camps, and others have spent the vacation in their summer homes.

Those who were connected with the Davidson six-weeks’ summer school were Prof. F. K. Fleagle, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr. J. M. Douglas, Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake, Prof. W. W. Wood, Prof. W. L. Porter, Dr. C. M. Richards, Dr. Price H. Gwynn, Jr., Prof. A. V. Goldiere, and Prof. H. E. Fulcher. After the summer session, Prof. Fleagle went for a vacation in Michigan; Dr. McConnell to Camp Carolina at Brevard; Prof. Wood to his old home in Virginia; Prof. Porter and Prof. Fulcher took a trip to Canada, and Prof. Goldiere went to New York. The others have spent the majority of their time in Davidson, with the exception of short trips.

Dr. Fraser Hood again taught in the summer school of Ohio State.

Those who have been studying include Prof. Henry T. Lilly Blythe at Middlebury College in Vermont, and Prof. Lewis B. Schenck at Yale. Prof. Archibald Currie spent six weeks at the University of Michigan, being invited with 50 other professors of America to attend a special institute on international law.

After taking a trip to the Great Lakes region, Capt. Norton G. Pritchett went to Camp Carolina. Others connected with this camp during the summer were Prof. J. P. Williams and Prof. W. N. Mebane. Dr. W. P. Cumming spent most of the summer in Europe.

Dr. G. R. Vowles went to his summer home in North Dakota; Dr. H. B. Arbuckle to Lewisburg, W. Va., and Dr. Geo. B. Watts to Massachusetts. Prof. K. J. Foreman has spoken before several religious conferences during the summer, including one in Texas. Dr. M. E. Sentelle has spent part of the vacation in eastern Tennessee. Prof. J. T. Kimbrough has spent the summer at his home in Kentucky. Most of the other members of the faculty have remained in Davidson the major portion of the time.

Of the athletic staff, Coach Newton has been in Birmingham; Coach McEver at his home in Knoxville, Tenn.; Coach Laird at Highlands, and Coach Unger and Heath Whittle went to California for the Olympics. Coach Unger first attended a C. M. T. C. camp at Camp McClellan, Ala.

Lieut.-Col. W. R. Scott was again in charge of Camp McClellan, near Anniston, and working with him were two others of the R. O. T. C. faculty, Capt. Chas. W. Seifert and Capt. Wm. L. Blanton. Capt. F. M. Cochran was detailed for duty at Fort Bragg, near Fayetteville.

1932 Football Schedule

Sept. 24, Duke at Durham.
Oct. 1, W. & L. at Davidson.
Oct. 8, Wofford at Davidson.
Oct. 15, V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.
Oct. 22, Citadel at Charleston, S. C.
Oct. 29, Clemson at Davidson.
Nov. 5, N. C. State at Charlotte.
Nov. 12, Carolina at Davidson (Homecoming).
Nov. 24, Wake Forest at Davidson, (Thanksgiving).

Orientation Program is Arranged for New Men

Attendance at Sessions Is Required of Incoming Freshman Class on September 6th and 7th

Students entering college for the first time must necessarily go through a period of readjustment. Until a few years ago, the new and old men returned simultaneously, and it was largely left to the incoming Freshmen to adjust and orientate themselves. However, the administration and faculty of Davidson recognized the weakness of this, and decided to enroll the Freshmen a day earlier than the upperclassmen, so that they might attend an orientation program, designed particularly for their benefit to familiarize them with the campus and with what would be expected of them during their sojourn as members of the student body.

Consequently, the men will arrive in Davidson on Tuesday, September 6th, and before 5 o'clock will have completed their registration with the treasurer and registrar. These preliminaries will therefore be out of the way, and the Freshmen will be ready for their program, which will begin Tuesday night, and will be completed the following evening. Registration of the new men on September 6th, and attendance at the various orientation sessions is required of the Freshman.

Prof. J. P. Williams, dean of the Freshmen, has been annually in charge of this program, and has announced the one for the fall of 1932. Leading members of the faculty and administration and of the student body are included as speakers, and they have been assigned subjects which will be vital to the new men, and their addresses will serve to answer many questions that might be in the minds of the incoming students.

All of the four sessions will be held in the handsome auditorium of the Chambers Building. The first is Tuesday night at 7:30 o'clock, and from 8:30 Wednesday morning until 9:30 that night, the Freshmen attend three different programs. Questions of scholarship, use of time and money in college, the honor system at Davidson, regulations of the college and extra-curricular activities will receive an elaboration. As an outside speaker, Rev. J. R. McGregor, Th.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Lexington, N. C., has been selected, and he will address the students on “Ideals in College Life.” As a climax to the program, the Freshmen will hear the Davidson president, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, discuss with them “What Davidson Should Mean to a Student.”

The two-day program is as follows: (Continued on page 2)

Football Predictions for 1932 Season AreVery Cautious and Conservative Changes Have Been Made In This Year’s Faculty

Two Will Be Replacements; One Has Year’s Leave of Absence—Other Changes

Quite a few changes have been made in the Davidson faculty for the 1932-1933 session. One new member of the regular faculty will arrive; another will be on a year’s leave of absence; instructors in biology, chemistry, and physics will be replaced by student assistants; the R.O.T.C. faculty will be one less in number, and the commandant of the military unit, who has completed his four-year period of service, will be replaced.

Prof. John C. Bailey will return to Davidson from Johns Hopkins University, where he has been for the past five years doing graduate study and teaching. Prof. Bailey was an assistant in Greek at Davidson before he embarked upon his graduate preparation. He will next year have the major portion of the work of this department. Both Dr. C. R. Harding and Dr. W. R. Grey, of the Greek and Latin departments, respectively, will be on a part-time basis. Prof. Ernest A. Beaty, already a Davidson faculty member, will do the major teaching in Latin.

Prof. Henry T. Lilly, of the department of English, will continue his graduate study this fall, and will attend either Princeton or Harvard. This summer he has been at the University of Chicago. Prof. Lilly has also previously studied at the University of Vienna, Oxford, Harvard, and Princeton, and has done research work in libraries of several other institutions. There will be no replacement of Prof. Lilly during his absence, but his work will be apportioned to other members of this department.

Instructors Frank R. Brown, in the department of biology; David J. Caldwell, in physics; and Robert W. McCullough, in chemistry, will be replaced by efficient members of the Senior class in their respective fields. E. S. Brannon, of Rome, Ga., 1932 graduate, will take additional biology courses next session, and has been assigned to that department as an assistant. Other assistants in each department are listed in another article in this publication.

Within the past ten days, Capt. Wm. L. Blanton has received notification from the War Department officials that he will be transferred to another institution, following the new retirement enactments. He has not yet been notified where he will be sent. Captain Blanton has been a member of the Davidson military faculty for three years.

Major John T. Rhett has been assigned by the War Department as commandant of the R.O.T.C. at Davidson. Major Rhett will replace Lieut.-Col. W. R. Scott, who will study at the Army War College in Washington, D.C., next year, following the termination of his four-year assignment here. Major Rhett is a bachelor of arts graduate of the University of South Carolina, and has attended many of the schools maintained by the U.S. Army.

R.O.T.C. Appointments for 1932-1933 Session Announced

Fred W. Ogden, of New Orleans, La., will be the 1932-1933 Cadet Major and battalion commander of the R.O.T.C. unit at Davidson, according to an announcement which has been made by Lieut.-Col. W. R. Scott, retiring officer who has headed the Davidson military training for the past four years. The appointment of Ogden and other student officers for next year followed the six weeks’ summer encampment at Fort McClellan, Ala., and the officers were guided in their selections by the work of the rising seniors in camp.

Cadet Captains appointed and the units and work assigned to them for next year are C. R. Wright, Knoxville, Tenn., “A” Company; Paul F. Brown, Jr., Atlanta, Ga., “B” Company; H. D. Cashion, Davidson, personnel adjutant; Brooke E. Allen, Wilmington, adjutant; E. Bruce Peabody, Charlotte, “C” Company; Geo. E. Baily, Hickory, “D” Company; D. Moffett McConnell, Chester, S.C., plans and training, and J. C. Pennington, Talladega, Ala., captain of the band.

Other appointments were: Cadet first lieutenants: C. E. Moore, Jr., Charlotte; R. E. Conoley, Avon Park, Fla.; Wm. A. Flinn, Atlanta, Ga.; B. B. Taylor, Jr., Baton Rouge, La.; A. M. Manson, Jacksonville, Fla.; E. B. Cannon, Roanoke Rapids; J. C. Calhoun, Laurinburg; W. W. Seymour, Sanford; and Geo. C. Neal, Ruffin.

Cadet second lieutenants: D. D. McBryde, Linden; J. A. Smith, Jr., Nixburg, Ala.; W. B. Ward, Timmonsville, S.C.; W. H. Coble, Douglas, Ga.; J. J. Stewart, Jr., Mt. Holly; W. M. E. Rachal, Low Moor, Va.; J. S. Mackorall, York, S.C.; T. M. Davis, Waxhaw; R. H. Flow, Davidson; J. E. Richards, Liberty Hill, S.C., and W. A. Pate, Pembroke.

Cadet first sergeants: W. M. Brown, Knoxville, Tenn.; T. H. McCallie, Chattanooga, Tenn.; F. P. Harrison, Mount Ulla, and W. C. Mathews, Lumberton.

Cadet sergeant major: R. C. Morrow, Mexico; Cadet color sergeants: F. M. Cochran, Jr., Davidson, and H. A. Wilson, Lake City, Fla.

Cadet sergeants: A. W. Rice, Salisbury; E. L. Powell, Mobile, Ala.; Odi Casali, Welch, W.Va.; F. H. Scott, Holyoke, Mass.; R. H. Smith, Jr., Dillon, S.C.; W. E. Covington, Jr., Rockingham; C. M. Rives, Greensboro; J. M. Covington, Jr., Wadesboro; A. S. Rachal, Low Moor, Va.; R. E. Loraine, Miami, Fla.; A. F. Schenck, Charlotte; J. T. Drake, Port Gibson, Miss.; W. A. Lyon, Davidson; E. J. Humphrey, Wilmington; R. B. Moffett, China; W. A. Kirkland, Durham; W. T. Johnson, Charlotte; J. A. Hunter, Donner, La.; A. H. Manson, Jr., Jacksonville, Fla.; B. L. Moore, Pendleton, S.C., and Everett Escott, Charlotte.

Reasons: Only Six Veterans Will Be Available as Nucleus; Some Candidates May Not Return, and Davidson Has New Coaches

START SEPTEMBER 5TH

Backfield Material Exceptionally Good. Four Berths to Be Filled in Line. Good Soph Candidates

“What are the football prospects at Davidson this fall?” is the most frequently asked question nowadays. The query comes from both alumni and students, and the most logical answer at this date is to say, that it is a question mark, written as a capital letter, if such is possible. No forecast is ever absolutely accurate, and with certain factors to be considered this year, it behooves any prognosticator to be particularly cautious.

With an entirely new coaching set-up; with only six veterans returning; with the end and guard positions to be filled by entirely inexperienced men; and with the possibility that some of the strong candidates may be absent on September 5th, when Labor Day means more than a celebration for the football aspirants, it is easily understood why any mid-August predictions have to be conservative.

Coaches Newton and McEver have had the advantage of a month's association with their candidates. This was last winter, when they worked with the men who were available, though a number of them were participating in other sports, and their various abilities are still an unknown quantity to the new mentors. Coach Newton was here during most of the spring, and did some worthwhile work in private tutelage.

Absent will be the three regular ends, Bud Raker, Bob Johnston, and Steve Brown. Gone are the two seasoned guards, Pi Conway and Doc Mathis. And missing in the backfield will be Don MacQueen and Don King. Left behind as a nucleus are three backs, Buck Mills, Charlie Pearce, and Bruce Peabody; the two tackles, Jack Wagner and Dick Whitfield, and the center, Buddy Gardner.

Offsetting the departure of well-trained men, however, is the comforting fact that the Wildkittens last season had one of the best Freshman football teams in the history of Davidson, and it is largely from the Sophomores that the vacancies will be filled. The registration fee for some of these men was not in when this was written, but should they all come back, the coaches will have available plenty of material, though the men will have to play several games before they gain the necessary experience.

(Continued on page 3)

Dr. Ben R. Lacy is Head of Alumni Association

New President Made Brilliant Career at Davidson, in World War, and in the Ministry

The new president of the Davidson Alumni Association, Rev. Benjamin Rice Lacy, D.D., a 1906 graduate of the institution, is one of the most widely known men in the South, as president of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., as a brilliant speaker, and as a leader in many affairs. He is constantly in demand as a speaker before bodies and organizations of almost every nature.

Dr. Lacy made an enviable record as an undergraduate student at Davidson. His ability was recognized in his selection as a Rhodes scholar, and after studying at Oxford University in England he returned to this country to obtain his ministerial training at Union Seminary, of which he is now president. He was pastor at Raleigh, and when the United States entered the World War he enlisted. As a chaplain he became known throughout the forces as “The Fighting Chaplain,” and in times of emergency he would lead the forces when the regular officers were killed in action. He was with the 115th Field Artillery, 30th Division, and held the rank of captain.

After his return, he became pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church in Atlanta, where he remained until a few years ago when he accepted the presidency of Union Seminary. Davidson honored him with the doctor of divinity degree in 1919. Dr. Lacy is the son of the late Benjamin Rice Lacy, for many years State Treasurer and a trustee of Davidson, and is the grandson of the late Dr. Drury Lacy, president of Davidson from 1855-1860.