BEAT THE TERRIERS

Glenda Lux Ubi Orta Li Che Davidsonian

ATTEND “Y” VESPERS

Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 5, 1932 No. 4

SCABBARD AND BLADE HONORS NEW OFFICERS AT FORMAL RECEPTION

Major and Mrs. Rhett and Captain and Mrs. Seifert Guests of Military Fraternity

VARIED PROGRAM OFFERED

Senior Cadet Officers Also Guests at Function in Chambers

A reception held in honor of Major and Mrs. John C. Rhett and Captain and Mrs. Charles Seifert was given
in the faculty room of Chambers Building on Thursday, September 29th, at 8:00 p.m. This reception was sponsored by the
Davidson Chapter of the Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity. This club is composed of the following cadet officers of
the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit, with their respective offices in Scabbard and Blade: Captain C. R. Wright, Knoxville,
Tenn.; First Lieutenant Bruce Peabody, Charlotte, N. C.; Second Lieutenant Brooke Allen, Wilmington, N. C.; First Sergeant Fred Ogden, New
Orleans, La.; A. M. Manson, Jacksonville, Fla.; W. A. Flinn, Atlanta, Ga.; Paul F. Brown, Atlanta, Ga.; Rev. E. Conoley,
Avon Park, Fla.; George Bailey, Hickory, N. C.; J. C. McConnell, Davidson, N. C.

It is the custom of Scabbard and Blade to give such a reception to each new officer usually replacing some
other officer on the staff of commissioned instructors in the school. This year Major Rhett replaced Col. Scott as head
of the unit, and last year Captain Seifert replaced Captain Otto, this reception being the formal welcoming of these two
officers to Davidson. These replacements are due to frequent transfers made by the U. S. War Department.

Invitations were extended to all Senior cadet officers in the department and also to all faculty members of the fraternity.
The entire affair was strictly formal, all present attending in full dress uniform. Refreshments were served by the following young
ladies of the town of Davidson: Misses Helen DaVane, Mary Thompson, Adele Arbuckle, and Mary Gaffney. Entertainment of a somewhat
different type was furnished by the “Pills” Brothers, a trio consisting of three vocals and a banjo, which is managed
by one of the vocals. These are the college’s formal threat to the famous Mills Brothers. The three young gentlemen,
all Sophomores, are Dave McLain, Geddie Monroe, and Bill Northen. The presence of the ladies, the brilliancy of the uniforms,
together with the other forms of entertainment combined to give a really striking and impressive occasion.

Pre-Medical Fraternity Hears President Little

Dr. MacConnell Unable to Speak on Account of Illness

The Pi Delta Alpha, honorary pre-medical fraternity, held a meeting last Friday in the social center of the “Y.” About
thirty-five students were present. The original intention was to have Dr. MacConnell give a talk, but on account of illness
he was unable to attend the meeting. The purpose of the meeting was to assist the Freshmen and Sophomores in
planning their course through college and give them the requirements for entrance to schools of medicine. President Alex Little gave
an interesting talk on general requirements, while Avery Patton talked on specific requirements of the best medical schools of the
country. The fraternity has the latest catalogues from practically all medical schools of importance. Davidson has higher pre-medical students than
almost any other institution in the United States. The fraternity has planned to have at least two meetings a month
with prominent doctors as speakers.

Those who read and enjoyed “The Seats of the Mighty” and “The Lane that Had No Turning” will feel more
than a passing interest in the news of the death of the author, Sir Gilbert Parker, September 6, at the
age of 70. He was born in Canada and married Amy Van Tine, of New York, who died in 1925,
after 30 years of married life.

Le Cercle Francais Holds First Meeting

National French Fraternity Extends Bids to Ten New Men

New men were discussed and voted on at the called meeting of Le Cercle Francais held Tuesday night, September 27th,
at the social center. President W. A. Flinn presided. The other officers are L. T. Newland, vice-president, and J. P.
Thompson, secretary-treasurer.

Bids are issued by the club in the fall and spring. Those students who have taken interest in the study
of French and maintained a creditable scholastic standing are considered for membership. Meetings are held each month and Dr. G.
B. Watts and Prof. A. V. Goldiere serve as advisers to the group.

Those extended bids are: H. B. Johnson, Wilson; Madison Armistead, Weldon; W. M. Hart, Charlotte; J. M. Harris, Rome, Ga.;
T. H. McCallie, Chattanooga, Tenn.; L. W. Pratt, Louisville, Ky.; D. K. Spencer, Grassy Creek; R. T. Coit, Richmond, Va.;
and G. L. Gullette, Florence, Alabama.

The initiates will write a paper dealing with some question concerning French literature and they will also be required to
give an extemporaneous speech before the society in French on the night of their initiation at the next regular meeting.
The club decided to have the meetings in French.

Work on Yowl and Annual is Started

The meeting of the entire “Yowl” staff for the year 1932-33 was held last Wednesday night, September 28th, at which
time approximately fifteen new men, including five Sophomores and about ten Freshmen, reported for work.

The new men were: For the literary staff, C. E. Norvell, Hugh Yelverton, A. W. Emory, J. K. Harrington, C.
L. Sutlive, D. P. McLean and G. L. Gullette; for the business staff, T. E. Neal, R. E. Herman, A.
W. Emory, E. S. Hodge, D. E. Human, R. P. Kornegay and B. W. Wyche; for the art staff, Addison
Brenizer and G. B. Murray. Any others wishing to go out for any of the staffs should see Arthur Ross,
business manager, or Reeves Pope, editor-in-chief, right away, before the work has progressed too far.

There will be four issues of the “Yowl” this year instead of three as in previous years. The first issue
will appear November 1st and will contain about thirty pages, slightly larger than those of last year. The staff is
also working on a new circulation project in the hopes that everyone may obtain a copy of every issue of
the magazine.

Work on the 1932-33 “Quips and Cranks” has also been progressing very rapidly. The photographer has been here for the
past two days and also today taking individual pictures. All work on the individual pictures will be completed this fall
and there will be no chance of any changes later in the year. No work will be started on the
construction of the book until after all individual pictures have been made, so it is very urgent that those who
intend to have their pictures taken do so today. Contracts have already been sent to the different student organizations for
space in the Annual, and it is hoped the book may appear sooner this year than last.

Fraternity Averages

The following is the list of the scholastic averages for the year 1931-32:

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Phi Gamma Delta
Kappa Alpha
Pi Kappa Phi
Beta Theta Pi
Kappa Sigma
Phi Delta Theta

Each year the Harper Trophy is awarded to the fraternity having the highest scholastic average for the college term. The
Kappa Alpha fraternity has won the trophy for the past two years. The fraternity that wins the award for three
years may possess the trophy permanently.

House Party Sponsored by Pan-Hellenic Council

Football Game and Dance in Charlotte Are Chief Features of the Week-end

MUSIC BY TROUBADORS

Large Number of Guests Attend Season’s First Social Event

On Saturday and Sunday, October 1st and 2nd, the Pan-Hellenic Council sponsored the first of a series of house parties
scheduled for the fall semester. The two outstanding features of the week-end were the Davidson-Washington and Lee football game Saturday
afternoon and a dance at the Hotel Charlotte Saturday night, from nine till twelve. The music for the dance was
furnished by the Troubadors, a Charlotte orchestra, which proved very popular with those attending the dance. The house party was
also featured by an unusually large number of guests, including many alumni and friends of Davidson. Each of the ten
social fraternities participated in the activities in co-operation with the Pan-Hellenic Council.

Following is a list of girls who were guests of the various fraternities during the week-end:

Pi Kappa Alpha: Misses Evelyn Ritchie and Virginia Knee, of Charlotte, N. C.; Jane Dicks, Rockingham, N. C.; Margaret O’Hanlon,
Winston-Salem, N. C.; and Isabelle White, Concord, N. C.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Misses Aylene Johnson, Morristown, Tenn.; Elizabeth Wilson, Greenville, Tenn.; Augusta McGregor, Spartanburg, S. C.; and Frances Scruggs,
Frances Carey, Harriet Moore, Katherine Moore, Winston-Salem, N. C.

Phi Delta Theta: Misses Mary Mauldin, Rock Hill, S. C.; Sarah Stevens, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Jane Bratton, York, S. C.;
Dosty Blackman, Rock Hill, S. C.; and Elizabeth Wills, Greensboro, N. C.

Kappa Sigma: Misses Estelle Hall, Belmont, N. C.; Adelaide Fortune, Greensboro, N. C.; Lil Gray, Winston-Salem, N. C.; and Margaret
Hackney, Martha Johnston, Eleanor Bell, Kathryn Reid, Charlotte, N. C.

Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Mary McKay and Elizabeth O'Dell, Concord, N. C.; Marilib Cunningham, Atlanta, Ga.; Douggie Long and TutGorrel,
of Greensboro, and Mar-Jean Delaney, Mary Payne, Margaret Gilliam, and Elizabeth Tompkins, all of Charlotte, N. C., were several submitters
of discussion, keeping with the holidays and French festivals for the months. A committee was appointed, composed of Margaret Gorrel
and Sarah Lib Price of Winston-Salem, N. C. The program committee appointed is composed of the vice-president, Prof. Goldiere, and
Jack Williams, Jr. (Continued on page 6)

Lyman Clardy, II, is the publicity agent for the coming year and will report on all meetings to be published.
Other questions were brought up for discussion and after they had been considered, the meeting was adjourned.

The present members of this honorary society are: Seniors, C. F. Myers, L. T. Newland, W. A. Flinn, W. H.
Coble, D. F. Blue, and J. P. Thompson. The members of the society who are Juniors are: Lyman Clardy, II,
and Jack Williams, Jr. This club, recognizing proficiency in this language, has taken an active part among the honorary societies
at Davidson. A great deal of interest has been (Continued on page 3)

Vesper Advance

Dr. James F. Hardie, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, will speak at the Y. M. C. A.
vesper service next Sunday evening, October 9. Dr. Hardie is a native of Texas but has been pastor of his
present church for the past several years. He has spoken at Davidson in the past and is an enthusiastic supporter
of the college. Because of his deep interest in young people, he is well qualified to bring a worthwhile and
interesting message to the students.

Sophomores Prepare For Fall Festivities

Last Monday morning, President Skip Brown called a meeting of the Sophomore class. At this meeting, the president made a
brief talk stressing the importance of class spirit and organization. He also mentioned the bright future which lies ahead of
the class and the good start which it had already gained. In his talk, the president of the class also
cited the important roles which its members were playing on the Davidson campus. The main purpose of the meeting, however,
was to make preparations for the annual Sophomore house party. Each year this event proves to be one of the
most important social events on the calendar. A suggestion was put before the class to have a smoker about the
latter part of the month at which final plans and date would be set. It is customary for the house
party to include a banquet, a free picture show, and a dance. As yet, no final plans have been made,
but it is thought that this same line of program with two added features will be followed again this year.
The class heartily agreed to these suggestions.

A committee made up of the following members of the Sophomore class will take charge of the smoker and also
draw up plans for the house party which they will present at the time of the smoker: Joe Wadsworth, chairman;
Mims Rogers, Caskie Norvell, Charlie Harris, Pierson Brown, C. Rogers, Jim Hurst, Hugh Yelverton, Rigdon Dees, Tommy Phifer, Louis Prosser,
Ben Barnes, and Billy Atwater. The weekend of December 10th is the tentative date for the house party, and as
has been customary, ten members of the Freshman class will be asked to help at the banquet and with other
details. Final plans will be announced as soon as possible and the student body is asked to do all they
can in the way of cooperation.

Officers for the class of '35 are: President, Skip Brown; vice-president, Joe Wadsworth; secretary and treasurer, D. Weeks.

Major Rhett Speaks Before Phi Society

Dr. Brown Also Heard; Discusses Factors of Presidential Elections

Major John T. Rhett, new head of the R. O. T. C. at Davidson, and Dr. C. Key Brown were
the featured faculty speakers last week at the Phi Society, in one of its most interesting and instructive programs of
the current year. D. D. McBryde, president of the society, introduced the first speaker, Major Rhett, who talked on “The
Military Policy of the United States.” The speaker began by calling attention to the fact that the National Defense Act
of 1916, proposed by President Wilson, represents the first declaration of a definite military policy that is now on our
statute books. The military policy, or rather the lack of policy, in the history of our country, was traced, with
specific illustrations from the several wars in which the United States has participated. Major Rhett concluded with an analysis of
the present National Defense Act, and with the observation that the principles embodied in it are essentially the same as
those with which George Washington pronounced a century and a half ago.

The second speaker was introduced by the critic, Stuart Noblin. Upon being introduced, Dr. Brown remarked that he was necessarily
to be restricted during his talk, as it had been erroneously written up in a previous issue of The Davidsonian.
His subject was “The Determining Factors in Presidential Elections.” In the opinion of the speaker, these are three: (1) hereditary
prejudices of the voter, which determine the majority of voting decisions; (2) objective analysis of platforms, which may be misleading
because platforms are vote-getting agencies rather than true statements of principles, and (3) the campaign itself, which determines the personal
reaction of the voter to the respective candidates. After analyzing President Hoover and Governor Roosevelt, Dr. Brown concluded by saying
that he did not care to assume the role of a prophet but was content to await the actual outcome
of the election. The meeting was concluded with the (Continued on page 6)

DAVIDSON WINS FROM WASHINGTON AND LEE IN HARD-FOUGHT GAME

Mackorell’s Run Leads to Single Wildcat Touchdown Over Heavier Team From Virginia

SOPHOMORE BACKS STAR

Generals Suffer Severe Injuries in Game Last Saturday

Scrapping with a spirit that has always characterized the play of Davidson's football teams, the Wildcat eleven repeated their last
year's 7 to 0 victory over the Washington and Lee Generals last Saturday afternoon on Richardson Field. The Generals were
outplayed at every turn in the first half but rallied a bit and held the ‘Cats on slightly better than
even terms in the final half, putting down several touchdown bids.

The only touchdown of the game was scored by the Wildcats in the second quarter after Johnny Mackorell made a
pretty run of 23 yards carrying the pigskin to the Generals’ four-yard line. Charlie Pearce carried the ball the remaining
distance over left tackle and Mackorell booted the extra point from place kick. The Generals offered one serious threat on
Davidson but recovered when Pearce’s fumble on the ‘Cats’ twelve-yard line in the second quarter, but the Red and Black
line held the ball. In the last period, the Generals rallied for their only sustained drive, with Collins, substitute halfback,
leading the drive. But Morris, sophomore end, intercepted a Washington and Lee pass to halt the threat on the Wildcats’
21-yard line.

The Wildcats made nine first downs to the Generals’ five. The visitors were unable to get a first down in
the first half, while the Davidson team registered eleven in the last half. One of the most spectacular plays of
the contest occurred in the third period when Johnny Mackorell, halfback, flipped a short lateral pass to Charlie Pearce and
the latter slithered through for a gain of 26 yards that put the pigskin on the Generals’ 20-yard line. The
‘Cats drew a 15-yard penalty and Morris, Washington and Lee tackle, broke through and blocked Mackorell’s pass, Todd recovering. This
was just one of the many times that the team lost chances to score by penalties or by fumbles.

The first Wildcat threat was nailed by a courageous bunch of Generals in the opening quarter when Mackorell passed to
Pearce for a gain of about 20 yards and was run out of bounds by Sawyer on Washington and Lee's
four-yard marker. The Cadets pushed the ‘Cats back to the 11-yard line to recover. An exchange of punts followed and
with George Wingfield, another sophomore, who had replaced Peabody, a veteran of many games, that had been bearing the brunt
of the attack, Davidson launched a steady drive as the first quarter ended. As the second quarter opened, the ‘Cats
received a penalty of 25 yards for illegal possession. The drive netted four yards (Continued on page 6)

Honorary Fraternities Elect Head at Meeting

Twelve Representatives Vote Alex Little President of Council

The Honorary Fraternity Council, composed of the presidents of Davidson's honorary fraternities, met last Friday night for the first time
this year. A. G. Little, representative of Pi Delta Alpha, was elected president of the council, and a schedule for
the meetings of the various organizations was set.

Societies represented at the meeting and their representatives were: Omicron Delta Kappa, Bruce Peabody; Sigma Upsilon, Bob McCallie; International Relations
Club, D. D. McBryde; Sigma Pi Sigma, J. B. Rice; Alpha Phi Epsilon, J. Wayte Fulton; Scabbard and Blade, C.
R. Wright; Eta Sigma Phi, W. E. McNair; Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Avery Patton; Delta Phi Alpha, Paul Brown; Le Cercle
Francais, William Flinn; Sigma Delta Psi, J. S. Creech; Mu Beta Psi, E. G. Williams; Pi Delta Alpha, A. G.
Little.
