6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 20, 1932

Installation of New “Y” Men Is Held at Vespers
Message on “Power” Delivered by Prof. J. P. Williams

At an inspiring vesper service last Sunday night, the new officers and the new cabinet for the 1932-33 Y. M. C. A. were installed. Paul Brown, president; Duck Powell and Rufus Morrow, vice-presidents, are the officers who are to carry forward the splendid work done by the retiring men. Following are the names of the men who have been chosen as the new cabinet for next year: Duck Powell, Deputations; Rufus Morrow, World Evangelism; Gene Cannon, Sunday Schools; Jerome Clarke, Freshman Work; Bill Flinn, Social Life; Bob Glasgow, Social Center; Ed Guerrant, Chapel Services; John Howard and Leland McKeithan, Student Life; Jake Mackorell, Attendance; Charlie Myers, Publications, and Bruce Peabody, Boys’ Work.

The service was opened by a violin quartet. The members, Horace Erwin, Donald Leper, Charles Reed, and Byron Schriver, rendered “Sweet Hour of Prayer” as a beginning for the important service. Immediately after this music, the audience sang “Take Time to Be Holy” and “What Will You Give to Jesus?” in a beautiful song service. Tom McLean then read the scripture, Romans 12:1-14. The theme verse of this selection is: “I beseech ye therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service.” The prayers for the night were offered by Stanley Hoffman and Bob Coit. As the second number, the violins rendered “Air Melo Dieux,” while all present listened in pleasure.

When the music had ended, Prof. J. P. Williams, an ex-general secretary of the Davidson “Y,” gave the Installation Message. His first thoughts as he arose were those of harmony and working together of true men. This analogy reminded him of the true harmony found in a Persian rug. He said: “A Persian boy once came to Davidson and by his lessons learned in harmonizing from his rugs became a leader among the student body and gave his talents as gifts to the work of the school.”

Professor Williams then gave five condensed thoughts which he believed would be of greatest service to the new men during their work in the coming year. First was “Perseverance.” One of the first things considered in a man for the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet is “will he stick or go only halfway?” The second thought was “Observation.” A leader has to do more than just see the people he is serving. To be of the greatest service to them, the leader must have the power of seeing inside of the man. Third was “Word of Witness.” Without the necessary witnessing for Jesus Christ, a Christian leader cannot go far. The fourth was “Enthusiasm.” With all other virtues and not enthusiasm, a man will become discouraged and fail. The fifth thing was “Right Relation with God.” “This thought is already known to the men here tonight,” said Professor Williams. “Prayer and communication with God is essential to a leader.”

The beginning letters of each of these thoughts spell “Power,” for the carrying on of the glory of Jesus Christ. Professor Williams said: “Remember that the whole student body will support you and help you to work together for unity and service to Jesus.”

The retiring president, Roger Enloe, told of how he felt a year ago when he stood upon the platform with the work ahead of the cabinet. Then with the year’s work past, he was reminded of many successes and pleasant memories. The old cabinet’s aim was to make Jesus Christ known to every man on the campus. Enloe then expressed his feeling of sadness as he and the cabinet were to turn over the work to the new cabinet, and expressed his appreciation for the support of the student body, without whose aid success would not have been possible. He then expressed best wishes to Paul Brown and his new cabinet and hoped that they would cherish the work with an earnestness and zeal which would lead to purer, higher, and nobler expressions of Jesus.

Paul Brown, the new president, arose and accepted the task for himself and his cabinet, and expressed the earnestness with which they would go forward with the work. He then announced the names of the new cabinet men. They arose from the front seats of the auditorium and seated themselves upon the platform.

“The ‘Y’ belongs to the student body,” Brown said, “and they realize that nothing could be accomplished without the student body support.” He hoped that the new leaders could pick up where the old left off and go to even greater heights. He asked for the support given in the past and then pledged himself and his cabinet to their whole expression into the work. Brown then made a plea for everyone to remove all damaging habits, if they had any, and each pledge his heart to come closer to Jesus Christ. The audience joined in silent prayer and then the Mizpah Benediction was pronounced.

Death of Friends

It is with sincere regret that the recent deaths of Dr. J. E. Watson, father of Ansley Watson of the Junior class, and Mrs. E. B. Garrett, mother of Edwin Garrett of the Freshman class, is learned. Dr. Watson was a prominent physician of Anderson, S. C., and Mrs. Garrett was of Greensboro, but died of heart trouble in Waco, Texas, while visiting her mother. Our hearts extend deepest sympathy to these students and their families in their bereavement.

Physics Speaker

As announced last week, Dr. W. S. Lee, formerly of New York and now a resident of Charlotte, will address the Davidson Alpha Chapter of Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity, in Chambers Auditorium at 8 p.m., next Thursday, April 21. Dr. Lee, one of three outstanding hydro-electric engineers of America, has recently been made an honorary member of Sigma Pi Sigma.

TINY N. C. BAPTIST ALMANAC

Recently the writer gave some interesting reading, the pages of the North Carolina Almanac for 1869. People smiled as they said, “How few officers the State had then and at what an astonishingly small expense it conducted the public business.” Now comes another story, from the tiny North Carolina Baptist Almanac for 1865, compiled by Rev. Needham B. Cobb, the gifted father of the equally gifted Prof. Collier Cobb of the University of North Carolina—Globe-trotter and Philosopher. The almanac is four by six inches, has 38 pages and is printed on light brown paper made at the Neuse River Paper Mills, at Milbournie, near Raleigh. It gives the “Government of North Carolina” as the following officers: Z. B. Vance, governor, with his military aides, David A. Barnes and George Little, and Private Secretary M. S. Robbins; Charles R. Thomas, secretary of state; Jonathan Worth, treasurer; Curtis H. Brogden, comptroller; Richard H. Battle, auditor; Oliver H.Perry, state librarian; whom there was a list of military officers. The latter were W. B. Gulick, John Devereux, and James Sloan, quartermasters; D. Hogg, commissary and ordnance officer; James H. Foote, keeper of the “Roll of Honor” (of North Carolina’s soldiers in the army); John B. Neathery, state printer. Thomas Rotchays was paymaster.

On the Supreme Court bench were Chief Justice R. M. Pearson and Associate Justices William H. Battle and Matthias E. Manly, with Sion H. Rogers, attorney general, and Edmund B. Freeman, clerk. This court met in Raleigh on the second Monday in each June. There had been also a term at Morganton, but this had been discontinued. The Superior Court judges of the eight districts were Edwin G. Reade, Romulus M. Saunders, Robert Heath, Robert S. French, James W. Osborne, George Howard, William M. Shipp, and Robert B. Gilliam.

—By Col. Fred A. Olds, in The Prison News.

FRIDAY

The past has handed down Friday to us as an unlucky day, due to the fact that Jesus was crucified on that day. Tradition, ever ready accomplice of superstition, would have us believe that it was on Friday that Adam and Eve ate the forbidden fruit. In Europe, Friday is the black sheep of all the days of the week. This opinion is also held by the Buddhists and Brahmins. In England, for many centuries, it was hangman's day. Despite all these events, and others that might be added, Friday is just as good, just as lucky a day as any of the other six. Dickens tells us that nearly all the good things in his life occurred on Friday. In Scotland, it is the favorite day for weddings. Shakespeare and Washington were born on Friday. Columbus first saw the new world that day. It was on Friday that the Pilgrims landed, and later the Declaration of Independence was signed.

—The Leader, Hamilton, N. Y.

(UP)—Plans are being made at Colgate University to extend the newly instituted preceptorial plan of study for freshmen because of the success it has attained thus far. Under the new plan, there are, in addition to class work, informal discussions between faculty members and students on the reading of books and the writing of essays. According to President George Barton Cutten, it is an attempt to develop each student “intellectually as a whole.”

Beyond the Bank

Five years ago, when the movement started, the village was $14,000 in debt for education. This debt was wiped out, and the village now has a school which cost $22,500. Meanwhile, since the town went dry, savings deposits have increased $29,000 and postal savings $4,700. That has been an oft-told tale in this country, but many have forgotten it.

Buck Mills Elected President

“D” Club Members Choose Jack Wagner as Vice-President of Organization

At recent meetings of the “D” Club, Buck Mills was elected president and Jack Wagner vice-president of that organization. George Baily, Jack Wagner, and Earl Bradsher were the other nominees for president, while George Baily, Bill Flinn, and Charles Pearce were the unsuccessful candidates for vice-president.

Mills served this year as vice-president of the Athletic Association, made his letter in football, and is regular shortstop on the baseball team. Last year he made letters in football and baseball. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Wagner will probably be, at the end of this year, the only four-letter man in college. Last year he made letters in football and golf, and this year, having already made letters in football and basketball, he is a regular on both the track and golf teams. He also is a Pi Kappa Alpha. The “D” Club will elect its secretary-treasurer after this issue of the Davidsonian has already gone to press.

Scabbard and Blade Elects Twelve Men

The annual spring election of the Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, has been held, and last Monday, April 18, bids were issued. The following Seniors were elected: Hal Harris, Pete Knox, and Allen Graham. The following Juniors were given bids: Bill Flinn, Paul Brown, Bruce Peabody, George Baily, Mack Manson, Fred Ogden, R. E. Foley, Chuck Wright, and Brooke Allen. These recent pledges, with the present members, were present at a banquet given last Wednesday afternoon in honor of Colonel Little, inspecting officer for this year. However, the date of the initiation of these twelve has not yet been set. This is the last election of this honorary society to be held until next fall.

PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL

(Continued from page 1)

Lee, of Ronceverte, W. Va., Sigma Phi Epsilon. The retiring members of the council are: E. Z. DuBose, of Camden, S. C.; Caldwell Roane, of Winston-Salem; R. Kemp Morton, of Charleston, W. Va.; Nat G. Spier, of Charlotte; Ed D. Kuykendall, of Greensboro; Allen Whitehead, of Wilmington; Floyd G. Jenkins, of Winston-Salem; H. M. Wilson, of Staunton, Va.; E. Brice Robinson, Jr., of Talladega, Ala.; and E. S. Bettis, of Morristown, Tenn. The new council for 1932-1933 will not begin to function until September of this year, due to the fact that there will be only one more group of socials before school closes, and these entertainments, which are Finals, will be under the supervision of the retiring council.

SUCCESSFUL SCHEDULE

(Continued from page 1)

vice-president; Fred Hellegers, secretary and debate manager, and Skip Brown, treasurer. The council is sponsoring an oratorical contest at Davidson May 3rd, to decide the champion orator of the school. All men except Freshmen are eligible to compete in this contest.

JAP VILLAGE WILL STAY DRY

The village of Kawaidani, in the silkworm district of Japan, has just taken its second oath to abstain from liquor for five years. Five years ago, when the movement started, the village was too poor to build a school for its children. It was $14,000 in debt for education. This debt was wiped out, and the village now has a school which cost $22,500. Meanwhile, since the town went dry, savings deposits have increased $29,000 and postal savings $4,700. That has been an oft-told tale in this country, but many have forgotten it.

DRS. SENTELLE AND RICHARDS

(Continued from page 4)

been approached about this personal assignment involving a personal expenditure, and the alumni are hereby advised that as a precautionary measure it would be best to bring their nickels and dimes if they want to shell peanuts into a soft drink bottle. As a final word to the general public, the faculty members have asked the reporter to lament at length the dire loss of the services of Capt. J. A. Otto and Prof. Ernest J. Cullum, valuable members of the nine last year. Both Captain Otto and Professor Cullum connected with the baseball nine on frequent occasions in last year’s game and did a nice fielding job. Captain Otto won first honors in the slugfest, and Professor Cullum did a noble job at fielding in the shortstop position. Visiting alumni who are members of the medical profession are asked to sit on the bench Wednesday afternoon, June 1st, and administer whatever relief is possible while the individual faculty members are awaiting their turn at the bat. After reading some of the above, the alumni may be inclined to remark, “It ain’t so,” but they are asked by the faculty to visit here on Alumni Day of Commencement and see a new version of the national pastime.

FRATERNITIES STAGE SPRING HOUSE PARTY

(Continued from page 1)

New Bern, N. C.; Miss Caroline Kirkpatrick, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Eleanor Sell, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Lib Duffy.

Pi Kappa Phi: Miss Alice Grubbs, Miss Eda Walters, Miss Katherine Bonitz, Miss Agnes Leake, all from Greensboro, N. C.; Miss Anna Lisk, Miss Ethel Begg, Miss Sarah Thompson, all from Charlotte; Miss Susan McClain, Miss Frances Folley, Aberdeen, N. C.; Miss Sarah Horton, Monroe, N. C.; Miss Nancy Lanes, Hillsboro, N. C.; Miss Eula Mae Jones, Wilson, N. C.; Miss Louise Melchor, Mooresville, N. C.; Miss Bleeca Malone, Chester, S. C.; and Miss Mary Duval, Cheraw, S. C.

Kappa Sigma: Miss Adelaide Fortune, Greensboro, N. C.; Miss Agnes Leake, Greensboro, N. C.; Miss Bertha Burch, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Maggie Morson, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Frances Ravenel, Charleston, S. C.; Miss Louise Galloway, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Miss Rosebud Liede, Atlanta, Ga.; Miss Jane Stockard, Greensboro, N. C.; Miss Bebe Hyde, Charleston, S. C.; Miss Eleanor Stone, Charlotte, N. C.

Theta Upsilon Omega: Miss Anne Hoover, Concord, N. C.; Miss Beth Gatewood, Reidsville, N. C.; Miss Mary B. Williams, Salem, N. C.; Miss Peggy Ashcraft, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Biddy Mattox, Charlotte; Miss Nell Rieves, Charlotte; Miss Martha Mann, Salem, N. C.; Miss Gertrude Ross, Concord, N. C.; and Miss Virginia Shallum, Lincolnton, N. C.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Misses Laura Lee Pattillo, Atlanta; Louise Tate, Charlotte; Elizabeth Conway, Henderson, Ky.; Anna Preston, Charlotte; Mary McCoy, Concord; Elizabeth Price, Charlotte; Sheila Elliot, Tampa, Fla.; Sue Maxwell, Spartanburg; Martha Clark, Fayetteville.

Beta Theta Pi: Misses Ida Patterson, Concord; Babe Taylor, High Point; Susan Petty, Boykin, Charlotte; Nancy Converse; Fuzzy Moore, Gastonia.

Four Out of Five College Men Visit Our Shop

Johnson’s Barber Shop

Seniors! GET YOUR ENGRAVED CARDS for COMMENCEMENT INVITATIONS

See P. M. CONWAY or D. G. MARTIN Representing GARLAND COURT STETSON “D” Store

Prices $2.50 and $3.00

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Get Dressed Up at Stetson D’s Clothes For the College Man