35 | Ot e a Vol. XX. lenda Lux Gbi O1 Orta Libertas DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 14, 1932 ___No la 14 State Nominations Wor : [Dr. J. R. McGregor | by Three Davidson Men | is Leader at Vespers for Rhodes Scholarships bor Dr. J. R. McGregor, pastor of the First Paul Brown, William Mulliss, Presbyterian Church of Lexington, N. C., spoke last Sunday evening at Y vespers. His Duncan McBryde Selected in Their States talk was not only interesting and interni- PROMINENT ON CAMPUS and ing, but also of great practical value. The meeting was opened by the singing of two hymns, after which Lyman Clardy, the lead- . a . . er, read the scripture and Gene Cannon and Regional Meetings. Determine Final Choices in Competition “Simon, I have somewhat . ; to say unto thee. “And he said. Master. say Three Davidson Seniors won state nomi- ,|took as his text, Bruce Peabody led in prayer. Dr. McGregor> Christmas Gift iMoney talks!” It tells a story about the man who spends it. It tells a story more convincing than his ac- tions or any words which might tumble from his lips. It tells what a man thinks about himself. It tells what he thinks of others. The way we spend our money is a silent revelation of ourselves. “One of the glorious revelations of the Spirit of Davidson is the Student Body Gift Campaign. It is a monu- ment to the Master who taught the . on. * { ‘Nations for Rhodes Scholarships on Satur- “The speaker said that we should be will- [fe ~~ SOPHOMORES PREPARE FOR HOLIDAY SEASON AS ANNUAL HOUSEPARTY IS ANNOUNCED |Three Trips Will Be Taken by Debaters World the true meaning of giving. It Alumni Gymnasium to Be Scene of novel Cabaret Entertainment Saturday Afternoon s ——. ; JELLY LEFTWICH PLAYS Today, December 10. The three so honored. “were Duncan D. McBryde, of Linden, N. C, who was selected from a number of candi- dates appearing before the North Carolina _Nominating Committee at Chapel Hill; Paul ing to listen for the same reason that Simon listened to what Christ had to say. He knew and so should we that our Lord is the one who has a word, the final word, to say to all questions. There are several questions F. Brown, Jr. of Atlanta, Ga., who was one | of prime importance facing our country now. of the winners in the State of Georgia, and] First, the question of American business. Without F. Mulliss, Martinsburg, W. Va., our country has been richly blessed with who returned to his home state for the con-|raw materials, but at the same time that test. The first two men went to Atlanta these are going to waste, men and boys are on Monday for the regional meeting of the wandering up and down our country looking | nominating committee. and Mulliss attended for work. Roger Babson says that the es- a corresponding meeting in Philadelphia. sentials of prosperity are four. He names Other winners in these three states Men- them in this order; honesty, faith, vision, and tioned were: Merriman Cuninggim, an hon- thrift. The speaker expressed his admira- or graduate of Vanderbilt University, who tion for our President in forcing Congress is studying at Duke, and who, along with to put a clause in their unemployment relief McBryde, represented North Carolina; Hugh bill requiring that labor be paid a minimum M. Dorsey, the other Georgia selection, who of two dollars a day. Dr. McGregor spoke lives in Atlanta and is a student at Emory of an incident in his own town where a University, and Harry R. Pugh, a resident family of eight was living on pinto beans, of Charleston, W. Va., who attends the Uni- even though some of the children had versity of Virginia. measles. A woman, who is a stockholder in Davidson also had a representative on the the company that the father of this family North Carolina Nominating Committee in. (Continued on page 3) the person of Dr. Vowles of the Language! - [ea Department. Dr. Vowles has been a mem- Eighth Duke Endowment is, the kind of monument of which He would approve. Your money is not to be invested in wood and stone, but in life. , ot March. This trip will include debates | Brad [ les - “One need not feel any hesitation in with the College of Charleston, at Charles predicting for the campaign a glorious ton, S. C, the University of Georgia, at success this year, for the “Spirit of Da- vidson is not fiction but fact.” “Carl Pritchett. | Y. M. C. A. Begins Annual | Student Gift Campaign for Support of Missions Gainesville, Fla, the debating team three trip this year and a Southern trip has been arranged definitely for the middle and Rollins College at Winter Park, Florida. Arrangements for a Western and a North- ern trip have not yet been completed, al- though a debate has been scheduled with Rutgers, at New Brunswick, N. J. The North- ern trip will be taken about the first of April. The subject which is to be debated this year is “Resolved. That the United States should agree to the cancellation of the Inter Allied War Debts." The varsity debating team consists of two Seniors, Leland McKeithan and Charles Moore; two Juniors, Hugh Hawkins and Rawling Pratt-Thomas, and two Sopho- mores, Robert Smith and Gordon (Skip) Brown. The alternates are Tom Caldwell, John Richards and Ed Humphries. The Rhodes Scholarship nomination is an honor well deserved by these men, all of whom have been very active at Davidson and have made extraordinary scholarship records. McBryde, who is a ministerial can- didate, has been prominent in journalism and in literary society work on the campus, be- (Continued on page 4) Men today of wide vision have a burning desire to do something for others, to leave behind them some monumental beneficence that will go on serving humanity for gen- erations. This was clearly exemplified in the service held last Sunday afternoon wit- nessing the commemoration of the eighth Duke Endowment. A member of this committee for the past five years, Anniversary Celebrated Christmas Music to Be featured in “Y” Service men were present and participated in the program at the First Methodist Church in Charlotte. The vesper service to be held by the Y. M. C. A. next Sunday evening will be devoted principally to the singing of Christ- mas Carols. In addition, however, to the special Christmas numbers to be furnished by the Glee Club under the direction of Mr. Eugene Craft, there will be two guest artists present. Mr. Oliver Beard and Miss Gertrude Gower will contribute to the singing in rendering special Christmas numbers. Mr. Beard sings at the Myers Park Presbyterian Church and Miss Gower at the Second Pres- byterian. These two gifted soloists are well Davidson College; Dr. W. J. McGlothlin, Presi- known throughout the South. dent of Furman University; Dr. W. L. Poteat, President Emeritus of Wake Forest College; Dr. W. P. Few, President of Duke University; and Dr. Z. T. Cody, editor of the Baptist Courier. Officers Chosen New officers have just been elected by the Ministerial Band. The follow- ing men were chosen: John White, president; Ellis Oakes, vice-president, and Courtney Ross, secretary and treasurer. The speaker at the election meeting was Jake Mackorell, whose subject was “Preparation for the Min- istry.” The Band, consisting of those students who are preparing for the ministry, looks forward to a successful term under the leadership of these new men.This section for their ability in singing. (Continued on page 4)

The usual method of carrying out this impressive service will be followed. Three members of the student body will read selected passages from the Bible as the program progresses.

The auditorium and stage will be decorated with green shrubs of the holiday season, and the service will be conducted in candlelight. The impressive candle service and the feature of Christmas numbers should attract many persons to this Vespers, as has been the case in past years. Last year more than six hundred were present.

The Christmas issue of the Yowl will appear on the 20th of December. This is the second of four issues scheduled for this year. During this issue will be a Christmas cover designed by Reeves Pope. The magazine will contain jokes and anecdotes, together with several longer articles of humorous nature. Of special interest will be a syndicated column, written by a member of the staff of College Humor Magazine. This is the first appearance of the column in the Yowl, and it is expected to add greatly to the interest in the magazine. The Cynics’ Circle will discuss humorously such subjects as hissing and the Davidson band.

Another Yowl is expected to be issued about March 1, and the last issue will appear just before the end of school. This total of four issues increases by one the number produced last year.

Rody Grit Campaign is to be launched tonight. As already stated, this drive is initiated by the Y.M.C.A. each year to raise a fund of $500 to be used in the support of worthy causes. This year the money is to be used in two projects: the Davidson Unity Church and the Glade Valley High School. Every member of the student body will be afforded an opportunity to contribute as workers will canvass the dormitories. Pledge cards will be taken out at this time and collections will be made early in February.

Dr. Arbuckle is Analyst in Peculiar Poison Case

Davidson was represented in a most peculiar poison case which occurred at Huntersville, N.C. during the past few weeks by Dr. T.F.B. Arbuckle, Professor of Chemistry here. Two children of one of the employees in a mill at the above-mentioned town, located only seven miles from Davidson, were playing on one of the junk heaps which are behind the factory. They found there a white substance which apparently looked quite harmless, and one child tasted it. In a short while he became nauseated and ran toward his home. Before he could reach it, he fell. His mother and another woman ran to him. The report states that within 20 minutes the child was dead. Post-mortems were made and it was ascertained that his stomach was practically eaten away. Dr. Arbuckle was called in to analyze the white substance which had caused the death of the child. He secured a small quantity of it, brought it to Davidson, and discovered upon analyzing it that it was sodium nitrate, a compound which is used for dyeing at the mill where the tragedy took place.

However, upon looking through the journals and other sources of information, no mention was made of sodium nitrate being a dangerous poison. Consequently, Dr. Arbuckle made a deeper research and discovered only two more cases where people have died as a result of taking this well-known substance. One of these was found in a very rare French journal and the other in an English journal.

Dr. James S. Wilson, of U. of Va., Gives Lecture

Announcing that American writers flee from America to foreign countries to escape our industrialization, Dr. James Southall Wilson, Professor of English in the University of Virginia, editor of the Virginia Quarterly, and past member of the Phi Beta Kappa Senate, reminded his Davidson College audience that as a result of this, these writers fail to reflect the whole American life. This was the second in a series of lectures delivered in Davidson by the University of Virginia professor. The first was the annual Phi Beta Kappa lecture delivered on the night of December 5, on the occasion of the public initiation of new members into the Davidson Chapter Phi Beta Kappa. Dr. Wilson's subject to the guests of the learned society at the public ceremony was “Best Sellers in Washington's Time.” The second lecture was delivered on Tuesday morning at the chapel hour. The speaker stated his opinion that “in Southern colleges, we now have more able men than formerly, but sometimes this ability is accompanied by a lack of culture.”

Eu Literary Society Group Visits Queens

Instead of holding the regular meeting of the Euclidean Literary Society here last Tuesday night, a group of members was sent to Queens-Chicora College in Charlotte to tender a special program. Its program was presided over by J. E. Richards, president of the Eu Society. Rufus Page delivered an interesting talk on snakes, which he illustrated with living specimens, and Donald B. Bailey gave a talk on “The Real Benedict Arnold,” in which he brought to light some very interesting points not commonly known about Arnold. Following Mr. Bailey's address, Mr. H. M. Hawkins gave an enjoyable talk on the subject, “Who Should Go to College.” As a fitting climax to the program, a highly interesting and enjoyable debate was heard. The query was: “Resolved: That Queens-Chicora College and Davidson College Should Unite and Form a Co-educational Institute.” Charles Moore upheld the affirmative side of the question while Bill Ward was the chief negative contender.

Guerrant. This orchestra plays every summer at Wrightsville Beach and is known throughout the South for its good music and unusual novelty numbers. The house party officially begins on Friday night, December 15, with a formal dance to be held at the Charlotte Armory. This dance will be from 10 to 2, and will be featured by several no-breaks. The motif of red and green Christmas colors will prevail at the Armory. An efficient committee will be in charge of the decorations, and extensive plans have been made to give the place a festive air. On Saturday afternoon, a cabaret will be presented. Program arrangements are incomplete at this time.

Committee Chosen to Make Centennial Plans

At a recent meeting of the student body after chapel exercises, there was some discussion of the celebration of the Centennial year in the life of Davidson College. The school will observe its hundredth birthday in the year 1937, having been founded in 1836-1837, and the student body has shown interest in the possibility of helping secure a strong Freshman class for that occasion. A motion was made on the floor that the president of the Student Body appoint a committee of students to investigate the situation and to report any possibilities for service to the student body at an early date. This committee was appointed, and its members are G. H. Brown, L. W. Pratt, U. B. Gardner, W. Aulliss, and E. O. Guerrant. The committee has the purpose of presenting to the Student Body the most probable and most convenient way to make the class of 1937 the largest and the best in the history of Davidson. This class will enter next fall. The committee named will meet in the near future and expects to present to the Student Body a number of speeches by members of the committee with proposals for attaining the desired results.

Quips and Cranks

The work on “Quips and Cranks,” the Davidson annual, is now rapidly progressing under the direction of R. L. McCallie, Editor-in-Chief, and Warren Thompson, Business Manager. Most of the photographic work has been completed. All of the individual football pictures and all except one fraternity group picture have been made. At the present time, the staff is busy making out the Senior Activities List. The staff is doing its best to keep the annual up to the past records in spite of many handicaps.