° THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 9, 1932

TEN MEN ARE CHOSEN TO WEAR GOLDEN QUILL
(Continued from page 1)

International Relations Club, and Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. C. F. Myers is captain of the tennis team, and a member of the “Y” Cabinet. He has been a managing editor of The Davidsonian. He is a member of Sigma Upsilon, Delta Pi Kappa, Omega Phi Alpha, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, and O. D. K. B. B. Sugg is a former managing editor of The Davidsonian and is sports editor of the Annual this year. He belongs to Delta Pi Kappa and Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. D. R. McBryde is president of the Philanthropic Literary Society and a member of the Student Council. He is a member of International Relations Club, Eta Sigma Phi, Delta Pi Kappa, and Omega Phi Alpha. R. L. McCallie is editor-in-chief of Quips and Cranks this year and president of the Publications Board. He has been a managing editor of The Davidsonian. He is a member of the “Y” Cabinet, Omicron Delta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, Pi Delta Alpha, and Delta Pi Kappa. He is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Lyman Clardy is managing editor of The Davidsonian and photographic editor of “Quips and Cranks.” He is a member of Le Cercle Francais, vice-president of Eumenean Literary Society, secretary of “Y” Board of Control, recording secretary of International Relations Club, member of Sigma Upsilon, Beaver Club, and of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. Jack Williams, Jr., is a managing editor of The Davidsonian and assistant editor of “Quips and Cranks.” He is a member of Le Cercle Francais, Eumenean Literary Society, Forensic Council, secretary-treasurer of Red and Black Masquers, and belongs to Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity. He is also Junior manager of track. Alexander Schenck is fraternity editor of the “Quips and Cranks,” and managing editor of The Davidsonian. He was a member of the Beaver Club and the Freshman tennis team. He belongs to Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. Odi Casali is sports editor of The Davidsonian. He is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity and Gamma Sigma Epsilon, chemistry fraternity. W. M. Thompson is a managing editor of The Davidsonian and the honorary German fraternity, Delta Phi Alpha, and Eta Sigma Phi, classical. He was a member of the Beaver Club and has taken part on various athletic teams and is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

FIRST ISSUE OF YOWL APPEARED LAST WEEK
(Continued from page 1)

It should be noticed that quite a few advertisements and well-done cartoons constitute a great part of its make-up. These cartoons are by “Skip” Brown (artist of the cover design), Reeves Pope (present editor), W. C. Ragan (editor for 1930-31), G. Murray, Hugh Warren Jones, Lorenzo McPhail, Jack Williams, Jr., Mac Manson, and Tom Wood. When the old Chameleon gave way to the Yowl in the year 1930-31 it was decided that the new magazine would not be entirely humorous, but that a small part of it would continue to be of a serious and literary nature, in honor to the dead. This is found in the editorials by Pope and verse submitted by W. W. Caligan, Duncan McBryde, W. L. Fulgate, and a selection from “Queens' Sceptre.” The remainder of the magazine is composed of the printed humorous matter which contains a popular Cynic’s Circle. Another item of great interest is found in the Hurrah Department, in which national activities of greatest interest to the students are mentioned. This initial issue shows that Pope and Ross, new editor and business manager, have taken some vital steps in making the Yowl a bigger and better magazine, both in quantity and quality, giving it a prominent position among the important collegiate magazines of the country.

REV. D. M. CHALMERS TO BEGIN “Y” FALL SERVICES
(Continued from page 1)

...tion became secretary of the“Y.” Before taking over the pastorship of the First Presbyterian Church in Charlottesville, Dr. Chalmers was the pastor of the “Church by the Side of the Road” in Greensboro. These programs have proved very interesting and very valuable to the students who have attended them previously. The Y. M. C. A. wants as many students as possible to attend these services and promises satisfaction to those who are present.

PLANS MADE IN EXPECTATION OF RETURNING GRADUATES
(Continued from page 1)

The alumni and faculty will assemble in the auditorium of Chambers, where a short talk on “Athletics at Davidson” will be made by Capt. Norton Pritchett. The alumni will have an opportunity for remarks at this time. At 12:30, a barbecue for alumni and faculty members will be held in the small grove to the rear of Chambers Building. By far the most interesting event of the day will take place at 2:30 p.m., when the Wildcats meet Carolina on Richardson Field.

NOTICE
Have your shoes rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Work done while you wait.
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

This contest will be the center of attraction, and a capacity crowd is expected to witness the game. Certainly, Home-Coming Day is one of Davidson’s “big” days—a day of marked cordiality, good spirit, and gay festivities of which every Davidson man is a part.

Another feature of the program that is of great interest is that the College Glee Club will make its first appearance of the year in a program to be given at 7 p.m. on the 12th, being of such length that those attending will have sufficient time to get to the subsequent entertainment in Charlotte. The club will present a personnel of thirty-two members, under the direction of Mr. Eugene Craft. Also, Reeves Pope and his Southernaires, which promises to be one of the South’s leading collegiate orchestras, will have a featured place in the program. In addition, several soloists will lend variety to the program. A selection of entirely new numbers ranging from classical to semi-classical has been prepared under the careful and efficient direction of Mr. Craft, and the program will have an appeal for lovers of all types of music. A nominal admission fee will be charged, the proceeds going to defray the expenses of the club.

THE GREATEST UNDERWEAR VALUE
You can pay more than HANES costs—but you can’t get more. Just try to match HANES values. There’s the Gold Label Light Weight Union Suit or Shirts and Drawers. SAMSONBACK Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war belt. That’s patented and can’t be imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and Shorts in a variety that will make it easy for the most fastidious to choose from. All at prices that will make you wonder how it can be done.

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.

No raw tobaccos in Luckies—that’s why they’re so mild. We buy the finest, the very finest tobaccos in all the world—but that does not explain why folks everywhere regard Lucky Strike as the mildest cigarette. The fact is, we never overlook the truth that “Nature in the Raw is Seldom Mild”—so these fine tobaccos, after proper aging and mellowing, are then given the benefit of that Lucky Strike purifying process, described by the words—“It’s toasted.” That’s why folks in every city, town, and hamlet say that Luckies are such mild cigarettes.

THE FALL OF TICONDEROGA
“Nature in the Raw”—as portrayed by F. C. Yohn... inspired by that horror-filled dawn when the bloodthirsty savages fell on Ethan Allen’s gallant “Green Mountain Boys” of Fort Ticonderoga fame. “Nature in the Raw is Seldom Mild”—and raw tobaccos have no place in cigarettes.

“It’s toasted” 
Your package of mild Luckies