HAVE YOUR PICTURE TAKEN

The Davidsonian

Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

DEBATING TRYOUTS SOON

Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 28, 1932 No. 3

Washington and Lee to Meet Davidson Wildcats Here Saturday, Oct. 1st

Davidson Eleven Will Present Powerful Defensive Wall Against Enemy’s Attack

CAPTAIN GARDNER OUT

Generals Were Defeated by George Washington University Last Saturday

The Davidson Wildcats will play their first game on the home gridiron of the 1932 season this coming Saturday, October
1. The ‘Cats will be host to the Washington and Lee Generals of Lexington, Va., and are anxious to get
revenge for their defeat last Saturday. Both teams opened their current seasons last Saturday, each eleven having a loss checked
up against them. However, the strength of neither team has been justly determined and the coming game promises a fight
from start to finish.

Reports from Washington and Lee state that Coach Jimmy Dehart, former Duke University mentor, who took over the coaching duties
of the Generals for the first time last year, has one of the smallest squads in the history of the
school. Coach Dehart has had only twenty-four men from which to pick an eleven and despite this handicap has built
up a promising team, lacking only in reserves. The Generals have only five veterans back this year, their hope depending
mostly upon sophomores and two or three juniors. New men will fill the tackle positions and also center and fullback
positions. Two seniors, Bacon and Collins, will take care of the halfback posts and they have been spotted as the
major threats of the Washington and Lee eleven. Collins starred in last year’s lineups and is expected to do much
of the team’s scoring this year.

The Generals lost their opening game to George Washington University last Saturday at Lexington, Va., by an 18-0 score. The
W. & L. team put up a good fight against a heavier and craftier Washington University team, and were beaten
principally by the passing attack which the Colonials staged very efficiently.

Last year the Wildcats put up a stubborn defense to hold a heavy Washington and Lee team scoreless and furnished
just enough scoring punch at the right time to shove across a lone touchdown for a 7-0 victory. The Davidson
team was much lighter than the Generals and was also greatly lacking in reserves. The ‘Cats played stellar football the
whole game and staved off touchdown drives by the Generals on their own six, twelve, and thirteen-yard lines during the
third and fourth quarters. In the third quarter, the Wildcats started on a drive down the field which resulted in
a touchdown made by McQueen. This score resulted in what was termed an upset victory for the ‘Cats.

This year the setting will be different. The teams will meet on Davidson's home field, which means an unusually hard
fight from the ‘Cats and strong support from the sidelines. The Wildcats also outweigh and have more reserve material than
do the Generals. And, too, the Wildcats will display a new style of offense and defense this year which looks
mighty good and has untold strength. With the defensive play that Davidson displayed against Duke last Saturday, they will present
a stone wall for the offense of the Generals to penetrate. If the backfield functions properly, there is no reason
why the Wildcats shouldn't come out victorious in their next game. The team will be greatly handicapped, however, in that
it will be minus the steady (Continued on page 4)

Students Urged to Have Pictures Taken

On Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, October 3, 4, and 5, the photographers from Wooten-Moulton Company will be at Davidson to
take photographs of students for QUIPS AND CRANKS, the college annual. All students who have not yet had their pictures
made are urged to have them taken in the parlor of West during this time in order that the work
of compiling the annual may proceed quickly and the annual can be released on time.

Rev. Marshall Woodson Gives Inspiring Message to Students at Vespers

Lyman Clardy Conducts Service and Bob McCallie Leads in Prayer

VOCAL SOLO BY WILLIAMS

Salisbury Pastor Takes as Text, “Ye Must Be Born Again”

Last Sunday evening Y. M. C. A. vesper services were conducted by Lyman Clardy. The text read was John 3:1-13,
concerning the rebirth in Christ. Bob McCallie led the students in prayer, and a vocal selection was given by Grainger
Williams.

The speaker of the evening was the Rev. Marshall Woodson, of Salisbury. He took as the theme of his talk
the seventh verse of the text, “Ye must be born again.” “In Atlanta last summer,” said the Rev. Woodson, “I
was talking with Gypsy Smith, and in the course of the conversation I asked him what was his favorite theme.
He replied that he thought the necessity for the rebirth of a man before he can hope to attain to
a really spiritual outlook.” The speaker continued to point out the many great preachers who have taken this as the
main subject of their preaching. “James Coy, when in London, once preached on this topic and converted a young man
in his congregation named Booth,” said Dr. Woodson, “and Booth went out of that church to convert millions of souls
with the story of his wonderful conversion, by that great organization, the Salvation Army.”

Many other preachers have used this marvelous theme throughout history; and the greatest of all of them was the Master.
At the age of twelve, He amazed the Jews by teaching the priests in the temple. During three years of
the greatest ministry of the world, Jesus taught a way of life more wonderful than any other. One might think
that His way of life might be followed by much diligence in matters of the body, of the character, of
the mind and intellect, but Jesus said to Nicodemus, a man of culture and intellect, “You must be born again.”

There are four reasons why people must be born again: First, a man unregenerated has no desire for spiritual things.
Often an indifference to things of the soul in people who have plenty of other interests. They follow eagerly developments
in sports, the literary, dramatic, artistic, and in the world of pleasure, but seldom do they come to church. It
is because the people have not been born again in Christ. The natural man has no yearning for the higher
things. If you put before an African, who is accustomed to delight in a stew of red ants, woolly worms,
and dog meat, a model Thanksgiving dinner, he would sniff at it and then turn to his ants and worms
and dog. He simply would have no desire for the better things.

Secondly, until a man is born again he hasn't the ability to live by Christ. Lazarus was dead. Neither Martha
nor Mary nor any of the Jews could ever have raised him, but Jesus had light from God, and Lazarus
walked from the tomb at His command. Mell Trotter used to be a drunkard. Seven times he made a blood-sealed
covenant with God never to touch another drop of liquor. Seven times he broke his covenant. His little baby died;
and over its pitiful body he swore (Continued on page 6)

Fraternities to Give Houseparty This Week

On next Saturday, October 1, the Pan-Hellenic Council, representing the ten social fraternities of the campus, will sponsor its first
house party of the year 1932-33. The main features are the football game with Washington and Lee Saturday afternoon and
a dance Saturday night. The dance will be held at the Charlotte Hotel with informal dancing from nine till twelve.
The Troubadours Orchestra that have acclaimed state-wide honors will furnish the music.

The Council is permitted three house parties a semester and this is the first of the set, the Freshman house
party not being included. The Council has as its president this year W. F. Mulliss of Martinsburg, W. Va., who
succeeds A. H. Whitehead, of Wilmington, N. C.

In a very interesting way, the speaker discussed Oriental characteristics in dealing with this.and have already proven his ability as
a player. Cole Windham, alternate captain, comes to Davidson from Gastonia High School. Wildkittens show him to be a real
fighting

Political Situation of Modern Chinese Nation Discussed by Dr. Price

Davidson Graduate of 1917 Explains Sino-Japanese Situation to Students

FIVE PARTIES IN CHINA

Students of History and Political Science Classes Interview Dr. Price

The Davidson College student body had the pleasure of hearing, during the chapel period last Friday, Dr. Philip B. Price
of the class of 1917. Dr. Price is a medical missionary to China and he was exceedingly capable of discussing
his subject. He spoke on the present political situation in China, outlining the platforms of the five parties. He gave
the purposes of the parties, the classes which supported each, and their comparative strength. During the period after chapel, he
talked informally to the members of some of the history and political science classes on existing conditions in China, tracing
the political history of that country during recent years.

The speaker reviewed the status of the parties now in existence as he had discussed them in the preceding period,
dwelling particularly on the People's party. This party is the outgrowth of the conservative wing of Dr. Sun Yat-sen's army,
now in power. Dr. Price explained that the Sino-Japanese situation now existing is more or less a mystery to the
outside world since Japan's object in her aggressiveness was vague.

In closing, he named several works that might be read by students interested in these problems, including the report to
be made to the League of Nations by a committee appointed by that body to investigate the Sino-Japanese affair, which
report, if unfavorable to Japan, may cause her withdrawal from the League, and Pearl Buck's prize-winning novel, "The Good Earth."

Dr. Price comes from a very distinguished family. His father, Dr. P. Frank Price, has been a missionary to China
for over forty years and is now a professor at Union Theological Seminary in Nanking, China. His older brother, Dr.
Frank W. Price, of the class of 1915, is an outstanding missionary and theological teacher in China. Another brother, Dr.
Julian P. Price, finished here in the class of 1920. Dr. Price himself was born in China and after finishing
at Davidson studied medicine at the University of Virginia and Johns Hopkins University. He then returned to his native land
where he practices medicine and teaches surgery at Shantung University.

Cathey Elected Head of Wildkitten Squad

Windham Named Alternate Captain by Squad in Recent Election

At the Freshman football squad meeting on Thursday, September 22, Henry Cathey was elected captain of the 1932 Wildkitten eleven.
At the same time, Cole Windham was elected alternate captain, both proving themselves worthy of these honors.

Henry Cathey is a graduate of Central High of Charlotte, where for three years he played tackle on the powerful
Charlotte team. He was considered one of the most aggressive tackles in North Carolina high school football and is expected
to make a name for himself in collegiate football circles in the near future. Cathey’s record as All-State tackle in
1930 and 1931, and All-Southern in 1931, tends to indicate something of his potential.

Windham also served three years at tackle, having obtained his knowledge of football from Coach Jan Jankoski, former Duke University
grid star. Windham shared with Cathey the distinction of being chosen All-State tackle in 1931. His high school record and
his performance thus far with the Wildcats show him to be a star in the making, and one who will
be heard from soon.

TEN SOCIAL FRATERNITIES ISSUE THEIR ANNUAL FALL INVITATIONS TO FRESHMEN

Injured Captain

"Buddy" Gardner, captain of the Davidson Wildcats, received a knee injury in the Duke-Davidson game Saturday and may be lost
to the team for the remainder of the season.

Dr. G. B. Watts is Gaining Recognition for Works in Field of Literature

“Books Abroad” Features His Article On Le Cercle de Famille

Dr. G. B. Watts, head of the French department at Davidson College, is receiving wide recognition for his published articles
in the field of foreign literature. In the current edition of “Books Abroad,” published by the University of Oklahoma, Dr.
Watts’ discussion of “Le Cercle de Famille,” the latest novel by Andre Maurois, occupies a prominent place in the section
“Headliners.” This section is devoted only to recent books which are widely discussed or which merit special attention.

Freshman “Cake Race” to Be Held Thursday

First Twenty Men to Finish Course Will Be Awarded Prizes

Davidson's annual Freshman “Cake Race” will be held Thursday afternoon, September 29, over the mile course back of Richardson Field.
The race will begin promptly at 4:30 in front of the stadium. All first-year men, except those out for Freshman
football, are expected to enter. Twenty prizes, presented by local boarding houses, will be awarded to the first twenty men
to finish. The race is held each year to discover track material among the Freshmen and to reveal possible distance
runners for this fall’s Freshman cross-country team. Rufus Morrow, a member of the varsity cross-country team, holds the record for
the race.

Percentage of Men Receiving Bids This Year Somewhat Higher Than Previously

16 UPPERCLASSMEN BID

New Men Not to Be Initiated Until Second Semester

The pledging of 110 men by the ten social fraternities of Davidson College was recently announced by the Pan-Hellenic Council,
representing the various organizations. The percentage of those receiving bids is somewhat higher than usual. Following the college rule, these
men will not be initiated until the beginning of the second semester of college life, and then only after passing
a minimum of four subjects. Several of the upperclassmen were extended bids this year, and this group is also larger
than it usually is. The names of the new pledges, including the upperclassmen, are:

Beta Theta Pi: Moreland Cunningham, Sophomore, New London, Conn.; Parks Harrison, Junior, Mt. Ulla; William Coffin, Asheboro; James Huntington, Wilmington;
Edmund Johnson, McAlpin, W. Va.; Robert Richardson, Reidsville; Jake Balsley, Reidsville; Cole Windham, Gastonia; Tom Ross, Concord; Donald Winter, Summit,
N. J.

Alpha Epsilon: Mark Houston Senter, Chattanooga, Tenn.; William A. Marchant, II, St. Petersburg, Fla.; Archie W. Shuford, Hickory; John T.
Plunket, II, Sophomore, Greenville, Texas; Addison G. Brenizer, Jr., Charlotte; Thomas W. Marchant, Greenville, S. C.; Robert D. Dodge, Jacksonville,
Fla.; Erasmus H. Evans, Fayetteville; Eugene R. Matthews, Gastonia; William Lamont Brown, Barium.

Kappa Sigma: John Pearce, Plant City, Fla.; Malcolm Grimes, Lexington; Charles Thompson, Lexington; Robert B. Lindsey, Winston-Salem; Presser Morrow, West
Point, Ga.; Joe Dees, Greensboro; Alvin Stevens, Schenectady, N. Y.; Treadway Purnell, Spartanburg, S. C.; Hank Loften, Gastonia.

Pi Kappa Phi: John Miller, Junior, Jefferson, S. C.; George Smith, Junior, Florence, S. C.; Michael Arrowsmith, Florence, S. C.;
John Willis, Edgemoor, S. C.; Ralph Hunter Smith, Junior, Dillon, S. C.; Don Stewart, Pinehurst; Bob Tissue, Mt. Hope, W.
Va.; Mills Taylor, Wilmington, N. C.; George Ross, Sophomore, Wadesboro.

Phi Delta Theta: Warner Wells, Greenwood, Miss.; Walter Brown, Davidson; Dan Griffen, Charlotte; William Goodykoontz, Bluefield, W. Va.; John Partridge,
Atlanta, Ga.; Haskell Laurens, Sandersville, Ga.; Carleton Chapman, Talladega, Ala.; Richard Parker, Farmville; Carlyle Lewis, Davidson; Albert Simpson, Sophomore, Athens,
Ga.; James Cothran, Quebec, Canada; Val Cassels, Montgomery, Alabama.

Kappa Alpha: William Cannon, Concord; Tom Downie, Little Rock, Ark.; Joe Johnston, Kenston, N. C.; W. H. Alford, Sanatorium; Harvey
McConnell, Chester, S. C.; Buck Barrenger, Charlotte; James McQue, Bluefield, W. Va.; Ned Whitton, Charlotte; Sam Hutaff, Fayetteville; Reginald Harris,
Roxboro; Baxter Yarborough, Kannapolis; Herbert Wright, Clover, S. C.; Thomas Duff, Chattanooga, Tenn.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: (Continued on page 6)

Debating Tryouts Come in October

There is much preparation for a successful season in forensics this year. The Council is expecting many to try out.
The varsity debating tryouts will be held during the month of October, and those for the Freshmen will follow at
a later date. The officers of the Council for this year are: Leland McKeithan, president; Jake Mackorell, vice-president; Jack Williams,
Jr., secretary and debate manager, and Skip Brown, treasurer.
