THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 9, 1932

Many German Books Secured by Library

A Great Number of Noted German Writers Represented in Collection Recently Purchased

TYPES OF BOOKS VARIED

This New Addition Is Sponsored by German Department

This year many very attractive German books have been added to the shelves of the library. In order to fill
in the gaps among the names of standard authors, complete or abridged sets of the following authors have been acquired:
Marie von Ebner-Echenbach, Emanuel Geibel, C. F. Gellert, J. P. Hebel, J. C. F. Hoelderlin, Th. Koerner, N. Lenau, Detlev
von Liliencron, Otto Ludwig, F. Moerike, Novalis, Hans Sachs, Ludwig Uhland and others.

Books of very recent contemporary interest: Ernst Jaeckh: America und Wir (America and We) (Dr. Jaeckh was the guest of
the International Relations Club of Davidson some years ago); Hanns Johst: So gehen sie hin (decadence of royalty); F. Graf
von Luckner: Seeteufel erobert America (Sea Devils conquer America); Adrienne Thomas: Soldat (Catherine turns soldier; a sort of feminine “All
Quiet”); Mehnert: Ein deutscher Austauschstudent in Kalifornien (a German exchange student to us); Krieg and Nachkrieg (War and Aftermath, two
novels resembling “All Quiet”); Der Weg Zurück (The Road Back, sequel to “All Quiet”); S. Zweig: Verwirrung der Gefühle (Emotional
Upheaval, post-war novel); Mueller-Sturmheim: Ohne Amerika geht's nicht (It's no go without America); Die Katrin wird helps us see ourselves
as others see us; Renn: Remarque.

Especially attractive to neophytes in the language are numerous new volumes of short stories: Gertrud Busch: Wunderland (five tales); Doerrer:
Tiroler Novellen des 19. Jahrhunderts (collection of short stories of the Tirol); Paul Ernst: Die Taufe and 40 other stories;
Emil Ertl: Meister-Novellen (fifteen of his best short stories); Hans Franck: Der Regenbogen (Rainbow, 7 times 7 stories); L. Ganghofer:
Fliegende Sommer (Fleeting Summer, 22 stories); E. von Keyserling: four volumes of short stories; Moderne Erzähler (two tiny volumes of
stories by various authors); Gabriele Reuter: Frauenseelen (Souls of Women—stories by a masterful analyst of her own sex); Schaeffer: Das
Prisma (13 stories by a recent gifted novelist).

Some of the new books are of a humorous nature, as: Roda Roda: Humor um uns; Rudolf Presber: Heitere Geschichten
(76 merry tales); Ludwig Thoma: Lausbubengeschichten and Tante Frieda (the exploits of a “regular boy”); Fritz Mueller-Partenkirchen: Schön ist’s auf
der Welt (It’s Lovely in the World, very short humorous sketches); also semi-humorous short novels by the inimitable Alice Berend:
Herr Fünf (Mr. Five); Der Herr Direktor (The Manager); Frau Hempels Tochter (Mrs. Hempel’s Daughter).

A weird tale of medieval Italy is Isolde Kurz: Die Vermahlung der Toten (Wedding of the Dead); an example of
the most recent type of literary criticism is Korff’s Die Goethes; of Leonhard Frank’s Karl and Anna, a critic says:
“The loveliest love story in our loveless time.” A dramatization of this story was the first German play to be
staged in France after the war; Bahnisch: Die deutschen Personennamen will interest those who like to trace the history of
proper names.

New volumes from the works of other standard authors have been added, such as: Dauthendey, Freytag, Fulda, Goethe (his short
stories in a new single volume); Hesse, Ricarda Huch, Jean Paul, Kotzebue, Loens, Heinrich Mann, von Molo, Nietzsche, Schlaf, Werfel,
Sudermann, Clara Viebig, Wassermann and others.

Dr. Arbuckle Traces His Stolen Chickens

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle turned detective last week, and that’s how he and four of his neighbors discovered what became
of their hundred or more chickens that were missing the earlier part of last week. With certain clues, such as
footprints, chicken markers, and peculiarities of form and feathers in his prize flock of Partridge Wyandottes, the rural police rounded
up four negroes from this community. They were tried in the county recorder’s court, two of them being given 18
months’ sentence each, and all four being held over for superior court. The defendants were Pink Graham, and his son,
Norwood Graham, both being sent to the higher court, and James Conway and Troy Heath, who were both sentenced and
sent to the higher court.

LIP OPEN a pack of Chesterfields! Help yourself to a cigarette... Light up...and let’s get the facts. Mister... you’re dead
right. They’re milder! It’s no secret in tobacco circles that Chesterfield buys the finest tobaccos that grow...Turkish and Domestic... sun-ripened,
mellow, pure! Chesterfields are blended first... then cross-blended...to make them milder...and milder still! There’s no mistaking that rare balance of
flavor built up by Cross-Blending. You enjoy it in every fragrant puff! Even the cigarette paper is different. Cleaner, whiter,
tasteless...the purest that money can buy. Listen, smokers... this is straight. You can’t put taste in a cigarette... unless quality
goes in, too. Pass your verdict on Chesterfield’s Radio Program, too! Nat Shilkret’s 35-piece Orchestra with Alex Gray, soloist, are
on the Columbia Network every night except Sunday, at 10:30 Eastern Standard Time.

THEY'RE MILDER...THEY TASTE BETTER...THEY SATISFY

At this point, however, and expressed that the dads of the boys at least would appreciate the action.

"Dutching" Advocated By Undergraduates

While women students throughout the other colleges and universities of the country were debating among themselves the advisability of offering
to pay their shares in the cost of dates with college men, University of Arizona males took things into their
own hands and organized a Bachelors Club, the main purpose of which is to demand that co-eds go Dutch.dutch on
the expenses of all dates. Although a Spinsters Club, combating the move of the men, was formed almost immediately, the
university was surprised to find that what looked like a majority of the women were behind the men in their
efforts. Jack O’Dowd, football center and student councilman, was elected president of the Bachelors Club by more than 170 men
students who crowded to the organization meeting. It was pointed out by the men that women students as a rule
have more money to spend than men students, and that if the women would accept the challenge to pay their
share in dates, more dates would be possible and the social life of the campus greatly enhanced for the duration
of the depression. At Ohio State University, members of Theta Phi Alpha sorority took an oath not to eat more
than 15 cents worth when their boyfriends take them into campus “beaneries.”

The decision followed a national controversy over the decision of the Delta Gamma sorority girls at the University of Missouri
to pledge themselves to a 5-cent soda fountain bill when on a date with a college man. Delta Gamma girls
at Northwestern University repudiated this move on the part of their sorority sisters, coyly declaring that the men students wouldn’t
like it. The Ohio State girls are from Missouri on this point.

Scout Field Day to Be Held Here Soon

A field day will be held March 12 at Davidson with four Boy Scout troops participating in competitive signaling, fire-making,
first aid, and Scout message relay. The Davidson troop, under the leadership of Edwin Hodge and Rufus Page, former Charlotte
Scouts, who are now students here, is sponsoring the organization of a Boy Scout troop at Cornelius, and the Davidson
troop and the Cornelius troop will take part in the field day exercises. Troop No. 5 of Charlotte, under the
leadership of Charles McGee, and Troop No. 11, under the leadership of Scoutmaster Reginald Price, will also be contestants. Hodge
and Page have spent a great deal of time in the past several months in preparing their charges for this
competition, and the Davidson troop is looking forward to the meet with great anticipation.

Committees Chosen

Faculty committees of Davidson College have already been appointed for the ensuing year, in order that they might be published
in the current issue of the catalog, which will appear on March 15th. Comprising the membership of the Executive Committee,
which is the most important committee of all, will be President Walter L. Lingle, Dr. M. E. Sentelle, dean of
students; Dr. J. W. McConnell, dean of the faculty, and Prof. W. W. Wood, Dr. Geo. B. Watts, Capt. Norton
G. Pritchett, Dr. C. M. Richards, Dr. S. C. Lyons, and Dr. C. K. Brown.

The victims of this episode of chicken stealing were Dr. Arbuckle, W. H. Sigman, J. A. Christenbury, L. T. McCord,
and Eli Hunneycutt.

Better to love amiss than nothing to have loved.—George Crabbe.

N’ayant pas l'occasion de l'examiner la copie, M. pour les erreurs de typographie. le secrétaire n'accepte aucune responsabilité La séance
régulière pour le mois de février du cercle français avait lieu lundi le 29 février chez M. le docteur Watts.
Le président, M. Roscoe Prince, a ouvert la séance à huit heures. Après l’appel et le compte-rendu par le secrétaire,
M. Hand, le président a annoncé le programme de la prochaine séance. (Par demande réitérée des membres on va répéter
le grand succès de l’année passée, Une Soirée au Grand Restaurant du Chat Qui Dort le 23 mars chez M.
On a présenté les nouveaux membres MM, Blue, Bolick, Clardy, Hoffman, et Williams, qui avaient été élus à la séance
du 5 février. le professeur Goldière. Chaque nouveau a prononcé un discours de réception, dont le plus intéressant était celui
de M. Hoffman qui a donné ses impressions de son voyage en France. On a reçu avec enthousiasme l’annonce que
parmi les 15 étudiants élus à la société honoraire de Phi Beta Kappa il y avait 9 membres du cercle
français. Mme. Watts chanson française, enchanté le cercle par une Belle Nuit d’Amour. Mademoiselle Porter l’a soutenue au piano. Le
Cercle voudrait remercier ces deux dames de leur participation. Ensuite le Cercle a chanté des chansons françaises. Mme. Watts a
accompagné les artistes. Puis M. Clardy a charmé le Cercle par une sélection musicale, et M. Hellegers a offert une
prélude de Chopin. M. Williams a lu avec succès Le Travail. Sous la direction des professeurs on s'est amusé à
des jeux divers. Après avoir joué aux heures trente le Président a levé la séance. Le Cercle voudrait remercier bien
sincèrement M. Prince de ses efforts continus et de son enthousiasme pour le succès de l’organisation. Sous sa présidence le
Cercle est sur le point de terminer l’année la plus fructueuse depuis son établissement et est devenu une des “sociétés
honoraires” les plus actives et plus importantes du collège.

Local Youth Killed In Motorcycle Fall

Meets Death When Machine Strikes Rock Lying in Roadbed

J. M. Hovis, a Davidson high school boy, was instantly killed of head injuries when he was thrown off of
a motorcycle on which he was riding. He was 17 years old. The accident happened on Thursday afternoon, March 3rd,
at 4 o'clock. The motorcycle hit a rock in the gravel roadbed of a cutoff road near Hopewell Baptist Church
between Concord Street and Highway No. 74. Eye-witnesses, Robert Seaman and Worth Winecoff, said that Hovis had been stunting just
before the accident and was just resuming a normal position when the motorcycle, going at a moderate rate of speed,
hit the rock. Young Hovis is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Roy Hovis, who live two miles from
here; one brother of Greensboro, Caldwell Hovis, and two sisters, Mrs. L. T. McColl of near Davidson, and Miss Mable
Hovis, who lives with her parents.
