THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 16, 1932

BASEBALL SEASON STARTS MARCH 19

THE SPORTS PARADE

DAVIDSON-FLORIDA TRACK MEET, MARCH 23

The north wind doth blow and raiseth havoc with the Wildcat, driving him in shivering haste to his lair, and
if mother Nature does not soon begin to hold back on her blasts from the North, the 'Cats will not
be able to offer any kind of competition against the ministers of Union Seminary in their game scheduled for Saturday.
For the past week, chilling winds and blinding sands have so hampered baseball practice that little progress has been made.
Directors of the milk fund program on the campus, or some other relief organization of such nature, have announced their
intention to canvass the dormitories. Instead of canvass we suggest weather stripping—especially around the doors and windows of Georgia.

We've been looking the situation over and have come to the conclusion that baseball prospects are not so dismal as
portrayed earlier in the season. With Buck Mills at short, Bub Bernhardt at third, Johnnie Whitley and Boyd Morris behind
the bat, the infield at last has a start. Doc Mathis, June Morrison, and Earl Bradsher should be able to
hold down the infield with their usual efficiency. And the pitching staff, which in the past has been comparatively weak,
will in all probability be able to handle their games creditably. Wooley Croker, George Bailey, Charlie Pearce, and Julian West
seem to be the best bets along the pitching line, and the way they come through will have a great
deal to do with the success of the Wildcats. Everything depends on the way the boys happen to be hitting.
A hit in time will save the nine. Every year, some of the best hitters find themselves in bad slumps,
and it is only along toward the end of the season that they begin to pick up. This year seems
to be the year for some of the old veteran handlers of the willow to get right and hang up
a few averages topping the .500 mark.

Just learned that the Varsity basketball team has presented coach Flake Laird with a traveling bag in appreciation for the
work he did with them during the past season. We, too, would add our own word of commendation and gratitude.
Who cares about a few lost games?

Spring football is over and all equipment put away. Gene McEver has returned to Tennessee to complete his year at
the University, and Doc Newton has gone to Alabama. It is reported that Coach Newton may return in several days
and help in any of the departments needed until the end of the year. Glad to hear it, Doc. Stick
around a bit. We also hear that Monk and Tex will be leaving for V. P. I. in the near
future to begin spring football practice there. With them will go the wishes of their many North Carolina friends for
much success. V. P. I. is to be congratulated in gaining the services of two fine men who know football
so well. Good luck, Monk and Tex; drop us a line sometime, and be sure to keep one eye on
the lookout for the Lindbergh baby.

Glad to see Capt. Pritchett out again after several days illness.

Professor Stephen Langdon, director of the Field Museum-Oxford University joint expedition to Mesopotamia, has announced the discovery among the ruins
of the ancient city of Kish a large swimming pool with circulatory water system. It is in a 1,500-year-old royal
palace.

One student was severely burned last week when a powerful explosion in a chemical laboratory at the University of Illinois
shook the campus.

Cats and 'Gators Clash Here March 23, in First Track Meet This Season

Two Year Schedule Is Made By Coaches for Track Meets Between Schools

TEAMS EVENLY MATCHED

Davidson Men Show Up Very Well in All Events

University of Florida’s 'Gator cindermen will invade the stronghold of the Davidson Wildcats to officially open the current outdoor track
season for both of these schools, when they meet here on Richardson Field, March 23. This is the first of
a two-meet series between the two schools, and will be conducted on a home and home basis, the 'Cats journeying
to Florida next season. Little is known of the 'Gator aggregation except that they will present a strong array of
cinder artists, led by Joe Hall. Hall is an athlete of no mean merit, placing third in the National Decathlon
Championship in 1930. He is undefeated in a dual meet during the past three years. He is especially adept with
the shot and discus, and at running the high hurdles. In 1930 he took first place in the shot put
at the Tech relays. In this man alone, the Florida boys present a great bid for victory, and there are
others to back him up.

On the other hand, the home team has a splendid record behind it, finishing second to only William and Mary
in the Southern non-Conference indoor meet, held two weeks ago at Chapel Hill. In Fleagle, they present a versatile sprinter,
whose specialty is the century, but who can hold his own with the best in running the furlong. McGehee and
Halyburton appear outstanding for Davidson in the 440, and Corbin is showing up well in the half. The mile run
is well taken care of with a trio of stalwarts, composed of John Howard, Alex Earle, and Rufus Mor- Captain
Brannon, Earle, and Woodside look good in the two-mile event. The field events, too, appear to be well taken care
of with Roane, Flinn and Gilmer holding down the pole vault, and Rhyne, Martin, Bettis, and McKinnon getting up there
with the high jump. Flinn and Little appear to be outstanding in the broad jump. Wagner is tossing the iron
ball out, and Cochran, Sophomore luminary, is also showing good form in this event. Cochran and Bettis seem to be
the choice for the discus throw. The same pair appear to be best with the javelin. It looks as though
McCallie, Little and Pratt can be expected to hold up their part well in both hurdle events. With both schools
presenting exceptionally good teams, the affair on Richardson Field should prove a thriller.

Triangular Meet Opens Freshman Track Season

With the calling off of the meet with Central High of Charlotte last Saturday, the Freshman track schedule remains to
be opened with a triangular meet including the aforementioned team and Greensboro High School. Not only has the schedule been
broken into by theSudden wave of snow and frigid winds, but also correct training and sufficient preparation have been prevented.
If cold weather continues, it is quite likely that the meet will be called off. The prospects for the Kittens
in their opening workouts look quite favorable in spite of the opposition expected from both sides. Each team will bring
about twenty men. All upperclassmen are familiar with the brand of tracksters Charlotte turns out, so the Fresh have everything
to win as they go at them with a vengeance. Barium Springs will also send entrants to participate in the
weight events.

DICK WHITFIELD
Newly Elected Alternate Captain of Football

Tryouts for Freshman Tennis Team Scheduled
The tryouts for the Freshman tennis team will be held sometime next week. The prospects for the team seem very
good this year. There are about five promising men who have a good chance of making the squad. The team
will probably be selected from the following men: Skip Brown, D. B. Elvery, Tommy Phifer, Bob Coit, and Archie McFadyen.
Although the schedule is not complete, the following matches have been arranged:
April 5—Charlotte High in Charlotte.
April 9—Darlington at Davidson.
April 12—Charlotte High in Davidson.
April 21—Hickory High in Davidson.
May 12—Hickory High at Hickory.

J.M. Smith Awarded Development Trophy
Presentation of Plaque Will Be Made on Athletic Night
The winner of the trophy has been announced. This year the winner is J. M. Smith. Second place was won
by W. K. Ratchford and third place by R. D. Daffin. The award was based on individual physical development. The
number of inches gained in chest, neck, forearms, biceps, thighs, and calves determined the winner. Smith showed an increase of
21 3/8 inches; Ratchford an increase of 15 5/8 inches, and Daffin an increase of 13 1/4 inches. The award
will be made on Athletic Night and will be the customary silver plaque with an inscribed athlete stamped on it.
Smith’s name will be engraved on the plaque also.

Complete Service for School Publications
Annuals, Magazines, Catalogs, View Books
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.
Established 1878

Seniors! Representing
GET YOUR ENGRAVED CARDS for COMMENCEMENT INVITATIONS
See P. M. CONWAY or D. G. MARTIN
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
GARLAND COURT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Wildcat Baseball Team Will Open Season Here March 19
Younger and Tilson Leave for New Job
Coaches Monk Younger and Tex Tilson will leave Davidson Sunday to spend five or six weeks at V. P. I.
drilling the candidates for next year’s Gobbler eleven in a spring practice session. This time they will use to introduce
their system of play, which does not differ greatly from that already used at V. P. I. They are leaving
Davidson to begin their coaching activities at that institution, for which they signed a contract last fall, after a long
period of most successful coaching here. The departure of Coach Younger places the entire responsibility for the varsity and freshman
baseball teams on Flake Laird’s and Doc Unger's shoulders.

Team Gets New Scarlet Outfit
Doc Newton and Gene McEver, Davidson College’s new football coaches, will present a colorful team next football season, Sut Alexander,
Charlotte’s sporting goods representative, announced. Newton and McEver have just purchased scarlet and black headgear and gold pants with a
scarlet knit stripe down the back. The Wildcats will wear scarlet hose and a scarlet jersey, which will be changed
from time to time for black jerseys. The new equipment, including shoulder pads, is said to be one of the
first orders filled since the new rules requiring outside padding were adopted. The pants are of the cut-away, Major Bob
Neyland style.

John Martin, professor of international relations at Rollins College, last week told delegates at the annual southern conference of International
Relations Clubs that the economic boycott as an anti-war measure “is fraught with dangers.” Under the auspices of Princeton University,
the International Scientific Expedition to the West Indies has been able to obtain hitherto unknown details of the Bartlett Deep,
a large trough in the ocean off the southeastern coast of Cuba.

Three hundred and sixty students, the most in the history of the school, have enrolled this semester in the Missouri
School of Journalism.

First Game of Season to be Played Saturday Against Union Theological Seminary
LINE-UP NOT DECIDED
Continued Bad Weather Makes Proposed Outdoor Practice Almost Impossible
Saturday, March 19, the varsity baseball team will open the baseball season by playing the Union Theological Seminary, of Richmond,
Va. This will be the first time that the coaches and the student body will have a chance to see
the baseball team in action. There has been very little practice this year, due to the fact that the team
has been kept indoors by the cold weather most of the time. The game will most probably be played at
2:30, or sometime around that time, so the team and the student body may have time to go to Charlotte
for the festivities at the Charlotte Armory. There has been no set line-up for the game, as there has not
been enough practice for the coaches to decide on the best material. However, there are four men who are in
a very close race for the pitcher’s berth. These men are Bailey, Croker, Pearce, and J. West. The rest of
the line-up will be completed in the latter part of the week. There appears to be a great deal of
good material among those men out for the team, and the game Saturday should show just about the way the
team will be during the season. The Union Theological Seminary does not have any organized athletics, but the game should
be very interesting, and will fully repay those who spend their time and money on the occasion. This year the
team has a very good schedule made up, carrying them through the whole part of North Carolina, although there are
no out-of-state games. They will tour the northern part of North Carolina during the Easter holidays, playing two games.

Boston to begin construction this week of a 15,000,000-volt X-ray tube, which only a few months ago was considered an
impossibility.

The annual college glee club contest held at Carnegie Hall in New York was won this year by Yale, with
New York University second and Princeton third.

Stetson “D” Store
Get Dressed Up at Stetson D’s For the BIG EASTER PARADE MARCH 27
Clothes For the College Man

JO JONES CO
“Davidson Headquarters in Charlotte”
COMPLETE OUTFITTERS TO COLLEGE MEN
208 South Tryon Street
Charlotte
