THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1932

WILDKITTENS MEET BELMONT TONIGHT

THE SPORTS PARADE

WINTER FOOTBALL PRACTICE IN FULL SWAY

The paramount question now on the Davidson campus, almost exceeding in interest the possibilities of the coaching situation, seems to
be: What’s wrong with the Wildcat basketball quintet? One victory for the season, and over Guilford College, doesn’t sound so
good. Even the law of averages seems to be against the Wildcats.

Graduates of Last Year Hold Coaching Positions In Various Institutions

Ability of Members as Coaches Is Seen in Success of Grid Teams

This fall, members of the class of 1931 are holding coaching positions in various preparatory and high schools in the
South and East. Records which their teams have made are tributes to their coaching ability. Their names, with the teams
which they directed, are: “Hub” Orange, Woodberry Forest School, Va.; Walter Fraley, Shenandoah Valley Academy, Winchester, Va.; Joe McCall, Gastonia
High School; Harry Moffitt, Elise High School, Hemp, N.C.; and James Ward, Webb School, Bellbuckle, Tenn. McAlpine and Shepard are
coaching, but the names of their schools are not available. Covington, McCall, Fraley, and Brohard were members of the Wildcat
varsity last year, and all were outstanding in “Big Five” circles. Fraley was captain and quarterback, and is well remembered
for his passing and line plunging. He scored Davidson's touchdown in the Wildcats’ victory over North Carolina by plunging eight
yards over the center of the line, and it was he who kicked the winning extra point after touchdown. Covington
was alternate captain, and his line play was outstanding throughout the year. McCall will be remembered as a brilliant open
field runner. His long runs for touchdowns spelled the margin of many Davidson victories. His running back of punts, and
Brohard’s powerful line plunging were a great factor in the Wildcats’ victory over North Carolina.

As this issue went to press, the return game scheduled with Duke at Charlotte had not been played, and unless
the cohorts of Red Laird show a complete reversal of form from that shown last Friday night at Durham, they
are doomed to another ignominious defeat at the hands of the Blue Devils. For the sake of Coach Laird, if
for no other reason, we had been hoping for some measure of success. Coach Laird, in the complimentary jargon of
the campus, is Knowin’! It seems that whenever a lean year in some phase of sports rolls around, he is
given the dirty reins of the somewhat rickety old shay and asked to drive it over the tape line in
a blaze of glory. It doesn’t require particularly much genius to produce a winning team from the cream of the
crop, but a bit more than an iron hand and quite a bit of ingenuity is necessary to get blood
from a turnip. The days of “P. I.” Pritchetts, Bill Goodsons, and Doc Mathises seem to be in the distant
past. Doc is still with us and performing in his usually brilliant manner, but it takes five men to make
a winning team—no less, and preferably a few more.

So draw in your neck and put up your sword, Demosthenes pal, and for goodness sake take it from over
Flake Laird’s head. Coach Laird knows his business and with a few breaks should come through with a couple or
three winners. Don’t forget that the other four members of the Big Five are experiencing most prosperous years, and you've
got to match talent with better talent to win or even make a creditable showing. As individual players, the Wildcat
quintet isn’t so bad, but in basketball, it’s co-operation which heads the list of factors necessary for a winning team.
And next to co-operation, the ability to shoot goals should be considered. It seems disheartening to watch a team work
a perfect play and then miss a crip shot. Just so with long shots. It seems to be absolutely essential
that co-ordination and shooting ability be linked together, a situation which has taken place very rarely thus far this season
on the Davidson five. Still, we're not growlin’. Just as people have their ups and downs, so does the sports
world. When in doubt, lay it on the depression.

We appear to be getting it in the neck all the way ’round this year. First basketball, then wrestling, and
now with such poor prospects for the baseball season, we're about ready to holler for the calf rope. Oh well,
we'll all go to China. We've noticed quite a few of these second lieutenants shining up their boots right recently
anyway.

Kittens Stage Rally To Beat Myers Five

On Tuesday, January 26, Davidson's Kitten basketball team ripped and roared against the Myers Hardware Company team to such an
extent that they pulled a surprise comeback and victory by ringing down a score of 23-21. It was a real
scrap and fur flew fast and furiously. The outstanding player on the visiting team was Henry Fort, who played a
white-hot game. The Davidson star was Harris. He looped no less than 12 points toward the victory.

Line-up for the game was:
Myers Hdwe. (21) Position Davidson (23)
Fort (6) Forward Harris (12)
Quick (3) Forward Morris (2)
Clark (2) Center Jones (4)
Bumgarner Guard Simpson
Morgan Guard Smathers, Rogers (4), Everett.

Substitutions—Myers: Gribble (6), Odom. Davidson: Referee: Morris (Davidson).

Winter Sports Calendar
February 3—Basketball—Fresh vs. Belmont Abbey, at Davidson
February 4—Basketball—Varsityvs. Erskine, at Davidson
February 5—Basketball—Fresh vs. Ball Creek, at Ball Creek
February 6—Wrestling—Varsity vs. Duke, at Durham
February 10—Basketball—Varsity vs. N. C. State, at Raleigh
February 10—Basketball—Fresh vs. N. C. State Fresh, at Raleigh
February 11—Basketball—Varsity vs. Carolina, at Chapel Hill
February 11—Basketball—Fresh vs. Carolina Fresh, at Chapel Hill
February 13—Wrestling—Varsity vs. V. M. I., at Lexington
February 13—Basketball—Varsity vs. College of Charleston, at Davidson
February 15—Basketball—Fresh vs. Belmont Abbey, at Belmont
February 17—Basketball—Varsity vs. Elon, at Davidson
February 20—Basketball—Varsity vs. The Citadel, at Charleston
February 22—Basketball—Varsity vs. College of Charleston, at Charleston
February 24—Wrestling—Varsity vs. Carolina, at Davidson
February 25—Basketball—Fresh vs. P. C. Junior College, at Davidson
February 27—Wrestling—Varsity vs. V. P. I., at Blacksburg

Forty Men Report to Coaches For Winter Football Practice
“Monk” Younger and “Tex” Tilson Take Charge of Training Until New Coaches Arrive

Winter football practice started for Davidson College Wildcats last Thursday afternoon, when approximately forty candidates reported to Coaches Monk Younger
and Tex Tilson. For the next six weeks, they will report daily, and in view of the fact that Younger
and Tilson will not be at the helm of Davidson's football team in the fall, the next portion of time
will be spent in gaining a thorough knowledge of fundamentals. Unless injuries occur, the squad will be practically the same
throughout the training period. A rule that a man does not report for practice unless excused for participation in other
sports or by doctor’s orders, will not be eligible for the varsity in the fall has been invoked. This was
a rule put in force last year. Before Tex Tilson resigned, he had averred that it would hold this winter,
and though he will go to V. P. I., the rule still holds.

Some of the members of the Freshman basketball squad are doing double duty. Practically all of the latter were on
the 1931 yearling football team of Davidson and will be valuable to the Wildcats next season. Coach Younger stated that
he would shorten the basketball drills decidedly and would not give them such heavy assignments in the football training. The
Freshman basketball card will be finished within the next three weeks, and then they can devote their full time to
football.

“That would have been my plan were I going to remain at Davidson,” said Coach Younger, “and my interest in
Davidson's 1932 football team is just as keen as it would be were I remaining. Hence, I shall follow this
procedure.”

Most of this week's work will be devoted to calisthenics for the men, with heavier work later on, until the
sore muscles disappear, and by next Monday, all other preliminaries of perfecting a conditioning and getting ready for blocking, tackling,
double teaming, football eleven will be given them.

Blue Devils Win Second Game From ’Cats, 33-20
Duke's Blue Devils defeated the Wildcats in a hard-fought game at the Charlotte Armory Monday night, by a 33-20 score.

Davidson loses three valuable men in Erwin, Slaughter, and Lewis, who will try their luck with the Wildkittens next year.
Returning men will be Vowles, Mooney, Washam, Cochrane, Gibson, Spencer S., Withers J., Withers W., and John Withers. The team
will hold its annual banquet Thursday night.

Plans for next year are under way and a schedule of the championship is planned, with trips to the eastern
part of the state and into South Carolina, which will increase interest in the team.

Davidson Grapplers Defeated by W. & L.
Washington and Lee defeated the Davidson wrestlers here Saturday afternoon, 25 to 3. Five time advantages and a default because
of an injured shoulder gave the visitors their points. Taylor was the only Wildcat grappler to win his match, obtaining
a time advantage over Higeton of Washington and Lee.

The best of the seven matches was the bout between Wright of Washington and Lee and Conway of Davidson. This
was the only extra period bout, with Wright defeating the ex-captain of Davidson for the first time in many matches
in which Conway has participated.

Results:
118-pound—Abramson (W. & L.) pinned Corbin (D.) with body scissors and half-nelson in 3 minutes, 52 seconds.
125-pound—Evans (W. & L.) won over Captain Gorham (D.), time, 2:10.
135-pound—Thomas (W. & L.) won over Tyack (D.), time 3:22.
145-pound—Pritchard (W. & L.) won over Ashcraft (D.), time 7:56.
155-pound—Acting Captain Nelson (W. & L.) won over Hodges (D.), time 8:48.
165-pound—In extra period, Wright (W. & L.) won over Conway (D.), time 1:41.
175-pound—Taylor (D.) won over Bolan (W. & L.), time 6:37.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
Prompt Service
Satisfaction Guaranteed

SCARLET TANAGER
Sodas — Tobacco — Sundries

NEW Robert Tailoring Agency
Magazines, College Printing
Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you.
6,000 Square Feet Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
