THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 27, 1932

ALUMNI PERSONALS

JUSTIFIED PRIDE

Davidson of Long Ago

Alumni visitors to the campus during the past week were J. L. Bell, '70, of Brevard; Harry B. Elliott, ’18, of Charlotte; H. C. Little, ’27, of Advance; B. G. Henry, ’28, of Kannapolis, and E. S. Grady, ’32, of Chapel Hill.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of Mrs. S. M. Robinson, of Lowell, sister of J. K. Hand, '01, of Charlotte, and mother of Coit M. Robinson, '10, of Lowell. The father of Mr. Hand and Mr. Robinson died about a month ago.

Congressman J. Bayard Clark, ’05, of Fayetteville, is an unopposed Democratic nominee for the United States House of Representatives from the Seventh North Carolina District. The Republicans are not offering a candidate in that district. Congressman Clark has just completed his first term in Congress.

Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, ’06, of Charlotte, was one of seven North Carolinians who last week were chosen at the annual convention of the Medical Society of this state for membership on the North Carolina Board of Medical Examiners. He will serve for six years. Of the sixteen medical men nominated for the post, Dr. McKay led the ticket in number of votes. Dr. J. W. MacConnell, '02, of Davidson, is a retiring member of this board, and has been secretary of it for the past six years.

Rev. W. M. Currie, '19, of Belmont, has been chosen moderator of the Kings Mountain Presbytery, and Rev. T. G. Tate, ’10, of Gastonia, has been made reading clerk of that body.

The Charlotte Observer last Sunday had as its “Yesteryear” snapshot, pictures of the twins, Batte Irwin, ’09, of Brooklyn, N. Y., and Sheriff John R. Irwin, ’09, of Charlotte. The photo was taken when these two Davidson alumni were about one year of age.

J. T. Kerr, '29, medical student at the University of North Carolina, was one of six students in that department who made the honor roll for the fall and winter quarters. Mr. Kerr was formerly instructor in chemistry at Davidson.

Dr. Robert E. Abell, '08, of Chester, S. C., is president-elect of the South Carolina Medical Society, this election taking place last week at the 84th annual session of that body. This means that Dr. Abell will assume the presidency for the 1933-1934 year of that society.

James M. McCorkle, '90, who is now receiver for the Cumberland National Bank of Fayetteville, has resigned from the City Council of Salisbury, because he will be absent from the latter city for several months. Mr. McCorkle was head of the finance committee of the Salisbury City Council, which is a most important post.

Dr. S. M. Henderson, ’93, of Charlotte, has announced his candidacy for a place on the Mecklenburg County Board of Commissioners.

Crawford B. MacKeithan, ’31, of Fayetteville, is one of two Fayetteville young men who has been recommended to the state chairman of the Young People’s Democratic Clubs to organize the young Democrats of Cumberland County.

Frank L. Fuller, ’88, of New York, an officer in the Liggett and Myers Tobacco Company, has been made a director of the New York Southern Society. There are three other directors besides Mr. Fuller, and membership of the organization is made up of a large majority of Southerners from states below the Mason and Dixon line.

Dr. C. G. Vardell, ’88, of Red Springs, president-emeritus of Flora Macdonald College, will deliver the baccalaureate sermon on May 1st before the Bladenboro High School, and Rev. L. P. Burney, ’23, pastor of the Sugaw Creek Presbyterian Church, near Charlotte, last Sunday delivered the baccalaureate sermon to the Newell School in this county.

Forrest J. Wright, '22, of Winston-Salem, is one of the incorporators of the Pilot Insurance Company.

When the South Carolina Association for the Advancement of Science met at Coker College last Saturday, Dr. F. D. Jones, '96, member of the Presbyterian College faculty, was made president. He succeeded another Davidson alumni in that office, Dr. R. N. Brackett, ’83, member of the Clemson College faculty.

Rev. Lawrence Little, ’25, is now professor of religious education at Western Maryland College, at Westminster, Md. After graduating from Davidson, Mr. Little studied at Duke University, and spent last year in the Yale Divinity School.

Raleigh M. Engle, ’28, who has been teaching at Tupelo Military Academy for the past four years, will next year enter Union Theological Seminary, at Richmond, Va. J. C. Laurence, '30, who has been teaching at Smithfield for two years, and Carl R. Pritchett, ’30, who has been Y. M. C. A. secretary at Davidson for a similar period, will also go to Union Seminary at Richmond. F. D. Miller, ’30, who has been on the faculty at Stuyvesant School, Warrenton, Va., for two years, will also enter a seminary next fall, though which one it is not known.

Dr. F. M. Register, '93, county health officer at Goldsboro, was last week named vice-president of the North Carolina Public Health Association.

R. Graham White, ’25, is now connected with Lybrand, Ross Brothers and Montgomery, accountants and auditors, of Louisville, Ky. He was formerly with the Louisville and Nashville Railway Company.

J. Archie Cannon, Jr., ’31, of Concord, first-year law student at the University of North Carolina, has been elected president of the law student body at that institution for 1932-1933. It will be remembered that William A. Mason, ’31, was president of the first-year law class at Duke University during the present session.

Newton B. Dicks, ’32, who transferred after his Sophomore year to the University of Chattanooga, is one of five members of the senior class at that institution who have been elected to Alpha, honorary scholastic society there. Other honors which he has attained at the Tennessee institution in the past two years include membership in Blue Key, national honorary leadership fraternity; International Relations Club; Y. M. C. A. Cabinet; staff of the University Echo, student newspaper; Economics Honors Club, and Stray Greek Club. Mr. Dicks has been director of out-of-town publicity for the institution, student assistant in the department of economics and commerce, and is departmental candidate for honors in economics and commerce.

An account of the life of Harold C. Smith, '14, of Rockville, Md., Republican candidate for the U. S. House of Representatives, follows: Educated at Rockville Academy, ’11; Davidson 2 yrs.; University of Texas Law, 1916; George Washington University, LL.B., 1921. Admitted to Texas bar, 1915; practice at Corpus Christi and Falfurrias, Texas, 1915-1916; county attorney, Republican, Brooks County, Texas, 1916-1918; admitted to practice before U. S. Supreme Court, 1919; legal section of U. S. Veterans Bureau, prosecuting attorney, 1919-1925; admitted to Maryland bar, 1924; practiced in Rockville, Md., 1925 to date; enlisted in U. S. Army, rising from private to captain; founder and secretary, Rockville Chamber of Commerce; founder of Rockville Post of American Legion, former commander; also former vice-commander of department of Maryland.

Davidson College has always been proud of the accomplishments of its alumni, individually and as a combined whole. Some alumni have thought that the institution had little concern about them once they had left the institution, and perhaps those accusations might have been true in part. Yet Davidson’s pride has not been dormant. Expressions of encouragement, congratulations and well-wishing might have been absent, but the college has frequently upheld the leadership of its alumni to the world, pointing to them as examples of its worthwhileness and as a justification for its existence and continued support of a wide populace.

As the editor of this page wrote the long list of alumni personals that appear on the right of this column this week, he felt that an analysis of them would show that the college was fully and amply justified in its pride. It was also felt that any number of items were worthy of a special article with a large head over it, but the limited space...would not permit an augmentation, but allowed only a bare presentation of facts. This also applies to the column each week, though there does seem to be more than the usual number of high recognitions during the past seven days. Isn’t Davidson justified in being proud that out of over 600 medical men, sixteen of whom were nominated for a state board, that a Davidson alumnus should be among that sixteen and receive the highest vote of any nominee? Should not the institution be proud that a Davidson alumnus was chosen vice-president of a branch of the medical society of the state? Should not the college glow with pride that one of its former students is president-elect of a medical society in an adjoining state? Is there not further justification that a Davidson man was chosen head of an Association for the Advancement of Science in a nearby state, succeeding another Davidson alumnus in that office? Is there not reason to rejoice that two of its alumni rank so high in the estimation of people that they are unopposed candidates for the United States Congress? Isn't the college prideful of the leadership its sons have been called to in community affairs, in civic endeavor, in educational fields, in the direction and guidance of church assemblies? Can Davidson be other than proud that an embryonic alumnus was recognized for an outstanding place of leadership as head of a law student body at another institution; that another recent graduate headed his law class at still another university? Isn’t there justification for that pride in the effective service men are rendering in preparatory schools and other serviceable lines before further preparing themselves for their life’s vocations? All of these queries are based upon this week’s mention of alumni on this page, and were similar questions propounded through the year as each man was elevated to posts of leadership and mention through these columns, what a document would be compiled at the end of the session! These questions could then be multiplied many fold. Glancing through the record of men at the various seminaries, the scholarships and fellowships that have been awarded them is sufficient for a justified pride. Looking over the percentages of Davidson men for all time who have (Continued on page 6)

land; member, state executive committee, 1921 to date. John M. Andrew, '28, and Paul R. Maulden, '28, who graduate from the Medical Department of New York University next June, have received their respective interne appointments to the Employees’ Hospital of the Tennessee Coal, Iron and Railroad Company at Fairfield, Ala., and to the Bellevue Hospital, New York City.

“DRUGS” Students’ “PRESCRIPTIONS” Make Our Store Your Store WHITE DRUG CO., Inc. “SODA” Supplies “SUNDRIES”

April 26, 1928 The installation of the recently elected student body officials and Student Council took place in chapel on the morning of April 18. Ex-President Hugh Arrowood conducted the ceremony. Bob Kell, new student body president, expressed appreciation for all the officers. Bob Covington, new editor-in-chief of the Annual, has made the appointments for his next year’s staff. Following appointments were made: R. A. Boggess, J. L. Ely, M. T. Gilmour, R. C. Grady, G. H. Green, W. G. McGavock, L. A. Mills, G. A. Fry, R. R. Kane, A. J. Cox, Dave Anderson, C. M. Pratt, W. B. McGuire, and C. H. DuBose. Raymond Lake has recently been selected judge of the Court of Control for the coming year. Captain Dick Carter and his netmen are still very much in the running in the North Carolina State College Tennis Tournament which is being held in Chapel Hill. John T. Roddey has reached the semi-finals so far. In the doubles Captain Carr and Roddey have reached the semi-finals also. Howard Arbuckle, cadet major of the local battalion, has been elected to represent Davidson at the Scabbard and Blade Convention to be held at Ohio State University.

April 26, 1923 L. D. Elkins was elected president of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association at the convention which was held at Queens College last week. Liston Elkins, Albert Hillhouse and Winston Cox will meet three representatives of Trinity College in a debate at Shearer Hall tomorrow. Elias S. Faison, scrappy Wildcat end, has been elected president of the Athletic Association for the coming year. Jim Hendrix was elected vice-president and Flake Laird was elected secretary-treasurer. President Voorhees, chief executive of the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa, honorary fraternity, spent last Tuesday on the Davidson campus visiting the local chapter. The Y. M. C. A. deputations committee, under the chairmanship of Bill Cooper, has arranged for six deputations to be sent out the remainder of the scholastic year.

April 24, 1918 Davidson won its second debate here Friday night by defeating Roanoke College. The team was composed of R. W. Cousar and G. C. Bellingrath. O. P. Hart has been declared winner in the essayists’ contest in the Philanthropic Society. George King spent the latter part of the week in the infirmary with tonsillitis. However, we are glad to see that he is able to be out again. A party of students were planning to make a trip to Mitchell College Monday. The party will be composed of N. P. Baba, W. P. Cumming, H. A. Hill, and R. E. McClure. The following men have been initiated into the Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon: D. M. Chalmers, Emery Flinn, J. J. Love, Wm. Love, J. W. McAlister, and E. A. Woods.

Davidson Theatre MONDAY AND TUESDAY “THE CROWD ROARS” JOAN BLONDELL WEDNESDAY “TARZAN THE APE MAN” THURSDAY “THE MAN WANTED” KAY FRANCIS FRIDAY “WOMAN IN ROOM 13” NEIL HAMILTON SATURDAY “YOUNG AMERICA” SPENCER TRACY

Corrections on Advance Write-up of Baseball Tilt Name of Prof. Goldiere Omitted. No Mention Made of Catching Position and Prospects In the excitement of receiving the assignment last week of writing an advance news article on the approaching faculty-senior baseball game on Alumni Day, June 1st, of commencement, the reporter made two errors, both of commission, which The Davidsonian gladly corrects in the current issue. The name of Prof. A. V. Goldiere was omitted from the line-up. The reporter explained that he had the name of Dr. G. R. Vowles in two places, and that it should have appeared only as a water-boy, while Professor Goldiere’s should have been used as a likely choice for the outer garden occupancy. No mention was made of candidates for the catching berth. Readers might have been led to believe that playing a game without a backstop would be one of the new versions of baseball. But this omission was unintentional. The faculty will use a receiver, the contest lying between Prof. H. E. Fulcher and Prof. J. T. Kimbrough. Fulcher has played behind the bat on the faculty line-up for several years, and looks good for another season. Kimbrough is a candidate for pitcher, third baseman and shortstop, while Fulcher’s concentration with the mitt brands him almost as a positive choice. Various comments from the faculty members, most of which were boastful of the tanning that they would administer to the seniors on June 1st, have been made during the past week, and optimism will characterize their preparation for this embroglio. Limited space prevents quoting them, for the comments have been loquacious, and The Davidsonian publishes only six pages.

Northern Prep School Sends Many to Davidson Stony Brook Preparatory School at Long Island, N. Y., has recently issued a directory of alumni and of the 144 former students listed in it since the institution was founded in 1923, it is disclosed that Davidson leads the 44 different colleges and universities to which graduates of this institution have gone for further educational preparation. Thirteen Stony Brook School boys have come to Davidson, while Princeton and New York University are tied for the next highest number with nine each. Seven of the Stony Brook graduates are in the (Continued on page 6)