THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 26, 1932

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North
Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRANT Editor-in-Chief
A. M. MANSON Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
L. W. CLARDY Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS Managing Editor
DI CASALI Athletic Editor
J. E. LAKE Exchange Editor
J. W. WHITE Feature Editor
S. GAMBLE Feature Editor
J. T. KOONTZ Contributing Editor
J. A. HANCOCK Review Editor
D. D. McBRYDE Associate Editor
R. L. McCALLIE Associate Editor
C. F. MYERS Associate Editor
B. B. SUGG Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON Assistant Business Manager
A. H. MANSON Assistant Business Manager
ALVIN BAYER, JR. Solicitor
H. B. DANIEL Solicitor
J. M. DOUGLAS Solicitor
G. L. GREEN Solicitor
W. P. SPRUNT Solicitor
R. TAYLOR Solicitor
A. C. WADSWORTH Solicitor
J. E. WHITE Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
J. E. LAKE President
S. GAMBLE Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG Secretary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN
R. H. ALDERMAN
G. E. BAILEY
D. B. BAILEY
B. C. BARNES
W. L. BOWERS
J. E. BOYD
H. COVINGTON
S. K. EATON
J. B. FICKLIN
G. L. GULLETT
JACK HELLINGER
C. HENRY
A. HUNTER
E. LORRAINE
W. F. MULLISS
W. PRATT-THOMAS
W. C. NEILL
W. L. NORTHEN
C. E. NORVELL
E. L. PRESTON
P. M. ROGERS
B. L. ROSE
T. H. SUTTON
N. W. WALLACE
K. D. WEEKS
W. R. WARD
W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD
W. WHITE

OCTOBER 26, 1932

An active brain is of little use unless it makes its owner active.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

Monk Younger and Tex Tilson continued their good work this past Saturday at V. P. I., as their boys defeated
the University of Kentucky, 7-0. This places V. P. I. high in the Southern Conference race.

With the first reports out we see many worried faces, and some happy ones, too. We wish to urge the
Freshmen to study a little harder and advise them not to be discouraged.

Although that was a hard game to lose last Saturday, we must admit that the Citadel eleven put up an
excellent fight and deserved all of the points which they received. Naturally, we feel that Davidson should have made more
than one touchdown.

The Southern Conference race has narrowed down to Tennessee, Auburn, and V. P. I. Auburn has an easier schedule than
the Vols, who still must play Vanderbilt and Kentucky, and V. P. I. must defeat Alabama along with some other
smaller schools before they can claim the title.

The chances are that a Southern Conference team will again participate in the classic Rose Bowl tournament as Pitt and
other luminaries of the East and Mid-West have been virtually eliminated. However, Michigan still has a chance.

The Wildcats will meet Clemson next Saturday on Richardson Field and from all reports, the Tigers have a very strong
team. Outside of Duke, they are without a doubt the strongest team we will have played by that time.

In a straw vote taken recently at Columbia University, Norman Thomas, who is running for the Presidency on the Socialist
ticket, won the election. He is a very able man and undoubtedly will poll many votes this November.

From the play-by-play report received here last Saturday, it sounded like the game was between Mackorell and Jennings. Both of
these men must have played an excellent game.

“The Big Broadcast” lived up to all expectations and proved to be the most popular show that has come to
Davidson this fall.

ROANOKE ISLAND COLONY

An incident in history which is not generally known, and which should be of great interest to North Carolinians, is
that the first permanent settlement of English people was not at Jamestown in 1607 or at Plymouth in 1620, but
on Roanoke Island in the northeastern part of North Carolina. A settlement was made there in 1584 during the reign
of Queen Elizabeth under the auspices of Sir Walter Raleigh. A place was selected for a village in this year
and in the following year Raleigh fitted out another expedition to transport 108 colonists to this new land. Grenville, the
leader of the expedition, returned to England, and the colony was reduced to starvation. The inhabitants sailed for England in
1586.

The following year other settlers were sent to Roanoke Island under the direction of Sir Walter Raleigh with John White
as governor. Later in that year John White returned to England for more supplies. Because of the war with Spain
at that time, White did not return till 1590, but when he returned he could not find a single member
of the colony nor any traces of them anywhere. Their fate has remained a mystery since that time. Many think
that they intermarried with the Indians in that part of the state, but no absolutely conclusive facts have as yet
been brought forth to substantiate this claim.

In 1934 the Roanoke Island Historical Association is planning to stage a celebration of the three hundred and fiftieth anniversary
of the founding of this colony. This association will attempt to recreate the Roanoke Island of 1584 and to re-enact
the drama which was first staged there. By this means these rather obscure but very important facts historically will be
given greater publicity. This will tend to increase the interest around a very important stage of North Carolina history which
has hitherto been generally overlooked.

The Roanoke Island Historical Association is appealing to the people of North Carolina to support this undertaking with their money
and also with their interest. They are attempting to build up interest in an event which is very important in
American and also in North Carolina history, and in an event which they hope will raise this state to its
rightful place along with other middle eastern and northeastern states historically.

HONORARY FRATERNITIES

On the Davidson campus at the present time there are over fifteen honorary fraternities of various kinds, established to recognize
leadership, scholarship, and to bring together men with kindred interests. These fraternities have, or should have, in their constitutions something
to the effect that they are existing for the purpose of contributing something to the Davidson campus or to some
group on the campus. Unless each one of these groups is serving some definite purpose, their continued existence is not
warranted.

Of the large number on this campus, very few are making any sustained effort to contribute any good to the
student body. Of course, this is not true of all these, because there are a few notable exceptions. These few
exceptions truly live up to the name of an honorary fraternity. Besides bestowing honor on the members, they are attempting
to build up interest in some specific line of endeavor. It is only these which deserve the right to exist.
The rest exist in name only, and merely furnish various members of the Junior and Senior classes material to list
under their names in the annual.

At Emory University last year one of the honorary fraternities, which should have been a leading one, realized that it
was of no benefit to the university and voluntarily relinquished its charter. This may seem to be a rather hard
procedure, but certainly it would lend more prestige to honorary fraternities in general and to the ones which are really
active, if the inactive ones would realize their condition and vote themselves out of existence. The alternative would be to
live up to the provisions set down in their constitutions. This would be an ideal condition, because they were all
organized for a worthy purpose. Certainly, they should take one of these alternatives or the other, because the existence of
some organizations on this campus is detrimental to the existence of others.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Those schools which have either had their straw vote on the coming election or will have it in the near
future are as follows: Roanoke, which picked Roosevelt; Mary Baldwin, to have a straw vote later; Georgia Tech, which also
picked Governor Roosevelt; State, whose Sophomore class was strongly in favor of Teddy’s cousin and who booed the votes for
Hoover; Tulane, to have one later, and North Carolina, which is to have one later.

There have been two hundred and sixteen men pledged by the fraternities at the University of North Carolina; ninety-four at
State; two hundred and thirty-one at Duke, the sororities got one hundred and twenty-one girls; and one hundred and twenty-four
at the University of South Carolina.

Washington and Lee

The Washington and Lee Fancy Dress will be held from January 27-29. There will be the Junior Prom on the
evening of the 27th, two fraternity dances on the morning and afternoon of the 28th; Fancy Dress Ball on the
evening of the 28th, and a tea dance on the afternoon of the 29th. The committee for these dances are
debating on which orchestra to have. They are trying to decide between Hal Kemp, Bernie Cummins, Herbie Kay, Ted Weems,
and Isham Jones. Any one of these is the cat's pajamas, just pick any of them.

Furman

In a quotation from The Hornet we learn that P. C., a Presbyterian school of South Carolina, is

WORLD SPECTATOR

Because of the

I SAW

In view of the fact that the Davidsonian is having a straw balloting on the coming Presidential election, it would
be interesting to compare the balloting at other colleges and universities. Of course, the results of a poll in any
school will depend upon its location and the degree of its liberalism. Harvard went decidedly Republican, with the result that
Hoover received 1,741 votes, Roosevelt received620, and Thomas was a close third with 484. This is the biggest Republican majority
that Harvard has ever shown in the history of its pollings. In the Law School, the Democratic and Republican votes
were about the same, and in the Engineering School the Socialist vote exceeded the Democratic tabulation. At Columbia, noted for
its liberal stand, Norman Thomas held the lead in a poll run by the Spectator. The vote was: Thomas 405,
Hoover 361, and Roosevelt 227. This is only a small portion of the total student body voting at Columbia, but
it shows the tendency. At Georgia Tech, the Democratic candidate is leading, but the exact figures are not known.

All colleges must have their rules and regulations, but there is one rule for which Davidson has no need. This
rule prevents visiting students at the college infirmary from kissing invalid members of the opposite sex. The law was passed,
not because of any moral reasons, but purely as a sanitary measure, to prevent the spread of any disease.

Miss Patricia McGuire of Chicago has shown signs of waking up from an eight-month nap. This modern Rip Van Winkle,
a girl of twenty-seven, went to sleep February 25, with a serious case of sleeping sickness. During the long period
of her sleep, she has been fed through tubes by nurses and doctors. It is said that recently she turned
over and has even attempted to talk with her mother.

Walter Damrosch, composer and orchestra conductor, and who holds a Music Appreciation Hour over the radio, is bitterly opposed to
the plan about to be instigated by Leopold Stokowski, leader of the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra. Mr. Stokowski has planned to
increase the number of modernistic musical selections played for the benefit of school and college students at special hours. Damrosch
is against this, saying that the modernistic music is only a passing fancy, and that it would be disastrous to
the musical education of the younger generation to force upon them such music. He tries to show that cubism and
modernism in art is dead, and that modernistic music will soon follow.

Recently an old form of swindling has been revived, and the Post Office Department has issued a warning against the
fraud. The system is rather old, but has recently been revived with some success by some Mexican swindler. The operator
of the fraud sends letters to Americans "in whom he can put absolute trust," telling them that he has a
trunk in the custody of the United States custom authorities in which is secreted a large sum of money. In
order to get possession of the trunk, he must have a few thousand dollars in cash. The swindler makes the
proposition that if the American will advance him about four thousand dollars, the Mexican will get his money from the
custom officers and will share it with the American friend in sufficiently large proportion to make the four thousand advancement
very profitable. The postal authorities have not yet been able to trace down the swindlers, but warn the public against
such propositions.

The old medieval Guild system has been revived and is in full power in China. The Chinese National Government has
recently passed a law that every business concern and factory is required to be a member of a guild. Up
to this time, membership in these organizations was purely optional, but recently, under the suggestion of the Shanghai Chamber of
Commerce, the membership is compulsory. The object of the guilds is to strengthen government control of the industry and business
of China.

The depression attempted to affect even the animals in the New York zoo, but since they refused to have it
bother them, they are living in the same luxury that they knew before the depression. In order to reduce expenses,
the director of the New York zoo accepted an offer for a free shipment of frozen whale meat from a
Norwegian concern. When the meat arrived, it was noticed that whale steak was not bright red like beef steak, but
it was thought that as long as it was meat and had the odor of meat, the change of diet
would not be noticed by the animals. But in this, the director was mistaken. The lions just sniffed at it
and walked away. The bears played ball with the meat, and all the other animals did likewise with the exception
of two. The Alaskan brown bears and the Polar bears ate a little of the whale meat because it was
somewhat similar to seal. Even they were not very enthusiastic over the director’s attempt at economy. Now the animals are
back on their regular diet of beef, getting their regular order of two hundred and fifty pounds a day. If
the animals had liked the whale steak, the taxpayers of New York City would have been saved $10 to $15
a day, or anywhere from three to five thousand dollars per year.

South Carolina upholds the decision of the P. C. Board of Trustees. Please copy, Davidson College Board of Trustees.

From Emory, we find that two of Davidson's old athletes, Grier Martin and Grimmy George, are getting along splendidly. Grier
is coach of the Sophomore intramural football team. Imagine “Zeke” coaching football! Grimmy is in the Lamar School of Law
and is still showing his heels to the hurdlers of Emory. To enforce the rule, chaperones will be provided for
the visitors.

Several Seniors almost “knocked over” rather than “tapped” at the O. D. K. initiation of a morning last week.

Mims Rogers gives “everlastingly” a new meaning. Ed Holt told him if he would lend him two dollars he would
be “everlastingly” indebted to him. Mims remarked, “that’s what I’m afraid of.”

Paul Brown trying to raise his window. It was stuck after all the rainy weather we've been having. John Lake,
his roomie, was looking on and commented that it was swollen and would be all right in a few days.

The big problem of the “Y” successfully solved—having students fill up the front seats. The moral is to invite deputations
from women’s colleges often if you want front seats filled, fair weather or foul.

Genial Major Rhett, new military head at Davidson, picked up a student in his car, unaware that he was a
major, too. Yes, it was Major Clark of the Fresh class. I heard that Major Rhett attended the University of
South Carolina and was editor of the annual his Senior year.

Some students visiting the local cemetery. There are some interesting tombstones to be found there.

A student asked the price of a room at a Charlotte hotel. The clerk explained that the rates were five
dollars up. The lad said that he was a college student and then found out that in that case the
rate would be five dollars down.

A prof asked Eb Willson how to spell his name. He replied, “Mr. Eb Willson—W-i-l-l-s-o-n.” “Yes, and now how do
you spell Eb?” asked the prof.

George Sherrod, Bill Brown, Reeves Pope, George Gullette, Chink Thompson, Lynn Huie, and Joe Whitted in a circle discussing something
evidently very funny in front of the Love Nest last Wednesday at the 3rd period.

Quite a few of the stray young men about the campus go over to attend the party given in Mitchell
College Saturday night. Yes, and they behaved like models. The affair was held in the gym and they were locked
in. In this way, everybody was present and accounted for. They say there wasn’t any moon, anyway, and report a
good time was had by all.

Bill Johnson, Charles Myers, and Alec Schenck leave Saturday for Greensboro, Chapel Hill, Danville, Va., and points north. They say
they had an enjoyable trip.

The Pritchett children having the best time climbing trees in their yard Saturday morning. I was envious of them and
if I was sure nobody was looking I might have climbed right up a tree too, and tried a few
Tarzan stunts. I love to climb trees!

Ernest Milton in town for a few moments Saturday morning. He came up on business. We are always glad to
see him and wish he would drop by more often.

Howard McPhail of Jacksonville, who was a Fresh here last year, up for the weekend on his way to Asheville.
We are sorry he decided not to return this year and hope that he will plan to come back later
on.

A Charlottean told her husband on the way back to the clubhouse after the Bobby Jones golf match Saturday afternoon
that as far as she was concerned it was a fizzle. She didn’t see a single frock she liked.

The faculty adviser of a Fresh looked at his grades and tried to get him interested in his work by
asking him why he was coming to college. The Fresh replied, “Well, mother says it’s to fit me for the
presidency; Uncle Bill, to sow my wild oats; Sis, to get her a beau; and Pa, to bankrupt the family.”

A W. & L. student took out his powder puff and let it do its work. He says that they
all do it at W. & L. instead of carrying a can of powder. This is the scoop of the
week. I’ve tried it, too, on the sly, and it’s not such a bad idea at that. The main thing
is not to let your best girl see you do it, because she will never quit kidding. Now I’ve told
you the gossip for the week. It’s a service second only to the reports of the United States Weather Bureau.
I know it’s good; it’s good, it has to be to be printed at Davidson. Requests keep coming in to
be more selective and discreet and I am trying very hard to do this by telling you only a few
of the items of interest.

TIP POFF.
