THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1932

The Bookshelf

Inheritance: (MacMillan Co.)

To preclude any criticism of my ignorance by the cursory reader and of my presumption by the more diligent one, let me state in the very beginning that I am not going to compare this book with The Forsyte Saga. I presume both the aforementioned readers to be weariedly intolerant of such reviews and reviewers; and not unjustly, since the list of forced analogies I have seen between the two books more than convinces one reader at least of the unfairness of such a comparison.

Again a common fault among reviewers is the use of broad unsupported statements. Yet herein lies the reviewer's only hope of popular fame, since minor technical criticism however aptly put, does not lend itself appealingly to familiar quotation. And I suppose that a middle course between detailed criticism and the most arresting of broad statements would lack spice, point, and justice.

Presenting such apologies and begging indulgence in view of such handicaps, I offer a review confessedly inadequate because of space and time limitations, yet with definite aims of arousing sympathy for and interest in Phyllis Bentley’s Inheritance.

The novel might well have been called “Strife,” since the action revolves around definite periods of struggle, covering some one hundred and twenty-five years in English history. Here is no frenzied action resulting from gross enlargement of immediate petty strife; but calm powerful delegation of emphasis where emphasis is best placed: the story of a family progressing through four generations, catching and losing, gaining or failing in their separate aims, yet the whole evolving as an unforgettable picture of what the Bookman Magazine reviewer calls “inevitability.”

For each generation, held together as a unit by a cloth mill, there is some major struggle to meet; and from each of these periods the family emerges changed, yet triumphant. Thus the first William Oldroyd loses his life in the labor strife of 1812, having to do in this specific case with the introduction of machinery into the weaving mills of which he was the owner. From this there springs the complexity of the conspiracy of four men to assassinate him, of his son’s hasty marriage as head of the family, and of the resulting strife in a one-sided feud. Again in 1825, the struggle over Child Labor leaves the family divided within itself in the persons of Jonathan Bamforth (Oldroyd) and William Oldroyd the second. And so on—too fatiguing to mention—through the Chartist Movement of 1842, the Weaver’s Union Disturbance of 1872, the interfamiliar strife of the late eighties, the McKinley Tariff of 1890, the World War and finally the business depression of 1929, this family of Brigg-Oldroyd-Bamforth lives and moves above all.

I am not at all dogmatic on the above dates, but then neither is Miss Bentley. This book has, I believe, a fairly simple theory: a family’s mutations through a number of generations, the inevitability of that family’s reticence, of its own individuality, and the rather patternistic fate of that family’s ending identical with its beginning. Yet here, one feels, is no English row of tradition to hoe, no unity of the British Empire to uphold. And the book survives the gainer.

The setting is a favorite among American readers: West Riding. However, Miss Bentley does not impress upon the reader the regional peculiarities of her characters as does—say Mary Webb, or Sheila Kaye-Smith (in certain of her earlier works), or our Americans, Sinclair Lewis and Willa Cather. Still Miss Bentley’s characters remain distinctive, atmospheric, and vibrant to an unusual degree. (An interesting note in this connection is that “royd,” a common West Riding surnominal suffix, denotes a “clearing.” Thus “Oldroyd” of the book in hand, “Oakroyd” of Priestly, Murgatroyd, Ackroyd, and other such names have obvious meaning.)

Possibly the most striking estimate

Davidson Library Is Given New Books

Alumnus Adds Books to Collection Bearing His Name in Library

Mr. Robert W. Graves, class of 1925, has added recently to the collection of books bearing his name in Union Library, the following:

1. Smith, T. V., Philosophers in Hades, Univ. of Chicago Press.
2. Westermarck, Ethical Relativity, Harcourt, Brace Co.
3. Morley, Ex Libris Crissimis, Univers. Penna. Press.
4. Zweig, Mental Healers, Viking.
5. Woodworth, Contemporary Schools of Psychology, Ronald.
6. Sullivan, But for the Grace of God, Knopf.
7. Messenger, Evolution and Theology, MacMillan.of the book would be, as the reader said, “It lives.” And this is almost literal; for Miss Bentley makes her numerous and diverse characters move and breathe with such individuality that not once does the reader become bored—with too dogmatic explanation, or listless with too swift-moving action. Then for the reader who appreciates workmanship innocent of the sensational devices of modern writing, yet refreshing and in no way comparable to the heavy novelists of an earlier day, for the reader who appreciates good craftsmanship in restraint and discrimination, I cannot recommend too highly Inheritance. —LINWOOD BROWN.

Intercollegiate Press

Pasadena, Calif—(IP)—The prediction of a group of scientists recently that the rulership of the world would one day be wrested from mankind by the ant, was scoffed at by Prof. Julian Huxley, grandson of the dean of British biologists, in a talk to students at the California Institute of Technology. Man need have no fear of the ant, he said. “In the first place,” he asserted, “it would take 100,000,000 ants to equal the fighting weight of an average-sized man. The size of the ant’s brain appears a true index to its efficiency. Ants cannot hand down facts from one generation to the next, but are completely tied down by instinct. “The ant has a serious handicap to world ascendancy in that the species reached its present development before the evolution of man started, and now appears to be at a standstill.”

New York—(IP)—Taking one of the most radical stands ever made by a college newspaper in connection with football, the Columbia Spectator has come out in favor of out-and-out paid football players. The Spectator has been a bitter critic of “commercialism” in college football. In an editorial it says: “We think payment and favoritism toward football players is natural under the present system. We are convinced that football players at present do not get an adequate return for the time and effort expended and the hardships endured. In fact, if it is necessary to continue the present system, we would advocate open remuneration of football players to an extent commensurate with their services to the university and open recognition of football as a paid advertising medium.”

Denver—(IP)—The suit of a son to force his father to pay the expenses of his college education has been dismissed here by a judge in the District Court. The defendant in the suit was A. V. Smith, New York attorney, and the plaintiff was his son, William V. S. Smith, former University of Colorado football star. Son William charged that in return for “love, affection and other valuable considerations,” his father had promised to pay his college expenses. In the suit, filed more than a year ago, the ex-football player said his father had (Continued on page 4)

DUKE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE DURHAM, N.C.

Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (M.D. in three years) or three terms may be taken each year (M.D. in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character, and at least two years of college work, including the subjects specified for Grade A Medical Schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.

The young man is saying the reason he smokes Chesterfields is because they satisfy. The young lady agrees with him. She says: “They click with me, too. I’m not what you'd call a heavy smoker. But even I can tell that they’re milder. Besides, I always have a kind of feeling that Chesterfields taste better.” She’s just as right. Chesterfields are pure and wholesome as Nature and Science can make them. And we have upwards of 90 millions of dollars invested to ensure their mildness and better taste.

THE CIGARETTE THAT’S MILDER

THE CIGARETTE THAT TASTES BETTER

© 1932, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

THEY’RE CLICKING WITH MILLIONS