THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 28, 1932

BEAT THOSE GENERALS SATURDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

FALL TENNIS TOURNAMENT IN PROGRESS

Yes, we missed our guess about our Wildcats defeating the Duke Blue Devils. Our expectations were too high. The Wildcats played a great game and did even more than could be expected of them in their first game. Despite the defeat, the Wildcats performed nobly. The six Sophomores who started the game for Davidson did even more than could be expected of them. Instead of being excited and confused in their first major game, those Sophs gave a good account of themselves and words of praise should be dealt to them.

The two ends played great games. Morris displayed skill in going down on punts and nailed the receiver in his tracks. Morgan proved a thorn in the Blue Devils’ paths all afternoon, and on one occasion threw a Duke back for a 12-yard loss. Rives, at guard, also performed like a veteran in stopping the Devils’ line plays. Mackorell and Hutchins took care of their backfield posts well. Hutchins, especially, surprised us. He played a great game at fullback and for over three periods threw his 155 pounds against the Duke backs, who were several pounds heavier.

Davidson suffered a severe blow when Captain Gardner had to be removed from the game because of an injured knee. His absence was keenly felt by the secondary in backing up the line. There seems to be a jinx behind Davidson’s centers this year. Last spring, Newton and McEver considered the pivot position well taken care of. There was Captain Gardner, Lucius Wooten, and J. B. Lee, an array of centers that could be matched with the best in the Southern Conference. But Wooten failed to return to school this year; Lee was operated on for appendicitis just before school opened, and now Gardner is out, possibly for the remainder of the season.

As for this Saturday’s game, the Wildcats’ chances are as good. Davidson has the edge over Washington and Lee in that she has a greater supply of reserves, a heavier line, and the fact that the contest is to be held at Richardson Field, the Wildcats’ own back yard. We predict a close game with the ’Cats emerging with a one-touchdown victory.

Coaches Laird and Mathis must have been feeding the 600 pounds of Freshmen, which they had at the beginning of school, something in order to have presented such a strong team on the field last Friday. The yearlings showed both offensive and defensive power in crushing Presbyterian Junior College by four touchdowns, and although they do not look as strong as the 1931 Freshman team, they should make an enviable record.

Results of Davidson’s 1932 Opponents:
W. & L. 0; George Washington 18.
WOFFORD 16, Lenoir-Rhyne 0.
V. M. I. 0, Kentucky 23.
CITADEL 19, Erskine 0.
CLEMSON 13, Presbyterian College 0.
N. C. STATE 38, Appalachian 0.
NORTH CAROLINA 0, WAKE FOREST 0.
(Opponents are denoted by capitals.)

Wallace Wade Blue Devils Defeat Wildcats By 13-0 Score in First Game
Mason, Laney, and Cox Lead Seasoned Duke Team in Win Over Davidson

Flashing a steady offensive and a determined defense, the Duke Blue Devils took their initial encounter of the 1932 grid season when they plunged their way to a 13 to 0 victory over a hard-fighting Wildcat eleven from Davidson College. Wallace Wade put a seasoned and experienced team on the field, and the new Davidson set-up of Newton and McEver sent a team with six Sophomores on it upon the field. It was just another case of teamwork winning out over a team that hadn't played together enough. The Wildcats put up a splendid scrap, nevertheless, and the work of Morgan and Morris on the flanks was exceptionally commendable. Peabody and Pearce played a whale of a game in the ’Cat backfield, the latter’s punting being outstanding. The highly touted Brownlee was stopped in the majority of his attempts to take a jaunt through the Davidson line, but Mason, Laney, and Cox made up for the halting of Brownlee. That Laney boy played a whale of a game at the safety position and made some beautiful returns of the left-footed Pearce’s punts.

Early in the first period, Captain Lowell Mason spiked the Wildcats' guns when, by steady punching at the line, he drove over the initial score. The try for the point failed. Late in the final canto, Cox, a junior college product and Wallace Wade's ace in the hole, led a drive that put over Duke's final touchdown, and these two represented the margin of the Blue Devils over Doc's and Gene's new edition of the “Fighting Wildcats.” The Blue and White came within a yard of a third touchdown in that last quarter, only to be staved off by a gallant Davidson line.

In the initial half, the Wildcats battled on practically even terms with their opponents, and except for the touchdown drive early in the game, looked every bit as good as the team from Durham. It looked like anybody might win the game when the teams left the grid at the half. The second half, and particularly the final part of the game, was another story, however. In this period, the lads from the Bull City got that offensive clicking and chalked up a marker on a march straight down the field for the score. It was here that Duke piled up the majority of her eight first downs to one for Davidson, and her 171 yards from scrimmage to Davidson's 66. A Davidson forward wall that had played brilliant ball during the first half, with Hand, Gardner, and Rives showing no end of power, suddenly appeared whipped out. Only the ’Cat flankmen, whose ability had been regarded as questionable by the coaches, held out until the final whistle.

The ’Cat defense was struck a crushing blow early in the game when their captain and star pivot man, the ubiquitous Buddy Gardner, was forced to leave the game with a leg injury which will probably keep him from action for several weeks. Up until the time of the mishap, his play was flawless, and though McElrath rose to the occasion with the fight of the old boy himself, the loss of their leader was felt by the Wildcats, who were battling against odds. Punting had a great deal to do with the game.do with the final outcome of the game, and in this department, punter Nick Laney, Duke's crooning halfback, had the edge on the southpaw, Pearce, considered by many the state’s outstanding punter. For some reason or other, Charlie’s kicking appeared a bit spotty and caused his team some embarrassment at times. His unorthodox boots, however, got some breaks, and some of his kicks went to more advantage than a perfect spiral would have done. One in particular rolled 65 yards after hitting the ground with a peculiar twist put on it by Mr. Pearce.

A gathering of some 6,000 paid customers came out to see what Gene McEver and Doc Newton could offer against the much-talked-about Brownlee and associates. They saw that little team stop the educated left toe of the fleet-footed halfback, only to have Laney and Mason cramp their style by trips through the line at more or less regular intervals. Davidson's only first down came when Wingfield, in for Peabody, with his path cleared, made 11 yards on a well-executed cutback play. The game ended with Duke making their fourth scoring attempt after the ball had gone over to them on downs.

Summary Duke-Davidson Game
David. Duke
First downs ---------------- 1 8
Yards from scrimmage ------ 66 171
Passes attempted ----------- 2 1
Passes completed ----------- 0 0
Number of punts ------------ 20 14
Yards on punts -------------- 642 540
Average length of punts ----- 32 38
Yards on returns ------------ 53 93
Fumbles --------------------- 1 1
Yards lost by fumbles ------- 20 20

Freshmen Show Power By Defeating P. J. C. in Opening Contest 26 to 0
Coach Laird’s Proteges Display Great Defensive Strength in Downing Presbyterian Junior College

Davidson's Freshman football team won its opening game of the season by defeating Presbyterian Junior College of Maxton, 26-0, at Richardson Field last Friday afternoon. The Wildkittens displayed a fine offense to keep the ball in enemy territory throughout the game. The Wildkittens scored one touchdown in the first quarter, two in the second, and their final touchdown in the fourth quarter. Hard, clever football was used to advantage throughout the game by the Freshmen, and all their scores culminated in long drives.

The visitors found the Freshman line too stiff. They were forced to use a passing attack after their running plays failed to gain ground. The first score came early in the game. Davidson kicked off to the Juniors and forced them to punt from their own 10-yard line. The punt was bad, going to the visitors’ 35-yard stripe. A series of line plays put the ball in scoring position and Slaughter went over for the first touchdown. An attempted pass failed to net the extra point.

Davidson's second score came when Windham, Freshman tackle, blocked a punt and recovered the ball, carrying it to the Presbyterians’ 5-yard line. After two tries at the line, Burns went over for a score. Verble bucked the line for the extra point. A bad punt, a 15-yard penalty for interfering with the receiving of the punt, and three consecutive first downs gave the Wildkittens their third touchdown, with Pearce going over for the score. Kaysal added the extra point by going over the line.

In the final period, the visitors made their only threat, carrying the ball to Davidson's 35-yard line with a passing attack. Davidson recovered when the Presbyterians fumbled and immediately started a drive for another touchdown. Pittman made the final touchdown, running 40 yards through the visitors’ line to score. The play of Slaughter, Cathey, Burns, and Pittman was outstanding for Davidson. The Freshmen showed up well on the defensive, stopping the visitors from gaining through the line. McAndrews, Savage, and Faircloth were outstanding for the visitors.

Although the material this year is not as heavy as that of last year’s Freshman team, the charges of Coaches Red Laird and Doc Mathis showed up much better than expected. The team has good prospects for a fast, hard-hitting season, being a scrapping bunch of Wildkittens.

Fall Track Under Way As Cross-Country Squad Starts Harder Training
Frazier, Oxford Orphanage Star, Is Among Promising Freshman Candidates

Cross-country workouts have settled down to earnestness under the coaching of Heath Whittle. Both varsity and Freshman squads have been going through stiffer paces each afternoon since Monday a week ago when the first call for candidates was issued. Coach Whittle has been sending the varsity and Freshman squads through the workouts together and will continue to do so until Captain Norton G. Pritchett takes charge of the varsity candidates. Captain Pritchett has been working occasionally with the best prospects of the two squads.

Among the nineteen candidates out for the Freshman team, only a few have had experience in distance running. Frazier, who proved himself a smart athlete at Oxford Orphanage last year, is the most promising of the prospects. He holds the state record in the mile run, a feat which he accomplished at the state meet held at Chapel Hill last spring. Frazier also won the half-mile run at the same meet. Merchant and Woodward are other experienced distance runners who have shown up well among the Freshmen in the early workouts.

The team has good prospects for the season, being a fast, hard-hitting bunch of scrapping Wildkittens.

You like to smoke Granger. "I think you will like Granger. I have tried all kinds of tobacco; but, frankly, I have never found any other that is as good as Granger. I know something about tobacco, and I should say that Granger is the one tobacco that is made just right for pipes."

The tobacco that’s right — and the package that’s right
GRANGER IS AMERICA’S PIPE TOBACCO