THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 28, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRANT Editor-in-Chief
A. M. MANSON Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF:
L. W. CLARDY Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS Managing Editor
Athletic Editor
Exchange Editor
Feature Editor
S. Pitts Editor
D. D. McBRYDE Editor
R. L. McCALLIE Associate Editor
C. F. MYERS Associate Editor
B. B. SUGG Associate Editor

President: M. W. ALDERMAN
Vice-President: L. McCLINTOCK
Secretary-Treasurer: R. H. ALDERMAN

V. L. McILWAIN
G. E. BAIL
E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAIL
W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES
W. L. NORTHEN
E. BOWERS
C. E. NORVELL
E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
H. COVINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON
P. M. ROGERS
J. B. FICKLIN
R. L. ROSE
G. L. LLE
T. H. SUTTON
JACK HELLINGER
N. W. WALLACE
K. D. WEEKS
A. NTER
W. R. WARD
E. LORRAINE
W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. D. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS
PRATT-THOMAS

SEPTEMBER 28, 1932

Wisdom is knowing what to do; skill is knowing how to do it, and virtue is doing it.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

We could make a safe guess that the subject on the minds of most of our students is our football team. We thought the showing was very creditable considering that this was the first game they played under the tutelage of our new coaches. We should not expect too much this first year from the team. It takes some time to install a new system, and at present they seem to be coming along very well. Personally, we would like to see Mills given an opportunity to play more in the remaining games this season.

Judging from the weather we have had so far this fall, we will have a much colder winter than we had last year.

We wish the college had a literary magazine. This year’s class in English five could offer a lot of good material.

Percy McElrath should be commended because of his performance at center when he substituted for Captain Gardner who was injured.

How many stop to consider the magnificence of the old chinaberry tree? Traditionally it is the most romantic spot on the hill. The writer of I Saw must be related to Walter Winchell.

We sincerely wish Buddy Gardner a speedy recovery from the injury he received in the Duke game.

Our guess is that we will have a much improved team on the field this next Saturday to meet the Washington and Lee Generals. The plays should be working more smoothly and with greater precision.

From all reports, the Southern Railway didn’t make much on their excursion to Durham.

Many honorary fraternities could learn a great deal from the youngest one on the campus, Pi Delta Alpha. This fraternity, which is for the purpose of bringing together pre-medical students, has been very active since it first was founded last year by a group of students here. Besides bringing lecturers here from all over the state, the officers this summer wrote to other colleges and universities over the South in order to extend this society and make it national in scope.

A RARE PRIVILEGE

Almost each year on the editorial page of this paper has appeared an article urging students of the college to call upon the various professors in their homes as often as possible. We do not think it amiss to run such an article again, because there are many who do not take advantage of this opportunity. We beg the indulgence of those older students who have read any such articles before.

This is a great privilege which exists at Davidson and one which cannot be found in all the colleges throughout the country. According to the testimony of the professors and alumni, this custom used to be far more prevalent than it is now. No one seems to know exactly why this custom has lost its popularity, but the fact remains that it has. This is very unfortunate, because much can be gained by the student in these out-of-class contacts. The members of the faculty earnestly desire the students to call on them in their homes Sunday evenings and other times, and every member of the student body should take the time to form new friendships by this means. After graduation, the faculty members will be the only friends we shall have at Davidson, as our classmates will rarely chance to return when we are on the campus. They will be the only link to our student days. This, of course, is not the main reason, but it is an important one. The chief advantage is to know them as intimately as possible. Davidson as an institution of higher learning ranks very high among other colleges and universities in the United States, and this rating is determined by the caliber of our faculty. We have an excellent faculty from which much can be gained for ourselves, and we ought to make every effort to meet as many of them as we possibly can.

Life is very dull without friends. All of us realize this, and most of the students have many friends among the other students, but relatively few have the foresight to make the friendship of the many outstanding people who live within this community and are more than willing to meet any student of the college. A word to the wise is sufficient.

STUDENT ACTIVITIES

Of the two hundred or more students who enter Davidson each year, there are probably over two hundred different ideas as to the purpose of their college life. Some come here merely to pore over books. This number is usually very small, but still there are always some of this type. Studying hard in itself is a very laudable ambition, but a student should spend his time on other things also if he wishes to get the most out of his college education. The word education itself means a leading out, and no person can be led out or fully educated by book knowledge. Others come with the expressed desire to excel in athletics. The same can be said of this as in the case of coming merely to study. One thing should not be done to the exclusion of others.

We do not believe that anyone would come to college unless he wished to achieve success of one kind or another, and certainly that should be the wish of every student in the college. At this time in the year before activities have gotten very well under way, a few words may open the way up for some men who do not have a clear understanding of the varied outside activities. Of course, the primary reason for coming to college is to get an education out of books, but there are many other activities which one may pursue on the campus to their own benefit. No person is required to enter any of these activities, but a few well-chosen during the Freshman year may mean a great deal to any man in his Junior or Senior year. Some students make the mistake of entering too many different fields and as a result, they do not achieve very much in any one field. It is much better to do only two or three things and do these well. The temperament and talents of each individual should be taken into consideration before entering any line of endeavor outside of the regular classwork. Of course, some are fitted naturally to be athletes, while others are gifted along literary or journalistic lines. Managerships in the various sports are positions eagerly sought by many students.

This is not written to urge all members of the Freshman class to enter some line of outside activity, but to inform those who have any ambition along these lines that the time to start is at the beginning of the Freshman year. Many students realize at the end of the Freshman or Sophomore year that they could have done many things which they failed to do, but they waited too long to start and consequently men of less ability have attained higher levels of achievement. Most Freshmen do not realize the importance of entering some campus activity, but the longer they remain in college the more they will come to recognize the value of entering some line of endeavor the Freshman year and following it up each year with hard consistent work.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Well, boys, the “Contact Man” is once more with you after a couple of weeks delay. Since we were about the first to start of all the schools in the country and most of them having just started, this is the first time we have had any papers in. For the benefit of the new members of the student body, we will say that every week we receive papers from other schools and they are placed down at the “Y” reading room, which is the room to the left as you come into the “Y.” These papers will be in the back part of this room on the shelves. Nearly every week we will receive papers from Duke, Carolina, Greensboro College for Women, Georgia, Georgia Tech, Emory, Wesleyan, Oglethorpe, Brenau, Mercer, University of South Carolina, The Citadel, Clemson, Wofford, Furman, Converse,Winthrop Washington & Lee, V. M.: auctions of confiscated property “chase it at the auction. prisoners in the game.

WORLD SPECTATOR I SAW

The French police have recently been wondering about the presence of a great many foreign-made pistols on the men arrested in Paris for various offenses. They were unable to find out how all the German and Swiss pistols passed the custom houses. Finally, the origin of the firearms was traced back until it was found that the possessors bought their arms at auctions conducted by the custom officers at frontier towns. Thus, it would be easy for anyone to buy a gun in Germany, have it confiscated at the border, and have a friend repurchase it. Because the sales are not advertised widely, the prices are very low. The French police are now trying to find some way of enforcing their law which provides that guns cannot be carried without a permit.

The Prince of Wales went by plane from London to Copenhagen via Hamburg to open a British trade exhibition in Copenhagen. On the surface, there seems to be little of interest in this statement. The only peculiar thing about it is that when the Prince landed at Hamburg, it was the first time since the World War that he had set foot on German soil. The Prince stopped at Hamburg to get the plane refueled, staying at the airport about an hour.

Edward Reynolds, a Pennsylvania man, has recently been informed that he has two hearts. One is on the right side of his body while the other is on the left. Both are in good condition and both are used in pumping blood through Mr. Reynolds’ arteries. The left heart is smaller than the one on the right, but this does not in any way reduce its usefulness. Reynolds is thirty-two years old, having lived that long entirely unconscious of his abnormality.

The National Distillers Products Corporation has decided to omit the payment of its quarterly dividend of fifty cents. The corporation had recently announced that in October 1934, it would distribute to its stockholders casks of choice, aged-in-the-wood whisky, manufactured before 1918. Perhaps it was thought that the stockholders would be satisfied with this promise and would not require the fifty-cent dividend.

The Literary Digest presidential straw poll is underway and the first returns show 60,237 votes cast, with Hoover leading by 539 votes. This is by no means an indication of the outcome, since the poll was taken of only five states: Indiana, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia.

The New York police staged a fox hunt in the midst of the city recently. A fox escaped from a cage in the backyard of a Brooklyn lady’s home and started down the street. It was chased by the police, not on horses and with horns and hounds, but in a squad car with riot guns, pistols, tear gas, and nets. The fox jumped into a creek from which it was taken in a fish net.

Now that the colleges have started in on the football season, it is very necessary that the great institution of Sing Sing should prepare for its football season. The Sing Sing team is being coached by John Law, former Notre Dame football captain, who goes to the institution once a week to coach them. The team is managed by the warden, who arranges games for them to play. The team this year will play the Port Jervis policemen in its opening game. Last year, the policemen beat Sing Sing by swearing in many experienced players as “special officers” the day before the game. The preparations are being made for the game on October 2. Even the Sing Sing alma mater song has been composed: “Sing, sing for Sing Sing. Our team can fight. Crash through those coppers for the old Black and White. Sing, sing for Sing Sing. Port Jervis, good night. We're defending the honor of the old Black and White.”

Mary Baldwin, University of Tennessee, University of Chattanooga, Sewanee, Florida, Gettysburg College, and many others. V. M. L. Weede-Myer and his famous orchestra will play for the opening hops on September 30 and October 1. He is well known to Davidson students and perhaps some of the boys who can stand the cuts will be whipping up to our rival school to dance. The Freshman class this year totals 180 members, which is under the usual number for V. M. I. In The Cadet, there is a list of radio programs for this week. Duke “All-State” Pierce and Captain “Buddy” Gardner crashed the Duke Chronicle’s pictures showing that Duke knows two good football players when they see them. Both will probably make All-State. The Duke chapel is rated to be one of the finest examples of Gothic architecture in the world. If you ever get a chance to see this wonderful structure, don’t miss it. We will vouch for its beauty, for we saw it when we went over to Durham to the Davidson-Duke game last Saturday.

Clemson

Over twelve hundred students are expected to attend Clemson this year, about 375 being Freshmen. These three papers were the only ones received this week. Chink Thompson lamented that politics in his native state of Maine was going to the dogs with the overwhelming victory of the Democrats, and that he is “plumb disgusted” with the political decay in that state. Sam Nickey was seen around the campus after a delayed return to college. Sam was a chef on a boat on the Great Lakes this summer and they say his chefing was the envy of every other boat on the line. Hugh John sighed as he made up my bed this morning. I asked him what was the matter. He said, “Boss, I jus’ can’t get no res’ from making up beds. I leaves here and goes home all tired out and my wife has me make up every bed in the house.” Bob McCallie, Billy Flinn, and Lanier Pratt were in a huddle after dinner Tuesday in front of Thompson's. They were talking low and I've a sneaking idea they were hatching up something deep and mysterious. Miss Pasmore at the library said she used to get cards from Prof. Lilly in London but now that he is in Chicago she never hears from him. Prof. Lilly is getting another degree of some sort at the university this year, having been granted a leave of absence. Everybody on my hall can balance a dime on a coat hanger and swing it around. It makes me awful sore because I can’t do it. It has come to the point where if I don't learn, I never will be invited anywhere. If you can’t balance a dime on a coat hanger, you aren't wanted! Caskie Norvell ate a big Little Pep steak late the other night and then headed straight for the dorm and bed. That didn’t make him sick, but Monday night he bought a 5-cent cigar and after a few puffs, he was practically unconscious. A prominent Junior who was in bed in the infirmary dressed and left quietly Tuesday night to attend an important frat meeting, and then slipped back to crawl into bed without Mrs. Robson once dreaming of the deed that was taking place. Old Enoch predicted about the weather we will have this winter. “It will be either hard or mild,” he says. “And I might as well take sides. I've got as good a chance as anybody and a square deal is all I'm asking.” A Freshman in Georgia was playing on his sax in the seclusion of his room. The name of the piece was “Be It Ever So Humble, There’s No Place Like Home.” Pharoe Wright, the slave driver, had the Fresh from “Asto M” move the giant football signboard Thursday afternoon over to the opposite side of the field from the stadium. A number of fellows are getting a mustache on the installment plan. You know, a little down each week. Buck Kirkland can tell exactly how many cigarettes he smokes a day. The answer is any given number. Susan and Carrie Lena Moffett left for Converse last Wednesday morning. Susan is a Senior and Carrie Lena will be a Junior. I am expecting Carrie Lena to make the scholastic society her Junior year just like her sister. When our co-eds go away for the last two years of college after attending Davidson, they get along famously. Major Rhett and his son Jack were looking at the Wildcat in the cage Friday afternoon. Jack had a big bag of peanuts and was offering them to the playful cat, to his father’s delight.

People are taking this column too seriously. I don’t mean for it to be serious. I’m not serious and I don't want others to take me seriously. It is not my purpose to criticize anybody or anything. My dears, I don’t tell half of what I know. It’s a good thing it isn't known who writes this column, because I really believe my life would be in danger. Some have told me that they would like to know who it was so they could “punch him in the nose.” Oh, no they wouldn't! In the first place, they couldn't catch me!

TIP OFF.

Dr. William Beebe and Otis Barton recently gained a new deep-sea diving record by going down a half-mile below the surface of the water off the coast of Bermuda. They were lowered in a “Bathysphere,” designed by Otis Barton, from the tug Freedom. The “Bathysphere” was constructed to withstand enormous pressures. At the bottom of the dive, the apparatus protected the divers from a pressure of 4,800 tons. At the great depth, many observations were made which were of great scientific value.