— The Davidsonian —

ISSUE: 3 | MAY 5

‘ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS’

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 4, 1932 No. 28

O.D.K. BIDS NINE PROMINENT MEN

Student Body Officers Are Formally Installed On Thursday, April 28

Newly-Elected Men Pledge Services and Ask Support of Student Body

BANQUET THEN FOLLOWS

Farewell Address Was Made by President of Senior Class

On last Thursday evening at 6 o'clock, the newly elected student body officers for 1932-33 were formally installed with Jack McKinnon, president of the retiring Senior class, acting as master of ceremonies. Bill Hart, organist, rendered a short organ recital prior to the exercises. The student body sang “O Davidson,” after which the invocation was given by Sam Wiley of the Senior class. Following this, Don King led the retiring council up the left side of the stage, while Jerome Clark led the incoming council up the right side. Both councils remained standing while the oath was administered to the new council. The following were installed: Jerome Clark, Allan Mebane, Bruce Peabody, Duncan McBryde, Gene Cannon, Bob Glasgow, and John Howard, all of the rising Senior class; Harold McMillan, Jim McClintock, Julian West, and Bill Johnson, of the rising Junior class; Gordon Brown, Duke Glasgow, and Fred McPhail, all of the rising Sophomore class.

Don King made a brief talk, thanking the student body for their loyal support and cooperation during the past year. Clark also made a talk. The two councils then filed off the stage leaving Clark, King, and McKinnon. John Howard, vice-president of the Y. M. C. A.; Buck Mills, vice-president of the Athletic Association; Grier Martin, editor of the Davidsonian; Ned Dwelle, editor of the Annual, and Vereen Bell, editor of the Yowl, then conferred their obligations and responsibilities upon the following men, respectively: Paul Brown, president-elect of the Y. M. C. A.; Charlie Pearce, president-elect of the Athletic Association; Ed Guerrant, editor-elect of the Davidsonian; Bob McCallie, editor-elect of the Quips and Cranks, and Rives Pope, editor-elect of the Yowl. Each of the retiring officers in their speeches made remarks to the effect that they appreciated the manner in which the (Continued on page 5)

Allan Frew Gives Talk At Vespers Last Sunday

Speaker Used “Steadfastness” as the Theme of Evening Address

One of the most delightful speakers invited to speak this year by the “Y” cabinet was Mr. Allan Frew, minister of the “Church by the Side of the Road.” He is a very forceful speaker, having won third place in the National American Legion oratorical contest, and first place in the state trials, while in school. He is a graduate of Davidson College. Some of his honors while here were membership in O. D. K., president of the Freshman class, and a member of the “Y” cabinet.

His complete message dwelt around the central idea of “Steadfastness.” He opened his speech by saying that he felt at home and “was most grateful to be allowed the privilege of coming here to think through a problem which is confronting the youth of Christ today.” His text was taken from the Gospel of Luke, ninth chapter, “And when the days were well nigh come, that he should be received up, he steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem.” Jesus was steadfast throughout His whole life. When at the age of twelve He was asked why He stayed at the temple, and He answered, “Know ye not that I must be about my Father's business?” Many men of today who have become famous have worked steadily to gain their positions. In the great war, while Joffre, commander-in-chief, was in the thick of the battle, in one of his letters to a friend, remarked, “We must keep steadfastly pressing the army.” Pasteur, the great French bacteriologist, had to be forced at first to attend school, but later became very interested and worked steadfastly (Continued on page 6)

Noted Organist to Give Concert Here

Charlottean of great reputation, and one who has studied extensively, Lockwood, organist, is to give a concert in Chambers Auditorium tomorrow night at 8:15 o'clock. The Skinner organ in the auditorium is one of the best in this section of the country and Miss Lockwood is expected to demonstrate its potentialities for the benefit of students and townspeople. Some of the selections to be offered from Miss Lockwood's repertoire include the works of Wagner, Tchaikovsky, Bach, Dickinson, Widor, and other well-known composers. Mu Beta Psi, national honorary fraternity, is sponsoring the concert and the performance is in honor of the artist. Members of the fraternity and faculty will attend. No tickets for the concert will be sold before Thursday night, but townspeople and Davidson students may purchase them at the door for fifty cents. Davidson students say that she is a fine artist because of her wide repertoire and her skill in practically all forms of music. She plays with a poetic expression and plays the most difficult pieces with ease and skill that few can match.

The following were initiated into the Easton, H. Y. A. Rachal, and A. Rachal. The following were elected for the coming year: Paul Brown, manager, Henry Hodgin, and Jack Williams. Ed Hancock, Alpha, assistant editor, member of the International Delta Kappa Pi and Sigma. Henry Hodgin is in the jazz band and is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha. Jack Williams is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, Le Cercle Francais, secretary of the Forensic Council, and managing editor of the Yowl. After the business meeting, the new members gave three skits. The first of these was a graveyard scene by Rachal and Easton. There followed a dialogue between Paul Brown and Jack Williams, entitled “Brother Bill.” They both did their parts well. The final presentation was a deep tragedy, suggestively entitled, “Pansy of Patagonia” or “Love Suffers.” In this, Klooster and Hollingsworth were attired as native Honolulu lovers. They suddenly dashed into the room in an amorous, frenzied dance. Hollingsworth, with a Greta Garbo accent, refused to marry Klooster until he was sixty. The plot thickens when Hodgin enters as an Americano. Klooster, returning, finds them on the point of embarking for America. Enraged, he stabs Greta Hollingsworth and is in turn slain by Hodgin, who melodramatically stalks off the stage, smoking a Murad.

This was the last official meeting of the year for the Masquers.

Whatever else one may say about novels, there are two statements which are not likely to be disputed. One is that many people write them, and the other is that many people read them.—V. Sackville-West.

Oswald thinks a scholarship is a floating university.—Carolina Buccaneer.

INSPIRING MESSAGES FROM OUTSTANDING MINISTERS

Men of the Presbyterian Church Speak at Annual Y. M. C. A. Spring Service

Interest in Spiritual Growth Shown by Attendance

Seniors Hold Final Smoker Wednesday

The Senior class held its last smoker of the year Wednesday night, April 27, in the banquet hall of Chambers Auditorium. During the meeting the officers for Class Day, which is to be held June 1, were elected and various other business matters were discussed. Jack McKinnon, president of the class, presided over the meeting. After the members had enjoyed a delightful dinner, the Quartet, composed of Hubert Morris, Dave McFreshman Lain, Buddy Robinson, and Frank Tucker, ren — -? 20010 Cm wm 0.001 ks ee — cen the fact that etitend lat cl one. According to Dr. DuBose, it do® He enu- Jesus, for who do see Him. People like the of accidentally, Tho who have looke This re en live. two natures, the sinful and the good. He showed how that in all men there are two opposing good and trying ma, A waeee \ a | ert an the two different a sinful man and rt. And these two ut Dr. Jekyll had ion that he could as in him, making his Paul goes on to show can be conquered. The that can give us the Dn page 6)

Club

At a meeting last Monday night, Omicron Delta Kappa selected the ten men for the Beaver Club of 1932-33. The men thus honored are: Gordon Glasgow, Jack Hellinger, Dewey Hutchins, Rufus Page, Mims Rogers, Ben Rose, Walter Sprunt, Joe Wadsworth, and Kenneth Weeks. This club is an honorary leadership society, for members of the Sophomore class, founded at Davidson in 1926. It is a junior order of O. D. K., and has proved very successful in the dicho (bad virtues, as men in the sto a Christian ma are constantly put himself ir not control the baa end a tragic one, how the evil tha Bible and Chris (Co (Brown, Douglas past. Its main work is to welcome the visiting athletic teams to Davidson and to help the alumni secretary at com- t and h selection, Ernest gave a “we Milton talk: i Association.” Fle urged that this organization, as it would 'to both the college and wh owas received re following Bill Rule, n; Bill orator, then iven ab- ed y he night of stitute for / soon y) lunced, surgean sing pre- f, is address - md all details gfe that is not con- it is my belief that v7 to an even, son Jie Dr. Miller, CJ hopedic Hospital in Gastonia, sins a group of Davidson Col- + fdents who were interested in medicine fs a life prefession. is led OsGainue: Dr. Miller was brought to Davidson by Pi Delta Alpha, recently organized honorary med- ical fraternity here, and was speaking before the first open meeting of the society. Over 100 Davidson students expect to enter the medical field, and the majority of that number listened to the noted doctor as he discussed orthopedic surgery and showed slides to illustrate his presentation of the subject. While discussing religion, the visitor vehemently declared that “Woe be unto the Southern Presbyterian Church if, in its evolution of economy, to its church-owned it would become close church It and church-controlled colleges that the leaders of religion come.” necessary schools. is from the In advising medical candidates, Dr. Miller said that it was his belief that progress is made through energy rather than because of ingenuity, and he urged his hearers to use every resource and factor available in their preparation. “The cultivation of these will be useful in the medical profession,” he said. Dr. Miller discussed the great advancement that has been made in medicine. “The greatest progress came in medicine, and especially in surgery,” he said, “following the discovery of anesthesia,” and after this general presentation, he dwelt particularly on the subject of orthopedics, which he defined as “the agent that preserves the function of the spine after an operation, which enables the patient to recover the use of the parts involved.”

Campus Leaders Receive Coveted Honor in Spring Tap Ceremony on Tuesday

Rule, Wiley, Brown, Clark, Guerrant, McCallie, Mebane, Peabody, and Pearce Are Tapped

DR. BROWN GIVES TALK | Initiation to Take Place On Monday Night

Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa at the chapel service yesterday morning held its annual spring Tap Day exercises, and it was one of the most impressive ceremonies of the college year. Following a short address on the principles of Omicron Delta Kappa by Dr. C. K. Brown, the active members proceeded with the “tapping,” the ceremony being presided over by Jack McKinnon, president. As he struck the gavel, a member of the circle arose, went into the student body, and tapped the initiate. The man tapped signified his acceptance by following the old member to the rostrum. There he was welcomed and decorated with the colors of the fraternity.

Nine men were tapped, two being seniors and the remainder juniors. They were William Rule, S. S. Wiley, P. F. Brown, J. B. Clark, Jr., E. C. Guerrant, R. L. McCallie, W. A. Mebane, Jr., H. B. Peabody, and C. W. Pearce.

William Rule, III

Rule is president of the Glee Club and president of the Forensic Council for this year. He is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, Mu Beta Psi, Alpha Phi Epsilon, varsity debating team, and was on the varsity football squad.

Samuel S. Wiley

Wiley is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, senior advisor to the Freshman class, member of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet and the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Omega Phi Alpha, I. R. C., Delta Pi Kappa, and Alpha Phi Epsilon. He is president of the Honorary Fraternity Council, and a member of the Student Council.

Paul F. Brown

Brown is the president of the Y. M. C. A. for the year of 1932-33. He is the secretary-treasurer of Delta Phi Alpha, member of the Red (Continued on page 5)

Final Plans For Summer Session Are Announced

Admission Requirements Are Same as for Regular Session

Continuing the plan of last year, the trustees of Davidson College have authorized a summer session, beginning June 6 and ending July 15, 1932. The requirements for admission are the same as those of the regular session; all the courses offered are of college grade and character and are so recognized by the college. College credits for summer school work are given in terms of semester hours; a semester hour is the equivalent of one recitation hour a week for a college semester. Six semester hours represent the maximum credit allowed a college student for six weeks. All courses given are identical in content and credit with those described in the regular catalogue of the college.

The daily assembly will be a vital part of the summer session, consisting of stimulating and unifying forces of the school. Daily announcement reports are important, especially in a school with an intensive program and with an organization in which any change is likely to affect the work throughout the school. Because of this vital relationship between the daily assembly and the other work of the summer session, as well as because we plan to make the assembly period worthwhile on its own account, all students are required to attend the assembly as in the regular session.

For recreation, the gymnasium, the athletic field, the tennis courts of the college, and the golf links of the Davidson College Golf Club are available. The dormitories of the college are available for the use of the students of the summer session. (Continued on page 6)