THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 27, 1932

‘CATS BEGIN POST-SCHEDULE OF GAMES

THE SPORTS PARADE

UNGER’S SECOND EDITION OF GRAPPLERS APPEAR FRI.

A thin haze clouds the crystal ball of the usually keen-sighted old seer and his prophecies concerning the Davidson Wildcats
for the year 1932 are uncertain. He hesitates to foretell what the fates have in store for them, for twice
he has predicted and twice the turn of events has proven him a liar. “On you, smarty!” Ole Man Time
has sneered mockingly as the old seer’s prophecies have come to naught. It seems futile to attempt to peer into
the future and see what the Athletic Council intends to do.

The resignation of Coach Younger came as a distinct surprise to everyone, the appointment of Coach Tilson naturally following. There
was a general feeling of doubt as to whether Coach Tex would follow with Coach Monk, but as the days
went by, the feeling almost disappeared, giving place to one of satisfaction that Coach Tex would remain as head coach.
Now, shocked by Coach Tilson’s unexpected resignation, surprised at the offer given to Mr. Dick and Mr. Newell, wondering at
their refusal, we would not be surprised at anything. We expect Pop Warner or Tad Jones to be signed up
any day now. Or perhaps Nicky and Mathews, premier coaches of the Davidson Midgets, would consider the job—that is, for
a substantial remuneration, also.

We have been advised that speculations concerning coaching possibilities would not be only useless, but would incur the displeasure of
some of those in authority. Freedom of the press, however, and the interests of the student body compel us to
report certain rumors concerning the appointment of J. D. McCall, former football and track star, as one of the assistant
coaches. These rumors have not been traced down as yet, and it is possible that they are mere idle speculations.
Yet they deserve consideration, for McCall might possibly be the man for the job. He was a brilliant back on
the football varsity for three years at Davidson, captain of the track team his Senior year, and while having had
no experience in basketball at college, he is well grounded in the essentials of the game. His record as backfield
coach at Gastonia High School this season was especially good, his team having lost only one game.

With losses to both Furman and Carolina, the Wildcat quintet seems to have gotten off to a rather bad start,
but we have noticed it to be a habit of past Wildcat teams to pick up as the season goes
by, so things may not be so bad as they seem. The Wildcats have a strong defense, especially when the
man-to-man system is used, and also have a smart system of handling the ball, but when it comes to scoring
points, they just don’t seem to be “in there.” There seems to be right much luck in connection with shooting
goals, but with a little more practice, a little more daring, and quite a bit more confidence, the Wildcats should
win a couple of big games. What we like to see is a little more of this Big League stuff.
A true big-timer will try to stretch a single into a double. He takes a chance. And that should go
for basketball as well. Long shots. That’s the ticket.

Though the Freshmen lost their game to the boys from the Creek, they exhibited a neat working team. We should
hear some more nice stories from them ere long.

A certain fact lies festering in our heads for which we have failed dismally to find any dire significance. It
must mean something pretty startling, but it is beyond even our Special Suspectors. The fact is that Bernarr Macfadden sent
out 22,000 Christmas cards.—North American Review.

A married woman teacher is refused employment in many localities, but no one tries to drive the charwoman back to
her home.—Mrs. G. J. Cottrell.

Dick’s Refusal Ties Knot in Davidson Coaching Situation

Many Applicants for Coach, but as Yet None Selected

Failure of Leonard Dick, coach of Woodberry Forest School, to accept the offer of the Davidson Athletic Council of one
of the coaching positions now open here threw the entire set-up, which had been practically completed, out of shape, and
left the local coaching situation in a muddle. The plan called for Dick to coach the backfield, and be assisted
in the line by Bill Newton, scout for the University of Tennessee, associate of Major W. R. Neyland, former coach
at South Carolina, and big league ball player at Birmingham. With Dick's refusal on hand, the plan of the Athletic
Department to bring these two men here has been abandoned, and now Newton has the status of one of many
under consideration.

When it became known, first, that Tex Tilson would likewise leave Davidson, and later that Dick had turned down the
place, the office of Captain Pritchett was immediately besieged with applications from a number of coaches seeking the place, and
by almost as many names sent in by groups of alumni of men whom they thought fitted for the position.

Rumors have consistently linked several men with the local position. Included among these are Walter Skidmore, highly successful Charlotte coach
who has been thought of by some as a possible successor to Younger and Tilson ever since the resignation of
the former. Pat Crawford, who graduated from Davidson several years ago, and who since then has gained prominence first as
coach at Guilford, and now as a big league ball player, would be welcomed back by many alumni. However, Crawford's
forte at Davidson was basketball and baseball, getting only a service letter in football. Too, he is headed for good
things in the professional baseball field, and it is not likely he could be prevailed upon to abandon that for
the Davidson place.

Sunday's “Charlotte Observer” presented the name of Jim Weaver, head coach of Oak Ridge, as a possibility, inferring that he
had been in this vicinity for the purpose of investigating the Davidson situation. No mention of this has emanated from
the Davidson officials, and it is not known what the status of this man is.

Bill Fetzer, at William and Mary, and long ago mentor of Davidson, is present coach carrying the weight of a
number of alumni approvals behind him, especially among the older men, and it is known that he has been seriously
considered for the job. He and his brother Bob, now of Carolina, were coaches here when Davidson was taking on
and beating the cream of the South, such as Georgia, Georgia Tech, and other prominent members of the Southern Conference.
It is pointed out that these men left behind records that have been only closely approximated since.

A number of the alumni letter writers have mentioned names of younger and more recent stars, both of Davidson and
other schools. Bobby Dodd, Tennessee’s All-American football and basketball star of 1930 and 1931, now on Georgia Tech's staff, comes
under this group, although how seriously he is being thought of is not known. Former Davidson stars include Walter Fraley,
last year's captain, and now coach at Shenandoah Valley Academy; Dick Grey, one of Davidson's greatest backfield products; Joe McCall,
assistant coach at Gastonia; some of the Black boys, one of Davidson's greatest athletic families, and a number of recent
stars.

Captain Pritchett, in a talk before the student body early this week, pledged the speedy settlement of the matter, and
urged the complete backing of the students and alumni. It is thought that the selection of at least the head
coach for next year will be finally decided within the next two weeks, and certainly before the end of the
spring football practices in March.

Basketball Schedule

January 26—Guilford, here.
January 29—Duke, Durham.
February 1—Duke, Charlotte.
February 4—Erskine, here.
February 10—State, Raleigh.
February 11—N. C. U., Chapel Hill.
February 13—College of Charleston, here.
February 17—Elon, here.
February 20—Citadel, Charleston.
February 22—College of Charleston, Charleston.

Varsity and Fresh Play Devils at Duke Friday; Return Game Here Mon.

Davidson's varsity basketeers will meet the highly touted Duke quintet twice within four days. This Friday the Wildcats journey to
Durham to play their second Big Five contest, while next Monday the Blue Devils return the visit to play Davidson
in Central High School gymnasium, Charlotte. The University of Duke is presenting one of her best court teams in years.
At the present time the Blue Devils are tied with Carolina for theBig Five lead with two victories against no
defeats. N. C. State and Wake Forest are the Big Five candidates who have sustained defeats at the hands of
the Duke quintet. In a game with the Army at West Point, the attack fell just three points short of
victory. Duke is represented this season by one of the strongest teams. Later, they defeated a strong William and Mary
team at Durham by a 28-20 score.

Davidson has yet to taste victory on the courts. Carolina defeated the Wildcats 45 to 29 in their season's opener,
and Furman downed them 19 to 8 in the next contest. Davidson's yearling squad will make the trip to Durham
with the varsity to play the Duke varsity contest this Friday. This will be the Freshman five's first appearance on
foreign soil as well as their first contest against a Big Five yearling team.

’Cats Defeated 19-8 by Fast Furman Five

On Monday night, January 11, the Davidson College basketball team took a severe beating from the Furman quintet. The game,
which was played on the gym court here, ended with the visitors leading, 19 to 8. From the opening whistle,
things started rather slow and for the first six or eight minutes neither team scored. Furman was the first to
score by means of a foul and a little later by a field goal. Holland then threw a foul for
Davidson, followed by another foul by Furman. A few other shots were attempted by both sides but none successfully. Thus,
the end of the first quarter found the visitors leading, 4 to 1. During the next period, the Purple Hurricane
limited the Wildcats to another one point which was made when Brown dropped in a foul. Adair put two field
goals through the loop for Furman while Smith rung in three fouls. Thus, the score remained until the whistle for
the half sounded, leaving the Wildcat quintet outmarched by nine points. With about thirteen minutes to play, Furman began freezing
the ball and deliberately refused to shoot on several occasions in order to keep the ball in their possession. Although
the Davidson Wildcats failed to close the breach in the score during the last half, they did some beautiful playing
and put up a scrappy battle against the Purple Hurricane of Furman till the gun ended the game. The line-up
for the game was as follows:

Furman (19)
Well (2)
Southern (4)
Smith (5)
Adair (4)
Owens (0)

Davidson (8)
Holland (1)
Brown (1)

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“SODA” Supplies “SUNDRIES”

Davidson Quint Downed In Tilt With U. N. C., 29-45

Led by the intrepid Wilmer Hines, the University of North Carolina basketeers completely smothered the initial cage effort of the
Davidson Wildcats by the impressive score of 45-29. The game, played in Charlotte on January 9, served as the opening
gun in the race for the Big Five court title. The Tar Heels exhibited a smooth working aggregation that simply
swept the 'Cats off their feet in the latter stages of the fray. The Davidson boys bid strongly for the
victory in the opening minutes of the contest and were twice in the lead. Only for a short period in
the second canto, when Bo Shepherd sent in his reserves, did the ’Cats seriously threaten again. Wilmer Hines took honors
in the scoring column with 16 counters, closely pressed, however, by his teammate, Weathers, who garnered 15. Bruce Peabody led
the scoring among the Wildcats with seven points in his column. Captain Mathis and Martin both made six points.

Line-ups:
North Carolina
Hines, f (16)
Barber, f (0)
Weathers, f (15)
Lineberger, f (0)
Edwards, c (4)
Collette, c (0)
Myers, c (0)
Alexander, c (5)
Henry, c (0)
McCachren, g (5)
Nicola, g (0)
Totals (45)

Davidson
Holland, f (3)
Lafferty, f (3)
Peabody, f (7)
Martin, c (6)
Brown, c (0)
Mathis, g (6)
Boucher, g (4)
Totals (29)

Referee, Rawson; umpire, Berry.

Steele Creek Quint Downs Fresh, 41-38

The Davidson Freshmen were defeated Tuesday, January 12th, by the Steele Creek Community Basketball Club. This was the second game
the Freshmen had played this season and the Freshmen show some good prospects for the varsity squad. The game was
featured by the excellent shooting of I. Mervin, a substitute, scoring 22 points of the 41 scored for the visitors.
The high scorer for Davidson was Harris with 18 points. Closely following Harris was West with 10 counters and Smathers
with nine.

Line-up for the game was:
Steele Creek (41)
D. Ervin
S. Neely
Néal (2)
West (14)
Williamson (2)

Davidson (38)
Morris (4)
Harris (18)
Sigmon (2)
Morgan

Substitutions: Steele Creek, E. Ervin (22), H. Hoover (6), Clotz, Boyd (2), K. Hoover (1). Davidson, Smathers (4), Everette. Referee,
Pritchett (Davidson).

Wildcat Mat Season to Open Friday Night With Washington & Lee Here

Davidson's wrestling season will open Friday night when the Wildcats entertain a strong Washington and Lee University mat team at
the local gym. Whether or not Davidson will have a strong team representing her this year will depend greatly upon
the showing the members of the Wildcat tin-eared fraternity make in their season's opener. Washington and Lee brings one of
its greatest wrestling teams to Davidson for the engagement. It will have one of the strongest teams in the Southern
Conference this year, with practically the same men who represented the Virginia school last year. Six members of the visiting
team were on the 1931 W. and L. squad which defeated the Army matmen at West Point last year by
a 40-0 score. Only two members, Smith in the 145-pound class and Flagg in the 175-pound class, are newcomers. The
Davidson match will be the second of the year for the Washington and Lee team. In its first contest, the
Lexington school crushed North Carolina University’s mat team by a 22 to 8 score. Coach Unger is still undecided as
to his complete line-up. Representatives have been selected for all the weights except the 145 and 155-pound classes. The burden
of these two weights will rest upon two of the four candidates out for the 145-pound weight. Harrison's ankle injury
and Johnson's resignation left the 155-pound class vacant, and Unger will have to use a 145-pounder against Washington and Lee.
Injuries will handicap the Wildcat grapplers in their first attempt. Captain Gorham is suffering from a side injury and Whitfield
from a shoulder one, but both will probably be in the line-up Friday. Coach Unger’s probable choices for the different
weights include: Corbin, 118 class; Captain Gorham, 126 class; Tyack, 135 class; Conway, 165 class; Taylor, 175 class, and Whitfield,
unlimited class. Representatives for the 145 and 155 classes will be selected from Ashcraft, Morris, and Coble, all 145-pounders. Of
this group, Gorham, Tyack, and Taylor were members of last year's team, while Corbin and Hodges were on last season's
yearling squad. Washington and Lee will be represented by Evans, 118-pounder; Abramson, 126; Osterman, 135; Smith, 145; Thomas, 155; Wright,
165; Flagg, 175, and Mitchell, unlimited.

I believe that to the rightly constituted mind New York City may be just as romantic as Vermont.—William Lyon Phelps.

I couldn't join the Socialist Party because I'd be too lonely.—Clarence Darrow.

A Complete Service for School Publications
Annuals, Magazines, Catalogs, View Books
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.
Established 1895

Davidson Theatre
MONDAY
"Tulane Vs. U. S. Football Game"
"TONIGHT OR NEVER" With GLORIA SWANSON
TUESDAY
"HIGH PRESSURE"
THURSDAY
"SILENT WITNESS"
FRIDAY
"SOOKY"
SATURDAY
WILLIAM POWELL
