THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 9, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRANT
Editor-in-Chief

EDITORIAL STAFF
M. MANSON
L. W. CLARDY, Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK, Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON, Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, Managing Editor
ODI CASALI, Athletic Editor
J. E. LAKE, Exchange Editor
J. W. WHITE, Feature Editor
J. S. GAMBLE, Feature Editor
T. GOODYKOONTZ, Contributing Editor
J. A. HANCOCK, Review Editor
D. D. McBRYDE, Associate Editor
R. L. McCALLIE, Associate Editor
C. F. MYERS, Associate Editor
B. B. SUGG, Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON, Business Manager
A. H. BOYDEN, Assistant Business Manager
ALVIN BAYER, JR., Solicitor
H. B. DANIEL, Solicitor
J. M. DOUGLAS, Solicitor
G. L. GREEN, Solicitor
W. P. SPRUNT, Solicitor
TROY TAYLOR, Solicitor
A. C. WADSWORTH, Solicitor
J. E. WHITE, Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
J. E. KEEL, President
J. S. GAMBLE, Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG, Secretary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN
L. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN
L. McILWAIN
G. E. BAILEY
E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY
W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES
W. L. NORTHEN
J. E. BOWERS
C. E. NORVELL
J. E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
J. H. COVINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON
P. M. ROGERS
J. B. HERRIN
B. L. ROSE
G. L. GULLETT
T. H. SUTTON
J. S. HELLINGER
N. W. WALLACE
J. C. HENRY
K. D. WEEKS
J. A. HUNTER
W. R. WARD
J. E. LORRAINE
W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD
J. W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS
PRATT-THOMAS

NOVEMBER 9, 1932

“Yearn to the greatness of nature
Rally the good in the depths of thyself.”
—Matthew Arnold.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

This past Sunday could have well been called Foreign Mission Sunday. Dr. J. K. Taylor, missionary to China, spoke at the morning services and Dr. Darby Fulton, Executive Secretary of Foreign Missions in the Southern Presbyterian Church, spoke at “Y” Vespers and at the evening church service. The talks were splendid.

We should show every courtesy to the returning alumni on Homecoming Day. They were once students here like we are and all our hospitality should be extended to them.

We wish to urge the student body to attend the annual Fall Services of the Y. M. C. A., starting here next Sunday, the 13th, and running through Tuesday, the 15th. The Rev. Dwight Chalmers is recognized as one of the outstanding ministers of the Southern Presbyterian Church and undoubtedly will have an inspiring message for every one of us.

With V. P. I. out of the way it looks like Tennessee will be Southern Conference champions unless Auburn can beat the Georgia Bulldogs.

Our eleven should be highly commended for their performance this last Saturday despite the outcome. They played excellent football and naturally we think the result should have been different.

The defensive work of Willson in backing up the line was brilliant, and his offensive was none the less spectacular. “Snozzle” played a bang-up game.

The fine showing of the Wildcats against State should make predictions as to the outcome of this Saturday’s game against Carolina rather difficult. We believe, however, that if the same brand of football is played this Saturday as was played last Saturday, we should emerge victorious.

Tennessee has a mighty good chance at getting the Rose Bowl game as Pitt has been tied and Michigan has been held to low scores by comparatively insignificant teams. Colgate is the only other luminary left in the East, and we believe the call will once more go to a Southern team.

The work of the Red and Black Masquers should be commended. Their activities on the campus should merit more notice from the student body.

The State game was a costly one for us. McElrath, West, Caton, and Potter all had to be removed from the game because of injuries.

The social activities for this coming weekend should provide a very enjoyable time for us, since these are the first dances we have had in two months of school.

HOMECOMING DAY

Homecoming Day on Saturday presents a great opportunity for two groups of Davidson men: to the alumni it furnishes an occasion for revisiting the old campus and for renewing the ties of friendships which have here been formed; to the students it gives a chance for welcoming the graduates to their Alma Mater. The value of such a day cannot be over-emphasized. Davidson has been fortunate in maintaining a closeness of relationship with her alumni in the past. That she continue to do so in the future is imperative to her welfare. Homecoming Day, therefore, as a factor in the strengthening of these ties has been and must continue to be fostered as one of the outstanding occasions of the year.

This season the alumni office has issued invitations to the hundreds of Davidson men who as graduates have so well represented the college in various parts of the country. Many will respond to this invitation, and it is Davidson’s duty to make this a worthwhile and enjoyable occasion. There has been a program planned with this end in view which includes an alumni luncheon and the game with Carolina. Such a program, however, can only augment the pleasures which would come naturally. Walking again on the old campus and through the familiar buildings will mean much to those who return. Most of all the fellowship with those with whom they spent their college days will bring them pleasure. In truth these are the things which make such a time worthwhile for the graduates, and it would seem that the completeness of the occasion leaves little for the present student to do. However, this is not the case. The student body will have the opportunity of playing an important part. By exhibiting a spirit of friendliness and hospitality, of willingness and co-operation, it can do much to make Homecoming Day more complete.

ARMISTICE DAY

Fourteen years ago the greatest cataclysm which this world has ever witnessed came to an end. Millions of lives had been snuffed out the four preceding years and billions of dollars in munitions and other supplies had drained the entire world of its vitality and resources. Germany on the point of collapse was forced to surrender and the rest of the world reeling from exhaustion was overjoyed to cease hostilities.

The Treaty of Versailles which closed the war for the German nation in their relations to the Allies was so stringent and unreasonable that the German nation considered seriously the idea of renewing hostilities, but soon they realized that this would be humanly impossible. For the last fourteen years the whole world along with Germany has been suffering from this self-inflicted treaty. Because of the intense hatred which France had for Germany this treaty was made so ruthless, but it has come to the point where the treaty is nearly a boomerang. The German nation in the summer of 1931 was on the verge of collapse financially, and she was saved only by the Hoover moratorium. The present enemies of Germany realize that they will defeat their own purpose if Germany is insolvent. The rest of the world are coming to realize that the effects of this war are much farther reaching than anyone could have expected fourteen years ago. It has taken the world this length of time to realize the true extent of the war and as one able statesman said recently, the war just ended last summer at Geneva when the representatives of Germany, France, England, and the other major powers came to the realization that it would be utterly futile to stretch Germany’s war debt out for fifty more years as stipulated in the Young plan. Although France may not have any more affection than formerly for the German people, she has enough business sense to know that the bankruptcy of Germany would have disastrous results all over Europe and very seriously affect her along with the rest. Because of this agreement reached last summer the situation has been greatly relieved and no doubt the dawn of a better day of international agreement is in sight for the first time in eighteen years.

November the eleventh is a day set aside to commemorate the close of this war, but it should also be a constant reminder of the futility of war. Those who were in this past war never wish to engage in another one, and this day should keep future generations from the desire to enter war by retaining the horrors of this past one fresh in their minds.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake
University of North Carolina

Herbert Hoover won the nation-wide Presidential poll over Franklin D. Roosevelt, by a majority of 10,000. The final count was: Hoover, 28,180; Roosevelt, 17,712; Thomas, 10,490, and Foster 715. In this poll the large universities of the South with the exception of Duke, supported Roosevelt; the East, North and West supported Hoover. Norman Thomas, the Socialist candidate, carried Columbia University, New York University, University of Colorado, St.

WORLD SPECTATOR

In order to use the surplus of corn and thus to help the market, an investigation is being held to determine the possibility of using ethyl alcohol distilled from corn as an ingredient in high-power motor fuel. The tests are being held by the farm bureau of a county in Illinois, and it is said that similar experiments have been tried at various times in Europe with success.The town council at Havre may have to call upon a modern “Pied Piper” to rid that port of rats. There are two kinds of rats at Havre, the black Oriental rats and the brown Continental ones. The rodents, besides carrying disease, have very peculiar appetites. The Oriental rats thrive on lead pipe, while both varieties can make a fine meal off the insulation around electric cables. The appearance of Oriental rats in a European port is unique, since they are generally never seen west of Singapore. The rats have a peculiar habit of deserting all west-bound ships at Singapore and boarding an east-bound vessel. For some reason, Havre secured a shipload of these rats, but why they failed to disembark at Singapore, and why Oriental rats have the general habit of doing so, is something for study by students of rat psychology.

The earthquakes frequently felt in the Pacific Ocean and the surrounding areas have been studied and analyzed, with the result that Dr. Gutenberg, Professor of Geophysics at the California Institute of Technology, has advanced a theory as to their origin. Dr. Gutenberg brings up the old theory that the Moon came from the Pacific Ocean and throws new light upon the theory by explaining that the earthquakes are a reaction of the old “wound” in the earth’s crust. He stated that the deep-rooted origin of the earthquakes was caused by the mixture of currents of extremely hot materials in the core of the earth. They become crossed up when they approach the region of the “wound” caused by the secession of the Moon. Another theory as to the cause of earthquakes, which is advanced by many scientists, is that the piling up of great masses in one spot tends to press the earth’s material inward at that particular spot. This causes a pressure which is relieved when an earthquake occurs at another spot, expanding outward. Thus a form of see-saw is in effect. It has been prophesied that the great mass of buildings in New York City would create a pressure so that finally the city would fall in, while another portion of the earth would bulge out, the change to be called an earthquake. Of course, all these ideas are only theories, as they have not yet been proved as fact.

The discovery of a pair of ancient snow goggles in an ancient Eskimo grave in the Arctic has led authorities on the subject to believe that at one time the Eskimo was highly civilized. The goggles in question consisted of a small strip of ivory with narrow slits. The Eskimos at the present time use goggles somewhat similar to the ones found in the ancient grave, but the authorities still believe that the ancient race was vastly superior to the present tribes of Arctic residents. It is thought that the Eskimo originally came from Asia, bringing with him the Asiatic civilization, and in the hard climate of the North, he lost his culture by degrees, until he is now almost a barbarian. It is thought that at one time the Eskimo was the highest civilized of any of the native American races.

The old rule, condemning the ending of a sentence with a preposition, may be dear to the heart of many, but Dr. Walter Barnes, Professor of English at New York University, has no great love for this rule. He stated that a preposition is sometimes a very good final word for a sentence. Of course, Dr. Barnes admits that at times the use of final prepositions may be extremely wrong, but at other times the preposition is the natural word to use at the end. An example of how the use of the final preposition is extreme is shown: A maid, who had been reading aloud to her mistress from a rather dry book, later told the cook, “I can’t understand why Mistress chose such a book to be read to out of for!”

The hunger marchers of England who gathered in London as lobbyists of Parliament represent somewhat the same style of lobbying as that tried by the Bonus Expeditionary Forces in Washington this past summer. Both groups attempted to force the legislative body to change its attitude, but in both cases neither has been successful. It must be said that up to the present time the English marchers have been more orderly, and the British army has not yet been called out, as was the case with the American group. The English marchers are now going back to their homes, obtaining transportation from private individuals of London, and not even having their fares paid by the government.

The British Navy would eventually become a mere dummy navy if the suggestion of the British Treasury were carried out. The Treasury offered the suggestion that the navy put to sea for its maneuvers with some of the guns lacking range-finding equipment, since the installation of this equipment would take both time and money. The Treasury suggested that “it did not matter whether the guns in the ships could be fired or not.” All the trouble arose when the Admiralty ordered new range finders for some of the batteries on two of the largest vessels. The new instruments had not been able to become perfected when the time for sailing arrived. The Admiralty wanted to make a set of the imperfect instruments for the guns so that they would be able to shoot the guns, even though they were not accurate. As soon as the new instruments could be perfected, the old ones were to be discarded. The Treasury wanted the ships to sail without the temporary inaccurate instruments and thus have part of the guns useless. They said that there was really no need at the present moment for having the guns ready to shoot, since there was no danger of immediate war. Thus the price of a whole set of instruments would be saved.