THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 11, 1932

DR. HENRY LOUIS SMITH
(Continued from page 1)

whole world by a nation-wide epidemic of crime and dishonesty and open triumph of criminal leaders, an appalling breakdown of
law and order and morality. “Our super-patriots, during the fearful period of nation-wide bankruptcy and business depression, are again clamoring
for a bigger army and a bigger navy and wholesale immediate preparation for slaughter. And meanwhile, our leaderless Congress and
bewildered statesmen find themselves with a vast surplus of both wheat and cotton and at the same time with thousands
of starving and unclothed women and children, and no way yet found to bring them food and clothing. Surely America’s
fatal failure today is in handling her human environment. Her unsolved problem is the right training and wise leadership of
her swarming millions of citizens.

“What, then, is your country’s most direct and urgent call to you young Americans today? What is the impelling duty
of every high-minded American citizen, both old and young? Surely this: to help character and brotherhood and public spirit catch
up with and glorify American inventive genius and trial efficiency. Then would human welfare be thrice blessed and America reach
a level never even imagined in favored lands. The central purpose of my message today is to summon your willpower
and energies to this appalling task, with resolute endeavor to frame yourself from this very hour for this high function.

“The chief and immediate need, therefore, is for each of you to take the first steps toward this personal leadership,
six essentials whose sure result is immediate and effective human leadership. The first of these is the habit of intensity,
of affection, of conviction, intensity of willpower, of energy, of effort. This habit distinguishes the leader everywhere from the follower,
the individual who swings the crowd from the second-rater who follows the crowd. The second of these leadership-winning habits is
the habit of enthusiasm. There is nothing so magnetic, so contagious, so irresistible as white-hot enthusiasm. To a hard-worked leader,
habitual enthusiasm is the fountain of perpetual youth; the inner magic that turns his arduous toil into joyful play. It
is as radiant, as cheer-inspiring, and as self-diffusing as heat and light.

“To make your leadership both wise and genuine, you must also cultivate the habit of independence. Always following the crowd,
even when seeming to direct it, is the bane of American life and American politics. Cultivate, therefore, the habit of
weighing and hearing and appreciating both sides of every question. Thus endeavor to make your leadership human and all-American rather
than local or sectional or inherited. The fourth is a habit that should always be formed in youth. It is
the habit of appreciating and loving other people. Trample underfoot, therefore, with zeal every habit and attitude that will tend
to make you either less loving or less lovable. Take pains to form the fixed habit of recognizing the good
points of other people rather than their faults and of applauding their good deeds. In this age of triumphant democracy,
never forget that to love and be loved is the straightest and surest road to effective leadership.

“The fifth creator of human leadership is the habit of harmonious teamwork. The key to all human activity today is
voluntary co-operation. Resist, therefore, now and always, every tendency toward solitariness. Form the habit of working happily and zealously with
other people, under other people, and for other people. To love at the same time your teammates and your bosses
is the sure road to both happiness and promotion in every twentieth-century enterprise. These five habits and qualities—intensity, enthusiasm, independence,
love, and co-operation—will surely carry you to positions of influence and leadership.

“But this whirlwind age of speedy change not only multiplies a leader's influence but demands a much rarer characteristic, a
habit which lifts leadership to the pedestal of greatness. This rare attribute of lasting leadership is the habit of constant
growth. To maintain one's leadership in wise love, this means keeping your mind, your heart, your impulses, and ideals abreast
of the swift-moving times in which your work is done.

“To do this, your mind and heart and innermost nature must keep forever growing. To learn its method, study the
three-fold growth of any monarch of the forest. Like it, grow ever outward in human sympathy and expanding knowledge and
multiplied interests; like it, grow ever downward in deep-rooted strength and fixed principles to anchor your growing bulk against wind
and storm. And as the forest tree, by the all-compelling law of its innermost nature, lifts its green crown upward
against the downward pull of gravity, so must you lift your leadership upward against the downward pull of inertia and
opposition.”

DAVIDSON WILL HONOR THREE ALUMNI
(Continued from page 4)

from 1919-1930, when he was made president of Flora Macdonald College. Mr. Williamson is a native of the Steele Creek
section, near Charlotte; he entered Davidson with the class of 1916, but was absent for three years to serve in
the World War as a sergeant in the medical corps, before he graduated here in 1919. He was graduated from
Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., with the degree of bachelor of divinity in 1921. For six years he was a
missionary in Mexico, chiefly at Chilpancingo, where he founded the Wallace Institute; he taught English in the State Normal School
at Chilpancingo for one year. Existing laws caused his withdrawal from the mission in 1927, and since then he has
been teaching in the Spanish department of Austin Theological Seminary, where he...is head of this Texas he is Synodical evangelist
for the Mexicans, is in charge of religious educational work and the campaign. He has been taking the post-graduate course
at Union Theological Seminary, leading to the degree of doctor of theology. Among pull of gravity, so that each of
us in faith and hope and aspiration grow ever further from the earth in which our roots are set, nearer
to the skies that call us overhead. “Thus shall your threefold leadership lend its aid towards stabilizing and uplifting our
perplexed and bewildered but ever-rising American civilization.”

STATISTICS ON TRAVELING (Continued from page 1)

means of transportation for the Davidson student on his travels, for 456 of his trips were made in the automobiles
of friends, and these two together constituted over half of the trips made by this means. An additional 230 were
made. This last named category is distinguished from bumming, for the student generally makes provision for his ride before leaving,
and hence does not throw himself upon the mercy of the public for his transportation. Although the destinations of the
trips were not asked, the facts seem to point overwhelmingly to Charlotte, 20 miles distant. Most of the trips covered
only 41 miles, which is approximately the distance of the round trip from Davidson to Charlotte. This figure appeared as
the median, or halfway figure, in the columns tabulating “all classes of trips,” and “trips made with friends.” The only
true bumming trips averaged slightly higher. Trips with friends averaged 59 miles, bumming, 70 miles. The longest round trip made
by any student in the survey was 1,200 miles, made in his own car. Nine other trips of more than
500 miles length were reported, two of them by railroads and three by buses. These were of minor importance. The
fact that 35 percent of the miles covered was done by bumming was revealed. Because of the length of the
individual bus trips, these were second in this classification, accounting for 22.6 percent. Rides furnished by friends were only a
little below this figure in the table, for 21.2 percent of the miles covered were by this method. No other
means of transportation closely approximated these three.

PROFESSORS ATTEND ACADEMY OF SCIENCE (Continued from page 1)

the high schools of the state. Professor Fulcher was elected chairman of the physics section of the academy. Travel by
airplane and by walking were abundant harvests. The academy accepted the invitation to have its thirty-second annual meeting at Davidson
next spring.

HUIE AND KUYKENDALL (Continued from page 1)

illustrating the unfathomable and undying love of mother. The speaker's picture was of a home without mother. His picture showed
that she is the nucleus, the life of the home. His closing thought was that we should strive to honor
her more on all days. Our country has cause for gratitude to the Almighty. We have been widely blessed with
Herbert Hoover in his annual Thanksgiving Day proclamation. Wheat farmers take notice.—I.P.

We must be careful not to confuse the absence of elaborate formalities with bad manners. Professor William Lyon Phelps is
highly recommended: It is a complete, concise, compact dictionary of synonyms and antonyms which will furnish that searched-for word at
the right time and with very little trouble. There have been many such dictionaries published, but they have been, as
a rule, so large and unwieldy as to make them of no real value. But this new publication of Noble
and Noble is the last word in conciseness and proves of invaluable aid to those who desire a larger and
more varied vocabulary. In addition to the likes and opposites, there are special sections devoted to automobile and radio terms
not found in the ordinary dictionary. For anyone who does any amount of writing, such a book is an absolute
necessity, and there have been none published which can equal the completeness and compactness of this work by Mr. Adams.
And the cost is very low for such an effective aid to good writing and correct speech. It costs only
$1.25.

“What keeps the stars shining” is far from being answered.—Professor Henry Norris Russell.

Do you inhale? O.K. AMERICA TUNE IN ON LUCKY STRIKE—60 modern minutes with the world's finest dance orchestras, and famous
Lucky Strike news features, every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday evening over N.B.C. networks.

Do you inhale? People know they do. The other three inhale without realizing it. Every smoker breathes in some part
of the smoke he or she draws out of a cigarette. Lucky Strike dared to raise this vital question because
certain impurities concealed in even the finest, mildest tobacco leaves are removed by Luckies’ famous purifying process. Luckies created that
process. Only Luckies have it! Do you inhale? Remember—more than 20,000 physicians, after Luckies had been furnished them for tests,
basing their opinions on their smoking experience, stated that Luckies are less irritating to the throat than other cigarettes. Do
you inhale? Of course you do! So be careful. Safeguard your delicate membranes! “It's toasted” Your finest protection—against irritation—against DO
YOU INHALE? Why are other cigarettes silent on this vital question? Seven out of ten people know they do.
