THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1932

All-Americans Trample Wingate Junior College

Displaying good offensive power, Coach Unger’s “All-American” football team, composed of members of the Varsity B squad, defeated Wingate Junior
College, 33 to 0, in a one-sided game played on Richardson Field on Saturday, November 19. From the kickoff to
the last play there was little doubt as to the outcome of the game and the Davidson team showed its
great strength by piling up the score of 33 points, whereas Wingate Juniors were unable to score.

Although handicapped by a wet field, Bumgarner and Dickerson led the “All-Americans” in a running attack which carried the pigskin
from one end of the field to the other. Doc Unger’s team also gave a good exhibition of defensive strength,
and as the score indicates, the Wingate eleven gained very little ground from scrimmage. The “All-Americans” used several different types
of plays in the contest, among which were those of Wake Forest, Davidson, and Carolina.

DAVIDSON WILDCATS MEET WAKE FOREST DEACONS

(Continued from page 1)

Wingfield and Hand, who haven't seen regular duty for the last two or three games on account of injuries, are
expected to be in practically normal condition for the game. Captain Gardner will be stronger, but received a slight lip
injury in the last game; however, he will probably see much action on Thanksgiving Day. The whole team will, in
fact, be more powerful and primed against the Deacons, although they face some stiff workouts.

Wake Forest has a powerful and heavy team this year, with a good backfield, and a strong line that has
no weak spots. Both teams are about equal in weight. The holiday game is expected to draw one of the
biggest crowds of the year and promises to be one of the most thrilling. Davidson is determined more than ever
to overcome the jinx which has hung over the Wildcats for the past eleven years, and has the advantage this
year of playing on her own field.

The following is a list of the resulting scores of the past years:
1908—Wake Forest 4---------- Davidson 31
1910—Wake Forest 0---------- Davidson 32
1912—Wake Forest 7---------- Davidson 13
1913—Wake Forest 0---------- Davidson 6
1914—Wake Forest 6---------- Davidson 7
1915—Wake Forest 7---------- Davidson 21
1917—Wake Forest 7---------- Davidson 72
1919—Wake Forest 0---------- Davidson 21
1920—Wake Forest 7---------- Davidson 27
1921—Wake Forest 10--------- Davidson 7
1922—Wake Forest 6---------- Davidson 6
1923—Wake Forest 6---------- Davidson 0
1925—Wake Forest 7---------- Davidson 7
1926—Wake Forest 3---------- Davidson 3
1927—Wake Forest 13--------- Davidson 13
1928—Wake Forest 25--------- Davidson 6
1929—Wake Forest 6---------- Davidson 0
1930—Wake Forest 13--------- Davidson 2
1931—Wake Forest 7---------- Davidson 0

Total—Wake Forest 134; Davidson 274.

DR. A. S. JOHNSON SPEAKS AT Y. M. C. A. SERVICES

(Continued from page 1)

Christians cannot be missionaries in the strictest sense; but we can all bear witness to Christ at every possible opportunity.
For the third fact, the doctor said that we must have a number of visions of helping and inspiring others
to Christ. Unless we have these visions, and carry them out, we are not true witnesses for Christ. As the
fourth and last point, we must have the illuminating spirit of God. The speaker closed his talk by bringing attention
again to the thought and the words of the text: that we are all witnesses of Christ, and we should
at all times by our faith give testimony for Him.

After the singing of the last hymn, Dr. W. L. Lingledismissed the service with a prayer.

DUKE DEFEATS CAROLINA TO TAKE BIG FIVE TITLE
(Continued from page 5)

played. The outcome will decide the possession of last place. The standings:

| W. | L. | T. | Pet. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Duke | 3 | 1 | 0 | .750 |
| Carolina | 2 | 1 | 0 | .667 |
| N.C. State | 2 | 1 | 0 | .667 |
| Wake Forest | 0 | 2 | 0 | .000 |
| Davidson | 0 | 3 | 0 | .000 |

NOTICE
Have your shoes rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Work done while you wait.
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

DR. SPARROW TALKS TO PI DELTA ALPHA
(Continued from page 1)

oping, according to the speaker. He discussed the physiology of breathing, and described the organs of respiration, surrounding tissues, and
nerves connected with respiration. The audience was particularly interested in the slides shown by Dr. Sparrow, which illustrated the surgical
methods of treating lung lesions, and actual cases which had been treated, with the progress shown after the treatment.

Dr. Sparrow is an alumnus of Davidson. He graduated with the class of 1916, and went to the School of
Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania to receive his medical degree. He now practices in Charlotte. About forty students formed
Dr. Sparrow’s audience; and an open forum was held for their benefit. The works spoken of by Dr. Sparrow were
taken up for discussion by this group.

LANGUAGE TEACHERS TO ATTEND MEETING
(Continued from page 1)

Dr. Adams, formerly a resident of Charlotte, is a very learned man, and is one of this country’s leading authorities
on Shakespeare and his works. He is now librarian and curator of the Folger Shakespeare Library in Washington, D.C. Two
years ago the South Atlantic Modern Language Association held its annual meeting at Davidson.

PLANS ANNOUNCED BY NEW OFFICERS OF PHI
(Continued from page 1)

grams. Discussion concerning a ceremony to celebrate the founding of the Philanthropic Literary Society was held. The society during the
celebration of this event will be 96 years old, having been founded in 1836. It was decided that the 24
candles in the Napoleonic chandelier would be lighted and an impressive ceremony would be held. The society is looking forward
with keen anticipation to this coming anniversary.

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY
Richard Cortez—Karen Morley

THURSDAY
TROUBLE IN PARADISE
Miriam Hopkins—Kay Francis—Herbert Marshall

PHANTOM OF CRESTWOOD

MONDAY
FAITHLESS
Tallulah Bankhead—Robert Montgomery

TUESDAY
MASK OF FU MANCHU

FRIDAY
HE LEARNED ABOUT WOMEN
Stuart Erwin—Alison Skipworth—Susan Fleming

SATURDAY
HELL’S HIGHWAY
Richard Dix

No raw tobaccos—that’s why they’re so mild

WE buy the finest, the very finest tobaccos in all the world—but that does not explain why folks everywhere regard
Lucky Strike as the mildest cigarette. The fact is, we never overlook the truth that “Nature in the Raw is
Seldom Mild”—so these fine tobaccos, after proper aging and mellowing, are then given the benefit of that Lucky Strike purifying
process, described by the words—“It’s toasted”. That’s why folks in every city, town and hamlet say that Luckies are such
mild cigarettes.

* THE PILGRIM’S FIRST WINTER *
“Nature in the Raw”—as portrayed by Herbert Roese, celebrated painter... inspired by the bitter hardships endured by America’s first settlers
in their conflict with raw, wild nature (1620). “Nature in the Raw is Seldom Mild”—and raw tobaccos have no place
in cigarettes.

“It’s toasted”
That package of mild Luckies
