THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRANT
A.M. MANSON - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
L. W. CLARDY - Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK - Managing Editor
W. M. THOMP - Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS - Managing Editor
B. CASALI - Athletic Editor
W. WHITE - Feature Editor
S. CAMBUG - Feature Editor
T. GOODYKOONTZ
A. HANCOCK
D. D. McBRYDE
R. L. McCALLIE
C. F. MYERS
B. B. SUGG
W. T. JOHNSON - Assistant Business Manager
A. H. MANSON
ALVIN BAYER, JR.
H. B. DANIEL - Solicitor
M. DOUGLAS
L. GRE - Solicitor
W. P. SPRUNT - Solicitor
R. TAY
A. C. WADSWORTH - Solicitor
E. WHITE - Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President - S. GAMBLE
Vice-President - LEWIS GREGG
Secretary-Treasurer - M. W. ALDERMAN
L. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN
L. McILWINEN
G. E. BAILY
E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY
W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES
W. L. NORTHEN
E. BOWE
C. E. NORVELL
E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
H. COVINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON
P. M. ROGERS
B. FICKLI
B. L. ROSE
L. GULLE
T. H. SUTTON
ZACK HELLINGER
N. W. WALLACE
C. HENRY
K. D. WEEKS
A. HUNTER
W. R. WARD
E. LORRAINE
W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. OD
W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS
PRATT-THOMAS

NOVEMBER 23, 1932.

They are never alone that are accompanied with noble thoughts.
—Sir Philip Sidney.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

We are sure that nothing would be more gratifying to the Davidson student body on Thanksgiving Day than a decisive victory over our ancient rivals, Wake Forest.

The Class of ’33 has contributed its share to athletics in its stay on the campus, and the game Thanksgiving Day will be the last intercollegiate contest for many fine players. It will end the careers of Captain Gardner, Wagner, Pearce, Peabody, Flinn, Mills, Fleagle, Whitfield, and Dickerson and others. This is rather a large group and their places will be hard to fill next season.

The weather bureau of The Davidsonian predicts snow by Christmas.

The bid for the New Year’s Day game in the Rose Bowl will probably be given to either Auburn, Pitt, Brown, or Colgate. As the Southern California Trojans are undefeated in the Pacific Coast Conference, it seems certain that they will represent the West, and naturally we hope that the Auburn Plainsmen will have the opportunity to take the trip to Pasadena.

The experts have already begun to pick their All-American elevens, and a number of southern players have been placed on some of these mythical teams. Some of these are Hitchcock of Auburn, Gracey of Vanderbilt, Zimmerman of Tulane, Cain of Alabama, and Feathers of Tennessee. We would like to see these men given credit for their splendid performance this past season.

Duke broke a thirty-nine-year jinx by winning 7-0 over Carolina this last Saturday. Even then Carolina followers claim that they would not have lost except for that break in the first quarter when Collins ran onto the field, and as a result the team was penalized, putting the ball on their own five-yard line.

Wildcat supporters are hoping that the jinx with the Demon Deacons will be broken this next Thursday. More power, 'Cats. We're behind you!

We cannot say enough in praise of the Wildkittens. They have as much fight as any Davidson team we have ever seen, barring none, and we feel safe in saying that if the same fight is exhibited next Thursday, as was exhibited last Friday, Wake Forest will be in a bad way when the sun sets that day. Johnny Pearce is as pretty a running back as we have ever seen anywhere for his size.

From all that we hear, the members of the Senior class are very well satisfied with the outcome of their petition to the Executive Committee for privileges.

While speaking of the Senior Class, we feel that the Senior blazers this year are the most serviceable and by far the best looking of any blazer in four or five years.

THE WAR DEBT SITUATION

The most important foreign question which our government has to face today is that of war debts. The eyes of the nation are at the moment focused on the conference between President Hoover and President-Elect Roosevelt to discuss the problem. There are two factors which bring this question into the spotlight at this time. The first is that the Hoover moratorium has expired and the debts are now due, and second, German reparations have practically been canceled by the terms of the Lausanne Settlement which is to be ratified on condition of revision of the debts owed by the Allies to the United States.

Walter Lippman, in a recent article on the subject, points out that formerly the debt installments and interest have been paid by the Allies only when the United States lent them the money, so that in reality the debts were not paid at all. On the other hand, this borrowing may have had nothing at all to do with the debt situation. In this connection it may be shown that in the case of some Ally powers the amount procured from Germany in reparations exceeded the amount paid to the United States, so it seems that these powers paid the United States out of the reparation money.

However the debts may have been paid formerly, the situation is now changed. At the Lausanne Conference the Allies at last recognized Germany’s inability to pay. They cannot borrow from the United States and so find themselves with a debt payment due and no money with which to pay it.

Why cannot the Allies pay to the United States the debts which they owe? There are two ways which the Allies have of paying: by gold payments and by payments in goods and services. The debtor nations have exhausted their ability to pay in gold, which has resulted in a monopoly of gold by the United States. They cannot pay in goods and services because of the high tariff wall which we have erected in reciprocity. It is natural that our manufacturers do not wish an influx of foreign goods because it would inevitably hurt their products. So we are indeed in a quandary. It is certain, however, that if our abnormally high tariffs were reduced, the situation would be much improved.

Another reason why a new settlement is desired at this time is that the value of money has decreased enormously since the debts were contracted, and although efforts have been made to scale the debts down, further adjustment is necessary.

Certainly, the requests of the debtor powers for further consideration and revision should be looked upon with favor.
—W. L. FUGATE.

AN OPPORTUNITY FOR SERVICE

College boys are above all idealistic. Perhaps not openly so, but at least in their innermost thoughts they have lofty visions and noble ambitions of lives of service, and a world made better through their efforts. In Davidson College particularly are there groups that realize acutely the problems of the world and bend all their energies toward the solution of these problems. We have those who are studying Economics in order that they may have a better understanding of the conditions and causes of our present depression with a view to rectifying these conditions. We have those in Sociology classes who are pondering over the problems of social adjustment. There is a large group of men here who are studying to be doctors, some in order that, as medical missionaries, they may bring relief for suffering thousands in foreign lands; others in order that they may yield some service to their own countrymen. There are prospective lawyers who have a vision of a just America with all men truly free and equal under the law. There are future ministers who have an ambition of doing their part in bringing this world to a fuller and more complete realization of the saving grace of Jesus Christ. Thus we might run through the entire student body, pointing out those who see in themselves agents whereby a higher civilization and a greater degree of happiness may be realized in America.

But the great problem among college students is that they are too idealistic. They dream dreams and see visions; but they do not descend to the practical world and carry out these visions. They do not realize that they must first do the smaller tasks at hand before they can do those larger tasks in after life.

Here at Davidson there is a great opportunity for service. Just across the railroad tracks there is a large white and colored population, both of which are in great need of help from us, who have been blessed with more of the good things of life than they. Last Thursday night there was a concert of negro spirituals given by the Silver Tone Quartet of Kannapolis, and the choir of the Davidson Methodist negro church, with admission of a dime for the purpose of alleviating the serious financial difficulty in which the Davidson church finds itself. Such causes as this surely deserve the wholehearted support of every Davidson man.

It is difficult to see with proper perspective those things that are close to us. Thus we often tend to overlook the fact that for theseWORLD SPECTATOR

I SAW

What was thought to be a mail robbery turned out to be only a little quarrel between the driver of a mail truck and a fruit peddler. The driver of a New York mail truck was required to go up a crowded street lined with push carts in order to make a delivery. Unable to find a place to park, the driver asked a push cart vendor to move in order to allow him to park. The vendor objected and the argument began. Other vendors supported their fellow businessman until finally the police arrived. They were glad to realize that there was no robbery, and after giving the vendor a lecture on the privileges of the United States mail, left the neighborhood in peace.

Samuel P. Capen, chancellor of the University of Buffalo, in a speech before the Conference of Universities in New York recently, described the American universities as less advanced than European universities along lines of freedom. The students in European colleges have more freedom of opinion and of speech as well as a greater range of subjects into which they may investigate and announce the results. Chancellor Capen also showed that even with the large endowments and appropriations, American educational institutions do not have sufficient money to operate superlative graduate schools.

New Zealand, like practically every other country, is confronted with the problem of dealing with the unemployed. This distant British colony is attempting to change the situation, not by doles or any similar method, but by instituting a “back to the land” movement for the unemployed. Since spring is just approaching in New Zealand, the unemployed should be able to work the land and get at least some relief.

An advance step in motor transportation by night was taken when a mile of highway was equipped with special neon gas and sodium vapor lights recently in Holland. The highway stretches between Maastricht and Nijmegen and at night is bright enough for driving without automobile lights. The type of illumination used tends to reduce reflection and glare, thereby lessening accidents. Not only does the neon and sodium light produce an orange-yellow shade of light, but it contrasts with other objects, making them appear distinct. It is also said that the peculiar composition of the light detracts the attention from the lights and focuses it upon the road. All these phases have the general tendency to lower the accident rate. In the United States, there have been a few highways which have been lighted, but the type of the light thrown upon the road has not been given very deep thought up to this time.

The Hippodrome, famous old New York theatre, is to be sold at auction December 6th. This famous old building was erected in 1905 and at that time was considered one of the finest theatres in America. Since 1905 it has slowly declined, forsaking drama for vaudeville, and at the present, because of the fact that vaudeville has been replaced by the motion pictures, it is a liability to its owners.

In an international radio and telegraph convention at Madrid, American and British delegates were bitterly opposed to a suggested change of the maximum number of letters for code messages. The English and Americans, who are the largest users of code words in business messages, were opposed to the move because any change would require a revision of the code books of thousands of business houses. The proposed change was from the present ten-letter limit to a limit of five letters to each code word. The private telegraph companies were originally in favor of such a reduction, because it would enable more words to be sent in a given time, but when they realized that the expense of changing codes and other expenses involved, they became opposed to the change.

Dr. G. H. Parker, of Harvard University, before the National Academy of Sciences, disclosed his theory that there are three separate and distinct fluids which circulate through the human body. The first two, blood and lymph, are accepted by modern medical scholars as being present. The new liquid which Dr. Parker revealed is a form of soluble oil which passes slowly through the tissues, being discharged by the nerve terminals. It is a form of this liquid which causes the change in color in certain fish as well as changes in other forms of animal life. In the human body, this liquid causes discolorations and also the spread of certain poisons. This latter point helps to prove the theory because the poisons in a great many cases spread too slowly to be carried by the blood.

In 1919 the international labor conference passed a rule forbidding the employment of women in industry at night. The conference was held in connection with the World Court and the League of Nations, so recently a revision to this rule was brought up and was passed by the World Court. This revision had the effect of allowing women holding positions of management or supervision to work at night, distinguishing them from those women who perform manual labor.

An incident which might easily have been an international calamity took place recently in the Chancellor’s palace in Berlin. President von Hindenburg, unfamiliar with the arrangement of the house, slipped and fell upon the floor. He wasn’t seriously hurt, so there was no great importance to the accident. It is said that those present at the time were amused at the old gentleman’s sudden outburst of profanity which he had learned in the army during his younger days. As soon, however, as he found himself uninjured, it is said that he took the incident as a joke. Any serious injury would have probably put an end to his career and would have withdrawn the one firm support to which the Germans are clinging.

Collegiate Ramblings

E. Lake .. N. C. C. W. ; The Carolinian has the pictures of N. C. C. W.'s superlatives in its November 10th issue. They are quite pretty and are very easy to look at. N.C.C. W. is now known as the Women’s College of the University of North Carolina.

V.-P. I. For their Thanksgiving dances, V. P. I. will have Charlie Boulanger and his Columbia Broadcasting Orchestra for the Cotillion Club, and Ted Brewer's Musicians for the German Club. These dances will be held on November 25 and 26.

V. M. I. Joe Sanders and his Orchestra, formerly Coon-Sanders, will furnish the music for the Thanksgiving set of dances at V. M. I. There will be three dances in the set, including a tea dance.

People who are our neighbors' life is just as serious and real as for those who live in distant lands. Davidson’s support of these causes which are more intimate than home missions has been fine in the past. May it continue to be so. —W. M. THOMPSON.

The shades of night were falling fast The nut “stepped on it” and rushed past. A crash—he died without a sound They opened up his head and found Excelsior! —Theresa Crowd.

A Frosh received a watch as a birthday present from his best girl Thursday. Instead of being elated when opening it, he lamented, “Shucks, she didn’t even say ‘with much love’!” Ooops!

Bob Korntgay playing with his squirrel Satdee. Everybody on his hall loves the playful little animal. We prefer other kinds of pets, for instance, Ward's canary which is the first canary here at Davidson in its 100 years of existence. Or say McIlwinnen’s goldfish are not bad. They are ornamental and not as much trouble.

A prof asked a Frosh, “Do you know where shingles were first used?” To which the Frosh replied, “I’d rather not tell.” Beg your pardon.

Fred McPhail visited a Charlotte dentist on a Saturday. I wonder if there’s anything to the rumor that he said, “The Yanks are coming,” as he sat down?

An old friend of Lizzie, our faithful parlor janitress, interrogated her in the post office Saturday. “Is dey college students, Lizzy,” she asked pointing to a group assembled outside. Lizzy looked at the crowd a while and tittered, “Well, dey goes to college, if dat’s what you mean.” Tee Hee.

In my imagination, the average student gets up of a school morning to the alarm of a Connecticut clock, washes in a Pittsburgh lavatory, uses Cincinnati soap, dries on Cannon towels from Concord, sits down at a High Point table, eats hot biscuits made with Minneapolis flour, Kansas City bacon, and Indiana grits fried in Omaha lard cooked on a St. Louis stove. And now who dares to say we here at Davidson are not cosmopolites!

Euphony thing. Before winding up my routine this time I'll leave off with a little essay. You see I’m quite versatile. I write short stories, poetry, or what have you. It is no longer proper I hear for husbands to spank wives, but I sometimes wonder if it wouldn’t be a good thing if they did. I ask you, do you think unspanked wives are happier than spanked ones? I don't think they are and the unspanked ones are developing “tantrums.” “Tantrums” come on easily and are bad on digestion. This is why husbands should spank their wives. It is their duty to protect them in all situations, and I think they ought to do something about these fits. Instead, husbands today cuddle their wives and promise them that new car, a trip to Europe, or whatever it is. Consequently, conditions grow only worse. It is beyond me how a man can be so inhuman as to allow his wife to suffer from this malady. I am passing on this good advice to Davidson students in the hope that they will do their duty by their wives and at the first signs of a tantrum step on it.

TIP POFF.