THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1932

BACK THOSE “ALL-AMERICANS” SATURDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

BEAT THOSE BLUE IMPS FRIDAY

Davidson Varsity Cross Country Runners Defeat Winston-Salem Harriers

Freshman Runners Win Close Race From Winston-Salem High School, 24-31

On last Saturday, the Davidson cross-country teams showed their heels to Winston-Salem runners in a closely fought meet. The Varsity
runners passed the Winston-Salem ‘All-Stars on the regular three-mile course, which started on the Concord road and finished in front
of the stadium. George Gullette showed up in a surprise finish to win first place with the time of 17
minutes and 56 seconds, and was followed closely by Hubert Morris. The final score was 19-36. The order of those
finishing was as follows: Gullette (D), Morris (D), McFadyen (D), Morrow (D), Trivette (W), Leinback (W), Brimley (W), Ebert (W),
Woodside (D), and Moore (W).

The Freshman team met a strong Winston-Salem High School quintet of runners who gave them a good fight before giving
way to a stronger Davidson team. Frazier again stepped out in front with his usual speed to lead Billy Merchant
who took a good second. Holden, Sanderford, and Kenny, all of Winston, sprinted in close order before Shuford, Glass, and
Foy could break up their attempts for a victory. The final score was 24 to 31. The qualifying runners came
in the following order: Frazier (D), Merchant (D), Holden (W), Sanderford (W), Kenny (W), Shuford (D), Glass (D), Foy (D),
Flint (W), Patterson (W). The runners had a strong headwind all the way, which necessarily slowed their time. The Freshman
time was 11 minutes and 7 seconds for the two-mile course. This race finished the Varsity schedule for the season,
and they will rest until spring track begins. The Freshmen have one more meet this fall, which will take place
on Thanksgiving Day, November 24th, at Davidson.

Volley Ball Tourney

The volleyballers of the different classes have for the past week been pawing the cowhide across the net in fine
style, to play each class in the intramural tournament. The Senior and Junior teams, having more experienced players, are apparently
better than the lower classmen. The Sophomores look good at times, however. In the first games, the Seniors, captained by
J. C. Pennington, humbled the Freshmen, while Lee West was leading his Sophomore team to a victory over the Juniors.
Then the Seniors downed the Sophs, and Captain Owen Ravenel with the Junior team beat the Freshmen. To wind up
the first half of the series, the Juniors and Sophomores made their triumphs two all by licking the Seniors and
Freshmen, respectively. This leaves the Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores in a tie for first place, which should make the second
half very interesting. The standings:

| Team | Won | Lost |
|-------|-----|------|
| Seniors | 2 | 1 |
| Juniors | 2 | 1 |
| Sophomores | 2 | 1 |
| Freshmen | 0 | 3 |

Immediately after this play-off, there will be an inter-fraternity elimination tournament.

Reserves Will Meet Wingate Jr. College

Coach J. W. Unger is engaged in marshalling a football team which will meet Wingate Junior College in an “All-American”
game on Saturday, November 19. This team will be composed of men from the varsity reserve. The game will be
played on Richardson Field, and is scheduled to start at 2 o’clock. At the present time, Coach Unger is somewhat
shy of material, having only four men to play in the backfield. The entire team will be approximately only 15
in number. Despite this handicap, it appears as though Wingate Juniors can expect to receive a licking at the hands
of Doc Unger’s team. It is hoped that Sam Bernardo, flashy back, will be able to play, although he was
injured last Tuesday. Wake Forest plays will be run against Wingate in the coming contest, and considerable unorthodox football will
be used to put scoring punch into the game.

Carolina’s 12-0 victory over Davidson Saturday was not expected, but neither was it surprising to the Wildcat followers. A Davidson
victory was hoped for, and in the face of the State-Davidson game a week ago, indications were favorable. Carolina followers
believed at the time that the Tar Heels would topple the ‘Cats by two touchdowns and the victory was no
surprise to them. Despite Davidson’s defeat, the graduates went home with satisfaction that Coaches Newton and McEver have done a
great deal of work in one season at Davidson, and with the feeling that inside of two years the Wildcats
will be one of the South’s leading teams.

Against Carolina Saturday, the Wildcats looked like a different team from the one which played against State in Charlotte a
week before. The life and action which was present in the State game was lacking in the Carolina game. This
lack of animation may be attributed to either over-exhaustion or failure to keep training. We are inclined to believe that
the Wildcats were sluggish against Carolina because they had put all they could against State and had worn themselves out.
Carolina was able to go against Davidson because Coach Collins had so many reserves at his disposal. He used no
less than three sets of backs in Saturday’s game. Whenever one backfield failed to gain, another was rushed in. This
permitted Carolina to have a fresh backfield throughout the game. Phipps and Shaffer, substitutes, were the leading ground gainers for
the afternoon, collecting 62 and 61 yards, respectively. Johnny Mackorell with 47 yards was next in order. Phipps also had
credit for throwing Carolina’s only completed pass, while Mackorell threw three of the four completed by Davidson. Captain “Buddy” Gardner
made his first appearance since he was injured in the Duke affair and played a great game while he was
in there. The Wildcat leader performed with his knee bandaged and battled Carolina’s great center, Underwood, on even terms until
Julian West relieved him.

Coach Laird’s Freshman team continued to show their characteristic scrapping spirit in holding William and Mary College, Norfolk division, to
a scoreless tie in the Virginia city last Friday. The Kittens bring their season to a close this Friday when
they meet Duke’s undefeated Blue Imps on Richardson Field. Coach Unger’s “All-Americans” will furnish the Saturday afternoon excitement this weekend
with Wingate Junior College as the opposition. Come out and give Davidson’s unsung gridiron heroes your support.

Results of Davidson’s 1932 Opponents:
DUKE 0, N. C. STATE 6.
W. & L. 7, West Virginia 19.
WOFFORD 6, Catawba 13.
V. M. I. 0, Richmond 7.
CITADEL 0, Presbyterian 27.
CLEMSON 18, Georgia 32.
W. FOREST 20, Carson-Newman 6.

Smilin’ Parson

BRUCE PEABODY

Bruce Peabody, defensive quarterback of the Wildcat team, is one of the reasons that Davidson has kept the play in
enemy territory in most of this season’s games. On the offense, the “Smilin’ Parson” has been used almost entirely as
a blocking back, despite his mere 155 pounds. Peabody, a Senior, is captain of the 1933 basketball team, and also
a member of the baseball team.Ten First Downs to Opponents’ Two

The Davidson Freshmen played the Norfolk division of William and Mary to a scoreless tie on muddy Bain Field at
Norfolk, Va., last Friday, November 11. In the first half, Davidson received the kick-off but failed to gain ground. Punts
were exchanged, with Pittman kicking for the Wildkittens. The William and Mary Braves tried passes but to no avail. Verbe
with his end runs and reverses, and Burns with his passes, helped Davidson to keep the ball in the territory
all of the first half.

In the second half, the Wildkittens again were on the offensive. They advanced the ball to the 6-yard line as
the third quarter ended. The ball was shifted to the muddy end of the field. Then Pearce, Davidson halfback, caught
a pass in the flat but slipped because of the mud and the ball went over. In first downs Davidson
had a distinct superiority, piling up ten against two for William and Mary. Stars for the Braves were Maxey and
Hawkins, backs, and Walker and White in the line. Cathey and Windham, Davidson's tackles, played their usual good game. Despite
the score, it was a moral victory for Davidson. The Braves, always a strong team, had previously beaten the V.
P. I. Freshmen, an unusually strong aggregation, 13 to 0.

Statistics
CAROLINA-DAVIDSON GAME
Caro. Dav.
First downs -------------- 12 7
Yds gained from scrim. ---- 235 113
Yds. lost from scrimmage -- 14 14
Passes attempted ---------- 6 16
Passes completed ---------- 1 4
Passes incompleted -------- 4 12
Passes intercepted --------- 1 0
Yds gained from passes ---- 13 59
Net yardage gained from passes and scrimmage -- 234 168
Number of punts ----------- 11 13
Yardage of punts ---------- 362 511
Average length of punts ---- 33 39
Yards punts returned ------- 109 5
Yds lost by penalties ------- 70 30
Fumbles ------------------- 2 1
Own fumbles recovered ----- 1 1

NOTICE
Have your shoes rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Work done while you wait.
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

Carolina Downs Davidson 12-0 Before Season’s Record Crowd
Running Attack Led by McCaskill and Woollen Brings Victory to Tar Heels

CAROLINA ENDS STAR
Woollen Returns Punt 62 Yards for First Score of Homecoming Game

Consistently outplaying the Wildcats, the University of North Carolina Tar Heels won a well-earned victory last Saturday on Richardson Field,
12 to 0. The Tar Heels were just two touchdowns better than the ’Cats, and the score tells the story
of the game rather completely. Carolina’s twelve points came on a touchdown in the initial canto by Woollen, and another
in the final period by Shaffer. Lassiter failed to add the extra point on both attempts.

The superior running attack of the Tar Heels was noticed immediately, when McCaskill and Woollen began ripping wide holes in
the Wildcat line. Davidson backs occasionally got off for good runs. Mackorell and Pearce got through a couple of times
in the first period, but the Carolina line always held, and Davidson was forced to punt. Here alone did the
Wildcats show a superiority, Pearce and Mackorell out-booting the highly-touted Carolina trio, Martin, Woollen and Burnett.

Carolina coaches can give much of the credit for the victory to their excellent pair of flankmen, Brandt and Walker.
The stellar pair on the wings stopped everything that came their way. Too much credit cannot be given to the
play of McCaskill and Croom, who tore the Wildcat forward wall to shreds, showing exceptional drive in every crack they
took at the mass of red jerseys. The famous punting strategy of the Tar Heels, that worked such wonders against
State, failed to loom during the afternoon, the punting of Burnett and Woollen appearing particularly streaky.

Although they lost by a good two touchdowns, the ’Cats did not lack their stars. As they always have, the
entire ’Cat eleven fought hard, although they did not rise to the usual heights before the annual Homecoming crowd. However,
they had played bang-up ball all year, and something of a let-down was to be expected. Nevertheless, Davidson showed some
speedy backs and some rugged linemen. George Wingfield gave the ’Heels plenty to worry about, once getting away for a
27-yard gallop. Then, too, there was the elusive Buck Mills who, put into the game in the dying moments, turned
in some of the most spectacular playing of the afternoon. To begin with, this speed merchant sold out around right
end for a first down, and then standing far behind his line of scrimmage, he let go a pass to
Morris for a 26-yard gain! However, Davidson's advance was stopped here, and Buck’s able work was to no avail. Charley
Pearce, Johnny Mackorell, and Bruce Peabody all played their usual fine games. In the line, Buddy Gardner, playing with his
knee strapped up, and seeing action for the first time since the opening game, played a fighting brand of football
at center, and Jack Wagner also showed up exceptionally well.

The Wildcat attack suffered a crushing blow, when Eb Willson, star fullback, was injured on the first play, and had
to be removed from the game. Hutchins played exceptionally well, his blocking and tackling especially being above reproach. However, the
spectacular running of Willson, which was witnessed in the State game, could not be replaced.

Carolina got going in the first quarter and was never seriously stopped or threatened by the ’Cats in this canto.
Towards the end of the period, Charlie Woollen took one of Pearce’s punts, travelling with its usual low trajectory, took
off for the goal line behind perfect interference, made quick tracks over the 62 yards, and crossed the last white
mark standing up. Hanes Lassiter failed to convert from placement.

Following this Davidson displayed the best brand of ball that they showed throughout the entire ball game. The ’Cats made
three consecutive first downs on some pretty running by Wingfield, Mackorell and Pearce. Mackorell then passed to Morris for a
nine-yard gain, and then ran off tackle for a first down on Carolina’s 16-yard stripe. Here the Blue line tightened,
and the half ended with the ball in Carolina’s possession in their own territory.

Shaffer and Phipps started things for Carolina in the third quarter, going through the Davidson line for good gains. Davidson
braced here, and halted the drive, and took possession of the ball, thus ending the offensive pyrotechnics for the third
period. In the final frame, the Tar Heels started a drive from Davidson’s 47-yard line. Phipps hit left tackle for
11 yards and a first down. Then Shaffer found a hole and raced 22 yards before he was brought down.
Shaffer and Phipps alternated at cracking the Davidson line in a drive up to the 8-yard line. Here Shaffer took
the oval and went over guard for the last score of the game. Lassiter again failed to convert from placement.
Here Coach McEver rushed in his gang of speedsters, and the pony backfield got going.

(Continued on page 6)

SEE THE STAR DIRECT EVERY THURSDAY
NORTON:
B. O. RAVENEL
Student Representative

For Thanksgiving:
PIGSKIN GLOVES by POWERS
FROM THE COLLEGE WALL
BEAU BRUMMEL IN SOLID COLORS
