THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1932

SCOTTISH CHURCH REPRODUCED

TREKKING WEST

LUNCHEON AT GLENDALE AIRPORT ENJOYABLE FEATURE

By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

Leaving Santa Barbara, we arrived in Los Angeles three hours later and attended a banquet given at the Alexandria Hotel,
which was convention headquarters. Hon. Friend W. Richardson, former Governor of California and President of the California Press Association, made
the address of welcome. He traveled with the party the whole time it remained on California soil. Another speaker was
Hon. John C. Porter, Mayor of Los Angeles. He is a fine-looking man, and his charming wife made an appointment
for me to visit him the next morning to be shown over the new City Hall. Others present were Hon.
A. Schleich, President of the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce, and Harry Chandler, Past President of the American Publishers Association
and publisher of the Los Angeles Times. An unusually good speech was made by the Lieutenant Governor of California, Hon.
Frank F. Merriam.

There were many conventions in Los Angeles at this time, and all of them claimed Vice-President Curtis. Everywhere he went,
he was feted and loudly acclaimed on every side. California said it was a pleasure and a privilege to be
host to the Vice-President of the United States. Marie Dressler was once called on to speak at a banquet given
at the Alexandria after some of the speakers had praised him and explained how fortunate they were to have him
there. When it came Marie’s turn, she put her hand on the top of the Vice-President’s bald head and said,
“Charles, I’ve been listening to all that’s been said, but I think you’re lucky to be here!”

At our table were Mr. and Mrs. C. D. Morris of Chicago, and two young men just graduated from the
Oregon State School of Journalism at Seattle. Mr. Morris is with the Public Relations Committee of the Western Railroads in
Chicago. He appeared on the program with Dr. Henry Nash at the session in San Francisco.

DR. HENRY NASH SPEAKS ON PRINTING

Dr. Nash is one of the greatest printers known, and at the session in San Francisco, he told about printing
the life of Mrs. Phoebe Hearst for Mr. Hearst. He brought a copy of the book with him, along with
several others, including his masterpiece, Dante. This great printer set the type for Mr. Hearst's book with his own hands.
Simplicity is the keynote, and the paper is of the finest white German vellum. Dr. Nash told me that he
never hurries when printing a book. When Mr. Hearst told Dr. Nash exactly when he wanted his book, the latter
replied that if he wanted him to edit the book, he was not to give any directions. Mr. Hearst let
him alone. After a period of years, Dr. Nash finished the book, and Mr. Hearst asked him how much it
would be. Dr. Nash, with fear and trembling, whispered, “Ten thousand dollars.” Mr. Hearst went for a walk in the
garden and, on returning, commented, “I’m disappointed. I thought it would cost me at least fifteen thousand.” Dr. Nash later
printed a copy of Dante for Mr. Hearst, and needless to say, it cost Mr. Hearst exactly fifteen thousand dollars.

At the business session the next morning, we heard Mr. Crombie Allen, of Ontario, Canada, speak on “Russia and American
Journalism.” Unlike many so-called “authorities” who go over for a week or two and return to write a book on
Russia, Mr. Allen...

Intercollegiate News

Urbana, Ohio—(IP)—A former college instructor who turned Tarzan eighteen years ago is swinging high this week in the limbs of
a 100-foot elm over the Mad River near here. He is back in the treetops again after a lapse of
three years because he had been furnished with a new rope to replace the one that rotted in 1929. He
used the rope to gain entrance to his lofty perch.

“Tarzan” is Orrin Sternbarger, 75, former instructor in art at Wittenberg College. Eighteen years ago, doctors told him he would
die within a few months from tuberculosis. The instructor decided that he would spend his last few months close to
the nature he loved. So he entered the wooded area near and built himself a hut high on the tree.
And he lived there for fifteen years, with only a fishpole and a bow and arrow to aid him in
getting food. Recently, a resident of this city learned of the old man’s lack of approach to his hut and
bought him a new one. The new rope arrived this week. Sternbarger fastened a thread to an arrow and sent
it over a limb near his hut. Then he drew the rope into a pulley and soon had one there.tree,
pulled himself up where he is now “at home” again.

Cambridge, Mass.—(IP)—Following reports of the university corporation discussing his recent divorce, Professor Kirsopp Lake, authority on Biblical and early Christian
history, has resigned as Winn Professor of Ecclesiastical History at Harvard Theological School. Professor Lake secured a divorce last July
on the grounds of cruelty, after he had established a short residence at Reno, Nev. He asserted when he handed
in his resignation, however, that he would continue to lecture in his Old Testament course.

Schenectady, N. Y.—(P)—“It would be better to put men in the coal mines for four years than to teach them
in college to become lounge lizards,” Dr. Frank Parker Day of Union College told the Freshman class at that college
last week. “Character,” he said, “is necessary if one is to decide on a line of action and have the
courage to follow it through. It is far better to become a waster and do a good job of it
than to try to accomplish something and slip into wastefulness.”

Berkeley, Cal.—(IP)—Professor E. O. Lawrence, head of the University of California radiation laboratory, last week announced that his department had
succeeded in disintegrating the lithium atom into two alpha particles, or ionized atoms of helium gas. He explained that a
lithium fluoride was bombarded with a stream of proton bullets. The number of disintegrated atoms increased as the energy of
the “bullets” was increased to 510,000 volt-electrons.

San Francisco—(IP)—Brought before Municipal Judge Sylvian J. Lazarus here on a charge of taking two books on philosophy from a
bookstore recently, Harold Lord, 23, Northwestern University student, explained to the judge that he was hungry, for both food and
greater knowledge. For three-quarters of an hour there was a keen philosophical discussion between the student and the judge, which
ended when the judge said that “this boy is no criminal. He is a smart lad.” Judge Lazarus then gave
him a suspended 15-day sentence and handed him $1, “so you won't have to go hungry, my lad.”

BOYS’ WORK OF “Y” IS PROGRESSING RAPIDLY
(Continued from page 1)

teams of its own weight in the neighboring counties. Approximately twenty new men, including about sixteen Freshmen and four upperclassmen,
have offered their services to the Boys’ Work Department this year. These new men are: Archie Shuford, L. T. Purnell,
J. M. Walker, C. G. Smith, T. M. Marchant, B. H. Dillard, J. H. Morrow, W. M. Archer, T. E.
Downie, A. J. Gillespie, S. F. Marsh, C. Hamrick, A. M. Faison, J. F. Fay, W. A. Merchant, M. E.
Baggett, C. B. Ross, John Taylor, and Bob Smith.

STATISTICS INDICATE SURPRISING CHANGES
(Continued from page 1)

age is the most unusual of all, showing a loss of eight-tenths of a pound and a gain of 1.2
inches. The figures also show that the class of 1936 upon entrance was three-tenths of a pound heavier and four-tenths
of an inch shorter than was the class of 1935 one year ago.

ANNOUNCING THE OPENING OF
The Oaks Tavern Tea Room
Mrs. Harry Y. Mott, Manager
Dinner Parties
Lawn Parties
Telephone Davidson No. 2005
Location: 2 Miles West of Mt. Mourne, N. C.
Picnics
Card Parties
Club Meetings
Banquets
By Appointment Only

"You call it America’s pipe tobacco!” —AND HERE’S WHY:
Granger is made of White Burley Tobacco—the type between the kind used for chewing and the kind used for cigarettes.
In other words, it’s pipe tobacco—and if you’re smoking a pipe, you want tobacco made for pipes—not tobacco made for
something else, it matters not how good it is.

YOU CAN DEPEND ON A LIGGETT & MYERS PRODUCT

GLENDALE TERMINAL VISITED
At noon we departed for Grand Central Airport at Glendale for luncheon. Glendale people were most hospitable and entertained the
party royally. Afterwards we visited Senator Oddie of Reno, who has lived among the people for many years and is
well acquainted with his subject. A barbecue was held on the lawn.
(Continued on page 6)

SEE THE GEO. LAPITZ STAR DIRECT
Tailoring Display
EVERY WEDNESDAY
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP.
Student Representatives
B. O. RAVENELLE

THE YOWL OFFERS THIS SPECIAL COMBINATION OFFER:
TIME---One Year $5.00
COLLEGE HUMOR---One Year $2.50
VANITY FAIR---Nine Months $2.00
THE YOWL---One Year $1.00
Total $10.50
SPECIAL COMBINATION OFFER $8.50
(If you are now a subscriber to some of these magazines or do not wish to purchase the whole combination,
we can offer you any one of these magazines at a great saving. See someone on the Yowl Staff immediately.)
REEVES POPE, Editor
ARTHUR ROSS, JR.
213 West 14 Ga.
