THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 26, 1932

Students Considered as Adults by Chicago Univ.
Average on Examinations Improved by Novel System Recently Introduced

Chicago—The University of Chicago has found, after one year’s operation of its new educational plan, that “making pupils into scholars” is not difficult if they are treated as adults. This is the sentiment of Dean Chauncey S. Boucher in his resume of the new plan’s results. “The first year of the experiment,” he says, “has met with a degree of success even greater than we had dared hope for.”

Distinguishing features of the new plan, given nation-wide attention a year ago, are the abandonment of routine requirements in terms of ‘course credits’ and grade points, voluntary rather than required class attendance, and comprehensive examinations only at the close of the year rather than periodic quizzes on factual material.

Some of the results of June examinations now disclosed by Dean Boucher in bearing out his belief in the effectiveness of the new scheme are: In the comprehensive examinations in four courses the proportion of failure ranged from 8 per cent to 12 per cent, with only 5 per cent of the students rating lowly enough to be denied further pursuit of the courses. This is virtually the same percentage of failures as obtained in previous years under the “standard” system. Fourteen students were able to pass one or more of the examinations without “taking” the courses which led up to them; sixteen passed after taking only one of the normal three-quarters of formal study, and 47 passed after taking two of the usual three-quarters. Of these unusual cases, eight examinations won grades of “A” and 25 attained “B” rankings. One student passed all four of the comprehensive examinations after only twelve weeks of formal residence; two students passed three examinations after 24 weeks, one of them getting grades of A-B-B.

Another unanticipated result of the plan was that students attracted to the university by the innovation proved to be 10 per cent higher in scholastic aptitude tests given at the time of their entrance than the average for the three previous entering classes.

Cal Kuykendall

The student body has observed recently with great pleasure that Cal Kuykendall, who graduated last year, is back again in Davidson. Cal, a prominent and popular member of the class of 1932 and a member of the varsity football squad, has returned to manage the new Ivey branch store opened here a few weeks ago. All of Cal’s friends are certainly glad to have him with us again, and he seems to have had a great many visitors in Ivey’s lately. It is hoped that his welcome on the campus has been equally satisfactory and that the student body will continue to give him real support.

The Silver Screen

Wednesday and Thursday, Oct. 26-27—Down To Earth—(Fox)
Will Rogers, the cowboy philosopher, as a millionaire oil magnate goes bankrupt only to find that simple living is the most pleasant. Rogers has his usual supply of amusing wise-cracks which he delivers with characteristic charm and also manages to include some very comforting depression philosophy. Irene Rich and Matty Kemp very capably support him as wife and son, respectively.

Friday, Oct. 28—The Phantom President—(Paramount)
A group of political manipulators who can elect the president, pick out a statesman (George M. Cohan), and plan to elect him by the antics of a showman (also George Cohan), whom they find to have a striking resemblance to the statesman. The showman personality of the candidate interferes to such an extent in the amorous affairs of the statesman that the latter decides to have the former shanghaied. Then the real complications set in. In the end everything works out satisfactorily, however, and Claudette Colbert becomes first lady of the land and Jimmy Durante does the nation a great service by shouting over the radio: “A depression is a hole, a hole is nothing, and why should I waste my time talking about nothing?” George M. Cohan, not an actor by profession, carries his part unusually well simply by his sincerity. “Schnozzle” Durante for the first time gets a really big part and takes full advantage of it. The picture, an unusual combination of farce and cutting political satire, is obviously similar to George S. Kaufman’s “Of Thee I Sing.”

Saturday, Oct. 29—Hot Saturday—(Paramount)
Nancy Carroll’s brand-new picture right off the griddle in Hollywood. This is the story of a rather reckless young girl who wanted to play life for all it was worth. Carroll is supported by Cary Grant and Randolph Scott.

Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 31-Nov. 1—Movie Crazy—(Paramount)
Harold Lloyd is back and with a bang. However, it’s the same old “Grandma’s Boy” and the story is the same type in which he has always excelled. The story is another one of the search for Hollywood fame which furnishes a background for Harold’s burst of comic speed. The picture marks an advance in the use of comedy dialogue. If there is any change in Lloyd's style it is probably a gain in smoothness. The female leads are excellently played by Constance Cummings and a mysterious Spanish peacherino whose identity is withheld until the end of the picture.

GEO. LAPITZ
Factory Representative

SEE THE ...STAR DIRECT
Tailoring Display
EVERY THURSDAY ... at NORTON’S BARBER SHOP.

B. O. RAVENEL
Student Representative

Davidson Theatre© Jeff Robbins. It has been reported from the hospital in Winston-Salem that Jeff Robbins, who was injured in an automobile accident near Madison, N.C., while returning from the V.M.I.-Davidson game at Lexington, Va., has recovered to such an extent as to be out of serious danger. His condition, however, prevents his being moved so that an X-ray may be taken. T. Hooke McCallie, injured in the same accident, is back at school again. The other Davidson men in the car escaped injury. Buck Petree, the negro who was driving the other car, was fatally injured and died soon after the accident. The collision occurred about seven miles south of Madison, N.C. The slippery pavement was given as the cause of the wreck, as the cars skidded into an unavoidable accident. McCallie and Robbins were taken to Winston-Salem in an ambulance which had been summoned. It is feared that Robbins will be unable to return to school this semester, but his recovery so far has been very encouraging.

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago

TEN YEARS AGO
October 26, 1922. Before a madly cheering crowd those scrapping Wildcats came out against overwhelming odds and held the powerful Virginia Tech eleven to a 7-7 tie on Sprunt Field last Saturday afternoon. Before the Wildcat Glee Club is able to break forth in melodious monstrosities, it is necessary to have all men hold a grand pow-wow within the portals of Shearer Hall. This antique edifice has undergone such struggles for many moons, and is destined to do so for many more. The exact date of the meeting will be announced later. Mr. Malcolm Lockhart, chairman of the Davidson Campaign Committee, was the inspiring speaker at the Y.M.C.A. meeting held in Shearer Hall last Sunday evening.

FIVE YEARS AGO
October 28, 1927. The Davidson College Wildcats, after having had their claws somewhat dulled from fighting the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest last Saturday, have been suffering a manicure this week in preparation for one of the biggest tilts of the season when they meet the Cadets of V.M.I. on Richardson Field, in the feature of the annual Home-Coming Day. When Captain Dick Grey enters the game against V.M.I. tomorrow, it will be the twenty-sixth time that he has played on Davidson’s varsity. For three years he has thrilled crowds throughout the South by demonstrations of his triple-threat ability. Tonight, Charlie Paddock, the fastest human on earth, will speak in Shearer Hall on the subject of “Playing the Game.” Paddock is brought here under the auspices of the Davidson Y.M.C.A., and will probably appear on the cinder track for an exhibition some time this afternoon.

“DRUGS”... “SODAS”
Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS”... “SUNDRIES”

Union Theological Seminary
Richmond, Virginia
B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., LL.D., President

A graduate of Davidson and of Union studying abroad writes: “There are able scholars here whose books are known and read all over the religious world. None of them can surpass some of our professors at Union as teachers, and none of them can challenge a student to joyous, practical Christianity as did our professors there.”

You Don’t Need to Pay High Prices for Correct Stationery

This note paper is correct for informal correspondence. We have supplied it for 18 years to many of America’s most prominent families. It has been a favorite also among college men and women. With the introduction of the new “450 Package” the cost of this fine note paper is made lower than ever. It actually costs less than cheap stationery. It's the same style note paper we have sold for 18 years—same printed name and address—same prompt delivery—same price. But the quantity is 50% greater! Send one dollar ($1.10 west of Denver and outside of U.S.) and get one of the biggest bargains in fine merchandise offered in America. Your package printed and on its way to you within 3 days of receipt of your order. No agents or dealers. Sold by mail only. Absolute satisfaction guaranteed.

300 Note Sheets
200 Envelopes
450 Pieces
Printed with your Name and Address
$1.00 POSTPAID

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY
“DOWN TO EARTH”
WILL ROGERS—DOROTHY JORDAN

FRIDAY
“THE PHANTOM PRESIDENT”
GEORGE M. COHAN—CLAUDETTE COLBERT—JIMMY DURANTE

THE NEW 450 PACKAGE
You can’t buy any stationery at any price better suited to your informal correspondence than the new “450 Package.” It is correct note sheet size, 6” x 7”. The quality is actually better than found in many boxes of high-priced stationery. Give American Stationery for Christmas. It’s a better gift than ever. Make up your list now and have it done—early, economically, and thoughtfully.

THE AMERICAN STATIONERY COMPANY
700 PARK AVENUE
PERU, IND.

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“MOVIE CRAZY”
—HAROLD LLOYD