THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 23, 1932

'GATORS HERE TODAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

NEXT MEET HERE APRIL 8TH

What could be worse than a Monday after Junior Speaking weekend—or any Monday for that matter! And why wasn’t this
ole world made in six days? But then there would be Tuesday.

The Wildcats’ encounter with the Deacons of Union Theological Seminary last week revealed a great need for practice if any
further progress is to be made for the rest of the season. Errors galore were made right and left and
the 'Cats made only two hits. It’s true that the pitcher from the seminary was somewhat of a professional, having
belonged at one time to the Detroit Tigers, and that fact may have been responsible in some measure for the
poor hitting displayed by the 'Cats, but the fact remains that quite a bit more rounding out is necessary. If
some of the “Sugar Foot” contestants of last Friday night could be induced to try out for the baseball team,
what a team we would have!—that is, if they could ever get on base.

On Wednesday afternoon, the afternoon this paper is issued—that eventful afternoon when everybody finds mail in his box—the Wildcat cinder
packers will open the season against one of the strongest track teams in the South, the University of Florida. It
is reported that one of the members of the team, a versatile track man, is a potential Olympics candidate this
season, and takes part in the hurdles, high jump, javelin, and several other events.

Prospects for this year’s Wildcat track team are uncertain at present, but some indication of their relative strength will be
ascertainable by the results of their opening meet.

The most interesting event of the entire baseball season is that annual and awe-inspiring occasion when the members of the
faculty lock horns with the students of the Senior class. This yearly battle of the century has become one of
the classics of today, and is anticipated with breathless interest by all who have watched previous battles. Long will those
of us who witnessed the classic struggle of 1931 remember that memorable inning when Professor Ernie Cullom spectacularly caught three
flies into deep center, and then strode up to the bat and cracked out a smashing double over right field.
What a man! Other noteworthy actions many remember with a thrill.

The custom of continuing track practice throughout the home games held here is one situation which should be remedied in
the near future. Not only is it disconcerting to the fans but is quite bothersome to the players, interfering with
plays, and taking up more time than necessary. Imagine the chagrin of the opposing pitcher who, hearing the mad patter
of feet around first base, throws the ball to first base in hopes of catching an unwary base runner off
the base, and sees five or six practically nude figures striding toward the grandstand to the finish of a mad
440-yard dash.

Speaking of crowds (which we were not), it should be mentioned that spectators at baseball games have in the past
displayed little enthusiasm, a fact much to be regretted. It’s all well enough for one to scream out his encouragement
to a bunch of figures dashing to the tape line faster than Edward's “Tiger Rag,” but it takes considerably more
spirit to shout out encouraging words to a baseball nine playing slow baseball.

Excerpt from some “wise guy” letter: Have you heard the Indian song?—“I Gurnea why, I just do.”

Joe Hall, Versatile Florida Athlete, is Main ’Gator Threat in All Weight Events

'GATORS BRING FAST TEAM TO COMPETE WITH WILDCAT CINDERMEN HERE TODAY

'CATS STRONG IN DASHES

Florida Undefeated in Dual Meet in Past Four Years

One of the finest and greatest track teams of the South will be met on Richardson Field this afternoon at
3 o'clock when the University of Florida cinderpathmen engage the Davidson College Wildcat tracksters. It will be the opening event
for each institution, and the first of two meets for the Florida institution on this trip away from home.

Davidson will present a team this year on which approximately 15 Sophomores will be members, which makes the Wildcats practically
an unknown quantity in competition. The coaches, Captain Pritchett and Heath Whittle, are familiar with what they can do ordinarily,
but how well they stand the strain of active meet participation is still to be determined. The Wildcats lost six
of their regulars by graduation, and the men who will be noticeably missed are Captain Joe D. McCall in the
javelin and broad jump, and Thad Brock in the javelin, and Grimy George in the hurdle events. Others who graduated
included Tom Neal in the distance runs, Pat Boyle in the weights, and Bob Hall in the weights.

Davidson will be strongest in the racing events. Among the men who ran last year and who are still available
are Fleagle in the century dash and 220-yard sprint, McGehee in the 440-yard run, and Captain Brannon, Earle, and Howard
in the distances.

The University of Florida is bringing an outfit to Davidson that contains one of the greatest track men in the
South—Joe Hall, who ranked high in the national decathlon. Hall puts the shot, hurls the javelin, runs low and high
hurdles, high jumps and broad jumps. And he’s good in all of these events. Florida lost some veterans by graduation
last year, but the majority are back. It is a team that has not lost a dual meet in the
past four years.

Davidson's competitors in each event will be:
100-yard dash—Fleagle, Halyburton and McMillan.
220-yard dash—Fleagle and McMillan.
440-yard run—McGehee and Halyburton.
880-yard run—Corbin, Cannon, Gwynn.
Mile run—Earle, Howard, Morrow.
Two-mile run—Captain Brannon, Woodside, and Fitzgerald.
120-yard high hurdles—McCallie and Pratt.
220-yard low hurdles—McCallie and Little.
Pole vault—Flinn, Roane, Gilmer.
High jump—Martin, Allen, Rhyne.
Broad jump—Flinn, McKinnon, Dickerson.
Shot put—Knox, Wagner, Cochran.
Javelin throw—Johnston, Brown.
Discus throw—Knox, Bettis, Dill and Cochran.

Davidson Nine Opens With North Carolina

The Wildcat baseball nine will have their first college tilt of the season on Easter Monday, March 28, with the
University of North Carolina at Winston-Salem. Davidson and Carolina did not meet last year due to rain, so the prospects
for the Red and Black must be gathered from the reputation of both teams. Whereas Carolina seems to be remaining
constant in her good reputation on the diamond, the Davidson team seems to be falling a little short in the
batting line. A defeat at the hands of a fast Union Theological Seminary team may have taken away a bit
of the Wildcats’ confidence, but at the same time, it gave them a little experience which the Tar Heels have
not yet had. The battery will be selected from either Croker, Pierce, or Bailey, all veteran hurlers.

NASH HIGGINS, track coach of the University of Florida, who is on the campus today with the ’Gators.

Varsity Linkmen Are Chosen

In Charlotte Thursday, March 17, the varsity golf team was picked at the Charlotte Country Club. Eight members were picked
earlier in the week from which the four members on the regular team were to be picked later. These eight
men went to the Charlotte Country Club on Thursday morning and the day was spent in playing 36 holes to
pick the four members on the regular team. The eight men that were picked to decide the team were:Jack Wagner,
John D. McConnell, Mac Manson, Tom Caldwell, John Thompson, Harvey Morrison, Watson Falls, and Everett Hall. They played 18 holes
in the morning and then played the remaining 18 holes that afternoon. The team was picked and is composed of
the following men, in the order named: Jack Wagner, Mac Manson, John D. McConnell, Tom Caldwell. Wagner captured first place
on the team by finishing with an 82 in the morning and an 83 in the afternoon. The team is
in its early stages so far, but some good matches have been arranged, and the team will have some very
good chances to show its ability.

Davidson Net Team Completes Schedule

The Davidson College tennis team will meet teams from 16 other universities and colleges this spring, according to the schedule
announced on March 17th by the manager, J. B. Stevens, Kimball, W. Va. The card calls for two extended trips,
besides a number of matches at Davidson, including one with the University of New York. The schedule follows:

April 4—University of South Carolina at Davidson.
April 9—Hampden-Sydney at Davidson.
April 11—Emory at Atlanta, Ga.
April 12—Univ. of Georgia at Athens, Ga.
April 13—Furman at Greenville, S.C.
April 14—Univ. of S. C. at Columbia, S. C.
April 16—Univ. of Richmond at Davidson.
April 25—Univ. of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
April 26—William and Mary at Williamsburg, Va.
April 28—Univ. of Richmond at Richmond, Virginia.
April 29—Hampden-Sydney at Farmville, Va.
April 30—Univ. of Virginia at University, Virginia.
May 7—The Citadel at Davidson.
May 11—Duke at Davidson.
May 14—N. Y. U. at Davidson.
(Open) Furman at Davidson.

Seniors! GET YOUR ENGRAVED CARDS for COMMENCEMENT INVITATIONS Prices $2.50 and $3.00 See P. M. CONWAY or D. G. MARTIN

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY GARLAND COURT CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Freshman Track Team Loses to Charlotte High Wildcats Lose to Union, 12-3, in One-Sided Game

Knox Poole Holds Davidson Batters in Check, Allowing But Two Scratch Hits

Knox Poole, erstwhile Davidson mound ace, had his Alma Mater at his mercy last Saturday afternoon, when in the uniform
of the Union Theological Seminary he turned them back with but two bingles. The game was played on Richardson Field,
and was a feature of the Junior Speaking weekend. The "Preachers" took everything the "Cat" pitching staff had to offer,
and swatted it all over the lot, amassing a total of twelve runs to take the victory at 12 to
3.

Only thirty-three Wildcats faced Poole, and in the second and seventh cantos he sent them back to the bench in
the old one, two, three order. Four of the Davidson players had complete whiffs for a batting average, and but
for errors, Poole might well have pitched a shutout. Davidson's three runs came as the result of hits by Bradsher
and Peabody, several of the aforementioned errors, and a stolen base. Union hit consistently, sending two Davidson hurlers to the
showers, but had their big inning in the sixth, when eight runs crossed the plate on five hits, two free
rides, an error, and a hit batsman. Sanders, former Hampden-Sydney star, and Archie Freeman, captain of the 1922 Davidson team,
led with the willow, each garnering three safeties. Box score and summary:

Davidson AB R H PO A E
Bernhardt, 2b 4 0 0 2 2 0
Mills, ss 4 0 0 1 2 2
Blanton, cf 4 0 0 2 0 0
Bradsher, rf 4 1 1 0 0 0
Mathis, 3b 4 0 0 0 1 0
Morrison, J. G., lf 4 0 0 0 0 0
Peabody, 1b 4 1 1 10 0 1
Pearce, p 2 0 0 0 2 0
Croker, p 2 0 0 0 0 0
Bailey, p 1 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 33 3 2 27 7 3

Union AB R H PO A E
Shiflett, cf 4 1 1 2 0 0
Sanders, 3b 5 3 3 1 2 0
Foreman, 1b 5 1 1 10 0 0
Roberts, ss 5 1 1 2 3 0
Kidd, lf 5 1 1 1 0 0
Bright, rf 5 1 1 0 0 0
Atkins, c 5 1 1 7 0 0
Poole, p 5 1 1 0 2 0
Totals 43 12 14 27 7 0

Score by innings:
Union Seminary 003 008 100—12 14 4
Davidson 000 200 100— 3 2 3

Errors: Shiflett, Sanders, Roberts 2, Mills 2, Peabody. Summary: Two base hits, Sanders. Sacrifice, Shiflett 2, Sanders, Kidd, Peabody. Struck
out, by Poole 4, by Pearce 3, by Croker 2, by Bailey 1. Bases on balls, off Pearce 2, off
Croker 2, off Bailey 2. Hit by pitcher, Kidd by Croker. Passed balls, Kidd 4, Morris 3, Whitley. Hits, off
Pearce 5 in 4 innings, off Croker 7 in 4 innings, off Bailey 1 in 1 inning. Left on bases,
Union Seminary 11, Davidson 3. Umpire, Burton.

SCARLET TANAGER Sodas — Tobacco — Sundries Some Ink Still Left Skrip 10c Carter’s 5c Prompt Service

J O JONES CO “Davidson Headquarters in Charlotte” COMPLETE OUTFITTERS TO COLLEGE MEN 208 South Tryon Street Charlotte

Sutton, Charlotte, and Harris, Davidson, Turn in Feature Performances of Day’s Events GREENSBORO HIGH THIRD Heath Whittle, Freshman Coach, is
Pleased With Showing in Tryouts

In a triangular track meet here last Friday the Wildkittens were barely beaten by Charlotte High School, 60¾ to 59¼.
Greensboro trailed the others with a score of 20¾. Sutton, captain of Charlotte's team, led in the number of points
by winning first places in the shot put, discus, and javelin throws, giving him a total of 15 points. Harris,
of Davidson, was second with 12, winning first in the high hurdles, second in the lows, and tying for first
in the high jump. The Freshmen and Charlotte evenly divided first places with six each, and Greensboro tallied one. This
was the first track meet of the season for the Freshmen, who are under the Freshman coach, Heath Whittle, former
Davidson track star. The tryouts for the meet were held Tuesday afternoon, the 15th, in an inter-class meet between the
Freshmen and the Sophomores, with the Sophomores winning. Before each meet, tryouts will be held to determine who will participate
in each event. The following is a summary of the results of the meet:

100-yard dash—Pickard (C), first; Soule (C), Banner (D), Hufford (D). Time, 10.4 seconds.
Mile run—Hinson (C), McFadyen (D), Thompson (C), Shuman (C). Time, 4:56.7.
220-yard dash—Hufford (D), Haynes (C), McCorkle (C), Elias (G). Time, 24.5.
120-yard high hurdles—Harris (D), Hilton (G), Wheeler (C). Time, 18 seconds.
440-yard run—Glasgow (D), Gullette (D), Brown (C), Burroughs (D). Time 55 seconds.
120-yard low hurdles—Kennerly (G), Harris (D), Hilton (G). Time, 28.7.
880-yard run—Dulin (D), Evans (C), LeGare (D), McLauchlin (C). Time, 2:09.5.
Pole vault—West (D), Peabody (C), Bernada (D), and Quarterman (D), tied for third. Height, 10 feet.
High jump—Gammon (D), and Harris (D), tied for first; Lambeth (C), Lipscomb (G), Morris (G), and McIlwinen (D), tied for
third. Height, five feet, four inches.
Broad jump—Soule (C), Pickard (C), Byerly (D), Dupuy (D), and McPhail (D), tied for fourth. Distance, 20 feet, 10 inches.

(Continued on page 6)
