DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 14, 1932

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Editor's Note: The following are some of the items that have been gathered this summer about the Davidson alumni; limited
space in this publication prevents the inclusion of all the news.

Friends will regret to learn of the deaths of the infant daughter of Prof. and Mrs. Kenneth Bell, of Columbia,
Mo., and the infant son of Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Kuykendall, Jr., of Charlotte. Both Prof. Bell and Mr.
Kuykendall are members of the class of ’27. Other deaths of alumni relatives include a sister of Dr. Alexander Sprunt,
’75, of Charleston, S. C.; the mother of Dr. J. T. Burrus, 1900, of High Point; the father of Dr.
J. I. Campbell, 1900, of Norwood; a brother of Dr. Malcolm McBryde, ’01, of Reidsville; the father of F. E.
Hashagen, '07, of Gastonia; the mother of J. C. Cooper, '15, of Henderson; the father of F. N. McKeller, '20,
of Rowland, and E. M. McKeller, ’24, of Boston, Mass.; the wife of Rev. A. B. Williford, ’26, of Millboro,
Va.; the brother of W. S. Adams, ’26, of Swannanoa, and F. R. Adams, ’27, of Charlotte; and the father
of Gaither Jenkins, ’32, of Winston-Salem.

As an outcome of recent political campaigns in North Carolina, the following were elected: To the State Senate, Hon. L.
M. Blue, ’86, of Gibson, and Ryan McBryde, ’11, of Raeford; to the State Legislature, D. E. Turner, ’99, of
Mooresville; Allison A. James, ’07, of Winston-Salem; Ernest Graham, '13, of Red Springs, and Marshall A. Thompson, ’20, of Maxton.
Dr. Ira A. Yow, ’07, of Concord, was re-elected coroner of Cabarrus County; Sheriff John R. Irwin, '09, was re-elected
sheriff of Mecklenburg County over two other opponents, and Malcolm McQueen, ’28, of Fayetteville, was chosen judge of the recorder’s
court, defeating another Davidson alumnus, John H. Cook, ’16.

Paul P. Brown, ’03, secretary of the North Carolina Bankers’ Association, has been appointed an associate councilman for this state
in the American Institute of Banking. Judge R. A. Nunn, ’98, has been elected chairman of the board of trustees
for the New Bern City Schools. Rev. LeRoy P. Burney, ’23, pastor of the Sugaw Creek Presbyterian Church at Charlotte,
was a guest speaker before the Institute of Public Affairs at the University of Virginia this summer. T. T. Allison,
1900, of Charlotte, has resigned as a member of the Charlotte City Council because of ill health. Rev. Alexander Sprunt,
D.D., ’75, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Charleston, S. C., recently celebrated his 80th anniversary. Dr. Sprunt holds
three services every Sunday, makes 1,000 or more pastoral visits each year, and does not have either an assistant pastor
nor a secretary.

Dr. William Spicer, '99, for 20 years head of the Spicer Sanatorium in Goldsboro, has closed the sanatorium to do
general practice and surgery. Dr. J. M. C. Covington, ’25, is now located in Gastonia. He obtained his medical degree
from the University of Virginia, and served his internship at the Naval Hospital in Portsmouth, Va. He did surgical work
aboard the U. S. S. Andres for a year, and during 1931-1932 he served as resident physician at the Greenville,
S. C., City Hospital. Rev. W. B. McIlwaine, D.D., ’84; Rev. A. P. Hassell, D.D., '06, and Rev. A. R.
Craig, '17, all missionaries, are now in this country on furloughs. They are respectively located at Heath Springs, S. C.;
Jackson, Ala., and Davidson, N. C.

Davidson alumni, all members of the class of ’28, who successfully passed the N. C. medical examination this summer were
Dr. J. M. Andrew, Dr. W. B. Bradford, Jr., Dr. H. F. Glenn, Jr., Dr. F. M. Grady, Dr. D.
R. McEachern, Dr. P. R. Maulden, Dr. J. C. Montgomery, Jr., Dr. J. Lee Robinson, Dr. A. S. Rose, and
Dr. W. E. Wilkinson. Dr. Bradford averaged the second highest grade of the 85 who successfully passed. Internship appointments have
been made as follows: Andrew, Employees Hospital of Tennessee Coal, Iron & Railroad Co., Birmingham, Ala.; Bradford, University Hospital, Philadelphia;
Glenn, Ropers Hospital, Charleston, S. C.; Grady, University Hospital, Syracuse, N. Y.; Maulden, Bellevue Hospital, New York; Montgomery, Graduate Hospital,
Philadelphia; Robinson, Graduate Hospital, Philadelphia; Rose, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston; and Wilkinson, Duke Hospital, Durham. McEachern’s appointment is not known.

H. E. Russell, ’30, is president of the student body at Columbia Theological Seminary. He will study in Austria next
year. Completing doctor of philosophy degrees at Duke University this year were Dr. Ben U. Ratchford, ’29, and Dr. Glenn
A. Fry, ’29, in the fields of economics and psychology, respectively. Dr. Ratchford will continue as a Duke faculty member,
and Dr. Fry will study in a mid-western institute under a fellowship. Some of the alumni completing master of arts
degrees this year were Kenneth Jackson, '31, at Vanderbilt University; J. C. Matthews, '31, at the University of Virginia, and
W. P. McQueen, Jr., ’29, at the University of North Carolina. Jackson will teach in one of the Birmingham, Ala.,
high schools next year. Dr. E. S. Faison, ’24, who has been in Baltimore...

Alumnus Honored
Courtesy The Winston-Salem Journal

GEO. W. COAN, JR.
Above is Geo. W. Coan, Jr., mayor of Winston-Salem, who was signally honored when he was elected last month as
president of the North Carolina Municipal Association at its annual meeting in Hendersonville. John R. Irwin, '09, sheriff of Mecklenburg
County, was likewise honored by his organization when he was elected president of the North Carolina Sheriffs’ Association at its
Wilmington meeting. A photo of Mr. Irwin was not available.

Raymond Lake, ’29, is now connected with Davison-Paxon Co., of Atlanta, Ga., after completing his two-year course at the Harvard
Business School. Alumni who will have sons entering Davidson this fall are O. L. Barringer, ’97, Charlotte; Rev. W. A.
Benfield, ’11, Sinks Grove, W. Va.; Rev. W. C. Brown, ’93, Barium Springs; Chas. A. Cannon, ’15, Concord; Rev. S.
L. Cathey, Loray; John W. Dodge, '96, Jacksonville, Fla.; Prof. E. J. Erwin, ’06, Davidson; Rev. A. P. Hassell, D.D.,
'06, Japan; Rev. C. E. Hodgin, D.D., ’94, Greensboro; J. B. Huntington, '09, Wilmington; W. D. Johnson, '06, St. Pauls;
Jos. B. Johnston, ’01, Barium Springs; Rev. H. A. Knox, '03, Liberty, S. C.; and Rev. J. M. Walker, ’07,
Charlotte.

Rev. S. H. Long, ’29, who graduated from Columbia Theological Seminary in May, was awarded the Wild Book Prize at
the completion of his work. During the summer he has been preaching at Guntersville, Ala. Chas. A. Cannon, ’15, of
Concord, has been made a director of the American Cotton Manufacturers Association, and was also appointed as one of two
North Carolinians from the Fifth Federal Reserve District as a committee member to work out a liberal loan policy of
the Federal Reserve Bank. Other alumni who completed medical courses and who have received appointments include Dr. F. S. Wearn,
'28, to St. Luke's Hospital, New York, and Dr. C. R. Rowe, '28, Bellevue Hospital, New York. Subsequent notations will
be made about others as soon as the information is obtained.

C. C. Alexander, ’10, has been transferred from Charlotte to the Winston-Salem branch of the National Cash Register Company.Crosland, 28,
has won his seventh consecutive title as tennis champion of the Myers Park Club in Charlotte.

W. W. Morris, ’92, has been elected general manager of the P. M. Morris Realty Company of Concord. He is
also president of the organization.

Robert F. Smallwood, ’06, has been designated by Secretary of Treasury Ogden Mills as architect for a new federal building
to be built in New Bern, where he now lives.

Lieut. Joe B. Cochran, 25, has been transferred from Honolulu to the sub naval base at New London, Conn.

Paul B. Fry, ’29, who has been teaching at Waynesville, has been made a member of the faculty at Mount
Pleasant Institute. He will have charge of the music at that institution.

Donald F. Martin, ’29, will this year be a member of the faculty at Washington and Lee.

S. Clay Williams, ’05, president of the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, recently went to Washington for a conference called
by President Hoover to include industrial and business leaders of the nation.

Davidson alumni who successfully passed the recent North Carolina bar examination were Joe H. McConnell, ’27, of Davidson; H. B.
Arbuckle, Jr., ’28, of Davidson; William H. Best, Jr., ’30, of Goldsboro, and J. Archie Cannon, Jr., ’31, of Concord.

W. O. Green, ’27, has been made commandant of the Schreiner Military Institute at Kerrville, Texas.

Rev. W. C. Alexander, ’27, who graduated from Erskine Theological Seminary in June, is now pastor of the New Lebanon
A. R. P. Church at Sinks Grove, W. Va. He was recently elected president of the Virginia Young People’s Christian
Union.

Rev. M. B. Heizer, ’21, who has been pastor at Rawlings, Va., will next year do post-graduate study at Princeton
Theological Seminary.

Rev. H. C. Whitener, ’09, who is a missionary to the Indians at Albuquerque, N. M., has

TOBACCOS STUDENT SUPPLIES FOUNTAIN SERVICE

W. S. HENDERSON NEXT DOOR TO POST OFFICE

(Continued on page 6)

CANDY

Eastern Carolina Alumni Chapter Will Meet Soon

Members of Chapter and Davidson Alumni Attending Synod Will Assemble in Greenville on September 21

Members of the Eastern Carolina alumni chapter and other Davidson College alumni who will be attending the meeting of the
Synod of North Carolina at Greenville this month will meet together for a supper-meeting in the Greenville Presbyterian Church Wednesday
night, September 21st, at 6 o’clock. This will be the second meeting of the Eastern Carolina chapter, which was organized
last year with Dr. Walter L. Lingle, Davidson’s president, as guest-speaker.

Arrangements for this joint meeting are being made by Rev. R. E. McClure, ’20, of New Bern, president of the
chapter, and Dr. R. S. McGeachey, '94, of Greenville, vice-president. J. P. Booth, ’23, of Kinston, is secretary of the
organization. No speaker for the occasion has yet been chosen, but this will be made public later.

The chapter membership is made up of those Davidson alumni who reside in the counties of Onslow, Duplin, Wayne, Wilson,
Nash, Halifax, Northampton and east thereof. Cities included are Goldsboro, Washington, Tarboro, Greenville, New Bern, Wilson and others of that
section. There are approximately 90 members of the chapter, and a large percentage of these were present at the organization
meeting.

Members of the chapter will be assessed one dollar for the supper, and other alumni members of the Synod attending
will be charged seventy-five cents. Officers of the chapter would like to extend a personal written invitation to each alumnus
who will be present at Synod, but this is impossible and they have asked the editor of this page to
extend an invitation, which will be supplemented by another at the Synod meeting.

Alumni Marriages

Woods-Hopper

Auburn Woods, of Chester, S. C., and Portsmouth, Va., 1907 alumnus of Davidson, and Miss Mollie Hopper, of Rutherfordton, formerly
of Shelby, were married in Rutherfordton on August 23rd. For a number of years after leaving Davidson, Mr. Woods was
an auditor in Columbia, S. C., but is now connected with the System Bible Study Company, of Chicago, and is
located at Portsmouth. Mrs. Woods was a graduate nurse at the Rutherford Hospital.

Ogden-Johnston

Warren Cox Ogden, 1927 graduate of Davidson, of New Orleans, La., and Miss Mary Frances Johnston, of Asheville, were married
in the First Presbyterian Church at Asheville on September 28th. Mr. Ogden entered Davidson from Mobile, and after attending Duke
University for one year, he did newspaper work with The Mobile (Ala.) Register, later going to New Orleans, where he
is connected with The Times-Picayune.

Watkins-Page

Thomas Cobb Watkins, 1928 graduate of Davidson, of Lexington, Va., and Miss Virginia Page, of Warsaw, Va., were married on
September 3rd. After completing his college course here in three years, Mr. Watkins attended the University of North Carolina for
two years. He is now a member of the faculty of Washington and Lee University.

Kraemer-Birdsong

Charles E. L. Kraemer, of Bonham, Texas, and Miss Beryl Birdsong, of Greenville, Texas, were married in the Wesley Methodist
Church at Greenville on September 9th. Mr. Kraemer graduated at Davidson in 1931, and is a student at Louisville Theological
Seminary, Louisville, Ky., where he will return to resume his studies within a few days.

Alumni Death

Rev. R. W. Culbertson, ’83

Rev. Richard Watt Culbertson, 1883 graduate of Davidson, was found dead in bed at the home of his daughter near
Carthage on August 23rd. He had been retired from the active ministry since 1921, and had been living with his
daughter since that time. Following his graduation from Davidson, Mr. Culbertson taught school for two years at South River Academy
and Unity Academy, then at Woodleaf. He entered Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va., from which he was duly graduated,
and his entire pastorate was spent in North Carolina. He had held charges at Buffalo and Bethel Presbyterian Churches in
Orange Presbytery; the Hawfield, Bethany and Crossroads Churches in the same Presbytery; Stoney Creek Presbyterian Church; Center and Prospect Churches,
near Mooresville; Poplar Tent and Gilwood Churches, in Cabarrus County, and his last pastorate was with the Central Steele Creek
and Pleasant Hill Churches in Mecklenburg County.

Births

1920—Rev. and Mrs. R. R. Craig, of Durant, Okla., announce the birth of a daughter, Elizabeth Ann, on August 25th.

1921—Rev. and Mrs. M. B. Heizer, of Princeton, N. J., announce the birth of a son, Mortimer Dantzler, on May
25th.

Engagement

Armstrong-Patrick

Marcus Reece Patrick, 1925 graduate of Davidson, and Miss Frances Louise Armstrong, both of Belmont, will be married in October.
Mr. Patrick has been in business at Belmont since his graduation. Miss Armstrong is a graduate of Davenport Junior College
and also attended Greensboro College.

1922—Dr. M. R. Doubles, of Richmond, Va., wrote that “the loudest news I have heard of in some time is
the racket kicked up by Malcolm Carroll Doubles, born August 14th... I wish to reserve for him the fullback position
on Davidson’s 1950 championship team.”

1928—Mr. and Mrs. Matthew N. Hall, of Belmont, announce the birth of a son, Matthew Davidson, in August.

For Prompt and Courteous SERVICE VISIT NORTON’S Barber Shop 117 GARLAND COURT

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY PRINTING AND ENGRAVING CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE

EDW. O. GUERRANT See Our DAVIDSON REPRESENTATIVES A. M. MANSON
