’ v7 == | The Davidsonian | == CAROLINA ALUMNI Py Alenda Lux Abi @rta Libertas Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE,
DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 9, 1932 No. 9

DAVIDSON CELEBRATES HOMECOMING SATURDAY

EXTENSIVE PLANS ARE MADE IN EXPECTATION OF RETURNING GRADS

Captain Pritchett to Address Alumni and Faculty on “Athletics at Davidson”

U. N. C. GAME MAIN EVENT

“Southernaires” and Glee Club Will Give Program Saturday Night

On Saturday, November 12, the student body, faculty, alumni, and friends of Davidson will join in the festivities of Homecoming
Day. This outstanding day will witness a true social gathering of Davidson men. Many alumni will return to their Alma
Mater to mingle with their former classmates, and to make new acquaintances among members of the faculty and student body.

An interesting program has been planned by the Homecoming Day committee composed of Professor Blythe, Mr. Jackson, Mr. Hengeveld, and
Captain Pritchett. On Saturday morning, registration will take place, and alumni and visitors will have the opportunity to see their
friends and meet in informal gatherings about the campus. The large room adjoining the alumni secretary's office will serve as
the registration headquarters and as the central meeting place. The students will conduct the visitors about the campus, and act
as host in every way possible. Members of the Beaver Club, local Sophomore honorary organization, will aid in the registration
in Chambers Building.

A track meet is scheduled for 11 o'clock, when both the Varsity and Freshman cross-country teams will meet the teams
from Winston-Salem. At 12 o’clock, the alumni (Continued on page 8)

First Issue of Yowl

Several Conspicuous Changes Were Made in This Initial Copy

The first of the 1932-33 issues of the Yowl, Davidson’s humorous magazine, appeared on the campus last Friday, November 4,
1932, and several improvements over last year’s product were immediately noticed. The first and most conspicuous change was in the
size of the magazine itself, the number of pages being the same as the issues of last year, but both
the length and the width of the pages of this initial issue, as the others, will be increased by approximately
one inch, enabling somewhere near 100 more words to be put on each printed page. At the end of the
session next June, the students will probably have noticed that instead of the usual three issues, there will have been
an additional one, bringing the total to four.

As one runs through the magazine, it will (Continued on page 8)

Ten Men Are Chosen to Wear Golden Quill

Ten men were selected by D. G. Martin, retiring editor of The Davidsonian, and Allen Whitehead, former president of Reporters’
Club, to wear the Golden Quill. This honor is awarded to those men showing outstanding literary and journalistic ability. The
men from the Senior class receiving this honor are: E. O. Guerrant, C. F. Myers, B. B. Sugg, D. D.
McBryde, and Bob McCallie. The Juniors receiving the award are: Lyman Clardy, II, Jack Williams, Jr., Alexander Schenck, Odi Casali,
and William M. Thompson.

E. O. Guerrant is editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian and a member of the “Y” Cabinet. He belongs to Omicron Delta
Kappa, Delta Pi Kappa, Delta Phi Alpha, Interna- (Continued on page 8)

Capt. Cochran Gives Talk at Phi Meeting

Last Tuesday night a most interesting program was held at the Philanthropic Literary Society meeting. The chief feature of the
evening was a unique lecture on the Philippine Islands, where he was stationed for a number of years, delivered by
Captain Cochran of the R. O. T. C. staff here. Captain Cochran spoke of the conditions there from several angles.
He told of the fortifications at Manila, which he illustrated with maps and graphic charts. He discussed the strength of
the military units in the Islands, and he explained the character of the Filipinos, saying that on the whole they
are a likeable lot, but that they are totally undependable in pecuniary affairs. He added that the native military faction
is extraordinarily efficient and would be in great danger of showing up our local R. O. T. C. unit were
they compared. He talked about the geography of the land and said that the natural mineral resources were practically nil
except for a few minor gold mines which are unworked, the principal product being sugar. Captain Cochran continued on the
subject of the political situation in the Philippines and their relations with the United States. He stated that the local
governmental authority, the Governor-General, due to the fact that he has continually made concessions to the native parties, is now
little (Continued on page 7)

Sig. Upsilon Literary Society Issues Bids to Outstanding Men

Debate Is Feature as Six Upperclassmen Are Initiated Into Honorary Fraternity

On Friday, November 4, six men, Gordon Wood, Tom Wood, Edward McNair, Leland McKeithan, Lyman Clardy and Gordon Brown—were initiated
into Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity. The main feature on the program was a debate, the query being, “Resolved, That
Sigma Upsilon should throw its support into the election of the Democratic nominee for the Presidency,” the affirmative being taken
by Tom Wood and Edward McNair, and the negative by Gordon Wood and Gordon Brown. Leland McKeithan gave a burlesque
of the Democratic Keynote Address. Lyman Clardy read an interesting and illuminating (Continued on page 4)

Rev. J. T. Pharr Gives Gold Football Yearly

Best Blocking Back Is to Receive Miniature Present Each Year

It was a beau geste indeed that Rev. J. T. Pharr made toward his Alma Mater last Wednesday. Through his
kindness and thoughtfulness, the blocking backs of Davidson will have an added incentive to spur them on in the future.

“Tim” Pharr has offered the best blocker on the Wildcat team this year a gold, miniature football, with a raised-letter
“D” enamelled in red and black. Reverend Pharr has made this a standing offer for the best blocker every year
on the Wildcat team, as long as he lives. The coaches and the team will decide at the end of
the season this fall the man whom they believe has measured up to the specifications.

Tim Pharr was a member of the class of 1912, just twenty short years ago. He was a member of
the Wildcat team for two years, in 1910 and 1911. He played the position of blocking back, one of the
most important positions in the backfield. He played the game loyally and well for twenty varsity contests. Reverend Pharr is
now the pastor of the Cass Presbyterian Church, in Cass, W. Va. Previously he acted in the same capacity at
Emmanuel Church in Winston-Salem.

Rev. D. M. Chalmers to Begin Fall Services at Church Next Sunday

Will Lead Chapel Monday and Tuesday and Hold Services on These Nights

GRADUATE OF DAVIDSON

Will Interview Personally Students Who Wish to Clear Problems

Rev. Dwight M. Chalmers, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Charlottesville, Va., will arrive Saturday, November 12, and will
take up his duties leading the fall religious services, sponsored by the Y. M. C. A. The Reverend Mr. Chalmers
will make his first appearance on Sunday morning when he leads the church services, and in the evening will be
the speaker at the “Y” vesper services. He will lead the chapel exercises on Monday and Tuesday mornings and will
speak at services in Chambers Auditorium at 7 o'clock on these nights. During his visit here Mr. Chalmers will interview
personally the students who wish to clear up their problems.

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. has been very fortunate in securing Reverend Mr. Chalmers, as he is a fine
Christian gentleman and an excellent speaker. Mr. Chalmers is young in spirit and understands the many problems which confront college
students. In the summer, he led the vesper services at the Young People’s Conference of the North Carolina Presbytery, and
the meetings were very impressive to the large number of young people who were present.

Mr. Chalmers is an honor graduate of Davidson College and while here he was exceedingly popular. He was outstanding in
the many activities which he undertook, especially so in Y. M. C. A. work. Mr. Chalmers was president of the
“Y” and after gradua- (Continued on page 8)

Eight Men InitiatedInto O. D. K. Circle Tom Glasgow of Charlotte Delivers Principal Address of Evening

Tuesday night, November 1st, the eight men tapped by the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa were initiated. The guest
speaker of the occasion was Mr. Tom Glasgow of Charlotte, well known throughout the Southern Presbyterian Church as a prominent
layman.

The new initiates, B. E. Allen, U. B. Gardner, W. A. Flinn, R. Glasgow, Jr., J. R. Howard, A. M.
Manson, W. F. Mulliss, and C. F. Myers, were taken in at the formal initiation at 7 p.m. in the
faculty room in Chambers Building. Many of the faculty members were present along with various graduate members of O. D.
K. in the town of Davidson. This initiation was followed by a banquet in the banquet hall of Chambers Building.

The assemblage then moved back to the faculty room and the address of the evening (Continued on page 5)

Scabbard and Blade Bids Prominent Men

Scabbard and Blade, national honorary training fraternity, has announced its new pledges, who were extended bids at the parade on
November 4. These initiates are as follows: Captain D. M. McConnell, Captain H. D. Cashion, Captain J. C. Pennington, First
Lieutenants W. W. Seymour, G. C. Neal, and E. B. Cannon. Major John C. Rhett, recently appointed commandant of the
Davidson R.O.T.C. unit, is also among the pledges of Scabbard and Blade. Captain C. R. Wright is the leader of
the local chapter, the other officers being Captain Bruce Peabody, Captain Brooke Allen, and Major Fred Ogden. The members of
this (Continued on page 7)

Sigma Delta Pi Frat. Forms Spanish Club

Sigma Delta Pi, national honorary Spanish fraternity, has started the year off in a very active way. Interesting programs have
been given at the weekly meetings. Since the requirements are so strict for entrance into Sigma Delta Pi, requiring at
least three semesters of elective Spanish (which usually eliminates men until the middle of the Junior year), the fraternity has
decided to institute a Spanish Club. A committee composed of three members, Prof. F. K. Fleagle, Fred Fleagle, and D.
D. McBride, drew up the following suggestions for by-laws which were accepted by the fraternity and put into effect:

1. It shall be one of the functions of Sigma Delta Pi to establish a Spanish Club, the members of
which shall be eligible for election into Sigma Delta Pi, when they shall have completed the necessary requirements.
2. Membership into the Spanish Club shall be on nomination by faculty members of Sigma Delta Pi, and shall be
limited to such students as show an interest and ability in the study of Spanish. A majority of Sigma Delta
Pi members present shall elect to membership in the Spanish Club.
3. The officers of the Spanish Club shall be the regular officers of Sigma Delta Pi. (Continued on page 7)

Dr. C. Darby Fulton Speaks on Japanese Christian at Vespers

Mr. Kagawa’s Life Is Splendid Example of One Who Works for Christ

Dr. C. Darby Fulton, of Nashville, Tenn., prominent leader of the Southern Presbyterian Church and Executive Secretary of Foreign Missions,
spoke last Sunday night at the Y. M. C. A. vesper services. Dr. Fulton gave a biographical sketch of that
internationally famous Christian worker of Japan, Mr. Kagawa. Rufus Morrow led the service and Buddy Robinson gave a vocal selection,
with Ed McNair at the piano. Lyon Gammon and Avery Patton led in prayer. Dr. Fulton began with early life
and brought it up to the present, ending with a plea to the students of Davidson to remember this now
valiant missionary in their prayers. (Continued on page 7)

Medical Students to Take Aptitude Tests

Registrar Announces December Ninth as Date for Examination

The Medical Aptitude Test for students preparing to enter a medical school next year has been scheduled for Friday, December
9. Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, the registrar, will have charge of the test. These tests have been administered for the
past two years by the Association of Medical Colleges. According to a letter received by Mr. Hengeveld from Dr. F.
A. Moss, secretary of the association’s committee, the tests have now become one of the normal requirements for admission to
a medical school. A total of 9,713 students from 537 colleges in the United States took the Medical Aptitude Test
last year. Fifteen of this number were from Davidson. Ninety percent of the approved medical schools of the country considered
the results of the tests as a factor in the selection of their students, Dr. Moss stated. All students who
are planning to enter a medical school in 1933 are advised to take the test. It is not necessary, it
was explained, that all pre-medical requirements be completed at the time the test is taken, providing that the student is
reasonably certain (Continued on page 7)

DAVIDSON WILL CLASH WITH TAR HEELS HERE SATURDAY AFTERNOON

Wildcats Seek Vengeance for 12-0 Defeat at Hands of Tar Heels Last Year

With the sting of the defeat by N. C. State still burning in their hides, the Davidson Wildcats have taken
to their lair, and are preparing an attack to unleash against the Tar Heels of the University of North Carolina
in the annual Homecoming classic on Richardson Field Saturday. A capacity crowd is expected for the contest between the ancient
foes. The Tar Heels bring a strong team to Davidson, and are in high spirits over their recent 18 to
13 defeat of the speedy Florida ’Gators last Friday. However, the Florida team was minus the services of their star
back, Rogero. Nevertheless, the Tar Heels are a team to be reckoned with. The rivalry between Davidson and Carolina is
an ancient one, and Carolina has a decided edge in the “won” side of the ledger. Last year a mighty
Carolina team rolled over a fighting Davidson aggregation at Chapel Hill by the impressive score of 20 to 0. The
game was far closer than the score indicates, however. The year before the Wildcats upset the dope, and put it
on the Chapel Hill boys, 7 to 6, despite the great efforts of Branch and Magner. Carolina has a good
team, of which there is little doubt in the Davidson camp, and Coaches Newton and McEver are putting their boys
through stiff drills in preparation for the Tar Heel invasion. It is rumored that Coach Collins may start his shock
troops in the Carolina backfield, a bit of strategy that worked wonders on the powerful State Wolfpack. More than likely,
though, he will start Burnett at quarterback, Daniel and Phipps at halfbacks, and Chand- (Continued on page 7)

Three One-Act Plays Given by Dramatists

Red and Black Masquers Present First Performance of Year

A large and appreciative audience witnessed the Black Masquers’ production of three one-act plays last Wednesday night in Chambers Auditorium.
This is the Dramatic Club's first performance this year and shows indications of having a most successful season. Music was
furnished between plays by “Johnny Marvin and his Hotchaboys.” The first of the series of plays was entitled “Moonshine,” by
Arthur Hopkins. This is a dramatic farce with the setting in Red and (Continued on page 7)

“Y” Deputations

Deputations from the Davidson College “Y” are more in demand every week, and E. L. Powell, in charge of this
work, states that one is scheduled to be sent out for each of the next three Sundays. Next Sunday a
group will go to Concord to attend a young people’s meeting at the Presbyterian Church there. This group will probably
consist of two speakers and the Sophomore quartet. On the twentieth a trip to Charlotte will be made to conduct
the evening service at the A. R. P. Tabernacle, and the following week a body will again go to Charlotte
to the Steele Creek Presbyterian Church, who will teach at the Sunday School, furnish music for the morning service, and
conduct the evening service. Last Sunday a group of three went to Center Presbyterian Church, which is about seven miles
west of Mooresville. Sam Nickey preached the sermon and Harvey Glass and W. L. Fugate taught the Bible classes.
