THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 26, 1932

Dr. Price Gwynn Speaks Over Radio as Feature of National Youth Week

“The Home—The First School of Religion” Is Topic of Davidson Professor’s Address

On Thursday morning, October 20, as a distinctive feature of “Childhood and Youth Week,” Dr. Price Gwynn delivered a radio
address over station WBT, Charlotte, on the subject, “The Home—The First School of Religion.” The address began at 11:45 a.m.
and ended at 12:00 m. Dr. Gwynn’s recognized interest and authority on the subject of religious home training is evidenced
by the honor thus bestowed on him. Furthermore, he has accepted the invitation to speak at Shaw University, Raleigh, N.
C., Sunday evening, October 23, on the subject, “The Creed of a Christian.” Davidson rejoices with him in his opportunities
of spreading the Gospel of the Kingdom of God.

To the thoughtful people of our land, Dr. Gwynn’s message is of extreme importance. He feels with a majority that
our present financial and commercial disaster is but a symptom of a more fundamental disease, namely, a decay of personal
integrity and civic responsibility. Such forces of evil as the increase of crime and racketeering, corruption in political life, and
laxness of moral and patriotic duty are matters to be dealt with and readjusted if the honor and stability of
our national character are to be preserved.

Although the result of many causes, most students believe that this deplorable condition is the natural outgrowth of the matured
state of moral and spiritual illiteracy reached annually by thousands of our boys and girls. This is due, Dr. Gwynn
believes, to a misrepresentation of religious freedom and the struggle of the church against other agencies which demand the child’s
time. It is able to make only an occasional and fragmentary contact with the growing person. But above all these,
the chief reason for the ignorance of spiritual matters of modern children is the decline of religious instruction in the
home.

The Christian system is based upon the home, and depends upon it as the means of transmitting the religious heritage.
The very nature of man and the set-up of the social order demand that if religion is to be successfully
and universally taught it must begin with the home. A child’s first impressions, which have more to do with his
future development than anything else, come to him in the home. Some psychologists go so far as to say that
the determining traits of character are formed during the pre-school years, and by force of circumstance the church has least
opportunity of contact at this very time. The home must become the first school of religion—a school for teaching the
young child to know about God and to distinguish between right and wrong.

A series of scientific investigations conducted in this country with all types of subjects from the third through the eighth
grade emphasize the place of predominance occupied by the home. It led the investigators to the conclusion that the home
was the most powerful influence affecting the development of desirable social behavior or lack of the same in the children
investigated. Social workers always consider that the juvenile delinquent’s chances for recovery are brightest when placed in a home governed
by moral and religious convictions.

The tendency of many homes to neglect religious instruction is a disturbing element and excused by the parents themselves on
the ground that modern life is so complex and highly organized that the very competition for existence exhausts their energies.
Apparently to them there is no such thing as the quiet hour of meditation and spiritual instruction. Others do not
know where or how to begin, and others still have read that it is foolish to teach a child what
he must re-learn at a later age. These complaints are both typical and weak. Dr. Gwynn advances a few considerations
in reply.

We must first cultivate a sense of value in regard to time. What is the use of teaching a child
how to make a living, if he fails to learn how to live? And without the knowledge and appreciation of
religion, no man is able to live the rich and abundant life. Parents must make of their lives living examples
of the Christian principles they attempt to present before the growing child. Only thus will he learn the practical truths
of religion. The essence of the whole matter is that Christian parents must first of all decide whether they think
their religion is worth preserving. If they do, they must be willing to make the necessary sacrifices to teach it
to their children. For this end, it is imperative that the home recapture its former position as the first school
of religion. Dr. Gwynn concludes, “And may I add my conviction that the next revival of religion should have its
beginning in the Christian home.”

INSPIRING MESSAGE GIVEN BY MR. F. L. JACKSON (Continued from page 1) morning God came to himand told him to
take up the work of Christ." This was again illustrated at an evangelistic meeting in Montreat," pointed out Mr. Jackson.
"The rain was so heavy that the services could not be held. The congregation soon offered a prayer that the
rain stop, and that they might continue their worship of Jesus. Before the prayer was finished, the rain had ceased,
and they were able to continue. God is a reality and in Him we should confide our problems and sins."
The services were closed with a prayer by Dr. Burwell.

DAVIDSON WILDCATS MEET POWERFUL CLEMSON TEAM
(Continued from page 1)

land and Wake Forest, by impressive scores. Washington and Lee was defeated 7 to 0, and then followed the track
meet against Wofford. On the following Saturday V. M. I. went down, 12 to 0, before the steady Soph attack,
led by the redoubtable Mackorell. The winning streak stopped last weekend when the Bulldogs of The Citadel sprung a surprise,
and played inspired football to nose out the favored Wildcats, 7 to 6. The Wildcats, however, scored 12 first downs
to three for The Citadel. The 'Cats present a regular constellation of stars to represent the Red and Black. Morgan
and Morris will probably get the call at the flanks, with Wagner and Captain Hand and Charlie Rives in at
the guards. Percy McElrath will again handle the pivot position. Coach McEver has an excellent array of backs to pick
from and any of the following may start: Peabody, Pearce, Mackorell, Mills, Hutchins, Willson, Wingfield, Fleagle, or Flinn, and possibly
all of them will see action before the game is over. Both teams know they have a fight before them,
yet both expect to win; and when two teams go on the field in that frame of mind, the fans
are going to see one whale of a game.

DEBT CANCELLATION IS
(Continued from page 1)

in its affairs as possible without being affiliated. It was reported that the association is in good financial condition in
spite of the pressing times. The degree granting institutions of North Carolina were invited. The forensic activities of the state
center around this organization. It has done splendid work in the past and great strides have been made under the
present administration. Before adjournment, the members gave a rising vote of thanks to Dr. Keiser for services rendered during the
past year. In addition to his interest in debating and public speaking, he is an author of note, having written
several books. He is now working on "The American Indian in Literature" and spent the past summer obtaining local color
and first-hand information on the subject.

I. R. C. MAKES EXTENSIVE PLANS FOR COMING YEAR
(Continued from page 1)

in cooperation with the Davidsonian, on Monday. The International Relations Club has twenty-three members, a majority of whom are members
of the Senior class. D. D. McBryde is president; A. H. Grant, vice-president, and L. W. Clardy, secretary-treasurer.

NEW OFFICERS ELECTED FOR EUMENEAN SOCIETY
(Continued from page 1)

Mr. Bailey is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, the Reporters’ Club, member of the editorial staff of
The Davidsonian, and a member of the R. O. T. C. Band.

DAVIDSON GLEE CLUB BEGINS SEASON SOON
(Continued from page 1)

body. Although the entire club may not be on the program, it is probable that a quartet or some individual
may entertain the audience.

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
117 GARLAND COURT
PRINTING AND ENGRAVING
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE

EDW. O. GUERRANT
See Our DAVIDSON REPRESENTATIVES
A. M. MANSON

We buy the finest, the very finest tobaccos in all the world—but have no place for raw tobaccos in cigarettes.
They are not present in Luckies ... the mildest cigarette you ever smoked. These fine tobaccos, after proper aging and
mellowing, are then given the benefit of that Lucky Strike purifying process, described by the words—"It's toasted". That's why folks
in every city, town and hamlet say that Luckies are such mild cigarettes.

"It's toasted"

That package of mild Luckies that does not explain why folks everywhere regard Lucky Strike as the mildest cigarette.

"Nature in the Raw"—as portrayed by the noted artist, Karl Godwin—inspired by the fierce and brilliant assault by Clive and
a handful of followers, outnumbered 20 to 1 by savage hordes of bloodthirsty natives, at the Battle of Plassey—the birth
of the British Indian Empire—as described in the famous Henty book, "With Clive in India."

If a man write a better book, preach a better sermon, or make a better mouse-trap than his neighbor, tho
he build his house in the woods, the world will make a beaten path to his door."—RALPH WALDO EMERSON.

Does not this explain the world-wide acceptance and approval of Lucky Strike?
