THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1932

Alumni News

THE VOICE OF AN ALUMNUS

There’s a song that rings in my ears tonight,
That echoes in vague refrain,
The song on the campus, ‘neath moonbeams bright,
When the students roam, on a summer night,
That makes me yearn for the sweet delight
Of those bygone days again.

Back to the soft cool evening’s breath,
Back from the city’s heat,
Back just to stride
On the campus wide,
And the dear old friends to meet.

How often I’ve set my noisy alarm
To rise quite in time for math,
Where the flunker sits in blank dismay,
And waking, found that cuts, I say,
Shall be given to him that hath.

Back to the same old haunts again,
Back to the student flock,
Back to my books
And the stern Prof’s looks,
College—and my faithful clock.

—S. N. WHITNEY.

PERSONALS

Rev. E. L. Siler, D.D., ’87, is moving from Maxton to Davidson and expects to arrive on December 1st. He will occupy the Ernest Milton home.

J. T. Bradshaw, ’32, is assisting his father in business in New York City. His present address is 51 Madison Avenue.

H. B. Mayo, ’30, is teaching school in Belle Arthur.

F. C. Withers, Jr., ’28, has a job with the “Columbia Record” in Columbia.

Rev. D. P. McGeachy, Jr. ’22, has moved from Atlanta, Ga., to Monroe.

A. H. Stone, ’96, is now living in Spray, North Carolina.

R. T. Morrison, Jr., ’31, new address is 226 East 14th Avenue, Columbus, Ohio.

M. F. McDavid, ’32, has moved to Glade Valley, N.C.

M. Hunter, '93, is connected with the W. Austin Theological Seminary in Austin, Texas.

R. D. Hall, ’19, has the position of secretary and assistant treasurer to the Stowe Thread Company of Belmont.

Letters have been received from the following alumni recently: R. Lenwood Sparrow, ’31, Ransomville; Hal R. Boswell, ’12, Elberton, Ga.; Leopold A. Chambliss, ’18, Newark, N. J.

Dr. Ben R. Lacy, of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., and president of the Alumni Association, writes that if any alumnus who has graduated from Davidson less than five years ago sent in $3.00 he was considered a paid-up member and entitled to receive The Davidsonian, and all others were accorded a like standing when they sent in $5.00. That would mean that the graduates of ’28, '29, '30, ’31 and ’32 would send in $3.00. This will be a reminder to many of the alumni to send in their subscription for the paper and inform others about how their subscription stands.

Davidson's Homecoming was a big success. Hundreds of alumni from all sections of the country returned to their alma mater for this great occasion. At the meeting held in the auditorium in the morning the group was addressed by Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, on “Davidson Athletics.” The barbecue was served on the lawn back of Chambers Building and 300 people attended. The main event of the day was the Carolina-Davidson game which drew approximately 8,000 people. It was with pleasure that Davidson welcomed President Graham of Carolina as well as the host of Tar Heel enthusiasts. The program in the evening consisted of a Glee Club and orchestra concert. Those in charge of the Homecoming Committee were Prof. F. L. Blythe, Mr. F. L. Jackson, and Mr. W. F. Hengeveld. Those attending were invited to sign in the guest book and more than 130 registered.

BIRTHS

1916—Prof. and Mrs. John P. Williams announce the birth of a son, Timothy Alden, at the Mercy Hospital in Charlotte, on November 16. Professor Williams is head of the business department of Davidson.

1926—A daughter was born to Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Milton, October 24. Mr. Milton was formerly Davidson’s efficient receiving the warmest wishes of the alumni. She has been named Mable Hillsman.

OBITUARY

Rev. William Albert Gillon, D.D., member of the class of 1890, died at his home at Yardley, Penn., October 5. Dr. Gillon attended Davidson two years and after later study entered the ministry, having taken an active part in religious work before his death.

Rev. D. N. McLaughlin, of the class of 1888, died November 3, 1932, in Norfolk, Va. He was an outstanding minister and for many years was pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Chester.

(NOTE: It will be appreciated if alumni having news items that will be of interest will send them to Jack Williams, Box 262, Davidson, N. C. The column will be conducted in this way until the college may select an alumni secretary.)

Mr. Dwight Chalmers Gives Final Address

In the concluding morning devotional period of the series of services conducted by Mr. Dwight M. Chalmers, the memorable words of Paul, “I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day,” were used as a text.

Every person, asserted Mr. Chalmers, should have a personal experience with Christ, in order that Christ should become real to him. No amount of teaching or believing is equal to a personal experience. Many who have heard and read of Jesus Christ have become hardened and indifferent to Him, and think that He is not a reality, chiefly because of the lack of a personal contact. However, it is much easier for us to know Him today than it was in the days of the apostles, because our vision is made clearer by the perspective of nineteen centuries.

Mr. Chalmers cited a letter, written during the first days of our American Republic, in opposition to President Washington. The author of the letter reviled the President in every possible way. The author was so close to Washington that he could not see the true greatness of the man. So the apostles were so close to Him that they could not see clearly His every move. Their chief error was in anticipating His Kingdom as a temporal kingdom.

Paul said, “I know whom I have believed,” when there was no church, no New Testament or Creed. The fact remains that he knew Christ because he established personal contact and gave himself over to Christ. How easy it should be today to know Christ, since He is in the center of life, while in Paul’s day, He was known by a very few people. In order to really know Christ, we must find Him for ourselves; we must not let any outside influences interfere with our faith, and finally we must give ourselves completely over to Him.The Silver Screen

The Bookshelf

Wednesday, Nov. 23—The Phantom of Crestwood—(RKO)
Here is the last chapter of that thrilling mystery that has been broadcast by National Broadcasting Corporation week by week. But the final chapter turns out to be not so exciting as might be expected. N. B. C. and RKO are both subsidies of the Radio Corporation of America, and this unique method of advertising seems to have been very successful. Jenny Wren (Karen Morley) is murdered at a house party and at first it seems quite easy to guess who is guilty, but as motives are examined more and more, suspects become evident. The ending is most unexpected. Most of the old means of creating an eerie atmosphere and some new ones (phosphorescent death masks, etc.) are used to good advantage.

Thursday, Nov. 24—Trouble in Paradise—(Paramount)
Director Ernst Lubitsch again produces one of the gems of cinema. Contrary to his custom, there are no songs in this picture; nevertheless, it possesses that same indescribable sparkle of sophistication and finish characteristic of this director. The story is about a super-crook and his inamorata (Herbert Hopkins), who set out to rob a rich Parisian widow (Kay Francis), who very obligingly falls in love with the crook. The interior decoration in the sets of Hans Drier has many a charming innovation.

Friday, Nov. 25—He Learned About Women
Stuart Erwin plays in that vein in which he is perhaps the most adept of stars, the art of appearing befuddled, while Alison Skipworth and Susan Fleming lend even more humor to the situation.

Saturday, Nov. 26—Hell’s Highway—(RKO)
Another picture exposing the horror and brutality of the chaingang in full detail. Richard Dix stars and does perhaps his best job of acting since “Cimarron”; very spectacular at points.

Monday, Nov. 28—Faithless—(M-G-M)
Tallulah Bankhead plays a slightly more vivacious role and has a decidedly better leading man than usual. The picture suffers from a rather trite and complicated plot. The story is concerned with the disaster which befalls the rich after the crash. After a maze of complications, Robert Montgomery and Tallulah Bankhead are finally reunited.

Tuesday, Nov. 29—Mask of Fu Manchu
A genuine thriller following the story which appeared recently. Boris Karloff as Fu Manchu and Myrna Loy as his daughter are outstanding. They are excellently supported by a very capable cast.

B. O. RAVENEL
Student Representative

SEE THE... STAR DIRECT Tailoring Display
SENIORS---Dec. 1st will be the last day for you to get measured for Blazers
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
GEO. W. LAPITZ
Factory Representative

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”
Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“SODAS” “SUNDRIES”

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
Richmond, Virginia
B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., LL.D., President

A graduate of Davidson and of Union studying abroad writes:
“There are able scholars here whose books are known and read all over the religious world. None of them can surpass some of our professors at Union as teachers, and none of them can challenge a student to joyous, practical Christianity as did our professors there.”

Marshall and Miriam, Josephus—Lion Feuchtwanger. Viking Press.
The biography of a vacillating, scheming office seeker must never present the hero as a man worthy of admiration. In this respect Feuchtwanger has done his subject justice—in fact more than justice. The author has taken it upon himself to portray ten short years in the life of a man about whom very little historical fact is known. The portions lacking are generously supplied from the writer’s imagination. Thus the would-be biography degenerates into a historical novel. However, this work clearly shows how far the modern historical novel has wandered from the form used by Scott. The facts have not been shifted and warped to suit the trend of the story. Instead, they have been carefully subordinated and subdued to a lifeless drabness which causes the hero to glitter and glow like the diamond in a gambler’s stick pin; the chief character seems to be at least a demi-god without whose sanction and tender care history would have died in infancy.

But back to the book again. The work loses in strength and interest to an extent because of the superabundance of needless characters. Each page sees its groups of new people who ooze into the story, have nothing to do with its progress or its hero, and who pass out of the field of action in the next two or three pages. Along with this constant ingress and egress of foreigners, a rather complete history of Titus and Vespasian, of Dame Bernie, and of Simon Bar Giora is given in installments. This at times creates such a state of milling confusion in the mind of the reader that he almost is forced to abandon the book in sheer exhaustion. The final failure is that the best portions of the novel have little or no direct influence on Josephus. And though this is a failure as far as Josephus is concerned, it is the only thing that saves the book and makes it worth reading. The very magic of Feuchtwanger’s words produces a sense of intimate contact with the Roman and Jewish world. One is jostled and shoved by ragamuffins in the Circus as they sing, “Who is the master here? Who pays for the butter?”

As the book nears its close, Herr Feuchtwanger reaches his height. By skillful artistry, he gradually fans into flame the Jewish-Roman hatred which has been smouldering throughout the book. The fires of rebellion leap up from Jerusalem. Strong, methodical Rome sends out her stern, inexorable armies to subdue the insolent province. Jerusalem is doomed. Wall after wall falls before the relentless battering rams. The Jewish garrison retreats, all the while desperately trying to stem the metallic tide of destruction. Only the temple remains. Then the hot flood of Roman hatred engulfed the walls, burned the temple to the ground and left Jerusalem the golden as a heap of glowing ashes. In fact, the whole book is exceedingly interesting and enjoyable as long as it is not considered a biography of Josephus.

—GORDON R. WOOD.

IS COMING!
U-PUSH-EMS
New Rates at M. P. Henderson’s Gulf Station

For Prompt and Courteous SERVICE VISIT NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

CHARLOTTE LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOPPE
Famous for Good Waffles and Sandwiches

DAVIDSON

TOBACCOS
STUDENT SUPPLIES
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
W. S. HENDERSON
NEXT DOOR TO POST OFFICE

CANDY

For the Thanksgiving Game Be Sure You Have a FINCHLEY HAT
$5.00 - CORRECT FOR ALL OCCASIONS

IDEU'S
DAVIDSON SHOP