BASKETBALL ELON VS. VARSITY TONIGHT

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

The Davidsonian

DR. RONDTHALER TO SPEAK MONDAY

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 17, 1932 No. 18

“Missions” is Chosen as Main Subject of School Conducted by Dr. Fulton

Speaker Has Had Valuable Experience In Foreign Mission Field of Far East

TEACHES BIBLE CLASSES

Was Chosen Field and Candidate Secretary for Mission Work

Last Tuesday morning at chapel Dr. C. Darby Fulton began his Mission School with the student body as a whole.
The schedule was shifted somewhat in order that he might have a greater length of time in which to tell
all that he desired. The address was on missions and their relation to students. Dr. Fulton is amply capable of
giving this very helpful advice to the students, as he has, for some number of years, done quite a bit
of student work, especially in regards to missions and missionaries, and has had experience in Japan. The chapel hour was
not, however, the first address presented by Dr. Fulton. He had begun his speeches at one of the Sophomore Bible
classes just before the chapel period. This was continued immediately after chapel at two more of the Sophomore Bible classes.
These auditorium classes were held for two reasons: first, that all the separate classes under the different instructors might meet
together; and second, that any students with vacant periods might take advantage of these extra addresses, gaining more than would
be the case should they have attended only those given at the morning prayers. On Wednesday his schedule was the
same, with the exception that he spoke to the Freshman classes instead of those just above them, these also meeting
in the auditorium for the same purposes. The subject of the speeches in all cases was practically the same. They
centered around “the student and the mission.” He presented and answered any questions that might be troubling students about any
phase of mission life and activities. As scheduled, he talked to the Ministerial Band and the Student Volunteer group Tuesday
evening at 7 o'clock. Tonight at the same time he will hold an informal discussion, an open forum, at the
Y. M. C. A. social center. There, still more individual student questions will be answered. As a speaker Dr. Fulton
is quite eloquent, and, to say the least, very interesting. Davidson is very proud to have had Dr. Fulton present
some of his student volunteer work. Besides this work, his addresses have carried him to many national conventions.

Annual Junior Speaking Scheduled March 18-19

On March 18 and 19, the class of 1933 will put on what should prove to be one of the
best house parties of the year. This house party, Junior Speaking, will begin with a dance Friday night, from 10
to 2, and will continue through Saturday night. On Saturday afternoon there will be two attractions. One is the annual
high school track meet, at which high schools from all over the state will be represented, and the other is
the tea dance which will take place after the track meet, from 4:30 to 7. Following the tea dance there
will be a Saturday night dance from 9 to 12, which will officially conclude the weekend celebrations. All of these
dances will be informal, and all of them will take place in the Charlotte Armory, providing plenty of space for
the large crowd that is expected to attend. This crowd will be greatly augmented due to the fact that the
Junior class has been able to secure as the orchestra for these dances the nationally-known Edward's Collegians, that famous negro
orchestra that last year closed their third successive season at the Greystone Ballroom in Cincinnati, Ohio. The orchestra contains ten
pieces, one of them particularly, a trumpet player, being an excellent soloist. But the orchestra features not so much solo
work as harmony, featuring first the brass section, two trumpets and a trombone, then the saxophone section, and so forth.
Also, instead of having a voice solo on most of their pieces, the orchestra brings into use the famous negro
ear for harmony in using a trio for a large number of them. (Continued on page 6)

Tribute to “Monk” and S. D. “TEX” TILSON

Parker, J. E.

“TEX” TILSON’S GOING TO V. P. I. MARKS END OF OLD REGIME HERE

After Coaching Wildcats Nine Years, Coach Tilson Returns to His Alma Mater

WAS “A TRUE WILDCAT”

All Davidson Wishes Him Luck in His New Position

To a man, the student body dislikes to see S. D. (Tex) Tilson leave. The reasons are many and varied.
Possibly the most outstanding of these reasons is the excellence of Coach Tilson’s work. For nine years “Tex” has been
line coach of Wildcat elevens. Through all of these years he has turned out scrappy, smooth working forward walls. Under
his expert tutelage, a long list of luminaries has been produced. Some of these satellites were: Tom Baker, tackle; Harry
Vance, guard; Ernest Bohannon, end; Jim Pinckney, end; “Abe” Lincoln, tackle, and the great Thad (Continued on page 6)

Twenty Men Make College Rifle Team

Elimination for membership on the Rifle Team ended last week in the selection of over twenty men. Each year the
Scabbard and Blade offers a trophy for the high scorer in this elimination. This year M. L. Brohard and S.
S. Wiley, both members of last year’s team, tied for honors. These two men will shoot again this week to
break the tie. Last week prone and sitting positions of the fourth corps area were shot. This week the kneeling
position is being fired. In addition to shoulder to shoulder contest and special matches, the team has a number of
correspondent matches to be fired each week. Seven men who were members of last year’s team have won places again
this year. Two Freshmen, R. O. Dees and A. M. Cathy, were in the high ten group. The scores this
year were rather high, as is the case at the first of each semester, but steady improvement is now being
shown by each member. Members and their standings after the elimination contest are as follows: Brohard, M. L.; Wiley, S.
S.; Graham, A. C.; Brown, P. F.; Scott, F. H.; Dees, R. O.; Cathy, A. M.; Harris, H. H.; Purcell,
D. C.; Green, G. C.; Holt, E. G.; Douglas, J. M.; Escott, E.; Batte, J.; Simpson, B. O.; Coit, R.
L.; Page, R. O.; Moore, C. C.; Sutton, T. H.; Wadsworth, J. A. C.; Powell, J. H.; Walker, J. D.

Tree Planting Exercises Following Dr. Howard Rondthaler to Speak Here Monday on “George Washington”

Address Will Be Led by Dr. C. E. Raynal

ENDS EXERCISES HERE

Extensive Programs Are Being Held Throughout the Nation

On next Monday, February 22, the group of programs arranged here in connection with the nation-wide George Washington Bicentennial Celebration
will be brought to a close by the address of Dr. Howard I. Rondthaler, president of Salem College. Following this
address, at 12 o'clock, a George Washington tree will be planted on the campus, led by Dr. C. E. Raynal,
of Statesville. Dr. Rondthaler, who has been president of Salem College since 1909, is well known as a student of
the life and character of Washington and is well fitted to discuss the great American. He is a graduate of
the University of North Carolina and an ordained minister in the Moravian Church. Dr. Rondthaler is ex-president of the N.
C. Literary and Historical Association. He is well known as an attractive and impressive speaker and is much in demand
as a lecturer throughout this and other states. Dr. Raynal is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Statesville, N.
C., and besides being a leading minister, is one of the best known horticulturists in the state. He will speak
in the tree planting exercises following Dr. Rondthaler’s lecture. Monday's program is the culmination of the Bicentennial Celebration here at
Davidson. For the past two weeks, several faculty members have spoken on various phases of the life and character of
Washington at the morning chapel exercises. This afternoon, moving pictures were shown at the local theater.Theater Salem College, on Following
o'clock a this program being led by Rondthaler and Historical Associa- pressive speaker states, Raynal First Presby- ; on “Trees”
ceremony following For the benefit of the members of the faculty and the student body. These presentations, entitled “Washington and
His Comrades in (Continued on page 5)

Dr. Garth Chooses “Race Psychology” as Subject Presents Two Interesting Theories on Different Ideas in Regard to Racial Traits FROM
DENVER UNIVERSITY Illustrates Lecture With Lantern Slides of Representatives of Various Races

Thomas Russell Garth, professor of education and psychology at the University of Denver, delivered a most interesting and inspiring lecture
last Thursday night in the Chambers Auditorium, his subject being “Race Psychology.” In his lecture, Dr. Garth stressed mostly the
traits existing in the different races of men. “In reality, there are no differences in racial traits in mental processes,”
stated the lecturer. He went on to say that two theories had been advanced concerning such traits. The more recent
theory asserts that racial traits are changeable and that the types of men (Continued on page 6)

Appointment of Milton Ernest Milton, director of the Davidson News Bureau here, has been appointed a member of the Executive
Council of the Southeastern division of the American Association of Publicity Directors. The appointment was made by Frank S. Wright,
publicity director of the University of Florida, who is president of the territory that includes news directing offices in colleges
and universities in seven states. The Southeastern branch of the national organization recently held a one-day session in Atlanta. Mr.
Milton had accepted a place on the program, the topic assigned him being “Some Unusual Publicity,” but he had to
decline, since he found that it would be impossible to attend the conference.

MONK YOUNGER COACH W. L. YOUNGER WAS STAR DAVIDSON 99

Pres. W. H. Frazer, From Queens-Chicora College, Gives Address on Abram Dr. Frazer Talked Illuminatingly on Faith in God’s Intentions
for Man’s Good JIM SCALES HARMONIZED Scales and His Quartet Provide Some Good Musical Numbers

Dr. W. H. Frazer, president of Queens-Chicora College, was the speaker at Y. M. C. A. vespers last Sunday evening.
Special music was furnished by an unusual and entertaining colored quartet. Dr. Frazer is a graduate of Cumberland University, Tennessee,
is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, and has been president of Queens-Chicora College for many years. It
has been the custom for him to lead vespers at least once a year for some time past. Bruce Peabody
read the portion of the Scripture from which the speaker took his text, Genesis 12:1-6, “Now Jehovah said unto Abram,
Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father’s house, unto the land that I
will show thee; and I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy
name great; and be thou a blessing.” Dr. Frazer's main topic was the faith and obedience of Abraham and how
Abraham was able to do even greater things by obeying the will of God. God commanded him to sever his
ties of kinship, break his friendships, and give up his land and cattle. Abraham had explicit faith and did as
he was told, even at the cost of his own plans and ambitions.

FOUR-LETTER ATHLETE, ALL-STATE END HERE; IN BASKETBALL, BASEBALL AND TRACK FORMERLY FROM V. P. I. “Monk” Younger Has Had Varied
and Successful Career as Coach

William Lee Younger came to Davidson as head coach in September of 1923. He came from Virginia Polytechnic Institute, where
he was head coach of basketball and baseball and assistant coach of football. He will return to this school in
September, 1932. Up until this time, since the fall of 1914, the policy of having alumni coaches had been followed
at Davidson. In selection of Younger as the new coach, Dr. Douglas, commenting on Younger, said: “Younger, a former Davidson
man and a star athlete, is acquainted with conditions here and the (Continued on page 5)

Mid-West Student Conference Meets

The twelfth annual Mid-West Student Conference was held at Knoxville, Tenn., February 11, 12, 13, under the auspices of the
University of Tennessee. Delegates from eleven universities and colleges of the Mid-West, consisting of eighteen men and three young ladies,
all of whom hold offices of influence in their respective student bodies, were present. The institutions represented were Bethany College,
Pennsylvania State College, University of Cincinnati, Ohio University, University of Chicago, University of Notre Dame, Northwestern University, University of the
South (Sewanee), Maryville College, and Davidson College. The officers of the conference were: John Noel McKinnon, Jr., of Bethany College,
president; Paul Christian of Pennsylvania State College, vice-president; and Donald S. King of the University of Tennessee, secretary and treasurer.
The Davidson representatives were Horton and Wrial. A large part of the conference program was spent in round table discussions
of subjects of importance in student body government. Among the topics of their discussions were: “Types of Student Government and
Their Relative Values,” “Methods of Maintaining Democratic Campus Spirit,” etc. Thursday afternoon, the conference opened with an address of welcome
by Dean James D. (Continued on page 5)

Dr. Frazer gave two examples to illustrate this point. A friend of his was doing a noble work in the
North, but bad health forced him to abandon his plans. He was driven further South and there he did an
even greater work and found himself in a richer field. God sometimes crushes us so that we will be driven
to richer harvests. The other illustration was from the well-known story of Ruth. She was driven from her own family
and people, suffering hardships, into the family of Boaz where (Continued on page 6)

Davidson Trustees Are Holding Regular Meeting

The regular mid-winter semi-annual meeting of the trustees of Davidson College will be held here today, with Dr. R. A.
Dunn, of Charlotte, president of the body, presiding. The trustees will assemble for their first session at 10 a.m., at
noon they will have lunch together in the banquet hall of Chambers Building, and will continue their deliberations in the
afternoon until all of the business has been transacted. Officials of Davidson stated today that no matters of major importance
are to come before the body at this session, and that their business will largely be devoted to routine affairs.
Detailed reports of the treasurer and the president of the college are already in the hands of the trustees. Membership
in the trustee body has been reduced to 48 since the June meeting. It was formerly 51. This came about
through the reuniting of three Florida Presbyteries, Tampa, St. Johns, and Miami, into one which will be known as St.
Johns. Rev. C. E. Ferran, D.D., of Orlando, Fla., and Charles A. Raymond, of Lakeland, Fla., were already trustees of
the old system. They were selected. New trustee members who will be attending their first session will be Stamps Howard,
of Tarboro, elected from Albemarle Presbytery to replace the late Thos. G. Hyman, and Lunsford Richardson, of Greensboro, selected as
an alumni trustee to replace the late J. Lee Robinson, of Gastonia. The membership of 48 is divided between the
North Carolina Synod with 32; the Florida Synod with four, and the alumni trustees, 12.
