THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 7, 1932

N. C. GAMMA CHAPTER INITIATES ELEVEN MEN
(Continued from page 1)

Washington’s time were the books that were read when Phi Beta Kappa was founded, in the times when the causes of the Revolutionary War were being advanced. The first half of his address was centered around the material contained in two old Day-Books (personal property of Dr. Wilson) of the Virginia Gazette, located in colonial Williamsburg. The shop of this paper was not only a shop where printed matter was sold, but also wines and other things of peculiar interest. These Day-Books (first of William Hunter and second of Joseph Royle, editors of Gazette) would not be of so much interest were it not for the fact that the Virginia Gazette was the only newspaper and controlled the only printing press in the colony. Not only did it keep a record of the books and merchandise bought and sold, but also a record of the letters sent and received. This was because the post office was included in the store, and a record of the letters and carriers had to be kept.

And, upon looking through these Day-Books, one can find such names as George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, William Byrd, Patrick Henry, and many other famous men of the time. A record of the books and wine they bought, the letters they sent, etc., are preserved in these Books. In the course of his speech, Dr. Wilson recited many articles found therein. It can be seen that many of the varied purchasers had varied interests as regards their literature. One thing of particular interest is that on great days when important things were happening, business at the printing shop was very slack and dull.

The second half of his speech was devoted to general statements as to the best sellers of the colonial days. He showed that many of the classics of today were new books then and that many books popular at that time are practically unknown now, time having proven that they are not as famous as others. The “sellers” were of quite a few topics such as games, religion, fiction, husbandry, law, and other contemporary topics of interest. Dr. Wilson closed with a picture of the founders of the country and the founders of Phi Beta Kappa reading these best sellers on their vacant nights by the aid of candlelight.

After a statement from Dr. Watts regarding the appreciation of the chapter for the address, the exercise was concluded and the members of the faculty and the initiates, P. F. Brown, Avery Patton, William Mulliss, D. M. McConnell, and W. E. McNair, of the student body, and Prof. H. B. Overcash, Mr. F. L. Jackson, Dr. E. H. Sloop, Dr. S. T. McCloy, Dr. J. W. Clark, and Rev. Lavens Thomas, all alumni of Davidson, along with the guests, retired to the banquet hall where the above-mentioned took place.

LECTURE COMMITTEE TO SPONSOR VISIT OF AUSTRIAN
(Continued from page 1)

Hauptmann, a selection in English from Die Weber, Hanneles Himmelfahrt or Der arme Heinrich will be given. Hauptmann, at the height of his fame, celebrated his seventieth birthday November 15 of this year. The celebration took on a national aspect in Germany. In view of the recent death of Arthur Schnitzler, the great Austrian dramatist and novelist, a selection from his works will be given in English, followed by a rendition of the famous Leutnant Gustl in German. Especial interest attaches to Schnitzler numbers, as Mr. Montor comes from Vienna, the scene of most of Schnitzler’s plays. The fact that the Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation of Philadelphia bears more than half of the expense makes it possible for the Davidson Lecture Committee to include Mr. Montor in the year’s program of lectures and other entertainments. Watch further issues of The Davidsonian for comment on the numbers Mr. Montor will read.

DR. JAMES L. TRYON, OF M. I. T., DELIVERS ADDRESS.
(Continued from page 1)

his mind and continue in his work, but if one desires to pursue some other field it is necessary to go back and begin over. The speaker then gave a brief idea of the courses at M. I. T. The three central and most highly stressed courses are chemistry, physics, and mathematics. The school is strictly what its name implies. “This highly technical institution,” he went on to say, “has its courses so arranged that when a student specializes in a particular department he also receives a smattering knowledge in each of the other fields. Dr. Tryon showed that the first year was the same for all men, and during the second year a tendency toward specialization is noted. This is amplified in the third year and in the last year, the student specializes in his chosen subject. Eighteen different courses are given at M. I. T., and the student must take one of these. However, he is presented options in the course itself.

Next Dr. Tryon gave a brief explanation of the growing importance of the science department. The speaker also explained that each department has its own dean and faculty. This system presents a much more smoothly run department. There are practically 600 men in the graduate school. Although in a recent year 31 doctor’s degrees and 189 master’s degrees were conferred, there were 456bachelor’s degrees given, which indicated that the Institute of Technology is still fundamentally an undergraduate institution. Dr. Tryon closed with the presentation of the rather recent feeling that after the depression is over, a man must have special and superior training in order to be more advanced.

DAVIDSON GLEE CLUB RETURNS FROM TOUR
(Continued from page 1)

They gave an entertainment at Flora Macdonald College. Tuesday they traveled to Aberdeen where they delivered their second entertainment in the high school auditorium that night. The Glee Club was accompanied on this trip by Oliver Beard, a guest soloist, and by Reeves Pope and His Southernaires. The Pills Brothers also rendered several numbers which aided in the success of the entertainments.

The program presented varied forms of music, beginning with three songs by the whole Glee Club. The three selections were: “Sailor’s Chorus,” from “The Flying Dutchman,” by Wagner; “Hymn to the Virgin,” and “The Scissors Grinder.” Grainger Williams then sang “Invictus,” by Huhn, and he was followed by the Davidson Male Quartet who sang “We Meet Again Tonight” and “A Cowboy Song.” Next was a piano solo, “Waltz in C Sharp Minor,” which was rendered by Edward McNair. The Glee Club then gave three more numbers, “Joshua Fit the Battle of Jericho,” a negro spiritual; “Dreamin’ Time,” by Strickland, and “Old King Cole,” by Forsyth. Oliver Beard, the guest soloist, then sang “A Spirit Flower” and “I Love Life.”

After a short intermission, the Pills Brothers, Geddie Monroe, Bill Northern, and Dave McLain, rendered several numbers. The Southernaires then played four popular pieces, “We Just Couldn't Say Goodbye,” “By the Waters of Minnetonka,” “Medley of Old Favorites,” and “I Don’t Care.” The program concluded with four selections by the Glee Club and orchestra combined, “What Shall We Do With a Drunken Soldier,” from Sea Chanty; “In the Luxemburg Gardens,” by Manning-Nash; “I Love a Parade,” by Arlen, and last, “O Davidson,” by Shields.

DOZEN DAVIDSON SENIORS AND ALUMNI CANDIDATES
(Continued from page 1)

This is probably due to the fact that the colleges have been more strict in their selection. After each of the six states in our group has selected its two candidates, the district committee will appoint four out of the twelve state candidates. As there are eight districts, the total number of American Rhodes Scholars appointed each year is thirty-two, with the occasional additional appointment of an especially promising candidate “at large.” Among Davidson men who serve on committees of selection are Dr. B. R. Lacy in Virginia, Dr. McDowell Richards in Georgia, and Dr. G. R. Vowles in North Carolina.

R. JACKSON ELECTED TO IMPORTANT OFFICE
(Continued from page 1)

Speeches were given on the subject of student aid. The controller of the University of New Hampshire represented the larger universities. The treasurer of Smith’s College spoke on student aid in women’s institutions. Mr. Jackson spoke, dealing with the situation of student aid in the colleges of the East. His theme dealt mostly in statistics, telling the number of applications made for assistance, the number of scholarships offered, the source of money given, and other interesting facts concerning student aid. As an introduction to his talk, he gave a short history of student aid. At first, it was carried on by an organization of the students themselves, then it was dropped altogether for a good while, and now, of course, the school handles it.

While in Richmond, the members of the delegation were guests of the city of Richmond and the University of Richmond. They were taken on a number of sightseeing trips to the historical spots in the colorful old town. Saturday afternoon they went to Williamsburg where they were guests of William and Mary College. There they had the opportunity of learning something of the restoration being carried on there by John D. Rockefeller. Next year the association will be the guests of the Rochester University at Rochester, New York.

RIFLE TEAM MEETING HELD IN PREPARATION FOR PRACTICE
(Continued from page 1)

As yet, no shooting has been done, but the squad will start actual practice on Wednesday. The squad has lost some good marksmen, but about eight men out of the fifteen on the team last year are with us again this year.

PROF. ENGLISH BAGBY WILL SPEAK FRIDAY
(Continued from page 1)

Before accepting his present position at the university, he taught at Yale. In the summer, he is the professor of Psychology at Columbia University. He is a member of the American Association of University Professors.

California produces vast quantities of minerals. Other products are grapes and letters from Hollywood asking the old folks for fare home.—W. P. Rowley.

HIGH CLASS Work at ECONOMICAL PRICES
MARTIN BROTHERS SHOE SHOP

“No wonder Chesterfield smokers are so enthusiastic.”

CHESTERFIELD RADIO PROGRAM
Every night except Sunday, Columbia Coast-to-Coast Network.

“Everywhere I go, I have to listen to the same thing. ‘Try Chesterfields. Honestly, they are milder, and you simply must try them!’ Me ... try Chesterfields! Why, I haven’t smoked anything else. That’s how important mildness and better taste are to me!”

THEY’RE MILDER — THEY TASTE BETTER