THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 18, 1932

Alumni Marriages

ALUMNI PERSONALS

To Be Honored on June 2nd

Boyd-Meador
James LeRoy Boyd, of Atlanta, Ga., 1912 graduate of Davidson, and Miss Helen Meador, formerly of Covington, Ga., were married in the Winship Memorial Chapel of the First Presbyterian Church in Atlanta on May 6th. After graduating from Davidson, Mr. Boyd attended the University of Alabama, where he obtained his law degree. He served in the World War, and for a while was in Y. M. C. A. work, though for the past several years he has been practicing law in Atlanta. Mr. and Mrs. Boyd are at home at 58 Lombardy Way, Atlanta, Ga.

Ford-Rice
Grover Mancil Ford, of Mt. Berry, Ga., 1923 Davidson graduate, and Miss Kathleen Rice, of Arlington, Ga., were married at Arlington, Ga., on May 5th. Before becoming a member of the faculty of the Martha Berry Schools several years ago, Mr. Ford did graduate study at Duke University and at Emory. Mrs. Ford is a graduate of the Georgia State Woman's College at Milledgeville, Ga.

Brooks-Marsh
Grady Stoddard Brooks, of Fountain Inn, S.C., 1928 graduate of Davidson, and Miss Annie Katherine Marsh, of Trenton, S.C., were married in the Harmony Church on April 16th. After finishing here, Mr. Brooks was for a while connected with cotton mills in South Carolina, but more lately he has been principal of the grammar school at Lyman, S.C., where they will make their home.

Grey-Fox
William Richard Grey, Jr., of New York, 1928 Davidson graduate, and Miss Beatrice Fox, of Bethlehem, Pa., were married at the Moravian Chapel, Heckewelder Place, Bethlehem, on May 7th. Since graduation Mr. Grey has been connected with the personal trust department of the Chase National Bank in New York.

(Continued on page 6)

Among alumni visitors to the Davidson campus during the past two weeks were Rev. Thornton Whaling, D.D., ’77, Columbia, S.C.; Dr. Henry Louis Smith, ’81, Greensboro; Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, ’06, Charlotte; Rev. O. M. Anderson, D.D., ’08, Water Valley, Miss.; Ruffner Campbell, '10, Asheville; Gus Leazer, ‘11, Atlanta, Ga.; Rev. H. M. McDiarmid, ’11, Shelby; Rev. J. R. McGregor, ’14, Lexington; P. B. Thames, Jr., '17, Florence, S.C.; B. W. Romefelt, ’21, Glen Rock, N.J.; E. P. O’Connor, '26, Atlanta, Ga.; D. G. Wilson, ’26, Greensboro; T. H. Hamilton, ’27, Richmond, Va.; W. R. Grey, Jr., '28, Brooklyn, N.Y.; R. M. Thompson, ’28, Mt. Berry, Ga.; Rev. D. I. Helm, ’29, West Jefferson; J. B. Christenbury, ’30, Crossnore; D. C. Hunter, ’30, Belmont; W. A. Sutton, ’30, High Point; D. S. LaFar, ’31, Gastonia, and C. T. Parker, '31, High Point.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of Mrs. Samuel M. Smith, mother of Dr. Reed Smith, '01, of Columbia, S.C., and also Mrs. H. B. Jennings, of Lumberton, mother of H. B. Jennings, Jr., ’29, of Newark, N.J.

Rev. J. McDowell Richards, ’22, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Thomasville, Ga., has been elected president of Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur, Ga., to succeed the late Rev. R. T. Gillespie, '04. At the time of going to press, Mr. Richards had not announced his acceptance, but still had it under consideration. The young minister is a Rhodes Scholar, and after leaving Davidson he studied at Princeton, Oxford, England, and Columbia Theological Seminary. He was pastor at Clarkesville, Ga., for several years before going to Thomasville last summer.

Davidson alumni have been and will be active in delivering commencement addresses. Rev. Ben R. Lacy, D.D., Richmond, Va., will deliver an address at Atlantic Christian College on May 24th; Rev. A. A. McLean, D.D., '06, Lenoir, and Rev. W. M. Currie, ’19, Belmont, will deliver commencement sermons at Barium Springs next Sunday; Rev. John McSween, D.D., ’08, Clinton, S.C., addressed the graduates of Chesterfield, S.C., last Sunday, and Allen Frew, ’30, will deliver the baccalaureate sermon to the Greensboro High School graduates next Sunday.

Alumni who recently addressed civic clubs included Dr. W. S. Rankin, '01, Charlotte, before the Chester (S.C.) Rotarians; Hon. Chas G. Rose, 1900, before the Fayetteville Rotarians; Hugh A. Query, ’09, Gastonia, before the Belmont Kiwanis Club, and Mayor Geo. W. Coan, Jr., Winston-Salem, before the High Point Kiwanians.

Offices to which Davidson men have recently been elected in civic clubs include R. D. Hall, ’19, vice-president.

YESTERYEAR SNAPSHOT
The above is a snapshot taken in the early days of Sheriff John R. Irwin, '09, of Charlotte, and Batte Irwin, '09, of Brooklyn, N.Y. The Observer did not state which was which, and neither does the editor of this page.of the Belmont Rotarians; R. A. McPheeters, ’21, a director of the High Point Rotary Club, and W. R. Sparrow, ’27, vice-president of the Gastonia Rotarians. P. C. Meng, ’21, associate director of the China Institute of America, with headquarters in New York, has published a book within the past month entitled, “China Speaks,” with the sub-head, “on the conflict between China and Japan.” The publishers, in announcing the book, said in part, “China asks only for justice, based on understanding. He tells in simple, straightforward fashion of China’s long struggle for unity and independence; against this background he sets the facts of Japan's encroachments in Manchuria and Shanghai... points out that broader issues are involved than those of Japan’s and China’s rights and wrongs, that China’s future will affect the future of western civilization...” Mr. Meng’s book is in the Davidson library.

Rawls Howard, '17, has been elected mayor of Tarboro, defeating three other candidates in a heated contest.

(Continued on page 5)

Alumni Death

Rev. R. T. Coit, D.D., '02

Rev. Robert Thornwell Coit, D.D., 1902 graduate of Davidson, died in Asheville on May 12th at the comparatively early age of 53 years. Dr. Coit, for twenty years a missionary in Korea, returned to this country two years ago in the hope of regaining his health, and spent some time at hospitals in Baltimore and Richmond. The deceased entered Davidson from Salisbury, and following his graduation he attended Louisville Theological Seminary for his ministerial preparation and did post-graduate work at McCormick Seminary. He went direct to the missionary field, where he remained until his health failed three years ago. Davidson honored him with a doctor of divinity degree a few years ago. Among the survivors is R. T. Coit, Jr., a member of the freshman class at Davidson.

Davidson Theatre

It was used by The Charlotte Observer.

MONDAY
“HUDDLE”
RAMON NAVARRO

TUESDAY
“SOCIETY GIRL”
JAMES DUNN—MARION NIXON

WEDNESDAY
JOAN CRAWFORD—ROBERT MONTGOMERY in
“LETY LYNTON”

FRIDAY
“TWO SECONDS”
EDWARD G. ROBINSON

Rev. H. G. BEDINGER
Rev. O. C. WILLIAMSON
—Courtesy The Charlotte Observer

The above two Davidson alumni, graduates of Davidson in the classes of 1911 and 1918, respectively, will be honored with doctor of divinity degrees at Davidson on June 2nd. Rev. C. L. Crane, '07, missionary to Africa, is also being honored with a similar degree, which will be conferred upon him in absentia.

Davidson Graduates Win Recognition at Union

Five Are Honor Students. Four of Five Fellowships Awarded to Davidson Men

Eleven Davidson alumni received bachelor of divinity degrees from Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., on May 10th; three were given master of theology degrees, one a doctor of theology, and another a diploma for the special English course. At the same time, fellowship awards were announced, and four of the five went to Davidson alumni. R. W. Kirkpatrick, A. N. Brown, Jr., Frank Hall, T. I. Hill and J. A. Ricks, all members of the 1929 class at Davidson, were honor graduates at Union, and others receiving their degrees were D. F. Helm, W. E. O., Jr., R. L. F. Sloop, and R. E. Whitley, all ’29 Davidson men, and P. F. Jones, '27. I. S. Blue, ’10, was given a diploma for completion of the special course in English, and Rev. C. N. Morrison, ’21, of Greensboro, was given his degree this commencement after doing special work. Rev. J. R. McGregor, of Lexington, was awarded the doctor of theology degree, and the master of theology degrees went to Rev. J. M. Carr, '25, Berryville, Va.; Rev. T. H. Ham-

Engagements

Ward-McKeithan

“Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Ward, of Concord, announce the engagement of their daughter, Millicent Virginia, to Julian Harold McKeithan, of Winston-Salem, the wedding to take place in early summer.” Mr. McKeithan graduated from Davidson in 1922. He taught school for a while in Charlotte, and attended the Harvard Law School, where he obtained his degree in 1927. Since then he has been practicing in Winston-Salem. Miss Ward obtained her bachelor of music degree at Salem in 1931, and will soon obtain her diploma in voice.

Smith-Massey

“Mrs. D. M. Smith, of Clarkton, announces the engagement of her daughter, Bessie Mitchell, to Henry Heath Massey, of Waxhaw, the wedding to take place in June.” Mr. Massey is also a 1922 graduate of Davidson. He worked in Shelby for several years, but more recently has been in the mercantile business at Waxhaw. Miss Smith was educated at Mitchell College, Statesville.

(Continued on page 6)

“DRUGS”
Students’ “PRESCRIPTIONS”
Make Our Store Your Store
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“SODA” Supplies “SUNDRIES”
Stetson “D” Store
Clothes for the College Man