THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 20, 1932

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRANT................. Editor-in-Chief
P. M. CONWAY.......................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
L. W. CLARDY......................... Managing Editor
ALEXANDER SCHENCK................. Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON...................... Managing Editor
G. S. ERWIN........................... Managing Editor
R. S. HUNTER.......................... Athletic Editor
J. S. YOUNG............................ Exchange Editor
J. M. McCONNELL..................... Associate Editor
J. W. McCLURE......................... Associate Editor
J. M. McCLURE......................... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
HERMAN SONS........................ Assistant Business Manager
A. M. MEBANE......................... Assistant Business Manager
H. W. WILSON.......................... Assistant Business Manager
C. M. MURROW......................... Subscription Manager
W. G. JOHNSON......................... Solicitor
J. F. McKINNON....................... Solicitor
B. F. WILLIAMS......................... Solicitor
A. S. MANSON.......................... Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
A. H. WHITEHEAD..................... President
H. W. WILSON.......................... Vice-President
J. F. McKINNON....................... Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN
F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR
L. S. GAMBLE
G. E. BAILY
R. E. LORRAINE
J. E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
J. P. PRESTON
R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD
W. T. THOMPSON
J. A. HUNTER

APRIL 20, 1932

It is not by change of circumstances, but by fitting our spirits to the circumstances in which God has placed us, that we can be reconciled to life and duty—F. W. Robertson.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

The Davidsonian staff extends heartiest congratulations to Bob McCallie and to the class of 1933 in selecting a man of such capability to edit the “Quips and Cranks” for next year. This is a position of great responsibility and we feel sure he will produce an annual which will be a credit to Davidson, the class of '33, and himself.

Now that the Bowery Ball has come and gone, the next thing to occupy our interest will be the final examinations and commencement.

This spring, Ben Eastman, a Junior at Stanford University, has broken the world’s record in both the 440 and 880-yard runs. He lowered the 440-yard run by a full second and the 880-yard run by three-tenths of a second. Those members of the Davidson student body who plan to attend the Olympic Games in Los Angeles this summer will probably witness many world’s records broken if Eastman and others live up to advanced predictions.

This next week the Davidson student body will have the privilege of hearing four of the most outstanding men in the South for the Spring Services. In the past these services have been very popular with the students, and this year should prove no exception.

Both the varsity and Freshman track teams performed nobly in their decisive victory over the cinder path men from V. P. I. Fleagle, Flinn, Brannon, and others have done exceptional work all year.

From all reports Monk Younger and “Tex” Tilson are doing very well at V. P. I, and both are rapidly becoming very popular with the cadets.

Those men who were fortunate enough to see the tennis matches at Pinehurst last week report a championship brand of play by Allison, Vines, and a few others.

NEW REGIME

In assuming the leadership of a newspaper for the first time, it is generally conceded that the new editor shall set forth the policy of the paper for the coming year in the first editorial. This is not as important in the case of The Davidsonian as with other newspapers, because the policy is not fundamentally changed from one year to the next. In taking over the reins, however, we do sense an overwhelming responsibility accompanied by some uneasiness when we glance back on the excellent record set by editors in the past. A great trust has been placed upon the new staff to perform the mission of presenting to the student body a newspaper containing all the news obtainable and it is only with the co-operation of the united student body and all its various organizations that this end can be accomplished.

No radical changes will be made in the make-up of this paper, but between now and the end of the college year we shall change the paper to some extent in each issue until the best combination of factors is obtained. Some alterations will be made on the editorial and possibly other pages in the paper from time to time, and we hope the student body will be patient until the final adjustments are made. We realize that the primary function of any newspaper is to present to its readers correct information as quickly as possible and also to include other items in the paper which tend to make it more readable and interesting. It is with this view in mind that we take up our task and strive to the best of our ability to bring this about throughout the coming year.

In order to more truly reflect the life on the campus we intend to devote one column to the student body in the form of an open forum. This is one way in which anyone in the student body may express their opinions and ideas.

OPEN FORUM
What Do You Think?

CAMPUS CHATTER

A military band fills the hot June afternoon with its blatant martial music: the President speaks, Harding is eulogized with a eulogy that is well-nigh an apology and a magnificent memorial is gloriously dedicated. Nothing of the material manifestation of our great American civilization is lacking.

Upon the heights of St. Albans, above Washington, blessed by quiet summer breezes blowing up from the flats of the Potomac, stands another tomb, that of Woodrow Wilson. The very simplicity of its structure and the religious quietness of its surroundings pronounce a silent obloquy upon that officious gathering which meets to memorialize his successor.

The only apology needed at this tomb is the apology of his followers whom he left behind, and who have so pitifully failed in their duty to perpetuate his high ideals and noble efforts. No apology is needed for a public record so spotless that even the most maliciously instigated and painstaking investigation on the part of his enemies revealed nothing but the fact of his honesty to the people, diligence toward his duty, and patriotism toward the nation which was his and which he served.

Our last annual was dedicated to Wilson, ostensibly because he once attended college here, but if we had searched the world over, using as a measuring rod the high ideals which are or should be the goal of every Davidson man, a more suitable choice could not have been made. To be frank, Davidson most probably had no crucial effect on the life of Woodrow Wilson. However, in that one youthful year that he spent on our campus there is no doubt in my mind but that day by day he grew in mind, character, and body, and in favor with God and man. Gentlemen, we may be entirely unconscious of these high influences that prevail here, but let us, during the years to come, realize and endeavor, if possible, to uplift that omnipresent thing called Davidson. It will do honor to ourselves, our school, and to her most distinguished son, Woodrow Wilson. Let this, since no other is in prospect, be a memorial to his name.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

The Salemite gives two ideals, “My Ideal Man” by a woman, and “My Ideal Woman” by a man. We will copy excerpts from each.

“My Ideal Man”
“I’ve never seen my ideal man, except in day dreams. In that way I see him almost every day. Some day, I believe I will actually see him in person, and when I do, then I can tell more about my ideal man.
“The way he looks in all my day dreams, he has a Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde personality. He must be able to change at will in conformance with my moods. He must be a gentleman, preferably the Theodore Roosevelt type of gentleman.
“This ideal man of my dreams is of necessity athletic in type and in physical build. His hair can be blonde and curly, black and straight, or anything else, except—gone. His eyes also are immaterial, just so he can see out of them, and look into mine with them.
“He must have two things principally—ambition, and a good disposition.
“As to scholarship, I can’t imagine my own ideal being a scholar, unless he is that way without being a bookworm. If he is, so much the better, but I shouldn’t care if he never made higher than a ‘B’ average.
“One of the most essential qualities of my ideal man is that he must be likable to other men. If he is extremely popular with women, I’d be rather afraid to risk him. If the other men whom he knows like him, that’s his recommendation to me.”

“My Ideal Woman”
“No, sir, she don’t have to be any mental prodigy—my ideal woman. She must know how to dress, but not in a manner that will attract undue attention. She doesn’t necessarily have to be beautiful, but she must be the type that you can look at for some time without getting tired.
“She must be adaptable, and should be able to take care of herself in various types of company. She must be unusually careful whom she likes, and I would prefer, of course, that the chosen one be myself. She must be good enough to be good, and just bad enough to make you believe she could be bad if she wanted to but doesn’t want to.
“My ideal woman should have ideals. They must not be the kind of ideals she can go around talking about constantly, but the kind which actually stand out in her character and which are not changeable with her moods. While speaking of moods, the ideal woman in my conception must never let her companions know just the nature of that mood, but must try to be her own little self in spite of adversity or triumph.
“As a student, my ideal woman does not need to average ‘A-plus,’ but she should seldom let her average fall below a ‘B.’ She must be mentally awake.
“My ideal woman must be morally sound. To be thus, we will strive to the best of our ability to bring this about throughout the coming year. In order to more truly reflect the life on the campus we intend to devote one column to the student body in the form of an open forum. This is one way in which anyone in the student body may express their opinions and ideas.”express his thoughts, and we shall be more than pleased to publish any articles given to us which we deem advisable to print.

Joseph Leiter died in Chicago several days ago. Though sixty-three years old at the time of his death, he is chiefly remembered for his daring speculation at the age of twenty-nine, when he tried to corner all of the wheat in the United States. Before the gigantic scheme collapsed, his operations had swallowed up from ten to twelve million dollars which he inherited from his father, Levi Zeigler Leiter, pioneer Chicago merchant, as well as seven million dollars in “paper profits.” The few millions involved in his wheat operations seemed staggering sums at the time, but in the light of other deals which have come along in later days, they do not seem so large.

Freedom of the human race from two of its greatest enemies, pneumonia and tuberculosis, through the use of vaccines now in the experimental stage, was forecast in Dallas, Texas, by Dr. John A. Kolmer, internationally known immunologist and pathologist, in an address before a meeting of the Southern Clinical Society in Dallas. “It will be from two to five years before a final statement can be made relative to the tuberculosis vaccine, but the results obtained during two years of experimentation are of a promising nature,” he said.

The tuberculosis vaccine, developed by Drs. Calmette and Guerin of France, has been used to a great extent in Europe for the past two years and to some extent in both New York and Philadelphia. Under the experimental system, the vaccine is administered to children in a gelatin capsule soon after birth. The bacilli contained in the vaccine are alive, but almost harmless, and through the administration of the bacilli, the child builds up immunity.

The vaccine against pneumonia was developed by Dr. Kolmer and his associates in their Philadelphia laboratories. Experiments with the pneumonia vaccine are still incomplete, and Dr. Kolmer declined to make any statement other than that results with rabbits and monkeys in his laboratories indicated that physicians soon will be able to immunize children against the disease. “I have no desire to create a false hope on the part of the public, but if our experiments continue to be as successful as they have been during the last two years, indications are that children can be immunized against pneumonia,” he said.

Reports from Moscow state that the Soviet government gradually intends to disband the huge “grain factories” like the 200,000-acre wheat ranch. The grain factories are said to have proved a fiasco. The reasons for the contemplated change in the Bolshevik agrarian policy, the reports said, are largely economic. Party leaders are said to have discovered that it is more practical to combine stock and grain raising than to have the two closely related branches of agriculture separated by sometimes hundreds of miles overland.

The damage from insect pests on the big grain farms last year was reported tenfold that of smaller farms because there was no way of checking the spread of the pests, especially rust and mildew, once they got started in a field of many thousand acres. Another factor in the decision was the lack of transportation facilities on the already broken-down railroads. Fodder and straw had to be transported from the grain farms to the stock farms, while fertilizer and meat had to be transported from the stock farms to the grain sovhozes.

Business relations between the Grain Trust and the individual cattle, hog, and poultry trusts were none too cordial, though under the direction of one and the same government. Due to sharp business practices, employees on grain farms are said to have gone for months without a bit of meat while on the other hand, thousands of head of cattle died of starvation for want of fodder during the winter. The government’s losses from large-scale farming are said to run into the millions and hundreds of millions of rubles. More than sixty officials of the Grain Trust are reported under arrest for having recommended the grain factory system, although they were backed by a number of high-priced foreign experts.

I would be disappointed if she were a prude. I would want her to be the kind of a girl who acknowledges her religious nature, and she should recognize that there is a Supreme Power which guides her very existence.

Converse
The annual May Day at Converse will be celebrated on April 30, which is Saturday week. This is always a beautiful spectacle and this will be no exception to the rule. Davidson boys will probably be “thumbing” down there in droves as there are many attractions down at Converse.

Auburn
Final dances at Auburn will be May 13 and 14 with Weede-Myer and his ever-popular dance orchestra furnishing the music.

V. M. I.
Here is the All-American Radio Team as picked by a poll sent out by the Music Corporation of America. There was a tight race between Guy Lombardo and Ben Bernie for captaincy:
Coon-Sanders - Left End
Vincent Lopez - Left Tackle
George Olsen - Left Guard
Ted Weems - Center
Gus Arnheim - Right Guard
Fred Waring - Right Tackle
Rudy Vallee - Right End
Guy Lombardo - Quarterback
Ben Bernie - Left Half
Wayne King - Right Half
Paul Whiteman - Fullback

Following in the footsteps of other great newspapers throughout the country, The Davidsonian has decided to have a Winchellized column all of its own. This is our introduction to our scandal-loving public. O! Kay Davidson.

Well, boys, the old Bowery (Brewery) Ball has come and gone. And what a time! What a Time! It was the high spot of the year in the form of entertainment. Girls from everywhere, and so fair to look upon, and how we love it, and they! A few sidelights on the brawl were picked up by this writer, and among the most prominent is that the music of Bryce and his boys was all right, and when they got right on “Tiger Rag,” well, you can have Lombardo and Vallee if you want them, but the local windjammers certainly get my vote for that old masterpiece of hotcha music.

Well, even in a good upright community like Davidson, we can’t keep out of politics. Our own Dr. J. M. McConnell is going to run for the State Senate. A rather facetious class in Freshman History got out of a writ by calling the senatorial aspirant Senator, upon his belated arrival to his first period class. It is rumored that the class in History 1A is going to be his “Tammany Hall” organization. He has supplied them with soap boxes, and nickel cigars with high-class bands on them, and is preparing to send them out to make stump speeches in the near future. The co-eds will have their part in it, too.

I see that all the members of the abnormal psychology class that took an inspection trip of the “looney bin” up at Morganton have returned, and are once more in our midst. I'll believe most anything now.

A bit of local scandal is that person or persons unknown let out a scream about midnight every night. The yell, which is particularly blood-curdling, comes from the first floor of East, and is decidedly disturbing to the inhabitants of that dormitory. Here’s a chance for some of these pseudo-detectives the student body appears to be burdened with.

One of our most prominent and promising athletes recently suffered an injury to his little finger. It might be of interest to note that he hasn’t held a decent bridge hand since.

Now “Battleship” has invaded the Davidson campus, and in every imaginable place, from the back room of Stetson “D” to the fraternity court, groups may be seen indulging in this pastime. Ed McCall recently downed Buck Mills for the championship of the second floor of Georgia. Mills has challenged for a return match in the near future.

Well, I notice that the president is off on another tour of the country. He and Lindbergh are the most famous “good-will” tourists.

Judging from some of the sour expressions noticed around the campus, I don’t believe that some of the last reports went over so big with the faithful provider back home.

The tennis team, returning from a fairly successful southern trip, had the misfortune of having a wreck. With the exception of a few bruises and cuts, they appeared in good shape, however, and took the courts Saturday to turn back the University of Richmond, 8-1.

Many of the local tennis enthusiasts took advantage last week of an opportunity to see “Big Bill” Tilden, the old maestro, put on a tennis exhibition at the Myers Park Country Club in Charlotte. He still has a number of tricks left, and displayed all in his repertoire for the Davidson fans.

Maurice Chevalier, appearing here last week in “One Hour With You,” created quite a sensation. The show was one of the most entertaining of the year.

The approaching R. O. T. C. inspection isn’t appetizing to many of the students afflicted with that course of study. Rifles are being slicked up, rifle numbers memorized, and field maneuvers rehearsed, so that the young soldiers can show the government how they do it. The advice of the Colonel is that you'd better be there, as cutting is liable to have much more disastrous consequences than a cut card or a make-up drill.

“HAVE FAITH; GO FORWARD!”
Thomas A. Edison, one of the world’s greatest men, after 84 years of a full and energetic life, gave to the world’s largest audience, over the radio last June, what proved to be his final public utterance. His words make a most powerful sermon. The message was spoken at a time when banks were continuing to go to the wall, when unemployment was steadily increasing, when sales of all kinds were being held and many stores were cutting prices to the limit, with little or no profit. Pessimistic statements were the rule. What should such a man say at such a time? Here are his words:

“My message to you is to be courageous! I have lived a long time. I have seen history repeat itself again and again. I have seen many depressions in business. Always America has emerged from these stronger and more prosperous. Be as brave as your fathers were before you. Have faith! Go forward!”