THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE BULLETIN

Alumni Marriages

The following are marriages of Davidson alumni which have occurred since the statistical bulletin of December 15, 1931, was published. Those which have been omitted through a lack of information in the alumni office will be published in later periodicals if those involved will notify the alumni secretary. (Unless otherwise specified, the marriages below occurred in 1932.)

1904—Dr. Henry Clay Salmons, of Elkin, to Miss Willie Gertrude Michael, of Kernersville, on December 17, 1931.

1912—James LeRoy Boyd, of Atlanta, Ga., to Miss Helen Meador, of Covington, Ga., on May 6th.
—Paul deLisle Mazyck, of Gaffney, S. C., to Miss Christine Littlejohn, of Jonesville, S. C., on August 6th.

1916—Minor Revere Adams, of Gastonia, to Miss Esther Reid, of Rock Hill, S. C., on July 9th.

1917—Zebulon Vance McMillan, of Red Springs, to Miss Ruby Doub, of Winston-Salem, on August 3rd.

1918—James Madison Austin, of New York, to Mrs. Madeline Horne West, of Pittsburgh, in January.

1919—William Cary Berryhill, of Charlotte, to Miss Mary Louise Wilson, of Louisburg, on January 9th.
—Bailey Patrick, of Hickory, to Miss Louise Venable John, of Laurinburg, on August 4th.

1920—Harold Cowan Griffin, of Samsoun, Turkey, to Miss Mary Carroll Byers, of Gaffney, S. C., on July 27th.

1921—Dr. Cecil Kenneth Brown, of Davidson, to Miss Evelyn Hill, of Tallahassee, Fla., on June 29th.
—Hadley Alexander Hill, of Bronxville, N. Y., to Miss Kathryn Helen Bryant, of Kent, Ohio, on June 15th.
—Jacquelin Plumer Taylor, of Winston-Salem, to Miss Anna Louise Deane, of Chevy Chase, Md., on January 2nd.

1922—Edwin Harden Denny, of Memphis, Tenn., to Miss Edith Marion Battle, of Atlanta, Ga., on December 26, 1931.
—Dr. Charles Edward Cunningham, of Franklin, to Miss Elizabeth Dare Flinn, of East Orange, N. J., in December, 1931.
—Julian Harold McKeithen, of Winston-Salem, to Miss Millicent Virginia Ward, of Concord, on June 24th.
—Henry Heath Massey, of Waxhaw, to Miss Bessie Smith, of Clarkton, on June 15th.

1923—Grover Mancil Ford, of Mount Berry, Ga., to Miss Kathleen Rice, of Arlington, Ga., on May 5th.
—Dr. William Joseph Martin, Jr., to Miss Louise Heyerdale, both of Rochester, Minn., on June 18th.
—William James Richards to Miss Annie Elizabeth Smith, both of Concord, on June 25th.

1924—George Ruffin Dupuy to Miss Elizabeth Eller Stone, both of Greensboro, on July 16th.
—Watt McCain, of Tulsa, Okla., to Miss Berta Womack, of Orangeburg, S. C., on July 7th.
—Harold Olney to Miss Emma Glenn, both of Spartanburg, S. C., on June 4th.

1925—Rev. Arthur M. Martin to Miss Mary Grubbs, both of Savannah, Ga., on June 21st.
—Rev. Archibald Cole Ray, of New Orleans, La., to Miss Eliza Owen Britt, of Tifton, Ga., on July 14th.

1926—Fred Norris Anderson, of Anderson, S. C., to Miss Florence Brennan Edwards, of Monticello, Ark., on December 28, 1931.
—Thompson S. Baker to Miss Cynthia L'Engle, both of Jacksonville, Fla., on November 23, 1931.
—Rev. Forrest Treadwell, of Columbus, Ga., to Miss Bertha Breazeale, of Lithonia, Ga., on July 7th.
—Green Flake Laird, of Davidson, to Miss Naomi Carrigan, of Mt. Ulla, on June 18th.
—Dr. Hampton Clisby Lawson, of Chicago, Ill., to Miss Elizabeth Johnson White, of Mebane, on July 20th.
—Logan Lovelace to Miss Mary Elizabeth Perry, both of High Point, on June 15th.
—James Calvin McKinnon to Miss Martha Fairley Murray, both of Laurinburg, on December 19, 1931.
—Dr. Benjamin U. Ratchford to Miss Laura Deaton, both of Durham, on August 5th.

1927—William Harllee Branch, Jr., to Miss Katherine Quintard Hunter, both of Atlanta, Ga., on June 8th.
—Joseph Cunningham Frierson, of McCamey, Texas, to Miss Grace Reid Seymour, of Elberton, Ga., on July 26th.
—Ralph Louis Lincoln to Miss Sarah Richardson, both of Marion, Va., on February 3rd.
—Garnett McMillan, Jr., of Chattanooga, Tenn., to Miss Ethel Virginia Alexander, of Abington, Va., on June 25th.
—James Alexander Vaughan, Jr., of Roxboro, to Miss Mary Celina McGregor, of Columbia, S. C., on February 6th.
—Kelly Vernon Woodham, of Port Gibson, Miss., to Miss Celeste Colbert, of Jackson, Miss., on December 5, 1931.

1928—Grady Stoddard Brooks, of Fountain Inn, S. C., to Miss Katherine Marsh, of Trenton, S. C., on April 16th.
—Frank T. Erwin, of Greensboro, to Miss Sara Godwin, of Charlotte, on March 26th.
—Dr. Franklin McLean Grady, of Syracuse, N. Y., to Miss Lydia Percival, of Fayetteville, on June 29th.
—William Richard Grey, Jr., of New York, to Miss Beatrice Fox, of Bethlehem, Pa., on May 7th.
—Dr. Thomas Thweatt Jones, of Baltimore, Md., to Miss Mary Cuyler Scanlon, of Durham, on June 16th.
—James Franklin McCrary, of Asheboro, to Miss Martha Morrison, of Hartsville, S. C., on January 16th.
—John Proctor McKnight to Miss Elizabeth Wharton, both of Havana, Cuba, on June 4th.
—Rev. John Malcolm Murchison, of Roxbury, Va., to Miss Clara Christian, of Westminster, Md., on June 7th.
—Harry Lee Neely to Miss Flora Anderson Davis, both of Bessemer City, on December 23, 1931.
—Dr. Augustus Steele Rose, of Boston, Mass., to Miss Grace Duncan, of Beaufort, on June 24th.
—Warren Waitt Smith to Miss Margaret Sadler Shulenberger, both of Charlotte, on December 24, 1931.
—Rev. Paul Patterson Thrower, of Vicco, Ky., to Miss Elizabeth Robinson, of Gastonia, on June 30th.
—Frank Caldwell Withers, Jr., of Columbia, to Miss Margaret McNeill, of Florence, S. C., on June 25th.

Dr. Howard A. Banks, ’88

Dr. Howard Alexander Banks, 1888 graduate of Davidson, died at his home in Pittsburgh on June 28th. Dr. Banks entered Davidson from Asheville, and following graduation he taught school for one year before taking up reportorial work. He was on the staffs of The Charlotte Observer and The Philadelphia Daily Record, and in 1910 he returned to North Carolina to take charge of The Hickory Democrat. In 1913 he resigned from the editorship and publishing of this paper to accept the post of private secretary to Josephus Daniels, then Secretary of the Navy in the late President Woodrow Wilson’s, ’77, Cabinet. After that he became associate editor of The Sunday School Times in Philadelphia, and in 1923 he moved to Pittsburgh to become associated with a religious publishing concern.Years ago he became owner and publisher of Christ-Life, a devotional magazine. Davidson conferred the Doctor of Literature degree upon him six years ago. Among his survivors are Henry H. Banks, 32, now a resident of Charlotte.

R. J. Cochran, '90
Robert Jones Cochran, 1890 alumnus of Davidson, died at his home in Charlotte on July 24th at the age of 68. After leaving Davidson, Mr. Cochran located in Charlotte, and for 21 years was superintendent of schools in Mecklenburg County. For 10 years he was with the Charlotte waterworks department, and in 1922 he organized the Cochran Coal Company, of which he was president at the time of his death.

Rev. H. C. Nelson, '08
Rev. Henry Clay Nelson, a 1908 alumnus of Davidson, died at his home in Victoria, Va., on May 2nd. Mr. Nelson was born in Virginia, but entered Davidson from Georgia. After leaving here he went to Union Theological Seminary. Following ordination, he served numerous churches in North Carolina until 1919, when he retired from the ministry and farmed near Victoria, Va. Ill health prevented his active participation in that field after 1919.

Correction
It was erroneously reported in one of the spring issues of The Davidsonian that Paul Leo Sutton, ’28, had been burned to death in Richmond, Va. The Paul Sutton who died in Richmond was not the one who attended Davidson. Mr. Sutton is alive and well, wrote his brother, in New Orleans. The editor gladly corrects this error.

29-YEAR-OLD ALUMNUS (Continued from page 2)
...ville and the congregation there was reluctant to release him. However, they recognized the greater field to which he had been called. He has already begun his duties in Decatur, Ga.

The Stadium at Davidson
...bia, S. C., to Miss Louise Sherfesee of Greenville, S. C., on June 18th.
1929—John English Bradley, of Stovall, to Miss Myra Webb, of Efland, on May 28th.
—William James Caldwell, Jr., and Miss Elizabeth Neel, both of Louisville, Ky.
—Taylor Gilmour, of Boston, Mass., to Miss Mary Nash Keesler, of Greenwood, Miss., on June 14th.
—Joseph Bertram James, of Tampa, Fla., to Miss Dorothy Lynn Huie, of Vidalia, Ga., on March 6th.
—Rev. DeWitt F. Helm, of West Jefferson, to Miss Blanche DeBusk, of Saltville, Va., on May 24th.
—Herbert Harry Worzel to Miss Margaretha Anna Rutan, both of Port Jervis, N. Y., on June 30th.
1930—Fred Delmar Hamrick, Jr., of Rutherfordton, to Miss Eunice Juanita Boney, of Rose Hill, on June 8th.
—George Patrick Henderson to Miss Louise McIver McLeod, both of Maxton, on December 23rd.
—Herman Charles Kennedy, of Atlanta, Ga., to Miss Alice Evelyn Barnett, of Decatur, Ga., in December, 1931.
—Joseph Rufus Marks, of Acme, to Miss Marion Beatrice Harris, of Seaboard, on December 30, 1931.
—Ladson Arthur Mills, Jr., of Washington, D. C., to Miss Elizabeth Burbridge Taft, of Charleston, S. C., on May 28th.
—Thomas Russell Nunan to Miss Cora Clarke, both of Crossnore, on June 27th.
—Frank Brandon Smith, Jr., of Charlotte, to Mrs. Anne Cannon Reynolds, of Concord, on May 4th.
1931—Wyatt Albion Armfield to Miss Lucy Reynolds Follin, both of Winston-Salem, on December 30, 1931.
—Claude Herman Farrell, Jr., of Dunn, to Miss Margaret Harris, of Elkin, on May 20th.
—Charles Augustus Sisson, of Boston, Mass., to Miss Ione Calhoon, of Grenada, Miss., on June 30th.
1932—Robert Thomas Covington, of Clio, S. C., to Miss Frances Louise Coleman, of Gallivants Ferry, S. C., in July.
1933—James I. Campbell, Jr., of New York, to Miss Hilda Flowe, of Allen, on August 10th.
1933—William L. Thomasson, of York, S. C., to Miss Agnes McGill, of Bethany, on August 2nd.

E. H. Bean, ’97
Eugene Holmes Bean, graduate of Davidson in the class of 1897, died suddenly at his home in Salisbury on June 8th. After his graduation from Davidson he completed the law course at the University of North Carolina. He practiced law in Salisbury for a while, but gave up active participation in this profession to become a compiler of historical facts concerning Salisbury, Rowan County, and the people of that section. He had been actively interested in various affairs of that section and was several times a candidate for public office.

Dr. H. E. McMurray, ’02
Dr. Henry Embey McMurray, 1902 alumnus of Davidson, died at his home in Tampa, Fla., on July 4th, at the age of 51. Dr. McMurray was born in Charlotte County, Virginia, but entered Davidson from Mint Hill, N. C. He attended the undergraduate school and was also a student at the North Carolina Medical College, then located at Davidson. He obtained his medical degree from Tulane University, and later did post-graduate work at the University of Pennsylvania Medical School. Dr. McMurray was a child specialist, and after practicing in North Carolina for a while he went to Kathleen, Fla., and later to Tampa, where he was prominent in his field. He was on the pediatric staff of the Municipal Hospital and Service Home in Tampa, and was known in his profession throughout the South.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE WILL FORMALLY OPEN SEPT. 8 (Continued from page 1)
...that the college would have its usual number of students. The registrar has the credits for a sufficient number of men to raise Davidson's registration to a new peak, but many of these men have not yet sent in their initial fee to the treasurer of the college. Last-minute applications are coming in daily to the registrar, but no accurate statement will be available until after the opening of the college September 8th. It has been pointed out that the Freshman class this fall will have the unusual distinction of entering upon a four-year period that will culminate in the celebration of Davidson's centennial during the scholastic session of 1935-1936. Officials of Davidson are already thinking in terms of this eventful celebration, though it will be some time before definite announcements will be forthcoming.

WHAT IS A COLLEGE FOR? (Continued from page 2)
...by loafing, hitch-hiking or going to movies. He will get it only by giving himself diligently each day to the work that is set before him. We extend a cordial welcome to both old and new students. We are looking eagerly to your return to the old college. If there is any service that we can render, either before or after you return, please let us know. We covet for you the finest and best that can be gotten out of a college course.
—Walter L. Lingle, President.