JUNIOR SPEAKING MARCH 18-19

The Davidsonian

"ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS"

DAVIDSON DEBATERS DEFEAT BUCKNELL

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 9, 1932 No. 21

Professor C. M. Heck to Lecture Here March 22 On Interesting Subject

Head of Physics Department of North Carolina State College Will Speak Here

NEW APPARATUS IN LAB

Hayes of ’29 Gives Engine Lathe to Physics Department

Under the auspices of the General Lecture Committee of Davidson College, Prof. C. M. Heck, head of the Department of
Physics of North Carolina State College, will speak here in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday, March 22, at 7:30 o'clock on
the subject of “Exploring the Universe.” The committee has been very fortunate in securing some interesting lecturers for the students
of Davidson this year, and Professor Heck is no exception. Because his talk will be non-technical, it will be of
unusual interest to all. He will illustrate it in a very unusual and entertaining way.

Professor Heck is noted throughout the state for the outstanding work which he has done in encouraging the teaching of
physics in high schools. Because of his interest and enthusiasm, many secondary schools have been able to offer courses which
otherwise they could not have done. He has also held several offices in the State Academy of Science, and he
has done much to promote its growth. During recent years Professor Heck has been doing research work in the field
of radio. Professor Heck got his bachelor of arts degree from Wake Forest College. Later he did graduate work in
both America and Germany. Professor Heck is a competent as well as an excellent speaker. He is in great demand
in many parts of the state. It is with great pleasure that the students, as well as the faculty, anticipate
this lecture. Drs. Arbuckle and Douglas, who have known Professor Heck for quite a while, will verify the above statements
concerning Professor Heck’s traits as a speaker.

Recently R. Hayes gave a much-needed piece of apparatus to the Department of Physics of Davidson College. It is an
engine lathe. Mr. Hayes is an alumnus of Davidson, having graduated with the class of 1929. On last Friday he
and his father were here to inspect the parts and to attend to certain other matters. According to Professor Fulcher,
this addition will be very useful, because for a long while it has been a prominent need of the department.
At present the machine is not completely installed; however, it will be ready for use in a very short while.

“Quips and Cranks” Will Be Issued Early in May

Progress Has Been Greatly Hindered by Financial Difficulties in Business World

In the early part of May, earlier than last year, the Annual will appear. Quips and Cranks came out around
the 25th in 1931, but this year it will be off the press at an earlier date, despite the many
financial difficulties encountered in its making. These were traceable to the general depression in the business world, which has affected
the advertising activities of companies greatly, and thus has made many and large obstacles for the business staff.

The Annual has now progressed very nearly to completion. The greater part of the copy will go to the printer
this week, and practically all the pictures taken during the fall and more recently, have gone to the engraver. This
year’s photographers were Wootten-Moulton of Chapel Hill, who have been photographers for the past seven years for the Yackety-Yack, U.
N. C. yearbook. The photographer will return for the last time just before the Easter holidays to take the last
pictures of the baseball, track, tennis and golf teams. Additional prints of pictures taken for the Annual may still be
had, it was stated; also, if extra copies, or copies with the student’s name in gilt, or copies with a
ribbon are desired, they must be ordered shortly from Bob Gorrell, business manager, because orders are to be filed very
soon.

The 1932 Quips and Cranks is to have as its theme, William Lee Davidson, general in the Revolutionary War, killed
at the battle of Cowan’s Ford, and after whom the college was named, and the various features of the volume
will be built around him.

Vesper Address Is Given By Dr. Brown

The weekly vesper service, sponsored by the Davidson College Young Men’s Christian Association, was, as usual, held in the Chambers
Auditorium last Sunday evening at 6 o'clock. A good crowd turned out, and was privileged to hear Dr. C. K.
Brown, of the Davidson faculty, speak. Dr. Brown was called on at the last minute to replace the scheduled speaker,
Dr. Currie, who was called suddenly out of town, and in spite of this fact, Dr. Brown gave a most
interesting and beneficial talk. He took as his text, “Am I My Brother's Keeper?” This is a thought that comes
up daily to every student in Davidson College, and an answer to this question was indeed timely. Dr. Brown gave
out the idea that each man in the college is to a large extent his brother's keeper, in that if
the boys of the school were absolutely insensible to the other's feelings, and tastes, the entire student body would live
in discord. The speaker gave a list of several things in which it was positively essential that we should be
our brother’s keeper. In the matter of his safety, domestic tranquillity, feelings, etc., it is imperative that the men of
this college look out for their fellow students, and see that they attain the good things in life, which they
possibly could not attain without the help of their comrades.

Moffatt McConnell of the Junior class presided at the meeting, and introduced the speaker. Prayers were offered by Bob McCallie
and Dick Whitfield.

Student Body Elections

Elections for the officers of the Student Body will begin next Tuesday, March 15. A nominating committee is selected from
members of the Student Council. This committee selects four nominees for president and four for the two vice-presidents, and four
for secretary and treasurer. The floor will then be open for further nominations. As planned now, this will begin on
March 15.

Bucknell Conquered By Davidson Debating Team

Knox and Kuykendall Hold a No-Decision Meet at Birmingham-Southern

FIRST BUCKNELL MEET

H. McKinnon and William Rule, III, won, by unanimous decision, a debate staged in Chambers Auditorium last Monday night at
7:30, over the representatives of the team from Bucknell University, Chas. R. Bidelspacher and Myre Ginsberg, the former from Williamsport,
Pa., and the latter from Newark, N. J. The subject of this debate was as follows: Resolved, “That the Federal
Government Should Enact Legislation to Provide for Centralized Control of Industry.” The affirmative was upheld by McKinnon and Rule in
such that the future debates of these two representatives should not be at all disappointing.

But Davidson is not content with merely a few debates. There were two more of therep- P. S. Knox and
Ed Kuykendall, representatives, are debating at Birmingham-Southern. The debate turned out to be a no-decision. These two, Knox and Kuykendall,
are on a trip that will give them two more chances to present the negative of this same resolution. These
matches will be with Florida on March 16 and with Emory on March 17. They did, and are at all
times, uphold the negative on the same resolution: Resolved: “That the Federal Government Should Enact Legislation to Provide for Centralized
Control of Industry.” McKinnon and Rule, displaying a reversal of form by taking the negative, will also make a trip,
meeting the respective teams of Southwestern, Maryville, and the University of Tennessee. Starting March 17, this trip will continue until
the spring holidays begin, March 24. But there is still another launching forth of Davidson debaters in the persons of
W. A. McKeithen and Riley Powell, who will meet Bucknell, and later the University of Richmond. The subject of the
debate is the same as that of the others, it always being constant. Davidson will uphold the negative on this
trip. Coming back to the debate last Monday with Bucknell, it might be mentioned that this is the first of
a series of six debates to be presented by these representatives. It will also be noted from the above schedule
that this debate last Monday was the first and last to be given here.

Bowery Ball
The annual Bowery Ball will be held on the weekend of April 16 and 17, 1932. On Friday night the
entertainment will be held in the Charlotte Hotel, and the Saturday afternoon and evening entertainments will be held in the
Charlotte Armory. Saturday night, however, is regarded as the official night of the Bowery Ball. Our own Sunnyland Serenaders will
furnish the music. Each year these entertainments are looked forward to with great pleasure and enthusiasm by the students. This
year is to be one of the most interesting yet experienced here.

“Y” Sends Out Three Deputations Sunday
Last Sunday the Y. M. C. A. sent out several deputations. They were as follows: A quartet sang at the
First Presbyterian Church at Concord at the evening service. It consisted of Bill Rule, Granger Williams, Leland McKeithan, and Charlie
Norfleet. At 8:15 a.m., a group left for the First Presbyterian Church at Salisbury and remained for the entire day,
dining and spending the time in various homes. Paul Brown spoke to a Sunday School assembly at the morning service.
The evening service was conducted by the young people of the church and they turned it over to the students.
“Skip” Brown and Charlie Moore gave talks, while Dave McLain sang a solo for the offertory. The usual two were
sent to the Y. M. C. A. at Charlotte. Odi Casali spoke to the group consisting of children of the
ages of 11, 12, and 13, and Sam Wiley to an older group of the ages of 15, 16, and
17. The “Y” at Charlotte is undertaking a movement to aid the growth of these boys mentally, physically, and spiritually.
The “Y” itself supplies the first two through the medium of a reading room and a gymnasium, but the spiritual
aspect is turned over to the Davidson Y. M. C. A., and every Sunday two men are sent over to
conduct this. This department of the “Y” has been functioning very much lately and plans for many more of these
deputations are being made.

Dean Rusk Signally Honored at Oxford
Former Davidson Student Wins Coveted “Half-Blue”
Word has just been received from Oxford to the effect that Dean Rusk, Davidson, '31, was awarded the “half-blue” in
lacrosse for playing for the University on February 25th. The “blue” in major sports, such as rowing and football, and
the “half-blue” in lesser sports, correspond to the varsity letter in America. The distinction is the more noteworthy in view
of the fact that Dean had never played lacrosse before going to Oxford, though skill in basketball and certain other
American games is of course an asset in a game of speed and agility like lacrosse. The “blue” is awarded
only for representing Oxford against Cambridge. In the same way, Cambridge awards the “light blue” only for competition against Oxford.
There is at present only one other “blue” in St. John’s College. Dean Rusk is the second Davidson man to
win the coveted Oxford athletic distinction, Dr. Ben Lacy having won it in boxing.

Speaker For Sunday Vespers Is Dr. Boyd
Dr. C. M. Boyd, pastor in Charlotte, will be the “Y” vespers speaker next Sunday evening, March 13th. Dr. Boyd
was for twelve years pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Tuscaloosa, Ala., where he was in active work and contact
with the young people of the University of Alabama. He is a comparatively young man and has done outstanding work
with the young people of the University. He was a trustee of Columbia Seminary at Decatur, Ga., until his appointment
to Charlotte. While in Davidson he will be the guest of Dr. Moffett, pastor of the Davidson College Church, and
has been invited to preach at the Sunday evening service there. A most interesting and inspiring program is expected at
these vespers.

But change is the immutable law. The innovations of one age become the familiar practices of the next. Revision, remodeling,
progress everywhere! The inexorable pressure of the new, the fresh, the original! We may defy, we may protest, yet the
world does move and the directing force of human activity is forward.—Nation’s Business.

Everywhere democracies are shirking facts, hoping to pay off perils with platitudes.—Winston Churchill.

Three National Honorary Fraternities Issue Bids to Twenty College Men
Fraternities Are Delta Phi Alpha, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and Sigma Pi Sigma
TWO WERE FOUNDED HERE
Men Rewarded for Outstanding Qualities in Their Respective Fields
Three of Davidson's honorary fraternities recently announced the issuance of bids to twenty new men who are outstanding in the
fields for which the respective fraternities were organized, and who have made high scholastic records. These fraternities are: Delta Phi
Alpha, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and Sigma Pi Sigma. All three are national organizations, and two of them were founded at
Davidson. Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, has issued bids to six men. This fraternity was founded at Wofford College
in 1927 for the purpose of promoting interest in the German language among students. It now has chapters in institutions
throughout the United States. The men receiving bids to Delta Phi Alpha are: W. B. Scott, Fremont, N. C.; F.
H. Holyoke, Mass.; W. M. Thompson, Richmond, Va.; W. T. Thompson, Richmond, Va.; J. W. White, Graham, N. C.; J.
S. Wilson, Charlotte, N.C.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, chemistry fraternity, extended bids to eight men who are proficient in chemistry, and who proved themselves worthy
of membership by their past records and keen interest in the subject. Gamma Sigma Epsilon was founded at Davidson in
1919. It now has eight chapters in leading Southern and Eastern colleges and universities. Those receiving bids are: C. M.
Wildman, Ojus, Fla.; E. W. Shackelford, Durham, N. C.; A. G. Little, Valdosta, Ga.; Odi Casali, Welch, W. Va.; A.
S. Morrow, High Point, N. C.; P. F. Brown, Atlanta, Ga.; R. H. Baker, Mooresville, N.C.; D. S. Currie, Parkton,
N. C.

Sigma Pi Sigma, physics fraternity, which was founded at Davidson in 1921, has issued bids to six new men. Since
its founding, Sigma Pi Sigma has installed chapters in twenty schools in the South and East. This fraternity rewards high
scholastic achievement and promotes interest in advanced physics. The new men are: C. H. Reid, Danville, Va.; J. E. Dill,
Buchanan, Va.; E. L. Gorham, Lake Charles, La.; Avery Patton, Jr., Greenville, S. C.; A. G. Little, Valdosta, Ga.; Seley
Ansley Watson, Anderson, S. C.

Faculty Engage in Many Meetings and Lectures
Dr. Lingle Addresses Various Groups in Different Cities of the Two Carolinas
President Walter L. Lingle on February 28th preached two sermons in Columbia, S. C., and he addressed the Men’s Club
of the First Presbyterian Church of that city on the 29th. He also delivered a sermon in the Saint Andrews
Presbyterian Church in Wilmington. While there he also made a special address at the Church of the Covenant on “Scotch
Covenanters.” Yesterday he attended as guest of honor a luncheon in the luncheon rooms of the First Presbyterian Church in
New Bern, N. C. Dr. Lingle was the principal speaker of this Davidson College alumni group. At 4 o'clock he
addressed the Parent-Teachers Association and ministers of Craven County. He returned to Wilmington today, where he spoke to the men
of the Presbyterian churches of that city.

Dr. P. H. Gwynn, professor of education, spoke last week at the Dilworth Parent-Teacher Society at its regular monthly meeting
in Charlotte, N. C. His subject was “Parents Facing a New World.” “Common sense is still the best policy—even with
our own children,” Dr. Gwynn told the assembled parents. Dr. Gwynn praised the work of the schools, especially the splendid
effort they are making to meet modern problems in child and adolescent psychology. He concluded his talk saying, “Love guided
by knowledge can go a long way to make up deficiencies.”

Captain F. M. Cochran will deliver a lecture on the Philippine Islands tonight at the ninth meeting of the Charlotte
Branch School for Reserve Officers. Captain Cochran has served (Continued on page 6)
