ELECTIONS CONTINUE
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
The Davidsonian

ATHLETIC TEAMS MAKE TRIPS

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 6, 1932 No. 24

Paul Brown to Be Head of Davidson College “Y” For 1932-1933 Session
Powell and Morrow Serve as Vice-Presidents for the Same Period

BROWN SUCCEEDS ENLOE
Splendid Work Has Been Done by “Y” This Year

Paul Frederick Brown, Jr., of Atlanta, Ga., was elected president of the Young Men’s Christian Association in the election held
recently. There was a great deal of interest taken in the “Y” elections this year and the occasion is important
because the “Y” stands at the center of the religious life of the college. It has a larger influence in
developing students in Christian character and training them for Christian service than any other agency at college. It is the
student's closest contact with active Christian service and every year the opportunity for rendering greater service is presented.

The newly elected president is a member of the Beaver Club, Pi Delta Alpha, Delta Phi Alpha, Gamma Sigma Epsilon,
Eta Sigma Phi, International Relations Club, Honor Roll, sergeant in Reserve Officers Training Corps, and winner of the gymnastic trophy.
Those nominated for president were Paul Brown, Atlanta, Ga.; Robert Lewis McCallie, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Warren Allston McKeithen, Aberdeen, N. C.;
and Franklin Myers, Greensboro, N. C.

Leland Edward Powell and Rufus Clegg Morrow, Jr., were elected first and second vice-presidents. Lyman Warren Clardy, Talladega, Ala.; William
Tipton Johnson, Charlotte, N. C.; Edward L. Powell, Mobile, Ala.; and William McIlwaine Thompson, Richmond, Va., were chosen by the
nominating committee. Those nominated from the floor were: Frederick Riker Hellegers, Passaic, N. J., and Rufus Morrow, Jr., Zitacuaro, Michoacan,
Mexico.

It is believed that the “Y” has put over successfully its program so far this year. Improvements have been made
in the reading room and the social center. Hundreds of Davidson men have been sent on deputations and this has
been a great influence for good. The students have had opportunities to hear some of the best speakers in this
section by means of the Sunday afternoon vespers. Speakers were obtained also for talks on boys’ problems, vocational guidance, and
other timely matters. Another beneficial feature of the “Y” is the Sunday School teaching done by the boys who visit
neighboring churches and conduct classes for about 35 Sunday Schools. The wholesome results of the work carried on by the
“Y” during the past year cannot be estimated. A peculiar thing in connection with the election of the “Y” president
is that for the last three consecutive years the presidents elected have all been natives of Georgia.

Prof. H. T. Lilly Speaks to Winston-Salem Club.
“Michelangelo” Is Subject of Recent Address Made Before Symington Book Club

On March 23 Prof. H. T. Lilly spoke to the Mary Symington Book Club in Winston-Salem, N. C. With his
particularly attractive manner of handling his subject for discourse, he presented as the topic of his talk for the afternoon,
“Michelangelo,” one of the world’s old masters. Departing from the usual trend when speaking of the old masters, Professor Lilly
gave Michelangelo a personality by building up a background for his talent and speaking of his life specifically as a
man of versatile talents, equally as brilliant as a great planner, artist, poet, sculptor, and of the city beautiful. The
speaker illustrated the varied talents of his subject by illustrations of a great number of the outstanding pieces of work
done throughout Italy by the artist. He spoke with interest of the exquisite chapel decorations which he developed in his
native country and showed pictures of a number of the decorations which he discussed.

Holidays Are Spent In Different Places

Now that the greatly anticipated Easter vacation has come and gone, it is time to listen to the wild tales
of those who struck gold mines, and made journeys to distant points of interest. It isn't at all difficult to
find out who has been anywhere, as they are only too glad to volunteer to inform you thereof, and in
this way let you know that the family exchequer is still going in spite of the depression. Some of the
incredible tales would do justice to Mr. R. Ripley’s well-known column. In fact, one Freshman came back with the tale
that up in New York he met women who were good looking, and had sense. This appeared to be the
outstanding event of his trip, and unless he went over Niagara Falls in a barrel, it probably was. However, New
York was in full sway for the holiday season, and the Great White Way shed its glare on many a
Davidson student, who was stepping out to something intellectual like Eugene O'Neill's “Mourning Becomes Electra,” starring Nazimova, or perhaps Ziegfeld’s
latest effort at glorifying the American girl, “Hot-Cha.” More than likely the latter received the greater patronage from the local
delegation.

Gotham seemed to have put on a special treat for the boys from the South, as two sophisticated and worldly-wise
Sophomores came back to college with programs of several outstanding stage successes. Foremost among these was “The Good Fairy,” starring
Helen Hayes, who has quite a following in Davidson due to her cinema successes in “Arrowsmith” and “The Sin of
Madelon Claudet.” Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne drew many to their newest, Robert E. Sherwood’s “Reunion in Vienna.” Two satirical
musical comedies, “Of Thee I Sing,” and “Face the Music,” attracted a following from among the local travelers. It was
cherry blossom time in Washington, and for those who stopped in the Capital City, that metropolis had offered a production
of “The Chocolate Soldier,” a musical comedy taken from Shaw's “Arms and the Man.” The music was by Oscar Strauss.
The remainder of the shows in Washington were mediocre, but it was worthwhile to be in that city if only
to see the cherry trees in full bloom casting their reflection into the greenish-blue of the Potomac.

A large number of “Weeds” took it upon themselves to travel to the “Land of Flowers,” and were rewarded by
seeing the speedboat races at Winter Haven. Then, too, it has been rumored in these parts that the female of
the species grows very beautiful down in alligator land, and that the “peaches” aren't all on trees. As the north
wind blew through the Piedmont section, the Florida lads were swimming.

(Continued on page 5)

Y. M. C. A. Sends Out Seven Deputations
John Howard Has Had Charge of Deputations This Year

During this past week-end the Davidson Y. M. C. A. sent out seven major deputations. The regular deputation to the
Charlotte Y. M. C. A. was composed of Charlie Moore and Rufus Morrow. Moore led the younger group of boys,
11 to 14 years of age, and Morrow led the older group, 15 years and up.

A special Freshman quartet attended a Concord Young People’s Conference. The deputation left Saturday night, and stayed over until Sunday
night. It was composed of David McLean, Hubert Morriss, Buddy Robinson, and Franck Tucker.

A deputation, held every first and third Sunday of each month, was sent to Sherrill’s Ford. Tom McLean preached the
sermon, with Jack Williams as leader of the service, and Tommy Phifer as leader of the Sunday School. Evening services
at Belmont Presbyterian Church were led by Sam Thompson, while Ed McNair and Don Preston preached. Leslie Leeper furnished special
music.

The Young People’s League at Center Church was led by Frank Elverey and Tom Davis. Special music was furnished by
Grainger Williams and Henry Hodgins. These deputations represent a major part of the work of the Y. M. C. A.
here at Davidson, and are considered by this organization to be of utmost importance. John Howard, who is student pastor
of the chapel here in Davidson, has had charge of the sending out of the deputations during the past year.

“Foolishness” is Subject of Bishop E. A. Penick’s Forceful Vespers Talk
Bishop Penick Talked on Paul’s Doctrine, Called Foolish by the Greeks

LEA LEADS VESPERS SERVICE
Music Is Provided by Don Leeper and Ed McNair

Last Sunday evening at 6 o'clock the regular weekly Y. M. C. A. vesper service was held in Chambers Auditorium.
The speaker of the evening was Bishop E. A. Penick, of Charlotte. The service was led by William S. Lea
of the Senior class, who read the scripture lesson from the sixteenth chapter of the Gospel according to Mark. Wayte
Fulton of the Junior class and William C. Matthews of the Sophomore class led in prayer. A violin solo was
given by Don H. Leeper, accompanied by Edward McNair. The subject of Bishop Penick’s talk was “The Foolishness of the
Cross.”

W. S. Lea to Attend St. Louis Convention
The National Society of Scabbard and Blade, honorary inter-collegiate military fraternity, will hold its eighteenth national convention as the guests
of H. Company, 5th Regiment, at Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri, April 7, 8 and 9. More than two hundred
delegates, junior and senior cadet officers from the 84 chapters or companies, will attend from forty-six states. The chapter at
Davidson, known as B Company, 5th Regiment, will be represented at the convention by William S. Lea, who was elected
delegate at a recent meeting. Major General Johnson Hagood, U. S. A. Commanding General of the Seventh Corps Area, will
welcome the assembly of student, regular army and reserve officers when the convention is opened the morning of the first
day. The purpose of Scabbard and Blade is primarily to raise the standard of military training in American colleges and
universities.

Final Plans Are Made For Commencement of the Graduates of 1932
Baccalaureate Sermon, “Y” Exercises, Board Meeting, and Alumni Day to Be Main Events

GRADUATION JUNE 2ND
Dr. Robert Fishburne Campbell Will Give the Baccalaureate Sermon on May 22nd

Plans for the commencement exercises of theGraduating class of 1932 are very nearly completed. The Y. M. C. A. speaker
has not been finalized. The arrangement of various exercises has not been definitely decided, and there are other details to
be attended to. Rev. R. unite in closer relationship their military departments; to encourage and foster the essential qualities of
good and efficient officers. Foolishness of Preaching.” This was taken from I Corinthians 1:21. Our word moron is derived from
the Greek word for foolishness. The foolishness referred to does not refer to the literary style, compelling power, or richness
of thought. Why is it foolish? The Greeks had a doctrine of moderation in every phase of life. Paul taught
Christ’s rules, opposing the Greek philosophy. When Paul taught, the latter thought it foolish. Many like the ancient Corinthians call
themselves worldly-minded and practical. They are skeptical and philosophical. To this group of people, the teaching of Christ is foolishness.
An example of this is in Christ’s command to “love your enemies.” The modern skeptics may concede that this is
possible among individuals, but they see no chance of applying it to our national policy. When statesmen attempt to establish
this policy, they are laughed at by the worldly-minded people as being impractical.

Another of Christ’s teachings, “Blessed are the meek,” is not believed in by most people of today. Who wants to
be meek? That is often considered a sign of weakness in individuals. Aggressiveness and leadership are usually considered desirable qualities
in men. The skeptics of today ridicule meekness as unmanly and a negative virtue. Many think that the saying, “Whatsoever
ye ask of me in my name, that will I do,” is one of Christ’s overstatements for the sake of
emphasis. The worldly attitude is that prayer is “kidding oneself.” Many think that prayer is useful only in making us
conscious of our needs so we can do the work ourselves. But one great theologian has stated, “Prayer is not
human effort, but human-divine effort.” It is a giving of consciousness so that we may be aware of God's presence.
“Whosoever will be my disciple, let him take up his cross and follow me" is a teaching which repels many
and attracts others. The worldly (Continued on page 5)

Dean Rusk Praised For Work on Oxford Teams

Rusk Member of Oxford’s Championship Lacrosse Team Which Was Awarded English Athletic Cup

The Oxford University Lacrosse team recently won the championship of England in this sport. Dean Rusk, Davidson's graduate of last
year, is a member of this team. In achieving this signal distinction, the Oxford lacrosse players conquered several colleges and
universities of considerable merit. First, the group players won the championship of South England and soon after were awarded the
cup designating the proficiency in lacrosse of all English universities. This cup, called the English Universities Cup, is awarded annually
to the team displaying the greatest proficiency. In the near future, Oxford will meet the champions of North England for
the All-England title. Whether or not Rusk’s team will be able to accomplish this feat is a matter of speculation
in England, and as a result, considerable interest is being evinced by English sport lovers. Dean has been frequently lauded
by English sport columns for his scintillating work on the team. Dean is currently Easter vacationing in Paris, France.

To promote intimacy and good fellowship among the cadet officers. Further, the society tends to disseminate military information among the
students and among the people of the country in general. With the growth and influence of this society, the old
proverbial hatred of military drill—regarding it as a necessary evil—is dying away, and the students of universities are beginning to
realize that military service is an obligation of citizenship and should be performed willingly, cheerfully, and wholeheartedly. The cadet elected
to Scabbard and Blade must be an “officer and a gentleman.” He must possess the qualities of fidelity, ability, patriotism,
respect for authority, courage, good-fellowship, and honor—all of which lead to success in any line of work, military or civil.
In short, character and ability are the sole basis for election to membership.

Professors Attend Goethe Centenary

At the invitation of the German department of Duke University, Professors T. W. Lingle, Harding, Foreman, and Vowles, present or
former teachers of German at Davidson, attended the Goethe Centenary at Duke University Tuesday, March 29. There were also guests
from other colleges of North Carolina, and several from as far away as Winthrop College of South Carolina. The philosophy
professor of the University of Breslau, Geheimrat Prof. Dr. Eugen Kuehnemann, was the guest of honor. Professor Kuehnemann is a
distinguished, genial, cultured German gentleman of the old school, who captivated the hearts of his audiences. He has lectured as
an exchange professor at Harvard and Wisconsin, and though he speaks with a slight accent, his command of English is
such that he uses no notes and waxes eloquent in our language. He is the author of fifteen books in
the fields of philosophy and literature, his latest work being a brilliant two-volume work on Goethe.

After luncheon at the Duke Union, Professor Clement Vollmer of Duke introduced Professor Kuehnemann, characterizing Gerhard Hauptmann (who recently spoke
at Columbia University) and Professor Kuehnemann as the two principal spiritual leaders in Germany today. Professor Kuehnemann spoke on German
education of today, disclaiming, however, any expert knowledge of the subject. The war, he said, made the Germans realize two
defects in their education: first, too great self-satisfaction and failure to understand other peoples, and second, too great a gap
between the educational opportunities of the “common people” and those of the so-called upper classes. Reforms in present-day education are
aimed in the direction of overcoming these defects. There is, however, one sad feature. In spite of the warnings that
opportunities for educated men are limited, there has been an unprecedented rush to the universities, with the result that there
are many young men with degrees who can find nothing to do, or have to do work of common laborers.
There is a great mass of “Jugend ohne Aussicht,” youth without prospects. A factor in this is that opportunities for
Germany along her east- (Continued on page 5)

The program is as follows:
May 22nd, 11 A.M.—Baccalaureate Sermon, Rev. R. F. Campbell, D.D.
May 22nd, P.M.—Y. M. C. A.
May 31st—Meeting of Alumni Council.
June 1st—Alumni Day, Alumni Meeting, Faculty Reception, Class Day Exercises.
June 2nd—Graduation Exercises.

Rev. Robert Fishburne Campbell, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Asheville, N.C., will give the baccalaureate sermon on
May 22nd. This exercise has been moved about ten days before the other ceremonies. Dr. Campbell took his M.A. degree
at Washington and Lee University in 1879. He then went to Union Theological Seminary where he graduated in 1885. Davidson
College bestowed a D.D. degree on him in 1893. Dr. Campbell was pastor at different churches including Davidson until 1892
when he went to Asheville, where he has remained for forty years. He was appointed the James Sprunt lecturer for
1930 at Union Theological Seminary; founder of the Good Samaritan Mission at Asheville; Moderator of the General Assembly of the
Presbyterian Church in 1927; and member of the board of the Union Theological Seminary and the Montreat Normal School. He
is a Phi Beta Kappa man and a member of Delta Kappa Epsilon. Dr. Campbell has written several brochures on
different topics and has published numerous addresses. Final arrangements for the speaker have not been definitely made as this issue
goes to press.

The following classes will hold reunions on Alumni Day, June 1st: 1928, 1927, 1926, 1925, 1909, 1908, 1907, 1890, 1889,
1888, 1887, 1882, and 1931. The class of 1907 will hold its first reunion in a quarter of a century.
It will be the fiftieth reunion for the class of 1882 and the first for the class of 1931. The
Alumni Council will hold meetings on Tuesday night and Wednesday morning. The Alumni Association will have a luncheon at 1:00
p.m., June 1st, followed by a meeting.

Dr. J. M. McConnell May Be Candidate For Senate

Col. T. L. Kirkpatrick of Charlotte Is Only Announced Candidate Thus Far

Dr. J. Moore McConnell, well-known Davidson professor, may be drafted as a Democratic candidate for the State Senate, several of
his Charlotte and Davidson friends said sometime last week. Although Dr. McConnell, who is professor of history here, has made
no statement of any kind relative to making the race, it is known that he has considered it and may
make an announcement soon. The only announced candidate for the senate is Col. T. L. Kirkpatrick, of Charlotte, although several
others have been mentioned as possible candidates. Dr. McConnell is a graduate of Davidson College, and took his doctor of
philosophy degree at the University of Virginia. He has been connected with summer camps for boys and business enterprises. For
about 20 years he has been outstanding as a professor at Davidson and during summer terms at other institutions. A
Charlotte friend pointed out that Dr. McConnell’s training in political theory and economy, his practical business experience, and wide contacts
qualify him well as a candidate for the State Senate. Dr. J. M. Douglas, fellow professor at Davidson, said he
believed Dr. McConnell could easily obtain leave of absence from classroom duties during the legislative term should he run and
be elected.
