4 Y. M. C. A. BEGINS ANNUAL STUDENT GIFT CAMPAIGN

(Continued from page 1)

to their attention. The Cabinet decided that the gift funds could be of most service in Davidson’s own home mission project and in a mountain mission school. The work being done in the Davidson Unity Church is well known to Davidson students. Work was undertaken among the people of the mill community some years ago under the direction of the Presbyterian Church here. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle and Mr. F. L. Jackson were active in conducting services for these people as early as 1915. At that time students from the college aided them. Ladies of the town assisted with night classes and the work was promoted with a great deal of community interest.

At about the middle of the last decade, the work had grown to such proportions that a full-time worker was needed. Accordingly, the College Church and the Y. M. C. A. co-operated in securing Mr. DeWitt Helm, then a student here, to spend all of his time apart from college duties in ministering to the people of the mill community. He was succeeded in this work by Albert McClure, who served until the latter's graduation in 1931. Since that time the work has been carried on by John Howard, now a Senior in the college.

The pastoral and preaching duties of the Davidson Unity Church require the devoted and constant efforts of the student pastor. The contribution of $300 which Davidson students are making this year will be used to support the work of the student pastor. The man to whom he refers is John W. Luke, a graduate of Hampden-Sidney College and Union Seminary of Richmond. He is closely connected with many Davidson people, having been taken into the church by Dr. Harry Moffett, and having been coached in college football by Coach Monk Younger. He studied church history under Dr. Walter Lingle in Seminary and was a classmate of Prof. Lewis Schenck there. Charles Moore of the Senior class and M. W. Norfleet of the class of 1931 have done work under him during the summer. He states that two Davidson men, Thompson and McDavid of last year’s graduating class, are now teaching at Glade Valley. He says further concerning the Glade Valley project:

LUKE'S STATEMENT

“The seventeen students have led the school in their grades, and according to Prof. E. B. Etheridge, are setting a fine morale for the student body consisting of about eighty students. By faith, I am backing up seventeen picked scholars, assuming a debt of $1,275 at a risk. These students are receiving a Christian high school education and will become great Christian leaders in their own communities and our nation. Some of them, unless given a chance, will no doubt fill graves in the mountains, visionless, Christless perhaps, with no better end because they lived. Woodrow Wilson said in words something like these, ‘The people of the Great Southern Appalachian Highlands are the purest-blooded Anglo-Saxon race of America, and there has not come a great crisis in our country, that these highlanders have not played a decisive part.’”

EIGHTH DUKE ENDOWMENT ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATED

(Continued from page 1)

Carolina; Rev. J. B. Hurley of Lexington; Rev. C. K. Proctor, Superintendent of Oxford Orphanage, and Bishop Edwin Mouzon of Charlotte. Dr. W. L. W. Peeke, pastor of the First Methodist Church, presided at the exercises. Lawrence Clark Apgar, organist and carillonneur of Duke University, played several numbers and a double quartet from the university sang, adding much to the enjoyment of the program.

Dr. Arbuckle is an analyst in a peculiar poison case (Continued from page 1). He sent these articles to the Medical Association to be translated. The results showed that in 1910 in a small town in Austria, a workman at a factory had been poisoned. Dr. Arbuckle’s work in this case has been published in an equally rare German journal.

The Davidsonian, December 14, 1932

Our country is “isolated in the coves and hollers” of our Blue Ridge Mountains without the material, intellectual, and spiritual benefits of our Christian civilization. Nothing is more fascinating than locating the choicest of these young people, bringing them to a knowledge of Christ, giving them the advantages of Christian education and fitting them for leadership in their own communities or wherever their chosen profession takes them. This work is being done entirely on faith by a Christ-honoring Presbyterian minister.

Mr. Duke had lived in Europe. He stated that the purpose of his talk was to analyze the meaning of Duke’s work. “Rockefeller and Carnegie alone exceeded him as a philanthropist and although he never held public office, he sent his ambassadors to the ends of the earth,” he continued. If Mr. Duke had lived in Europe, he would have been given an official title and his remains would be resting in Westminster Abbey. But he was an American and his body rests under sacred North Carolina soil, but men and women and little children receive the solicitude of the state.

By faith men of old had the nerve to do things for God. By faith, I am backing up seventeen picked scholars, assuming a debt of $1,275 at a risk. These students are receiving a Christian high school education and will become great Christian leaders in their own communities and our nation. Some of them, unless given a chance, will no doubt fill graves in the mountains, visionless, Christless perhaps, with no better end because they lived. Woodrow Wilson said in words something like these, ‘The people of the Great Southern Appalachian Highlands are the purest-blooded Anglo-Saxon race of America, and there has not come a great crisis in our country, that these highlanders have not played a decisive part.’”

The remainder of the Christmas Gift Fund over and above the $300 needed for the Mill Chapel work will be used in sending seventeen mountain boys and girls to this school. Davidson students first became interested in the school through Mr. John W. Luke, who is a mountain mission worker located at Glendale Springs, also in Ashe County. He showed the need of these underprivileged young people and showed how far a very little money would go in educating them. He revealed the fact that he had sent seventeen of the most promising boys and girls in his parish to Glade Valley School, where farm produce and their own work will pay for the support of the worker. Since the work was started under the direct guidance of a student full-time worker, great strides forward have been made. A tumble-down one-room shack has been repaired and added to until now there is an attractive and adequate church building. This was done largely through the efforts of Albert McClure and Dr. Arbuckle. During the past summer, John Howard organized a cabin for use as a social service building. Perhaps no better idea of the progress made in the work can be given than by quoting from a statement made by Mr. DeWitt Helm, who is now a minister in Ashe County:

HELM'S STATEMENT

“By their fruits ye shall know them; is the Master's criterion of judgment and we can apply no better. From the physical viewpoint, one can easily see results of every dollar, every moment of time and every prayer spent in our Mill Chapel work. In the past six years, a dilapidated one-room shack has been reconstructed and transformed into an acceptable Sunday School building and a modest but satisfactory church has been erected. During the same period, a Sunday School of about twenty members has grown into a well-organized Community Church: a departmentalized Sunday School with a large attendance, a Young People’s organization, and an active Woman’s Auxiliary. But the real achievements of our work are not visible to the casual observer. Regular Sunday and mid-week worship has been maintained without interruption; the sick have been nursed day and night, the dead have been buried; the widows, orphans, and destitute cared for and the transforming power of the Gospel has been brought into many lives and homes. Our ministry has been used of God to turn many hearts to Him, establish family altars and develop a center of religious life and activity for the mill people of which they are justly proud and in which their souls are kept face to face with eternal verities.”

GlaDE VALLEY

It so happens that Mr. Helm is preaching in the very section of this state where Glade Valley High School is located.a colossal figure. A soulful invocation was offered by Dr. Walter L. Lingle, the President of Duke. Duke did not have the advantages of an education, spending less than six months in school his entire life. The Honorable O. Max Gardner, Governor of North Carolina, delivered his address with blazing new trails, healing the sick, educating youth, and providing houses of worship.

Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
Anything Ordered on Thursday and Friday of This Week Can Be Shipped Anywhere By CHRISTMAS STAR DIRECT

“Duke did not seek to outdo others, but he meant to add to their labor. Surely he has created an instrument for great good that will bless generations to come.”

Continuing, Governor Gardner asserted, “The greatest memorial to this great man will be the daily prayers from orphans, youths given greater opportunity, and those in pain whose health is being restored. In his opinion, decisions being made now will greatly influence the future. To him, there is something splendid about this citizen of the world who walked in Wall Street but could not forget the red hills of his county.”

The speaker pointed out that “Duke was a frontiersman forging ahead with rugged self-reliance, and that this great captain of industry detached himself and fell in with the warm currents of the people, hearing the small but compelling voice of humanity.”

Honorable Ibra C. Blackwood, Governor of South Carolina, spoke on The Duke Endowment in South Carolina. He declared, “All patriotic South Carolinians recognize the Duke Endowment as one of the great benefits of their state, and it will always be remembered.”

Dr. Robert Wilson, Dean of the Medical School of South Carolina, pointed out two great problems of medicine: “The utilization of machinery for the benefit of all people and the growing tendency of physicians to settle in cities, creating a grave situation in rural communities.” He showed that Duke was greatly interested in hospitals. Knowing the scarcity of hospitals, Duke provided for them liberally, allotting nearly one-third of the endowment for this purpose.

The Rev. J.B. Hurley spoke on “The Superannuate Minister and the Rural Church” and emphasized the broadness of Mr. Duke's character. He showed how the endowment has helped the rural church and the superannuate minister.

Judge William R. Perkins, vice-chairman of the board of trustees, spoke in earnest and impressive tones. His subject was “The Duke Endowment; its Origin and Purpose.” Judge Perkins was a personal friend of Mr. Duke and was for many years his legal adviser. “Mecklenburg is the cradle of the greatest philanthropist in history,” he declared. The lawyer outlined the life of this great man who rose unaided from poverty to power and wealth. He also mentioned the great partnership that existed between father and son. Once Judge Perkins asked Mr. Duke what he thought was the greatest thing he ever did. “The Duke Endowment,” he replied, “because through it I make men.” And it is as a maker of men that he preferred to be remembered.

The Honorable Clyde R. Hoey spoke on “James B. Duke: Man and Citizen.” This was an eloquent and impressive address. “It is difficult to accurately measure the stature of this great man,” he said. “The world counts his worth by what he has accumulated. However, there are a few men who rise above their possessions. Such a man was James B. Duke! Duke knew the struggle of existence and the meaning of hard work. As a result of his full life, James B. Duke is bigger than his wealth.”

The benediction was offered by the Right Reverend Edwin D. Mouzon of Charlotte. North Carolina contemplates with admiration and gratitude the generous spirit that led America's greatest merchant to devote his means to humanity.

DUKE UNIVERSITY
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N.C.

The entrance requirements are intelligence, character, and at least two years of college work, including the subjects specified for Grade A Medical Schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.

MARTIN BROS. SHOE SHOP
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
112 GARLAND COURT
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
PRINTING AND ENGRAVING
WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE

See Our DAVIDSON REPRESENTATIVES
EDW. O. GUERRANT
A. M. MANSON

“Davidson Theatre”
WEDNESDAY
“TESS OF THE STORM COUNTRY”
JANET GAYNOR—CHARLES FARRELL
THURSDAY
“CENTRAL PARK”
JOAN BLONDELL—WALLACE FORD
FRIDAY
“CALL HER SAVAGE”
CLARA BOW

TRY
GEO. W. LAPITZ
Factory Representative

for one-half their schooling this year. He has been endeavoring to raise the other half, which amounts to seventy-five dollars for each student. Nearly $1,300 is needed. The Y Cabinet has decided that the balance of the Gift Fund shall be used to reduce this debt of faith.

Mr. Helm is intimately connected with this work. Concerning it, he says: “Our Ashe County students at Glade Valley present an entirely different appeal. Much of the purest Anglo-Saxon blood of

B. O. RAVENEL
Student Representative
Tailoring Display
EVERY THURSDAY AND FRIDAY
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

SATURDAY
“MEN OF AMERICA”
CHIC SALE—WILLIAM BOYD
MONDAY
“ME AND MY GAL”
JOAN BENNETT—SPENCER TRACY
TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY
“HALF NAKED TRUTH”
LUPE VELEZ—LEE TRACY