a VARSITY VS. Government.” ERSKINE TO-MORROW NIGHT

The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

TALKS ON WASHINGTON CONTINUE

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 3, 1932 No. 16

Dr. W. T. Ellis Addresses PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL

“Washington” is Subject Davidson Student Body. During Chapel Services Speaker Is Noted Lecturer and Writer on Social, Political and Religious Topics

GRADUATE OF SWARTHMORE

Gives Important Factors in Obtaining Well-rounded Education

“Japan has set off the fireworks that may destroy the civilization of the world,” today declared Dr. William T. Ellis, noted lecturer and writer on social, political, and religious topics, in speaking at the chapel exercises of Davidson College. “January 29th may be a more fateful day than that day back in the summer of 1914 which precipitated the World War.” Dr. Ellis, who has been on several war fronts in the capacity of a reporter, who has traveled extensively all over the world, and is an internationally known figure, made the above declaration parenthetically in his talk to the Davidson students on the three most important factors in a college education, and made no further elaboration upon his prediction. His prophetical declaration fell upon a hushed audience.

This eminent leader maintained that the three essentials of college education are ‘to recognize your own individuality, develop the relationship between yourself and your fellow man, and to accept books of authority, and most of all to accept the Bible.” “If I had my way,” he declared, “I would (Continued on page 6)

Faculty Announces Elaborate Program

Washington Bicentennial Anniversary Celebrated in Co-operation With National Government

In accord with the request made by the National Government, to have some form of celebration for the Washington bicentennial, the faculty committee consisting of Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr. T. W. Lingle, and Prof. A. Currie, announce the following speakers for the regular chapel periods on the dates given:

Saturday, January 30, Dr. T. W. Lingle spoke on Washington's Statesmanship.

Thursday, February 4, Professor Currie will speak on Washington’s Influence in Our Foreign Policy.

Thursday, February 11, Dr. W. L. Lingle will speak on Washington's Character.

Thursday, February 18, Dr. J. M. McConnell will speak on Washington, the Christian Gentleman.

To climax the celebration, President Rondthaler of Salem College will deliver the main address on Washington's birthday, February 22. Following this, Dr. C. E. Raynal, of Statesville ceremony. One of the attractions of the Washington celebration will be the free cinema which will be held at the Davidson Theater on the afternoon of February 17. The title of the photoplays to be presented are “Washington and His Comrades in Arms,” and “Washington and His Freshmen Select Wiley Student Council Adviser

Sam S. Wiley, of Salisbury, prominent member of the Senior class of Davidson College has been selected by the Freshman class to act as chairman of their class until the regular election of officers for the ensuing year. Five names of Senior members were presented to the Freshmen, and Wiley was their choice on the first ballot.

According to a decision made by the Freshman class last year and upheld by the class this year, the Freshmen do not elect a president of their class until the regular election time for all student body and class officers. He is then known as the Sophomore president, and acts until officers for the Junior year are chosen. The selection of Wiley, however, gives the class an individual through which they might work, and to whom they might go for advice in class affairs.

Lucas, Chester, S.C. will deliver an address and lead a tree planting ceremony.

Dr. J. T. GARTH WILL TALK HERE ON FEB. 11

“Race Psychology” to Be Subject of University of Denver Speaker

Dr. J. T. Garth, of the Division of Education and Psychology at the University of Denver, Denver, Colo. will give a lecture in Chambers Auditorium at 7:30, Thursday, February 11, on “Race Psychology.” Dr. Garth's lecture will be illustrated by lantern slides. Dr. Garth is at present on a lecture tour of the United States. Besides our college, he will also give talks at Smith College, Wellesley, The Social Science School of New York City, and other institutions in the East. Although Dr. Garth is at present connected with the University of Denver, he has a brother living at Charlotte. The Rev. J. G. Garth, his brother,

Many Girls Come to Davidson From Southern Colleges for Mid-Winter Frolic

One of the most brilliant affairs of the season was ushered in on Friday evening, January 29, 1932, at the formal dance in the Charlotte Armory from 10 ‘til 2 A. M. This was the beginning of the annual Pan-Hellenics, sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council, and the series closed at 12 o'clock Saturday evening. The color motif was green and white. The streamers were gathered in a point at the center of the hall, and swayed outward in a circle. The floor was banked with cedar trees. At the end of the hall were all the lighted shields of the Davidson fraternities. The orchestra alcove was decked in green and white. “Tal” was augmented by a well-trained group and plenty of brass. Tal Henry's group was one of the best orchestras ever had at these dances, and they were the main help in making the weekend a success.

The individual entertainments were: Formal dance, Friday evening, January 29, 1932. In this was a figure led by Nat Speir and Miss Martha Clark, of Fayetteville, N. C., and Ed Kuykendall and Miss Sue Horner. Others taking part in this were elected from their fraternities. The tea dance, Saturday, afternoon, January 30, 1932, from 4 ‘til 6:30 o'clock. And the informal dance held on Saturday evening from 9 ‘til 12, which ended this series of entertainments.

The following young ladies, upon the bids of different fraternities, from all over the country, were here in attendance:

Phi Gamma Delta

Mary Lanier, Birmingham, Ala.; “Tut” Gorrell, Greensboro, N.C.; Margaret Williams, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Mary Alice MacCoyle, Hickory, N. C.; Romaine Clark, Wilson, N. C.; Douglas Long, Greensboro, N. C.; Margaret Smith, Leaksville, N. C.; Rose White Kenny, Windsor, N. C.; Sallie B. Hughes, Knoxville, Tenn.; Emily Machan, Knoxville, Tenn.; Jane Boyd, Nashville, Tenn.; Lucy James, Greenville, N. C.; Dorothy Sellers, Burlington, N. C.; Mary MacKay, Concord, N. C.; Mary Louise Means, Concord, N. C.; Elizabeth Odell, Concord, N. C.; Mary Creech, Winston-Salem, N.C.

Kappa Alpha

Mamie Denton, Concord, N. C.; Ann Hoover, Concord, N. C.; Elizabeth Gilmore, Wilmington, N.C.; Dorothy Dorsett, Lexington, N. C.; Harriet Cobb, Durham, N. C.; Rose White Kenney, Windsor, N. C.; Ruth Whiton, Charlotte, N. C.; Amelia Webb, Charlotte, N. C.; Heistand Scott, Davidson, N. C.; Mary Stewart Spears, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Isabel Pollock, Bluefield, W. Va.; Cynthia Barnes, Anderson, S. C.; “Lib” Lewis, Chester, S. C.; Susanne Hayes, Charlotte, N. C.; Eleanor Hayes, Charlotte, N. C.; Dot Montgomery, Charlotte, N.C.

Beta Theta Pi

Louise Tate, Charlotte, N. C.; Effie Murphy, Rock Hill, S. C.; Catherine Kiker, Reidsville, N. C.; Dot McClintock, Charlotte, N. C.; Gean Foster, Cincinnati, Ohio; Mary Barnett, Welch, W. Va.; Mary Ware, Darlington, S.C.; Elizabeth Limehouse, Orangeburg, S. C.; Zirleta Kent, Bluefield, W. Va.; Carol Dean, Leland, Miss.; Edith Bowden, Burlington, N. C.; Edith Lathan, Greensboro, N. C.; Nancy Moore, Gastonia, N. C.; Lib Maynard, Wilson, N. C.

Phi Delta Theta

Margaret Crawford, Converse; Martha Alexander, Newry, S. C.; Lib Wills, N.C. C. W.; Frances Stegel, Clarkton, N. C.; Anna Preston, Salem; Eleanor Killick, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Wysdom Lambeth, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Brandt, N. C. C. W.; Edwina Carpenter, N.C. C. W.; Alice Grubbs, Greensboro, N. C.; Frances Melvin, Fayetteville, N. C.; Sally Couch, Charlotte, N.C.; Mary Brooks, Salem.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Betty Preston, University of Tennessee; Caroline Rowan, Concord, N. C.; Percy Williams, Weldon, N. C.; Susan Gregory, Greensboro, N.C.; Mulgrow, Anderson, S. C.; Eileen Brown, Charlotte, N. C.; Hilton Rowler, Staunton, (Continued on page 6)

Dr. Lingle stated that he believed that one of Washington’s main reasons for not taking the office of the President for the third time was in order to avoid any tendency toward a monarchy. These and other facts that made Washington one of the greatest statesmen and most powerful personalities that the world has ever known, were given us in an excellent 11-minute talk.

PRESENT THREE PLAYS

Eugene O’Neill’s Play Will Be Given

Dr. Henry and His Orchestra furnished the music. They were excellent. His orchestra was augmented by a well-trained group and plenty of brass.At whose home Dr. Garth will probably stay during his visit, assures us that Dr. Garth's lecture will not be too technical for the layman to understand. Dr. Garth is quite an authority on the subject of “Race Psychology,” having written a book on the subject. The lectures will be free, and the college issues a cordial invitation to the students, faculty, and townspeople. There will be two more lectures during the course. The next one being on February 16, and the following one the same time in March.

Local Social Group Gets Baker Award

Within the next ten days, the Newton D. Baker cup for outstanding social service will be presented, for the first time to any Southern chapter, to the Delta Kappa chapter here, by Little Theatre in Charlotte. The Masquers’ first program of the new year will be a series of three one-act plays, to be given on Thursday night, February 25. The choice includes two plays of superior merit. “In The Zone,” by no less a playwright than Eugene O'Neill, is a stirring picture of stern life among crude, seafaring men on the S. S. Glencairn; the other, “The Valiant,” a vivid scene between a girl and her criminal, though honorable, brother who, to save his family the knowledge that he is a sentenced murderer, stoically conceals his identity. The third play, “Well, I Declare!” is a ridiculous comedy especially recommended to students of the science departments. “The Valiant,” which will be the feature of the Little Theatre of Charlotte, is under the direction of Mr. George Farrington. The Red and Black Masquers feel considerably honored by the courtesy of the players, who are willing to repeat their performance of this prize-winning play before the Davidson audience. Indeed, so powerful is this little drama, and so many contests has it won on the merit of the play per se, that it has been barred from many state contests. Those who saw “Bound East for Cardiff” presented by the Masquers on November 7th, will be in store for another incident from the same S. S. Glencairn with practically the same crew. It is one of a series of plays composed by O'Neill and intended to be interlinked. The expression “in the zone” is one signifying that the tramp steamer Glencairn has come within the war zone known to be set and guarded by explosive mines. The excitement of the crew, their groundless suspicion of one of their own members, the excellent local color built up to lend credulity to their vapid suspicion, are all clear marks of the hand of an artist playwright. Higher type drama is not to be found. To offset the lugubrious prison scene and O'Neill's heavy “In the Zone,” the play, “Well, I Declare!” by William Mitchell, has been chosen. “A wonderful discovery is made in chemistry by the professor. He finds that he is able to exchange the natures of men. He hires two men who are down and out and offers them large sums to have injections put into their blood. Here the fun begins. One of the men is a crook who hires another crook to appear as a reporter. While the experiment is in progress the professor is robbed of valuable rubies...” etc., etc. The effect of the mysterious antics at the next meeting. He is in a position to discuss the subject in an intelligent and able manner as he traveled this past summer, visiting many European ports and capitals. An election of officers is to be held in the near future.

Y. M. C. A. Vesper Service

“Have This Mind in You, Which Was Also in Christ Jesus,” Is Text

SAM WILEY IS LEADER

Speaker Is Member of Language Department at Davidson

Last Sunday night, Prof. E. A. Beaty of the language department was the speaker at the “Y” vesper services held in Chambers Auditorium. The devotional was conducted by Sam Wiley, Y. M. C. A. councilman in charge of vespers. He read a portion of the second chapter of Philippians, after which Charles Moore and W. L. McKeithen led in prayer. A special solo was sung by David McLean. At the conclusion of the service, Professor Schenck pronounced the benediction. Professor Beaty took his theme from Philippians 2:5, “Have this mind in you, which was also in Christ Jesus.” We all know the importance of the mind and how it controls our lives and actions. We know that if our minds are fleshly and worldly, our lives will be likewise. The mind may also be used as the acid test of our religion. Our words do not show our religion, because we can say things which do not show our true selves. Neither do our actions show our religion, because we may do things which are not a true indication of our beliefs. The mind of Christ furnishes a good example of the way our mind should be. Christ had humility. He went the limit in humbling Himself by coming to the earth. It was a hard thing to do, but He emptied Himself and became as a man, putting down His thoughts of self-excellencies of mind, intellect, body, and advantages. If we would have Christ-like minds, we should try to be humble and empty ourselves of all our advantages and self-interest. We should think and live for the other person, helping him and doing things for him. When we are able to live for the other person, we can live in peace and harmony with others. We should be humble toward God. All that we do is controlled by Him and therefore we should realize that the greatest independence is that which comes from complete dependence upon the God in whom we trust. Christ trusted in God, so we can imitate Him. Another great characteristic of Christ's mind was His sincerity. This is a quality greatly to be desired in man. Sincerity was in its original meaning, “poured out.” There is nothing held back or not told in a sincere person. The world has no use for a man who shifts his views and actions. Such a man cannot be relied upon or trusted. Emerson said, “There is nothing so sacred as the integrity of man’s mind.” Some tell of the bravery of men who go into battles against odds, but it takes just as much courage to be sincere in all things. If we could be sincere and model our minds along the same lines as that of Christ, we would solve the problems of our relations to law. We would be sincere to ourselves and then to others. The third great characteristic of the mind of Christ was His ability to strike the medium of value in any proposition. Christ had the abilities and the mind to make people say, “Never man spake as He spoke,” and “Never man did what He did.” Christ was able to see clearly and understand the basic principles of racial problems, personal morals, and the spirituality of God. He went to the heart of the lesson (Continued on page 6).

Rifle Team Elimination Contest Now Being Held

During this week, the elimination contest for membership in the rifle team will be held. There are 44 Freshmen and about 10 or 12 joint members to compete. The high scorer in the contest will be awarded the Scabbard and Blade trophy, which is given annually. Next week will be held the prone position co-area match, and later it is planned to shoot a number of correspondence matches and one or two shoulder-to-shoulder contests. This year S. S. Wiley is captain of the team and M. L. Brohard and A. G. Graham, who were at Camp Perry, Ohio, where the national rifle matches were held, with him this summer, will probably be on the team. Captain Cochrane, U. S. Army officer stationed here, is in charge of the team, and Paul Brown is this year's manager.