THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 11, 1932

Final Plans Being Made By Alumni Office For Alumni Day Celebration

Many Letters Have Been Mailed Through Secretary’s Office by Class Presidents, and Still Others Follow

GENERAL INVITATION

This Will Be Sent to Over Four Thousand Alumni Next Week. Outline of Program

The 96th commencement of Davidson is near at hand, and exactly four weeks from today, alumni of the institution will
be flocking here for the annual Alumni Day celebration, when special classes reunions have been scheduled and when hundreds of
other former students will be coming back to renew the friendships with faculty members, and to associate with their college
classmates. For the past month, the alumni office at Davidson has been busy sending out letters to the reuniting classes,
and within the next week an invitation will be mailed to all of the 4,000 or more alumni on the
mailing list. Enclosed with the invitation will be a program for the approaching occasion, and a ballot for Alumni Association
officers.

Personal letters have been written by the secretary to members of the class of 1882, who return for their fiftieth
reunion. Through the office, letters have been mailed for Hugh A. Query, Gastonia, president, 1909; Dr. James P. Hendrix, Philadelphia,
Pa., alumni president, 1925; Roland B. Parker, Chapel Hill, president, 1926; Caldwell Withers, Jr., Columbia, S. C., president, 1928, and
Dan S. LaFar, president, 1931. Dr. W. J. Martin, ’88, Richmond, Va., wrote a letter through the alumni office to
the classes of 1887, 1888, 1889, and 1890, all of whom reunite together, and Prof. F. L. Blythe, Davidson, did
likewise to the members of 1907. The alumni secretary wrote a letter to the classes of 1906 and 1908, telling
about the proposed reunions of 1907 and 1909, and invited them to return, though emphasis will not be laid upon
these classes this year because 1906 was at Davidson for their 25th reunion last commencement, and 1908 will be here
for a similar celebration next fall. Fred E. Hashagen, ’07, and Mr. Query, both of Gastonia, are writing personal letters
to members of their respective classes.

On the desk of the secretary are other letters which will be mailed out within the next few days. These
include one from T. S. Lawson, Montgomery, Ala., alumni president, 1926; Rev. P. J. Garrison, Elizaville, Ky., alumni president, 1928,
and one from Dr. J. S. Brown, ’89, Hendersonville, to members of his class. A half-dozen others are expected from
class officers within a ten-day period.

Changes Made

Commencement at Davidson this year has been changed slightly. Both the baccalaureate and Y. M. C. A. sermons will be
given on May 22nd, information of which can be found in other columns on this page. These are ten days
prior to the graduation exercises. The trustees of Davidson will meet as usual on Tuesday, May 30th, and will have
no activities which will interfere with their deliberation. In previous years they have met on Alumni Day, and were unable
to attend all of the activities because of continued sessions.

Preliminary to the heavy program of June 1st will be the formal gathering of the Alumni Council on Tuesday night,
May 31st, which will be meeting in its second annual session. Each council member has already received a program of
their scheduled deliberations, and the first gathering will be almost entirely devoted to business.

All Alumni Invited

The council continues its sessions Wednesday morning, and breaks up into three discussion groups, to which all of the alumni
are cordially invited. Outgoing members of the Senior class who have been elected members of the council will make presentations
on the religious, social, and athletic life of the campus, and the group sessions will be presided over by a
chairman from the returning alumni. At 12:30 p.m. the annual alumni luncheon will be given to the visitors, and this
will be followed immediately by the Alumni Association meeting. Class meetings or group meetings will be followed by the faculty-senior
baseball game, and possibly a reception by the faculty. The class day exercises will come at 5:30 in the afternoon,
and if plans for the senior-faculty banquet go through, this will be at 6:30, with the literary society program at
8:30. Thursday, June 2nd, will be devoted to the graduation exercises.

No preliminary arrangements are being made by the alumni office for class reunion dinners. A survey will be made of
the returning men on Alumni Day, and should a sufficient number desire such a banquet, arrangements will be made in
the afternoon for it.

Dr. James Wyly Jackson To Be Final “Y” Speaker

Columbia, S. C., Pastor Announced for Part of May 22nd Program. Dr. R. F. Campbell in Morning

Rev. James Wyly Jackson, D.D., pastor of First Presbyterian Church of Columbia, S. C., will deliver the final sermon before
the Y. M. C. A. on the evening of May 22nd, as a part of Davidson College’s 96th graduation exercises.
This announcement has been made by Carl R. Pritchett, ’30, the Y. M. C. A. executive secretary. Dr. Jackson was
born in Gate City, Va. He is a graduate of Emory and Henry College, and received his bachelor of divinity
degree from Louisville Theological Seminary. His first pastorate was at Lynville, Tenn., and before going to his present charge he
had churches at Tallahassee, Fla., and Greenwood, S. C.

Dr. Jackson's sermon will conclude the first day’s exercises of Davidson’s graduating ceremonies. On the morning of the 22nd, Rev.
R. F. Campbell, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Asheville, will deliver the baccalaureate sermon to the graduating
class, and Dr. Jackson will speak at 8 o'clock that night. The alumni day exercises and presentation of diplomas will
be held on June 1st and 2nd, respectively.it. J. E. WATTS. Courtesy Dallas (Texas) News. John Espy Watts, '86 graduate,
and for ten years president of Southwestern Presbyterian Home and School for Orphans, who died at Itasca, Texas, on April
23rd.

R. B. Hayes, 1929 Alumnus, Gives Physics Equipment
Elaborate Metal-Working Lathe and All Necessary Tools Is Gift of Recent Graduate

The physics department of Davidson College has recently been given a metal lathe with all necessary tools and equipment for
its complete use in metal and wood work. The lathe was the present of R. B. Hayes, of Hudson, a
1929 graduate of Davidson, announced Dr. J. M. Douglas, of the department. The donor and his father have made several
trips to Davidson to supervise its installation.

Davidson Will Honor Three Alumni With Doctor of Divinity Degrees
Names of Rev. C. L. Crane, Rev. H. G. Bedinger, and Rev. O. C. Williamson Are Announced by President Lingle

TO BE GIVEN JUNE 2ND
One On Mr. Crane Will Be Conferred in Absentia. Others Will Be Here That Day

Davidson College will honor three prominent leaders of the Southern Presbyterian Church on June 2nd, of the 96th commencement period,
when it will confer doctor of divinity degrees upon three alumni of the institution, according to an announcement made here
today by Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson. The men who will be thus honored are: Rev. C. L.
Crane, ’07, missionary to Africa; Rev. H. G. Bedinger, ‘11, president of Flora Macdonald College at Red Springs, and Rev.
O. C. Williamson, ‘18, of Austin, Texas, former missionary to Mexico and now member of the faculty of Austin Theological
Seminary. The degree upon Mr. Crane will be conferred in absentia, but the other two will be here in person
to receive this honor.

Mr. Crane is a native of Decatur, Ga. and was graduated with the bachelor of arts degree at Davidson in
1907. For a while he attended the Georgia Institute of Technology, and later enrolled at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.,
where he obtained his bachelor of divinity degree. In January, 1912, he sailed for Africa, where he has been doing
mission work, first at Luebo, and later at Mutoto. He has been connected with the Morrison Bible School, which is
known as the Presbyterians’ “largest theological seminary.”

The president of Flora Macdonald College is a native of Richwood, Ky., and graduated from Boys’ High School in Atlanta,
Ga. in 1908. In 1911, Mr. Bedinger was given his bachelor of arts degree from Davidson. Before attending Union Theological
Seminary at Richmond, Va., he taught at the Donald Fraser School for Boys, and the Decatur High School, both at
Decatur, Ga. His bachelor of divinity degree was awarded in 1916. For two years he was assistant superintendent and evangelist
of Asheville Presbytery; was a chaplain in the World War and a member of the A. E. F. He was
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Hartsville, S. C.

Valuable Documents Are Given by Caldwell Roane
Member of Senior Class Donates Old Textbook and Copies of Addresses Made Here in ’40’s

Caldwell Roane, of Winston-Salem, member of the 1932 graduating class at Davidson College, has presented to Davidson several valuable historical
documents, including a chemistry book used in the infant days of the college, and three addresses delivered by his grandfather,
the late Walter Pharr Caldwell, during the early 40's. “A Defense of Phrenology” is the subject of the graduation address
of the late Mr. Caldwell, and was delivered at Davidson on August 30, 1841. Another speech was his valedictory address
delivered before the Philanthropic Literary Society on July 14, 1841. Two years later, Mr. Caldwell returned to Davidson, and in
April, 1843, he addressed the Philanthropic Society as an alumnus.

Although almost a century old, these documents have been well preserved by the family, and are clearly legible, and can
be read easily with the naked eye. It was pointed out that the chemistry book, used in the classes at
Davidson in 1840, which showed that the institution was abreast of the times, was also published the same year. In
addition to the above, Mr. Roane presented to Davidson a photograph of his grandfather, which was taken after he reached
maturity.

The machine will handle all sorts of metal and wood work on articles up to ten feet in length. It
is equipped with four different speeds, and various automatic adjustments to enable the user to cut threads, as well as
turn out ordinary lathe work. The Davidson professor estimated the value of the lathe and equipment at about $2,500. He
stated that it provided the department with a machine that had long been needed, and which would enable a greater
variety of work to be done now than had until this time been possible.

The alumni office will have on display at commencement pictures of the 1906 and 1907 football teams of Davidson, which
were given to the office several years ago by Thos. W. Rankin, ’09, of Fayetteville, and J. M. McCorkle, ’00.

GET YOUR ENGRAVED CARDS for COMMENCEMENT INVITATIONS
Prices $2.50 and $3.00
See P. M. CONWAY or D. G. MARTIN
Representing OUR STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The New York Hospital School of Nursing
GARLAND COURT
1300 York Avenue
New York City

Davidson Theatre
MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“SCARFACE” PAUL MUNI
WEDNESDAY
“STATE’S ATTORNEY” JOHN BARRYMORE
THURSDAY
LESLIE HOWARD
FRIDAY
“THE RICH ARE ALWAYS WITH US” RUTH CHATTERTON
SATURDAY
“MIRACLE MAN” CHESTER MORRIS AND SYLVIA SYDNEY
