THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 4, 1932

Glee Club Elections

The Davidson Glee Club recently held a business meeting for the purpose of electing officers for next year. At this meeting, W. W. Caligan was elected president, Leland McKeithan was chosen business manager, Shine McMillan and Bill Blair were selected to be vice-presidents, and Bill McIlwinen to serve as librarian. The officers this year were Bill Rule, president; Caligan and George Bailey, vice-presidents; George Pardington, business manager, and Ed McNair, librarian. The Glee Club, under the retiring officers, has completed a very satisfactory season and it has high hopes of even greater success next year.

INSPIRING MESSAGES
(Continued from page 1)

...solution of uniting our hearts to fear God, to humble ourselves before Him. This has been the problem of the philosophers, the divided heart. This also is seen throughout the entire Bible, beginning at Eden, continuing through Paul and the New Testament. The speaker continued, showing how the Psalmist brought out three things in his passage. He confessed a divided heart, yearned for a united one, and feared and submitted himself to God. This job of uniting the divided heart is one for us all to consider; it is accomplished in Christ alone. The results of curing the divided heart he showed to be happiness, a cure for half-heartedness, and good character. He closed with an example of Phillip Brookes’ speech to a man who never asked the great preacher his problem but which was answered in his conversation. There is only one thing needed and that is the thing requested by the Psalmist, “Unite my heart to fear thy name.”

Wednesday Night

Dr. Sam Glasgow closed the Spring Services last Wednesday with an inspiring address delivered in Chambers Auditorium. Dr. Glasgow is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Savannah, Ga. The service was opened by Bill Rule with two sacred hymns, after which two portions of the 17th chapter of Matthew were read by Sam Wiley as the scripture lesson. Short prayers were delivered by Bill Flinn and Charles Spencer. Special music was rendered by a quartet composed of Hubert Morris, Dave McLean, Frank Tucker, and Buddy Robinson. Ed McNair accompanied the quartet at the piano.

Dr. Glasgow took as his text, “The Light of the Knowledge of the Glory of God in the Face of Jesus Christ.” He claimed that no man could be the same individual after going through the recent Spring Services. These services either won new souls to Christ or drove others farther down into sin. They were much too powerful, too gripping, to have no effect. Those who advanced farther spiritually are fortunate, for after all, we have but one life to live, so why not live it in the best way? Going farther, Dr. Glasgow ventured that the final seal of a man’s defeat is his own heart. There is always a chance; we are naturally built for high levels of life. Then advancing the principal theme of his talk, the speaker contended that character is the principal means of judging a man. God demands all righteousness and if not granted, He invariably shows the sinner in his true light. We must satisfy God to really succeed, and this requires Christian living. Dr. Glasgow said that the Ten Commandments were and are the basis of all righteousness. All modern laws are derived from them. The Ten Commandments insist implicitly upon character. This is granted by all. Then isn’t it quite logical to assume that, due to the fact that our modern laws are derived from these Commandments, that our modern laws themselves insist upon character? It is Dr. Glasgow’s belief that the reason men fail to develop real character is because real character is an expensive asset. It requires courage, determination, complete and wholehearted cooperation, to attain character. This cooperation must be with Jesus Christ. It is Jesus who gives courage and it is Jesus who enables us to maintain our courage when we have once attained it. In closing, Dr. Glasgow exhorted us to Christian living, proving the practicability of this kind of life, and then he proved it was a necessity to true happiness which all of us are continuously seeking.

FINAL PLANS
(Continued from page 1)

...sion. All men students must room in the dormitories unless given permission to room elsewhere. Rooms may be secured in several homes in the village by women students. The college makes a charge of twelve dollars and a half ($12.50) a person for a room in the dormitories for the six weeks of the session and rooms in...

DO YOU INHALE?

Why is this vital question so much avoided by other cigarettes? Since Lucky Strike created that special process for purifying fine tobacco and told the full facts about cigarette smoking—the industry has been in an uproar. For Lucky Strike has dared to mention things that were considered “taboo” in the cigarette trade. You may have noticed a striking avoidance generally of the word “inhale” in cigarette advertising. Why? Goodness only knows! For everybody inhales—knowingly or unknowingly! Every smoker breathes in some part of the smoke he or she draws out of a cigarette. That’s why it’s all-important to be certain that your cigarette smoke is pure and clean—to be sure you don’t inhale certain impurities. Do you inhale? Lucky Strike has dared to raise this vital question—for it gives you the protection you want... because certain impurities concealed in even the finest, mildest tobacco leaves are removed by Luckies’ famous purifying process. Luckies created that process. Only Luckies have it!

“It’s toasted”
Your Throat Protection against irritation — against cough

O. K. AMERICA

TUNE IN ON LUCKY STRIKE—60 modern minutes with the world’s finest dance orchestras and famous Lucky Strike news features, every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday evening over N. B. C. networks.same price. The Davidson College Library, containing approximately 30,000 volumes, will be available for the use of the students of the summer school. According to the custom of the college, the summer school students board at the hotel or at one of the several private boarding houses in Davidson. Board may be obtained at from $5.00 to $6.00. Professor Fred K. Fleagle is director of the summer session. Registration must be made through him. The regular college courses to be offered for the summer session are as follows: Mathematics 1, Bible 2, English 2, Educational Psychology, Educational Sociology, Political Science 2, American History, Biology, Physics 2 or 3 (the one for which there is greater demand), and French 1 or 2 (if there is sufficient demand). Dr. Harding will also teach a course in the appreciation of art if there are enough students who desire it. An additional course in accounting is to be offered for the first term of the summer session. The three weeks allotted to this course will permit a study of the fundamentals of accounting and will include an understanding of these fundamentals, the reading of a balance sheet, profit and loss statement, and the place that accounting occupies today in business and all other activities. Three credit hours will be given for this course, which will be taught by Professor Williams of the department of business administration. It is very important that students desiring to take summer school work see Professor Fleagle by the end of the week in order that he may find out what courses are in demand.

N. C. STATE AND CAROLINA (Continued from page 3)

Bases: Mills, Mathis, Peacock 2, Dunlap, Croom, Pattisal. Umpire: Brandon. Time of game: 2:15.

In the second encounter, N. C. State’s batters just took the offerings of Hurler Croker, and knocked them to the four corners of the lot to completely outclass the Wildcats 16 to 2, sending them down in ignominious defeat. The sixteen runs came as the result of thirteen safeties and two Davidson errors. The ’Cats were held completely in submission while three of the ’Pack’s pitching staff, Lanning, McLawhorn, and Seitz, took workouts on the mound. These three allowed six scattered bingles among them, and completely checked anything that Davidson had to offer in the way of sluggers. Davidson's runs came in the seventh, without a hit—two walks, an error, and two outfield flies, bringing in the two markers. The Terrors scored in every inning but the third, connecting with Croker at will until he was sent to the showers at the close of the fifth canto. Baily then took over the chunking job for the ’Cats and let the State batters down with three hits during the remaining four frames.

Summary:

Davidson
Ab R H O A E
Bernhardt, 3b -------- 4 0 0 0 1 0
Blanton, 2b ----------- 4 0 2 3 2 0
Mills, ss --------------- 4 0 1 2 2 0
Mathis, cf ------------- 4 0 0 0 0 0
J. D. Morrison, lf ---- 2 0 1 1 0 0
Whitley, lf ------------- 2 1 0 0 0 0
J. G. Morrison, rf ---- 3 0 0 0 0 0
Morris, c --------------- 2 0 0 6 0 0
McLean, 1b ------------ 3 0 1 10 0 0
Peabody, 1b ----------- 0 0 0 0 0 0
Croker, p --------------- 1 0 0 1 1 0
Baily, p ----------------- 2 0 0 0 1 0
Totals ------------------ 31 2 6 24 9 0
x—Batted for Morris in 9th.

N. C. State
Ab R H O A E
Morris, cf --------------- 5 2 2 2 0 0
Roach, 3b --------------- 5 2 2 0 2 0
Gerock, 1b -------------- 5 2 2 9 0 0
Senter, lf ---------------- 5 2 2 0 0 0
Dicker, c ---------------- 5 1 2 4 0 0
Nifong, rf --------------- 5 1 1 0 0 0
Brown, ss --------------- 4 1 1 4 4 0
Fuller, 2b ---------------- 4 1 2 2 2 0
McQuage, p ------------- 1 0 0 0 0 0
Lanning, p -------------- 2 0 0 0 1 0
Nelson, lf ---------------- 1 0 0 0 0 0
Wood, 2b ---------------- 1 0 0 0 0 0
Brewer, p ---------------- 1 0 0 0 0 0
McLawhorn, p ---------- 1 0 0 0 0 0
Seitz, p ------------------- 1 0 0 0 0 0
Totals -------------------- 41 16 13 27 9 0
z—Batted for Brewer in 5th.

Davidson: 000 000 200—2
N. C. State: 420 331 12x—16

Home runs: Joel Morris, 2. Stolen bases: Brown 2, Wood, Fuller, Roach. Double plays: Brown to Gerock; Brown to Logan to Gerock. Left on bases: Davidson 5; N. C. State 3. Base on balls: Lanning 1, Croker 3, McLawhorn 1, Seitz 2, Baily 3. Hits: off Lanning, 4 in 5; Seitz, 2 in 2; Baily, 3 in 4; McLawhorn, none in 2; Croker, 10 in 4. Hit by pitcher: by Baily (Fuller). Wild pitch: Baily. Passed ball: Morris. Winning pitcher: Lanning. Losing pitcher: Croker.

ALLAN FREW GIVES TALK (Continued from page 1)

toward the goal which gave him fame. Mr. Frew said this was true with the youth of Christ today. They must work more earnestly—steadfastly toward their life’s work. “We must look unto Jesus. Set our hearts toward Christ. In order to be leaders now we must steadfastly look toward Jehovah.” Gean Cannon, a member of the “Y” cabinet, presided over the meeting. Special music was rendered by Charles Reed and Byron Shriver, accompanied at the piano by Bill McIlwinen.

‘Yowl’ to Appear Thursday

On Thursday, May 6, the fourth and final issue of the “Yowl” for the year 1931-1932 will appear. It will be an exchange issue featuring jokes from other schools. However, most of the publication will consist of the work of the “Yowl” staff. The cover for this issue was drawn by Vereen M. Bell, retiring editor. This is the last issue under the guidance of the old staff.