THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 9, 1932

KITTENS OPEN TRACK SEASON SATURDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

LETTERS GIVEN DAVIDSON ATHLETES

If this were a metropolitan newspaper or a small town daily, its sports department would hardly be in any better shape than this one. Picture to yourself the dilemma in which the sports columnist finds himself at this exact stage. Football, basketball, and wrestling have ceased to be... bouquets have been tossed... laurels have been given... pop bottles and other expressions of disapproval have been partially withheld... and the summer and spring sports are scarcely in the embryonic stage.

In despair, we reach out to America’s Paradise Lost—the Lindbergh baby. This tiny bundle of animated protoplasm seems to have pushed the entire combined forces of the Chinese and Japanese from the front pages of the world’s largest newspapers. He has usurped thousands of minutes of time via the radio. He has pushed into the distant background America’s relief program for countless bankrupt and near-bankrupt financial institutions. Truly, this little boy, one among millions, is the most famous being alive today. And should anyone happen to accidentally read this column and disapprove of the above paragraph as inappropriate for a sports column, he may gently extract it with the aid of the invisible perforated lines and cast it aside in the first gutter in which he chances to be lying. Better still—forget it.

We note from the Sunday morning papers that Fleagle and MacMillan took second and third places, respectively, in the 60-yard dash for non-conference schools. Fleagle, incidentally, holds the non-conference record for this event with a time of 6.6.

Somehow or other it doesn’t seem quite fair that only three men should be awarded letters in wrestling. Of course, the three that were given letters, Gorham, Conway, and Taylor, deserved them, but it would seem that other members of the team deserved them equally as well, though they won no matches. Still, the authorities should know best.

In our opinion, two better captains than Buddy Gardner and Bruce Peabody for football and basketball couldn’t be found. Peabody seems to be a natural leader on the basketball court, while Gardner’s brilliant defensive game at center should be an inspiration to his teammates.

If Jack Wagner doesn’t look out, he'll find himself a four-letter man. Football, basketball, golf, and track—no mean record!

The final football scrimmage of the season last Friday revealed two teams, one with a strong backfield and the other with an exceptionally strong line. The two teams seemed so evenly matched that neither could make any headway. Coaches Newton and McEver appear to have grounded the candidates in the Neyland system exceptionally well in so short a time, but it is evident that considerable perfecting in plays and polishing of individual performance will be necessary next fall to produce a winning team. At times, the plays work well and result in considerable gain, but when any player fails to perform in the precise manner designated, the whole play is disrupted.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
To Be Well Groomed Come To Norton’s
Prompt Service

Buddy Gardner Elected As Captain of Wildcats; Whitfield Is Alternate

Prior to the closing session of the football practice, U. B. (Buddy) Gardner, of Decatur, Ga., was elected captain of the 1932 football team of Davidson College, and R. A. N. (Dick) Whitfield, of Hackettstown, N. J., as alternate. Selection of these two men was made on the first ballot by the players who won their letter last fall. Both are linemen. Gardner is center and Whitfield at tackle.

This is the second football team that Gardner has captained since he came to Davidson in the fall of 1929, for he was selected as leader of the Freshman aggregation at Davidson. He ranks as one of the outstanding centers on North Carolina teams and was tied last year for first-place center selection on the All-State pick of the Big Five coaches. He ousted seasoned center performers for Davidson as a Sophomore and has played regularly on the varsity for two years.

Whitfield was unable to make the Davidson varsity his Sophomore year, but he added weight and height in the interim, and as a Junior last fall he quieted the worries of the Davidson line coach for another tackler by his remarkable playing. In seven consecutive games last fall, he played without a substitution being made for him.

Peabody Will Lead ’Cats On Court Through 1933

Bruce Peabody, of Charlotte, has been chosen by his teammates as captain of the 1933 basketball team of Davidson College, and George E. Baily, of Hickory, has been named varsity manager for next season. At the same time, the lettermen named Robert Glasgow, Jr., Freshman manager.

Peabody did not make his letter in basketball until the past season but was one of the mainstays of the quintet. He played forward in early season competition but was shifted to guard during the latter half and largely directed the offensive attack of Davidson. He ranked third in scoring honors during the past season, Captain Mathis and Grier Martin topping his total.

The lettermen also selected as Junior assistant managers James E. Neal, of Marion; Fred L. Smyre, Jr., of Gastonia; and Lyne S. Gamble, of Greensville, Miss. John J. Klooster, of Bradenton, Fla., was named alternate.

Kitten Cindermen Open Season With Charlotte

The Wildkittens are looking forward with a vengeance to meet with Central High in Charlotte next Saturday. Last year the Fresh suffered from the tidal wave of an exceptional team from the Queen City, but this time the prospects seem more favorable for the Kittens. Coach Whittle has had a large group to work with, including several stellar point-getters from high school and prep school. The line-ups are not definitely settled, but will be selected from the following men: 100-yard dash, Hufford and Potter; same as in 220-yard dash; 440-yard dash, Glasgow, Gullette, and Hillier; 880-yard run, Dulin and Ben Rose; mile, McFadyen, Morris, and Rose; high jump, Dulin, Gammon, and Rogers; broad jump, Dupuy, McPhail, F., and Byerly; pole vault, Voegtlen, West, and Quaterman; discus, Byerly, Morris, and West; shotput, Byerly, Coit, and Potter; and the high and low hurdles will be represented by Wordsworth.

So, if you want to be vitalized into the power of thinking real thoughts, and if you want never to know one dull instant while reading, do what has been done by the best specimens of Dimnet.

Baseball Schedule

March 28—Carolina at Winston-Salem (Easter Monday).
March 29—Elon at Elon College, N. C.
April 1—Lenoir-Rhyne at Davidson (pending).
April 9—Wake Forest at Davidson.
April 11—Elon at Davidson.
April 13—Duke at Davidson.
April 18—N. C. State at Davidson (pending).
April 23—Lenoir-Rhyne at Hickory (pending).
April 26—Carolina at Chapel Hill.
April 27—N. C. State at Raleigh.
May 11—Duke at Durham.
May 12—Wake Forest at Wake Forest.

Blacks Cop 7-0 Victory Over Reds in Last Tilt Of Spring Grid Session

The Davidson Wildcats ended their football practice Friday afternoon with a scrimmage in which the Blacks came out ahead of the Reds with a 7 to 0 score. This game was the first that the Blacks have won during the spring session of the popular fall sport.

The tally was made in the last few minutes of play in the fourth quarter after an 80-yard drive. George Wingfield slipped away for a 90-yard run but was overtaken by Clarke. Wingfield then tossed a 16-yard pass to Morgan.

Thirty-Two Men Get Awards. Basketball and Wrestling | Early Workouts Reveal Good Diamond Material

Varsity baseball candidates are steadily rounding into form as practice progressed into its second week of activity. Warm weather last week aided the prospects a great deal in helping them to loosen up a bit. More strenuous practice was interrupted by cold winds part of this week, but Coach Laird hopes to continue the workouts as soon as weather conditions permit. Laird has taken complete charge of the squad and will direct its play through the season. His assignments for the past week have included running, bunting practice, individual workouts, and pepper games. Since spring football practice and the basketball season are over, Coach Laird will have his entire squad to work with from this week on. Early indications point to a strong nine to represent the Wildcats on the diamond this season. With eight lettermen back, Coach Laird has a brilliant nucleus around which to build up his team. Several members of last year’s Freshman team will strengthen the varsity this year, besides adding reserve power. Practically the same pitching staff which carried the burden last season is intact and will be of no little service to the Wildcats again. Bailey and Pearce, southpaws, and West, a right-hander, will probably see most service, with West, a mainstay of the Freshmen last year.

After three successful line plays, Peabody shot a bullet-like pass to Morgan and the Blacks had won a ball game. Peabody place-kicked for the extra point. Just after this goal had been made, the Reds threatened to score, but the game ended with the ball on the nine-yard line.

Reds Position Blacks
Batts L.E. J. Morris
Wagner L.T. Thompson
Rives L.G. Brewer
Lee Center Wooten
Ogden R.G. Forte
Whitfield R.T. Nicholson
Reavis R.E. Morgan
Cannon Q.B. Wingfield
Dickerson L.H. Flinn
Clarke R.H. Peabody
Hutchins F.B. Cayton

Scoring summary: Touchdown, Morgan. Extra point, Peabody, placement.

Davidson Signs Meet With Florida ’Gators

A two-year contract between the track teams of the University of Florida and Davidson was signed this week, the ‘Gators to appear on Richardson Field here this spring on March 23, to open the 1932 cinder path schedule of the Davidsonians. The Wildcats will go to Gainesville for a return engagement next spring, the exact date to be decided later. Signing of Florida this week completes the Davidson card for this year. Davidson originally announced a five-match schedule, besides the State Track Meet in Greensboro, and the addition of Florida does not change the number, for a meet with N.C. State was cancelled. The Technicians abolished intercollegiate competition in that sport because it was necessary to curtail expenses. The revised track schedule is as follows:

March 23—University of Florida at Davidson
April 9—Duke University at Durham
April 16—V.P.I. at Davidson
April 23—V.M.I. at Lexington, Va.
April 30—University of South Carolina at Columbia, S.C.
May 7—State Track Meet in Greensboro

“PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE”

College Printing Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Handbooks, Etc. Engraved Cards and Invitations. Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you. Always Best P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE STANDARD PRINTING CO. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Coach Laird was pleased with the work of his pitchers last season and stated that although many thought failures of the team were due to them, he attributed most of the defeats to the weak hitting of the entire team. Catchers out include Whitley, who saw service last season, and Morris, who played with the Freshmen last year. Morris was also quite a consistent hitter and his batting, if kept up, will help the varsity team greatly. The only positions left vacant by the graduation of the members of the second team are second and first base. These positions have not been filled as yet. Captain Bernhardt, a veteran of two years, will probably hold down his usual place at third base, and Buck Mills will occupy shortstop as he did during the past season. The outfield has remained intact and includes Mathis, Morrison, and Bradsher. There are several other men out for the garden positions who will furnish reserves if needed.

’Cat Wrestlers Hail From Many States

The Davidson College wrestlers during the past season have been called an All-American selection, not from their ability but from the widely scattered sections from which the men attended Davidson. The varsity wrestling team came from eight different states. Six came from North Carolina, and the others came from Mississippi, Louisiana, New Jersey, Kentucky, and Florida. The Freshman team, on the other hand, was almost an all-North Carolina team. Nine men were used in matches, two of them alternating in one of the weights, and of the nine, seven of them were from this state. The other two were from Georgia and Arkansas.

Fourteen Men Are Awarded “D” for Varsity Sports. Eighteen Freshmen Receive Numerals

The Davidson College Athletic Association has awarded varsity letters to eight basketball players and three wrestlers for their work on the court and mat, respectively, during the past season; announced numerals for nine Freshmen basketball players, and a similar number of wrestlers, and gave letters to the managers of the winter athletic teams. The association accepted the recommendations of the coaches. The varsity awards follow: Capt. G. L. Mathis, Rural Hall; Bruce Peabody, Charlotte; D. Martin, Covington, Ga.; Jack M. Wagner, Statesville; John W. Lafferty, Jr., Rome, Ga.; Patrick, Lexington, N.C.; J. Mack Holland, Gastonia, and H. K. Boucher, Damascus, Va.

Basketball—Captain-Elect E. Grier Gorham, Jr., Lake Charles, La.; P. M. Conway, Henderson, Ky., and B. B. Taylor, Jr., Baton Rouge, La. Letters were awarded in this sport only to those men who made points during the season, and not on the basis of participation.

Wrestling—Capt. L. Gorham, Jr., Lake Charles, La.; P. M. Conway, Henderson, Ky., and B. B. Taylor, Jr., Baton Rouge, La. Letters were awarded in this sport only to those men who made points during the season, and not on the basis of participation.

Regular letters were awarded to R. K. Morton, Jr., Charleston, W.Va., manager of the varsity basketball team, and to A. A. St. Clair, Bluefield, W.Va., manager of the varsity wrestlers. A minor sports letter was given to J. G. Dunklin, Laurens, S.C., manager of the Freshman basketball five.

“D.C.” numerals were awarded to the following Freshmen:

Basketball—C. Capt. C. C. Harris, Welch, W.Va.; Morgan, Albemarle; J. H. Smathers, Waynesville; Lee C. West, Barium Springs; B. Everett, Laurinburg; A. C. Rogers, Bennettsville, S.C.; T. L. Bumgarner, Belmont; Sam Bernardo, Barium Springs, and Hugh Wilson.

Wrestling—H. P. Owen, Spray; T. Walter P. Sprunt, Jr., Wilmington; C. Forte, Barium Springs; L. E. Quarterman, Macon, Ga.; A. J. Potter, Barium Springs; J. D. Siewers, Winston-Salem; and C. N. Hand, Jr., Mt. Holly.

I believe that none of the various causes assigned for war would be effective except in the presence of armed, sovereign states, each animated by a desire for power and supported by patriotic populations. I believe, therefore, that the ultimate cure for war is possible, except by a diminution in the intentions of the emotions and passions and loyalties which make international anarchy possible—W. B. Curry.

SCARLET TANAGER
Sodas — Tobacco — Sundries

THIS WEEK
Skrip Ink 10c
Carter’s 5c
Stock Limited
Prompt Service

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY and TUESDAY
“THE MAN WHO PLAYED GOD”

WEDNESDAY
“POLLY OF THE CIRCUS”

THURSDAY
“STRANGERS IN LOVE”

FRIDAY
“SHANGHAI EXPRESS”

SATURDAY
“CHEATERS AT PLAY”