THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 21, 1932

Rhodes Scholarships

There will be a competition for the Rhodes Scholarships this year in every state: the 48 states will be divided
into eight districts of six states each; each state committee may nominate two men to appear before the district committee;
a district committee will select from the 12 candidates appearing before it the best four to represent their states at
Oxford; a state may thus receive two scholarships or none, in accordance with the merits of its candidates.

A Rhodes Scholarship is tenable at the University of Oxford. An appointment is made for two years in the first
instance, but a scholar may remain for a third year upon presentation of a plan of study for that period
satisfactory to his college and to the Rhodes trustees. A Rhodes Scholar may either postpone his third year, returning to
Oxford for it after a period of work in the United States, or, in a special case, may spend his
third year in post-graduate work in some other university in Great Britain or on the continent of Europe.

In 1932 state elections will be held December 10 and district committees will meet a few days later. Applications are
due not later than October 22. These should be sent to the secretary of the state committee. Colleges and universities
should select their candidates before October 15. Applications must be in Dr. Vowles’ hands by October 8. Rhodes Scholars elected
in December, 1932, will enter Oxford in October, 1933.

The stipend of a Rhodes Scholar is fixed at £400 a year. No restriction is placed upon a Rhodes Scholar’s
choice of studies. A candidate to be eligible must—(a) Be a male citizen of the United States and unmarried; (b)
be between the ages of 19 and 25; (c) have completed at least his Sophomore year at college. A candidate
may apply either in the state in which he resides or in the one in which he has received at
least two years of his college education.

The qualities which will be considered in making the selection are:
1. Literary and scholastic ability and attainments.
2. Qualities of manhood, truth, courage, devotion to duty, sympathy, kindliness, unselfishness, and fellowship.
3. Exhibition of moral force of character and of instincts to lead and to take an interest in his schoolmates.
4. Physical vigor as shown by interest in outdoor sports or in other ways.

Further information and application blanks may be obtained in this institution from Prof. G. R. Vowles or from the secretary
of the committee of selection in this state, Dr. W. C. Davison, Duke University, or from President Frank Aydelotte, of
Swarthmore College, American Secretary to the Rhodes Trustees, Swarthmore, Pa.

LITERARY SOCIETIES
(Continued from page 1)

the Philanthropic Literary Society. Duncan McBryde, the president, held order. He opened the meeting by welcoming all visitors and asking
that they not consider themselves uninvited at any time that they wished to attend a meeting of the club. A
talk was then made by Stuart Noblin, chief critic of the society, on “The History and the Activities of the
Phi.” In this, the speaker told of old traditions and histories of the society, perhaps most interesting among which being
concerning the Napoleonic chandelier, which hangs in the hall of the club. This chandelier, which is crystal and in the
style of Adam, was formerly owned by a rich gentleman who obtained it at the Chicago World’s Fair in the
last century. It was made to be a replica of the one in Paris under which Napoleon and Josephine were
married. As to the activities of the society, the critic brought forward the fact that in the recent past it
has been almost wholly the custom for the exercises of the club to consist of talks exclusively, whereas, as was
originally intended, in the future programs will be put on consisting more of compositions in writing, such as essays and
stories.

Professor C. K. Brown was the chief speaker of the evening. He gave a most interesting and enlightening talk on
the present political situation, more particularly concerning the immediate campaign prospects of the two parties. It was stated that at
the next meeting invitations will be extended to new men. Also, the feature speaker of the evening will be Major
Rhett, the new head of the R. O. T. C. department at the college. This meeting is looked forward to
with a great deal of interest on the part of the members.

HOUSE PARTIES
(Continued from page 1)

Statesville, N. C.; Polly Webb, Statesville, N. C.; Frances Wagner, Statesville, N. C.; Isabelle White, Concord, N. C.; Esther Brown,
Concord, N. C.; Caroline Bayne, Selma, Ala.; Virginia Diamond, Charlotte, N. C.; Frances Robinson, Charlotte, N. C.; Julia Hefner, Charlotte,
N. C.; Louise Melchor, Mooresville, N. C.; Biddie Mattox, Charlotte, N. C.; Margaret Sellars, Greensboro, N. C.; Katherine Bonnitz, Greensboro,
N. C.; Betty Hunter, Charlotte, N. C.; Ellen Rich, Charlotte, N. C.; Evelyn Ritchie, Charlotte, N. C.; Eleanor Bell, Charlotte,
N. C.

Kappa Sigma: Misses Margaret Gorrell, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Mildred Brown, Charlotte, N. C.; Martha Johnston, Charlotte, N. C.; Katherine Witherspoon,
Greensboro, N. C.; Cuttie Hall, Belmont, N. C.; Margaret Hackney, Charlotte, N. C.; Katherine Reid, Charlotte, N. C.

Kappa Alpha: Misses Mary Stewart Spears, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Amelia Webb, Charlotte, N. C.; Edith Lucas, Charlotte, N. C.; Virginia Pegram,
Charlotte, N. C.; Miriam Cannon, Concord, N. C.; Elizabeth Odel, Concord, N. C.; Ann Hoover, Concord, N. C.; Eleanor Hayes,
Charlotte, N. C.; Maria Drane, Charlotte, N. C.; Betty Tate, Charlotte, N. C.; Helen Dwyer, Charlotte, N. C.; May D.
Marion, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Elizabeth Wakefield, Charlotte, N. C.; Florence Moffett, Charlotte, N. C.; Frances Matheson, Charlotte, N. C.

Phi Delta Theta: Misses Mary Landis, Lexington, Va.; Carrie Lena Moffett, Davidson, N. C.C.; Elizabeth Grey, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Dorothy
Hand, Charlotte, N. C.; Agnes Hunter, Charlotte, N. C.; Betty Smith, Charlotte, N. C.; Dosty Blackman, Rock Hill, S. C.;
Margaret Gilliam, Charlotte, N. C.; Lila Womble, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Barbara Witherspoon, Greensboro, N. C.; Lois Monroe, Charlotte, N. C.;
Foster McMalan, Charlotte, N. C.; Lib Potts, Charlotte, N. C.

CHANGES ARE MADE
(Continued from page 1)

class of officers wears them. This rule applies to Senior officers also. The Juniors are, however, allowed to wear boots
outside military formations.

Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Tut Gorrell, Greensboro, N. C.; Douggie Long, Greensboro, N. C.; Mary Lib Cunningham, Greensboro, N. C.;
Edith Christian, Randolph Macon; Mary Guy, Charlotte, N. C.; Alva Guy, Charlotte, N. C.; Alice Cowls Barringer, Charlotte, N. C.;
Mary Louise Means, Concord, N. C.; Mary McKay, Concord, N. C.; Beverly Burgess, Greensboro, N. C.; Mary Grey Efird, Charlotte,
N. C.; Chick Hall, Belmont, N. C.; Estelle Hall, Belmont, N. C.; Isabelle Mead, Jacksonville, Fla.; Louise Matthewson, Charlotte, N.
C.; Dorothy B. Hines, Greensboro, N. C.; Daisy Caldwell, Davidson, N. C.; Lucile Armstrong, Belmont, N. C.; Violet Propst, Concord,
N. C.

Theta Upsilon Omega: Misses Alma Orr, Charlotte, N. C.; Ellen Hawkins, Charlotte, N. C.; Doris Helm, Charlotte, N. C.; Ruth
Amunkson, Charlotte, N. C.; Margaret Ashcraft, Charlotte, N. C.; Gertrude Ross, Concord, N. C.; Pauline McFayden, Concord, N. C.

Another change made by the local division is that Juniors who are not assigned as first sergeants are to act
as guides of units. This ruling was passed for the purpose of raising the standard of drill of the battalion.
It will also be an important factor in individual improvement so as to better prepare the officers for competitive drill
in which the Davidson College unit will be represented at the summer encampment of R. O. T. C.

As everyone knows, Major John T. Rhett succeeds Colonel Scott as commanding officer of the Davidson College R. O. T.
C. unit. He will instruct all sections of Sophomore Military Science and Tactics and will also be professor of military
history in R. O. T. C—4. Captain F. M. Cochran, infantry adjutant, will instruct all sections of R. O. T.
C—1, and will also teach Military Law in R. O. T. C—4. Captain C. W. Seifert, R. O. T. C—3
and R. O. T. C—4, except the Military Law and History. Sergeant Blanton L. Burton and Sergeant Jasper L. Kirby
will fulfill their duties same as they did last year, the former being storekeeper and property officer and the latter
administration clerk.

First year men will be instructed in the drill and command, rifle marksmanship, extended order, platoon drill and close order,
military courtesy and discipline, military hygiene and first aid, and scouting and patrolling. Sophomores will study the following: drill and
command, musketry, automatic rifle, scouting and patrolling, combat principles. Junior officers will be instructed in drill and command, map reading
and sketching, combat principles, machine guns, and Howitzer weapons. Senior officers will take up drill and command, company administration, field
engineering, military law and history, and tactics.

CHARLOTTE PASTOR
(Continued from page 1)

fathers around now, and said that if they had been taught right in their youth they would never think of
such a thing today. Youth is the greatest and most profitable time of a man’s life and probably the most
enjoyable for him to look back on, and he should take care of his youth and not burn himself out
in his early thirties or late twenties as numerous men have done in years not long gone by. Various other
points too numerous to mention were brought out in his message and he concluded his talk by pronouncing the benediction.
The talk was a very interesting one from the start to the very last and we want to express our
thanks to Dr. Garmon and to the other pastors and men of Charlotte who are so kind as to come
here quite frequently and deliver messages to the student body at these “Y. M. C. A. vespers.”

Copr., 1982; The American Tobacco Co.

We buy the finest, the very finest tobaccos in all the world—but that does not explain why folks everywhere regard
Lucky Strike as the mildest cigarette. The fact is, we never overlook the truth that “Nature in the Raw is
Seldom Mild”—so these fine tobaccos, after proper aging and mellowing, are then given the benefit of that Lucky Strike purifying
process, described by the words—“It’s toasted.” That’s why folks in every city, town and hamlet say that Luckies are such
mild cigarettes.

“It’s toasted”

That package of mild Luckies

“If a man write a better book, preach a better sermon, or make a better mouse trap than his neighbor,
tho he build his house in the woods, the world will make a beaten path to his door. Does not
this explain the world-wide acceptance and approval of Lucky Strike?”—RALPH WALDO EMERSON.

CUSTER’S LAST STAND

“Nature in the Raw”—as portrayed by the great painter of the American Indian, N. C. Wyeth, inspired by the massacre
of Custer’s dauntless band at Little Big Horn, Montana, by the savage Sioux Indians, June 25, 1876.
