"THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1932

FRATERNITIES SPONSOR SUCCESSFUL PARTIES
(Continued from page 1)

Horne, Charlotte, N. C.; Ellen Campbell, Cleveland, Tenn.; Margaret Banks, Greensboro, N. C.; Louise Rankin, Fayetteville, N. C.; Ellen Taylor,
Knoxville, Tenn.; Margaret O'Hanlon, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Ellen White, Concord, N. C.; Betty Tuttle, Leaksville, N. C.; Nancy Moffat, Statesville,
N. C.; Dorothy Sellars, Burlington, N. C.; Elizabeth Sellars, Burlington, N. C.; Carol Dean, Leland, Miss.; Margaret Willingham, Winston-Salem, N.
C.; Blevens Forglar, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Margaret Pleasants, Aberdeen, N. C.

Pi Kappa Phi: Elizabeth Sutton, Charlotte, N. C.; Dot Miller, Rock Hill, S. C.; Thelma Tuten, Jacksonboro, S. C.; Elizabeth
Whitehead, Wilmington, N. C.; Margaret Ware, Mt. Holly, N. C.; Beth Stewart, Mt. Holly, N. C.; Betty Simmons, Charlotte, N.
C.; Mary Ann Cutter, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Ann Carter, Charlotte, N. C.; Sue Simmons, Charlotte, N. C.; Vero Sandifer,
Denmark, S. C.; Margaret Blanton, Columbia, S. C.; Martha Ware Pitts, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Eugenia Wyatt, Raleigh, N. C.;
Kitty Van Echop, Charlotte, N. C.; Betty Barton, Greenwood, S. C.; Beth Norman, Mooresville, N. C.; Lib MacLaurin, Dillon, S.
C.; Amzie Newton, Waycross, Ga.; Margaret Abbett, Wilson, N. C.; Gwendolyn Terrel, Hartsville, S. C.; Helen Greene, Hartsville, S. C.;
Sue Graham, Greenville, S. C.; Christine Hunter, Maxton, N. C.; Pud Stewart, Mt. Holly, N. C.; Lib Nolan, Spartanburg, S.
C.; Nancy Cox, Raleigh, N. C.; Martha Johnston, Charlotte, N. C.; Clare MacCouless, Salisbury, N. C.; Edwina Williams, Salisbury, N.
C.; Catherine Sucker, Anderson, S. C.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Becky Stallworth, Greenwood, S. C.; Edmie Willis, Charleston, S. C.; Dot Tarleton, Charlottesville, Va.; Jean Delaney, Charlotte,
N. C.; Harriet Baxter Moore, Charlotte, N. C.; Betty Thompkins, Charlotte, N. C.; Katheryn Crowell, Charlotte, N. C.; Marie Danner,
Staunton, Va.; Lucille Armstrong, Belmont, N. C.; Margaret Gilliam, Charlotte, N. C.; Dolly Blair, Albemarle, N. C.

Kappa Alpha: May D. Marion, Charlotte, N. C.; Isabel Pollock, Bluefield, W. Va.; Miriam Cannon, Concord, N. C.; Louise Marshall,
Rocky Mount, N. C.; Nancy Moore, Gastonia, N. C.; Grace Moore, Gastonia, N. C.; Bertha Burch, Charlotte, N. C.; Margaret
Crawford, Rome, Ga.; Mary Frances Eholich, Chester, S. C.

Kappa Sigma: Esther Richardson, Atlanta, Ga.; Martha Morrison, Asheville, N. C.; Kitty Dangerfield, Norfolk, Va.; Pat Williams, Richmond, Va.; Pat
Knight, Greensboro, N. C.; Adelaide Fortune, Columbia, S. C.; Schenck, Greensboro, N. C.; Dot Jones, Greensboro, N. C.; Fulghum, Wilson,
N. C.; Charlotte, N. C.; W. T. Lucas, Greensboro, N. C.; Verne Hudson, High Point, N. C.; Hybern Hudson, High
Point, N. C.; Betsy Ross, Asheboro, N. C.; Kate Orme King, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Rita Mitchell, Danville, Va.; Doris Walton, Chattanooga,
Tenn.

FALL SERVICES OPENED WITH INSPIRING MESSAGE
(Continued from page 1)

Religion. We blame our lack of interest in our religious doctrine on the fact that Christ lived so long ago,
and that we cannot know Him as He lived then. “But,” said Mr. Chalmers, “this is actually the reason why
we should know Christ better.” He went on to show that we should understand Christ better now than His first
disciples did, because we know more about Him. He seems real to us. Mr. Chalmers quoted statements about George Washington
and Woodrow Wilson, made in their own time, which we now know to be utterly untrue. This shows that it
takes centuries to get a true opinion. The actual cause of our laxness in matters of religion, as he sees
it, is a lack of attention. We are always doing something else. We have no place for Christ. He is
lost in the crowd. Reverend Chalmers brought a new understanding with his message Monday morning. It was enjoyed and appreciated
by all that heard it.

JUNIORS TO BE INITIATED INTO CHEMISTRY SOCIETY
(Continued from page 1)

is a vice-president of the Y, is a member of the Reporters’ Club, was president of the Sophomore class last
year and a member of the Beaver Club. All are members of the Junior class. These fourMen were pledged at
a meeting of the chapter held Monday, November 7, and will be initiated about two weeks hence.

THE HOMECOMING CELEBRATION HELD LAST WEEK-END
(Continued from page 1)

When Carolina defeated Davidson, 12 to 0. On Saturday night the Pan-Hellenic Council again sponsored a dance. This time it
was an informal dance in the Hotel Charlotte, with Reeves Pope and His Southernaires furnishing the music. A capacity crowd
attended, with all men who played against Carolina being admitted as guests of the Pan-Hellenic Council. All fraternities gave house
parties this week-end, and a number of charming girls were here, so that the old grads saw that the younger
generation is just as pretty as those who came before it. Taking it all in all, and despite the loss
of the game, Homecoming was a big success, and next year the celebration will still go on, and Duke will
furnish the opposition for the annual Homecoming game.

BROWN WINS SECOND HONORS IN SYMPOSIUM
(Continued from page 1)

Having served on the Freshman debating team last year and qualified for the varsity team this year, “Skip” Brown is
president of the Sophomore class, a member of the Beaver Club, of the Forensic Council, and of Beta Theta Pi
social fraternity. His home is in Rivers Edge, N. J. While at Athens he arranged debates with the University of
Georgia and Rollins College. These debates will be held by the varsity team on its regular southern trip. The first
of these debates will mark the opening of forensic relations between Georgia University and Davidson. The team is deemed especially
fortunate to have secured a debate with Rollins. This Florida college, noted for its liberal ideas, is said to have
one of the finest debating teams in the South and East. Included on the Rollins schedule is a debate at
Dublin, Ireland, and one with Oxford University to be broadcast over WEAF some time this winter.

CAROLINA DOWNS DAVIDSON 12-TO-0
(Continued from page 1)

Started in an attempt to score. Led by Buck Mills, ably assisted by Fred Fleagle, George Wingfield, and Johnny Mackorell,
the ’Cats threw a scare into the leading Tar Heels. Mackorell got around left end for ten yards and a
first down, and Mills duplicated his feat. Then Mills whipped a 26-yard pass to Morris, who was downed on Carolina’s
22-yard marker. After two passes had been grounded, Mackorell shot one to Morgan, which was good for 14 yards, but
it missed a first down and the ball went over. Carolina then took the ball and advanced steadily, being deep
in Davidson territory as the game ended.

A man without passion is only a latent force, only a possibility, like a stone waiting for the blow from
the iron to give forth sparks.—Henri-Frederic Amiel.

BON ART STUDIOS ANNOUNCES
That all Davidson men who have not been able to secure any four Special $1.00 Certificates may obtain sittings at
the Studio under the same conditions.
1408 First National Bank Building
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

U-PUSH-’EMS NEW RATES
At M. P. Henderson’s Gulf Station

No raw tobaccos in Luckies—that’s why they’re so mild. We buy the finest, the very finest tobaccos in all the
world—but that does not explain why folks everywhere regard Lucky Strike as the mildest cigarette. The fact is, we never
overlook the truth that “Nature in the Raw is Seldom Mild”—so these fine tobaccos, after proper aging and mellowing, are
then given the benefit of that Lucky Strike purifying process, described by the words—“It’s toasted”. That’s why folks in every
city, town and hamlet say that Luckies are such mild cigarettes.

THE SEA WOLF
“Nature in the Raw”—as portrayed by the noted artist, N. C. Wyeth... inspired by the infamous Captain Kidd’s fierce raids
on the gold-laden Spanish galleons (1696), which made him the scourge of the Spanish Main. “Nature in the Raw is
Seldom Mild”—and raw tobaccos have no place in cigarettes.

“It’s toasted”
That package of mild Luckies
