THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 30, 1932

TREKKING WEST

“SYMPHONIES UNDER STARS” CONCERT ENJOYED

By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

(NOTE: This is another request article in a series written by Jack Williams, Jr., who attended the National Editorial Association meeting in California this past summer.)

After visiting the studios we were presented with tickets in the evening and taken in a body to a “Symphonies Under the Stars” concert in the Hollywood Bowl. This was the last concert conducted by Sir Hamilton Harty, of England. Olga Steeb was the guest artist and played a Liszt concerto.

“MARRIAGE OF FIGARO”

Mozart's “Marriage of Figaro” opened the program. As you know, the libretto is based on a rather risqué story but Mozart’s elegance of style and finer feeling are not tainted with this at all. In the Overture the composer is merry and frolicsome all the way through and the composition seemed to have something of the frilled, rococo spirit in it.

Symphony No. 1 in C-Minor, Opus 68 by Brahms was the second number. The singular clarity and breadth of its structure were noted from the first. It has four distinct movements and each one was graceful and almost teasing in its appeal.

“WITH THE WILD GEESE”

The climax to the evening’s program was the tonal poem “With the Wild Geese,” by Sir Hamilton Harty himself. The 20,000 people assembled in the bowl were hushed throughout, partly in respect to the composer and conductor, but mostly because of the military grandeur of the composition. It opened with a horn-call and was followed by a lament. Next came a pause disturbed by the flutes and clarinets joining in to make a gay and reckless march. The further handling of this material culminated in an agitated climax followed by a harp arpeggio. The main theme of the next section contained soft shimmering harmonies and towards the end veiled chords. Probably the most beautiful part of the whole program was the piu tranquillo passage in the middle in which the strings breathe out the theme, softly dying out with a surging of the restless sea. The twinkling stars above were a benediction to the scene and on the opposite hill was a lighted cross which marked the place where the Pilgrimage Play was being enacted.

ORANGE COUNTY

The next morning we left Los Angeles and motored to Fullerton. Parking the car at the railroad station, we joined the press party just arriving on the Santa Fe train. Citizens carried us on a drive through Anaheim and Santa Ana, the county seat to Lemon Heights, for a panoramic view of Orange County. The valley was dotted with beautiful homes, orange groves, and olive trees. At Placentia we visited what was said to be the largest packing plant and saw oranges graded, washed, waxed, wrapped in tissue paper, crated, and loaded on freight trains bound for Eastern markets.

A luncheon was given by the county in Irvine Park. Orange County is said to be the “richest county per cultivated acre in America.” One of its scenic delights is this 160-acre park. It is really Southern California in miniature. We were driving with a California real estate man and he couldn't understand why we didn’t leave Georgia pack and baggage and move to Orange County, “the garden spot of the world.”

SAN JUAN CAPISTRANO

The next stopping point going south was San Juan Capistrano mission located midway between Los Angeles and San Diego. Old Father O'Sullivan greeted us beneath the historic arches bordering the court and took us on a tour through the quadrangle, gardens and cloisters. The mission is now Junipero Serra in 1776. The mission is in fair repair but parts of it are just crumbling remains of its former glory. Its church is the most elaborate of that in any of the missions. Its ivy corridors and fountained courts still breathe the spirit of the old Franciscan Padres and the Spanish Dons and give it the title of the “Alhambra of the Pacific Coast.” The bells in the Campanile peal as they did more than 150 years ago and the peace and quiet of its sequestered walks is a far cry from the rush and scramble of our modern cities.

GLAMOROUS OLD MEXICO

After spending an hour at the mission, we departed for Agua Caliente. This resort is only 18 miles below San Diego, yet it is exotic in its pastimes and pleasures. The border is reached at Tijuana. This town is noted for its liberal attitude toward life and has a bar 200 feet long. On reaching the impressive campanile (bell tower), we knew we had arrived “Where the Rainbow Ends.” Checking in our room which adjoined a patio filled with palms and flowers, we had a good rest before the others arrived on the train.

AMERICA’S DEAUVILLE

A dinner was tendered in the evening to the N. E. A.’s and the Xth Olympiad correspondents just arrived to cover the Olympics in Los Angeles. It was given in the Gold Room which presented a gay setting with its beautiful decorations. When the orchestra played soft Spanish music, it all seemed like a dream. A pair of entertainers dressed in bright native costumes presented novelty acts throughout the meal and they were well received. The menu consisted of Fresh Mango and Orange au Grand Marnier, Celery Hearts, Colossal Olives, Crissinis, Terrapin Consommé en Tasse Jerez Ambar, Breast of Capon sauté Garnie Alexandra, Potatoes, Rissoles Olivettes, New Peas Française, Buttered New Asparagus, Salad Amazone, Fresh Strawberry Mousse Phantasie, and Petit Noir.

One of the most famous sopranos in Mexican opera was present. The conductor of the orchestra requested her to sing and she graciously granted the request. She sang “Marquita” and was encored time and time again. The Mexicans especially enjoyed her singing and were generous in their applause.

AGUA CALIENTE SPA

There was so much going on at Agua Caliente that there never was a dull moment. A group of college boys and girls were in the press party and we tried to take it all in. Perhaps one of the nicest features of this resort is its million-dollar pool. That night we gave a swimming party and enjoyed a swim in this beautiful plunge. Before leaving the next morning, we passed the Golf Club where the world’s largest open golf tournament is annually played. The Jockey Club is also a show place for it ranks with the best race tracks in the country. We had such a good time in Mexico we hated to leave, but we had to when the others left and early that morning departed for San Diego.

Amherst President Believes in Reliance

Believes Rules Regarding Motor Cars Should Be Relaxed

Amherst, Mass.—(IP)—Coddling of students was denounced by Amherst College’s new lawyer-president last week as he gave his inaugural address to the student body and visiting college presidents. Students, he said, should be self-reliant by the time they get to college. He continued: “I would trust them to live from day to day as young men should, instead of trying to prepare them for living. I would regard them from the start as young citizens, instead of hoping to train them to be citizens in the future.

“As one necessary step in this direction, my colleagues and I have relaxed the rules for motor cars in Amherst, which were imposed some years ago after a series of tragic accidents. Instead of being completely banned, motor cars will be regarded as a privilege open to any upperclassmen in good standing with a scholastic average of 75, if he submits a written request from his parent or guardian.”

Intercollegiate Press

Riverside, Cal.—(IP)—The annual Institute of World Affairs which will open its 1932 meeting here December 11, will have a week’s intensive study of problems affecting various countries. The topics will include economics, science, education, political activities, social movements and government policies. Along with the announcement of the program comes the announcement that a new quarterly journal, “World Affairs Interpreter,” is to be published by the Los Angeles University of InternationalRelations, affiliated with the University of Southern California.

Chicago, IL—(UP)—Dean Arthur Becker of DePaul University’s School of Music asserts that in his co-ed chorus blonds prove to be the best sopranos and brunets the best altos.

New York—(IP)—Complete reorganization of the Republican party is needed to save it from the fate of the old Whig party, Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, president of Columbia University, asserted last week. Said he: “If the younger members of the party will exert themselves to seek and to produce constructive, forward-facing and liberal leadership, the party, despite its overwhelming defeat, may be quickly reorganized and given new strength and new spirit for another generation of public service. If something of this sort cannot be done, then the party will have gone the way of the Whig party.”

Seattle, Wash—(IP)—Eugene Erckenbrack, undergraduate at the University of Washington, is happy over the Presidential election. He spent most of his time before election day campaigning for Roosevelt over his amateur radio station W7VY. Opening his broadcast a couple of nights before the election, he recounts, he started his “vote for Roosevelt” plea, then signed off to pick up replies, arguments, and maybe converts. Within a few minutes in came station WOZH of Palo Alto, Cal., and Erckenbrack began his argument. His listener broke in and suggested: “You better look up my name in the call book.” Erckenbrack did. He found it listed to Herbert Hoover, Jr.

Pasadena, Cal—(IP)—As an experiment, Occidental and Santa Barbara State Colleges recently played a game with two twelve-man teams. Observers expressed the belief that the only advantage shown was a speeding up of the game. On each team the twelfth man acted as field general only, taking no physical part in the plays. For Occidental, Harry Winterburn, an injured quarterback, acted as field general. Occidental won.

Chicago—(IP)—In three important football games in one day, touchdowns were scored on the opening kickoffs. In the game between Wisconsin and Minnesota, McGuire received the ball for Wisconsin and ran 85 yards for a touchdown on the kickoff. In the Bowdoin-Wesleyan game, Schlums received for Wesleyan and went 85 yards to the goal. Melinkovich ran the ball back 98 yards for Notre Dame against Northwestern on the kickoff.

Princeton, N. J—(IP)—Dean Clarence W. Mendell of Yale College, now on sabbatical leave in Rome, Italy, is reported to have been offered the presidency of Princeton University to succeed Dr. John Grier Hibben.

All great artists were men of learning and many were the intellectual giants of their time.—President Llewellyn of the Royal Academy.

Mrs. Smith’s Arm Is Broken by Bad Fall

Mrs. N. T. Smith, supervisor of dormitories, suffered a painful fracture of her right forearm Saturday about noon when she slipped and fell in front of East Dormitory. At the time Mrs. Smith was going from her office in Watts to her home, and after the fall she continued on home, calling the doctor when she arrived. He pronounced the break to be a bad one, and predicted that she will not be out for several weeks. Mrs. Smith had considered going to Winston-Salem in order that an X-ray might be made of the broken bone, but due to the recent cold weather she has delayed making the trip. She is not suffering severely at present but the arm is proving to be quite an inconvenience. Mrs. Smith’s presence will be greatly missed on the campus and her return will be looked forward to.

Otterbein Students Protest Suspension

Westerville, O—(IP)—Social affairs at Otterbein College were in an indefinite state last week as the campus rose in revolt against the suspension of a fraternity president because the fraternity violated the college rule against dancing. Pi Beta Sigma held a formal party in a Columbus hotel on a Saturday night at which dancing took place. Dale B. Evans, president of the fraternity, was suspended indefinitely as a result. Evans had been warned before the party that dancing was not to be allowed at it. He told the college authorities that the plans all had been made and that he could do nothing to stop them. Otterbein's other five fraternities backed Pi Beta Sigma in a heated protest against the suspension action, and things began to go from bad to worse, with the college authorities asserting that the no-dancing rule was to be enforced at all costs.

NOTICE

Have your shoes rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP. Work done while you wait. C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor.

George Milton Awards

The late George F. Milton, distinguished Southern writer and journalist, and, until his death in 1924, president and editor of the Chattanooga News, was long animated by an earnest desire to render permanent service to the cause of international peace. Under his will a fund was established to offer the George F. Milton awards in journalism with the hope of furthering this and other worthy causes. For 1932, a cash award of $250.00 will be made to the writer who shall publish in any newspaper or periodical in the South during the calendar year 1932 the best editorial or editorials advancing the cause of International Peace. The term “South” shall be understood to mean the following states: Tennessee, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Maryland. The term “editorial” shall mean an article prepared by, or under the jurisdiction of, the editorial staff of a newspaper or periodical and reflecting the paper's point of view. The awards are not administered as a competition, but are bestowed in recognition of a service rendered to the cause of International Peace. Throughout the year the administrators will use every effort to survey the Southern field for contributions toward this cause. Editors, however, are asked to lend their assistance by submitting copies of printed editorials in behalf of International Peace in order that none worthy of consideration may be overlooked. They should submit two clippings of their published articles pasted upon white sheets 8½x11 inches. One sheet should be labeled with the name and address of the author, name of periodical in which the article appeared and date of publication. The other sheet should contain only the clipping. All communications should be addressed to “The George F. Milton Award, Division of University Extension, Box 4218, The University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee,” and must be received by December 31, 1932. In addition to the award in journalism, the Milton fund provides for a cash award of $200.00 to the woman writer in the South who has accomplished most for her sex. The estimate of achievement will not be necessarily based upon work accomplished during the calendar year 1932, nor necessarily upon work of purely literary merit. The administrators ask the co-operation of all women’s organizations throughout the South in suggesting women whose outstanding service merits consideration by the judges. Both decisions will be announced as soon as possible after the first of the year, and checks will be mailed to the winners. The administrators reserve the right to withhold awards if no contributions are deemed sufficiently worthy.

Johnson’s Barber Shop

“Four Out of Five College Men Come Here”

U-PUSH-EMS

New Rates at M. P. Henderson’s Gulf Station

BON ART STUDIOS ANNOUNCES

That all Davidson men who have not been able to secure any four Special $1.00 Certificates may obtain sittings at the Studio under the same conditions.

1408 First National Bank Building
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

B. O. RAVENEL
Student Representative

SEE THE ... STAR DIRECT Tailoring Display

SENIORS---Dec. 1st will be the last day for you to get measured for Blazers

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

GEO. W. LAPITZ
Factory Representative

“DRUGS” Student “PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

“SODAS” Supplies “SUNDRIES”