. THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1932

RESULT OF QUESTIONNAIRE
(Continued from page 1)

111 voted against our intervention and 78 voted in favor of it. The League of Nations has long been a topic of discussion in the local history and political science classes, and it was thought wise to include this topic in the questionnaire. The college as a whole favored the membership of the United States in the League of Nations, voting for it 347 to 211. The Sophomores barely passed the measure at 70 to 60.

The department of the greatest controversy among Davidson students was covered by the last two questions. The Reserve Officers Training Corps is included in the curriculum here, and is required of members of the Freshman and Sophomore classes. To the surprise of many, no doubt, R. O. T. C. met with the approval of the student body by a count of 338 to 218, even the two lower classes ratifying it. The Freshmen voted for it at 98 to 93, and the Sophomores at 67 to 60. Among the Juniors and Seniors the plurality was rather large. That R. O. T. C. does not make a person “war-minded” was voiced by a huge majority of 405 to 145.

A tabulation of the entire poll follows:

| Yes 81 29 20 14 18 | 
| No 471 165 106 100 91 | 
| Yes 389 142 84 95 68 | 
| No 156 53 38 27 38 | 
| Yes 328 124 78 67 59 | 
| No 214 66 51 50 47 | 
| Yes 162 51 42 37 32 | 
| No 383 138 85 84 76 | 
| Yes 102 29 24 23 26 | 
| No 437 146 108 97 81 | 
| Yes 177 78 39 34 26 | 
| No 372 111 89 90 82 | 
| Yes 347 124 70 77 76 | 
| No 211 71 60 48 32 | 
| Yes 338 98 67 91 82 | 
| No 218 93 60 31 34 | 
| Yes 145 68 40 15 22 | 
| No 405 124 88 107 86 |

“DOC” NEWTON BRINGS RECORD
(Continued from page 1)

That year the Orioles established a world’s record of winning 27 consecutive games. Newton hurled six of the 27 contests. Baltimore won the Junior World Series that year. In 1921, Coach Newton pitched for Birmingham of the Southern League, winning nine of the 16 contests he hurled, and the following year he managed the Montgomery club of the South Alabama League. In the summers of 1923, 1924, and 1925, he was with baseball clubs at St. Joseph, Mo., Little Rock, and Kinston, Va., in the respective years. He did not enter the coaching game until 1923, when he tutored the Jones Valley High School in Birmingham to a championship. So successful was he that he was selected in 1925 by Howard College as assistant freshman football coach, freshman basketball mentor, and varsity baseball tutor. The next year he was elevated to the varsity coaching staff in football, continuing his work with the varsity basketball team and varsity baseball club.

Howard College has consistently won over Birmingham-Southern, its keen rival in Birmingham, so the latter institution, after he had had a part in two successive defeats by Howard, gave him a contract in 1928. Birmingham-Southern won over Howard that year, and the defeated institution decided that they wanted him back. He returned to Howard and remained for two years as director of intramural athletics, varsity line coach in football, varsity baseball tutor, and freshman basketball. The following fall Coach Neyland obtained him for Tennessee as a scout for his football varsity, and also to coach varsity baseball. The latter has been abolished at Tennessee, and had not Davidson obtained Coach Newton he probably would have returned to the Volunteers in the continued capacity of a scout. There was no place open for a line coach at Tennessee, though Coach Neyland needed an additional man on his backfield staff, which McEver was going to fill until he accepted the Davidson offer.

Coach Newton is a man of 37 years, quiet and unobtrusive, but one who is vitally interested in athletics and an athletic program looking toward the development of men. He is a student of football, and is thoroughly familiar with practically all of the outstanding systems used in the country. This was necessary knowledge to act in the capacity of a scout for Tennessee, which this institution met opponents that used many kinds of attacks. “If Davidson students can absorb all the football that Doc Newton knows,” declared Tennessee officials this week in talking to Captain Pritchett, “they will have good teams.”

GENE McEVER READY
(Continued from page 1)

His baseball playing ability was recognized this week when the Knoxville Smokies handed him a contract which he signed, and also by the fact that Philadelphia of the National League was looking him over. McEver is also a basketball player, though this is by no means his strongest forte. It is well known that Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, professor of physical education at Davidson and the man who is largely responsible for reviewing prospective candidates for theCoaching staff here is ordinarily opposed to All-Americans as coaches. There were three All-American possibilities for Davidson. In reference to McEver, however, Captain Pritchett said that his prejudice against an All-American as a coaching prospect was dispelled “after lengthy conferences with Tennessee officials and professors, who regard Mac so highly as a leader and a student of football.”

“As a rule,” continued this Davidson official, “an outstanding athlete is frequently little more than a splendid physical specimen, endowed by nature with certain faculties that fit him more for demonstration than teaching. Coaching, however, requires objective rather than subjective skill.

“But from what I heard from several sources about Mac, his contribution to athletics will continue in a very effective way, other than through accounts of his personal performance on the field.”

Following this statement, Captain Pritchett talked at length about the many good things he had heard about McEver during his stay in Knoxville early this week. At Tennessee for two years, a combination that was dreaded and feared was that of “Hack and Mack.” That was broken up when “Mack” was injured during the summer of 1930. A new combination at Davidson next Monday will be “Doc and Mac,” this duet of mentors replacing “Monk and Tex,” otherwise Monk Younger and Tex Tilson, after nine years of coaching here.

Frequently, through their megaphones, leaders at Davidson will be heard yelling, “Give three rays and two rahs for ‘Doc and Mac’.”

French Club Elects Five New Members
Flinn, Newland, and Thompson Are New Officers

At the regular meeting of Le Cercle Francais, Tuesday evening, February 5, in the Y.M.C.A. social center, five members were elected for the ensuing year and new officers were selected.

Preceding the business meeting, Prof. A. V. Goldiere gave a most interesting lecture on his personal experiences as a student in the University of Caen. The retiring officers, Roscoe Prince, president; C. F. Myers, vice-president, and L. N. Hand, secretary-treasurer, will be followed by W. A. Flinn as president; L. T. Newland as vice-president, and John P. Thompson as secretary-treasurer. The five men so honored by the local chapter are L. W. Clardy, Jack Williams, Jr., E. L. Hoffman, D. F. Blue, and E. D. Bolich.

People don’t get indignant any more. They fear anything unpleasant. Their ideal is a dinner of twelve courses of charlotte russe.—Phyrra Samter Winslow.

I have never employed a literary blacksmith.—Andrew Mellon.

Dr. Darby Fulton

On Tuesday, February 16th, Dr. Darby Fulton will speak to the Sophomore Bible classes during the first period. At the chapel hour, he will address the whole student body. During the two periods after chapel, he will speak to other Sophomore Bible classes. At seven o'clock in the evening, he will lead a discussion group for the Ministerial Band and the Student Volunteer Group.

On Wednesday, February 17, Dr. Fulton will speak to the Freshman Bible classes before and after chapel. During chapel, he will once more address the entire student body. At seven o'clock that night, he will conduct an open forum at the “Y” social center. The above-mentioned Bible classes will meet in the Chambers auditorium; so any member of the student body not in class is cordially invited to attend. Dr. Fulton will be glad to have personal interviews with any member of the student body who desires to talk with him. See Carl Pritchett.

DR. C. DARBY FULTON (Continued from page 1)

In addition to these qualifications, Dr. Fulton is an unusually gifted speaker and is much sought after by various groups all over the South. He took a prominent part in the Congress on World Missions last year and also at the Quadrennial Convention at Buffalo this year. Since Dr. Egbert Smith left for Africa in October, Dr. Fulton has been acting Executive Secretary of the Foreign Mission Committee, in addition to carrying on his previous duties as Field and Candidate Secretary. Although he has been out of his office practically all the time for the last two months, speaking all over the South, he is able to accept only a small percentage of invitations which come to him. Dr. Fulton was called back from Japan because the Foreign Mission Committee felt keenly the need of his services in this country. Since then, numerous requests for his return have been made by the Japanese mission. One of his fellow missionaries said of him recently: “Dr. Fulton is the most gifted man we have ever had in Japan.”

NEWTON AND McEVER (Continued from page 1)

Both of these men reported to Davidson Monday to take charge of the remaining weeks of the winter football practice, which was being conducted by Coaches Younger and Tilson. Newton was signed up to coach baseball at Tennessee this spring, but that sport has been abolished there. He was consequently available for immediate service. McEver will spend a month at Davidson until the winter practice sessions are completed and will then return to Tennessee for the last quarter and summer school, which are necessary for his graduation. He was out of college a year and a half because of injuries, but will be able to complete his work in two quarters. Coaches Younger and Tilson are to continue on the staff at Davidson and will have charge of other sports during the spring. Newton and McEver will be here only during the winter football training. Younger will continue his work with the Freshman basketball squad and will coach baseball. Tilson will head the track work.