4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 7, 1932

TREKKING WEST

Model League Held At Winthrop College

The annual gathering of the model “League of Nations” was held last weekend at Winthrop College, in Rock Hill, S.C.
This conclave is held at Winthrop each year and is sponsored by the International Relations Club and the Debaters’ League
of that college. Davidson, Clemson, Presbyterian, Wofford, Columbia Bible College, Limestone, and Queens-Chicora all sent representatives. Each college was assigned
a certain country, and its delegates represented it at the meeting of the “League.” Davidson was assigned Germany and the
Netherlands. The delegates from Davidson were Duncan McBryde, Jake Mackorell, and Bill Ward. Duncan McBryde made the key speech for
Germany, and he was ably assisted by Bill Ward. Jake Mackorell gave the views of the Netherlands. Davidson's speeches were
of a bit more informal nature than the others. This caused favorable comment from the toastmaster at the banquet that
followed the meeting. The subject of supreme importance before the “League” was the trouble between Japan and China over the
Manchuria territory. Duncan McBryde gave Germany's attitude toward Japan in Manchuria, and Ward spoke on Germany's views on equality and
armament. Quite a bit of zest was added to the proceedings when a delegate from Hungary disagreed with McBryde's views,
and McBryde was forced to make a rather biting reply, in which a play upon the word “Hungary” nearly broke
up the meeting. Among other important issues before the “League” was the case of admitting Iraq to membership in that
august body. After much arguing and delay, Iraq was finally added to the roll of nations. After the session was
adjourned, a banquet was held.

Several former Davidson students are now enrolled at Wake Forest College. Those attending the Law School are: W. H. Best,
'30, Goldsboro; L. H. Corbett, '31, Atkinson; W. W. Taylor, '32, Warrenton. Those in the Medical School are: D. E.
Yow, '30, Concord; P. D. Padgett, '31, Forest City; E. S. Grady, '32, Wilmington. C. A. Butter, '33, Glen Alpine,
is attending the Pre-Medical School.

Ernest R. Campbell, '14, of Davidson, has been elected as one of the six representatives to the Board of Regents
at the University of Colorado at Denver. He was a delegate at large and the session will be of six
years’ duration. Mr. Campbell is of the law firm of Smith, Akolt, and Campbell, of Denver. Many local people will
be interested in the above announcement.

Prof. Robert F. Davidson, Ph.D., class of '23, has an able article on “A Philosophical Study of Religion” in the
Union Seminary Review which came from the press last week. Dr. Davidson is now a professor at Southwestern, Memphis. After
graduation from Davidson he studied several years at Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar. In the same issue of the
Union Seminary Review is another suggestive article, “The Status Quo,” by Rev. D. P. McGeachy, D.D., '06, Decatur, Ga.

Among the letters recently received at the college office was one from O. M. Brown, '25, U.S. custom officer, Durham,
and L. N. Hand, Jr., '32, East Spencer. (NOTE: Alumni having items which will be of interest are requested to
send them to Jack Williams, Jr., Box 262, Davidson, N.C.)

Interesting Debate Held by Eu Society

“Resolved, That Shakespeare Wrote the Plays That Are Attributed to His Name,” was the subject of a debate held at
a meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society last night. Gordon Wood spoke for the affirmative, the negative being upheld by
Tom Caldwell. After the debate, an interesting talk was made by Wilson Wallace.

A debate was also presented at a meeting of the society on November 29th, the subject being: “Resolved, That the
Faculty Should Have Granted a Holiday to the Student Body Last Friday and Saturday.” Jack Plunket was the speaker for
the affirmative, and Bill Bowman pleaded the negative. After the debate, open forum discussion was carried on by Hugh Hawkins,
William Pate, M. A. Keith, and Tom Caldwell. A vote by members of the society as to whether or not
the holiday should have been given was cast in the negative.

The Eumenean Society is now making plans for the presentation of a program at Queens-Chicora College on December 13th. A
delegation composed of J. E. Richards, Rufus Page, Hugh Hawkins, Lyman Clardy, and Bill Ward will make the trip, and
a program of mutual interest to both Queens-Chicora and Davidson will be presented. Representatives from the two societies at Queens-Chicora
will also visit Davidson to conduct a return program at a date sometime in the near future.

Twelve Books Added To Graves Collection

The Davidson Library received with pleasure last week the second group of books to be added to the collection donated
by Mr. Robert W. Graves. The following books comprise this new group:

1. Radhakrishnan, S., An Idealist View of Life; George Allen & Unwin Ltd.
2. King, C. Daly, The Psychology of Consciousness; Kegan Paul.
3. Saintsbury, The Earlier Renaissance; Blackwood & Sons, Ltd.
4. E. M. W., The Life of Joseph Wright; Oxford.
5. Stamp, Sir Josiah, G. B. E., Papers on Gold and the Price Level; King & Sons, Ltd.
6. Dyboski, Roman, Outlines of Polish History; George Allen & Unwin, Ltd.
7. Robertson, Sir William, Soldiers and Statesmen; Cassell.
8. Halevy, Daniel, Vauban, Builder of Fortresses; Geoffrey Bles.
9. Durham, M. Edith, The Sarajevo Crime; George Allen & Unwin, Ltd.
10. King Bolton, A History of Italian Unity, 1814-1871; Nisbet.
11. Heitland, W. E., The Roman Republic; University Press, Cambridge.
12. Hardy, E. G., Some Problems in Roman History; Oxford.Banquet was held, at which the presidents of the various International
Relations Clubs made extemporaneous speeches on their own local organizations. His business, discussed last month, wheat dropped to less than
42 cents, which is the amount of the tariff on that product. The University of Illinois once figured 90 cents
a bushel as the average cost of producing wheat in Illinois.

Wednesday, Dec. 7—Undercover Man—(Paramount) From the story by John Wilstatch, this picture furnishes a good vehicle for the very marked
ability of George Raft, and judging from his past performances, he will portray his role finely. Raft will be remembered
as the dangerous lover of “Scarface” and this time he plays an even more dangerous game. Nancy Carroll plays the
feminine lead, and these two stars are well supported by Lew Cody, Roscoe Karns, and Noel Francis.

Thursday, Dec. 8—Prosperity—(M-G-M) Marie Dressler makes this rather crude fable by Sylvia Thalberg human, interesting, and amusing. Maggie Warren (Marie
Dressler) turns over the bank, which she has run for several years, to her son on his wedding day. Young
John Warren lacks the wisdom that his mother had, and as a result, when his mother-in-law (Polly Moran) starts a
run on the bank, he is unable to meet the demands of the depositors and the bank closes. Then follow
the series of incidents in which Dressler does her best acting, one of these being her attempt to commit suicide
so the bank may reopen on her life insurance.

Friday, Dec. 9—The Conquerors—(RKO) This is a kind of epic tracing life in America through the various financial crises from
the past. Guy Kibbee, as an inebriate doctor, and Edna May Oliver, as his wife and the proprietress of a
dilapidated hotel, both contribute excellent characterizations. The moral of this commendable picture is “Don’t Sell America Short!”

Saturday, Dec. 10—Congorilla—(Fox) Perhaps this is not the best animal picture that has been produced, but beyond question, it is
the most interesting. A notable feature of this natural study of Africa made by the Martin Johnsons is the sound
recording both of animals and of pygmies. More than any of the recent African films, this picture furnishes a precise
and amusing study of the pygmies.

College Calendar
Dec. 8—“Y” Cabinet meeting, 9 p.m.
Le Cercle Francais, 9 p.m.
Dec. 9—Lecture in Chambers Auditorium by Dr. Bagby, Psychologist, 7:30 p.m.
Dec. 10—Ministerial Band meeting, 9 p.m.
Dec. 13—“Y” Vespers, Dr. J. Rupert McGregor, 6 p.m.
Dec. 14—Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies meeting, 7 p.m.

CHARLOTTE
LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOPPE
Famous for Good Waffles and Sandwiches

DAVIDSON
TOBACCOS
CANDY
STUDENT SUPPLIES
FOUNTAIN SERVICE

W. S. HENDERSON
NEXT DOOR TO POST OFFICE

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“DRUGS”
“PRESCRIPTIONS”
“SODAS”
“SUNDRIES”
Student Supplies
Make Our Store Your Store
117 GARLAND COURT

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
PRINTING AND ENGRAVING
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE
See Our DAVIDSON REPRESENTATIVES
EDW. O. GUERRANT
A. M. MANSON

History; Oxford. Guy Kibbee, as an inebriate doctor, and Edna May Oliver, as his wife and the proprietress of a
dilapidated hotel, both contribute excellent characterizations. The moral of this commendable picture is “Don’t Sell America Short!”

Yow! Issue
The second issue of the 1932-33 Yowl will make its appearance on December 19, according to an announcement made by
M. Reeves Pope, editor-in-chief of the magazine. There is a great demand for serious work in this publication in the
line of poetry and short stories. The editor would appreciate contributions from students who are interested.

The center of the Casino floor. Casino in honor of the N. E. A. The derby was an old Indian
sport held by the tribes to welcome friends and climaxed the series of the day’s events. It is just as
exciting as pictured by the author, Mark Twain. Each toad was named and a ribbon tied around its neck. They
were placed in the center. The cover was raised and then the fun began. Some of them jumped and others
refused to move. It seemed the more noise people made, the more the frogs jumped, and they had every reason
if this was true because some of the spectators became as excited over the race as the savages of old.
Coming down the mountain that night to Mission Inn, we saw San Bernardino a mile below, a lacy twinkle of
lights. It was an impressive sight and we stopped at one point and silently watched for some time before continuing
the descent.

IS COMING!
U-PUSH-EMS
New Rates at M. P. Henderson’s Gulf Station

BON ART STUDIOS ANNOUNCES
That all Davidson men who have not been able to secure any four Special $1.00 Certificates may obtain sittings at
the Studio under the same conditions.
1408 First National Bank Building
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
Richmond, Virginia
B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., LL.D., President
A graduate of Davidson and of Union studying abroad writes:
“There are able scholars here whose books are known and read all over the religious world. None of them can
surpass some of our professors at Union as teachers, and none of them can challenge a student to joyous, practical
Christianity as did our professors there.”

SELL US YOUR OLD PEN FOR $1.25 TO $2.50 ALLOWANCE ON A NEW PARKER DUOFOLD PEN
Sell Your Old Pencil for 75c to $1.00 Toward New Parker Duofold Pencil
Any old pen (of any make with gold point)—any mechanical pencil—accepted as cash toward a brand new Parker Duofold. Not
discontinued models—but Parker’s latest and finest Pens and Pencils, newest styles—smartest jewel-like color effects. Bring in your old pen or
pencil, or both, at once. They’re as good as money on the purchase of brand new Parker Duofolds. Hurry before
sale ends.

COLLEGE PHARMACY

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY
“UNDERCOVER MAN”
GEORGE RAFT—NANCY CARROLL—LEW CODY

THURSDAY
“PROSPERITY”
MARIE DRESSLER—POLLY MORAN—ANITA PAGE

FRIDAY
“THE CONQUERORS”
RICHARD DIX—ANN HARDING

SATURDAY
“CONGORILLA”
MR. AND MRS. MARTIN JOHNSON
