BLAT STATE Che Davidsonian | == Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas ° Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER
2, 1932 No. 8

PRESENT THREE PLAYS TONIGHT

Three Dramas Are “Moonshine,” “Ghost of Jerry Bundler,” and “A Game of Chess”

YEAR’S FIRST PRODUCTIONS

Johnny Marvin and His Orchestra Will Play at Entertainment

Tonight at 8:15 the curtain in Chambers Auditorium rises on the year’s first appearance of the Red and Black Masquers.
The dramatic club is presenting three one-act plays of a wide variety.

The first play is “Moonshine,” by Arthur Hopkins. The scene is laid in the mountains of North Carolina, and the
principal characters are a moonshiner and a revenue officer. Dave McLain plays Luke, the moonshiner, and the part of the
clever officer is taken by Nicholas Moss. The play was directed by Nicholas Moss, and the stage management is by
Gordon Wood and Dave Herring.

The second part features the “Ghost of Jerry Bundler,” a play with an all-Freshman cast. Tryouts were made among the
Freshmen for this production and a splendid group of actors was assembled. The direction is by Jack Williams and the
stage management is by Lyman Clardy, assisted by Don Stewart. The locale of the play is a county tavern in
England. Those taking parts are A. M. Faison, P. Y. Harlan, J. L. Dees, R. W. Johnston, W. M. Taylor,
R. S. Riley, and R. B. Lindsay.

The third and last drama is “A Game of Chess,” by Goodman. It is a story of Russia and deals
with the plot of a revolutionist to assassinate the ruler. The royalist is portrayed by Wills Hollingsworth while the character
of the assassin is acted by Grainger Williams. Henry Hodgin is cast as a footman, and the remaining character will
be (Continued on page 6)

Eumenean Society Gives Initiation Entertainment

Talks Made by Four New Members of Literary Organization

An interesting program of four talks was presented at the weekly meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society. Those taking part
in the program were all new members who were rendering their initial speeches before the house. Luther Shirey spoke on
the subject of Law; W. A. Benfield discussed the 4-H Club; A. T. Banks spoke in favor of co-education, and
John Douglas chose to speak on the Democrats and why they should be placed in power.

Shirey, in his talk, gave a brief history of law. He showed the great influence of law on every nation
and individual, and how law had been handed down to the present age, each age leaving an improved code for
the next. He pointed out the absolute necessity of our conduct being governed by law and explained that the field
is open to the best minds of modern youth.

Benfield’s talk was very informative. He gave an interesting description of the 4-H Club, bringing out many little-known facts about
the functions of the club, and pointing out the good that the club does among farm boys and girls in
enabling them to work at some definite project and to compete for trips to various parts of the country.

Banks rendered a speech on co-education in a rather humorous vein. He described the bleak, dreary classrooms without the (Continued
on page 6)

Dr. Fulton

Dr. C. Darby Fulton, of Nashville, Tenn., prominent leader of the Southern Presbyterian Church, will be the speaker at vesper
services Sunday night. Dr. Fulton was Executive Secretary of Foreign Missions of the greatest Mission Congress ever held. This gathering
was conducted two years ago in Chattanooga and was attended by delegates from all over the world. He has visited
Davidson on several previous occasions and is very popular as a speaker on the campus.

RED AND BLACK MASQUERS WILL

Mr. Glasgow Speaks on Purposes in Life

Mr. Tom Glasgow, well-known businessman of Charlotte, gave an extremely interesting talk at the Y. M. C. A. vespers services
Sunday night. He spoke on the subject, “Life With a Purpose.” Charlie Myers led the service, and some greatly-enjoyed music
was given by three young ladies from Charlotte, Miss Marion Bartholomew with the flute; Miss Virginia Rowland with the ‘cello,
and Miss Ida Boykin at the piano. Grainger Williams and Francis Scott led in prayer.

Mr. Glasgow read for his scripture the first sixteen verses of the first chapter of Daniel, emphasizing the eighth verse:
“But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself ....” He then told the story of Daniel,
how he was born as a prince, taken captive by Nebuchadnezzar, and how he became a slave in a strange
land. Chosen by the king to stay in the court, he refused to defile himself with the dainties of the
court, and persuaded the prince of the eunuchs to provide them with the plain wholesome food that he and his
companions had been used to in Judah. Because of his adherence to the fundamental (Continued on page 6)

Dr. Lingle to Speak Over Radio Tonight

Tonight at 8:45 o’clock Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of the college, accompanied by eight members of the Glee Club,
will give a thirty-minute program over the radio from WBT in Charlotte. Dr. Lingle will make a short talk on
“The History and Work of Davidson College,” and the double quartet, consisting of Hubert Morris, Ed Garrett, L. T. Newland,
Warner Wells, Carlton Chapman, Buddy Robinson, Woody Calligan, and Leland McKeithan will sing several numbers.

Tomorrow morning at 11 o'clock the president goes to a meeting in Thyatira Church, between Mooresville and Salisbury, where he
will deliver a speech on “The Religious Life of George Washington.” The meeting is under the auspices of the Daughters
of the American Revolution, celebrating the Washington Bi-Centennial. Several other speeches will be made and a Washington tree will be
planted to commemorate the occasion. The church in which the meeting is to be held is one of the most
historic in this part of the country, having been founded in 1753. A good many Revolutionary heroes are buried there
and a former pastor, Rev. Samuel Eusebius McCorkle, was one of the founders of the University of North Carolina in
1793. Dr. Lingle, being a son of the historic church, has been asked to make one of the speeches.

Brown Will Enter Contest at Athens

Two important coming events hold the interest of Davidson College speakers. The first of these is a political oratorical contest
to be held at Athens, Ga., sponsored by the University of Georgia, on November 7. “Skip” Brown will represent Davidson.
Nine of the foremost schools of the South are to have delegates there, each school having one representative. Each representative
is to be prepared to make a ten-minute speech on Hoover, Roosevelt, or Thomas, and he will not know until
he gets to the stage on which man he will have to speak. A silver loving cup will be presented
to the winner. Governor-Elect Talmadge will preside at the contest. There will be distinguished judges who are not alumni of
any of the competing schools. Davidson’s participant is being sponsored by the Forensic Council.

The other oratorical contest is to be held in Raleigh some time in January. This contest is sponsored by the
American Legion. The general topic will be some phase concerning higher education in North Carolina. A preliminary contest will be
held here within the next few weeks to determine who will represent Davidson.

Annual Photographer

The photographer from the Wootten-Moulton studios of Chapel Hill, N. C., arrived here Tuesday morning to complete the photographs to
be taken for the Quips and Cranks of 1932-33. He will remain at the college until the end of this
week. The pictures which are being taken at present are for individual photos which some members of the student body
were unable to have taken during the past two visits. Also the group pictures of the various honorary and social
fraternities, as well as of all the athletic teams, are being completed. Any resittings that may be desired are also
being made at this time and an urgent appeal is made to those concerned to be sure to have these
made as soon as possible.

Rev. D. H. Chalmers Will Conduct Annual Fall “Y” Services, November 13-15

Davidson Students Will Be Given an Opportunity to Interview Rev. Chalmers Personally

FORMER “Y” SECRETARY

Speaker Is From First Presbyterian Church of Charlottesville, Va.

On Sunday, November 13, a series of religious services sponsored by the Y. M. C. A. will be opened in
Chambers Auditorium. The “Y” has been fortunate in securing as its speaker during these services Rev. Dwight Chalmers, of the
First Presbyterian Church in Charlottesville, Va. Rev. Chalmers preached in Greensboro for a time before going to Charlottesville, where he
is exceedingly popular with all the University of Virginia students. He is a graduate of Davidson and while here was
entered into the campus activities to a large degree, in addition to making an enviable record in his studies. He
was the captain of the basketball team, and was a member of the old Bachelors’ Club.was prominent in Y. M.
C. A. activities, being president of the “Y” while he was here and secretary of the “Y” after his graduation.
Rev. Chalmers is distinguished as a speaker, and the student body should enjoy his talks a great deal. The fall
services will last for three days. In the morning Rev. Chalmers will speak at chapel exercises, and in the evening
he will address the students in Chambers Auditorium. Meanwhile, during the day, Rev. Chalmers will interview the students who wish
to talk to him. This will be an excellent opportunity for those here who may have problems to present to
the speaker. On the days in which Rev. Chalmers is to speak, the periods will be shortened to fit in
with the time which may be taken by his talks. In the past, these programs have been of great value
and of great interest to the students who attended them. The “Y” expects the coming program to prove one of
the best. The organization invites every student who is able to attend and promises that it will be worth their
while. In addition to the fall services, another series of services will be held next spring. The speaker for these
services has not yet been announced.

Informal Smoker is Held by Senior Class

The Senior class held an informal smoker last Monday night, October 31, at 9 o'clock in the reception hall of
the Chambers Building in order to discuss some important matters regarding the welfare of the class. However, this meeting was
not called on an entirely business basis and afforded another social and informal gathering for the members who are even
now contemplating the “breaking up” next June. Cigarettes and light refreshments were furnished. Allen Mebane, president of the class, reported
that he had no information to print regarding the nature of the business discussed, but assured the reporter that the
meeting, although brief, was one of great importance to the class of '33, and marked a vital step in the
history of the class.

WILDCATS WILL MEET WOLFPACK AT CHARLOTTE IN BIG FIVE GAME

Judge Cooper Talks on “Trial of Christ”

The lecture of Judge C. Vernon Cooper, of Kinston, N. C., on “The Legal Aspects of the Trial of Jesus,”
was well received by a large audience which attended last Monday night in spite of the heavy rain. Professor Currie
introduced the speaker. “It would be unfair to the Jews,” said Judge Cooper, “to assume that they looked upon Christ
as the Son of God.” He declared that the common notion that Jesus was “just about lynched” is also incorrect.
Two of the most perfect judicial systems the world has ever known failed to give justice in this case because
of the Jewish judges’ hate for Jesus. They had been afraid of Him since His triumphal entry into Jerusalem. And,
because Pilate was afraid of the Jewish mob and dared not risk another insurrection, he gave Him to the mob.
The speaker recommended as the correct judgment that of the centurion who watched the manner of Christ's death and his
attitude toward His persecutors, and said, “Truly this was the Son of God.” Instead of being cruel and inhuman, the
Sanhedrin was one of the most merciful of courts ever devised. More than one death in unusual, voluntary confession was
not admitted as evidence, and sentence seven years was. The twenty-three judges were supposed to search for the defense of
the accused.

(Continued on page 6)

New Ruling is Made Regarding Uniforms

At a recent meeting of the Court of Control, a new ruling was installed regarding the wearing of the R.
O. T. C. military uniforms. The R. O. T. C. department requests that no part of the uniform be worn
with civilian clothes and that no civilian clothes be worn with the uniform. In cooperation with the R. O. T.
C. department, the Court of Control made a rule forbidding any Freshman to wear the R. O. T. C. cap
as a substitute for the red cap. In other words, any Freshman having on an R. O. T. C. cap
with civilian clothes will suffer indictment just as if he had worn no cap at all. The Court further urged
all upperclassmen to observe the ruling of the R. O. T. C. department. The civilian body has continued as an
active and influential body. It is the duty of this body to guide the Freshmen in their relations to the
upperclassmen. It is the function of this body to prescribe the rules and regulations by which the Freshmen shall be
governed. The Court is appointed annually by the Student Council and is composed of a judge and seven members, representing
the three upper classes. Bill Flinn is the judge of the Court of Control for this school year.

Selwyn Performers Present Show Here

On Saturday night, October 29, in Chambers Auditorium, an appreciative crowd saw the unique performance of the magician Selwyn. Preceding
the performance, an organ prelude of popular numbers was rendered by Bill McIlwinen. Selwyn then made his appearance and executed
a number of interesting tricks, among which were “The Disappearing Wand,” “The Chinaman’s Fan,” “The Mysterious Candy,” “The Disappearing Princess,”
and “The Joining Rope.” After a number of sleight-of-hand acts had been performed, the magician gave some excellent representations of
farmyard animals. He then delighted the audience by playing the old favorite, “Annie Laurie,” on the hand-saw. Mr. Selwyn, who
has been an artist in the line of magic for the past six years, opened the season at Asheville, N.
C. Since that time he has presented entertainments in Salisbury, N. C., Concord, N. C., Lexington, S. C., and High
Point, N. C. His program was sponsored by the Junior class.

The Contest to Take Place in Central High Stadium Saturday Afternoon at 2:30 o’Clock

CLOSE BATTLE EXPECTED

Held Under the Auspices of the Charlotte Junior League

Under the auspices of the Junior League of Charlotte, the Davidson Wildcats will meet the Wolfpack of N. C. State
in a game that will have a decided bearing on the “Big Five” standings. The game will be played in
the Central High Stadium on Saturday at 2:30 p.m. Both teams have impressive records to date. Judging from these records,
the ’Pack appears the superior team by virtue of its outstanding victories. Nevertheless, Davidson's record is good and the Wildcats
will be rated almost on par with the team from Raleigh. State opened the season with a warm-up fray, and
walked over Appalachian with an impressive 38 to 0 score. They then took a 19 to 0 victory from the
strong University of Richmond aggregation. Clemson fell next, 13 to 0. In their first “Big Five” game, the Wolfpack played
Wake Forest's Demon Deacons to a scoreless deadlock. On the following Saturday, in spite of the scintillating performances of Al
Rogero, the State gridders ran up seventeen points, to rout the ’Gators, 17 to 0. Last Saturday, North Carolina upset
the dope and handed State their first setback by a 13 to 0 margin. However, a record of four victories,
one defeat, and a tie is not a bad record, especially when one considers the class of the competition. From
the list of victories it is easily

(Continued on page 6)

Ten New Men Initiated Into French Fraternity

Variety of Entertainment Presented to Le Cercle by Initiates

Le Cercle Francais met last Tuesday evening, a week ago, October 25th, at the home of Dr. G. B. Watts.
The event of the meeting was the initiation of the new members, who furnished the program at this time. Messieurs
Coit, Gullette, and Johnston presented a short skit entitled, “L’Illustre M. Dupincnel.” Monsieur Pratt gave a talk on “La Langue
Francaise.” Monsieur Hart rendered two numbers on the piano by the French composers Chopin and Saint-Saens, giving before each rendition
a short history of these artists. The last number by the new members was “Les Chiens de Paris,” by Monsieur
Spencer. Following this, French songs were sung by the members, and games were played. Refreshments of ice cream and cake
were served at the end. Mmes. Goldiere and Watts, honorary members of Le Cercle, were present. Le Cercle announces with
pleasure the election of Messieurs Hart, Pratt, Johnston, Spencer, Armistead, McCallie, Gullette, Coit, Lafferty, and Harris. The French club is
expecting to prepare for the public presentation of the performance of Tristan Bernard’s one-act comedy, “L’Anglais Tel Qu’On le Parle.”
This farce, based on the misadventures of an ignorant hotel interpreter, has long been a hit on the Parisian stage
and for amateur performances. As usual, a lecturer in French will also be presented some time this year.

Debating Tryouts

It has been announced by Leland McKeithen, president of the Forensic Council, that tryouts for the debating team have been
postponed from Thursday, November 3, to Tuesday, November 8. This change was made on account of a conflict with a
meeting of the Quadranglers’ Club. The subject for the candidates will be: “Resolved, That all commercial banks should be national
banks and a member of the Federal Reserve System.”
