THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 30, 1932

ALL-STATE TEAMS ARE NAMED BY DAVIDSONIAN

THE SPORTS PARADE

DAVIDSON MAY ENTER SOUTHERN CONFERENCE

“All I can say is that I’m tickled to death that we finally got it,” replied Dr. Oren Moore, Davidson’s
most enthusiastic football follower, just after the Wildcats had defeated Wake Forest 7-0. Those very words express the sentiments of
every student on the campus. And why shouldn’t they? It was the first time since 1920 that a Davidson team
has walked off the field victorious over Wake Forest.

The Wildcat victory was more impressive than it would have been had everything run off smoothly. Pearce’s kickoff return for
a touchdown at the opening of the second half was ruled illegal and Davidson was penalized because, according to Umpire
Sholar, of Presbyterian College, there were not five Wildcats across the 45-yard line at the kickoff. From that time on
all of Davidson’s hopes of obtaining victory seemed to fade away. Then late in the game, the ever-alert Pearce intercepted
a Deacon pass and ran 55 yards for the only touchdown of the game, to grab the game which seemed
taken away from the Wildcats.

Pearce finished his college football career in a blaze of glory by his great all-around work last Thursday. To him
it was another football game, but to the fans and students it was his greatest game. The little flash always
does his best when opposed by the Demon Deacons. Last spring Pearce defeated the champion Wake Forest baseball team 1
to 0 to give Davidson her only Big Five victory. He allowed them two hits that day. Thursday his two
touchdowns, one illegal and one legal, gave Davidson her only Big Five football victory.

Captain “Buddy” Gardner played a great game Thursday despite his injured knee. His appearance in the line-up seems to add
fire to the Wildcats and it was there in the Wake Forest game. Jack Wagner, Bruce Peabody, and Dick Whitfield
also made brilliant showings in their final game. Peabody made his placement good to make Davidson's total seven points, and
also returned punts and blocked in fine style.

Coaches Newton and McEver have succeeded in their first year at Davidson. Davidson has won four games, tied one, and
lost four for an even break for the season under the new Tennessee style of play. The Wildcats have scored
82 points while holding opponents to 52. In only two of the nine games have they failed to score. Only
twice have more than two touchdowns been made against them. Duke and Carolina hold the honor of crossing the Davidson
goal line twice while holding the ’Cats scoreless.

Although the Wildcats did not pile up any great offensive record, its defensive work this season is something to brag
about. Four teams were able to cross the Davidson goal only once, two crossed it twice, and three others failed
to tally.

Coach Red Laird will build his basketball team around Captain Bruce Peabody and Jack Wagner, two football stars who can
perform on the hardwood courts as brilliantly as they do on the gridiron. Laird looks forward to a most successful
season. Sophomores will likely fill the other three positions.

Doc Mathis will take charge of Freshman basketball this winter. He showed coaching ability on the gridiron and should be
more successful on the courts than he was with football. He was a basketball star in high school, but he
never played football before coming to Davidson.

Davidsonian Editor Picks All-Star Football Teams

Five Davidson Stars Awarded Places on All-State Elevens

With the close of every sport season there comes the choosing of outstanding players for different positions and the selection
of all-star teams. Since we see that every sports writer, whether he is connected with the nation’s largest dailies or
with the country’s smallest weeklies, is now concerned with the picking of all-star football teams, we become zealous also and
try our hand at it.

Our selection concerns the Big Five in North Carolina, of which Davidson, Duke, Carolina, N. C. State, and Wake Forest
are members. We have seen teams from all of the above schools play at least once, and have watched several
perform on numerous occasions. Our selection, which will be found elsewhere on this page, is to us a most careful
pick. Although newspaper writeups may have influenced us a little in several selections, we have tried to pick the man
who played his position best when we saw him play. The number of games in which the man played was
also taken into consideration. Injuries have handicapped some men and for that reason they have not performed their best. We
look upon that as tough luck and consider those who were mainstays on Big Five teams.

The distribution of positions on the two selections is as follows: State, six men; Duke and Davidson, five men each;
Carolina and Wake Forest, three men each. On the first team, Duke and Davidson each place three men, State and
Carolina each two men and Wake Forest one man.

The first team, we think, would satisfy the desires of any North Carolina coach. The line is featured by fast
ends, hard charging tackles, light but sturdy and tough guards, and an ever-awake center. Clean play has marked the play
of each of these linemen in games which we saw them play.

In the backfield are two triple-threat halfbacks, a smart quarterback who can block, and a hard driving fullback who can
always be counted on for a few yards through any line.

Starting at center, we are faced with the biggest problem of the whole selection. Both Underwood of Carolina, and Espey
of State have been playing great ball all year and on a par with each other. Underwood is chosen for
his great play against Davidson and against Duke. In the only game we saw Espey play he did not show
all-state calibre, but newspapers influence his selection on the team. Gardner, of Davidson, showed more ability in the few quarters
he was able to play this year than did either Underwood or Espey, but failure to see enough service eliminates
the Wildcat captain.

Guards in abundance, but Rives, of Davidson, DeAngelis, of Wake Forest, Werner, of Duke, and Stanko, of State get the
call. DeAngelis, Werner and Stanko are selected because of their good work against Davidson. Kahn, of Carolina, and Schock, of
Duke, were also considered. Rives’ work has been evident in the Davidson line all year.

Three tackles stand head and shoulders above all others in the state. The highly-touted Crawford, of Duke, Jack Wagner, of
Davidson, and Swann, of Wake Forest, have been most valuable to their teams and have showed their mettle all season.
These three are a credit to any all-state eleven. Seitz, of State, and Tatum, of Carolina, were prominent for their
teams against the Wildcats and so are mentioned.

Every team in the Big Five boasted of at least one stellar end. Carolina seemed to be gifted with the
best pair of flankmen in Walker and Brandt. Duke had Rossiter, State her Greason, Wake Forest her Green, and Davidson
her Morris and Morgan. Of this array, Rossiter, Greason, Green and Morgan are punters and all have served in that
capacity. Walker appears to be the best defensive end of the group, Morris the best going down on punts. Walker
and Rossiter get first call with Greason and Green following.

The quarterback post goes to Lowell Mason, who almost flawlessly directed Duke’s play through the season. He is one of
the State’s best blockers and can pass and run. Wilson and McQuage of State, Mackorell of Davidson, and Wall of
Wake Forest seem on a par with each other.

All-star selections throughout the state recognize Pearce, Wagner, Rives and Mackorell as Davidson's best men. Gardner, Morgan, Willson, Wingfield, Morris,
Whitfield, Hand, and Peabody have crashed several selections.

DAVIDSONIAN’S ALL-STATE TEAM AS PICKED BY ODI CASALI

First Team Position Second Team
Walker (Carolina) -------------------- LE -------------------- Greason (State)
Crawford (Duke) --------------------- LT --------------------- Seitz (State)
DeAngelis (Wake Forest) ------------- LG --------------------- Werner (Duke)
Underwood (Carolina) ---------------- C (Capt.) -------------- Espey (State)
Rives (Davidson) --------------------- RG --------------------- Stanko (State)
Wagner (Davidson) ------------------ RT --------------------- Swann (Wake Forest)
Rossiter (Duke) ----------------------- RE --------------------- Green (WakeForest) Mason (Duke) ----------------------- OB izsces cedar aceeS Mackorell (Davidson) Pearce (Davidson) (Capt.) ------------
odiesassssccsaccoscccccsaee 2 Laney (Duke) McAdams (State) -------------------- Rib isetcsvencssossce Chandler (Carolina) Cumiskey (State) --.------------------ RAB ace oceolcecsuecoess Willson (Davidson) to
be on a par, but Mackorell, because of his sensational running, passing, and punting, gets the pick for the second
team. Among the halfbacks, Pearce, of Davidson, is the best of the lot. He is smart, always alert, and has
been the spark in Davidson’s spirited play in every game. He can be depended upon for more work than any
man in the entire all-star eleven. Block, tackle, break up passes, run, pass, and punt are things he can do
better than the average player. For these reasons, he is chosen to captain our first selection. Pearce’s running-mate was chosen
after considering the play of Laney of Duke, McAdams, Roy and Rex of State, Chandler and McCaskill of Carolina, Wilson
of Wake Forest, and Peabody of Davidson. Laney and McAdams are triple-threat and are favored, but the latter gets first
choice because of his smarter play. Chandler rates the remaining halfback post on the second team because of his defensive
play. The fullback position goes to Cumiskey of State, who, because of his hard plunging, has not failed to gain
through any line in the Big Five. Willson of Davidson seems to be the only other prominent fullback in the
state, although he did not play in the first few games of the season. His offensive and defensive work against
State and against Wake Forest places him on the second team ahead of Rex of State, and Ershler of Duke.
Of the select teams, Walker, Underwood, Wagner, Mason, Pearce, Cumiskey, Greason, Seitz, Werner, Espey, Green, and Chandler are Seniors.

Newton Names Three Wildcats on All-State
Wagner, Rives, and Pearce Earn Berth on Davidson Coach’s Selection

“Doc” Newton, head football coach at Davidson, selected three of his own players on his mythical All-State Eleven, which he
picked for Charlotte newspapers. A similar number of Duke and N. C. State players were also chosen, while only one
was picked from Wake Forest and Carolina. Jack Wagner, tackle; Chas. Rives, guard; and Charlie Pearce, halfback, were Newton-coached members
of the chosen team. Wagner and Pearce are Seniors and both have worn Wildcat uniforms in previous seasons. Pearce was
forced out his Sophomore year because of an injured ankle, but has played regularly the past two years. He was
the Wildcats’ leading scorer this year with 24 points. Rives, although a Junior in the college, wore a Wildcat uniform
for the first time this year. His play in the Davidson line has been consistent as well as spectacular in
every game. Coach Newton’s selections follow:

Ends—Rossiter (Duke), Green (Wake Forest).
Tackles—Crawford (Duke), Wagner (Davidson).
Guards—Rives (Davidson), Stanko (State).
Center—Espey (State).
Quarterback—Mason (Duke).
Halfbacks—Pearce (Davidson), Chandler (Carolina).
Fullback—Cumiskey (State).

Younger Congratulates Davidson’s Fine Victory

Davidson’s victory over Wake Forest here last Thursday brought pleasure to “Monk” Younger, former Davidson coach, who is now connected
with V. P. I. athletics. Younger was so impressed with the Wildcat victory that he sent a wire congratulating the
team for its success. The former Davidson coach never had the pleasure of defeating a Wake Forest team in his
stay here. On several occasions, his teams had to be content with tie games, but not once did a Younger-directed
team enjoy victory over the Demon Deacons. Younger has met with success in his first season at V. P. I.,
and has directed the Gobblers to one of the best football seasons they have ever enjoyed. His team went through
a nine-game schedule and suffered only one defeat, that at the hands of Alabama by a 9-7 score. It defeated
Roanoke College, Georgia, Maryland, William and Mary, Kentucky, Washington and Lee, Virginia, and V. M. I, to finish among the
leaders in the Southern Conference this year. “Monk” left Davidson last spring to help direct athletics at his alma mater.
His telegram, which was sent to Buddy Gardner, follows: “Captain Buddy Gardner: Congratulations to team, new coaches and Doctor Charley
on fine victory, Monk Younger.”

S. P. E.’s to Meet K. A.’s In Volley Ball Finals

By winning two straight games from the Kappa Sigs in the semi-finals Monday, the S. P. E.’s won the right
to meet the K. A.’s in the finals to decide the championship of Davidson's inter-fraternity volley ball tournament. The S.
P. E’s fought their way to the finals by defeating the Pi Kappa Phis in the preliminaries, the T. U.
O.'s in the tri-finals, and the Kappa Sigs in the semi-finals. The K. A.’s won the privilege to fight for
the championship by defeating the Betas in the preliminaries, the S. A. E.’s in the tri-finals, and by drawing a
bye in the semi-finals. The two teams will meet in the final game on Thursday, December 1st. The winning team
will receive 20 points toward the athletic trophy, presented at the end of the year to the fraternity having the
highest number of points. The runner-up will receive 15 points, the third team will receive 10 points, and the next
in order will receive five points to its credit.

Statistics WAKE FOREST-DAVIDSON GAME
W. F. Dav.
Yds gained from scrimmage 136 82
Yds lost at scrimmage 10 18
Passes attempted 17 10
Passes completed 6 1
Passes incompleted 7 8
Passes intercepted 4 1
Yds gained from passes 70 10
Net yardage from passes and scrimmage 196 74
Yds intercepted passes returned 8 2
First downs 12 6
Average length of punts 37 34
Yds punts returned 40 39
Fumbles 4 4
Opponents’ fumbles recovered 1 1
Yds lost from penalties 50 35

Wildkitten Runners Win From High Point High
End Successful Season With Merchant and Frazier Leading Scorers

Davidson’s Freshman cross-country team closed its season here last Wednesday by defeating runners from High Point High School by a
score of 24-31. The victory was the fourth scored by the Wildkittens this year. Earle Frazier, sensational Freshman runner who
has not failed to finish first in any meet which he has entered this year, ran the two-mile course in
10 minutes and 31.6 seconds to lead the field. He was closely followed by Merchant, also of the Davidson team.
Davidson runners won first, second, fifth, seventh, and ninth places to obtain low total. The order of the finish was:
Frazier (D), Merchant (D), Smith (HP), Ellington (HP), Glass (D), Hubbard (HP), Shuford (D), D. Hubbard (HP), Young (D), and
Cook (HP). With this victory, the Freshmen brought to a close one of the most successful seasons ever enjoyed by
a Wildkitten cross-country team. In winning four out of five meets, the Kittens scored 135 points while forcing opponents to
be content with 222. The only defeat this year was administered by the Duke University Freshman team, which beat Davidson
22-33 in a meet at Durham. Other results include: Davidson 23, Charlotte High 64; 24, Winston-Salem High 31; 31, Charlotte
High 74; and 24, High Point 31. Individual high scoring honors, which is based on the 5, 4, 3, 2,
1 grading, went to Merchant who had one first place and five second places for a total of 25 points.
Merchant won a second place in the Guilford-Varsity meet in which he was permitted to run. Frazier, with four firsts,
was next in scoring with 20 points. He failed to make the trip for the Duke meet, but ran in
all the others. Names of eight members of the Freshman team will be submitted to the Athletic Council for numeral
awards for services performed in the five meets, it was announced by Heath Whittle, track coach. The award list includes:
Frazier, Merchant, Shuford, Glass, Young, Foy, Smith, and Harlan.

Franklin D. Roosevelt, Jr., was busy playing football for Groton School against St. Marks on November 8, while the rest
of the country was busy selecting his dad as President of the United States. Frankie’s team lost, 7 to 0.

How They Finished (BIG FIVE RACE)
W. L. Pet.
Duke 3 1 .750
Carolina 2 1 .667
N. C. State 2 1 .667
Davidson 1 3 .250
Wake Forest 0 2 .000

High Class Work at Economical Prices
MARTIN BROS.’ SHOE SHOP

We Are Ready For an Old Fashion Christmas at IDEU'S DAVIDSON SHOP
