THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 30, 1932

~ Alumni News ~

PERSONALS

The Reverends M. P. Calhoun, '23, and Paul Freeland, '25, are spending this winter studying at the University of Edinburgh.
Their address is 14 Claremont Crescent, Edinburgh, Scotland.

James Letiawell Richards, '22, of Columbia Seminary, Decatur, Ga., spoke at the regular services of the Davidson Presbyterian Church last
Sunday. He was also the speaker at the vesper service in the evening. Dr. Richards is the son of Dr.
C. M. Richards, of the Davidson Bible Department, and was a Rhodes Scholar. After studying abroad, Dr. Richards was pastor
of the Clarksville Presbyterian Church at Clarksville, Ga., and took an active part in religious work there.

Dunbar H. Ogden, Jr., D.D., '23, visited his brother, Fred Ogden, of the Senior class, during Thanksgiving. Dr. Ogden made
an enviable record in scholarship and extra-curricular activities while here and is now pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Pikerville,
Ky.

Boyd, '08, has moved to 906 North Pine Street, Charlotte, and J. C. Boyd, is now at the same address.

E. B. Robinson, '32, and Allen Hallett Whitehead, '32, are attending the Medical School at Tulane. Their address is 1733
Calhoun Street, New Orleans, La.

Walter Lee Lingle, Jr., '28, and Albert Halverstadt, '30, who are with Proctor & Gamble of Cincinnati, visited Mr. Lingle’s
parents, Dr. and Mrs. Walter Lingle, during Thanksgiving.

F. L. Jackson, '06, treasurer of Davidson, has left for Richmond to attend the Association of University and College Business
Officers of the Eastern States. He was requested to make an address before the association and his subject will be
“Student Aid.” While in Richmond he will also attend a conference on December 1 of the members of the National
Committee on Standard Reports for Institutions of Higher Education.

Among the letters received at the college office lately was one from Egbert W. Smith, '82, Secretary of Foreign Missions.
More and more nowadays an alma mater’s solicitude follows her sons after graduation. The education of a college graduate does
not by any means end with his graduation, but it is only the beginning. After graduation, there is the chance
to put this knowledge he has learned into practice and to improve himself by further reading. In connection with this,
different ideas in regard to education have sprung up. All kinds of definitions have been given to the subject of
education. One famous educator advances the definition, “Education may be taken to mean the coming into the inheritance of accumulated
intellectual riches and the acquiring of wisdom in their use. Learning is not its aim so much as intelligence served
by learning.” As such, it shares conspicuously in the medieval scholastic conception of education as the acquiring and use of
stored-up knowledge, while it has in a lesser degree the belief of the modern educator and the ancient Greek in
education as individual development. Comparing this definition with John Dewey's with the emphasis on a re-creation of individual attitude, however
acquired: “Education is that reconstruction, or reorganization of experience which adds to the meaning of experience and which increases the
ability to direct the course of subsequent experience.” Still broader is the requirement of Plato, who believed education should “develop
in the body and the soul all the beauty and all the perfection of which they are capable.” Matthew Arnold
with his insistence on “sweetness and light” and Herbert Spencer, who demanded of education that it “prepare us for complete
living,” were looking toward a development beyond that of intelligence alone.

(NOTE: It will be appreciated if alumni who have material that will be of interest will send it to Jack
Williams, Jr., Box 262, Davidson, N. C.)

One of our economic system’s weaknesses is the overconcentration of wealth in the hands of a few individuals.—Secretary of War
Hurley.

Business conducted solely with a view to gain is something of a rather low order—Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler.

The greatest lack in the modern age, the principal source of evils we all deplore, is the lack of reflection—Pope
Pius XI.

Graduates of Davidson Now Continuing Work in Harvard Business School

Pepper, Conway, Dwelle, and Keller Pursue Further Study in Boston

The Harvard Business School announces an extra session which will start January 30 and continue to August 16, 1933. It
is designed to meet the needs of college men graduating at midyears with a business career in mind but no
present position in view, and of those recent college graduates who have not yet secured permanent positions. This action was
recommended and approved by Mr. Walter S. Gifford of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, Mr. Jesse Isidor Straus of
R. H. Macy & Co, Inc., and Mr. George Whitney of J. P. Morgan & Co. It is also approved
by Mr. Walter C. Teagle, Chairman of the Share-The-Work-Movement. They point out that the facilities of the school for constructive
training in business must be made available this winter as a substitute for the demoralizing effect of waiting around for
jobs or repeated failures to get them.

Students who attend the session will have the same classroom instruction under the same faculty as the regular first-year class.
They will be entitled to full academic credit, thus enabling them to enter the second-year class next fall. Midyear examinations
will be eliminated. Three week-end vacations of four days each will be substituted for the recesses of the academic year.
The extra session is open to college graduates and to those who have had executive experience in business. The usual
provision regarding college graduates will be in effect, whereby college seniors lacking a single course for their degree may be
admitted provided they make satisfactory arrangements for the completion of their undergraduate work. The shorter period covered by the extra
session permits a reduction of about 25 per cent in room and board. Tuition remains unchanged, at $600, but room
and board will amount to less than $400, so that the total school expense for this session, including necessary textbooks,
will not be over $1,000. A limited amount of financial aid from the Loan Fund will be available to properly
qualified students.

Only about 10 per cent of last June’s class of 395 men, the school reports, have their names on the
school’s active list as seeking jobs. This is close to a normal condition at this time of year. Even under
present conditions, says the school, there is need for specially equipped young men trained in the theory and practice of
business. Charles R. Lake, '29, was awarded his Master of Business Administration degree by the Business School last June. John
K. Pepper, Jr., '31, has returned for his second year, and three of last year’s Seniors, Powhatan M. Conway, Edward
C. Dwelle, and John R. Keller, are registered as first-year students this fall.

Volunteer Firemen Answer Early Call

A fire call was answered by members of the Davidson Student Volunteer Fire Department on Monday morning at 1:30 at
the home of M. H. Goodrum, West Main Street. The fire was caused by defective bricking in the hearth, and
was soon put out by the use of hand extinguishers. The damage was slight. The alarm was telephoned to Watts
Hall where it was answered by one of the occupants. He in turn gave the alarm to “Cop” Johnson, who
gave the general alarm by means of the siren. Approximately fifty members of the student body turned out in case
that they should be needed.In fighting the fire. Bee A ai PLANET Vductions, and population.”

The Bookshelf

The Silver Screen

Van Loon, “Geography”—Hendrik Willem Van Loon (Simon and Schuster, $3.75): Van Loon seems to have a genius for clarifying difficult
subjects, and in his latest book on geography, he puts his subject and its habits in concise and effective language.
In reading this most original work, one gets a true sense of proportion and the relation of man to this
earth he inhabits. Here, for 504 pages, the author dramatizes the solar system. He shows us what seas look like
without water. He puts all mankind into an area one-half mile square. He does things with a handkerchief to show
how mountains come and go. The book should be read with an atlas at your elbow because he carries the
reader from the frozen regions of Siberia to the torrid tropics of the Caribbean.

Mr. Van Loon tells us how we are exhausting the natural resources of this earth, with no thought of the
morrow, and the great mistake that has been made in the past by fertilizing our fields with the dead. He
points out that there is little difference between the world at large and, let us say, a place like Davidson.
If there is, in his opinion, it is a matter of quantity rather than quality. It is not a geography
in the accepted meaning of that word because he attempts to tell a story about the world in which we
live and gives an account of what nature has done to man. He writes with a fluent, pungent English that
gives the work color and force. The drawings done by the author, which are sprinkled throughout, stir the imagination besides
lending weight to the arguments set forth. Beginning with Greece, he takes each country and covers the entire world. He
applies a sort of human interest story to geography, stressing the countries that have “contributed most to the sum total
of human happiness in the world.”

In the first chapter, “These Are the People,” he says, “The gift of reason in its more sublime form and
the ability to think for oneself is restricted to a mere handful of men and women. They therefore become the
masters who lead. The others, no matter how much they may resent the fact, can only follow. The result is
a strange halting procession, for no matter how hard people may try, there are ten thousand stragglers for every true
pioneer.” Further on, he comments on the hope of survival, saying, “WE ARE ALL OF US FELLOW PASSENGERS ON THE
SAME AND WE ARE ALL OF US EQUALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE HAPPINESS AND WELL-BEING OF THE WORLD IN WHICH WE
HAPPEN TO LIVE.”

He defines geography as “the science of the earth's surface, form, physical features, natural and political divisions, climate, productions, and
population.” In speaking of how high we have been in the air or how low down in the earth, we
read that on a globe three feet in diameter, the highest mountain in the world, Mount Everest, would show about
as thick as a thin piece of tissue paper, and the deepest hole in the ocean, just east of the
Philippine Islands, would be represented by a dent the size and shape of a postage stamp. And as you know,
as yet we have never descended to the bottom of the ocean nor climbed Mount Everest. I read this interesting
work with the greatest enjoyment and feel that those who haven't read this enthralling book will read it with pleasure
and profit.

—JACK WILLIAMS, JR.

Wednesday, Nov. 30 (Afternoon, free show)

Sport Parade—(RKO) This story contrasts two college heroes after they have been graduated. One (Joel McCrea) decides to cash in
on his college honors by becoming a professional player, while the other (William Gargan) sets out to become a sportswriter.
Joel goes steadily down as a professional while Bill, by hard work and the inspiration of a girl (Marian Marsh),
advances in his field. Complications set in when the two become rivals for the affection of Miss Marsh. Skeets Gallagher
and Robert Benchley add materially to the entertainment value of the picture. There are also some exceptionally fine action shots
of sports events.

(Night)—Men Are Such Fools—(RKO) This is the rather long-winded story of how suffering and imprisonment inspired a musician to compose
his masterpiece. Leo Carrillo, Vivien Osborne, and Una Merkel portray their parts excellently.

Thursday, Dec. 1—You Said a Mouthful—(First National) Joe E. Brown finds himself acclaimed as a long-distance swimming champion and an
entrant in a marathon swimming race. Because of his infatuation with Alice Brandon (Ginger Rogers), he accepts his mistaken identity.
The tragic part is that he does not even know how to swim. The picture is amusing in a characteristic
Brownian way.

Friday, Dec. 2—They Call It Sin—(First National) Another version of the story of the small-town girl who falls in love
with a man from the city and, on following him back to the city, finds that he is already engaged
to a debutante. However, she soon finds out what a person of her accomplishments can do on Broadway. Besides possessing
Loretta Young and two leading men (David Manners and George Brent), this picture has the unique Una Merkel, who contributes
considerably to the entertainment value. The title is really not at all indicative of the nature of the picture.

Saturday, Dec. 3—The Big Stampede—(Warners) This is another manifestation of the return of the Western. Cattle rustlers, deputy sheriffs, and
brave heroes are all present in this picture. But on the whole, the picture is better than the average of
this type. John Wayne, Noah Beery, and Luis Alberni are in the cast.

Monday and Tuesday, Dec. 5-6—If I Had a Million—(Paramount) More than two dozen stars, including Alison Skipworth, W. C. Fields,
and Wynne Gibson (in a typical hard-boiled role), combine to give an unusually entertaining performance.

Roosevelt’s Election Hurts Minor Parties

Chicago—(IP)—Prof. Paul H. Douglas, of the University of Chicago, who was chairman of the committee of 1,000 which supported Norman
Thomas, Socialist Presidential candidate, asserted last week that the sweeping victory of Franklin D. Roosevelt was “a body blow” to
the plans for the immediate creation of a new liberal party in this country. “There is no present prospect,” he
said, “for a strong third party. President-elect Roosevelt will play ball with the progressives.”

Thomas received a surprisingly small number of popular votes in the election. It had been predicted that he would poll
between 2,000,000 and 4,000,000 votes as the voters rushed to protest hard times. Incomplete returns from the country at large
indicate that when the official counts are all in, Thomas will have received somewhere around a half-million votes in all.

I like for pipes.

GRANGER IS AMERICA’S PIPE TOBACCO

“But instead I actually find myself looking forward to the moment when you pack the bowl with Granger. It’s the
aroma that smokers like. Granger because it is made just right.”
