THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 27, 1932

Death of a Friend

Mrs. W. C. Wright, honored sister of our beloved Mrs. N. T. Smith, passed away on the 22nd of December at her home in Winston-Salem. Mrs. Wright was known and loved by many Davidson associates and our hearts extend deepest sympathy to Mrs. Smith and to the family.

Washington—(IP)—President Hoover has “taken under consideration” a plea from the Intercollegiate Disarmament Council that, as college students are among those who must fight when there's a war, a college student should be sent along with the disarmament delegation to Geneva. It was freely predicted hereabouts that no college student would accompany the delegation. Reason: College students might ask for disarmament.

West Point—(IP)—The United States Military Academy next fall will come under the command of one of the greatest athletes ever turned out by the institution. Back in 1896, William Durwood Connor was captain of the Army football team and set what was then a record on the track, 100 yards in 10.1 seconds. Next fall, Major Gen. William R. Connor will relieve Major Gen. Smith of the command.

The King’s English Suffers a Relapse

New York—(IP)—Do you say, “It's me?” You may not get by with it in English class although you may if the prof. is on the side of certain educators who are for the liberalization of grammar rules—but you are certain to get by with it in society spelled with a capital S. Authority? None other than the eminent Emily Post, who knows what Society does, says, eats, and drinks. Furthermore, you must never say “not at all,” but talk about “the gentleman friend,” or “the little woman,” when speaking again—when it is perfectly proper in Society.

Military Training Is Subject for Debate

The now ancient controversy over military training at Ohio State University took a new turn when the Ohio American Legion adopted a resolution declaring that such training is a part of the curriculum of land grant colleges and that, as long as it is, officials of the university are to be commended for carrying on and not bowing to a “loud and noisy minority.” Military training is valuable, the Legion said, not as a means of training for war but because it teaches self-protection.

Meanwhile, editors of the New Free Voice, an off-campus student publication which ridicules the “administration-controlled” Ohio State Lantern, official university publication, delivered to the campus their latest issue, criticizing Dr. George W. Rightmire, president, for not putting into practice his convictions against military drill. The sheet quoted a dispatch from Dr. Rightmire’s proposal to the Association of Land Grant Colleges that compulsory peace training be substituted for compulsory war training. Asked in an interview if he thought such a course might offer training just as patriotic as the military course, Dr. Rightmire answered, “probably more so,” the article quoted the Monitor as saying.

“Yes, Dr. Rightmire has a conviction,” commented the student publication. “Perhaps. We will know definitely when he makes an open and sincere effort to put his splendid idea into practice.” The issue in another editorial said: “We feel that some explanation for the publication of this magazine against the advice of the administration is necessary. If we seem to pour salt on already festered wounds it is only because we desire to maintain principles that are worth fighting for. The attitude of the administration toward an uncensored publication has been sufficiently adverse to deter the Liberal Club from undertaking an enterprise of the nature of the New Free Voice.”

Today we in America are more conservative than we have ever been in our history.—Dr. Irving H. Berg.

Politics ought to be adjusted, not to human reasonings, but to human nature, of which reason is but a part and by no means the greater part.—Edmund Burke.

INTERCOLLEGIATE ITEMS

Minneapolis, Minn.—(IP)—The fight for academic freedom was taken up by the American Association of Schools and Departments of Journalism when it declared in convention here that students of journalism have special need for adequate and impartial instruction in many controversial questions in present-day social, political, and economic life. College students aspiring to newspaper work through journalism courses should receive a thorough test for that work before being permitted to enter it, said Prof. W. G. Bleyer of the University of Wisconsin. “It is unfair to them to permit students to carry on in journalism courses when they are not fitted for the work,” he said. “It is unfair not to give them an adequate foundation in the arts, sciences, and business courses for their journalistic work.”

Olds, Alberta—(IP)—Evidence that this territory once was tropical is being discovered increasingly here. Recently a branch of petrified apples was found, and figs and fig leaves of the tropical variety have been found in deep formations.

Rome, Italy—(IP)—An order of the ministry halting the presentation of the moving picture “Ben Hur” and the confiscation of the film in 24 movie houses in this country after Premier Mussolini has been revoked. The order was originally invoked because the movie showed the ancient Romans to be cruel. It cannot be shown in this country, however.

New Haven, Conn.—(IP)—“That sweet Philosophy, for the masses, is not light,” Professor Morris Cohen of the New York University Department of Philosophy told the annual meeting of the American Philosophical Society here last week. “God forbid that it should ever become utilitarian,” he said. “That would degrade it as utilitarianism degrades love or music or a beautiful sunset. It is the chief d'oeuvre, the piece de resistance of the mental board, a delight, to be tasted by the few elect only.”

New York—(IP)—Miss Coed 1935 will be taller, heavier, stronger, and healthier than Miss Coed 1925, tests made at Barnard College have revealed. The prediction is made from the trend observed in the last few years at the college. The tabulated results are: Miss 1935—Height, 64.33 inches; weight, 124.18 pounds; grip, 70.09 pounds; lung capacity, 192.00 cubic inches. Miss 1925—Height, 63.79 inches; weight, 122.98 pounds; grip, 57.11 pounds; lung capacity, 179.00 cubic inches.

Chicago—(IP)—Albert Blumenthal, University of Chicago sociologist, has written a book on the good and bad details of the small village. He says the small town has everything the city has in the way of people except the “extremely pathological” and the “genius.” Fewer horses are seen in a small town than in Chicago, he said.

Cleveland, Ohio—(IP)—Some football news last week included: The American Association of University Professors adopted a resolution opposing post-season charity football games unless football rules are changed. Paul B. Brooks, Deputy State Health Commissioner of New York, said the game in its present form is just a racket and should go the way of bull fights and gladiatorial combat. President Henry Wriston of Lawrence College said a new point of view among students on the football question was noted by Prof. Bezdek of Pennsylvania State College, who predicted reform in playing schedules. “Duty” to turn out for varsity practice no longer is recognized by undergraduates, he said.

Southern California’s upset of Notre Dame was voted by the nation’s expert sports writers the outstanding team achievement in any sport in the last year. Seventy-two votes were cast for it, while only 36 voted the St. Louis Cardinals’ victory in the World’s Series the outstanding accomplishment. Not an injury was received in the last season by any member of the Loyola College eleven of Baltimore. Southern Conference officials voted to limit varsity football games to eight each season. Navy football officials gave approval for the continuance of the Notre Dame system of play. “Breather” games, taken on by big colleges as “rest” periods between more important games, were called unsportsmanlike by Dr. William Mather Lewis, president of Lafayette College. Southern California became the nation’s football champions by defeating Tulane, hitherto unbeaten, at the Tournament of Roses Game on New Year’s Day. Predictions were made that football would still be a subject of controversy in the fall of ’32.

Oberlin, Ohio—(IP)—With the entire student body and faculty expressing its congratulations, Dr. Ernest Hatch Wilkins, president of Oberlin College, last week ordered 100 roses sent to Mrs. Catherine Boardman of Sulphur Springs, Ohio, on her 100th birthday. Mrs. Boardman is believed to be the oldest living former student of Oberlin. In a letter to the students of the college, she commented that since she was partially blind she had been unable to see all the new buildings on the campus, and added, “But some things, such as women smoking, I am glad I can’t see.” She attended Oberlin in 1857 and 1858.

Tiffin, Ohio—(IP)—Heidelberg College students last week drafted a message to send to students of Old Heidelberg in Germany.Harding Advances Lewis' Interesting Theory On To Student Convention; Volunteer N. W. were all represented.

The eleventh quadrennial Students’ Convention was held in Buffalo, from December 31 to January 3. Over 2,500 delegates, representing the United States and Canada, were present. Representatives from Davidson were Rufus Morrow and Bob Moffett. The Student Volunteer Movement, which sponsored the convention, consists of students who are either planning to be missionaries or are deeply interested in missionary problems. The object of the convention was: “To give to the students of America an extensive view of world conditions, and the social and religious problems of the modern world.”

The convention was opened by an uplifting address by Dr. Ernest Tittle on “God,” showing the facts about the existence and activities of the Supreme Deity in the making of the modern world’s history. The next subject presented was “The Uprooted Humanity,” an amazing and terrifying view of the actual sufferings, impending destruction, and existing atrocities in the modern world. From the depths of gloom, the discussion gradually went upward toward its final appeals of hope and challenge, “The Christ Living in the World Today.”

Powerful and noted speakers were present, among whom might be mentioned Kirby Page, a well-known authority on social and economic questions of the modern world; Dr. Paul Harrison, of Arabia; Dr. Walter Judd, of China; Dr. John R. Mott, and Dr. Robert E. Speer. One of the most outstanding discussions was the subject of disarmament, led by Prof. Ralph Harlow. It was suggested by him that President Hoover name a student delegate to the Geneva Conference on Disarmament; the proposal was enthusiastically supported, and a delegation was sent to Washington. The purpose of this move was to have the influence of student leaders, present in the world of tomorrow's questions.

The subject of foreign missions was presented and discussed in a remarkable manner, filling with zeal and determination the heart of every Volunteer present.

The Ecologue of Virgil

Dr. Harding Spoke Lately on Norden’s Interpretation of the Ecologue

Dr. C. R. Harding, senior professor and head of the Greek department of Davidson College, recently spoke before the joint sessions of the Archeological Institute and Linguistic Society of America, when it met in Richmond, Va. The sixty-third annual session was held December 29-31. Dr. Harding was more particularly interested in the latter phase of the dual three-day conclave because of the department which he heads. The subject of Dr. Harding's address was “A Study and Criticism of Edward Norden’s Interpretation of Virgil’s Fourth Ecologue.” Dr. Harding spoke for twenty minutes and presented his findings about the subject in a very interesting manner. The Greek professor has made an extensive study of Virgil’s Fourth Ecologue and was exceptionally well fitted and prepared to give an excellent interpretation of this work, which he did.

SCARLET TANAGER
Soda, Tobaccos, Sundries, Circulating Library — Phone 9143

Two Marionette Plays Presented in Charlotte By Tony Sarg Company

Two Performances of Amusing Puppets Presented Under the Auspices of the Junior League

“Alice in Wonderland” and “The Rose and the Ring” were the two marionette shows presented in Charlotte last Friday afternoon and night. These performances were under the auspices of the Junior League and were attended by the school children and the general public.

“The Rose and the Ring” was a romance in which the Princess finally won her true lover. “Alice in Wonderland” followed the familiar story. The well-known characters, such as the Mock Turtle, the White Rabbit, the stuttering Hatter, the White Knight, and the Queen, all contributed to the plot. The drama ended, as all good ones do, with the villain being headed off.

The puppets are about one foot high and most of them are carved out of wood and painted realistically. Their mouths work up and down to form words, and their life-like postures and movements lend life to the amazing series of adventures. The puppeteers are hidden behind the curtain and manipulate the puppets by means of sticks, wires, and deft handling of fingers.

SAYS CHICK MEEHAN!

New York (1) Big gates, high pressure, and terrific schedules have sickened Chick Meehan, resigned coach of New York University, who is now back at his desk in a contracting firm here after seven years of “big league” football at the university, where he built up the team to national fame.

“I’ll never coach college football on a big-time basis again,” he said after his resignation, which followed attacks on him by the student paper and a decision of the university to drop big-time methods in its grid sport. “I’m sick and tired of driving boys, whipping them into frenzies with everything but lashes, seeing them crack from nothing but exhaustion near the end of the season. That’s not football. I’ll never do that again. I have no offers and I don’t expect any,” he added. “Some day I’ll have a real team again, playing for the fun of the game, where boys around me, diving with me, will be playing in a small school somewhere.”

Debaters Advertise

Chapel Hill, N. C.—Debating has come into its own at the University of North Carolina, and one reason for this, possibly, is that the debate managers know how to advertise. The following ad appeared recently in the Daily Tar Heel, spread over three columns:

DEBATE ON CAPITALISM (Fragile—this side up). With University of Cincinnati in Gerrard Hall. 8:30 p.m., Friday, Jan. 8, 1932. Cross-Examination. Question: Is Capitalism as a Plan of Organization Unsound?

Prof. E. A. Ross of Wisconsin remarks that a losing discussion shortens its life. Try this on your Aunt Johanna and other reactionaries. But if you want to go in for subversion—at your own risk—hear S. P. Zimnoch, of the John Reid Club, make out a case against Capitalism (15 min.); B. C. Proctor, cross-examine the Cincinnati team (12 min.); hear Ervid E. Ericson, of the Fundamentalist Union, give rebuttal (10 min.). Hear radical skeptic, individual members of all three under cross-examination by Cincinnati; and above all, believe only the arguments of our visitors. Our debaters will speak only what they believe; and they don’t agree! Oh, Debating, Thou art translated; subverted in these evil times. Where is thy pomp of yesteryear?

SUFFER INSOMNIA?

Tired business men, who can't get to sleep at night because their minds are busy worrying over their financial affairs, are urged to try a remedy that proves very effective with a prominent business leader of Davidson, and which sends insomnia scuttling.

“When my nights are far from wakeful, and sleep is immense,” said the Davidson business man, “I go back to the kitchen, and get me two slices of bread, each about an inch thick. Then I take a jar of peanut butter and spread it a quarter of an inch thick over each piece. I put them together, and start eating. I then begin to worry whether I am going to choke to death, and my business worries are forgotten.”

$200 IN CASH AWARDS

Teachers and students alike will be interested in two awards of $100 each which are offered to Southern teachers’ colleges and college departments of education for participation in a simple project entitled “The Quest for Understanding.” The project is sponsored by an association of Southern educators interested in promoting a sane educational approach to the problems of justice involved in the South's racial situation, and is promoted by the Commission on Interracial Cooperation.

One award of $100 will go to the student submitting the best paper on this subject, based upon sources and suggestions which will be supplied without charge. An equal sum will be awarded to the class, classes, or college group making the best collective use of the project. The closing date will be April 1, 1932.

The committee promoting the project wishes to get in touch with all students and professors who are interested, and will furnish full information and source materials on request. R. B. Eleazer, at 703 Standard Building, Atlanta, Georgia, is secretary of the committee.

NORVELL'S BARBER SHOP

Let Us Fix You For The Dances

Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Handbooks, Engraved Cards and Invitations. Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you.

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE
Exclusively to College Printing
6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing