THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 6, 1932

BOOK REVIEW

The Education of Henry Adams

With its rapidly increasing popularity, with the growing number of allusions to it, on the part of ordinary literary amateurs,
educators, religious leaders, and contemporary writers, The Education of Henry Adams is becoming a necessary part of that student's reading
who wishes to keep abreast of his day. The student asks what the reason is for this great appreciation and
publicity. Few critics will deny that the work ranks among the two or three really great American autobiographies of the
last three hundred years. Still, it is not because of choice words or power of style, of choice of interesting
although trivial details, or even beauty of prose, but because of a vital and substantial quality, that this life is
so widely heralded. It has become famous as an interpretation of an individual's career by that individual to show the
educational and educating experiences of his life. But here is no mechanical, scientific, dull weighing of causes and results, of
stimuli and reactions. Along with an investigation into an educative process is shown a developing, a growing, a living philosophy
or group of beliefs worthy of that mind which constructed it.

Quizzes Concerning Marriage Are Given

College Students Vote Health and Character Pre-eminent Mating Considerations

What are members of the younger generation looking for in future husbands and wives? Do men desire physical beauty? Does
the girl want wealth and social position? Results of questionnaires submitted to the 550 students at Arizona State Teachers College
by an advanced course in heredity show none of these is important. The common virtues of health and character led
the list of 15 characteristics those answering the questionnaire were asked to rank. Men considered health most important in the
future wife, and demanded character second. Women wanted character first and health second. Both groups placed intelligence third. Men rated
personal appearance sixth and women placed it ninth. Nationality was rated as more important by the women than by the
men. The first group rated it seventh and the second group eleventh. Both men and women put religion and desire
for children at the bottom of the list. Only three percent of the women gave religion of the future husband
first place in importance, while four percent of the men said they would consider it first.

According to Professor Chester Deaver, head of the department of biology at the college, what the younger generation desires in
future mates matters profoundly. He believes the answers show an increasing tendency to judge the individual as himself and not
by the tag he wears, and he thinks the next generation will be healthier and happier as a consequence. Professor
Deaver will present his findings to the southwestern branch of the American Association for the Advancement of Science at its
annual meeting at Denver this month.

Lt. Skaates to Be Leader at Meeting

He Will Preside Over National Scabbard and Blade Convention

First Lt. Claude C. Skaates, Inf. Res., Colonel of the National Society of Scabbard and Blade, will preside at its
18th National Convention to be held at Washington University, St. Louis, Miss., April 7, 8, and 9. Colonel Skaates attended
Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio, where he was “enlisted” into Company M, First Regiment, during his undergraduate days in 1924.
Later when taking a special course at Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa., he was instrumental in establishing a chapter
or company at that school, known as G Company, Sixth Regiment. Soon after leaving Ohio State University, Colonel Skaates was
commissioned a second Lieutenant of infantry, ORC, and served tours of duty at Fort Eustis, Va., Camp Knox, Ky., Fort
Benning, Ga., and Camp Perry, Ohio. In July, 1928, he was promoted to the grade of first lieutenant of infantry
and assigned to the 29th Infantry, the crack demonstration regiment stationed at Fort Benning, Ga., where the Infantry School, the
post-graduate course for infantry officers, is located. Colonel Skaates is now on the seniority list for promotion to the grade
of captain of infantry and will receive his promotion soon after the national convention in St. Louis. In civilian life,
Colonel Skaates is an advertising executive.

NEWS FROM OTHER HILLS

(By Intercollegiate Press)

Risking death if he is bitten by sheep ticks, carriers of the fatal form of spotted fever, a young Sharpsburg
scientist is leaving here to camp for several months in the Bitter Root Valley region of Idaho and Montana. The
valley, about 100 miles long and 50 miles wide, is virtually uninhabited because of the ticks there which spread the
most virulent form of fever. More than 90 percent of persons who contract the fever die. The scientist, Dr. Walter
R. Sweadner, graduate assistant in zoology at the University of Pittsburgh, wants to discover how a species of insects can
cross-breed. He hopes that specially designed clothing will protect him from the ticks. He also will carry serum prepared by
the federal government. The insects with which he plans to experiment are silk moths. Their silk is of commercial value.

Members of the Delta Gamma sorority at the University of Wisconsin have voted to forego desserts at dinner once each
week for the rest of the college year, and present the total of $75 thus saved to the student loan
fund of the university.

Only two-thirds the usual amount of ultraviolet rays have been drifting down on sunbathers in the last few months, according
to Dr. Edison Pettit, astronomer at Mount Wilson Observatory. “Just as radio reception apparently improved as the sun spots decreased
in the cycle,” he said, “so the ultraviolet radiation seemingly has fallen off. We are within two years of the
turn in the sun spot cycle, when, if our assumptions are correct, ultraviolet rays will again begin to increase.” Animals
and plant life, he said, are affected more by the rays than human beings because the latter spend so much
of their time out of the rays of the sun.

Ivar Krueger, the Scandinavian multi-millionaire match king who took his own life recently, at the age of 27 directed the
construction of Syracuse University’s Archbold Stadium. In 1930 the wealthy European came here to be honored by the University with
the honorary degree of doctor of business administration.

When a constable appeared on the Harvard campus recently to take possession of an automobile for repairs on which the
student owner was alleged to have refused to make payment, students at the university laid down a barrage of ripe
fruit and stale eggs which effectively kept the constable away. The student owner of the car prepared a certified check
before the police arrived to aid the constable, and everything was “jake.”

Freshman girls at Wellesley College have gained the right to smoke in the living rooms of their dormitories after meals,
a privilege which the upper class students have not yet obtained.

Henry Adams as a boy lived in the milieu of the Quincy and Boston of 1840, in an atmosphere of
aristocracy of leadership and brains. As his table-companions, he had the political and social guides of the day. Even, however,
after four years spent at Harvard, he was able to say, “Education had not yet begun.” When his father was
appointed as ambassador to England, he went along as private secretary only to discover the intrigues which make up political
engineering, to suffer innumerable disappointments and disillusionments, to fail to mingle in society or be recognized. England was soon left
behind for travel abroad. Adams was treated to as generous an amount of traveling as most men of leisure in
that day. But according to Adams, it was neither in his experience in politics nor in adventures in traveling that
his education truly began. Nature taught her first real lesson at the time of the death of his sister.

Dr. W. L. Lingle Will Talk to Convention

Is to Speak to Meeting of Mecklenburg County Christian Endeavor Association

Dr. W. L. Lingle of the Senior class will be the Davidson representative to the convention of the Mecklenburg County
Christian Endeavor Association which is to be held in the Second Presbyterian Church.Student newspaper, criticizes the open intent of some
day rising in the affairs of the Presbyterian Church in Charlotte next year. Scabbard and Blade this year. Stinging her
course in hygiene as too elementary and a waste of time to the students required to take it, Dr. Dorothy
L. Ashton wrote a letter.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson, was asked to speak on any subject which he might choose, but as
yet he has not announced what he will speak about. The meeting is called by Miss Maud Little, president of
the association, for the purpose of bringing the Christian Endeavorers of the County into a little closer union and to
let them realize more the presence and the need of the organization. Approximately five hundred members of the different societies
in the county are expected to be present at the convention. Clyde White, director of music for the association, is
planning an excellent musical program for the occasion which will add greatly to the attractiveness of the meeting as a
whole.

Although he accepted the job of selecting the six prettiest girls in the Junior class at Syracuse University, James Montgomery
Flagg, the artist, took occasion to poke fun at the idea in his letter of acceptance. He wrote: “Sure—I’ll pick
out the prettiest gals—if any—or if six. All sorts of colleges every year do this to me, salt water, fresh
water, and bilge-water colleges, and I have had to gaze on some of the most god-awful female mugs in this
broad tho’ narrow land! I know now why there are so many pretty gals in New York—all the ugly ones
are in colleges. What else can they do? ... Let me see the worst! But as I always say, if
I don’t think any of them are good to look upon, I’ll say so.”

Marion Shepard, a Freshman at the University of Michigan, is reported to be on the men students’ “blacklist” as a
result of a recent escapade in which she donned men’s clothing and walked into the Michigan Union Men’s Club through
the front door. The university has a tradition that bars women from entering the Union building through the front door.
Miss Shepard swaggered into the club without being detected. She told men friends about it and tried it again. The
men tipped off police, who caught her and warned her about the men’s clothing. Miss Shepard was said to be
competing for a position on the Michigan Daily and engaged in the stunt as a means of obtaining a feature
story for the paper. As a high school student at Lakewood, Ohio, Miss Shepard twice won first prizes in national
poetry contests sponsored by Quill and Scroll, a national journalistic fraternity.

The hate that permeated the world in the World War will not be immortalized by the new library building of
the University of Louvain, it has been decided by Belgium’s highest court. This was determined when the court rejected the
appeal of Whitney Warren, an American architect, against a decision of a lower court prohibiting the erection of a balustrade
on the new library bearing the inscription: “Furore Teutonico diruta; dono Americano restituta” (Destroyed by German fury; restored by American
generosity).

Henry Adams marked himself as a man of ability and strong character. Never would he have anyone believe that he
showed signs of scholarliness, but his own account does not disguise the fact that he had a knowledge of his
own powers, his intellect, his wisdom, and understanding. He was a man whose mind was nicely balanced; he never became
a fanatic on a single subject; he could alter his opinion with new and more authentic information; his wits were
keen enough to analyze, to discover, to define, and, when need arose, to reconsider. Not in late life did his
viewpoint become a bigoted or prejudiced one. There was something of the adventurer in him which kept him fresh and
young to the very last. So much did he depend on his mind, so introspective and self-sufficient in the best
sense of that expression was he that he might have said with Dyer, “My mind to me a kingdom is.”
With all of his excellent attributes—and this is the most notable thing about his history—he thought of himself impartially, almost
objectively, without the least trace of prejudice or egotism. Although not a religious man, not blessed with the easy faith
of others, he was a man of noble integrity and ambition, driving him on to reasonable achievement. More could be
said about his philosophy: his belief that the importance of an event or an entity lay in its influence as
education in life; his search for underlying unity in a world rapidly becoming more complicated; his following of his ego
only in accord with principles of right; his endeavor to prove a theory that the Virgin had been a force
in the middle ages behind not only art but even the sciences. And that is the charm of The Education
of Henry Adams: it bears study and reflection.

The name of John D. McConnell was omitted from the list of those invited to join the Sigma Pi Sigma,
national Physics fraternity, which was recently published in the Davidsonian.

N. C. French Association Holds Meet in Charlotte. The French section of the North Carolina Modern Language Association recently held
a meeting in Charlotte. The meeting was attended by French professors of colleges and universities throughout North Carolina. Professor Rene
Hardre of N. C. C. W. was the principal speaker of the occasion. Hardre has made several visits to Davidson,
speaking for Le Cercle Francais. At the business meeting, Professor A. V. Goldiere of Davidson was elected secretary-treasurer for the
coming year.

Miss Caroline Lingle, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. W. L. Lingle, has been elected editor-in-chief of the Agnes Scott college
annual, “The Silhouette,” for 1932-1933. Miss Lingle is a Junior at Agnes Scott and is assistant editor of the annual
this year. The editorship is one of the most important posts a student can hold at Agnes Scott. Miss Lingle’s
election proves her literary and executive ability. She takes a prominent part in student activities and belongs to the Cotillion
Club, Y. W. C. A., and other local organizations. She has for the past year written a column for the
“Agonistic,” the school paper.

Few speeches which have produced an electrical effect on an audience can bear the colorless photography of a printed record.—Earl
of Rosebery.

Seniors! GET YOUR ENGRAVED CARDS for COMMENCEMENT INVITATIONS. Prices $2.50 and $3.00. See P. M. CONWAY or D. G. MARTIN.
Representing STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY, CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Davidson Theatre MONDAY and TUESDAY “SKY DEVILS” SPENCER TRACY WEDNESDAY “IT’S TOUGH TO BE FAMOUS” DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, JR. THURSDAY and
FRIDAY “ONE HOUR WITH YOU” MAURICE CHEVALIER and JEANETTE MACDONALD SATURDAY “THE BROKEN WING” RICHARD ARLEN—LUPE VELEZ

Neither fear, nor wish for, your last day.—Martial.
