EXAMS NEXT WEEK

The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

ONE MORE ISSUE

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C, MAY 11, 1932 No. 29

Court of Control Members For Next Year Are Selected

Eight Men From Various Classes Will Assume Duties in Fall

FLINN APPOINTED JUDGE

New Judge Is Outstanding in Various Lines of Endeavor

At a recent meeting of the Student Council, Bill Flinn was appointed judge of the Court of Control for the
coming year to succeed Calvin Kuykendall, judge of this year’s court. The court is appointed annually by the Student Council
and is composed of a judge and seven members, representing the three upper classes. The Senior members are Bernard, Dickerson,
and Wright. Junior members chosen are Covington and O'Keefe, and the Sophomores Hutchins and Hufford.

It is the duty of the members of the higher classes of the student body to report violations of Freshman
regulations to the court, or to recommend that certain men be summoned for needed advice. In deciding cases and in
passing judgment, each member of the court has an equal vote. Any decision rendered by the court is fully supported
by the Student Council.

The new judge is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity, a member of the varsity football team, varsity track
team, and is president of the honorary French fraternity. He is also on the “Y” Cabinet.

In 1923 the Court of Control was established here and has continued as an active and influential body. It is
the duty of this group to guide the incoming Freshmen in their relations with the upperclassmen. It is more than
a disciplinary group, for a great many times it offers quite helpful advice. It prescribes Freshmen regulations by which the
class is governed. The regulations for the 1932-33 session will be practically the same as those of this year with
a few minor changes. This year the court, under the judgeship of Calvin Kuykendall, has succeeded in reducing the friction
between the upperclassmen and the freshmen to a minimum.

The members of the outgoing Court of Control are the judge, C. W. Kuykendall, the Senior members, Bradshaw, McConnell, and
O'Hanlon, the Junior members, Grant and Mackorell, and the Sophomore members, Manson and O'Keefe.

Professors Attend Academy of Science

Doctor Arbuckle, Professors Fulcher, Porter and Thies Are Faculty Members Attending

The Academy of Science was held at Wake Forest College on May 6th and 7th, and the attendance this year
was unusually large. Doctor Arbuckle, Professor Porter, Thies, and Professor Fulcher are the members of the Davidson faculty who attended
the sessions, which began Friday morning and lasted until Saturday at noon. Many papers of research and discussion were read.
As usual, those on Biology were in the majority. Among the most interesting exhibits were those on the production of
rayon, the photoelectric cell, early maps of Florida, staining of cells, and new pieces of laboratory apparatus.

The president of the academy for next year is Doctor Bullitt of the University of North Carolina. Professor Porter has
served several years on the executive committee. Doctor Arbuckle has served for a similar period on the nominating committee and
on the committee on the award for the best essay on Biology from (Continued on page 6)

Manson Appointed

At a meeting of the Publications Board last week, A. M. Manson, of Jacksonville, Fla., was appointed business manager of
the Davidsonian for the coming year. He received this position upon the resignation of W. A. Mebane, Jr., from the
office. Manson, a member of the rising Senior class, is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. Besides this,
he belongs to the varsity basketball squad and plays on the varsity golf team.

Huie and Kuykendall Conduct “Y” Vespers

At the regular vesper service last Sunday evening a Mother’s Day program was given by the Davidson Y. M. C.
A., with Lynn Huie and Ed Kuykendall as speakers. Leland McWeithan, a member of the “Y” Cabinet, led the services.
He read as the scripture lesson, John 19:24-27, showing Christ's love and care for His mother. George Pardington, accompanied by
Ed McNair at the piano, rendered a vocal solo. He sang a song appropriate to the occasion entitled, “O Little
Mother o’ Mine.”

Lynn Huie made the first talk, placing emphasis upon the two questions: “Why do we have Mother’s Day?” and “What
can it mean to us?” He discussed its origin. First of all, he turned back to Greek mythology, mentioning Rhea
as the mythical mother of all the gods, and showing that she was honored accordingly by the Greeks. The speaker
placed special emphasis upon the motherhood of Mary, our Lord's mother. Coming down through history, he recalled to our minds
that Abraham Lincoln said, “All that I am and ever hope to be I owe to my mother.” Henry Grady,
the great orator, was mentioned as another who realized the value of his mother’s guidance. Huie also stated that the
establishment of Mother's Day was effected through the influence of Miss Jarvis, a young woman who, having lost her mother,
devoted a day to her memory. She became interested in setting a day out of the year as a mother’s
day for all the United States, and began seeing important men, trying to interest them in her idea. As a
result of her efforts, Woodrow Wilson made the proclamation on April 9, 1911, that the second Sunday in May would
be set aside all over the country as Mother’s Day. Huie closed his talk with the thought that we ought
to make every day Mother's Day.

Ed Kuykendall, the second speaker, at the outset, said that his purpose was “to tell a story and to paint
a picture.” His story was of a country boy whose poor mother and father sacrificed everything to send their son
to college. He continued, and the boy in the spring of his senior year was a prominent leader on the
campus and an outstanding man. The old parents decided to go to see him, and went to the college in
their dilapidated buggy. It was a house party weekend and the ungrateful boy, ashamed of his parents who had given
him everything, had them informed that he was away. His old mother and father found out before they left that
their son was in his fraternity house. In spite of her great disappointment, the mother, her love still firm, defended
her son against the reproaches of the father. (Continued on page 6)

Juniors in R. O. T.C. Give Exhibition Drill

Don King Presented With Saber and Grier Martin With Loving Cup

After the dismissal of the R. O. T. C. battalion last Friday, the Juniors put on an exhibition drill. This
is an annual affair, and lasted for a period of forty-five minutes with only one rest. It was conducted by
senior officers in the battalion by turn, starting first with Colonel King and going down to the captains and first
lieutenants. Before this drill, however, Don King was presented with the saber in honor of services rendered as cadet lieutenant
colonel. Grier Martin was awarded a silver loving cup for having a company which excelled all of the other companies
in competitive drill and discipline. The awarding of this cup and saber is an annual affair.

There is always a great amount of interest in the student body aroused by the R. O. T. C. unit
at Davidson. It has now been in a prominent position on the Davidson campus for a good many years, and
in this time has been increasing in popularity and advancement. It is with great regret that we look upon the
end of another year in military training, and realize that next year will find our campus depleted by the loss
of Colonel Scott, and these seniors who have done much work in many fields, both scholastic as well as military.

Statistics On Traveling Habits of Davidson Men Show Interesting Facts

120 Students, Selected From Student Body, Cover 75,737 Miles in Six Weeks

SENIORS TRAVEL MOST

“Social Visits” Account for Over Half of the Departures

Of the 75,737 miles covered in six weeks by 120 men arbitrarily selected from the Davidson College student body, 26,718
miles, or 35.1 per cent of the total were traversed by “bumming.” These figures, as well as much other interesting
data of similar nature, were uncovered in a survey of Davidson class statistics conducted last fall, recently made public.

Over a period of six weeks, from September 16 to October 27, 1931, a weekly check was made on the
various trips of 120 men, approximately 20 per cent of the student body, to learn the number of times they
left the campus for periods of more than one hour, the purposes of their journeys, the duration and distance covered,
and the means of transportation. This data was then collected and tabulated, and from this mass of facts, a very
accurate cross-section of the traveling habits of Davidson men has been obtained. The time for taking this information was as
nearly an average period of the fall as could be secured, and hence will hold true for almost any similar
period throughout the year. Athletic contests during this time were such that no unusual migrations would be caused by them.
Of the five varsity football games played during the period, only one was near enough for any great percentage of
the students to attend. Of the other four, two were played at Davidson, and two were played so far from
this point that no one except players made the trips.

One interesting fact uncovered was that Seniors make more trips than members of any other class. Each man averaged ten
journeys of more than one hour's duration during this time, to give the fourth-year men a comfortable margin in excursions
over any other class. Sophomores,On the other hand, stayed at home the most, for they made only one trip a
week, for an average of six for the whole period. The average number of departures per student, for the entire
group, was 7.88, during the time the survey was made, or a little more than one a week. The highest
for any one man was 37 trips away during the time, and there were four others who made more than
20. However, by far the larger number were below 10 for the six weeks, and three men did not leave
Davidson a single time. The total number of journeys made by the 120 subjects was 1,024. The average length of
time for each one was 12 hours, with the majority of the men falling only two or three hours above
the average or much below it on their individual excursions. Only two men were absent for more than 100 hours
at any one time. None under one hour were considered.

An entire table of the report was concerned with the reasons for each man’s trips, and the time each reason
kept men away from their regular duties. “Social visits, other than visits to relatives” accounted for well over half of
all the departures from the hill. Six hundred and seventy of the total 1,024 trips were assigned to this category.
However, these were of relatively short duration, for they averaged only nine hours in length, and the “medium” or halfway
figure of the group was 6.6 hours. Business trips and visits to relatives were almost equally important in the number
of times they appeared in the report. One hundred and twenty journeys, or an average of one per man throughout
the six weeks, were for strictly business reasons. “Visits to relatives” was given as the cause for 110, for third
place on this list. However, trips home lasted longer than any others, except those for participation in athletic contests, and
each man averaged 26.1 hours away from Davidson when he went home. Less than 10 percent of the total number
reported were for participation or observing athletic contests. However, these trips demanded much more time than for any of the
other groups. Athletes averaged 31.7 hours away from Davidson for participation in games, and spectators averaged 29.9 hours. The smallest
number of trips were for religious services. Only 26 times did men leave on deputations, and 24 of these lasted
less than five hours. “Bumming” was by far the most popular.

(Continued on page 6)

Dr. Henry Louis Smith Speaks At O.D.K. Initiation Ceremony

Musical Recital Given By Famous Organist

Miss Charlotte Lockwood, America’s most accomplished woman organist, gave a recital in Chambers Auditorium under the auspices of the Beta
chapter of Mu Beta Psi on Thursday, May 5, at 8:15 o'clock. Although an hour is a short time in
which to demonstrate the potentiality of even an organ of the size of the one in Chambers Auditorium, Miss Lockwood’s
varied registration of the pieces, which she played, verified the common belief that the organ is the king of all
instruments.

The first number of the program was “Sonata in the Style of Handel,” by Wolstenholme. The second was the popular
“Ave Maria,” written by Arcadelt and arranged by Liszt. This selection was the outstanding one of the evening. Next, Miss
Lockwood played a group composed of “Anna March” and Bach. The latter was very technical, as well as beautiful. It
was written in order to illustrate the power of the organ. The fourth number of the program was “Andante Cantabile
in B flat,” by Tchaikovsky. This, like all this composer’s compositions, is marked by a note of sadness which is
a reflection of the artist's life. Wagner's “Introduction to Act III of Lohengrin” was the fifth of Miss Lockwood's selections,
followed by Horatio Parker’s “Scherzo” from Sonata. The seventh number was the famous “The Bells of St. Anne De Beaupre,”
from Alexander Russell’s “St. Lawrence River Sketches.” Miss Lockwood's next rendition was that of “Le Coucou,” by D'Aquin. The ninth
number was Nevin's arrangement of Rimsky-Korsakoff’s “Flight of the Bumble Bee.” The unusual skill with which Miss Lockwood played this
piece was indeed remarkable. Two of Clarence Dickinson's compositions, “Berceuse” and “Memories,” were her next choice. Miss Lockwood has studied
under Mr. Dickinson and is therefore quite apt at interpreting his works. The final number on the program was the
“Finale” from Widor's third organ symphony. Throughout all the concert, Miss Lockwood held the attention as well as the interest
and admiration of her audience. Immediately after the concert, Miss Lockwood and the members of the faculty with their wives
were the guests of the members of Mu Beta Psi at an informal reception.

Senior Officers Are Elected For 1932-33

New Men Are: Mebane, President; Gwyn, Vice-President, and Bailey, Secretary-Treasurer

In the recent Senior class elections, W. Blatt Gwyn of North Wilkesboro was elected vice-president and George E. Bailey of
Hickory was elected secretary-treasurer. The former was selected from a group of nominees, Flinn, Norfleet, Guerrant, Mackorell, Ogden, and Gwyn.
The first ballot eliminated all but Norfleet, Ogden, and Gwyn, and the second left Norfleet and Gwyn in the race.
Gwyn was elected on the third ballot. Bailey was chosen from four nominees, Bowles, Norman, Neil, and Bailey. After the
first vote, Bowles and Bailey were left, and Bailey was selected on the second ballot.

Gwyn is an outstanding man on the campus both in scholastic and athletic fields. He made his numeral in track
in his Freshman year, and this year he obtained his letter in that same sport. Bailey is a member of
the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, was manager of the varsity basketball team this year, is a member of the
Glee Club, and has made his letter in baseball.

In the elections earlier in the season, W. Allen Mebane was chosen president of the class for next year. The
officers of the Senior class this year were: J. H. McKinnon, president; A. G. Montgomery, vice-president, and H. C. McFadyen,
secretary-treasurer.

The present Junior class also elected recently six men to serve on the Student Council next year. These men are:
D. D. McBryde, J. R. Howard, E. B. Peabody, Robert Glasgow, E. B. Cannon, and W. A. Mebane.

“Training for Leadership” Is Subject of Address Given by Former Davidson President

INITIATE NINE NEW MEN

Spring Initiation Services Attract Many Students and Faculty Members

At the spring initiation ceremony on May 9 of Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary fraternity for leadership
located here at Davidson, Dr. Henry Louis Smith of Greensboro delivered an address on “How to Fit Yourself for Twentieth
Century Leadership.” This address immediately followed the initiation of nine members recently tapped. These men are William Rule, III, of
Knoxville, Tenn.; Samuel S. Wiley, of Salisbury; Paul F. Brown, of Atlanta, Ga.; Jerome B. Clark, Jr., of Fayetteville; O.
Guerrant, of Pasadena, Calif.; McCallie, of Chattanooga, Tenn.; Edward Red, of Plant City, Fla.; Bruce W. Pearce, of Charlotte, and
Charles F. Peabody, of Charlotte. Dr. Smith is a former president of Davidson and now holds the office of president-emeritus
at Washington and Lee University. Below is the address itself:

“The first step toward effective leadership is to fit one’s efforts and activities to his environments, and your environment is
our lifetime twentieth century American civilization.

“Let us, therefore, take a flashlight picture of our environments, our successes, and failures.

“Our American civilization has been brilliantly successful in studying, controlling, and utilizing her natural environment. She has harnessed to her
complex machinery the giant forces of nature, has transformed human life by her marvelous inventions, has conquered time and space
and many hostile diseases, and in her power, in food and in creature-comforts, has immensely enriched the human race.

“But, alas, in the guidance and control of our human environment our modern civilization, especially in America, has made a
disastrous failure.

“During the past generation, the professed followers of the Prince of Peace have wrecked modern civilization by a world-wide carnival
of hatred and slaughter and destruction. And our beloved America is today horrifying the world.”

(Continued on page 6)

Members Elected to “Y” Board of Control

Glasgow Will Represent Rising Seniors With Clardy and Huie for Juniors

Elections were held last week in which five new men were selected to serve on next year’s “Y” Board of
Control. Bob Glasgow was elected over Charlie Moore and Leland McKeithan as the representative from the rising Senior class. Lyman
Clardy and Lynn Huie were elected as members of the Board from the rising Junior class. Others nominated for those
positions were Bill Matthews and Sam Nickey. Bill Flinn and Bob McCallie, Junior members this year, will remain on the
Board next year. Members “ex-officio” will be Rev. H. M. Moffett and the “Y” secretary. Paul Brown, recently elected president
of the “Y,” will also automatically become a member. Members of the Board from the faculty are Professors Arbuckle, Schenck,
and Jackson.

The purpose of the Board is to manage the finances of the “Y,” and to regulate its policy. Every month
the Board holds a meeting in which its affairs are discussed, and a written report is made of its proceedings.

The Y. M. C. A, which has a governing influence on the campus, is controlled entirely by the students, consequently
the Board of Control has an important task. The faculty members are interested and important partisans, but in case they
and the students should disagree, the vote of the students would carry the issue. The Y. M. C. A. has
always been an integral part of the extra-curriculum activities due to the interest shown in it by the students recently,
it is becoming a more important factor every year. For this reason, the new members of the Board have been
particularly honored in being chosen.
