THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1932

Prof. Currie Gives Third Address on Washington
Speaks on His Great Influence in Regard to Foreign Policies

“Those who contend that George Washington intended for America to remain aloof and isolated are reading him only partially,” declared
Prof. Archibald Currie, head of the political science department at Davidson College, speaking at chapel exercises here Thursday morning. Professor
Currie’s address was one of four being delivered at Davidson during the month of February in celebration of Washington's bicentennial
birthday. Dr. Thos. W. Lingle spoke on “Washington's Statesmanship”; Dr. J. M. McConnell discussed “Washington's Character” on February 11th, and
the series will close February 18th, when Dr. Walter Lingle will talk on “Washington, the Christian Gentleman.”

Professor Currie’s subject was “Washington's Influence on Our Foreign Policy.” The Davidson speaker maintained that Washington intended for America to
remain shy of the political intrigue and national aggression that thrived in Washington's day. “Washington never used the phrase ‘entangling
alliances’ in his address,” said Professor Currie. “That was used by Jefferson, and yet some of our United States Senators
have quoted Washington as saying that we should avoid ‘entangling’ alliances.”

The speaker contrasted the condition of Washington's time with the present-day situation. “When Washington lived,” he said, “it would take
weeks for news to travel from Europe to America, while today we read in the newspapers what happened in Europe
yesterday.” He pointed out that the radio brought the world in even closer communication, and that it takes but a
few seconds for news to travel about the world.

“Washington was not against the great movements for world peace,” said Professor Currie. “He stood for American unity, and temporarily,
at least, for non-intervention in the ordinary European affairs.” The speaker emphasized the word “ordinary” and inferred that if Washington
were living today he would not contest the entrance of America into all negotiations that would lead to international good
and universal peace.

As an evidence of how Washington would view the peace movements and America’s non-participation in them, Professor Currie read, in
closing, the following portion of his Farewell Address: “Observe good faith and justice to all nations; cultivate peace and harmony
with all. Religion and morality enjoin this conduct and can it be, that good policy does not enjoin it? It
will be worthy of a free, enlightened, and at no distant period, a great nation, to give to mankind the
magnanimous and too novel example of a people always guided by an exalted justice and benevolence.”

Dr. MacConnell Leaves For Chicago Convention

Dr. John W. MacConnell, Davidson College physician and secretary of the North Carolina Board of Medical Examiners, left Davidson Saturday
for Chicago, to attend a three-day meeting of the National Federation of Medical Boards. Dr. MacConnell is a member of
the executive committee of the national organization, and will also make a short address at the luncheon on Tuesday. Accompanying
the Davidson physician and state officer were Dr. T. W. M. Long, of Roanoke Rapids, president of the State Board
of Medical Examiners, and David T. Tayloe, of Washington, N. C., also a member of the board.

The Chicago gathering is a joint meeting of the medical licensing boards of the various states in this country and
the deans of medical schools and universities in the United States and Canada. Among the notable personages attending will be
Secretary of the Interior Wilbur, who will be a guest and principal speaker of the gathering at the luncheon on
Tuesday. Dr. R. S. Cunningham, 1911 graduate of Davidson and now professor of anatomy in the medical school at Vanderbilt
University, will be one of the speakers and will address the convention on the subject, “Teaching of Anatomy in the
Medical Schools.”

Professor Fleagle Honored by Masons

Prof. Fred K. Fleagle, of the Department of Spanish at Davidson College, has been signally honored by being made the
District Deputy Grand Master of the Twenty-seventh District of the Grand Lodge of Masonry of North Carolina. Professor Fleagle was
appointed to this position by Mr. H. C. Alexander, of Charlotte, who is the Grand Master. Mr. Fleagle is a
member of the lodge at Davidson, which is known as the Mecklenburg Lodge, No. 176. It is considered a great
honor that a member of this lodge has been appointed to such a high position. Professor Fleagle is also a
member of the Order of the Shrine.

HOT TAMALE! Lupe landed in Hollywood with one lone dollar and no part to play... But now she has nine
coats, 15 canaries, the world's kind to my throat. “No harsh irritants for Lupe. I’m a LUCKY fan. There’s no
question about it—LUCKIES are certainly kind to my throat. And hurrah for that improved wrapper of yours—it really opens without
a tug-o’-war—thanks to that tab.” only dozens of men ga-ga about her... We hope you liked her in the M-G-M
PICTURE, “THE CUBAN LOVE SONG,” as much as we did. Lupe's been a LUCKY fan for two years—what is politely
called “financial consideration” for her statement. Gracias, Lupe! There was no “It's out a tug-o’-war—thanks to that tab.” only Cellophane
cones toasted Your Throat Protection—against irritation—against cough And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh.STRIKE—60 modern minutes with the
world’s finest dance orchestras and Walter Winchell, whose gossip of today becomes the news of tomorrow, every Tuesday, Thursday, and
Saturday evening over N. B. C. networks.

Prof. Foreman Declines Rock Hill Church Call
Release from “Charlotte Observer”

Rock Hill, S.C., Feb. 9—Announcement was made here yesterday by the Rev. Kenneth J. Foreman, professor of Bible at Davidson
College, N.C., that he is forced to decline the call extended to him recently to become pastor of Oakland Avenue
Presbyterian Church of Rock Hill. In his declination, Professor Foreman said he believed his talents were better adapted to the
profession in which he is engaged at present, rather than that of the ministry. The Rev. Mr. Foreman has been
filling the pulpit of this large and popular Rock Hill Church ever since the death of the pastor, the Rev.
Alexander Martin, D.D., and announced yesterday that he will continue to preach here until some pastor is obtained.

Fresh Cage Changes
Monk Younger announced today that two basketball games had been added to the schedule of the Freshman quint. The Wildkittens
will meet the Darlington School for Boys’ team at Davidson on February 19th, and the following evening they will go
to Lincolnton to play a return engagement with the Lincolnton Athletic Club. The latter won from the Davidson Freshmen Monday
night by the close score of 17-16.

COACH W. L. YOUNGER
(Continued from page 1)

This coach came to Davidson in the fall of 1915, ideals for which the college stands. He has had a
remarkably successful coaching career at Hampden-Sidney and V. P. I., and the members of the Athletic Council feel that he
will continue his success at Davidson and develop winning teams for his Alma Mater. Coach Monk Younger was the third
protégé of Bill Fetzer’s to coach the Red and Black football teams. When Fetzer left Davidson, “Pete” Crayton, former Davidson
end, succeeded him and directed Davidson teams during 1918-1919. “Wooly” Grey, all-Southern guard in 1917, then took the helm and
for three years piloted the Wildcats. With the passing of Coach Grey, Younger, one of the greatest football ends and
all-around athletes ever at Davidson, took up the work and came to Davidson with three highly successful years of coaching
experience behind him. On the gridiron, he coached the wing men and each year a V. P. I. end was
selected on the mythical South Atlantic eleven.

Coach Younger hailed from Lynchburg, Va. From Lynchburg High School he went to Fishburne where Bill Fetzer was coaching. When
he followed him and made a remarkable record during his first year. “Monk” is the only athlete who has ever
succeeded in making a letter in four branches of sport at Davidson. His performance was all the more noteworthy because
he accomplished this feat during his Freshman year. He played end on the football team, being picked unanimously for an
all-State berth, and prominently mentioned for all-South Atlantic honors. He played guard on the basketball team, and made his track
monogram by winning the high jump. The following year Younger went to V. P. I., where he starred in football,
basketball, and baseball. During his stay at Virginia Tech, he was considered one of the best ends in the South.
Walter Camp, on seeing Younger perform against Yale, came out on the field and complimented him, saying that Younger was
the most aggressive end he had ever seen play on a Southern team.

In 1917, Younger joined the University of Virginia Ambulance Unit and saw seventeen months’ service overseas. Returning in 1919, he
became athletic director at Hampden-Sidney College, and turned out some remarkably fine teams. The following year he was called to
V. P. I., to be assistant on the gridiron and the head coach of basketball and baseball. It was from
here that he accepted the position as head coach at Davidson, saying, “I cannot resist the call to my old
Alma Mater, and will report September 1st to give my best in the upbuilding of the thin red line.” It
is with great regret that the students see Coach Younger leave, but they wish him much success in his new
venture.

DR. HOWARD RONDTHALER
(Continued from page 1)

“Arms,” and “Washington and His Colleagues in Establishing the Government,” were based on two volumes of “The Chronicles of America
Series,” published by the Yale University Press. The committee which has been in charge of the arrangements and presentation of
these George Washington programs is made up of Dr. J. M. McConnell, chairman; Dr. T. W. Lingle, and Prof. Archibald
Currie. A change has been made in the class schedule for Monday. The first two periods will come at their
regular times, but the third period will be from 10:15 to 11:10. At 11:15, Dr. Rondthaler will speak, and at
12:00 the tree will be planted. No afternoon classes will meet.

MID-WEST STUDENT CONFERENCE
(Continued from page 1)

Hoskins, of the University of Tennessee, together with the appointments of committees and a second address, “Obligations of University Men
to the World of Today,” by Dr. Frank B. Ward, professor of economics, University of Tennessee. Friday, besides the ordinary
work of the conference, the delegates were taken on a two-hour scenic trip to the Great Smoky Mountains National Park.
Saturday morning the final reports of committees and the election of next year’s officers took place.
