THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 2, 1932

WILDKITTENS MEET STATE FRESHMEN IN RALEIGH FRIDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

FOLLOW THE WILDCATS TO CHARLOTTE SATURDAY

Gentlemen, the Wildcats are on the right road again. Anyone who had doubts that Davidson’s football team should still be called “Fighting Wildcats” had those doubts removed by the Clemson game Saturday. Davidson's eleven, handicapped by the loss of sly little Wingfield and big Tubby Hand—Davidson's lightest and heaviest, respectively—consistently outfought a heavier Clemson team which ranks among South Carolina’s best. Only that “Fighting Wildcat” spirit could have repulsed the weighty Tigers on the one-inch line; only that “Fighting Wildcat” spirit could have come back to tie the score and make the opposition pine for the final whistle.

If we ever omit Charley Pearce’s name from this column, it will be because his stellar athletic performances have ceased to be news. Charley did more in Saturday’s game than Walter Camp used to expect his All-American backs to do in a season. Here are a few of his deeds in the Clemson game: gained 82 yards from scrimmage; made three long runs of 21, 19, and 13 yards; intercepted a pass and ran 16 yards before being tackled; did most of Davidson’s punting and kicked two which were good for more than 75 yards apiece; tackled Woodworth on the 8-yard line after the Clemson back had carried the ball 35 yards; threw to Morgan a pass which was good for 25 yards and which put the Wildcats in a position for their score; scored Davidson’s touchdown with an 8-yard drive off tackle.

The whole team played well and every man deserves words of praise, but special praise should go to Bruce Peabody, Charley Rives, Johnny Mackorell, and Percy McElrath, in addition to the above-mentioned Pearce. Peabody's blocking, breaking up of passes, and punt returning; Rives’ and McElrath’s defensive work, and Mackorell’s ball carrying were the bright spots in Davidson’s play.

In Captain Miller and Henry Woodworth, Clemson presented two of the best backs who have appeared against the Wildcats this season. Miller did practically all of his team’s punting and passing, and shared the running honors with Woodworth. Woodworth made two 35-yard runs and an 8-yard gain to score all three of his team’s first downs. His pass to Patterson resulted in Clemson’s touchdown.

V. P. I. is headed for a high place in the Southern Conference this year. Their Gobbler team continued its winning streak by defeating the Washington and Lee Generals 32-6 Saturday. The victory was V. P. I.’s sixth of the season and fourth in conference competition.

“Doc” Unger’s All-Americans looked great Friday afternoon when they overwhelmed Huntersville’s All-Stars. It is to these boys that the varsity owes much of its development. The chances of their making the varsity are slight this year, but it is through the desire of developing a better first and second string that these unsung heroes continue to go out for football.

The Wildcats begin their final stand against Big Five opponents when they meet N. C. State in Charlotte this Saturday. The Red Terrors have played some excellent football at times this season and, at other times, have played poorly. The 13-0 defeat handed them last Saturday by Carolina will make it all the harder for the Wildcats this weekend. State has a great team. It should beat the Wildcats by at least two touchdowns, but don’t be surprised if the Davidson team upsets the dope, and comes out with a 7-6 victory.

NOTICE
Have your shoes rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Work done while you wait.
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

Unger’s Scrub Team Is Victorious Over Scrappy Huntersville All-Stars
Well-Coached Team Presents Very Strong Qualities in Every Department
BUMGARNER OUTSTANDING

Several Outstanding Players

Last Friday afternoon the Davidson “All-Americans,” a team composed of reserves from the third and fourth squads, crushed an all-star team from Huntersville by the score of 43 to 0. Despite many fumbles, Davidson exhibited a strong offense, which gained at will over the lighter All-Stars. Davidson exhibited a well-coached team, strong in every department of play. In the backfield, Bumgarner was outstanding, and time after time he tore through the professional team’s line for long gains. He also made several nice punt returns, one of which was good for a touchdown. The rest of the backfield, composed of LeGare, Bernardo, and Creech, turned in some nice playing, each scoring at least one touchdown, and as the score indicates, several crossed the line more than once.

Grant, Davidson left end, started the All-American scoring rampage when he caught a pass in the first quarter and ran fifteen yards for the first six points. The line proved to be extremely strong, and few Huntersville gains were made through it. Outstanding performers in this department were the two ends, Grant and B. Ravenel, and T. Thompson and Fort, playing right tackle and left guard respectively. The All-Americans suffered from injuries in this game, Bernardo losing several teeth from a kick in the face, and Bill Brewer wrenching his ankle severely.

Phi Delts and Betas Will Meet in Play-off Final
Intramural Game to Be Played on Varsity Field

The finals in the inter-fraternity touch football tournament, scheduled for last Monday afternoon, were rained out, and will be played at some later date. The teams in the final round are Phi Delta Theta and Beta Theta Pi. The Phi Delts advanced to the finals by virtue of victories over Theta Upsilon Omega in the first round, then a bye, and the Pikas in the semi-finals. The Betas opened up by putting out the Kappa Alphas and followed this with a victory over the S. A. E.’s. The Betas won the tourney last year. The only game played during the last week was between Pi Kappa Alpha and Phi Delta Theta, which the latter team won, 6-0. The touchdown came early in the second half on a pass from Lafferty to Partridge. The ball had been advanced to the scoring zone on a long pass from Lafferty to Lewis, and was taken over after a series of short flat passes.

The game between the Betas and the Phi Delts will be played off on the varsity field, and a good game is expected, as both fraternities have put smooth-working teams on the field.

MCELRATH - CENTER

Percy McElrath, Wildcat center who got his chance when Captain Gardner was injured in the opening game of the season, has proved to be a mainstay in the Davidson line ever since. McElrath displayed a great defense in the Clemson game Saturday, and on one occasion broke through to block Captain Miller’s punt and recovered for a 14-yard gain. He hails from Bramwell, W. Va.

Wildkittens Have Game At Raleigh Friday With State Freshman Team
Undefeated Davidson Freshmen Seek Revenge for One-Touchdown Defeat of Last Year

On Friday, November 4th, the Davidson Freshmen will meet their first Big Five gridiron opponents when they tackle the N.C. State College Freshmen in Raleigh. The State yearlings have a fast and heavy team, and the Wildkittens will need every ounce of their strength to win this game. Both teams have played two games, the Wildkittens winning both.Two comparatively easy contests, while State has met two Big Five opponents, losing one game and tying one. In their 19 to 6 victory over Wofford Freshmen, the Wildkittens showed an unusual amount of speed and a very good fighting spirit. On the other hand, the State Freshmen have been defeated 12-0 by the Duke Freshmen eleven and tied 6-6 by the U.N.C. Freshmen. The Wildkittens are seeking revenge for the 14-7 defeat which the 1931 Freshman team suffered at the hands of the powerful State eleven. State had an unusually strong Freshman team in 1931, and Davidson fans expect to see different results this year. Coach Laird has been teaching the Freshmen a lot of football since the game with Wofford, and he has his squad in fine shape, with a good first string and plenty of reserves. The same lineup is expected to start against State as against Wofford, with the exception of Knox, center, who received a broken collar bone during practice. Brenizer will take his place in the pivot position. Johnny Pearce, star halfback, suffered a knee injury, but will play Friday.

Roy E. Morgan
Clothes For School and College Men
NEW SPORT ENSEMBLES
Watson Falls
Alec Gee
John Graham
117 GARLAND COURT

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
PRINTING AND ENGRAVING
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE
EDW. O. GUERRANT
See Our DAVIDSON REPRESENTATIVES
A. M. MANSON

Pearce Scores for Davidson and Peabody Adds Extra Point in 7-7 Tie
4,000 FANS WATCH GAME
Davidson Threatens Opponents’ Goal Many Times in Grid Contest

In a game filled with many thrills and many breaks, the Davidson Wildcats and the Clemson Tigers fought to a 7 to 7 battle on Richardson Field last Saturday afternoon. At the end of the first half, the score stood 7 to 0 in favor of Clemson, but the traditional Davidson spirit came to the top in the last half and the Wildcats completely outplayed their opponents; when the final whistle blew, the score was tied. After being held down during the first part of the game, the 'Cats rallied and consistently threatened the Tigers’ goal. Under the brilliant leadership of Charlie Pearce, veteran halfback, the Wildcats ran up a total of ten first downs to the Clemson Tigers’ three. Pearce played an exceptional game, making one 22-yard run, tossing a beautiful pass to Jim Morgan for a 25-yard gain, and finally making the lone touchdown of the game. Clemson's only offensive threat was Woodworth. In the second quarter, he got off to a 42-yard run around right end and although this failed to lead directly to the Tigers’ touchdown, since the Wildcats held them for downs on about the one-yard line, Woodworth later passed to Patterson over the goal line, accounting for their score.

There were many outstanding players on both sides. Mackorell and Wagner both played exceptionally well. Wagner played one of the finest games of his career at tackle, both offensively and defensively, while the play of the whole Davidson team was of high ranking. McElrath at center, Rives at guard, and Morgan at end all played a well-polished and finished game. During the first half, there was a great deal of beautiful punting for both the ’Cats and the Tigers. Miller, Clemson quarterback, got off one boot for 60 yards against the wind, and Pearce outdid himself with his reliable left foot by punting over 75 yards on two occasions.

At the beginning of the second quarter, the Tigers had the ball in mid-field. Woodworth took the ball and slipped through the left side of the line to run 42 yards before being downed by Pearce on his own 8-yard line. Tubby Hand, who did not start the game on account of an injury, rushed in and stopped the first line thrust. Clemson fumbled on the next play, but Davidson was penalized for offsides and Clemson had only five yards to go for a touchdown. Hook hit the line twice and made four yards, then Woodworth struck at Hand’s guard position, only to be piled up for a gain of less than a yard, the Tigers missing the touchdown by only a few inches.

When the third quarter began, things started happening. Pearce swept right end for a gain of 22 yards and gave the Wildcats the ball on Clemson's 47-yard marker. Then Pearce tossed a long forward pass to Morgan for 25 more yards which put the ’Cats on Clemson’s 24-yard line. Again Pearce got eight yards off tackle and the Tigers were penalized 15 yards for holding and the pigskin rested on the Clemsonians’ 8-yard marker. Here, Pearce, after hitting a mass of humanity at left tackle, slipped around right end for the Davidson touchdown. Bruce Peabody kicked the extra point and the score stood tied, 7 to 7.

After the kick-off, the Wildcats again threatened the Tigers’ goal. Pearce intercepted a Clemson pass and returned it for 10 yards, got seven at tackle, and caught a pass from Mackorell to be downed, 12 yards from Clemson’s goal. Although a touchdown for Davidson seemed assured, the Clemson team held for downs and the ball went over. It was not long after this threat that again the Wildcats put fear into the hearts of their opponents. Peabody made a beautiful 30-yard return of a punt and gave Davidson the ball on Clemson's 30-yard line. But again the Tigers stiffened and held the ’Cats for downs and Davidson lost the ball. McElrath blocked a Tiger punt and gave the Wildcats the pigskin on Clemson’s 27-yard line. From there the ’Cats advanced to Clemson’s 14, when a fumble by Davidson, and recovered by Clemson, ended the final threat of the Wildcats.

The game was featured by open play and frequent resorts to aerial attacks. Both teams played an excellent game. Davidson, however, seemed to have the superior offensive although the game ended in a deadlock.

The line-ups:
Clemson Position Davidson
Patterson —--------- Dabees syceueuss Morgan
DO Zits Maree 1 Dil Barcel tape Wagner
Heineman sesssese InGeeccc ec edeewe Rives
Kirkconnell ~----- Center..5.22 52. McElrath
DAVIS: one ereeusscee RiGieeevosaewees Potter
(Os > eeaceenniee aioe Refs soe se gee Whitfield
Wiettz cl ecccceee RoBi ences scsccte= Morris
Milléfesceccuescuaee OMBiosssececs Mackorell
Walton ssseeteanoe | Be mene encores Peabody
Hook racsas sceteeaes Ri Gysseaccuceus Pearce
Dtevens: caecc ease Babe scusk onus Willson

Score by periods:
Clemson 0 7 0 0—7
Davidson 0 0 7 0—7

Clemson scoring, touchdown, Patterson; point after touchdown, Miller (dropkick).
Davidson scoring, touchdown, Pearce; point after touchdown, Peabody (placement).

Officials: Eblert (Catholic U.), referee; Rawson (Georgia), umpire; Hackney (U.N.C.), head linesman; Hill (Wofford), field judge.

What Davidson’s 1932 Opponents Did
DUKE 13, Tennessee 16.
W. & L: 6, V. P. I. 32.
WOFFORD 0, Presbyterian 19.
V. M. I. 7, Maryland 12.
CITADEL 0, Furman 20.
N.C. STATE 0, CAROLINA 13.
WAKE FOREST 7, Delaware 0.

Big Five Standings
Team W L T Pet.
Duke 2 0 0 1.000
Carolina 1 0 1 1.000
N.C. State 0 1 1 .000
Wake Forest 0 1 2 .000
Davidson 0 1 0 .000

LET US DO YOUR WORRYING
About What to Wear
You will find our expert advice backed up by
STYLE-RIGHT MERCHANDISE
IVEY’S DAVIDSON SHOP