THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1932

Alumni Meetings Planned

PERSONALS

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

In March for New York and New Bern Sections

Salmons-Michael

Dr. Henry Clay Salmons, of Elkin, and Miss Willie Gertrude Michael, of Kernersville, were married at the home of the bride on December 17th. Dr. Salmons is a 1904 graduate of the North Carolina Medical College, attending that institution when it was located at Davidson, and in the same year of his graduation he was licensed to practice in this state. He has been located in the western part of the state during his entire career and is one of the leading physicians of Elkin. He was associate operator of Elkin’s first hospital until it was discontinued a few years ago. Mrs. Salmons was educated at Elon College and for the past five years had been teaching English in the Elkin High School.

Austin-West

James Madison Austin, 1918 alumnus of Davidson residing in New York City, and Mrs. Madeline Horne West, of Pittsburgh and Catawba Farms, Old Westbury, Long Island, N. Y., were married in Reno, Nev., in January. Mr. Austin was educated at St. Luke’s School, Wayne, Pa., before coming to Davidson, and after leaving here he attended the Wharton Business School of the University of Pennsylvania. He is now a member of the financial firm of Campbell, Peterson & Company, 84 William St., New York, N. Y.

Berryhill-Wilson

William Carey Berryhill, 1919 Davidson alumnus, of Charlotte, and Miss Mary Louise Wilson, of Louisburg, were married at the home of the bride’s parents on January 9th. Mr. Berryhill’s education at Davidson was interrupted by the World War. He served 11 months in France with the 81st Division. At present he holds a government position, being connected with the railway mail service. Mrs. Berryhill was educated at Louisburg College and is a member of Kappa Delta Phi sorority. For the past three years she has been a member of the Louisburg Graded School faculty. Mr. and Mrs. Berryhill are at home at 1300 East Boulevard, Charlotte.

Taylor-Deane

Jacquelin Plummer Taylor, 1921 graduate of Davidson, of Winston-Salem, and Miss Anna Louise Deane, of Chevy Chase, Md., were married in the Chevy Chase Presbyterian Church on January 2nd. E. D. Taylor, ’11, and A. B. Taylor, ’11, both of Winston-Salem and brothers of the groom, were best man and groomsman, respectively. After graduating from Davidson, Mr. Taylor taught for a while, and then attended Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., from which he graduated. He was pastor at Elkin for a while, but is now in business at Winston-Salem. Mr. and Mrs. Taylor are at home at 863 West Fifth St., Winston-Salem.

Denny-Battle

Edwin Harden Denny, 1922 alumnus, of Memphis, Tenn., and Miss Edith Marion Battle, of Atlanta, Ga., were married in the North Avenue Presbyterian Church of Atlanta on December 26th. For the past ten years Mr. Denny has been connected in the southeastern states with the sales organization of the Addressograph Company. He has been located in Atlanta and Greensboro, and is now sales agent for five states, with headquarters at Memphis, Tenn. Mrs. Denny was educated in the schools of Augusta, Ga., and also at Hollins College, in Virginia.

Cunningham-Flinn

Dr. Charles Edward Cunningham, graduate of Davidson in 1922, of Franklin, and Miss Elizabeth Dare Flinn, of East Orange, N. J., were married during the Christmas season. Dr. Cunningham taught school for a few years after graduation, after which he enrolled in the Emory University Medical School, completing his work at Johns Hopkins. His internship was served at the hospital of the university in Baltimore, and upon completion of that, he became connected with the Angell Brothers Hospital at Franklin. He is in charge of the surgical work there.

Baker-L’Engle

News was recently received at Davidson of the marriage of Thompson S. Baker, 1926 graduate of Davidson, and Miss Cynthia L'Engle, both of Jacksonville, Fla., which took place on November 23, 1931. After graduation, Mr. Baker was for a while connected with the firm of Baker & Holmes, of Jacksonville, but for the past several years has been a partner in Shands & Baker Co., dealers in building supplies, in Jacksonville. Mrs. Baker obtained her education at St. Timothy’s School and also at Harcum, in Philadelphia.

McKinnon-Murray

James Calvin McKinnon, a 1926 alumnus of Davidson, and Miss Martha Fairley Murray, both of Laurinburg, were married in that city on December 19th. After leaving Davidson, Mr. McKinnon went into business at Laurinburg, where he has remained ever since. Mrs. McKinnon was graduated with a bachelor of music degree from Flora Macdonald College at Red Springs in 1927.

Lincoln-Richardson

Ralph Louis Lincoln, a 1927 Davidson graduate, and Miss Sarah Richardson, both of Marion, Va., were married in Marion on February 3rd. Mr. Lincoln attended the law school at the University of Virginia, was graduated with his degree in that field, and is now practicing at Marion. Mrs. Lincoln was educated at Brenau College at Gainesville, Ga., and at Arlington Hall, in Washington, D. C.

Vaughan-McGregor

James Alexander Vaughan, Jr., graduate of Davidson in 1927, of Roxboro, N. C., and Miss Mary Celina McGregor, of Columbia, S. C., were married in the Trinity Episcopal Church at Columbia on February 6th. After graduating from Davidson, Mr. Vaughan attended N. C. State College. He is now connected in the personnel department of the Collins Aikman Corporation, of Roxboro. Mrs. Vaughan attended the University of South Carolina and is a member of Delta Delta Delta sorority.

Woodham-Colbert

Kelly Vernon Woodham, another 1927 Davidson graduate, of Port Gibson, Miss., was married on December 5th to Miss Celeste Colbert of Jackson, Miss., the marriage taking place in the latter city. Since leaving Davidson, Mr. Woodham has attended the University of Mississippi, and the remainder of the time has taught at Chamberlain-Hunt Military Academy, at which he is now located. Mrs. Woodham obtained her education at the Mississippi State College for Women.

McCrary-Morrison

James Franklin McCrary, 1928 Davidson graduate, of Asheboro, and Miss Martha Morrison, of Hartsville, S. C., were married in the First Presbyterian Church at Hartsville on January 16th. Chas. W. McCrary, ’24, of Asheboro, brother of the groom, was best man. Mr. McCrary has been associated in business with his father and is now secretary of the Acme Hosiery Mills at Asheboro. Mrs. McCrary is a graduate of Winthrop College, and for the past two years has taught at High Point.

Neely-Davis

Harry Lee Neely, a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1928 and principal of the Sunny-...

Notices Have Already Been Mailed to Over Two Hundred Davidson Alumni Residing in These Two Vicinities

DAVIDSON SPEAKERS

Dr. Walter L. Lingle Will Be At New Bern, and Dr. John W. MacConnell Goes to New York

Notices were mailed from the alumni office last week to over 80 Davidson College alumni in the eastern part of the state, in the section surrounding New Bern, and to 130 Davidson men in New York and vicinity, informing them of proposed gatherings of former students of...the college in New Bern and New York on the dates of March 7th and March 16th, respectively. Local alumni at both of these places have set these dates and invited the speakers. Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of the institution, will attend the New Bern gathering, going to that city from Wilmington, where he will be over the weekend, speaking several times. Dr. John W. MacConnell, college physician, has been invited by the New York chapter to visit them in March and appear as the honored guest and speaker of the occasion. Rev. R. E. McClure, '20, of New Bern, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church there, is in charge of arrangements for the meeting of alumni in that section—the first gathering that has ever been held, and Dr. A. B. Reese, '17, is president of the New York group. Prof. R. C. Garth, '19, of the Columbia University faculty, is secretary of the metropolis chapter. Mr. McClure’s plan is not only to have the Davidson alumni present, but also the Presbyterian ministers of that Presbytery, the trustees of Davidson residing in that vicinity, and the parents of the boys now in Davidson. Furthermore, each alumnus is expected to bring a prospective student to the supper as his guest, either his own son, or a boy whom he would like to attend Davidson.

The New York chapter is having its annual dinner, which is attended by over 50 percent of the Davidson men who reside within a radius of 75 miles of New York. This chapter has been meeting regularly for many years, and a visiting speaker from Davidson is usually invited, the chapter bearing the expense of the visit. This is one of the most active groups of alumni in existence. Although Dr. MacConnell has not yet stated how many days he can remain away from the campus, it is expected that he will be absent for several other gatherings along the Atlantic seaboard. Alumni chapters are located in Boston, Philadelphia, Washington, Baltimore, and Richmond, but it is doubtful if the college physician will be able to visit more than two other places on the trip. Due to a limited amount of funds, the alumni office is planning no extensive program of alumni meetings this spring, but is arranging those whose chapters pay the expenses of a visitor from Davidson.

Mr. Neely, principal of the High School at Bessemer City, was married to Miss Flora Anderson Davis, also of Bessemer City, in the Presbyterian Church there on December 23rd. Rev. Coyte Hunter, '19, pastor of the church, performed the ceremony. Mr. Neely has been teaching since he graduated from Davidson, and has advanced to the principalship of the school in Bessemer City.

Davidson Theatre
Monday: “CHEATERS AT PLAY”
Tuesday: “CORSAIR” CHESTER MORRIS
Wednesday: “RECKLESS AGE” BUDDY ROGERS
Thursday: “SHE WANTED A MILLIONAIRE”
Friday: “MANHATTAN PARADE”
Saturday: “PANAMA FLO” HELEN TWELVETREES

Dr. R. L. Douglas, '99, of Chester, S. C.; Woodrow McKay, '15, of Lexington; Geo. Miley, Jr., '17, of Charlotte; Calvin F. Teague, '22, of Anderson, S. C.; Dr. J. C. Leonard, Jr., '24, of Lexington; J. M. Proctor, '31, and J. C. Ramseur, '31, both of Lincolnton.

Davidson College alumni who are within the war sector of China include (this is within a radius of 200 miles of either Nanking or Shanghai): Rev. Henry L. Reaves, '11; Rev. S. C. Farrior, '12; Rev. Frank W. Price, '15; Rev. A. R. Craig, '17; Rev. G. A. Hudson, '18; Dr. Phillip B. Price, '18; Dr. J. B. Woods, Jr., '18; Julian R. Briggs, '25; Dr. N. G. Patterson, '25, and William B. Rice, '27.

Friends will deeply regret to learn of the tragedy which occurred in the family of Leon M. Ham, Jr., '27, of Greensboro, which occurred last Saturday when his two-year-old daughter was crushed and instantly killed beneath the wheels of an ice truck.

Alexander Sprunt, Jr., '18, curator of ornithology at the Charleston, S. C., museum, and a writer of prominence in nature magazines, has recently published his first book, “Dwellers of the Silences,” which has been described as a “vivid, dramatic and accurate set of nature stories.” In preparing a statement about the book, the publishers wrote, “It is as if Mr. Sprunt had traveled from the land of blizzards to the tropics with his creatures, had seen them in every turn of their lives, and had reported their experiences with objectivity and lack of sentimentality.” This book is in the Davidson library.

A. R. Carroll, '17, is connected with the Carolina Light and Power Company, in Raleigh.

James M. McCorkle, '90, head of the trust department of the First National Bank of Salisbury, has been appointed receiver for the Cumberland National Bank of Fayetteville, which closed its doors some weeks ago. Mr. McCorkle is a banker of experience, having been connected with the old Davis and Wiley Bank, of Salisbury, which became a member of the Atlantic Bank & Trust Company, and which was later merged with the North Carolina Bank and served in other capacities in all these banks.

Thomas S. Neal, '31, who had been with the American Tobacco Company at Reidsville, is now employed by the May Hosiery Mills, at Burlington.

Dr. L. P. Cox, '25, is now practicing at Fredericksburg, Va., and is located at 1114 Main St., in that city.

Hon. Chas. G. Rose, 1900, of Fayetteville, has been appointed on a committee of nine attorneys of this state to meet with the circuit judges of the United States Court, in accordance with a plan adopted last year by the American Bar Association.

Rev. W. T. Thompson, D.D., '05, professor of religious education at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., has accepted an invitation to preach the baccalaureate sermon at N. C. C. W., Greensboro, on June 5th.

A recent news dispatch announced that Charles K. (Buck) Marrow, '31, would be the youngest member of the squad to report to the Palo Alto, Calif., training grounds of the Detroit Tigers. The team holds its first workout between February 20-30. Mr. Marrow was with the Beaumont, Texas, League last year, and it will not be known whether he will “make” the majors this season until the practices are well advanced.

McAlister Carson, '13, of Charlotte, has been appointed chairman of a committee of one hundred to make arrangements for a series of big religious meetings in Charlotte.

S. Clay Williams, '05, has been selected as chairman of the 1932 Community Chest campaign of Winston-Salem. He replaces Mayor Geo. W. Coan, Jr., '11, who has been in charge of the last two campaigns.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
Prompt Service
Satisfaction Guaranteed

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.
Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.
Catalog and information on request.

Without Extra Cost. Come Stetson “D” Store Offers With Every Spring Suit Bought During the Month of February A Free Pair of Pants or Knickers Patterns Over Clothes For the College Man in and Look the New Spring