THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 2, 1932

The Bookshelf

Davidson 10 Years Ago

Night Flight, by Antoine De St. Exupery. The Century Company. 1932.

“Night Flight” is a modern book. It is modern because it is short and in the novelette form, and that is becoming very popular; it is modern because it portrays air mail service, a recent development, and the locale is modern South America. Yet its theme, that of duty, is old. The story is simple; the Patagonia plane with pilot and wireless operator are lost in a severe storm, while at the base of operations in Buenos Aires wait anxiously the pilot’s wife and the crew. The plane crashes, but the air mail service continues. The central character is not the tragic pilot nor his young wife. It is Riviere, who is responsible for the entire service. Always the mail weighs upon his mind, and he postpones for his declining years everything that makes life kind to men. To him orders are like the rites of a religion and his men are mere lumps to be kneaded into molds of discipline. And so, thanks to Riviere, the service of mails was paramount over twenty thousand miles of land and sea. He once confesses to an assistant, “Love the men under your orders, but do not let them know it.” When the pilot’s wife grieves for his return, Riviere “hears her timid voice as—an enemy—for action and individual happiness have no truck with each other—they are eternally at war.”

The book is written by an experienced aviator and thus has an authentic atmosphere that is realistic and moving. The style is effective, making use of short phrases and clauses, and the translator has kept the conciseness of the original. There are many beautiful passages, and the airship has never received such poetic treatment. “In a flash, the very instant he had risen clear, the pilot found a peace that passed his understanding. Not a ripple tilted the plane but, like a ship that has crossed the bar, it moved across a tranquil anchorage. In an unknown and secret corner of the sky it floated, as in a harbor of the Happy Isles. Below him still the storm was fashioning another world, threaded with squalls and cloudbursts and lightnings, but turning to the stars a face of crystal snow.”

“Amid the far-flung treasure of the stars he roved, in a world where no life was, no faintest breath of life, save his and his companion’s. Like plunderers of fabled cities they seemed, immured in treasure-vaults whence there is no escape. Amongst these frozen jewels they were wandering, rich beyond all dreams, but doomed.”

The men of the airport are determined that the lead that airships gain by day on ships and railways shall not be lost each night. Regardless of disaster, the European mail must leave on time. So Riviere reflects: “Tonight’s defeat conveyed perhaps a lesson which would speed the coming of final victory. The work in progress was all that mattered.”

—E. A. HANCOCK.

Davidson 5 Years Ago

NOVEMBER 3, 1927

After many efforts the lair of the Wildcat mascot just east of the gymnasium has been

(From Davidsonian, Nov. 2, 1922)

The evangelistic service Wednesday night in Shearer Hall is to be conducted by Dr. Walter L. Lingle. Doctor Lingle is a graduate of Davidson College and is one of her most distinguished alumni. He is one of the greatest preachers in the Southern Presbyterian Church and is at present an instructor at the Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va. He is loved by all that know him and it is a certainty that he will leave many new friends at Davidson.

After November 11, the indoor rifle range will be open to all Freshmen taking R. O. T. C. The range is one of the best equipped in the South and all new men should avail themselves of this privilege. Last year the Freshmen made an unusually fine record and it is considered doubtful by the officers in command that this year’s class will equal it. Rifle meets will be arranged with Georgia Tech, Mississippi A. & M., and other Southern schools.

Ministerial Students Hear Interesting Talk

John Richards Speaks on “Calling to the Ministry”

The regular meeting of the Ministerial Band was held last Friday night with A. L. Thompson presiding. The meeting was openedby a short devotional service consisting of the reading of the Fifteenth Psalm and sentence prayers by Robert Forbis and David Blue. A short business session followed, at which it was decided to have the pictures of the members in the Annual. A suggestion was also accepted to the effect that the members of the society should be given parts in the program, whereas heretofore outside speakers have been featured. The main part of the program was a talk by John Richards on “Calling to the Ministry.” He emphasized the fact that there are two reasons for men entering the ministry. The first was the selfish motive. He declared that these men think that the ministry is an easy profession in which there are rich rewards. On the other hand, the man propelled by the unselfish motive realizes that the ministry is a profession of sacrifice and that one entering it must as far as possible emulate Christ. Following the talk, the time for the next meeting was announced as November 11, at which time a member of the faculty will be asked to discuss the subject of “The Minister’s Family Life.”

Intercollegiate Press

London, Eng.—(IP)—Two American educators have received appointments to professorships in British universities in the last few days. Dr. George H. C. MacGregor of the Hartford (Conn.) Seminary Foundation has been appointed Regius Professor of Biblical Criticism at the University of Glasgow, from which he received the degree of doctor of letters in 1929. The University College of Wales has appointed Dr. Jerome D. Greene of New York, chairman of the Council of Pacific Relations, as Wilson Professor of International Politics.

High Class Work at Economical Prices
MARTIN BROS. SHOE SHOP

Announcing A New, Modern, Up-to-Date Drug Store for Davidson Students, to be Known as COLLEGE PHARMACY
The Service Drug Store
Creators of Reasonable Drug Prices in Davidson

Two rehabilitated, hale, and hearty wildcats have been procured for Davidson by Spike McGee. These two 'cats, Tom and Min, are worthy successors to “Faithful Felix” who died this past summer. Spike has tried since the beginning of school to locate a healthy wildcat and after several disappointments, he has finally succeeded. “Min,” whose native haunts were in Western North Carolina, was recently purchased by the student body for thirty-five dollars. “Tom” is a gift from Mr. Hansell Watt. “Tom” is a native of Florida and is one of the largest and handsomest 'cats the Wildcats have ever possessed. He tips the scales at forty-five pounds in comparison to “Min’s” weight of thirty pounds. They will be under the care of “Doc” Charlie.

As a prelude to the Home-Coming Day celebrations here Saturday, the alumni office, under the auspices of Dr. J. P. Matheson, president of the General Alumni Council, Thursday evening staged a special radio program, which was broadcast to listeners all over the southeast from the studio of WBT in Charlotte. By means of the radio, a personal invitation was extended to Davidson alumni throughout the country, urging them to return to the college for Saturday’s game and festival. Musical numbers were rendered by the Davidsonian Quartette, the jazz orchestra, and Ed Wilson, soloist of the Glee Club. Telegrams from all sections of the southeast indicated that a large number of Davidson alumni and friends had tuned in for the program and enjoyed it immensely.

“Let’s say you’re painting clouds. You’ve got your primary colors here on the palette. But you haven’t the clouds until you blend certain colors into the special tone you want. This is very much what happens in making a good cigarette. And I gather that what Chesterfield means by Cross-Blending is what an artist does with colors. Their Domestic and Turkish tobaccos—many varieties of each—are the primary colors. They blend and cross-blend these tobaccos until they get the special tone they want—in other words, the Chesterfield flavor. And just as each color you use acts on the others to change and enrich them, so each Chesterfield tobacco partakes of the fine qualities of every other. You ‘weld’ different kinds to get a better kind. That’s Cross-Blending! And that’s why Chesterfield cigarettes are MILDER and TASTE BETTER.”