THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 2, 1932

Gives Editors Breakfast On Borrowed Ocean Liner

Panama Pacific Liner California, on which William C. Hosking of Long Beach acted as host to fellow members of the National Editorial Association.

TREKKING WEST ENTIRE UNITED STATES FLEET IN HARBOR

By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

NOTE: Below is one of a series of request articles written in connection with a visit by the writer with his father to the National Editorial Association convention in California this summer.

Doing things in a big way as host to the National Editorial Association at Long Beach, California, William C. Hosking borrowed a 34,000-ton ocean liner, one of the largest on the Pacific with a crew of 350, to give his guests a breakfast. The ship was the California, of the Panama Pacific Line, in Los Angeles port from New York. This is the largest and finest ship ever built under the American flag and I can vouch for the excellence of its table. We ordered at will from the ambrosial fare and I think those 500 hungry editors relieved the ship of a great portion of its cargo before it left port. They served us with Honeydew Melon, Roman Meal, Broiled English Bloater, Potatoes Lyonnaise, Shirred Eggs, Melba Toast, Wine Jelly, and Green Tea. Afterwards, we inspected the ship and saw the unique built-in pools, spacious lounges, gym, concert halls, suites, where you can really “spread” yourself, and many other attractions. It was with regrets the editors said farewell to Captain Robert Smith.

VISIT BATTLESHIP

Launches of the United States Navy met the party at the pier and we started out into the harbor where the entire United States Fleet was riding majestically at anchor. On our way out, the California backed out of her berth and continued her voyage to San Francisco. The liner was supposed to sail at 9:00 o’clock and was held up two hours so the N. E. A.’s might have the experience of eating a real sea-going breakfast on board. Our little craft seemed small by the side of the huge liner and it passed, whistles blowing, to leave us riding on the crest of its waves. This ship belongs to a fleet of electric liners operating between New York and California ports by a subsidiary of the Roosevelt Steamship Company, of which Kermit Roosevelt, son of Theodore Roosevelt, is president.

On our way, we passed another unusual sight in the harbor. The Japanese sailing ship Taisei Maru, with its towering spars, had just arrived from the Tokyo Nautical College. She came direct from Yokohama for the Olympiad. This ship is regarded to be one of the world’s finest school ships. As we passed, we all waved and those on board ran to the side and waved back in response.

We boarded the battleship Pennsylvania, flagship of the United States Fleet, and closely inspected the maze of decks and intricate workings of the great fighting machine. Scarcely had we arrived on board when they collected our kodaks so that no pictures of the ship could be carried away. Sailors were everywhere and the girls in the editorial party were thrilled to be surrounded by 1,400 at one time.

INSPECT FIGHTING SHIP

Officers carried the party over the ship in groups. We saw 14-inch guns which hurl eight and one-half tons of steel and explosives per minute at a target fifteen miles away—and hit it. In the port gangway, all the machinery is found necessary to operate the guns. From its top, a plane can be launched, attaining 60 miles an hour in 55 feet. The ship had its own barber shop and post office. We next visited the crews’ quarters. Before us were the great anchors. They weigh a ton each and the links in the chain weigh 100 pounds. On the left facing aft was the recreation space and this serves as a gym for the sailors.

By climbing the ladder on the second turret, we reached the boat deck and found two more guns. Rising still higher by three short ladders, we came to the signal bridge. The three means of communication in the navy are flag hoist, flashing light, and semaphore. The galleys are modern in every detail. They have the best food to eat. It even looked good to me and I’m used to eating at Kimbrell’s. That day they had soup, three vegetables, and dessert. It would make the most industrious Davidson housewife jealous to see how scrupulously clean the kitchens are kept. This was one of the first things we noticed. The floors had been scrubbed until they looked clean enough to eat on.The compactness of a battleship is another outstanding feature. The sailors publish their own paper aboard and have “talkie” pictures every night. One of the startling things I discovered is that the Pennsylvania is covered with paint weighing between five and six hundred tons! Ben Taylor and those in his party also visited this battleship while visiting relatives this summer in Long Beach. According to an account of their tour, they enjoyed their visit, too. Following the inspection, we were taken to Long Beach where we were guests of the various units of the United States Fleet. On a tour of Long Beach, we observed the terminals and waterways that make up the billion-dollar business for the Los Angeles port. The tour included a ride around the $2,500,000 Rainbow Pier and a visit to the Municipal Auditorium. We stopped at the Signal Hill oil field on our way back to Los Angeles. This is one of the most phenomenal petroleum-producing centers known. Here are found 1,200 wells and the deepest oil well in the world.

The events of the morning impressed the party with the hospitality of California. Its people are always ready to entertain and take especial interest in tourists. Perhaps this accounts to a large extent for the great popularity of this state. Nearly every person met in Long Beach came from Iowa. At the annual Iowa picnic held in the public park, about fifteen thousand Iowans assemble. I heard a candidate running for mayor promised in his announcement that if elected he would move back to Iowa when his term expired. They say he was elected.

115 W. 4th St., Charlotte
LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOPPE
“The Original Sandwich Shop”
VISIT US and Davidson Driver and
Announcing NEW PUSH-’EM SERVICE
Cars Fully Insured to Protect
Low Rates on Long and Short Trips
See CAL KUYKENDALL, JOHN TAYLOR, Campus Representative
Passengers

Theatre
WEDNESDAY
“DIVORCE IN THE FAMILY”
JACKIE COOPER—CONRAD NAGEL—LEWIS STONE
THURSDAY
“KONGO”
WALTER HUSTON—LUPE VALEZ—CONRAD NAGEL
FRIDAY
“3 ON A MATCH”
JOAN BLONDELL—WARREN WILLIAMS—ANN DVORAK
SATURDAY
“THE VANISHING FRONTIER”
JOHNNY MACK BROWN—EVALYN KNAPP
MONDAY
“ONE WAY PASSAGE”
WILLIAM POWELL—KAY FRANCIS
TUES
“SIX HOURS TO LIVE”
WARNER BAXTER—JOHN BOLES

The Silver Screen
Wednesday, Nov. 2—Divorce in the Family—(M-G-M)
Jackie Cooper plays the leading role in this picture which treats one of the most heart-rending problems of today, namely, “What becomes of children when the parents are divorced and marry again?” It’s a hard road, beset with tears, but also laughs. Cooper does some of his best acting and with wonderful naturalness. Lois Wilson, Conrad Nagel, and Lewis Stone play the grown-ups.

Thursday, Nov. 3—Kongo—(M-G-M)
One of the old-fashioned blood and thunder type, but packed full of real live thrills. A story of love and hate in the jungle. A bitter cripple, Walter Huston, rules a tribe of cannibals who think that he is going to give up Lupe Velez to them.

Friday, Nov. 4—Three On A Match
One of the modern trends in pictures seems to be the showing of the connection of widely separated lives (perhaps originated in Grand Hotel). This time the connection is between three school friends who meet after ten years. The story follows chiefly Ann Dvorak who is restless and dissatisfied with life. The ending is too sad and too cruel for the popular taste. By her vivid personality, Ann Dvorak sweeps away the weaknesses of a melodramatic story and makes the troubles of a girl who laughed at the superstition of “three on a match” seem very real.

Saturday, Nov. 5—The Vanishing Frontier—(Paramount)
Johnny Mack Brown plays his part very well in this thrilling drama of early California. Accused unjustly of murder, he battles soldiers, escapes, and wins the girl (Evalyn Knapp). Plenty of action and also plenty of good scenery. Johnny has deserted his Alabama accent and acquired a quaint Spanish one.

Monday, Nov. 7—One Way Passage—(Warners)
A very unusual thing, a romantic ghost (Continued on page 6)

Follow the Crowd to NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
Prompt and Courteous Service

“DRUGS”
Student “PRESCRIPTIONS”
Make-Our-Store-Your-Store
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“SODAS” Supplies “SUNDRIES”

“I like to watch you smoking your pipe.”
“IF EVER I SAW a picture of content, it’s you when you’re puffing on a pipeful of Granger. And I admit I like the fragrant aroma myself.”
It is surprising how much better a pipe tastes when it is filled with tobacco that’s made especially for pipes. And the Granger package is just right, too.
GRANGER IS AMERICA’S PIPE TOBACCO