THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1932

TREKKING WEST WATCH DE MILLE DIRECT “SIGN OF THE CROSS”
By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

(NOTE: This is one of a series of request articles written by Jack Williams, Jr., who attended the National Editorial
Association meeting in California with his father this summer.)

Following the luncheon given the newspaper group by the motion picture industry at the Writers Club, our party was escorted
on a trip to Paramount studios. Behind the wall that reads, “No Visitors Allowed,” 1,600 people are busy working. For
the two hours of entertainment we see on the screen, perhaps months or years of hard work have been necessary.
Preparations preceding the making of a picture are almost countless. Feminine stars require three fittings for each gown. All the
furnishings must be made to order and exact in every detail. Days are spent in casting, and the director interviews
each player and hundreds of conferences are held beforehand. The actors learn their lines for the scenes the night before,
but first must come more rehearsals before the picture can be actually filmed. The studios offer all clothes built especially
for the stars to them at half price when the picture is finished. Paramount donates all perishable goods to charity
which are used on the sets. Cut flowers are distributed to free wards in hospitals and many of the old
clothes find their way to the backs of the needy through the various social organizations.

“THE SIGN OF THE CROSS”
We got a real thrill while watching Cecil de Mille directing “The Sign of the Cross.” It is a complete
throwback to the day of the sandal and toga. It brings back to life pagan Rome in all its splendor
and cruelty. It is the most pretentious thing de Mille ever attempted. When finished it will cost six hundred thousand
dollars, for it has 8,000 actors on its payroll. Its lavish music score was written by nine different composers. The
cast is composed of Frederic March, Chas. Laughton, Claudette Colbert, and Elissa Landi. De Mille himself is an impressive figure
and when he tells them to move, they step about, and who wouldn't on hearing his commanding voice! Research experts
spent hours checking up on details of costume and architecture of ancient Rome to ensure its technical accuracy. Yet all
the men in the picture I noticed had up-to-date haircuts. As the characters pass the microphone, they mutter a little
Latin to make it just as authentic as possible.

INSPECT WORKSHOPS
We next visited the workshops where all

German Picture to Be Presented Soon
In the near future, under the auspices of the College Committee on Lectures and Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German society,
a German film will be shown at the Davidson Theater, by the courtesy of the management. This film is one
of a number made portraying the life and works of Goethe, the greatest of German literary men, the centenary of
whose death is being so widely commemorated this year. There will be no admission charge. The film is of the
silent type, with titles in German. For this reason, we append herewith a summary of the titles, with the suggestion
that those students and faculty who are interested in the film clip them for reference. The date will be announced
later.

TITLES TO GOETHE FILM

Reel 1
1. Goethe's birthplace, the old imperial city of Frankfort.
2. From Frankfort came material for many scenes for “Faust.”
3. The hour of Goethe's birth approaches.
4. The midwife arrives.
5. Goethe's parents.
6. Goethe's father had a lively interest in letters—
7. —and in art.
8. He looked back with fond recollections upon a trip he had taken to Italy.
9. Goethe's mother was more comrade than mistress to the maids.
10. She helps at pumping.
11. The boy Goethe enjoyed puppet plays.
12. Mephistopheles in the puppet play, representing the devil, tempts Faust.

Reel 2
1. From the puppet play of Dr. Faustus, Goethe derives scenes for his own “Faust.”
2. The puppet maker’s idea of “the most beautiful woman on earth.”
3. Gretchen takes Faust’s gift of jewels from the casket.
4. Goethe’s manuscript of the scene in which Gretchen's brother Valentine fights with Faust to defend his sister’s honor.
5. Faust as professor.
6. The puppet play showed scenes of student life in Auerbach’s Keller.

Reel 3
1. Friederike Brion’s home, the parsonage at Sesenheim, after a drawing by Goethe.
2. Lotte plays the spinet for Werther.
3. The famous Werther costume—blue plush coat and knee breeches, yellow vest.

Reel 4
1. Lip’s portrait of Goethe at the age of thirty-two.
2. Silhouettes of Duke Karl August, the Duchess Luise, and the Dowager Duchess Amalie.

Reel 5
1. The German court tried something suggesting Versailles.
2. Goethe assists in replanning the parks about Belvedere, a favorite Ducal castle and residence a few miles from Weimar.
3. Goethe's practical activities as an administrator in the government.
4. His own cartoon of the army.
5. Corona Schroeter, in Greek costume, recites the opening monologue of “Iphigenie.”

Reel 6
1. Goethe feels overwhelmed by the oppressive details of statecraft, and too much engrossed by his love for Frau von
Stein.
2. To escape these distractions, and satisfy his longing for classicism, he takes flight to Italy.

Fall Services Close On Tuesday Evening
With his impressions of “What Christ Means to Me,” Mr. Dwight M. Chalmers brought the Fall Evangelistic Services to a
successful close at the evening service, Tuesday, November 15. Preceding his talk, the assembled students sang several hymns, and Byron
Schriver rendered the lovely violin piece.Out of the cellar with! Lin Solo, “Adoration,” by Borowski. The Mephistopheles on a magic
cask. A scripture passage was read from John 9:1-9, from which Rev. Dwight Chalmers selected as his text the following
words of Phillip, “Lord, show us the Father and it sufficeth us.” These words struck deeply into the heart of
Christ, for they represented the inability, not only of His disciples, but of a materially-minded world as well, to comprehend
the simple fact of the unity of God and Christ. In a similar way, we of today are mistakenly asking
that we be shown signs and proofs; at the same time disregarding those already at our attention. Nevertheless, it is
not upon signs and wonders that we base our faith or impressions of Christ, but upon the three great evidences
of the changed inner being, as suggested by Mr. Dwight Chalmers. The realization of the divinity of Christ is an
experience of the soul, not the result of cold logic. We cannot satisfy ourselves simply by reading the witnesses as
recorded in the gospels, but make the conviction of its truth a part of us. In the second place, the
power, solely His own, to forgive sins finds response in the spirit such as the mind could never know. And
lastly, we find in Him, power to meet the demands of life. We are called upon to witness to sacrifice
and endure, for Him, and through His power we are buoyed to heights far beyond our human possibilities. With an
appeal to regard religious life in the serious light it demands, and invoking a blessing upon the students and faculty
of Davidson College, Mr. Dwight Chalmers closed the series of Evangelistic Services.

Roy E. Morgan Clothes For School and College Men NEW SPORT ENSEMBLES Watson Falls Alec Gee John Graham High Class
Work at Economical Prices MARTIN BROS.’ SHOE SHOP

All kinds of decorations and devices are made. Angels, statues and similar things originate in these shops. The materials used
are plaster of Paris, fiber, glue, and even hair. Paramount was also filming “The Phantom President” with Jimmy Durante; “A
Farewell to Arms,” with Helen Hayes, Gary Cooper, and Adolphe Menjou; and “The Night of June 13,” with Clive Brook,
Mary Boland, and Francis Dee. Josef von Sternberg was directing “The Blonde Venus,” with Dietrich, but they did not arrive
back from location before we had to leave. Wandering about the sets watching the different actors waiting their turn to
work, one can't help but realize how little time goes into production. The stars get tired waiting and some of
them paint, and others knit, to pass away the time.

“THE BARRYMORES” Over at M.G.M. the Barrymores put on a special act for those in the N.E.A. party who visited
there. Ethel played the part of the Czarina; John, the Prince, and Lionel the mad monk Rasputin. The scene was
at the Czarina’s palace. Ethel paced the floor crying for her son. John entered, grabbed a guard’s bayonet and went
after the son, and Lionel threw open the doors and entered with the son in his arms. The place was
overrun with Barrymores. Those who attended said there were only three of them, but Philip Scheur of “The Times” who
slipped in with the party as an editor, said it seemed like a thousand. Those who saw this wonderful spectacle
afterwards claimed that they could never be the same again. As you know, this royal family of the stage is
playing in “Rasputin.”

DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS Still others who visited the Pickfair studios were met personally at the door by Douglas himself. He had
just finished “Mr. Robinson Crusoe,” a romance of the South Seas. Mary Pickford had left a few minutes before by
plane for New York to purchase the story for her next production, and they didn’t get to meet her. Those
who went to Universal studios were greeted by that dean of motion picture production.

© 1932, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. Chesterfield cigarettes taste better. As smokers become more experienced, they demand milder cigarettes.
Chesterfields are milder. Their mildness is just as much a feature as the beauty of their package. The tobaccos are
mild to begin with. Patient aging and curing make them milder still. And Chesterfields contain just the right amount of
Turkish—not too much—carefully blended and cross-blended with ripe, sweet Domestic tobaccos. Chesterfields are milder. They taste better. That’s why “They
Satisfy.”
