6* THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 16, 1932

Lindbergh Kidnapping Is Newspapers’ “Big Story”

Many Elements Make the Event of Interest to All Classes of Readers

Cleveland, O.—(IP)—From the point of view of reader interest, the story of the kidnapping of the son of Col. and Mrs. Charles A. Lindbergh is considered by newspaper men to be one of the biggest stories that has ever “broken.” There are, of course, stories which have been of far more importance to every newspaper reader—such as the outbreak of the World War, the assassination of presidents, and the depression. But probably never has there been aroused such universal interest in an event. There are many reasons for this, the outstanding being the fact that here is a story the full import of which every newspaper reader of any intelligence whatever was able to grasp on the first day it “broke,” and on every other day that it continued to be news. Everyone who reads the story, especially all women, is able to place himself in the position of the Lindberghs and understand their emotions.

Furthermore, Col. Lindbergh is undoubtedly unique as an internationally known, admired, and respected individual. It is doubtful if any other individual in history has been so thoroughly “written up” in the newspapers, or so well known, in his own lifetime. Again, it is a baby known to almost everyone who is most vitally involved. There are, therefore, the elements of fame, human interest, indignation, love of children, glamor of young parenthood, and respect of motherhood, all wrapped up in one news story.

Accident Is Fatal To Davidson Youth

Thomas Newall Hobbs, 11-year-old son of Mr. and Mrs. Hobbs of near Davidson, was killed last Thursday, March 10th, on the highway between Davidson and Mooresville. Eddie Stines, of Philadelphia, was driving the car that struck Thomas as he bounded from the school bus on his way home. As Thomas alighted from the school bus, the car struck him and knocked him approximately 75 feet. The bus was headed toward Mooresville and Mr. Stines was driving toward Charlotte at an estimated speed of about 30 or 40 miles per hour. The boy’s home was only about 200 yards from the scene of the tragedy, and he was accompanied by his elder brother who followed him off the bus. Thomas’ face and body were badly mangled and when Mr. Stines reached his side he revealed that there was no sign of life in his body. Mr. Stines immediately placed the child in the car and rushed him to the Mooresville Hospital where the physicians pronounced him dead and they stated that they believed that his death ensued instantaneously. It is believed that the accident was one of those unfortunate “unavoidable accidents.” Mr. Stines had a preliminary hearing last Monday night and the Magistrate postponed the trial until June 14th.

College Dramatists Present Two Plays

“Well I Declare” and “In the Zone” Are Given March 8th

The fourth program of the Red and Black Masquers, consisting of two one-act plays, was presented here on the night of Tuesday, March 8th.

Extra Holiday

Over 600 students enrolled at Davidson College are benefitting from the fact that this is Leap Year. It’s not the generally accepted benefits that they are reveling in, however. Their joy comes through the announcement of the faculty that they have been granted an extra holiday during the spring recess because of the 29th day of February. One day at this period of a student’s college career is almost equivalent to a whole week in the minds of some. Under the revised schedule, the holidays will begin at 12:30 p.m. on Thursday, March 24th, and the students won't return until 8:30 a.m. one week later.

J. C. BAKER (Continued from page 1)

He explained how the present competition will benefit the railroads. It causes them to wake up and promote men with practical and well-founded ideas for improvements. He also spoke of the school itself, giving in a general way the essence of what they strive to give. It is not a situation where all that apply are taken. About half are turned down and they endeavor through various channels to obtain those who are best situated to take what they can give there. So far they have not been able to reach the heights hoped for in this respect. Out of a class of about 600, the usual number to graduate is about 350. Some cannot return because of previous scholastic standing and some cannot return because of personal reasons.

MAJOR RHETT (Continued from page 1)

After he completes his study next year, the Washington authorities will probably send him to the foreign field for service or place him on the general staff, on which Colonel Scott has previously served.

DR. BOYD (Continued from page 1)

As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. Dr. Boyd closed his inspiring talk by having all present repeat a passage from Philippians, “Bringing into captivity every thought to obedience of God.”

The course covers two years and they do not allow the entrant to pick and choose; his first year is mapped out practically altogether as the school sees fit. The second year the student can pick out some particular field and advance as he can. Many choose banking. But the fact that one certain field is chosen does not mean that his living will be made in it. Many that study for banking are given other jobs. These he used as illustrations. Dr. Baker stated that a good knowledge of English composition is one of the best courses that can be taken for preparation for the school. Accounting and economics were other advisable courses. The main idea of the school is to prevent men from trying to become experts too soon. Arrowsmith was used as an example. Specialists are not required and those that are trained for special lines of work do not necessarily follow it. The background is very necessary and then the student can decide. Another great advantage is gotten from the fact that the school will get the student a job if they can. They do not promise anything, but the case is such that usually all except about 30 or 40 have situations by the time of graduation. The latter part of the hour was given to answering questions asked by the class.

DAVIDSON PRESIDENT (Continued from page 1)

Its education is along pagan lines. There is no religious education in the schools; Bible instruction in the homes has been reduced to a minimum; and churches have only about half the children for about 20 minutes a week for religious training.”

At the evening banquet, attended by Davidson alumni, trustees, and patrons, Dr. Lingle told of the growth and expansion of the college and plans for the future. The toastmaster was Professor R. C. Deal, of East Carolina Teachers’ College, Greenville. Both interspersed their remarks with many anecdotes. So successful was the banquet, with alumni from 14 towns of East Carolina, that a permanent East Carolina chapter of Davidson alumni was organized, with Rev. R. E. McClure, pastor of the local church, as president; Dr. R. S. McGeachy, of Kinston, vice-president, and Gene Booth, of Kinston, secretary-treasurer. These three officers will draft definite details of organization and make plans for annual meetings. About 100 alumni reside in this section.

College Men Put Over Tab-Collar Shirt Story

It is difficult to conceive of another story that could rank with it. It is interesting to note, also, that for the first time the radio has taken on the aspect of a newspaper in making regular and timely reports on the progress of the case. Far from detracting from the newspaper sales, this has engendered them, and after every radio report on the case newspapers throughout the nation have been swamped with calls from the radio audience seeking further information.

Two Matches Are Fired By Davidson Rifle Team

Charlotte Scouts and Gastonia Gun Club Are Opponents in Matches

Last Saturday night, March 12th, the Davidson College Rifle Team met the Charlotte Scouts here in the College Armory’s seventy-five foot range, in the first match of the season. Three teams competed in the match: the visitors, the varsity team of Davidson, and the freshman team. These three teams’ scores were compared, and it was found that the varsity had the highest, the freshmen came second, and the Scouts were the losers to both teams. This year’s team’s captain is Samuel S. Wiley, of Salisbury, N. C., and the manager is Paul F. Brown, of Atlanta, Ga. Other members of the team are: M. L. Brohard, Allen Graham, Francis Scott, Albert Mills, Craig Purcell, and Everett Escott. The stellar marksman on the freshman team is Gordon Green, of Rome, Ga.; he has competed with several of the varsity shooters and has had the better score.Members of the freshman team are: Rigdon Dees, Baxter Simpson, and “Judge” Cathey. Last Tuesday night, a team composed of the best members of the varsity and freshman teams journeyed to Gastonia, where they met the Gastonia Gun Club in a shoulder-to-shoulder match. This team was also met last year.

MASQUERS PRESENT PLAY
(Continued from page 1)

The cast for the play is the same as when presented here, with the change of one character. Alfred Tong takes the place of Dave McLain as the detective. The cast is as follows:

The Tramp - A. Rachal
The Groom - Jimmy Simpson
The Bride - Mattie McLemore
The Chauffeur - Ed Hancock
The Novelist - Carrie Lena Moffett
The Wife - Gordon Wood
The Constable - Jack Williams
The Milkman - Bill McIlwinen
The Other Woman - Alfred Tong
The Detective - Joe Womble

The Red and Black Masquers are also planning to take this play to Statesville on March 8th. The plays were “Well, I Declare” and “In the Zone.” The first of these was given under the direction of Henry McFayden. Its plot concerned an experiment which involved a wonderful fluid discovered by Dr. Dalton. The solution was astounding as well as amusing. The second play of the evening, “In the Zone,” was directed by Horace Ervin. It is one of a series of sea stories written by Eugene O'Neal, the setting of which is S. S. Glencairn.

The casts for the plays were:

“Well, I Declare”
Dr. Dalton - Gordon Wood
Assistant - Charlie Moore
Rabinowitz - Dave McLean

Fad Turns Into Popular Demand as Males in all Walks Take it Up

Chalk up another goal for the college man: He has scored again as a style-maker of men’s apparel. This time it is the “tab” shirt. A year ago, one or two manufacturers put out a shirt with a “tab” collar. There was no blare of trumpets or sounding of cymbals. They thought it might be a fad for a few months and expected it to die a rapid death. Today, the men of the country have the shirt makers busy turning out ‘tabs,’ and all because the collegians put their stamp of approval on the novelty. They liked it, bought it, wore it, and it is now spreading to all walks of life.

The tab is a combination of British strength and American style. The collar is thin and doesn’t wrinkle. The smartness and class is the color and pattern combination which the stylists have evolved. The prevailing patterns are fine cluster stripes in blue, tan, gray, green, brown, and lavender. They are so fine and so close together that they give the fabric the appearance of smooth, solid-colored texture with a fine grain. These patterns come in broadcloth and add to the already sheer luster of the material. Another broadcloth has “candy” stripes, which are slightly more pronounced. The same color and pattern combinations are seen in madras, which is also offered in solid blue, tan, and Oxford with tab collar in solid blue, tan, silver, and green. Tabs are also found on shirts of solid white broadcloth and of broadcloth with “white on white” stripes or white figures.

The popularity of the tab indicates that many men feel that it solves the problem of the fellow who desires the neatness of a starched collar and the comfort and convenience of a collar-attached shirt. This is believed to be one of the chief factors in the trend towards tabs in college, where men are apparently paying more and more attention to their neckwear. The tab is in the center of the collar, up and down, and buttons over a collar button. It is wider than those at first offered, as the narrow tabs drew the collar and made it wrinkle. A unique and efficient feature is a narrow strip of celluloid, which slips into the front point on either side underneath and keeps the front of the collar erect. Comfort and smartness for the tabs are provided by expert “shaping” of the collar to the neck. Some of the first English tab collars were too full and high at the sides, causing a wrinkle or fold around the bottom of the collar on each side. Now they are cut out like a regular, starched, separate collar and present a smooth surface all around. They are 2½ inches high in front, 1½ inches at the sides, and 1½ inches in the back.

It looks as if it were made of heavy, dependable material. That's the British of it. And pride of materiality, however, has been tempered by a style typically American. You can't put your finger on it but it’s a smart collar, a snappy collar. That's the reason, it is said, the college men took to it instantly. That's the reason it is taking on so generally among men outside of college. Another thing that gives the tab silver. Another popular shirt is...

During the intermission between the plays, The Sunnyland Serenaders played several selections which were enjoyed very much.

MUSIC PROGRAM
“Doc” Newton to Assist (Continued from page 1)

Laird as Baseball Coach

George Pardington rendered as vocal solos “A Perfect Day” and “Little Mother of Mine,” with “The Border Ballad” as an encore. Following these solos, the Glee Club again chose as their selections Ollie Speaks’ “Morning” and “The Road to Mandalay,” and “Going Home,” taken from Dvorak’s new World Symphony. “The Sleigh” by Kountz-Baldwin and Schubert's “By the Sea,” two new numbers sung by the Glee Club, received hearty applause.

It is very probable that William “Doc” Newton, Davidson’s new head coach, will assist coach Flake Laird with the varsity baseball team this year. Newton, who is at present in Birmingham, Ala., is expected to return to the campus in a few days to begin work with the team. Coach Newton, in addition to his gridiron record, has as great, if not greater, record on the diamond. He pitched for the Baltimore Orioles for two consecutive seasons, during one of which they established a world’s record of winning 27 consecutive games. He also pitched for Birmingham of the Southern League, for the Montgomery club of South Alabama, and then for ball clubs at St. Joseph, Mo., Little Rock, and Kinston, Va. He was baseball and football coach at Howard College for two years and it was from here that he went to the University of Tennessee to become scout and baseball coach, but as the latter was abolished there, he never had a chance to coach. It is hoped, therefore, that Coach Newton will work with the hurlers this spring in hopes of developing several good ones, as the scarcity of pitchers was the team’s weak spot last year. It is evident also that Davidson could not find a more capable man to assist Coach Laird in developing a good all-round team.

SCARLET TANAGER
Sodas — Tobacco — Sundries
Open All Night
Friday, March 18th
Prompt Service

The Pills Brothers, a trio composed of Dave McLain, Geddy Monroe, and Billy Northern, functioned well. The program was the most complete musical entertainment given by Davidson students this year. It was well-rounded, containing both classical and popular modern selections. The same program was also given Tuesday night at Belmont High School.

SUITS
With the dash to lead the EASTER PARADE
$18.95 to $27.50

Even though you have decided to cut down on your clothes budget this year, you can well afford to lead the Easter parade in the matter of correctness and quality. We have bought with that idea in view ... and now that we've told you ... so can you.

Men’s Street Floor