R. O. T. C. INSPECTION TODAY

The Davidsonian

SALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

SPRING SERVICES NEXT WEEK

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 20, 1932 No. 26

Annual Spring Services Will Be Conducted Here By Prominent Ministers

Doctors Thompson, Myers, DuBose, and Glasgow Take Part in Evangelistic Program

SERVICES LAST ONE WEEK

Speakers Are Outstanding Leaders of Southern Presbyterian Church

In choosing four men to conduct the spring evangelistic services, the Y. M. C. A. has sought to obtain those
whose personality, character, and achievements would appeal especially to college men. They happily found the men whom they sought in
Dr. W. T. Thompson, Dr. C. F. Myers, Dr. H. W. DuBose, and Dr. S. M. Glasgow. The student body
is very fortunate to have these outstanding ministers on the campus at this season.

The services will begin next Sunday evening at the regular vesper hour. At this time Dr. W. T. Thompson will
inaugurate the evangelistic services with a vesper talk. There will be no service Monday morning, but on Monday night Dr.
Charles F. Myers will speak. Dr. H. Wade DuBose, Tuesday morning and night, and Dr. S. M. Glasgow, Wednesday morning
and night, will continue the evangelistic program, Dr. Thompson closing the services at vespers a Sunday night week.

Dr. Thompson is an old Davidson man and a frequent visitor to the “hill.” He graduated in the class of
1905 and received his theological training at the Union Seminary. After filling pastorates at Knoxville and Mobile, he returned to
Union Theological Seminary as professor of religious education, a position which he has held for a number of years. He
has been offered the pastorate of the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church in New York, but he declined. He will deliver
the commencement address at Princeton Theological Seminary and the baccalaureate sermon at N. C. C. W. this year.

Dr. Charles F. Myers is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Greensboro and conducted the spring evangelistic services last
year. He is well known and greatly admired on the Davidson campus.

Dr. Henry Wade DuBose, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Spartanburg, is a graduate of Vanderbilt University and the
Louisville Theological Seminary. He has filled pastorates at Mobile, Ala., and Danville, Va., but has been located in Spartanburg since
1923.

Dr. Samuel M. Glasgow, brother of Mr. Tom Glasgow, well known to Davidson men, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church
in Savannah, Ga. He has for several years been the leading spirit of the North Carolina Young People’s Conference held
on the Davidson campus each June. He contributes the program for Young People’s Societies in the Christian Observer. Each of
these men is very much interested in young men and is noted for power to reach them.

Pan-Hellenic Council Members Are Named

The Pan-Hellenic Council for the scholastic year 1932-1933 was recently chosen by the ten national Greek letter fraternities of the
college, one man being chosen by each fraternity. The officers of the new council have not as yet been chosen,
but the election will probably take place this week. The president of the council for the past year was Allen
H. Whitehead, of Wilmington, and E. D. Kuykendall, of Greensboro, was secretary and treasurer. The organization was established on the
campus for the purpose of supervising and chaperoning the Davidson social activities on and off the campus. This year, under
their supervision, a large number of entertainments have been put on in Charlotte, and it is hoped that the new
council will carry on the excellent work of the retiring members.

The newly elected men and their fraternities are: Fred L. Smyre, of Gastonia, Beta Theta Pi; William F. Mulliss, of
Martinsburg, W. Va., Pi Kappa Alpha; D. Meade Bernard, Jr., of Jacksonville, Fla., Kappa Alpha; Alex G. Little, of Valdosta,
Ga., Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Fred B. Fleagle, of Davidson, Kappa Sigma; Robert H. Alderman, of Florence, S. C., Pi Kappa
Phi; W. Allen Mebane, of Burlington, Phi Gamma Delta; George C. Neal, of Ruffin, Theta Upsilon Omega; John G. O’Keefe,
of Bluefield, W. Va., Phi Delta Theta, and J. W. (Continued on page 6)

Fraternities Stage Spring Houseparty

The spring house party, featured by the annual Bowery Ball, proved to be a big success and furnished lively amusement
for the campus on the 15th and 16th. Budding spring brought forth one of its most beautiful days to welcome
comely girls who made the situation perfect. The music, furnished by E. B. Robinson and His North Carolinians (formerly Davidson's
Sunnyland Serenaders), allowed the high spirits of none to decline until everything had come to a satisfactory close. All the
entertainments were sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council.

The opening entertainment of the series was Friday night, lasting from 10 till 2, at the ballroom of Hotel Charlotte.
This was the only one of the set which was formal. Surroundings of black and white panels were most appropriate
for this affair. During intermission a feature was presented by the Burkheimer School of Dancing. No more need be said
of them other than they reached their height of pep and rhythm during the afternoon entertainment and later soiree.

The Bowery Ball, lasting from 9 till 12 Saturday night at the Charlotte Armory, afforded unusual amusement and pleasure. Previous
to a few dances, a feature was presented by the Burkheimer School of Dancing. Besides having a larger attendance than
is usually recorded at this feature entertainment, the spirit of the affair was enthusiastically entered into, and it was made
a gala occasion. Among the costumes, all nationalities and walks of life were represented. Everything from a grass-skirted damsel to
a flashing Russian maiden was present. The bowery motif, of course, was adhered to by the majority of the crowd.

The following list contains the names of the girls up on the house parties: Phi Gamma Delta: Miss Margaret Gorrell,
Winston-Salem, N. C.; Miss Mary Lib Cunningham, Greensboro, N. C.; Miss Marie Leonard, New York City; Misses Louise Burr, Blacksburg,
Va. Kappa Alpha: Miss Isabelle Pollock, Bluefield, W. Va.; Miss Elizabeth Gilmour, Wilmington, N. C.; Miss Elizabeth Lewis, Chester, S.
C.; Miss Heiston Scott, Davidson, N. C.; Miss Agnes Vaughter, Bluefield, W. Va.; Miss Cynthia Barnes, Anderson, S. C.; Miss
Mary D. Marion, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Harriette Cobb, Durham, N. C. Pi Kappa Alpha: Miss Susan Gregory, Greensboro, N.
C.; Miss Elizabeth Morton, Charleston, W. Va.; Miss Helen Dodge, Douglaston, L. I.; Miss Mable Wilkie, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss
Caroline Fuller, Durham, N. C.; Miss “Pick” Welton, Durham, N. C.; Miss Virginia Knee, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Sallie Pat
Kafer, (Continued on page 6)

Managing Editors of Paper Are Appointed

Casali, Clardy, Schenck, Thompson, and Williams Selected for Posts

The managing editors for next year’s Davidsonian staff have been selected. They are: Odi Casali, sports editor, and Lyman Clardy,
Alex Schenck, W. M. Thompson, and Jack Williams, Jr., managing editors. These men are all members of the Reporters’ Club,
and that great confidence is placed in them is shown by the fact that to receive any one of these
coveted positions a man must be elected by the unanimous vote of the retiring managing editors. The retiring editors are
E. O. Guerrant, D. D. McBryde, R. I. McCallie, C. F. Myers, and B. B. Sugg.

Casali is exceptionally well suited to be athletic editor, having made his numeral last year in football, wrestling, and baseball.
He is from Welch, W. Va., and is a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. Schenck is a
member of the Beaver Club and belongs to the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He earned a numeral in tennis
last year. His home is in Charlotte. Clardy is a member of the Beaver Club and the Phi Gamma Delta
social fraternity. He is from Talladega, Ala. Thompson also belongs to the Beaver Club. Last year he made his numeral
in football. He is from Richmond, Va., and is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Williams is a
Sophomore track manager. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity and is from Waycross, Ga.

From these five men the editor of the Davidsonian to succeed Ed Guerrant will be chosen.

Successful Schedule Is Completed By Debaters

Three Teams Have Five Victories, One Defeat and Three Non-Decisions

The Davidson College debating teams are having one of the most successful years in history. Out of the nine debates
in which they have participated, they have won five, lost one, and have three non-decisions. There are three teams, the
first being composed of Jack McKinnon and Bill Rule, the second of Ed Kuykendall and Pete Knox, and the third
made up of Riley Powell and Leland McKeithan. The two outstanding accomplishments of the season are the two victories over
Bucknell University at Lewisburg, Pa., and Emory University at Atlanta, Ga. Bucknell has had a very extensive schedule, sending teams
throughout the Middle West and throughout the South. Out of the fifteen or twenty debates they have taken part in,
they have suffered only two losses, both of these being to Davidson. The victory over Emory was the first in
ten years.

Dr. Smith to Speak At O.D.K. Initiation

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, former president of Davidson College from 1901 to 1912, and now president-emeritus of Washington and Lee
University, is to be the principal speaker at the annual Omicron Delta Kappa public initiation exercises to be held here
on May 9. The newly elected members will be privately initiated at 7 o'clock. The address of the evening will
follow that, after which Dr. Smith and the new members will be honored with a banquet. The new members are
to be selected from the present Senior class and the rising Junior class.

Dr. Smith was graduated from Davidson in 1881. While a student here he won several medals in mathematics, Greek, and
English, and was a representative of his society. Dr. Smith left here and became president of Selma Academy for five
years before taking graduate work at the University of Virginia in 1886. In 1887 he came to Davidson as a
professor of physics and received his M.A. degree in 1888 and Ph.D. degree in 1890 from the University of Virginia.
In 1906 he became the president of Davidson College.University of Carolina conferred upon Dr. Smith the honorary degree of Doctor
of Laws. He is a well-known lecturer and was at one time a guest of the British government and the
King of England, when he presented the Washington statue to the English people for the State of Virginia. Dr. Smith
is a charter member of the Alpha chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa at Washington and Lee and has long since
been publicly interested in O. D. K. work.

His lectures are of a philosophic, scientific, and educational nature. Dr. Smith is a pioneer leader for prohibition. During the
late World War, he made a most valuable contribution to the War Department in combatting the enemy. Dr. Smith is
in much demand as a speaker, and members of the local chapter feel it an honor in securing him as
their guest speaker.

Student Body Picks Pope as "Yow!" Head
Succeeds Vereen M. Bell as Head of Davidson’s Humorous Magazine

In the annual election for the editorship of the Yow! for the coming year, held last Tuesday, April 12, Reeves
Pope was chosen to fill the position to be vacated by Vereen Bell. Pope and Woody Calligan were the two
nominees for the position. The new editor is from Talladega, Ala., and is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social
fraternity. His extra-curricular honors and activities are: memberships in Delta Pi Kappa, the Red and Black Masquers, and the college
orchestra. Calligan’s home is in Wadesboro, N. C., and he, too, is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity.
His extra-curricular activities are the following: memberships in Delta Pi Kappa, Sigma Phi, Delta Phi Alpha, the Glee Club, and
the college orchestra.

Last year marked the birth of the Yow!, the offspring of a slowly dying Chameleon, an entirely serious magazine. Contrary
to the belief of many, the Yow! is not humorous in its entirety, although the greater part is devoted to
the presentation of humor, leaving about a fourth for the above-mentioned serious matter. When it was seen that the Chameleon
could not survive much longer, several heads got together, and as a result, we now have the Yow!. Perhaps the
head that featured mostly among those that suggested the idea was that of Croswell Ragin, the first editor.

Student Body Banquet
The date of Thursday, April 28, has been set for the annual student body banquet, which is simultaneous with the
beginning of the new regime of officers for the 1932-1933 session. The election of next year’s officers for all the
organizations has been in progress for the past several weeks. The installation of the new officers will take place in
the auditorium of Chambers Building, the ceremony beginning at 6 p.m. After the inauguration of the new officers, the student
body will go into the banquet hall where supper will be served. It is planned, as is customary, to have
all the boarding houses contribute some food, and they will not serve supper that night. It is important that every
man be present to start the new officers off in the proper manner and to let them know that the
entire student body is back of them.

R. L. McCallie Is Chosen New Editor and Chief of Next “Quips and Cranks”
Popular Junior Selected by Students Over Three Other Men on First Ballot
TO SUCCEED E. C. DWELLE
Annual Expected to Appear About Second Week in May

Bob McCallie, of Chattanooga, Tenn., has been elected by the members of the class of 1933 on the first ballot
as editor-in-chief of Quips and Cranks, Davidson's annual, for the year 1932-33. McCallie was elected over C. F. Bettis, W.
A. McKeithan, and D. M. McConnell, all three of these men being eliminated on the first ballot. McCallie was photographic
editor of this year’s Quips and Cranks and began work on the annual his Sophomore year. During his Freshman year,
his ability was recognized by the fact that he was selected to join the Reporters’ Club. He is not only
outstanding in the literary field but also athletically. He is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity and also of
the track team. In track, McCallie made his numeral in his Freshman year, and since then has made his letter
in that sport, participating in the hurdles. Besides this, McCallie was managing editor of the Davidsonian this past year, served
on the Student Council, and also on the Cabinet. The new editor-in-chief succeeds E. C. Dwelle, Jr. of Charlotte, N.
C., who has been editor of Quips and Cranks this past year. The annual is expected to appear about the
second week in May. This year’s annual is expected to be a very colorful book, with a great many originalities
in color schemes and designs. The business manager is named by the Publications Board. Bob Gorrell was the business manager
of this year's annual.

McBryde Is Elected President of I. R. C.
At a meeting of the International Relations Club last Wednesday night, Duncan McBryde was elected president for the ensuing year;
Al Grant, vice-president; and Lyman H. Clardy, secretary and treasurer. The retiring officers are Grier Martin, president; and I. O.
Guerrant, secretary and treasurer. The meeting was called to order by President Martin, and a report of the papers written
for membership in the club was given. The subjects of the papers were varied, but all had to do with
questions of international importance. A few of the topics were: The Von Hindenburg Election; Hoover's Moratorium Plan; and the Sino-Japanese
Controversy. At the conclusion of these reports, the retiring president gave a short talk on the I. R. C. Convention
held in Winter Park, Fla., some time ago, to which the club here at Davidson sent delegates. The new men
that were initiated last Wednesday night were: L. H. Clardy, Talladega, Ala.; A. H. Grant, Mebane, N. C.; Avory Patton,
Greenville, S. C.; J. S. Mackorell, York, S. C.; G. Gels, Moore, Charlotte, N. C.; C. M. Norfleet, Winston-Salem, N.
C.; R. C. Morrow, Mexico; J. E. Lake, Atlanta, Ga.; E. A. Hancock, Bluefield, W. Va.

Sigma Upsilon Bids Five New Members
It has been announced that Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, has issued bids to five new men, four Juniors and
one Sophomore. They are: W. A. Flinn, Atlanta, Ga.; D. W. Hollingsworth, Florence, Ala.; A. G. Little, Valdosta, Ga.; W.
F. Mulliss, Martinsburg, W. Va.; and C. L. Brown, Concord, N. C. These men will be initiated Wednesday, April 27,
at K. Brown's home. Sigma Upsilon remains, since its establishment in 1914, among the most active of all academic societies
at Davidson. The fraternity, founded at Sewanee College in 1906, has about thirty chapters, distributed at various prominent colleges in
the country, of which this is the Blue Pencil Chapter. It extends bids to those who have distinguished themselves in
literary fields both by interest and ability and is coveted greatly by students in these branches.
