THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 26, 1932

CITADEL BULLDOGS NOSE OUT WILDCATS, 7-6

THE SPORTS PARADE

DAVIDSON HARRIERS MEET DUKE FRIDAY

Despite the defeat at the hands of The Citadel last Saturday, the Wildcats must be complimented on their determined uphill
fight which finally netted a touchdown for Davidson in the closing minutes of the game. And even in defeat, the
Wildcats looked great. Compliments must be passed out to the victors also, and especially to the ever-alert Jennings, who has
been waiting for three years to taste victory over Davidson. The Citadel, who we rated the underdogs by three touchdowns
last week, played a great game against Davidson Saturday, as Davidson has played against teams which were supposed to be
their superiors in past years. We do not think that Citadel has the better team, but at the same time
we understand that football games are decided by the score and the Bulldogs held the big end of a 7-6
score.

Quite a few Davidson students have been wondering why Davidson’s coaches did not use “Buck” Mills at all in Saturday’s
game. They feel that if Mills had been in the contest the result would have been different. Whether or not
Davidson would have won cannot be decided now that the game has been played, but let us look at the
Citadel-Davidson game of 1931. Davidson won, 14-7, and “Buck” was the player who was largely responsible for the Wildcat victory.
Mills hurled a pass to King to give Davidson her first score. Later he recovered a Bulldog fumble on their
8-yard line and Pearce scored Davidson's second touchdown on the following play. Mills also got credit for the longest run
of the game when he returned the opening kick-off 47 yards.

We were told that we were largely responsible for Davidson’s defeat Saturday because we had predicted a three-touchdown victory for
the Wildcats and thereby had made them a bit cocky. We resented the flattering statement on these grounds. We do
not think that predicting victory or defeat would affect a football team in that way. If we did think so,
then to make the Wildcats feel the underdogs and to make their opponents feel cocky, we would always predict victory
for Davidson opponents. In order to escape any further accusations, we hesitate to predict an outcome for the Clemson-Davidson game
this Saturday, but instead, present a few statistics surrounding the play of the two teams this season. Of course, we
don’t put any more faith in these scores than you do, but just for the fun of it we figured
out that Davidson will win from Clemson and then we figured that Davidson will lose to Clemson. Take a look
at these.

Davidson beat Wofford, 40-6; hence Davidson is 34 points better than Wofford. Wofford beat Erskine, 7-0; hence Davidson is 41
points better than Erskine. Clemson beat Erskine, 19-0; hence Davidson is 22 points better than Clemson. Duke beat Davidson, 13-0,
and Duke beat Wake Forest, 9-0. Hence Wake Forest is 4 points better than Davidson. Carolina tied Wake Forest, 0-0;
hence Carolina is 4 points better than Davidson. Georgia Tech beat Carolina, 43-14; hence Georgia Tech is 33 points better
than Davidson. Georgia Tech beat Clemson, 32-14. Hence Clemson is 13 points better than Davidson.

Yes, it sounds like the work of a maniac, but there you are. Comparative scores mean nothing. The items above
prove that.

Captain Jennings Leads Citadel to 7-6 Victory Over Davidson Gridders

Star Bulldog Quarterback Scores All His Team’s Points in Sensational Exhibition

With an elusive, eel-hipped quarterback named Jennings leading the way, the Fighting Bulldogs of The Citadel turned in the week’s
outstanding upset with a 7 to 6 victory over their highly favored opponents from Davidson. The Cadets, playing before a
homecoming crowd and against a team they were itching to lick, rose to unprecedented heights, and played inspired football, to
leave the Wildcats dazed as to what was happening.

It was that boy Jennings who was the garlic in Davidson’s stew all the way through the exciting gridiron classic.
He started things off by returning Pearce’s punt 48 yards, through the entire Davidson team, to ring up Citadel’s touchdown.
He then converted from placement, which proved to be the margin of victory. Not satisfied with scoring all of his
team’s points, the redoubtable Jennings broke through a heavy Davidson forward wall, late in the game, to smother Mackorell’s try
for the tying point. He had gone back in defeat before a Wildcat onslaught twice before, once by one touchdown,
and again by a lone point, and victory in his final varsity campaign must be indeed sweet.

Despite the will-o-the-wisp actions of the shifty Jennings, Hugh King had a hand in the Bulldog victory. He sent an
80-yard punt spiraling over Pearce’s head, that went out of bounds on the Wildcats’ 5-yard line. It was on the
kick-out that Jennings made his spectacular run for touchdown. Pearce, who handled Davidson’s kicking assignment during the first half, punted
well, as did Mackorell, who took over the job in the last half. The Wildcats played better ball than the
Bulldogs on paper, scoring nine first downs to two for the Cadets. However, the scoreboard tells the victor, and even
though it can’t show how close it was, 7 to 6 shows the bitterness of the struggle between the two
ancient foes.

The Citadel touchdown came about the middle of the initial canto, when after an exchange of punts, King placed his
80-yard boot out on the Davidson 5-yard marker. Pearce kicked out to Jennings, who received the ball on Davidson’s 48-yard
stripe, and eluded two tacklers, and on the 35-yard line his interference formed, and he went on unimpeded to a
touchdown. He kicked the goal from placement. The ball see-sawed back and forth, largely in Davidson territory, and the half
ended without further scoring. The third period also proved uneventful, no scoring threats being made. However, in the dying moments

Big Five Standings
Team W. L. T. Pet.
Duke 2 0 0 1.000
N.C. State 2 0 0 1.000
Carolina 0 0 1 .000
Davidson 0 2 0 .000
Wake Forest 0 2 0 .000

Wildcat Flankman
JOE MORRIS, END

Joe Morris, stellar Sophomore end, who has pleased Wildcat coaches with his performances this fall. Morris scored Davidson's only touchdown
Saturday against Citadel by catching a pass from Johnny Mackorell.of the game, capable Johnny Mackorell reeled off runs of 12
and 17 yards respectively to put the ball on The Citadel’s 2-yard line. Mackorell was held for no gain, and
Willson bucked it to the 2-foot line. Fleagle then lost 12 yards in an attempted end run. Mackorell then dropped
back and sent a flat pass to Morris, lanky Wildcat flankman, who stepped over the goal line for a touchdown.
The ever-alert Jennings broke through and blocked Mackorell’s attempt for the touchdown. There is no need to put down here
who was the outstanding man on the Cadet eleven. Captain Jennings, out for revenge, put on a one-man show, and
won the day, over a higher-rated aggregation of leather-toters, and with the long-booting King playing in the supporting cast, took
off the honors of the afternoon for both sides. Johnny Mackorell proved his worth as a triple-threat man in the
Wildcat backfield, when he took over the punting assignment in the last half in addition to his running and passing.
He also got off the two longest runs from scrimmage that were made during the afternoon. The work of those
dependable blocking backs, Bruce Peabody and Eb Willson, cannot be overlooked. Willson started the game at right half, and the
little fellow played a bang-up game. Morris, Hand, Rives, and Wagner were outstanding in the Wildcat line.

115 W. 4th St., Charlotte

LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOPPE
“The Original Sandwich Shop”
VISIT US

and Davidson

TOBACCOS
STUDENT FOUNTAIN SERVICE
W. S. HENDERSON
NEXT DOOR TO POST OFFICE
CANDY SUPPLIES

Davidson Tracksters To Meet Blue Devils
Howard and Frazier Unable to Compete as Teammates Seek to Avenge 1931 Defeat

Next Friday both the Varsity and Freshman cross-country teams will tour to Durham for a meet with the Duke distance
men. Both teams are looking for revenge for defeats last year, and both may get it. Training has been going
on in earnest since school began, and everyone seems to be in good shape to meet the Blue Devils this
week. The varsity will have to adapt their stride to the Duke five-mile course, while the Freshmen will only cover
two and one-half miles. Tryouts were held last Friday in order to determine who would make the trip. The order
of the varsity men at the finish was as follows: Rufus Morrow, Hubert Morris, Archie McFadyen, George Gullette, Bob Woodside,
and Ray Richardson. The Freshmen who will probably make the trip are Billy Merchant, Archie Shuford, Fields Young, Harvey Glass,
Paul Harlan, and Foy. John Howard, the second-best man and only Senior on the varsity team, will not be able
to go because of ministerial duties which bind him to the vicinity. The Freshmen will suffer the loss of Captain
Frazier, stellar distance man, who is ineligible because of scholastic standing. The varsity has a meet scheduled with the Winston-Salem
All-Stars on Friday, November 11, and another the following weekend with Clemson College.

Line-ups:
Citadel (7) Position Davidson (6)
AGNOIMSS stood se scee [Diy sscusceees Morgan
McFadden ~-------- | Cr Be aepeeteps reeaee Wagner
McCraw <=----<-2.- iGiecccesccne see and
Mitchell _-------- Center_-_____-- McElrath
Griffinesss ses cceece RiGmeaveeesessces Rives
Ogvilvie ~--...-2=2. Re bysvcee (C) Whitfield
Kiligiecccssusccucoug RB esocseteecees Morris
Jennings (C) ------ QB iscses see Peabody
Bakercoccscusccs cee JUS Bee nes Mackorell
Havulkner cusessscse ROH ee eescco8 2.. Willson
Symmes ----------- Bib iecceeeccces Pearce

Score by periods:
Citadel: 7 0 0 0-7
Davidson: 0 0 0 6-6

Citadel scoring: Touchdown, Jennings; point after touchdown, Jennings (placekick). Davidson scoring: Touchdown, Morris. Referee, Frew (Washington & Lee); Umpire, Hackney
(North Carolina); Head linesman, Von Koinitz (South Carolina).

What Davidson’s 1932 Opponents Did
DUKE 9, WAKE FOREST 0.
W. & L. 0, William & Mary 7.
WOFFORD 7, Erskine 0.
V. M. I. 6, Virginia 4.
CLEMSON 0, South Carolina 14.
N. C. STATE 17, Florida 6.
CAROLINA 14, Georgia Tech 43.

NOTICE
Have your shoes rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Work done while you wait.
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

Betas, Pikas, Phi Delts Lead Way in Football

The inter-fraternity football tournament drew near to the end with the Beta Theta Pi, Phi Delta Theta, and Pi Kappa
Alpha fraternities yet remaining undefeated. The Betas are leading the field by the virtue of victories over the Kappa Alpha
and Sigma Alpha Epsilon teams, which placed them in the finals after receiving a bye. The Pikas and Phi Delts
meet in the other half of the semi-finals and the winner plays the Betas for the championship. The Pikas defeated
the Sigma Phi Epsilon and Kappa Sigma fraternal men, while the Phi Delts overcame the Theta Upsilon Omega fraternity. They
then entered the semi-finals when they were favored with a bye. The Betas, after taking the K. A.’s for a
ride to the tune of 12 to 0, went on to win their second encounter from the S. A. E’s
by yardage. When neither team was able to score after playing the full game and an extra period, the ball
was given to each team for five minutes. The Betas gained thirty yards by a pass from Richardson to Taylor
and because the S. A. E’s were not able to gain by fifteen yards, the Betas were given the decision.
The Phi Delts eliminated the T. U. O’s in the first round 6 to 0 after a hard-fought battle. The
Phi Delts scored in the last few minutes of play by a pass from Lafferty to Lewis. The Pikas eked
out a victory over the S. P. E. aggregation in the first round and then nosed out the Kappa Sigs,
6 to 0. The Pikas’ score came early in the game when, after a series of downs, a pass from
Gregory to Andy Little marked the defeat of the losers. The winner of the tournament will be decided this week
when the two best teams play on the varsity field for the championship. The Phi Kappa Alpha fraternity was the
winner last year.

Professor and Mrs. Kimbrough Return

Professor and Mrs. John T. Kimbrough returned to Davidson Monday, October 24, after a honeymoon trip by motor through the
Valley of Virginia to Annapolis, Maryland. They are now living in an apartment at the home of Mrs. Potts on
South Main Street. Prior to her marriage on Tuesday, October 18, Mrs. Kimbrough was Miss Mary Stough of Charlotte. The
ceremony was performed at the home of the bride by Dr. W. W. Peele, pastor of the First Methodist Church
of Charlotte. A large number of friends and relatives witnessed the beautiful and impressive service.

For Prompt and Courteous SERVICE VISIT NORTON’S Barber Shop

HEADQUARTERS FOR ALL HABERDASHERY for DAVIDSON MEN Fresh, New Merchandise Always at IVEY’S DAVIDSON SHOP
