THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1932

TREKKING WEST

EDITORS CRASH MOVIE GATES IN HOLLYWOOD

By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

“Coming face to face with the stars of Hollywood was our experience at a luncheon given by the Motion Picture Producers’ Association at the Hollywood Writers Club on Sunset Boulevard. Louis B. Mayer, president of the Association of Motion Picture Producers and chief executive of M. G. M., addressed the group. He praised the vigilance and progressiveness of the nation’s newspapers, declaring that newsprint and motion pictures were two of the greatest agencies of education in the world today. Conrad Nagel was introduced following Mayer’s speech and assumed the task of master of ceremonies. Some of the other producers present were Winfield Sheehan, David O. Selznick, Joseph M. Schenck, J. L. Warner, Carl Laemmle, Jr., Emanuel Cohen, Hal Roach, Samuel Goldwyn, Earl W. Hammons, Harry Cohn, Mack Sennett, and Howard Hughes.

GALA SCENE

Bright-colored umbrellas shaded scores of tables dotting the lawn where we dined while listening to the strains of an orchestra and feasting our eyes on Hollywood's pulchritude and talent. Dew collected from lofty mountain crags sparkled in the glasses. This crystal nectar is called Sparklettes. The paper stated that ten thousand Hollywoodites crowded the streets and rooftops to catch a glimpse of the stars as they dismounted from their automobiles at the doorstep of the Writers Club. Hollywood opened its doors and the studios holding fast the secret of her genius were flung open too. Each studio sent forth its most glamorous and exotic stars. It was a gala scene with the outstanding members of Hollywood's social and cinematic world mingled with the crowd.

STARS PRESENTED

Among the galaxy of celebrities appearing in the Hollywood Citizen who took part in the performance which followed were: Robert Montgomery, Clark Gable, Jean Harlow, Joan Marsh, John Miljan, Anita Page, Polly Moran, Buster Keaton, Ramon Navarro, Lawrence Grant, May Robson, Johnny Weissmuller, Robert Young, Jimmy Durante, and Colleen Moore from M. G. M. From R. K. O. studio were Dolores Del Rio, Roscoe Ates, Joel McCrea, Ann Harding, Fay Wray, Tom Keene, Kay Johnson, Gwili Andre, Arlene Judge. Paramount was represented by Tallulah Bankhead, the Four Marx Brothers, Bing Crosby, Irving Pichel, Burns and Allen, Sari Maritza, Stuart Erwin, Sylvia Sidney, Cary Grant, Charles Ruggles, Richard Bennett, Richard Arlen, Jack Oakie and Philip Holmes. Eddie Cantor in person arrived from the studio of Samuel Goldwyn. Then the Universal's stars appeared. They were Tom Mix, Lew Ayres, Boris Karloff, Gloria Stuart, Sidney Fox, Paul Lukas, June Clyde, Slim Summerville, Charles Murray, Tala Birell, Tom Brown, and Russell Hopton.

MORE CELEBRITIES

From Warner Brothers-First there appeared William Powell, Kay Francis, Chic Sale, Paul Muni, Edward G. Robinson, Joe E. Brown, Joan Blondell, and Helen Vincent. Fox Films sent Janet Gaynor, Charles Farrell, Elissa Landi, George O’Brien, Paul Roulien, Minna Gombell, James Dunn, and Sally Eilers. “Our Gang” came toddling in from Hal Roach, with Charlie Chase, Thelma Todd, and Zasu Pitts. Educational was represented by Harry Langdon, and Andy Clyde. Mack Sennett’s contribution was Dorothy Granger and Babe Kane.

NEWS VERSION

Like a mighty CAVALCADE from a triumph of war, the National Editorial Association arrived in Hollywood today. From every boulevard and BACK STREET came citizens to greet the throng. “WHAT PRICE HOLLYWOOD” shouted an editor, carried away by the emotional fervor of the reception. And just then, CYNARA appeared radiantly beautiful on the stage. Well-nigh HYPNOTIZED, the crowd gazed in awe. Unabashed, THE NEW YORKER advanced to the edge of the onlookers. “MAKE ME A STAR,” he pleaded insidiously. But only a STRANGE INTERLUDE followed this outburst. “He’s MOVIE CRAZY,” whispered an editor’s wife. Withered before a thousand scornful eyes, the intruder drank THE BITTER TEA OF GENERAL YEN and slunk into the street. OUR GANG stepped into the breach and restored order. MR. ROBINSON CRUSOE flailed his arms for attention and roared an invitation to the Utopia of all editors—a desert island. Which, all remarked, was a “HAPPY ENDING.”

Heidda Hopper said the stars were more frightened at appearing before the editors than in their pictures. Each star present made a short talk and some of them were unusually good. Nearly all the stars were in Hollywood then with the exception of Joan Crawford, Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., Maurice Chevalier, and Stanley and Oliver Hardy. Sidney Fox and Gloria Stuart were especially nice and autographed my program.

BORIS KARLOFF

Boris Karloff, the terrible monster in Frankenstein, was at a table back of ours and it was with fear and trembling that I asked him for his autograph. But he was very cordial and granted my request. He is the most mysterious personage in the film capital. He is a man of silence, with a quality of quietness which at times seems almost deadly. He is never seen at premieres but seeks seclusion in the mountains where there will be few contacts. He has few friends and acquaintances in Hollywood. I hear that he spends a great deal of time creating strange disguises, for he is by nature a recluse and stands apart from the seething life of the film capital.

Here are a few items about some of the stars and celebrities. Clark Gable is sporting a new shiny roadster. ... El Brendel ended his speech when called on a la Garbo, “Ay tank Ay go home now.” ... Polly Moran wore earrings at the suggestion of Lil Tashman. ... Lovely Heidda Hopper is running for the County Central Committee from the Los Angeles district ... 95 stars tested to play in Red Dust with Gable and Harlow and Mary Astor was selected ... Silvia Fox looks like Sylvia Sidney and they get each other’s mail but refuse to change their names ... Bing Crosby denies being a crooner ... Groucho, Harpo, Zeppo and Chico have a dog named Kayo ... Greta Nissen is causing considerable gossip in the film colony by going a-hunting for an apartment all by her lonesome ... Durante is popularly known as “Snozzle” among the stars ... Tala Birell is related to the royal family of Austria ... Joan Blondell’s favorite sport is trout fishing ... Ann Harding has had her phone disconnected since her divorce and until just lately has not been “in” to friends.

After the program given at the Writers Club we began a happy trek to the studios where the remainder of the afternoon was spent.

High Class Work at Economical Prices
MARTIN BROS.’ SHOE SHOP

The Silver Screen

Wednesday, Nov. 16—Scarlet Dawn—(Warner)
This story, adapted from Mary McCall’s novel, is concerned with the difficulties of a young officer of the Tsar’s guards as he faces the issues of the revolution. He finally marries one of his servants (Nancy Carroll) and becomes a son of toil instead of...

Recent Gift

Mr. George F. Robertson, an alumnus of the class of 1878, was a visitor at Homecoming last Saturday, and while here he presented the Davidsonian staff with a book of his own authorship. The book is entitled “A Small Boy’s Recollections of the Civil War,” and is written from the author’s own experiences.

Franklin D. Roosevelt Prominent as Student

Cleveland, O—President-elect Franklin D. Roosevelt...is recalled by many Harvard University graduates here as the “Rosy” of their college days. Rob Roy Alexander, a Cleveland investment broker who was in the same class with Roosevelt and served as a class officer with the president-elect, tells of some of his recollections of Roosevelt in college. “He was a lanky, good-natured boy,” Alexander said, “and one of the most popular men in his class. He was elected chairman of the senior class in 1904 almost without opposition. Although he was a good track man, his main interest was people. Wherever you found a group assembled, you were almost sure to find Rosy.

“After graduation, the class was almost split by a faction that we called ‘the Back Bay boys’ from Boston. They wanted to run the class because they were in closer touch with the university. As chairman of the class, Roosevelt delivered a speech at the Swampscott reunion and succeeded in bringing both factions into perfect harmony.”

Roosevelt roomed in old Westmorly Court, some distance from “the yard,” where most of the dormitories were located. He was always recognized, even at a distance, by the peculiar shake of his head when he walked. Roosevelt did not know at that time that many of his collegemates would become well-known political figures. United States Senator Robert J. Bulkley and Gilbert Bettman, attorney general of Ohio, were in the class ahead of him. Arthur A. Ballantine, now assistant secretary of the treasury, was a classmate. Ballantine was president of the Harvard Union, a debating society, in his senior year. Ogden Mills, secretary of the treasury, and Congressman Chester C. Bolton were in the class just below Roosevelt.

The story, although rather weak as a whole, possesses some very well-imagined moments. Douglas Fairbanks, as the young officer, plays his part very well. He also helped Niven Busch, Jr., write the adaptation.

Thursday, Nov. 17—Red Dust—(M-G-M)
Red Dust succeeds in giving Clark Gable and Jean Harlow an opportunity to display that curiously similar sort of good-natured toughness that is common to both of them. The story takes place on a rubber plantation in Indo-China. Harlow, Gable, Mary Astor, and Gene Raymond are all implicated in the rather brazen moral mix-up that results from the efforts of Gable. Harlow’s effortless vulgarity, humor, and slovenliness make for her a noteworthy characterization. She does perhaps her best acting to date in this picture.

Friday, Nov. 18—They Call It Sin—(First National)
Another version of the story of the small-town girl who falls in love with a man from the city and on following him back to the city finds that he is already engaged to a debutante. However, she soon finds out what a person of her accomplishments can do on Broadway. Besides possessing Loretta Young and two leading men (David Manners and George Brent), this picture also has the one and only Una Merkel who contributes considerably to the entertainment value.

Saturday, Nov. 19—I Am a Fugitive From a Chain Gang—(Warner)
The producers do not mince matters nor is there any of the usual bowing to popular appeal in this vehement attack on convict camps. At several points, one might be justified in assuming that the cruelty of the guards is exaggerated; however, the sight of scores of men working with shackled ankles is enough to make much of the narrative seem credible. James Allen (Paul Muni), an ex-sergeant in the A. E. F., is the victim of circumstances and is convicted and imprisoned. He escapes and becomes affiliated with a bridge-building concern in Chicago. He is exposed and sent back to prison and escapes again, but by this time he is a broken man. Many of the scenes are very realistic. One of the pathetic results that follow prison life is revealed. The staggering gait that the felons inherit as a result of the thirteen links that connect their ankles.

“DRUGS” Student “PRESCRIPTIONS” Make Our Store Your Store WHITE DRUG CO., Inc. “SODAS” Supplies “SUNDRIES”

THE GREATEST UNDERWEAR VALUE
You can pay more than HANES costs—but you can’t get more. Just try to match HANES values. There’s the Gold Label Light Weight Union Suit or Athletic Union Suits with the belt. That’s patented and can’t be imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and Shorts in a variety that will make it easy for the most fastidious to choose from. All at prices that will make you wonder how it can be done. P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.

Monday, Nov. 21—Rackety Rax—(Fox)
“This is a brilliant travesty on college football and racketeering.” It is taken from Joel Sayre’s brief novel. Knucks McGloin (Victor McLaglen) decides that he must have a football team, so he founds Carnarsie University and converts all his gang into football players. After a very successful season, he agrees to play a post-season game with the heretofore unheard-of Lake Shore University. As the game proceeds, he finds that his team is playing against one of his rival gangs; then the battle begins in true gangster fashion. Victor McLaglen, Vincent Barnett as the racketeer’s henchman, and Nell O’Day as a girl sports writer, are outstanding.

Tuesday, Nov. 22—Payment Deferred
Charles Laughton plays the same role that he had in the stage play of the same name by Jeffrey Dell, that of William Marble. Marble murders his nephew to obtain enough money to invest in franc exchange. Laughton, with characteristic ability, sustains the dramatic interest in every possible manner. As in the stage play, the death and burial are left to the imagination of the spectator. The queer twist at the end is what gives this grim tale its title.

INTERCOLLEGIATE PRESS (Continued from page 3)
failed to give him the $1,900 which his four years in college cost him. Young Smith’s attorney, Harold T. King, said he would appeal the case to the Colorado Supreme Court.

South Bend, Ind—(IP)—Rumors that, because of Pittsburgh’s defeat of Notre Dame, Notre Dame would have a new football coach next year were denied emphatically here by Jess Harper, Notre Dame athletic director. “Rumors can fly where they will,” he said, “but Anderson (Hunk Anderson) will be back at Notre Dame as head football coach. The fact that he lost a game is no reason to fire him. Why, we at Notre Dame feel he has done a fine job. He stepped into a tough job and we like the way he has handled things. Any reports to the contrary are mere propaganda and should be treated as such.”

Johnson’s Barber Shop
“Four Out of Five College Men Come Here”

Students Sizes in “Thanksgiving Special”
NEWEST COLLEGE MODELS IN TUXEDO SUITS
Complete with Vest $25
J O JONES CO CHARLOTTE
Students Shop, $20

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY “SCARLET DAWN” DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, JR.—NANCY CARROLL
THURSDAY “RED DUST” CLARK GABLE—JEAN HARLOW
FRIDAY “THEY CALL IT SIN” LORETTA YOUNG—GEORGE BRENT
SATURDAY “I AM A FUGITIVE” PAUL MUNI—GLENDA FARRELL
MONDAY “RACKETY RAX” VICTOR McLAGLEN—GRETA NISSEN—NELL O’DAY
TUESDAY “PAYMENT DEFERRED” CHARLES LAUGHTON