THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 6, 1932

Chesterfield Radio Program

MON. & THUR.
BOSWELL SISTERS
10:30 p.m. E.S.T.

TUES. & FRI.
ALEX GRAY
10:30 p.m. E.S.T.

WED. & SAT.
RUTH ETTING
10 p.m. E.S.T.

SHILKRET'S ORCHESTRA every night but Sunday
NORMAN BROKENSHIRE, Announcer
COLUMBIA NETWORK

any pretty girls like a MILD and PURE cigarette that
© 1932, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Fleagle Speaks at Quadrangle Club
Discusses “A Page From the History of Spain”

The regular monthly meeting of the Quadrangle Club, an organization for the members of the faculty, was held on March
31, at 7:30 o'clock. The following officers were elected for the coming year: President, Dr. G. B. Watts; Vice-President, Prof.
H. E. Fulcher; Secretary-Treasurer, Prof. J. P. Williams. Also, the two extra members of the executive committee were chosen, Dr.
Price Gwynn and Captain F. M. Cochran.

Professor Fleagle was the speaker of the evening, choosing as his subject, “A Page From the History of Spain.” It
was a most enlightening paper, sketching various political vicissitudes of Spain from early days down to the recent abdication of
King Alfonso. It was a clear-cut analysis of various changes in government which Spain has undergone. It was voted that
at the May meeting there would be a social meeting in honor of the ladies.

HOLIDAYS ARE SPENT
(Continued from page 1)

and boating, and talking to the “fair femmes” on the beach. What a life! Besides all this, the baseball fan
was in a sort of sandlot heaven in the Sunshine State, where the New York Yankees captured the championship of
the so-called “Grapefruit League.”

’Tis well to speak of those who've been, but just a few lines about those who stayed. Davidson has its
charms, and then Charlotte is but twenty miles, and Greensboro with its Sedgefield is but ninety, and here, Blue Steele
and his boys were right ready to hand the Davidsonians some red-hot dance rhythm. So all in all, it was
great while it lasted, but now it’s over, but it’s only sixty more days until another holiday comes, and between
now and then there’s baseball, track, tennis, golf, the old standby, show, in which some are taking a six hours’
credit course, and don’t forget, Concord and Statesville are still just twenty miles away.

PROFESSORS ATTEND
(Continued from page 1)

ern frontier have been cut off. This feature of the German situation is reflected in Hans Grimm’s novel, “Volk ohne
Raum” (People Without Space), which Professor Kuehnemann regards as the best German novel of the last fifteen years.

The speaker felt that the fact that the two-hundredth birthday of George Washington and the one-hundredth “deathday” of Germany's greatest
spirit, Goethe, fall in the same year, 1932, about a month apart, should be symbolic of the friendship that should
exist between the two nations. There is kinship in Washington's ideals of liberty and the thought in Faust’s last speech:
“Auf freiem Grund mit freiem Volke stehn.”

In a recent visit to Washington, the speaker had been impressed with the beauty of the city and its splendid
memorials. “Lincoln can mean no more to any American than he does to me,” declared Professor Kuehnemann. Whether we like
it or not, America has become the Rome of today. We must work together for the prevention of war, for
justice between nations, for unity in the love of God.

The distinctly spiritual note with which Professor Kuehnemann closed this address also characterized the address of the evening in Page
Auditorium: “Goethe and the modern world.” While the medieval mind was characterized by its tendency to accept authority unquestioningly, the
modern mind wants “self-determination.” Goethe's life was a life of intensive self-culture, directed toward realizing the highest possibilities of which
that life was capable, not with a selfish, but with a social motive. The friendship of Goethe and Schiller was
significant in the life of Goethe, and the triumvirate Goethe-Schiller-Kant was a spiritual peak in Germany’s life. “Goethe showed the
way to the development of the personal life, a life of service and duty, beautiful, and reflecting a developed soul.

Lincoln Foundation Desires Mementos During Summer
Foundation Will Dedicate Monument to Great Emancipator

Dr. Louis A. Warren, director of the Lincoln Historical Research Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana, asks the Davidsonian to help in
locating any really genuine Lincoln curios in this section. In the Foundation’s museum and library and in many other historical
institutions all over the country, he states, there are innumerable priceless mementos of the Great Emancipator, yet he feels that
treasured away in many a home or office there must be manuscripts, newspaper and magazine articles, books and pamphlets, pictures,
medals and other Lincoln items that are every bit as valuable. He seeks the aid of this newspaper and its
readers in bringing these to light.

Sometime next summer at Fort Wayne, according to Dr. Warren, the Foundation will dedicate a massive bronze statue of the
“Youth-"ful Lincoln," done by the famous sculptor, Paul Manship. In connection with this, there will be held a two-day "open
house" in the Foundation’s museum and library. For this "open house," Dr. Warren is planning a special exhibit of Lincoln
relics collected from individual owners and not heretofore shown in public. Each of the displays will give full credit to
the owner, and perhaps the more important ones will later be purchased by the Foundation. Dr. Warren promises that all
items submitted for the special exhibit will be returned. Davidsonians who feel that they have something of unusual interest should
communicate immediately with Dr. Louis A. Warren, Lincoln Historical Research Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana, or Mr. H. J. Lattimore, Lincoln
National Life Insurance Company, Charlotte, giving full details concerning the articles in their possession.

In the four years since its establishment, the Lincoln Historical Research Foundation has become the center of Lincoln information in
America. Under Dr. Warren’s direction, there has been assembled the largest private collection of literature ever gathered about one man,
Biblical characters excepted.

Dr. Price H. Gwynn To Make Lectures

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, Jr., of the Department of Education of Davidson College, has been invited to deliver a series
of lectures to the student body of Mitchell College. There are to be four lectures, all of which will be
given during the month of April. In them, Dr. Gwynn will develop the subject, "Marriage and the Family." The titles
of the lectures will be as follows:
1. Social Changes Affecting Marriage and the Family.
2. Seeking a Mate.
3. Factors Conditioning Successful Married Life.
4. The Christian Ideal of Marriage and the Family.

Chicago—(IP)—The editorial staff of the De Paulian, annual of De Paul University here, have done away with a tradition by
substituting for its campus beauties section a section which will include the pictures and write-ups of five students distinguished for
their achievements in scholarship, athletics, social activities, and campus activities. Brains, the editorial staff explained in making the change, are
far more important than beauty, especially for a college student, and it was felt more appropriate to honor the brainy
students than the pretty co-eds.

The city is the most uncomfortable place in which to do nothing in particular; you must either work or be
bored.—A. A. Milne.

"FOOLISHNESS" IS SUBJECT (Continued from page 1)

People are repelled because nature prompts us to hold on to our possessions and give only as little as possible.
Those who see life and understand truth see the things back of this teaching. They understand the statement, "Whoso gains
his life shall lose it; and whoso loses his life for my sake shall find it." The worldly-minded person cannot
understand this and therefore calls it pious nonsense. The foolish doctrine, in spite of ridicule, serves many people. It helped
Simon Peter so that he was able to stand before the Jews and accuse them of murdering Christ. It served
Stephen so that he could try to convert the people. It served Paul so he could preach "Jesus Christ and
Him crucified." The foolish doctrine has been the help of many other apostles who have stood for an ideal. In
the sixteenth century, Martin Luther said, "God helping me, here I stand." The martyrs have believed that it is better
to have suffered and died for an ideal than to live without an ideal, as a coward.

Washington at Valley Forge was faced with all manner of difficulties: cold, hunger, poverty, overwhelming numbers of foes, and no
hope of foreign aid. It would have been easy for him to have quit and let things remain as they
were, but instead, Washington worked and won. He won, not at Yorktown, but at Valley Forge, when he was fighting
his battles against odds. In the same way, we at college win, not at commencement time, but as we fight
our daily moral battles alone. There is one question which must be answered by everyone: Are we willing to be
fools for Jesus’ sake? Are we willing to stand the ridicule of the world? Ridicule is a powerful foe which
makes the bravest man run. Piety is almost despised by many. Are we willing to face ridicule? The women who
were going to Christ’s tomb had their difficulties. There was a big stone, a Roman guard, a Roman seal, all
opposing them, yet they had the foolishness of faith. The stone was rolled away for the women. They kept on
toward the goal.
