THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 23, 1932

BOOK REVIEW

Bowery Ball 1919—John Dos Passos. Harcourt, Brace and Company.

On April 16, the Pan-Hellenic Council will sponsor a series of three entertainments in Charlotte which, with the house parties held by the social fraternities, will make up one of the outstanding weekends of the spring term. The entertainment on Saturday evening, April 16, is to be the annual “Bowery Ball” and will be held in the Charlotte Armory. The first of these entertainments is to be held in the ballroom of the Charlotte Hotel on Friday evening, April 15. The second and third will be in the Armory on Saturday, April 16. Our own Sunnyland Serenaders will play at all the entertainments. The price for the Friday night dance is $1.50; for Saturday afternoon, $1.00, and for Saturday night, the “Bowery Ball,” $1.50. Special features will be sponsored, including the awarding of prizes for the best costumes at the “Bowery Ball.”

Dilemma, despondency, and adversity typify the remarkable book, 1919, by John Dos Passos. In 1919 Mr. Dos Passos recounts, with circumstantial evidence, an American history of after-the-war dilemma. The author again uses the form he introduced in The 42nd Parallel, the story sandwiches pictorial life-histories between news clippings, impressionistic sketches, and lives of historical figures. The movement from section to section is artfully casual and abrupt. One minute you will be fascinated at a barbed description of Wilson's fight for the League of Nations, and on turning the page be informed that Jack Dempsey knocked out Jess Willard in the third round.

The reader is introduced to several real characters, whose lives are all full of exciting things. First comes Joe Williams who, after a fight with an officer, deserts the navy in South America. He gets forged papers, goes to England, and is there put in prison as a spy. Finally released, he gets back to the United States, marries, and enters the merchant marine. After that, he goes from port to port, drinking and doing all he can to forget the war. A drunken fight marks the end of his attempt to forget. The other characters all tell much the same story, though they have different emphasis put on different things. The other characters are: Eveline Hutchins, a Chicago minister’s daughter who, though having an artistic nature, lives a most twisted career; Dick Savage, a Harvard student, and a pathetic figure; Anne Trent, a high-spirited typically western girl from Texas, this is the weakest part of the book, for one grows tired of this high-strung, harum-scarum brat; and Ben Compton, a communist from Brooklyn. All lead distorted lives, and the abnormal way they tried to remedy fate is pathetic and disheartening. They are all lonely and blue, America is full of ideals and propaganda, their lives have less meaning to them than the meaningless war. Driven into desperate love, and drink, they saw their civilization feed their spirits only words, so they fed their bodies to the fire of guns, or to the vapor of gas.

With these stories are biographies of Woodrow Wilson, Theodore Roosevelt, and other figures that dominated the stage during the bloody period with which Dos Passos is concerned. These stories are rather fine, for they present a bird's-eye view of a mad world; Europe is presented as a land of turmoil and hate, and America is shown as a goddess but not of liberty. Her land is for the living but not for the free. Her culture, as her liberty, seems to be veneer.

1919 is brought to a close with the burial of the Unknown Soldier in Arlington National Cemetery. “In the tar-paper morgue at Chalons-sur-Marne in the reek of chloride of lime and the dead, they picked out the pine box that held all that was left of—enie menie minie moe.” They brought the box to Washington where medals of all Allies were given the bones, big men (financially big) from New York sent flowers, the Indians from Arizona presented a little wampum (they came in war paint and feather headdress), Wilson placed a wreath of poppies, and the orators placed praise in abundance. Harding’s prayer ended the magnificent burial. Mr. Dos Passos is strongly of the opinion that with the close of that tomb, was also closed a civilization.

There is no doubt that Dos Passos has made another great contribution to American fiction. 1919 will not be as pleasant as Manhattan Transfer, or The 42nd Parallel to the average reader, but it should be read because of its genuine greatness. It not only points out the sad defeat of a number of characters, but it brings to mind the real struggle that must take place within the men who returned from war and resumed their original role. Every man should be given a copy of 1919.

J. L. Gregg.

Local Scout Troop Wins Indoor Trials

Davidson Boy Scouts defeated two Charlotte Scout troops in a contest in various arts of Scouting held at the Scout hut at Hawthorne Lane Methodist Church. The three-way meet was between Troop 1 of Davidson and Cornelius, Troop 5 of Hawthorne Lane Methodist Church, and Troop 20 of Second Presbyterian Church. The score was: Troop 1, Davidson, 15 points; Troop 5, 13 points; Troop 20, 8 points.

The events were: Fire by friction, won by Sloop and Ingram of Troop 1; knot-tying, won by Colvin of Troop 1; dressing relay, won by McBryde of Troop 5; first aid relay, won by Watson, Ray, and Martin of Troop 5; signaling, won by Cochran, H. Mooney, J. Mooney of Troop 1; indoor baseball, won by Troop 20. The officials of the meet were all of Troop 11, as follows: Scoutmaster Reginald L. Price, chief; George C. Rowe, L. G. Edwards, W. C. Edwards, Louis Dixon, and Parks Austin.

Davidson President Speaks in West Va.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle left Davidson Saturday, March 19, to conduct a speaking tour in West Virginia. The trip required two days, Dr. Lingle speaking at Welch, W. Va., on three occasions, and at Bluefield twice. Sunday morning the president of Davidson filled the pulpit of the First Presbyterian Church at Welch. That evening he delivered a sermon at a mass meeting of the Welch theatre at the Pocahontas Theatre. Before leaving that city, Dr. Lingle addressed the students of the senior high school on Monday morning. At Bluefield, W. Va., he spoke early Monday afternoon to the Beaver High School students. That night Dr. Lingle was honored at a dinner meeting held at the West Virginia Hotel for alumni of Davidson. The audience was

Educational Groups Meet in Charlotte

The North Carolina Modern Language Association recently met in Charlotte. The convention was held in conjunction with the North Carolina Educational Association. This meeting was held to further interest in the three great modern languages, French, German, and Spanish. Each language had its representatives and had its individual and separate meeting. On Friday the three departments met together. The speaker for the afternoon was Professor Clement Vollmer of Duke University. At this assembly the officers for the coming year were elected; Andre Hadre of North Carolina College for Women, was elected president, and Professor Blythe of the Davidson faculty was elected secretary. Dr. Vowles, also of the Davidson faculty, the retiring president, presided at this meeting. Friday evening a reception was held for the various visiting professors. The meeting was reported to have been highly entertaining and instructive.composed, in addition to alumni, of parents of the 16 boys from that section now attending Davidson, and prospective students.

Birth Announcement
On March 21, there were born to Dr. and Mrs. Price H. Gwynn twin daughters, Barbara Caroline and Betty Ann. Mother and daughters are doing well.

ANNUAL JUNIOR SPEAKING
Elizabeth Gilmour of Wilmington, and Miss Sally Pheafer of New Bern.

John Bright Speaks At Morning Service
John Bright, a member of the deputation from the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., was the speaker at the morning church service last Sunday. Mr. Bright took his text from the Book of Ezekiel and structured his whole sermon around “Forbearance.” He began by saying how glad he was of the pleasure to talk before the students and the people of Davidson, as he had heard so much of the college and its students. He then went on to say that people even in a community like Davidson sometimes have the wrong impression of a seminary. “Preachers and especially ministerial students are the most misunderstood people in the world,” Mr. Bright stated. “And the only way to clear this up is to let the people know them better.” He went further to say that the seminaries are among the most essential things in the country and without them the country would be naught. He verified this statement by saying that from the seminaries the people obtain their preachers without which a community would soon break in pieces. Going on, he proved the absolute need of the preacher and seminary and stated that they were both misunderstood by the man who calls himself a Christian but who is not one in truth. Mr. Bright went on to say that the majority of men who were such were at one time Christians but who had become lax about adhering to the principles of their religion. According to Mr. Bright, there are several reasons which bring about this effect, one of the most common being forgetfulness. He proved with apt illustrations how one may believe in Christ and be a Christian in name and yet fail to conform to the ideals which every Christian should live by because he forgets. Mr. Bright pointed out the possibility of one becoming a prophet in his community by living the Christian life in the correct way. He closed by urging us to be forbearing in all things, especially in things spiritual, and at the same time bear up in our duties as a Christian and have interest in the seminaries. Mr. Bright is a graduate of Presbyterian College and while there was a star both in football and in track, and held high scholastic honors.

Classics Fraternity Performs Initiation
Eta Sigma Phi Takes in Thirteen New Men March 17th
The annual initiation of the Eta Sigma Phi Honorary Fraternity of Classics was held March 17th at 9 o'clock in the Eu Literary Society hall, with the president, Roger Enloe, presiding. It is quite an honor to receive bids to this fraternity, and members are chosen only from the Sophomore, Junior, and Senior classes. After the initiation, the fraternity adjourned to the social center, where a delightful “feed” was enjoyed by both the old and new members. Those who were initiated into this fraternity at this meeting were Albert W. Colwell, John H. Fitzgerald, Jr., J. Parker, Jr., Henry C. Shapard, J. Geachy, Jr., T. H. McCallie, J. M. Davis, W. Mel. Thompson, Lanier W. Pratt, W. T. Thompson, Jr., Francis H. Scott, and Kenton Harrison. There will be no other bids issued this spring, as these cover the fall as well as spring term.

Gastonia Rifle Club Outpoints Davidson
On March 15, the Rifle Club of Gastonia defeated the R.O.T.C. team from Davidson College by the scores of 907 to 859 for the Class A teams and 863 to 837 for the Class B teams. The match was held in Gastonia. Representing Gastonia on the Class A team were M. S. Reid, with a score of 187; R. H. Parker, 183; H. M. Van Sleen, 182; D. E. McConnell, 179; and R. J. Frieze, 176. The Davidson team was composed of these men: Scott, with a score of 180; Wiley, 173; Green, 175; Mills, 173; and Brohard, 158. The Gastonia Class B team was represented by Jones, McLean, W. J. McLean, H. R. McConnell, and Klutz. These men shot scores of 184, 184, 173, 161, and 161, respectively. Davidson was represented by Graham, with a score of 171; Simpson, shooting 170; Ryburn, 170; Cathey, 168; and Escott, 158.

Mr. W. Cecil Neill
Mr. W. Cecil Neill, father of W. Cecil Neill, Jr., of the class of 1935, died suddenly Wednesday at his home in Columbus, Ga. Mr. Neill was president of the Georgia Senate, an outstanding lawyer of Columbus, and a faithful member of the local Presbyterian Church. His influence was felt throughout the entire state of Georgia, and the announcement of his death comes as a distinct shock to his many friends. The sympathy of Davidson students and faculty is extended to his family.

Dr. W. L. Lingle Speaks At Banquet in Winston
Address Delivered Before Men of the First Presbyterian Church
Dr. Walter L. Lingle, in an address last Thursday night to the members of the Men-of-the-Church, an organization of men in the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem, made an appeal for the men to be a living witness for Christ. He said that we need the baptism of fire and the Holy Spirit to literally transform us from mere church members into living witnesses for Christ. In this magnetic address, Dr. Lingle called for consecrated lives unto the work of Christ. This address was delivered before the quarterly banquet of the organization and was presided over by the retiring vice-president, A. B. Stroud, in the absence of Dr. W. H. Sprunt, the retiring president. A very fine musical program, which consisted of group songs and two quartets, was given under the able direction of W. H. Neal. The Rev. W. T. Baker, director of religious education of the church, gave a very interesting book review of St. John by Andrew Sird, Jr. Dr. Lingle was accompanied to Winston-Salem by Dr. J. M. McConnell who was the guest of the evening. The guest-speaker was introduced by S. Clay Williams and Dr. Lingle announced his own subject, “The Deeper Spirit.”

(Continued on page 6)

(Continued from page 1)
On going to the seminary he maintained, since that time the class has grown so large that such a procedure would be impossible. The tradition has continued to be a fellowship. Davidson Theatre The committee in charge of the week is made up of C. R. Wright, Bruce Peabody, Billy Flinn, and Leland McKeithan.

MONDAY and TUESDAY
“PLAY GIRL” LORETTA YOUNG

WEDNESDAY
“UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY” RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.
Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.
Catalog and information on request.

FRIDAY
“GIRL CRAZY” WHEELER AND WOOLSEY

SATURDAY
“ALIAS THE DOCTOR” RICHARD BARTHELMESS