THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 27, 1932

Newsmagazine, Time, Had Articles In It About Three Davidson College Alumni

Record Made by S. Clay Williams, 1905 Alumnus, as New President of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Is Reviewed

ABOUT J. W. BROWN, '12

Brief Account Given About Life of John W. Pope, Jr., ’20, Who Died in New York Last November

The national and international prominence of Davidson alumni has caused the magazine, Time, to devote space to three of them within the last several months. Two of the articles about Davidson men appeared in the last two issues of the newsmagazine, and the other appeared in November following the death of one of the leading and most colorful figures in the New York financial market.

Under the larger caption of “Business and Finance,” Time, in its January 25th issue, had an article headed, “Reynolds’ Record,” dealing specifically with the success which has been attained by S. Clay Williams, 1905 alumnus of Davidson and new president of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. The magazine used a photograph of Mr. Williams, and the portion of the article dealing with his record particularly is as follows:

“Rare is the corporation president who, taking office in 1931, can point to his first year as record high in the company’s profit history. But such is the accomplishment of large, suave, meticulous Samuel Clay Williams, who became president of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company in June, 1931. Last week Mr. Williams reported net 1931 earnings of $36,396,816. The previous high (1930) was $34,256,665.

“In contrast to his predecessor, Bowman Gray (now chairman) who is a great tobacco salesman, and to William N. Reynolds, executive committee chairman, who is a great tobacco buyer, Mr. Williams must be described as a great tobacco lawyer. He was born on a North Carolina farm and always had more fun watching his father’s lumber mill and cotton gin than he did doing chores.

“Moving from the practice of law in Greensboro, N. C., to Reynolds’ assistant general counselship, he dropped the assistant portion of the title in 1921, added a vice-presidency in 1925. Now, 47, he conceals beneath a soft North Carolina drawl a hair-trigger mind and a hair-splitting passion for accuracy in both spoken and written word.”

In the January 18th issue of Time, under “Foreign Affairs,” there was a dispatch from Rumania, with the sub-head, “Last Survivor.” It was about J. W. Brown, '12, who is doing Y. M. C. A. work in Rumania, and is the only one of 47 American Y. M. C. A. secretaries who has not been ejected from the country. Last fall Mr. Brown sent the alumni office a group photograph of five, which included Niculae Mishu, the Rumanian Davis Cup tennis player; the ex-King George and ex-Queen Elizabeth of Greece; Miss Golescu, woman’s singles tennis champion of the Balkans, and Mr. Brown. Time’s report follows:

“The bird was bouncing swiftly from bat to bat in the Bucharest Badminton Club one day last week when sad news suddenly spread through the galleries: James Walker Brown had been ordered home. Former Queen Elizabeth of Greece and her friend the Princess of Hohenlohe heard it in the royal box.

“‘Oh,’ cried her ex-Majesty, ‘he simply mustn't go! We simply can’t get along without our Badminton Club.’

“James Walker Brown is necessary to the existence of the Bucharest Badminton Club because the club plays in and was organized by the Rumanian branch of the Y. M. C. A. Sole survivor of 47 Y. M. C. A. secretaries sent to Rumania since 1919 was Mr. Brown. In the early days Rumanians felt that it was an unpardonable impudence for the U. S. to send them missionaries of any sort. The Orthodox Church was opposed to the Y. M. C. A.; Rumanian students threatened the secretaries with assault. Under efficient Mr. Brown all these difficulties were straightened out. A gymnasium was built. The Rumanian Y. M. C. A. summer camp became famed. The Badminton Club was organized and the flower of Rumania’s east joined it.

“Last week U. S. headquarters suddenly announced that there was no more money to carry on the work. The club must be disbanded, Mr. Brown must be recalled. Honorary president of the Y. M. C. A. is none other than Prince Nicholas. Last week he let it be known that as soon as his difficulties with his brother and his marriage were cleared up he would intervene on Mr. Brown’s behalf.”

John W. Pope, Jr., 1920 alumnus of Davidson, died in New York on November 23rd, at the early age of 32. He was a financial genius, and figured prominently in the stock market fluctuations. An account of Mr. Pope's death will be published in a later issue of The Davidsonian, but under the head, “Business and Finance,” Time had the following to say:

“Last week, as it must to all men, death came to John Walker Pope, Jr., 32, independent member of the New York Stock Exchange. After studying at the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, he quickly gained a reputation for masterly interpretation of statistics. Since the beginning of the Bear Market he was known to have made tremendous profits selling short securities of companies he knew to be in bad condition.

“His activities in selling short Fox Film led to an investigation by the Stock Exchange. Although he was exonerated of violating the rules or ethics of the Exchange, the long trial was a severe strain from which he was slow in recovering. Weakened by an attack of whooping cough, he died last week from a lung infection. Although he was mentioned as one of the leading bears, John Pope frowned on raiding, pools, manipulative tactics in general.”

ALUMNI PERSONAL NOTES

Alumni visiting Davidson during the past several weeks included Dr. G. A. Brown, '94, of Mt. Ulla; Rev. L. C. Vass, ’94, of Chattanooga, Tenn.; Henry T. Mills, ’06, Greenville, S. C.; Hugh A. Query, ’09, Gastonia; J. Latimer McClintock, ’10, of Charlotte; J. M. Black, '18, of Greenville, S. C.; Dr. Geo. M. Robson, '19, of Haddenfield, N. J.; Dr. Chas. M. Robson, '19, of Chapel Hill; Robert L. Black, ’22, Wilmington; Rev. L. P. Burney, ’23, of Charlotte; Roland B. Parker, ’26, of Chapel Hill; W. T. Spencer, ’26, Gastonia; Rev. T. H. Hamilton, '27, of Richmond, Va.; R. L. Lincoln, ’27, of Marion, Va.; Wm. C. Archie, ’28, of Oak Ridge; R. W. Carr, ’28, of Gaffney, S. C.; J. W. Grey, ’28, of Charlotte; Prof. T. E. Lothery, Jr., ’28, of Clinton, S. C.; Sam L. Black, ’29, of Concord; F. N. Littlejohn, Jr., '29, of Charlotte; Riggs McConnell, ’29, of University, Va., and J. R. Caldwell, Jr., '31, of Port Gibson, Miss.

Friends will regret to learn of the following recent deaths: Mrs. Rebecca Sharpe, mother of Dr. Frank A. Sharpe, ’10, of Greensboro; Dr. Eugene Caldwell, brother of A. S. Caldwell, Jr., '01, of High Point, and half-brother of David G. Caldwell, ’31, of Davidson; G. Henry Brown, father of Dr. J. S. Brown, ’89, of Hendersonville, and Dr. Geo. A. Brown, '94, of Mount Ulla; Mrs. Isabell Hill, mother of Major Robert B. Hill, ’10, of Fort Riley, Kans., and Dr. T. M. Hill, ’16, of New Kensington, Pa.; Livingstone Murphy Williams, son of Rev. Murphy Williams, '94, of Greensboro, and brother of Worth Williams, ’26, of Greensboro, and James C. Williams, ’29, of Haverford, Pa.; L. C. Hunter, father of Rev. Coyte Hunter, ’19, of Bessemer City; Mrs. J. C. Sims, sister of Mayor Scott Candler, ’07, of Decatur, and Milton A. Candler, '14, of Charlotte; Miss Janet Hollister, sister of Charles S. Hollister, '20, of New Bern, and Dr. William Hollister, '16, of New York; David A. Beaver, father of J. A. Beaver, ’24; and the mother of C. Fulton Saussy, '33, of Jacksonville, Fla.

During the month of January, 27 ministers of the Southern Presbyterian Church registered at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., for special courses and to be present at the annual Sprunt Lectures. Of this group, 16 of them were alumni of Davidson, and those attending included Rev. F. A. Barnes, '95, of Harmony; Rev. J. F. Menius, ’11, of Lillington; Rev. W. S. Golden, '13, of Carthage; Rev. J. R. McGregor, '14, of Lexington; Rev. C. A. McGirt, ’20, of Sandston, Va.; Rev. J. W. Witherspoon, '20, of Shepherdstown, W. Va.; Rev. C. N. Morrison, ’21, of Greensboro; Rev. S. M. Query, ’21, of Montvale, Va.; Rev. J. I. Parks, ’22, Spencer; Rev. R. H. Poole, '22, of Elizabethtown; Rev. S. H. Bradley, ’23, of Roanoke Rapids; Rev. H. D. Brown, Jr., '25, ofLynchburg, Va.; Rev. J. M. Carr, ’25, of Berryville, Va.; Rev. R. M. Carr, ’25, of Louisa, Va.; Rev. I. E. Hager, '27, of Keysville, Va., and Rev. E. D. Witherspoon, ’27, of Winchester, Va. The alumni office has recently received a full copy of the able and stirring address delivered at Chapel Hill in July, 1931, by Hon. Chas. G. Rose, 1900, upon the eve of his retirement as president of the North Carolina Bar Association. This address attracted nation-wide attention, and so insistent were the demands for the full context that it has now been published in pamphlet form.

John R. Falls, '28, who studied law in Washington, D.C., for the past two years, is now a student at the University of Miami, and is residing at 2741 Southwest Fifth St., Miami, Florida. The Raleigh News and Observer daily has a cartoon headed, “It Never Can Happen Again,” in which events occurring 25 years ago took place. In its issue of January 15th, it had this item, “B. R. Lacy, Jr., was a candidate for the Rhodes Scholarship.” This was Dr. Ben R. Lacy, '06, now president of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. The young student, then known simply as Ben Lacy, was a successful candidate for that scholarship.

Alfred F. Burgiss, ’28, of Greenville, S.C., was one of nine applicants who successfully passed the South Carolina Bar examination in December, and has been admitted to practice in that state. D. T. Bradshaw, '11, who suffered harrowing experiences last summer when he was marooned with a trapping party on Guadalupe Island, off the California coast, has returned to his home near Efland, N.C. L. C. Wadsworth, ’29, is gaining valuable newspaper experience as a member of the staff of The Suwannee Democrat, published at Live Oak, Fla. The editor of this paper is active at press association meetings, and during the past year, Mr. Wadsworth “put out” 15 papers without the editor's assistance.

Friends of Dr. S. M. Henderson, ‘93, of Charlotte, are advocating his candidacy for the North Carolina Senate, as a representative from Mecklenburg County. Scott Chandler, ’07, has been re-elected for the 17th consecutive time as mayor of Decatur, Ga. In response to a congratulatory letter written him by the alumni office, Mr. Chandler replied that he had no desire to be mayor of Decatur for the next half-century, but “sincerely trust that my interest and connection with Davidson may last that long.”

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
- Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
- Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.
- Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.
Catalog and information on request.

Harold F. Coffey, '20, president of the Kent-Coffey Manufacturing Company, of Lenoir, was elected president of the Furniture Club of America, at a recent meeting of this organization in Chicago. Mr. Coffey has lately refused to consider a post on the Caldwell County Board of Commissioners, but the people of that section are threatening to conscript him into this additional field of service.

Friends in and near Wadesboro honored Gen. W. A. Smith, ’64, of Ansonville, upon the occasion of his 89th birthday on January 11th. Gen. Smith, a visitor to Davidson twice within the past few years, is commander of the North Carolina Confederate Veterans. Rev. C. D. Whiteley, '14, has accepted the pastorate of the First Presbyterian Church at Albemarle, and came from his former residence at Logan, W. Va., to begin his duties in Albemarle on January 17th. The former pastor of this church, Dr. C. G. Long, ’21, is in a year in study and travel.

Dr. E. N. Booker, ’20, of Selma, has been chosen as secretary-treasurer of the Johnston County Medical Society. At recent meetings of religious organizations, the following were honored: Dr. U. S. Alexander, ’15, of Charlotte, was chosen a trustee of Mecklenburg Presbytery; Rev. R. E. McClure, ’20, of New Bern, was made secretary-treasurer of the Ministerial Association of that city, retiring as vice-president, and Rev. L. P. Burney, '23, of Charlotte, was made vice-president of the Presbyterian Ministers Association of that city. Dr. E. Faison, ’24, is connected with the Maryland Medical School in the department of pathology.

Raymond C. Lippard, ‘11, is district manager of the Equitable Life Assurance Society with headquarters at 14 Haden Building, Columbia, Mo. Archie W. McLean, ’31, is now connected with the office of Congressman J. Bayard Clarke, ‘05, in Washington, and is residing at 614 East Capitol St., Washington, D.C. He is clerk of the elections committee number one. Wirt W. Harrison, Jr., ’30, is likewise in Washington, a roommate of Mr. McLean, and is clerk of a committee on printing. Both are taking business courses at night at Strayer College.

Wm. A. Mason, '31, student in the law school at Duke University, has been elected by his classmates as president of the first-year law group. Friends will regret to learn that Dr. J. F. Laton, ’06, of Albemarle, suffered two broken ribs, bruises and lacerations when his car skidded and turned over. His injuries were not considered serious. The wife and two-year-old son of Douglas McMillan, '15, of Red Springs, were critically injured the latter part of December when a car crashed into another driven by Mr. McMillan. The latter was unhurt. Mrs. McMillan and son are recovering in Highsmith Hospital, at Fayetteville.

Dr. Julian P. Price, ’22, of Florence, S.C., has been re-elected secretary-treasurer of the South Carolina Pediatric Society. The meeting was recently held in Columbia, S.C. Dr. Yates W. Faison, ’06, has recently attended special clinics in Baltimore, Md. Prof. S. H. Edmunds, '90, superintendent of schools in Sumter County, S.C., was the principal speaker at the recent Founders’ Day exercises at Queens-Chicora College in Charlotte. Prof. Edmunds is recognized as one of the foremost educators of that state.

Dr. D. H. Nisbet, '13, of Charlotte, has been made chairman of the medical staff at the Charlotte Sanatorium, and has also been appointed chairman of the special physical department committee of the Y.M.C.A. in that city. Dr. Nisbet is chairman of the general physicians’ committee of the latter organization. Rev. B. F. Wilson, D.D., ’84, of Harrisonburg, Va., has been appointed by the Virginia State Board of Education as instructor of religious education at the State Teachers College located at Harrisonburg. Dr. Wilson received his B.A. and M.A. degrees at Davidson, his B.D. at Princeton, and Wofford bestowed upon him the degree of doctor of divinity. He has also studied at Johns Hopkins and in Germany. Dr. Wilson was the organizer and first president of Converse College, at Spartanburg, South Carolina.

J. Archie Cannon, '04, of Concord, was last week a patient at the Charlotte Ear, Eye, Nose and Throat Hospital, where he underwent a minor operation.

(Continued on page 6)

For Every Season