’CATS vs. DUKE ~ MONDAY CHARLOTTE

The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

FIRST ISSUE SINCE HOLIDAYS

Vol. XIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 27, 1932 No. 15

Dr. H. J. Herring of Duke Makes Talk at Vespers On Interesting Subject

Duke Professor Speaks on Question, “What Are Our Attitudes Toward Law?”

MRS. G. R. VOWLES SINGS

Roger Enloe, President of “Y,” Has Charge of Devotionals

Last Sunday night, the Y. M. C. A. had Dr. H. J. Herring, dean of students and professor of public
speaking at Duke University, for the speaker at the vesper service in Chambers Auditorium. His subject for the evening was
“Our Attitudes Toward Law.” Roger Enloe was in charge of the devotional, reading a selection from the thirteenth chapter of
Romans. Mrs. Vowles gave a vocal solo and prayer was led by Charles Spenser and Bruce Peabody. Dr. T. W.
Lingle pronounced the benediction.

Dr. Lingle Attends Important Meetings

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, was in Philadelphia yesterday for the second time recently to attend a
conference of the corporators of the Presbyterian Ministers’ Fund. His previous visit to the Quaker City on January 7 was
for a meeting of this same conference. Between the two trips to Philadelphia he attended a three-day session of the
Association of Colleges and Universities in Cincinnati, January 20-22, and in the interim visited his daughter in Boston. Dr. Lingle
filled the pulpit in the First Presbyterian Church in Lexington, N. C., January 10, and will preach there again on
February 7. On January 17 he gave two sermons here in the local Presbyterian Church and on January 31 and
on February 14 he will deliver sermons in Presbyterian churches in Salisbury and Shelby, respectively. Dr. Lingle will give addresses
in Wilmington while he is there for several days in March, and he will go to New Bern on March
7 for an alumni meeting. Although the year has just begun, the Davidson head has been booked for numerous other
engagements throughout the South and points above the Mason and Dixon line. It is estimated that Dr. Lingle yearly travels
enough miles to and fro and up and down the United States to circle the globe more than a single
time.

Dean Herring's subject was given in the form of a question, “What are our attitudes toward law?” He showed how
nature was directed by definite laws, and the universe and all lower forms of life had laws which had to
be obeyed in order to prevent great disturbances and griefs. Man may not know all the laws of nature, but
they are present and prevent chaos in the universe. “Laws are not made, but discovered.” Throughout the ages man has
sought to discover safe, sane, and just moral laws by which to control his actions. He has built up a
code which, if ignored, will bring the inevitable consequences. Every law in this code has something of a moral command
which all know, but all do not obey. Everyone knows the Ten Commandments and the moral imperativeness of each one,
but everyone does not obey them. Man has logic which says, “Every cause has effect. Every effect has cause.” We
have civil laws because we must live together, in contact with one another. Through experience of living together, law has
been built up and developed to its present state. This law is made up of three types: civil, moral, and
the law of conventions. In this country we have been so busy obtaining and getting, that we have not had
time to build up moral principles in our hearts and minds. Man is groping around for moral standards. At the
same time man wants to be amused; he will be amused even if he has to laugh and scoff at
the basic moral laws. When the time comes that men laugh at their standards of conduct, it is time to
think about the fundamentals of living. Such a time is before us now. What are we, as college men, going
to do about it? What can we do to help the present conditions? In the economic field the laws of
economics are not wrong. They have not all been discovered. Laws which will take care of the conditions of the
present, when food is rotting while men are starving, are yet to be discovered. We should try to find those
which would govern such cases.

Today the world is talking of war and the prevention of war. The covetousness of the nations is the cause
of war. We should learn the cause of war. We should learn the supremacy of righteousness and the worthlessness of
force. Of course, we can continue to have war, but we cannot avoid the rewards of war. All of law
is against war. Natural and moral law both discourage it, but still man violates the rules. We are asked what
we can do to help conditions.

(Continued on page 6)

I. R. C. Conference Convenes at Rollins

On February 24th through the 27th the Southeastern Conference of International Relations Clubs will be held at Rollins College, Winter
Park, Fla. It is planned that the conference shall take the form of a round-table discussion, the discussions being led
by such prominent experts as Dr. Hamilton Holt, Prof. Irving Fisher, and Mr. James G. McDonald. In these discussions the
opportunity will be given the delegates of expressing their opinions and of asking questions. The topics for the discussions as
planned are: The United States and the World Court; The United States and the League of Nations, and, The United
States and Disarmament. Addresses will also be made by Mr. McDonald and Professor Fisher.

The Davidson Club plans to send certainly one and possibly more delegates to the conference. However, it is uncertain as
yet exactly who will represent the club.

Dr. Myers, Missionary to Japan, Speaks at Chapel

Pioneer Missionary Urges Youth to Think of Foreign Field and Its Great Needs

SPEAKS TO VOLUNTEER

Told of Work of Kagawa, the Japanese Religious Leader

Dr. W. Harry Myers, for the past thirty-four years a missionary, evangelist and theological professor in Japan, visited Davidson College
for a few days the first of this month and spoke at one of the morning chapel exercises. Dr. Myers,
who is a brother of Dr. Chas. F. Myers, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Greensboro, is now visiting
on furlough. Dr. Myers took as his text for the chapel exercise a passage from Romans, “For I am not
ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation.” He stated that he had
seen this “Power of God” at work in the mission fields changing the lives of sinful men. “You in America
with your modern civilization,” he went on to say, “do not see or know how much this power gets into
the hearts of heathens and inspires them to what is high and noble and right.” He stated that he had
seen it work in the heart of Kagawa, and had changed him into a great Christian power, known all over
the East. While Dr. Myers did not say so, it is understood that he was the one under whose ministry
Kagawa was converted and under whose teaching he has become the great Christian that he now is. In his talk
Dr. Myers went into detail, telling of the life of Kagawa before he was converted and then went into greater
detail telling of all the good he had been and was now doing. He recounted several other conversions which he
had seen take place and change the most unrighteous into Christian workers. He said that this was done by no
other means than the “power of God unto salvation,” and that if we who are Christians already would only apply
this power into our lives and try to show to others how the power of God does work in a
man's life for the best, that we, too, could do great work toward the salvation of men. Kagawa, of whom
Dr. Myers spoke and whom he himself converted, is now the author of many religious books and is doing a
great Christian work among the poor and the industrial people of Japan. He is known all over the Orient as
a great preacher and teacher.

Tal Henry and his North Carolinians who will play for Pan-Hellenic Mid-Winters in Charlotte January 29 and 30.

Pan-Hellenic Council to Sponsor Mid-Winters in Charlotte, Jan. 29th-30th

Ed Kuykendall and Nat Speir to Lead Figure With Sponsors Friday Night

ORCHESTRA WELL KNOWN

Entertainments Will Be Held in New Armory-Auditorium

The annual Pan-Hellenic Council will sponsor its mid-winter dances Friday and Saturday, January 29th and 30th, in Charlotte, at the
Armory-Auditorium, featuring the music of Tal Henry and his North Carolinians. These dances, in conjunction with the house parties given
by the various fraternities, mark the outstanding social event of the year. The first dance, which is to be formal,
will be given on Friday night from 10 until 2. On Saturday afternoon a tea dance will take place from
4 until 6:30, and on Saturday night the last of the three entertainments will be held from 9 till 12.
I. D. Kuykendall and Miss Sue Horner, of Durham, and N. G. Speir and Miss Holton Clark, of Fayetteville, will
lead the figure on Friday night, just before intermission.will be given from 9 until 10. The entire figure will be
composed of two representatives from each of the ten fraternities on the campus and their sponsors. The Pan-Hellenic Council considers
itself fortunate to have been able to secure Tal Henry and his orchestra. They have been playing for the past
year at the Hotel New Yorker and have also appeared in many of the United States’ theatres. This orchestra has
also been successful in the Warner Brothers Vitaphone short subjects, and its records have proved to be very popular. Henry
and his youthful aggregation all hail from North Carolina, having organized the band here in 1923. This group is said
to be a band having novelty, entertainment, and exquisite rhythm, expressed in typically Southern renditions of harmonics and melody as
offered by true Southerners. The preparation for these dances has been under the supervision of Allen Whitehead, president of the
Pan-Hellenic Council, and its other members. Ed Kuykendall is in charge of the figure, with Nat Speir and R. E.
C. directing the decoration of the Armory-Auditorium. A great many tickets have been sold and a large number of students
are expected to attend these dances.

R. O. T. C. Promotions

By special order from Davidson's R. O. T. C. headquarters, January 25, certain cadet officers were promoted. The order was
read at parade drill Monday afternoon by the Battalion Adjutant in the presence of the entire battalion. Promotion and duties
include: D. S. King to be Cadet Lieutenant Colonel; Battalion Commander; S. S. Wiley to be Cadet Major, Executive Officer;
H. H. Harris, Jr., to be Cadet Captain, Battalion Adjutant; J. O. Mann and P. S. Knox, Jr., to be
Cadet First Lieutenants.

"Y" Sends Out Seven Deputations Sunday

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. sent a number of talented student public speakers on deputations to many surrounding towns
and cities on Sunday. Various musical ensembles were rendered by some of Davidson's outstanding musicians. The deputation sent to North
Carolina College for Women for vespers included John D. McConnell, leader; Jack McKinnon, speaker. One of Davidson's quartets sang several
numbers. The members of the varsity quartet that went to Greensboro were Bill Rule, Dave McLain, George Pardington, and Grainger
Williams. Sam Wiley spoke at the evening services at Barium Springs, and Byron Schriver rendered a violin solo, accompanied by
Fred Hellegers. L. T. Newland and Jim Wilson were speakers at the 5 o'clock vesper service at the Spencer Presbyterian
Church in Spencer, N.C. Buddy Robinson, Frank Tucker, Lorenzo McPhail, and Bill Northen, another of Davidson's quartets, sang several numbers.
This same group went from there to Salisbury and held an evening service at the Second Presbyterian Church of Salisbury.
Billy Flinn and Rufus Page spoke at the Boys’ Club of Charlotte High School. Wayte Fulton spoke at a convict
camp about ten miles out of Charlotte. Charles Reed rendered a violin solo there. An ensemble made up of Edward
McNair, piano; Gordon Green, violin; Martin Voostlen, clarinet; and John Marvin, soloist, rendered musical numbers at the Second Presbyterian Church
of Charlotte.

Dr. Cumming and Bride Honored With Reception

Faculty Members and College Officials Attend Affair of Prof. and Mrs. Shewmake

OVER 125 GUESTS CALL

Marriage Took Place on December 22, in Woodstock, Conn.

Thursday night, January 14, at “Sunlit Hall,” the home of Dr. and Mrs. Edwin Shewmake, a formal reception was given
in honor of Dr. and Mrs. Cumming. The hosts were faculty members of the English department. More than 125 guests
called between the hours of 8 and 10 o'clock. They included members of the Davidson faculty, officers of administration and
their wives, members of the Book Lovers and Thelamite Clubs. The guests were graciously received at the door by Mrs.
G. R. Vowles and Mrs. Agnes Brown. In the receiving line were Dr. and Mrs. Shewmake, Dr. and Mrs. Cumming,
Prof. and Mrs. E. J. Erwin, Prof. Henry T. Lilly, and Rev. and Mrs. Calvin Cumming, parents of the bridegroom.
Guests were invited into the dining room during the first hour by Mrs. W. A. Blanton. Mrs. A. V. Goldiere
had this honor between the hours of 9 and 10. Coffee was poured between 8 and 9 by Mrs. J.
R. Withers and an ice course was served later. A color scheme of green and white predominated. The dining room
table was decorated with green candlesticks holding yellow candles. The marriage of Dr. and Mrs. Cumming took place on December
22 at Woodstock, Conn. Mrs. Cumming, before her marriage, was Miss Elizabeth Lathrop Chandler, daughter of Rev. and Mrs. Edwin
H. Chandler of Connecticut. She did her undergraduate work at Smith College, where she obtained her bachelor of arts degree,
and then studied two years at Oxford University. After completion of her studies at Oxford, she taught English on the
faculty of Smith College for the past three years. Dr. Cumming, who has been a member of the Davidson faculty
for the last four years, is a graduate of Davidson. He obtained his master of arts and Ph.D. degree at
Princeton University and then spent some time in research work at Oxford. The year preceding his coming to Davidson, he
was a member of the faculty at Williams College.

Coach Tex Tilson Joins Alma Mater

Decision to Accept Gobbler Position

Former V. P. I. Star Returns to Alma Mater to Become Assistant Football Coach

VACANCY HERE UNFILLED

Popular Line Coach Leaves Splendid Record Behind at Davidson

It is with regret that the announcement is heard concerning the resignation of Coach Tilson. He had just been made
head coach at Davidson and resigned to accept a position as assistant coach at Virginia Polytechnic Institute. When the Athletic
Council met to discuss the appointment of an assistant to the newly-elected head coach, he announced that he had been
made an offer by V. P. I. that he couldn't afford to refuse. The Athletic Council requested that the announcement
of Tilson’s acceptance of the V. P. I. offer not be made public for a week, hoping that by that
time they would be able to announce the new coaching staff. But it is learned that this is impossible to
do before spring football season begins and it may be several weeks before a decision is made. As Capt. Norton
G. Pritchett, professor of physical education, said at chapel Monday morning, the council must hasten to take its time and
yet because we want to get men who know football, who can use the material we have to the best
advantage, and at the same time please the student body. He said, “Of course we regret to see Coach Tilson
go, but one man leaving shouldn't affect the school spirit, for we must go forward and we can if we
carry on in our hearts.” In accepting the resignation of Coach Tilson, the Athletic Council praised him for the success
he has brought Davidson since he came here nine years ago, and congratulated him on his new success. These two
coaches came to Davidson in 1923, both of them coming from Younger. Younger was assistant coach there and Tilson had
just finished a brilliant record on the gridiron. Of the 88 football games they have coached, their teams have won
38, lost 43, and tied seven. Davidson during that time has met some of the scrappiest teams in the South
and it has been noted for the opposition it displays. Tilson has been the developer of the line and his
record at this position shows his capacity for the job. Younger worked with the backfield and it is with sincere
regret that Davidson accepts their resignations. Coach Tilson, in speaking of leaving Davidson and his offer said, “But you can
understand the increased offer and the desire to return to my Alma Mater.” The Athletic Council has carried on quite
a bit of correspondence the last few days in regard to selecting new coaches, but as yet it is not
ready to make a statement. It is significant that Tilson and Younger go back to their former college at Blacksburg,
Va., as assistants to Head Coach Redd, and their friends at Davidson wish them much success and happiness in their
new field.

$925 Pledged in “Y” Campaign For Funds

The “Y” campaign, which is an annual event at Davidson College, was received with great enthusiasm by the boys even
in this era of depression. Their aim was $1,000.00, and as yet only $925.00 has been pledged, but due to
the circumstances of the boys, the result was very pleasing. Of this $925.00, $225.00 has already been collected or paid
in cash. However, real collecting began this week, Tuesday, January 26, 1932. As is known, the money goes to the
Davidson Chapel, which has been greatly backed by the student body, and for foreign missions, which are in dire need
of funds at the present time. Last year the money raised was donated to Barium Springs Orphanage. Each time it
is used where it is thought to be most needed. This is a part of the annual “Y” program, and
offers an opportunity for students to help people in unfortunate circumstances, contribute toward a fund for foreign missions, or some
similar project. It is also the only undertaking in which all students of the college are privileged to participate.
