THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1933

DAVIDSON TRACK TEAM STARTS SEASON SOON

(Continued from page 5)

The State Meet will be held in Durham this year instead of Chapel Hill, and will be on the 18th
of May. Davidson placed third last year, Carolina and Duke obtaining the first two berths, respectively. Davidson will of course
enter this again this year.

The Freshmen open their season one day before the Varsity. On March 24th they meet Charlotte High here. Charlotte nosed
out the 'Kittens last year by 1 1-2 points, but the Freshmen appear stronger this year and should take their
first meet. Five days later they meet High Point here, and three days after that they encounter V. P. I.
Fresh here. Davidson Fresh downed the V. P. I. Fresh last year and should do the same again. On April
7th the 'Kittens meet Winston-Salem here. Then, after quite a long rest period, on April 29th, the Freshmen meet the
Frosh of Presbyterian College. They journey to Clinton, S. C., for the meet and there they meet their hardest foe,
and the only meet they are doped to lose. A meet has been tentatively arranged with Wake Forest Fresh May
6th, the same date of the Varsity meet, but it is subject to change. As usual, several Freshmen will go
to the State Meet in Durham this year. This will be the 'Kittens' last meet.

Varsity and Fresh running here the same day have been arranged, one on the 1st of April with V. P.
I., and the other on May 6th with Wake Forest. However, on April 29th, both teams will be away on
trips, the Freshmen to Clinton, S. C., and the Varsity to Columbia, S. C.

The schedules:

Varsity
March 25—Furman, here.
April 1—V. P. I., here.
April 4—Duke, here.
April 15—Florida, Gainesville, Fla.
April 29—South Carolina, Columbia, S. C.
May 6—Wake Forest, here.
May 13—State Meet, Durham.

Freshmen
March 24—Charlotte, here.
March 29—High Point, here.
April 1—V. P. I. Fresh, here.
April 7—Winston-Salem, here.
April 29—P. C. Fresh, Clinton, S. C.
May 6—Wake Forest, here (tentative).
May 13—State Meet, Durham.

DUKE WINS INDOOR TRACK MEET

(Continued from page 5)

points as the last event, the mile relay, was called, and Virginia made no entry, and thereby sewed the meet
up for the Blue Devils. North Carolina was third with 22 3-4 points, and Washington and Lee came next with
10 1-2 points. Others trailing were: V. P. I., V. M. I., Maryland, N. C. State, and South Carolina. Newark
Prep of Newark, N. J., led the scholastic division with 23 points, with Boys High of Atlanta second with 10
points. Episcopal High of Virginia also had 10 points and was followed by John Marshall of Richmond with 10 1-2
points. The order of others who scored in the Freshman division was as follows: Duke, University of North Carolina, Washington
and Lee, and North Carolina State.

Spring Practices Are Held for 'Cat Quintet

Coach Flake Laird, in an effort to put out an exceptionally strong basketball team next season, is having the leading
aspirants for the quint meet with him in the gym once each week. In addition to this they have practices
among themselves.themselves whenever any spare time is available. Largely, and in addition to this, a great deal of attention is
paid to shooting. A number of good basket-ringers are engaged in these practices. Among those out are Mack Holland and
Herman Dillard, who saw quite a bit of action last month, the former with the Varsity and the latter with
the Freshmen, and also some new men are engaged in the workouts. A number of promising men are out for
baseball and track, and so are unable to attend these practices.

Lauck, Virginia captain, who set a new record in the mile and also won the two-mile event, led the individual
scoring with ten points. Brownlee of Duke continued his record-smashing career as he sailed to a new mark for the
low hurdles. By placing in the 60-yard dash he totaled seven points for second scoring honors. Also outstanding was the
performance of Widmyer, flashy speedster from Maryland, who stepped the 60-yard dash in 6 3-10 seconds for a new record.
Reichman, Duke Sophomore, covered the 440-yard dash in the remarkable time of 54 1-10 seconds. Although Finkelstein was unable to
compete in the 70-yard low hurdles due to injuries sustained during the meet, he got in a new record in
the high hurdles, covering the 70 yards in 8.9 seconds.

Magazine subscription scholarship workers and crew managers write immediately for very best student scholarship offers of leading publishers. Can be
worked there now. Permanent positions if experienced, also summer crews for United States and foreign territory. The Collegiate Scholarship Institute.

STUDENTS’ CRUISES FOR FULL DETAILS WRITE 219 Republic Building, Miami, Florida.

Turner, V. P. I. star high jumper, also...

ILLUSION: The Oriental girl reclines on a sheet of plate glass supported by two slaves. The magician waves a white
sheet in front of the pretty...

“Disappearing” acts are among the most popular in the repertory of the magician. Dogs, horses, girls, whole rooms disappear—whisked into
wings, dropped through trapdoors, hidden by mirrors. But this “disappearance” is a bit different. One of the “slaves” is a
hollow dummy. When the magician holds up the sheet, the lithe little lady disappears completely—into the convenient figure of the
dummy.

Copyright, 1933, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.

Presto! She has disappeared in thin air.

EXPLANATION: ...IT’S MORE FUN TO KNOW.

There is also a trick of cigarette advertising, whereby a few magic words are used to create the illusion of
“Coolness.”

EXPLANATION: Coolness is determined by the speed of burning. Fresh cigarettes, retaining their full moisture, burn more slowly... smoke cooler.
Parched, dry cigarettes burn fast. They taste hot. This makes the method of wrapping very important.

CAMELS

Improperly wrapped cigarettes begin to dry out as soon as packed. Camels are cooler because they come in the famous
Humidor Pack of welded, three-ply, MOISTURE-PROOF cellophane... and because they contain better tobaccos. A cigarette that is fresh, full of
natural moisture, and blended from choice, ripe tobaccos tastes cooler than one that is harsh and acrid. For coolness, choose
a fresh cigarette, made from costlier tobaccos. It is a fact, well known by leaf tobacco experts, that Camels are
made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand. Try Camels... give your taste a chance to sense
the difference. You'll appreciate it!

NO TRICKS... JUST COSTLIER TOBACCOS IN A MATCHLESS BLEND.
