THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1933

Program Presented by French Club at Salem

Salem College, in Winston-Salem, was the host to fourteen members of Le Cercle Français on Tuesday, April 25. The Davidson group was entertained at dinner in the college dining hall, and afterward gave several presentations. At 8:00 o'clock the Davidson students presented a program in the auditorium of Salem Academy. A large and appreciative audience of students and faculty members was present.

Four numbers were presented. First, Lanier Pratt gave a monologue, “La Poule et Ses Poussins.” Next, Jules Romains’ comedy, “Knock,” was cleverly played by Bob Coit, in the role of Dr. Knock, and L. T. Newland and Jack Williams, who took the parts of the first and second Yokels. The dialogue, “Dans Une Rue De Provence” was presented in costume by George Gullette and Robert Smith, who received hilarious acclamation. The last number on the program was Tristan Bernard’s “L’Anglais Tel qu’on le Parle.” This play has already been presented twice by the local French society, and although the first two were successful, the third presentation was much more polished. The cast was as follows: Julien Cicandel, L. T. Newland; Betty Hogson, Madison Armistead; Manageress, George Gullette; Waiter, Jack Williams; Eugene, the Interpreter, Bob Coit; Betty’s Father, Hugh Johnston; Police Commissioner, Lanier Pratt; and Gendarme, Dale Spencer. Wills Hollingsworth was in charge of the make-up. Bill Flinn, president of Le Cercle Français, acted as stage manager, and gave preliminary resumes in English of all the numbers. William Hart gave several musical numbers before and during the program.

After the presentations, the Davidson students were given a reception in the senior house by Dr. and Mrs. Rondthaler, and the Salem French Club. Refreshments and music brought the evening to a close. The Salem club has accepted the invitation for a return engagement in Davidson early next session.

Dr. T. W. Lingle to Spend Month of June in Spain

When his boat steams out of New York Harbor on May 16, Dr. T. W. Lingle, whose journeys have taken him to many remote parts of the world, will begin his thirty-seventh crossing of the Atlantic Ocean. Mrs. Lingle will accompany him. Dr. Lingle plans to spend five weeks in Southern Spain, during the last part of May and the month of June, in order to escape the intense summer heat. He will continue his historical studies in Spain. Then several weeks will be spent in the vicinity of the Scandinavian Peninsula, in Norway and Sweden. During the last part of the summer, Dr. and Mrs. Lingle plan to pass several weeks in England, Germany, and France and then return to this country in time for the beginning of the fall semester. Dr. Lingle came to Davidson in 1908. Even then, his travels had been extensive. He received his Ph.D. at Leipzig, and studied at the University of Heidelberg, Strasbourg, and Neuchâtel, and at Sorbonne.

Socialist Movement Started on Campus

The Socialist Club, which has as its purpose to further the socialistic cause on the campus and to win converts to socialism, was organized at Davidson Friday night. Jack Goodykoontz was elected leader of the movement. The organization is a socialistic one based on the pattern of Norman Thomas, Presidential candidate last fall. Next year the club hopes to secure prominent speakers in order to further the cause. The next meeting will be held tonight at 8:45 o'clock at a place to be announced.

Fireside Forum

Dean H. J. Herring of Duke University will lead the Fireside Forum this week which again is to be held at the Social Center Friday night at 9:00 o’clock. Dean Herring is assistant dean at Duke and he was well received when he spoke here last year. He has charge of the students’ class, and has been very active in Y. M. C. A. work. The topic for the meeting has not been announced, but it is hoped that the students will continue to show the splendid interest they have manifested at the past discussions.

Social Fraternities

PI K. A’S HOLD ELECTIONS: The following men were chosen to head the local chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha for the new year: Lynn Huie, president; Dallas Wehner, vice-president; Buck Kirkland, treasurer; Horace Smallridge, corresponding secretary. Buck Kirkland was elected Pan-Hellenic representative. At the meeting of the chapter on April 27, Eb Willson was initiated into the fraternity.

PHI DELT’S SPONSOR DANCE: The Phi Delta Theta fraternity sponsored a dance at the American Legion Hut in Mooresville during the past weekend. Music for the occasion was furnished by the Davidson Orchestra. Many guests were present and delicious refreshments were served. The following guests were present: Misses Burtha Burch, Eleanor Killick, Mildred Brown, Carolyn Hodge, Dot Baker, Biddie Maddox, Mary Payne, and Evelyn Spurrier, of Charlotte; Dot Miller, Dosty Blackmon, Jean Twittey, and Dora Dunlap, of Rock Hill, S. C.; Elizabeth Rhett, Agnes Brown, and Mary Withers, of Davidson; Adelaide Bogart, Kannapolis; Margaret Klime, Salisbury, and Louise Melchor, Mooresville.

K. A’S PLAN RIVER HOUSE PARTY: Members of the Kappa Alpha fraternity are making plans for a house party this coming weekend at the lodge of Mr. Davidson on the Catawba River.

S. A. E’S TO CELEBRATE 50TH ANNIVERSARY: The local chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon is making plans for a dinner-dance to be given at the Charlotte Country Club on Saturday night, May 6th. This is to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the founding of the North Carolina Theta Chapter. Alumni and faculty members have been invited. There is to be no set program, but there will probably be a few remarks by the alumni brothers.

Dr. Lafferty Is Speaker For Physics Fraternity

Dr. R. H. Lafferty, head of the X-ray department of the Charlotte Sanatorium, was the speaker at a recent meeting of Sigma Pi Sigma, national physics fraternity, which was held in Chambers Auditorium last Thursday evening at 8:00 p.m. Dr. Lafferty dealt in his talk with physics in medicine, taking up the application of mechanics, sound, heat, and electricity and illustrating the X-ray in medicine. He actually demonstrated by fluoroscopic screen andportable X-ray machine the motion of the heart and lungs. The speaker is a graduate of Davidson High School, Davidson College, and attended the North Carolina Medical School, which was located here at that time. He was here when the first X-ray picture in America was taken. Three students broke into the physics laboratory one Sunday night and took these X-ray pictures, which are still to be seen in the college library. It was with this experience as a background that Dr. Lafferty entered the X-ray field. He has done much work in the medical field, especially in X-ray work, and important pioneer work in the X-ray treatment of cancer. Dr. Lafferty still speaks the language and thinks in the same terms as the college man of today. Davidson students often go to see him, and he is always glad to show them his X-ray machines and explain their manipulation. Dr. Lafferty is very much interested in Scout work in Charlotte, and in the social work of college men. His talk was greatly enjoyed by his student audience. This meeting was one of the few meetings of Sigma Pi Sigma held during the year, and was gratifying in its results.

ANNUAL Y. M. C. A. SPRING SERVICES ARE CONCLUDED
(Continued from page 1)

Repentance is the willingness of the individual to lose his littleness in the vastness of God. In the story of the Prodigal Son, the wandering boy received no pardon from his father until he, of his own accord and volition, betook himself to his home where forgiveness awaited him. In contrast to this, we have the stories of the lost coin and lost sheep, where the loser in each case had to go out and search for the lost before full restoration could be made. Repentance, then, is a matter of self-will, and not external force.

For the musical part of the service, Mrs. Pritchett and Mrs. Vowles sang “Nailed to the Cross.” The last of the addresses, “From Gypsy Tent to Pulpit,” dealt largely with the customs of the Gypsy people, some of the theories as to the origin of the language and the people, and the history of the conversion of his family. The Gypsy was a distinct race even before the Anglo-Saxon left the plains of India. Because of the absolute individuality of the language in respect to the great families of languages, etymologists have long been at a loss as to the place occupied by the Gypsy tongue. However, a great many have been inclined to link the Gypsy with the early Jewish tribes—the lost tribes, perhaps. In support of this belief, Mr. Smith stated that over eighty-five percent of all Gypsy names were Bible names, especially common being that of Dan. Although they have no Bibles, in fact, no written language of any sort, Gypsies have always observed a Sabbath as a day of rest and quiet. No horse trading, fortune telling, or even so much as gathering firewood is engaged in on this day. The reputation of the Gypsy has been greatly impaired by traveling bands of tramps posing as Gypsies, and though Mr. Smith admitted that the Gypsy has questionable habits, he was able to quote W. T. Stead, a great English writer, as saying: “The Gypsy in Europe has no moral peer.” No Gypsy has ever been hailed in a court for murder or prostitution, nor has it ever been recorded that a Gypsy committed suicide. The youth is taught to honor and protect womanhood and adheres more closely to this principle than does the British or American youth. Of his faults, the worst that can be laid to his door are profanity, drinking, and petty pilfery. Yet the Gypsy has had no one to tell him of the great love of Christ that can banish such habits as these, and is hardly to blame for his condition. His is, indeed, the only race of people to which no attempt whatever has been made to send missionaries, except such as those that have been sent by the Smith family.

The “Gypsy Smiths” traveled the southern part of England and it chanced that after the death of Mr. Smith’s grandmother, the family wagon was en route to London. Fresh from the grief of the loss of his wife, the old Gypsy tried to drown his sorrow at a bar, where a man took pity on him. Having no Bible, the man read to him from “Pilgrim’s Progress,” then asked him if he cared to attend a prayer service. Mr. Smith’s father, then a boy of some sixteen years, heard his father’s assent to the invitation and followed him there. From this beginning, the family, then the tribe, was won over, and now the family is represented in thirteen pulpits over America and England. In closing, Mr. Smith said that in his mind’s eye he could see two great paintings, one, a Gypsy tent, with five worthless thieves, with no God, no Christ, no schools; the other, a large hall filled with Davidson boys listening to a descendant from that tent. Underneath, Mr. Smith would inscribe these words, “What God hath wrought!”

SENIOR SMOKER
Edward McNair, of Atlanta, Ga., was selected permanent class secretary, and plans for a commencement program were discussed at a senior smoker held last week.

Youth is ever in revolt, age alone brings resignation.—James Huneker.

Something to jool just Lay tag SOMCL/UMG, ay back.’” © 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

A friend of CHESTERFIELD writes us of a salesman who had “something to say”:
“I dropped into a little tobacco shop, and when I asked for a pack of Chesterfields the man smiled and told me I was the seventh customer without a break to ask for Chesterfields. ‘Smoker after smoker,’ he said, ‘tells me that Chesterfields click ... I sell five times as many Chesterfields as I did a while ago.’ Yes, there’s something to say about Chesterfields and it takes just six words to say it—‘They’re mild and yet they satisfy.’ Wherever you buy Chesterfields, you get them just as fresh as if you came by our factory door.”