THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 1, 1933

GERMAN BOOKS ADDED TO CARNEGIE LIBRARY
(Continued from page 1)

Gundolf, F.: The famous Goethe biography in two volumes.
Hauptmann, Gerhart: Vor Sonnenuntergang, a recent play by a famous author.
Hauser, H.: Brackwasser.
Hesse, H.: Der Weg nach Innen, 4 stories.
Holitscher, A.: Wiedersehen mit Amerika.
Huch, Friedrich: Pitt und Fox, humorous novel.
Kaiser, G.: Gas II, (Gas).
Karlweis, Marta: Eine Frau reist durch Amerika (group of unusual studies of American women by a sympathetic German authoress).
Kroger, Timm: Six volumes of short stories.
Kuhlmann, R.: Gedanken über Deutschland (highly praised for its tolerant and international outlook).
Kuhnemann, E.: Goethe, in 2 vols. Of especial interest in view of the author's recent visit to North Carolina.
Mann, Thomas: Mario und der Zauberer.
Michel, W.: Nitschewo (As the Russian title suggests, this is a sort of “All Quiet on the Eastern Front.”)
Miller-Partenkirchen, F.: Kaum genügend, humorous tales of school life, partly dialect.
Neubert, F.: Goethe u. sein Kreis, with 651 illustrations.
Reuter, Gabriele: Der Amerikaner.
Rohl, Hans: Geschichte der deutschen Dichtung, eighth edition.
Roth, J.: Hiob (Job, recently reviewed in Davidsonian).
Schober, Paul: Medizinisches Wörterbuch der deutschen und französischen Sprache.
Scholz, W. von: Perpetua, Der Totenkranz and Die Nähe.
Schönherr, K.: Heimat.
Sorge, H. J.: Der Bettler.
Sperl, A.: Die Söhne des Herrn Budiwoj.
Stehr, H.: Auf Leben und Tod.
Sternheim, C.: Der Snob.
Straus und Torney, Lulu von: Sieger u. Besiegte.
Thoma, L.: Two comedies, Die Lokalbahn and Moral.
Toller, E.: Die Wandlung.
Unruh, F. von: Offiziere.
Verse der Lebenden: A new collection of German lyric, published and unpublished, from 1910 to 1932.
Werfel, F.: Der Tod des Kleinbürgers. Also a short essay by this interesting Jewish writer and thinker: Können wir ohne
Gottesglauben leben? His answer is negative.
Witkop, P.: Kriegsbriefe gefallener Studenten (actual letters from German students who fell at the front. The English translation is popular
in England).
Zweig, Stephan: Amok.

Furthermore: Sets of the following authors have been added: Chamisso, Droste-Hülshoff, Freiligrath, Grabbe, E. T. A. Hoffmann, Platen-Hallermünde, Rosegger, Rückert,
Sudermann (dramatic works; novels and short stories already on shelves).

ANNUAL MID-WINTER DANCES
(Continued from page 1)

The ladies of their choice. This will be led by W. F. Mulliss and W. A. Mebane, Pan-Hellenic officers, who
will escort Misses Hilton Roller and Dorothy Sellers, respectively. Mid-Winters have long been noted as the very best of the
year—the highlight of the Davidson social season. This year’s party promises to surpass any held in the past. As a
matter of fact, I predict that the above description will prove an understatement of the actual facts. Seven and one-half
dollars, in coin of the realm, will negotiate entrance to all three parties for any and every one of youse
guys (pardon my slipping momentarily). This is quite a nominal stipend in comparison to the enjoyment to be had.consideration of
the expenses encountered by the sponsors and the pleasure to be derived from it. It is hoped that the party
will be thronged with attendance by Davidson students and their friends.

We do not want a generation who cannot get about except by motor car, who cannot read because they are
listening in. If you would serve your brother, because it is fit for you to serve him, do not take
back your words when you find that prudent people do not commend you. Be true to your act. — Emerson.

Announcing...
SPRING OPENING
By Star Direct Tailors
Seven Hundred New Styles ... $20 to $35
January 25th and 26th --- Wednesday and Thursday
B. O. RAVENEL, Student Representative
GEO. W. LAPITZ, Factory Representative
At the “SODA SHOP” --- Next to Post Office

ILLUSION KEPT FRESH IN THE WELDED HUMIDOR PACK

This very old illusion was invented by Indian fakirs. The secret was unearthed in 1849 by the great magician, Robert-Houdin.
At that time, ether had just been discovered, and little was known about it. Houdin claimed that he had discovered
that this new anesthetic could make people light as air. To prove it, he caused the subject to rise into
the air and float apparently suspended. He passed a hoop around the body to show there were no wires or
supports.

EXPLANATION: There are many, many explanations for this old trick. One is that the girl wears a concealed harness, which
ends in a socket between her shoulder blades. This is attached to a piston below the stage. The piston is
pushed up from below, causing her to rise in the air. The piston is invisible because it is covered with
mirrors which reflect surrounding draperies, similar to the background. The magician can pass the hoop over her body because it
is cut in one place. It can be pulled apart for a second when it passes the piston.

Source: “Modern Magic” by Professor Hoffmann. George Routledge & Sons.

TOBACCOS IN A MATCHLESS BLEND
Copyright, 1933, B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company

NO TRICKS... JUST COSTLIER TOBACCOS

It's fun to be fooled... it's more fun to KNOW

Another “magic show” is cigarette advertising. One of its greatest tricks is the illusion that cigarettes can be made miraculously
“MILD” through manufacturing methods.

THE EXPLANATION: All popular cigarettes today are made in modern sanitary factories with up-to-date machinery. All are heat-treated—some more intensively
than others, because raw, inferior tobaccos require more intensive treatment than choice, ripe tobaccos. The real difference comes in the
tobaccos that are used. The better the tobacco, the milder it is.

It is a fact, well known by leaf tobacco experts, that Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than
any other popular brand. This is why Camels are so mild. This is why Camels have given more pleasure to
more people than any other cigarette ever made. It’s the secret of Camels’ rich “bouquet”... their cool flavor... their non-irritating
mildness. All the natural, ripe goodness of Camel’s tobacco is kept fresh for you by the famous air-tight, welded Humidor
Pack. Don’t remove it.
