THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1933

Clark Caps Life Of Leadership as Head Of Student Government

‘Is Man Who Has Travelled the High Road of Success as Leader

HAS SUCCESSFUL TERM

Boy From Fayetteville Has Strange Experiences in Young Days

By GEORGE GULLETTE

And so a new staff of editors have shifted into the machine that is responsible for putting out The Davidsonian.
Fairly reeking with new ideas, these men have applied themselves to making the paper better every week, and for one
point they intend to give a more personal touch to it. Nothing, of course, is more personal than to speak
of the personalities themselves. Here at Davidson we should all know each other. Oftentimes there are some here whom we
would like to know but unfortunately do not. I intend to pick out some of the outstanding personalities of the
campus, and in case you do not know them, here you may meet them. Nor shall I write of them
necessarily in the order of their importance. But while realizing that neither the world’s recognition, nor the applause of men
is of necessity the insignia of true character, nevertheless it is most fitting that I should first give an account
of your own choice as leader.

JEROME B. CLARK, JR.

Elizabethtown, N. C., a small town in Bladen County, is the revered spot where Jerome Bayard Clark, Jr., now president
of the Davidson student body, was born on May 8, 1911. After remaining there for seven years, he and his
family moved two miles out in the country where for one year Jerome was a true “son of the soil.”
Jerome took to his environment right readily and with much enthusiasm, for in his youthful eagerness he had a big
time going around with the farm hands and making them let him plow. He bothered them so much, and interfered
so seriously with their work, that his father bought him a plow and assigned him a plot of land all
his own. After one month of such vigorous labor he quite gladly forewent the pleasure, nor has he had any
desire to plow since then.

His family then moved to Fayetteville, a much larger town forty miles away. It was indeed a case of a
boy out of the country, but not the country out of the boy. Jerome had quite a bit of difficulty
adapting himself to the city, and had many strange experiences that now, of course, seem quite amusing. Having never seen
an automatic air rifle, on one occasion he thought he saw a neighboring boy shooting sparrows with a shotgun. Going
to school proved no happy occasion, for quite a while poor little Jerome was scared out of what wits he
possessed. Being thus ill at ease, he sought freedom with his favorite playmate, a policeman’s son. That character being an
officer’s son, seemed rather to exempt himself from the law than to be more bound to it, and was quite
a renegade. Those two having been commissioned by their teacher to get a cedar tree, took the liberty to hack
one down on a man’s private reservation. Upon being discovered in this, the two were forced to make a flighty
departure through wood and field, across streams, and over any obstructions that might hinder them in escaping the hot pursuit
of the landowner who was firing away with a shotgun. After the excitement had settled down, Jerome realized that he
had not picked a very good crony, and since then he has been more careful in choosing his associates.

By the time Jerome entered high school he had his bearings and was thoroughly broken in with the life of
his classmates. School, as a matter of fact, was not hard mainly because of a lax principal. To say that
the principal was a crook is neither a fallacy nor an injustice to him, for at present he is in
the penitentiary. However, Jerome took the advantage of all the opportunities that the school offered. Destined to finally attain the
position which he now holds, he stepped up gradually from a humble beginning. His last election was not a sudden
outburst of lucky success, but the ultimate result of much experience as a leader. We shall not say it is
the peak, but looking toward the future, say it is only one more step on the stair of political positions
which he has climbed with so much success.

During the latter part of Jerome’s sophomore year in high school he was sent to Raleigh as one of three
delegates from his school to the State Hi-Y Convention. You can imagine his surprise when, at the end of a
long qualifying speech by one of his companions, he was nominated for president of the convention. Jerome, frozen with terror
and with his brain in a tumult, was forced to make a short “campaign” speech, a word of which he
has not since remembered. The fact that the only other nominee was elected is of little importance, but the fact
that he was made vice-president is. He realized the importance of being able to meet such a situation, and ever
since then he has been well prepared. His consistency as a leader has given him first honors at all places.
At the older boys’ conference the next year he was elected as president. He was elected president of his class
and captain of the football team his senior year in high school, and upon entering college, was elected vice-president of
the Freshman class. The presidency of the Junior class was one more step toward his election as president of the
student body.

For one or two summers before coming to Davidson Jerome attended Camp Sapphire near Brevard, N. C. There he found
boys who were of the best, and he mingled with the councillors who were of attractive personality and strong character.
At first he found trouble in adapting himself to the place, but he soon formed friendships that have proved a
pleasure to him ever since. Since then he has felt that parents should expose their children to as good an
environment as possible until they are seventeen or eighteen.

Jerome’s father came to Davidson, and so it has always been Davidson for the son. His mother called him Jerome
in order to avert the nickname of Jay Bird. However, he would much prefer that to the one now attached
to him. Whilea freshman he once tried earnestly to stop a power play while scrimmaging with the varsity. When he
woke up the next morning his witty roommate, Chip Munroe, said, “Get up Goof, let’s go to breakfast.” It was
Charlie Pearce who finally pinned the name on him, though, after being knocked out several times himself.

Several Minor Changes Made in New Catalogue
Two New Courses Offered by College in New Issue

The new catalogue, recently published, will have few changes from that of last year. Two courses which were not offered
in the issue of last year are in the coming year’s curriculum. They are Fine Arts, which is to be
taught by Dr. Harding, and Italian, to be taught by Dr. Grey. Although these courses were offered this year, they
did not appear in last year’s catalogue.

Probably the biggest change is in regard to the number of quality points necessary for graduation. Under the old ruling,
the number was two hundred. Next year the faculty has decided that only one hundred and forty will be required.
This, though helping the poorer student to graduate, should not perceptibly lower scholastic averages. Another change is to be found
in the addition of a picture of Chambers Building on the inside back cover.

It is indeed a great mark of honor for the Jews that this little admixture of them in foreign blood
can so arouse a whole people (the Germans). —Emil Ludwig.

REV. GYPSY SMITH OPENS EVANGELISTIC SERVICES
(Continued from page 1)

It is not necessary to label the forest, “Spring”—that is self-evident. It cannot be hidden, no more than can the
overflowing of the spirit of the new man be hidden. Mr. Smith referred to the lives of four men who
have enriched the world through their regeneration: Wesley, Moody, Booth, and Whitfield. Methodism stands as a monument to the doctrine
of rebirth, and as a lasting tribute to the man Wesley, whose vision of rebirth has led men the world
over to a new and fresh conception of the hereafter. Moody and Whitfield have, through their power of speech, brought
peace and change to a world weary of sin. Booth founded the great Salvation Army that today belts the globe,
and seeks out the downcasts and brings them face to face with the power of rebirth. However, this conception of
rebirth was not the invention of these men nor any other men, but the express command of God’s Son. Mr.
Smith voiced the opinion that the leaders of the church must be brought to a fuller realization of this fundamental
doctrine.

Mr. Smith asked the question, “Can an old man be born again?” This he answered affirmatively, but emphasized the superior
advantage of accepting Christ during youth. A man can create the habit of saying “No” to God until he reaches
the deathbed, then it will not be possible for God to greet him with a “Well done, my good and
faithful servant.” Back in the Gypsy tents of his family, the story of Christ had not found its way until
Gypsy Smith, Sr., was converted in a marvelous fashion. He carried the story to an old uncle, then in his
ninety-ninth year, and the old man accepted it with the simplicity of a child; true, he had been reborn, but
he could not look back over a life spent in the service of his Master. Youth, then, is the time
for regeneration and rebirth.

Fifty-seven years ago not one of Gypsy Smith’s family could read or write. Since the transformation of the life of
the speaker’s father, however, thirteen of the family have entered the ministry, and many more have gone into other avenues
of usefulness and service.

Faced with these facts, the natural question is, “How can it be?” Flowers, said Mr. Smith, are understood botanically; a
building, architecturally; the stars, astronomically; a car, mechanically; hence, spiritual things can only be understood spiritually. Again, we see the
Almighty take a storm by the forelock, shake it until it cringes at His feet in submission. He takes the
colors of a living nature in His hand, mixes them and places them behind the storm in a mantle of
rich color—the rainbow, we call it; “The Breath of God,” the Gypsy calls it. If these things can be, how
much more so the rejuvenation and rebirth of a sinful man into a creature “big, strong, winsome and attractive”!

Mr. Smith was accompanied by Mrs. Smith, both having driven over from Durham in their car. While at Davidson, they
were entertained at Dr. Walter Lingle’s home. Davidson counts itself blessed in rare measure to have secured the services of
Rev. Gypsy Smith.

THIS WEEK IN THE MAGIC THEATER:
The sensational Japanese Thumb Tie!

IT TELLS IN THE PAPER HERE HOW A MAGICIAN MAKES A BIG BALL ROLL UPHILL, CATCH SIX HOOPS ON ONE
ARM WITH HIS THUMBS TIED TOGETHER. NOW HIS THUMBS ARE TIED UP GOOD AND TIGHT. ALL RIGHT, ALL RIGHT, HOW
COULD HE DO IT, STAN? IT'S SIMPLE IF YOU KNOW HOW.

SHOW AUDIENCE THUMBS AND CORD. SLIP TIP OF FIRST FINGER BEHIND THUMBS TO GET SLACK, URGE VOLUNTEER TO PULL HARD
AND TIE A GOOD HARD KNOT. TURN THUMBS DOWN FOR VOLUNTEER ASSISTANT TO TIE THE KNOT ON TOP OF THUMBS.

THEY ARE THE ONLY KIND I EVER TRIED. WHAT DO YOU RECOMMEND?

HAVE A CAMEL. CAMELS ARE MADE FROM MORE EXPENSIVE TOBACCOS—AND THEY ARE MILD WITHOUT BEING INSIPID.

THIS IS THE BEST TASTING CIGARETTE I EVER SMOKED. LIFE HAS ITS PLEASURES. THE TOBACCO THAT COUNTS, FRAN.

WHEN IT COMES TO A CIGARETTE, CAMELS ARE MADE FROM FINER, MORE EXPENSIVE TOBACCOS THAN ANY OTHER POPULAR BRAND. HENCE
THEY ARE MILD, EASY ON THE THROAT... YET FULL OF FLAVOR AND ENJOYMENT.

I WON'T SMOKE ONE OF THOSE, EVEN FOR YOU, FRAN. THEY ARE TASTELESS. IT'S MORE FUN TO KNOW THE TRICKS,
STAN. HAVE A CAMEL.
