4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 15, 1933

“Sign of the Cross” Shown in Charlotte

The Carolina Theatre in Charlotte is presenting all this week “The Sign of the Cross,” and once again Cecil B.
DeMille takes his place among the foremost producers of all time with this new triumph. His “Ten Commandments” and his
“King of Kings” previously set the standard for all cinema directors, and now he reaches new heights in his “Sign
of the Cross” and sets as a standard a picture that is probably the greatest, most intensely dramatic spectacle ever
brought before the public.

The story is of Mercia, a Christian maiden who is willing to die for her faith, and Marcus, a Roman
noble whose love for her undergoes a spiritual transformation, so that he too is willing to die—not for faith, but
for love. The story hinges around them and the attendant circumstances, that of the burning of Rome, of Nero’s lustful
court, of Rome the magnificent—the extraordinary, and of Nero’s cruel persecution of the Christians. The camera work is par excellent
with scenes of the mad crowd at the Coliseum, of the tortures of Roman life under Nero.

The picture does not stop here. It goes beyond. It appeals to the mind as well as the eyes. A
startling paradox is shown of ancient Rome and modern America. It is a picture that provokes thought, and like the
“Ten Commandments,” like “The King of Kings,” it teaches great moral truths, if one is willing to learn, that are
often overlooked. It surpasses both of his former productions in this respect. Great as are the love scenes between Marcus
and Mercia, the greatest scene is when the Christians march up out of the dungeon into the arena to be
eaten, clawed by lions, to give their lives for an ideal. That is what this great picture does. It presents
an ideal, the highest type of Christian ideals.

The honors go to Elissa Landi who reached perhaps the greatest dramatic peak ever attained by an actress in her
portrayal of Mercia. Her acting was wonderfully real and great. Frederic March as Marcus supported her brilliantly. The portrayal of
Poppaea, empress of Rome, by Claudette Colbert, and Nero by Charles Laughton were excellent and above par. Elissa Landi, Frederic
March, Claudette Colbert, and Charles Laughton, along with 7,500 others, make this not only the most spectacular, the greatest dramatic
picture ever presented, but they make it a living ideal.

U-PUSH-EMS

New Rates at M. P. Henderson’s Gulf Station

Silver Screen

Wednesday, February 15—Employees’ Entrance—(Warner) Alice White in her comeback picture. Warren William, always good, is aided by Loretta Young and
Wallace Ford. It is the story of what goes on in a big department store, of girls’ ambitions. It is
classed as good and has a happy ending—Believe it or not!

Thursday, February 16—Whistlin’ in the Dark—(M-G-M) A new picture that should be good with Una Merkel, Ernest Truex, Edward Arnold,
and John Miljan supplying the cast. Fun and excitement and spooks.

Friday, February 17—Sailor Be Good—(R. K. O.) A typical Jack Oakie picture with the usual cut-ups. Vivienne Osborne supplies the
feminine lead. Good if you like Oakie.

Saturday, February 18—Ride ’Em Cowboy—A Western. The regular Saturday night affair for the kids. Good if you like them.

Monday, February 20—Wax Museum Lionel Atwill, Fay Wray, Glenda Farrell, and Frank McHugh combine to make this horror picture a
real thriller. In the laboratory of Mad Ivan Izor, corpses are done up in wax and cellophane in this Wax
Museum. Fay Wray, the beautiful red-headed girl of the movies, enters this laboratory unsuspectingly and then the fun begins. It
is a thriller from beginning to end, filled with suspense and excitement. An excellent picture.

Tuesday, February 21—Washington Merry-Go-Round Liberty gave this four stars. It is above the average. Lee Tracy as a reformer goes
to Washington and stirs things up. A thought-provoking picture, well acted. Especially good for those disliking politics.

Dr. Miller’s Invention To Make Vision Audible

Cleveland—(IP)—“Ah, her profile sounds lovely!” This may be heard at future beauty contests as a result of an invention exhibited
last week at Case School of Applied Science here by Dr. Dayton C. Miller, professor of physics and outstanding authority
on sound in this country. The mechanical device transforms the curves of a profile into sound waves. If the sounds
are in perfect harmony the curves get a rating of 100 percent. Every defect or nicety of human features detected
by this latest and cruelest of machines, which makes vision audible.

In his demonstration of the machine, Dr. Miller exhibited the profile of the formerly famous screen star, Mary Miles Minter.
The purity of the curves in her face were measured by Dr. Miller's device, and their composite vibration waves resulted
in a corresponding purity of sound. The net result, in fact, was a major chord perfectly attuned; or, to put
it in another way, sounding the perfect mathematical relationships of the overtone series.

Not only were photographs decomposed into sound, so to speak, but sounds of various instruments were synthesized into photographs. Tones
of a French horn, for instance, produced a rugged masculine profile. Other instruments gave varying degrees of regularity or angularity
of design when projected on the screen.

The apparatus that performs these miracles is called a phonodeik. It is Dr. Miller’s own invention and he has been
developing and perfecting it for the last ten years, giving demonstrations before scientific societies in this country and abroad. It
has been of valuable service in studying and correcting defects in musical instruments, microphones, loudspeakers, and

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS” Make Our Store Your Store Student Supplies WHITE DRUG CO., Inc. “SODAS”

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago

FIVE YEARS AGO

The O. D. K. pledged themselves to an effort to bring about a renewed interest in the literary societies at
a well-attended rally held in Phi Hall. Mr. Kendall Weisegar opened the Y. M. C. A. vocational guidance meetings with
a very informative talk on the vocations. Davidson wrestlers won and lost in their two latest matches. They were nosed
out in a close match with V. M. I., but came back strongly to defeat W. & L., 17-8. Dr.
Ben Lacy made the second talk on vocational guidance. Personal interviews will be carried out with many leading men to
be brought to the campus. W. E. Gardener, president of the student body of Union Seminary, spoke at the Y.
M. C. A. vespers. Plans were being made for the annual Sophomore banquet in Charlotte. Dr. C. K. Brown addressed
the International Relations Club, discussing the topic, “Rubber as an Industry.” Davidson basketeers lost to Citadel, but defeated the College
of Charleston, 57-29. An interesting item noted was that the withdrawal list after the first semester was the smallest on
record. Only seventeen men left college.

TEN YEARS AGO

The troupe of Wildcat Minstrels, under the able guidance of Dr. C. J. Erwin, returned to the campus after a
very successful tour through the Carolinas. Joy reigned on the campus after the Wildcat basketball team defeated the Baptists from
Wake Forest, 27-17. It was a thrilling game and the victory avenged last week's 29-24 upset. Rev. Mack Long of
Statesville led a very inspiring Y vesper service. The literary societies are going ahead with their plans for Literary Society
Night during commencement. Flake “Red” Laird is proving to be one of the vital cogs in this season's edition of
Wildcat basketeers. Davidson College Magazine makes its appearance. W. J. Martin, president of the college, has just returned from a
flying trip to New York on college business. Davidson wrestlers leave on a trip that includes matches with Trinity (now
Duke) and Carolina.many sorts of reproducing devices.

The Bookshelf

A Small Boy’s Recollections of the Civil War—George F. Robertson. Standard Printing Company.

As each year diminishes the number of people who were actual witnesses to the Civil War, descriptions of those stirring
days are most interesting. George F. Robertson, who was a member of the class of 1878 at Davidson College, has
written his recollections of the Civil War and presents them in entertaining fashion. Mr. Robertson was born in 1853 on
a farm near Greeneville, Tennessee, and as a boy witnessed much Civil War activity. His father was a newspaper editor
and published in several towns in the South. From the viewpoint of an alert boy, he saw the events which
he narrates in an informal and good-natured manner. The story is told from memory of actual happenings. He tells how
the Confederate proclamation for volunteers brought men to the stars and bars, the first flag of the Confederate States. He
points out that the first soldier to fall in battle during the Civil War was a soldier from North Carolina.
Long trainloads of soldiers passed through Greeneville on the way to the Virginia battlefields, sleeping on beds made from straw
thrown on the floors of the boxcars. In every town, there were Northern sympathizers and some of these were bold
enough to do violence to the Southern force by burning bridges and by other deeds. The small boys of the
time had exciting experiences. They would walk out to the camps so they could water the horses of cavalry companies.
Both sides were guilty of foraging, an unavoidable result of the war. The author narrates an incident where some soldiers
took cooking vessels from the kitchen of his mother and how he, a young boy, received permission from the Commandant
to go about the tents in search of his family’s property. Sometimes old muskets were left behind by the soldiers
and these fascinated the boys as guns always interest the young boy. Once while his family was living in Wytheville,
Virginia, the townspeople were horrified to see a blue streak moving along the road that led into the town. Fearing
a Northern raid, the town was in bedlam. But the troops proved to be Confederate soldiers who had raided the
Yankee commissary stores, and needing the captured coats, proceeded to wear them. Robertson was with a small wagon train that
crossed the mountains from Wytheville to Asheville. The men loaded their wagons with salt which they offered to the mountain
folk or “bushwhackers.” It was in autumn and the young boy ate apples and chinquapins to his heart’s content.

“I saw three great movings of humanity during the war and immediately at its close. Burnside’s army on the march,
Longstreet’s grand army review, and the negro hegira immediately after their realization of the fact they were free. I'll never
forget that sight.”

At Asheville, the author went to a private school of Colonel Stephen Lee, and some years later to Captain Banks
at Newton Academy where he was prepared for Davidson College.

The schools, colleges, and universities of China rapidly are placing enforced military training in their curriculums.

“SUNDRIES” THE GREATEST UNDERWEAR VALUE

You can pay more than HANES costs—but you can’t get more. Just try to match HANES values. There’s the Gold
Label Light Weight Union Suit or Shirts and Drawers. SAMSONBACK Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war belt. That’s patented and
can’t be imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and Shorts in a variety that will make it easy for the most fastidious to
choose from. All at prices that will make you wonder how it can be done.

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.

STUDENTS’ CRUISES

Magazine subscription scholarship workers and crew managers write immediately for very best student scholarship offers of leading publishers. Can be
worked there now. Permanent positions if experienced, also summer crews for United States and foreign territory.

FOR FULL DETAILS WRITE
The Collegiate Scholarship Institute
219 Republic Building, Miami, Florida

Cincinnati Scientists Unearth Ancient City

Cincinnati—(IP)—Excavations will go on again at the site of ancient Troy next summer in an effort to trace the birthplace
of modern civilization. The work will be directed by archeologists of the University of Cincinnati, headed by Dr. William T.
Semple. This time, their interest aroused, European institutions will take part.

Digging beneath a broiling sun last year, the Cincinnati expedition revealed that nine cities had stood successively upon the site
of Troy, five of them before the city of which Homer sang and three more after the days of Helen,
Achilles, Paris, and Ulysses. It also unearthed a theater built in the days of Rome, when the eighth city was
in flower, a theater that could accommodate 5,000 people. Yet, when the Cincinnati archeologists started work, the site of ancient
Troy was a wilderness, the home of snakes, tarantulas, storks, and wild hogs which harried the explorers. For 33 years
no effort had been made to unearth the secrets of the ancients buried there. They dug there because Troy in
the days of ancient Greece controlled one of the greatest trade routes of the old world, from the civilizations of
the Far East to those of the rising Near East and West. Excavations there, they believed, would settle whether the
hordes that peopled Europe invaded from the north or rushed up through Persia.

Already Dr. Carl W. Blegen, professor of classical archeology at the University of Cincinnati, has started for the scene after
receiving the Turkish government’s permission to continue the work. Later Dr. Semple will go, taking five assistants. Operations at the
site are to be resumed April 1 and continue to July 1. Extreme heat of the desert summer makes it
impossible to continue excavations beyond that date.

Intercollegiate Press

Chicago—(IP)—Joanna Xenos, 8, has been graduated from the Chicago elementary schools with a fair knowledge of Babylonian history and a
smattering of chemistry, to say nothing of a pretty complete knowledge of everything most high school seniors know. After completing
eight years of regular school in two years, the little girl is now ready for high school with school authorities
debating what to do about it. They think she is too young to mix with high school students. For the
time being she is helping teach other grammar school students. Aside from studying, Joanna likes best to visit the zoo
and to play jacks.

Miami, Fla—(IP)—Federal immigration authorities are wondering what to do about fifteen Cuban university students who fled political persecution in Cuba
by coming here in a 40-foot boat in four days at sea. Once on the way over, the youths said,
they thought their boat was going to sink, and all fifteen dived overboard. When they saw they were mistaken, they
climbed back in, and continued to the United States.

New York—(IP)—College scientists and laboratory workers were urged to make it a practice of giving out their discoveries to the
public, in an address before the American College Publicity Association by Waldemar Kaempffert, science editor of the New York Times.
Too often, he said, important scientific discoveries and theories remain hidden for years because the newspapers never hear about them.
A case in point, he said, was the publicizing of the Einstein theory in 1919, which was fifteen years after
it had first been advanced.

The essence of good and evil is a certain disposition of the will—Epictetus.

Be silent and safe—silence never betrays you.—John B. O'Reilly.

One should never put on one’s best trousers to go out into fight for freedom.—Ibsen.

CONVENIENT SANITARY

When in Need of a Haircut USE YOUR HEAD and Go to Norton’s

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
High Class Work at Economical Prices

MARTIN BROS.’ SHOE SHOP

Johnson’s Barber Shop
“Four Out of Five College Men Come Here”
