THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 27, 1933

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

W. T. JOHNSON - Editor
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
GIL. GULLETTE - Managing Editor
J. McPHAIL - Managing Editor
ROSE - Managing Editor
E. - Sports Editor
RAWLIN - Editorial Writer
- Feature Editor
- Feature Editor
- Feature Editor
- Feature Editor
- Feature Editor
- Feature Editor
- Feature Editor
- Associate Editor
A. F. SCHENCK - Associate Editor
W. M. THOMESON - Associate Editor
JACKS WIGGINS - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1933

Learning without thought is labor lost; thought without learning is the death of the mind.
—Confucius.

GRASS

The title of this article suggests a time-worn topic and foot-worn subject and both conclusions are correct. Walking upon portions of our campus, turfed with some unlucky member of the grass family has given rise to such impediments as fences, stakes, and strands of wire, and failing to halt the student body by physical means our better natures have been appealed to with talks of a reasoning sort. Still, the herd thunders across that portion of the greensward between Chambers and the Post Office at the end of chapel exercises.

It is customary in most parts of the country to keep livestock on their proper grazing grounds by means of fences. When we were babies we were kept out of the fire, in the crib, and out of the yard by various guards, extension doors, railings, etc. Now the college man possessing more experience than when he was a baby and being endowed with an intellect superior to cattle is well able to defeat the purpose of a mere barrier such as a wire fence, and has done so with all the skill inherent to a raiding party during the World War.

Why do we persistently endeavor to spoil the appearance of one of the most beautiful sections of our campus? The answer that will immediately come from a majority of students will be, “I’ve got a next period class and am in a hurry; it’s so much shorter.” Is it so much shorter? No, there is an approximate diversity of thirty-three steps. If calculations are made, based on the Army cadence of one hundred and twenty-eight steps per minute, we find that everyone who takes the diagonal way across the campus instead of the Chemistry Laboratory-Post Office route makes a saving in time of about fifteen and fifty-one one-hundredths seconds or a quarter of a minute. Imagine college men who are probably the greatest time-wasters in the world darting across campus with an all-consuming desire to save a quarter of a minute!

Then exactly why do we prefer the cross-campus thoroughfare? While studying Plane Geometry in High School we learned that a straight line is the shortest distance between two points. Now that ancient axiom again comes to the front in aiding us to solve our love for the cross-campus route. There is a factual and psychological motive to be considered, the latter being the most important! Mathematically it is slightly shorter, but psychologically there is a tremendous contrast. We leave Chambers and go straight to the Post Office. No turns, curves, or bends to make us deviate from the direction of our objective, and so we let a mere psychological impulse guide our steps regardless of the inappreciable difference in time and distance. Haven’t we trained our minds well enough to conquer this?

We do not believe that more than two out of ten men take the short cut for the time saved (quarter of a minute). They choose it from the psychological aspect given above and perhaps for several other considerations which may be combined. There is more space. Four fellows can walk side by side across the grass; you can glue your eyes on a letter and have no fear of colliding with someone; it is less congested. Perhaps it is easier walking on the grass and perhaps sophomores like to show their emancipation. Nevertheless, we have no really sound reason why we should spoil the appearance of the most attractive and noticeable portion of the Davidson College grounds. That splendid stretch of green lawn in front of the fine structure in which we have so much pride should not be marred by the thoughtless trampling of many feet. We cannot let this clear clean sweep of grass and trees become defaced by a beaten path. Upperclassmen are responsible for the outcome. There are no barriers now to prevent our easy access, but surely we can spare a few moments for the benefit of Davidson’s campus.
—R. P. T.

THE HONOR SYSTEM

The Davidson Honor System, as set forth in the Constitution of the Student Government of Davidson College as printed in the Wildcat Handbook, is simple and clear in its phrasing. The system here has had its praises sung loud and long by alumni upon whom it has had influence. Many students come to Davidson from high schools where copying from another student and other evils, which do not seem serious, are tolerated. It is for the benefit of those students as well as for the benefit of others who are not familiar with the sections of the Constitution that make up the Honor System, that we publish the following Article IV.:

“Section 1—The sections of this Article shall constitute the Honor System.

“Section 2—Every student shall be honor-bound to refrain from cheating, either on recitation, reviews, examinations, or any other pledge work.

“Section 3—Every student shall be honor-bound to refrain from stealing.

“Section 4—Every student shall be honor-bound to refrain from perjury.

“Section 5—Every student shall be honor-bound to report all violations of the Honor System which come under his observation. Failure to do so shall be regarded as a violation of the Honor System.”

SPARE TIME

How do you use your spare time? We are sure that this question has confronted us a great many times. Have you ever stopped to consider this question seriously, or is your habit to put it aside each time and quickly forget it? Too many of us are prone to give it little thought and even forget it entirely.

During our college life, we have more spare time than we will probably ever have again. It is of great importance that we make the most of this time in which we are practically free to do as we wish. As it has been so aptly said, “Some of us like to sit and think, whereas many of us like to just sit.” I doubt if college boys occupy themselves in either of these two ways. From the way some of us use our time, we would probably be a great deal better off if we would just sit. But we are not content to sit still with folded hands; we have a large amount of youthful energy, and we must be stirring about doing something. The important thing is to apply ourselves in the right way.

Possibly the majority of us devote a large portion of our spare time to athletics. This is a clean, healthful way of occupying ourselves. The care and development of the body is very important, especially in a young man. However, we must not pursue athletics to the exclusion of enriching and developing our minds. After all, the primary purpose of college is to educate our minds, and fit us for our life work later on. We should apply ourselves diligently to our studies. We have a rich store of knowledge in our college library, and we should avail ourselves of this opportunity by spending a portion of our spare time there.

Then we have the social aspect of college life. Take time to visit your professors. Here you have an opportunity of making social contacts which will be of great value to you. Get in with the right crowd of students, and enjoy your recreation with them. Among them you will form true friendships of which you will be justly proud. Get into those college activities for which you are talented, whether it be publications, music, debating, or something else. Here is an opportunity to exercise your talents. Make the most of it!
—G. L. G.

TO “CHISEL”

General Johnson of NRA fame has made the word “Chisel” an active verb of deep interest to amateur etymologists. A crook who doesn’t wish to use force to “muscle” into another’s racket uses his intelligence to chisel in. Now there are chiselers in society, clubs, politics, industry. The word is no Americanism, Oxford professors used it to denote sharp practicing in 1821. But that was almost modern. The word appears to go back to 1609, when London coined it from “chouse.” Chouse itself came from “Chous,” a Turkish interpreter, to whom swindling was like breathing. So, to chisel is to chouse.
—Christian Science Monitor.

HOW TO RUIN A BOY

If a boy has a heritage of good health, good common sense and a taste for the better things of life, he has no need of an inheritance of cash. In fact, in so many cases the money actually brings about the ruination of young men and boys. Money is a handicap to a normal boy. He can have more fun without it than he can with it. Good advice for parents is not to create too much wealth for coming generations. Instead of aiding them to enjoy life the parents may actually be forcing their descendants to languish in prison cells. Children should be willed something of importance—good examples, health, character, willingness to work, and other things that matter. Money, beyond enough to pay for necessities, is of so little value.
—Ingham County News, Mason, Mich

NEWS DIGEST On Other Campuses

WHO, ME?

Cotton King

Cotton received a decided boost Saturday at the hands of the President when the price was set at ten cents per pound regardless of the market fluctuations. The plan is a form of loan system to guarantee this price and the staple still unsold will get the benefit of this idea. The government will lend the farmer ten cents on each pound. If the market price at the time the cotton is sold is below ten cents the government loses; if it is above ten cents the farmer may pay back the loan and pocket the balance. It is hoped that the market price of cotton will remain around ten cents and then there will, of course, be no need for the loans.

It was thought at first that this offer would only be made to those farmers who would agree to the cotton reduction plan of next year whose limit is set at 25,000,000 acres—a great decrease. But this is not true. The loan will be made to any and all farmers who have sincerely tried to cooperate with the government. This is a great step forward for the South and should, if intelligently handled, mark the comeback for a time at least to the reign of King Cotton.

Labor Unions

Labor and the NRA have joined hands in a mutual agreement and are looking upon each other as allies. Mr.Green, head of the American Federation of Labor, has announced that his ranks have increased by 500,000 men since its union with the NRA. Mr. Brisbane writes that “some still believe that if any union is to govern the United States, it will continue to be a union of the forty-eight states and not any privately managed organization, but they may be old-fashioned.” At the same time, with the rise in stock of the American labor union, there is a definite decline in the British labor party. It is on the downgrade. Its membership is now 2,500,000 below the 1920 figure, although Prime Minister McDonald, the labor candidate, is still at the helm of English politics.

The Dollar
The financial doctors abroad report that the European countries are running away from our dollar. Its value is sinking rapidly and is at its lowest ebb in France. It is now lower in value than it has been in fifty years. At the same time, the franc, the pound sterling, and the peseta went up as the dollar went down. And all the time, the United States lacks the good effects which would follow inflation. But not for long. As soon as Congress meets, the vast majority of inflationists in that august body will see that something is done and done immediately.

Gold
As the dollar goes down, gold goes up. England is buying it and paying a high premium. France is buying it. Belgium is buying it. The United States, off the gold basis, has millions in gold stored up and is constantly seeking more. Gold mines are being sought everywhere. The Philippine Islands began the rush with the discovery of new gold mines and Manila is enjoying a terrific gold boom. Canada has opened up new mines and prospectors are again combing the western states as of yore in hopes of finding more of the precious yellow metal. Petroleum is gone, timber is gone, and now the exploitation period of the minerals is at hand. Gold is on the upgrade. Other precious metals will follow. The age of minerals is here.

From the Background
Dear editor, I was down to the football game Saturday and was thrilled beyond words although most everybody else went away disappointed because Davidson didn’t whip Elon by four or five touchdowns. That certainly was a thrill when Eb Willson ran twenty-three yards only to fumble the ball on the three-yard line. Say, I wonder who that little boy was that made it easy for Midget Verble to light when he and some Elon player hit the ground out of bounds. He certainly surprised me when he got up not shedding a tear. Say, they have a crude piece of architecture down at the stadium which would do justice to a country ball lot. I think it is unsightly and should be torn down. They could build another out of the same material and put a little paint on it and really make an attractive building or stand out of it, don’t you think?

You know, Big Jim Morgan is going to be another Gene Tunney, only instead of being a boxer become cultured, Jim is going to be a football player transformed. The other day I heard him tell Captain Charlie Rives that he played ball in Albemarle this summer and that he was “hitting that apple.” The funny thing about it was that Jim put emphasis on the final “g” in hitting. Captain Charlie Rives is conducting a beauty parlor on the porch of West Dormitory. He has been practicing on a few of the boys, making no charge for his work. I heard a girl ask a boy Saturday what happened when they threw a pass in a football game. The boy happened to be wearing a little red freshman cap and of course, he couldn’t tell her even if he wanted to, so she had to go away unanswered. It looked like they were incomplete Saturday. Little Johnny Dolan moved off of fourth floor east this year into the basement. He said he did it to uphold the dignity of the rafter inhabitants. Say, that reminds me. Why don’t you move down to the first floor so that we reporters wouldn’t have to climb four flights of stairs to bring in our copy every week? It tires me out. Say, I would like to have my picture taken and used in this column each week. Of course, the girls would not care to read what I write then because they are afraid of rats, but who besides Charlie Harris cares for feminine fan mail? You know, I think I could take as good a picture as one of those Tee Thompson had made. There are some kids near here who get up at five o’clock in the morning and come down to play football. This morning they woke me up, so with nothing else to do, I went down to run them off. But when I got down there, I got interested in the kids and watched them. One little boy, as soon as his side lost possession of the ball, quit for a few minutes until his team got it back when he started playing again. I wonder who those two little friends Bruce Peabody had the other day were. Was he rushing them? I’ll bet these professors will be glad when rushing season is over. They sure must get tired of answering their own questions all the time. I noticed in the paper the other day that hitchhiking on the highways will be combatted on a nation-wide basis. That sure would make it bad for Davidson students in the future. Where would some of them get exercise for their thumb?

Yours till next week,
Randy.

If it be true that much study is a weariness to the flesh, then I’ve no cause to be tired from what is supposed to be of paramount importance at this institution of learning. Sleep, blessed sleep, and lots of it is all I’m interested in getting just now. It’s been so long since I’ve had a normal amount of rest that both Blanton Little and my roommate would suffer a serious relapse were I to get eight hours straight. (Just wait, though, for one of these first days I’m crashing through for a week or two. I'll just come out of bed at meal time.) I don’t suppose I’d ever get sleeping sickness, and if I did, with my natural aptitude for getting unlucky breaks, I’d be so troubled with insomnia that rest would be impossible. Regarding sleep, I don’t think it’s altogether out-of-the-way to say something about the sleeping habits of Matt Alderman. Barring none, he has the most accomplished technique along the soporific lines of anyone of my acquaintance. It is a known fact that he can go to sleep in a room in which three people are talking, six lights are burning, and a Freshman is writing on a typewriter in the Christopher Columbus (first he discovers and then he lands). At any rate, I'd like to be sleeping now. The room in which I’m writing is so stuffy that only a glass of something nice and cold which tastes of Coca-Cola could compensate. Of course, not everyone likes Coca-Cola. And if you want to see something both interesting and entertaining, drop around to Henry Hodgin’s room about his bedtime. (Incidentally, no one—not even Henry—knows when that is; at least, he isn’t able to say definitely. If you're lucky enough to get there right at the crucial moment, so much the better.) The point of the story is first concerned with the fact that when he returned to school this year, he found a double-decker in his room. By this time it may have been changed, but when I was there, it hadn’t been. It seems that they are Henry’s pet abomination. On this memorial date, he had on red P.J.’s. As I walked in, he started to spring for the bed, and on my word of honor as a gentleman, if I have any and am such, I have never seen anyone look so as if he were starting on a here-we-go-gathering-nuts-in-Maytime-dance. It didn’t last very long, but while it did... anyway, why don’t you go up sometime? He may even tell your fortune.

The Freshmen who are putting up bleachers might do well to remember the story of the Indian who was found pounding his thumb with a hammer. A passing bystander asked the reason for the procedure and was informed that it felt so good when it was stopped. Of course, most, if not all, of the bleachers are up by now, but there’ll come a time when they'll have to be changed for baseball season. And in the end, they must be put away like so many bathing suits. Some so-and-so on this hall started out somewhere not so long ago and locked his room. No sooner had he gone than his alarm clock began to ring, or go off, or whatever it is that alarm clocks do. And it was tightly wound, too. It’s only just stopped, and I’m just about to have D.T.’s. There’s one thing in connection with this alarm clock business that I don’t understand. Every year, makers proclaim from the housetops that their respective products are the best yet. They affirm on the basis of a money-back guarantee that the clocks will absolutely last a lifetime. And yet every year, the same people are buying alarm clocks again. I’ve come to the conclusion that on holidays and Sundays, persons who are lucky enough to have the day off have their alarm clocks set as usual so that they may get the great pleasure of flinging them against the wall.

All things, both good and bad, and others, if such there be, must end. I've both to stop and fill this space with this and that, the little nothings that go to make up LIFE, which is to some, only a cigarette, about to go out in the wind.