THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 8, 1933

The Bookshelf

Troilus and Cressida. By Geoffrey Chaucer. Modern version by George Phillip Krapp. Random House Publishers.

Translations of authors may be divided into three general classes. The first group, called literal, is encountered in its purest
state among school boys who attempt to unravel passages in Caesar's Gallic Wars. The second group, or “free” interprets, exhibits
its grotesque but characteristic form in Pope’s version of Homer. This work, the worst of Pope’s idiotic poetry, is nothing
more nor less than blatantly jazzed doggerel, which clangs along like tin cans dragged over cobblestones. The third group is
made up of those artisans who are able to convey the beauty and feeling present in an original to a
new language without appreciable loss.

Of course, the translation of Chaucer into English is not nearly as difficult as the translation of Greek or Latin
authors. And yet Chaucer's language presented problems that greatly influenced the trend of the modern version. In the first place,
it gave little latitude as far as substituting new words for those of the original text. Secondly, because it possessed
certain inflexional characteristics, it demanded that the whole sentence be recast in order to follow the Chaucerian metric form. Dr.
Krapp overcame these difficulties with apparent ease and confined himself strictly to the limits set by Chaucer's stanza structure. He
followed Chaucer idea for idea as far as possible and only when it was absolutely unavoidable did he make conservative
shifts in sentence arrangement. I carefully compared the first fifty pages of the original with those of the translation and
was quite surprised at the marvelous fidelity with which Dr. Krapp followed Chaucer even to the minutest details.

The poem itself shows that Chaucer, living in the middle ages, could write a story with a modern feeling expressed
in it. Yet Chaucer did it in a way that is rather breath-taking. His story of Troilus and Cressida is
as modern as today’s headlines in the New York Times, as a concert by Prokofiev, as a statue by Gaudier-Brzeska,
or as a design by Norman Bel Geddes.

The author takes a legend of Troy, invests it with life, colonizes it with Arthurian knights whom he dresses in
Grecian garb, indiscriminately gives them gods recruited from the ranks of heathen mythology and Christian tradition—the chief of whom is
Saint Venus—and calls forth a hero and heroine. The story opens during the siege of Troy shortly before the wooden
horse was to neigh in front of the city gates. Cressida, a lady of unquestionable purity, has unwittingly snared Troilus,
Hector’s brother, by means of her beauty and her uncle Pandar's cunning. One night, while at a wild gin party
given by Helen of Troy, Cressida and Troilus begin to take each other quite seriously. The next day it was
only with the greatest difficulty that they were able to keep scandal out of the Trojan Daily Tabloid. Then misfortune
began to come their way. For very definite reasons, Cressida had to go visit the Grecian army at its camp.
She and Troilus almost set an example for Romeo and Juliet of a later day. However, the author kept them
from suicide and Cressida was able to go to the Greeks. While she was in the camp, an eternal pentangle
developed. To fully grasp the situation from this point to the end of the book requires a reading of the
work itself as a great deal of beauty and savor is lost in the condensation. The lines of this poem
are sparkling with subtle wit and Chaucer seeks opportunities to expose someone to ridicule and satire.

Finally, in regard to the mechanical features of the book, it is one of the most tastefully designed and executed
works that I have seen. Each page has a marginal pictorial comment, done in a conventional manner, which reminds one
of rare illuminated manuscripts. The format gives an air of exclusiveness and sedate beauty that is quite pleasing to a
connoisseur of good books.

May I state again that the freshness and vitality of the work make it well worth reading.

GORDON R. WOOD.

Kappa Sigmas Go to Tournament Finals

The Kappa Sigs advanced to the finals in the inter-fraternity basketball tournament by defeating the Kappa Alphas 31 to 9
in a loosely played game Monday night. The contest was the first game in the tri-finals of the tournament. A
bye in the semi-finals moves the winners to the finals. Billy Ravenel led the Kappa Sigs to victory by scoring
eight points, one less than the losers’ total score.

In the last two preliminary games, the Betas and the Pikas won one-sided victories over the T. U. O.’s and
the Pi Kappa Phis respectively. The Betas were closely pressed during the first half of their game with the T.
U. O.'s, but the pace set by Cochran and Dolan of the losers could not cope with the brilliant playing
of Smyre and Halverstadt, and the Betas pulled away to a 21-9 victory. The Pika team, composed of former high
school basketball stars, was too much for the Pi Kappa Phis and they kept possession of the ball nearly all
the game to pile up 53 points to 3 for the losers. Buck Mills was easily the star of the
game, scoring more than 30 points himself.

TOBACCOS STUDENT FOUNTAIN SERVICE W. S. HENDERSON NEXT DOOR TO POST OFFICE

CANDY SUPPLIES

GEO. W. LAPITZ Factory Representative TAILORING DISPLAY at the Soda Shop EVERY THURSDAY Star Direct Tailors - $23.50 Up

Silver Screen

Wednesday, Feb. 8—Infernal Machine—(Fox) This picture, despite what the title might indicate, is full of fun and excitement. Chester Morris
and the beautiful Genevieve Tobin give a good comedy romance with thrills abundant and laughs a-plenty.

Thursday, Feb. 9—Luxury Liner—(Paramount) The scene of Luxury Liner is laid in the hospital of a trans-Atlantic liner. It is
a picture of outcasts in life hell-bound. George Brent and the alluring Zita Johann furnish the leads and are ably
supported by Vivienne Osborne, Alice White, and Verree Teasdale.

Friday, Feb. 10—Parachute Jumper—(Warner) This is the story of two navy fliers who were discharged from the service for joy
riding. They go to Mexico, where they become involved with dope smugglers. Plenty of punch, no dull moments, and amusing
and snappy dialogue are provided by Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., Leo Carrillo, Bette Davis, and Frank McHugh.

Monday, Feb. 13—Face in the Sky—(Warner) Face in the Sky is the story of the romance of a sign painter.
It is a picture all lovers will love. It is the fight of a sign painter, who would be an
artist, to gain recognition. It is a picture suited to Spencer Tracy, that is, rough, downright, and forthright. Marion Nixon
has the feminine lead. The awkward, lovable Stuart Erwin adds comedy to the picture.

Tuesday, Feb. 14—Goldie Gets Along—(Warner) The romance of a girl determined to get into the movies, and of a boy
who will do anything to win her. The glamorous Lily Damita hitch-hikes her way across the country. She wins a
beauty contest and foils the attempt of the manager to steal the money she won, then heads for Hollywood. She
takes advantage of a break, gets in, and makes good. The loyal boy friend and she live happily forever afterward.
Lily Damita is ably supported by Charles Morton and Sam Hardy. The acting of Lily Damita is excellent.

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago (Briefs of articles published in “The Davidsonian” five years ago and ten years ago.)

5 YEARS HAVE ELAPSED The front page contains a sketch of the “New Chambers,” work on which will begin immediately,
it being expected that it will be completed by January 1, 1929. Davidson wrestlers defeat team from N. C. in
thrilling match. Y. M. C. A. completes plans for the sec-Second series of the vocational guidance meetings, Drs. Lacy and
Weisiger to lead first of six meetings. U. Basketball team defeats Wofford and Elon. Dr. Guy Richard Vowles, head of
German department, publishes his German textbook which is received with much applause. “Sleepy” Goodson defeats Dean Rush for captaincy of
Freshman basketball team. Wildcats leave for a trip of five cage games. Wrestling team departs for invasion of Virginia. The
second issue of the “Chameleon” is ready for print and will appear on the campus shortly. Dr. Oren Moore of
Charlotte leads “Y” vespers. Dr. Greene of Columbia Theological Seminary to lead spring services. Prof. H. T. Lilley speaks to
Davidsonian reporters.

10 YEARS HAVE ELAPSED

Coach Monk Younger of V. P. I. chosen head coach at Davidson. Coach Younger, now assistant at V. P. I.,
is an old Davidson man. He will succeed the present Coach Gray. The Phi Beta Kappa Chapter will be installed
here on Thursday, March 1st, by a deputation from U.N.C. Davidson Minstrels leave for a trip through the Carolinas. Recent
“Y” vespers have been conducted by Rev. Tom Gillespie, Mr. J. B. Ivey, and Rev. A. W. Crawford. Standard college
ring is decided upon by Junior class. Davidson men install chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon at Johns Hopkins University. Students
extinguish a fire which originated in the home of Dr. “Jerry” McConnell. Davidson basketeers defeat Charlotte “Y” twice, Concord “Y”
and N. C. State College. This string of victories is due largely to Red Laird, Warhoss Mauze, and Pat Crawford.

(Continued from page 3)

Detroit—(IP)—How hard is it on a football player to watch all the games from the bench? Johnny Metras, captain of
the University of Detroit gridders, can answer this. For two weeks, or during two games, he was on the bench
with a minor injury. In that time he lost twelve pounds. He'd rather play, he says.

Minneapolis—(IP)—The University of Minnesota Daily has fallen in line with those college newspapers of the country which this year have
begun to suggest open and acknowledged policies of paying football players for the work they do for their colleges. “Coaches
are shifted as soon as a team has a losing streak,” says the Daily. “Everything is done to keep the
team winning and maintain gate receipts. The most important cog in the money-making machine is the football player, and his
only return is ‘that tired aching feeling’ and a lot of slush about ‘fighting for the dear old alma mater.’
Why not pay the deserving workers?”

Columbus, O—(IP)—There will be no more gentle cows elected beauty queen of the Ohio State University campus by facetious men
students. Nor will fraternity politics make the annual beauty queen election a farce. This year, and for years to come,
according to plans, the usual student vote on the most beautiful co-ed will be abandoned, and instead, the campus queen
will be selected by four Columbus men acting as judges. The girl selected will be “the loveliest and most beautiful
co-ed.” Several years ago, crooked balloting at the university resulted in the election of Madine Ormsby, a prize cow, as
the beauty queen.

Cambridge, Mass.—(IP)—A development in high-speed photography at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has resulted in the ability to decide, at
last, how quick is “quick as a wink.” Photographs at the rate of 4,000 a second, with exposures ranging from
one-hundred thousandth to five-hundred thousandth of a second, have been made with the new device, an electrical circuit which produces
light of great intensity. The light produced is equal to the concentrated light of 40,000 ordinary 50-watt bulbs. To the
scientist, the new development offers opportunities for extraordinary study of motion in liquids and gases. Snapshots of the human eye
by the invention show that the average wink requires one-fortieth of a second.

New Brunswick, N. J.—(IP)—Five-hour courses for freshmen instead of three-hour courses whose high school training seemed to be inadequate have
been advocated at Rutgers University by Dean Walter T. Marvin as a means of equalizing the education of the university’s
students. The dean said the purpose of the proposed system would be to enable instructors to proceed more slowly and
review the foundations of the subjects for students who required more complete preparation. Students in both the three and five-hour
courses would study for the same achievements and use the same textbooks, Dean Marvin said.

In an article written for the Daily Princetonian, undergraduate newspaper at Princeton University, Newton D. Baker, former secretary of war,
asserted that the economic depression will bring about a revaluation of the merits of college training. Said he: “We are
all dispensing with luxuries and it is not unlikely that the value of college training will be reweighed and higher
education supported only so far as it seems to justify itself.”

Scientists have never yet discovered finally why it is that the Pacific Ocean is approximately one and seven-tenths feet higher
than the Atlantic Ocean on either side of the American coast. It is believed by some, however, that the difference
is due to the fact that the Pacific Ocean, having a slightly different salt content, is lighter than the Atlantic.
In other words, because the Atlantic has denser water, gravity’s pull upon it is greater.

Ninety-three letters of Charles Darwin, hitherto unpublished, are included in a collection of rare books and manuscripts brought to this
country recently by Gabriel Wells, American book and manuscript collector. The forerunner of the modern newspaper, a marble slab on
which news of the day was carved and posted in the forum, has been unearthed at the mouth of the
Tiber River in Italy by a Professor Calza. Professor H. L. Malcolm of Pompano, Fla., recently climbed to the tops
of sixteen mountains in the Adirondacks in one day. Gifts and legacies totaling $1,781,473.28 have been received by the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in the last school year. A four-year task has been completed by the United States Geographic Board
which has just issued a new set of names for foreign geographic objects, such as cities, countries, rivers, and the
like. The board decides the official American spelling for these foreign localities, and its report includes some 2,500 names in
all parts of the world.

“A book that is perfect in its own kind,” is the recipe for a best seller provided recently by Frank
Swinnerton, English author, in an article written for Knopf. “American education has failed to produce outstanding leaders. Because so much
time has been consumed in lifting masses of average students to a somewhat higher level of culture, it has been
impossible to supply the foundations necessary to build character for leadership,” Dr. Cloyd Heck Marvin, president of George Washington University,
told his faculty recently. Dr. Gerald B. Webb of Colorado Springs, nationally known authority on lung diseases, recently predicted that
within five years tuberculosis would be a minor disease in this country. He said the disease seems to be dying
out in this country. The Rutgers University Liberal Club is considering opening a co-operative bookstore to undersell the privately owned
bookstores on the campus.

High Class Work at Economical Prices
MARTIN BROS.’ SHOE SHOP
