4 | | 4 a RED AND BLACK NINE MEN MASQUERS TO RECEIVE GIVE FINAL PLAY INTO O. D. K. : Alenda Lux ubi Orta Libertas Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 10, 1933 No. 29 NOTED SCIENTISTS AT DAVIDSON North Carolina Academy of Science Holds Important Convention on Campus Last Week NEW OFFICERS ELECTED Dr. McConnell Makes Address of Welcome to Open Session Davidson had as her guests on Friday and Saturday of last week a large group of noted scientists in the North Carolina Academy of Science which held its annual meeting here. There was a large registration of men and women representing the science departments of all the institutions of higher learning in the state. On Friday, the morning hours from 9:30 to 1 p.m. were given over to the reading of scientific papers presented to the Academy. At 1 o’clock the body was entertained at luncheon by the college, in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. The afternoon sessions were again devoted to the presentation of papers and to business sessions of the Academy and its executive committee. In the evening session, held at 8:30 in Chambers Auditorium, Dr. J. Moore McConnell, dean of the Davidson faculty, made the address of welcome on behalf of the Davidson officials and students. This was followed by the presidential address, delivered by Dr. J. B. Bullitt of North Carolina University. This meeting was open to the general public and was largely attended by students and other visitors. At the sessions held on Saturday, the visitors were divided into their respective fields. The chemistry section met in the Martin chemical laboratory and the general, the mathematics, and the physics sections met in Chambers. All science teachers, whether members of the Academy or not, were invited to attend these meetings. The convention was formally closed at noon on Saturday, May 6. At this time it was announced that the next annual meeting will be held at the University of North Carolina, at Chapel Hill, in the spring of 1934. At this same time, the various sections of the Academy announced the names of their respective section officers for the coming year. These are: Chemistry Section, Chairman, H. D. Crockford, U. N. C.; vice-chairman, J. H. Saylor, Duke; secretary-treasurer, R. W. Bost, U. N. C.; Councilor, N. Isbell, Wake Forest; executive committee, the officers and F. W. Sherwood, N. C. State, three years; L. A. Bigelow, Duke, two years; A. S. Wheeler, U. N. C., one year. The Mathematics Section elected as chairman, E. L. Mackie, U. N. C., and secretary, E. R. C. Miles, Duke. The officers of the Physics Section are: E. K. Plyler, U. N. C., chairman, and C. N. Warfield, W. C. of U. N. C., secretary. Dr. Frazier Hood, professor of psychology, was elected a member of the Academy of Science. Dr. Arbuckle’s Brother Passes Away Suddenly Students and townspeople of Davidson were deeply regretful to learn of the death of Dr. J. D. Arbuckle, of Maxwelton and Lewisburg, West Virginia. The late Doctor Arbuckle, who passed away quite unexpectedly last Wednesday morning, was the brother of Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, head of the Chemistry Department of Davidson College. The Davidson professor left here for Lewisburg, when news of the death reached him. The deceased was a graduate of Hampden-Sydney College, and a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. DOFFLEMYER CALLED HOME Alfred A. Dofflemyer, a member of the Junior class, was called to his home at Elkton, Va., last Wednesday, May 3, because of the death of his mother. His mother had been ill for some time with heart trouble, and it is to this that her death was attributed. GATHER Announced for May Covers Three Days OMICRON DELTA KAPPA TAPS FOR MEETING Dr. Henry Sloane Coffin of New York Senior Marshall Alex Little, of Valdosta, Ga., of the Senior class, has recently been chosen chief marshal for the commencement exercises of this year. He was selected from a group of four junior marshals, which included Bill Mulliss, Charlie Norfleet, and Bruce Peabody. In the coming exercises, Little will have charge of the seating arrangements, and will also lead the line of march. 1933 YEAR BOOK TO BE RELEASED WITHIN 10 DAYS Many Changes Have Been Made in the Composition of This Year’s Annual It was recently announced by Bob McCallie, editor of this year’s “Quips and Cranks,” that the Davidson yearbook will be released within the next ten days. McCallie, whose home is in Chattanooga, Tenn., and W. C. Thompson, of Round Pound, Maine, have charge of the publication. “Quips and Cranks” will have 265 pages, which is 40 less than last year’s. This is due to the fact that there will be three senior pictures to the page instead of the usual two. The style of the annual will be simple and colorless. Many changes have been made in the yearbook for this year. There will be no write-up of the junior activities. Pictures of all the underclasses will be larger this year, with freshmen pictures twice as large as they were last year. A campus section of snapshots that are familiar and some that are not so familiar will add interest to the yearbook. These snapshots are of people and objects around the campus. There will be individual pictures of lettermen in football, basketball, track and baseball. More space has been given to action pictures in these sports. The sponsor section is also different from that of last year. All the sponsors this year have on the same cut dresses, which will add uniformity to this section. The pictures will be on different paper from the rest of the annual. There will be a silver border around each picture. Much credit for the success of the book goes to Lyman Clardy, the photographic editor, who relieved the editor-in-chief of the most complicated part of the book. In active make-up work the following assistants gave invaluable aid: Lanier Pratt, Jack Williams, Alex Schenck, and Tee Thompson. Jack Williams, of Waycross, Ga., will be the editor-in-chief for the next year. Owen Ravenel, of Charleston, S. C., will succeed W. C. Thompson as business manager. (Continued on page 8) Alpha Phi Epsilon Initiates Nine Men Alpha Phi Epsilon, the honorary fraternity which recognizes ability in oratory and debating, held its annual initiation on Wednesday, May 3. Nine men were taken into membership. The initiated men include Gordon Brown, of River Edge, N. J.; Wilbur Fugate, of Radford, Va.; Hugh Hawkins, of Charlottesville, Va.; Edward Humphrey, of Wilmington; Jake Mackorell, of York, S. C.; Stuart Noblin, of Radford, Va.; Will Rachal, Robert Smith, of Mobile, Ala.; and Rawling City to Deliver Baccalaureate Sermon ALUMNI DAY IS FEATURED Seniors to Lead Alumni Discussion Groups on College Life The ninety-seventh annual commencement exercises will take place this year on May 28-May 30. Dr. Henry Sloane Coffin, of New York City, who is one of the most widely known preachers in the United States, will deliver the baccalaureate sermon. Alumni day will be held on Tuesday and several interesting and unusual meetings have been arranged. In the morning there will be four alumni discussion groups in which the students will speak to the alumni on the different phases of college life, namely, athletics, publications, curriculum, and religious life. The classes of '83, '84, '85, '86, '02, '03, '04, '05, '08, '21, '22, '23, '24, and '32 will hold their annual reunion this year. The schedule for the three days of commencement is as follows: Sunday, May 28, 11:00 a.m.—Baccalaureate sermon by Dr. Henry Sloane Coffin, of New York. 7:45 p.m.—Evening sermon by Dr. Coffin. Monday, May 29, 5:00 p.m.—Meeting of Executive Committee of Alumni Council. 8:00 p.m.—Meeting of Alumni Council. Tuesday, May 30, 10:00 a.m.—Alumni Day—Group discussions. 11:30 a.m.—Meeting of Alumni Association. 1:00 p.m.—Alumni lunch. 3:45 p.m.—Faculty reception. 7:30 p.m.—Graduation exercises. Class of 1933 Gives Individual Remarks Variety of Interesting Statements Are Made by Davidson Seniors In an effort to give to the student body a brieflyExpressed parting thought from each member of the Senior class:

"The Davidsonian" has conducted a canvass among the class of 1933 and has obtained a few words from most of the graduating men. All of the seniors were sought for interviews, but some refused to commit themselves to the extent of the necessary statement. The following is a list of interviews which the reporters were able to obtain:

S. J. Bryant: "Davidson friendliness and spirit makes one leave five hundred friends on the campus."
H. K. Boucher: "Davidson is, and always should be, one of the best colleges for young gentlemen."
D. M. Jr.: "Four years in college should impart recognition of what is yet to be learned."
C. E. Bettis: "Thanks to Davidson for what she’s done."
F. H. Bixler: "I’ve a job with an insurance company in Philadelphia."
D. F. Blue: "Oh Davidson, Alma Mater of Christian principles, character, leadership, scholarship, Wildcat spirit."
J. C. Calhoun: "Despite adverse criticism, the Davidson spirit has been better this year."
E. B. Cannon: "My kids will come to Davidson."
W. H. Coble: "Farewell, Davidson! Hello, world!!"
R. B. Connoley: "I do not choose to speak."
J. S. Creech: "The future cannot mean as much as the past four years."
T. M. Davis: "Davidson serves as an excellent preparatory school for the seminary."
R. L. Forbis: "The friendships made at Davidson have made my years here very enjoyable."
F. B. Fleagle: "Farewell to college."
W. A. Flinn: "Au revoir."
C. W. Freeman: "I am going to school some more."
J. Wayte Fulton: "To live and to preach."

Three others, T. P. Caldwell, of Yazoo City, Miss.; D. D. McBryde, of Linden; and Jack Williams, Jr., of Waycross, Ga., were unable to attend last week’s meeting and will be initiated tonight. Election of officers for the coming year will also be held at tonight’s meeting, it was announced by Wayte Fulton, president.

(Continued on page 4)

O. D. K. Initiate

Professor Ernest A. Beaty, who has been honored by Omicron Delta Kappa, in recognition of his excellent publicity work for Davidson, and for his work in the interest of the student body.

DAVIDSON CAMPUS LEADERS

Professor Beaty, McKeithan, Ogden, Casali, Rives, Smyre, Thompson, Wilson, and West Honored

IMPRESSIVE SERVICE HELD

Dr. F. C. Brown, Retiring National President, Addresses Circle Last Night

E. A. Beaty, teacher of Latin and English at Davidson College; W. A. L. McKeithan, Aberdeen; F. W. Ogden, New Orleans, La.; Odi Casali, Welch, W. Va.; C. M. Rives, Greensboro; F. L. Smyre, Gastonia; W. M. Thompson, Richmond, Va.; E. L. Wilson, Athens, Tenn.; and J. W. West, Barium Springs, were tapped by the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, last Friday morning at the annual spring Tap Day services. Seniors and juniors who have attained some noteworthy distinction on the campus, or have manifested their leadership in some line of activity, are chosen for membership. This is a national fraternity and it has chapters in most of the leading colleges and universities in the southern portion of the United States. Bruce Peabody, president of the local group, presided at the tapping exercises, while Paul Brown conducted the religious part of the program. Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson College, was the guest speaker of the occasion, and in his talk, he outlined briefly the purpose and aim of the fraternity. He declared that it was spoken of as "an honor society, and it was indeed a great honor to be chosen by this group." After this part of the program was over, the student members of the circle left the platform, and proceeded to tap the men whom they desired to have with them in the fraternity, and these new members signified their desire to accept the invitation by rising and walking to the platform. With this, and the singing of "O Davidson," the spring Tap Day service was closed.

Professor Beaty was given a bid in recognition of the work which he has done with the publicity of the college, and his interest in the athletics of the school. Leland McKeithan was recognized by the Delta Circle for his leadership on the campus in forensic circles. He is one of the leading public speakers on the campus and is president of the Forensic Council. Fred Ogden was given acknowledgment for his outstanding interest in campus affairs, and also for his holding the responsible position as lieutenant-colonel of the R.O.T.C. Odi Casali, in recognition of his recent election as editor-in-chief of "The Davidsonian," and his leadership in the journalistic field on the campus, was tapped by the circle. Charlie Rives, as a leader in athletics, and (Continued on page 5)

Masquers to Offer Play by Oscar Wilde

On Friday night, May 12, the Red and Black Masquers will present "The Importance of Being Earnest," by Oscar Wilde. This comedy marks the close of the dramatic club’s season and will be staged in Chambers Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. The play to be offered is a more ambitious undertaking than the usual Masquer selection and much interest surrounds the production. A talented cast has been in rehearsal since before Easter and all indications point to a very acceptable interpretation of the clever farce. Daily practices conducted by Ed Hancock under the supervision of Professor E. J. Erwin have moulded the action into a smooth performance, and the players have worked out subtle characterizations. The plot concerns Ernest Worthing and his efforts to win the hand of Gwendolyn Fairfax, whose social career is planned by her ritzy aunt, Lady Bracknell. Ernest’s wishes are also blocked by his friend, Algernon Moncrief, who, in turn, is in love with Cecily Cardew, an unsophisticated girl. Cecily is closely guarded by Miss Prism, a (Continued on page 3)

VARSITY LETTERS TO BE GIVEN ON TUESDAY, MAY 16

Mr. Robert A. Fetzer, Davidson Graduate, and Former Wildcat Coach, Will Be Speaker

The annual awarding of varsity letters by the Athletic Association will be held during the chapel hour on Tuesday morning, May 16. This has formerly taken place at night, but the administration has kindly relinquished the chapel hour on this date to replace "Athletic Night." Letters will be awarded to all men out for the varsity football, basketball, track, baseball, tennis, golf, and wrestling, who have been chosen by the respective coaches to receive their varsity "D." Also at this time, the physical improvement and gymnastic trophies will be presented to the respective winners. Mr. Robert A. Fetzer, athletic director at the University of North Carolina, who is a Davidson graduate and former Wildcat coach, will be the speaker of the hour.

In years past, the annual "Athletic Night" was held before the spring sports began, but this year the Athletic Association has set the date after the entire year’s sports program has been completed in order that all lettermen may receive their certificates at the same time.

Dr. Chas. F. Myers to Speak at "Y" Vespers

The annual sermon before the Y. M. C. A. will be delivered next Sunday evening at the vesper hour by Dr. Charles F. Myers, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro. This service marks the official closing of the "Y" work for the year and is considered a part of the commencement exercises. The Davidson Y. M. C. A. Cabinet confers a singular honor on the man chosen to lead this climactic service of the year, and that Dr. Myers should be elected is ample proof of his popularity as a speaker among the Davidson students. Dr. Myers is well known to the campus, having conducted the Evangelistic Services two years ago and spoken at a spring vesper service last year. On both occasions, he endeared himself to the Davidson audience through his deep spiritual message and his charming personality. Dr. Myers is a graduate of Washington and Lee University, and while there played on the varsity baseball team and became a (Continued on page 5)