my fonssen= a 5 rh paste sh i} Ps. iad PHB. Shoe - ¥ a < ae is u CSE:
ag igs ' 4, Ss 3: 3: iF + ‘: we 5: tie et Ha “ee ‘ " i; ge
y SPR Bae =. Sey a: 4 4 ‘i; a Bins NTRS, . . ¥ “eee Re “es es pet
ee, re: Lf 2 meer ere: i pee ahs oy ‘. pd Negew’ Baag + SENO ¢ 4 iy; Pi
Vel Peres 4 sae t: ‘ a bs a ——— - ¢ ‘ " Fe; eee. Seas: ¥} 4; bg
ae 4? be if ry: ba Mra { 1 Aiptsy opie: Seay es

LILLY RETURNS
J. C. Pfohl Is Appointed Music Director

Three additions and one leave of absence were announced as changes made in the faculty of Davidson College for the
1933-34 session. Professor Henry T. Lilly, who was on leave last year, James Christian Pfohl, and D. Grier Martin, were
given positions in the school, while Professor Kenneth J. Foreman was granted a leave of absence.

The positions filled by Pfohl and Martin were unoccupied during the past year. Professor Lilly, of the English department, has
returned from the University of Chicago, where he has been on leave of absence for the last year. While there,
Professor Lilly did work toward the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in English.

Pfohl is the new director of music at Davidson. He is an honor graduate of the School of Music of
the University of Michigan, having gone there after a year’s work at the University of North Carolina. Pfohl was offered
a position at the University of Michigan last year, but decided to come to a Southern college. He is the
son of Bishop Pfohl of Winston-Salem. While at Davidson he will assume the direction of the college band, orchestra, glee
club, pipe organ, and music in general. He is a talented musician and comes to Davidson College with the highest
of recommendations.

The third addition is an alumni secretary, Grier Martin. He was a Cum Laude graduate of Davidson, editor of the
Davidsonian, and a letter man in both track and basketball. He was also a member of O. D. K., leadership
fraternity. During the past year, Mr. Martin has been studying at Emory University. He is heartily welcomed by the college
as a whole.

Professor Kenneth J. Foreman has been granted a leave of absence for the coming year, to study at Yale University.
While there, he will work on his doctorate in theology. Professor Foreman was awarded a D.D. by Washington and Lee
last year at commencement.

DAVIDSON UNIT WINS R.O.T.C. CUP
Seventeen Colleges Defeated in Summer Military Competition

Representatives of Davidson College won the General Proficiency cup of the Clemson College R.O.T.C. camp this summer when, in competition
with 17 other schools and colleges in the South, they received the greatest number of points in comparative ratings of
units of the R.O.T.C. Davidson scored a total of 790.4 points in the ratings to come out ahead of Georgia
Tech, of Atlanta, which scored 788.84 points.

The 25 students there from the Presbyterian school received the full allowance of 100 points in athletic participation, scored 339.2
points in professional knowledge and 351.2 in discipline to accumulate the winning total. Their score for knowledge was the highest
made in that grading, and their discipline grade was the third highest, Wofford College, of Spartanburg, S.C., rating first with
354.6 and Georgia Tech second, .38 points ahead of Davidson.

The Davidson unit moved into first place during the second half period after being second to Presbyterian College during the
first half. P.C. finished fifth in the final rating.

In individual comparative ratings, Davidson also ranked first, having 22 of her 25 representatives given “satisfactory” grades. William M. Brown,
of Knoxville, Tenn., distinguished himself as one of the best military men in camp, when he was called upon frequently
to command one of the companies during all its major formations, and it was probably because of his ability that
Davidson received a high grade in professional knowledge. Several others distinguished themselves in rifle, individual drill, and rifle marksmanship, to
help bring honor up-

(Continued on page 6)

students. HISSING.

“Conduct is three-fourths of life and its large concern”—to quote from the pen of Matthew Arnold. Attendance at any Davidson
chapel exercise will convince the average visitor that a large portion of the Davidson student body has relatively little invested
in life from the standpoint of gentlemanly behavior. Our conduct is deplorable. We indulge freely in a most contemptible and
spineless method of expressing our dislike of either the most trivial matter or portentous affair. Hissing is undoubtedly one of
the worst prevailing evils among Davidson students. It is widespread and because of the nature of the offense all-embracing. The
hissing of a few jeopardizes the reputation of all others present in an assembly. Those that refrain from this cowardly
practice are condemned with the offenders.

Not only the innocent suffer. The students who make announcements, the men who conduct our exercises, the prominent speakers who
address our meetings—all are embarrassed, chagrined, and made ill at ease. Visitors go away with an erasable impression that will
bring no good to our Alma Mater. The last group to suffer are those who actually engage in the nefarious
practice. The damage done to self-respect should indeed be contemplated. No self-respecting individual can seriously consider hissing and not feel
“cheap” in his behavior. He is hiding behind the crowd, not daring to show himself openly, but sneakingly, cowardly, and
childishly expressing his disapproval of everything even to the point of being sacrilegious.

One of the most important banks in West Virginia had as its slogan: “Strongest Bank in State.” Under this caption,
the bank marshaled its forces and gave the impression of solidarity and trustworthiness. The bank prospered for a time, but
suddenly went under. The institution was corrupt within itself. It had hidden and evil powers that slowly but surely sapped
its life blood and caused its downfall. The analogy is clear. We have an institution, the students of which are
respected and admired for their gentlemanly behavior and sportsmanship, but there is a malignant growth that will certainly prove disastrous
if not checked immediately. Davidson will not long maintain its prestige among other colleges and universities. We have a chosen
Freshman class this year of men who were recommended and who come to us with the highest sort of moral,
physical, and scholastic records. Others noticed as we did the look of wonder and amazement that spread over the faces
of the class of ’37 when a rumble of feet and a sibilant exhalation, the Senior section as any other,
will no longer hold its fine reputation. Seniors will be corrupted! If Davidson is to remain untarnished in the unwritten
but powerful annals of public opinion.—R.P.T.

Hissing will have to be eradicated if Davidson is to remain untarnished in the unwritten but powerful annals of public
opinion.

WEDNESDAY, 27, IS PLEDGE DAY
Rushing Season Is Now in Full Swing

Formal rushing season with the Greek letter fraternities began on the Davidson campus with the opening of college last Thursday,
September 14, and will end with pledging services at 9 p.m. Wednesday, September 27. Ten national social fraternities are busy
with rushing possible members to whom they hope to send bids Tuesday, September 26.

All the social organizations have planned feeds, smokers, and other formal functions to entertain members of the Freshman class. A
Freshman house party has been scheduled for Saturday, September 23, and will be the main event of Davidson’s two weeks
of greatest social activity.

The Pan-Hellenic Council has determined to make the rushing season as inexpensive as possible this year, it was stated by
Fred L. Smyre, president of the organization. To carry out this economical plan, the fraternities have agreed to accept the
“Dutch” system, which prohibits a fraternity member from treating a rushee to a movie or a drug store set-up.

According to custom in the past at Davidson, the day of silence will begin at 10 o'clock p.m. next Tuesday,
and end at 7 o'clock p.m. Wednesday.

(Continued on page 4)

Announcement

All members of the reportorial staff of “The Davidsonian” who wish to remain on the staff this year are requested
to meet tonight in the parlor of Watts Dormitory at 8 o'clock. Those who fail to make an appearance will
be regarded as uninterested in the work. All Freshmen who are interested in newspaper work are asked to meet the
editor in the parlor of Watts at 8 o'clock p.m. Monday, September 25. Further announcement will be made in chapel.

D.C. SUMMER SESSION HELD
Zoology Class Studies at the Seashore

The Davidson College Summer School, with an enrollment of 75 students, enjoyed a very successful session during the summer months.
There were eight professors who contributed their services and aided the boys in making up back work in addition to
teaching advanced courses. The main feature of the session was the class in zoology which was capably conducted by Professor
Porter. The class took a most interesting and instructive trip to the eastern part of the state on the Coast,
near Beaufort, N.C., in pursuit of learning more about the study of sea life.

A highlight of the session was a group of lectures given by members of the faculty during the chapel exercises.
Dr. W. L. Lingle spoke on “College,” Dr. C. M. Richards spoke on the topic, “Christian Citizenship,” and Dr. J.
M. Douglas discussed “New Movements in Science.”

Hugh Hawkins, of Charlottesville, Va., was elected and served as president of the student body during the summer session.

First-Year Men Erect Bleachers

Red-capped Freshmen were busy Monday afternoon.Putting up the first bleachers, in preparation for the Elon-Davidson game Saturday, when the Wildcats
open their 1933 schedule, was energetic and earnest work. Seats were completed. The Freshmen, when asked in a pep meeting
last week if they would follow the old custom of setting up the bleachers, consented, and Monday William M. Brown,
director of the work, had a section of the class out for work. Yearlings out for the football squad were
not asked to help. Only the bleachers on the east side of the field will be erected in time for
the Elon game. Brown hopes to have the work completed before the next home game, which will be with V.
M. I., October 14.

For three years this rotten habit has persisted, growing worse each year. Will it continue indefinitely? The rightful place of
honest men in colleges is to set an example for the undergraduates as they advance. They must not.

Dr. C. K. Brown talked on education. Many of the yearlings, shirtless, were busy, and in a short time a
few sections of seats were completed. The Freshmen had their formal introduction to college life in the M service, lasting
from Friday until Wednesday. The first two days were busy.

A meeting for all Freshmen was held between 8:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. on September 3. At this meeting, exercises
were conducted by Thompson, president of the student government. The speaker of the evening was Moore, principal of the High
School of Atlanta, which is part of the Davidson system. Dr. M. E. Sentelle explained college regulations to the Freshmen.
Sam Wiley, secretary of the Y. M. C. A., discussed the nature of various campus organizations. At the concluding service
on Wednesday evening, Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer, gave some very valuable information concerning the handling of money and care
of property. Dr. Walter Lingle concluded the series of services with an address on the subject of “What Davidson Can
Mean to a Student.”

The Y. M. C. A. also sponsored a reception Monday night, September 18, in the banquet hall of Chambers Building.
The members of the Senior and Freshman classes were invited to attend this reception. In the receiving line were members
of the faculty and their wives. The “Freshman Reception” is an annual event sponsored by the Y. M. C. A.,
at which time the new men have an opportunity to become acquainted with the professors and their wives.

Changes
This issue of “The Davidsonian” is somewhat different from those published in past years. Several changes have occurred, the most
important of which are a difference in the number of columns and the addition of an alumni page. Six columns
are now used instead of five. They are somewhat smaller in width than the columns of last year, yet greater
in length. The election of an Alumni Secretary has brought with the position more Alumni News and for that reason
one full page is to be devoted this year to those who have gone before us.

The student directory has been withheld from this issue because during the first few days of school, many changes in
room assignments occur, thereby making an early directory incorrect. The chart will be published in next week’s edition. A faculty
directory will be found on page 4 of this issue.

President Lingle
Dr. Walter L. Lingle, who is starting his fifth year as President of Davidson College.

DR. W. L. LINGLE BEGINS FIFTH YEAR AS SUCCESSFUL LEADER OF DAVIDSON
Dr. Walter Lee Lingle began his fifth year as president of Davidson College as school got under way on its
ninety-eighth session. During this time Dr. Lingle has met with great success and has co-operated to the fullest extent in
supporting Davidson College athletic teams and activities. He has upheld to the highest degree the ideals and spirit of the
school. Dr. Lingle is a prominent and potential figure in the Southern Presbyterian Church. As is his custom each summer,
he spent several weeks at Montreat. The first week of July he spent there taking part in an Educational Conference.
He spent another week there the latter part of August speaking on the general theme: “Christianity and World Problems.” The
greater part of the vacation months, however, he was at work in his office here at school busy answering letters
and making plans for this year. In comparing the outlook for this year with that of last year, Dr. Lingle
said that things appeared about the same. Last year at this same date there were about 620 men registered, compared
with 610 today. There are more new men, he said, and fewer old men than usual, the latter due to
the fact that a large Senior class was sent out last year. As regards the “Centennial Class,” Dr. Lingle said
he was pleased with it and expressed the belief that there was much good material in it.

Ban on Automobiles Is Effective Monday
The regular ban was placed on automobiles last Monday, September 18, according to a notice by Dr. M. E. Sentelle,
dean. No students of any classes will be allowed to keep cars in town hereafter. Notice was also given by
Dr. Sentelle of the new absence regulations. Whereas last year twice as many absences were allowed in each course as
there were credit hours in the course per week, this year only half that many absences will be allowed in
each course. There were no changes in the number of church and chapel cuts allowed.

Auto Accident on Campus Road
Three Davidson Men Injured on Campus Road
NONE SERIOUSLY INJURED
All in the Infirmary Doing Very Well
Saturday night an automobile accident occurred on the Campus Road that resulted in injuries to three students, Hack Sanders, John
Partridge, and P. D. Guerrant. Fortunately, the injuries were not serious to any of the men and all are at
present recovering in the College Infirmary from bruises and other minor ills. Sanders and Partridge are members of the football
squad.

WILLIAM BROWN IS CADET MAJOR
Powell, Scott, Harrison, and Casali Selected Company Commanders
William M. Brown, of Knoxville, Tenn., will be the Cadet Major and Battalion Commander of the R. O. T. C.
unit at Davidson during the 1933-34 school year, an order from Major John T. Rhett, professor of military science and
tactics here, announces. Brown's appointment along with other cadet appointments followed a four weeks’ summer encampment at Clemson College, S.
C., and became effective at the opening of school, September 14. Commanding officers of the companies were E. L. Powell,
of Mobile, Ala., Company “A”; F. H. Scott, of Tsinanfu, China, Company “B”; F. P. Harrison, of Salisbury, Company “C";
and Odi Casali, of Welch, W. Va., Company “D.”

The first military formation since the opening of college was held last Friday with more than 370 students reporting in
khaki uniforms. Cadets reported to companies and were arranged according to height, then separated into platoons. The position of the
soldier at attention was the only technicality taken up the opening day. Monday, during drill period, the battalion was assembled
in the college auditorium, where it was addressed by Major Rhett, who told of the history of wars in the
United States, explaining the place R. O. T. C. has in the National Defense Act, and stating why we should
have military training. He also told the cadets that uniforms must be complete when worn, and announced other regulations.

Non-commissioned officers, taken from the Junior class, were increased this year to forty. The promotions were:
Battalion Commander: Cadet Major W. M. Brown.
Battalion Staff: Captain E. J. Humphrey, Adjutant; Captain R. C. Morrow, Personnel Adjutant; Captain A. S. Rachal, Jr., Plans and
Training; Captain F. M. Cochran, Jr., Commanding Band; Warrant Officer J. A. C. Robinson, Principal Musician; Cadet Master Sgt. J.
H. Powell, Sgt. Major; 1st Sgt. W. L. Northern, Band; Sgt. Cunningham, Company “A”: Captain E. L. Powell, commanding; First
Lieutenants H. A. Wilson, J. T. Drake, J. M. Covington; 2nd Lt. R. H. Smith, Jr.; 1st Sgt. C. T.
Fort.
Sergeants: Porter, Ravenel, Brewer, Douglas, Oswalt, Richardson, Simpson, Dees.
