4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1933

Rev. McCloud Conducts Service Sunday Evening With Appealing Address
Columbia Theological Seminary Quartet Render Several Musical Selections

Gripping his hearers with the force of a powerful mental and spiritual influence, the Rev. Murdock McCloud, a Davidson graduate
himself, presented to his audience a vital message of deep appeal at the evening Y. M. C. A. vespers service
on last Sunday, April 30. Dr. McCloud is pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Pinehurst. After the audience had filed
in, Lanier Pratt, the leader, called upon Bob McCallie to offer prayer. The Columbia Theological Seminary Quartet favored the assembly
with a pair of old favorites, “Go, When the Morning Shineth,” and “Shall I Crucify My Savior?”

“There are four things which hold us together—a common need, a common object, common enemies to be overcome, and a
common lacking,” explained Mr. McCloud. “In encountering these, one of the hardest facts that a young preacher must face is
that the world is actually a real place. He soon finds corruption running rife; he discovers that there are a
great number of people who are not living true Christian lives. He finds the church being used merely to satisfy
the social and intellectual impulses. This is no use for the Gospel. Nevertheless, many people look upon the church as
a sugar-coated pill to cure our present-day ills.”

Mr. McCloud then quoted the words of the Apostle Paul, “When I was a child, I spake as a child,
I understood as a child, I thought as a child. But now that I am become a man, I have
put away childish things.” We are growing older mentally—let us grow essentially; let our concepts of God expand with our
growing years. There is a longing to bring man to the feet of Christ, for we are debtors to all
mankind. Paul recognized this fact. He was ready to take the Gospel out at a tremendous sacrifice, we may read
of the sufferings for Christ. The acceptance of apostleship was not a little change; but Paul was ready to give
his last drop of blood for it.

Mr. McCloud said that the rich young ruler who was offered the chance to follow Jesus and went away in
sorrowful mood was not thinking of anything in the world but the cost to him. He was probably saved, for
he had not disputed over obtaining a place in the Kingdom of Heaven, as had the apostles, but had known
the cost better than they. Jesus said, “If any man would follow me, let him deny himself, take up his
cross and follow me.” When Christ says, “Deny thyself,” He means it. We do not live long, and must take
up our crosses, blast out the old man who seeks to destroy us and put on the new.

“Business men, professional men, and the man in the pulpit; every man, woman, and child—all are seeking satisfaction. It takes
no little thing to give it to them.”

Oxford Group Sends Representatives Here
Principles of First Century Christian Fellowship to Be Fully Explained

A number of students, who have come in contact with the Oxford Group at various times and who have found
it to be interesting as well as personally beneficial, have invited several representatives of this movement to come to Davidson
and meet informally with groups of those interested, in order that their principles might be more fully explained.

This movement, more properly called The First Century Christian Fellowship, has for the past twelve years been growing steadily in
size and influence throughout Europe, and even South Africa and China. It is neither a denomination, a form of “fancy
religion,” nor anything separate and distinct from the churches and their doctrines. It is simply a fellowship of individuals, members
of churches of different denominations, who have associated themselves for the purpose of promoting and stressing the importance of personal
consecration. They are attempting to put into actual practice the most important principles of simple Christian teaching, especially individual surrender
and the sharing of spiritual experiences as a means of persuading others.

Since the Oxford Group has no organization or membership, it is a movement within the churches, rather than a sect
or “ism.” It neither adds to, nor subtracts from, the doctrines of our Protestant churches, but lays a strong emphasis
on certain fundamentals.

These representatives will remain through tonight, and are to leave the college tomorrow morning.

It is not the clear-sighted who lead the world. Great achievements are accomplished in a blessed, warm, mental fog.—Joseph Conrad

Now—the weather is forcing you to leave your coat off, you will want your Shirt to be right

SEE OUR LINE OF SHIRTS $1.00 and $1.95 IDEY'S DAVIDSON SHOP

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS” Make Our Store Your Store. Student Supplies WHITE DRUG CO., Inc. “SODAS” “SUNDRIES”

Silver Screen

Wednesday, May 3—Looking Forward
This is the latest show made by Lionel Barrymore. Not having yet been released, there is no advanced advertisement on
the production. There is nothing to be said about this picture other than it is another characterization by Lionel Barrymore.
That should be recommendation enough, and the picture should be very interesting.

Thursday and Friday, May 4 and 5—Cavalcade
This is a story of a family—the Marryots—in Britain during the first thirty years of the century. The whole story
is built about Diana Wynward, as a mother, having continual sorrows. The cast is English—Clive Brook, Herbert Mundin, Beryl Mercer,
and some newcomers to Hollywood. The Boer War, the World War shown in a kaleidoscopic jumble of battle incidents, the
Titanic, the funeral of Queen Victoria, are a few screen incidents. It is a bit sentimental, and those who dislike
a few sobs should stay away, yet it is said to be one of the best pictures ever produced. “Liberty”
gives it four stars. It is superbly written for the screen.

Saturday, May 6—Smoke of Righteousness and Trick for Trick
Little is known of the two shows. Perhaps it is because they are not of any importance, or they may
be so new that the latest reviewers were not able to criticize them. The first is another regular “smoke and
fire” cowboy cinema. The manly George O'Brien has the lead.

Monday, May 8—Picture-Snatcher
This is a fast-moving picture of a new phase of newspaper life, with dialogue that crackles and has plenty of
surprises. It is the story of a gangster, James Cagney, who reforms and becomes a picture-snatcher on a yellow tabloid.
Patricia Ellis, as the daughter of a police lieutenant, offers love interest. Alice White as Cagney’s target, is a game
one and should be commended for her acting. Ralph Bellamy is good as the hard-drinking city editor. It is well
written, well planned, and well acted. If you are one of the Cagney type, you should like this picture of
incidents and suspense, as it is his best role of late.

Tuesday, May 9—Devil’s Brother
It is the latest musical comedy starring Dennis King and Laurel and Hardy. It should be good! If it is
at all like Mr. King’s first picture, “The Vagabond King,” it will be splendid. Because it is such a new
release, no reviews have been made, yet no advanced advertisements.

Davidson Men Attend Training Conference
Six Davidson students attended the Y. M.C. A. and Y. W. C. A. Officers’ Training Conference at Duke University, held
April 28, 29, and 30. The men to represent the campus were: Paul Brown, Sam Nickey, Tom Phifer, E. L.
Powell, W. T. Thompson, and Sam Wiley. Dr. David R. Porter, executive secretary of the Student Department of the National
Council of Y. M. C. A., was the chief speaker of the occasion. He spoke on “Spiritual Growth and Adjustment
of the Individual” on Saturday morning and continued the theme of his addresses in the service Saturday night by speaking
on “Spiritual Growth and Adjustment of the Group.”

On Saturday afternoon, “Duck” Powell was elected vice-president of the conference for the coming year, and “Wee” Thompson was chosen
as chairman of the men’s division of the Student Cabinet. One of the most significant steps toward progress and co-operation
was taken with the unification of the Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. Cabinets into one Student
Cabinet. Miss Lucy Crisp of the Women’s College of North Carolina spoke to the group at this time also. The
delegation attended Sunday morning worship in the newly erected Duke Chapel. They were very much impressed by the majestic beauty
it has attained through the medium of Gothic architecture, of which type it is said to be one of the
most perfect examples in America.

BILL JOHNSON
Smart Spring and Summer Styles
Tailored by STORRS - SCHAEFER
MAY 4-5, at MISS MINNIE’S
T. HOOKE McCALLIE
High Quality Summer Suits $4.95 - $10.95
SEE Phifer Erwin. - - Representative

NOTICE
Have your shoes rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Work done while you wait.
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

R. O. T. C. Program Is Announced for May
The following will be the schedule for R. O. T. C. drill during the month of May: On Monday, May
1, there will be no drill on account of the splendid showing made by the battalion at the inspection on
Friday. There will be a formal escort to the colors on Wednesday, May 3, with Company “B” as the color
company, and Company “A” as escort company. Drill will not be held on Friday, May 5, because of the baseball
game with Wake Forest. Monday, May 8, will be devoted to the practice of formal guard mount with formal guard
mount on the following Wednesday. The guard will be taken from the juniors with the following officers: New Officer of
the Day, Captain P. F. Brown; Old Officer of the Day, Captain C. E. Moore; Adjutant, Captain B. E. Allen;
Senior Officer of the Guard, Lieutenant B. B. Taylor; Junior Officer of the Guard, Lieutenant J. A. Smith, Jr.; Sergeant
of the Guard, Sergeant W. M. Brown; Sergeant Major, Sergeant E. J. Humphreys. On Friday, May 12, the company competitive
drill will be held. This will be the last drill and formation. Beginning Monday, May 15, all class sections will
turn in uniforms and equipment by sections. Class sections of Thursday and Friday will turn in their uniforms and equipment
during the drill period on Monday, May 15. The rest will turn in theirs when ordered to do so.

Promising Men Try Out As Junior Cheer Leaders
Hugh Hawkins, recently elected varsity cheer leader, has stated that the outlook for the junior cheer leaders during the coming
year looks promising. Several men who have reported for the tryouts have had previous experience, and those who are out
for the first time are working industriously learning the details of the yells. George Barnes, Fritz Byerly, Ed Garret, Henry
Gregory, P. D. Guerrant, Kirk Hanrahan, Charles McCall, Dave McClain, Getty Monroe, Harry Morris, Paul Warren, and Lee West are
those who are trying out for the positions of junior cheer leader. These men will work out at the remaining
baseball games of the season, and at the pep meetings in the fall. They will also lead cheers at the
first football game in September. This is done in order that the student body may judge which two of the
men will make the best assistants for the year. The elections for the junior cheer leaders will be held after
the first football game next fall.

BROWN WINS FIRST PLACE WITH FORCEFUL SPEECH
(Continued from page 1)
Statesville, and Mrs. C. T. Wanzer, Charlotte. Second place was won by Margaret Mauney, Lenoir-Rhyne, whose subject was “Peace Through
International Education,” while third place was taken by William E. Braswell, who represented State College, with the subject of “Peace
Is Possible.” Brown spoke in his usual forceful style, stressing his points clearly. He declared in his opening sentences that
orations were dangerous things, and that while speaking on peace we feel secure, but if war were declared tomorrow it
would be orations that would move us to take up arms. He stressed the futility of war, and declared that
the next conflagration would see the collapse of civilization, and, therefore, peace was necessary. During Miss Stephens’ talk she was
continually interrupted by the presence of a bat, which had flown into the auditorium through an open window. She appealed
to the chairman that unless the bat were removed it would be impossible for her to continue. Several plans were
suggested and tried, but they were of no avail. She finished her speech with the animal still fluttering its blind
way around the auditorium and the stage. Some question of the eligibility of Brown was brought up during the judging
of the speakers. It was brought out that a college representative must be chosen two weeks ahead of the scheduled
contest. Brown was chosen two nights before the speaking. It was found that any information of this sort was not
received by the Forensic Council until April 21. This matter is to be cleared up by the state chairman. A
list of the speakers and their talks is as follows: E. Leonidas Smith, Wake Forest, “A New Internationalism”; Miss Margaret
Mauney, Lenoir-Rhyne, “Peace Through International Education”; Gordon Brown, Davidson College, “The Unseen War”; Miss Sara Stephens, Asheville U. and T.
C., “The Kiss of Death”; and William E. Braswell, State College, “Peace Is Possible.” Edward H. Paget, Wake Forest; A.
B. Hoskins, Miss Nora Padgette, both of Asheville U. and T. C., and J. Rice Quisenberry, Wake Forest, accompanied their
speakers as faculty representatives. While here the speakers and advisers were guests of the Davidson Forensic Council. Musical selections were
rendered as part of the program by William Hart, organist, and Robert Orr, violinist, both of Davidson. At the conclusion
of the speaking a reception was held in the faculty room in Chambers for the speakers, officials and members of
the faculty.

The truth is a beautiful thing, even when it’s tangled and in doubtful taste—W. B. Seabrook.

College Printing
Magazines, Catalogs, Handbooks, Etc.
“PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE”
Nothing too large or too small for our plant—Let us serve you
A. M. MANSON, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE
6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing, Always Best
STANDARD PRINTING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Newspapers, Bulletins, Engraved Cards and Invitations. Exclusively.

Davidson Theatre
“LOOKING FORWARD”
WEDNESDAY, MAY 3
LIONEL BARRYMORE
THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, MAY 4 AND 5
“CAVALCADE”
SATURDAY, MAY 6, DOUBLE FEATURE
“SMOKE OF RIGHTEOUSNESS” GEO. O’BRIEN
“TRICK FOR TRICK”
MONDAY, MAY 8
“PICTURE SNATCHER” JAMES CAGNEY
TUESDAY, MAY 9
“DEVIL’S BROTHER” DENNIS KING — LAUREL AND HARDY
A Musical Picture
