THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1933

VARSITY TRACKMEN MEET FURMAN HERE SATURDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

WILDCAT LINKMEN MEET RICHMOND GOLFERS FRIDAY

Varsity Track Team to Hold Initial Meet With Furman Here Saturday

Keen Competition Expected Despite Injuries of Several Last Year’s Lettermen

Davidson’s Wildcats will open their track schedule this Saturday when they meet representatives of Furman University on Richardson Field. This meet will be the first for both schools. Not much is known of the strength of the visitors, but they should present a strong team, especially in the field events, composed mostly of members of a strong football team which carried the Furman colors last fall.

Captain N. G. Pritchett has been working his candidates for more than three weeks, and despite injuries of several of last year’s lettermen, should put a crack team on the cinders against Furman Saturday. A trial meet among the candidates themselves was held here last Friday, and the showing of many of the prospects was pleasing to the Davidson Coach.

Probably the most interesting event in the meet will be the 100-yard sprint between Captain Fred Fleagle, of Davidson, and Alley, of Furman. The two will renew a feud which started two years ago at a meet in Greenville, S. C. Fleagle barely nosed the South Carolina sprint champion out in their first race.

Golf and track will usher in Davidson’s 1933 spring sports program this Friday, and the scenes which follow should prove interesting and entertaining to the Davidson students. On the opening day, the Varsity golf team will meet the Richmond Spiders on the Charlotte Country Club course, and the Freshman track team will be hosts to the Charlotte High cindermen at Richardson Field.

The Wildcat golfers should come out victorious over the Richmond team and should enjoy a successful season thereafter, since the Davidson team is composed of three lettermen, T. P. Caldwell, Jack Wagner, and Mac Manson, who were together last year, and Johnny Thompson, who was a member of the team his Freshman year.

Up for First Game

Coaches Unger and Mathis have been working hard for the past two weeks trying to whip their squad of about twenty-five green baseball candidates into shape. The coaches aren’t settled on who will play the different positions, but they hope to make some definite steps in this direction after they see the material in action Saturday.

Only about five or six candidates have had any previous experience in organized baseball, so the two “Docs” have been spending most of the time thus far teaching a few of the fundamentals of the game. Richardson, Jenkins, and Sanders look like the best bets for Freshman hurlers. All three did a little mound duty against the Varsity last Saturday and looked mighty good.

“The boys looked very lax in every respect against the Varsity,” Coach Unger asserted, “but this was probably due to lack of experience. On the whole, they looked very good, and I am well pleased with their performance.”

Eighteen Men Awarded Varsity Monograms at Close of Winter Season

Numerals Also Awarded to Twelve Members of Freshman Cage Team

With the culmination of the 1933 basketball season, the Davidson College Athletic Association awarded the varsity “D” to the following: Captain Bruce Peabody, Captain-elect Courtney Ross, and Harry Boucher. George Bailey was also awarded the varsity “D” for his services as manager, and Bob Glasgow got the minor sports “D” for his work as manager of the Freshman quint.

Of these men, Peabody, Wagner, Dickerson, and Boucher are Seniors, and have worn the Davidson colors on the court for the last time. Next year’s squad will be built around Heath, Harris, Ross, Lafferty, and material from the reserves and the Freshman team.

At the time the Varsity basketball letters were awarded, numerals for the Freshman team were given as follows: Co-Captain Sanders and Windham, Dillard, Burns, Parker, Marchant, Johnson, J., Cumbie, Lewis, Johnson, E. C., Benfield, and Tipton. Dillard led the scorers for the season.

Letters in wrestling were awarded at the same time. The following received monograms: Dillon (115 pounds), Jenkins (125 pounds), Sprunt (135 pounds), Captain-elect Charlie Forte (145 pounds), Quarterman (155 pounds), Potter (165 pounds), Captain Taylor (175 pounds), and Whitfield (unlimited). The team finished a most successful season.

What Coach Heath Whittle considers the best Freshman track team that Davidson has ever been able to put on the field, will oppose Charlotte High Friday. With Evans in the sprints, Frazier and Merchant in the mile run, and Pittman, Lee, and Dolan in the pole vault leading the way, the yearlings have more than an even chance to defeat the strong Charlotte team.

Saturday, the Varsity should be able to hand Furman’s track team a licking. Captain Fleagle should give the Wildcats a lead in the sprints, and Cochran wouldn’t surprise us a bit if he added the full number of points to the Davidson cause in both the shot put and discus throw. As in past years, Davidson is again well taken care of in the hurdles, and Pratt, McCallie, Little, and McPhail should blank the visitors in the two obstacle races. Points should be added by Bill Flinn, record holder in the pole vault, in that event and in the broad jump. Two newcomers, Armstead and Wingfield, showed up well in the broad jump trials last Friday and may cause the Furman jumpers to cover the ground to place ahead of them this Saturday. Armstead, a Junior out for the first time, and Wingfield, who performed for the Freshman team last year, can both leap more than twenty feet.

A lack of pitchers has been the chief problem confronting Davidson’s baseball coaches in past years, but from the showing of the twirlers in the first Varsity-Freshman scrimmage lastSaturday, that problem appears solved for the present at least. Charlie Pearce, Charlie Harris, and George Baily showed up well in their first assignment and relieved Coach Laird of any worry he may have had about that position. Bob Richardson, Hack Sanders, and Jack Jenkins, by their showing against the Varsity, left the impression that their pitching should carry the yearling team to a successful season.

My Greatest Thrill
AS TOLD BY BUDDY GARDNER, Captain of 1932 Football Team

There are very few occasions on which a lineman in a football game has an opportunity to feel that he has experienced “his greatest thrill.” It is usually just a lot of rough stuff for him and such a thing as experiencing a thrill through his own personal endeavors is usually something out of the ordinary. But if I must tell of my greatest thrill, I believe that I had it in the Carolina-Davidson game this year. With the possible (Continued on page 6)

who starred with the Freshman team last year, the outfield hopes; Jenkins, Richardson, and Sanders, of the pitching staff. (Continued on page 6)

SPRING SPORTS CALENDAR

MARCH:
24—Track—Charlotte Hi vs. Freshmen, here.
24—Golf—Richmond vs. Varsity, at Charlotte.
25—Track—Furman vs. Varsity, here.
29—Golf—Washington and Lee vs. Varsity, at Charlotte.
30—Baseball—Catawba vs. Varsity, here.
31—Baseball—Balls Creek Hi vs. Freshmen, here.

APRIL:
1—Track—V. P. I. vs. Varsity, here.
1—Track—V. P. I. Freshmen vs. Freshmen, here.
4—Track—Duke vs. Varsity, here.
5—Baseball—Lenoir-Rhyne vs. Varsity, here.
5—Baseball—M. P. C. I. vs. Freshmen, at Mount Pleasant.
6—Tennis—Emory vs. Varsity, at Emory, Ga.
7—Tennis—Furman vs. Varsity, at Greenville, S. C.
7—Track—Winston-Salem Hi vs. Freshmen, here.
8—Baseball—Union Seminary vs. Varsity, here.
8—Tennis—South Carolina vs. Varsity, at Columbia, S. C.
10—Baseball—Catawba vs. Varsity, at Salisbury.
12—Baseball—Elon vs. Varsity, here.
12—Golf—Furman vs. Varsity, at Charlotte.
15—Track—Florida vs. Varsity, at Gainesville, Fla.
15—Baseball—North Carolina vs. Varsity, at Winston-Salem (pending).
17—Baseball—North Carolina vs. Varsity, at Concord.
17, 18, 19—Tennis—Varsity in State Tournament, at Chapel Hill.
18—Baseball—Elon vs. Varsity, at Burlington.
20—Tennis—North Carolina vs. Varsity, at Chapel Hill.
21—Baseball—Wake Forest vs. Varsity, here.
21—Baseball—Belmont Abbey vs. Freshmen, here (pending).
22—Track—Charlotte Hi vs. Freshmen, at Charlotte.
22—Tennis—U. S. Naval Academy vs. Varsity, at Annapolis, Md.
24—Golf—Richmond vs. Varsity, at Richmond, Va.
24—Tennis—Richmond vs. Varsity, at Richmond, Va. (pending).
24—Baseball—Balls Creek Hi vs. Freshmen, at Balls Creek.
25—Baseball—North Carolina vs. Varsity, at Chapel Hill.
25—Tennis—William and Mary vs. Varsity, at Williamsburg, Va.
26—Baseball—N. C. State vs. Varsity, at Raleigh.
26—Golf—Washington and Lee vs. Varsity, at Lexington, Va.
27—Golf—North Carolina vs. Varsity, at Greensboro.
28—Baseball—Belmont Abbey vs. Freshmen, at Belmont (pending).
28—Golf—Duke vs. Varsity, at Greensboro.
29—Track—South Carolina vs. Varsity, at Columbia, S. C.
29—Track—Presbyterian College Freshmen vs. Freshmen, at Clinton, S. C.

MAY:
2—Baseball—Lenoir-Rhyne vs. Varsity, at Hickory (pending).
3—Baseball—V. P. I. vs. Varsity, at Blacksburg, Va. (pending).
4—Baseball—V. P. I. vs. Varsity, at Blacksburg, Va. (pending).
4—Baseball—Wake Forest Freshmen vs. Freshmen, at Wake Forest.
5—Baseball—North Carolina Freshmen vs. Freshmen, at Chapel Hill.
6—Baseball—George Washington vs. Varsity, at Washington, D. C. (pending).
6—Baseball—N. C. State Freshmen vs. Freshmen, at Raleigh.
6—Track—Wake Forest vs. Varsity, here.
6—Track—Wake Forest Freshmen vs. Freshmen, here.
8—Golf—Emory vs. Varsity, at Atlanta, Ga.
9—Golf—Georgia Tech vs. Varsity, at Atlanta, Ga.
10—Golf—Furman vs. Varsity, at Greenville, S. C.
10—Baseball—Duke vs. Varsity, at Durham.
10—Baseball—M. P. C. I. vs. Freshmen, here.
11—Baseball—Wake Forest vs. Varsity, at Wake Forest.
13—Track—Varsity and Freshmen in State Meet, at Durham.
15—Baseball—N. C. State vs. Varsity, here.
17—Baseball—Duke vs. Varsity, here.

Davidson, winning over V. P. I. and Duke, dropping matches to Franklin and Marshall, and Washington and Lee, and tying the final match with North Carolina. This placed Davidson second in the Big Five standings, with N. C. State finishing first.

Freshmen Cindermen To Have Meet Friday

As was shown in a meet among themselves last Friday, the Freshman track men are in good condition to beat Central High of Charlotte next Friday. Central High has a good team this year, and although the Charlotte boys recently defeated a team composed of alumni, their chief threats seem to be in the sprints and broad jump. Ras Evans, of Davidson, who recently set a record at the Carolina Indoor Meet should aptly cover the former. Pittman, John Lee, and Stevens will be jumping for the Wildkittens.

The Charlotte miler ran a 4:50 last week, but both Frazier and Merchant of Davidson will put up a good fight. Young will also be running for Davidson. There is a possibility that Evans, Freshman record-holder, will not run, due to an ankle injury received in the Carolina meet. Faison and Yarborough will run the sprints. Cathey and Parker will run the high hurdles, while Pittman and Parker will take care of the lows. The Kittens are strong in the half-mile event, being represented by Cathran, Shuford, and Glass. Fraley and Frazier should both show up well in the 440-yard dash. John Lee, who has reached 5 feet, 7 inches this year, will lead the high jumpers. H. Wells and Tipton have also been looking good in the broad jump. Pittman, Dolan and Lee all showed up well in the pole vault. Pittman has cleared 11 feet this year and the other two have each cleared at least 10½ feet. In the discus event will be Sears, H. Wells, and Tipton. Johnson, John Lee, and Blackwelder will throw the javelin. Tipton, H. Wells, and Windham will put the shot.

Golf Team Selected At Charlotte Club

Three lettermen, Captain T. P. Caldwell, Jack Wagner, and Mac Manson, the remaining members of last year’s golf team, retained the right to represent Davidson on the links again this spring, when they turned in low scores in the finals play at the Charlotte Country Club course last Friday. Johnny Thompson, who was a member of the Varsity golf team in his Freshman year, but who failed to make the team the last two years, was the newcomer on the four-man team.

Jack Wagner, who was captain of the 1932 team, turned in the lowest score in the medal play, making the course in 74 and 77 for a total of 151. Captain Caldwell turned in a card of 81-84 for 165 on the course. John Thompson with 85-85—170, and Mac Manson with 87-85—172, were next in order. Bob Gregory and Tom Bowles, the other finalists, were close behind the qualifiers with 86-88—174, and 89-87—176, respectively. All the finalists are members of the Senior class and will graduate this year. The team opens its ten-game schedule at Charlotte Friday, when the University of Richmond will be met.

COMMENCEMENT and Then GRADUATION

A SENIOR’S desire is to have a lasting remembrance of college life. These are brought about by college ties, formalities and Commencement Invitations. See E. O. Guerrant A. M. Manson

By Shirtcraft
Check Shirts and Ties to Match
IDEU'S DAVIDSON SHOP
$1.95