DEBATES JUNIOR SCHEDULED SPEAKING FOR FUTURE NEXT WEEK

The Davidsonian

Glenda Lux Gbi Orta Libertas

Vol. XX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 1, 1933

No. 20

Davidson Debating Team to Meet New Opponents on Coming Southern Trip

Leiland McKeithan and Bob Smith to Represent Varsity Group on Tour

MEN TO LEAVE MARCH 3

John Richards Will Make Trip in Position of Alternate

Leiland McKeithan, Robert Smith, and John Richards will leave Friday on a debating tour of the South. They are taking
the negative side of the question, Resolved: That the war debts should be cancelled by the United States. On March
3rd they will debate against the College of Charleston at Charleston, S. C. This will be Davidson’s initial debate with
this college. On March 8th they will debate against Rollins College at Winter Park, Fla., for the first time. From
there they will go to the University of Florida at Gainesville where they will debate on March 9th. Davidson has
debated the University of Florida for the past few years with much success. Leiland McKeithan is president of the Forensic
Council and a well-seasoned orator. Bob Smith was a member of last year’s Freshman debating team and is making his
debut as a varsity debater. John Richards, a Senior, is the alternate debater. This will be the first of Davidson’s
debates away from home. Upon their return, the affirmative team will take a trip West. On the first of April
one of the teams will go North. Last Tuesday night Davidson, represented on the affirmative side by Charles Moore and
Hugh Hawkins, debated on the same war debt question against Birmingham-Southern College of Birmingham, Alabama. The debate was held in
Chambers Auditorium and at the time of the publication of The Davidsonian the results were not known.

Two New Men Initiated Into Medical Fraternity

On Friday, November 24th, two men, John H. Fitzgerald of Crewe, Va., and William M. Brown of Knoxville, Tenn., were
initiated into Pi Delta Alpha, medical fraternity. William M. Brown is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. John
H. Fitzgerald is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, Eta Sigma Phi, Phi Delta Alpha, wearer of numeral,
varsity track squad, and Eumenean Literary Society. Pi Delta Alpha fraternity is composed of students who have attained high scholastic
averages, and who wish to continue their study of medicine. At the meeting on the twenty-fourth James S. Wilson gave
an interesting illustrated lecture on Leprosy. He illustrated by means of slides many stages of leprosy; also he showed how
the people were treated in the different stages of the disease. Wilson, whose father is a doctor in China, obtained
his slides from a colony of lepers.

Englishmen have established a record for sobriety in the last year. With the exception of 1918, when millions of men
were at war, there are fewer cases of drunkenness than at any other time in the nation’s modern history. They
numbered only 42,300 as compared with 188,900 in 1913.

Parades

According to a statement from C. R. Wright, Cadet-Major of the Davidson military unit, the parades from now until the
end of school will be held on Wednesdays, instead of Mondays, as heretofore. Before each parade there will be physical
exercises similar to those given last Wednesday. The change, Major Wright said, was made necessary by conflicts with baseball and
track schedules.

Dr. C. W. Davis Speaks at Y.M.C.A. Vespers

“The young man who will become a leader of the coming era must have a good education, faith in God,
and faith in the possibilities of mankind,” stated Dr. C. W. Davis, who spoke at the “Y” vespers last Sunday
night. Dr. Davis, formerly of Atlanta, Ga., is now pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Concord, N. C. The
service was led by Lyne Gamble, who chose for his scripture the thirteenth chapter of First Corinthians: “If I speak
with the tongues of men and angels but have not love ... .” Prayers were offered by Bill Johnson and
Dan Currie, following which a violin solo, “Song to the Evening Star,” was rendered by Robert Orr. The speaker was
then introduced. Dr. Davis, who chose for his subject, “Leadership in an Advancing Age,” stated that we of the present
day are on the verge of a greater and more advanced era, and that only those best equipped for service
along educational and religious lines will be able to enter into the activities of this new period. It was stated
by the speaker that the tendency of the present time is to discredit leadership. The people of today have little
faith in our scientific leaders, and continue to question the results of their applied science. In order to illustrate his
point, Dr. Davis gave as an example the student of astronomy, who, having been taught a certain theory concerning the
planets, is soon confronted with exactly opposite views, coming as a result of further scientific research. It was then pointed
out that what ap- (Continued on page 3)

College Students Help in Social Welfare Work

Members of the Education 3 and Sociology classes have had the opportunity for the past month of doing work along
lines of social welfare. At the present time there are 2,000 families in Mecklenburg County with no means of support
or livelihood. The Department of Public Welfare has certain funds for the purpose of alleviating this situation; but since it
lacks workers, the Davidson College students have been co-operating with the county officials. The request for helpers was made by
Mr. M. M. Grey, Superintendent of the Department, to Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Professor of Education. Dr. Gwynn is in
charge of the Davidson end of this work, arranging days on which different students can work, and keeping in touch
with Mr. Grey. So far, groups have been sent out to Charlotte, Cornelius, and to the country around Davidson. These
groups endeavor to determine which families need help the most, and just how much help they need. They also attempt
to discover whether there is any possibility for the head of the family to secure a job of some sort.
In fact, this endeavor to raise a family from a position of economic dependence to one of independence is perhaps
a more important function of the Department of Public (Continued on page 6)

New Members Taken in by Gamma Sigma Epsilon

At the last meeting of the Gamma Sigma Epsilon, chemical fraternity, there were three new men initiated. Before a person
is taken into this fraternity he has to attain a very high scholastic average in this particular phase of work.
The small number show that it is a select group of chemistry students. The students initiated were Charles M. Norfleet,
Lewis M. Vickery, and Benjamin Moore. Norfleet is from Winston-Salem. He is a member of the “D” Club, “Quips and
Cranks” staff, varsity football, former president of Sophomore class, and past secretary and treasurer of the student body. Lewis M.
Vickery, who is from North Wilkesboro, made his numerals in track, and is now an assistant in physical education. Benjamin
L. Moore, from Pendleton, S. C., was also initiated into this fraternity at the same meeting.

Claudel Medals

Dr. G. B. Watts, head of the French department of Davidson College, has received from M. Paul Claudel, French Ambassador
to the United States, three bronze medals for presentation to the three best students of French in Davidson. M. Claudel,
dean of the corps of Ambassadors in Washington, is widely known also for his great interest in literature. He is
one of the outstanding contemporary French poets, and one of the most distinguished patrons of belles lettres in the world.
The medals which he has sent for award to proficient students of French in Davidson are of tasteful design and
of beautiful French workmanship. They have already evoked tremendous interest and enthusiasm on the part of the Davidson student body.
The recipients of the Claudel awards will be selected by the professors of French on the basis of achievement in
the study of French language and literature.

French Plays Are Given Before Large Audience of Appreciative Students

Performances Are Successfully Presented by Talented Players of Both the French Groups

CASTS SHOW MUCH TALENT

Le Cercle Francais Entertains L’Alliance Francaise of Converse College

have been pleased at the presentation of their respective plays last Friday night in Chambers Auditorium. The former writer’s comedy,
L’Anglais Tel Qu’on le Parle, was given by Davidson’s Le Cercle Francais, and the third act of La Farce was
presented by L’Alliance Francaise, of Converse College, of Spartanburg. As to the ability of the Davidson cast, the one best
qualified to judge was doubtless Dr. A. Vermont, of Converse, whose native tongue is French. He praised highly the performance
of the Davidson students both from the point of view of histrionics and diction."IT was surprised at and delighted with
the whole performance. I understood clearly every word. And now you must all come down to Spartanburg and return our
visit,” said the genial head of the Converse department of French. The president of the Davidson society, Billy Flinn, opened
the evening with a welcome address, and this was immediately followed by the Davidson presentation.

(Continued on page 3)

Students Hear Talks by Dean Baker on Business

Mr. John C. Baker, assistant dean of the Business School of Harvard University, was the speaker in the regular chapel
service last Monday morning. Mr. Baker also spoke to several classes in business, political science, history, and economics, and held
a number of interviews with students who were planning to go into business school soon. In the interviews, he discussed
entrance requirements and advised the students as to preparatory training. In his talk in chapel and also to the classes,
he showed the prospects of getting jobs at the present time and pointed out where and how these positions were
obtainable. He explained what the best jobs to go into were and showed how to go about getting the desired
positions. Mr. Baker stated that he believed that there would be decided changes in the jobs of the future and
gave as an example the changes in the banking laws. He heartily advised students to remain at college at any
cost because preparation is one of the main factors in today’s business. Mr. Baker is well qualified to know the
facts of business in general, as he aided in placing every graduate of the Harvard Business School last year in
paying positions.

Go Out During Week

Last Sunday’s deputations were not especially numerous, however, the program for next week, which starts tomorrow, will see a number
of especially important missions sent out. Sunday, February 26, the only two deputations were the usual Sunday afternoon program put
on at the Charlotte Y. M. C. A., and a group sent to the Jackson Training School near Concord. Jerome
Clark and “Duck” Powell spoke to the boys’ groups in Charlotte, while Harold Ostwalt, Gordon Green, and Avery Patton comprised
the one to the Jackson Training School. Ostwalt made the talk, and Green, accompanied by Patton, furnished the special music.

Starting Thursday, March 2nd, the Boys’ Work Department of the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. is sponsoring a “Come Clean”
campaign in the vicinity of Charlotte, and it is calling on the Davidson “Y” to furnish the speakers. Thursday, seven
speakers will be asked to make the talks at twenty-six public schools in Charlotte. Jerome Clark, Bruce Peabody, and Jake
Mackorell will speak at the grammar schools; John Howard will make the talk at Tech High, and Charlie Moore will
speak at Alexander Graham Junior High. Friday, March 3rd, the campaign will begin in the county schools. Sam Nicky will
speak at several county high schools. On Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, speakers will be sent to various other rural
schools. Sunday, March 5th, will see several deputations go out.

(Continued on page 6)

Dr. Gwynn is Conductor of First Fireside Forum

Under the auspices of the Davidson Y. M. C. A., discussion groups known as the “Fireside Forum” are now being
held to debate questions of current interest every other Friday night at 9 o'clock in the Social Center. These are
merely organized “bull sessions,” where all those present may speak; but generally with a faculty member to lead the discussions.
The first meeting was held last Friday night, at which time the subject for debate was “The Religious Approach to
the Race Problem.” Dr. Price H. Gwynn, professor of sociology, was the leader. He opened by pointing out several passages
of scripture which threw light on the subject. The main passages were: Luke 10:25-27, which is the story of the
Good Samaritan; Acts 8:26-40, which is the story of Philip and the Ethiopian; and Acts 10, which is the story
of Peter and the Roman centurion. Dr. Gwynn pointed out the fact that the New Testament is absolutely clear on
the race question, and that it is up to us to accept it as we find it.

Questions were then read which had been handed in through a box placed in the vestibule of Chambers Building. The
first of these questions to be dealt with was: “What is the negroes’ place in the world?” It was pointed
out that America or the United States is the only country with the negro.

(Continued on page 6)

Delta Phi Alpha to Hold Next Meeting Thursday

Delta Phi Alpha, national honorary German fraternity, will hold its regular meeting Thursday evening at Dr. Guy R. Vowles’ residence.
Paul Brown will lead the program, the first part of which is to be a discussion of “Grand Hotel.” This
is a very interesting subject and should bring many good ideas from the members of the fraternity. This will be
followed by a consideration of new members who will be chosen from the best students of German in the various
classes. After the program, light refreshments will be served by Dr. and Mrs. Vowles. This fraternity plans to review a
few of the more recent German novels in the near future, and to submit its reports to The Davidsonian for
publication. All students of German should be interested in this announcement.

Many Deputations to Eight New Men Taken Into Phi Beta Kappa By N. C. Gamma Chapter

Nichol, McKeithan, Shackelford, McBryde, McCallie, Howard, Thompson, and Guerrant Chosen by Group

NEW OFFICERS CHOSEN

Doctors C. M. Richards, P. H. Gwynn, and E. F. Shewmake to Officiate Next Year

Eight Seniors were selected last night for membership by North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at Davidson College.
The men who were selected by this, the oldest and most outstanding Greek letter fraternity recognizing scholarship, were Henry F.
Nichol, Wilmington, N. C.; W. A. Leland McKeithan, Aberdeen, N. C.; Emmett W. Shackelford, Durham, N. C.; Duncan D. McBryde,
Linden, N. C.; Robert L. McCallie, Chattanooga, Tenn.; John R. Howard, Atlanta, Ga.; John P. Thompson, Davidson, N. C., and
Edward O. Guerrant, Altadena, Calif. At this same meeting, faculty officers were elected for the following year. They were Dr.
C. M. Richards, President; Dr. Price H. Gwynn, Vice-President, and Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake, Secretary-Treasurer. The retiring officers are Dr.
G. B. Watts, President, and Prof. A. Currie, Secretary-Treasurer. These elections are held once in the fall and once in
the spring. At the fall election, six Seniors were chosen. They were P. F. Brown, W. F. Mulliss, D. M.
McConnell, W. E. McNair, Avery Patton, and C. E. Bettis.

Three Dances Feature Annual Junior Speaking Presentation Next Week

Reeves Pope and Southernaires Will Play for Affairs on March 10 and 11

MANY GIRLS EXPECTED

Members of Class Will Appear in Figure Friday Night

Final plans for Junior Speaking have been completed and announced. The dates, as has been previously announced, have been set
for March 10th and 11th. Arrangements are being carried forth to combine moderate prices with one of the best and
most successful sets of dances held this year. The Davidson College “Southernaires” will furnish music for the three dances. Under
the direction of Reeves Pope, this ten-piece orchestra has developed into a very pleasing and satisfactory harmonizing unit. Tickets will
go on sale March 1st and will remain at the price of $3.00 for the set until March 8th. After
this date, up to the opening dance, the price will be $3.50. If bought at the door, the prices will
be $1.75, $1.00, and $1.50, respectively, bringing the total to $4.25. The first dance on Friday night, from ten until
two, will be formal and is to be featured by a figure composed of members of the Junior class, who
will be chosen by the dance committee. An informal tea dance will be held on Saturday afternoon during the hours
from 4:30 until 6:30. The feature attraction of the dances will be the crowning of the Queen of Love and
Beauty Saturday night. The Saturday evening dance will be between the hours of nine and twelve.

(Continued on page 3)

Honor Roll

An announcement of those making the Honor Roll last semester has not appeared, due to the change in the grading
system. As a result, the former standard is no longer effective in naming those who shall compose the list. Mr.
Hengeveld has stated that this list will be published as soon as the faculty committee, which is working on what
shall constitute the new requirements, has made its report.
