“hand corner THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 1, 1933

TREKKING WEST VISIT CLAREMONT COLLEGES ON TOUR

By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

(NOTE: This is another of a series of articles by Jack Williams, Jr., who attended the National Editorial Association meeting in California last summer.)

“I’ve a sage brush garden Walled in by a mountain range.”

There is an inspiration, majesty, and friendliness about mountains, and only those who have been in the sagebrush country know the charm of Western foothills and the pungent smell of sage after rain. Leaving historic Riverside, we departed for Claremont, where we had breakfast at Pomona College. Passing through the great open spaces in the early morning, we enjoyed the sand dunes, strange trees, and flowers.

Pomona College, Scripps College, Claremont colleges, with their beautiful buildings and campus of over five hundred acres, with their excellent equipment, with their high standing among other colleges, their scholarship and ideals, is a dream come true. There is being developed in Claremont a new type of education that has never been attempted in this country—the college group plan. This is the outgrowth of the planning of those who regard quality rather than quantity as the aim of true education.

Desiring to retain the intimate relationship that has existed between professor and student, which is only possible in a small college like Davidson, it was decided that the student body of Pomona College should be limited to 750. In order to take care of a larger number and still retain her character, Pomona College became the sponsor of a plan proposing a group of affiliated colleges of which Pomona is the first unit. Scripps College is the second unit and was made possible through the gift of Miss Ellen Scripps. Pomona is co-educational, Scripps is for women. Their mutual interests are served by Claremont Colleges, which offers opportunities for research and graduate work. In this larger scheme, each college has the use of common facilities, larger and more complete than would be possible to the individual college, yet maintaining all the special virtues, character, and charm of the small college.

PRESIDENTS’ BREAKFAST

The breakfast given in Frary Hall was one of the most delightful enjoyed on the trip. The Hall was of Spanish architecture and had just been completed. The presidents of Pomona, Scripps, and Claremont colleges were present, and each of them made an address of welcome. Some natives dressed in Spanish costumes played, sang, and danced during the meal. At the farther end of the dining hall, there is a fresco by Jose Clemente Orozco. The theme of the fresco is Prometheus’ struggle to bring the fire of knowledge to man. It brings down the richness of classic allegory to our modern times and has made Orozco world-famous.

PROMETHEUS

It shows Prometheus, the giant, defiant of the gods, daring all, that mankind might benefit from the knowledge he has stolen. In the crowd pictured is found humanity’s reaction to such a gift. In the upper left, there are those who ignore knowledge and prefer the old superstitions. Still, others must be led to the fountain before they will drink. The ever-searching students realize their possibilities and eagerly stretch toward their ambition. In those second, all mankind is present, and as we gazed at them, they seemed to move past in procession.

After breakfast, we were taken to Bridges Hall of Music, where an organ concert was enjoyed. The roof of this great auditorium has the stars in their positions in an ethereal blue ceiling, and when the lights were turned off, it created an effect beyond description. An astronomer can get his direction from the stars in this ceiling, so perfect is their location.

Then the party was taken on a tour of Claremont. Although Claremont's population is only 3,000, it is not a small town in character. It has all the charm of a rural community, but because of its cultural advantages of music, drama, and lectures, it attracts people from all over the world. Claremont has only one church, a community church where all denominations are welcomed. Closely connected with the interest of the church is Pilgrim Place, a residential colony for retired missionaries. The business section of Claremont has the usual stores and markets serving the people, and there are also some unusual shops where one can procure the ornamental as well as the practical things of life. It is a college town of charm and friendliness. It is surrounded by orange and lemon groves at the foot of snow-capped mountains, a town for young and old.

“Bringing age to youth Youth to age fresh joy Both drawing from the hills Calmness and truth.”

Later we met Mr. and Mrs. French. Mr. French is editor of the Claremont paper. Their son is working with his father in the newspaper office since his graduation from Stanford. They also have a daughter who is a writer in New York City. Mrs. French lived in the South for some time, and when she moved to Claremont, she asked a neighbor to recommend a colored woman to help her with her housework. To which the neighbor replied, “There was a colored ‘lady’ living here, but she moved away four years ago.” Mrs. French said she was ready to move back to Mississippi on hearing that there were no colored folk around.

LOS ANGELES

Leaving Claremont, we arrived in Los Angeles two hours later. It was the day of the Olympics, and the streets were gay with banners and flags, and everyone seemed to have the Olympic fervor. We went directly to the University of Southern California, where we were luncheon guests of Dr. Rufus B. von KleinSmid, president of the University. He voiced a welcome from the University and discussed the spirit of the Olympic Games. He said no nation nor people ever again will be able or desire to live an isolated existence, and that cooperation and universal goodwill are to be the watchwords of humanity’s future progress.

Then the party crossed the street and entered the great Olympic stadium. The spectacle unfolded there was perfect in setting, brilliant in presentation, and unparalleled in performance. The exercises opened as 2,000 athletes from thirty-nine countries paraded before 100,000 spectators. California’s part in the pageant was to stage it under the canopy of a pale blue sky. Norma Shearer, Johnny Weissmuller, and many other stars were present, but the crowd did not notice them. Tallulah Bankhead came in, looking as bored as it is possible for her to look, and did not cause the slightest sensation. The big thing the crowd was interested in were such stars as Senny Eastman, Bill Carr, Babe Didrikson, Lord Burghley, and Helene Madison. For once, the stars of Hollywood took a back seat and looked on.

High Class Work at Economical Prices MARTIN BROS.’ SHOE SHOP Johnson’s Barber Shop “Four Out of Five College Men Come Here”

College Printing Magazines, Catalogs, Handbooks, Etc. “PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE” Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you A. M. MANSON, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE 6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing, Always Best STANDARD PRINTING CO. CHARLOTTE, N.C. Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Engraved Cards and Invitations. Exclusively.

THE TEXAS BABE

Babe Didrikson of Dallas was a whole show herself. Her first appearance was in the javelin throw. She was dressed in a white track suit and shorts and ran across the field with great ease. She whipped the javelin through the air, 143 feet, 4 inches. The old world’s record for women was 132 feet, 7-8 inches. She drawled, “It slipped outa mah hand. Ah’d a throwed it much further if it hadn't slipped.” Somebody has said it is a good thing it did slip, for if it hadn't, she might have killed six officials at the other end of the field.

(The next article in this series will be a description of the opening of the Games at Los Angeles.)

Norton’s Barber Shop Prepared for Service

Norton’s Barber Shop believes in advertising. They want more of the students’ business, and for several months have planned to tell the students about their shop and service. It is interesting to note that this is one of the earliest established institutions in Davidson serving the students. This shop has been in existence for 21 years, and it is estimated that they have cut hair for students more than 50,000 times. It is said they must be good to stay in business like that. Until about ten years ago, they had a shop just above the old post office, but when the new Sloan Buildings were erected, they moved into newer, larger, more accessible quarters.”quarters; into the “high rent district.” They added a new chair and have had a large and growing patronage from the students, as well as faculty and business men of the town. Hood Norton learned the trade at Reid's Apprentice Shop, in Youngstown, Ohio, and has the first chair. Rutledge Norton is the other member of the firm and has been in the barber business for years. He was in France for a year and a half during which time he was regarded as the best barber in his unit. “He shaved the Cap'n every day, and cut his hair every week.”

Russell Little has been serving Davidson students for three years. He began his trade in Washington, N. C. He worked for two years in Philadelphia, and just before coming to Davidson worked at Pocahontas and Bluefield, West Virginia. He is regarded by many as the best barber in Davidson. These boys use fresh towels for each customer and otherwise meet the state requirements for “A” grade sanitation. Ted Alexander is the shine boy. He comes from Camden, S. C., where he acted as shine boy for six years prior to coming to Davidson four years ago.

The Nortons are both married and are building homes through the “Building and Loan Association.” The depression has cut off a good portion of their business which they expect to bring back by courteous service in a clean shop, and by following the example of the hen—who when she lays an egg, goes out to tell the world about it!

The Bookshelf
Call Home the Heart, by Fielding Burke. Longmans, Green and Company.

Blending romance and idealism with realism and tragedy, Fielding Burke has written a stirring novel laid in the picturesque setting of our own North Carolina mountains. Throughout the book we find constant conflict. We see the hearty mountaineers giving their life-blood to eke out a bare existence. There is always work to be done, and it never seems worthwhile, for poverty stalks at every door. But only strong men and women are bred in this rough environment—men and women who glory in labor and the conquest of Nature. A more distressing struggle is that of the mill workers, trying to obtain the bare necessities of life. Here is a social problem in our midst that cannot be overlooked. The pitiable conditions of the mill workers, and their pathetic efforts to get relief through strikes, is enough to shame us, who give little thought to those outside our immediate group. The author has a vision of independence for these downtrodden wage-earners through unifying all workers into an organized class. He does not dogmatically advocate any socialistic theories, but merely lays the problem before us, realizing that right and justice for all classes is far in the future.

The book is not essentially a treatise on economic problems, however. Beauty is the keynote of the book, and love finally conquers all hardship. Ishma Hensley in her youth finds expression in her beautiful mountains, and in her lasting love for her husband, Britt. After four hard years, though, she begins to feel shut in, and runs away with Rad Bailey to find a wider horizon in a little mill town. Here she sacrifices herself for the mill workers and enters into their battle for independence with abandon and enthusiasm, under the able tutelage of Derry Unthank, scion of a wealthy family, who nevertheless has altruistic ideas. Ishma isn’t happy in her environment, for she has used Rad merely as a means of getting release from the monotony and oppression of her mountain home, and doesn't love him. At Winbury, where Rad has taken her, Ishma becomes a welfare worker and is beloved of all the inhabitants. She is tied down, however, by the birth of a child which is abnormal. She considers it almost providential therefore when the child is killed and she herself is injured by the automobile of Mrs. Beverly Grant, the wife of a mill owner. Ishma finds herself in the camp of the enemy when she recovers, and becomes a friend of Mrs. Grant and her family. Ishma’s independent spirit cannot brook their charity, though, so she returns to Winbury to become a leader in a strike of the mill workers. After fulfilling her duty to Rad, as she conceives it, Ishma finally yields to her longing to return to the mountains and to Britt, whom she has never ceased to love, and deserts her post in the strike. Britt is filled with joy at her return, and forgives her with an understanding heart. Though conflict fills the book, love and beauty are triumphant. One finishes the book in a reflective mood, having been shown a picture of life in the rough, and having caught a gleam of the author's vision of idealism.

—W. L. FUGATE.

Silver Screen
Wednesday, Feb. 1—Tonight Is Ours—(Paramount)
This picture, made from one of Noel Coward's minor plays, “The Queen Was in the Parlor,” has to some extent the characteristic sparkle of dialogue of that author; what it may lack in story is more than compensated for by the quality of the photography and artistic beauty of the settings. All of these elements combine to make this a very entertaining picture. Queen Nadya (Claudette Colbert) of the imaginary land of Krayia, while in Paris, falls in love with a young commoner, Sabien (Frederic March). While in the midst of this affair she is recalled to her country and informed that she must marry Prince Keri (Paul Kavanaugh), a well-meaning young man who possesses an extraordinary sense of humor. A timely revolution saves the queen from her undesirable fate and serves as a fitting climax. Colbert has the most fitting role and portrays it most successfully. Kavanaugh has a good part which he does very well. While March has a rather difficult role which he does with marked success.

Thursday and Friday, Feb. 2-3—Hot Pepper (Fox)
Lupe Velez, Edmund Lowe, and Ed Laurel combine to make this a rather pleasing continuation of “The Cockeyed World.”

Saturday, Feb. 4—Dangerously Yours—(Fox)
Warner Baxter plays a characteristically good role in this very new picture.

Monday, Feb. 6—Ladies They Talk About—(Warner Brothers)
Barbara Stanwyck pulls a fast one on Jean Harlow and goes blonde. She then proceeds to portray the role of a woman convict, defying the world to break her spirit, and to demonstrate the hardships of these unfortunates. Good acting in a fair melodrama.

Last Sunday evening a deputation of Davidson students conducted a mission program at the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. Coleman Branton led the services. The speakers for the evening were Bob Coit and Harvey Ross. The theme of their talks was “Self-Denial,” especially as related to foreign missions. Grainger Williams rendered a vocal solo, accompanied at the piano by Carlton Chapman. The regular Sunday afternoon deputation to the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. this week was composed of W. C. Matthews and Skip Brown. There are two groups, a boys’ group and a young men's group, to whom each week Davidson students make talks of a devotional nature.

Funeral of Mrs. Wharey
The funeral services of Mrs. Mary B. Wharey, who died here in Davidson last Wednesday night at the home of her daughter, Mrs. W. R. Grey, were conducted at the Davidson Presbyterian Church Saturday morning at 10:30 o’clock. The services were led by Dr. H. M. Moffett, pastor of the church, assisted by Dr. C. M. Richards of Davidson, and Dr. R. A. White, pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Mooresville. The pallbearers were selected from a group of Mooresville men who were members of a Bible class, the Junior Band, which Mrs. Wharey taught while her late husband was pastor of the church there.