THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 4, 1933

The Davidsonian
Associated Collegiate Press
1933 Member 1934
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

EDITORIAL STAFF
ODIL. G. CASALL...........Editor
W. T. JOHNSON...........Business Manager
L. GULLETTE.............Managing Editor
F. McPHAIL..............Managing Editor
G. E. B. K. JACKSON......Sports Editor
C. E. RAWL...............Editorial Writer
J. McA. SMITH............Feature Editor
D. S. B. HUNTER..........Feature Editor
S. K. McCALLIE...........Feature Editor
S. C. HARRIS.............Feature Editor
D. W. McCALL............Review Editor
L. W. AYCOCK............Associate Editor
W. M. GIBSON............Associate Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, JR......Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
G. W. McCALL............Assistant Business Manager
W. H. McCALL............Assistant Business Manager
J. W. McCALL............Assistant Business Manager
W. T. McCALL............Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1933

Learning without thought is labor lost; thought without learning is the death of the mind.
—Confucius.

An educated man is one with a universal sympathy for everything and a certain amount of knowledge about everything that is known, and who still is on the line of evolution and is learning to the end.
—Hubbard.

DAVIDSON FIGHT!

Time and time again under a burning sun a battered and bruised red line of indomitable warriors repulsed the onslaught of a heavier team refreshed and strengthened by frequent substitutions, until in the last quarter the Carolina eleven finally managed to cross the goal by a matter of inches.

The Wildcat showed his fangs for three quarters and his claws were ever menacing during the last period. Carolina linesmen endeavored to force openings for their hard-driving backs only to find these spaces filled with a mass of red.

This is not a discussion of the Davidson-Carolina game from the standpoint of the score, yards gained or lost, passes completed, etc., but a tribute to those Davidson men who fought gallantly against odds that never vanquished them, but finally overcame them technically, when physical power had been depleted and further resources were no longer available.

Our players fought fairly and cleanly for every second of the encounter. Injured men were assisted off the field only to return in another quarter after a momentary rest. Gashes, sprains, the repeated pounding and crushing, the nauseating blows on head and body seemed only to serve as an incentive for further fight.

We heard a Carolina alumnus remark after the game that he was rather disappointed in Carolina. We have never been disappointed in Davidson! Every man on every team for nearly a hundred years has given all for victory and we have never lost. Our teams play not like cold calculating machines (even if they do function as one), but as a band of co-operating individuals fired with an undying and undenied passion that burns brightly until the final whistle. They play the game for the game’s sake and for the glory of their Alma Mater. They are endowed with a fighting heritage. They have been nurtured on sportsmanship and fair play, asking no quarter and giving none.

There were no stars as such in Saturday’s game. It was impossible. A galaxy of suns, each shining with equal brilliance, gives the impression of a united and continual blaze of light. So it was with the Davidson players. Each and every one was a star in his own right. Spartans all!

The following is a portion of the creed of the Monogram Club of U. N. C—it has been in the hearts of all Davidson men for nearly a century; it was the faith of our team on Saturday: “I believe in victory. The score board is an incident. Victory is in the heart. It is born in the hard, clean fight. It is the consciousness that I have done my best.”

Reese:

OUR ’CATS

There were words of praise for the Davidson Wildcats, who fought Carolina to a standstill at Chapel Hill Saturday, in the columns of the Charlotte Observer Monday morning. Jake Wade, popular Observer sports editor, himself a graduate of the University, was greatly impressed by the fighting spirit of the Davidson team against his Alma Mater, and was not hesitant in lauding the ’Cats’ play. The following excerpt is from Wade's column titled “Monday Morning Quarterbacks”:

“The traditional fighting spirit of Davidson, sometimes derided by those with a cynical turn of mind, never was more in evidence than at Chapel Hill Saturday. The Wildcats did themselves proud in battling a heavier and potentially more powerful combination to a standstill for three quarters, yielding but one score in a doggedly played contest.

“It was scrap and nothing else that enabled the Wildcats to hold the Tar Heels so well in hand. A Davidson line of questionable strength and averaging only about 170 pounds, flanked by two ends who did not go 160 and with only two players weighing more than 170, gave a most engaging demonstration of quick and spirited charging....

“Moral victories are out of style but the Wildcats have plenty to be proud of in that defeat. They were playing at their peak with an inspiration that had them driving at a clip that was a beauty to behold.

“The game was about as clean as you see, yet there was always some Wildcats being dragged off the field and these injuries must be attributed to the stubbornness of their fight.”

GIVE CREDIT WHERE DUE

In its football program for the Carolina-Davidson game the Tar Heels carry a picture of its 1933 baseball team. The cutlines underneath the picture state that the team “tied with Davidson for the Big Five pennant,” and goes on to list a few of the victories won by the team.

It certainly is a shame that such a school as Carolina should try to claim a tie for a championship to which it actually has no claim. Baseball enthusiasts in North Carolina will recall that Davidson’s baseball team whipped the Tar Heels three times last spring. Of course, only two of the games were allowed in the Big Five standings, according to the sports scribes. Counting the two victories and disregarding the third, Davidson did finish in a tie with Carolina in the standings. To decide who should be the champions would necessitate a third game. Oddly enough the third game had been played before the end of the season and Davidson had won and therefore should have sole claim for the title.

Although Carolina nor the majority of North Carolina sports writers care to credit Davidson with the championship, which they deservedly won, there is a satisfaction which comes to the Wildcats who whipped Carolina three times last spring.

THE SMALL COLLEGE

At a recent dinner, Governor Alfred M. Landon, of Kansas, pointed out the prominent place in the educational scheme of the smaller college under denominational supervision. He declared, “By its closer contacts between students and teacher, also student with student, the smaller college is of special worth in the development of sound character among young people... When each student has an opportunity to know his instructors intimately, he is in a better position to profit by their teachings. Thus, the smaller denominational college often can serve as efficiently and as specifically as the larger university.”

In keeping with this attitude of the governor, the 1933 legislature changed the makeup of the board of education for the state schools so that the state’s schools of higher learning no longer dominate the board, and the denominational schools are specifically recognized.
—Christian Century.

FRESHMAN POINTERS

Recognizing the weakness of unsolicited advice, we would still like to give the freshmen a few pointers gathered out of a few years of college life.

You are beginning a new era in your life that is entirely different from anything you have ever faced. No longer are you an important personage, as you undoubtedly were in your local high school. Here you stand or fall on what you do for yourself, not what you are supposed to be or what your ancestors were. You will be surrounded by new acquaintances, new customs, new traditions, and a different outlook. It will be up to you to fall in line with your environment as quickly as possible.

The best and sincerest thing that can be told you is for you to only “Be Yourself,” and make that self as pleasant as possible.
—“The Sou’wester.”

OLD AGE

A prediction of the lengthening of the span of human life by ten percent through the improvement in diet was offered by Professor H. C. Sherman of the faculty of Columbia University before a meeting of the American Chemical Society recently. It was stated that man had found the correct diet for himself and that he can hold himself to this science of nutrition to an extent that he will be able to improve his health and prolong his life to an average of seven years. Not only will it be possible for him to lengthen his life, but it will be possible for him to keep himself in such physical fitness that he will enjoy the privileges of youth and retain physical and mental vigor into his old age.

In the past twenty years, the mode of eating has changed greatly in the United States. Not only do the American people eat much less, but they constrain their diets to the more wholesome and simpler foods. Even though this change was brought about primarily by our changed mode of living, it will be noticed that an interest in diets has been developed, and that, with this interest and the better foods, the health of the people has become better, and will continue to do so, and that in the future the people of the United States will live longer and more healthful lives.

WHO, ME?

On Other Campuses
NEWS DIGEST

“Home again, home again, Jigity, jig!" Well, we know that he got home all right, but we don't know where he went or what he did while he went there. The young man in question is none other than Tom Wood. Perhaps you didn't see him Sunday evening, but those who did and took the trouble to notice, no doubt observed that he seemed to have come from some strenuous ordeal. He had the best set of circles under his eyes that I’ve seen this season. And there's nothing that'll give one such privileges as a pair of circled eyes, unless it be white hair.

My personal nomination for the most disappointed student of the week is John. He went up to find out about his average to see if he would get the customary extra three cuts perSemester, given to Seniors with a mean average of eighty-five or over. Feature his chagrin when he found that his was only eighty-four and ninety-six-hundredths. If you want a good hard luck story, consult any of the crowd who went to Carolina last weekend with Mokey Faison and Gordon Smith. The highlights of the account as told to me included having two blow-outs, running out of gas, walking part of the way to Chapel Hill, arriving at the game very late, and having to bum part of the way home.

And speaking of the game, I haven't seen anything so successful as the grid-graph in a long time. The most attractive feature of the apparatus to me is that it’s going to be possible to sit here at Davidson in a warm building and see a game that’s being played miles away where it’s probably so cold that twenty percent of the spectators will take pneumonia, and the rest of them, D.T.'s. And not so very long ago, on Saturday last, to be exact, Dr. Gwynn's class in educational psychology, which had been studying the efficiency of intelligence tests, had the privilege, duty, or what you will, of taking one of the most outlandish ones that I’ve ever seen. Together with the arithmetic (and I have trouble doing my shopping at a dime store), there was an unearthly section about an artificial language which came near driving me to drink. Towards the end of the class, Caskie Norvell crashed through with the observation that he knew two, who according to the criterion of the aforementioned test, were ready for Morganton. I wondered when he first said it and I'm still wondering now. Who could they be?

The next prize statement of the week, which trite and hypothetical as it was, certainly got a rise from the audience at the cinema last Friday evening, was from Franchot Tone who remarked, “Those who can, do. Those who can't, teach.”

And spring is truly here, or at least it’s come to East and West. Practically everybody of any importance at all has had his room painted. Believe me, it certainly is an improvement. And take it from one who knows, after you study in a room that’s just had a coat of yellow paint, you don’t have the spots before your eyes as you did when you tried the same act in a room with walls that were a cross between a grayish and a white streak.

We hear (but we don’t hear half as loud and as much as the ones who room just below him) that Roger Riley is taking up tap dancing. The mood, fancy, desire, and at times the urgent request of his hallmates usually gets him about ten or eleven at night. And then to the accompaniment of Young’s cornet, he goes to it.

And somebody told Gordon Wood the other day that capitalism was a dreadful form of punishment often used in Europe in the Middle Ages. He even took the trouble to derive the word for him from Latin. Incidentally, he didn’t have the correct Latin root for the word “decapitation” which was the word he had confused with capitalism.

“Green Pastures” is scheduled for Charlotte; and from all I’m able to gather there is going to be a goodly representation from Davidson there. I haven't asked Jack Williams yet, but I imagine he'll go. I hope at any rate that he won't have the bad luck that he had two years ago when he went to Charlotte to see the deputation from the Theatre Guild present Sherwood Anderson’s “Elizabeth, the Queen.” Unable to bum home, he walked, and spent the time from 12:30 to 5:30 inclusive on the highway from there to here.

DUKE
From the “Duke Chronicle” we find that several revisions of the rules for rushing have been made at Duke University. In a stormy session that lasted over two hours, the Pan-Hellenic Council approved the following new rules:
1. There will be no rushing of Freshmen by fraternities until the formal rushing period, which will begin one week after the last of the final examinations of the first semester.
2. Fraternity men or their representatives may not visit in a Freshman’s dormitory or room.
3. A fine of $25 will be levied for each and every violation of the Pan-Hellenic regulations.
4. A committee of five, chosen from the Pan-Hellenic council, will investigate all charges of violation of the rules.
5. A student must pass all of his work, and have a minimum average of “C” before he can be rushed.

W. & L.
Washington and Lee's 1933 gridiron outfit started off on a good season by upsetting predictions and shaming a heavy West Virginia team by outsmarting and outplaying them for four quarters in the game held in the New Dominion capital last Saturday.

CHINA
Let’s be off to China! “The Intercollegiate Digest” tells us that four dollars is the annual tuition fee in the Chinese government universities. Twenty dollars is the maximum fee in missionary schools, and dormitories are supplied free.

COLORADO
As a penalty for indulging in the so-called “intoxicants” a student at the University of Colorado was sentenced by the judge to attend Sunday School for three years.

From the Background
Dear editor, about all you can hear on this campus now is something about the Carolina-Davidson game. Everybody who saw it and everybody who didn’t see the game is playing it over again in every nook, under every tree, or wherever he meets someone who has a moment to spare. I didn’t get to go but I heard about the play of the Davidson team. One incident I think ought to be mentioned is the one about Brewster Grant who played one whole quarter with a cut through his lip without complaining. That sure took some guts as the trite expression goes. Is it so that you and Grier Martin and Skip Brown and Kenneth Weeks and Lyman Clardy and Sam Wiley went to the game in Grier’s car and it broke down in Mooresville on the way back?

Here is an appeal from Bruce Peabody. He left the note, which I repeat, on his desk for me. “Randy, some so-and-so took my yellow bowl pipe out of my room in East. I had caked it for one year and now it is gone. If you can find it for me I shall be your lifelong friend. Parson Peabody.” Whoever that so-and-so is, please give it back but please don’t return it under the impression that I want Parson for my lifelong friend.

The grid graph which Captain Pritchett got for Davidson certainly is a help for the college. Those who watched the game from the board here enjoyed it and the excitement was just as high here as it was on the sidelines at the game. Have you noticed that corporals have been wearing stripes on the shoulders of their ROTC uniform lately? Well, here’s hoping our team whips Wofford Saturday. I think I’ll go as a stowaway on somebody’s automobile. See you at the game.

Randy.

COAL STRIKES
The epidemic of coal strikes is spreading rapidly. Two more Pennsylvania mines recently declared a miners’ holiday and stopped work. But while miners everywhere are leaving their jobs, there remain 10,000,000 jobless to take their places. President Roosevelt, at the summer home in Hyde Park, announced his intention of bringing the bituminous coal industry under the code. It is felt by the higher-ups that the strike can’t last much longer with the President taking such action. At the same time, 10,000 workers in Pennsylvania mines voted to keep up the strike until order is recognized. They are working for the complete official recognition of their union, the United Mine Workers of America. The coal miners met in Centerville, in Washington County, and determined that since they were now out they would stay out until the “captive” mines recognized their union as commercial concerns have already done. In addition to the miners’ action, a new strike among the steel workers was also threatened. While this seems to be a period of workers leaving their jobs, Mr. Green of the American Federation of Labor predicts that there will still be four and one-half million families who will need help this winter on account of lack of employment. The NRA has helped but there is still a lot to be done.

URSCHEL CASE
The Urschel kidnapping case which has taken up so much space in all the newspapers lately is finally over. The kidnapping of the oil millionaire occurred several months ago but the search and arrest of the suspects has been going on ever since. The verdict of the Oklahoma City trial jury was reached Saturday after about two hours and a half of deliberation. Seven men were convicted and given terms which will range upward to life imprisonment. Three others, Sant Kronich, Sam Kozberg, and Isadore Blumfield were freed and left immediately for home. The convicted were Bates, Bailey, Berman, Skelley, and three Shannons. The penalties have been left to the court. George “Machine Gun” Kelly and his wife, who were recently arrested in Memphis and connected with this crime, have not yet been tried. The Urschels, after briefly expressing their thanks to the jury, left for a weekend of rest. “I am sorry punishment was necessary, but I believe the jury did its duty as it saw it,” said Urschel. “I have the highest admiration for the federal agents and prosecuting attorneys who handled the government’s case. It was masterfully done.”

COMMUNISM
Ever since the Great War and the overthrow of the Russian oligarchy, a spirit of sabotage and restlessness has gathered around the name of communism. Wild tales are told of the growth and spread of this organization. The late disturbance in Cuba has again brought communism before the world. What do we, the people, really know of this great underground system of intrigue which is said to be undermining humanity? The recurring upheavals of the Cuban revolution were initiated and maintained by so-called reds and red influence. A hundred or so have been arrested but still scattered labor threatens another strike. The secret organization is one of the most popular fancies of the human race. There are thousands of them of all kinds. The password, the secret knock, the grandiloquent names of the orders sound inspiring to the human mind. The term “red” however is associated with blood and not knighthood. The communists have a great organization. Socialism is definitely on the upgrade. Monarchies fall periodically to be followed by something else. Intrigue and sabotage reign. A very black picture but also a true one. Watch Cuba?

STATIONERY
CALLING CARDS
FRATERNITY PAPERS
Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates
PROGRAMS
See BILL JOHNSON
203 Watts
Garland Court
Standard Printing Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.