THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1933

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago

FIVE YEARS AGO
An address by Rev. Edgar A. Gammon, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, featured the elaborate program of Athletic Night, staged on the local campus. Mr. Gammon spoke on the subject, “College Athletics,” and his talk was delivered in his usual interesting style.

In the annual election of the cheerleader, Nelson Myers, of the Junior class, was chosen for the coming year. Myers defeated Bob Grady by a narrow margin in the first ballot.

The Glee Club from Converse College will present its program here Saturday, and this will be the outstanding feature of the weekend.

The Junior class has prepared a varied program for Junior Speaking. The main attraction is the presentation of “The Jollies of 1928,” a musical entertainment conducted by Erwin Setzer, to be given in Charlotte.

TEN YEARS AGO
Three new coaches will direct Wildcat athletics next year when W. L. Younger, S. D. Tilson, and C. W. Rawson take over the assignments. “Monk” will coach the backfield and “Tex” will drill the line. Rawson will have charge of Freshman athletics.

The Davidson grapplers made a creditable showing in their last meet of the season, although suffering the sting of an 18 to 10 defeat at the hands of V. M. I.’s Cadets.

Prof. R. P. Lane, of the Department of Political Science in the University of Michigan, delivered an intelligent and comprehensive lecture in Shearer Hall, on the recent Lausanne Conference.

Silver Screen
Wednesday, March 15—Men Must Fight
Photoplay says this picture is one of the best of the current month. It is one of those pictures discussing a problematic question. In this case, the problem is Pacifism. The picture does not answer the question but does give a rather gloomy outlook for mankind. Nevertheless, it does provoke thinking, and anyone deeply interested in this question can gain a vivid insight into the problem. It is recommended only for those who do think. Lewis Stone is excellent and he is well supported by Diana Wynward, Phillip Holmes, and Robert Young.

Thursday, March 16—Topaze
John Barrymore chose this role above all others because it was most to his liking. It is the story of a professor who loses his job and, innocently enough, becomes entangled with crooks. Learning their motive, he “outcrooks the crooks.” And not only that, but wins the villain’s girl. The picture is different. John Barrymore’s acting is as good as always. Myrna Loy and Gloria Stuart give him excellent support. The high comedy of Barrymore makes the picture delightfully entertaining.

Friday and Saturday, March 17-18—Sign of the Cross
This picture is a classic and is perhaps one of the best pictures of all time. It is highly recommended and has been chosen by every reviewer as an excellent picture. It teaches a great moral truth. It is colorful and vivid as are all of Cecil B. DeMille’s productions. It is the story of the early Christian martyrs and of Roman life at that time. The romance of Mercia, a Christian maiden, and Marcus, a Roman noble, is one of the most beautiful ever screened. The wonderfully beautiful and queenly Elissa Landi portrays Mercia and Frederic March, Marcus. Claudette Colbert and Charles Laughton give the highest support. Elissa Landi rises to great heights, perhaps the highest ever attained by an actress on the screen, in her characterization of Mercia. See this picture by all means. (For a more detailed review of this picture, read the review on page 4, column 1, of the February 15 issue). The picture cannot be recommended too highly.

Monday and Tuesday, March 20-21—42nd Street
Quite in contrast with its predecessor at the local theater is 42nd Street, but it is an excellent picture, in its class, that of musical comedies. It is a new start in movie comedies for the movies, and leaves out the endless chorus dancing scenes. It is a Cinderella story. Ruby Keeler, the heroine, rises from the ranks to save the show. It is highly pictorial. The times are good. This picture is one of the best of musical comedies. Ruby Keeler, Bebe Daniels, George Brent, Warner Baxter, and Dick Powell are in the cast. Those who saw the picture in Charlotte say it is par excellent in its class.

TEN MATCHES ARRANGED FOR WILDCAT GOLF TEAM
(Continued from page 5)
Should the state tournament be held, the team will remain in Greensboro several days more in order to compete. The Georgia trip includes matches in Atlanta with Emory University on May 8, and with Georgia Tech on the following day. A return match with Furman in Greenville, S. C., closes the Southern trip as well as the schedule.

The schedule:
March 24—Richmond University at Charlotte.
March 29—Washington and Lee at Charlotte.
April 12—Furman at Charlotte.
April 24—Richmond at Richmond, Va.
April 26—Washington and Lee at Lexington, Va.
April 27—North Carolina at Greensboro.
April 28—Duke at Greensboro.
May 8—Emory University at Atlanta, Georgia.
May 9—Georgia Tech at Atlanta, Ga.
May 10—Furman at Greenville, S. C.

Tryouts Now
On his Freshman year; T. A. Bowles, Bob Gregory, Harvey Morrison, Hartman Eager, and Blair Gwynn.

DR. BOYD GIVES TALK ON “WHAT’LL YOU BET?”
(Continued from page 1)
buy a friend something without matching than to make a petty gamble for it. He told of a very dear friend in Alabama who was starting to hang his shingle over a door of his office where his father and grandfather had reached unusual heights in the legal profession, when he heard his mother remark that four of her sons had attended the University of Alabama, and that not one of them had ever gambled. This reminded the young lawyer of the many poker games in which he had won all the money, and of the numerous bets, which brought no few dollars to his pocket. He was cut so deeply by his mother’s statement that ithurt and worried him very much. A few weeks later he won a knife at a bridge game, but his conscience bothered him so much that he did not accept it. He was cured by his mother of the gambling. In closing, Dr. Boyd spoke of the fascination of the stock market, and of the many disastrous lessons it taught; lessons not to be ignored.

Preliminary competition is being held on the Davidson course. Preliminary tryouts among all the golf hopefuls of the college, except the lettermen, are now being held on the Davidson course. The three having the lowest scores will compete with the lettermen at the Charlotte Country Club early next week in medal play. The team to represent Davidson will be composed of the four men who turn in the lowest scores. Lettermen who are expected to retain their ratings again this year are Captain T. P. Caldwell, ex-Captain Jack Wagner, and Mac Manson. Others who are expected to offer stiff competition are J. P. Thompson, who was a member of the varsity team.

DR. GWYNN ADVANCES HIS OPINION OF BANK HOLIDAY

Preliminary tryouts for the team are your money in this way. (Continued from page 1) and placed in bank vaults. After this is accomplished, currency can be issued in proportion to the amount of gold on hand, thus preventing a currency inflation. The moratorium also points to a unified system of banking management, according to Dr. Gwynn. The Federal government in the future will be the careful overseer of all American banks. Bank failures, so prevalent in the last few years, will be reduced to a negligible minimum. This may be freely said after studying the Canadian banking system of which our new organization is almost a duplicate. There has not been a bank failure in Canada for over ten years. Business and industrial leaders all over the country evince their optimistic enthusiasm when interviewed concerning President Roosevelt’s proclamation. Dr. Gwynn lauds America’s new chief for his fortitude along with his executive ability and shares hope with the rest of us on the prospects of a “New Deal.”

JULIAN WEST CHOSEN STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT

(Continued from page 1) first ballot Brown, Brenizer, Sanders, and Murray were eliminated. Windham and Cathey were eliminated on the second ballot, and Pearce on the last. Julian West is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and a member of the Beaver Club. He was a vice-president of the student body last year, and the year preceding was secretary-treasurer of the same. He was captain of the Freshman football team and this year made his varsity letter in that sport. He is also a member of the varsity baseball team, having participated in the sport during his Freshman year. West is also a member of the Student Council.

“Skip” Brown is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and also a member of the Beaver Club. He was president of the Sophomore class this year and is a member of the Student Council. He was captain of the Freshman tennis team last year and is now a member of the varsity team. He is a member of the Forensic Council and is now on the varsity debating team.

A. J. Potter was captain of the Freshman football team and made his letter on the varsity team this year. He also made a letter in wrestling this year, having made a numeral in the same last year. Herman Dillard was a member of the yearling basketball team this year, obtaining Freshman high score honors in that sport.

Le Cercle Francais To Present Comedy

Le Cercle Francais, honorary fraternity, which is composed of students who have attained high scholastic averages in French, is going to present “Dr. Knock” and the well-known comedy, “L’Anglais Tel Qu’on le Parle” (English as Spoken), at Queens-Chicora College, on March 19th. “L’Anglais Tel Qu’on le Parle” was written by Tristan Bernard. It deals with the misadventures of an ignorant hotel interpreter, and has been a favorite on the Paris stage. The following students will compose the cast: Robert Coit, of Korea, the hotel interpreter; L. T. Newland, of Korea, will play Julien Cicandel, a young Frenchman who has eloped with Betty Hogson, played by Madison Armistead, of Weldon, N. C.; George Gullette, of Florence, Ala., will take the role of hotel manageress; Hugh Johnson, of Wilson, N. C., has the part of Hogson, who comes to Paris in pursuit of his daughter; Lanier Pratt, of Louisville, Ky., will be the commissioner of police, and D. K. Spencer, of Grassy Creek, N. C., the gendarme. Jack Williams, of Waycross, Ga., will play the part of the waiter. William Flinn, of Atlanta, who is president of the Davidson Le Cercle Francais, will serve as stage manager for each production. Following the performance, the members of the fraternity will be the guests at a reception given by the French Club of Queens-Chicora, Beta Pi Theta.

CAT TALES

(Continued from page 5) Caldwell, Jack Wagner, and Mac Manson are the lettermen trying out. An elimination tournament in tennis began Monday afternoon, in order to select ranking players to represent Davidson on the courts this spring. Only three lettermen, Captain Charlie Myers, Jim Halverstadt, and John Lafferty, are back.

Chesterfields that smokers enjoy. Milder, Better Taste. Just enough Turkish tobacco in them... a spicy, aromatic flavor that’s much the same to a cigarette as seasoning is to food. For only by blending and cross-blending the right amounts of mild Domestic tobaccos with the right amount of Turkish can we get the flavor and aroma that Chesterfield smokers notice. Next time, ask for “The Cigarette that Satisfies”... you’ll get Chesterfields, with the flavor and aroma that make them milder and better tasting.

© 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

THEY'RE MILDER—THEY TASTE BETTER