THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 15, 1933

College Catalogue. At that time it was known as the Committee of Public Lectures and Lyceum Course and was composed of Professors J. W. MacConnell and H. B. Arbuckle.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina. Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRANT Editor-in-Chief
MANSON ANSLEY Business Manager
Managing Editors:
K. F. SCHENCK
J. M. THOMPSON
A. G. WITHAM
Athletic Editor: JOHN CASALI
Exchange Editor: F. A. GUA
Feature Editors:
J. W. WHITE
J. S. GAMBLE
Contributing Editor: J. T. GOODYKOONTZ
Review Editor: E. A. HANCOCK
Associate Editors:
D. D. RIEKE
C. F. MYERS
B. B. SUGG

BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON Assistant Business Manager
A. H. MANSON Assistant Business Manager
ALVIN BAYER, JR. Assistant Business Manager
I. B. DANIEL Solicitor
R. L. LORRAINE Solicitor
A. C. WADSWORTH Solicitor
J. E. WHITE Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President: W. S. GAMBLE
Vice-President: LEWIS GREGG
Secretary-Treasurer: M. W. ALDERMAN

Members:
R. L. McCLINTOCK
G. E. ILEY
E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY
W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES
W. L. NORTHEN
C. E. BOWERS
C. E. NORVELL
E. E. BOYCE
E. L. POWELL
H. COVINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON
P. M. ROGERS
J. B. FICKLIN
B. L. ROGERS
G. L. GULLETTE
T. H. SUTTON
JACK HELLINGER
N. W. WALLACE
C. HENRY
K. D. WEEKS
A. HUNTER
W. R. WARD
E. LORRAINE
W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD
W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS
PRATT-THOMAS

FEBRUARY 15, 1933

I am never less at leisure than when at leisure, nor less alone than when I am alone.
—Scipio Africanus.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

We hope that after the weather we have had recently we will have a little spring weather to follow it. To those Freshmen and also upperclassmen who may be a bit depressed after this last term’s work, we would like to quote a bit of poetry well known to all of you. “If winter comes, can spring be far behind?” The thought in this may be very helpful to some.

Dr. Williams gave a very good address at vespers last Sunday evening, and we wish there had been a greater attendance.

All who have ever heard Gipsy Smith, Jr. are looking forward to his coming here this spring for our Spring Services with great eagerness. The two evangelistic services at Davidson are always good, and the coming set should equal or surpass any we have ever had in the past.

The Darlington basketball team proved to be very good, judging from the results of last Saturday night’s game with the Freshmen. One of the members of this team, Ramsey Potts, is the third-ranking junior tennis player in the United States. Frankie Parker, the 16-year-old wonder who beat George Lott three times last summer, had to play five sets with Potts to finally emerge the winner. Darlington has sent some excellent tennis players to Davidson in the past, and we would do well to have Potts on the team two years from now.

The game in Winston-Salem Saturday night was a hard one to lose, but our team, we believe, is improving rapidly.

According to the latest reports, Clark and Peabody are going to have quite a carload to go to Washington March 4 for the inauguration. It should be a very instructive as well as an enjoyable trip.

Dr. Roth proved to be a most interesting speaker last Monday evening.

Members of Dr. Gwynn’s sociology class will have the peculiar opportunity this semester of aiding the county in social service work. Besides rendering whatever service they can to the county, they should gain valuable experience in this line of work.

LECTURE COMMITTEE

Davidson offers to her students a varied group of advantages and opportunities. This group may be divided into the spiritual, scholastic, physical, and social. Since the supreme aim of a college education is to enlarge the intellectual, a greater stress should be put on this path. One of the greatest promoters to the cultivation of the mind is the Committee of Public Lectures. This committee first appeared in the February 1913 issue of the Davidson College Catalogue. At that time it was known as the Committee of Public Lectures and Lyceum Course and was composed of Professors J. W. MacConnell and H. B. Arbuckle. The group remained unchanged until 1917, when the name was changed to the Committee of Public Lectures and Celebrations. The personnel was Professors Fulton (past professor of English), J. M. McConnell, A. Currie, and H. B. Arbuckle. Dr. T. W. Lingle became chairman in 1919 and held this position for a period of seven years. At the present time Dr. H. S. Shewmake is chairman, with Drs. K. J. Foreman and Frazer Hood as members. The committee has only a small fund with which to work, and this fund is apportioned to the different departments for use in obtaining their respective speakers. Thus far we have had representatives of the English, German, and Geography departments, and during the remainder of the year, lecturers will be brought here to speak in the interest of Education, Chemistry, Psychology, and French. One speaker who will be of general interest is William Trufant Foster, who will appear in the near future. Every student should avail himself of the opportunity of hearing these speakers. Their subjects are of such a varied sort that everyone can find in them the field in which he is most interested. Sadi of Shiraz said, “If I had two loaves, I would sell one and buy white hyacinths to feed my soul.” Which is a Persian’s poetic way of saying that a well-fed body and a starved soul could not possibly do winning teamwork. For Sadi of Shiraz, white hyacinths were soul food, and for us today these lectures may in turn be soul food to keep body and soul in harmony.
—LYMAN W. CLARDY.

ROOSEVELT AS DICTATOR

The recent suggestion by some members of Congress advocating that Roosevelt be given the power of a dictator is very significant. Five years ago no group or no person of any standing would have dared advance such a proposition. It would have been thought of as revolutionary and as taking a step backward. “We would be departing from the principles on which this country was founded,” would have been the opinion of most of the people of that time, and is the opinion of many at this time. The great majority of people now look on this with little favor, and justly so, but still there are some, believed to be sane and responsible men, who are in favor of this step. There is no doubt that if this plan were carried out, it would be a revolutionary one, but whether it would deprive us of any freedom which we now enjoy is a debatable question. It certainly shows that some members of a conservative group, such as we know the Congress of the United States to be, think that very drastic steps are needed to save the economic and political machinery of the country from going on the rocks. This might be a good idea if we had such a leader as Woodrow Wilson, but Franklin D. Roosevelt will have enough responsibility after March fourth to keep him busy for the next four years. He may prove to be a very able man, but his record as Governor of New York has not revealed him to be any genius, and we believe that bestowing such a great responsibility as piloting the greatest nation in the world through one of its most difficult periods is a task too great for anyone who has not proven to the country that he is capable of such responsibility. The least we can do, however, is to admire any man willing to assume this responsibility in times like these.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. LAKE V. M. I.

It seems that Jack Benny and Ted Weems won't be on the air any longer with the Canada Dry program on Monday and Thursday; perhaps the passage of the beer bill cut down the income from the sale of ginger ale. Now the editor of “Lend Thine Ears” in The Cadet seems to think that Jack Benny will be the comedian on the Old Gold program with Fred Waring’s Pennsylvanians on Wednesday night at 10 o'clock over the Columbia Broadcasting Network. Well, here's hoping that his assumption is correct, for we think that Jack Benny is just about the best comedian on the air with the exception of Eddie Cantor and Will Rogers.

Presbyterian College

Dr. William M. Anderson, affectionately known as “Bill” to Davidson students, will conduct services twice a day at P. C., March 21-24. He is well known to the Juniors and Seniors up here for he was here in the fall of 1930 for the fall services. The P. C. boys should take advantage of this opportunity of hearing this man; don’t miss him. If only we could get him up here for one service, but “if wishes were horses...”

V. P. I. is to have two orchestras for their Mid-Winters. Tommy Tucker and His Californians, known as the “Hollywood Pets,” and Dan DeForest and his orchestra will furnish the music on February 17 and 18 for V. P. I.’s annual Mid-Winter Dances. Both of these orchestras are well known to the fans of radioland, Tucker having played over the Columbia Broadcasting System.

Bill Muffet said
His car couldn’t skid
This monument shows
That it could and did.

Theresa Crowd...

Tom Boles in real trouble at the recent dances. He was sitting astride the radiator of his car with one arm stuck in the air shaft which refused to come out. What was his arm doing in the air shaft? Somebody during the dance, in trying to take his car had torn off the handle and he couldn’t get it out.get in. He tried to reach through the shaft to turn the handle inside. Imagine his dismay when his arm would not come out. He had to remain in this undignified position for a quarter of an hour with the wind whistling through his dress suit and his girl anxiously standing on the curb. . . . the following plea in big print in the daily paper. WANTED: Burly, beauty-proof individual to read meters in sorority houses. We haven’t made a nickel in two years. The Gas Co. This wouldn’t be hard to understand if it was at Queens-Chicora. ... Gordon, Wood, and Henry Nicol swapping tales. Said Gordon, “Do you know what they do with ferry boats when they're late?” Henry thought a minute and retorted, “No—what?” Gordon wisely announced, “Why they dock 'em.” . . . and like the crack about the New York actress. A friend of the actress remarked that the public would miss her after she retired. “That’s why I left,” she responded. “I didn't want to be hit.” I think a lot of them take that risk nowadays. . . . and learned that fewer boys go out to sing at the prison camp now. Some of the prisoners objected on the ground that it wasn’t included in their sentences. . . . the following story came under the observation of this department. A Mooresville father entered the parlor at twelve-thirty and angrily demanded, “Look here, young man! Do you stay as late as this when you call on other girls?” The Davidson student in question stammered, “N-n-n-n-no, sir.” The father, appeased, left the room with “Thank Heaven! She's caught on at last!” . . . a nice lady here in the village undecided about crossing Main Street when it was covered with ice last Saturday. B. B. Sugg came along and they started across together. I thought both of them would fall down in spite of everything, and when they made it safely, I heaved a sigh of relief. . . . a delightful dance enjoyed by the K. A.’s at the Charlotte Country Club last weekend. I just got a little peek but it was enough to know that it was one of the most brilliant of the current season and Miss Charlotte was there with bells on. . . . efficient Mrs. Smith listening to a Grady Cole broadcast from the fourth floor of East as she passed by last Thursday morning. By this time the culprits have been found, more than likely, and all is quiet in East penthouse. Some of the members of the boxing team working out at the gym recently. Under Captain Pritchett’s capable direction, we ought to have a pretty good team next year. Let me give you boxers a little tip. Never hit a man when he’s down, you never know when he might get up again. I heard a party groaning because he was mentioned in this column. It makes me laugh to hear people say that. They really like it and won't admit it. Human nature is a funny thing. I have some good advice for all my dear readers this week, always like Caesar's ghost, be above suspicion . . . remember Columbus’ motto, “More miles to the galleon (you fuelish thing)” and above all, everything that is blind and laughs at locksmiths is not love. . . . Buddy Robinson staggering up from the Post Office last Saturday with about eight letters from a group of Queens-Chicora girls, all members of a certain sorority in that institution. Evidently, they had read this column last week about Buddy turning in his box and receiving mail through the General Delivery, because of scarcity of mail. If there are any other members of the student body who would like to receive letters from numerous fair damsels of the neighboring girls’ colleges in great numbers, just make the fact known to me, if you can, and I’ll see what I can do for you. I wish I could fix myself up as well as I seem to have done for him. Yours till next week, TIP POFF.

Columbia Network from the Hollywood Restaurant, and DeForest has played over the National Network from the Palais D’Orr Restaurant.

Agnes Scott
Dr. Robert W. Miles, D.D., pastor of the Westminster Presbyterian Church of Lynchburg, Va., will preach for the annual Week of Religious Services at Agnes Scott this week. He was heard here last year for three days.

Georgia Tech
The Honorable Eugene Talmadge, new Governor of the State of Georgia, will deliver the commencement address at Tech this year.

The depression has hit the Metropolitan Opera Company rather hard, so that in order to be able to continue, it must have $300,000 from some source. In a recent meeting of box holders, artists, and the company which operates the opera, a plan was suggested whereby the company would ask for donations to help cover the fund needed to guarantee the continuation of this famous institution for another year. Already plans are under way for the next opera season, and it is thought that regardless of the results obtained from the appeal to be made to the public, the opera will run for at least twelve weeks. The reason for this plan, regardless of the public donations, is that the cost of operating is very little more than the cost of a dark opera house.

Two British flyers, Squadron Leader O. R. Gayford and Lieutenant G. E. Nicholetts, established a new long-distance non-stop flight record of 5,341 miles from England to South Africa. A great part of the distance was flown with practically no visibility. The course was maintained by automatic controls. This robot failed them later on in their journey, but they were fortunate then in being able to see. So accurate were their calculations that the flyers arrived at their destination with only ten gallons of gasoline to spare.

A recent snowstorm in New York City cost the city government approximately $80,000. This was paid to about 5,000 additional men besides those who were already in the employ of the sanitary department. The extra workmen received an average of $7 for a fourteen-hour job.

The Dutch Navy has had a hectic time with its stolen cruiser, “De Provincien,” which was stolen by the mutinous crew several days ago. The vessel, stationed in the Dutch West Indies, was taken over by the crew while the captain went ashore. The cruiser put to sea and was soon pursued by several other vessels of the Dutch Navy stationed at the same place. Soon after the mutiny, the crew sent a wireless to the Dutch naval authorities, saying that they would surrender if their pay was raised to the scale in effect just before the recent cut in wages. The Dutch refused and sent several vessels and a seaplane squadron in pursuit of the mutiny. After several days, the vessels caught up with the cruiser and wireless messages demanded surrender. This was refused, and a seaplane dropped a bomb near the cruiser. Still, the mutineers were steadfast in their purpose. It was only after a seaplane dropped a bomb upon the deck of the cruiser, killing twenty-two men and starting a fire, that the morale of the mutiny broke and the crew surrendered. The fire was soon put out and the cruiser was ordered to go to Batavia. As yet, no action has been taken against the mutinous crew.

It is cheaper to go to college than to go to jail. This fact has been shown by the statistics of Bernard J. Fagan, New York State Parole Commissioner. The cost per cell of a prison is $4,000; and the cost per prisoner to the state is at least $500 a year. Thus, the state has to pay more to keep a prisoner than a great many college men have to pay to get a year of college.

Lost: one manuscript, used by President-elect Roosevelt in making his acceptance speech to the Democratic Convention in Chicago last summer; last seen just after the speech was finished; finder please return to James A. Farley, Democratic National Chairman. The Democratic National Committee files are being searched, in the hope that the manuscript was mixed with other papers. The files of Roosevelt and his secretaries are also being searched. It may be, however, that some curio seeker slipped off with the paper during all the excitement following the speech.

Just as this paper is being sent out, i.e., four o'clock today, the Columbia Broadcasting System will be broadcasting a demonstration and lecture on the cosmic ray by Dr. W. F. G. Swann, director of the Bartol Research Foundation of the Franklin Institute, Swarthmore, Pa. The program will include a broadcasting of the sounds made by the cosmic rays caught in a special ray trap. There is a difference among scientists as to the origin of the sounds. Dr. Robert A. Millikan believes them to be the “birth cries” of atoms being created in space, while Sir Arthur Eddington and Sir James Jeans believe that the noise is produced by the destruction of matter within the stars. Whatever the source, we are told that the noise will sound very much like static when it comes over our radios.

Dr. Lion Feuchtwanger, German novelist, in a recent speech in New York, bitterly criticized Adolf Hitler as a writer. He made the comment that Hitler styles himself a literary man and refuses to accept a salary as Chancellor, stating that he makes his living by his pen. Dr. Feuchtwanger stated that in Hitler’s book, “My Struggle,” which he wrote several years ago while in prison, there are 140,000 words, and 140,000 mistakes. In the first few editions, there were a few passages which were correct as far as both subject matter and grammar were concerned, but the later editions omitted these passages. Hitler’s theory along this line is: “If you wish to win the sympathy of broad masses, then you must tell them the crudest and most stupid things.” It seems that the Hitlerites use quantity instead of quality in their literary works. It is said that each day there is enough anti-Semitic literature published to heave an average of twenty-five publications for each Jew in Germany.