THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 22, 1933 - The Bookshelf

Kleine Liebe zu Amerika, by Manfred Hausmann, Berlin, S. Fischer Verlag, 1931, and Ein deutscher Austauschstudent in Kalifornien, by Klaus Mehnert, Berlin und Leipzig, Deutsche Verlags-Anstalt, 1930.

These two recent German books on America present a marked contrast. We mention Kleine Liebe zu Amerika only as Mehnert’s thoughtful, sympathetic study. Commenting on Hausmann’s book, Vicki Baum, authoress of “Grand Hotel,” who has recently come to live in America, said that if she were to write a book on America the title would be, not “Little Love for America,” but “Great Love for America.” In spite of the fact that Hausmann’s effort has practically nothing to commend it except a clever style, it is reported to have won the prize of the Ralph-Beaver Strassburger Foundation as the best book on America published in Germany in 1931. If this be true, one might well pray to be spared the worst book. Hausmann tells wittily about his voyage across the Atlantic, and then relates his superficial experiences under such heads as A Bit of Broadway, The Havana Special, Colored People, Geography in Jacksonville, Across the Mississippi, Chicago Cocktail. One chapter might be considered as having constructive value. The author tells of meeting an usher at a theater in St. Louis, who turns out to be a German immigrant. The latter tells him of his difficulties and discouragements in finding jobs and holding them in America in a way that might well prove a warning to Europeans who perchance might still believe that the streets of America are flowing with milk and honey. Except for this one chapter and an occasional dash of wit, the book is a dreary desert, from the standpoint at least of imparting any useful information about our country, and should be added to the already long list of books which ought never to have been printed and lectures which ought never to have been delivered.

Dr. Klaus Mehnert, whose little book tells of his experiences as a German exchange student at the University of California, started his academic career at that institution in the fall of 1928, and stayed long enough to gain a real insight into American academic and national life. Before coming here he had already traveled extensively in Russia and the Orient, and has recently published a book on Soviet Russia. Since his return to his own country he has been made a member of the staff of Der Akademische Austauschdienst, which administers the exchange scholarships from the German end.

He attacks at the outset the common European error that America is “standardized,” cast in a dreary mold of sameness from one end to the other. Not only does he point out horizontal distinctions, but also vertical ones. He states that two centuries could not be more different than two generations of fathers and sons, and that he who would understand the America of tomorrow must study, not industries and ministries, but schools and universities. The author is greatly impressed with the success of self-government in American public (secondary) schools, and wishes a remark made at a student council meeting (“Make yourselves free from personal feelings; you are not persons, you are representatives”) might be carved over the portals of the German hall of parliament. He concedes that America is not a democracy politically, but asserts that it is educationally, stressing the fact that large numbers of students earn their way without losing social caste.

In so fair and sympathetic a study as Mehnert’s one cannot but accept his criticisms of our system at par, and concede that he is right in most or all of them. But each criticism is followed by an analysis of the situation behind it. After telling of the high-schoolish quality of much of our college work, he states that fifty percent of our college and university students are of a type that would not be in universities in Europe, and that they are being educated here to be “good citizens.” He combats the comic paper and movie idea that student life is a grand lark (dass der Student viel bummelt) and believes that the American Freshman, at least, works harder than his German counterpart.

He found the first football game he saw extremely tiresome, because he did not understand it, but later came to respect the science of the game highly, even yelling himself hoarse at some of the games. He does not share the usual European contempt for organized cheering. He believes that it is a part of a great solidifying force, and he expresses outspoken admiration at the intensity of college loyalty in its better manifestations, a loyalty scarcely known at Continental European universities. Mehnert is duly thrilled by being invited by a “co-ed” to be her partner at a sorority “formal,” and thinks in general very highly of the “Kommilitoninnen,” as he rather facetiously dubs the “Co-eds.”

Among the “thirteen points” in which he finds expressed the essence of American civilization may be mentioned: a scientific spirit rather than worship of authority, conquest of nature in the service of man, a high standard of business ethics, efficiency, equality (give everybody a chance), belief in the dignity of labor, co-operation, etc. The little book is written in very easy, entertaining German. The reviewer hopes many of the students and faculty may be moved to read it for themselves. It is in the library.

DELTA PHI ALPHA.

ALUMNI NEWS (Continued from page 3)

Davidson College in the class of ’30, where he was a leader in athletics and in his studies. Last year he won, with his brother, James A. Halverstadt of the Junior class at David-Son, the double championship in the Ohio Valley Tennis Tournament. He is associated with Proctor & Gamble’s research department in Cincinnati. As yet no date has been set for the wedding. Mr. Walter Lee Lingle, Jr., ’28, son of Dr. and Mrs. Walter L. Lingle of Davidson, also has a position with Proctor & Gamble and he and Mr. Halverstadt have roomed together since they first arrived in Cincinnati.

Of especial interest throughout the South is the announcement of the marriage by Dr. and Mrs. David Meade Mann of their daughter, Mary Austin, to the Reverend Joseph Rogers Walker, ’21, on Saturday, January 28, at Saint Paul’s Church in Richmond, Va. The Reverend and Mrs. Walker are making their home in Raleigh, N. C.

The interest of a wide circle of friends is centered in the announcement made by Mr. and Mrs. Lucius B. Wooton of the engagement of their daughter, Hazel Cleveland, to Thomas Eugene Gray, ’25, son of the late Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Thomas Gray of Columbia, S. C., the wedding to be an event of the spring. The announcement appearing in the Sunday Times-Union is as follows:

“Miss Wooton is a charming and popular member of the social contingent of Jacksonville. She has always made her home in Jacksonville and is a granddaughter of Mrs. W. W. Cleveland and the late W. W. Cleveland. She was graduated from Robert E. Lee High School and attended Brenau College, Gainesville, Ga., where she was a member of Alpha Delta Pi sorority. She is president of the Jacksonville Alumnae Club of Alpha Delta Pi.

“Mr. Gray is a graduate of the Columbia High School, and received his A.B. degree from Davidson, where he was a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. Since he was graduated he has been connected with the Missouri State Life Insurance Company and is now with the Lorick and Vaiden agency in Jacksonville, where he has lived for the past three years.”

(NOTE: All alumni who have articles for this column will please send them to Jack Williams, Jr., Alumni Editor, Box 262, Davidson, N. C.)

The 1936 class at Rutgers University is the healthiest class entered there in many years, according to college authorities.

An exhibit of men’s apparel in New York reveals that the “well-dressed man” must have 29 complete outfits.

Silver Screen

Wednesday, February 22—Washington Merry-Go-Round—(M-G-M) Liberty gives this four stars and “Photoplay” considers it one of the best of the month of its release. Lee Tracy, sent to Washington on bought votes, double-crosses the gang in the interests of his country in an exciting picture. Good for those disliking politics and appropriate for George Washington’s birthday.

Thursday, February 23—Secrets of Madame Blanche—(M-G-M) variation of the Madame X theme. Douglas Walton, Lionel Atwill, and C. Henry Gordon give pleasing support.

Friday, February 24—No More Orchids—(Columbia) The beautiful Carole Lombard, since adding “e” to her first name, has found success in her recent pictures. This one, on the old theme of the rich girl chasing the poor boy and turning down a prince, is given fresh treatment. Amusing difficulties arise, and the story rolls merrily on. A good cast, including the lovely Lombard lady, Lyle Talbot, Jameson Thomas, and Louise Closser Hale, make this good entertainment.

Saturday, February 25—Man Against Woman—(Columbia) Jack Holt is good in a new detective story. His job is to shadow indiscreet women, making a very interesting yarn. He wins a night club singer despite the gangster’s opposition. Lillian Miles gives him able support.

Monday and Tuesday, February 27-28—The King’s Vacation—(Warner) George Arliss, one of the screen’s finest actors, gives us a splendid picture. It is about a man who gives up his wife and child to become king and after eighteen years returns to his old home. The change which he finds upon arriving at his old home makes this a pleasing modern comedy romance. The story combines the lightness of “The Millionaire” with the dramatics of “Disraeli” in making a good picture. Dick Powell, in an attempt to reform politics. A good cast. George Arliss, Patricia Ellis, Dudley Diggs, O. P. Heggie give him the best supporting cast of his career.

Intercollegiate Press

Buffalo—(IP)—Canisius College here placed on display last week one of the few existing copies of the Koburger Bible, printed in several successive editions by Anthony Koburger of Nuremberg, Germany, in the closing years of the fifteenth century. The Canisius copy dates from 1483, so 1933 marks its 450th birthday. It was in honor of this event that the college put it on display last week, along with some other treasures of its library. The Bible was given to the college by Rev. William Turner, Bishop of Buffalo. It is printed in Gothic type on paper which will outlast other centuries. It has an embossed sheepskin binding. It is elaborately illustrated with woodcuts, being the first Bible which included illustrations on this scale. The coloring is done by hand and time has scarcely dimmed it, according to experts.

Dr. Willis J. King, for the last two years president of Samuel Houston College at Austin, Texas, has been elected president of Gammon Theological Seminary at Atlanta, Georgia.

Vesper Advance

Davidson will be honored next Sunday night by the presence of Dr. W. E. Davis of the First Presbyterian Church of Concord who will be the speaker for vespers service. Dr. Davis’ subject will be, “Leadership for an Advancing Age.” We know that this is a very vital question and Dr. Davis will certainly give us some good counsel on the subject. Dr. Davis was called recently to Concord from the Second Presbyterian Church of Staunton, Virginia. He has done some preaching in West Virginia, and also he was the pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church in Atlanta. Dr. Davis is a very good speaker and it would be well worth our while to hear this man.

TOBACCOS
STUDENT SUPPLIES
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
W. S. HENDERSON
NEXT DOOR TO POST OFFICE
CANDY

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY
“WASHINGTON MERRY-GO-ROUND”
LEE TRACY — CONSTANCE CUMMINGS

THURSDAY
“SECRETS OF MADAME BLANCHE”
PHILIP HOLMES — IRENE DUNNE

FRIDAY
“NO MORE ORCHIDS”
CAROLE LOMBARD

SATURDAY
“MAN AGAINST WOMAN”
JACK HOLT

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“KING’S VACATION”
GEORGE ARLISS

College Printing
Magazines, Handbooks, Etc.
“PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE”
Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Engraved Cards and Invitations. Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you
A. M. MANSON, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE
6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing, Always Best
STANDARD PRINTING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C. Exclusively.