THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 18, 1933

HOMECOMING ALUMNI NEWS

BEAT DUKE

MANY ALUMNI

Davidson-Duke Game is Big Event of Program

Cross-Country Meets and Alumni Meeting Fill Morning Program

LUNCHEON AT 12:30

Football Game Will Take Place at 2:30 on Richardson Field

Indications are that one of the largest crowds in the history of the school will attend the annual Homecoming Day
this Saturday, October 21st. Applications for tickets to the Davidson-Duke game Saturday, and letters to the alumni secretary all point
to a capacity crowd for next Saturday. Alumni from Ohio, from Florida, from West Virginia, and from many other states
in the East and South have notified authorities here that they will be present for the festivities Saturday.

A full program has been arranged for the returning former students. At ten forty-five there will be a meet between
the Davidson Freshman cross-country team and the Winston-Salem harriers, to be followed closely by the varsity meet with Duke, which
is scheduled for eleven o'clock. At eleven forty-five there will be a short meeting of the alumni in the auditorium,
at which time the president of the college, Dr. Lingle, will make an address of welcome to the returning alumni,
and Mr. James C. Pfohl will play on the organ. The new alumni secretary, Grier Martin, and the new director
of music, Mr. Pfohl, will be presented to the assembled body. At 12:30 there will be a luncheon served to
the alumni in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. All friends and relatives of alumni are invited to attend, as
this will not be an exclusively alumni affair.

Then at 2:30 the main attraction of the day will be presented when Davidson meets Duke on the football field.
The Blue Devils, conquerors of the great Tennessee, will be favored to win, but you never can tell what the
Wildcats will do on Homecoming Day. In 1929 they upset the dope and defeated a much more powerful Duke eleven,
and again in 1931 they held the Dukesters to a 0-0 tie, when they were doped to lose by several
touchdowns. Enoch, chief fortune teller for the Wildcats, has said that the game will end in a tie, and the
ancient janitor hasn’t missed one so far this season.

A colorful Homecoming crowd will watch the Duke-Davidson encounter. Returning alumni, their wives and children, girls invited up for the
weekend house parties, and a student body and faculty keyed to a high pitch. It will be a great day!

V. M. I. Game Tickets Reduced for Alumni

Many alumni took advantage of the opportunity to see the Davidson-V. M. I. game last Saturday at reduced rates offered
by the Athletic Association. Alumni were given seats for $1.00, and the regular price was $1.65. Captain Norton G. Pritchett
said that this was to be made an annual event, and that at some game each year the alumni would
be admitted at a reduced rate. This action was made possible.

Dr. Miller Unable to Speak at “Y” Vespers

Dr. W. L. Lingle received a message last Saturday evening stating that Dr. Julian S. Miller, the speaker for last
Sunday's Y. M. C. A. vesper services, would be unable to speak at that particular time. Dr. Miller’s daughter had
fallen down the steps of Agnes Scott College, and had suffered a concussion of the brain. It was necessary that
Dr. Miller go to see his daughter at the college, at Decatur, Georgia. She is reported as resting as easily
as can be expected.

Temperance courses will be offered by all grades in Kansas this fall.

WITH THE ALUMNI

Dr. Henry Louis Smith of Greensboro spoke at Flora Macdonald College October the eighth on a “Winning Personality and How
to Develop It.” Dr. Smith brought points essential in the development of a winning personality: (1) a loving heart, (2)
a smiling face, (3) a helping hand, (4) a stiffened backbone, (5) a trusting spirit. Dr. Smith has also been
making a tour throughout North Carolina, speaking in behalf of prohibition. Dr. Smith says that it is too late to
prevent the repeal of the 18th amendment, but that North Carolina people should vote dry to prevent repeal of their
own state laws regarding prohibition enforcement.

Plans to raise the price of leading brands of cigarettes to 13 cents a package reached Wall Street recently along
with the information that S. Clay Williams, president of Reynolds Tobacco Company, in arguing against the proposed marketing agreement submitted
by the government, pointed out that advertising is being carried on at present on a basis of higher prices. Williams
asserted that the agreement with the government not to raise prices would result in curtailment or elimination of advertising. Recently
Mr. Williams and J. B. Houston, head of the tobacco division of the agricultural adjustment administration, were in with Secretary
Wallace when he signed the “flue-cured” tobacco marketing agreement.

Dr. Egbert W. Smith, of Nashville, Congressman J. Bayard Clarkhas Tenn., field secretary of missions for the Southern Presbyterian Church,
is confined to his room at the home of his sister, Mrs. L. Richardson, in Greensboro, with a slight irritation
in one of the hips. Although his condition was said not to be serious, he has been ordered to bed
for a while and will probably be there for another week.

In an address before the mortgage bankers of the country, William P. Stevenson, chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board, told the bankers that they can play an important part in economic recovery by aiding in the secondary distribution
of government bonds to begin soon. Mr. Stevenson said that the current failure of the market to absorb new securities
was only temporary.

Dr. Alexander Pierce Ormand delivered a lecture last Thursday night before the registered nurses of the Cleveland Akron, Ohio District.
He spoke on encephalitis, commonly called sleeping sickness. The reason that he chose this subject was because of the epidemic
which has been going on in St. Louis, Mo., for some time.

Dr. Thomas W. Lingle, professor of history at Davidson College, was a recent speaker at a Rotary Club meeting in
Spartanburg, S. C. He spoke on international affairs and said that the United States should join the League of Nations.

Stuart Noblin is taking graduate work in history, government, and education at the University of North Carolina this year.

Meade Bernard, Jr., is connected with the Armour Fertilizer Company and is located in Tennessee.

Francis Bixler is connected with the Philadelphia Life Insurance Company in Philadelphia, Pa.

George Bailey is now completing his Master's degree at the University of Virginia. Upon the completion of this degree, he
expects to teach or go into the study of law.

First Organ Recital Will Be Given On Thursday

Inaugurating a series of organ recitals which will extend throughout the school year, James C. Pfohl, director of music at
Davidson College, will be heard next Thursday night at 8 o'clock in the auditorium of Chambers Building. These recitals will
be given on the third Thursday in each month and will be free to the student body and the public.
Mr. Pfohl, a graduate of the University of Michigan, is considered one of the most talented organists in the South.
He will perform on the Skinner organ, which was presented to the college several years ago by Mrs. Cameron Morrison.
The program for the first recital is as follows: Largo (Xerxes), Handel; Prelude, Clerambault; Symphonic Chorale, Karg-Elert; Vision, Rheinberger; Londonderry
Air, traditional Irish; Prelude and Fugue in D Major, Bach.

TURN FOR HOMECOMING

Alumni Marriages

Miss Louise Gertrude Ritch and Dr. John Robinson Pharr were recently married in the Newell Presbyterian Church. After a northern
motor trip, Dr. and Mrs. Pharr will return to make their home at 2210 Dilworth Road, Charlotte, N. C. Dr.
Pharr attended Davidson College and Maryland Dental College. Dr. Pharr is one of the leading dentists in this state and
is the former president of the Charlotte Dental Society.

Miss Evelyn McArver and Mr. Henry Belk Matthews were united in marriage at seven o’clock Tuesday evening, October the tenth,
at the home of the bride’s parents in Salisbury. After the ceremony, Mr. and Mrs. Matthews left for a wedding
trip to Florida, after which they will be at home in Salisbury.

The following announcement has been received here: Robert Clay Beckett and Dorothy Harrison Duer announce their marriage on Sunday, the
eighth of October, 1933, at Riverside, California. Lt. Beckett was connected with the R. O. T. C. department here a
few years ago. He is now stationed at Long Beach, California.

Births

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Craig Frye announce the birth of a son on October the 11th at the Mercy Hospital,
Charlotte, N. C.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Distinguished for 121 years in the whole field of Theological Education, particularly in the making of Preachers.

because the V. M. I. game was a guarantee game, and the Davidson officials could handle the tickets in any
way they chose.

Members of the Royal College of Surgeons in London have succeeded in changing fish into land animals.

Homecoming Program

HOMECOMING PROGRAM

Friday, Oct. 20, 8:00 P. M.—Play to be presented at the Chambers Auditorium under the auspices of the local high
school.

Saturday, Oct. 21, 10:45 A. M.—Cross-country meet, Winston-Salem vs. Davidson Freshmen.

11:00 A. M.—Cross-country meet, Duke vs. Davidson varsity.

11:45 A. M.—Alumni meeting in Chambers Auditorium.

12:30 P. M.—Luncheon in banquet hall of Chambers Building.

2:30 P. M.—Duke-Davidson football game on Richardson field.

A sensible package made. We wanted to sell it for 10 cents so we put Granger in a sensible soft
foil pouch—easy to carry and keeps the tobacco just exactly right—just like Granger... good tobacco... Wellman Method... cut right... packed
right. And there is this much about it: We have yet to know of a man who started to smoke
Granger who didn’t keep on. Folks seem to like it.

Granger Rough Cut—the tobacco that’s MADE FOR PIPES
© 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
