4 ———— THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1933 ————

Alumni Personals

The number of alumni visitors to the campus has been cut down since the close of football practices. Bob Z. Johnston, of Barium, was a recent visitor.

Hon. W. F. Stevenson, ’85, of Cheraw, S. C., who has been a member of the United States Congress for sixteen years, has been appointed a member of the Federal Loan Bank Board by President Roosevelt. His appointment was promptly confirmed by the Senate. This appointment and prompt confirmation are a tribute to the fine character and sterling worth of Mr. Stevenson. He will continue to reside in Washington.

A letter has been received at the college office from Harry Price, ’25, of Peiping, West China, who is working in China as an instructor at Yenching University.

Lawrence Dumas, ’29, and Tyree Dillard, ’28, are practicing law in Washington, D. C., at present.

Dr. Elias Faison, ’24, and his bride, the former Gloria Jones of Little Rock, have moved to Charlotte to make their home. Dr. Faison, after his graduation from Davidson, studied in the North and abroad at Vienna. His wife was educated at Sweetbriar College in Virginia. They expect to go to housekeeping shortly.

BIRTHS

1912—Mr. and Mrs. James LeRoy Boyd, of Atlanta, Ga., announce the birth of a son, James LeRoy, Jr., on March 1.

NOTICE

Have your shoes rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP Work done while you wait. C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

U-PUSH-EMS

New Rates at M. P. Henderson’s Gulf Station

Dr. T. F. Foster Speaks On Economic Conditions

Speaker Emphasizes Necessity of Revolutionary Change in Banking System

On last Monday Davidson had Dr. T. W. Foster, director of the Pollack Foundation for Economic and Social Relations, to speak twice. He spoke once in the morning, before the combined classes of Drs. Lingle, McConnell, and Brown, and Professor Currie. This talk was in the nature of a general survey of business, particularly banking, conditions as they exist today.

Dr. Foster began his talk by pointing out the woeful ignorance of our so-called leaders of today, and the fact that they are trying to lead this country out of the depression with a reconstruction program that is at best contradictive and foolish. His whole thought was, “Can we depend on anything?” He then showed that we can depend on one thing. That is that at the present time there is a surplus of everything—overproduction.

There are three possible ways out. The first is to destroy the goods, thus eliminating the surplus. The second is to throttle down production, which America has so foolishly been doing for the past decade. And the last is to produce more goods at full speed, thus creating more material wealth, which will in turn make this country a more prosperous and happy country. But in order to distribute this large amount of goods, a consumer market is necessary. In order to create this consumer market, a complete reorganization of the banking system and the tax system must be worked out.

Dr. Foster laid most emphasis on the necessity for a revolutionary change in the banking system, such that it should not be eternally encouraging the “save your money” attitude, and such that the states should be deprived of their inalienable right to have as many bank failures as they desire. In other words, Dr. Foster suggests more and more government control of banking, and more and more spending of money by the individual consumer.

This speech was a very thoughtful one, and was delivered in such a forceful manner as to hold the attention of everyone of the three or four hundred people in the audience.

GEO. W. LAPITZ Factory Representative TAILORING DISPLAY at the Soda Shop EVERY THURSDAY Star Direct Tailors $23.90 Up B. O. RAVENEL Student Representative

College Printing Magazines, Catalogs, Handbooks, Etc. Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you A. M. MANSON, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE 6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing, Always Best STANDARD PRINTING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C. Newspapers, Cards and Invitations. Programs, Bulletins, Enclosures. Exclusively.

STUDENTS’ CRUISES

Magazine subscription scholarship workers and crew managers write immediately for very best student scholarship offers of leading publishers. Can be worked there now. Permanent positions if experienced, also summer crews for United States and foreign territory. FOR FULL DETAILS WRITE The Collegiate Scholarship Institute 219 Republic Building, Miami, Florida

Pi Delta Alpha

At the last meeting of the Pi Delta Alpha, honorary pre-medical fraternity, Dr. J. W. MacConnell, college physician, and Dr. S. C. Lyon, professor of biology, were initiated into the order. There were approximately fifteen members present at the meeting. An interesting program was arranged in the form of having papers read, which were written by the members of the fraternity. The meeting was held at the home of Dr. Lyon.

An interesting paper on the “Physiological Chemistry of Salivary Digestion” was read by R. H. Baker. Avery Patton discussed through the medium of his paper the dreaded “African Trypanosomiasis,” which is better known as “African Sleeping Sickness.” The causes of death and disease in our large manufacturing plants were discussed by Rufus Morrow in his paper entitled “Industry’s Shadow of Death.” At the finish of his reading he was congratulated by the fraternity for having written such an interesting paper on such an important subject.

Ministerial Band to Hear Dr. Siler Speak

The Ministerial Band plan to resume their regular scheduled meetings this week with a program to be held Friday evening in their usual meeting place in Eu Hall. Dr. E. L. Siler, of Charlotte, will be the speaker and while he has not yet announced his subject, it is expected that he will talk concerning some of his own experiences. Dr. Siler is a retired minister, and has experienced a good many things which, in his opinion, every student expecting to enter the ministry should know.

During the rest of the semester, the Ministerial Band plan to bring here to speak in their programs various outstanding ministers and prominent business men from Charlotte, in continuance of their plans. They will discuss further on Friday the plans to be carried out for the rest of the year. All students who may be interested are cordially invited to come and hear Dr. Siler on Friday. The Ministerial Band are looking forward with great delight to his address.

Student Golfers Defeat Faculty for Second Win

Faculty Get Only Three of the Twenty-one Points

The student twosomes held their own to win the second of three golf matches with the faculty team last Saturday afternoon. Six of the seven matches were won by students to chalk up a score of 18-3. Captain Caldwell and “Bull” Wagner were held to a tie by Doc Newton and Professor Blythe in the seventh match.

Bill Bowman, Mac Manson, McConnell, Macfie, Morrison, and Gregory made a clean sweep of their matches, holding their faculty opponents scoreless. Bowles-Vaiden, Thompson-Hellinger, and Schenck-Alderman won their matches, but dropped a half-point each to the opposing twosome. The match between Caldwell and Wagner for the students and Newton and Blythe of the professors was the feature match of the afternoon, ending in a 1½-1½ tie. Next Saturday afternoon the last of the three matches will be played.and should the students emerge victorious, it will be one time that they can truly say that they had the faculty where they wanted them. Bob Gregory was the low scorer for the day, having a par 36 on the first nine.

INTERCOLLEGIATE PRESS
(Continued from page 3)

...of higher learning can fully meet its social obligations without including education for marriage. “Changes in thought and morals are inevitable, for society, to personify social reactions, will have to adjust itself to the emergence of the single life as a genuine rival of marriage.” The most insistent demand for a course in marriage at Carolina came from the students themselves, Dr. Groves said, and alumni of the course have been of great help in adding new material to the course from their personal experiences. The book is a part of the American Social Science series of which the general editor is Howard W. Odum, director of the Institute for Research in Social Science at the University of North Carolina. The institution of such courses as this one of Dr. Groves’ is one of the elements which is making the University of North Carolina recognized throughout the world as one of the most potent and important of American values according to educators.

DR. FOSTER GIVES TIMELY TALK ON DEPRESSION
(Continued from page 1)

...tirely monetary. As the editor said, “Hard times is when people quit feeding the cow and wonder why she doesn’t give more milk.” Then, after giving a striking account of the results of the laissez-faire (“lazy fairies”) attitude of the administration of the last three years, Dr. Foster added, “Caresses are no substitute for calories, and any cow knows that.”

Eloquently, he pictured America’s possibilities: “Potentially, we have the largest volume of foreign trade the world has ever known. We have everything we need. God has not gone back on us. We lack nothing. We have every material thing requisite for abolishing poverty and giving a job to everyone who wants one.” The trouble, then, Dr. Foster said, lay in our economic ideas. “We have been brought up for generations under the pernicious influence of the doctrine of laissez-faire. It all goes back to Adam—Adam Smith, and his theory that economic functions should be let alone, that their operation was natural and inevitable, and it was sacrilegious to do anything about them. It was reincarnated under the past administration as ‘rugged individualism,’ or as Professor Dewey says, ‘ragged individualism.’ The chief letter-alone was Calvin Coolidge, who let everything alone! Economists of the last hundred years have talked only of production. The whole idea is fallacious. Production does not automatically control consumption. The only workable theory of economics must be built around the essential core of sustained purchasing power. The only reason we have a business depression is because consumption did not keep pace with the production of goods. You can no more have depression with adequate consumer-buying than you can have drought in Davidson if it rains every day. The one thing really needed is to restore consumers’ power. But, as someone once said, teach a parrot to say ‘Supply and demand,’ and you’ve created a Captain of Industry.”

Dr. Foster, who has written several books on exposition and argumentation, is a skillful orator, and the audience listened intently to every word. He was never more impressive than when, near the end of his address, he leaned forward and, his voice vibrating with earnestness, sounded a call for confidence and courage. “If everybody in the United States would wake up tomorrow morning, believing the depression is over, it would be over. For then, the American people would act collectively through their Federal government; and the only way to get out of a depression is through collective action. I have always felt that the most pregnant sentence probably in the whole Bible is, ‘He who would find his life must lose it, and he who would lose his life for my sake, the same shall find it.’ The doctrine of rugged individualism, Wall Street, and big business, is dominated by the doctrine of, ‘He who would find his life must seek it, and let everybody else go hang.’ In 1933, business must go back to the central theme of Christianity to save business.”

“The New Deal,” Dr. Foster declared, “represents collective action. The three attitudes may be listed as: reactionary, realistic, and radical. The New Deal is realistic; the others represent extremes, one—rugged individualism—advocated by the United States Chamber of Commerce and the Republican party, and the other—disregarding the powerful incentive to accomplishment of the profit motive—adhered to by Socialism and Fascism.”

Dr. Foster was enthusiastic about the New Deal. “We shall have, in a very short time, measures taken which will make 1933 go down in history as the year when the most profound economic changes took place.” The speaker said that under the New Deal there would probably be a resumption of public building programs; money would be made available for cleaning up the slums; taxes would probably not be increased, and there would be less anxiety about governmental deficits until a measure of prosperity returned; however, high inheritance taxes and additional surtaxes on large incomes would probably be levied. He expressed hope that the George bill would be passed, providing a half-million dollars to the states to prevent retrenchment in education. A long-range planning of public works would probably be undertaken. “The one thing needed is to put back to work the eleven million men who want work.” Dr. Foster emphasized the possibility of engaging in a real program of reconstruction. He declared that if war should suddenly occur, we would immediately throw our whole strength into the conflict. “The great thing about this New Deal,” he concluded, “is this, that, at last, the people of the United States, within the last few weeks, very rapidly have come to this conclusion—that if it is feasible to utilize our productive capacities for killing men abroad, it is equally possible to utilize them on a large scale for saving men at home.”

FAMOUS NEGRO QUARTET HEARD IN CHAPEL FRIDAY
(Continued from page 1)

...abilities and talents.” The singers came from its business school, which sends graduates out fitted for commercial positions among white people and among their own race. Mr. Hammet, the manager of the quartet, graduated from this department of Hampton last year. Between two numbers he gave an instructive short talk on his experiences there, and his expectations regarding a career now that he has graduated.

The performance of the quartet was exceptionally good, and was surprising for its qualities and perfect rhythm, harmony, and excellent enunciation. The spirituals sung were as follows: My Lord, What a Morning; If You Want T’Go to Heaven; Way Over in Jordan; Joshua Fit the Battle of Jericho; Swing Low Sweet Chariot; I’m Baptist Born and Bred; Were You There When They Crucified My Lord?

After the performance, President Lingle expressed the appreciation and thanks of the college for the “service of love” rendered by the Hampton singers in coming to Davidson, solely on a mission of good will, to further amicable relations between the Southern negro and his white neighbor.

“DRUGS” Student “PRESCRIPTIONS” Make Our Store Your Store WHITE DRUG CO., Inc. “SODAS” Supplies “SUNDRIES”

For Distinctive Apparel Men at IDEU'S DAVIDSON SHOP