THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 12, 1933

The Davidsonian — Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Athletic Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor

President
Vice-President
Secretary-Treasurer

W. M. ALDERMAN
W. B. C. BARNES
BILL BOWMAN
ADDISON BRENIZER
C. NEILL
JACK PLUNKETT
ROGER RILEY
P. M. ROGERS
LAMONT BROWN
J. H. ROSS
TOM DOWNIE
CHARLES SUTLIVE
HARVEY GLASS
T. H. SUTTON
BILL GOODY KOONTZ
W. T. THOMPSON
P. D. GUERRANT
JOHN WALKER
PAUL HARLAN
N. W. WALLACE
J. W. WHITE
CARLYLE LEWIS
T. F. WOOD
L. McCLINTOCK
ED WOOTEN
BILL MERCHANT
FIELDS YOUNG

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 1933

The older I grow, the more I learn —Solon.

Our deepest sympathy is extended to Herbert W. Lucas in the death of his mother.

VISITS

Visits such as the one made last weekend by the deputation from Union Theological Seminary of Richmond have a great deal to do in making impressions upon prospective students for the school. The deputations sent out each week by the Y. M. C. A. here at Davidson no doubt have brought many splendid students here for their college work.

EASTER GREETINGS!

DEBATING AND PUBLICITY

In past years most of Davidson’s publicity has come almost entirely through the success of Davidson’s athletic teams and through the famous “Wildcat Spirit” displayed by these sport representatives. But last year, and especially this year, debating teams representing Davidson have gone a long way in putting Davidson’s name among the schools of the East. Last year, Davidson was represented by a team which lost only one debate. This year, one of the teams, composed of Gordon Brown and Leland McKeithan, with T. P. Caldwell as alternate, has won all of its conflicts, and in doing so has won for Davidson worlds of publicity. On a recent trip North these representatives won unanimous decision victories over the debating teams of the University of Richmond, Rutgers University of New York, and Bucknell University, and took part in a non-decision Oxford-style debate against Haverford College, in each case debating the negative side of the question, “Resolved: That the War Debts Should Be Cancelled.” The four schools mentioned above are noted for their debating teams. On the strength of the record of this team, Davidson is getting debates next year with Yale and Princeton Universities. The publicity which Davidson has gained this year, and which it will gain next year in its debates with Yale and Princeton will mean a lot to the college. Dr. C. K. Brown deserves much of the credit for these victories since it was by his constant work and cooperation that the debaters developed such good arguments.

WATER IS BEST

The country as a whole seems to be elated over the recent passage of the “Beer Bill.” Periodicals bring in news which say, “beer drinking promises to be fashionable. The elite of all the large cities are preparing for the return of beer. The wealthy are having penthouses turned into beer gardens and cellars transformed into tap rooms.”

What we don’t understand is why these same newspapers used the argument that prohibition did not prohibit and that everybody, especially the rich, had his beer anyway, in their attempts to get the Volstead Act repealed. They contended that there was more drinking under prohibition than there was before the amendment was made, and now they say that the country is elated over the lawful right to drink beer again. At any rate, the legalization of beer drinking does not make it ethically or morally right.

Tulane

World peace is the apparent aim of many Tulane students and a number in other colleges throughout the United States, if recent developments have any meaning. Three petitions aiming to abolish war are now in circulation on the Tulane campus. The gist of these include: the denunciation of propaganda glorifying war, the abolition of excessive nationalism, the united refusal of the youth of America to bear arms except in case of invasion, and attempts to remove all causes of war.

Duke

In accordance with tradition, the Senior class of Trinity College has challenged the faculty of Duke University to a fight to the finish in that combat of cosmic importance, baseball. This Faculty-Senior baseball game has become a yearly affair at Duke, the faculty winning most of the games despite the interference of Father Time and the well-known Dan Cupid.

Alabama

Prepared for their biggest “A” Day, University of Alabama students relaxed in a sort of conservative Mardi Gras festival last Wednesday, when faculty and students joined in celebrating the annual holiday. The program for the day’s events included such frivolities as: rolling pin throwing for faculty wives, pie eating contests for politicians, inter-fraternity track competition, greased pole climbing, and the like.

Northwestern

Northwestern University was recently the center of a heated campaign to allow women to stay out until 2:00 A.M. The fairer sex at present are still subject to the strict ruling which allows them to stay out until only 1:00 A.M. Whattalife!

V. M. I.

From the exchange column of the V. M. I. “Cadet,” the following was found quoted from the “Davidsonian”: “How sweet to awaken in the morn when sunbeams first begin to creep across the lea, and then to turn right back again and go to sleep.” The “Cadet’s” version of the poem is this: “Uh, huh, how sweet to awaken in the morn before the sunbeams first begin to creep across the hills, and then to turn right out to breakfast still craving sleep.”

CURRENT EVENTS IN NATURE

By BILL WARD

The Davidson campus is a favorite place for love-making—among the birds. The Flicker who hammers out a rolling tattoo on the tin roof of the old gymnasium about 6:30 every morning has not entirely lost his mind, and is not trying to make a nest in such a place. He is merely beating out a tender love song to his mate, who probably enjoys it more than the fellows rooming in the front of Watts. A few mornings ago I saw a pair of Flickers billing and cooing on one of the flood lights in front of Chambers. Their clumsy attempts at showing affection are about as awkward and grotesque as any of the birds we have. Almost every day someone asks me if I have yet seen the Goldfinches, or “Wild Canaries.” Little as it is realized, these fellows stay with us all the year ‘round, but it is only when they put on their bright yellow and black spring plumage that we notice them. From now until the first of June the brilliant flocks of these finches, singing crazily as they pick up dandelion and other seeds, will be familiar sights on the campus. Not until last week did I notice any Goldfinches in their spring plumage. One poor fellow was about half through molting, and the queerly mottled color of his feathers gave him a freakish appearance. These birds seem to enjoy roving about in great flocks all spring, and it is not until the last of June or the first of July that they settle down to the serious business of rearing a family. Exactly contrary to the Goldfinches are the Starlings, who already have nesting activities well under way on the campus. The nest in an old woodpecker’s hole in front of the “Y” has contained four pale blue eggs for over two weeks, and hatching time must certainly be drawing near. A congregation of Starlings gather each evening to roost in the vines about the Library. Apparently, all of these birds in Davidson and Cornelius gather at that one spot, and the noise and confusion is augmented by scores of English Sparrows, who roost in the same vines. Perhaps the two species feel a sense of security in numbers.

WHO, ME?

NEWS DIGEST

Diary of a Modern Pepys: Up and to school where, having taken two reviews, I wondered at the uncanny ability of professors which is exemplified in their choice of questions... and after this to chapel where I became irritated at nothing in particular... later to the bookstore where, but for the grace of Providence and the kindness of a friend who supported me as I staggered out, I should have remained, having once heard the price of a much-needed book... (Anything over two figures is expensive to me, and, incidentally, the cost of good literature prompts me to communism)... presently to lunch where I was positively stupefied at the versatility of two who toyed with the ice for eons before accomplishing the feat of transferring it from the bowl to the tumblers... I never saw more done with so commonplace a substance...In the last throes, one managed to disturb the equilibrium of his glass of water, and jumping up in so doing, was remarkably successful in treading on the feet of three at once... (Incorporated, he would bring some clever concessioner a fortune)... to the library where I spent a pleasant afternoon, noting, among other things, some interesting plays from the 47 Workshop... as the sun was setting, to supper with a friend to whom I expressed determination to effectuate homicide if I heard it (the sun) called a great ball of fire or a burnished platter, whereupon he murmured something, which ended in a half-audible “platter”... and, in obedience to curfew, to bed when the flesh was weary with a superabundance of study...

Recently I met a coughing ghost whose initials are E. S. Hodge outside the Chemistry Lab. After much questioning, I was able to induce a faint “chlorine” between gasps. With my usual mercenary aspect, I thought how nice it would be if he might hold on until after Easter, for lilies will be much cheaper after there are no longer seasonal demands for them. And speaking of coughing, a certain Junior who has been barking like a dog with a bone in its throat and wheezing like a water organ for the last week has found his malady convenient for retiring from Static classes which are slightly too long drawn out.

I have never been lucky. As a small child, I had much difficulty in finding Easter eggs. Several days ago, I found the following poem floating around the campus. (The poem it was that floated.) I’m still in a dilemma trying to decide whether I have at last been visited by Lady Luck or whether, in the advent of her illness, she has sent her daughter, Miss Fortune. At any rate, here’s the poem. It’s by one of Davidson's more promising poets.

“Look! Behold a beautiful maid
Of green and purple and gold,” they said.
“She swam in a sea of marmalade
Strangled and sank, went down like lead;
Drowned in the sea, and is now quite dead,
Killed by the sea of marmalade.
Poor little maid, so dead, so dead,
Asleep in the deep of marmalade.”

Tap, tap, tap! With the regularity and diligence of Dr. Samuel Johnson, Ed McNair goes along the halls of his dormitory touching the door posts and knobs. I won't mention in this column the fact that I saw none other than Bill Matthews policing the golf course Sunday afternoon for the purpose of prohibiting those whose excessive supply of energy tends to find an outlet in playing at all hours and times.

I have lately heard that through the efforts of those who masque in the patriotic red and black, the corpse of poor Ernest has been exhumed. I have noticed that a certain Senior who smokes only on weekends or when he is taking blindfold tests is apparently that way about a little brunette who lives in Charlotte and with whom he had a date this past Saturday P.M. Naturally, he wouldn't have had a date on Saturday A.M., for after all, we do have classes then. However, I’m not able to commit myself regarding the whereabouts of the young man in question on Sunday A.M.

A mere glance at the flock of Starlings at the Library will convince one of the rapid increase of these hardy birds. The Starling was introduced into America in 1890, and in spite of the fact that it has been in North Carolina a comparatively small number of years, it is already one of our most common species. The spring migration is in full sway, and while many of our winter birds have gone to nest in New England and Canada, new arrivals are pouring in every morning from the south. Some of the birds that reached Davidson last week are: Wood Thrushes, Chimney Swifts, White-eyed and Red-eyed Vireos, and Blue-gray Gnatcatchers. Many of the old cocoons that have been hanging on the campus trees all winter are now beginning to awaken, and the moths are drilling out. Two weeks ago, a delicate green Luna Moth was brought to my room, and last week a Polyphemus slipped out of one of the cocoons on my desk. For most insects, the winter hibernation has ended.

The supreme challenge to lighter-than-air aviation has come in the disaster to the Akron last Tuesday. This country has owned three great dirigibles and two have been wrecked with heavy loss of life. Whether this will discourage flying, by dirigible or otherwise, will depend upon the viewpoint which the general public takes. Congressman Fish of New York has demanded an investigation of the tragedy. There have been rumors of sabotage, but it is unnecessary to think that a foreign government should wish to destroy a great ship in peacetime. It is doubtful at any rate whether the investigation committee will decide anything because the only evidence rests on the floor of the ocean. Lieutenant Wiley, second in command and the only officer to survive, discounts the theory that the ship was struck by lightning. He says, “The ship took a sharp lurch and the control wires of the upper rudder were carried away.” Although the Akron was surrounded by lightning at the time, he does not think it possible that this could have caused so much damage. The Navy prides itself on the discipline of its men and this discipline was admirably illustrated in the calm of the crew when a crash was inevitable. The succinct order, “All hands stand by for a crash,” found the men in perfect order. It is a memorial to the courage of those men to say in the words of Lieutenant Wiley, “They were calm and did not flinch.”

Carried on for several years, the fight between prohibitionists and repealers was ended last Thursday night at 12:01 by the return of legal beer. Beer balls and beer parties stayed up until the late hours to see its advent although with an attitude of solemnity and expectation rather than hilarity. The beer is now legal in nineteen states, with many others falling in line. It is hoped that the sale of the beverage will bring plenty of revenue. Attorney-General Cummings comments that beer “would contribute materially to the government’s economy program by lessening the need for enforcement officers, lightening the load on the courts and decreasing the number of prison inhabitants.”

At the end of its first month of office, the Roosevelt administration has gained a full grip upon the confidence of the people. The new deal was conceived and executed with skill and ingenuity. A month ago, we were a stricken and disorganized pack which was ready to follow at the heels of any leader. We received Mr. Roosevelt with a mixture of hope and incredulity. Since then, we have, in the short time of one month, imbued him with a spirit of conscious backing which should carry him far. There is, as yet, no spirited opposition to the administration. On the contrary, there seems everywhere to be a willingness to help. This has taught us that we cannot wait dumbly and miserably for a change, but that we must work for it.

The modern method for settling disputes and reaching conclusions is to call a conference. Invitations are now hurrying to the capitals of nine great governments to assemble their leaders for an international confab on world conditions. It is hoped that a plan will be adopted for better cooperation between these nations in the interest of business. Invitations have been sent to Argentina, Brazil, Chile, China, England, France, Germany, Italy, and Japan. Almost all of these countries have already agreed to send representatives and it is hoped that, if an agreement can be reached, the conference will be another step forward in international relations.

The first step in the unique mobilization program of forest workers has been completed. This program is aimed at the enrollment of one man for each 500 inhabitants in the nation. Twenty-five thousand are already enrolled and entered into army condition camps from which, two weeks hence, they will report for work in the forests. The first recruits come from the Atlantic Seaboard and plans for a second contingent to come from the Western States have been made. Robert Fechner, director of the program, and the park service have mapped out a series of projects which will require 60,000 man-months of labor in all of the larger forests. This unique plan will lessen the number of unemployed, preserve virgin stands of timber, and give the forestry service a chance to complete the useful work that they had begun but did not have the means of finishing.

The conference between Norman Davis, ambassador-at-large to Europe, and Adolf Hitler ended in a mutual draw. Hitler explained that the Reich would not re-arm, but simply wished to have enough forces to defend its own boundaries and not for any offensive operations. Mr. Davis expressed the opinion that the dictator's anti-Semitic policy might prove a disturbing influence in world conditions. The whole talk was very friendly and Davis left with the impression that Germany’s new “man of iron” had great power and dynamic force.