THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 20, 1933

THREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY DAVIDSON ALUMNI CONVENE FOR GRADUATION PROGRAM

Commencement Exercises Held Monday and Tuesday, May 29th and 30th

HAD VARIED PROGRAM

Executive Committee and Alumni Council Met

Over three hundred and fifty alumni returned to the Davidson campus for the Ninety-seventh Commencement exercises of the institution. The exercises were held on Monday and Tuesday, the 29th and 30th of May.

Alumni activities began with the meeting of the Executive Committee of the Alumni Council, which met at five o'clock on Monday afternoon. That night at eight, the Alumni Council met and reports by the various officers were made, and the recommendations of the Executive Committee were brought before the body and voted on. The attendance at this meeting was rather large, considering the situation in which the Alumni Association was.

At ten o'clock Tuesday morning, members of the Alumni Association met in Chambers Building and divided into groups which were led by members of the graduating class. The various groups discussed different angles of college life, such as athletics, religion on the Davidson campus, social life, and publications. Following these meetings the whole body convened in the auditorium, where reports from the individual conferences were made.

Dr. Ben R. Lacy and Mr. Jos. B. Johnston were re-elected president and vice-president of the Alumni Association. S. Clay Williams, Dr. W. T. Thompson, and Mr. Scott Candler were elected alumni trustees following the presentation of twelve names to the association. To the Athletic Council were elected L. Richardson, Dr. Oren Moore, Mr. L. H. Wilkinson, with Mr. I. P. Graham as alternate. Six new members of the Alumni Council were chosen. They were J. R. McGregor, Norman Johnson, Eugene Neisler, R. E. Abell, McDowell Reid, and Ernest Milton.

Following the adjournment of this meeting, the entire body retired to the banquet hall for lunch, where a few talks were made, gifts presented, and food consumed.

Alumni Meet at Virginia Hotel

Fifteen Davidson men who were in Massanetta Springs, Va., this summer gathered at an informal luncheon on July 14, in the dining room of the Massanetta Springs Hotel. These men were in the resort either as members of the conference faculty or in connection with the management of the hotel. The Wildcats entertained the public in the dining hall with Davidson songs and yells, and an enthusiastic spirit was manifested. Representatives of classes from '05 through '36 were present at the party. Those present were: T. K. Currie, '05; J. J. Murray, '09; Robert W. Miles, '11; Z. V. Roberson, '14; D. T. Caldwell, '14; George C. Bellingrath, '18; C. Grier Davis, '27; Albert N. Cowan, '31; Walton Sugg, '31; Alec M. Earle, '32; Jack McKinnon, '32; Calvin W. Kuykendall, '32; J. Wayte Fulton, '33; Jake S. Mackorell, '33, and Harvey Glass, '36.

Come Across

If the alumni page is to be a success this year, the alumni must support it by making contributions to it. If you know of anything that has happened to a Davidson man, let us know about it. If something has happened to you, don’t be bashful—write the secretary about it, so that others who are interested may know. The job of keeping an address list of almost 4,500 names is impossible without the assistance of the alumni. Send in your own and other changes of address.

Births

1916
Rev. and Mrs. Frank M. Bain announce the birth of a daughter, Gladys Marilyn, on Sunday, July 30, 1933.

1921
Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Cumming announce the birth of a son, Edward Chandler Cumming, September 8, 1933, at Charlotte, N. C.

1925
Born to Mr. and Mrs. E. B. Crow, Jr., at Wilson, N. C., a daughter, Margaret Wright Crow, on June 17, 1933.

1927
Mr. and Mrs. James A. King announce the birth of a son, James A. King, Jr., on Saturday, July 1, 1933.

Alumni Engagements

1924
The following announcement has been made: Mr. and Mrs. Thorne Flagler, of Atlanta, Ga., announce the engagement of their daughter, Catherine Schley, to William Asbury McClain, the date of the marriage to be announced later.

1925
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Jackson Dayvault announce the engagement of their daughter, Dessie Virginia, to James Enbert Holshouser, of Boone. The wedding will take place in the fall.

1926
Mrs. David Hope Sadler announces the engagement of her daughter, Frances Guy, to Alvis Bynum Poe, the marriage to be solemnized in the early fall.

1929
Announcement has been made by Dr. and Mrs. William Joseph Martin, of Richmond, Va., formerly of Davidson College, of the engagement of their daughter, Katherine, to Kenneth Pitts Maddox, of Greensboro. The marriage will take place in October.

1931
Mr. and Mrs. James Edward Marson

Alumni Marriages

On Wednesday afternoon, June 28, at the McPherson Presbyterian Church in Fayetteville, Miss Anne Hubbard McIlwinen, of Fayetteville, became the bride of Duncan Campbell McEachern, '24, of St. Pauls. After a wedding trip to the western part of the state, they returned to St. Pauls, where Mr. and Mrs. McEachern expect to make their home. Mr. McEachern is associated with his father in business.

Dr. and Mrs. Henry Fletcher Long, of Statesville, announce the marriage of their daughter, Virginia, to Rev. William I. Howell, '26. The wedding took place during the first of September. Mr. Howell is the pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Mocksville.

Rev. Joseph M. Garrison, '26, was married on June 10 to Miss Evelyn Hawkins.

Alfred Cornelius Lindley, '26, was married to Miss Martha Elizabeth Kuhn, September 17, 1933, in Richmond, Va., at the home of the bride’s parents. Mr. and Mrs. Lindley will make their home in Samsun, Turkey, where Mr. Lindley has charge of a branch office of the American Tobacco Company of the Orient. He has been located in Turkey for several years.

Announcements reading as follows have been issued: Mr. and Mrs. Louis Campbell Adams announce the marriage of their daughter, Edna Virginia, to John Lawrence McNeill, on Saturday, the fifth of August, nineteen hundred and thirty-three, Cameron, North Carolina. Mr. McNeill was a member of the class of '03.

Dr. Angus R. McQueen, Dunn, delivered the annual address at the homecoming exercises at the Old Bethesda Church at Aberdeen. Dr. McQueen’s father was pastor at this famous old church, which is the most active survivor of the beginning of the Presbyterian Church in North Carolina.

Dr. Robert E. Abell, Chester, is president of the South Carolina Medical Association.

Mr. Fred W. Sherrill, Statesville, was re-elected president of the Sherrill clan at the annual meeting held July 28.

Rev. John R. Hay, Hickory, was elected chaplain of the North Carolina American Legion for 1934.

Rev. S. B. Hoyt moved from Falling Springs, Va., to historic old Bethpage Presbyterian Church, near Concord, N. C. He took the place of Rev. T. H. Daffin, '09, who accepted a call to Westminster, W. Va.

Rev. A. L. Currie has accepted a call to the First Presbyterian Church of Huntington, W. Va. He has been pastor of the Moore Memorial Presbyterian Church in Nashville, Tenn.

Mr. D. R. LaFar, Gastonia, has been active in the activities of the Ranlo Manufacturing Company in Gastonia.

Mr. J. Harold McKeithan, Winston-Salem, has taken charge of the legal bureau of the mortgage loan department of the Prudential Insurance Company's office in Winston-Salem.

Mr. Clifford R. (Pat) Crawford is slated for the managership of a big league baseball club, according to theOpinion of various sports writers throughout the country. “Pat” has been holding down second base for the St. Louis Cardinals this summer.

The North Carolina Historical Review for July, 1933, contains an article by Dr. Thomas English McGeachy, '28, of Decatur, Ga., and Miss Frances Fletcher were married August 2, 1933, at high noon, in Montreat. They are now making their home at 218 Sycamore Street, Decatur, Ga. Rev. Thomas English Hill, of Rock Hill, S. C., and Miss Sarah Prather Armfield were married August 14, 1933, at the First Presbyterian Church in Fayetteville, N.C. After an extensive tour of Europe, Rev. and Mrs. Hill returned to Edinburgh, Scotland, where Mr. Hill will continue his studies until December.

Alumni Deaths

'15 Mr. E. T. Henderson passed away at his home, 726 East Boulevard, Charlotte, N. C., after a lingering illness. His death was caused by diabetes and complications.

'79 Col. E. T. Brown was claimed by death March 9, 1933, at his home in New Market, Va.

'80 Mr. Thomas G. Hardie died in Baltimore, Md., on March 25, 1933.

'81 Dr. J. D. Nisbet, digestive tract disease specialist and internationally-known physician, died in a hospital in Charlotte, N. C., July 27, 1933, after a brief illness. Had Dr. Nisbet lived he would have been seventy-two years old in a few days.

'86 Rev. C. W. Maxwell, D.D., pastor-emeritus of the Presbyterian Church at South Boston, Va., died August 16, 1933. Rev. Maxwell was very active in establishing the Orphans’ Home at Lynchburg, Va.

'94 Mr. A. M. Hall died at his home in Wilmington, N. C., July 11, 1933. His demise was unexpected and came as a great shock.

'97 Mr. H. C. Reid was claimed by death at his home in Charlotte, N. C., March 18, 1933.

1911 Rev. William Thomas Mann, pastor of the Grove Avenue Church, Richmond, Va., died suddenly on August 25, 1933, in Highland County, Virginia, where he was spending a two weeks’ vacation.

1916 Mrs. Myrtle Neisler, wife of Mr. Charles Eugene Neisler, '16, of Kings Mountain, N. C., was killed August 20, 1933, in an automobile wreck. Mr. Neisler was slightly injured.

Alumni Personals

'82 Dr. J. P. Munroe, Charlotte, was given the D.Sc. degree by Duke University at the commencement exercises in June. Dr. Munroe was one of the founders of the medical profession in North Carolina, and has practiced in this state since 1881, and in Charlotte since 1900.

'83 Dr. R. N. Brackett, Clemson College, S. C., retired from the headship of the Department of Chemistry at Clemson after more than forty years of service at this institution. Dr. Brackett was a professor at the South Carolina college the first year it started activities, and has been there since then. He continues at Clemson as librarian of the chemical library which he has collected during these years.

'26 Rev. Harlee Bordeaux has resigned from the pastorate at Community Presbyterian Church, Old Greenwich, Conn., and is at home in Wilmington, North Carolina.

'26 Rev. James E. Moore was graduated on May 9 from the Westminster Theological Seminary in Philadelphia, and has accepted a call to the pastorate of the Presbyterian Church in Abescon, N. J.

'27 Rev. Heber McIlwaine is assistant pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Pittsburgh, Pa.

'28 Mr. D. A. Currie will have the position of head of the Department of Business Administration at the Presbyterian Junior College at Maxton during the coming year. Mr. Currie, after leaving Davidson, graduated in law at the University of North Carolina, and has been principal of the Clarkton High School for the past several years.

'28 Mr. John P. McKnight, who is the Associated Press representative in Havana, Cuba, handled the recent revolution in Cuba in an admirable fashion, and his stories were published throughout the country.

'29 Rev. John Melton graduated from the Columbia Theological Seminary of Decatur, Ga., and has accepted a call (Continued on page 4).

Several Alumni Selected for Big Positions in Roosevelt’s Recovery Administration

Davidson men have played a large part in President Roosevelt’s recovery act; how large a part may never be known. Some of the names of the alumni who have done a great deal in the recovery have appeared in the headlines of the newspapers of the country. William F. Stevenson, '85, was appointed chairman of the Federal Home Loan Board by President Roosevelt. Mr. Stevenson is a former Congressman from South Carolina. He has been so successful in his work that he has been appointed to the “recovery board” of the President. Roosevelt appointed a number of business men to committees to aid in the re-employment drive. Prominent among these was Charles Cannon, '15, manufacturer of Concord, N. C. Mayor George Coan, '11, Winston-Salem, was appointed re-employment director of the Forsyth County Re-employment Committee. Other Davidson alumni have done much to help in the drive for recovery which has been and is being made.

Minor Injuries Result of Football Practice Tues.

Minor injuries sent three members of the Wildcat squad to the showers before the practice was over Tuesday afternoon. Johnny Mackorell, star quarterback, was the first to go in when he sprained his right knee while trying to take big Jim Morgan, stellar end, out of play in Tuesday afternoon’s scrimmage. Billy Ravenel, a member of last year’s “B” team, was the second. He was knocked out while trying to block Buck Ross, a tackle, from a play and was sent in. All three are expected to be out for practice again today.

Dr. Lingle and Mrs. Lingle visited places of interest all over Spain. Dr. Lingle professed a great deal of interest in the prehistoric paintings in the cave of Altamira, probably the most striking single object to be seen in Spain. Journeying next to the Scandinavian Peninsula, they spent some time among the peoples of Denmark, Norway, Sweden, and England. Dr. Lingle was impressed especially with two characteristics of these northern people. Their desire for good literature and reading seems to be universal, and bookstores can be seen everywhere. The economic, social, cultural, and moral plane must be remarkably high. Dr. Lingle reports that he saw not one beggar during his entire stay in this region. In Copenhagen, they were entertained by the American Minister, Hon. Ruth Bryan Owen, whose son once studied at Davidson and is now a writer of note. In Finland, the Lingles visited the famous Russian monastery of Valamo in Lake Ladoga on the Russian border, returning by hydroplane from Finland to Stockholm. Germany was the next place on their route, and they spent some time observing political conditions under the Hitler regime. Young Nazis seemed perfectly willing to talk politics with them, Dr. Lingle reports, but they all seem to have one line—“Hitler—the Savior—Hitler, the only way.” All other people, if they have any ideas on the matter, fear to speak them. The Lingles found Frankfort and Berlin extremely interesting in a historical way. Both Dr. and Mrs. Lingle spent several years as students in Germany, and have made several visits there since. The character of the French people, bright, cheerful, and agreeable in manner, was evident to the Lingles as they stopped off in Paris for the few days before they sailed for the United States. Dr. Lingle states that he enjoyed his trip no end. “I hope to visit the Balkans some summer in the future,” he noted. “That will be my next trip.”

WELCOME STUDENTS

We Appreciate Your Patronage

M. P. HENDERSON
Drugs
Sundries

COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”
Now---Next Door to Post Office
Sodas
Sandwiches

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP
There’s a Reason Why “Four Out of Five” College Men Come To

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Distinguished for 121 years in the whole field of Theological Education, particularly in the making of Preachers.