THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 20, 1933

DAVIDSON UNIT WINS R. O. T. C. CUP
(Continued from page 1)

T. H. McCallie, of Chattanooga, Tenn., was third in individual drill competition, which was won by T. J. Thomas, of Georgia Military College. The Davidson rifle team was fifth in rifle marksmanship with 411 points scored out of a possible 500. Alex Schenck and Francis Scott qualified as expert riflemen and others scored enough in rifle fire to rate sharpshooter and marksman.

Miller Cochran, of Davidson, rated high among the athletes at the camp. In the track and field meet, the hefty Wildcat won firsts in the discus and shot put and third in the javelin; in the swimming meet he won several places in the races and placed among the divers. Rufus Morrow placed second in the mile run in the track meet. In tennis, Scott and Schenck went far as doubles partners before being defeated in the semi-finals by Boulware and Martin, who emerged champions. Scott was eliminated in the singles matches by Boulware, who won the camp title.

Major John T. Rhett, who is the P. M. S. & T. at Davidson College, served as Battalion Commander at the camp, being second in charge. Lt. Colonel John R. West, of Clemson, was in charge.

Members of the Davidson unit were: William M. Brown, Knoxville, Tenn.; Odi Casali, Welch, W. Va.; Franklin M. Cochran, Jr., Davidson; James M. Covington, Jr., Wadesboro; Joseph T. Drake, Port Gibson, Miss.; Francis P. Harrison, Mt. Ulla; Edward T. Humphrey, Wilmington; William T. Johnson, Charlotte; William A. Kirkland, Durham; William A. Lyon, Davidson; Thomas H. McCallie, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Andrew H. Manson, Jr., Jacksonville, Fla.; Robert B. Moffett, Davidson; Benjamin L. Moore, Pendleton; Rufus C. Morrow, Davidson; Edward L. Powell, Mobile, Ala.; Harold R. Pratt-Thomas, Wedgefield, S. C.; Adolphe S. Rachal, Jr., Low Moor, Va.; Albert W. Rice, Salisbury; Charles M. Rives, Jr., Greensboro; Alexander F. Schenck, Davidson; Francis H. Scott, Tsinanfu, China; Ralph H. Smith, Jr., Dillon, S. C.; Dale K. Spencer, Grassy Creek; Hugh A. Wilson, Jr., Lake City, Fla.

Glee Club Holds First Practices
New Director Begins Work With Many Experienced Men Reporting

Mr. Pfohl, director of music at Davidson, has already held tryouts for this year’s Glee Club and has conducted two practices this week. Sixty-six boys have had tryouts and, from all appearances, it looks as if the Glee Club, under Mr. Pfohl’s direction, is going to be an unusually good one. A goodly number of these are old members who will form the nucleus of the new club. They will hold two practices a week, from five to six o'clock on Monday and Wednesday. Several good trips have already been arranged and others are being worked on.

The officers for this year are as follows: J. T. Blair, president; D. P. McLain and L. D. McPhail, vice-presidents; Carlton Chapman, librarian, and D. W. Hollingsworth, Jr., business manager.

New “Y” Book Exchange Held for Students

One new interesting feature of several days that it took advantage of the help offered by the “Y” but also took advantage of the saving made by utilizing the exchange. Throughout the year, and the demand for books again rises, a similar department will be run in order to continue to help the students in this important task.The year was the Book Exchange sponsored by the “Y” and directed by Bill Johnson in the hall of the “Y” building. This exchange was conducted absolutely without profit to the Y.M.C.A., and served as a clearing house for second-hand books. In the few years it has lasted, about ninety-five dollars’ worth of books passed through the hands of the manager. As courses change through-

COACH “DOC” NEWTON
ASSISTANT COACH GENE McEVER

They are beginning their second year as head coaches at Davidson. Despite many handicaps, they are whipping the squad into fighting shape, and many fine plays are expected during the season.

WILLIAM BROWN IS CADET MAJOR
(Continued from page 1)

Company “B”: Captain F. H. Scott, commanding; First Lieutenants T. H. McCallie, A. W. Rice, C. M. Rives; 2nd Lt. D. K. Spencer; 1st Sgt. S. K. Eaton. Sergeants: Deans, Quarterman, Rogers, A. C., Hutchins, Coleman, Templeton, Withers, Garrett.

Company “C”: Captain F. P. Harrison, commanding; First Lieutenants W. T. Johnson, A. H. Manson, W. A. Lyon; 2nd Lt. W. A. Kirkland; 1st Sgt. R. T. Coit. Sergeants: Byerly, Stutts, Wood, G. R., Yelverton, Rogers, P. M., Ross, C. B., Holt, Thompson, J. K.

Company “D”: Captain Odi Casali, commanding; First Lieutenants A. F. Schenck, B. L. Moore, R. B. Moffett; 2nd Lt. H. R. Pratt-Thomas; 1st Sgt. A. J. Potter. Sergeants: Batte, Green, Rhodes, Rose, Sutton, Orr, Harris, C. C., Hillier.

MUCH WORK COMPLETED

During the summer months, F. D. Hobart, superintendent of grounds and buildings, and his seven helpers have done much renovating and refinishing of different college buildings. One of the biggest improvements was the work done on the Armory. The whole inside was painted and many parts were renovated.

Dr. J. L. Douglas’ home was painted and papered, and a new room was added to the rear section of the house. Two or three of the other professors’ homes underwent repairs and were ready to be occupied when the college term began. The beds in all the dormitories were painted brown, and the majority of the dressers were revarnished. The window sashes in East, West, and Watts were also given a coat of white paint. The stairways of Chambers Building were painted and new mats were put on the landings; new mats were also put in some of the laboratories.

Work on the new part of the golf course has not yet been completed. However, trees have been cleared away to make two new fairways. Much work was also done on the infield of the baseball diamond. About fifty loads of topsoil were used and packed. This work is not quite complete, but is to be finished shortly.

SPEAKS TO WOMEN

Professor E. J. Erwin, of the English department, addressed the Woman’s Club of Morganton, September 5, on Edwin Arlington Robinson, criticizing and discussing some of his poems.

Much has been printed about tobacco: “doesn’t smoke hot,” “don’t bite,” “cool,” “burns slowly.” And all of these things can be said about Granger—the tobacco that’s made to smoke in a pipe. Granger is made of White Burley Tobacco—it’s made by Wellman’s Method, the right process—it’s packed right. Folks seem to like it—just try it.

A sensible package 10 cents
Granger Rough Cut
—the tobacco that’s MADE FOR PIPES