6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1933

VESPER SERVICE LED
Italian soul in rendering music as a service to his fellows.

VARSITY TRACK TEAM TO HOLD INITIAL MEET
Pratt, who led the field in the trials last Friday, will be entered in both the 220 lows.

Varsity Net Tourney Nearing Final Round
The upperclassmen’s tennis tournament, held to determine the positions on the Varsity tennis team, has reached the semi-final round with no startling upsets, and the favorites running true to form. Another tournament for the Freshmen has just been started, and the four semi-finalists in this will form the yearling net aggregation.

The semi-final match between Halverstadt and Elverey has already been played off, with the former advancing to the finals by the decisive scores of 6-2, 6-1, 6-2. In the other semi-final match, Johnny Lafferty, Number 2 player on the 1932 Varsity, opposes Tee Thompson, who disposed of Tommy Phifer, a member of last year’s Freshman team, in the quarter-finals. The winner of this match will meet Halverstadt for the title.

Charlie Myers, Varsity captain, and Number 3 man on last year’s team, was forced to default in the initial round, on account of illness. This narrowed the field considerably, as did the refusal of Skip Brown, 1933 Freshman captain, to enter the competition. Elverey appeared to be the outstanding Sophomore in the tourney, defeating Bob Morrow, a veteran of last year’s Varsity squad, in three hard sets, 6-4, 2-6, 6-4.

The Freshman tennis tournament is yet to get under way, but should start some time this week. Outstanding entries include Addison Brenizer, Carlyle Lewis, and Sam Milton. These boys are well known in junior tennis circles throughout the state due to their scintillating play in the junior tournaments of the past summer, in which Lewis was runner-up for the South Atlantic championship. Both Brenizer and Milton also made excellent showings in these matches.

Local Scout Troops Engage in Jamboree
The two Boy Scout troops of Davidson and Cornelius participated in a jamboree Saturday afternoon, March 18. The contest, which was held at Davidson, consisted of various scouting and athletic activities. The Cornelius troop gained the greater number of points, and thus was accorded the victory, although the Davidson troop put up a good defense.

The leaders of the two troops planned a contest which required skill and knowledge of scouting as well as athletics. Some of the events were: Signalling—Won by A. J. White and Ab Ingram of the Cornelius troop. Knot-tying—Won by Davidson, with Cyrus Colvin, Harold Moony, James Moony, and John Withers making high score. A search game and two relay races were won by the Cornelius troop. Cyrus Colvin of Davidson won both the water-boiling and the fire-by-friction contests. James and Harold Moony of Davidson were winners in a tent-pitching contest. In a demonstration of first aid, Holeman Byers and A. J. White of Cornelius were victorious. The final event of the afternoon was a baseball game, in which Cornelius won by the score of 14 to 7.

The leaders of the two troops are: Davidson—Ed Hodge and Gordon Wood. Cornelius—Bill Ward, George Gullette, J. H. Ross, B. F. Ormond, and A. A. Gammon.

GYPSY SMITH, JR., ENGAGED TO SPEAK FOR “Y” VESPERS
(Continued from page 1)
during August, the big month, at Montreat last summer. Mr. Smith is the son of the Gypsy Smith who gained for himself a world-wide reputation as an evangelist. The son was born in England, and at an early age his Gypsy blood sent him roaming over the sea. At the age of about 23 he was converted in Brooklyn, N. Y., and since that time he has followed close in the footsteps of his famous father. Davidson is doubly fortunate to have this man who has been called “the most highly thought of professional evangelist” to lead her services during this “Year of Evangelism” when his appearance is so widely sought.

U-PUSH-EMS
New Rates at M. P. Henderson’s Gulf Station

BY MR. DAVID OVENS
and finding real joy in doing so. The service was concluded by singing the appropriate hymn, “Seal Us, O Holy Spirit.”

MY GREATEST THRILL
(Continued from page 1)
He showed how this is illustrated by the comparatively few additions to the church on profession of faith, showing an obvious lack of personal work. He scored the compromising stand taken by many Christians in regard to the liquor question. He made their evasions of the main issues of life very clear by an illustration drawn from the ranks of those who, refusing to accept the responsibility for the welfare of their children, turn them over for the complete supervision of some institution.

With the exception of ten minutes of play in the Duke game, I had been unable to play during the past season due to a knee injury. When my name appeared on the starting line-up of that Home-coming Day game, I had a rather peculiar sensation all over, and an even more peculiar feeling when we went out on the field.to choose our goal. In speaking of America’s chance for recovery from the evident disorder in which it is clothed, he aptly compared it to a boxer who is “down but not out,” thereby expressing his faith that the young people will be missed in the pole vault, discus, and javelin throws, because of an ankle which he hurt in basketball this winter. Henry Rhyne, who tied the college record in the high jump last year, is another letterman who will not be able to compete against the Furman team Saturday. Miller Cochran, who set a record in the discus last year, will probably represent Davidson in the shot put and javelin throw as well as in the discus this weekend, despite a weak knee which has hindered his practice so far. Bettis, Dill, and Potter are other luminaries in the weight events.

Again this year Davidson will be well represented in the hurdle events. Lanier and the 110 highs, along with Bob McCallie, who has placed in many meets during the past two years. Alex Little will be entered in the 220 lows, while Fred McPhail, a promising Sophomore, will run the highs. Captain Fleagle, Dickerson, and McCallie will take care of the dashes for the Wildcats; Glasgow, Gwynn, Cannon, Corbin, and Koenig, the middle distances; Howard, Morrow, Gullette, McFadyen, Morris, and C. Little, the distances. The veteran Bill Flinn, and J. B. Lee will be entered in the pole vault; Gammon, Brown, L. McPhail, and Flinn in the high; and Little, Flinn, Dickerson, Armistead, and Wingfield in the broad jump. Bruce Peabody, who is out for baseball, may compete in the high and broad jumps.

In closing, he showed that after one has accepted his or her place, a real joy comes from the service that can be rendered. He told the story of the little Italian minstrel who, after failing to receive any tips for his playing for the passengers on an excursion steamer, became rather disgruntled, until he learned that the passengers were penniless inmates of the hot city, who were being given a free excursion to momentarily relieve them from their wretched existence. Then he returned to them. He put his whole heart into his playing.

THIRTEEN MEN FORM “Y” DEPUTATIONS LAST WEEK

Next Sunday will see an interesting custom fulfilled again as the old Y. M. C. A. officers and several of the new leaders go to Chapel Hill on a return deputation with the Carolina Y Cabinet.

We Do Not Offer Cheap Prices, or Special “Price Inducements” Because we do not offer a service of such quality that we must try to give it away.

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP Four Out of Five College Men Come Here

ILLUSION: A large packing case is exhibited on a raised platform. A young woman climbs into the box. Head, hands, and feet protrude, and are held by spectators while the magician takes a crosscut saw and, with the help of an assistant, saws through the center of the box and apparently through the woman.

EXPLANATION: There are many explanations for this illusion. One method of performing this illusion requires the presence of two girls in the box. One girl curls up in the left half of the box with her head and hands protruding, giving the effect you see illustrated above. The other girl is doubled up in the right half of the box, with only her feet showing. Nobody is sawed in half.

KEPT FRESH IN THE WELDED HUMIDOR PACK Copyright, 1933, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company

NO TRICKS -- JUST COSTLIER TOBACCOS IN A MATCHLESS BLEND

Cigarette advertising, too, has its tricks. Consider the illusion that “Flavor” can be achieved by some kind of magical hocus-pocus in manufacturing.

EXPLANATION: Just three factors control the flavor of a cigarette. The addition of artificial flavoring. The blending of various tobaccos. And the quality of the tobaccos themselves. Quality is by far the most important. Domestic cigarette tobaccos vary in price from 5¢ a pound up to 40¢ a pound. Imported tobaccos vary from 50¢ a pound to $1.15. No wonder, then, that cigarettes differ in taste—since distinctive, pleasing flavor depends so largely upon the blending of the costlier tobaccos. It is a fact, well known by leaf tobacco experts, that Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand. Try Camels. Give your taste a chance to sense the subtle difference that lies in costlier tobaccos ... a difference that means all the world in smoking pleasure ... in pure, unalloyed satisfaction.