THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1933

SPRING SPORTS PRACTICES BEGIN THIS WEEK

THE SPORTS PARADE

TRACK MEN ENTER SOUTHERN CONFERENCE INDOOR MEET

We Davidson students owe Captain Norton G. Pritchett a debt of gratitude for bringing the North Carolina junior college tournament
here at no extra expense to the students. Belmont Abbey had the smoothest working team in the tournament but the
skill of the Abbey boys could not compete with the uncanny shooting of the tall Wingate lads.

Flake Laird, varsity basketball and baseball coach, presented the championship cup to Captain Coble, of the winning Wingate team, Saturday
night after the final game. By defeating Lynchburg College in the final game of the season, Davidson brought an otherwise
“unfavorable season” to a close in a pleasing manner, with a 37-33 victory over the Virginians. Captain Bruce Peabody, Jack
Wagner, Fred Dickerson, and Harry Boucher played their last game on the courts for Davidson.

With only inter-class basketball lingering over from the winter sports program, candidates have begun practice for spring athletics. Track workouts
began last week, and members of the varsity and freshman teams will compete in the non-conference events at Chapel Hill
this Saturday. Tennis and golf candidates started out this week, and both varsity and freshman baseball hopefuls begin to loosen
up this afternoon. In spring football, candidates will continue to go out for a few more days.

The Wildcat wrestlers tied Carolina last Saturday, to close their season with a .500 percentage. Two victories, over Duke and
V. P.-I., two defeats, at the hands of Franklin-Marshall and Washington and Lee, and the Carolina tie gave the grapplers
an even break for the first time in several years.

To Dick Whitfield goes the credit for gaining a tie for Davidson. The Davidson heavyweight was matched against Captain Idol,
who has not lost a match for Carolina in his three years at the school, and who had won five
straight matches by falls this year. Whitfield refused to be pinned and Idol had to be content with a time
advantage, which failed to bring victory to the Tar Heels.

My Greatest Thrill As Told by Charlie Pearce

My greatest thrill occurred in the Wake Forest game which was played on Richardson Field before a crowd of approximately
8,000 spectators this fall. We had not met the Deacons on home soil since I have been in school here,
and we had not licked them since 1920. It happened to be the last game of the season and as
I was a senior, it was my last game of college football. At the beginning of the second half Wake
Forest kicked off to us and I received the ball on about our own 15-yard line. Interference formed quickly in
front of me and behind it I ran to about the 50-yard line. Here I suddenly realized that there was
practically a clear field for me. There were two men, whose names I do not know, who I knew might
give me trouble, but by some chance I slipped around them. Neither attempted a tackle but were close on my
heels until I crossed the goal. Although the play was called back because of a new rule, that went into
effect this year, which said that five men of the receiving team on a kickoff had to be inside the
45-yard line, it was the greatest thrill I ever experienced in football. Later in the same game I was again
fortunate in intercepting a pass and scoring a touchdown, but the former run was the more thrilling.

WINGATE WINS CAGE TOURNAMENT

Defeats Belmont Abbey 43-38 For Junior Title

Captain Coble Scores 17 Points to Lead Rangy Wingate Team to Victory

With a team of six-footers shooting from all angles the Wingate Junior College quint battled its way through to the
finals of the North Carolina junior college basketball tourney held at Davidson College last Friday and Saturday, and defeated Belmont
Abbey 43 to 38 for the title. The tournament ran true to form, with Wingate the favorite, winning out, and
Belmont going to the finals according to pre-tournament calculations. Led by the lanky Coble, who garnered 17 points in the
final imbroglio, the Wingate boys turned in an impressive victory over the Abbey. The boys from down Monroe way showed
a brilliant shooting attack in winning the championship.

Wingate took an early lead, and was ahead 9 to 5 at the end of the initial canto, but the
Abbeys, with Cantwell’s eye on the basket, rallied, and were holding a 20 to 11 lead at the intermission. However,
the Wingate attack started functioning like an eight-day clock in the third frame, and the willowy lads ran wild to
score 22 points, going into a 33 to 29 lead at this point. The two teams played on fairly even
terms in the final period with Wingate coming out on top, 43 to 38.

In the semi-finals, played on Saturday afternoon, the ultimate winners tripped Boiling Springs Junior College, 43 to 29, in decisive
fashion. York was the big gun in the Wingate attack, scoring 17 points. Leonard was high for Boiling Springs with
twelve. The outcome of this game was never in doubt, the tall boys from Monroe holding a commanding position all
the way.

In the other semi-final contest Belmont Abbey played good basketball to down the Lees-McRae quintet, 37 to 28. The Abbeys
opened like a house afire, but soon slowed up as the boys in Gold and Green hit their stride, but
in spite of a determined rally, they bowed before a superior Belmont attack.

In the opening round Wingate drew the only bye of the tournament, and Mars Hill and Boiling Springs met in
the opening game. Staging a fine comeback after trailing in the early part of the game, Boiling Springs decisively defeated
Mars Hill, 39 to 27, to eliminate them from further competition. In the first night fracas Lees-McRae, after playing Weaver
on fairly even terms during the first quarter, gradually drew ahead to win at 43 to 34. The two pivot
men, Greene of Lees-McRae, and Henson of Weaver, provided the fireworks in the barrage on the basket, taking in nineteen
points apiece. In the last game of the first round Belmont Abbey routed a team from Rutherford Junior College to
win their way into the semi-finals. The Belmont boys played a superior brand of ball and emerged from the game
on the long end of a 37 to 23 count.

The summaries:

FINALS
Wingate (43) Position (38) B. Abbey
Coble (17) F. (9) Ware
Yorke (4) F. (16) Cantwell
Harrington (7) C. (5) Dengate
Gaddy (12) G. (5) Feldman
Lane G. (3) Davis

Scoring substitutes—Wingate: Smith (3).

(Continued on page 6)

Beginning with this issue a series of interviews of senior members of Davidson’s 1932 football team will be run in
this column. The purpose of these interviews will be to put before our readers the greatest thrill experienced by these
players in their college gridiron career. This week we present Charlie Pearce, of Plant City, Fla., who played halfback for
the past two years. Pearce was selected recently as one of the five outstanding athletes in the two Carolinas in
1932, in a poll conducted by the Charlotte Observer. Pearce gained his recognition chiefly through his baseball and football exploits.
By the Observer poll, Bill “Sleepy” Goodson, former Davidson basketball and baseball star from Lincolnton, N. C., who graduated in
1931, was voted the best athlete in North and South Carolina.

Davidson Wins Last Game From Lynchburg College

The Davidson quint closed the 1933 basketball campaign last Wednesday night in the local gym by defeating Lynchburg College, 37
to 32. The game was Davidson’s from the start, the Lynchburgers never taking the lead, although they threatened to several
times. Four Wildcat stars, Boucher, Wagner, Dickerson, and Captain Peabody, donned the Davidson uniform for the last time. Peabody turned
in his usual stellar performance, and Wagner, Dickerson and Boucher played consistent ball, all of them being important factors in
the victory over the Red and Gray.

Courtney Ross, Wildcat forward, was high scorer of the evening, garnering 14 points. Harris secured nine counters during the game.
The brilliant passing of Young was the outstanding point in the attack of theLads from the Hill City. Coach Laird
used a bit of strategy in changing pivot men every third jump, Wagner, Hess, and Holland all performing in this
position during the game. This appeared to smooth out some rough spots in the Davidson attack, and the team clicked
better than it had done previously during the season.

At the beginning of the fray, led by Harris, Ross, and Captain Peabody, the ’Cats ran up a comfortable lead,
but the Hornets rallied strongly in the second canto, and at one time the score stood at 31-30, with the
Wildcats but a single point in the lead. However, field goals by Peabody and Ross definitely settled the issue, and
brought Davidson’s basketball season to a close with a well-earned victory.

Summary:
Lynchburg (32) Position (37) Davidson
Viebel (11) F. (9) Harris
Barnum (14) F. (14) Ross
Rosenberg (1) C. Wagner
Young (1) G. (8) Peabody
Brunkey (2) G. (6) Dickerson

Substitutes—Lynchburg: Eckstein (2), Hart; Davidson: Boucher, Holland, Lafferty, and Yelverton.
Officials—Referee: Hackney (North Carolina); Umpire: Touhey (Colorado).

Sophomore Cagemen Win Scoring Laurels

By averaging nearly six points per game, Charlie Harris, star Sophomore forward, won first place in individual scoring among members
of the Davidson basketball team for the 1933 season. Harris scored a total of 113 points to lead his teammates.
Fred Dickerson, with 95 points, was in second place. Captain Bruce Peabody was third with 89, and Courtney Ross was
next with 86 points. These four were the only members of the team to get above the 50 mark in
scoring, and themselves accounted for more than seven-tenths of the total points scored by the Wildcats.

Courtney Ross, also a Sophomore, held first honors in scoring field goals, with an even forty. He scored seven in
the Lynchburg game to move ahead of Harris, who was a close second with 39. Dickerson was third in the
field goals with 31, and Peabody was fourth with 27.

First honors in foul throws went to Captain Peabody, who made 35 out of 46 tries good. Mack Holland had
the next best percentage, making thirteen of twenty good for points. Harris and Dickerson each made more foul goals than
Holland, but a great number of chances reduced their percentages.

The Wildcats were outscored 176 points by their opponents, who chalked up 693 points to Davidson’s 508.

The individual scoring:
Player: G. FG. FT-Tries TP.
Harris 19 39 35-59 113
Dickerson 18 31 33-60 95
Peabody (c) 19 27 35-46 89
Ross 19 40 6-12 86
Lafferty 19 14 12-26 42
Holland 19 14 13-20 41
Wagner 15 7 6-16 20
Boucher 19 5 7-14 17
Wiest 8 2 1-7 5
Totals 180 148-260 508

Games won: 4; games lost: 15.
Total points scored by opponents: 684.

Wildcat Grapplers End Season With 14-14 Tie

Davidson Ties Meet When Captain Idol Gains Only Time Advantage Over Whitfield

The Davidson Wildcat grapplers came from behind after a bad start to tie Carolina 14-14 in the meet held at
Chapel Hill last Saturday afternoon. This was Davidson’s last meet and also Carolina’s last before the Southern Conference tournament.

The Carolina matmen started off fast by getting time decisions over the first two Davidson lightweights. In the fourth match
it seemed like a sure victory for Carolina when Hiller pinned Griffith with a crotch hold. However, Sprunt came through
with a time decision over Davis and after Griffith’s defeat Davidson won three consecutive matches which gave the Wildcats a
14-11 lead. With a three-point lead just before the last match, Whitfield met Captain Idol, Carolina’s brilliant heavyweight, in the
unlimited. This match proved to be the thriller of the entire card. Although Whitfield outweighed Idol by thirty pounds, he
was matched by one of the best wrestlers in the South. For the five previous meets Idol had succeeded in
pinning his opponent each time and Whitfield proved to be the first that Idol couldn’t pin. Thus, Whitfield, by preventing
a fall, brought the score to a fourteen-all instead of a victory for Carolina. With seconds left to go, Idol
came very near pinning Whitfield, but big “Whit” proved to be too much and Idol had to be satisfied with
a time decision.

In the bantamweight, Thad Hussey, 115 pounds, won a time decision of 7:55 minutes over Harris. This was Harris’ first
match and he did very well considering this. Jenkins and Mathewson, 125-pound class, put on one of the best bouts
of the afternoon. Jenkins started out good but finally gave in and lost by 7:35 minutes time advantage.

Walter Sprunt proved his worth by defeating Davis in the 135-pound class by a 3:08 minutes decision. This was Sprunt’s
second varsity match and he kept his slate clean with two victories. Hiller, Carolina, in the 145-pound class, defeated Griffith
by a fall. Quarterman defeated Spell in a hard-fought bout by a 2:57 minutes time decision. Captain Ben Taylor, in
his farewell varsity bout, gained a fall over Pickett in 4:28 minutes. Taylor displayed great form in his last bout
as he had in his three previous seasons of wrestling. His place and also Whitfield’s will be hard to fill
next year.

(Continued on page 6)

Seniors Top Intra-Mural League With Three Wins

By winning three games in a row, without suffering a defeat, the Seniors have gone into a long lead in
the inter-class basketball tournament. The Juniors, Sophomores, and Freshmen follow in the order named. The standings of the teams follow:

Team Won Lost Pct.
Seniors 3 0 1.000
Juniors 2 1 .667
Sophomores 1 2 .333
Freshmen 0 3 .000

Each team has three more engagements, each one meeting each of the other three in return games. The Seniors opened
the tournament by overwhelming the yearlings 45 to 7. Buck Mills led the attack with 20 points in his scoring
column. The Fresh were outclassed from the start, and Captain Andy Little’s boys romped to an easy victory.

The Juniors and the Sophomores played in a game marked by the lack of scoring on the part of both
teams, and the Juniors won, 22 to 18. Reid led the attack of the winners with 12 points, while Byerly
was outstanding for the Sophomores.

The Seniors continued their victorious march with a triumph at the expense of the Sophomores, 18 to 6. Mills again
broke into the limelight, scoring 12 points. No Sophomore was able to garner more than one field goal during the
one-sided contest.

With Fred Smyre leading the way, the Juniors decisively defeated the Freshmen, 31 to 15. The fast-breaking Smyre scored 12
points to lead his mates to victory. The Fresh were never in it, and the Juniors were merely a superior
aggregation.

The Seniors gave the Juniors their initial setback, by putting them down 33 to 11. Mills again furnished the thrills
to the gallery with his concentrated attack on the basket which netted him 20 points. Smyre led the Juniors with
10 counters.

In the last game to date the Sophs put down the Fresh 24 to 15. Elvery got in a sharp-shooting
mood, and ran up 15 points that gave his mates victory over the new men.

The tournament, under the supervision of Heath Whittle, director of intramural athletics, has reached the halfway mark, and the Seniors
have a commanding lead at this point.

Judge Harlan F. Stone, justice of the United States Supreme Court, has been elected a member of the board of
trustees of Amherst College. Justice Stone graduated from Amherst in 1894 and has received honorary degrees from Amherst, Yale, Columbia,
Williams, George Washington, Harvard, and Syracuse universities and colleges.

Officials’ All-Junior College Teams

FIRST TEAM Pos. SECOND TEAM
Cantwell, Belmont F. York, Wingate
Coble, Wingate F. Mauney, Boiling Springs
Henson, Weaver C. Greene, Lees-McRae
Feldman, Belmont G. Sigmon, Lees-McRae
Gaddy, Wingate G. Doris, Belmont

Three of the players, Cantwell, Feldman, and Coble, were unanimous choices on the All-North Carolina junior college team, picked by
officials at the tournament sponsored by Davidson College here last Friday and Saturday.

Coaches Flake Laird and Gene McEver, Referees Wade Ison and George Touhey, and George Baily, basketball manager, made the selections.

Made for the MAC WELDON SPORT SWEATER
For Golf, Tennis and Campus Wear $1.00
IDEU'S DAVIDSON SHOP
The College Man
