THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 27, 1933

Sam Hines Is to Be Leader of Davidson Orchestra This Year

Addition of Stringed Instruments Is One of New Features of College Orchestra

The Davidson College Orchestra has been organized for the coming year under the direction of Sam M. Hines, who was chosen as leader for 1933-34 by members of last year’s orchestra. Three members of the old organization, known as the Southernaires, were lost through graduation. They were Reeves Pope, saxophone; Woodrow Calligan, guitar and arranger; and Bob Orr, trombone. Also, Frank Tucker, who has been the bass player for the past two years, finds it impossible to continue in this capacity. There remain only five members of last year’s successful organization and the vacancies will be hard to fill. However, at the tryouts in Shearer Hall on September 18, the following old men retained their positions: A. M. Cunningham, trumpet; J. A. C. Robinson, violin and tenor saxophone; Bill MacIlwinen, piano; Dave McLain, drums; and Sam Hines, saxophone. To this group were added Charlie Lucas, guitar; Ed Johnson, trombone; Clarence Rozelle, violin; Jim Crooks, bass; Bill Fraley, saxophone; and Ed Wooten, saxophone.

Several changes are to be made in instrumentation this year. Clarence Rozelle and J. A. C. Robinson will form the violin section, a feature which will add much to the orchestra. Baritone saxophones will be used extensively, and the bass horn will be replaced by a bass violin. Practices are being held in Shearer Hall three times a week and it is believed that the organization will round into shape quickly and in the coming months will surpass last year’s orchestra. The name, “Southernaires,” will not be used again this year and as yet no name has been selected. Any suggestions from members of the student body will be appreciated.

Alumni Secretary

D. GRIER MARTIN

Alumni Secretary D. Grier Martin, '32, who this year assumed the duties of secretary to the alumni of Davidson College.

Brown Has Summer Schooling in Geneva

Economics and Political Science

Gordon H. “Skip” Brown, one of Davidson's leading representatives in the field of oratory and debating, spent an interesting summer of study in Europe. His headquarters were at Geneva, Switzerland, where he attended the Geneva School of International Study. His special course of study was in the field of economics and political science. The major course of lectures was delivered by Professor Alfred Zimmern of Oxford. Brown’s course covered six weeks. There were one hundred and fifty students enrolled from thirty different nations. Brown was one of fifteen students from America. This course offered, among other things, an opportunity for first-hand study of the history, structure, and operation of the League of Nations. One of the special privileges of the students of this school was the right of free access to the Library of the League of Nations. Brown was fortunate in being able to attend an extra session of the League Council which convened in August for the purpose of coming to an agreement on the policy of action to be taken in regard to the “Chaco” dispute between Bolivia and Paraguay. Portions of the lectures were delivered in French. The students of the school spoke both French and English.

MANY GO OUT FOR DEBATING

Main Studies Were in Oratory

(Continued from page 1)

The fact that the council has not had an opportunity to meet with the faculty committee, it is not definitely known whether one or two or three teams will be formed.

Arbuckle Completes Term as Pi.K.A. Head

Has Been President of Fraternity Twenty-one Years

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, head of the Chemistry department at Davidson College, attended the Pi Kappa Alpha convention this summer at Troutdale-in-the-Pines, where he served his twenty-first year as Grand President of the fraternity. Representatives from 77 out of the 79 chapters were present at the meeting, which lasted from August 30 to September 2. Lynn Huie acted as representative of the Davidson Chapter. Troutdale-in-the-Pines is a beautiful resort hotel located about 30 miles from Denver, Colorado. It derives its name from the fact that rainbow trout may be caught in abundance at the lake near the hotel. The altitude is nearly seven thousand feet at this point. All of the representatives lived either at the hotel or in cabins nearby, there being no city nearer than Denver.

Dr. Arbuckle’s position is a unique one in the fraternity world. He has served as Grand President for twenty-one years, with the convention held every two years. The odd year was caused by the fact that the last convention was postponed for one year. Dr. Arbuckle was firstElected while teaching at Agnes Scott, he will represent the college in varsity debates. He went to the convention from his home in West Virginia and again was asked to continue as Grand President, but due to the increased duties of the office, making it necessary that he attend meetings three times a year, he was forced to resign. 

All men in the student body who think they have any talent along debating lines are urged to take advantage of the opportunity to take part in the tryouts and to signify their desire to do so before October 15. If enough men of the student body show interest in the tryouts, it is certain that three teams will represent the college during the season.

The Davidson Chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity was installed in 1869, forced to discontinue because of anti-fraternity laws, and then was re-established in 1902.

Book Review

It is customary for a professor to begin the academic year with a short synopsis of the course he is to give, framing his panorama with that dull oak finish known as “parallel.” Usually, the professor is kind enough to limit his parallel to those volumes found in the Davidson College Library. In making a speculation on the coming year in new books, we promise that the parallel will be published, and, unless it is particularly good (no double entendre intended), we aren't able to hope that it will be of access to any of the students who haven’t small fortunes to invest in books. Nevertheless, a prospectus seems totally appropriate, so we'll scan the publishers’ promises for the coming season.

On the fiction shelf, we'll probably see The Innocent Wife by Colette, Precious Jeopardy by Lloyd C. Douglas (author of America’s Magnificent Obsession), a book by the always interesting Lord Dunsany we can't even title, The Curse of the Wise Woman; One More River, Galsworthy’s last novel; fourteen stories by Ernest Hemingway, epigrammatically titled Winner Take Nothing; a new novel by Valentine Kataev, who, in The Embezzlers, wrote an actually humorous novel about Russia; Archy’s Life of Mehitabel by Don Marquis which, if it halfway lives up to its predecessor, will be priceless; Ah King by the seemingly one-novel Mr. Maugham; the winner of the International Novel Contest, Escape to Life by Ferenc Körmendi; Long Pennant by Oliver La Farge; Ida Elizabeth by Sigrid Undset; Leap Before You Look by Alec Waugh; a version of Troilus and Cressida (we hope he won't treat it as he did The Black Crook in Rudolf and Amnia) by Christopher Morley; and, finally, volume four of Romain Rolland’s The Soul Enchanted, called The Death of a World.

Scanning the biography and memoirs, we'll see: a volume of Virginia Woolf's incomparable biography of Flush, E. B. Browning’s cocker spaniel, which is now appearing in the Atlantic; St. Thomas Aquinas by G. K. Chesterton; It Was the Nightingale, the autobiography of Ford Madox Ford; Dolly Gann’s Book, reminiscences of Washington life; My Battle by Adolf Hitler, and Reminiscences of D. H. Lawrence by John Middleton Murry.

The poetry section is, as usual, qualitatively promising if quantitatively bare. E. A. Robinson will publish Talifer, a narrative poem; all of Sara Teasdale’s unpublished poems will be published as Strange Victory; a Collected Poems of W. B. Yeats will be published; William Rose Benet will issue 55 new poems as Starry Harness; and, under the name of Lizette Woodworth Reese, will appear The Pasture and Other Poems. Noel Coward promises a volume of all his plays.

FRESHMEN ENJOY FRATERNITY SOCIALS (Continued from page 1)

Shores, of Rockingham; Lib Fluck, of Tarboro; Sara Williamson, of Sumter, S. C.; Margaret Wardlaw, of Spartanburg, S. C.; Matilda Kyser, of Talladega, Ala., and Dot Johnson, of Davidson.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Misses Gwendolyn Scruggs and Frances Scruggs, of Rutherfordton; Dorothy Edmondson, Peggy Townsend, Peggy Ashcraft, Betty Tompkins, Laura Moore, Jean DeLaney, of Charlotte; Lucille Armstrong, of Belmont; Jean Quinn, of Statesville; Mildred Templeton, of Mooresville; Miriam Goodrum and Virginia Thompson, of Davidson, and Harriet Isley, of Hendersonville.

Luckies sign of fine tobacco quality

Everyone knows that a long, firm, white ash results from perfect burning of fine tobaccos. Notice the ash on Lucky Strike. See how even, how firm, how white. That long, white ash is the unmistakable sign of Lucky Strike’s fine tobacco quality.

ALWAYS the finest tobaccos ALWAYS the finest workmanship ALWAYS Luckies please! "It’s toasted" FOR THROAT PROTECTION — FOR BETTER TASTE

Copyright, 1933, The American Tobacco Company.