THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 25, 1933

Alumni Personals

Alumni writing the college during the past week include Dr. W. T. McClure, ’10, 47 Zane Street, Wheeling, W. Va.; Mr. W. S. Dowell, Jr., ‘04, 1310 Bolton Road, Pelham Manor, New York; Rev. W. M. Morton, Lexington, Va.; Mr. C. S. Hicks ’07, Morris Plan Bank, Raleigh, N. C.; Pres. Henry D. Bedinger, Red Springs; J. E. Singletary, '25, 820 Carolina Ave., Winston-Salem; Dr. Edgar Dawson, '95, 691 Park Avenue, New York. Dr. Dawson is a professor at Hunter College. D. R. Brandon, Kannapolis. Mr. Brandon has a position in the office of the Cannon Mills Company.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of the wife of Rev. R. S. Arrowood, '13, who died in Concord, January 19, and the passing of the wife of Rev. C. B. Craig, ‘11, who died in Suffolk, Va. Samuel C. Booker, brother of Dr. E. N. Booker, '20, of Selma, N. C., also died recently.

Alex Eddleman, '30, of Goldsboro, has been a recent visitor on the campus. Mr. Eddleman is living in Statesville now and writing life insurance. Roger Enloe, '32, who has been teaching and coaching at Wacona High, just out from Waycross, Ga., has been made principal of the school. Horace W. Erwin, '32, is connected with Stony Brook School on Long Island and also has a position with the Chase National Bank in New York City.

Emery Flinn, ‘19, Atlanta, brother of Billy Flinn of the Senior class, married Mrs. Ella Hill Hogan, of Winston-Salem, niece of Mrs. Clark Howell, wife of the publisher of the Atlanta Constitution, in New York City, December 10, at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church. The ceremony was performed by Dr. Gordon Westrope, ‘14, who is now in charge of the State Hospital at Columbia, S.C.

James M. Appleby, '26, of Florence, Ala., was a visitor on the campus last Friday. Mr. Appleby has just returned from an 18 months’ study and travel in Scotland. After finishing at Davidson he was “Y” secretary for two years. Hal Harris, '32, is working for Price Waterhouse and Company, auditors, in New York City. His address is 26 Willow St., Brooklyn, N. Y. Lewis Gregg, '34, and Bill Matthews, '32, are attending the University of Texas at Austin this year. Mr. Gregg is a junior and Mr. Matthews is doing graduate work. Billy Franklin, '32, is doing special graduate work in German at the University of Chicago. J. T. Welch, Jr., '32, is a student at Duke University. As a side issue he is assisting with the young people’s work of the First Presbyterian Church of Durham. His address is 509 Holloway Street.

G. P. Pardington, '32, is a student at General Theological Seminary, Chelsea Square, New York. He is preparing for the Episcopal ministry. Charles G. Baskerville, '28, is with the Florida West Coast Broadcasting Company. His address is Hotel Tampa Terrace, Tampa, Florida. Dr. Lachlin M. Currie, '18, is with the Research Laboratories of the National Carbon Company, Cleveland. At one time Dr. Currie was an assistant professor in the Davidson science department. His address is Box 400.

Rev. W. B. Chandler, '07, who some months ago resigned as pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Monroe on account of ill health, is now living at 2820 Blossom Street, Columbia, S.C. D. P. McGeachy, Jr., '22, formerly of Atlanta, has accepted the call to Monroe, N. C., to the pastorate vacated by Dr. Chandler. Rev. A. L. Young, '23, C. P. A., is teaching at Lees-McRae College and assisting with the office work. L. C. R. Deck, ‘27, is with the Gulf Refining Company, Atlanta, Ga. C. W. Arnold, '32, has a position in a mill office in Greensboro. John H. McKinnon, Jr., '32, is attending Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. Gardner H. Green, ‘29, has a position with the division of the New York Stock Exchange. His address is 170 Fenimore Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

H. Steven Brown, '32, of Mt. Ulla, is now living at Ramseur, N. C. J. A. Lake, Jr., ’25, is associated with Wynn, Hafter, and Lake, Greenville, Miss. Mr. Lake is a member of the Mississippi State Legislature. W. M. Croker, '32, is teaching mathematics, science, and coaching at Wade, N. C. M. F. McDavid, '32, who has been teaching at Glade Valley, N. C., now has a position in the Morehead City School. Wallace Harwood, ‘14, has registered his two small sons at Davidson. W. B., Jr., will be of the class of '47, and Russel will come two years later in 1949. Mr. Wallace wrote Mr. Hengeveld, the registrar, and had them registered so that they will be sure of a place.

J. Eris Cassel, '21, has assumed the principalship of the Concord High School, Concord, Mass. Z. V. Long, Jr., '30, is teaching at the Virginia Episcopal School at Lynchburg, Va.

WEDDINGS

Announcement has been made of the marriage of Miss Mary Brandon, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. James A. Vaughan of Statesville, N. C., and J. Lawrence Smith, '31, of Monroe, Saturday, December 31, at Statesville. Announcement has been made of the marriage of Miss Virginia Shellem, daughter of Dr. G. W. Shellem, of Denver, and Gene B. Bolich, ’32, son of Mr. and Mrs. Edward Bolich, also of Denver, Saturday, December 31, at York, S. C. The bride is a senior at Queens-Chicora College. The bridegroom is a member of the faculty of Rock Springs High School.

An article in an issue of the Charlotte Observer last month concerning Dr. J. P. Munroe, ‘82, who is a prominent Charlotte physician. Dr. Munroe was honored with a dinner given by the medical men of the state. Dr. Munroe’s name has been synonymous with the highest ideals and attainments of medicine in North Carolina for many years and the honor bestowed by those in his profession at the Charlotte Country Club shows how highly he is esteemed.

OBITUARY

Samuel Reed Sloan, '23, one of the best known and most beloved of the young business men in Salisbury, died there at a hospital from peritonitis recently. Since graduating from Davidson, where he won many honors, Mr. Sloan was connected with a branch of the Wachovia Bank and Trust Company. The funeral services were held at the First Presbyterian Church.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of Dr. Geo. McCrea Robson, ‘19, who died January 11 in Philadelphia, Pa. Dr. Robson was one of the most prominent of the young scientists graduating from Davidson in many years. While at Davidson he was enthusiastic in his biological work and was one of Dr. J. W. MacConnell’s able helpers in that department. He carried his enthusiasm for research into his medical course. After one year as teacher at Chamberlain-Hunt Academy, he entered the University of Pennsylvania.Medical School and graduated with honors. While there, he was made resident physician in the University Hospital for two years. Later, he was made associate professor in pathology and was in line for a full professorship at the University of Pennsylvania when his death occurred. Last year, he was made pathologist to Misericordia Hospital at a handsome salary. He was secretary-treasurer of the Philadelphia Pathological Society and a frequent contributor to medical journals. He is survived by his wife, who was Miss Naomi Fithian, a frequent visitor to Davidson, and two children.

Mrs. Alice Robson, his mother, has been for 25 years in charge of the Davidson College Infirmary, and students and friends extend their deepest sympathy in her bereavement.

The sympathy of the friends of Mr. F. D. Hobart, supervisor of grounds and buildings, is extended to him in the loss of his father, Mr. F. D. Hobart, of Amherst, Mass. Mr. Hobart was taken with a heart attack early Sunday morning, January 1. We take this opportunity to express our heartfelt sympathy to Mr. Hobart in his father’s passing.

(NOTE: It will be appreciated if those alumni who have items for publication will send them to Jack Williams, Jr., Box 262, Davidson, N.C.)

Silver Screen

Wednesday, January 25—Twenty Thousand Years in Sing Sing—(First National)
This picture is based on a book of memoirs and theories of prison management of the same name by Warden Lewis E. Lawes of Sing Sing. The central situation of the picture is the result of the warden granting a prisoner (Spencer Tracy) a holiday with no guarantee other than the prisoner’s word to return. Tracy visits his girl and during his call, she shoots and kills an admirer who has been annoying her. Tracy, though innocent, is quite plausibly convicted of the murder and sentenced to death. The scenes within the prison serve to enlighten the public that all penal systems are not so cruel as the widely discussed chain-gangs.

Thursday, January 26—The Son-Daughter—(M-G-M)
This pathetic story of a Chinese girl in San Francisco whose father has decided to auction her off for twenty-five thousand dollars in order to pay his pledge to a revolutionist in China is made most realistic by Helen Hayes as Lien Wha. Warner Oland, as a wealthy bandit, and Ramon Novarro, as a handsome young Chinese prince, play important roles in an almost entirely Caucasian cast.

Friday, January 27—Second Hand Wife—(Fox)
The author of the book on which this picture is based, Kathleen Norris, made her story interesting by depicting the office girl who fell in love with her boss as ignorant that the boss’ wife had ceased loving him. However, the director of the picture soon left this theme and turned the picture rather into a contest between the boss and his wife for the custody of their child prodigy (Karol Kay). Sally Eilers, as the office girl, portrays her role fairly well; but the true star of the show is Karol Kay, who makes it very real just what it means to be a child prodigy.

Saturday, January 28—Billion Dollar Scandal
Constance Cummings, who seems to be moving up very rapidly in the ranks of the stars, plays a characteristically good role in this picture.

The Bookshelf

Invitation to the Waltz—Rosamond Lehmann; Henry Holt and Company.
The gifted author of Dusty Answer and A Note in Music has written an artistic interpretation of the glowing days in which a young English girl blossoms into a mature woman. In one magic week comes this gentle change. Opening the morning of Olivia’s seventeenth birthday, the story closes the day after her first ball, a week later. From a sentimental girl who completely confides with admiration in her older and prettier sister, Kate, Olivia grows wiser, realizing after the ball that they can never be intimate again.

The setting of the novel is a small town in the English countryside. Here Olivia has enjoyed a pleasant girlhood, living with practical parents, a shy uncle, the adored sister, and a little brother, James. From the softly treated background of minor characters, James radiates by his wistful actions and naive verse. This winning character could justify the novel alone by its inherent charm. The various plans for the approaching ball are described with suspense and are accompanied by the cumulative excitement in Olivia’s mind. By small details and subtle moods, Miss Lehmann suggests clearly the emotions of the young girl. At times she approaches the sensitivity of Katherine Mansfield.

Typical incidents such as the visit to the dressmaker, the mental fears and almost a decision not to go, bitter disappointment at the new dress until the guiding Kate discovers that it is on backward, are quaint scenes for the male reader but must arouse sympathetic response from the woman. No doubt the novel is a quiet revelation to a man, a reminiscence to a woman. At the anticipated ball, each dance partner brings to trembling and yet exuberant Olivia a new slant of experience. The different personalities of Jenkins, the poet; Reggie, the boor; Timmy, the blind soldier, all the exciting people she meets, open to her widening eyes the complexities beyond girlhood. Olivia reflects that “This is life at first hand.” The glamorous evening is climaxed when Rollo, the host, takes her to meet his father in his library and to see the old gentleman’s books. “The dancing, the people beyond were nothing, a froth on the surface, soon to be blown away. This, that she felt as she stood between them, was the reality about the house; kindness, tolerance, courtesy, family pride, and affection.” Olivia returns home with the party, all of her memories merged in a delicious haze. Next morning, after the inevitable description of the party to her mother, she suddenly realizes in reflection what a sudden gap there is now between her sister and herself. “Everything had changed, everything was different. In confusion, she walks out through the meadow. ‘Life—she felt choked.’”

Miss Lehmann is sensitive and delicate in her treatment and yet has managed to glide above sentiment. A few rough spots do not mar the smooth texture of the simple and beautiful story. To apply a bit of its description, the novel is “fair, classic, rosy, cold.” The novelist has handled her theme tenderly and in reader approval, her novel will be cherished.
—E. A. HANCOCK.

Johnson’s Barber Shop
“Four Out of Five College Men Come Here”
Seven Hundred New Styles
B. O. RAVENEL
Student Representative

Announcing...
SPRING OPENING
By Star Direct Tailors
$20 to $35
January 25th and 26th—Wednesday and Thursday
At the “SODA SHOP”...Next to Post Office
GEO. W. LAPITZ
Factory Representative