THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 22, 1933

Dr. Gwynn Directs Devotional Group
Subject of “Seeing Across Social Barriers” Discussed in an Informal Meeting

At the first of a series of Y. M. C. A. devotional study groups, held at 9 o'clock last Friday night in the Social Center, Dr. P. H. Gwynn discussed with the group of about thirty freshmen gathered there the subject, “Seeing Across Social Barriers.” “Duck” Powell introduced Dr. Gwynn, who opened the meeting with a short prayer, followed by the reading of several portions of St. Luke’s Gospel dealing with the topic of the evening. These Bible verses gave a picture of the social barriers during Christ's ministry and the manner in which they conflicted with His teachings.

Dr. Gwynn did not attempt to lecture on the subject, but left the discussion and development of the question to the members of the group themselves. Several practical, thought-provoking questions were offered for comment by Dr. Gwynn in relation to the application of Christ’s teachings in our modern social life with its barriers, and various opinions were offered and commented upon by the group.

This was the first of a series of eight religious topics to be discussed at the regular 7 o’clock weekly devotional study group meetings at the Social Center. It is planned to have a faculty member or upperclassman lead these study groups each Friday night, at least until those attending the meetings feel capable of carrying on the discussion among themselves. Sam Wiley and “Duck” Powell, originators and leaders of the idea, expressed favorable comments on the success of the first meeting and cordially urge all freshmen interested in the plan to attend the next discussion group.

Dr. John L. Douglas Resumes Class Work

After an absence of approximately two weeks, due to a severe case of bronchial pneumonia, Dr. John L. Douglas, professor of mathematics, met his classes again yesterday. During Dr. Douglas’ absence, a temporary schedule was arranged for his students, in order that they would be able to keep up with the other classes. Dr. Douglas’ Math 1 classes met with Professor Wood, his Math 2 classes with Professor Kimbrough, his Math 3 class with Professor Mebane, and his Math 4 class with Professor Wood.

Bleachers Are Being Stored by Freshmen

Under the supervision of William M. Brown, the freshmen began last Wednesday to take down the bleachers and to store them under the stadium. Work is progressing rapidly and will probably be finished near the end of next week, if weather does not interfere. All freshmen are warned to report promptly when summoned, or action will be taken by the Court of Control. As usual, one section of the bleachers will be put up by the freshmen next spring in time for baseball.

Yowl to Appear On December 15
Articles of Humorous and Serious Nature Are Features

According to Bill Fugate, editor, the Christmas issue of the “Yowl” is on its way. The cover for this issue will be drawn by Lorenzo McPhail, and the magazine itself will contain several interesting features. Included in the next issue will be, among other things, an editorial on military training at Davidson, a special feature, a one-act play by Bill Goodykoontz entitled, “Revolution in Hades,” several pages of verse (no few of them humorous, needless to say), several cartoon character sketches of well-known movie stars, by Tom Wood, tips on good radio programs and phonograph records, the usual Book Review, and Joe Thompson’s New York letter. It is expected that a copy of the “Yowl” will be in the hands of each student on or about December 15. For this reason, all contributors to this issue of the college humor magazine are requested to have their material in by Monday, November 27.

GETS PROFESSORSHIP

Dr. Herbert A. Miller, noted sociologist who was ousted two years ago from Ohio State University for his advanced social theories, has been appointed professor of political and social economy at Bryn Mawr College.

With The Social Fraternities

K. A. PLEDGES HOLD SMOKER:
The pledges of the Kappa Alpha fraternity entertained the pledges of the other fraternities of the campus on Monday night, November 13. A light feed was served and also, smokes. The object of the meeting was to get the pledges together so that they would know each other better and thus form a better feeling among the new men. Worth Sprunt, the president of the K. A. pledges, was in charge of the meeting and presided. A talk was made by Mr. Jackson, in which he discussed the spirit of the Freshman class and the spirit of the school. He also discussed the attitude which the freshmen should take toward fraternities. There were about ninety freshmen in attendance.

PLEDGES

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: W. B. Mickley (36)—Charlotte.
Kappa Sigma: P. C. Pittman (36)—Barium Springs.
Pi Kappa Alpha: J. K. Abernethy (37)—Winter Haven, Fla.; W. C. Cox (37)—Jacksonville, Fla.; W. B. Moore (36)—Cramerton.
Phi Delta Theta: A. J. Potter (35)—Barium Springs.
Sigma Phi Epsilon: M. A. Turner (37)—Orlando, Fla.

Columbia Opens New Broadcast
Fred Waring Allotted Entire Period for Program

Tonight at 10 o’clock Fred Waring will inaugurate a new series of radio programs over the Columbia system. Instead of guest stars, Waring and his Pennsylvanians have been allotted the entire period of the broadcast. The all-Waring cycle not only is in line with the sponsor’s policy of periodically changing the set-up, but was arranged in accord with press comments and listeners’ letters from all sections of the country. All suggested that Fred put his gang through its entire bag of tricks, including its famous comedy, choral solo, and dance numbers—and that’s what Waring is going to do. The gang includes the Lane sisters, Tom Waring, Babs Ryan and her brothers, Poley (Frog Voice) McClintock, Johnny (Scat Singer) Davis, Stuart Churchill, and all the Pennsylvanians.

Little Jack Little, popular as a pianist, composer, and singer, has returned to the air as an orchestra leader. He plays twice a week from the Hotel Lexington in New York City over the Columbia chain of stations. Tonight he plays from 12:30 to 1:00 a.m., and on Saturday nights from 11:15 to 11:30 p.m. Little directs the band from the piano.

Saturday at 12 o'clock noon Ted Husing will describe the colorful spectacle of the Army-Navy football game from Philadelphia. The first part of the program will describe the Cadets and Midshipmen as they arrive on the field. He will then give a play-by-play description of the game.

Miss Edith Murray, the most recent addition to the Columbia staff, will make her radio debut on Thursday from 5:15 to 5:30 p.m., and will be heard eachThursday thereafter. Five to Play in State Symphony Bradley, Cunningham, McLain, Morris, Pfohl, Will Play Several Davidson students are expected to take part in the North Carolina Symphony Orchestra concert in Charlotte Tuesday, December 7. The names and instruments of these students, sent to the director of the orchestra at his request, include Harris Bradley, clarinet; Morton Cunningham, cornet; Dave McLain, drums; Hubert Morris, French horn, and Prof. J. C. Pfohl, string bass. It is hoped that all these musicians will be asked to play.

The concert will take place in the Armory-Auditorium building of Charlotte. It is the sixth public concert of the orchestra, but it is the organization’s first appearance in Charlotte, the other five concerts having been held in other North Carolina cities. Hubert Morris and Prof. Pfohl, two of the candidates for the State Symphony, have also been playing in the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, the next concert of which is to be held at Charlotte on December 16.

College Quartet Sings Over Station WBT Davidson Glee Club to Broadcast Program Tonight Professor J. C. Pfohl has announced that a picked group from the College Glee Club will render the regular weekly Davidson program over Station WBT tonight. The program will commence as usual at 8:35 p.m. and last until 8:50. Last week the quartet, which is composed of Hubert Morris, Buddy Robinson, Frank Tucker, and Dave McLain, presented a fifteen-minute program of well-known selections. They opened the broadcast with the singing of “O Davidson”; following this they sang “Street Urchin’s Medley,” “Won't You Set Us Free?” by Dvorak; “Juanita,” a Spanish melody; “Quilting Party,” “Auld Lang Syne,” “Short’nin’ Bread” by Wolfe, and “Soldier's Farewell.”

This week the Glee Club will sing “Now Let Every Tongue Adore Thee” by Bach, “Lo, How a Rose E’er Blooming” by Praetorius, “Old King Cole” by Forsyth, “Home On The Range,” an American cowboy song, and “O Davidson,” which is the theme song of these programs. About midway in the program, while the Glee Club has a breathing spell, Kenneth Scott, the freshman pianist who accompanies the singers, will render a solo entitled “Waltz,” by Chopin.

New Instruments Will Improve Davidson Band The Davidson Band is to have two new instruments added to its ranks this week. This addition came about through the purchase of an Alto clarinet by Marshall Sanford, and a string bass by James Crooks. Both these instruments have been greatly needed by the band. There are very few bands that can boast of these instruments. This marks a start toward a symphonic instrumentation for the Davidson Band. It was stated that additional instruments of unusual character will be secured soon.

Fall Grades Information was received Monday from the office of Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, registrar, to the effect that mid-semester reports were called for today, and will be available for students next Saturday. Including all grades through the recent review schedule, the reports will indicate the marks as averaged with those given at the termination of the first six weeks of school. The grades to be put on the books Saturday will be the last students will receive until final reports are issued after Christmas.

Two Robberies Are Reported This Week Last Thursday night, three thieves stole sixty-three chickens and six turkeys from the chicken house of Caldwell Bradford, a farmer who lives a short distance from here on Concord Road. The leader among the robbers was Jim Morrison, white. He and his two negro accomplices, Al Sloan and Tom Allison, each received eighteen months on the road when they were convicted Monday in local court. On Thursday and Friday nights, Dr. P. H. Gwynn had his briefcase, curtains, tools, and money he had left in his car stolen while he was at supper. Ed Linker, the Davidson marshal, has found no clues as yet, but he believes that the two robberies were committed by the same group or individual.

Pfohl to Play for Guild of Organists Prof. J. C. Pfohl, director of music at Davidson, will play an organ recital for the North Carolina Guild of Organists at their meeting in Statesville on Thursday, November 23. The North Carolina Guild of Organists is the North Carolina Chapter of the American Guild of Organists, which is the principal organists’ association of America. Admittance to this Guild is obtained only by examination. The request to play for this Guild is considered a very high honor.

DR. LACY CONCLUDES ANNUAL “Y” SERVICES (Continued from page 1) “The next characteristic which makes a man is courage,” Dr. Lacy continued, “God needs men who have backbones and courage enough to withstand temptation. It takes boldness to become a Christian. “Another phase which goes into the making of a man is thought. We must think things out for ourselves. If problems of our life are to be solved, they must be thought out.” Dr. Lacy concluded this discussion by bringing out the point that men cannot build themselves without having influence on the life of others with whom they come in contact.

The chapel exercises on Monday morning were conducted by Dr. Lacy, at which time he developed further the topic, “Being a Man.” The main point which the speaker emphasized was that we must have strong bodies to become strong men. Quoting from Paul, Dr. Lacy said, “Our bodies are the temples of God.” The speaker added, “We should have ideals and our chief ideal should be God. The Bible reads that Jesus grew in stature. Through our bodies we transmit life to others and therefore we should keep our bodies clean and pure.” Dr. Lacy in conclusion spoke of the things which keep us from having strong bodies, and emphasized the necessity of getting a sufficient amount of sleep, being careful to guard over-eating, and withstanding the alcoholic and sexual temptations.

Dr. Lacy spoke to the students again on Monday night and explained further the necessity of thought in the building of a man, “We must increase in wisdom, and in order to do this we must acquire knowledge,” the speaker declared. “Today is the time when our minds are expanding. Don’t wait until you finish college before you increase your knowledge, but do it now!” Dr. Lacy stressed in conclusion that after you have increased in wisdom, do not keep it for yourself, but make use of it to benefit others and thus increase the Kingdom of God.

What are the best ten years of a woman’s life? Between 28 and 30.

“They kept me out in the cold all day long...and just knocked me out.” “I smoke Chesterfields all the time and I’ll tell the world...they’re milder!” Buy the cigarette that’s MILDER the cigarette that TASTES BETTER © 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.