THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 15, 1933

MECKLENBURG ALUMNI IN SUCCESSFUL MEETING ~ ALUMNI NEWS

RICHMOND ALUMNI TO MEET

John P. McKnight, Davidson Man, Writes of Revolution
Is Head of the Associated Press Bureau in Havana, Cuba
WAS PHI BETA KAPPA
Tells of Harrowing Experiences of Members of Press in “Covering” Revolution

John P. McKnight, '28, head of the Associated Press Bureau in Havana, Cuba, has led a rather exciting life for the past several months. He has covered the Cuban revolution, which has been in the headlines of all American papers recently. While at Davidson, Johnny was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and of the Delta Theta Chi local fraternity, which has since become Phi Delta Theta. He is a brother of W. A. McKnight, who graduated in the class of 1932.

In a recent Associated Press story, McKnight tells of the difficulties of the press in the revolution. He says of the time just preceding November 10, “Working for 48 hours with almost no food or sleep to give the American press the fullest accounts of the revolution, the staff has been exposed to death many times.” McKnight continues with the story by saying that his companion, E. A. Chester, took over the office while he, McKnight, went to the Hotel Parkview to get a better view of the events taking place there. “At 1:30 a.m., the firing broke out along the Prado and a rebel airplane swooped down over the city. I saw first-hand the daring maneuvers of the plane and the tracer bullets sent whining in its wake by machine gunners on the ground.”

The head of the Havana Associated Press then recounts the hazardous journey that his fellow newspaper man, Chester, took from the American embassy back to the office. In telling of the work of one of the natives in the employ of the local office, McKnight says, “Jose Arroyo, stationed at the docks under an almost ceaseless fire for six hours as he covered the work of a loyal detachment, was forced to crawl 50 feet—exposed to fire—every time he telephoned the office.” Jose Garcia, an Associated Press photographer, came near death several times as he got photographs of important battle scenes. McKnight says, “Garcia worked under fire all Wednesday and Thursday and made pictures of a battle at police headquarters while men fell dead and wounded about him.” The story on the activities of the Cuban press is concluded with, “While these men were ‘covering’ the various phases of the fighting outside, I kept the story of the battle going to the outside world from their telephone accounts received at the office, and, all the while, there was constant sniping up and down the street below.”

WILDKITTENS TO ENCOUNTER DUKE

The Davidson Wildkittens will play their last game of the season Saturday, when they meet the Duke freshmen at Asheville, the contest being sponsored by a charity organization of that city. Although expecting a hard game, Davidson coaches are inclined to be more confident when speaking of the coming encounter, due to the decided improvement shown by the 'Kittens in the 32-0 drubbing they gave the Wofford yearlings last Friday. The Blue Imps, who have one of the strongest teams in the state, and who are at the present time undefeated, will be favored to win. The Wildkitten record, with one victory, two defeats, and one tie, is not so impressive, but the 'Kittens are expected to display an attack which will make the game close. Davidson mentors have been putting the men through thorough workouts, stress being laid on blocking, tackling, and the timing of plays. The playing of Corbin, Garrison, and Sadler, 'Kitten backs who participated in their first regular game last Friday, was especially gratifying to the coaches. The Wildkittens should be able to put their full strength on the field next Saturday, none of the men having been injured in last week's play. The Duke team will have a decided weight advantage, especially in the backfield.

COURSE IN BLUFFING

The University of Washington is giving a course in “bluffing.” It is given in conjunction with the English and History departments.

WITH THE ALUMNI

1900
Chairman Fred L. Smyre, of the Gaston County Unit of the United Dry Forces of North Carolina, recently issued a statement in which he expressed his gratitude to the members of the different newspapers for their actions and help during the campaign for the repeal of the eighteenth amendment in the State of North Carolina.

'06
At a meeting of the Mecklenburg Medical Society held recently in Charlotte, Dr. Hamilton McKay gave an enlightening and instructive talk.

'23
Rev. LeRoy P. Burney, pastor of the Sugaw Creek Presbyterian Church, recently announced that he had been successful in securing Rev. S. K. Emurian, of Suffolk, Va., to lead a series of revival services during the week of November 12-19. It was learned that Rev. Emurian was a refugee from the Armenian massacres of the World War, and he alone of a large family escaped the fury of the Turkish onslaught of his Armenian village. From there he came to America where he has served as pastor of American churches in the Southern Presbyterian denomination.

'25
Joseph H. McConnell, young Charlotte attorney and son of Dr. J. M. McConnell of Davidson College, left recently to accept a position with the legal department of the National Recovery Administration. Mr. McConnell has been in Charlotte for about a year and a half, associated with the legal firm of Whitlock, Dockery and Shaw. Before that time he practiced law in Florida for about eighteen months after passing the bar examination. After the completion of his course here he went to the University of Virginia, where he received his law degree.

'33
Charles W. Pearce is at present as-Associated with his father in the insurance business at Plant City, Florida.

A. H. Grant has a position with the Pinehurst Silk Mill, Inc. at Hemp, North Carolina.

Belot Rice is attending Carnegie Technical Institute at Pittsburgh, Pa. He is studying electrical engineering.

John Alexander is located this year with Mr. John G. Bornette, principal of the Paw Creek High School, at Paw Creek, N. C.

Robert Watson Falls is now at Emory University studying medicine.

Quite a few alumni were back on the Davidson campus last weekend to see the Davidson-Citadel football game. Following is an incomplete list of the visiting alumni: Don MacQueen, '32; John D. McConnell, '32; Jack Wagner, '33; Buck Mills, '33; Murrell Cawood, '34; Nat Speir, '32; Jerome Clark, '33; A. G. Montgomery, '32; H. H. Harris, '32; Gene DuBose, '32; Carol Pitts, '32; George Weeks, '29; Nab Armfield, '31; Elias Faison; Nelson Myers, '29; Andy Bird, '31; George Neal, '33; Charles Little, '33; Andy Little, '33; Fred Fleagle, '33; Allen Graham, '32; H. A. Query, '09; Dr. Oren Moore, '08; Lunsford Richardson, '14; H. T. Mills, '06; L. H. Wilkinson, '13, and Ernest Milton, '26.

Dr. Willson MacConnell, Davidson College physician, will attend the Southern Medical Association in Richmond this week. The Executive Committee of the Federation of Medical Boards of the United States and the Surgeons Association, both of which Dr. MacConnell is a member, convene in the Virginian capital this week.

ALL-AMERICANS DEFEAT HUNTERSVILLE GRID STARS

Led by “Swede” Johnson, the “All-Americans” chalked up an 18-0 victory over the Huntersville All-Stars last Tuesday on Richardson Field. The game, which did not start until late, was not finished due to approaching darkness. Only three quarters were played, but this provided plenty of time for the Reserves to score. The Huntersville team, led by Fred Fleagle, former Davidson back, showed surprising strength in the first quarter, but soon crumpled before the strong offense of the “All-Americans.” All three touchdowns were made by Johnson. Two scores came as a result of a successful aerial attack, while the third score was made by the intercepting of a Huntersville pass. Johnson in the backfield and Young in the line were outstanding for the “All-Americans,” while Fleagle appeared to be the mainstay of the Huntersville team.

This Friday the “All-Americans” will play Mountain Park Junior College on Richardson Field at 3 o'clock. The Mountaineers will bring a strong aggregation to the local field. Although the “All-Americans” will be without the services of Newton, Lay, and McClung, regular linemen, because of eligibility rules, the team will be favored to capture this contest. The reserves have never been beaten in a regular scheduled game and hope to make this record more impressive by winning Friday.

JACKETS of LEATHER
Suede Blouses
Button and Zipper Styles
Brown and Grey
$6.00 to $4.35
TATE-BROWN COMPANY
Charlotte, N. C.
321 Healy Building

Go to Europe Next Summer
This is the ideal graduation gift or summer vacation for college students. Plans are being made to visit all different countries, and the cost is unbelievably low. See Jack Williams, Jr., our Davidson Representative for particulars.
John L. Moyers Tours Co.
Atlanta, Georgia

Alumni Marriages:
Dr. E. Brown Morgan, of Concord, and Miss Frances Query, of Concord, were recently married at Back Creek A. R. P. Church, Newell. The pastor, Rev. P. A. Stroup, officiated, using the ring ceremony. Dr. and Mrs. Brown left immediately after the ceremony for Washington and points north, after which they will be at home in Concord where for the last several years Dr. Brown has been practicing medicine.

New Books for Library Chosen
The list of new books at the library, according to Miss Cornelia Shaw, librarian, is one of the best in some time. The complete list of the new books is posted on the library bulletin board, but some of the best, representing several different subjects and classes of literature, are: The Snows of Helicon, by H. M. Tomlinson; Arabesque, by Eleanor Mercein; Hitler’s Reich, by Hamilton Fish Armstrong; Modern Germany, by Paul Kosok; The People’s Choice, Herbert Agar; Business Under the Recovery Act, Lawrence Valenstein and E. B. Weiss; Our Movie Made Children, by Henry James Forman; The Mirrors of Wall Street, Anonymous; The Expanding Universe, by Sir Arthur Eddington; The New Background of Science, by Sir James Jeans; Mellons Millions, by Harvey O'Connor; The Portrait of a Banker, by Anna Robeson Burr; The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas; A Century of Progress, edited by Charles A. Beard; Characteristics of French Art, by Roger Fry.

The books, both departmental and miscellaneous literature, have been selected with much care. For the last three years the library has been given $5,000 yearly for the purchase of new books, so that the library has been able to add substantially to its supply of new books. The members of the faculty have the best books in their subjects added to the library, and Miss Shaw is to be complimented for her selection of the books of a more general character.

The Library Committee, which is composed of Dr. C. K. Brown, president, Drs. H. B. Arbuckle, W. P. Cumming, Frazer Hood, T. W. Lingle, C. M. Richards, and G. B. Watts, Professors Archibald Currie and H. T. Lilly, and Miss Shaw, met last week and selected a list of new books to be ordered. The new volumes should be in the library within a month, it was announced.

Mecklenburg County Alumni Have Interesting Meeting
Colonel E. L. Baxter Davidson Elected President of Mecklenburg Alumni

JACKSON MAKES TALK

Dr. J. M. Walker, Pastor at Steele Creek, Makes Address

Davidson alumni in Mecklenburg County gathered last Friday night at the Chamber of Commerce in Charlotte for a dinner and a meeting. Colonel E. L. Baxter Davidson was elected president of the Mecklenburg Chapter of Davidson alumni, Dr. T. D. Sparrow was elected vice-president, and J. B. Kuykendall was named secretary and treasurer.

Following the turkey dinner, an interesting program was presented, including numbers by the Pills Brothers, an unusual Davidson trio, numbers by the saxophone quartet, and songs by the college voice quartet. Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, talked to the former students on the changing emphasis in college education. Mr. Jackson said that the change had come about in the last several years, and that men now sought a college education for its cultural value more than for its potential monetary value. He said that this is particularly true of Davidson. The treasurer reviewed conditions at the college, laying particular emphasis on Davidson’s rating and on the famous honor system at the school.

Dr. J. M. Walker, pastor of the Steele Creek Presbyterian Church, spoke to the chapter on the need for an alumni association in Mecklenburg County. Dr. Walker gave some interesting reminiscences, concerning particularly the early football teams at Davidson.

Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of Davidson, made a few remarks, asking that the alumni in the county send the best boys available to the college, emphasizing the fact that not only athletes, but scholars, musicians, debaters, and other fine students are also needed. Judge E. McA. Currie, retiring president of the Charlotte alumni, was toastmaster for the dinner. Besides Dr. Lingle, many members of the Davidson faculty attended the meeting. Colonel Davidson, class of 1880; Dr. C. R. Harding, class of 1880, and Dr. J. P. Munroe, class of 1882, were the oldest alumni in attendance.

BACHELOR GIRLS
Washington University co-eds have a special section for “bachelor girls” at football games. They say in this manner the men can tell who's who.

Running Dry At a Critical Moment
HOLDS 102% MORE INK
Now at only $5—a new model of this PARKER’S REVOLUTIONARY PEN
Sacless Transparent Barrel — Vacuum Filled
HOLDS 102% MORE INK

The revolutionary Parker Vacumatic Filler. Has marvelous transparent non-breakable barrel—shows quantity of ink at all times—ends nuisance of running dry at the critical moment. Invented by a scientist at the University of Wisconsin—developed by Parker, and guaranteed mechanically perfect. Contains no rubber sac, no piston pump or valves—nothing to fail and render it useless later. Hence holds 102% more ink, with no increase in size. Go and see it. Also Parker’s laminated Vacumatic Filler $8.75, with all-purpose reversible point that writes both ways. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wisconsin. Quink, New Ink Discovery, Ends Pen-Clogging. Get one from any dealer, or send two 3c stamps to “Point, 37.507 Pencil to Match, 450.” Large trial size bottle. Transparent Laminated Pearl Pen, $7.50, Pencil to Match, $3.50.