Social Fraternities

During the past week or two, important events have been taking place among the various fraternities on the campus. The
“Davidsonian” proposes to keep the student body informed as to the various activities of the fraternities in the future.

The Beta Theta Pi’s have completed their elections for the new year, and the officers are as follows: Rawling Pratt-Thomas,
president; Jimmy Halverstadt, vice-president; Latimer McClintock, treasurer; Fred Smyre is Pan-Hellenic representative.

The members of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity enjoyed a house party held this past weekend. The affair was informal
in nature, held in cabaret style. The music, furnished by Reeves Pope and his Southernaires, was featured by several novelty
numbers. Miss Sarah Thompson of Charlotte sang several selections. The guests were as follows: Misses Esther Brown, Jane Moore, Gertrude
Ross, Ellen White, and Isabel White, of Concord; Miss Louise Thompson and Miss Mary Thompson, of Davidson; Misses Maria Drane,
Betty Hunter, “Wiz” Lambeth, “Biddie” Maddox, “Sal” McKinnon, Mary Payne, Eleanor Killick, and Miriam Steele, of Charlotte; Dougie Long, Joyce
Sayre, and Billy Cole, of Greensboro; Sara Stevens and Lib Price, of Winston-Salem; Betty Tuttle, of Reidsville; Mary McCoy, of
Concord, and Katherine Greene, of Gastonia.

Sigma Phi Epsilon held its annual installation banquet last Saturday night at the S. & W. Cafeteria in Charlotte. The
banquet marked the turning over by the senior members to the new officers duties of the fraternity. The officers elected
were: J. A. Hunter, president; Hugh Hawkins, vice-president; Stuart Henry, secretary; John Fitzgerald, treasurer. Hunter was also elected Pan-Hellenic representative.
Several ladies and a number of alumni were present at the banquet.

New officers of Phi Delta Theta are: John Lafferty, president; P. D. Guerrant, secretary, and Julian West, treasurer. The other
fraternities will complete their elections after the holidays.

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago

FIVE YEARS AGO

In the State Golf Tournament, played at the Sedgefield Country Club in Greensboro, on April 14, between Davidson, Carolina, Duke,
and Wake Forest, the Davidson team, composed of Mortin, Mills, Wilson, and Lingle, took second place.

With a change of executives of the “Y” a new cabinet was inaugurated. The scope of the work for the
next year is to be somewhat broader than that of the closing year, and several new positions on the cabinet
have been made. These new departments will be headed by Mac King, on Personal Work; Dewitt Helm on Social Service,
and Nelson Myers on Chapel Services.

“Quips and Cranks,” the Davidson yearbook published by the senior class, will be edited by Betty Simmons, Sarah Thompson, and
Kitt VanEchop, of Charlotte. The P. K. A. fraternity on March 30 initiated Richard Hillier, James Hurst, and Walter Ogburn.
At a recent meeting of Kappa Alpha, Lanier Pratt was elected president; T. Hooke McCallie, vice-president; John Drake, secretary; Warner
DuBose, corresponding secretary, and Don Bailey, treasurer. Fred McPhail was elected Pan-Hellenic representative.

Phi Gamma Delta sponsored a party last Saturday night at Mr. Davidson’s lodge on the Catawba River. The house was
attractively decorated and music for the occasion was furnished by a prominent negro orchestra of Charlotte. The following guests were
present: Misses Eulalie Matthews and the Sedgefield Country Club in Greensboro, on April 14, between Davidson, Carolina, Duke, and Wake
Forest, the Davidson team, composed of Mortin, Mills, Wilson, and Lingle, took second place.

TEN YEARS AGO

The faculty will be enlarged next session by the addition of three new teachers, Professor F. L. Blythe.and Messrs. C.
K. Brown and W. N. Mebane, all alumni of Davidson. The college will be able to do better work than
heretofore as the sections in the lower classes will be smaller. The past week has witnessed the selection by the
individual classes of their leaders to pilot their activities during 1924, and with it is brought to a close the
various class elections during the year. R. R. Jones, C. M. S. McIlwaine, and William Baker are the choices of
the rising senior, junior, and sophomore classes as their respective presidents. Dr. Sentelle addressed the combined Ministerial and Volunteer bands
in a meeting Sunday morning, April 15. He discussed subjects vital to ministerial candidates, “Should a College Graduate Spend a
Year in Teaching Before Attending a Theological Seminary?”

McBryde to Attend Student Conference

Davidson will be represented at the tenth annual meeting of the Southern Student Conference on International Relations, at both Emory
University and Agnes Scott College in Decatur, Georgia, by Duncan McBryde.

THE GREATEST UNDERWEAR VALUE

You can pay more than HANES costs—but you can't get more. Just try to match HANES values. There’s the Gold
Label Light Weight Union Suit or Shirts and Drawers. SAMSONBACK Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war belt. That’s patented and
can’t be imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and Shorts in a variety that will make it easy for the most fastidious to
choose from. All at prices that will make you wonder how it can be done. P. H. HANES KNITTING CO.,
Winston-Salem, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 12, 1933

Lillian Rooke, of Brenau; Eleanor Hayes, edited in 1929 by J. R. Covington, of Rae; president of the local chapter.
The conference will discuss national and international affairs considered of interest by students of the colleges and universities represented. Reports
will be made of the work carried on during the past year. Lyman Clardy, secretary of the I. R. C.
here, will not attend. Each year a conference is held by the organization, and representatives, ordinarily the president and secretary,
participate. Grier Martin represented Davidson in the meeting last year at Winter Haven, Fla.

Then COMMENCEMENT GRADUATION

A SENIOR’S desire is to have a lasting remembrance of college life. These are brought about by college ties, formalities
and .... Commencement Invitations. See E. O. Guerrant A. M. Manson.

Why is the stem removed?

It’s a very simple question to answer. The stem in a tobacco leaf, like the stem in most other plants,
is “woody”. It hasn’t any of the flavor or the aroma that you want when you smoke. And it doesn’t
burn right. So after tobacco has been properly aged, one of the first things to do is to remove the
stems. But what has this to do with your enjoyment of Chesterfield cigarettes? Just this. It means that we start
right when we make Chesterfield—the right kind of leaf with the stem removed, the right manufacture—everything that science knows that
can make CHESTERFIELD a milder cigarette, a cigarette that tastes better. That’s why people say “They Satisfy.” Wherever you buy
Chesterfields, you get them just as fresh as if you came by our factory door. Tobacco used to be stemmed
by hand—Now this machine stems 14,300 leaves every hour.

© 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
