THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1933

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDW A. M. MANSON - Editor
W. F. SCHENCK - Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON - Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS - Managing Editor
ODI. CASALI - Athletic Editor
J. E. LAKE - Exchange Editor
W. WHITE - Feature Editor
J. S. GAMBLE - Feature Editor
J. T. GOODYKOONTZ - Review Editor
E. A. HANCOCK - Review Editor
D. D. McBRYDE - Associate Editor
R. L. McCALLIE - Associate Editor
C. F. MYERS - Associate Editor
B. B. SUGGS - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
T. S. JORNSON - Assistant Business Manager
W. F. MANSON - Assistant Business Manager
ALVIN J. SOLICITOR - Solicitor
H. E. LORRAINE - Solicitor
T. F. WOOD - Solicitor
P. RASH - Solicitor
F. PENDLETON - Solicitor
J. S. LA LEWIS - Solicitor
GREGG - Secretary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN
J. L. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN
W. L. McILWAIN
G. E. BAILEY
K. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY
W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES
W. L. NORTHEN
J. E. BOWERS
C. E. NORVELL
J. E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
H. COVINGTON
S. K. PRESTON
S. K. EATON
L. M. ROGERS
J. B. FICKLIN
R. L. ROSE
G. L. GULLETTE
T. H. SUTTON
JACK HELLINGER
N. W. WALLACE
C. HENRY
A. HUNTER
E. LORRAINE
T. F. WOOD
W. F. MULLISS

MARCH 8, 1933

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

“Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink;
nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not life more than meat, and the body than
raiment?”—Matt. 6:25.

Any thinking man, or even an unthinking one, cannot help but be alarmed at the banking situation in this country.
Hence he cannot help but be alarmed at the economic situation of not only the United States, but of the
whole world. It is a time when we must have calmness, serenity, and faith. From an essay of William George
Jordan, “The Majesty of Calmness,” I wish to quote the following:

“Calmness is the rarest quality in human life. It is the poise of a great nature, in harmony with itself
and its ideals. It is the moral atmosphere of a life self-centered, self-reliant, and self-controlled. Calmness is singleness of purpose,
absolute confidence, and conscious power,—ready to be focused in an instant to meet any crisis.

“No one lives his life more fully, more intensely, and more consciously than the man who is calm. The man
who is calm has his course in life clearly marked on his chart. His hand is ever on the helm.
Storm, fog, night, tempest, danger, hidden reefs,—he is ever prepared and ready for them. He is made calm and serene
by the realization that in these crises of his voyage he needs a clear mind and a cool head; that
he has naught to do but to do each day the best he can, by the light he has; that
he will never flinch nor falter for a moment; that, though he may have to tack and leave his course
for a time, he will never drift, he will get back into the true channel, he will keep ever headed
toward his harbor. WHEN he will reach it, HOW he will reach it, matters not to him. He rests in
calmness, knowing he has done his best.

“Calmness comes ever from within. It is the peace and restfulness of the depths of our nature. The fury of
storm and of wind agitate only the surface of the sea; they can penetrate only two or three hundred feet,—below
that is the calm, unruffled deep. To be ready for the great crises of life we must learn serenity in
our daily living. Calmness is the crown of self-control.

“When man has developed the spirit of calmness until it becomes so absolutely part of him that his very presence
radiates it, he has made great progress in life. Calmness cannot be acquired of itself and by itself; it must
come as the culmination of a series of virtues. What the world needs and what individuals need is a higher
standard of living, a great realizing sense of the privilege and dignity of life, a higher and nobler conception of
individuality.

“With this great sense of calmness permeating an individual, man becomes able to retire more into himself, away from the
noise, confusion, and strife of the world. His calmness is but a Holy of Holies into which he can retire
FROM the world to get strength to live IN the world. He realizes that the full glory of individuality, the
crowning of his self-control, is,—the majesty of calmness.”

JUNIOR SPEAKING

One of the most glamorous and gala entertainments in the history of the college will take place in a short
time in the form of an old tradition, Junior Speaking. The Class of 1894 was the first to observe this
event, but its observance was very different from the present-day ceremony. Formerly, every member of the Junior Class was expected
to give a public oration, the series of which began on the twenty-second of February and usually lasted for two
or three days until each student had delivered his speech. The necessity for discontinuing this tradition was the rapid growth
of the number in the classes.

The evolution of this series of speeches to the gay week-end has taken place gradually. The students realized a need
for a gayer entertainment and the present week-end was the result. Now it has progressed with these advancing times until
the third-year class has become known for its social entertainments. Its selection of young ladies is unsurpassed; the beauty of
this fairer sex would make the ante-bellum girls, with their long dresses and curls, hide their faces in shame.

This scintillating entertainment will convene in a leading hostelry in a nearby metropolis.

“On with the dance, let joy be unconfined,
No sleep till morn while youth and pleasure meet
To chase the glowing hours with flying feet.”

The local college music-makers, renowned disciples of Orpheus, will preside. They, like this ancient Greek muse, play with such charm
that the rocks and trees are moved. Another advancement in keeping with these “times which try all men’s souls” are
the “bank-moratorium” prices, the like of which the college has never seen before.

To the Student Body—enter into this affair and co-operate with the Juniors in making it the best week-end that has
ever been held in the history of Davidson; and to the Juniors—this is your entertainment, put it over in a
big way.

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE

Those of our alumni and students who have been holding the notion that Davidson should be admitted into the Southern
Conference will more than likely find their expectations realized when that body meets next September. As a matter of fact,
Captain Norton G. Pritchett, director of athletics here, who has worked unceasingly to obtain membership in the Southern Conference for
Davidson, has received word from several members of the conference recommendation committee that should the group be expanded, Davidson would
be the first school taken in.

Many Davidson followers thought Davidson should have been admitted at the January meeting, which was held in Richmond, Va., and
they were disappointed when the Southern Conference refused to expand. The old Southern Conference was split early in this school
year because the body was too large. There were twenty-three teams in it. At the Richmond meeting, along with Davidson
there were six other schools applying for membership. Since the conference had just smoothed over the effects of the split,
it could not admit one or two of the applicants and refuse the others without giving some definite reason; so
it took in no new members. Instead, it appointed a committee of three to make recommendations at the September meeting
on one or two schools which might be admitted at that time.

Since athletics first began here, Davidson teams have met as many Southern Conference teams each year as has any of
the members of that body. Davidson has always enjoyed fair success in games played with members of the Southern Conference,
and even this year in football Davidson won three, tied one, and lost three games to break even for the
season with teams which were members of that body.

In past years regulations of the Southern Conference were not very strict, but at the Richmond meeting scholastic requirements were
tightened until now they are somewhat as strict as those which Davidson has held for her athletes for many years.
Because of this great difference in regulations heretofore Davidson teams have been composed of players who have been developed by
Davidson coaches, because other schools, which had more liberal rules, were able to get the cream of the crop.

One new rule passed by the Southern Conference especially puts Davidson on an equal basis with conference members, and should
allow Davidson to get its share of promising college athletes. That new rule is the one which specifies that an
athlete may not be

I SAW

Buttons and hooks, buttons and hooks,
When a man’s married, you'll know by his looks.
—Theresa Crowd.

... nothing stirring on the campus over the weekend. Part of the track team went to Chapel Hill, the debating
team was on its Southern tour, the Student Volunteers met in Greensboro, most of the faculty were golfing, and the
remaining students headed for Washington.

... and heard the most dreadful howling going onBehind Chambers Building on a Tuesday morning, it was dogs. There were
little dogs and big dogs, pedigreed ones and just “plain dogs.” This is a part of a local club’s initiation.
Dr. Jerry McConnell jokingly remarked for Oscar Bethea’s benefit that he didn’t think we ought to dog fraternities at Davidson.
Oscar turned a violent red, but judging from Jim Halverstadt’s laughter, he thought it was a big joke.

Intelligent, young Bill Goodykoontz was ordering a meal at the local cafe yestereve. He asked what there was for supper.
Mac retorted, “Roast beef, fricasseed chicken, stewed lamb, hashed brown, baked and fried potatoes, jam pudding, milk, tea, and coffee.”
Bill replied, “I’ll take the third, fourth, fifth, seventh, and eighteenth syllables.”

...and overheard downtown, that some dumb soph called Dr. Richards on the telephone and asked what the review in Bible
would cover. Dr. Richards reminded him that they had just had the review. Even a freshman would have known better
than that! This came straight. Two members of the sewing circle said they heard it themselves.

A newspaper cynic remarked, “Some weddings must make Cupid laugh up his sleeve.” Not with the Cupid whose pictures we’ve
seen. And did you hear about the woman who was mad on the subject of germs and sterilized everything in
her house? She couldn’t even get along with her family because her relations were strained. Isn’t that ridiculous?

Beta Chapter of P.K.A. celebrated its founding with a highfalutin’ banquet at the S. & W. Grand old Dr. Arbuckle,
who is the grand councilor of the fraternity, was toastmaster, and they say he was at his best.

One of my pals remarked that as a little fellow his greatest ambition was to wash his mother’s ears. Can
you bear it?

Pleasant Mrs. Pritchett was trying to locate her pocketbook in a local store Saturday afternoon. It had slipped down in
the lining of her coat and she was earnestly endeavoring to recover it.

A group was discussing what would happen if students at Davidson were forbidden to smoke cigarettes. I don’t know what
would happen, but some boys might not get any exercise.

I rather missed faithful Miss Hattie Thompson at her customary place at the organ Sunday. She is recuperating from an
appendicitis operation at her brother’s, and I am glad to announce that she will soon return to the college office
where she serves so efficiently as secretary.

I heard it rumored that Junior Speaking is to be one grand and glorious party. You really owe it to
yourself to attend, for you’ll miss a lot if you don’t. Let me put you wise to a cozy place
to take that date for supper Saturday night. It’s the Hearthstone. Mrs. Holmes, who is known for her good cooking,
has reopened it and I hear it is the last word in smart eating places.

Loads of folks are speculating as to who is Tip Poff. It still remains a deep, dark secret. Just to
think you may meet him on the campus, have a class with him, sit by him in chapel, or even
room with the dope, and not know it! It’s something to think about, but what’s more important is you’d better
walk a chalk line these next few weeks if you don’t want your name in black and white!

TIP POFF, Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. LAKE

Washington-and-Lee

The Daily Tarheel, of the University of North Carolina, has rated the college newspapers of the country in the following
order: Columbia Spectator, Wisconsin Daily Cardinal, Cornell Daily Sun, Stanford Daily, Syracuse Daily Orange, Daily Northwestern, Daily Iowan, California Daily
Bruin, McGill Daily, Michigan Daily. As we can see, there are no Southern papers in the list; perhaps they slighted
the Alabama Crimson-White and the Tulane Hullabaloo. Both of these last two are just about the best in the South
and should be recognized, but perhaps we are not as literary as the North, Northwest, or Far West. The Daily
Tarheel also says that the depression has not hurt the tone and quality of collegiate journalism.

A reporter on the Columbia Spectator interviewed people on the streets concerning college students. After seeing a great number of
people, he learned that on average about five out of six people think that college students are loafers. Some people!

A professor at Rochester recently gave this as a definition of a good student: One who, even though he looks
at his watch, does not hold it up to his ear. A lot of us would-be good students might be
classed as good students under that category.

Queens-Chicora

Our friends in the Queen City of the South tell us that at the University of Richmond there was a
poll taken among the students to decide the best orchestra in the country. Our favorite, Guy Lombardo, is leading the
pack with Ben Bernie in hot pursuit, followed by Wayne King and Rudy Vallee. Keep up the good work, Guy.

Davidson has had this regulation for some time, but in the past, the conference members could award these things wholly
or in part for athletic ability. With bright prospects in football, wrestling, boxing, track, cross-country, golf, tennis, and baseball for
the next year, Davidson should have a high standing among members of the Southern Conference in 1933, should she be
admitted at the September meeting.

WORLD SPECTATOR

Up until recent times, most of the insects which destroy our crops were killed by arsenic. This chemical kills the
insects, and any other animal which gets any of it into its system. The disadvantage of arsenic is that the
fruits or vegetables which have been sprayed with arsenic must be carefully washed and sprayed with something to remove the
arsenic, so that the human who eats the produce may not get what was intended for the insects. About thirty
years ago, a vegetable product, Rotonone, was discovered by a Japanese chemist. This chemical, which was originally used in a
somewhat different form as fish poison by savages, has a fatal effect upon insects. It is about thirty times as
powerful as arsenic. It loses its power slowly when exposed to light. Thus the poison, after being upon the plants
for a while, would become harmless to humans. This process is hastened by mixing the poison with some powder which
hastens the light process. This would be the ideal insecticide but for the fact that it costs too much. The
present price is about ten dollars a pound. Now extensive work has been done, trying to find a cheaper process
for making Rotonone. It may be that a cheaper process may be found in the near future by which the
poison may be made from coal tar. A large group of research chemists are working on the possibility of its
derivation from coal tar.

Perhaps Technocracy may not have the power at the present to gain control of the government, but it has brought
forth an idea which has been known by a great many, but which has not had very serious consideration. This
is the idea of decreasing working hours because of the higher efficiency of the workers. The latest developments in labor-saving
devices have so increased the efficiency of the worker that to produce the same results with the same number of
men, either the workers must work for shorter hours or one or two men can work at the present full
time and the others will join the ranks of the unemployed. This was true, not only in depression times, but
even in the 1928 prosperity. The Technocrats solve the problem by passing laws limiting the working time of the individual.
The present plan existing here is the other idea, that of letting one or two men do the work while
the rest are idle. The present social order might borrow the Technocrat idea, not in its original form, for that
would probably limit personal liberty too much to be accepted by the American public. The procedure which would probably be
used would be that of action on the part of the industries themselves, supervised by the government. Even in times
of prosperity, there were great numbers of unemployed. This could not be called depression, but was caused by the new
machine age. While some were working long hours with great output, others were idle. If the working hours could be
cut, the per man output would be cut. Thus more would be employed to get the same output.

The recent death of Senator Walsh was very sudden, and was quite a shock to the nation. It seems that
no one knows what was the cause of his death, and the body was embalmed within a few hours after
his death. We do not know exactly why there was such a hurry in embalming, but it seems that when
a man of such high position dies suddenly of unknown causes, there might be some effort made to find out
what was the cause of his death. Probably nine times out of ten, the cause would be found to be
perfectly natural, but it would be worthwhile to examine all cases in order to locate the ones in which there
were evidences of foul play.

One job which would try the patience of any man is that of drilling holes in diamonds. This job takes
two weeks per diamond, and cannot be done by machinery, but must be done by hand, since machinery is not
accurate enough for the fine precision which is necessary in the drilling. The holes are 0.004 inches in diameter, and
are used in drawing out tungsten wire for electric light filaments. The drilling, done by either hand or foot treadle
power, requires 14 days of drilling 24 hours a day.
