THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 15, 1933

DAVIDSON 24 THE CITADEL 6

Around the Wildcat’s Lair

’CATS MEET WILLIAM AND MARY

CASKIE NORVELL

Praise his name! And any other expression that you wish to throw in, because Johnny Mackorell, shifty Davidson field general,
virtually assured himself of a berth on the all-state team by his scintillating play in Davidson’s 26-6 licking of the
Citadel eleven. Displaying offensive pyrotechnics, the like of which have been seldom seen on staid Richardson Field, the Wildcats shellacked
their Bulldog foes soundly, in the annual classic between the two teams. It was their thirteenth meeting, and the ’Cats
really put it to ’em, and got a sugar-coated revenge for Citadel's 7-6 victory of last season.

To give away orchids this week would undoubtedly break the old boy, but special mention should be given some Davidson
players, and also some Citadel performers, who really put that game on the map as a classic among classics. There
was “Little Joe” Wingfield, the dapper young halfback who was everywhere at once, and nowhere at all when the Bulldogs
went to nab him. Let us not forget Dewey Hutchins, and his two runs to touchdown; Big Jim Morgan, potential
all-state candidate, who nabbed one of Mackorell’s accurate tosses for a 21-yard gain, and Baxter Yarborough, who showed up well
in his first appearance on a college gridiron. In the line we had the brilliant play of Captain Rives, McElrath,
Potter, Windham, and Siewers. The whole team did its bit in a fine exhibition of blocking, when Mackorell two-stepped his
way to a 74-yard touchdown run.

The work of Ogilvie in the Citadel line is decidedly worthy of mention, and the pile-driving tactics of Ferguson and
Quarterman was good football in the best leagues. The long-awaited punting duel between Mackorell and Quarterman turned out to be
a honey. The South Carolinian, declared by many to be the nation’s greatest punter, got off several beautiful kicks, but
one boot that was blocked placed his average below that of Mackorell, as the local field general was consistently booting
those good old forty-five-yarders, which are the safe and sane method of picking up yardage.

With the Citadel game, as we have mentioned before, Mackorell is being played up for all-state honors. The press picks
Hendrickson as possibly the outstanding quarterback of the Southern Conference. And if the all-southern elevens were picked on a basis
of all teams within that area, and not just conference teams, the name of Mackorell would head the list for
the quarterback post. Give me the Duke line, and a backfield composed of Mackorell, South Carolina’s Earl Clary, Citadel’s Quarterman,
and Washington and Lee’s Sawyers, and it would be just too bad for Southern California, Purdue, and the other big
boys.

Well, so much for Wingfield, Hutchins, and Mackorell, Inc.’s, nice lacing of the Citadel. And now let us turn to
the freshman team, who turned in a smooth piece of work when they turned back the Wofford freshmen, 32-0, in
a game played last Friday on Richardson Field. Coaches Laird and Peabody put their entire squad on the field, and
when Peabody, the younger, made two touchdowns, Wofford was a goner, and Garrison, Corbin, Quick, Shemwell, and Cook simply tore
the Terrier line to shreds to score at will.

Next week the Davidson Wildcats go up against the William and Mary Indians at Williamsburg, Va., for the first meeting
of the teams in some years. Both schools have good teams this year, and a keen contest should result. This
column chooses Davidson, as we propose to show you below. V. M. I. beat Virginia 13-12, and Virginia licked Randolph-Macon,
32-0. Then William and Mary beat Randolph-Macon, 12-0. Therefore Virginia is 20 points better than William and Mary, and V.
M. I. is 21 points the superior. Davidson is then 27 points better than William and Mary as the locals
thrashed V. M. I., 6-0.

(Continued on page 6)

JOHNNY MACKORELL OFF ON 12-YARD JAUNT

(Courtesy Charlotte Observer)

In the photo above is shown Johnny Mackorell, Davidson field general, and potential all-state candidate, on one of his many
gains through the Bulldog team, in the Citadel-Davidson classic Saturday. The play of Mackorell in this game was particularly outstanding,
and impressed scribes greatly.

TOURNEY WON BY PHI DELTS

Win Over Kappa Sigma Team by 6-0 in Final Play-off

In the finals of the inter-fraternity football tournament, the Phi Delta Thetas defeated the Kappa Sigmas, 6-0. This game was
a play-off, the first one ending in a 6-6 tie. The only score was made on a long pass from
Armistead to Lewis, who were the constant threats for the Phi Delta Thetas. Loftin and Holland were outstanding for the
Kappa Sigmas.

A summary of the entire tournament follows:

First-round: Kappa Sigma (bye), Pi Kappa Phi (bye), Sigma Phi Epsilon (bye), Beta Theta Pi (bye), Phi Gamma Delta (bye),
Pi Kappa Alpha defeated Sigma Alpha Epsilon on yardage, Phi Delta Theta defeated Theta Omega, 18-0, Kappa Alpha Upsilon (bye).

Second round: Kappa Sigma defeated Pi Kappa Phi 6-0, Sigma Phi Epsilon defeated Beta Theta Pi 6-0, Pi Kappa Alpha
defeated Phi Gamma Delta 12-0, Phi Delta Theta defeated Kappa Alpha 18-0.

Semi-final round: Kappa Sigma defeated Sigma Phi Epsilon 6-0, Phi Delta Theta defeated Pi Kappa Alpha 18-0.

Final round: Phi Delta Theta defeated Kappa Sigma 6-0.

The following points have been won in football toward the fraternity athletic trophy: Phi Delta Theta, 20; Kappa Sigma, 15;
Pi Kappa Alpha and Sigma Phi Epsilon, 7½ each. This trophy is given every year to the fraternity getting the
highest number of points in the following: Football, basketball, volleyball, baseball, and varsity competition. Kappa Sigma holds the cup at
present.

Class Quints Begin Annual Tournament

The annual basketball tournament between the four classes of Davidson College was begun on Monday, November 16. The class winning
this tournament has a goodly number of points added to their total. The class having the largest number of points
at the close of the year will receive a reward.

The tournament inaugurated itself with the Seniors engaging the Freshmen. The schedule is so arranged that each team will have
two games with every other team on the Hill. The coaches for each team are: Seniors, Fred Smyre; Juniors, Courtney
Ross; Sophomores, Mack Holland; Freshmen, John Lafferty. All games will be played, it is hoped, before the first regular varsity
scheduled game. In the opening game, the Freshmen, led by Knorr and Gaw, knocked off the Seniors, 24-22.

Carolina Overcomes ’Cat Runners Monday

Tar Heels Wreck Davidson’s Hopes for Undefeated Season, 27-29

The hopes of the Davidson cross-country team for an undefeated season were blasted Monday, when a powerful group of runners
from Carolina came to Davidson and eked out a close victory over the Wildcats, 27 to 29.

Although Davidson's sensational sophomore runner, Earle Frazier, led the pack in the fair time of 16 minutes, 38 seconds, and
was followed closely by Ellis Oakes, the power of the Tar Heel boys was shown when they placed the next
four men to gain a lead in the scoring which could not be overcome. The harriers were greatly hindered in
the running of the course by the soggy condition of the ground, caused by a hard shower shortly before the
meet. A slight rain was falling during the race, and this fact accounts for the seeming slowness of the running
time.

This is the first defeat of the season for the Davidson team, since they tied Duke, 28 to 28; won
over N. C. State, 19 to 39, and decisively defeated Washington and Lee, 20to 43. The order in which the
runners finished, with the points scored by each, is as follows: Frazier (Davidson), 1; Oakes (Davidson), 2; Williamson (Carolina), 3;
Curlee (Carolina), 4; Sullivan (Carolina), 5; Sullivan (Carolina), 6; Morrow (Davidson), 7; Gullette (Davidson), 8; Singletary (Carolina), 9; Waldrop (Carolina),
10 (points do not count in team scoring); Merchant (Davidson), 11. Next weekend the team is slated to go north
up to Charlottesville, where they will meet the University of Virginia harriers. The Cavaliers have run thus far the Navy
cross-country team, which beat them by a good margin, and, in a triangle meet, V. M. I. and W. &
L., both of these teams showing up as stronger than the Virginia boys.

Davidson team Davidson Varsity to Tackle W & M Indians Wildcats Journey to Williamsburg to Meet William and Mary Eleven
Wildcats one of the strongest football teams in the State of Virginia Saturday when they take the field against William
and Mary at Williamsburg, Davidson's will encounter next. Due to the fact that the schedules of the two teams vary
to such an extent, little comparison can be made along the line of competitive scores, but predictions point to a
close battle between two aggregations of evenly-matched caliber. At the present time, the Indians have played eight games, winning four
and losing four, whereas the ‘Cats have engaged in only seven contests, the results being four victories, two defeats, and
one tie. William and Mary has rolled up 88 points to its opponents’ 71, while Davidson has a total of
50 for the opponents’ 77. As the schedule has included teams of greater strength than that of the Wildcats, the
Indians having met such elevens as those of Navy, Washington and Lee, V. P. I., and Georgetown University. The only
team played this year by both William and Mary and Davidson is V. M. I. The Indians licked the “Flying
Squadron” 14 to 0, and the ‘Cats won by a score of 6-0.

The Wildcats should be able to put their full strength on the field Saturday, for none of the men suffered
injuries last week, and several of those already on the injured list have recovered sufficiently to see service next Saturday.
Julian West, center, who was hurt in the game with Duke, was in action again last week. Also, Paul Pittman
and “Midge” Verble, two brilliant sophomore backs, should be in shape for the coming fray.

(Continued on page 6)

WHAT ABOUT THAT TRIP?
Cars For Hire
Gulf Gasoline
M. P. HENDERSON

SHEAFFER LIFETIME PENS
LARGE ASSORTMENT
YOUR NAME IN GOLD FREE
COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”

TIGERS LOSE TO TERRIERS
Wofford Springs Big Upset to Defeat Powerful Clemson Eleven

As Davidson soundly trounced The Citadel, 24-6, in the Armistice Day classic and chalked up its eleventh win in thirteen
contests with the Bulldogs, other teams on the Wildcat schedule met with varying fortune. On the winning side of the
ledger Saturday were found Elon, North Carolina, Duke, and Wofford, while those who met defeat included V. M. I., N.
C. State, William and Mary, and Wake Forest.

In a game played at Hickory Friday afternoon, Elon kept its perfect record in the North State Conference by licking
the Lenoir-Rhyne Bears, 7-0. The work of Neal and Newsome in the Christian backfield was outstanding. North Carolina's Tar Heels
rose in wrath Saturday to administer a 26-0 shellacking to the Deacons from Wake Forest. Ed Martin’s booming punts were
largely responsible for Carolina's victory. Martin also returned a punt 40 yards to a touchdown, and then added the extra
point. The work of DeAngelis in the Deacon line, and that of Swan and Barclay in the Tar Heel forward
wall stood out.

Wofford soared to new heights Saturday, and spoiled the Armistice Day celebration of Clemson College, by trimming the Tigers, 14-13,
in the day's leading upset. Bouknight led his Terrier eleven to a well-earned victory over the favored Clemson boys. Clemson
had licked State, 9-0, and Wake Forest, 13-0, while Davidson had soundly whipped Wofford, 28-13, thereby making the Tigers a
heavy favorite over the Terriers. But those Spartanburg lads sent the old dope bucket skyrocketing.

The powerful University of South (Continued on page 6)

WILDKITTENS TRIM TERRIER PUPS 32 TO 0
Davidson Yearlings Show Great Improvement in All Departments of Game
FIRST ’KITTEN WIN
Wofford Fresh Threaten Only Once

Held scoreless in the first half, Davidson freshmen broke loose in the second period to defeat the Wofford yearlings, 32-0.
Davidson had a decided edge in the first half, outplaying Wofford in every department of the game, but seemed to
lack the necessary punch to pass the 15-yard line. The only scoring threat offered by Wofford came when, after a
kick to the ‘Kittens’ 43-yard line, a pass was intercepted by the Terriers and the ball placed on Davidson's 18-yard
line. However, this threat was stopped when Cook intercepted one of the Terriers’ passes to give the Davidson freshmen the
ball on their own 25-yard line. The next play, which caused much excitement in the Davidson stands, had Gracey, the
center, passing the ball to the quarterback, who returned it to Gracey to send him on a 65-yard gallop to
Wofford’s 30-yard line. After four tries at the line the ball went over to Wofford on her own 25-yard line.
The half ended, when after a series of kicks Davidson had the ball in mid-field.

The second half was opened by a long drive by the ‘Kittens which netted the first touchdown of the game,
and a penalty for roughness on the part of the Terriers put the ball on Wofford’s 2-yard line. Peabody took
the ball over for the touchdown. The extra point failed, but Davidson kicked to the Terriers, who, after two thrusts
at the line, punted out of bounds on Davidson's 39-yard line. A long end run by Peabody to Wofford's 36
seemed to inspire the team as they drove down the field for their second touchdown, with Peabody packing the ball.
The extra point went wide and the score stood 12-0.

Coach Laird sent the second team in at the kick-off. The ‘Kittens kicked the ball to the Terriers’ 15, Wofford
running the ball back to the 17. A penalty inflicted on the ‘Kittens gave Wofford a first down. After two
line bucks, Wofford kicked. On the next play Olschner, receiving a pass from Garrison, galloped 50 yards for a touchdown.
Arrowood drop-kicked the first extra point of the game, to give the ‘Kittens a 19-0 lead.

Davidson freshmen kicked to Wofford, the Terriers running the ball back to their own 45-yard line. The third quarter ended
when a Wofford pass was intercepted by Corbin and run to the 20-yard line. Line plays resulted in no gain,
and the ‘Kittens resorted to the air. However, the pass went over the goal, and the ball was given to
Wofford on her 20-yard line. The Terriers were unable to gain the necessary ten yards and the ball went over
to Davidson on the 15-yard line. A 5-yard run by Garrison and two more thrusts at the line gave them
a first down on Wofford's 5-yard line. Garrison took the ball over and Arrowood converted, making the score 26-0.

Davidson freshmen kicked to Wofford (Continued on page 6)

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY
“DAY OF RECKONING”
RICHARD DIX—MADGE EVANS

THURSDAY
“TAKE A CHANCE”
JAMES DUNN—JUNE KNIGHT—LILLIAN ROTH
CLIFF EDWARDS—LILLIAN BOND—DOROTHY LEE

FRIDAY
“MY LIPS BETRAY”
JOHN BOLES—EL BRENDEL

SATURDAY
“WHITE WOMEN”
CHARLES LAUGHTON—CAROLE LOMBARD
CHARLES BICKFORD

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“OLSEN’S BIG MOMENT”
EL BRENDEL—BARBARA WEEKS
