THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1933

Revolution in China, Says Stanley Jones

Stanley Jones, the famous missionary, spoke to an audience of several thousand people in the huge Reynolds Auditorium at Winston-Salem
Sunday night, and declared that India and China today were in the midst of the Great Hesitation. “Until recently,” he
declared, “the dead ruled the living in the East. But now a new freedom has been born.”

Dr. Jones described China as a land “torn by five revolutions in a single generation: intellectual, economic, social, political, and
spiritual.” “It is a battle,” he declared, “between Communism and Christianity, and thus far Communism has the upper hand. The
student in China is the center of life. It is he who must make this decision. One Eastern student said
to me recently, ‘We have two sets of books, one—those of Lenin and Marx, showing the violent, anti-religious solution, the
other—those of Gandhi and Tolstoi, pointing out the peaceful, religious way.’”

Dr. Jones, who is the author of several books, including “The Christ of the Indian Road,” “The Christ of the
Mount,” and “The Christ of the Round-Table,” is recognized as one of the greatest missionaries of this generation. His work
in India has brought him into intimate relationships with many of the national leaders, including Mahatma Gandhi, whom he visited
in jail shortly before his last trip to this country.

Dr. Jones represents a liberal element in the mission work. He began his address with a plea for religious unity.
His denominationalism, he declared, was confined to a geographical mile. “I was born a Southern Methodist. My family moved one
mile, when I was very young, and I became a Northern Methodist.” He expressed fear that civilization could never survive
another cataclysm like the last war. “We went to the abyss of ruin,” he said, “and looked over.” In agreement
with this view, he later declared that “there was a time when Christianity and gunboats were bound together too closely.”
He told of a Hindu who had spoken of the different approaches of Christianity: “When Christ came to India and
knocked upon our door, and we looked out and saw Him standing there, a diplomat on one side and a
soldier on the other, we said, ‘We like you, but we don’t like your company.’”

Dr. Jones praised the resolution passed by a missionary council asking that they be given no military protection. “Love is
a shield,” he said. “May we overcome evil with good, hate by love, and the world with a cross.”

Unusually Interesting Meeting Is Held by Phi’s

The members of the Phi Literary Society enjoyed a most interesting program at their latest meeting last Tuesday night, and
an educational one as well. Though the meeting was not so well attended, those who were present were surely most
ably recompensed for their interest.

The first part of the program was given over to an unusually vivid account by Duncan McBryde of his trip
to Europe during the summer of 1930. Duncan in turn amused and interested his audience by his accounts of German
night clubs and beer gardens and his descriptions of the German customs. One could almost see the English Channel with
the white cliffs of Dover on the one side and the beautiful fields of Calais on the other. McBryde’s narrow
escape from a collision on the North Sea, when the steering apparatus on the ship broke, would frighten any mere
“landlubber.” When his ship passed the Statue of Liberty, Duncan surely welcomed again that smiling guardian of New York’s harbor.
He asserts that he would have given nothing for his ‘Atlantic Monthly,” as he calls it. (The trip as a
whole took a month.)

McBryde's travelogue was supplemented by a humorous debate on the subject, “Resolved: That beer should be legalized in North Carolina.”
H. W. Lucas upheld the affirmative most ably with his support of the pretzel industry, and W. L. Fugate opposed
him with vigorous denials that any American knows how to hold his beer, and that he should not be allowed
the privilege. The judges, of course, gave the decision to the affirmative, “Beer.”

After a proposal by Duncan McBryde that more interest be shown in the activities of the society, and after a
short business session, the meeting was adjourned. The society enjoyed this program greatly, and hopes for many more of the
same type. Those who may be interested in the society are urged to attend these meetings, which are usually held
in Phi Hall every Tuesday night at 7:15.

The Bookshelf

Design for Living. By Noel Coward. Doubleday, Doran and Company.

It is rather difficult now to begin reading Design for Living without prejudice. For weeks Noel Coward has been the
most discussed man in literary circles; his fame as a wit is known on more than one continent; he is
accepted as a paragon of modern sophistication. At present he is playing the part of the playwriting Otto in Design
for Living and is supported by two of the most brilliant players on the contemporary stage; the play has been
hailed with praise by the majority of the authorities on drama except the lean ranks of adverse critics headed by
the caustic George Jean Nathan.

The consensus of opinion seems to present two conflicting views on the unusual play. One group maintains that the play
is clever and witty; the other, that the comedy is low humor. Both judgments are more or less justified. The
triangular situation is based on the three characters, Otto, Gilda, and Leo, “Three people who love each other very much.”
Otto is an artist; Leo, a successful playwright; Gilda is very appealing to both. A prosaic contrast to these bizarre
personalities are the prim Ernest, the ordinary Miss Hodge, and the practical Carvers. Hectic adventures are the outcome when they
decide that their lives are opposed to ordinary social conventions. Through the lines there is a note of cynicism not
always as open as, “We've invented a few small things that make noises, but we haven’t invented one big thing
that creates quiet, endless peaceful quiet—something to pull over us like a gigantic eiderdown.”

Noel Coward shows great promise; Cavalcade and Private Lives have demonstrated his great talents. It is because we expect so
much that we are slightly disappointed in the thinness of Design for Living. It is like a line from the
play, Coward probably slyly criticizing himself: “The characterization falters here and there, but the dialogue is polished and sustains a
high level from first to last and is frequently witty, nay, even brilliant—” “He flips along with easy swift dialogue,
but doesn’t go deep enough.” And so if we are not yet willing to rank Noel Coward at the top
of present-day dramatists we must hand him the glittering crown for being the cleverest.

—E. A. HANCOCK.

The Silver Screen

Wednesday, March 29 — “Clear All Wires.”—This is one of the best pictures of the month. Lee Tracy puts on
a three-ring circus, so to speak, with his adventures. He is a United States newspaper correspondent in Moscow. When he
can’t find news, he makes it, Stalin or no Stalin. He thinks nothing of starting revolutions or other slight disturbances
so that he may have news. A girl with a southern accent saves him from rewriting Russian history, the girl
being Una Merkel. She is very clever in this part. Benita Hume from England is charming and Lila Lys is
also in the cast. Jimmy Gleason adds his wit to the picture. It is a high-powered picture of mad adventures.
It is Lee Tracy at his best in a light and good show.

Thursday, March 30—“Grand Slam”—Paul Lukas, Russian waiter, and Loretta Young, a hat check girl, astonish society by introducing a new
bridge system. It is not necessary to be a bridge addict to enjoy this picture. It is a satire on
contract mania, prima donna experts, championship bridge tournaments, and the bridge-crazy public is amusingly bewildered. A clever picture, light and
witty.

Friday and Saturday, March 31 and April 1—“42nd Street”—This goes back to the old days when talkies first began. It
is a first-class musical comedy and perhaps the best that has been produced. The endless dancing routines have been lessened
and there is plenty of action. It is a Cinderella story. Ruby Keeler is the heroine. She rises from the
chorus to save the show. It is a highly-put aerial show. An excellent cast is in the picture, including Ruby
Keeler, Bebe Daniels, George Brent, Warner Baxter, and Dick Powell. Ruby Keeler, in her screen debut, is splendid. There are
good-looking girls in the chorus scenes and just wait till you hear these tunes: “Shuffle Off to Buffalo,” “I’m Young
and Healthy,” “42nd Street,” and “You’re Getting to Be a Habit With Me.” This picture is par excellent in its
class.

Monday and Tuesday, April 3 and 4—“So This Is Africa”—Wheeler and Woolsey are caught by Amazon women and their subsequent
actions are a wow. Raquel Torres is the love interest. Wheeler and Woolsey are at their best and this is
supposed to surpass any of their previous pictures. Especially good if you like these two screen maniacs.

Alumni NewsSONG FOR PARTING

When I am gone
And my room is only four white walls
With a door and two startled window-eyes
To let the tiny memory-calls
Slip in and out like butterflies,
Perhaps you may come and stand quite still
A moment, and notice the air is chill—
Perhaps, when I am gone.

When I am gone
You will smile, no doubt, at the solemn look
Of four white walls and two glass eyes
And the door with its funny broken hook
Where I used to hang my worn-out ties.
And if a tear should intrude on you
It’s a bit of my heart I left with you
For love—when I am gone.

—R. B. (An Alumnus)

ALUMNI NEWS

Alumni who have visited the campus within the last week include: Allen Frew, '30, who is attending Princeton Theological Seminary;
Frank Buckner, ’32, who spent the Easter holidays at home from the Duke University Medical School, and Dr. John McSween,
’04, president of Presbyterian College in Clinton. Dr. McSween preached at the Davidson Church on Sunday morning and talked at
the vesper service that afternoon. He was the speaker at the regular Sunday night service and also led the chapel
exercises Monday morning. Dr. McSween has spoken for the “Y” exercises before and it is always with pleasure that his
friends in Davidson renew their acquaintance with him.

T. C. Watkins, ’28, of Lexington, Va., and his wife, spent the past weekend in Davidson with Mr. Watkins’ mother,
Mrs. T. H. Watkins.

Among those Davidson students studying at Duke University in Durham at present are: William A. Mason, ’31, of the School
of Law. Others attending this school are E. Z. DuBose, ’32; Z. V. Long, ’30, and W. B. McGuire, ’30.
J. T. Welch, ’32, is studying economics in the Graduate School. Most of the alumni there are interested in medicine
and among this group are: L. C. Roberts, ’30; R. L. McMillan, ’28; R. W. Graves, '26, who is residing
at 512 Milton Avenue; H. S. Munroe, Jr., '31; R. Z. Query, Jr., ’29; John F. Preston, ’31; Watson Wharton,
’31; Joseph B. Stevens, ’32; A. S. Morrow, ’32, and W. G. McGavock, ’30.

Student Wit of Ten Years Ago

THINGS WE ARE TIRED OF:
Newspaper pictures of horrible looking women captioned “Russian Beauties.”
Reading the Hall-Mills Murder Case.
The muddy paths on the campus.
People who say, “It’s a great life to be in college.”
Roommate’s two-hour recital of the things he is going to do when he goes home for the Thanksgiving holidays.
Hard seats in chapel.
The heating system.

A NEW COLLEGE YELL:
Horse and Wagon! Horse and Wagon!
Team! Team! Team!

WEST DORMITORY JUMPS:
In front of West Dormitory is an insurmountable wall that extends to the height of three feet. Every day the
student in going to classes, being too lazy to walk around, attempts to jump up on this wall, risking broken
arms, fractured legs, and even broken backs and necks, not to mention the innumerable bruises. Each student jumps on this
wall on an average of four jumps per day and, counting out Sunday, twenty-four jumps per week, ninety-six per month,
or approximately eight hundred and sixty-four jumps per college year. Since each jump is three feet the poor student has
jumped 2,593 feet. Physics gives the law that work is equal to the force times the distance. Since the student
weighs 150 pounds, then 150 times 2,593 equals 388,800 foot-pounds of energy wasted in one year alone. Just imagine that
wasted in the four years of college life; he jumps 1,965 miles high and expends 1,555,200 foot-pounds of energy. This
does not take into consideration that the student has to jump down this same distance and has to use the
same amount of energy that he does going up.

Interesting Talks Made At Eu Literary Society

The Eumenean Literary Society met Tuesday evening in Eu Hall. After Jake Mackorell, the president, had called the meeting to
order, Ed McNair led in a short prayer, which was followed by the roll call and reading of the minutes
of the last meeting. Herman Dillard opened the program by giving a few current events. He mentioned the bank situation,
Zangara’s execution, women’s plea for peace in Germany, passing of the beer bill by Congress, England’s effort to gather gold
and return to the gold standard, and France making steps toward payment of their debt to the United States. These
news items covered in a very concise way the main topics of interest throughout the world today.

After Mr. Dillard had taken his seat, Ed McNair continued his series of talks on his journey through the western
states of America. This week’s chapter began at Pike’s Peak, Colorado, from which place he went to Colorado Springs, then
on to Denver, the Colorado state capital, with its civic center in a beautiful park, at one end of which
is the capitol building and at the other all the majestic municipal structures tower into the sky. The next stop
was at the unparalleled work of art wrought by nature, Arizona’s Grand Canyon. To see this great wonder, which only
God through nature could accomplish, is in itself worth the time and money spent to be able to stand and
view it in all its splendor.

Mr. Stuart Henry was next on the program with a very interesting paper dealing with the “Bitter One of Russia,”
Maxim Gorky. This great Russian hasn’t concentrated his talent solely on socialism, which made him famous in his native land,
but his dramas and stories of real life have added to his glory. President Mackorell then described the key which
all members having served two years in the society are eligible to wear. After a brief discussion of this, plans
were introduced for the erection of a plaque in Eu Hall as a memorial to Woodrow Wilson, who was a
member of this organization while a student at Davidson. A business meeting was then entered into and Mr. Ed Hodge
brought up the matter of an exchange deputation with Mitchell College in Statesville. This being all the business, an effort
was made toward adjourning, but Mr. Tom Caldwell thwarted it by suggesting that President Mackorell appoint Mr. Richards to act
as tutor for Ed McNair with regards to behavior at all social functions, especially when ladies are present. Quite verbose
arguments found their way to the tongues of the Messrs. Caldwell and Richards, which finally led to a most humble
apology from Mr. McNair for his ungentlemanly conduct and that he would submit himself to the advice and tutorage of
the two friends who had shown such keen interest in his welfare. Vice-President Banks then read the critic report due
to the absence of the latter after which the meeting was adjourned.

Spanish Club Discusses Celebration of Easter

“The Spanish Celebration of Easter” was the theme of the program of the Spanish Club at its last meeting on
Wednesday, March 22. Members of the club discussed customs of celebration of this holy ceremony in Spain. The first discussion
was given by Fred McPhail, concerning the custom of “El Lavatorio,” which consisted of the washing of the feet of
twelve paupers by the King of Spain, to commemorate Jesus’ washing of the disciples’ feet on the night of the
Last Supper. Duncan McBryde then discussed the ceremonies and rites observed on “Holy Saturday.” He explained the various fiestas and
social ceremonies as well as the religious rites observed on this day. He also pointed out the great importance of
this occasion to the Spanish people. Bill Bogart presented an account of Easter Sunday itself and the reaction of the
Spanish people to the Easter ceremonies. At the conclusion of these reports, Professor Fleagle, honorary member of the Spanish Club,
made a very interesting supplementary talk, concerning unique aspects of the Easter celebration, based on his personal observations in Spain.
He told of the gaiety of the fiestas and processions, and of the deeply religious nature of the more serious
rites. To conclude the program, Jack Williams, Jr., read a humorous Spanish poem, “The Discovery of a Madman.”

Immediately after the adjournment of the Spanish Club, a meeting of Sigma Delta Pi, national Spanish fraternity, was held. The
purpose of the meeting was the election of new officers. The results of the election are as follows: President, Fred
Smyre; vice-president, Bob Woodside; secretary, Jack Williams, Jr.; treasurer, Ed Humphrey; corresponding secretary, Odi Casali.

COMMENCEMENT and Then GRADUATION

A SENIOR’S desire is to have a lasting remembrance of college life. These are brought about by college ties, formalities
and Commencement Invitations. See E. O. Guerrant A. M. Manson

THE GREATEST UNDERWEAR VALUE

You can pay more than HANES costs—but you can’t get more. Just try to match HANES values. There’s the Gold
Label Light Weight Union Suit or Shirts and Drawers. SAMSONBACK Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war belt. That’s patented and
can’t be imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and Shorts in a variety that will make it easy for the most fastidious to
choose from. All at prices that will make you wonder how it can be done.

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.
