MARCH 22, 1933

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian announces that the following men are eligible for the editorship of the paper for the coming year:

Phi Bete Eddy McNair with the situation well in hand of a Tuesday night. He was dashing around with a
girl named Eve whom I didn’t know from Adam. She was one of the prettiest of the Queens-Chicora girls who
came up to present the program at the Eu Literary Society meeting. I wanted to meet her but she was
off with him from her arrival until time to leave.

Recently a test flight in India was made by two members of the British Mount Everest flight expedition. The Westland
Wallace, one of the planes to be used in the expedition, was piloted by Flight Lieutenant D. F. McIntyre and
Sergeant Major D. F. McIntyre.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina. Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor-in-Chief: K. N. T.
Business Manager: MOM MANSON
Managing Editors: A. W. SOLER, M. F. SCHENCK, W. M. THOMPSON, JACK WILLIAMS
Athletic Editor: ODI CASALI
Exchange Editor: E. LAKE
Feature Editors: C. W. RAW, S. GAMBLE
Contributing Editor: T. GOODYKOONTZ
Review Editor: A. HANCOCK
Associate Editors: D. D. McBRYDE, F. MYERS, B. SUGGS

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Managers: T. N. JOHNSON, J. H. GIBSON, M. ALVAREZ, H. B. ISBELL, J. M. G., L. W. P.
JR., L. McCLINTOCK, R. M. ALDERMAN, V. L. McILWAINEN, G. E. BAILY, E. F. McPHAIL, D. B. BAILEY, W. C.
NEILL, B. C. BARNES, W. I. NORTHEN, E. BOWERS, C. E. NORVELL, H. NGTON, P. M. ROGERS, J. B. FICKLIN,
B. L. ROSE, L. GULLETTE, T. H. SUTTON, N. W. WALLACE, W. T. THOMPSON, T. F. WOOD, W. WHITE, W.
F. MULLISS, PRATT-THOMAS

MARCH 22, 1933

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

“But I say unto you, that ye resist not evil but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek turn
to him the other also.” —Matt. 5:39.

The above teaching of Christ is perhaps the most neglected of all His teachings. After nineteen hundred years we are
still willing to fight. Only until we follow the spirit of this teaching in its fullest can we ever hope
to have world peace.

Ramsey MacDonald, the British prime minister, deserves a world of credit for his work on the disarmament question. From several
sources comes the statement that he has perhaps diverted a possible war over armaments among European nations.

One cannot help but question the civilization of today. Have we really advanced when we are ready to leap at
each other’s throats upon the slightest injury to our national pride?

President Roosevelt is also to be admired for his stand on the armaments question. President Roosevelt has won the heartfelt
admiration of the people of the United States through his quick action in the present economic crisis. It is quite
possible that he can patch up the capitalistic system if he continues with the same zeal, along the same line;
and continues to have the cooperation of the American Congress, and the American people.

Junior Speaking was a big success. Lanier Pratt and his committee deserve a good deal of credit for putting it
over in such a good fashion, especially during the present financial crisis. We feel their action wise in reducing the
number of dances.

Davidson should be proud of Reeves Pope’s Southernaires. We feel that they are perhaps as good as any college orchestra
(those now in college) in the South. The orchestra was good last year, but it is even better this year.
The music they provided for Junior Speaking was very good. We are glad to hear they are to play for
Bowery Ball. The orchestra is better than a lot of outside orchestras we have heard at Davidson dances, and better
than quite a few we could obtain.

The warm spring weather of recent days “makes the youthful heart to sing.” We are all looking forward to Spring
Holidays. The sooner they come the better.

For the religious-minded and for those who are not, this columnist wishes to recommend Lloyd Douglas’ new book, “Forgive Us
Our Trespasses.” It is par-excellent.

DELTA PI KAPPA EDITORIAL CONTEST

Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, together with The Davidsonian, is offering a contest to the students of Davidson College.
It is an editorial contest; the editorials to be written on any subject.

Rules:
1. The contest is open to all Sophomores and all Juniors and Seniors not connected with the editorial staff of
any of the three publications.
2. The contest was opened on March 8 (it was announced on the front page of The Davidsonian on that
day) and will close April 1.
3. The editorials may be of any length. They may treat of any subject but must contain no direct personal
criticism or unbecoming language.
4. The editorials must be typewritten, double-spaced. No name must appear on the sheets containing the editorial, but the writer
must put his name on an outside sheet, clipped to the editorial.
5. The prize will be an honorary membership into Delta Pi Kappa.
6. Editorials must be handed in to E. O. Guerrant or J. E. Lake by April 1.
7. The editorials will be graded by E. O. Guerrant, W. C. Thompson, and J. E. Lake.
8. The Davidsonian will have the right to print any of them.

EUROPE AT PRESENT

Along with the recent ascendency of Hitler to the helm in Germany the most serious situation since before the World
War has arisen again in Europe. The last war which decimated Europe for four years was ended by the Treaty
of Versailles, which has kept the rest of the world as well as Europe in a turmoil since that time.
This war to end war seems not to have accomplished a thing along those lines, because fifteen years after its
close, Europe is again armed very heavily, and the present disarmament conference at Geneva does not seem to be making
any progress. Undoubtedly the Versailles Treaty was unjust because it forced Germany to a place where the rest of the
world thought it would be hard for her ever to recover, but Germany has advanced very rapidly in recent years.
The people are naturally very industrious and energetic and have made rapid strides forward. The Versailles Treaty has caused the
Germans to hate the French more than ever before, and they have never had any great love for them since
the time of Charlemagne. Because Hitler has always been bitterly opposed to this treaty and always outspoken, he has been
elevated to the high position which he now holds. France has alliances with certain Balkan countries and Germany, Hungary, and
Italy are closely allied in sympathy, especially since the Nazis who have recently assumed the leadership in Germany are so
much like the Fascists in Italy. Thus there seem to be two camps in Europe, and the situation looks very
much like it did in the years preceding the last war. The condition seems tragic. No one wants war, everyone
seems to fear it, and yet no one knows how to do away with it. Of course Christian teachings would
solve the question, but it certainly looks like the countries of the world have not yet reached that stage in
their development. If anything should have taught us a lesson, that last war should have, but it does not seem
to be the case. We firmly believe that the people in these various nations do not want war, but the
nationalistic and imperialistic leaders, because of greed and hate, attempt to poison the minds of their populaces and force them
into conflict. Thus the duty of every nation in the world professing itself to be Christian is to educate its
children from early childhood to look upon war as the greatest scourge of civilization, and by this means eradicate it
from the globe.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. LAKE

Ah! Guy Lombardo and His Royal Canadians will be the orchestra featuring the Virginia Military Institute’s Easter dances April 28
and 29. Guy was chosen over Bernie, Ozzie Nelson, Eddie Duchin, and Don Bestor, but this was only natural since
Guy is by far the best of the lot. He has been the best in the country for the past
two years. Guy has a contract with the CBS to play every Saturday night from 10:30 to 11:00.1. Georgia. Jerry
Clark, B. B. Sugg, and Parson Peabody are the three responsible. On these spring, moonlight nights, they get in a
huddle and their harmony can be heard all over the campus. Maybe Jerry sings because it is only a little
longer until he turns over the reins of the presidency to Julian West. I think you'll agree that he has
made us a good president and know you wish Jule the best of luck. . . . Moffett McConnell walking
on air. No, not literally but almost. He has just been awarded a year’s scholarship at the Harvard School of
Business in Boston for next year. This, by the way, is the only scholarship given at Harvard amounting to the
year’s expenses and he ought to be justly proud of it. . . A catastrophe averted. Joe Bryant sat down
in a chair in which Buck Kirkland’s glasses were lying. The glass parts dropped from the frame but were not
broken. Buck took them up and put them back in as if it was an everyday occurrence. . . A
goodly crowd of students in the balcony of the auditorium to hear Blanche Calloway play not long ago. One of
the local boarding house cooks was heard to remark, “I want to behave myself so I won’t get shipped.” In
talking to Blanche after the dance, she declared, “I really enjoy directing an orchestra, and think it is intensely interesting.”
. . . And guess you have heard by this time of the kidnappings that have been going on around
here lately. Buck Mills bummed a ride with a man who tried to take him goodness knows where out into
the woods instead of to his home at Statesville. Buck snatched the key out of the switch and then stepped
safely out of the car. Then John Willis and John Miller were picked up in Rock Hill by a party
who took them all the way to Columbia instead of bringing them to Charlotte where they were going. I hear
he told them he enjoyed doing it and once took some boys who wanted to go to New York all
the way to Miami. The most exasperating moment of the escapade came when the moron made little John Willis eat
nine fried eggs at one sitting. This has certainly taken the joy out of bumming for me! . . .
A crowd assembled on the porch of Watts dorm as I passed. Somebody observed that Lew Prosser was one of
the best-dressed men on the campus. Bugs Barringer agreed, “Yes, he is, and I ought to know because I carry
his laundry.” Speaking of laundries, have you ever figured up what your average laundry would cost if you paid regular
laundry prices? If you haven’t, then do it and multiply it by the number of weeks in the school year.
It will surprise you to learn what an item laundry would be. . . . Another one pulled on Buck
Mills in Polit class. He was sleeping peacefully when Dr. Currie asked him a question about the legal relation between
a man and his wife. Bill Munroe, who is always up to something, whispered, “Tell him you think a horse
is private property.” Buck did and the class roared. TIP-OFF. 11:30 to 12, and we may hear Guy from V.
M. I. on the 29th of April. Guy’s orchestra began in London, Ontario, about thirteen or fourteen years ago with
three members; since then it has been enlarged, but most of the members are natives of Canada, hence the name,
Royal Canadians.

Roanoke. What is the difference between an economist and a broker? An economist is a man who knows a great
deal about very little, and who goes along knowing more and more about less and less, until finally he knows
practically everything about nothing. A broker is a man who knows a little about a great deal and who keeps
on knowing less and less about more and more, until he knows practically nothing about everything.—Wall Street Journal.

Washington and Lee. The students voted yesterday on the question of their Finals, whether it would be a $10 Finals
with the orchestra being one of the big ones, such as Jan Garber, Hal Kemp, Ted Weems, Ben Bernie, or
Gus Arnheim, or a $5 Finals with a mediocre orchestra and decorations. Till yet we don’t know how the voting
came out as The Davidsonian went to press before they met. To compete with V. M. I. they had best
get the $10 Finals.

Be used in the flight, was taken up by Flight Lieutenant McIntyre and Chief Cinematographer Bonnett to a height of
34,000 feet. The plane functioned excellently, and everyone was satisfied with its performance. One or two minor details were not
exactly satisfactory. The most important of these is the impossibility of the photographer to rise up in his cockpit in
order to take his pictures. The air is of such character that it seems to come right through the oxygen
mask, causing the failure of this important apparatus. The electrically heated flying suits also were slightly imperfect, in that the
knees of the flyers were too hot. These corrections will be made and the flight over Mount Everest will be
made in the near future.

In the New York State Legislature, a bill was brought up which would prohibit vivisection, medical experiments on living dogs.
This question has created quite a difference of opinion, some thinking that the peace for the dogs is more valuable
than the information derived from the experiments. Mrs. Harry Goeckler, an officer of the Humane Society, stated that she saw
a dog with a cord through its heart in the backyard of a young doctor near her home. She said,
“That dog had been experimented upon in New York City and had been brought to Larchmont by the doctor so
he could watch it suffer.” The State Anti-Vivisection Society strongly denied that vivisection was necessary, although many of New York’s
leading physicians contended that the experiments were necessary “if we are to prolong life and relieve suffering.” Among those opposing
the bill forbidding vivisection are the director of the New York State Health Department Laboratory and the State Commissioner of
Health. It seems to us as if the bill were an attempt on the part of a few to pass
a law which would be helpful to the animals, but which would hinder progress in the discovery of human medical
facts. Perhaps if they realized that they someday might be in a position where their life was balanced against a
dog’s comfort, they might change their minds.

The atlas used by Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden in the Thirty Years War has been discovered. It was printed in
1689, composed by Gerard Mercator of Amsterdam. The Swedish king’s route in the war was shown, marked with red crosses.
The volume was discovered in the library of the University of Heidelberg. Upon the front of the book was a
medallion picture of Gustavus and the inscription, “Gustavo Adolfo D. G. Suec Goth rex.” The hand-colored maps are well preserved,
although the one of Germany shows that it was well used.

The liner Egypt yielded up the gold cargo to the Italian salvage crew, so plans are being made to put
the same crew to work, attempting to salvage the treasure ship of Louis XVI which is sunk in the Seine
River near Havre. Just before the French Revolution, Louis XVI is said to have put a large supply of gold,
jewels, and plate upon the Telemaque for the purpose of sending the treasure to New York, out of reach of
threatening revolutionists. The Telemaque is said to have sunk near the mouth of the Seine, where it still lies. An
attempt to salvage the treasure was made in 1840, but was unsuccessful. The Italian company now planning an attempt has
an advantage of almost one hundred years of engineering development and experience.

Exactly what the changing of Germany’s flags means is rather hard to determine. Whether it means that there is a
slow-moving attempt to restore the German empire, or whether it means that Hitler is bidding for the dictatorship under a
very weak emperor is impossible to foresee. Nevertheless, the fact remains that Germany has returned to the imperial black, white,
and red colors. The republican black, red, and gold flags have been removed from the military units of government, both
army and navy. In some cases, the imperial eagle is in prominence, while in others the black cross is in
the center of the flag. Now Germany is under a mixture of flags. There are a few republican colors, and
some with the swastika emblem of the Nazis, as well as the different types of imperial colors. At the next
meeting of the Reichstag, the legal flag will probably be determined.

Japan is having an extremely hard time providing herself with raw materials with which to carry on her war with
China. The islands of Japan are not rich in iron ore, so Japan has to import large quantities of scrap
iron from the west coast of America to use in her steel mills. The Japanese, when questioned as to why
they imported so much steel from the Canadian Pacific junk yards, stated that there was a law that all the
city buildings had to be built with reinforcing of steel in order to be able to withstand earthquakes. It is
interesting to note, however, that since Japan started her war with China, Los Angeles harbor has increased its junk iron
exports 2,000 percent. One thing which is still shipped to Japan for the purpose of carrying on the war is
airplanes, and airplane motors, which are not included in the arms embargo.
