THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1933

Guerrant and McCallie Are Successful Heads Of Campus Publications

Edward Guerrant, Retired Editor of Davidsonian, Has Had Wide Experiences as Traveler

DIFFER IN BACKGROUND

Bob McCallie, Annual Editor, Is Distinguished in Many Ways

By GEORGE GULLETTE

Edward Guerrant

Edward Guerrant was born in Danville, Virginia, in 1911. Only a year after Ed’s birth, his family moved to California, but even the Sunnyland was not able to hold him, and as soon as he grew up a bit, we find him literally roving all over the United States. Ed’s home, however, was first Los Angeles and then Pasadena, where he has lived for nine years. Every summer he has taken four or five trips on which he has had wide experiences and has met many interesting people. Two of his summers have been spent in Kentucky with relatives; and three winters he has basked in Florida.

At Pasadena High School, he interested himself in no particular activities, due largely to the fact that he changed schools so often. However, while there, he was in the same class with the now famous netmen, Ellsworth Vines and Sidney Wood. During his high school career, Ed’s chief indoor hobby was studying radios. Ed has made a great sport of hunting and fishing. Last summer, he was visited by Bob Glasgow, with whom he has roomed for four years, and except for the Olympic Games, the fishing parties were the most interesting features of the trip.

Ed happened to come to Davidson because his parents wanted him to come to a Presbyterian college in the Southeast. He signed up for Stanford his sophomore year, but fortunately changed his mind at the last moment, for which he is very thankful now. For the first two months of his freshman year, Ed went out for the business staff of “The Davidsonian,” but at the suggestion of Dr. Cumming, changed to the editorial side. Of course, all Davidson students know that he has successfully been the editor-in-chief of this publication for the past year. He says he knows of nothing from which he has derived more good than from his work on “The Davidsonian.” He further states, “To have accomplished something gives one confidence. The experience I had in journalism has probably profited me mostly in the responsibility I took on and the experience of working with other men.” It is interesting and possibly inspiring to many publication workers to know that he had had no journalistic experience before coming to Davidson.

Robert McCallie

Davidson has always welcomed students from the McCallie School at Chattanooga, Tenn., and each year gets a goodly share of its graduates. One of the most outstanding men to come here from there is Robert McCallie, son of one of the co-headmasters of the McCallie School. Bob was born at the McCallie School on October 11, 1911. Bob has never been to a public school, having spent the primary years of his education at the Bright School. His anxiety to enter the McCallie School, or perhaps just impudence, caused him to go in the main building against the strict orders of his uncle, whereupon he and his cousin, T. Hooke, were grasped by the nape of the neck by the latter’s father and cast gently but surely down the front steps. Nevertheless, Bob’s persistence gained for him entrance at the age of 8, making him the youngest student on record there.

Bob’s football endeavors proved fatal. In his first game, against Knoxville High, he got a rib broken early in the game. After a speedy recovery, he entered another game, and was soon carried off the field with a broken ankle. He was quite broken up about this, but several weeks later he again donned the grid uniform and lost no time in cracking his ankle again during practice, thus closing his football career.

Bob was recompensed for his misfortunes in football by his excellent record in track. He was a member of the mile relay team that broke the southern interscholastic record in the time of 3 minutes and 33 seconds. That same team broke the Tech relay record. Besides his honors in track, he also did well as a soccer player. Although baseball is his favorite sport, he has never done any playing in school competition. It is interesting to note that Bob was editor-in-chief of the McCallie annual his last year there. It is still more interesting to note that the editorship was handed down to him by Ned Dwelle, who was to hand over the reins of “Quips and Cranks” to him four years later in Chambers Auditorium. Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, and McCallie has followed in his footsteps in this respect also.

After nine years at the McCallie School, seasoned with two summers at Camp Carolina, Bob entered Davidson. It was mainly through the influence of Dr. Wilcox, now president of the Darlington School, that he came here. His achievements here at Davidson may be summed up in four statements which need no further elaboration. He distinguished himself in track,winning three letters as a hurdler of the first rank. As already mentioned, he was the editor of the 1932-33 “Quips and Cranks.” His scholastic ambition was realized when he received a bid to Phi Beta Kappa. And last but not least, he was made president of the Davidson Chapter of Sigma Upsilon.

1933 YEAR BOOK TO BE RELEASED WITHIN TEN DAYS
(Continued from page 1)

ager of “Quips and Cranks.” This year the annual should break even financially. Students owe $200, and $700 is still to be collected for advertising. Honorary fraternities make up the balance of the present deficit. The success of the financial side of the yearbook depended on W. C. Thompson as business manager. His able assistants were the following men: Owen Ravenel, James Harris, Bill Johnston, Alvis Gatewood, and Zoggs Corbin. The Queen City Printing Company of Charlotte is printing the yearbook.

Pikas Reach Finals In Baseball League

In the first of a trio of fraternity league ball games, the boys from the Phi Gam house defeated the Theta Upsilon Omega team, 12 to 8. The game was played last Wednesday on the freshman field. Wright pitched for the Phi Gams, giving up but four hits. Pennington, hurling for the T. U. O.’s, allowed seven bingles. Creech, Siewers, and Montgomery each gleaned two hits to top the sluggers. Both of Creech’s blows were circuit clouts. Pennington, Sutlive, Dolan, and Johnson hit one apiece for the T. U. O. team.

Score by innings:
Phi Gamma Delta 702 x—12
Theta Upsilon Omega 011 005 1—8

Wright and McKeithan; Pennington and Johnson.

The Phi Delta Thetas advanced to the semi-final round by administering a sound, 10 to 6 defeat to the Pi Kappa Phi boys. “Goof” Warren and Brad McLean were on the mound for the losers, while Madison Armistead and John Lafferty hurled for the victors. This placed the Phi Delts in the semi-final round, where they will meet the Phi Gamma Delta team for the right to enter the finals.

Score by innings:
Phi Delta Theta 320 041 0—10
Pi Kappa Phi 032 100 0—6

Lafferty, Armistead and Parker; McLean, Warren and Alderman.

The Pi Kappa Alpha team entered the finals of the inter-fraternity baseball championship, when behind Jim Ashton’s good hurling, they turned back the strong Sig Ep nine, 5 to 4, last Thursday afternoon on the freshman field. Eb Willson, Pika slugger, led the hitting for the day, with four out of four. He was pushed by Andy Little, Pi K. A. shortstop, who got three for four.

Score by innings:
Pi Kappa Alpha 102 011 0—5
Sigma Phi Epsilon 103 000 0—4

Ashton and A. Gregory; Howard and Casali.

BIRTH ANNOUNCEMENT

Dr. and Mrs. C. K. Brown are the proud parents of a son, born on Wednesday, May 12. Dr. Brown is head of the economics department of Davidson College.

Because the vulgar cannot love anything different to themselves—Jeffery Farnol.

’Kitten Nine Defeats Cornelius High Team

Splendid relief pitching on the part of Jack Jenkins, ace righthander, enabled the Davidson freshman nine to defeat Cornelius High School, 6 to 4, in a game played on the local lot May 3. Mann started on the mound for the ’Kittens, and was opposed by Lefty Little. Cornelius scored one run in the first inning, but the freshmen came back in the next to get two. As Davidson went to bat in the fifth rack, the high school team held a 3 to 2 lead. The ’Kittens overcame this lead with runs in the sixth and seventh, and two in the eighth, and Jack Jenkins stemmed the Cornelius batting spree, and the freshmen came out on top, 6 to 4.

Score by innings:
Cornelius High 100 020 100—4 8 4
Davidson Fresh 020 001 12x—6 8 4

Little and A. Howard; Mann, Jenkins and Moore.

RHE

“DRUGS” Student “PRESCRIPTIONS” Make Our Store Your Store WHITE DRUG CO., Inc. “SODAS” Supplies “SUNDRIES”

EVER BEEN INTERESTED IN MAGIC?
FUNNY YOU SHOULD MENTION IT. SAW A WONDERFUL MAGIC STUNT LAST NIGHT. FACT IS, I TOOK PART IN IT. I NEVER DID FIGURE OUT HOW HE DID IT. HE SURE FOOLED ME.

TODAY’S SHOW
YOU SEE THAT IT'S LENGTH IS THE SAME AS BEFORE I CUT IT.

MAGICIAN SHOWS HAND EMPTY BUT HAS SMALL LOOP OF ROPE CONCEALED BEHIND FIRST AND SECOND FINGERS OF LEFT HAND. THIS IS THE LOOP THAT HE CUTS.

NO, JUST THE FLATTEST. AREN'T THEY THE MILDEST CIGARETTES? CAMELS ARE MILD, AND THEY TASTE GOOD, TOO. I PRESCRIBE A CAMEL FOR YOU.

Last year Dwelle was president of Sigma Upsilon.

M-M-M, WHAT A SMOKE! IT'S ME FOR CAMELS FROM NOW ON. YOU'LL LIKE THOSE COSTLIER TOBACCOS MORE AND MORE ALL THE TIME. NOT ONE OF THOSE BETTER SMOKES. LIKE HOW ABOUT A SMOKE, DOC? Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand. They are milder, easy on the throat... It’s the tobacco that counts.