THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 4, 1933

SILVER SCREEN

Wednesday, Oct. 4—Broadway to Hollywood
Frank Morgan and Alice Brady are the couple who make the climb from small vaudeville up to the screen, and
end up by making a success. They start at the very bottom, and are shown through all the hard struggles,
and all the back-stage information given proves very interesting. The hopes, the glories, the discouragements and finally the successes of
the pair are shown, going on into the second and third generations, showing their children and their grandchildren carrying on
the tradition of the stage. Madge Evans, Eddie Quillan, and Russel Hardie are very well as the grandchildren. The Albertina
Rasch dancing girls add much entertainment to the show.

Thursday, Oct. 5—Midshipman Jack
This picture shows Bruce Cabot in an entirely new role, that of a midshipman in the Navy. He is very
good as the young seaman, and fits the role well. He stars with Betty Furness, who is one of the
newest young girls on the screen. She is very good in the picture, which should be very entertaining.

Friday, Oct. 6—No picture has been billed for this date.

Saturday, Oct. 7—The Woman I Stole
One of the newest pictures to be released, starring Jack Holt. He seems to be getting away from most of
his rough tactics, and becoming the great lover. With him are Fay Wray as his leading lady, and Racquel Torres
and Noah Beery, making the picture very interesting.

Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 9-10—Deluge
Another very unusual picture, putting fancy into fact by having the greater part of the world destroyed by an earthquake,
and showing what happens to the people remaining on the earth. It is astounding in the excellent photography, and the
queer things pictured in such a state of the world. Peggy Shannon and Lois Wilson are very good in their
parts, and make the situations seem almost real.

Ministerial Band Has Election of Officers
Herbert Lucas, New President, Speaks on “Social Problems”

The Ministerial Band, which is an organization composed of those students who are candidates for the ministry of the gospel,
held a meeting last Thursday night and elected the following officers: Herbert Lucas, president; Murphy Smith, vice-president; William Benfield, secretary
and treasurer. Herbert Lucas presided over the meeting, while Murphy Smith had charge of the devotional. Woodrow Thrower made a
very interesting talk on “Social Problems,” while Ellis Oakes talked on “Conformity to the Likeness of God.” After these talks,
Sam Wiley summarized these talks and gave some very helpful suggestions to the ministerial students. The band holds its meetings
every second and fourth Thursday nights during the month. All Freshmen who are candidates for the ministry are automatically members
of this band, and are cordially invited to attend the next meeting which is to be held the second Thursday
night in this month.

Renowned Marksman Gives Demonstration
Gives Fancy and Plain Shooting Exhibition in Mooresville

Mr. M. E. Hicks, world-famous marksman, gave a free exhibition of plain and fancy shooting last Thursday afternoon at the
Mooresville show grounds. A large crowd was in attendance to see the exhibition, which included a number of difficult feats
with revolver, rifle, and shotgun. A lecture was also given on the practical and safe methods of using firearms. Mr.
Hicks demonstrated how to develop marksmanship, and how to become an expert shot. The purpose of this free program was
to prove the accuracy and efficiency of Peter’s ammunition.

Bill Cox Is Winner Of Frosh Cake Race
In the annual Freshman cake race held last Thursday over the mile and seven-tenths course, Cox won in the slow
time of eleven minutes and forty seconds. Last year Frazier broke the college record in this race with a time
of nine minutes, thirty-five and five-tenths seconds. This race is held every year in order to discover prospects for the
Freshman track team. Coach Whittle has asked that all the men that competed in the cake race to report out
for track as soon as possible. All the boarding houses donated cakes as prizes for the first twenty-three men that
finished in the race. The men that won the cakes are listed in the order in which they finished in
the contest: Cox, Feuchtenberger, Scott, Wilson, Allen, Brown, Peters, Dyerle, Lafferty, Knorr, Mack, Moffett, H. Woodward, L. E. Woodward, W.
Higgins, Port, Purdy, Link, Andrews, S. E. Eaton, Bivens, V. Higgins, Edwards.

Circus to Be Shown
Ringling and Barnum and Bailey Combined Exhibiting in Charlotte on Jubilee Tour

The Ringling Brothers and Barnum and Bailey combined circus, on its Golden Jubilee tour, will exhibit in Charlotte on October
12. Outstanding among the Jubilee features is the mighty spectacle, The Dunbar, a gorgeous, dazzling, bejeweled reproduction of India’s great
coronation ceremonial at Delhi, where thousands of potentates with their royal elephants and huge oriental retinues parade for the pleasure
of the newly crowned ruler of Great Britain and India, their vast wealth symbolized by gem-studded trappings on elephants and
horses, by their native forces and lavishly garbed households. Over two thousand people and animals take part in the Dunbar,
and its background is opulent and bizarre with imported Hindu temples, tongas, carved gold cars and royal howdahs. The Dunbar
is the proud achievement of the Ringling Brothers and Barnum and Bailey combined circus on its Golden Jubilee tour, and
it heads a list of features newly assembled that will compel the vast five-ring, four-stage program to be recalled with
deep pleasure for a lifetime.

Thursday, October 12

CERCLE FRANCAIS OPENS MEETINGS
(Continued from page 1)
Queens-Chicora College in Charlotte, and Winthrop College at Rock Hill. At the meeting Monday night, six men were elected to
become members of the society and bids were sent out Tuesday morning. A. H. Coleman, J. H. Glass, D. P.McLain,
J. F. Slaughter, F. A. Tucker, and Ben Wyche are the pledges who will be initiated upon the writing of
an original paper in French to be submitted to the organization.

DAVIDSONIAN TO HAVE ROTOGRAVURE SECTION
(Continued from page 1)

Along with them will also come many of the things that do not get into the news. “The Davidsonian” will
present a feature to you that will not only give you “complete campus coverage,” but will also give you complete
nationwide coverage. This feature is being presented to you each week at no added cost to the subscriber. Our subscription
rates have not been raised, despite the fact that this service presents to the reader a very complete “picture” of
the collegiate world.

ASSISTANTSHIPS ARE ANNOUNCED
(Continued from page 1)

Economics: F. O. Gee, A. B. McLean.
English: R. T. Banks, G. L. Green, C. S. McCall, T. F. Wood.
French: M. Armistead, F. P. Harrison, W. M. Hart.
German: F. H. Scott, G. R. Wood.
Greek: A. B. Rhodes.
History: O. M. Anderson, W. B. Corbin, J. T. Drake, W. L. Fugate, J. A. Hunter, J. T. Plunket.
Latin: J. A. McGeachy.
Mathematics: J. T. Blair, O. Casali, C. A. Coleman, R. L. Orr.
Political Science: E. W. Morrison, A. K. Schenck.
Physics: J. E. Dill, H. W. Marshall, R. Reel, E. C. Snead, J. W. White.
Spanish: E. J. Humphrey.
Library: R. T. Banks, C. D. Deans, J. B. Ficklen, G. T. Newnam, E. Oakes, R. M. Porter, G. R.
Wood.
Monitor: J. B. Caldwell, J. M. Harris, A. B. Kuhn, R. B. Moffett, J. F. Slaughter.
Recorder of Absences: L. W. Clardy, E. F. McPhail.

FRATERNITIES ISSUE BIDS TO STUDENTS
(Continued from page 1)

Ville; H. H. Thompson, Houston, Texas; F. E. Vogler, Winston-Salem:
Theta Upsilon Omega: V. W. Dillon, Elkin; E. F. Horine, Louisville, Ky.; A. A. McDonald, West End; J. A. Miller,
Mocksville.
Phi Delta Theta: A. S. Allan, Fernandina, Fla.; J. D. Allen, Louisville, Ky.; P. R. Arrowood, Shelby; W. S. Barnes,
Davidson; J. E. Branch, Washington, D. C.; T. M. Breedon, Bennettsville, S. C.; H. W. Covington, Rockingham; L. D. Feuchtenberger,
Bluefield, W. Va.; C. T. Gennett, Asheville; H. S. Harkins, Asheville; G. C. Lanier, Rome, Ga.; R. T. LeGrand, Shelby;
R. McClelland, Atlanta, Ga.; T. H. McKinney, Chattanooga, Tenn.; J. F. Morrison, Asheville; J. L. Newton, Gainesville, Ga.
Sigma Phi Epsilon: C. R. Brady, Conover; W. A. Broadway, Shelby; A. F. Henderson, Walterboro, S. C.; G. H. Kuykendall,
Charleston, W. Va.; J. P. Moore, Pendleton, S. C.; J. T. Morton, Bullock; J. A. Somerville, Aliceville, Ala.; O. G.
Swindle, Camilla, Ga.; W. B. Swope, Welch, W. Va.; L. C. Taylor, Oxford; E. D. Turner, Gainesville, Fla.; W. B.
Young, Elkhorn, West Virginia.

CAMPUS IS SCENE OF FRANTIC ’CAT SPIRIT
(Continued from page 1)

On the Gridgraph by lights and a moving electric “ball.” The historic walls of Shearer Hall rang with the fervor
and excitement of college yells and songs, all of which presented to the football team a spirit which could hardly
be forgotten. It was the traditional spirit of Davidson manifested in a stirring outburst of zeal and devotion. At the
conclusion of the yells, which were led by Hugh Hawkins and the assistant cheerleaders, the students began a shirt-tail parade
around the campus. To the cry of “shirt tails out, freshmen,” the parade, led by the band, made its way
down Dormitory Row, past the stadium, around the south end of the campus, and came to a halt in front
of Chambers Building in the center of the campus. Here a few more yells were given, and the football frolic
was disbanded.

We Guarantee Our Work
We Appreciate Your Business
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

“DRUGS” “SUNDRIES”
A Complete Drug Store
“Make Our Store Your Store”
Reliable Prescription Druggists
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
“SODA” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

PRESIDENTS AND DEPARTMENT HEADS OF THE LEADING UNIVERSITIES RECOMMEND WEBSTER’S COLLEGIATE

“The best American dictionary that has yet appeared for a college student to keep within arm's reach. What he does
not find between its covers in relation to the general use of words in speech or on printed pages will
not be necessary to a liberal arts degree." — Orton Lowe, Director, Winter Institute of Literature, University of Miami.

The best abridged dictionary because it is based on the Authority — Webster’s New International Dictionary. It has many features
of practical value. 1,268 pages. 106,000 entries including hundreds of new words, with definitions, spellings, and correct use; a dictionary
of biography; a dictionary of foreign words and phrases; rules for the use of capitals, abbreviations, etc. Many other features.
1,200 illustrations. See It At Your College Bookstore or Write for Information to the Publishers.
G. & C. MERRIAM CO.
SPRINGFIELD, MASS.

1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

About Cigarettes

Of all the ways in which tobacco is used, the cigarette is the mildest form. You know, ever since the
Indians found out the pleasure of smoking tobacco, there have been many ways of enjoying it. But of all the
ways in which tobacco is used, the cigarette is the mildest form: paper. Another thing—cigarettes are about the most convenient
smoke. All you have to do is strike a match. Everything that money can buy and everything that science knows
about is used to make Chesterfields. The right home-grown tobaccos—seasoned with just enough aromatic Turkish—are blended and cross-blended the Chesterfield
way. Chesterfields are made right—firm, well-filled. There are other good cigarettes, of course, but Chesterfield is the cigarette that’s milder,
the cigarette that tastes better. Chesterfields satisfy—we ask you to try them.

Chesterfield
the cigarette that’s MILDER
the cigarette that TASTES BETTER
