THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1933

BASEBALL SEASON OPENS MARCH 29

THE SPORTS PARADE

WILDCAT TRACKMEN OPEN WITH FURMAN

First honors in winter sports were fairly well divided among members of the Southern Conference, as a result of the meets and tournaments held during the past week. Only one school, Virginia, emerged victor in more than one particular sport. The basketball crown went to South Carolina University; boxing and swimming honors were taken by Virginia; wrestling by Washington and Lee, and indoor track by Duke University.

With the good showing of football candidates in the final game of winter practice, Coaches Newton and McEver feel pretty good about the possibilities of the Wildcats next season. Despite the loss of Pearce, Captain Gardner, Peabody, Mills, Fleagle, Flinn, Wagner, Whitfield, Ogden, and Cannon, the coaches feel that Davidson will be represented by a better team this fall. All the Sophomores who won regular berths last fall have seasoned quite a bit and should go even better when the curtain goes up next September. Eb Willson, who won an all-state berth last season, has shown a great deal of improvement in the winter practices and if he continues to pick up, he should prove to be the spark-plug of the Davidson attack next fall. Among those who showed promise in the winter practices are included: Morgan, Morris, Mackorell, Willson, Hutchins, Hand, Wingfield, and Potter, lettermen; Grant, Ross, Craven, Sievers, Lee, Batte, Bumgarner, and LeGear, members of last year’s squad; and Captain Cathey, Windham, Lee, Cumbie, Murray, Pittman, Verble, Yarborough, and Burns, of this year’s Freshman team.

From the showing of individual members of the Freshman track team in the indoor meet at Chapel Hill last Saturday night, indications point to a successful season for the yearlings. Ras Evans, running for Davidson in the 60-yard dash, set a new record in the Freshman division by clipping one-tenth of a second off the former mark of 6.6 seconds. Merchant, representing Davidson in the three-quarter-mile run, came in fourth to give the Wildcats another point and win third place in the Freshman division of the meet.

DID YOU KNOW THAT:
Earle Frazier, a member of the yearling cross-country team last fall, is considered by Davidson coaches as one of the best distance running prospects they have ever seen... He holds the state high school record in the mile run... Ras Evans should fill Fred Fleagle’s shoes in the dashes next year... Four regulars on the basketball team will graduate this spring... They are Captain Bruce Peabody, Fred Dickerson, Jack Wagner, and Harry Boucher... Washington and Lee won four firsts and two seconds in the Southern Conference wrestling meet at Lexington, Va., last week.

Captain Bradsher Is Hurt While Practicing

Captain Earle Bradsher was injured in baseball practice Monday afternoon. As he was sliding into second base, his right ankle was badly wrenched. An x-ray will probably reveal the extent of his injury. Bradsher has been the regular center-fielder for the Wildcats for the past two seasons, and his absence from the line-up will be greatly felt. He led the entire Wildcat squad in batting last season, and was active in semi-professional baseball last summer. Besides being captain of this year’s team, Bradsher is secretary and treasurer of the “DPD” Club.

Baseball Squads Begin Practice With Prospect Of Good Season in View

Eight Lettermen and Stars of Last Year’s Freshman Squad Report for Workouts

SCHEDULE INCOMPLETE

Coaches Unger and Mathis Work to Get Freshmen in Shape

To date the schedules of both the freshman and varsity baseball teams have not been completed, and consequently no announcement can be made at this time. However, this has not deterred Coaches Laird, Newton, Unger, and Mathis, and practice has begun, with between twenty and thirty men reporting for practice with the varsity, and a good number out for the yearling squad.

Coach Laird must build his varsity from a nucleus of eight lettermen, and a good group of men from last year’s Freshman nine. The lettermen returning are Captain Bradsher, June and Joe Morrison, all outfielders; Whitley, catcher; Baily and Pearce, pitchers; Peabody, first base, and Mills, shortstop. A gap at third base, and another at the keystone sack will have to be filled. Morgan, Mackorell, and Ravenel are waging a hot three-cornered battle for the hot corner, and Smyre and Bumgarner are fighting for second base. Peabody, at the initial sack, should experience some hot competition in the person of “Shrimp” Morris, one of the stars of the 1932 Freshman team. West, a reserve moundsman of last season, is again out, and Harris and Ahston, Sophomores, also look good. Whitley, the veteran backstop, has a splendid understudy in the Sophomore Bobby Burns. So far the Freshmen have not advanced to the stage where anybody could pick the players out, but a representative group is practicing every day with Coaches Unger and Mathis, and should soon be rounded into shape.

My Greatest Thrill AS TOLD BY BRUCE PEABODY

My greatest thrill occurred in Greensboro two years ago when we played N. C. State at night in the floodlights of the World War Memorial Stadium. This was not only my first varsity game at safety but also my first night game and this alone created a big thrill. Greason’s punts were going so high I could hardly see them. It was a thrill just trying to catch that ball which looked like a white pill descending, and then to have a hungry “Pack” of “over-rated beef” trying to “knock the daylights” out of you. Faced with this proposition and aided by some feeling I can’t explain, I was able to dodge a few ravaging “Wolves” and to return punts better than in any other game. Being my first real varsity game, played at night against a rough and heavy team, while scared half to death by such a big crowd, this gave me a thrill I shall always remember.

Bruce Peabody, besides starring on Davidson’s football team for the last two years, plays on the basketball and baseball teams, having been captain of the former team during the season just completed. “The Parson,” as we know him, was also the recipient of the Tim Pharr medal awarded each year to the best blocker on the football team.

FRED FLEAGLE - HALFBACK

Fred Fleagle, son of a Davidson professor, will lead the Wildcats on the cinder path this spring. Fred, a sprint man on the track team, has stepped the century in less than ten seconds on several occasions. He also performed brilliantly on the gridiron last fall.

Davidson Track Team Starts SeasonSoon Wildcats Will Meet Furman University Here in First Contest

The varsity track team opens its season three weeks from Saturday when they meet Furman University here. Davidson did not encounter Furman last year and a comparison of the two teams cannot be made, but reports have it that the South Carolina team should give the Wildcats a tough scrap, especially when it is the latter’s first meet.

On April 1st they meet V. P. I. here for the second run of the season. Last year Davidson defeated V. P. I., 84 to 41, and should repeat the same this year, but that scrapping little team in Virginia isn’t going to take two lickings without a hard fight. The next meet follows in just three days and promises to be one of the hardest of the year. Duke stepped on us pretty hard last year to the tune of 81 to 44, and this year she has proved her mettle by winning the Southern Conference indoor meet at Chapel Hill last Saturday. The Wildcats are meeting a fierce foe in the Blue Devils but they’ve met many before.

April 15th, just two days after the spring holidays begin, the varsity will journey to Gainesville, Fla., to encounter the Gators. Last year Florida sent a team up here that downed Davidson 74 to 52, but due to the loss of several of their best men they are somewhat weakened. The ’Cats hence stand a fair chance of defeating them on their own ground.

On April 29th, the day the spring holidays end, the team will journey to Columbia, S. C., to race the University of South Carolina. Davidson downed South Carolina last year and perhaps will do so again, but on their home ground they may give Davidson quite a bit of trouble. The last home meet is with Wake Forest here. The Wildcats defeated the Deacons on the cinder path last year, but they haven't forgotten that we beat them in football this year and they aren’t likely to take three trouncings in a row.

(Continued on page 6)

Duke Wins Indoor Track Meet As 14 Records Are Shattered

Juniors Win in Class Basketball Tourney

The Juniors annexed the class basketball title by winning their last three games. The Seniors, without the services of Buck Mills, who was their big gun in former wins, dropped two games to fall into second place; the Sophomores won two to remain in third place, while the Freshmen, with only one victory to their credit, continued to occupy the cellar position. The final standings follow:

| Won | Lost | Pet. |
| Juniors | 5 | 1 | .833 |
| Seniors | 3 | 2 | .600* |
| Sophomores | 3 | 3 | .500 |
| Freshmen | 0 | 5 | .000* |

*One game is omitted from the standings. This is the final game between the Seniors and Freshmen. The Freshmen won the game but the eligibility of one of their men has been contested, although this man did not account for a single point in the 19 to 15 victory of his team.

The Juniors defeated the Seniors 19 to 1 in a one-sided affair in which Fred Smyre did most of the scoring. The Juniors were without the services of Reid, regular center, and the members of the Senior team who were out for baseball also failed to participate.

The third-year men continued their march by a 24-17 win over the Sophs. Smyre again was finding the basket with his long shots, and Bernardo was sinking a good many of the same variety for his team. By humbling the Freshmen 26 to 14 the Junior team completed its championship sweep. With Dolan in the line-up, the Frosh offered more resistance than was expected, but with Captain Smyre playing his usual good game and McCallie and Reid scoring steadily, the Juniors soon built up a safe margin.

The shooting of Elvery and the guarding of Bernardo featured the 24-14 win of the Sophomores over the Freshmen. The winners started off fast and scored eight points before the more inexperienced team began to make their shots count. The Sophomores’ other win was over the Seniors by a score of 19 to 16. Colon Munroe shot seven points to take high point honors, while Calhoun played well for the losing team. The second-year men had a 10-point lead at the half, but were pushed to win in the closing minutes.

The tournament was under the supervision of Heath Whittle, director of intramural athletics, and most of the games were refereed by members of the varsity team.

William and Mary Tracksters Top Virginia, Davidson, to Win in Freshman Division

NEWARK PREP. WINNER

Evans Sets New Record Freshman Track Event

Ras Evans led the Davidson representatives at the Southern Conference Indoor Track Meet held at the University of North Carolina last Saturday by winning and setting a record in the 60-yard dash in the Freshman events. He set a precedent for the other Wildcat runners, who also showed up well. Frank Parker caused much indecision as to his placement in the high hurdles, but was finally given third by the judges. Billy Merchant, diminutive Freshman distance man, finished fourth amongst outstanding competition in the three-quarter-mile run. These men totaled six points to take third place in the Freshman division, running second to the William and Mary and Virginia Frosh. There were no entries for non-conference teams in the Varsity competition, therefore the Davidson Varsity had no men competing.

The outstanding performance of Ras Evans in running the 60-yard dash in 6 5-10 seconds (old record 6 6-10 seconds) surprised the coaches as well as others who had seen the tall, slim speedster daily working at it and trying to hold his own against Fred Fleagle, Varsity sprinter and captain. Evans is just the man needed for next year when the Varsity will lose its only outstanding sprinters. He, Merchant, Parker, and Frazier will form the nucleus of what should be a most successful yearling track team.

A total of fourteen records were broken as Carolina witnessed one of the most illustrious gatherings ever held at the annual Southern Conference Indoor Meets. Duke captured the meet with 42 points, defeating their favored rivals, Virginia, who followed with 34 points. Duke led Virginia by three (Continued on page 6)

College Printing Magazines, Catalogs, Handbooks, Etc.

“PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE”

Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you

A. M. MANSON, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE

6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing, Always Best

“STANDARD PRINTING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Engraved Cards and Invitations. Exclusively.

U-PUSH-EMS

New Rates at M. P. Henderson’s Gulf Station

TOBACCOS CANDY STUDENT SUPPLIES FOUNTAIN SERVICE

W. S. HENDERSON NEXT DOOR TO POST OFFICE

All Sweaters and Leather Jackets 25% off

LIMITED TIME ONLY

IDEY'S DAVIDSON SHOP