> THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 1, 1933

> TWO LOCAL MEETINGS == ALUMNI NEWS

ELEVEN CLASSES REUNITE

Davidson Alumnus Directs Experiments With Disease

Major Simmons, ’11, Sent to St. Louis to Combat Sleeping Sickness

HIGH HONOR FOR HIM

Is Head of Department at Army Medical College

To seek a remedy for the dread sleeping sickness which was recently so prevalent in the country, especially around St. Louis, the United States Army selected a Davidson alumnus, Major John S. Simmons, of the class of 1911. At the Army Medical College in Washington, where he has served for the past several years, Major Simmons has had the opportunity of working with various types of cases, which were puzzling the medical profession; one of these was parrot fever. When the disease became so widespread in St. Louis, Simmons was sent there to direct the search for the cause and remedy of the malady.

Under his directions, different varieties of mosquitoes were allowed to bite persons ill with encephalitis (sleeping sickness), and after a period of incubation, were allowed to bite monkeys in a laboratory in an isolated hospital building. Within four weeks after the experiments were begun, the monkeys began to show signs of being infected, and the scientists felt for the first time that they had something to work with. The scientists are working on a two-year program, and it is yet too early to make any appraisal of the value of their experiments, but they are at least on the road to something.

Major Simmons was born in Graham 41 years ago. He is the son of the late Dr. and Mrs. J. C. Simmons of Alamance County. He studied at Davidson College, and took his biology under Dr. J. W. MacConnell, who had just started that department in the college. He served as an instructor at Davidson before continuing his medical work at the University of North Carolina, and later at the University of Pennsylvania, from which he was graduated. He then went into the army, and has since served in Denver, San Francisco, Honolulu, and the Philippines.

For months he has been working on the sleeping sickness, following his investigation of the parrot fever mystery, and he was selected over the entire personnel of the Army Medical Corps to conduct the investigation at St. Louis.

Murphy Smith Leads Ministerial Meeting

Plan to Have Members of Faculty Talk at Future Meetings

Murphy Smith, of the Junior class, was leader of the meeting held by the Ministerial Band last Thursday evening. Woodrow Thrower led the group in its devotionals. Palmer Kirkpatrick made several thought-provoking suggestions on personal prayer life by taking Christ's words and showing His commands to us on how to pray, why to pray, and for what to pray. Nate Wauda gave a discussion on the problem which the rise of the so-called “Modernism” has thrust before the leaders of the church.

These talks were followed by a general discussion on methods for rendering the meetings more effective, and plans were made for securing a member of the faculty to address them at their next meeting as well. The Ministerial Band holds two meetings each month, always on the second and fourth Thursdays. A cordial invitation is extended to old members and to any new men looking forward to entering the ministry.

Eleven Classes to Reunite in Spring

Eleven classes will hold their reunions at the 1934 commencement. Prominent among these will be the 50th anniversary reunion of the class of 1884, and the 25th anniversary reunion of the class of 1909.

The reunions of the classes are held according to the Dix schedule of reunions, which calls for the reunion together of classes which were in college together. The following classes will reunite at the 1934 commencement: 1884, 1898, 1899, 1900, 1901, 1909, 1917, 1918, 1919, 1920, 1933.

Two Local Meetings To Be in November

Two local alumni meetings will be held during the month of November. On November 10th, the Mecklenburg County Chapter of Davidson alumni will meet in Charlotte for a dinner. An extensive program is being planned for the former students. The college quartet will be there for several numbers, the Red and Black Masquers will present a short play, and several other features will offer entertainment for the assembled alumni. The meeting will be the night before the Citadel-Davidson football game, which will be played the next afternoon. The Junior League of Charlotte is sponsoring the game.

The Richmond-Petersburg Chapter of Davidson alumni will meet the night before the Davidson-William and Mary game, which will be played on November 18th. Captain Norton G. Pritchett, director of athletics at Davidson, will talk at this gathering.

Executive Committee Meets in Charlotte

The Executive Committee of Davidson College will meet on Thursday night of this week in the banquet room of the Charlotte Hotel to discuss urgent matters facing the college.

The men that make up this committee are: Dr. R. A. Dunn, chairman; Mr. S. A. Robinson, secretary; Irwin P. Graham, Rev. A. A. McLean, Dr. E. R. Wilcox, Mr. H. N. Pharr, Mr. H. S. Richardson, Mr. W. J. Roddey, Mr. S. Clay Williams, Dr. H. W. McKay. Mr. J. A. Cannon was recently replaced on this committee by Mr. Irwin P. Graham, due to Mr. Cannon's resignation.

SKYSCRAPER UNIVERSITY

The University of Pittsburgh has been placed in one tall skyscraper, The Cathedral of Learning. The only campus will be a roof garden.

WITH THE ALUMNIResponse to President Roosevelt's invitation pushed well beyond the half-million mark applications of home owners for federal aid to prevent foreclosure. William F. Stevenson, chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and head of the Loan Corporation, seconded the President's request that any family about to lose its home telegraph the Home Owners Loan Corporation for help.

At the Fifth District Medical Society semi-annual meeting held recently at the Charlotte Sanatorium, Dr. Oren Moore, of Charlotte, discussed the new procedure in gynecology and obstetrics. Dr. Moore told of the many advancements made in the diagnosis and treatment of gynecological and obstetrical conditions and their future possibilities.

At a recent meeting of the Woman's Auxiliary of the North Carolina Synod of the Presbyterian Church held in Rocky Mount, N.C., Dr. John L. Fairley, co-ordinate secretary of religious education, of Richmond, Va., gave a statistical outline of the work being carried on among the young people in the Presbyterian Church.

The State Public Works Advisory Board, of which George W. Coan, mayor of Winston-Salem, is a member, will meet in Gastonia, November 9. The object of this meeting is to outline a program of requirements that must be met by those requesting funds from the federal public works appropriation for projects.

News has been received here that Representative Ernest Graham of Red Springs has been named vice-president of the Production Credit Bank at Columbia, S.C.

J. Caldwell McDonald, manager of the McDonald Service Company, and his store managers and supervisors, have just returned from a visit to the Century of Progress Exposition in Chicago.

J. Eris Cassell, North Wilkesboro, president of the South Piedmont Division of the State Teachers Association, presided over the meetings held in Charlotte, October 27th.

Dr. Elias Faison, of Charlotte, N.C., read a paper before a meeting of the Seventh District Medical Society held yesterday in Monroe, N.C.

At a meeting of the Woman’s Auxiliary of the North Carolina Synod of the Presbyterian Church held in Rocky Mount, N.C., Ernest Milton, treasurer of the Barium Springs Orphanage, showed moving pictures of the life at Barium.

Charles A. Sisson is completing his work for a law degree from Harvard University this year.

Gaither Jenkins is now in the second year of law at Harvard University.

M. Vereen Bell is in Lake Charles, La., where he is writing. He recently sold several stories to outstanding magazines.

Henry McFadyen is teaching at Pinetops this year.

Eugene Z. DuBose, of Camden, S.C., is section chairman of legal education for the Duke Bar Association at the Duke Law School.

William F. Mulliss is at present studying law at Harvard University.

At a recent meeting of the Duke Bar Association of Duke University Law School, Leland McKeithen, of Aberdeen, N.C., was elected treasurer for the coming year.

Scabbard and Blade Has Informal Party

Last Thursday night the Scabbard and Blade military fraternity held an informal reception at the Kappa Alpha house for all the senior officers in the battalion. Light refreshments were served to all those in attendance. Major and Mrs. Rhett, Captain and Mrs. Cochran, and Captain and Mrs. Seifert were faculty members present.

Davidson Man is Serving as Head of N.Y. Exchange

William S. Dowdell, ’04, Elected to Second Term as Cotton Head

MANAGER OF WEIL BROS.

Has Travelled Extensively in South and in Europe

Serving his second term as president of the New York Cotton Exchange, William S. Dowdell, '04, has been eminently successful as head of this organization. On the recent cover of the Cotton Digest was a picture of Mr. Dowdell, and the leading cotton magazine carried a story inside about Dowdell.

“Shep” Dowdell, as he is familiarly known by his associates, is a partner in Weil Brothers, New York. He has been associated with the firm for the past twenty-five years, or since the day he left college. Born in 1884 in Auburn, Ala., he made his home in that state until 13 years ago. He attended Davidson, and graduated from the Alabama Polytechnic Institute in Auburn.

Upon leaving college he entered the employ of Weil Brothers, and he has been with them since that time. He has visited every nook and cranny of the South, and has traveled extensively over Europe. Thirteen years ago he went to New York as manager of the Weil branch there. Al Grayson, manager of the Weil Brothers, Dallas, Texas, asserts that he talks a good golf game, has the ordinary tribulations of a cotton merchant, up today, down tomorrow, is a fluent talker and makes a poor speech.

Sigma Pi Sigma Bids Issued to Eight Men

At a meeting Monday night of Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary physics fraternity, eight new men were voted on, to whom bids will be issued during the week. The initiation ceremony will take place at a later date. Dr. J. M. Douglas spoke on the subject of “Ether versus the Wave Theory of Matter.”

New Styles - Miss Minnie’s

BILL JOHNSON STORRS-SCHAEFER SHOWING REPRESENTATIVES

Expert Tailoring - November 6

T. HOOKE McCALLIE

Union Theological Seminary

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Distinguished for 121 years in the whole field of Theological Education, particularly in the making of Preachers.

© 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

It's easy to understand why the young folks are smoking Granger... It's made to SMOKE in a pipe

a sensible package 10 cents

Granger Rough Cut — the tobacco that’s MADE FOR PIPES