THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1933

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

ODI CASALI Editor-in-Chief
A. M. MANSON Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
G. L. GULLETTE Managing Editor
E. F. McPHAIL Associate Editor
K. D. WEEKS Associate Editor
Exchange Editor
Feature Editor
Feature Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
W. D. JOHNSON Assistant Business Manager
A. H. MANSON Assistant Business Manager
J. M. DOUGLAS Circulation Manager
G. L. GREEN Solicitor
W. P. SPRUNT Solicitor
R. TAYLOR Solicitor
A. C. WADSWORTH Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
E. L. POWELL President
D. B. BAILEY Vice-President
SAM Secretary-Treasurer
W. MAN
W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES
JACK PLUNKETT
BILL OGER
RILEY ADDISON
BRENIZER LAMONT BROWN
P. M. ROGERS
J. H. ROSS
CHARLES SUTLIVE
T. H. SUTTON
BILL GOODYKOONTZ
W. T. THOMPSON
D. GUERRANT
JOHN WALKER
PAUL HARLAN
W. WALLACE
J. A. HUNTER
W. WHITE
CARLYLE LEWIS
F. WOOD
L. McCLINTOCK
ED WOOTEN
BILL MERCHANT
FIELDS YOUNG

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 1933

From a bad beginning comes a bad end.
—Euripides.

LITERARY MAGAZINE

The scarcity of creative literary work on the part of Davidsonians, and the feeling that there is considerable talent in the student body along this line has given rise to not a little interest of late. As a means of replenishing this very real deficiency, a plan is on foot to publish a short literary magazine on or about May 15. Contributions are solicited from any member of the student group who cares to write. A secondary purpose of this project will be to afford a means of ascertaining the zeal of the student body towards the college magazine. It is imperative that it be decided in some way whether the future Yowls will be all literary, all humorous or a combination of the two factors. As most of us know, the Yowl is but three years old, having taken the place of the former Chameleon, in which interest seemed to be dying. A ballot of the students may be taken to determine their wishes as to the future publication. The Yowl staff, instigators of this movement, will be ably assisted in the undertaking by a committee from Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity. Acceptable articles will be chosen from all fields: poetry, plays, short-short stories, etc., and all submitted material must be in the hands of the editor before May 10. Publication of this magazine as it is now planned will necessitate the selling of enough advertisements to cover the cost of its edition. At present it is not known whether this can be done, though no effort is being spared. Davidson men are encouraged and urged to support this movement to produce a representative Davidson magazine.
—M. Reeves Pope.

IT’S UP TO US

We, Davidson students recently elected and installed our new student body officers for the coming year. We have chosen our leaders—our student body president, our Y. M. C. A. president, our class presidents, our department presidents, our editors and their staffs. All these men we have chosen from among ourselves to fill their respective places. We have given them the task of leading and guiding us. Now it is up to us to follow. Shall we sit back and watch them struggle along unaided, unsupported, unappreciated? Shall we show no interest in our Student Council and our Honor System; shall we fail to do our part of our “Y” work; shall we turn deaf ears to our editors? If we shall, then why do we choose new men to lead us when we refuse to follow? Without the whole-hearted interest and support of every man in the student body, the most diligent and sincere work on the part of the few who are in charge will amount to very little. A student body should be composed of leaders and supporters. One group is inseparable from the other. One is absolutely impotent without the other. To accomplish the best results, leaders and supporters must work together; each naturally interested in the other. At the installation services last Saturday night, the new officers assumed their responsibilities for the coming year, and pledged their best efforts to their new work. However, the best efforts of our new leaders will be of no avail without the earnest co-operation and help of the student body. By the interest in the recent elections and the large turnout for the installation services, we, Davidson students, expressed a willingness to render this support to our new leaders.

FRESHMAN VOTING

This Friday at the chapel hour, Davidson students will vote on an amendment of Article I, Section 3 of the Davidson College Constitution, proposed by the recently retired Student Council. The proposed amendment states that “Freshmen become members of the Student Body with full rights to vote, immediately upon the installation of the president of their rising Sophomore class,” and it is designed to eliminate certain evils which seem to exist in local student body elections. Two main reasons have been given by those who want the amendment passed. They claim first that the “greenies” are not familiar nor acquainted with the abilities of the eligible candidates and therefore cannot cast a fair and intelligent vote; and second, that the yearlings are easily persuaded by their upperclassman friends to vote for the latter’s candidate. Passage of the amendment, they claim, will eliminate the existing evils and bring clean elections back on the hill. Depriving freshmen of the right to vote will not eliminate election evils as the proposers think. The Freshman class each year comprises about one-third of the Davidson student body. Deprive this one-third of the right to vote and what have you left among the other two-thirds who have the right to vote? The same evils will still exist. There will still be upperclassmen who are not familiar with the abilities of the different candidates and who vote for their favorite. There will still be those upperclassmen politicians who will continue to persuade. We judge candidates eligible for office by the service which they have contributed. A candidate, whose ability is not known by his classmates, has not served his classmates to any great extent and therefore does not get their considerations. Since freshmen are the ones among the students who need the most help, they are better fitted to vote for the man who has served than the rest of the student body. Instead of depriving freshmen of the right to vote and still leave the election evils, the Student Council should investigate the upperclassman politicians and penalize the ones who are guilty.

HILL RAIDIN’

Agnes Scott
The registration of all delegates at 12 o’clock noon on April 20, in the main building at Agnes Scott College in Decatur, marked the opening of the tenth annual Southern Students’ Conference on International Relations, sponsored jointly by Agnes Scott and Emory University, with members of the International Relations Clubs of the two schools serving as hosts. Between twenty and thirty schools were represented at the conference, which extended through Saturday morning, April 22.

University of Wisconsin
When the alumni of the University of Wisconsin erected a $1,250,000 student clubhouse as a war memorial on the campus four years ago, they included in it a German rathskeller as a reminder of former days. The scene was reproduced in full, including the bar from a saloon once frequented by students. It now appears that the only thing lacking will be real beer, which university officials have forbidden to be served there, and that the students will continue to get only milk, and other soft drinks across the bar.

CURRENT EVENTS IN NATURE
By BILL WARD

If you hear a loud, interrogative “What?” on the campus some morning soon, do not be alarmed. It merely means that the Crested Flycatchers have reached Davidson. The migration of the Hummingbird, however, is far surpassed by the Arctic Tern, which is the champion migrant of the world. These birds breed about the Arctic Ocean and in Alaska and Northern Canada. But when winter comes and the breeding grounds are subjected to a few months of darkness, the terns move south on a 10,000-mile trip, and spend the winter in the Antarctic Ocean. Thus the Arctic Tern sees more hours of daylight than any other creature in the world. This 10,000-mile trip, undertaken twice a year, is one of the marvels of migration. Since most of it is over the open sea, it is hard to explain how a bird, several sizes smaller than a crow, can make such a flight.

WHO, ME?

NEWS DIGEST

“And the grass is getting greener every day!” So it is; so it is. It’s the time of year when many (far too many) quote the good but hackneyed lines from Browning’s Pippa Passes and end by really thinking “all’s right with the world.” It’s the kind of weather that brings out the Rousseau in me, I could turn “noble savage” with no trouble at all. “The Bowery Ball” was more or less to the extent that it was more more than less. The costumes, if nothing else, were living examples of the sense of fitness or something of the Davidson student body. With all of them taken into consideration, including the French fencing master and the counterpart of Marlene Dietrich in his skirt and beret, the composite was certainly capable of leaving a lasting impression. The picture “Cavalcade” is quite up to par. The English do things with such nice restraint. One sees great crowds watching the funeral procession of Queen Victoria but never the procession itself.The positively quaint cover of a book, “I Dare You!” attracted me not so very long ago. It’s even quainter inside than out. But who am I to cast a stone? I don’t even like Dickens and Carlyle. Recently after the third I was to see an acquaintance. He wasn't, so I have written, wasn’t either. His roommate is a person who constantly allows his studies to interfere with his education. He even studies a thing before it has been taken up in class, when the logical thing for me to do is to wait until after the professor’s discussion so that I have the benefit of his lecture when I try to cope with some impending problem.

Two or three people whom I know have professed to be graduates of the N. A. L. (National Academy of Liars). One of them in particular lies, or composes, quite gracefully. He doesn’t reserve his potent ability for moments in which he is hard-pressed, as it were, but is of the philanthropic nature and rather gives the world constant opportunity to appreciate him at his best; he lies for the sheer joy of it. It’s the “ars gratia artis” attitude.

Ezra Pound’s “A Draft of Cantos” may, in the language of the modernist, be called typically heavy. The American edition is so prudishly censored, however, that reading it is somewhat like trying to solve the proverbial puzzle of the Chinese. With all the liberalness of Bostonians, words have been substituted by dots so that the finished product looks like the first draft of a design by Adrian.

I have lately been troubled with sleep. It’s not that I myself sleep. Oh, my no. I’d much rather stay awake and see what’s happening. (That’s a compliment, I think.) But it is very annoying to call on people at a respectable hour and find them either in bed or just before being. I often go skipping into a room and find it completely dark. Understanding people who want to sleep half their lives away is beyond the comprehension of my feeble mentality. It seems to me that people don’t really enjoy sleeping anyway. The only pleasant part about the idea is the short time during which one goes to sleep and the time at which he wakes up. If this be true, and I see no reason why it should not be, why is it that ten o'clock finds many lights out, and why is it that many people become perfectly furious, even beside themselves, at being waked up or even the thought of it?

Little nothings: If Lew Wallace had been H. Rider Haggard, would “She” have “Ben Hur?” ... is the real reason for many people not hiding their lights under bushels the fact that they have no bushel wherewithal? ... is the ability to lie well an asset or a lie (e) ability? ... are some people who won't pay debts peculiar or pecu (liar)? ... is the reign of Louis XIV next to that of Pepin in length? ... should one give too much food to goldfish and allow the excess to poison the water thereby killing the fish, or should one in his anxiety to give just enough give too little and cause the larger fish to eat the smaller ones? ... why does an audience change its position when a speaker calls attention to the fact that he is launching a new point? ...

Another interesting question concerning migration is whether or not the same birds return each year to the same spot. The White-throated Sparrow is a bird which spends its winters in the Southern United States, and returns North each spring to nest in New England and Canada. Last winter Rufus Page and I banded a White-throat behind East Dormitory. This winter the same bird, with our numbered band, was found dead near the laundry. The little fellow was within a hundred yards of the spot where we had banded him eleven months before.

Most of our campus woodpeckers have quit their frivolity, and have settled down to the serious business of excavating a nesting cavity. It has always been a puzzle as to how a woodpecker can dig a hole that is so nearly round. A circle is a difficult figure to draw freehand, and yet the majority of woodpecker holes are almost perfect circles. Among the bird arrivals from the South last week were: Prairie Warblers, Ruby-throated Hummingbirds, Crested Flycatchers, and House Wrens. The latter were probably passing through, and will nest further north.

THE RECENT TRIAL in Moscow of the six British electrical engineers charged with espionage, bribery, and sabotage has stirred up quite a bit of trouble between the two countries. Although the sentences were light with only two getting prison terms, the British people have taken the matter much to heart. Sympathy for L. C. Thornton and W. L. MacDonald, the two convicted men, was widely manifested and the privy council was immediately summoned to proclaim an embargo on Russian imports.

THE INCOME TAX payers will rejoice to learn that the newly legalized beer is expected to add more than $125,000,000 annually to the U.S. coffers. If such is the case, the amber-colored liquid has come to stay.

TYPICAL of the previous boldness and audacity of F. D. R., he has recently withdrawn the support of the American dollar abroad and shortly after this radical step, Secretary of the Treasury Woodin announced that the U.S. had abandoned the gold standard. Woodin says, “the whole matter is official abandonment of the gold standard.” The new gold embargo has had the effect of pushing up commodity prices. The stock market rose quickly and frenzied buying and selling began. The rush in Wall Street is now greater than at any time since the beginning of the depression.

THE BOOMING SECURITY and commodity markets have already begun to make an impression on the American pocketbook. The sharp rise in prices with continued trading on a high scale had its first effect upon the housewife. Bread in New York went up two cents with a corresponding rise in other goods. And they are still rising.

GLENN L. MARTIN, head of the Martin Aviation Corporation, has advanced a new theory to account for the fact that no trace of the Akron has been found and also that 60-odd men of its crew are still missing. He thinks that a part of the Akron may have free-ballooned away on the heels of the storm which was sweeping out to sea. If this theory is true it is the same thing that happened to a part of the Shenandoah when it crashed in 1928. The fact that the Akron was never found in a scant 100 feet of water gives us a faint ray of hope. The theory is plausible and no other explanation of this phenomenon has been offered thus far. Let us hope that the dirigible has simply floated out of reach of the regular steamer lines and will soon be discovered elsewhere, although at best this is a vain hope.

THE NEW GIANT dirigible, Macon, sister ship of the Akron, made its trial flight recently with 105 persons aboard. It is now the biggest airship in existence, 785 feet long, and it typifies the determination of the Navy not to be discouraged by anything. The crew was silent as the great ship swung from its hangar. The memory of the Akron disaster was too near to them for any kind of celebration, but as the great ship was safely grounded after its flight the small crowd of spectators burst into cheers. Lighter-than-air craft is being built bigger and better than ever and we are not yet ready to give up.

THE RAPID GROWTH of the inflationary sentiment during the past few months is not astonishing. The country has recently been subjected to the super-deflationary effects of bank closings, contraction of purchasing power, and the abdication of the Federal Reserve system. There is a point in the fall of prices where it becomes impossible to fix charges, reduce wages, govern expenditures and at the same time preserve an equilibrium. Readjustments are necessary but these are also impossible because they force down money incomes faster than the readjustments can be made. The strain of a badly adjusted equilibrium is more than a democratic people can bear and the first thing that gives way is the gold value of the currency.

WINNIE RUTH JUDD, tried and convicted for the brutal murder of Agnes Leroi, was found insane and sent to a state asylum instead of to the noose. She would have been hanged April 28th. Mrs. Judd was brought before a lunacy commission after her mother had sworn that there was lunacy in the family and the jury of Arizonians later decided in her favor.

RAMSAY MacDONALD, British prime minister, arrived in the United States Friday to confer with President Roosevelt on world conditions in hopes that some measures might be adopted to ensure the speedy return of currency stabilization and world trade. He banished with a few kind words the talk of British enmity toward the U.S. for leaving the gold standard. He assured reporters that the new embargo on gold would not hinder the co-operation and trade of the two countries. In his message to the press the prime minister says, “If the world is to get out of its difficulties it must be by international co-operation. Your President asked me to come so we can reason together and I have come.”

A few mornings ago there was a little Ruby-throated Hummingbird downtown, so exhausted by his long trip from Central America that he was unable to fly. Migrating Hummingbirds have been known to fly 500 miles in a night, and over water at that, with no opportunity to rest. That is certainly flying for the smallest of our birds.