THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 15, 1933

DR. BEN LACY WILL LEAD Y. M. C. A. FALL SERVICES
(Continued from page 1)

Because of his unusual power and personality, Dr. Lacy is expected to draw a large crowd at all of the
services. Special musical programs will be a part of the evening services. “Dr. Lacy is a man with a present
and a future as well as a past, so it is to be hoped that the students will respond enthusiastically
to the spirit of this series of services, and that they will keep the dates of the meetings in mind.”

PHI BETA KAPPA TO INITIATE SIX MEN
(Continued from page 1)

The organization which preceded and was responsible for the coming of the Phi Beta Kappa to Davidson, have been elected
to membership and have signified their intention of being present for the initiation: Rev. J. M. McBryde, Fort Defiance, Va.,
class of '16; W. G. Humphrey, Greenwood, Miss., class of '16; S. T. Henderson, Charlotte, N. C., class of '17;
Emery Flinn, New York, N. Y., class of '19; Rev. E. G. Lilly, Birmingham, Ala., class of '19; N. Y.
Pharr, Charlotte, N. C., class of '19. Six Davidson students, who were recently elected to membership, will be initiated at
the same time.

WEEK-END PARTIES FOR CITADEL-DAVIDSON MEN
(Continued from page 1)

Kitty Von Echap, of Charlotte. Pi Kappa Alpha: Choice Chase, Margaret Gilliam, Millie Pierce, and Betty Simmons, Charlotte, and Tillie
Jones, Salisbury. Kappa Alpha: Alice Cowles Barringer and Virginia Pegram, of Charlotte; Betty Simmons, Chester, S. C.; Sarah Vandiver, Anderson,
S. C.; Betty Sikes, Monroe; Jean McCaig, Wilmington; Eve Stevenson, Camilla, Ga.; Corrine Ellison, Lancaster, S. C., and Louise Melchor,
Mooresville. Kappa Sigma: Lucy Neal Brookes, Adelaide Fortune, Mary Letty Mebane, and Wilifred Schlosser, Greensboro; Katharine O'Farrell, Kings Mountain, and
Nancy Means, Spartanburg, S. C. Phi Gamma Delta: Gray, Sarah Lib Price, Mary Lib Price, Mary C. McLain, Miriam Steele,
and May Lebby Smith, Charlotte; Willa Hamena Monroe, Fayetteville, and Sarah Metz, Belmont. Pi Kappa Phi: Jennie Harrison, Greensboro; Betty
Smith and Sarah Gibson, Gibson; Lena Reid Miller, Pat Patterson, and Dot Miller, Rock Hill, S. C.; Lillian Williams, Dillon,
S. C.; Dessa Newman, Columbia, S. C.; Audrie McKenzie, Troy, and Sally Montague, Charlotte. Phi Delta Theta: Mary Withers, N.
C. C. W., and Margaret Wardlaw, Frances Sohmers and Mary Whitmore, Charlotte. Sigma Phi Epsilon: Peggy Ashcraft, Hazel Ashcraft, Nancy
Bryon, and Margaret True, Charlotte.

DR. FRAZER HOOD CHOSEN TO OFFICE
(Continued from page 1)

Elected to the Executive Committee were Dr. W. H. Frazer, Queens-Chicora, the retiring president; Dean E. L. Cloyd of North
Carolina State, and Miss Marion H. Blair of Salem College. The N. C. College Conference is a group composed of
the representatives of the senior and junior colleges of the state. It deals through a number of committees with such
vital problems in college life as curriculum, standards of scholarship college and high school, athletics, and co-operative research.

WILDCATS DOWN CITADEL CADETS BY A 24-6 SCORE
(Continued from page 1)

Yarborough intercepted another pass from Baker on Citadel’s 42 and the Wildcats, aided by a 15-yard pass, Mackorell to Grant,
then drove to another touchdown. Hutchins went off-tackle from the seven-yard line for the score. Mackorell, Wingfield, and Hutchins played
brilliantly in the Cat backfield, while Morgan, Rives, McElrath and Windham looked good in the line. Yarborough, a sophomore back
who played his first varsity football Saturday, was also outstanding. For the Citadel, Baker and Quarterman supplied most of the
power. Quarterman measured up to all advance notices of his fine kicking, with two punts of over 60 yards during
the game.

The line-ups:
Citadel (6) Posi. Davidson (24)
Ivey L.E. Morgan
Kelly L.T. Siewers
Griffin L.G. Potter
Symmes Center McElrath
McFadden R.G. Rives
Hyde R.T. Cathey
Yandle R.E. Windham
Workman Q.B. Mackorell
Quarterman L.H. Hutchins
Baker R.H. Wingfield
Ferguson F.B. Willson

Score by periods:
Citadel 0 0 0—6
Davidson 12 0 12—24

Citadel scoring—touchdown, Quarterman. Davidson—touchdowns, Wingfield, Mackorell, Hutchins (2).

Officials:Referee, Von Kolnitz (South Carolina); umpire, Frew (W. & L.); headlinesman, Jeter (Furman); field judge, Causey (South Carolina).

STATISTICS
Citadel Dav.
Yards gained from scrimmage 182 242
Yards lost at scrimmage 0 41
Passes attempted 6 8
Passes completed 2 4
Passes had intercepted 0 0
Yards gained from passes 30 87
Net yardage gained 212 288
First downs 13 10
Yardage on punts 255 273
Punts had blocked 1 0
Average yardage on punts 42.5 42.5
Yards punts returned 21 37
Yards penalized 20 15
Ball lost on fumbles 2 0

DAVIDSON VARSITY TO TACKLE W. & M. INDIANS
(Continued from page 5)

The Indians, who use almost the same type of play as that of Citadel, will have a weight advantage over
the ‘Cats of ten pounds to the man. Moreover, the Virginians will be playing before a home-coming crowd, a fact
which should considerably increase the spirit of the team. Games played by each team during the current season follow:

W. & M. 12 Randolph-Macon 9
W. & M. 0 Navy 13
W. & M. 0 Washington and Lee 7
W. & M. 24 V.P.I. 7
W. & M. 7 Guilford 7
W. & M. 6 Georgetown 6
W. & M. 14 V.M.I. 0
W. & M. 6 Emory and Henry 26

WILDKITTENS TRIM TERRIER PUPS 32 TO 0
(Continued on page 5)

Ford, who passed on the first play, only to have it intercepted by Quick. A pass from Garrison to Quick
put the ball on Wofford’s 14-yard line. Sadler carried the ball on the next two plays, taking it to the
1-foot line on the first try and over the goal on the last. The extra point failed, leaving the score
32 to 0. The game ended with the ball in the middle of the field after the Terriers had intercepted
a ‘Kitten pass. The line-up follows:

Wofford Position Davidson
Grevenburg L.E. Cathey
Hardin L.T. Hunter
Lee L.G. Johnson
Kellette Center Gracey
Branton R.G. McClain
Barnwell R.T. Armfield
Edwards R.E. Dickson
Graham Q.B. Shemwell
Kimard L.H. Quick
Cecil R.H. Corbin
Hamer F.B. Cook

Score by periods:
Wofford 0 0 0 0—0
Davidson 0 0 19 13—32

FIRING AT RANDOM
(Continued from page 5)

On the other hand, William and Mary beat V.M.I. 14-0, making them eight points better than the Wildcats. However, the
Indians seem to be a bit erratic, and have not shown much stuff against the class of competition that Davidson
has. They dropped contests to the only real teams they played, namely, Navy and Washington and Lee. The ‘Cats’ defeats
came as hard-fought victories for the South’s greatest team, Duke, and North Carolina. It’s any man’s game on the pencil
and paper method, but we'll take the Wildcats.

TIGERS LOSE TO TERRIERS
(Continued from page 5)

Carolina eleven, led by the elusive Earl Clary, the “Gaffney Ghost,” bowled over N.C. State, 14-0, to finish their Southern
Conference schedule with a clean slate, no defeats, or ties marring their record. William and Mary and Emory and Henry
met in a night game, and the Indians met defeat at the hands of the home town boys, to the
tune of 26-6.

SHORTHAND IN 12 LESSONS
Thousands of students find ABC Shorthand of tremendous value in taking accurate lecture and reading notes—This shorthand can be mastered
quickly in 12 easy lessons without an instructor—Complete course now sells for $1.00 at Davidson College Book Store.

We Specialize in Sandwiches
Charlotte Davidson

Copyright, 1938, The American Tobacco Company.
“It’s toasted”
FOR THROAT PROTECTION—FOR BETTER TASTE OF FINE TOBACCO
...and no loose ends

It would delight you to open a Lucky Strike and examine the long, golden strands of fine tobaccos. To notice
how fully packed it is... how free from annoying loose ends. Every Lucky Strike is a blend of the world’s
choicest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos—finely shredded—long and evenly cut. That’s why every Lucky draws so easily—burns so smoothly.

ALWAYS the finest tobaccos
ALWAYS the finest workmanship
Always Luckies please!
