THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 18, 1933

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Associated Collegiate Press

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON... Editor
G. L. HOUSTON... Business Manager
E. F. SHEWMAKE... Managing Editor
B. L. SMITH... Managing Editor
K. D. HOUSTON... Managing Editor
JACK RANKIN... Alumni Editor
C. E. RAWLINGS... Sports Editor
J. A. HARRIS... Editorial Writer
D. B. McKINNON... Exchange Editor
S. K. PHILLIPS... Feature Editor
S. C. SMITH... Feature Editor
C. S. HARRIS... Feature Editor
D. W. HENDERSON... Review Editor
L. W. CLARK... Associate Editor
A. F. SCIOLI... Associate Editor
W. M. THOMPSON... Associate Editor
JACK WILLIAMS... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
G. L. HOUSTON... Assistant Business Manager
W. L. HOUSTON... Assistant Business Manager
J. R. HOUSTON... Assistant Business Manager
W. A. HOUSTON... Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1933

Education is simply the encouragement of right habits—the fixing of good habits until they become a part of one’s nature, and are exercised automatically. —Elbert Hubbard

HOMECOMING

That time of year when Davidson alumni bring back fond memories of days lived on the campus is here again. Saturday will be “Homecoming” for them, and many who were boys here for four long years, which now seem but days, will return to see others who perhaps played some boyish prank, uttered a suppressed chuckle at some eccentric professor, or blocked some charging tackle in a football game with them. Some and probably most of them, who will return, we do not know; but that does not relieve us, Davidson students, of the duty of making them feel one of us once more. They are a part of Davidson and Davidson is a vital part of them, and since we are Davidson of today, it is our duty to welcome them home. The college has done its part in planning and arranging the homecoming program; the alumni do their part when they take a few hours off their work to live once more in memories; and we can do our part when they return this weekend. We welcome you back, alumni, back to the place you helped mold and which helped mold you.

MILITARY TRAINING

In the first issue of “The Davidsonian” this year we published an editorial in defense of Military Science at Davidson, chiefly to correct a statement which appeared in a Charlotte newspaper and to oppose an editorial which appeared in the Greensboro “Daily News.” Last week a communication, addressed to us by several students who were opposed to military training in a Christian school, was published because we felt “The Davidsonian” should be the voice of the students. This week we received a letter from J. J. Barnhardt, of Kannapolis, who is vice-president of Cannon Mills Company, and since it expresses the sentiment of quite a few students we publish it:

“A letter addressed to the Editor of ‘The Davidsonian,’ and appearing on the editorial page of October 11th issue, invokes criticism, mainly because it does not, I believe, reflect the sentiment of the student body or the college constituency. Certainly a majority at least of the advanced students who have had time to digest their studies in science, are bound to appreciate the value of Military Training conducted under the proper environment, and the possible influence it might have in the event of service. Those who do not appreciate it would possibly do well to have the experience as they will most likely be the first to need it, and a course of Military Training would better prepare even a policeman for service to his fellowman.”

THE COURT OF CONTROL

The Davidson Court of Control, headed by its judge, James A. Halverstadt, has proved itself an active and successful one, viewed from the results it has obtained since the opening of school. Since the final traces of hazing and horseplay were ruled out of Davidson three years ago, freshman classes became more unruly each year, and actually at times it was impossible for upperclassmen to obtain respect from members of the yearling group. Conditions appear to be different this year, and the court must be commended for doing its unpleasant task in such a manner as to avoid ill feeling between the freshmen and upperclassmen. The court changed its method of handling cases this year and before it makes any investigation it requires a written charge from the accuser. In this manner Judge Halverstadt obtained the respect of the freshmen and consequently their cooperation more readily. As in past years, freshmen are required to remain in their chapel seats until upperclassmen have gone out. The first chapel services of the semester the yearlings remained in their seats fully three minutes after everyone else had gone from the auditorium, but soon they began getting up and leaving at the same time the upperclassmen did. But they didn’t keep it up because Judge Halverstadt took action and they gladly cooperated.

HONOR SYSTEM PLEA

The two principal forms of student government are the Honor System and the Proctor System. The former is a principle that replaces the theory that students are gentlemen and will act accordingly in an honorable manner. The latter is a system that denies that students are gentlemen and honorable, and substitutes for a system of mutual confidence, one of policing. For the honor system to be a complete success, the students must give their unqualified adherence to it; there must be hearty cooperation between students and faculty. Reporting by the students constitutes, of course, the success of the situation; and they must be willing to accept that obligation unequivocally that the system may achieve the greatest possible success. Many students are reluctant to accept the responsibility to report their fellow students for breaches of honor. They feel that this is “tattling,” and this is against their code of ethics. But such reports should not be confused with what is known as “squealing.” The latter should be used to designate the reporting of a strictly personal, man-to-man affair. A student’s conduct, such as cheating, stealing, and drinking, which threatens to undermine the very foundation of an honor system, is not a personal affair and should not be treated as such. When a rock rolls downhill, it gathers momentum as it goes, and becomes harder to stop as it nears the bottom. So it will be with any honor system if it begins to slip. We have a fine student body this year, and one that will not allow dishonesty in its midst. Professor Edward S. Joynes, of the University of South Carolina, said: “The only true system for the education of a gentleman by gentlemen is the honor system—that is, the system of mutual respect and confidence.”—Julian W. West.

LECTURES

Davidson students are given the opportunity to increase their knowledge of many diversified subjects by attending the numerous addresses by outstanding men in their respective fields, but few avail themselves of these opportunities. Experts in their vocations are brought to this institution by the Committee on Lectures or departmental professors only after the completion of lengthy negotiations and often with the expenditure of funds. The majority of students seem entirely oblivious to the fact that the comparatively short while spent in attending these lectures would be inestimably more valuable than the usual routine of movie-going, facetious discussion (bulling), or even study. Our instructors endeavor to improve attendance by making the presence of those under their tutelage compulsory. This is strained, however, and is not conducive to voluntary attendance in the future either on the part of those in their departments or otherwise. Dean Davison addressed a pitifully small crowd upon his recent visit to Davidson. Surely a man who has proven himself to be such a leader in the scientific (medical) realm of the intellectual world should command a larger assembly than the one we offered him. Lecturers have come to Davidson, however, under the auspices of certain authorities who have not been satisfactory from the standpoint of subject matter or delivery. One poor address can easily spoil the attendance at all subsequent lectures for several months. More interest on the part of the students depends upon greater appreciation of the good they might derive and upon the procuring of speakers whose topics and manner of exposition are satisfactory to the average undergraduate audience. —R. P. T.

HERE AND THERE

Co-eds at the Texas College of Mines have organized a “No Date Club,” the membership of which is constantly changing.

Because of numerous gate crashers at their athletic contests, University of Kentucky officials have erected a six-foot barbed wire fence around their stadium.

New York University has established a course in Form and Color as a result of the Century of Progress architecture.

Brazil, in organizing a national educational program, is negotiating with the University of Michigan for a series of motion pictures of the Michigan campus to be used as a model for their work.

A new college has been formed at Black Mountain, N. C., which will have no president and no classification for undergraduates.

For the first time in its history, the University of California at Los Angeles is offering graduate work.

The average age of a freshman at Northwestern University is now 18 years, as compared to 19 years in 1919.

NEWS DIGEST

KING CAROL ESCAPES DEATH
King Carol of Romania narrowly escaped death from assassins’ bullets as he was returning from army maneuvers at Târgoviște. The assassins mistook another train for his and their fire riddled only empty coaches after the royal train had already passed.

LIQUOR CONTROL
U.S. officials are now studying a system of liquor control since repeal seems imminent. All prohibition bureaus and agencies of the government have been co-ordinated in an effort to solve this problem and the states are also urged to act immediately.

NEW DAM
The General Joe Wheeler dam, new giant Tennessee River project, has been ordered started by President Roosevelt. The dam will cost $22,000,000.000 and will be the third great structure to be thrown against this river. The dam will be used as a source of power and also to provide for navigation up the river since locks will also be built to lift ships over the shoals.

WHEAT
Russia again boasts a record crop of wheat—but will need it all this time to support her own. For years the Ukraine was the grain cradle of Europe, but last year the depression struck even the crops and Russia went hungry. Now, however, wavering fields of golden grain again stretch across the steppes and the bread supply of Europe is amply assured.

TOBACCO
The tobacco code has finally been fixed at seventeen cents with the added feature that all purchases made since September 25 should be retroactive as applied to this rule. The code was signed by Secretary Wallace and approved by eight companies. The government also retained the privilege to examine the books of the company to see if they were living up to the agreement.

NEW PRISON
On Alcatraz Island in San Francisco Bay is the new prison for desperate criminals. It is here that George Kelly will be confined for life for the kidnapping. The island is now used as a military prison by the War Department. This prison will be used especially for the worst desperadoes. One hundred will be taken from Leavenworth and one hundred from Atlanta, but there will still be room for many more. It is practically escape-proof.

SEA TRAGEDY
Five Greek sailors reached Philadelphia aboard an Italian steamer to tell how their ship, the freighter Annoula, was struck by a terrific hurricane Friday off the N. C. coast and went down with twenty-one of their shipmates. One woman was among those lost. The ship was swamped by heavy seas but the survivors managed to keep a small boat adrift for thirty-six hours until they were picked up near Bermuda.

GERMANY
Europe seethes as the result of the withdrawal of German delegates from the arms parley. Hitler defiantly denounces the other nations in the parley and calls upon the people to stand up for their rights of equality among the nations. The Reichstag has been dissolved. Hindenburg preaches nationalism and the rights of Germany before throngs frenzied with patriotism. Hitler, the dictator, stands forth as the voice which calls the people to a new awakening of power and pride. He, in a forceful display of oratory, plays upon the feelings of the nation. He says that they have made an honest attempt to heal the wounds of war but that they are surrounded by a repressive ring of continental nations who are trying to keep a great country in a subordinate and beaten condition. He says that their enemies have not sought to keep Wilson’s “fourteen points.” Hitler has lit the torch of war in Europe and Germany is again afire with hysterical patriotism as the footsteps of Nazi soldiers resound in the streets. Meanwhile, the League and Arms Parley are probably irretrievably wrecked. A popular wave of support swept a program of preparedness forward in England. Austria masses troops on the frontier and stops all travelers and passers-by. Belgium strengthens her defenses. France is worried but feels morally and physically secure. While Japan, although highly surprised over the actions of Germany, failed to show any concern over conditions in Europe.

Lawrence Stallings calls his photographic history The FIRST World War. Are we approaching the second?

“Night Flight” at Local Show
“I Loved a Woman” and “The Power and the Glory” Also Favored

Wednesday, October 18—Solitaire Man
A very unusual picture, filmed almost entirely on a passage flight of a large airship. It shows the tracking-down of a very notorious criminal on the plane, and the escape of another. Herbert Marshall is one of the crooks who succeeds in tracing out another, Lionel Atwill, who is on the plane. The police are after Atwill, but Marshall lands him and makes away himself. They are aided by Elizabeth Allan, May Robson, and Mary Boland.

Thursday, October 19—The Power and The Glory
This story relates the life of a large railroad magnate, through his struggles and his successes. The story is told throughout the picture by a friend of his, with Spencer Tracy as the railroad magnate, and Ralph Morgan as the friend who tells the story. Colleen Moore makes her return to the screen in the role of the railroad man's wife. It is rated as one of the outstanding pictures of the past month.

Friday, October 20—I Loved a Woman
Rated as one of the most outstanding shows of the season, starring Edwin G. Robinson and Kay Francis. It is a romantic picture, portraying the love of two people for each other. It should not be missed.

Saturday, October 21—Golden Harvest
No advance on this yet.

Monday and Tuesday, October 23-24—Night Flight
One of the leading pictures of the current month, John Barrymore plays the part of the head of an aviation company, and the picture is taken up showing the troubles besetting him when he attempts to start a passenger route at night. The picture is very good all the way through, although there is not much in the way of plot to it. The tenseness is carried throughout, and all the troubles and failures are shown. He is aided by an outstanding cast, including Helen Hayes, Robert Montgomery, Clark Gable, Myrna Loy, and William Gargan. It should not be missed.

From the Background
Dear Editor,
I am sold on this homecoming idea because many of the men who used to throw crumbs to me and entertain me with their musings and jokes will be back and maybe I’ll get to see some of them. They tell me that B. O. Ravenel chiseled on you and Fred and Chas. on the trip and made you three do all the driving. Somebody said they ought to take old Tom out of his cage for the Duke game. If you want my humble opinion he ought to be taken out of that cage for good. Have you ever passed up the road towards the gym when west wind was blowing east? Well if you haven’t, try it sometime and I’ll bet you’ll agree with me. They tell it on a certain Davidson professor stating that he never goes out in his automobile unless he has a siphon, a bucket, and a tow chain. At that, it isn’t a bad idea for he might forget to buy some gas sometimes. They tell me that Bermuda has not had a murder or kidnapping for fifty years. Maybe it is the onions' influence. Get your picture taken this week if you think you can do the quips and cranks justice.
Roamingly,
Tandy.

STATIONERY
CALLING CARDS
FRATERNITY PAPERS
Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago

FIVE YEARS AGO
The Court of Control passed a regulation forbidding freshmen to enter the post office between eight and nine a.m. every morning. Wofford defeated Davidson 7-0, in a hard-fought game. Captain Pritchett gave a talk at “Y” vespers on Paul as a great athlete.

TEN YEARS AGO
In the dedication game on Richardson Field, Davidson defeated the Citadel, 7-0. On Homecoming night, the student body presented a group of stunts for the entertainment of the alumni and other visitors.

On Other Campuses

IDAHO
Western football fans are watching with interest the development of the new basket weave huddle invented by Coach Leo Calland, of the University of Idaho football team, as a means of confusing the opposition. The huddle begins in regulation formation, the players gathered with their heads together about the quarterback. Then three men run out to the line of scrimmage. The fourth man heads from the right side of the huddle toward the left, and a fifth crosses his path from left to right. This keeps up rapidly until the entire team is lined up in 3-4-3 formation. Quickly, the quarterback calls “hep” and the men shift to their positions to the count of 1, 2, 3.

CALIFORNIA
If you happen to be passing by the University of California campus in the early hours of morn and hear “Pedro” shouted from rooftop to rooftop, or window to window, don’t get the idea that the student body has taken to the ancient game of cards. It’s just an old Spanish, or perhaps Mexican, custom that is supposed to have originated from the mimicry of a student resident of International House, who used to announce his impending visit to a friend by shouting his name as he approached the campus club. Now it has come to signify that a student has finished burning his midnight oil and is about to retire!

V. M. I.
And then there is that weak one told on the V. M. I. rat that sent his pants to the Associated Press!!

YALE
A fund of $85,000 has been set up at Yale University to enable students to work their way through college by work suited to their inclinations, instead of waiting on tables in the dining halls. They will be executive secretaries, aids to the masters, librarians and athletic secretaries, historians or curators, or will do specialized work in the university library. Students holding these scholarships will receive pay at a base rate of 50 cents an hour. Sixteen hours a week will enable them to earn their board, and twelve hours a week will give them their room rent!

TULANE
Plans for a return of freshman discipline are being carried through at Tulane University. Deploring the laxity and indifference which have sprung up during the past few years, the Sophomore class has instituted a drive for the enforcement of freshman customs. The movement has met with enthusiasm throughout the school and all upperclassmen are lending support to the sophomores. The traditional green caps are much in evidence, a stop has been put to the laxity of freshman organization at football games, and groups of alumni police the stands to see that the freshmen remain in their appointed sections, the idea being to build up a more enthusiastic school spirit.

PROGRAMS
See BILL JOHNSON
203 Watts @ Garland Court
Standard Printing Company
CHARLOTTE, N.C.