THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 25, 1933

Around the Wildcat’s Lair
CASKIE NORVELL

Now, call the old boy a liar. In last week’s column, it was said that the Davidson fighting spirit would
hold the Duke Blue Devils to a two-touchdown victory, and that’s exactly what happened. The Dukes brought a wonder team
up here, and only that Wildcat spirit kept them from piling up a huge score. Davidson should be proud of
the showing their team made against such a powerful gridiron machine as the Duke team, who is this column’s nomination
for the East's representative in the Rose Bowl. They’ve got the stuff it takes, and only minor competition is in
the way. On the statistics of games played to date, they should experience little trouble with Kentucky, Auburn, Maryland, North
Carolina, N. C. State, and Georgia Tech.

The Ed went deep into his pocketbook this week to present four orchids, and they go to Johnny Mackorell and
John Siewers of Davidson, and All-American Freddie Crawford and Nick Laney of Duke. However, bouquets can be presented to Duke’s
Cornelius, Cox, and “Tarzan” Belue, and Davidson’s Potter, Morgan, Hand, Windham, Hutchins, Verble, and Willson. In fact, both squads showed
up so well that we should have a florist’s shop to make awards to all of them.

Well, now that it’s over and Homecoming is a thing of the past, let yours truly say that it was
the best Homecoming since he’s been here, and despite Davidson’s defeat, the students and other spectators had a chance to
see a great Davidson team go before an even greater Duke organization.

This coming Saturday, the Wildcats go into their third “Big Five” game of the current season. N. C. State will
furnish the opposition, and it will be opposition. They have a fine team down there with such men as McQuage,
Cumiskey, Stanko, and others. To date, State has beaten Catawba, 7 to 0; been tied by Wake Forest and Florida
in scoreless imbroglios, and dropped contests to Clemson and Georgia. The ’Cats hold wins over Elon, Wofford, and V. M.
I., who conquered Maryland last week. The locals have lost to powerful elevens from Carolina and Duke.

On paper, State is several touchdowns better than Davidson. However, State was hard put to tie Wake Forest, 0 to
0, while Duke licked the Deacons handily, 22 to 0. Duke only beat the Wildcats two touchdowns, 19 to 7,
making Davidson two touchdowns better than Wake, and therefore two better than State on paper. And furthermore, Duke’s second team
held the Deacs completely at bay, which was more than they could do against Davidson.

Success in past predictions prompts this statement at this time. You can quote this column as saying Davidson will lick
State Saturday. And you can watch them do it on the grid-graph in Shearer Hall.

Just a word about Julian West would hardly go amiss here. As this column goes to press, Jule is still
in the hospital. He suffered a slight concussion of the brain and a broken nose. He has completely recovered consciousness
and will be okay according to attending physicians. The telegram from “Shrimp” Morris, who is recovering from infantile paralysis, put
a lot of fight and spirit into both the Davidson team and the cheering section.

Lack of space prevented score prognostication last week, but here we go this week with the Ed’s choice in capitals:
CARNEGIE TECH vs. W. & J.
The Citadel vs. SOUTH CAROLINA (Oct. 26).
Clemson vs. MISSISSIPPI.
DAVIDSON vs. N. C. State.
DUKE vs. Kentucky.
Furman vs. MERCER.
GEORGE WASHINGTON vs. (Continued on page 6)

MACKORELL GETS DAVIDSON TOUCHDOWN
Deacons Tie State ’Pack
W. & M., Elon, V. M. I., and Wofford Are Winners as Carolina Loses

In six of the football games taking place last Saturday, four of Davidson's 1933 grid opponents came through with victories,
one team lost, and the remaining two fought to a scoreless tie. William and Mary walloped Guilford to the tune
of 37 to 7, and Elon won over Randolph-Macon by almost as large a margin, the score being 26 to
0. V. M. I. defeated Maryland 19 to 13, while Wofford eked out a 13-12 victory over Erskine.

North Carolina’s Tar Heels fell victims to a strong Florida team, 9-0. The only Big Five contest of the day
took place between North Carolina State and Wake Forest, the game ending in a 0-0 tie.

William and Mary had little difficulty in trouncing Guilford, scoring in every period. In the Elon-Randolph-Macon game, the Christians scored
in every quarter, three of their touchdowns coming as the direct result of passes. Ralph Neal, Elon fullback, was the
star of the game. Troppoli, who was such a danger to the Wildcat runners in the Elon-Davidson game, also proved
to be a thorn in the sides of the Yellow Jackets.

Coming from behind in a thrilling Homecoming encounter, V. M. I.’s Cadets earned a spectacular 19-13 victory over Maryland. Billy
Smith, the Cadets’ sensational field general, led his teammates in a brilliant running game that upset the Old Liners.

The Wofford Terriers ruined Homecoming Day for Erskine by taking the Flying Fleet into camp by a one-point margin, the
score being 13 to 12. Wofford’s touchdowns came in the second and third quarters, Anderson and Funderburke doing the scoring.
Both of the Erskine tallies came in the third period.

Although the Carolina-Florida game was played mostly in the former's territory, it was a brilliant display of defensive football, with
two stubborn lines holding in the critical moments, and offensive backs being thrown for loss after loss. Carolina made six
first downs to Florida’s five, but gained only 43 yards from scrimmage to the ’Gators’ 149. The Tar Heels tried
24 passes, completing five for a total gain of 60 yards. Florida tried only seven, and completed four for 30
yards.

Wake Forest’s Demon Deacons outfought N. C. State’s Wolfpack, but the game ended in a scoreless tie for the second
consecutive year. The Deacons staged a 78-yard march down the field in the first half, only to be halted on
State’s three-yard line. Wake Forest had ten first downs to their opponents’ eight, and gained 171 yards from scrimmage to
104 for State.

(Courtesy Charlotte Observer)
Shown above is a picture of Johnny Mackorell’s 30-yard gallop for a touchdown. He received a pass from Wingfield, a
flashy back. On this play, perfect interference was given by Jim Morgan, Davidson end.

Davidson Ties Devils In Cross-Country Run
Corrected Error Evens Score for ’Cats as Frazier Stars

In their first meet of the current season, a hard-running Davidson cross-country team tied the powerful Duke harriers here last
Saturday, the score being 28 to 28. An error was made in the scoring Saturday, when Ford, of Duke, who
finished eleventh, was credited with having placed tenth, due to the fact that six Davidson men finished before him, only
five of whom counted in the scoring. But upon a check-up of the score Monday, it was revealed by the
rule book that Ford’s placeshould count for eleven points instead of ten, thereby bringing Duke’s total to 28, and tying
the score. After correcting this error, Captain Pritchett, Davidson track coach, immediately wrote the Duke mentor, Mr. Carl Voyles, and
informed him of the mistake. The event began at a point on the Concord Road, three miles east of Davidson,
and ended in front of the stadium. The time was 15:53.8, and lacked only 9.5 seconds of equalling the Davidson
record set by “Soup” Brannon in 1932. The Wildcat team looked good in the close race with the Blue Devils,
who last year were Southern Conference cross-country champions, and who are running this season with the loss of only one
of last year’s men. Led by Earle Frazier, fleet sophomore runner who broke two Davidson records in competition last year,
the Wildcats placed six men out of the first ten. Byrd and Captain Bray, both of Duke, ran second and
third, in the order named. As a freshman last year, Frazier broke the record for the 1.7-mile “Cake Race” course,
and also for the two-mile run. Moreover, he equalled the varsity mile record of 4:30 set by Brannon in 1932.
The order in which the runners finished, and the points scored by each are as follows: Frazier (Davidson) 1, Byrd
(Duke) 2, Bray (Duke) 3, Oakes (Davidson) 4, Heritage (Duke) 5, Gullette (Davidson) 6, Jester (Duke) 7, McFayden (Davidson) 8,
Merchant (Davidson) 9, Glass (Davidson) 10 (point not counted), and Ford (Duke) 11.

Statistics:
Duke | Davidson
Yards gained from scrimmage: 239 | 48
Yards lost at scrimmage: 11 | 26
Passes attempted: 12 | 9
Passes completed: 6 | 5
Passes had intercepted: 0 | 1
Yards gained on passes: 52 | 70
Yards lost on passes: 7 | 0
Net yardage gained: 273 | 92
First downs: 14 | 4
Total yards on punts: 402 | 413
Average length of punts: 30.0 | 20.0
Yards punts returned: 35 | 32
Yards penalized: 70 | 5
Times ball lost on fumbles: 3 | 2

TEAM CLOTHES SELF
The University of New Hampshire's winter sports team buys its own equipment and pays its own transportation, and is still
a leader among eastern institutions.

Wildcat Spirit Shown In Duke Pep Meeting
Dr. Oren Moore of Charlotte Makes Talk

The best pep meeting of the year was held last Friday night at Shearer Hall, when the entire Freshman class
and a great number of the upperclassmen turned out to indicate their wholehearted support to their team in the Duke-Davidson
game. Hugh Hawkins, as varsity cheerleader, started the meeting off in fine fashion with a number of Wildcat yells. A
new yell, the “Duke Moan,” was practiced, and was received with much enthusiasm by those present. The speaker of the
evening was Dr. Oren Moore, of Charlotte, who stated that the people of his city were backing the Wildcats to
the fullest extent. Continuing, he said that Saturday's game would settle the disputed question of whether or not a good
little team is as good as a good big team. Cheers were given in hopes of beating Duke and a
speech was made by Professor Fleagle calling on the support of the student body to help win the game. Led
by “Schnozz” Willsoy, various football men were called on to give their hopes and opinions of the game. The meeting
was ended by the playing of “O Davidson,” and the siren was turned on to aid the Wildcat spirit.

Big Five Race:
Team | Pct.
Duke | 1.000
Carolina | 1.000
N. C. State | 1.000
Wake Forest | 0.000
Davidson | 0.000

Davidson Wildcats to Meet N. C. State Wolfpack
Davidson’s Showing Against Duke Shows Power in Presbyterian Eleven
McQUAGE STATE THREAT
State Victorious Last Year by 7-3 Score

Davidson faces another Big Five game next Saturday, when they meet the North Carolina State Wolfpack at Raleigh. The game
is the only one scheduled next week between members of the Big Five, although Carolina meets Georgia Tech, a Southeastern
Conference team, at Chapel Hill, and Duke meets Kentucky, another Southeastern team, at Lexington, Ky. State will be Davidson’s third
Big Five foe this fall. Saturday the ’Cats played a spirited, but losing game against the Duke Blue Devils, and
they previously were defeated 6-0 by Carolina. State’s game with Wake Forest was the Wolfpack’s first Big Five engagement this
season and ended in a 0-0 score. Carolina's game with Georgia Tech at Chapel Hill and State’s game with Davidson
at Raleigh will conflict, but athletic directors at both schools are making arrangements for a large crowd expected to witness
the Wolfpack-Wildcat battle. The game will come as a crowning event to the annual celebration of Dad’s Day on the
State College campus. Davidson will be seriously handicapped by the loss of Pittman, McKirath, and West, who were injured in
the game with Duke, while State will probably be without the services of Roscoe Roy, who was injured in the
State-Florida contest. State and Davidson played last year in Charlotte and the Wolfpack won, 7-3. It was Roscoe Roy's 90-yard
return of a kickoff for a touchdown that brought State a win. Bob McQuage kicked the extra point. Roy’s run
followed the kickoff after a field goal by Bruce Peabody had put Davidson in a temporary lead. State also defeated
Davidson, 18-7, in 1931, in a night game at Greensboro, although the ’Cats won the game the year before that,
12-0.

Fraternities Begin First Round Games
Inter-fraternity football took the center of campus interest, when the Pi Kappa Alpha boys defeated the Sigma Alpha Epsilon team
in the opening game. The Pikas won in the second extra period on yardage after the game had ended in
a scoreless tie after the allotted playing time. In the second game the Kappa Sigmas licked the Pi Kappa Phis,
6 to 0. The Pi Kaps put up a good fight, but the work of Holland and Thompson was too
much for them. In the third contest the Phi Delta Thetas took a decisive victory over the Theta Upsilon Omega
team. The Phi Delts swept all before them, and led by Carlyle Lewis, ran up three touchdowns to take the
T U camp, 18 to 0. The game between Beta Theta Pi and Sigma Phi Epsilon resulted in a victory
for the S. P. E.’s, 6-0. It was a good game, and one with plenty of excitement.

SWIMMING REQUISITE
Every freshman entering Union College must take a swimming test.

SIGARS
Even your best friend will tell you: “Go to Johnson's Barber Shop”

Get it at COLLEGE PHARMACY
“The” Drug Store
SANDWICHES SUNDRIES

Collegiate Clothes for Men, in Saxons, Glen Plaids, and all that’s up to Snap in tailoring, style, and all that’s
new in fashion: Polos and Tubes

Always At Your Service
At Davidson or Charlotte
High Art Clothing Company
114 SOUTH TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOPPE
