THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 13, 1933

BASKETBALL SEASON OPENS | Around the Wildcat’s Lair ~ WRESTLERS BEGIN SEASON

The football season is now over, and the gridders won't see action again until next September, when they'll begin to
see plenty of it, meeting Army and Duke in succession. Right now basketball and wrestling hold sway, and the way
the cagers opened up on Kannapolis the other night indicates that the ’Cats are headed for a good season. Coach
Unger has been giving his grapplers plenty to do, and the boys will get their initial test here this week
against a team from Appalachian College.

Columbia in the Rose Bowl... how do they get it that way... look at Duke, Nebraska, Army, Centenary, Alabama, and
any number... we can’t see it. As Edward V. Mitchell of “The Greensboro Daily News” so aptly put it, “Why
didn’t dear old Ypsilanti get the bid?” This column is still pulling for Oshkosh Normal, and thinks they deserved the
invitation. It doesn’t seem to appear that Columbia gets to go to the Rose Bowl, but that they've got to
go... stand by for the slaughter, gang.

We think we have the right of millions of others, and so here offer our All-America selections, and don’t expect
everyone, or possibly not anyone, to agree with them. Here they are:

FIRST TEAM: Ends—Skladany (Pittsburgh) and Ariall (Auburn), tackles—Ceppi (Princeton) and Crawford (Duke), guards—Huppke (Alabama) and Corbus (Stanford), center—Bernard (Michigan), quarterback—Warburton
(Southern California), halfbacks—Purvis (Purdue) and Buckler (Army), fullback—Mikulak (Oregon).

SECOND TEAM: Ends—Smith (Washington) and Batchellor (Georgia), tackles—Schwammel (Oregon State) and Krause (Notre Dame), guards—Jablonsky (Army) and Rosenberg (Southern California),
center—DeIsola (Fordham), quarterback—Montgomery (Columbia), halfbacks—Lund (Minnesota) and Mackorell (Davidson), fullback—Sauers (Nebraska).

So much then for All-American. Many other favorites were considered, and it was hard to leave off men like Davidson's
“Icehouse” Wilson, of St. Mary’s, Petroskey, of Michigan, Feathers, of Tennessee, and Kercheval, of Kentucky, not to mention a host
of others. But there were only 22 positions, and this writer thinks that Johnny Mackorell rates his berth, and the
only reason he isn’t on lots of other All-Americans is that he is in a small college.

Fraternity volleyball was brought to a close when the K. A. boys decisively trimmed the Pikas to take the bunting
in this league. This leaves the Phi Delts in the lead in the race for the cup, with the Pikas
next in line, followed by the K. A.’s. Inter-class volleyball is beginning this week.

Coach Gene McEver has wired that he will accept an invitation to coach the all-star team representing the southern half
of the Southeastern Conference in the charity game with the northern half to be played in Knoxville as a holiday
feature. The Davidson mentor, former Tennessee star, and All-American halfback, will match wits with a former teammate, also an All-American,
Bobby Dodd, coach at Georgia Tech, who will be on the staff to guide the northern eleven.

The players on the varsity football team will have a chance to select the best from the ranks of their
opponents in this issue. We publish an All-Opponents first and second team selection, based on a vote of lettermen, who
could be gotten to turn in teams. This appears to be the fairest method of getting such a team chosen,
as the Davidson varsity men have come up against them in play, and should know who’s who. There will be
no write-up as to why the team was chosen, but merely the list of players, as the editor has not
asked for reasons for choices.

WILDCAT CAGERS LICK KANNAPOLIS COURTMEN, 43-30

Davidson Team Winner Over “Y” Quintet in Opening Game

ROSS SCORES 14

Harrington Is Star for Losing Cage Team

Opening the season with a rush, the Davidson Wildcat cagers downed the Kannapolis “Y” quint, 43-30, on the latter’s floor
last Friday night. A full house saw the collegians run up a 25-9 advantage by the half, and then coast
on to an easy victory. Ross, Davidson center, and Harrington, his Kannapolis opponent, led the scorers with 14 counters apiece.
The next game for Davidson is with the Statesville Red Shields, which team boasts two Davidson stars, Jack Wagner and
Buck Mills, in its line-up. The line-ups:

Davidson (43) Posi. Kannapolis (30)
Harris (11) RF. Ferguson (6)
Lafferty (13) LF. Rollins (6)
Ross (14) Center Harrington (14)
Holland (3) RG. Morris
Yelverton (2) LG. Saunders (4)

Summary—Substitutions: Davidson: Monroe, Mock, McLean, and Morgan. Kannapolis: Davis and Lippard. Referee: Fowler (Wingate).

’Cat Baseball Schedule For 1934 Made Public

Varsity to Meet Duke, Carolina, State, Wake Forest, and Michigan

Manager Dallas Wehner made public his 1934 baseball schedule last Monday night, giving “The Davidsonian” the first official statement on
the outlook for the coming season. Davidson, state champion in 1933, is again looking to that title, and has left
warm-up games and small-time competition off the schedule, and has planned four games each with Duke, N. C. State, and
Wake Forest. Three games have been scheduled with the University of North Carolina, the remaining “Big Five” team.

The only new opponent on the Wildcat card is Michigan State, a team that plans a Southern tour and has
made a tentative date to encounter the Davidson tossers here March 26 or 27. Union, Elon, Catawba, Lenoir-Rhyne, V. P.
I., and Hampden-Sydney, who were met last season, do not reappear on the 'Cat schedule. Coach Flake “Red” Laird will
again be in charge of the local diamond organization, and will have as a nucleus seven lettermen from last year’s
successful team. The schedule follows:

March 26—Michigan State (pending), here.
March 31—North Carolina, Gastonia.
April 2—North Carolina, Concord.
April 4—N. C. State, here.
April 5—N. C. State, here.
April 9—Wake Forest, there.
April 10—Wake Forest, there.
April 13—Duke, here.
April 14—Duke, here.
April 17—North Carolina, there.
April 20—Wake Forest, here.
April 21—Wake Forest, here.
April 25—Duke, there.
April 26—Duke, there.
May 9—N. C. State, there.
May 10—N. C. State, there.

Seniors and Sophs Win In Volleyball Tourney

In the first two games of the intramural volleyball tournament on Monday afternoon, the Sophomores and the Seniors were victorious.
The Sophomores beat the Juniors by staging a rally in the last two games to come from behind and conquer
their opponents, 9-21, 21-16, 21-15. The Seniors had very little trouble beating the first-year men, 21-6, 21-16.

On Tuesday afternoon there will be four games: the Seniors will meet the Sophomores, and at the same time the
Juniors will meet the Freshmen; later in the afternoon the Seniors will meet the Juniors while the Freshmen play the
Sophomores. In the tournament every team will meet every other team twice. It will be finished before the holidays. The
captains of the teams are: Seniors, McCallie; Juniors, Elvery; Sophomores, Milton, and Freshmen, Siceloff.

ALL-OPPONENTS TEAM As Picked by Varsity Lettermen

FIRST TEAM POSITION SECOND TEAM
Redding (N. C. State) RG Troppoli (Elon)
Crawford (Duke) RT Ogilvie (The Citadel)
Barclay (North Carolina) Guard J. Dunlap (Duke)
Symmes (The Citadel) Center Sabol (N. C. State)
Schock (Duke) Guard DeAngelis (Wake Forest)
Swan (Wake Forest) Tackle Durner (Duke)
Rogers (Duke) Quarterback Hancock (V. M. I.)
Cornelius (Duke) Halfback Smith (V. M. I.)
Palese (W. & M.) Halfback McQuage (N. C. State)
Rex (N. C. State) Fullback Hendrickson (Duke)

K. A.’s Win Over Pikas In Volleyball Finals

Enter the Last Round After Hard Battle With S. P. E.’s

Led by Captain T. Hooke McCallie, the volleying Kappa Alphas defeated the fighting Pi Kappa Alphas, 21-10, 21-13, in the
finals of the inter-fraternity volleyball tournament. The K. A.’s, inspired by their organized cheering section, oiled their passing attack to
such a degree that it rendered them unbeatable. The K. A. players follow: McPhail, McCallie (captain), Pratt, Sprunt, Bowman, Downie,
Duff, Johnson, and Hutaff. The following composed the Pika team: Hamrick (captain), McLain, Spinks, Little, Quick, Wehner, Huie, Dickson, and
Milton.

After winning and losing a game in the semi-finals, the K. A.’s won the third game and match to go
into the finals at the expense of Sigma Phi Epsilon. The match was not completed Monday on account of darkness
and was run off Tuesday. It was decidedly the best match of the tournament, the ball being rallied as many
as 20 times. Much spirit was shown by both teams and the result of the match was in doubt until
the last point had been played. The players for the S. P. E.'s were: Snead, Hunter, McCall, Rogers, Barnett, Elvery,
Jenkins, Swindle.

1934 Grid Prospects Bright for Wildcats

Swope and Eleven lettermen will return to Coaches Newton and McEver next fall, and will form the nucleus for what
is expected to be one of the best football teams in the history of Davidson College. As yet the Wildcat
schedule is incomplete, but it is thought that it will be similar to the 1933 card with Army replacing Wofford.
This is a big assignment for a school of Davidson's size, but the ‘Cats will put an eleven on the
field next year that will be no easy meat for anybody. At present Coach Newton plans to use Jim Morgan,
a veteran, at his old end post, while Newton, a junior college product, and Wood Burns, a converted quarterback, freshman,
are expected to fight it out forthe other flank. Siewers is expected to hold his regular place at tackle, while
Hand, a letterman, will be sent to guard, and Cathey, another letterman, will be used down at center. The vacancy
at tackle is expected to be filled by “Big Six” Johnson, a reserve this year, with Johnson and Armfield from
the yearlings also in the running. Hand is to be used as a guard, as Windham, varsity end Potter, varsity
guard this season, is returning, and place. Fort, a reserve guard on the '33 eleven, will also be heard from.
J. B. Lee is the only varsity letterman out for the pivot position, but he will be ably backed up
by Hugh Gracey, captain of the freshman team this fall. Henry Cathey, sophomore varsity tackle, will also be groomed for
the pivot position, and any of these men may be playing first string next fall. Johnny Mackorell, the delight of
the coaches’ hearts, will of course be back to take over the post of field general this year.

Gage Team Schedules Eighteen Encounters
Captain Harris Must Carry His Team Through Difficult Opposition

Eighteen games are included on this season's schedule for Davidson's varsity basketball quintet, including the encounter the Wildcats had with
Kannapolis on December 8, and the fray with the Statesville Red Shields last Monday. The 'Cats are to have two
contests with Duke, Carolina, State, and a return engagement with Statesville, which will take place next Tuesday. After the Christmas
holidays, the team will return to Davidson on January 1, and the first 1934 game will be played with the
Dallas All-Stars on the 3rd. Six other games are scheduled for January, and seven for the month following, the season
being brought to a close when the 'Cats meet Lenoir-Rhyne on February 19.

Flake Laird, freshman football mentor, and coach of the varsity quint, stated that he expected the team this season to
be more successful than last year’s, but that at the present time few definite predictions could be made. The 1933-34
schedule follows:

Dec. 8—Kannapolis Y. M. C. A. at Concord.
Dec. 11—Statesville Red Shields at Statesville.
Dec. 14—Gastonia Legion, at Gastonia.
Dec. 19—Statesville Red Shields, at Davidson.
Jan. 3—Dallas All-Stars, at Dallas (pending).
Jan. 6—Carolina, at Charlotte.
Jan. 8—Duke, at Durham.
Jan. 10—Lenoir-Rhyne, at Hickory.
Jan. 12—N. C. State, at Davidson.
Jan. 17 or 29—Wake Forest, at Davidson (pending).
Jan. 31—V. P. I., at Blacksburg.
Feb. 1—Virginia, at Charlottesville.
Feb. 2—University of Richmond (pending).
Feb. 7—N. C. State, at Raleigh.
Feb. 8—Wake Forest, at Raleigh.
Feb. 12—Duke, at Durham.
Feb. 23—Carolina, at Chapel Hill.
Feb. 19—Lenoir-Rhyne (pending).

The all-state quarterback will begin his final season in his regular position. He is a triple-threat, and should have havoc
with the opposition next season. Two varsity halfbacks return, both alternate captains, “Little Joe” Wingfield and Dewey Hutchins. Wingfield is
a splendid broken field runner, a capable passer, and has a knack for booting placements. Hutchins, used largely as a
blocking back, is an excellent runner, in addition to being a fine blocker. In addition to these two old-timers will
be Paul Pittman, this year's sophomore sensation, and Ravenel, and Bumgarner, of this season’s reserves. Outstanding among the candidates from
the freshman team are Quick, Garrison, and Peabody. Midget Verble, the mighty atom, is expected to take over the duty
of “Schnozz” Willson at fullback. Willson graduates this year, and leaves a big gap, but the hard-driving mite from Concord
should fill his shoes well. Arch LeGare, a reserve, and Phil Cooke, from the freshmen, will be amongst them, too.
With such material coming up, there is no reason why Davidson can’t put a splendid starting line-up on the field,
backed up by reserve material decidedly above the average.

Davidson Grid Stars Receive Recognition
Mackorell, Morgan, Rives, Wingfield, and Willson Are Honored Wildcats

Some more all-star teams have come out since the last issue of “The Davidsonian,” and Wildcat stars have been prominently
mentioned. On the official All-South Atlantic eleven, picked by a board with Wade Ison, of “The Charlotte News” as chairman,
Johnny Mackorell, Davidson captain-elect, and all-state back, was awarded a berth in the first string backfield. On the All-Opponents team
selected for “The Daily Tar Heel” at the University of North Carolina, Charlie Rives, Wildcat captain, was placed at a
guard position on the first eleven. This is especially good as Carolina played a schedule that included such teams as
Duke, Vanderbilt, N. C. State, Wake Forest, Virginia, Georgia, Florida, and Georgia Tech, in addition to Davidson. Mackorell was not
considered for the team due to the fact that injuries kept him out of the Davidson line-up against Carolina.

In addition to Mackorell and Rives, other Davidson players have received mention. The All-South Atlantic listed only a first team,
and an honorable mention list. Jim Morgan, Wildcat end, was placed on this list. “Schnozz” Willson, Davidson fullback, was second
in the balloting for the state's best blocker, Horace Hendrickson, Duke's all-Southern Conference back, winning out. Wingfield, Davidson halfback, received
honorable mention.

Opponent Team Chosen By Wildcat Lettermen

In this issue of “The Davidsonian,” we announce the All-Opponents teams for 1933. These teams were picked by a vote
of some of the leading lettermen of the 1933 varsity, including Captain Charlie Rives, and Johnny Mackorell, Captain-elect. As to
why these men were chosen “The Davidsonian” is not willing to make a statement. It can be said merely that
the teams are based on a vote of the lettermen, with the men of the highest vote being chosen for
the various positions. However, it will be interesting to note the closeness of the races. Crawford was a unanimous choice
for one tackle, but Swan of Wake Forest barely nosed out Durner of Duke for the other berth, by one
vote. At center, Symmes and Sabol put on a mean battle, with the balloting ending in a tie. The editor
used his prerogative and awarded his vote to Symmes, the Citadel pivot man. The race in the backfield was interesting.
Palese of William and Mary, Quarterman of The Citadel, and Cornelius of Duke, were far and away ahead of the
others, while Rex, State’s big fullback, eked out a berth by one vote over Cox and Hendrickson of Duke, who
were placed on the second team with McQuage, of State, and Billy Smith, sensational field general of the V. M.
I. “Flying Squadron.”

JOHN MACKORELL TO LEAD WILDCAT GRIDDERS IN ’34
Brilliant Quarterback Is Chosen With Wingfield and Hutchins as His Alternates

NORTHERN MANAGER
Dees Elected Assistant and Atwater Freshman Manager

At a smoker for the varsity football lettermen, held at the home of Coach “Doc” Newton, December 7, Johnny Mackorell,
flashy quarterback from Hickory, was named captain of the 1934 Davidson eleven. At the same time Dewey Hutchins and George
Wingfield, both halfbacks, were selected as alternate captains. Earlier in the week, by a vote of the entire squad, W.
L. Northern, of Sarasota, Fla., was chosen to be varsity manager; Rigdon Dees, of Greensboro, was named assistant varsity manager,
and Billy Atwater, of Burlington, was given the position of manager of the freshman team for the coming season.

Johnny Mackorell, an all-state back, is a junior in the college. He is prominent on the campus, having served as
secretary-treasurer of the student body, and belongs to Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Hutchins, of Lexington, is well known on
the campus, and is also a junior. He belongs to Kappa Alpha fraternity. Dewey Wingfield, prominently known as “Little Joe,”
was on the second all-state team, and is now serving as vice-president of the Athletic Association. His fraternity is Kappa
Sigma.

Davidson Wrestlers Open Against W. & L.

Shortly after the Christmas recess, the Davidson wrestling team, that has been under the tutelage of Coach “Doc” Unger for
the last several weeks, will open its season. The season opens with a two-day invasion of the Old Dominion, where
the Wildcat grapplers will meet Washington and Lee, January 12, and Virginia Military Institute the following night. Two foes that
were not on the schedule last year appear on the ‘Cats’ 1934 card, namely, V. M. I. and N. C.
State. Franklin and Marshall, who defeated Davidson last season, does not reappear. Washington and Lee, which was the only other
team to lick the ‘Cats last season, is again on the card, as are V. P. I. and Duke, both
defeated by Davidson, and the University of North Carolina, who wrestled the local grapplers to a 14-14 draw in the
Tin Can at Chapel Hill. Only one meet, that with the Carolina Tar Heels, is carded for the local mat,
five foes being met on their own floor, and the remaining foe, N. C. State, is to be met in
a place yet to be determined. If either Davidson or State is defeated the meet will be held here, but
if it is a battle for the state championship, the match will be held in Charlotte.

WHAT ABOUT THAT TRIP?
Cars For Hire
Gulf Gasoline
M. P. HENDERSON

IF YOU COME ONCE—YOU’LL COME ALWAYS
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

“DRUGS”
A Complete Drug Store
“Make Our Store Your Store”
Reliable Prescription Druggists
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Jewelry Box For Her Xmas...
Contains Candy by Nunnally
GIVE US YOUR ORDER NOW
COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”
Davidson Colors
