HEAR DR. ROTH he cohr-ree-otimua AlendDa Lux Gbi Orta Libertas - CONVERSE CLUB TO GIVE PLAY HERE Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 8, 1933 No. 17

Davidson Rifle Team Starts Training for Collegiate Matches
Men Will Be Entered in National Competition to Be Held March 25th
PAUL BROWN IS CAPTAIN
Are Victorious Over Washington and Lee and Michigan State

The Davidson College Rifle Team, captained by Paul Brown, and under the supervision of Captain Charles W. Stifert, of the R. O. T. C. Department, has begun its annual schedule. The R. O. T. C. team has an abundance of material this year, including a large number of Freshmen and Sophomores, and it should be able to obtain gratifying results with the aid of extensive practice.

The team has five matches, including matches with Washington and Lee, Michigan State, University of Washington, New Mexico Military Institute, and A. and M. in Texas. Results have been obtained from only two of these matches as yet. The team won from Washington and Lee by a score of 1296 to 1239 (out of a possible 1500 five-man team score). They won from Michigan State, scoring 3452 to 3422 (out of a possible 4000).

Competition began last week, when correspondence matches were sent out. The team is composed this year of about 22 men, whom the ten best scorers are usually picked for correspondence matches. The ten high scorers last week, who have a good chance of composing the regular match team, are, in order, as follows: Green, G. L.; Simpson, W. G.; McIlwinen, B.; McLean, J. M.; Cathey, G. G.; Johnson, D.; McConnel, O.; Jetton, S. L.; Woodward, O.; and Captain Brown (eleventh score in case of tie).

The scoring of the team has not been up to an unusual mark as yet, but the hopes are that with consistent training a good year may be realized.

DR. R. G. McLEES IS SPEAKER AT CHAPEL

Dr. R. G. McLees, the beloved Secretary of Home Missions in Concord Presbytery, was the speaker at chapel last Friday morning. After Dr. Richards read the Scripture, Dr. McLees took his text from the fourth verse of the eleventh chapter of Hebrews and chose as his subject, “The Stupendousness of the Life.”

“If a pebble dropped in the sea sends ripples to the most distant shore and a wave of the hand starts an air current to the farthest star, is it not much more reasonable,” said the speaker, “to suppose that human lives affect each other much more fully?” Ulysses said, “I am a part of all that I have ever met.” Deep down under the ground rocks have been found which were the footprints of little birds which were made in the dark ages long ago and human contacts produce influences which are just as enduring, he asserted. He continued, “A little good may grow until it earns for us the reward of eternal life.”

Dr. McLees is a native of South Carolina and has been for several years pastor at Chatham, Virginia. Each summer he leads the devotionals at the summer conference in Montreat.

Ben Rose Selected By Court of Control

The election of Ben Lacy Rose to the Court of Control was recently announced. Rose was selected to fill the vacancy created by the transfer of Rufus Page from Davidson to N. C. State in Raleigh. Rose is a member of the Sophomore class and will be one of its representatives on the Court for the remainder of the school year. He is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, the Eumenean Literary Society, the Beaver Club, the Reporters’ Club, and earned his numeral as a half-miler on the Freshman track team last spring.

Local Dramatic Club Initiates New Members

McIlwinen, McLain, and Others Chosen for Histrionic Ability
NEW PLAYS CONSIDERED

At a recent meeting of the Red and Black Masquers, the following men were issued invitations to become members of the club in recognition of their histrionic ability and interest in dramatics: N. A. Moss, G. W. Simpson, G. R. Wood, T. F. Wood, W. I. McIlwinen, and D. P. McLain.

Nicholas Moss is a member of the Senior class and has had much experience in theatricals. This year he both directed and played in “Moonshine.” Jay Simpson is a member of the Sophomore class and took the juvenile lead in two plays last year, “The Mayor and the Manicure” and “The Haunted House.” Gordon Wood, also a Sophomore, was seen last year in “The Haunted House” and “In the Zone,” and played Constantine in “The Game of Chess,” the recent presentation of the club. Tom Wood, Sophomore, has taken character parts in “In the Zone” and “Sound Bast for Cardiff.” Bill McIlwinen has been cast in “The Mayor and the Manicure,” “Shain,” and “Haunted House,” three successes of last year's season. Dave McLain has demonstrated his ability as a portrayer of character parts in several plays. McLain last appeared as a grizzled mountaineer, Luke Hazy, in “Moonshine.”

The men accepting bids will be initiated at a future meeting of the Masquers and will present skits. Wills Hollingsworth is chairman of a play selection committee that is considering several plays for the club’s next presentation. E. A. Hancock is president; Jack Williams, secretary-treasurer; and Hodgin, manager.

Two Deputations Sent from “Y” Last Sunday

Two deputations were sent out by the Davidson Y. M. C. A. last Sunday, one to Charlotte and the other to Sherrill's Ford Chapel. The former, sent to Charlotte, was the regular deputation which speaks to the boys at the Y. M. C. A. there every Sunday evening at 2:30. This past Sunday it was composed of Jack Goodykoontz and Bob Smith, the former speaking to the older class of boys ages 16 to 22, and the latter addressing the younger class, from around ages 10 and 12. The older boys heard a very interesting and inspiring talk on Prayer, the text being taken from John 14:13, “And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do.” In the short talk the power and the certainty of prayer were stressed and the boys were urged to pray more reverently and more frequently. In addressing the younger group, Bob Smith took his text from Matthew 5:13, “Ye are the salt of the earth, but if the salt hath lost his savour wherewith shall it be salted?” He stressed the fact of living all ye do for Christ and used as an example the story of the forty wrestling wrestlers for Christ.

The deputation to Sherrill’s Ford chapel, west of Mooresville, is also a regular deputation which supplies the pulpit of the Reverend Parker every first and third Sundays of the month. Last Sunday it was composed of Avery Patton, Gordon Smith, and Ed McNair. Avery Patton preached the sermon and Gordon Smith conducted Sunday School, while Ed McNair supervised the music. The “Y” is planning deputations in the future to W. C. U. N. C., Concord, and Salisbury, and it is to aid in the annual Come Clean Campaign of the Charlotte “Y.”

Because he has added duties in the department of hygiene at the College of the City of New York, where he is an instructor, Dr. Harold J. Parker has been relieved as head coach of the university’s team, a position he has held since 1924. Players refused to practice until a “better” explanation was made for the removal from the gridiron.

Eta Sigma Phi Holds Meeting

Dr. Caleb R. Harding Addresses Group on Sappho and Contrasts Her Conditions With Those of Other Greeks
DISCUSS FUTURE PLANS

A very instructive program was enjoyed by members of the Eta Sigma Phi, honorary classical fraternity. During the business session, Mr. McNair suggested several very pertinent topics for discussion, among them the qualifications which should be necessary for candidates in order to be initiated. Afterwards, Mr. McNair outlined very interesting plans for the subject matter of future meetings. These consisted of forums on Latin and Greek customs and Latin comedies. Dr. Harding followed with a delightful address on “Sappho.” Contrasting the Greek women of her time on the Isle of Lesbos with those of Athens and Sparta, he showed that the fair little Aegean isle produced an ideal for a woman of her type. She was a teacher of women in one of those loosely-knitted little schools of antiquity; her fame wasspread abroad, and attracted many challenges. He described as much as is known of her life, then read several of her love lyrics. This dissertation was closely attended by numerous apt illustrations and subtle humor. At the conclusion of Dr. Harding's speech, the meeting was adjourned, and delicious refreshments completed a most enjoyable evening.

Converse French Club to Present Play Here Week of February 21

Popular Play

The Alliance Francaise of Converse College, Spartanburg, S.C., has accepted the invitation of the Cercle Francais of Davidson College to meet with it the last week of February. It is expected that twenty-five Converse students will make the trip. Following a dinner to be tendered by the Davidson honorary French society, the college girls will be guests of honor at a public performance in Chambers Auditorium. The well-known comedy, L’Anglais Tel Qu’on le Parle (English as Spoken), will be presented by the Davidson students. This comedy by Tristan Bernard, dealing with the misadventures of an ignorant hotel interpreter, has long been a favorite on the Paris stage.

The following students will compose the cast of characters: Robert Coit, of Korea, the hotel interpreter; L. T. Newland, of Korea, will play Julien Cicandel, a young Frenchman who has eloped with Betty Hogson, played by Madison Armistead of Weldon, N.C.; George Gullette, Ala., will take the role of hotel manageress; Hugh Johnson, of Wilson, N.C., has the part of Hogson, who comes to Paris in pursuit of his daughter; Lanier Pratt, of Louisville, Ky., will be the Commissioner of Police, and D. K. of Grassy Creek, N.C., the gendarme. Jack Williams, of Waycross, will play the part of the waiter.

Following the presentation by the Davidson students, the last act of La Farce de Maître Pathelin, a modern adaptation of one of the most famous farces of the Middle Ages, will be performed. William Flinn, of Atlanta, Ga., of the Davidson Cercle, will serve as stage manager for each production. William Hart, of Charlotte, N.C., at the console of the college organ, will present works by noted French composers. After the public performance, the Davidson students will entertain their guests at a reception at which several numbers in French will be offered. Dr. and Mrs. A. Vermont, of the Converse faculty, will chaperone the Alliance Francaise, and Mrs. G. B. Watts and Mrs. A. V. Goldiere of Davidson will serve as patronesses.

(Continued on page 6)

Feature Winter Dances

The Mid-Winter Dances which were held at the Charlotte Armory last Friday and Saturday were acclaimed as the best of the year. The music, which was furnished by [band name missing], was not only the best that Davidson has had recently, but the best that has been in Charlotte in several years. All three dances were attended by unusually large crowds, and the girls were the most attractive group which has been on the campus this year.

Six Men Issued Bids

Eta Sigma Phi Hears Dr. Robert E. Roth, Noted World Traveler, to Speak at Davidson

Recently Completed Tour of American Tropics Furnishes Subject for Interesting Talk

WILL SHOW PHOTOGRAPHS

Dr. Roth Will Present “Wonderlands of South America”

Dr. Robert E. Roth, world traveler and lecturer, is scheduled to make his appearance in Chambers Auditorium on Monday, February 13, at 7:30 p.m. His subject will be “Wonderlands of South America.” Dr. Roth has just recently returned from an extensive tour through South America where he has taken thousands of original photographs from which he has selected the ones he will present here on Monday night. These are exquisitely colored in natural tints and are then faultlessly reproduced upon the screen with the aid of special electrical devices which this traveler will bring with him.

Dr. Roth will take his audience down the West Coast of South America into the countries of Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Chile. In Ecuador, they will visit the cacao plantations and see the natives making Panama hats for which Ecuador is famous, then traveling southward into the interior to Cuzco, Peru, through the Peruvian jungles where many of the natives shown in his pictures were encountered. To secure these pictures, it was necessary for Dr. Roth to travel with guides, traveling to the other side of the Andes on the Andean Railway to Buenos Aires, the Paris of South America, then up to Rio de Janeiro, the Wonder City, going still farther north and again leaving the Atlantic Ocean for a trip on the Amazon River.

Dr. Roth will tell of his experiences, making the next stop in Valparaiso, crossing the Andes, and then traveling up and down the great rivers. You will see the splendid capitals of modern times side by side with the buildings of the Aztecs. You will see the natives in the wildest tropical swamps. Dr. Roth and his keen observations make this travelogue intensely interesting and illuminating. He holds his audience's attention by the sincerity and frankness with which he speaks. His portrayals of places, peoples, customs, etc., are so vivid and clear that his audience is carried into the countries he discussed. This presentation is acclaimed as one of the best before the public today.

LITERARY SOCIETIES ELECT NEW OFFICERS

At recent meetings during the past week, the literary societies elected officers for the coming semester. The officers chosen by the Eumenean Society were: Jake Mackorell, president; R. T. Banks, vice-president; J. L. Shirey, secretary; and Bill Ward, treasurer. These men will be installed in their respective posts on Tuesday, the fourteenth. It was also announced that at a future date members of Queens-Chicora College will make a return debate trip to Davidson to repay one made recently by the Society.

The Philanthropic Society also elected officers to serve its third term of activity recently. Those selected were: W. E. Rachal, president; A. McNeill, vice-president; W. Neill, secretary; C. Ross, treasurer; W. Morrison, supervisor; and J. G. Critic. These men will be inaugurated on February 14. At the election meeting, the program was added to much by a talk, “Belated Resolutions,” by “Skippy” McNeill. His talk was humorous in nature and dealt with such things as resolutions for the society’s getting more members, taking part in the programs, keeping better attendance, and endeavoring earnestly to improve in speaking and writing.