DR. BEN LACY CONCLUDES FALL SERVICES TONIGHT HERE FRIDAY

Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas
Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 22, 1933 No. 10

Dr. Lacy Concludes Annual “Y” Services With Talk Tonight
“Being a Man” Is General Topic of Evangelical Program Starting Sunday
ATTENDANCE IS LARGE
Speaker Is President of Union Theological Seminary

Dr. Ben R. Lacy, president of Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., who was chosen by the Y. M. C. A. to conduct the fall evangelistic services, concludes his series of interesting and profitable talks to the Davidson student body tonight at 7:00 o'clock in Chambers Auditorium.

Dr. Lacy opened the services Sunday morning, November 19, when he occupied Dr. Moffett’s pulpit at the church service. His text was “The Orthodoxy of the Devil,” and the Scripture reading was taken from the entire second chapter of the Epistle of James. The brilliant speaker began his discourse by saying, “The devil has an orthodoxy and knows that there is a God, but this belief profits him nothing. We, too, have an orthodoxy and it is more valuable to us than anything else. Creeds are the roots of our lives and therefore are essentially necessary in our life.”

The speaker then gave four characteristics of an orthodox Christian: the belief in one God, the living of a clean life, the giving to the fatherless and the widowless, and the leading of men and women to Jesus Christ. He took each of these topics in turn and showed how they were necessary to a follower of Jesus Christ. The convincing preacher concluded his sermon by saying, “You can be orthodox like the devil, or you can be orthodox in divine love.”

“Being a Man” was the general thought which Dr. Lacy developed at “Y” vespers Sunday night and continued during the meetings on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. “To become a man,” Dr. Lacy stated, “you must first have faith in God and in His Kingdom. You must believe that God is real and a personality, and you should be conscious that He is near you always. Set yourself to believe in His Kingdom and that we can be built into the Kingdom of God.”

(Continued on page 3)

Military Society Pledges New Men
Scabbard and Blade Bids Cochran, Rice, Lyon, and Schenck

Four officers of Davidson R. O. T. C. unit were extended bids to membership in the local chapter of Scabbard and Blade, national military fraternity, on Saturday, November 18. The officers to whom bids were extended, as announced by Cadet Major W. M. Brown, president of the Davidson Chapter, were Cadet Captain F. M. Cochran, Jr., Cadet First Lieutenant A. W. Rice, Cadet First Lieutenant W. A. Lyon, and Cadet First Lieutenant A. F. Schenck.

Candidates for this organization must show an interest in military affairs and their proficiency in military science must be proved before they are considered for membership. In addition, they must possess certain other qualities which include honor, obedience, courage, leadership, loyalty, and good fellowship. These men have measured up to the requirements for membership and there will be in the near future a special parade to decorate them with the pledge ribbon of Scabbard and Blade.

These men have not only shown interest in military work, but have also taken part in other activities on the campus. Captain Cochran is a member of the Theta Upsilon Omega fraternity, captain of the track team, and a member of the Pan-Hellenic Council. Lieutenant Rice is a member of the football squad. Lieutenants Lyon and Schenck are members of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. Major Brown stated that there would probably be other bids issued later in the school year.

DAVIDSON TWINS “TEE” THOMPSON “WEE” THOMPSON

Pictured above are the Thompson twins of Richmond, Va., who are seniors at Davidson College this year. Both boys are outstanding in athletics, scholarship, and leadership. They are both members of the football team, were recently elected to Phi Beta Kappa, and are members of O. D. K., honorary leadership fraternity. W. M. Thompson is the president of the Davidson Y. M. C. A., and his brother, W. T. Thompson, is editor of the “Y” Handbook. They are both actively engaged in “Y” work as well as many other campus activities. W. M. (Wee) Thompson has averaged over 97 in his three years at Davidson, and W. T. (Tee) Thompson has averaged 96. Never in its history has Davidson had twins who received such distinction as have the Thompson twins. Friends, unable to tell them apart, call both of them “Twee.”

Prof. A. J. Toynbee To Lecture Friday
Eminent Lecturer Will Deliver Address on “The Current International Situation”

The Faculty Committee on Public Lectures has secured Professor Arnold J. Toynbee, in continuance of the second series of lectures, who will speak in Chambers Auditorium on Friday evening, November 24, at 7:30. His subject will be “The Current International Situation.”

Professor Toynbee, who is director of studies in the Royal Institute of International Affairs, and research professor of international history on the Sir Daniel Stevenson Foundation at the University of London, has traveled extensively in the Near East, Turkey, and the Orient. Last July he visited Germany in order to observe the workings of the revolution in that country brought about by the National Socialist party, and in August he attended the British Commonwealth of Nations Conference, held in Toronto.

For the past several years Professor Toynbee has given lectures in the United States under the auspices of the Institute of International Education. During the month of October he gave a course of Lowell Lectures in Boston, and has spoken on many international and historical questions elsewhere. A cordial invitation is extended to the entire community and especially to those interested in historical questions.

French Club Will Give Three Plays
Le Circle Francais Goes to Converse; McLain and Tucker to Sing

Eighteen of the members, accompanied by Professor A. V. Goldiere and Dr. G. B. Watts, will make the trip, which comes as a sequel to the joint meeting held in Davidson last year of the two clubs. The Converse club will entertain their visitors with a presentation of Rostand’s “Les Romanesques,” and at 6 o'clock will be host to them at dinner in the college dining hall. This interchange of meetings has taken place for several years between the two clubs, and has proven highly successful. The Davidson club plans to leave here in time to reach Spartanburg by 4:00 p.m.

In addition to the plays, two members of the club will entertain with French songs. Dave McLain will sing “Avant de Quitter ces Lieux,” from Faust, and Frank Tucker will render “La Berceuse de Jocelyn.”

Bill Lyon Submits Photos In Contest
Two Appear in Rotogravure Section of “Washington Post”

Two pictures, taken by Bill Lyon, a member of the Senior class, appeared in the rotogravure section of recent Sunday editions of “The Washington Post,” a newspaper printed in the national capital. The pictures appeared with others which had been entered in an amateur photography contest. Lyon submitted ten photographs, which he himself took, developed, and printed, to the contest which closed October 15. In the November 12 issue of the Washington paper a scene of a wreck appeared among the amateur-taken photographs; and in last week’s issue, a picture of Bill Flynn, Davidson track star who graduated last spring, vaulting over the bar, was Lyon's product.

Prizes will be awarded to those who submitted the best photographs, which are to be selected from the group published each week. Lyon became interested in photography about four years ago, and under the influence of his father, Dr. S. C. Lyon, professor of biology, has developed quite an interest in the picture-taking and finishing field. Several of Lyon's pictures have appeared in leading dailies, and two have been used in the “Collegiate Digest,” the rotogravure section which “The Davidsonian” sends its readers this year.

Dr. Lingle To Return From Virginia Nov. 24

On Friday, November 24, Dr. W. L. Lingle will return to Davidson College after a week’s stay in Richmond, Va. He, Mrs. Lingle, and their daughter left for Virginia last Friday by automobile.

On Friday night he attended a banquet given by the Richmond-Petersburg Chapter of the Davidson alumni. At this banquet Captain Norton G. Pritchett, director of athletics here, and Grier Martin, alumni secretary, gave speeches, Captain Pritchett’s being the principal talk of the evening. The next day, with several other alumni of Davidson College, Dr. Lingle went to the William and Mary-Davidson football game at Williamsburg. Sunday he delivered a sermon at the Second Presbyterian Church of Richmond.

On Monday Dr. Lingle began his series of lectures to men on the importance of a church office in the church. These lectures will continue until Thursday, when he plans to return to Davidson. Dr. Lingle returned on this trip among old friends and associates, since, before his appointment to the Davidson College presidency, he was at the Second Presbyterian Church of Richmond.

(Continued on page 6)

Debating Team Is Selected In Final Tryout On Nov. 15
Brown, Fitzgerald, Goodykoontz, Mumphrey, Pratt-Thomas, and Smith Chosen
TWELVE MEETS PLANNED
Debaters to Travel 6,500 Miles on Trips

The Forensic Council held its final tryout for varsity debaters Wednesday night, November 15, in the auditorium of Chambers Building. At that time, two teams and alternates were selected. During the preliminary tryouts, G. H. Brown, R. M. Cann, and W. F. Goodykoontz were selected on Thursday, November 9, as eligibles forThe team; R. Pratt-Thomas, Robert H. Smith, J. H. Fitzgerald, and A. C. Stutts were chosen on Friday night, and last Monday, W. L. Fugate, J. R. Harper, and E. J. Humphrey were approved by the judges, Drs. C. K. Brown, W. P. Cumming, P. H. Gwynn, and Prof. A. Currie. After a discussion lasting over an hour, the judges chose G. H. Brown, J. H. Fitzgerald, W. F. Goodykoontz, E. J. Humphrey, R. Pratt-Thomas, and Robert H. Smith to compose the two debating teams. R. M. Cann, J. R. Harper, and A. C. Stutts were selected as alternates to the teams. The debating season will last from the last week of February until the end of March. During that time, the teams will make three home debates, one of which will possibly be with the University of Florida. Three nine-day trips, over a total distance of 6,500 miles, to the North, the South, and the West, will be taken. The debaters will compete at four on each trip. For the Northern trip, tentative arrangements are underway for contests with the University of Richmond in Richmond, Va.; Washington and Lee in Lexington; Lehigh in Bethlehem, Pa., and Princeton at Princeton. The Western trip will include Sewanee at Sewanee, Tenn.; Southwestern at Memphis; Ohio Wesleyan, and Centre College at Danville, Ky. The University of South Carolina at Columbia, the College of Charleston at Charleston, the University of Florida at Gainesville, and the University of Miami will probably be the college scenes of the debates on the Southern tour. This schedule, however, is not definite and is subject to many changes.

Hood Asked To Aid In Ad Researches
Psychology Department Studies Effectiveness of Advertising

Dr. Frazer Hood, head of the department of psychology at Davidson, announced Monday that the members of Davidson's psychology department have been invited by the Psychological Corporation of New York City to take part in a nation-wide research problem concerning effective advertising. “What types of advertisements by magazines, billboards, and radio are most effective in securing business?” is the problem set forth by the corporation, whose membership includes recognized members of the American Psychological Association, with which Dr. Hood is affiliated. Very little research in this field had been made until last year, when Davidson psychologists began the study on a small scale. Due to the fact that (Continued on page 2)

College Humor Elects Fugate Campus Editor

Wilbur L. Fugate, editor of “The Yowl,” was recently advised that he had been appointed an associate editor of “College Humor,” to represent that magazine editorially on this campus. Word of the appointment came through R. W. Mickam, editor of “College Humor.” “The Yowl” recently entered into an agreement with the popular college magazine to give it reprint privileges.

Freshman Debating

Tryouts for men interested in freshman debating will be conducted by the Forensic Council on December 13, according to E. J. Humphrey, president of the Council. Two teams of three each, and three alternates will be selected to debate the query adopted this year by the national forensic fraternity, Alpha Sigma Epsilon: “Resolved, That the Powers of the President Should be Substantially Increased as a Settled Policy.” Several trips will be taken to meet freshman teams of several colleges and universities and varsity teams of junior colleges.

Ladies Glee Club Presents Musicale

Solos by Charles Pier, ’Cellist, Included With Vocal Numbers

The Greensboro College Glee Club presented an unusually entertaining musical performance in Chambers Auditorium Friday night. Assisting the club in its program were Audrey Bruton, pianist; Charles Pier, ’cellist, and Edward Molitore, director of the club. All of the numbers rendered by the Glee Club received liberal applause; some of the best received and best interpreted were Bornschien’s arrangement of “Nobody Knows,” “Night Wind,” by Farley, and Berwald’s “Antiphony.” Percy Khan's “Ave Maria,” Saint-Saëns’ “The Swan,” and “The Big Brown Bear,” by Mana-Zucca, were the other highlights of the Glee Club program. In the “Big Brown Bear,” the use of “Woof” and “O’ My,” characterizing the bear and the frightened fair damsel, added color to the interpretation and called forth much laughter in the audience.

Besides being director of the Glee Club, Edward Molitore is an accomplished baritone. He proved his talent in his presentations of “Sea Fever” by Ireland, and “Little Old Foolish Old Man” by Mortimer Browning. Called back twice for encores, he sang, “I Thought I Heard a Lady Sigh” and “Sylvia.” Charles Pier, solo ’cellist of the group, gave an instrumental element to the program by his excellent renditions of “Rococo Theme,” by Popper; Rimsky-Korsakoff's “Serenade Espagnole,” and a “Gavotte,” also by Popper. His excellent tone quality and technique pleased the audience and he returned to play “Drink To Me Only With Thine Eyes.” The group which received most of the applause was the trio, which was called back five times for encores. Some of their numbers were, “The Day You Came Along,” “Give Me Liberty or Give Me Love,” “Thanks,” and their theme song, “Lonesome Road.” Miss Audrey Bruton, pianist, re- (Continued on page 6)

MacConnell Makes Trip To Medical Convention

Dr. John W. MacConnell, college physician, left Sunday, November 12, for Richmond, Va., where he attended a medical convention which lasted four days. The convention started Tuesday morning and ended Friday. At the convention, Dr. Hamilton McKay, of Charlotte, a former Davidson student, had a very interesting exhibition. Dr. John Walter Moore, dean of the University of Louisville, gave an address on Medical Education. Mr. R. C. Neale, a student at Medical College of Virginia, had an interesting exhibit of research apparatus used in the study of rheumatism. He is doing some research work on rheumatism and expects to publish his report within the next year. There were over sixteen hundred doctors present, although this is but their second meeting. Its territory extends south of Ohio and east of Texas.

William And Mary Bows To Davidson ’Cats 12-7

Mackorell and Wingfield Star in Decisive Victory

W. & M. HOMECOMING

Passing Attack Features Thrilling Game

A mighty Wildcat attack was too much for William and Mary Saturday, and the Indians were defeated 12 to 7 as their homecoming crowd looked on. Twice Davidson's pony backs, led by Mackorell and Wingfield, shoved the offensive into high, and twice Wingfield crossed the Indians’ goal, once in the first period and again in the third. The game was inaugurated by a brilliant Wildcat attack. Mackorell received Stuart’s kickoff on the five-yard line and weaved his way through the Indian tribe for a 70-yard run to place the ball on the Braves’ 25-yard line. Two runs by Wingfield and a pass by Mackorell to Wingfield put the ball on the Indians’ 10-yard stripe. A penalty inflicted on W. & M. put the ball on the one-yard line, to be carried over by Wingfield. His placekick for the extra point was wide.

Not at all tamed, the Indians came back with some capricious running of their own. Palese, star back, received the kickoff on his own goal line and twisted through the ’Cats to Davidson's 20-yard line. He was brought down by Wingfield, who equaled his pace. The Wildcats rallied and held the Indians until the middle of the second quarter. Shade packed Mackorell’s kick to his own thirty. Palese hit the line for twelve, and Shade gained eight more. The Indians fought their way down the field to Davidson's 22, and on a dapper pass from Bryan to Johnson, substitute for Franklin, the ball was carried over the goal. The extra point was made by a placement by Stuart. A third Indian drive was halted at the 15-yard line at the half.

Davidson got going in the middle of the third quarter with Mackorell lugging the ball on a 13-yard run to the Wildcats’ 40. Wingfield hit the line for four and took a neat Mackorell pass for 15. Mackorell kicked to the 25, and Bryant returned a poor kick to his own 32. Mackorell tossed a pass to Morgan for 12 and then heaved one to Wingfield, who scored the deciding touchdown of the game. Wingfield’s placekick was blocked by Bridges. The last quarter featured the passing attack of both teams, but the superior kicking of the Wildcats gave them the advantage. The game ended with Davidson offering another scoring threat on William and Mary’s 7-yard line. The line-up is as follows: (Continued on page 2)

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Extends Bids To Seven

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, the mother chapter of the national honorary chemistry fraternity, issued bids to seven men who have met the requirements in the field of chemistry. These seven men included four seniors and three juniors. Those receiving bids were: M. W. Alderman, Alcolu, S. C.; W. M. Brown, Knoxville, Tenn.; J. S. Drake, Orange, Texas; J. H. Fitzgerald, Jr., Crewe, Va.; E. S. Hodge, Charlotte; E. G. Holt, Greensboro, and S. M. Nickey, Jr., Memphis, Tenn. These seven men will be initiated within the next two or three weeks. There will be no meeting of the fraternity this week due to the fall services of the Y. M. C. A. The fraternity is at present composed of Dr. H. B. Arbuckle and Prof. O. J. Thies of the faculty, and R. C. Morrow, J. T. Blair, B. L. Moore, Odi Casali, E. L. Powell, and J. S. Wilson of the student body.

COURTS ERECTED

Two volleyball nets were erected in the quadrangle last Monday. These will be used in the inter-fraternity, inter-class, and informal volleyball competition for the next few weeks.