JUNIOR SPEAKING

GYPSY SMITH TO CONDUCT SERVICES MARCH 18TH

Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 15, 1933 No. 22

JULIAN WEST CHOSEN STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT

Dr. Foster Gives Timely Talk on Depression and Predicts Recovery Soon

Dr. Thomas W. Lingle Introduces Speaker to Large Crowd of Students and Visitors

PRAISES F. D. ROOSEVELT

Speaker Goes to Confer With Senate Committee on Finance

Prophesying revolutionary changes in our financial system and ultimate economic recovery, Dr. William Trufant Foster, the nationally famous economist, spoke to an enthusiastic Davidson audience Monday night, and vividly portrayed the troubled America of the laissez-faire era, and the new America that is possible under the New Deal. A few hours later he was on his way to Washington to present his ideas to the Senate Finance Committee.

“Under the New Deal,” he said, “We have a chance to go forward and utilize our wealth. We have a leader of proved courage. And we are going to have action, of that we may be sure. The net result will be progress, and we shall get out of this depression.”

A large, enthusiastic audience heard Dr. Foster, whose travels have carried him to every section of the country within the last few months, begin his address by describing the ever-present condition of material abundance which he found. “Too many potatoes in Maine, too many oranges in California, too much cotton, too much wheat—everywhere an abundance of goods. We are the wealthiest country in the world. Why, then, do we have poverty? Why do we have two million people living, sometimes six in a room, in the slums of our great cities, centers of filth and disease? The whole thing doesn’t make sense. It ought to be called Alice in Blunderland.”

“The depression,” the speaker said, “is all psychological. When a mule balks, it’s in his head, not in his legs. It is also en- (Continued on page 4)

FAMOUS NEGRO QUARTET HEARD IN CHAPEL FRIDAY

Well-Known Negro Singers From Hampton Institute Present Program of Negro Spirituals

On Friday morning last, in Chambers Auditorium during the regular chapel period, Davidson students, and any visitors who had heard of the event, were given the pleasure of listening to a world-famous negro quartet from Hampton Institute sing spirituals and plantation songs. These singers are extremely well known in America and on the Continent of Europe, because they have given concerts in most of the capital cities of the Western world. They have also once given a command performance at Buckingham Palace.

Hampton Institute is a negro college in Virginia which, in the words of President Lingle, “has done a great work toward raising the station of the Southern negro to a place more in keeping with his (Continued on page 4)

Gypsy Smith, Jr.

It has been recently announced by Samuel Wiley, Y. M. C. A. secretary, that Gypsy Smith, Jr., will conduct a series of services at Davidson April 24, 25, and 26. It is of course unnecessary to make any explanation as to who this famous evangelist is. It is only hoped that a maximum attendance will be had, in order that as many students as possible may receive the inspiring message which he has already carried to so many people. Davidson is indeed fortunate in securing so powerful and worth-while a speaker.

Davidson Men Aid in ‘Come Clean’ Program

During the past two weeks, several deputations from our Y. M. C. A. have been doing remarkable work. They have just completed their work in the annual “Come-Clean” campaign, which this year was sponsored by the Davidson and Charlotte Y. M. C. A.’s, and the Civitans Club of Charlotte. The purpose of the campaign was to put before school students of Mecklenburg County the thought of temperance and abstinence from all habits detrimental to the growth of the physique. The campaign was considered a great success with the signing of some 6,000 cards in which the students pledged themselves to clean habits, clean speech, clean sports, and clean scholarship.

The campaign started on Thursday, March 2nd. On that day every grammar school and high school in Charlotte was visited by the following men: John Howard, Charlie Moore, Charlie Little, Rufus Morrow, Warner DuBose, Jake Mackorell, and Jack Goodykoontz. On Friday, March 3rd, Sam Nickey addressed the school students of Cornelius, Derita, and Huntersville. Last week the other rural schools of Mecklenburg County were covered by Joe Wadsworth, Wee Thompson, Bob Coit, and Lynn Huie. Sunday, a deputation was sent to the Charlotte “Y” where Paul Harlan spoke to the younger boys, and Duck Powell to the older boys. The campaign closed yesterday with Tee Thompson speaking at Davidson. Plans for a similar campaign along the same lines as the above one have just been worked out by the Kannapolis Y. M. C. A. and it will take place April 6, 7, 8, 9.

Prof. Foreman Leads Fireside Discussions

College Skepticism Proven Provocational Subject for Open Forum Debate

Approximately forty students gathered for the Friday night meeting of the Y. M. C. A. Fireside Forum held in the social center. Those who availed themselves of the opportunity for a thoughtful discussion on the current problems which are challenging the minds of college men, engaged in a very beneficial discussion of the general topic, “Does College Life Tend to Produce Skepticism?” The forum was fortunate in having for its leader Prof. Kenneth J. Foreman, who opened the forum with a short devotional. His reading of 1st Thessalonians 5:12-22 paved the way for the discussion of skepticism.

Dr. Foreman opened the discussion with an informative introductory talk. He pointed out the fact that to most people a skeptic, and skepticism in general, means something vicious and destructive, but he pointed out on the other hand that skepticism is not necessarily destructive, but can be turned into something of definite value, and lasting good, when the skeptic is really sincere and thoughtful in his attitude. He showed that a great deal of the trouble in the inner life of most college men comes from the fact that they haven’t really taken time to think, and that a vast amount of good can be gathered from an honest attitude of question. He pointed out that there is a good deal of difference between a skeptic who merely questions things in a sane way and a radical skeptic, who is blind to reason.

The group discussion was then carried on in the manner of an informal questioning and answering. Interesting lights were thrown on the subject of the inspiration of the Scriptures, prayer and predestination. The discussion took several turns, but was always kept focused on the general subject of skepticism. By popular consent, the subject of the next discussion will be that of “Prayer,” the date and leader to be announced in the near future. The gratifying interest that is being shown in these forums is clearly revealed by the fact that this last gathering had the largest attendance of any of the discussions. A cordial invitation is extended to those who have not yet gotten the benefits of these interesting discussions to attend the next forum.

Eu Literary Society Has Unusual Debate

At its customary hour, the Eumenean Literary Society met last Tuesday evening, March 7th, at which time a very delightful program was developed. R. T. Banks read an original paper entitled “My Lady Luna,” the purpose of which was to express in as many metaphors as possible the love of a man for a maid. From this highly imaginative composition to the real and matter of fact “Five-Year Plan of Russia,” the in-

JULIAN WEST QUARTERBACK

Julian West, of Barium Springs, N. C., who will lead the Davidson student body during the fiscal year of 1933-1934.

Debaters Return From Nine Day Southern Trip

Tour Includes The College of Charleston, Rollins College, and University of Florida

Three of Davidson’s debaters returned Saturday morning from an eight-day Southern debating tour, which included the College of Charleston, Rollins, and the University of Florida. ThoseComposing the team were Leland McKeithan and Bob Smith, with John Richards as alternate. At all three colleges, they upheld the negative side of the question, “Resolved: That the United States should agree to the cancellation of the inter-allied war debt.” The first stop was at the College of Charleston, where they won an audience decision. From there, the team proceeded to Winter Park, Florida, where they combatted with Rollins College. The debate there was a non-decision one because the director of debating did not desire judges. The Rollins team had just returned from a national tour. At New York, they debated the University of Dublin, which was broadcast over station WEAF. The final destination was Gainesville, where they encountered the University of Florida. This debate was broadcast over WRUF at Gainesville, so of course, there was no decision.

Junior Speaking

Due to the unusually strained financial conditions, the Junior class has found it necessary to alter the plans for the annual Junior Speaking house party. The date of the house party will remain unchanged, but instead of presenting three dances, the Juniors will sponsor only one dance. This dance will be held in the Hotel Charlotte Ballroom on Saturday, March 18th, from 8:30 until 12:00 o’clock. The dance will be informal. The music will be furnished by Reeves Pope and his Southernaires, as originally planned. The orchestra had arranged several novelty numbers for the set of three dances, but all of the best musical selections will be presented on Saturday night. This fact indicates that the music will be better than could have been expected had the dances been given as formerly planned. In spite of the scarcity of money among the members of the student body, the Juniors are expecting the hearty cooperation on the part of a great many students and friends of Davidson.

Interest of the society was directed by William Singleton. In his talk, Mr. Singleton emphasized the uniqueness of Russia’s lack of depression through the effectiveness of the plan. Following this, a lively discussion in the form of an impromptu debate on the query, “Resolved: That beauty is more to be desired than brains,” took place. Those in defense of pulchritude were: Bill Ward, Edward Hodge, and W. A. Pate; while, on the side of intelligence were: Stuart Henry, Rufus Morrow, and Tom Caldwell. A vote from the floor settled in favor of the negative, that is, those in support of “Brains.” A report from the Foreign Relations Committee informed the members of the visit of the Queens-Chicora Literary Society for the evening of March 14th. Plans for entertaining the young ladies were made and on the reception committee, President Jake Mackorell appointed Rufus Morrow and Ed Hodge to serve. Arrangements for making a musical program at this occasion possible were completed as well.

Dr. Boyd Gives Talk on “What’ll You Bet”

Morrow Leads Service and Tucker Favors Audience With Vocal Solo

Dr. Boyd, pastor of the Westminster Church in Charlotte, gave a very interesting and inspiring talk at Sunday vespers on the subject, “What’ll You Bet?” The service was led by Rufus Morrow. After the opening hymn, “Am I a Soldier of the Cross,” the leader gave a short prayer. This was followed by the singing of “Jesus and Shall It Ever Be.” The scripture lesson, which was taken from the hymn book, included the fifteenth and sixteenth Psalms. Frank Tucker then favored the audience with a vocal solo.

Dr. Boyd began by giving three definitions of money: a medium of exchange, stored energy, and coin personality. He then explained the two honorable ways of getting money, by inheritance and by giving value received. After these words of introduction, he stated that we are in this present day constantly faced with the issue of betting. We play games for prizes, make wagers on ball games, and many other forms of getting something for nothing present themselves in very attractive ways. “The big question,” he asserted, “is what about it?” Many people ask what is the harm in it. Dr. Boyd stated that his reply was that it was bad, and that no good could come from it. The badness of it has been clearly brought out in the last few years. Innumerable families have been left homeless because of the husband or wife foolishly gambling away their entire wealth. He reminded us that our duty was to exert every effort to discourage every sin, and in particular this one which so many people commit. Dr. Boyd said that to lose a bet was to throw away energy, and to win a bet was to take something without value received. Whether you win or lose, a dishonorable transaction is made. Should students in college give away for nothing money earned by their parents, or should they take money from another without giving value received? He then raised the question of how people get into gambling. It isn’t begun by playing for large stakes, but by such little things as playing marbles for keeps, and matching for drinks. It is far better to (Continued on page 6)

Brown, Potter Elected Student Vice-Presidents in Recent School Voting

Three Ballots Required to Eliminate Large Group of Men Named for Positions

LARGE GROUP NOMINATED

Herman Dillard Selected Secretary-Treasurer From Class of 1936

Julian W. West, of Barium Springs, N. C., was elected president of the student body for the coming year in the elections held last week. In the same balloting, Gordon “Skip” Brown and A. J. Potter were elected vice-presidents, and Herman Dillard secretary-treasurer. The Student Council Nomination Committee nominated the following men for the office of president: Lanier W. Pratt, Louisville, Ky.; Edward L. Powell, Mobile, Ala.; Julian W. West, Barium Springs, N. C., and John W. Lafferty, Rome, Ga. Fred L. Snyre, Jr., Gastonia, N. C., was nominated from the floor. West was elected on the third ballot, Pratt and Lafferty being eliminated on the first, Powell on the second, and Smyre on the last.

In the nomination for the two vice-presidents, the following were nominated by the committee: P. Mims Rogers, Florence, Ala.; Walter P. Sprunt, Jr., Wilmington, N. C.; Joseph A. C. Wadsworth, Jr., Charlotte, N. C., and Gordon “Skip” Brown, River Edge, N. J. Douglas McK. Glasgow, Charlotte, N. C., and A. J. Potter were nominated from the floor. Brown and Potter were elected on the first ballot. The Nomination Committee nominated three men for the office of secretary-treasurer. These men were: Lamont Brown, Barium Springs, N. C.; Coley Windham, Gastonia, N. C., and Addison Brenizer, Charlotte, N. C. Those nominated from the floor were: Husco Sanders, Laurens, S. C.; Henry Cathey, Charlotte, N. C.; John Pearce, Plant City, Fla.; Herman Dillard, Spartanburg, S. C., and Al Murray, Atlanta, Ga. (Continued on page 6)

DR. GWYNN ADVANCES HIS OPINION OF BANK HOLIDAY

Declares That Action of Roosevelt Will Lead to Unified System of Banking

Dr. Gwynn, head of the Department of Sociology, recently gave some very interesting views on the present bank moratorium. He is most emphatically of the opinion that this condition is for the best and that it constitutes in itself a distinct forward step in banking management. According to Dr. Gwynn, the moratorium is an advance herald of a new era. Never in the history of the United States has there been a parallel to this momentous act. It proves conclusively to skeptics what a really powerful machine the Federal government is. With one stroke of his pen, newly-elected President Roosevelt closed the doors to every banking house. As a result of this move, American business is at a standstill. In the meantime, hoarders are compelled to spend their hidden money and as a result, new currency is put into circulation. Then, too, the gold which has previously been circulating may be retrieved (Continued on page 6)

Vesper Advance

Mr. David Ovens, of Charlotte, has been selected for vespers service next Sunday night. Mr. Ovens is a very prominent figure in Charlotte business circles. He is general manager of Ivey’s department store, and after being a member of the Charlotte Merchants Association for some time, was recently elected president of that organization.