THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1933

Prince of Siam Resigns As Student of Princeton

Princeton, N. J.—(IP)—It was quite an experience while it lasted, and not a few on the Princeton campus are really sorry to see it over with; but all things considered it appears to be better that Prince Prasob Nom Chow Sukhavsti of Siam is no longer an undergraduate at Princeton University. His royal highness quietly resigned from the university last week, which is about the best way the university authorities could put it.

He had cut rather a wide swath here, what with having named the King of Siam as the person who would pay all his debts, and as Dean Christian Gauss diplomatically related: “The prince was an oriental. He did not understand. No disciplinary action was taken. He was told he was not doing well here, he was not doing himself any good and he resigned.”

The most immediate result of the prince’s departure will be the reopening of the Campus Club, of which he had been an active member, under more subdued management. The club was closed after a series of dances and parties which had this good old Christian town talking. Rumor had it that there was drinking of beverages more potent than 3.2 percent, and a jolly good time with young girls leaving at late hours.

Scientist Says Earth Is Over Million Years Old

Chicago—(IP)—Whether or not you are one of those who take stock in the theory that the earth and the heavens were assembled in seven days, some five or six thousand years ago, you will be interested in knowing that the latest scientific computation of the age of the earth sets it at 1,460,000,000 years. This may be one or two million years off, the scientists admit, but then, what’s a million years?

The latest answer to the age-old question was found in the deep rock of the Black Hills of South Dakota. Dr. Sharat K. Roy of the Field Museum of Natural History is authority for the newest figure. “Only recently,” he said, “was discovered a process in nature that takes place in one direction only and does not change its rate of action.

“It is the process in the atomic disintegration of various radioactive elements contained in certain rocks and minerals. It has given excellent results in measuring the age of the earth.

“A basis for the system of computation is the known rate at which uranium and thorium, parental elements of radioactive minerals, transform through a succession of stages.”

Deep in the rock formations of the Black Hills the scientists measured the extent to which that mineral transformation had progressed—just as animal life has progressed through the millions of years. They studied particularly the development of a substance known as an isotope of lead, an offshoot of uranium. Fresh and primary deposits of that mineral were found to provide great weight as an indicator of age. A few weeks of higher mathematics and the scientists had the answer—1,460,000,000 years have passed since the earth became cool. Nobody knows how many millions elapsed before that time.

Masquers to Put On Second Play of Year

One of Oscar Wilde’s Best Plays to be Presented

The Red and Black Masquers are to present their spring play in about two weeks. This is the second venture into play-acting this year, beginning with a group of one-act plays last fall. The play is one of Oscar Wilde’s best, namely, “The Importance of Being Earnest.” It is a very clever play and the dialogue exceedingly brilliant. Ed Hancock, president of the club, is directing the production. The play runs smoothly and in the second and third acts some very surprising complications arise, thus making a show which will be thoroughly enjoyable to the audience.

The cast includes five male and four female characters. The four female parts are well filled by ladies in town. Kalista Hood, Adele Arbuckle, Miss Orrie Steele, and Mrs. E. J. Erwin have excellently taken these parts. Wills Hollingsworth, Nicholas Moss, and Gordon Wood are well cast in the lead male parts, while Roger Riley and Bill Johnson will assist with smaller parts. Professor Erwin, the faculty advisor for the Red and Black Masquers, has helped very much with the play. Practice has been in progress for about three weeks and the players have progressed excellently. They still have much to do; but nearly everything points to a splendid performance of this ambitious play by the Masquers.

Little Theatre to Soon Present “Little Women”

The Little Theatre in Charlotte, an organization that has done much in keeping alive the spoken drama in that community, has announced for its next production Louisa M. Alcott’s immortal play, “Little Women.” This American classic was published in 1868 and some years ago it was adapted to play form by Marion DeForrest and produced in New York and London. Both Alice Brady and Katharine Cornell appeared in these productions and the distinguished actress Ann Harding will soon appear in the moving picture version.

The play as produced in Charlotte will be done in costumes of the 1860 period and a most capable cast will make up the roster of players. “Little Women” is a great family play, and one which parents will delight in taking the children to see and it should be a very popular favorite among the adolescents of high school age. There will be three performances of “Little Women” in Charlotte at the Ninth Street playhouse on May 28th and 29th, with a matinee at 2:30 on the afternoon of the 29th. The public will be admitted at the reduced price of 50 cents for all performances.

Men Make Applications As Managers of Store

For the past few days applications for the managership of the Students’ Store have been coming in rather slowly. There are at the present time only about six or eight of these applications in. Only men of the rising Senior class are eligible for these offices. After all applications are in, each one is regarded carefully by a board who elects the managers for the coming year. The men who are planning on applying for these places have been asked to hand in their applications to Brooke Allen or Leslie Thompson. Promptness on the part of all of the men applying will be greatly appreciated by the two retiring managers, Allen and Thompson, and by the board as well because they want to elect the managers for the coming year 1933-34 as soon as possible.

President of LaFayette Rates College Politics

Dr. William Mather Lewis, president of LaFayette College, said recently that chiefly because of the courses in political science, the lowest forms of politics are practiced in actual campus life.

“The professor who recently told a student audience that the hope for better political conditions in this country lay in more college men going into politics was wrong.

“There are many college graduates in our politics today, but that means nothing if their training has not been ethical as well as intellectual. Fine political values cannot be taught solely through courses in civil government, international law and the rest, valuable as they are, but through the application by the individual of eternal justice and high-mindedness in everyday affairs.

“Acquiescence and participation by students in crooked campus politics, rivalling in low ideals the worst in ward politics, will never enable our universities to produce great political leadership.

“The creation of an appreciation of real political values in the minds of students and their application to active situations in university life is essential to the improvement in government.

“Through the zeal and example of their teachers, students must breed the courage which will make them stand for the truth, whatever the cost.”

Myself

I have to live with myself, and so
I want to be fit for myself to know
Always to look myself straight in the eye
I don’t want to stand with the setting sun
And hate myself for the things I’ve done.

I want to go out with my head erect;
I want to deserve all men’s respect;
But here in the struggle for fame and pelf,
I want to be able to like myself;
I don’t want to look at myself and know
That I’m a bluster and bluff and empty show.

I never can fool myself and so
Whatever happens I want to be
Self-respecting and conscience-free.

—Author Unknown.

Alumni News

Henry Atwell Anderson received a fellowship in Geology at the University of North Carolina for next year. This fellowship carries a stipend of $500. Anderson was of the class of 19. A great many of recentAlumni attended the Bowery Ball dances here last weekend. Some of them were: Allen “Fuzzy” Graham, Greenville, S.C.; Croswell Ragin, Wilmington; Don King, Johnson City, Tenn.; Joe Stevens, Welch, W. Va.; John O'Keefe, Bluefield, W. Va.; “Buddy” Brooks, Bluefield, W. Va.; “Dus” Enochs, Bluefield, W. Va.; Carol Pitts, Rock Hill, S.C.; Mutt Roddey, Rock Hill, S.C.; Tom Gignilliat, Seneca, S.C.; Scott Akers, Charlotte; Boyd Morris, Greensboro; Robert Stowe, Belmont; Frank Pierce, Bluefield, W. Va.; “Buster” Matthews, Rock Hill, S.C.

Dr. Ben R. Lacy, ‘02, president of the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., visited the campus last weekend. He spoke at the “Y” vespers and also preached the morning and evening services at the local church. Dr. Lacy was a Rhodes Scholar and won many honors during his years in college.

Rufus Page, now attending N.C. State College at Raleigh, has been quite active since his entrance there this year. He is taking the course in forestry and is engaged in many outside activities. Mr. Page is teaching a Sunday School class and has recently organized a new Scout troop. He was recently elected as one of the managing editors of the North Carolina Agriculturist, a forestry paper, and completed, with the help of Walton Smith, another Davidson alumnus, the patrol leaders’ training school. Mr. Page has also been quite active in the instruction of life-saving among some of the students.

Alumni are welcomed to send in news or information about other alumni. Address alumni news to Jack Hellinger, Alumni Editor of The Davidsonian, Davidson.

Eta Sigma Phi Holds Initiation Ceremony

Alpha Mu Chapter of Eta Sigma Phi held its annual initiation ceremonies last Monday night, April 24. Those initiated were Professor J. C. Bailey, R. T. Coit, A. G. Brenizer, Jr., Madison Armistead, H. B. Johnston, Archie Coleman, W. C. Neill, Jr., Stuart Henry, George Gullette, G. H. Brown, C. B. Ross, W. B. Ravenel, and S. M. Hines. The meeting was opened by the president, Edward McNair, who acquainted the initiates with the history of Eta Sigma Phi. He then led in the initiation ritual and concluded with a few remarks as to the purpose and ideals of Eta Sigma Phi with particular regards to this chapter. After the meeting, there was an informal social gathering, and refreshments were served.

FORMAL INSTALLATION OF NEW MEN IS HELD (Continued from page 1)

Athletic Association to Willson. The latter, in accepting this duty, promised, as an inducement for more boys to come out for the various athletic teams, to serve beer and pretzels at the training tables. Ed Guerrant, retiring Davidsonian editor, then handed to Odi Casali, newly elected editor, as a testimony of his retirement, the first issue of “The Davidsonian,” and transmitted to him the position of editor-in-chief. Casali accepted by a brief speech in which he expressed to Guerrant the pleasure he had in working under him for the past three years, and asked for the student body’s wholehearted support for “The Davidsonian.”

Bob McCallie, '33 “Quips and Cranks” editor, went to the stage with Jack Williams, recently chosen editor of the yearbook for 1934, and willed to him the task for which he said the book itself would speak. Williams accepted by a speech of appraisal to Editor McCallie, asserting that he believed it would be easy to succeed such an efficient forerunner. Reeves Pope, with a few remarks, left to Bill Fugate the editorship of “The Yowl.” Fugate received the office in equally as few words, saying that he hoped his nurturing Davidson’s three-year-old humorous publication would be marked by as much progress as the retiring editor’s has.

Allen Mebane finally tapped the gavel to bring Fred Smyre, president-elect of the class of '34, to the platform. Mebane presented the gavel to Smyre, which he accepted on behalf of the rising Senior class. Fred then asked the audience of about 500 persons to stand and sing “Oh! Davidson,” after which they adjourned to the banquet hall directly under the auditorium, where punch and cake were served, and music furnished by Reeves Pope and his “Southernaires.”

WHEN THE EARTH SHAKES

The day was dying a beautiful death. The sun was sinking below the horizon of the Pacific in one of its glorious splendors of gold and crimson and purple. It seemed like the resplendent finale of a benevolent, self-sacrificing life that was fully appreciated by all the world. Many a table grace had been said over the evening meal—and many were forgotten or ignored. The day’s work was done for those who had work, but for all there was ahead the anticipation of an evening of rest. The lamps of the sky and the lamps of the streets and homes were being set alight. And then it happened. The mother conversing with her young daughter began to stutter and wondered why; the house of blocks erected by the enterprising five-year-old toppled over in a heap and he blamed his brother in the next room for shaking the house too much; the Chinese vase walked off the mantel and the piano played a strange symphony as though directed by some unseen hand coming from the spirit world. An old sailor who sailed the original “Old Ironsides” wondered why he had to use his “sea legs” again after so many years, when there was no heavy sea running and he was on solid mother earth. The writer, standing still, heard his heart beat, and saw out of shaky eyes the ten-mile valley at his feet roll away in swells toward the distant mountains, all the world like the great swells of a troubled sea.

But there is something different about an earthquake; it’s distinctive. Without warning to human beings, it cracks, and here it is (Note: It is said that all the sea-gulls of Long Beach disappeared twenty-four hours before the recent quake, and appeared again a day and a half after the quake.) But man had no such premonition. When it comes, so suddenly, you become mute and paralyzed; your insignificance and utter helplessness crash upon you just as soon and just as terribly as the quake does; for a split second every living thing around you, even yourself, stops existing; that second of time is scratched off the calendar of time and is thrown back into eternity, for man has had no part in it. There is no sensation or experience just like it. Collision, the roll of the sea, sudden drops like in elevators or in aeroplanes, making false steps in the dark, the rumbling of huge trucks, the concussion caused by terrific explosions—are all different. You can feel what they are; you can differentiate and describe their motions; they can be catalogued; you know and feel instinctively what they are and whence they come. But when the earth shakes and quakes, much or little, you feel as though you are pushed, carried, jolted, swayed, lifted, hit, squeezed, suffocated, shocked and frightened at one and the same time. It stuns the mind, it baffles the senses, it paralyzes every muscle in the body—for just a second or so; then it is all passed and gone and things begin to happen. And what happens may be anything as far as human beings are concerned and what human beings have constructed. You may grab at something, jump, run, scream, drop, talk, cry, faint or even drop dead; it depends entirely upon how you may react. There is no telling what you will not do. Walls fall from their places; wires sway and snap; man’s careless and indifferent constructions crumble together; injury and death follow with their accompaniment of sorrow, suffering, sadness and pain. —Exchange.

HINES DEFEATS HALVERSTADT TO WIN TOURNEY (Continued from page 6)

Nixon, 6-2, 6-1; Wright defeated Doyle, 6-1, 6-2. Third round: Hines defeated Peake, 6-0, 6-4; Higgins defeated Harris, 3-6, 6-3, 8-6; Welch defeated Levitan, 6-4, 6-1; Halverstadt defeated Wright, 6-1, 6-2. Semi-finals: Hines defeated Higgins, 6-1, 6-1, 7-5; Halverstadt defeated Welch, 6-2, 6-2, 7-5. Finals: Hines defeated Halverstadt, 6-2, 6-2, 6-3.

Doubles (first round): Peake-Butler, bye; Higgins-Welch, bye; Dillard-Willis defeated Fisher-Dixon, 6-3, 6-4; Halverstadt-Myers defeated Odum-Minor, 6-3, 6-1; Nixon-Hardy, bye; Elverey-Thompson defeated Vernon-Bryan, by default. Second round: Hines-Wright defeated Peake-Butler, 6-3, 6-2; Higgins-Welch defeated Willis-Dillard, 0-6, 6-4, 6-3; Halverstadt-Myers defeated Nixon-Hardy, 6-1, 6-0; Harris-Levitan defeated Elverey-Thompson, 6-2, 6-4. Semi-finals: Hines-Wright defeated Welch-Higgins, 6-1, 6-0, 6-0; Halverstadt-Myers defeated Harris-Levitan, 1-6, 6-2, 6-2, 5-7, 6-3. Finals: Hines-Wright defeated Halverstadt-Myers, 6-1, 6-2, 9-7.

Big Five Race
Davidson 2 0 1.000
Wake Forest 1 1 1.000
Duke 1 0 1.000
N.C. State 0 2 0.000
Carolina 0 2 0.000

Sport Shoes
Wash Ties
The Season is Here-- GET READY!
Sport Pants
Sleeveless Sweaters
IDEY'S DAVIDSON SHOP
Mesh Shirts

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26
“CENTRAL AIRPORT”
with SALLY EILLERS AND RICHARD BARTHELMESS
THURSDAY, APRIL 27
“KID FROM SPAIN”
with EDDIE CANTOR
FRIDAY, APRIL 28
“ELMER THE GREAT”
JOE E. BROWN
SATURDAY, APRIL 29
ANITA PAGE
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, MAY 1 AND 2
“KING KONG”