7 7 WILDCATS MEET | O. D. K. TAP STATE AT | DAY NEXT RALEIGH | TUESDAY

Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 25, 1933 No. 6

Girls and Alumni Make Homecoming Dances Successful

Both Dances Attended by Unusually Large Crowd; Nick Laney Unable to Attend

HOUSE PARTIES GIVEN

Many Girls Entertained by Social Fraternities Over Week-end

Davidson’s annual Homecoming dances, including a set of two dances, were held last weekend at the Hotel Charlotte ballroom and
proved to be an unusually successful affair. All ten of the social fraternities on the campus held house parties in
connection with the dances.

Music for the set of dances, which included a formal dance Friday night and an informal one Saturday night, was
furnished by Nick Laney and his Blue Devils. Due to training rules, Nick Laney, the crooning halfback, was unable to
render the vocal selections. Miss Eleanor Bell, of Charlotte, was guest-soloist for the orchestra. Several members of the band put
on some very interesting novelty numbers.

The dances were under the sponsorship of the Davidson Pan-Hellenic Council. They had charge of the conduct on the floor.
The following members of the Davidson faculty acted as chaperons: Professor and Mrs. Goldiere, Professor and Mrs. Wood, Dr. and
Mrs. Hood, Major and Mrs. Rhett, and Dr. and Mrs. Lyon.

Many alumni returned for this set of dances. A large number of students with their dates attended the social function
of the Homecoming weekend. The list of girls that came up for the Homecoming festivities follows:

Beta Theta Pi: Elinor Stone, Boston, Mass.; Kitty Kiker, Reidsville; Eleanor Bell, Charlotte; Virginia Carey, Charlotte; Frances Withers, Gastonia; Edna
Burris, Charlotte; Zeda Mangrum, Burlington; Eloise Freeman, Morehead City; Ruth Porter Ulmer, Jacksonville, Fla.; Myra Gapen, Reidsville; Dorothy (Continued on
page 3)

State Game Will Be Shown on Grid-Graph

Play-by-Play Report Will Start With Contest

The Davidson-N. C. State football game, which is to be played in Raleigh this Saturday afternoon, will be presented in
a play-by-play report on the Grid-Graph in Shearer Hall, for the benefit of Davidson students, alumni, and townspeople who will
be unable to attend the game. A leased wire will bring each play from Raleigh to Shearer Hall, where it
will be re-acted on the board, just a few seconds after being executed on the field. A small admittance fee
will be made to help defray part of the expense of the wire.

The progress of the ball is indicated on a miniature playing field on the Grid-Graph by a light. The kind
of play, who handled the ball, who made the tackle, and where the play went is shown by flashing light.
The report will begin at the start of the game.

Organ Recital Given By Musical Leader

Professor James Christian Pfohl, director of music, gave the first concert of a series of organ recitals on Thursday evening,
October 19, 1933, at eight o'clock in the Chambers Auditorium. Professor Pfohl played as his first number Handel’s appealing “Largo”
(Xerxes). His second one was the “Prelude” by Clerambault. The next rendition was the famous German choral, the Symphonie Choral,
“Ach, Bleib Mit Deiner Gnade,” by Karl-Elert. It was followed by the “Vision” by Rheinberger and the “Londonderry Air,” a
traditional Irish number. The most outstanding number of the concert was the difficult “Prelude and Fugue in D Major” by
Bach. The entire performance was given by memory and lasted only a half-hour. It was well attended by the students,
residents of Davidson, and visitors from the neighboring towns.

Morris Wires

A telegram from Joe “Shrimp” Morris, Davidson football and baseball star who was stricken with paralysis while playing baseball at
Edenton early this summer, brought cheers from the student body when it was read before the start of the Duke-Davidson
game Saturday. Morris, who was to captain the diamond team this spring and to be a vice-president of the Athletic
Association, is in bed at his home in Hattiesburg, Miss. The message, which was addressed to Charlie Rives, captain of
the Wildcat team, is as follows: “Heart and best wishes with you. Pulling for you to come through. Shrimp Morris.”

Dr. Richards Talks at Vesper Service

Self-Respect is Theme of Address by Columbia Theological Seminary President

Dr. J. McDowell Richards, president of Columbia Theological Seminary, a graduate of Davidson College, and son of Dr. C. M.
Richards of the Bible department, spoke to a large student congregation at the vesper hour last Sunday evening on the
subject, “The Beauty of Self-Respect.” Robert Woodside, of the Senior class, was in charge of the service. He called on
Lynn Huie and Rufus Morrow to lead the group in prayer. The College Quartet, consisting of Dave McLain, Hubert Morris,
Buddy Robinson and Frank Tucker, accompanied by A. D. Wauchope, sang “Jehovah, Us by Thy Hand” as the special musical
number. At the organ, Mr. Wauchope played for the prelude, “Largo,” from “The New World Symphony.”

Dr. Richards took as his text the eighteenth verse of the nineteenth chapter of Leviticus, “Thou shalt love thy neighbor
as thyself.” He remarked that the emphasis is usually placed on the first part of this verse. However, he called
attention to the qualification which the phrase “as thyself” bears to love for others. It takes for granted that self-respect
not only exists, but is essential for one’s own good as well as the good of one’s neighbors. Man must
have belief in the potentialities within himself to appreciate the worth in others. Self-respect is wholly different from selfishness. Ivar
Kreuger, who towered the financial markets of Europe, was an utterly selfish individual who craved power and wealth at the
expense of honor. He knew nothing of self-respect. His death was even that of a selfish soul—suicide. Again, self-respect differs
from conceit. It is the man who can see God's gifts to him as talents placed in his hands by
his Master to be developed that has appreciated them properly.

Dr. Richards divided his discussion of “Self-Respect” into three parts. Under the first heading, he told of self-respect for the
body. He reminded his hearers of the admiration generally accorded a great machine, and of the extreme care taken of
it. The body, likewise, should receive the same sort of care. One should be careful as to habits, temperate in
all things, and regular in exercise. Secondly, self-respect for the mind is the only logical attitude one can take towards
his mind when he realizes that it is man’s mind that has given him dominion over nature, and not his
body alone. It has filled the heavens with airships, tunneled mountains, and measured stars. “Thinking,” said Dr. Richards, “is perhaps
the hardest work we have to do, and is probably one reason why we do so little of it.” But
above all these is self-respect for the soul. This is an age that believes in the development of the body
and mind, but not the (Continued on page 3)

Rhodes Scholarship Applicants Called

All candidates for Rhodes Scholarships are requested to hand in their applications to Dr. G. R. Vowles before the end
of October. Official blanks are not needed for this application. Candidates must indicate the state from which they wish to
apply.

Varied Program Entertains Large Homecoming Crowd

Dr. Edwin Mims to Speak Here Oct. 27

“Lost Leaders and Happy Warriors” Will Be Subject of Lecture

The faculty committee on public lectures has been extremely fortunate in securing Dr. Edwin Mims of Vanderbilt University to speak
in the Chambers Auditorium on Friday, October 27. His subject will be “Lost Leaders and Happy Warriors.”

Dr. Mims, who has been the head of the English department of Vanderbilt University since 1912, has a well-known reputation
as a brilliant lecturer and English scholar. For a number of summers, he lectured on a Chautauqua circuit. Among the
universities and colleges at which he has spoken is the University of Southern California. It is hoped that many of
the people of Davidson and of neighboring towns and cities will be interested in attending this lecture. And it is
certain that all who heard Dr. Mims’ interesting and unique lecture on “Bright Intervals” in 1932 will verify the foregoing
statements regarding the excellent quality of Dr. Mims as a lecturer.

Mr. Pfohl Invited to Join Orchestra

Musical Director Will Play in Symphonical Concert at Duke University

Since the recent addition to the Davidson faculty of a director of musical activities, Mr. James C. Pfohl, who joined
the college at the opening of the fall session, musical activities have become greatly developed, and Davidson’s musical life has
greatly widened its scope. Pfohl has improved by his efforts in this field many of the musical organizations on the
campus. The results of his work become apparent from the several letters which he has received from various sections of
the South congratulating him on his progress in the musical field.

Tribute to Pfohl's talent as a musician has recently been paid by North Carolina artists. Mr. Pfohl has been invited
to play in the North Carolina Symphony Orchestra, which will give a concert in Page Auditorium, Duke University, on the
evening of October 27. This orchestra is composed of the leading orchestral players throughout the state, and should mean much
toward developing a more musically-minded North Carolina. Pfohl will leave Thursday morning for Chapel Hill, where the orchestra will rehearse.
He will play string bass and trumpet. Lamar Stringfield will serve as conductor for this concert, with John Powell as
guest conductor and serve in the performance of his latest orchestral work, “Rhapsodie Negre.”

Davidson College has reason to be justly proud of the newest addition to the faculty, and should cooperate with him
in his efforts for a more extensive musical program at Davidson.

Freshmen Campused by Court of Control

Halverstadt Announces Decision Over Twenty-four New Men

The Court of Control held its first trial Wednesday, October 18, especially for the conviction of twenty-four freshmen who “cut”
the pep meeting before the Davidson-V. M. I. game. These—the “check-up” at the pep meeting and the resulting Court of
Control action—are the first definite moves toward the discipline of freshmen.that have been made this year. Because so many freshmen
have not been attending pep meetings, Hugh Hawkins, varsity cheerleader, had all the freshmen who were present at the meeting
in question sign their names on his lists. Those first-year men who did not sign their names were reported to
the Court of Control. (Continued on page 3)

Dr. Ben Lacy Presides Over Meeting of Old Davidson Graduates

800 ALUMNI PRESENT

President Lingle Welcomes Visitors to Campus

A full and varied program was provided last Saturday for the entertainment of approximately eight hundred Davidson alumni who had
gathered from all sections of the country for the annual celebration of Homecoming Day. A cross-country meet, in which the
Wildcats tied a strong Duke team 28 to 28, took place Saturday morning at 11 o'clock. Following this event, a
meeting of the alumni was held in the auditorium of Chambers Building, Dr. Ben Lacy, president of the Alumni Association,
presiding. Dr. Walter Lingle, who is beginning his fifth year as president of Davidson, welcomed the old grads back to
the campus. He introduced Mr. James Pfohl, new director of music at the college, and also Mr. Grier Martin, newly
appointed alumni secretary and publicity director. Immediately after the meeting, the annual alumni luncheon was given in the dining room
of Chambers, with some three hundred in attendance. Mr. Joe Johnston, of Barium Springs Orphanage, and vice-president manager of the
Alumni Association, introduced Dr. William J. Martin, former president of the college, as “the first coach Davidson ever had.” Dr.
Martin made a short response. J. B. Graham, of Cooleemee, and Dr. W. T. Thompson, of Richmond, were also presented.
Under the direction of Grier Martin, who had charge of arrangements for the day, the entertaining program moved forward with
the greatest satisfaction of all concerned. A unique convenience for the aid of the alumni was a bulletin compiled by
“Skip” Brown, which had the picture of a wildcat drawn on the left-hand side of the page, and a blue
devil on the right. This bulletin contained the program for the day, the luncheon menu, the words of “O Davidson,”
and notes relating to football.

O.D.K. Hold Fall Tap Day Exercises

Invitations Will Be Extended in Chapel Tuesday

Announcement was made Monday by Fred L. Smyre, president of the local chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, that the leadership
organization will hold its fall “Tap Day” exercises in Chambers Auditorium during chapel period, Tuesday, October 30. At the services,
several prominent members of the Senior class will be invited to become members of the Delta Circle. The invitation is
extended by a member's tapping the chosen man. The tapped student signifies his intention of acceptance by arising and following
the member to the stage. Plans for the initiation of pledged students had not been completed at this writing. Omicron
Delta Kappa recognizes conspicuous attainments and service in collegiate activities, and is considered one of the outstanding honorary organizations in
the United States.

Dr. Gwynn Lectures at Hi-Y Conference

“Be sure you keep growing, for when you cease growing you die,” were the words of advice Dr. Price H.
Gwynn, Jr., professor of Education at Davidson College, gave to more than a hundred young Hi-Y leaders attending the Interstate
Congress of Hi-Y Clubs held in Salisbury last week. Dr. Gwynn, who was the principal speaker before the group Saturday
night, took “The Challenge of Personal Growth” as his subject. He warned them that in order to “find your work
you must first find your God.”

Injured Leader

Julian West, president of the Davidson student body, who was injured while playing center in the Davidson-Duke game Saturday, is
very much improved, although at first his condition was thought serious.

Julian West Is Injured in Game

Several Wildcat Players Hurt in Game Against Blue Devils

Julian West, president of the student body, who was thought to be injured seriously in the game Saturday, is very
much improved. West was substituted for McElrath at center, when McElrath had a recurrence of an old ankle injury early
in the second quarter. West had been playing a good game up until he was hurt, being struck in the
face by the knee of a Duke lineman. He was knocked unconscious and was carried off the field, after which
he was taken to the college infirmary. Dr. MacConnell thought it best that he be sent to Charlotte to be
X-rayed. He was taken to the Presbyterian Hospital, where it was found that he had a broken nose and a
slight concussion of the brain. It was thought that West would be brought back to Davidson Monday, but due to
the bad weather he was not. But it was learned, when the paper went to press, he would be brought
back Tuesday. For a while it was thought that West was injured seriously, but it was later found that he
was unconscious from the time that he was hurt until about 9:30 Saturday night. Since his injuries were not as
serious as thought to be, he will probably be back out for football in a few days. West, a former
Barium Springs student, has been out for football every year since he has been at Davidson, playing quarterback and acting
captain of the first freshman team his year. Last year, a scarcity of centers prompted Coach Newton to give him
a trial at the pivot post. He satisfied the Wildcat head coach and was retained as understudy to Percy McElrath.
Others injured in the game were Pittman, McElrath, Morgan and Rayenel, but none of these were seriously hurt, and are
expected to play in the game with State Saturday.

National Society Honors Founders

Scabbard and Blade to Give Reception and Chapel Program Friday

Plans for the local celebration of Scabbard and Blade Day, Friday, October 27, were made public today. They include a
reception Thursday night at the banquet hall for the senior officers in R.O.T.C., faculty members of Scabbard and Blade, and
the student membership of that fraternity. The banquet will begin at 9 o'clock. On Friday, the Scabbard and Blade will
have charge of the chapel program, at which Major John T. Rhett, commander of the local R.O.T.C., will speak. October
27 is celebrated nationally as Scabbard and Blade Day, the national program including a decoration.

Davidson Wildcats Hold Strong Blue Devil Eleven 19-7

Duke Team Downs ’Cats After Hard Struggle Before Homecoming Crowd

10,000 ATTEND GAME

Mackorell and Crawford Play Good Games

With the odds against them, and battling a powerful Blue Devil eleven which recently whipped the unbeatable Tennessee Vols, Davidson's
battered but ever-game Wildcats lived up to their reputation when they held their bigger opponents to a 19 to 7
score on Richardson Field last Saturday. Coach Wallace Wade was forced to rush in his first-string men on several occasions
when sharp thrusts by Davidson took the Duke second team for everything they had. Obviously Wade was saving his first-stringers
for the important Kentucky game next Saturday, which will have some little bearing on whether Duke goes to the Rose
Bowl or not. Most of the time the Devil second team was on the field it was outplayed by the
Wildcats, who twice advanced the ball inside the Duke five-yard line before they were stopped by the entry into the
game of the Wade-coached regulars. The first Davidson threat came in the first period, when a pass from the Duke
center went wrong, and after a mad scramble, in which the ball exchanged hands a dozen times, Midge Verble pounced
on the oval. A few plays later the Wildcats were on the two-yard line, only to be repulsed a moment
later when Crawford, Durner, and Schock entered the game. Then the power which beat Tennessee was displayed, when the Duke
first-string backfield came in, and starting a drive on their own 47-yard line, in successive plays led by Corky Cornelius,
they drove to the Davidson eight-yard line, where Cox knifed through for the touchdown. Cornelius failed to convert the extra
point. Only a short time later the Devils repeated the touchdown march, and Cox again went through from the one-foot
line for the second score. At the end of the first half the score stood 13 to 0. Soon after
the beginning of the third quarter, the Blue Devil reserves functioned effectively for the first time, and, after a fumble
on the kickoff to Davidson, Duke recovered and began a drive which in two successive plays by Alexander led to
the third score of the game. The kick for extra point failed and the score stood at 19-0. It was
after the start of the fourth quarter that the event of the day for Davidson rooters came about, however. A
bad pass from the Duke center was recovered by the ever-alert Mackorell. Two line plays and two passes failed, and
Duke, receiving the ball on downs, was soon forced to punt out. Then the fireworks began. Mackorell passed to Wingfield
for a total gain of about 20 yards. Then the play was reversed and Mackorell, taking a pass from Wingfield,
raced through the Blue Devil tacklers to his left, and crossed the goal line amid pandemonium from the Davidson stands.
Wingfield kicked the extra point to bring the score to 19-7. And the count remained throughout the remainder of the
contest, although both teams threatened once again. The Wildcats stemmed a Devil attack which, led by the varsity backfield, stopped
on the Davidson one-yard line with four downs and goal to go. The Wildcats stood fast for the four downs,
and the attack failed there. The Wildcats threatened in the last quarter also when a miscue by the Duke backfield
caused a recovery of the ball by Mackorell on the Devil two-yard line. In four plays, however, they failed to
put the ball over. Shortly afterward the game ended with the ball in Duke’s possession. Just before the game Davidson
students were touched deeply by a telegram, received from Shrimp Morris, star end on last year’s team, who is just
recovering from an attack of paralysis: “Pulling for you to come through today.” (Continued on page 3). (Continued on page
6)
