THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 1, 1933

R. C. Morrow Elected Eumenean President
Luther Shirey and Treadway Purnell Elected Vice-President and Secretary
HUMPHREY CRITIC
Officers to Be Installed at Next Meeting

At the last meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society, Rufus Morrow was elected to preside over the club for the term. Officers selected to serve with him are John L. Shirey, vice-president; Treadway Purnell, secretary; and Ed Humphrey, critic. These men will be installed the first Tuesday in November and will take over their duties at the next meeting. The president is chosen from the Senior class, the vice-president from the Junior class, and the secretary from the Sophomore class. All of these officers have been prominent in the society and are well fitted for the responsibilities of office.

The society's program for this week consisted of talks by Jack Williams, Joe Dees, and Bill Benfield. Williams gave a humorous reading, “Wild Oats,” in which a scapegoat student escaped punishment when a college mate reminded the dean of his own college pranks. The dean excused the boy but counseled, “If you ever become dean, don’t thank your ‘Wild Oats’ for it.”

Joe Dees gave an interesting survey of the “Hoover Hotels” under Michigan Avenue in Chicago. He pointed out that in these hovels, America’s worst evils are being generated, namely, Hitlerism and violence. He also brought out that President Roosevelt is taking means to remedy this by establishing forest camps.

In the humorous strain again, Bill Benfield brought down the house with a fable of a modern Don Quixote.

Red Cross to Start Drive November 6th

The annual Red Cross Roll Call for the Davidson-Cornelius Chapter will begin November 6th and last through the week. The Davidson-Cornelius Chapter, during the past year, contributed $44.13 for food, and $96.70 for hospital and medical service, including medicine. This joint chapter aided a total of 60 families. During the past year, the Davidson Chapter has been a great aid to the needy people of the community. It has distributed flour to 76 families, ready-made garments to 23 families, and cloth to 90 families. This chapter also contributed $38.00 for the undernourished school children, both white and colored. Mrs. S. C. Lyon will be in charge of the Davidson Chapter. Out of the 125 chapters in North Carolina, the local one ranks seventh in the state in comparison with population and territory. Professor Porter is chairman of this chapter. At present, its membership is 202, but it is hoped that this number will increase to 250 by the termination of Roll Call Week.

Bell Wins Ping-Pong Tournament at Y.M.C.A.
Solomon Defeated in Finals After Hard Match

The annual ping-pong tournament of Davidson was drawn to a close Monday by William Bell defeating Dave Solomon in six hard-fought sets. Forty boys were entered in the tournament in hopes of winning the two free tickets to the show. The semi-final matches consisted of Coit vs. Solomon, and Barnett vs. Bell. Bell and Solomon met in the finals in what was considered the best match of the tournament. The match featured many long rallies and brilliant shots, the ball going over the net as many as fifty times without an error by either player. A number of spectators were present, and the match was viewed with much enthusiasm. Sam Wiley, secretary of the Y.M.C.A., refereed the match. The final score is as follows: 16-21, 13-21, 21-16, 21-18, 25-23, 21-13.

Fresh Harriers to Have Meet Nov. 2nd

Coach Heath Whittle has arrangements underway for his freshmen to compete with R. J. Reynolds’ Boys’ High of Winston-Salem in a cross-country meet here Thursday afternoon. Cox, Feuchtenberger, Higgins, Wilson, Peters, Woodward, and Anderson will probably run for Davidson. Cox, who was fourth in the High Point meet last week, is expected to be the first freshman in, and Feuchtenberger, who did not run at all in the last meet, is expected to run a close second. Sid Kinney and N. T. Sandefur are reckoned the Winston-Salem favorites.

First Copy of Yowl Has Novel Features
Articles of Literary Nature Included in Yowl

The first edition of the Yowl presented to the Davidson student body on October 16th was received with much enthusiasm. The Yowl was somewhat of a new idea this year, in that in the October issue there are some articles of a more literary nature, Stuart Henry having charge of this phase of work. Wills Hollingsworth has charge of the Poetry Department. An article by Pratt-Thomas on Prohibition was widely read and discussed by students of the school, the attitude of the article being against prohibition. The jokes, as the nucleus of the Yowl, were up to their usual standard in this issue, consisting both of original and exchanged humor. An innovation in this year’s Yowl is the column, Campus Chatter, edited by Caskie Norvell, Jr., one of the managing editors. He chose for his topic in this issue Cinema Slants On Fraternity.

With The Social Fraternities
PI K. A.’s RECEIVE ATHLETIC CUP

The local chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha has been awarded the Riculfi athletic cup. The Riculfi cup is an award presented by Mr. Robert M. Riculfi to the chapter of Pi K. A. having the largest percentage of letter men in the chapter. The cup was awarded last year to the University of Utah. The award is made for one year. When a chapter has won it for three consecutive years, it becomes a permanent possession of the chapter. Incidentally, the Davidson...Chapter has the highest percentage than any of the other chapters have ever had. At a recent meeting of the chapter, Horace Smallridge was elected treasurer of the fraternity and Frank Cade was elected recording secretary. The chapter also announces the pledging of William Foscue Cox, of Jacksonville, N. C.

KAPPA PHI'S RETAIN: The Pi Kappa Phis entertained informally at the chapter house on Friday. Girls attending included: Misses Mima Goodrum, Dorothy Frederickson, Mary Withers, Helen Holmes, and Lena Harrell.

Mae West Featured In Coming Attraction

William Powell Will Take Leading Role in Murder Mystery

Wednesday, November 1—Bureau of Missing Persons
This picture deals with that part of the law that concerns itself with finding all of the missing persons. Lewis Stone is the head of the department that attempts to bring easy handling into the law, and Pat O'Brien is the cop who is transferred to the Bureau, bringing his strong-arm methods with him. The main part of the picture is taken up with Bette Davis, who is looking for a fictitious husband, Alan Dinehart, an escaped murderer. There are some very amusing scenes throughout the picture.

Thursday and Friday, November 2 and 3—I’m No Angel
Mae West's latest hot-cha production, showing her as the carnival performer who leaps into prominence when she sticks her head into a lion's mouth. She is known as the woman who always gets her man. Kent Taylor, seeing her show, falls in love with her and attempts to break his engagement and marry her, but his fiancée does not allow it. Cary Grant, as his partner, comes to see her, and they fall in love with each other. Then he is fooled when he sees someone whom he mistakes for her with another man. They part, and she sues him for a great amount of money. One day an untamed lion is substituted for the tame one, in the hopes that her manager, who has her life insured, will get the money when she is killed. She is not killed, but injured, and she and Cary Grant are reunited while she is in the hospital.

Saturday, November 4—Tillie and Gus
Here is one of the latest pictures out, showing W. C. Fields and Alison Skipworth in dual comedy roles, assisted by that well-known comedian and actor, Baby LeRoy. There is not much information, but the show should be very interesting when these three get together.

Monday and Tuesday, November 5 and 6—The Kendall Murder Case
Another one of the famous murder mysteries, in which William Powell plays the part of the great detective, who finally solves the mystery after the police are baffled. Mary Astor is cast as the beautiful girl he helps out of difficulty. The picture should be very interesting and entertaining.

W. M. Beaty Talks On Russia in Phi Society
The Philanthropic Literary Society held its weekly meeting in its hall Tuesday evening at 8:15, which was presided over by W. L. Fugate. The program, in charge of “Skip” McNeill, continued the theme of the past several weeks, “The Relations of Foreign Nations to the United States.” W. M. Beaty gave a comprehensive account of Russia’s position in the world today, and the ways in which Russia directly and indirectly influences America. The second talk of the evening was given by W. C. Neill.

FRENCH SOCIETY HOLDS INITIATION
(Continued from page 1)
The year, accounts were made of the business affairs of the club, and the members were notified of an invitation received from the French Club at Converse College to attend a joint meeting of the two clubs in Spartanburg sometime in the near future. The Davidson club plans to accept this invitation in a body, and will present at that time a short play, “L’Anglais Tel Qu’on Parle.”

Row, which gave opinions of the various fraternities concerning movie stars. Girls attending included: Misses Eleanor Killick, Mildred Young, Kitty Van Eschop, Eleanor Matheson, Bibbie Mattox, Sally Montague, and Dorothy Hand, of Charlotte; Jennie Thompson, and Friends, 2 each, and the Christian Scientist, Non-Denominational and Jewish, 1 each. There are 13 not affiliated with any church.

There are 24 vocational aims in the student body. Business and Medicine lead the list with 102 and 90, respectively, while the others come in the following order: Law, 65; Ministry, 45; Engineering, 30; Teaching, 25; Journalism, 17; Chemistry, 15; Dentistry, 5; Aviation, 5; Coaching, 4; Farming, 3; Music, 3; Science, 3; “Y” Work, 2; Architecture, 2, and Social Science, Pharmacy, Library Work, Physics, Sculpture, Math, Radio and the Army, 1 each. There are 191 that are still undecided as to what work they wish to take up.

We Guarantee Our Work and Appreciate Your Business
NORTON'S BARBER SHOP

WEDNESDAY
BUREAU OF MISSING PERSONS
BETTE DAVIS—PAT O'BRIEN
LEWIS S. STONE

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY
I’M NO ANGEL
MAE WEST

SATURDAY
TILLIE AND GUS
W. C. FIELDS—ALISON SKIPWORTH
BABY LEROY

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
THE KENDALL MURDER CASE