THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 25, 1933

MAX MONTOR READS GERMAN SELECTIONS

(Continued from page 1)
audience last Monday evening in Chambers Auditorium.

PROGRAM

I. Der Arme Heinrich, by Gerhart Hauptmann. This is a modern dramatization, in verse, of a medieval romance by Hartmann
von Aue (1170-1210).

II. Hanneles Himmelfahrt (The Assumption of Hannele), by Gerhart Hauptmann. In this two-act “dream play,” as the author calls it,
which appeared in 1893, Hauptmann combines a world of dreams and symbolism with naturalism. The selection was read in German.

III. Leutnant Gustl, by Arthur Schnitzler. This is one of the most tense and dramatic of Schnitzler’s short stories. It
might be regarded as a biting satire of a system and a type: Austrian militarism in its palmy days and
one of its representatives, a light-minded young second lieutenant. But it is much more than satire. In “Sterben” Schnitzler had
published a serious study of a subject which fascinated him, the psychic reactions of a man who knows he must
soon die. In Leutnant Gustl the same theme is treated with an ironic touch. The story, almost devoid of action,
is a moving picture of Gustl’s mental meanderings, of a type to which later the term “stream of consciousness” has
been applied.

WINTER SPORTS CALENDAR

JANUARY:

24—Basketball—Wofford vs. Varsity, at Davidson.
Basketball—Wofford Freshmen vs. Freshmen, at Davidson.
Wrestling—Franklin & Marshall vs. Varsity, at Lancaster, Pa.
26—Basketball—Salisbury Hi vs. Freshmen, at Salisbury.
30—Wrestling—W. & L. vs. Varsity, at Davidson.
Basketball—Furman vs. Varsity, at Greenville, S. C.
31—Basketball—Wofford vs. Varsity, at Spartanburg, S. C.
Basketball—Belmont Abbey vs. Freshmen, at Davidson.

FEBRUARY:

2—Basketball—Mount Pleasant vs. Freshmen, at Davidson.
Basketball—Roanoke College vs. Varsity, at Roanoke, Va.
Wrestling—Duke vs. Varsity, at Davidson.
3—Basketball—V. P. I. vs. Varsity, at Blacksburg, Va.
Basketball—Ball’s Creek Hi vs. Freshmen, at Davidson.
4—Basketball—Lynchburg College vs. Varsity, at Lynchburg, Va.
Basketball—Lees McCrae vs. Freshmen, at Davidson.
7—Basketball—Duke vs. Varsity, at Durham.
9—Basketball—N. C. State vs. Varsity, at Davidson.
10—Basketball—Ball’s Creek Hi vs. Freshmen, at Ball’s Creek.
11—Basketball—Wake Forest vs. Varsity, at Winston-Salem.
Basketball—Darlington vs. Freshmen, at Davidson.
14—Basketball—Elon vs. Varsity, at Davidson.
16—Basketball—Carolina vs. Varsity, at Chapel Hill.
Basketball—Carolina Freshmen vs. Freshmen, at Chapel Hill.
17—Basketball—N. C. State vs. Varsity, at Raleigh.
Basketball—N. C. State Freshmen vs. Freshmen, at Raleigh.
18—Wrestling—V. P. I. vs. Varsity, at Davidson.
21—Basketball—Lynchburg College vs. Varsity, at Davidson.
25—Wrestling—Carolina vs. Varsity, at Chapel Hill.

“Y” CABINET OF N. C. TO CONDUCT VESPERS

(Continued from page 1)
press. However, special music will be rendered by members of the deputation.

These men will arrive here possibly in time for supper Saturday night. After the supper hour is over the men
of the two cabinets will become acquainted with each other. On Sunday morning the men will visit the various Sunday
Schools to observe the work which is going on there. In the afternoon the Davidson Cabinet is to have a
joint meeting with the cabinet from Chapel Hill. Each man will then summarize his work. Later in the afternoon the
visiting cabinet may possibly go out on another deputation. After this they will return to school.

BIG FIVE STANDINGS

W. L. Pet.
University N.C. -------- 4 0 1.000
Duke ------------------ 4 0 1.000
N. C. State ------------ 0 2 0.000
Davidson -------------- 0 2 0.000
Wake Forest ---------- 0 4 0.000

High Class Work at Economical Prices

MARTIN BROS.’ SHOE SHOP

Patronize Your Advertisers

Watch Next Week’s Paper For Complete List

and we’d like to talk with you about it

All races of people since the beginning of time, so far as we have been able to read, have had
some kind of a pipe and have smoked something—whether they called it tobacco or what not.

And since smoking a pipe is so different from smoking a cigar or cigarette, we made a most painstaking, scientific
study in an effort to make, if we could, a tobacco which was suited to pipes. We found out, first,
that there was a kind of tobacco that grew in the Blue Grass section of Kentucky called White Burley, and
that there was a certain kind of this tobacco which was between the tobacco used for cigarettes and the tobacco
used for chewing tobacco. It is this tobacco which is best for pipes. We found out that Mr. J. N.
Wellman, many years ago, made a pipe tobacco which was very popular. But it was never advertised and after he
passed away nothing more was heard about it. We acquired this Wellman Method and that is what we use in
making Granger.

Next was the cut. We knew that fine tobacco burnt hot because it burnt fast. You could hardly hold your
pipe in your hand, it got so hot at times. Remembering how folks used to “whittle” their tobacco we cut
GRANGER just like “whittle” tobacco—“Rough Cut.” It smokes cooler, lasts longer and never gums the pipe.

So far, so good. Now we wanted to sell this tobacco for 10c. Good tobacco—right process—cut right. So we put
Granger in a sensible soft foil pouch instead of an expensive package, knowing that a man can’t smoke the package.
The Granger pouch keeps the tobacco fresh. And we have yet to know of a man who started to smoke
it, who didn’t keep on. Folks seem to like it.

TEN CENTS

©1933 LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
