THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 6, 1933

Students Picked By N. C. Symphony

Five Davidson Men Will Play at Charlotte Concert

According to an announcement read by President W. L. Lingle in chapel, December 4, the North Carolina State Symphony has chosen for membership five Davidson students and Prof. J. C. Pfohl, director of music. These men will appear with the symphony in its concert at the Armory-Auditorium in Charlotte, December 7, beginning at 8:15 o'clock. Those selected are: Prof. J. C. Pfohl, first chair string bass, Winston-Salem; Harris Bradley, clarinet, Beckley, W. Va.; A. M. Cunningham, cornet, New London, Conn.; D. P. McLain, drums, Cleveland, Tenn.; F. Hubert Morris, french horn, Winston-Salem; and A. C. Robinson, trombone, Talladega, Alabama. Of the above, Bradley, Cunningham, and McLain will play in all three concerts, to be given in Charlotte, Winston-Salem, and Raleigh, on December 7, 8, and 9, respectively.

This symphony orchestra, conducted by Lamar Stringfield, director of the department of folk-music at the University of North Carolina, will play Mozart’s “Marriage of Figaro,” Dvorak’s “Symphony in E Minor,” Tschaikowsky’s “Marche Slav,” and Stringfield’s own “Legend of John Henry.” The concerts are presented under the auspices of the North Carolina Symphonic Society, and the one to be given Thursday evening is sponsored by the Charlotte Public Schools.

Professor Pfohl expressed the opinion that it is an extraordinary honor to be selected as a member of this symphony, because only the best musicians in the state are to be used; and he expects a good representation from Davidson College to be present at the concert in Charlotte, Thursday, 8:15 p.m.

Col. Reed Visits Local Military Unit Tuesday

Colonel W. T. Reed, of Fort McPherson, Ga. headquarters of the Fourth Corps Area, spent Tuesday, December 5, inspecting the cadet unit here at Davidson. Colonel Reed has charge of the Reserved Officers Training Corps in North and South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Mississippi, Alabama, and Tennessee. He observed both elementary and advanced classes and was very much impressed with them.

Major John T. Rhett, head of the Reserved Officers Training Corps at Davidson, has set Friday at 3 o'clock as the regular drill period for the dress parade for the cadet corps. After each parade, the battalion headquarters judge the best drilled platoon. For the past two parades, the second platoon of Company A, commanded by First Lieutenant J. M. Covington, has won the decision.

Volunteer Band Sends Out Many Deputations

The Student Volunteer Group held their regular weekly meeting last Sunday afternoon at 2 o'clock. There was an illustrated lecture on Chinese Missions, given by Frank Brown of the Freshman class. Brown, who was brought up in China, came to America only two years ago. His mother and father, missionaries there, recently returned to China after a year’s furlough in America.

The main purpose of a Student Volunteer Group in a college is to encourage students to go out into nearby cities and towns and talk at churches, young people’s meetings, and other religious gatherings. Their aim is to create further interest in the Foreign Mission field. In the last two months there have been twenty-four deputations sent out from Davidson. Next Sunday, members of the group will go to the Greensboro College and to the Agriculture and Technical College for Negroes at Greensboro.

The members of the Davidson Student Volunteer Group have shown more interest in their work and have sent out more deputations than any other college in North Carolina. It was also represented at all the Mission Institutions held recently at Boone, Charlotte, Greensboro, and Raleigh. Very often in these deputations and meetings the representative has to pay his own expenses.

Alumni Are Honored in Elections at Seminary

Two Davidson graduates, “Rut” Nunan, ’30, and Duncan McBryde, ’33, were honored at the Union Seminary elections this year. The Junior class elected Nunan president, and McBryde, secretary and treasurer, for the present year.

Nunan, while at Davidson, was prominent as a member of the wrestling team and in intra-mural athletics. He was a member of the Student Council and of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. McBryde was chosen as the North Carolina candidate for the Rhodes Scholarship in his senior year. He was a managing editor of The Davidsonian and the Yowl. He was active among several honorary fraternities, and was one of his class leaders scholastically.

Prof. Schenck Heard In Fireside Discussion

The Freshman Fireside Forums were continued Friday night, December 1, in the second of the series of topics on “Jesus, Prophet of Galilee.” The subject for this meeting, led by Professor Schenck, was, “Seeing Beneath Conventional Morality.” The meeting was opened with the reading of the scripture by Frank Brown, followed by a prayer by Graham Squires. Sam Nickey presented Professor Schenck, who went immediately into the discussion of the topic for the evening. About twenty men were present at the meeting, all of them taking an active part.in the discussion, which brought to light several different attitudes that might be taken in regard to our interpretation of Christ’s teachings. The question as to whether we should take Christ’s advocation of “turning the other cheek” literally or not aroused many vicarious opinions, as did the discussion on the rightness and wrongness of sanctioning war. These Fireside Forums are open to all members of the Freshman class and are held every Friday night at 7 o'clock in the Social Center. The topic for study in the first of these was “Seeing Across Social Barriers,” led by Dr. Gwynn. Next week Professor Ernest Beaty will have charge of the group, his topic being “Seeing Through Religious Traditions.”

Y.M.C.A. Will Organize Classes in Woodwork

Sam Nickey is starting this week a workshop in Old Louisiana dorm for the boys of Davidson. Nickey is assisted by Tom Wilson, Duck Powell, and Harold Ostwalt, who will teach the use of the tools in making anything in wood. The classes in woodwork meet every day and continue through the year. The Y.M.C.A. bought a new supply of tools and is endeavoring to have a large class soon. The majority of the boys will come from the Mill Chapel, but many will be children of the faculty. Some freshmen and a few upperclassmen will be needed to assist in this work. Nickey has successfully coached a football team of Davidson boys this fall and will now head the workshop program of the Y.M.C.A.

Musical Program to Be Presented at Vespers

Announcement was made today that two accomplished musicians, Misses Ruth Whittington Pfohl and Louise Nelson, will play at Davidson in the near future. Miss Pfohl, harpist, will appear in the Christmas vesper service December 17. Miss Pfohl has won a three-year scholarship to the Curtis Institute of Music and is credited today with having the largest harp class ever assembled at an American university. She will also appear with Louise Nelson at the chapel service December 18. Miss Nelson has been for the past three years instructor of piano at the University of Michigan, and is the winner of a Juilliard Scholarship. In addition to that, she has studied a year at Vienna. The vesper service at which the two musicians will appear will be entirely musical, the entire band, orchestra, and glee club taking part. Further details of the program will be announced later.

The longest run from scrimmage is credited to Willys Terry, of Yale, who covered one hundred and fifteen yards against Ohio Wesleyan in 1884.

DAVIDSONIAN’S ALL-STATE GRID TEAM MADE PUBLIC

(Continued from page 5)

choice, as one sports writer placed him on the second team, along with six first team selections. He is a brilliant back, and is second only to the great Mackorell at running the ball. Davidson’s intrepid “Little Joe” Wingfield came in for his share of glory when he received 18 votes to bag third place, and be first man on the second team. Nick Laney, triple-threat Duke back, was awarded the other halfback on this team. On the third eleven, one finds Wilson, of Wake Forest, and Croom, of Carolina. Croom received a few votes for fullback, but the halfback votes overbalanced these. Fullback, a position for which three mighty men vied, was awarded almost unanimously to State’s heavy plunger, Ray Rex, who received 31 votes. This man is a 200-pounder, and is fast as they come, and can hit a line like nobody’s business. He can take care of himself on the defensive as well, and undoubtedly deserves his place. Bob Cox, fullback for the Southern Conference and state champion Duke eleven, nosed out “Schnozz” Willson, of Davidson, the state’s best defensive fullback, 18 votes to 12. The picks of the Associated Press and the All-State Board did not affect this selection, as the teams were made up immediately after the Davidson-Wake Forest game on Thanksgiving Day.

Penn State’s 1933 football squad isn’t much heavier than a high school team. The average weight is one hundred and seventy-one pounds and the average height, 5 feet 10 inches.

The Battle of Fine Turkish Tobaccos

ALWAYS the finest tobaccos
ALWAYS the finest workmanship
ALWAYS Luckies please!

That’s why Luckies taste better, smoother.

On certain mountains in the Near East is a limited collar of earth—called in Turkish, “Yacca.” Tobaccos grown there cost as high as $1.00 a pound. Carefully they are examined, leaf by leaf. Often it takes a man a whole day to select two pounds of certain of these fine tobaccos. Lucky Strike is the world’s biggest user of fine Turkish tobaccos. For these tender, delicate Turkish leaves are blended with choice tobaccos from our own Southland—to make your Lucky Strike a cigarette that is fully packed—round and firm—free from loose ends. That’s why Luckies taste better, smoother.

“it’s toasted”

FOR THROAT PROTECTION—FOR BETTER TASTE