THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1933

VESPER TALK MADE BY DR. JOHN M. McSWEEN
(Continued from page 1)

old-fashioned people, he knew it. His old-fashionedness consisted of being conservative, and not headstrong like the majority of the youth
today. He said that by no means should we dampen our youthful enthusiasm but we should consider the ultimate result
before we undertake a task of any importance, in other words, “play it safe.” He illustrated this vital point by
the following anecdote: He was a war chaplain in the Great War and to help keep the minds of the
soldiers occupied he and a small group of officers organized several baseball teams among the various war units and many
games were played between them. In one of the games, a tight pitching duel was taking place, no man having
reached second base, and the inning being the seventh. Suddenly the first batter up for one of the teams slammed
out a three-bagger and things then looked very bad for the fielding team, but to the incredulous amazement of all,
the man on third base tried to steal home on the very next play, and was put out. The foolhardiness
of that trial is perfectly obvious, with three perfect chances of scoring, he chose to do the foolish thing, and
not only did he sacrifice the chance of scoring a run himself, but he also ruined the whole team’s morale
by his glaring, gross selfishness and they were unable to perform their assignments as a single unit and thus finally
lost the game. The speaker continued by saying that there is also a false conservatism that will accomplish nothing; be
willing to take chances, but in taking those chances—“play it safe.”

Dr. McSween complimented the great spirit and atmosphere of the Davidson campus life. He gave praise to the many Davidson
teams that have fought on the gridiron against overwhelming odds and whether they lost or won, they never gave in.
Dr. McSween took up the whiskey problem confronting the youth of today and outlined the number of things we were
playing fast and loose with, when we fooled around with liquor. He said that we greatly endangered the health, honor,
self-respect, morality and even the immortal soul by playing with whiskey. He said that we should, when tempted to drink
liquor, think of our beloved mothers and fathers and how it would grieve them to see us in a condition
not conducive to description. The speaker closed his appealing message by saying that honor was the most burning question of
all before the young people of today. He said that there is, of course, a chance of your never being
caught cheating, but that even if you are not caught, it is not worth it. The misery, the shame it
would cause our parents, condemns dishonor on the spot. The service was closed by the singing of the hymn, “Pass
Me Not O Gentle Savior.” Dr. Walter Lingle dismissed the congregation with a short prayer.

At the chapel service Monday morning, Dr. McSween talked to the students about going out into the world. With the
right kind of leadership they can do great things, he said. He challenged the students to go out into the
world and lead and give a new cast to our civilization. There is a great work for the college student
to do in the world, he stated. With this thought the president ended his speech.

WORLD PROBLEMS ARE REVIEWED BEFORE I. R. C.
(Continued from page 1)

tion of war should read this interesting book. The final talk was given by Mr. McNair, who reviewed the book,
“Recovery—The Second Effort,” by Sir Arthur Salter. He took the book up in its four divisions, the first being the
present scene in which the author pictured conditions that we are experiencing after the Great War. The fact that our
time is a period of transition was stressed. The second division dealt with the economic and financial reforms, and presented
an interesting discussion of the gold standard and our present financial crisis. The third division painted a picture of the
political scene, vividly describing the present relations between nations. The book, according to Mr. McNair, presented an interesting discussion of
the major treaties since the war, and the men who have made them. The final division of the book was
entitled, “A Program of Action.” It gave a vivid picture of a plan of recovery, suggesting limitation and reduction of
arms as a solution. The author points out that the two qualities most needed by the nations at present are
courage and magnanimity. The International Relations Club has asked Dr. Currie, one of the faculty members, to deliver

Be Sure to Patronize the Student Body
ADVERTISE IN
The Yowl Quips Cranks and The Davidsonian
THE YOWL—Arthur Ross, Mgr.
THE ANNUAL—W. C. Thompson, Mgr.
THE DAVIDSONIAN—A. M. Mansonan address at the meeting to be held in the early part of April.

FURMAN DEFEATED BY DAVIDSON IN FIRST MEET
(Continued from page 5)

Dill (Davidson) second, Anderson (Furman) third. Distance, 120 feet.

Two-mile run: Warren (Furman) first, C. Little (Davidson) second, McFadyen (Davidson) third. Time, 10 minutes, 55 seconds.

High jump: Adair (Furman) first, Boney (Furman) second, Brown (Davidson) and Griffin (Furman) tied for second. Height, 5 feet, 8
inches.

220-yard low hurdles: A. Little (Davidson) first, Corbin (Davidson) second, Cannon (Davidson) third. Time, 2 minutes, 9.7 seconds.

Javelin throw: Bettis (Davidson) first, Cochran (Davidson) second, Vick (Furman) third. Distance, 144 feet, 9 inches.

Broad jump: Armistead (Davidson) first, Griffin (Furman) second, Dickerson (Davidson) third. Distance, 20 feet, 8 inches.

PI DELTA ALPHA HEARS DR. ADDISON BRENIZER
(Continued from page 1)

The lack of it leads to goiter. He pointed out the interesting fact that the thyroid gland is a gland
of emotion. We grasp at our throats and a lump rises in them when we undergo severe emotions. The strain
of times like the World War and the late financial depression caused a material increase in the number of cases
of goiter. He then began a most interesting study of the operation for the removal of the thyroid gland in
the case of goiter. He showed how the old type of operation was performed and the unsightly scars that it
left. The interesting process of preparing the patient for the operation was fully explained. The operation is now accomplished with
the smallest possible incision, with a view of leaving the throat unscarred.

Dr. Brenizer advised those planning a study of medicine to take up a particular line and "ride" it. "After an
intensive focus of your study on one phase of medicine, you will begin to be able to convince others that
you know something about your own line." One of the most fascinating things about medicine, according to Dr. Brenizer, is
that there is much more to be learned; a real field of endeavor is open to the adventurous and thoughtful
mind.

SCABBARD AND BLADE ENTERS PISTOL MEET
(Continued from page 1)

Men are encouraged to take a more active part and to have a greater influence in the military affairs of
the communities in which we may reside, and above all to spread intelligent information concerning the military requirements of our
country. This summer a large number of Seniors from Davidson plan to go to Fort Bragg to become members of
the Officers Reserve Corps. Last year a good number of Seniors went to Fort McClellan for the same purpose. These
men generally receive the rank of second lieutenant.

FRESHMEN LAUNCH TRACK SEASON SUCCESSFULLY
(Continued from page 5)

Javelin throw: Gill (Charlotte) first, Pickard (Charlotte) second, Blackwelder (Davidson) third. Distance, 143 feet, 8 inches.

Broad jump: Pickard (Charlotte) first, McClintock (Charlotte) second, Branton (Davidson) third. Distance, 21 feet, 6 3/4 inches.

ILLUSION:
The magician exhibits a flower pot with hinged sides. He opens out the sides to show that this container is
empty. Closing it up, he places a screen between it and the audience. After a short period of magic incantations,
he removes the screen. The astounded audience sees a beautiful girl, covered to the shoulders in lovely flowers, rising on
a table in the center of the stage. Where did she come from?

EXPLANATION:
The girl was hiding behind the drape of the table. There is a trap door in the bottom of the
flower pot, with a hole large enough to allow her to crawl through. The flowers, called "magicians' feather flowers," are
a regular part of a magician's outfit. The flower girl wears a rubber tunic and a bathing cap to keep
the flowers compressed into a small space. She slides the tunic down and the flowers expand when she emerges.

IT'S FUN TO BE FOOLED... LOTS MORE FUN TO KNOW
Copyright, 1988, B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company

CAMELS
A trick frequently worked in cigarette advertising is the illusion that mildness in a cigarette comes from mysterious processes of
manufacture.

EXPLANATION:
All popular cigarettes today are made in modern sanitary factories with up-to-date machinery. All are heat treated—some more intensively than
others, because raw, inferior tobaccos require more intensive treatment than choice, ripe tobaccos. The real difference comes in the tobaccos
that are used. The better the tobacco, the milder it is.

It is a fact, well known by leaf tobacco experts, that Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than
any other popular brand. That is why Camels are so mild. That is why Camels have given more pleasure to
more people than any other cigarette ever made. It’s the secret of Camels’ rich "bouquet"... their cool flavor... their non-irritating
mildness.

Give your taste a chance to appreciate the greater pleasure and satisfaction of the more expensive tobaccos.

NO TRICKS
JUST COSTLIER TOBACCOS IN A MATCHLESS BLEND
