THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 27, 1933

Woodson Is Heard At Vesper Service
Bob Coit and Don Bailey Lead Congregation in Prayer
BOB SMITH PRESIDES
Mrs. G. R. Vowles Renders Special Music

Last Sunday evening the Y. M. C. A. presented its first outside speaker at the regular vesper service. Rev. Marshall
Woodson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Salisbury, delivered an inspiring address to an unusually large congregation of students
and townspeople. R. H. Smith, Jr., led the meeting and introduced Mr. Woodson. The service was opened by singing of
two old favorite hymns, “Day Is Dying in the West,” and “Jesus Calls Us.” The Scripture for the evening, Paul’s
conversion, was read by Bob Smith. The congregation was then led in prayer by Bob Coit and Don Bailey. Mrs.
G. R. Vowles rendered a solo entitled “Prayer,” accompanied at the piano by Bill Hart.

Rev. Woodson’s address was the story of his life, told along the line of his ambitions. The speaker traced his
various desires for a life work, from that of garbage man, to inventor, to medical missionary, to millionaire, and finally
to that of a minister. Mr. Woodson drew his final decision from a wealth of experience. He had changed his
college course three times and spent two years in the U. S. Navy during the war before he made his
final decision. His conversion to the ministry came as a result of his hearing what he termed “a manly interpretation
of Christ.” Rev. Woodson emphasized the fact that he had discovered that the only true way to happiness and success
is to discover God's will for your life and follow that line of work. The vesper service was concluded with
the singing of an appropriate hymn, “Am I a Soldier of the Cross?” Dr. Walter Lingle pronounced the benediction.

Schedule for Musical Organizations

Monday:
3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.—R. O. T. C. Band (drill).
4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.—Cornet sectional rehearsal.*
5:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.—Glee Club.*

Tuesday:
4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.—Woodwind sectional rehearsal.*
5:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.—Concert Orchestra.*
7:30 p.m.—College Band.*

Wednesday:
3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.—R. O. T. C. Band (drill).
4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.—Bass, trombone, baritone, horn professional sectional rehearsal.*
5:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.—Glee Club.*

Thursday:
4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.—Concert Band.*
5:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.—Concert Orchestra.*

Friday:
3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.—R. O. T. C. Band (drill).
4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.—College Band (drill).

*(Chambers Auditorium.)

D. C. Band to Assist Team
Munroe and Brock Vie for Drum Major Position

The College Band, represented by its forty most talented members, will accompany the football team on its trip to Carolina
this weekend. Mr. Pfohl, the director, has been working especially hard with his group and hopes to make a fine
showing in the presence of the Carolina Band.

There has been much keen competition over the position of drum-major, particularly upon the arrival of Dick Brock, who is
challenging Munroe, the present wielder of the baton. The Carolina Band is under new directorship this year, having for its
leader Mr. Earl A. Slocum, formerly of the Greensboro High School Music Department. It is of interest to us to
learn that Mr. Slocum is a member of the same social fraternity as our own director, Mr. Pfohl, and studied
and taught with him this past summer at the University of Michigan where both took degrees in music.

Student Bible Class Continues This Year
Dr. Arbuckle Chosen Teacher for the Fourth Consecutive Year

The Student Sunday School Class, conducted by Dr. H. B. Arbuckle at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church every Sunday morning
at 10 o’clock, is to be continued during the forthcoming year. This class, which is essentially a student proposition, each
year reorganizes by selecting a teacher and electing officers. This makes the fourth consecutive year that they have chosen Dr.
Arbuckle as their teacher. A. B. Rhodes was elected president of the class for the year. Dr. Arbuckle stated that
about seventy-five boys, a larger number than usual, were present at the first meeting of the class. Of this number,
the majority were Freshmen. All matters except the actual teaching of the lesson are handled through the students. Dr. Arbuckle
always makes his talks exceedingly interesting and helpful.

SILVER SCREEN

Wednesday, Sept. 27—This Day and Age
Rated as one of the outstanding pictures of the month, this picture shows the mob spirit, mixed with many emotional
and touching scenes. Charles Bickford plays the part of a gangster who is seen killing a peaceful old man by
a group of students. After his acquittal by the court, the boys take it upon themselves to punish him. There
the mob feelings are brought in, with the mob led by Richard Cromwell. Judith Allen, as Cromwell’s sweetheart, lures the
gangster’s right-hand man on, and the punishment begins. The picture is carried on very successfully by the stars, including Ben
Alexander and Eddie Nugent.

Thursday, Sept. 28—Shanghai Madness
This picture presents a very good cast and some very good acting, under unusual circumstances. Spencer Tracy along with Fay
Wray fill the roles very well, and they are ably assisted by Ralph Morgan and Eugene Pallette. The scene is
laid in China, during one of the civil wars there, and is quite distinctively entertaining in its originality. There is
no drag, and it should be well worth seeing.

Friday, Sept. 29—Stranger’s Return
Another very good characterization by Lionel Barrymore. He plays the person who seems to be any Pisa walled.A cordial invitation
is always extended to any students who may wish to attend.

BUY NOW BEFORE PRICES ADVANCE

Bill Johnson COMING October 2 and 3 — at Miss Minnie’s

The Storrs-Schaefer Co. with A Complete Line of New Fall Goods and the Latest in Styles

T. Hooke McCallie plays the part of the gruff old Southern farmer who appears to be interested in no one
at all, and without feelings toward anyone. The people have very few feelings for him in return. The exception to
him is his granddaughter, Miriam Hopkins, who comes out to his farm from the city to see him. This seems
to change him completely and return his interest in humanity.

Saturday, Sept. 30—Charlie Chan’s Greatest Case

Charlie Chan returns to the screen in the person of Warner Oland again. The show begins with the departure of
John Warburton for the East. Mystery begins when he is given a secret package in San Francisco to deliver to
his uncle in China, to whom he is going to visit for the purpose of bringing his aunt back to
America. On the way across the ocean, he meets Heather Angel and falls in love with her. After his arrival
in China, his uncle is murdered and the detectives are baffled. Then Charlie Chan is brought in, and the drama
is very tense to the climax when he solves the mystery. The fact that it is an Earl Derr Biggers
story should add to its attraction.

Monday, Oct. 2 —Morning Glory

Morning Glory is a representation of Hepburn. She plays the part of the small-town girl from Vermont who goes to
New York in the hopes of making good on the stage. She appeals to Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., who is willing,
but she is stopped by the person of Adolphe Menjou. She is turned away, after a deluge of her histrionic
ability, and fails to impress them sufficiently until she is seen drunk and showing her ability. The above-named and Mary
Duncan make this one of the outstanding pictures of the month. The picture is very gay and amusing, and very
entertaining, and should not be missed.

Tuesday, Oct. 3—Broadway to Hollywood

Frank Morgan and Alice Brady are the pair who make the vaudeville climb, and finally make a success. They (Continued
on page 7)

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP

STATIONERY CALLING CARDS PROGRAMS FRATERNITY PAPERS

Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates

See BILL JOHNSON 203 Watts @ Garland Court

Standard Printing Company CHARLOTTE, N.C.

NRA Has Compliance Board at Davidson

Prof. F. K. Fleagle Named Chairman of Board

President Roosevelt’s National Recovery Act is making itself felt in every city and hamlet in America. Davidson can say with
the rest of them, “We Do Our Part.” The local NRA Compliance Board is made up of representatives of the
different businesses and industries within the township, and includes both employer and employee. This board hears complaints which may come
to it regarding the misuse of the standard set by the Blue Eagle or any violations of the code. It
has no power to punish anyone for such infractions nor can it deprive anyone of the use of the insignia;
it can, however, where settlement is not peaceably made, send recommendations to the National Board in Washington which does have
the power to take the necessary steps.

The Davidson Compliance Board has as its members the following citizens of the town: Prof. Fred K. Fleagle, chairman; Mr.
C. C. Anderson, representing the asbestos plant; Prof. Archibald Currie, representing the professional class; Mrs. E. G. Gaffney, representing the
consumer; Mr. Oscar Grant, representing the Delberg Mills; Mr. W. A. Jetton, representing the druggists, and Mr. T. E. Lothery,
representing the merchant class. The board has no regular meetings but officiates only in case of such complaints as were
mentioned above.

Local Meat Market Burns Friday Night

At about 11:15 last Friday evening, the fire siren screamed for the first time during the current session. The Davidson
Meat Market was the unfortunate scene of the season’s first blaze. The fire was soon extinguished after causing some little
damage to the rear of the building on both the first and second floors. The opening fire was well attended
and cared for by some two hundred and fifty excited Freshmen and curious upperclassmen.

Albert E. Seifert Is Lieutenant at G.M.C.

Albert Edward Seifert, son of Captain Charles W. Seifert, local instructor, has recently been appointed cadet second lieutenant at Georgia
Military College, Milledgeville, Ga. Albert has made a fine record at G.M.C., where he graduates this year. He plans to
enter Davidson next fall.

Turkish tobacco is packed thousands of tiny leaves to the bale. It averages 400 leaves a pound.

© 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

The cigarette that’s MILDER

Tobaccos grown in this country are “seasoned” with tobaccos from Turkey and Greece

THE ANSWER IS VERY SIMPLE:

Tobaccos to taste right in a cigarette need to be flavored or seasoned just the same as you might season
a steak or a pudding. No tobaccos have ever been found that equal the spicy aromatic tobaccos of Turkey and
Greece for this purpose. That’s why we send 4000 miles for aromatic tobaccos from Samsoun and Smyrna, Xanthi and Cavalla.
When blended and cross-blended in just the right amounts with Chesterfield’s mild ripe Domestic tobaccos, the result is a rich
flavor and a fine fragrance. Chesterfields are seasoned right—they taste right. May we suggest you try them.

Chesterfield the cigarette that TASTES BETTER
