- THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 1, 1933

Rev. E. A. Dillard Talks at Vespers
Charlotte Pastor Is Heard With a Great Deal of Interest
PAUL CITED AS EXAMPLE
Mr. Dillard Emphasizes the Importance of Study

An unusually large student gathering was present to hear the Reverend E. A. Dillard, pastor of the Tenth Avenue Church of Charlotte, at the vesper hour last Sunday evening. W. T. Johnson had charge of the service and introduced Reverend Dillard. Mr. Dillard was educated at the University of South Carolina, and at Presbyterian College, and took his theological training at Columbia Seminary. After the reading of the scripture, taken from First Corinthians 9:12-22 by Mr. Dillard, L. S. Gamble and R. H. Smith led in prayer. Dave McLain then brought a message in song, accompanied at the piano by K. M. Scott.

In his introductory remarks, Reverend Dillard stated that he proposed to speak on the practical things of our everyday lives, the things that are before us at the present time. As an introduction to his remarks, he told a story of a preacher in Georgia who, while trying to pass a car, that car suddenly, without warning, swerved out in front of him, and as a result, both machines were demolished. Fortunately, neither driver was injured. The preacher took out some of his righteous indignation on the man for failing to give a signal that he was going to turn. To this the man replied: “Why, I turn here every day.” It was of our everyday turns that Mr. Dillard spoke. He pointed out that our lives are constantly swinging between success and failure. Paul was haunted by the thought of becoming a castaway. This did not mean that Paul was in danger of rejection by Christ, but that he was constantly afraid of being no longer useful to Christ. The old engine which used to make the run between Augusta and Charleston is now only a subject for exhibition—a castaway. Paul was always working for Christ even in prison and before judgment to keep himself from being a castoff. Esau was a castaway because of his appetite; Saul because of greed, and Samson because of selfishness. He showed that a castaway is not a damned soul, but a useless one.

Mr. Dillard said that the way to combat this state of uselessness was to take Paul's words when he said: “Study to show thyself approved.” He pointed out that the big thing in college life is not our social nor athletic success, but the way in which we study. Reverend Dillard said that we study first to be certain of the future, second, to be able to face men, third, to be correct, and to know the truth, and fourth, to obtain Divine approval. In closing, he showed that this study was our everyday turn and that, if we were diligent in it, we would not become castaways, but men who will be useful in service to God and our fellowmen.

DUKE LICKS KENTUCKY ‘CATS WITH 14-7 SCORE
(Continued from page 5)

V. M. I., showing a determination to win which they have lacked in former contests, came from behind to take the favored Cavaliers of Virginia into camp in an exciting game by a final score of 13 to 12. Presbyterian College was the power behind the defeat of the Wofford Terriers in the Terriers’ homecoming celebration, and the hometown boys were forced to reconcile themselves to a thorough beating to the tune of 26-6. Wofford’s offense was at no time able to get going, and the Presbyterians ran through them at will.

DAVIDSON AND STATE IN 6 TO 6 TIE AT RALEIGH
(Continued from page 5)

on his scoring dash by State blockers. State proved to have the stronger offense, netting 13 first downs to six for Davidson. However, the Wildcat line held well in the pinches and prevented further scoring by the Wolfpack. Mackorell, Hutchins, Wingfield, and Willson played good ball in the backfield for Davidson, while Morgan, Siewers, Potter, McElrath, Rives, Cathey, and Windham played good in the line. The substitutes, LeGare, Fort, Lee, Grant, and Hand also played exceptionally good ball. For State, McQuage and Rex featured in the backfield, and the entire line played a good defensive game. Rex, State fullback, gained a total of 99 yards from scrimmage.

The line-ups:
N. C. State Posi. Davidson
Stephens L.E. Morgan
Farrar L.T. Siewers
Stanko L.G. Potter
Sabol Center McElrath
Buchanan R.G. Rives (C)
Isaacs R.T. Cathey
Redding R.E. Windham
Wilson Q.B. Mackorell
McQuage L.H. Hutchins
Johnson R.H. Wingfield
Rex F.B. Willson

Score by periods:
State 0 0 6 0—6
Davidson 0 0 0 6—6

Scoring touchdowns: Davidson—Mackorell; State—McQuage.
Officials: Foster (Hampden-Sydney), referee; Peery (Sewanee), umpire; Hackney (North Carolina), headlinesman.
Substitutions: State—Bohannon, Cumiskey (c), Davis, Fabri, Bernhardt; Davidson—LeGare, Fort, Lee, Grant, Hand.

Dr. Douglas III
Dr. John L. Douglas met with his mathematics classes Tuesday for the first time in over a week. He had been ill at his home on Concord Road with a severe case of bronchitis for about ten days.

POETS OF ENGLAND ARE DISCUSSED BY DR. MIMS
(Continued from page 1)

The second poem, “Happy Warriors,” byWordsworth concerns itself with the essential greatness of the English type of hero. This poem is a favorite of many great men and quotations from it have been used often. Roosevelt is an example of one to whom “thought of tender happiness could not betray.” If any man ever had a right to ease, peace, and quiet it was Roosevelt. He fought a mighty struggle. Yet he did not stop here, but went on to gain the highest position of trust in the U.S., and this is just the quality that characterizes one as a “Happy Warrior.” There is a very decided contrast between a “Lost Leader” and a “Happy Warrior,” the latter being the fulfillment of all that the former gave promise of being. Dr. Mims closed his address by making a plea to the Davidson students to be “Happy Warriors,” saying that there were already enough “Lost Leaders” who had miserably bungled their lives.

DR. B. R. LACY TO LEAD “Y” SERVICES
(Continued from page 1)
experience conducted by one of the most able and popular men in the South. The Y.M.C.A. has secured Rev. LeRoy P. Burney, of Sugaw Creek, N.C., and Dr. D. P. McGeachy, of Decatur, Ga., to speak at vespers on the nights of November 5th and 12th, respectively, leading up to the services to be held on the 19th of November.

EIGHT SENIORS TAPPED FOR O.D.K. MEMBERSHIP
(Continued from page 1)
Judge of the Court of Control. As captain and member of the tennis team, Halverstadt gained membership in the “D” Club. Hugh Hawkins is the varsity cheerleader. He is a varsity debater and member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, honorary forensic fraternity. Hawkins is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. He was formerly president of the Eumenean Literary Society. J. Mack Holland is president of the “D” Club, having won his letter in basketball. He is a member of the Student Council and secretary-treasurer of the Pan-Hellenic Council. Holland is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. W. Alexander Kirkland is the varsity football manager. He is a member of Scabbard and Blade, holding the position of second lieutenant in R.O.T.C. He is the present secretary-treasurer of the Senior class. Kirkland is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Andrew H. Manson, member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, is a manager of the Student Store. He is a member of Scabbard and Blade, being a first lieutenant. Manson has held several class offices in the past. Edward L. Powell, member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, is a manager of the Student Store. He is a member of Scabbard and Blade, holding the position of company captain. Powell, besides holding class offices, is a member of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet. W. Taliaferro Thompson is president of the Honorary Fraternity Council. He is a member of the “D” Club, having won his letter in tennis. He is the editor of the “Y” Handbook, and a member of several honorary fraternities. Thompson is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Odi Casali, Charles Rives, Fred Smyre, W. M. Thompson, Julian West, and E. L. Willson were the student members who took part in the bidding exercises, having been initiated into the circle last spring. The men tapped yesterday will be initiated Tuesday, November 7th.

PHI BETA KAPPA ISSUES BIDS TO SIX STUDENTS
(Continued from page 1)
fraternity and is an assistant in physics. Odi Casali, of Welch, W. Va., and J. T. Blair, of Albemarle, are of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity. Casali is editor-in-chief of “The Davidsonian,” and is a member of various other honorary fraternities. J. T. Blair is president of the Glee Club. The six men are entering the Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa in its tenth anniversary. Davidson, with the University of North Carolina and Duke University, are the only institutions allowed to establish chapters in North Carolina. This is a great compliment to the scholastic rating of this college. Davidson is the smallest of the aforementioned colleges and has one of the highest scholastic ratings in the South. Dr. C. M. Richards, Professor A. Currie, and Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr., were the faculty members who bestowed this honor to these men. They are of the many faculty members of Phi Beta Kappa in Davidson.

We Specialize
LITTLE PEP
Charlotte in Sandwiches
Davidson Radio Servicing
108 S. MAIN ST.
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
EACH THURSDAY
EMMETT A. MORROW
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
on Any Make at
PHONE 224

“it’s toasted”
FOR THROAT PROTECTION—FOR BETTER TASTE
Choice tobaccos—and no loose ends—make Luckies burn smoothly
This young lady is one of a small army of inspectors. Her job is to examine Lucky Strike—to make sure that it comes up to the exact standards we set. Every Lucky Strike she passes is full weight, fully packed, round and firm—free from loose ends. And no Lucky that she examines leaves without this OK. That’s why each and every Lucky draws so easily—burns so smoothly.
Always the finest tobaccos
ALWAYS the finest workmanship
Always Luckies please!