THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 11, 1933

DUKE VS. DAVIDSON

ALUMNI NEWS

HOMECOMING OCT. 21ST.

Davidson Man As Head of Department

Dr. R. N. Brackett Has Served for Forty-two Years as Head of Department of Chemistry at Clemson College

MEMBER CLASS OF 1883

Becomes Librarian of the Chemistry Library at Clemson

Dr. Richard Newman Brackett, a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1883, and one of the grand old men
in the teaching profession in South Carolina, retired last June from the headship of the Department of Chemistry at Clemson
College, after forty-two years of service to the school. Dr. Brackett was a member of the faculty at the opening
of the South Carolina school, and has been on the job constantly for forty-two years. He retires from the headship
of the department to take charge of the chemical library which he himself has collected.

The chemist was a native of Charleston, S. C. where his father was the pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church
for thirty years. He was educated in private schools in Charleston, and entered Davidson as a sub-freshman in 1878, graduating
in 1883 with an A.B. degree. He then took his Ph.D. at Johns Hopkins in 1887. From 1887 to 1891
he was chief chemist of the Arkansas Geological Survey, and in 1891 he was elected to the associate professorship of
chemistry at the newly formed Clemson College.

In addition to his work as a professor, Dr. Brackett has been chief chemist of the South Carolina experiment station,
and in this connection has done much important research and investigational work, and has published a number of important papers
and pamphlets. Dr. Brackett is a member of the Association of Official Agricultural Chemists, of which he was president in
1916, a member of the American Chemical Society since 1887, is a fellow of the Association for the Advancement of
Science, and a member and former president of the South Carolina Academy of Science.

In 1889, he married Bessie Brandon Craig. He has two children living, Mrs. Helen Brackett Waddill and Dr. Newton Craig
Brackett. As a token of appreciation to Dr. Brackett the Clemson chapter of the Clemson Alumni Association elected the chemist
to honorary membership in the association at the meeting last spring.

Births

‘21 Dr. and Mrs. A. P. Ormand announce the birth of a son, Alexander Pierce, Jr., on September 7, 1933,
at Akron, Ohio.

Alumni Marriages

‘23 Rev. Dunbar H. Ogden, Jr., of Pikeville, Ky., and Miss Dorthey Coblentz, of Springfield, Ohio, were married in the
Church of the Covenant, Springfield, Ohio, August 10, 1933, by Dr. Dunbar H. Ogden, father of the bridegroom.

Nine Alumni Attend Columbia Seminary

Nine men who attended Davidson College are now studying at Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Ga. Two of these men
are in the Senior class, three in the Middle class, and four in the Junior class. Dr. J. McDowell Richards,
a graduate of Davidson and a Rhodes Scholar, is president of this seminary. Davidson men enrolled there are:

Senior class: J. G. Hand, J. E. Love.
Middle class: G. T. Preer, H. S. Robinson, E. B. Wilkinson.
Junior class: L. B. Colquitt, J. R. Howard, J. K. Parker, J. E. Richards.

CADDY FEE IS SET BY GREENS COMMITTEE

According to a recent announcement the caddy fee on the Davidson College golf course has been established at fifteen cents
for nine holes. This announcement was made by Professor Fulcher, chairman of the greens committee. This is a fixed price,
and the greens committee asks that no tipping be permitted, and also no bickering with the caddies to cut the
price below fifteen cents, which appears as a very nominal fee.

Dr. R. N. Brackett, for forty-two years a professor at Clemson College, South Carolina, has retired from the headship of
the Department of Chemistry.

Alumni Personals

‘93 Dr. Frank Register, formerly with the State Board of Health and lately Wayne County health officer, has succeeded Dr.
Harvey D. Dixon as superintendent of the Caswell Training School, at Kinston, N. C.

WHAT, AGAIN?

Radio fans are likely to become exasperated when they find that the time for the Davidson College quarter-hour has changed
this week. Inaugurated two weeks ago over WBT, Charlotte, the program was given the 9:00 to 9:15 time, on Monday
night, only to have it changed again. Now the program has been set at 8:45 to 9:00 on Wednesday night,
but no prediction is made as to the length of time the program will be kept at this hour. An
effort is being made to secure a definite time for the program, and it seems likely that negotiations to this
effect will be successful. Next Wednesday night the brass quartet will play some selections, and Mr. James C. Pfohl will
give a solo on the cornet. A five-minute interview with the Davidson social program will be included.

WITH THE ALUMNI

‘29 R. S. Johnston, of Davidson, N. C., received his Master of Arts degree from the University of North Carolina
at the close of the summer session.

‘29 Bob Covington has a position with the Vick Chemical Company in New York City.

‘30 Rev. Eugene Clark, son of Mr. and Mrs. E. L. Clark, was ordained a minister in the Presbyterian Church
Monday afternoon at 3 o’clock in Greensboro. Monday night Mr. Clark was installed as pastor of the Greenwood Church. He
is supply pastor of Smyrna Church.

‘30 W. Lewis Hart is working for Dewar, Robertson, and Panwast, Investments, San Antonio, Texas.

After two months’ recuperation...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

At Davidson and Montreat, N.C., Rev. W. S. Patterson, the pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Clover, S.C., is
again at Clover and able to preach.

The 175th anniversary of the Bluff Church at Fayetteville, N.C., was observed with the annual reunion at the church, Sunday,
September 24th. The services began at 11 o'clock and continued through the afternoon. Rev. Marion S. Huske, pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church of Reidsville, preached at the morning service.

The Presbytery of Missouri met in Olde Auxvasse Church on September 19th and 20th. Joseph M. Garrison was the Moderator.

David H. Howard, who received his Ph.D. in chemistry at Cornell this June, has been appointed instructor in chemistry at
the George Washington University, Washington, D.C.

Ledyard DeCamp will graduate in medicine this year at the University of Pennsylvania, at Philadelphia.

Bill Hill and Charlie Orr will complete their medical course at the University of Virginia.

Bill McGuire received his law degree at Duke University and is now connected with the Duke Power Company.

Zeb Long is now entering his second year of law at Duke University.

J. A. Cannon, Jr., of Concord, N.C., was awarded the Bachelor of Laws degree at the close of the 1933
summer session at the University of North Carolina, and is now with the law firm of King & King in
Greensboro.

J. A. Ward is now working on a second-year fellowship in Mathematics at Louisiana State University.

J. H. Boyd, III, of Greenville, N.C., received the Bachelor of Science degree in commerce at the University of North
Carolina this summer.

Don Stephenson is attending the Law School at Emory University in Atlanta.

Charles Harrison is taking graduate work at Duke University.

Davidson Graduates Attend Two Seminaries Forty Men at Union in Richmond — Over Half Seminary Student Body

Forty Davidson men are this year studying at Union Theological Seminary. These men comprise over half the student body at
this Virginia school. There are fourteen in the Senior class, the same number in the Middle class, and twelve in
the Junior class. Dr. Ben R. Lacy, Jr., president of the Davidson Alumni Association, is president of the seminary. The
Davidson men enrolled there are:

Senior class: J. A. Jones, W. P. Boyle, E. K. Emurian, A. R. Koop, A. B. McLure, W. B. McSwain,
M. W. Norfleet, Jr., F. V. Poag, C. K. Poole, R. D. Russell, J. M. Smith, W. G. Sugg, Jr.,
E. F. Thompson, F. L. F. Wood.

Middle class: W. M. Belk, W. A. Brown, R. P. Davis, R. M. Engle, J. C. Lawrence, J. L. Mauze,
Jr., N. R. McGeachy, J. H. McKinnon, Jr., H. M. Moffett, Jr., C. R. Pritchett, C. S. Spencer, R. L.
Torrence, J. D. Withrow, Jr., S. W. DuBose, Jr.

Junior class: D. F. Blue, Jr., H. L. Carr, T. M. Davis, J. W. Fulton, Jr., D. D. MacBryde, J.
G. Morrison, T. R. Nunan, W. A. Pate, O. W. Perrell, A. L. Thompson, J. C. Whitley, R. L. Forbis.

HOMECOMING

Hundreds of Davidson alumni will return to the campus Saturday week to the annual Homecoming Day exercises. A program has
been arranged for these returning former students. At eleven o'clock in the morning a cross-country meet with Duke will take
place. Following this at eleven forty-five there will be a meeting of the Alumni Association in the auditorium of Chambers
Building, where Dr. Lingle will welcome the alumni. Mr. Pfohl, director of music, will play on the organ, and the
coaches will be presented to the alumni. At twelve-thirty there will be a luncheon in the banquet hall of Chambers,
at which time the concert orchestra will play. The feature of the day’s program will be the football game between
Duke and Davidson, and the kick-off is at two-thirty.

Nat Speir has a position with the American Trust Company in Charlotte, N.C. He recently resigned from a position with
the Baker Cotton Company.

George O'Hanlon is studying law at the University of North Carolina. This is his second year.

Phil Shanks is studying law in the Law School at the University of Alabama.

E. W. Phifer, Jr., is studying medicine at the University of North Carolina.

Ed. Kuykendall is entering upon his second year of law at the University of North Carolina.

T. A. Bowles is studying law at the University of Alabama.

Bob Orr is studying medicine at the University of Virginia.

TWO INJURED

Lanier Pratt, '34, and Don Stewart, '36, were injured while participating in the campus football games this week. Their injuries,
however, are not serious and they will probably be able to play in the next game.

A CORRECTION

In last week’s issue an item which carried a list of initiates into Delta Pi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, included
the name of B. O. Ravenel through an error. The name should have been W. B. Ravenel.

Do you remember... all of the claims that have been made about smoking tobacco—how it was that one was this
and that one was that? After all, what you want to know when you get a thing for a certain
purpose is... Was it made for that?

Granger is made of White Burley—the kind of leaf tobacco that’s best for pipes. And old man Wellman, who taught
us how to make Granger, knew how. Granger is made to smoke in a pipe—and folks seem to like it.

A sensible package 10 cents

Granger Rough Cut — the tobacco that's MADE FOR PIPES

© 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
