THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 22, 1933

JUNIOR COLLEGE TOURNAMENT HERE TOMORROW AND FRIDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

INTRA-MURAL BASKETBALL NOW IN PROGRESS

Tomorrow and Friday Davidson students will be given an opportunity to see some of the most promising college basketball players
in the state perform, when teams representing Belmont Abbey, Presbyterian Junior, Weaver, Rutherford, Boiling Springs, Wingate Junior, Lees-McRae, and Mars
Hill gather here to determine a champion. Davidson, under the efforts of Captain N. G. Pritchett, director of athletics, is
holding the junior college elimination tournament here at great expense to the college, and therefore may be forced to make
a small admission charge to Davidson students in order to help defray some of the money burden. Since the tournament
is not a money-making proposition, Davidson students should not try to crash the gate to see the games.

Many of the players who will perform for the junior schools will be college boys next year, eligible for two
years of inter-collegiate competition. Whether any of these athletes matriculate at Davidson will depend largely upon the reception Davidson students
show them. A friendly word to any of our visitors seen upon the campus the next two days may impress
the Davidson spirit and influence them to come to Davidson. The social fraternities can also play the part of a
host to these visiting athletes, who may make good fraternity material.

Arrangements for the tournament have been completed, and a trophy, which will be awarded to the winner, has been bought
by the college. Officials of the games will include Touhey of Colorado University, who has worked several varsity and freshman
games this winter; Wade Ison of North Carolina University, who is sports editor of the Charlotte News, and Doc Mathis,
1932 Davidson graduate, who is now coaching freshman athletics here.

Intramural basketball started this week at Davidson, nearly two months later than the class games had been played in past
years. The class of ’34 were winners of the series last season.

Boxing in its first appearance at Davidson in many moons proved popular with the students, as evidenced by the large
turnouts to see the bouts. The brilliant defensive work of Billy Moore, the speed and fast punching of flashy Johnny
Dolan, and the hard punching of Bill Flinn and Joe Morris left impressions upon those who saw the bouts as
well as their opponents. Barnes and Moore in their bout had the crowd in uproar, and even drew laughs from
the judges.

Coach “Doc” Unger’s wrestling team, composed mostly of Sophomores, has shown steady progress all winter. The 19-13 victory the grapplers
gained over V. P. I. last Saturday was the first a Davidson mat team has scored over a Virginia Tech
team. This Saturday the Wildcat team meets North Carolina at Chapel Hill. A victory over the Tar Heels will place
the Davidson team in the first time in many years.

The Wildcat Davidson Wrestlers Defeat Strong Virginia Tech Team by Davidson in Many Years

Davidson's wrestling team covered itself with a blaze of glory here last Saturday night by defeating a V. P. I.
mat team. The grapplers took five of the eight matches to score a 19-13 victory over the Virginians. The victory
was the second consecutive one scored by the Davidson team this season, and made it two victories against two defeats,
which were administered by a strong Franklin-Marshall team, and an undefeated Washington and Lee team. The Davidson schedule will end
this Saturday when the Wildcats meet North Carolina University.

Davidson followers were confident of a victory when Quarterman, 155-pounder, and Potter, 165-pounder, scored victories over their visiting opponents, but
when Captain Taylor, of Davidson, was defeated by Waldron, fears were aroused. Whitfield suppressed the fears, however, when he pinned
Howard of V. P. I. in six minutes and 59 seconds, after the latter had stored up a time advantage.
Dillon, wrestling in the 118-pound weight for Davidson, pulled the surprise of the evening when he gained a time advantage
over Leske, in a match which fans thought Davidson had no chance of taking before it started. Sprunt, in the
135-pound division, and Griffith, in the 145, made their first appearance on the Davidson team. Sprunt won his match by
a time advantage of more than two minutes, but Griffith lost by a fall to Allison, who was captain of
the visiting team.

An injured shoulder kept Charles Forte from representing Davidson in the 145-pound weight. His place was taken by Tom Griffith.
Four of the matches resulted in falls. Two were registered by Davidson when Quarterman and Whitfield pinned their opponents, and
two by V. P. I. when Gibbs and Allison scored falls over Jenkins and Griffith, respectively.

Before the matches Coach Unger, aided by Frank Owen, member of the Davidson wrestling squad, demonstrated various holds and how
to break them. The summary:

118-pound class—Dillon (Davidson) won over Leske, by time advantage of one minute and 46 seconds.
125-pound class—Gibbs (V. P. I.) won over Jenkins, by fall.

Davidson Five Defeats Elon Christians, 38-18 But Drop Contests to State and North Carolina Teams

In the past week’s basketball program Davidson dropped two contests and bagged one. On Tuesday night the Wildcats met Elon
College, and took the Christians into camp by an impressive 38 to 16 score. Then followed a two-day trip down
to Raleigh and Chapel Hill. In the first contest a vastly improved Davidson quintet bowed to the experienced Tar Heel
basketeers of the University of North Carolina, 39 to 26. Earlier in the season Carolina had bumped the 'Cats 56
to 18. In the last imbroglio of the tour N. C. State’s highly-touted Red Terrors toppled the Wildcats 35 to
23. This was also a second victory over Davidson for State this season.

Davidson played a more consistent brand of ball than the Christians from Elon College, and completely routed them, 38 to
16. Peabody, Dickerson, and Harris all played consistently good games that snowed the Elon quint under. North Carolina, led by
Hines and Weathers, with twelve and ten points, respectively, ran wild to decisively defeat the Davidson five, 39 to 26.
At the beginning of the game Davidson and Carolina played on fairly even terms, but the Tar Heels gradually pulled
away from the ’Cats to go on to win. Peabody looked good for Davidson. The tour ended with an impressive
35 to 23 defeat at the hands of N. C. State. Led by Nelms, State showed a superior brand of
basketball to turn back the scrappy Wildcats. Peabody and Dickerson stood out for Davidson.

Freshmen Lose Final Contests of Season

After winning the first contest of their closing campaign over the Caldwell Memorial five, the Davidson Freshman basketball team brought
their season to a close in a disastrous fashion, losing by landslide margins.

Pikas Win in Fraternity Basketball Tournament

Led by the intrepid Buck Mills, the boys from the Pi Kappa Alpha house turned back the Kappa Sigma five
to win the Davidson inter-fraternity basketball championship in the local gym last Monday night by the impressive score of 36
to 16. A 55 to 3 victory over the Pi Kappa Phi quint, and a 25 to 17 win over
the Beta Theta Pi boys placed the Pikas in the finals, while the Kappa Sigs attained the final bracket by
virtue of a victory over the Phi Gamma Deltas and the Kappa Alphas. The Pikas started off with a rush,
and the outcome of the game was never in doubt, the winners holding a 13 to 4 lead at the
intermission. Rives shot seven points to be high for the Kappa Sigs.

Pi K. A. (36) Position Kappa Sig (16)
Hamrick (5) F. Rose
Kirkland (4) F. (1) Pearce
Mills (16) C. (6) Fleagle
Little, A. (5) G. (2) Byerly
Little, C. (6) G. (7) Rives

Referee: Lafferty. Umpire: West.

Dillard Leads Frosh In Individual Scoring

Herman Dillard, forward, finished first in individual scoring among members of the Freshman basketball team for the 1933 season which
was brought to a close last week.I.) won by fall over Jenkins in three minutes and 14 seconds. Majorities to
the Carolina and State Fresh on consecutive nights.

Caldwell Memorial 25; Davidson Fresh 29
Led by Parker and Burns, the Wildkittens outsteadied the Caldwell Memorial quint to win, 29 to 25, in an exciting
contest. Venable with six points showed up best for the Charlotte team, but Parker and Burns of the 'Kittens were
high for the game with nine and eight points, respectively.

135-pound class—Sprunt (Davidson) won over Whitmer, by time advantage of two minutes and three seconds.
145-pound class—Captain Allison (V. P. I.) won by fall over Griffith in four minutes and 17 seconds.

N. C. Fresh 53; Davidson Fresh 16
The North Carolina yearling quintet let loose a barrage of shots on the basket that completely snowed under the Davidson
Wildkittens, and gained a one-sided victory at 53 to 16. Rankin of the Tar Babies led the scorers with 14
points to his credit. Burns, with six, was high for Davidson.

N. C. State Fresh 49; Davidson Fresh 12
Finishing a most unsuccessful campaign by bowing to the Wolflet quint of N. C. State, the Davidson Freshmen finished the
season in anything but impressive style. State’s yearlings ran wild to put the ’Kittens down, 49 to 12. Aycock, State
forward, bagged twelve counters to top the scorers.

Duke Blue Devils Win Big Five Championship
Duke University’s Blue Devils won the Big Five championship with seven victories and one defeat. The loss was suffered at
the hands of N. C. State, who finished third in the standings. North Carolina University was in second place with
six victories and two defeats, both administered by the champions. Here’s how they finished:
Team W. L. Pct.
Duke 7 1 .875
N. Carolina 6 2 .750
N. C. State 4 4 .500
Wake Forest 2 5 .286
Davidson 0 7 .000

155-pound class—Quarterman (Davidson) won by fall over Fisher in eight minutes and eight seconds.
165-pound class—Potter (Davidson) won over Oliver, by time advantage of five minutes and 35 seconds.
175-pound class—Waldron (V. P. I.) won over Captain Taylor, by time advantage of one minute and 41 seconds.
Unlimited—Whitfield (Davidson) won by fall over Howard in six minutes and 59 seconds.

Referee: Jackins (Barium Springs). Timer: McEver (Tennessee).

Dillard scored 79 points to lead his teammates. Thirty-four field goals and eleven fouls gave the leader his total, which
was ten points more than the runner-up’s total. Dillard played in fourteen of the fifteen games on the Freshman schedule
this year, and had a game average of 5.6 points. Woodrow Burns and Dick Parker were tied for second place
with 69 points each. Parker scored one field goal more than Burns, but the latter evened the count with two
free throws more to his credit. Cole Windham, guard and co-captain, moved into fourth place ahead of his partner-leader, Sanders,
when the latter failed to make the eastern trip last week. Windham’s total was 56 points. Although the Freshmen were
outscored 448 to 374 points, they won eight of their fifteen games for a percentage of .533 for the season.
The results:
Player FG. FT. TP.
Dillard 34 11 79
Burns 15 69
Parker 13 69
Windham 14 56
Sanders 8 32
Marchant 6 20
Johnson, J. 6 3 15
Gumbinger 2 1 5
Norris 1 2 4
Wool 1 1 3
Singleton 1 0 2
Rinton 1 0 2
Total 150 74 374

Track Season Opens While Boxing Closes
Now that boxing has come to a close with the inter-class tournament, Captain Norton G. Pritchett is devoting all his
time and attention to track and especially those men who will participate in the indoor meet at Carolina. Most of
the track men have been working out, but track will formally open this week and more rigid training will begin.

Four Davidson College varsity performers and two from the freshman team probably will participate in the Southern Conference indoor track
and field games at Chapel Hill March 4th, it was learned from Captain Pritchett Monday. Fred Fleagle, who has run
the century in less than ten seconds, will enter the 60-yard sprint. Three high hurdlers, McCallie, Pratt, and McPhail, will
be the other Wildcat varsity men participating. Merchant, frosh miler, will run the three-quarter event and Evans the 60-yard yearling
dash.

Freshman Class Wins Three Bouts to Place In Intra-Mural Boxing
Seniors and Sophomores Each Win Two Bouts to Follow Yearlings
The Freshman class won the intramural boxing tournament when titles in three of the seven weights were taken by its
representatives, here last Thursday and Friday. The other four titles were divided among the Seniors and the Sophomores. Johnny Dolan,
Billy Moore, and Earle Frazier were the Freshmen who managed to win to put their class in the lead. P.
B. Beachum and Charlie Moore won titles for the Senior class, and two Morris boys, Hubert and Joe, were the
Sophomore winners.

Captain Pritchett, director of athletics, was pleased with the outcome of the bouts, and felt that there was plenty of
boxing talent in some of those who took part in the tournament. He stated that he was especially impressed by
the showing of Dolan, Glasgow, B. Moore, Frazier, Flinn, Lee, and Joe Morris. The Dolan-Glasgow, Morris-Gee, Lee-Beechum, and Flinn-Frazier bouts
were the most colorful, while the Moore-Barnes hookup proved the most amusing to the fans. All the bouts were decided
by decisions. Captain Seifert, regular Army instructor, refereed all the bouts in excellent style. An ankle injury, received early in
the final bouts, failed to remove him from the ring as the third man. Coaches Unger, Newton, and McEver were
judges in the preliminary bouts, but Wade Ison, Charlotte News sports editor, replaced Unger in the finals.

Flash Ormand was the only man to make the 115-pound weight, but he moved into the 125 class to reduce
the weight divisions to seven. The competition was too heavy and Ormand found himself without a title.

The results:
Preliminaries:
135—D. Glasgow outpointed Hassel.
155—E. Slaughter outpointed Alderman.

Semi-finals:
125—H. Morris (So) outpointed Fugate.
Gee (So) outpointed Ormand.
135—Dolan (F) outpointed Thompson.
D. Glasgow (So) outpointed Pennington.
155—Frazier (F) outpointed Moffett.
Flinn (S) outpointed E. Slaughter.
165—Lee (F) outpointed Blackwelder.

Finals:
125—H. Morris (So) outpointed Gee (So) after extra period.
135—Dolan (F) outpointed D. Glasgow (So).
145—B. Moore (F) outpointed Barnes (So).
155—Frazier (F) outpointed Flinn (S).
165—Beachum (S) outpointed Lee (F).
175—C. Moore (S) outpointed Smith (So).
Unlimited—J. Morris (So) outpointed Johnston (F).

Referee: Captain Seifert (U. S. Army).

(Continued on page 6)

SPECIAL SHOWING of Spring and Summer Shoes Feb. 24th By Mr. Geo. Kee, Factory Representative at IDEAL’S DAVIDSON SHOP FRIDAY
