THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1933

G. C. Glee Club to Present Program
Famous Tenor and Eminent ’Cellist Will Render Selections

The Davidson Glee Club will sponsor a concert by the Greensboro College Glee Club Friday, November 17th, in Chambers Auditorium.
For a number of years, the visiting Glee Club has held the position of being one of the finest women’s
organizations of its kind in this entire section of the South. In Winston-Salem last year, their concert brought out high
praise from the critics.

Besides the club's soloists, it is announced that Edward Molitore, famous tenor and director of the club, and Charles W.
Pier, eminent ’cellist, will render individual selections. Molitore toured for thirty weeks with Geraldine Farrar in “Carmen.” He sang with
the Cincinnati Zoo Opera Company, the Detroit Civic Opera Company, the Philadelphia Grand Opera Company, and others.

Mr. Pier spent six years of study and teaching in Europe, being a student at the London Conservatory and acting
as assistant teacher to Jacques van Lier, celebrated modern virtuoso of the 'cello. His professional experience has included membership in
the London Symphony Orchestra, Covent Garden Opera Orchestra, Russian Ballet Orchestra, Rio de Janeiro Symphony, and the Buenos Aires Opera
and Symphony. He has also had concert tours in Europe, South America, and the United States.

The club comes here from Charlotte where on Thursday evening, November 16th, they will have charge of the musical program
for the Western Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South.

DUKE LICKS AUBURN PLAINSMEN 13-7
(Continued from page 5)

Teachers. Neal made numerous long runs, one jaunt in the second canto being good for 50 yards and a touchdown;
Newsome scored four of the Christian tallies. The Furman-Wofford encounter was featured by long runs by backs, who gained a
total of 34 yards on running plays to 85 for the Terriers. For the first time this season, Furman used
the so-called “hornets’ nest” shift, which worked to a good advantage in almost every play it was employed.

WILDKITTENS TO MEET WOFFORD FROSH TEAM
(Continued from page 5)

The probable line-up of the Davidson team is as follows: At center, Gracey; at the guards, Johnson and Purdy; at
the tackles, Armfield and Hunter; at the ends, Moore and Cathey; in the backfield, at quarter, Shemwell; at fullback, Cooke;
at right halfback, Quick; and at left halfback, either Garrison, Peabody, or Corbin.

GOBLINS AND GHOSTS OFFER MANY THRILLS
(Continued from page 1)

One sign which was situated on the branches of a tree, announced “Free parking space for cars,” while a “Ladies’
Rest Room” sign reposed in the front yard of Dr. Lingle’s house until recovered early next morning by a respectable
student of the college. Apparently not satisfied with their efforts, the boys decided to give the managers a little workout
the next day by rearranging the ticket booths according to their tastes. Fraternity house windows suffered a complete whitewashing to
the chagrin of the pledges the next morning. Several freshmen took to the lavatories in a last final effort to
recover their clothes and furniture from under the showers and faucets, others by locked doors and in darkened rooms.thus escaped,
for the most part, the various processes of going through the “mill.” However, two freshmen, who were particularly careful about
locking their rooms, were placed in an embarrassing position when they discovered that a coat hanger had been put in
the keyhole, and as a result, they could not turn the key. Only after receiving outside aid, were they able
to open the door. Rumple Dormitory provided an excellent battleground for several water fights, and the participants were thoroughly drenched
when they had finished. Another boy suffered growing pains when he perceived his pajamas making a “bee line” for the
door. With a flying tackle, he managed to stop them, and after investigation, discovered the automotive power to consist of
one black and white-colored cat. The next morning many sleepless faces were in evidence, but in spite of this, everyone
seemed to have enjoyed the excitement and fun.

VARSITY DEBATERS WILL HOLD TRYOUTS TONIGHT
(Continued from page 1)

discussion and should prove interesting and instructive to the audience.

Four Out of Five College Men Come to JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP

“Davidson is known throughout the country for its splendid debating teams, and this year the Davidson representatives should be as
strong as ever. With the backing of the student body, this movement would take steps further toward the advancement of
forensic work at Davidson,” Humphrey declared.

DR. FRAZER HOOD ATTENDS MEETING
(Continued from page 1)

building, and to augment the quantity of their present equipment. During the years of depression, no lowering of the standards
has been effected by the school, in spite of the fact that running expenses have been curtailed. All teachers and
employees of the school have shown a fine spirit of cooperation by accepting salaries considerably within the bounds of the
minimized budget, and rendering untiring service throughout hard times. There has been inaugurated a bargaining and trading system also, which
enables many students to remain in school, and at the same time lends to the support of the college. Dr.
Hood seemed very well pleased with the work being done at Zee. McRae, and says they are looking forward to
another good session this year.

FOR SALE CHEAP
Westinghouse Electric Range
Mahogany Bookcase
Etc.
P. O. BOX 463
DAVIDSON

Radio Servicing on Any Make at M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
We Guarantee Our Work
EACH THURSDAY
We Appreciate Your Business
EMMETT A. MORROW

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
108 S. MAIN ST.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
PHONE 224

Copyright, 1933, The American Tobacco Company

ALWAYS the finest tobaccos
ALWAYS Luckies please!
ALWAYS the finest workmanship

In fine warehouses like these—open to soft Southern breezes—a huge reserve of choice Turkish and Domestic tobaccos is aging and
mellowing. 27 different kinds of tobacco, ‘the Cream of the Crop’—for nothing but the best is used to make Luckies
so round, so firm, so fully packed—free from annoying loose ends. That’s why Luckies are always so mild, so smooth.

FOR THROAT PROTECTION—FOR BETTER TASTE

Airplane view of American Tobacco Company warehouses at Reidsville, N.C. One Hundred Million Dollars worth of fine Turkish and Domestic
tobaccos are being aged by the makers of Lucky Strike.
