RIVES ELECTED FOOTBALL CAPTAIN

Che Davidsonian

Glenda Lux
G@bi Orta
Libertas

DR. W. L. LINGLE TAKES TRIP

Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 25, 1933 No. 15

Dr. Walter Lingle Gives Series of Addresses in Numerous Florida Cities

Church Leaders Are Proposing Definite Solutions for the Problems Facing the Missionary World

LINGLE RETURNS FEB. 10

Florida Chain of Missionary Assemblies Are Now Being Held

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, is now on a tour in Florida, where he is taking a prominent part in the Florida Chain of Missionary Assemblies, now being held in that state. Dr. Lingle’s schedule began January 14th in Jacksonville, where until the 18th he delivered addresses daily in the First Presbyterian Church. Leaving Jacksonville, he went to Winter Haven. After making numerous talks here, Dr. Lingle journeyed to Miami on the 21st, where he now is. While in Miami he is delivering speeches twice a day in the First Baptist Church. Tomorrow, the assemblies at the Palm Beaches will hear him in the First Methodist Church and on the 28th those of St. Petersburg. He will make only one talk a day while at the Beaches, but at St. Petersburg he will deliver one a day in the First Congregational Church and numerous others elsewhere in the city itself and in neighboring cities, speaking in Tampa January 29-31, and in Clearwater February 1-3. Leaving St. Petersburg on the 3rd of February, he goes to Orlando. From the 4th through the 8th the president delivers speeches in both Orlando and Deland, and after this he plans to return to the college, arriving here about the 9th or 10th of February.

In addition to more than thirty scheduled addresses to assemblies, Dr. Lingle will have occasion to address other church services, to speak in colleges, high schools, grade schools, at Men’s and Women’s Civic Clubs, and to various other gatherings. The Davidson president, a leader of Southern Presbyterianism, is one of a selected group of accomplished and challenging speakers who have been secured for the Florida missionary program this year. These outstanding churchmen and churchwomen are endeavoring to propose to the churches definite solutions for the problems now facing the whole missionary world.

“Y” Cabinet of N. C. to Conduct Vespers

Work of Both Cabinets Will Be Discussed in Joint Meeting Sunday Afternoon

Next Sunday evening, January 29, our regular Sunday evening vespers will be conducted by a deputation of nine men from the University of North Carolina. The Y. M. C. A. of Davidson, as well as the Y. M. C. A. of the University of North Carolina, is a member of the State Y. M. C. A. Cabinet. The policy of this cabinet is to exchange deputations among the schools that are members of the same. One of the nine men making the trip will lead the vesper service here Sunday evening at 6 o'clock, in Chambers Auditorium. The names of the men making this trip were not disclosed at the time this paper goes to press.

Wrestling Team Makes Trip

The varsity wrestling team left Monday morning for Lancaster, Pa., where a match was held with Franklin-Marshall College. They are expected to return tonight. The following men made the trip: Jones, 118 pounds; Jenkins, 125 pounds; Owen, 135 pounds; Fort, 145 pounds; Quarterman, 155 pounds; Potter, 165 pounds; Taylor, 175 pounds, and Whitfield, unlimited. Due to an attack of influenza, Coach J. W. Unger was unable to accompany his team to Lancaster, where the match was held Tuesday night. His absence enabled Sam Daniels, manager, to make the trip.

Living Up

In this age of change and indecision, when not only the cause of Christ in the world, but even the world’s own social, financial and political equilibrium seems tottering and about to disintegrate, we would do well, as thoughtful students of today and potential influencers of tomorrow, to consider some of the mistakes we have all made and are making.

Last Sunday, in what we consider one of the best sermons of the whole school year, Dr. Moffet clearly and forcefully pointed out the great neglect on the part of many to sympathize with, and do their part in helping, one of the avowedly greatest forces in the world for the impartial and loving spread of peace and goodwill, and the all-important message of God, of which these other accomplishments are the fruit. That Cause is Foreign Missions.

Let us divide all Christians into two groups: (1) those who actually enter into Christian service as their life work, and (2) those who, entering into other lines of work, continue to practice Christian principles, and are ever loyal to Christianity in so far as to help with their money to carry the work forward. Then under each of these two heads comes the question of whether it shall be primarily for the work in the United States, or in some foreign country where in many cases there are overwhelming numbers who have never heard one word of the “God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.” In the country’s great threefold weakness in morality, society, and finance, we are not surprised to find that both of these divisions and subdivisions of Christian activity are being neglected to an alarming degree. But the cause of Foreign Missions has suffered most severely of all.

An open heart to a great cause like this, comparable to real character, is not inherited. It cannot be perpetuated in indifferent people. The heritage of Davidson has ever pointed her students to loyalty to worthwhile causes, but indifference has taken its toll here as everywhere. What shall be our response?

At this time special attention is being directed to the great cause of Missions in far-away lands. So far it seems that as fast as richer opportunities for doing good are pointed out, they are met with greater and greater indifference. But things are undoubtedly coming to a change. The attempts of business leaders to cure this old world’s troubles ended in sickening failure, when the brains and billions of Rockefeller, motivated as everyone knows they were, left things worse off than before, and gave thousands of already indifferent people a tiny straw to clutch at, a weak basis on which to rationalize. Now is the time for men everywhere, not just in business, nor indeed just in the ministry, but men holding claim to high standards of character and morals, to help. In proportion to their claim to this standard, let Davidson men do their part! Quite a few have decided to spend their lives—look into your heart and pocketbook and see if you can’t spend a little of your money. Next Sunday there will be a special offering for Foreign Missions.

DUNCAN McBRYDE, Associate Editor.

MAX MONTOR READS GERMAN SELECTIONS

Internationally Known Actor Gives Three Impersonations Before a Large Audience

Mr. Max Montor came to Davidson under the auspices of the Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation of Philadelphia. The Foundation has as its aim the development of cultural relationships between the United States and German-speaking countries. During his impersonation Mr. Montor had the undivided attention and enthusiastic applause of the largest audience to attend a similar entertainment on campus for several years past.

Mr. Montor is internationally known for his unusual interpretations of drama and poetry. He was born in Vienna and studied at the Imperial Conservatory of Dramatic Art in his native city. He made his debut in Zurich, Switzerland, and has toured extensively in Austria, Germany and Switzerland. His American career began nine years ago on Broadway, and he has appeared on various stages in America in plays of Shakespeare, Strindberg, Sudermann and others. He has appeared in recital in many colleges and universities throughout the United States in the last few years. His next appearance will be at the University of North Carolina.

From Mr. Montor's selections, pieces have been chosen for our program from Gerhart Hauptmann and the late Arthur Schnitzler. There is great interest at the present time in these dramatists, the former being a German and the latter an Austrian of Hungarian-Jewish extraction. Gerhart Hauptmann, while not the originator of the naturalistic drama in Germany, has for a generation been its most prominent exponent. The celebration of his seventieth birthday, November 15, 1932, was a national event in Germany. He participated in a hundredth anniversary address, broadcast over the Columbia network. Arthur Schnitzler, like Hauptmann, did not originate a new dramatic form, but he has been a significant figure in the development of modern drama.Not live quite to celebrate his seventieth birthday. The most characteristic dramatic of old Vienna, he was at his best in his short plays and short novels. Son of a professor of laryngology, himself a physician and a psychologist, he was particularly successful in the portrayal of crises of the soul life, as, for instance, in the brilliant story “Leutnant Gustl,” which was broadcast over a nation-wide German University radio station. 

(Continued on page 6)

Choice of New Men Announced by I.R.C.
Committee of Honorary National Club Has Selected Eleven Prominent Juniors and Seniors

The International Relations Club of Davidson College recently announced the selection of eleven new men. The basis of their selection is the merit of papers written by each of some twenty prominent Juniors and Seniors. The men are chosen by the appropriate committee of the I.R.C. Each is invited to present a paper upon an important national or international topic. The papers are judged with respect to the importance of the topic chosen, originality, style, length, interest created by the writer, mechanics, and general structure. The men selected on this basis are: McNair, Noblin, Fugate, Taylor, W. M. Thompson, Jack Williams, Nickey, Pratt, Smyre, Jim Harris, and Ward.

The I.R.C. is a national student organization for the purpose of studying and discussing current national problems and affairs of national and international scope. The membership of this honorary organization is composed of outstanding students of the Junior and Senior classes. The officers at present are: D. D. McBryde, president; A. H. Grant, vice-president; and L. W. Clardy, secretary. The club has its meetings on the first and third Friday nights of each month. The above new men will be initiated at the next meeting of the organization, which will be held on Friday, February 3. Full announcements as to programs and speakers in the near future will appear in next week’s Davidsonian.

Charlie Rives Heads 1933 Football Team

At a meeting of the football lettermen held just before the Christmas holidays, Charles M. Rives, Jr., of Greensboro, N.C., was elected varsity football captain and Percy McElrath, of Bramwell, W.Va., was elected alternate captain for the season 1933. Charlie Rives played three years of football at Greensboro High before entering college. At that time, instead of guard which he now plays, he played tackle. In his senior year, he received honorable mention for All-State. He went to the North Carolina University his freshman year in college, and because of this, he was unable to play football here his sophomore year. This year, being his junior, he played his first varsity season.

Percy McElrath had also had high school football experience before he came to Davidson College three years ago. Having played four years, he entered here as a Freshman and appeared out for Freshman football. However, a mishap prevented him from continuing, and he failed to make his numeral. In his sophomore year, McElrath went out after the pigskin again and this time played in a few games. This season, also being his junior, he became first string center, due to Buddy Gardner, then first string center, being down with a casualty. In high school, McElrath held the center position, and it looks as if he will be in the midst of things on the gridiron next year too.

Buck Kirkland was selected varsity manager, with Caldwell assistant, and John Drake was chosen junior manager for next year. This is the first time three Senior football managers have ever been elected.

Prof. J.M. McConnell Represents Davidson

Dr. J.M. McConnell, assistant dean and professor of history, recently returned from a meeting of the Association of American Colleges at Atlantic City, New Jersey. Leaving here Monday night, he spent the next day at the University of Virginia visiting his son, also named Riggs. He devoted a day to Washington, where he visited friends at the capitol. From there, he branched off to Episcopal High School, where he visited his son, John D., who graduated here last year. Of course, the chief end of the tour was the meeting of the Association of American Colleges. The purpose of this conference is to discuss college and educational problems of the day. About a hundred colleges and universities were represented, with Dr. McConnell representing Davidson. A number of prominent educational leaders were present. Many problems in connection with college administration and college problems were discussed.

The Annual Pan-Hellenic Dances to Be Featured By Kassel’s Orchestra

There Will Be Three Dances: Friday Night, Saturday Afternoon, and Saturday Night

TO BE HELD AT ARMORY

Sponsored by Pan-Hellenic Council, Who Will Form Figure

Final plans for the annual Pan-Hellenic Dances have been announced by W. F. Mulliss, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council. The dances are to be held in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium on February 3rd and 4th. There will be three dances: a formal dance Friday night, a tea dance Saturday afternoon, and an informal dance Saturday night. The music will be furnished by Art Kassel and his orchestra, who have recently been playing in the ballroom of the Hotel Bismarck in Chicago, and broadcasting over Station WBBM. This is the first occasion in several years that so prominent an orchestra has been engaged to play for a Davidson dance, and this set of dances promises to be one of the most enjoyable ever held by Davidson students.

Art Kassel has proved to be very popular in the South, having recently played for Mid-Winters at Auburn University, and preparing to play for University of Alabama Mid-Winters next weekend. He is also considering playing one night at State College in Raleigh before coming to Charlotte. In addition to being the leader of the famous orchestra, Art Kassel is a well-known composer; among his recent hits is “Hell’s Bells.”

The Pan-Hellenic Council has arranged a figure for the Friday night dance, in which the Council representatives and one man from each fraternity will participate. The leaders of the figure will be: Miss Virginia Roller, Fort Defiance, Va., with W. F. Mulliss, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, and Miss Dorothy Sellars, Burlington, N.C., with W. A. Mebane, secretary of the Council. Elaborate plans have been made for decorations in the Armory. This is the second set of dances given by the Pan-Hellenic Council this year. The first set, made novel by Home-coming weekend, proved to be very successful and enjoyable, and the Mid-Winters promise to be much more so. The student body is expected to help the Council to make the weekend a success.

Inspiring Talk Given By Julian S. Miller

“What Is the Truth?” Is Topic of Charlotte Journalist at Sunday Vesper Service

Mr. Julian S. Miller, noted Charlotte journalist, spoke last Sunday night at the Y.M.C.A. vesper service. Bob Glasgow introduced Mr. Miller to the audience and Leslie McCallie led in prayer. A solo was rendered on the violin by Bob Thompson and Bob Orr. “What is the Truth?” Pontius Pilate asked Jesus. Mr. Miller spoke on the topic, “What is Truth?” One must look for the conception of God, Mr. Miller asked. All the achievements of man rest on a man's belief in God. Plato, in his study of men and the Supreme Being, said, “There is nothing more like God than a man perfect in goodness.” “Wherever I find love, I find God,” once stated Tolstoy. When Jesus taught His disciples to pray, He said in speaking of God, say “Father.” There is nothing more intimate or closer to the heart than this. It is just like a handclasp. This word “Father” takes in all that there is to the identity of God. We think very little of God except when we are desperately in need of Him. As the Colonel who in a night attack suddenly discovered that he was leading his men in the wrong direction looked to the stars in desperation for guidance and led his men to safety, so we, when we are desperate, look to God. We wait until a crisis before looking to the stars. What are you doing in your everyday actions, Mr. Miller asked. Do your actions relate to God always or are they only related in case of extreme need of Him?

(Continued on page 3)