JUNIOR SMOKER CONVERSE GROUP TO BE HELD WILL BE HERE TONIGHT FRIDAY

Alenda- Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 22, 1933 No. 19

Converse and Davidson French Societies Will Give Performance Here

Private Reception Will Be Given After The Entertainment in Honor of L’Alliance

COMEDIES TO BE GIVEN

Dr. and Mrs. A. Vermont to Come With Converse Girls

The Converse Alliance Francais will arrive in Davidson late in the afternoon of February 24th, by automobile, and chaperoned by Dr. and Mrs. A. Vermont. The members of L’Alliance will be entertained at dinner by the members of Davidson’s Le Cercle Francais, and after this, the joint performances by the two French societies will be presented at 7:30 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium with an admission of ten cents. After the public performance in the auditorium, the student members of the two French clubs will hold a joint meeting in the Quadwranglers’ Club room. Here Davidson’s Le Cercle will entertain the Converse girls at a reception.

The public performance will consist of the second act of Maitre Pathelin by the Converse group, which will display some of the finest histrionic talent that Converse affords. The Farce de Maitre Pathelin is a masterpiece of the Middle Ages. It has been called by the great historian Michelet the “epic of an age of rogues.” The plot of the farce runs as follows: Pathelin, a village lawyer, with the aid of his scheming wife, Guillemette, cheats a draper out of a piece of cloth. To the draper’s insistent calls, Pathelin pretends to lend a deaf ear, feigning sickness. The draper, who refuses to pay his shepherd, Thibaut Aignelet, is in turn cheated by him out of one of his sheep. The matter is brought to court, and Pathelin defends the shepherd who wins his case, by assuming stupidity and replying “Baa-a,” to all the court’s questions. But when Pathelin asks for his pay, the wily shepherd continues to say “Baa-a”; thus one rogue outwits another. The well-known remark, “Revenons à nos moutons,” is from this old farce of unknown authorship. It was popular toward the end of the fifteenth century, and its success ever since has been extraordinary. The second act is in the cottage of Maitre (Continued on page 6)

Davidson Students Hear Rudy Vallee’s Orchestra

This Band Making a Tour of Southern Colleges

Rudy Vallee and his Connecticut Yankees, one of the most outstanding dance orchestras in the United States, played for a dance given at the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium on Friday, February 17th. The dance was well attended, both the dance floor and the balcony being well filled. Many Davidson students were in attendance, in spite of inclement weather, and all of them found the dance to be very enjoyable.

The orchestra played a concert during the first part of the evening. The director himself was over an hour late in his appearance, but upon arriving, he led in a number of old hits which he had made famous. During this part of the program, Vallee sang; later Miss Alice Faye, well-known “torch singer” who is traveling with the orchestra, rendered the vocal selections. Her singing was one of the highlights of the evening. In addition to the usual dance music, the orchestra rendered several novelty numbers, which proved to be very enjoyable. The most entertaining player in the orchestra was the drummer, who almost stole the show from the director. However, Rudy Vallee presented several features himself, imitating very cleverly Maurice Chevalier and Bing Crosby.

A unique feature was to be found in the amplifying system used during the program. There were several microphones stationed at various places in the orchestra, so that each instrument would produce the desired sound effects and volume. Two experts were required to operate this system. The members of the orchestra were dressed in attractive uniforms, consisting of blue coats and black trousers.

It might be of interest to some students that Bernie Cummings is not booked for an engagement in Charlotte for next month, as was recently announced.

Gymnastic Competition

In the recent gymnastic competition that has been held for the past two weeks, Lacy Adcox was the victor, scoring more points than any other contestant in the past three years. Adcox is a Junior and has been runner-up for the past two years in this competition. Lewis Vickery, a Sophomore, won second place and Ben Taylor won the third place. Among the points gotten by the competitors for their class, the Seniors were first with 1,169 points, the Sophomores were second with 406, Juniors third with 316, and the Freshmen were last with 59 points. The gymnastic champion last year was Paul Brown, who is a Senior this year, and was disqualified this season for that reason.

These gymnastic exercises are conducted under the direction of the Physical Education Department, instructed by Captain Pritchett. Each year these competitions have become more popular. This year there were over forty men entered.

Davidson is Victorious in Debate With Emory

McKeithan and Brown Uphold Negative for Davidson; Thrower and Brady Represent Emory

Davidson won its first debate last Friday evening. The local Forensic Council was represented by Leland McKeithan and Gordon (Skip) Brown. Their opponents were Randolph Thrower and Bill Brady of Emory University. The question for debate was, Resolved: That the United States should agree to the cancellation of its inter-allied war debts. The affirmative side of this debate was held up by the representatives from Emory University while the Davidson debaters supported the negative.

The two Emory debaters and their manager arrived in Davidson late Friday afternoon, shortly before the debate at 7:30. Bibb Brady, in his speech, mentioned the fact that their arrival was rather tardy. The Forensic Council was their host during their brief stay here.

Each debater gave a ten-minute constructive speech and a five-minute rebuttal speech. The general trend of the affirmative argument was that cancellation of the inter-allied war debts would eliminate a barrier to our export trade and thus be conducive to domestic and world recovery. The affirmative speakers argued that the cancellation of these debts would stimulate our commerce by promoting the goodwill of the nations of the world.

The negative refuted this argument by showing that the basic obstacles to world rehabilitation are not inherent in the debts themselves, but rather in the intricate system of tariffs, export quotas, and nationalistic restrictions on imports which make impossible the normal movement of international transfer. The negative further showed that only by a radical reversal of these trade policies would any progress be made toward economic normalcy, inasmuch as world stabilization is contingent upon active international trade with its resulting money transfer. Cancellation of the war debts, it concluded, was a futile means to pursue if its end was to revive a stable world economy. (Continued on page 6)

Spanish Fraternity Honors Six New Men Tonight

Sigma Delta Pi, national fraternity which honors achievement in the study of Spanish, will initiate six new members. Those receiving the honor are Fred Smyre, Robert Woodside, Jack Williams, Bill Reid, Hugh Johnston, and Ed Humphrey. These men are all Juniors and received bids in recognition of outstanding work in this and other years. The initiation ceremony is quite elaborate. The fraternity carries on the programs at its meetings in Spanish. These sometimes include games involving the use of that language.

The local officers of Sigma Delta Pi for the year are: Francis Bixler, president; John Creech, vice-president; Duncan McBryde, secretary, and Fred Fleagle, treasurer.

Mr. Boyd W. Hargraves, Chattanooga Lawyer, Speaks at “Y” Vespers

Prominent Lawyer Comes to Davidson After Speaking at Charlotte Y. M. C. A. Mass Meeting

BETTIS LEADS SERVICE

Mackorell and Thompson Lead in Prayer; Carlton Chapman Sings

Mr. Boyd W. Hargraves, prominent Chattanooga lawyer and past president of the Southern Evangelical Association, was the speaker at vespers last Sunday. Charlie Bettis presided over the service and, after the singing of several hymns, read the scripture text, taken from St. John 14:1-12, “Let not your heart be troubled, ye believe in God, believe also in me.....” Prayers were then offered by Jake Mackorell and Leslie Thompson, after which a vocal solo was rendered by Carlton Chapman. Immediately following this, the leader introduced the speaker.

Mr. Hargraves began his talk by explaining how he had been impressed with the magnitude of life when he finished college and really came in contact with the world at large. He stated that he was surprised at the number of people who didn’t believe in Christ and at the unlimited crime and evil with which he was thrown. He described that he, as a lawyer, had seen much of the wicked and malicious devices of men, of which he had now seen perhaps too much. Going further, he said that he knew it wasn’t as easy to be a Christian in these times of such vices, but that it was truly a man-sized task. Nor did Christ live an easy life, for in His individual experiences we find worse hardships than we ever face today. And it is the individual experiences of Jesus that are more vivid to us thanAny sermon He ever made, he went on. The Chattanooga lawyer then pointed out that we should strive to be more like the Christ in all our individual acts of everyday life, not forgetting, of course, the great teachings of His sermons. “I believe that the religion of the average so-called Christian today is just a joke in the forest and a farce,” he stated, and, proceeding further, he said that the non-Christian must see the Christ in the Christian. Christ would have us teach and show by (Continued on page 3)

Scabbard and Blade

The regular meeting of Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity, was held last Wednesday, February 15th, in the local club room located on Elm Row. The main purpose of this meeting was the initiation of Major John T. Rhett into the fraternity. Major Rhett, who came to Davidson as Commander of the R.O.T.C. unit located here, was pledged during the early fall, shortly after his arrival. Nothing else of great importance took place at this time, except that a brief business meeting was held following the initiation, during which matters of a general nature were taken up. At a call meeting held Friday, February 10th, four Seniors who likewise had been pledged last fall were taken in as members. These Seniors, all except one of whom are cadet first lieutenants of the Davidson battalion, are H. D. Cashion, W. W. Seymour, George Neal, and Gene Cannon. Cashion is a cadet captain.

Journalistic Fraternity Issues Bids to New Men

Fifteen Men Receive Invitations Recent Reorganization of Delta Pi Kappa

The following students of Davidson College have just been extended invitations to join Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity: Lyman Clardy, Talladega, Ala.; Jack Williams, Waycross, Ga.; Odi Casali, Welch, W. Va.; Alex Schenck, Charlotte; W. M. Thompson and W. T. Thompson, Richmond, Va.; Jim White, Graham; Lyne Gamble, Greenville, Miss.; Jack Goodykoontz, Bluefield, W. Va.; Mack Manson, Jacksonville, Fla.; W. C. Thompson, Round Pond, Maine; Arthur Ross, Asheboro; Reeves Pope, Talladega, Ala.; Woodrow Calligan, Wadesboro; Lanier Pratt, Louisville, Ky.

Delta Pi Kappa was founded at Davidson in 1917 and has been seen as a rather active honorary fraternity since its founding. Recently, however, due to several causes, it had become somewhat inactive and the issuing of these bids marks a reorganization. Its purpose is to take as its members those students who are active in the journalistic feature of the extra-curricula side of the campus life. The scope of its members includes mostly those who have advanced in either of the three major student publications, namely, “Quips and Cranks,” the college annual; “The Davidsonian,” student weekly, and “The Yowl,” the college’s humorous magazine. The list of the recent pledges given above consists of Juniors and Seniors who are editors, managing editors, or associate editors of the publications. After reorganization has completely taken place and things are settled, these men will all be initiated into membership, the date being indefinite at present.

Neophytes Initiated by Ten Social Fraternities

Seventy-eight Pledges Are Taken Into the Various Lodges on the Campus

Within the last two weeks, and within the near future, the ten national social fraternities on the Davidson campus will have initiated their pledges of last fall. Last fall there were 110 men in all pledged; 16 of these were upperclassmen. Most of these will be, or have been, initiated. But due to various uncertainties and to the differing dates of initiation held by the various fraternities, it is impossible to give an accurate account of the men taken in. The following is a list of the recent initiates:

Beta Theta Pi: Alfred L. Bulwinkle, Jake Balsley, Jr., William A. Coffin, Edmund Johnson, Robert B. Richardson, Thomas L. Ross, Cole L. Windham, Donald W. Winter, Andrew M. Cunningham.

Pi Kappa Alpha: W. M. Archer, F. L. Cade, C. Hamrick, W. T. Johnson, A. Kuhn, G. S. Walker, Samuel Milton.

Kappa Alpha: Osmond Barringer, Jr., William C. Cannon, Thomas E. Downie, Reginald L. Harris, Samuel M. Hutaff, Joseph R. Johnston, Harvey E. McConnell, Edward L. Whitton, William F. Bowman.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Addison G. Brenizer, W. Lamont Brown, Robert D. Dodge, B. R. H. Evans, Thomas M. Marchant, E. R. Matthews, William A. Merchant, J. L. Plunket, Mark H. Senter, A. W. Shuford.

Kappa Sigma: Joseph L. Dees, Lloyd M. Grimes, Robert B. Lindsay, John F. Loftin, Robert P. Morrow, Jr., John R. Pearce, Lewis T. Purnell, Charles M. Thompson.

Phi Gamma Delta: William C. Branton, Richard M. Cann, James H. Glass, Junius B. Goslen, Jr., Paul Y. Harlan, John R. Hayworth, William R. Taber, Jerome Taylor, Edwin C. Wooten, David P. McLain, Peyton Montgomery.

Pi Kappa Phi: Mitchell H. Arrowsmith, Robert E. Tissue, John G. Willis, John C. Miller.

Theta Upsilon Omega: John D. William, J. Fraley, Thomas P. Neal, (Continued on page 3)

Davidson Rifle Team Holds Match by Mail

The Davidson rifle team had a correspondence match this week with some of the best school teams in the country. These schools were the University of Wisconsin, University of California, University of Cincinnati, Kemper Military School, New York Military Academy, Lehigh University, and University of Dayton. Kemper has for many years ruled the roost in prep school realms and Cincinnati has one of the best college teams in the country. The other schools also have enviable records. The scores of the other schools had not been received when The Davidsonian went to press. The five highest men on the local team were B. O. Simpson, G. L. Green, G. B. Cathey, P. F. Brown, and E. T. McConnell.

Trustees Hold Regular Meeting; Hear Report of Officers of College

Lingle and Jackson Tell of Financial Condition and Enrollment for the Year

BALANCED BUDGET SEEN

Expenses Are Reduced But Number of Students Remains High

The Board of Trustees of Davidson College met in their regular February session last Wednesday to hear the reports of President Lingle and Treasurer F. L. Jackson, and to transact routine business. The reports showed the school to be in good condition financially, and that the number of students is rather large, considering the size of most college student bodies as compared with their enrollment before the depression. Dr. Lingle’s statement on the meeting follows: “The Board met Wednesday, the 15th. There was an unusually full attendance. Of the fifty members, there were about forty present. The spirit of the meeting seemed to be unusually fine. The trustees reviewed the reports of the president and the treasurer and expressed themselves as gratified at the progress of the college during the past year. The treasurer’s report showed a well-balanced budget and indicates that when the financial year closes, April 30, there will be no deficit, and perhaps a comfortable little balance to begin the new year. The president’s report indicated that 631 students had been registered for this session, which is a little above the average for the last five years. The usual routine of business in connection with the reports of the president and treasurer was transacted. A committee was authorized to have painted for the college a portrait of the late Mr. J. B. Duke, who founded the Duke Endowment, of which Davidson is one of the beneficiaries. The faculty committee of grounds and buildings was authorized to repair or remove the old Louisiana residence which is located across Main Street from Shearer Hall. Dr. Lingle, in his report, also told the trustees of the efforts now being made to (Continued on page 3)

Quips and Cranks to Be More Modest Yearbook

McCallie and Thompson Co-operating in Producing This Year’s Edition

Despite the rather serious reverses that the editorial and business staffs of the “Quips and Cranks” have had to meet with and overcome, they are able to report remarkable success for the 1933 annual, and acclaim it as “a modest book which ought to represent Davidson as it is.” The note struck by the designers is one of simplicity and straightforwardness; furthermore, there is no evident theme throughout the book. Many of the elaborate details of former annuals have been excluded in order to keep within the limits set by changed conditions, yet nothing that the editors consider vital to the high quality of Davidson's yearbooks has been sacrificed. As contrasted to last year’s edition, pages with single colors will replace the many-colored. From cover to cover, the book will be thirty to forty pages smaller, largely due to the failure of the student body to have pictures taken. This year, 350 pictures appear; last year, 450—a disastrous difference of a hundred! Additions made to the annual include an entirely new section, and a fuller and more complete athletic section. The Wildcat teams, through their magnificent spirit and sportsmanship, deservedly receive this recognition accorded them thereby. The business manager has approximately $1,500 less to work with than last year, accounted for by the fewer number of pictures taken, the failure of the school to appropriate the usual amount, and the tremendous decline in the number of merchants to advertise. That the pages of the 1933 “Quips and Cranks” will honorably and honestly reflect the life peculiar to the Davidson campus is (Continued on page 6)