THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1933

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago

H. T. Bowell and Tyree Dillard, varsity debaters, have returned from the Southern debating trip, after meeting teams from Florida,
Sewanee, and Emory Universities. The team had a record of two victories and one defeat.

John Melton was elected president of the Y. M. C. A. in the third major election of the student body
a week ago last Tuesday morning. Melton was elected on the first ballot from a field of five men. The
men nominated were: Johnnie Melton, Bill Hill, Monroe Gilmour, Dick Flynn, and Glenn Frye. The first four names were nominated
by the “Y” Cabinet and announced on Monday morning by Charley McRea, and at that time Glenn Frye was nominated
from the floor. The elections for the vice-presidency were held at the same time. Six men were nominated by the
cabinet; they were: Frank Brown, Zeb Long, Murray Christian, Carl Pritchett, Russell Nunan, and Allan Frew. Brown was elected first
vice-president on the same ballot with Johnnie Melton, and on this ballot Christian and Frew were dropped. A run-off was
held Wednesday morning between Zeb Long and Carl Pritchett, and Russell Nunan; on this ballot Nunan was eliminated, and on
Thursday morning Zeb Long was elected the second vice-president.

Davidson Glee Club appeared before a large and cultural audience at the high school auditorium at Lincolnton, N. C., last
Friday night. The program was of peculiar interest to the townspeople, as Jack Rainseur, a Lincolnton boy, with his musical
saw, was one of the main features of the program. The Woman’s Auxiliary entertained the club with a reception given
immediately after the performance. On Saturday night the Davidson songsters performed before a very appreciative audience at Converse College, in
Spartanburg, S. C. Mrs. Cullum, wife of Professor Cullum, Head of the musical department, sang two numbers, which were enthusiastically
received by the audience. Other features that gained approval were the baritone solo by R. S. Lowrance; the string trio,
composed of Messrs. Thompson, Mobley, and McSwain; the violin solo, by C. C. Orr, and the Wildcat Quartet.

Monk Younger and Captain Johnnie Dulin got their heads together last Friday afternoon and decided that these Oak Ridge Cadets
who for so many seasons have thrown terror into the camp of the Scotch Wildcat, should be tamed once and
for all. The score, as a result, was 10-5, in Davidson’s favor, far more than most of the optimistic fans
had hoped for, and the rumor is now current that the 1928 edition of the Wildcat baseball team will go
a long way in the state race this spring.

Cheerleader Myers recently issued a call for all Sophomores to try out for assistant cheerleaders to report to him. The
following Sophomores answered the call: R. D. Croom, C. H. DuBose, W. A. Nicholson, A. T. Edelman, D. F. Gaffney,
E. S. Heefner, and R. T. Nunan.

Mr. J. N. Van Devanter, 1915, with Mrs. Van Devanter, of Albuquerque, New Mexico, sent a copy of Borden of
Yale especially for the reading room.

FROM THE DAVIDSONIAN OF TEN YEARS AGO:

At a recent meeting of the Delta Pi Kappa, journalistic fraternity, invitations were issued to the following men: W. Z.
Bradford, W. K. McCain, H. B. Price, and C. M. McIlwaine.

W. M. Heston and J. S. Smith were elected by the student body Monday morning to serve as assistant managers
during the present season. These two men survived from a ballot of ten men, nominated by the Athletic Council. One
of the two assistants will be chosen at the end of the season to succeed W. T. Elliott, manager. The
other nominees were: A. C. Keels, C. V. Brown, P. Price, D. J. Chipman, P. J. Storey, O. J. Allison,
E. M. McKellan, and F. S. Shaw.

Coming as a climax to Junior Week, the Black Cat Cabaret will present a program Saturday night that bears the
names of the world’s greatest artists. Flop Beaver has been elected master of ceremonies, and as proprietor of the Black
Cat Cabaret. Music will be furnished by the Simpson Symphony Orchestra of Bucharest, Hungary; Elkins Original Spanish Serenaders of Barcelona,
and a Grand Opera Quartet.

Captain Pat Crawford, around whom Coach Buck is building his million-dollar infield, is cutting up around the initial sack this
year as never before—and that’s saying a lot!

Mr. David Ovens, an outstanding business man and layman of Charlotte, spoke at Y vespers on “Failure is a Crime
Where There is a Capacity for Success.”

At last all plans have been completed and no event of importance will arise to eclipse the long looked for
horseshoe tournament between Jove Rogers and O. C. Henderson. The time for the tournament has been set for Friday afternoon
of Junior Speaking Week and will be a fitting climax to one of the biggest days of the occasion.

The Eumenean Society held its regular meeting last Thursday. Preliminaries for Junior Speaking were held, and four renowned orators of
the Junior class strove mightily for the coveted right to become junior speakers. The successful men were R. H. Smith
and L. D. Elkins.

Saturday afternoon the Sophomore football team wrecked the Freshman chances for the class grid championship, and started their championship drive
by battering their way to a 12-0 victory over the yearling team. Boggs and Ballard each carried the pigskin across
for the Sophs, and on two other occasions, the Sophs hammered their way inside the 10-yard line.

Cynical Cyrus says: “A girl that gets her hair bobbed ought to be switched, and she will as soon as
it gets out of fashion.”

Dr. Lingle Preaches In Nearby Churches

On Sunday, April 2nd, President Lingle will journey to Durham, N. C., where he will preach at the First Presbyterian
Church. He has been asked here for the occasion of installing new elders and deacons under the new rotary plan.
Formerly, it was the custom in the Presbyterian Church to elect deacons and elders for life. Recently this rule has
been withdrawn and it isLeft up to the individual churches whether they shall retain this plan or adopt the new
rotary plan in which the terms are from three to five years. Last night President Lingle addressed the Parent-Teachers Association
of Mooresville. He chose for his subject "Money, Manners and Morals," pointing out the parents’ apparent failure to direct their
children properly in these most vital matters. By appointment of Concord Presbytery, Dr. Lingle last Sunday presided and preached the
sermon at the services in the First Presbyterian Church of Concord. The occasion was the installation of Rev. W. E.
Davis as pastor. Besides Dr. Lingle, Professor Currie had a part in the service, delivering the charge to the incoming
pastor. Reverend Marshall Woodson of Salisbury, N. C., a trustee of Davidson, delivered the charge to the people.

College Student Tells Of Spirit of Roosevelt

As hearty as anyone in wishing luck and prosperity to the man who became President of the United States March
4 is a college student who used to go swimming with Franklin Roosevelt at Warm Springs, Ga., when both were
crippled with infantile paralysis. Edward A. Brown, now a junior at Baldwin-Wallace College and editor of the Exponent, student newspaper,
was paralyzed by the disease in 1925. Doctors said he never could sit up again. The medical world was then
hearing of Warm Springs, where a spring at a temperature of 80 degrees poured out of the rocks at the
rate of 1,700 gallons a minute. Franklin D. Roosevelt had been sent there. Ten “hopeless” child paralysis cases were sought
to be sent there as last resort treatment to determine whether the springs really effected improvement. Brown’s mother took him
south. Daily from 8 or 9 until noon the patients, including Roosevelt, were in the pool.

“I’ve never met a more genial, human person than Mr. Roosevelt,” Brown says. “He was friends with everyone. He has
a most engaging smile. Everyone helped everyone else about when he could, but Mr. Roosevelt did most with his spirit.
In the water we found after a time that we could walk without crutches. It was buoyancy, I suppose, but
the improvement noticed in the bath lasted after we crawled out.”

“I’m not quite so far along in health as the President,” Brown goes on. “I have to have a crutch
and a bit of a cast, while he can walk on a cane. But I manage.” At Baldwin-Wallace Brown is
majoring in English.

“Heading for the newspaper business?” he was asked.

“That’s a pretty tough game, and I’m afraid a crutch doesn’t help much there,” he replied. “But, I don’t know—Roosevelt
got to be President.”

Intercollegiate Press

Washington—Lost: another age-old simile—“As scratchy as a post office pen.” Part of the “new deal” in this country is the
elimination of the old post office pen points that won’t write. Silliman Evans, assistant postmaster-general, whose first name is certainly
no indication of his character, last week sent out this order: “The inconvenience of patrons of post offices because of
improper writing materials has been widely commented on for years. Pen points should be replaced each day and more frequently
where necessary.” Evans then placed an order for 4,557,600 pen points. All right, Mr. Evans—now how about three-cent stamps?

Poughkeepsie, N. Y.—When they found they couldn’t cash their checks from home last week, Vassar College girls issued a script
of their own. Only $95 of the fiat money was put in circulation, but it helped the girls out amazingly.
The script was issued in pea green, blue and yellow pasteboards, and was put out by the Vassar Retreat, a
student center operated by seniors.

Elgin, Ill—(IP)—Because David Welling wants to go to college, many merchants in this town last week had small change when
the banks closed. Welling had saved up 11,357 pennies which he collected on a newspaper route and which he expected
to use to help him through college. When the small change situation grew serious, storekeepers flocked to young Welling’s house
to exchange currency for the small coins. Welling plans to enter the University of Illinois next fall.

Paris—(IP)—Prof. Jdarloff, former instructor in the Imperial College of Sciences at Petrograd, has announced the invention of a tablet which
he says he can sell for two cents and which, if dropped in a gallon of water, will produce a
perfect motor fuel.

Cambridge, Mass.—(IP)—Harvard University was laughing last week at an Oregon clipping bureau. A letter came here addressed to “Mr. John
Harvard, Cambridge, Mass.,” and postmarked “The Dalles, Oregon,” which said: “In a recent issue of a prominent publication your name
appeared in an interesting article. By returning this card and 25 cents, this clipping will be returned to you by
return mail.” John Harvard, who founded the university bearing his name, passed to his reward about two centuries ago.

Cambridge, Mass.—(IP)—Harvard upperclassmen last week had an average of 22 cents each on their persons, according to a poll made
of them. Four out of the forty students canvassed had empty pockets and were the envy of the college campus.
Several students said they welcomed the banking holiday as a moratorium from financial worries. The Harvard Athletic Association accepted checks
for tickets to the Harvard-Yale basketball game in Boston and advanced carfare to students who didn’t have it.

Lebanon, O.—(IP)—Cordell Hull, President Roosevelt’s secretary of state, was a spellbinder when he was in college, but when it came
to other lines of scholastic activity he wasn’t so hot. This was revealed in records of the now extinct National
Normal University here, which Hull attended forty-four years ago. Some of the new secretary of state’s grades: Debating, 90, 95,
100. Elocution, 95. Special elocution, 95. Rhetoric, 100. Grades for other subjects ranged from 60 to 75.

Dallas, Texas—(IP)—Many University of Texas alumni are actively opposing a bill for the reorganization of the university in the fear
that the reorganization would kill the university’s football team. The bill, now pending in the legislature, would provide among other
things for the elimination of the first two years of arts courses, and it is from the Freshman and Sophomore
classes that the university picks up most of its better football players.

New York—(IP)—Student Council at Washington Square College of New York University have voted to deny a subsidy to the New
York University Daily News, which was suspended for alleged attacks on the university.

New York—(IP)—Hunter College teachers have decided that part of the charity funds collected from the college staff will henceforth be
used to aid unemployed Hunter College graduates.

NOTICE

Have your shoes rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP Work done while you wait. C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

“DRUGS” Student “PRESCRIPTIONS” Make Our Store Your Store WHITE DRUG CO., Inc. “SODAS” Supplies “SUNDRIES”

Custom-Made Clothes $16.50 to $37.50. Two Special Showings This Week Today and Tomorrow Crosly Square Shoes $5.00 Pair Fitted by
Mr. KEE Tomorrow and Saturday IDEU'S DAVIDSON SHOP Measurements Taken by Mr. McDONALD
