THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1933

WATTS TAKES ANNUAL BATTLE

Around the Wildcat’s Lair

’CATS TO FACE CITADEL BULLDOGS

BACASKIE NOVELL

The classic battle between Davidson and The Citadel will be the main attraction Armistice Day on Richardson Field. The two
ancient rivals will meet in their annual battle in a game sponsored for the benefit of the Baby Hospital in
Charlotte. Davidson and The Citadel have always played a close game of clean football and the 1933 encounter should be
no different.

Davidson fans will have the opportunity of seeing two of the South's greatest punters in action here next Saturday. Quarterman
of The Citadel is considered one of the country’s outstanding booters, while Mackorell, Davidson field general, is one of the
South’s best, and has shown much improvement this year over his work of last season.

The Bulldogs come to Davidson this year with a not over-impressive record in back of them, their main claim to
glory being that they held the powerful University of South Carolina Gamecocks to a six-point margin of victory. However, Davidson
met The Citadel under similar circumstances last year, and a vastly under-rated Bulldog eleven took the Wildcats down, 7-6.

The rivalry between Davidson and Citadel is an ancient one, dating back to 1910, when the ’Cats and the Bulldogs
played to a 0-0 tie. Only once have more than two touchdowns separated the two teams, on that occasion, the
Wildcats winning, 27-6. The Davidson boys have won eight contests to two for The Citadel, and two ended in ties.

After a fortnight of inactivity the Davidson freshman eleven will whip into action on Richardson Field Friday when they meet
the Wofford yearlings. The Wildkittens have tied Lees-McRae Junior College, and lost to N. C. State fresh and V. P.
I. fresh. However, this column favors them to take the young Terriers.

All-state picking time will soon be around. This year “The Davidsonian” will offer something of an innovation in this field.
In the past the sports editor has picked the team on his own personal selection. However, this time four of
the reporters, who have done work on the sports articles, and the sports editor will each pick three teams, a
first, second, and third. A first team selection gives a player five votes, a second team selection three, and a
third team selection one. The player with the highest total vote will be placed on the first team, and the
next highest on the second, and so on. We think this fairer than the old system. Along this line, each
of these men has been assigned a team to watch, and compare their play with the play of men on
other teams. In this way it is hoped that a true pick, without any degree of favoritism, can be picked
by this paper. The selections will appear in the first issue of “The Davidsonian” after Thanksgiving.

The old boy took a terrible beating this week, getting only nine out of thirteen for a percentage of .693.
N. C. State, George Washington, Georgia Tech and Carnegie Tech were the teams that did him dirt. The Carolina victory
over State wasn’t much of a surprise, as we had picked a terribly long shot. George Washington had several good
players declared ineligible on the eve of the game. Vandy and Purdue merely had the better teams. But we are
thankful for small favors; we made no prognostication of the Navy-Notre Dame fracas.

The picks for this week are listed below with the Editor's choice in CAPITALS:
DAVIDSON vs. The Citadel.
DUKE vs. Maryland.
NORTH CAROLINA vs. Wake Forest.
SOUTH CAROLINA vs. N. C. State.
KENTUCKY vs. V. M. I.

DAVIDSON MEETS CITADEL SATURDAY

Watts Victorious in Annual Classic With Georgia 6-0
Last Period Touchdown on Pass Gives “World Wonders” Victory
MILLER SCORES
Defensive Play of Both Teams Stands Out

With the stands packed to overflowing, and the two cheering factions shouting themselves hoarse, and all manner of law on
hand to keep order, Watts Dormitory handed their ancient rival Georgia Dormitory a 6-0 shellacking in the second of a
classic series of imbroglios on Richardson Field last Tuesday afternoon. Georgia was out to avenge the stinging defeat suffered the
year before last when the Watts “World Wonders” brought home the bacon, 7-0, but the Wattsonians were too much for
them, and the last quarter touchdown, made on a pass, Smyre to Miller, proved to be the deciding factor.

Great personages of the football world were on both teams. Outstanding for the Watts eleven were McCallie, Wehner, and Smyre,
while McKinney, “Cokey” Branton, and Madison Armistead appeared to be the shining lights for Georgia. The game showed little with
the possible exception of Watts’ successful passing attack. Most of the running plays were thrown for losses by the powerful
forwards of both teams. By winning this game Watts brought their total victories to two, while the Georgia “Rats” are
yet to scratch.

Line-up:
Georgia (0) Posi. Watts (6)
McKinney RE Miller
Goodykoontz RT Wehner
Powell RG Wallace
Reid Center Johnson
Nickey LG Smallridge
Brown LT Sprunt
Byerly LE Bethea
Armistead QB Smyre
Branton RH Manson
Johnson LH Humphrey
Hornbeck FB McCallie

Score by periods:
Georgia 0 0 0 0—0
Watts 0 0 0 6—6

Scoring: Watts, touchdown, Miller.
Officials: Harris, referee; Ravenel, umpire; Lafferty, headlinesman.

Wildcat Harriers Win Over General Runners
Dunaj, of W. & L., Takes First, Followed by Eight Davidson Men

The Davidson harriers again showed their heels to opponents here last Friday when they decisively defeated the Washington & Lee
runners, led by the fleet-footed Dunaj, by a score of uneven proportions, 20-43. The distance of three miles was negotiated
by Dunaj in the fairly good time of 16 minutes and 54 seconds. He was followed in close order by
the whole Davidson team, for the Wildcats placed the next eight men in order before the second General was able
to come in.

Dunaj, sports followers will remember, is the man who gave the leading milers in the South such a run in
track circles last spring. The Davidson team was without the services of its captain in the race, as Frazier has
been laid up for some time with a cold, and was also unable to compete in the meet with N.
C. State. He is expected to be in good shape for the next meet, however. Unless a meet is procured
for this week, the only remaining run for the harriers is a meet on November 18th with the Cavaliers of
Virginia.

The order in which the runners came in, with the points scored by each, is as follows: Dunaj (Washington and
Lee), 1; Oakes (Davidson), 2; Merchant (Davidson), 3; Morrow (Davidson), 4; Gullette (Davidson), 5; McFadyen (Davidson), 6; Glass (Davidson), 7;
Morris (Davidson), 8; (last two Davidson men do not count in team scoring); Browning (Washington and Lee), 9; Drake (Washington
and Lee), 10; Woodburg (Washington and Lee), 11, and Scully (Washington and Lee), 12.

Wildcat Guard

A. J. POTTER, GUARD
A. J. Potter, who is playing his second year as a varsity guard. He will be in the line-up Saturday
in this position against the Citadel Bulldogs.

Varsity and Freshmen Scrimmage to 0-0 Tie

The freshmen gridders displayed surprising power here Friday, when they held the varsity to a 0-0 tie on Richardson Field.
Led by Hugh Grady and Dick Johnson, the "Kittens" fought desperately to maintain their ground against the superior varsity team,
and succeeded in halting numerous drives through the line. Several times “Tubby” Hand, playing at full, was stopped, although his
crashing drives netted handsome gains on most tries.

Wingfield’s runs featured the varsity offense, and caused no end of trouble to the freshmen. Several times, with the aid
of his teammates, he advanced the ball within the ten-yard line, but each time the freshman line held, and Garrison
kicked out of danger.

In the last part of the scrimmage, the ‘Kittens launched a passing attack which carried them into varsity territory. Newton
and McIver substituted both first and second teams, and made changes in their line-ups, but neither team seemed to function
in their right manner against the freshmen. The ‘Kittens played an exceptional game, and Coach Laird was well pleased with
their showing.

Winston-Salem Downs Wildkitten Harriers. The Davidson freshman cross-country team wasDefeated in a close race here Thursday afternoon by the Winston-Salem
All-Stars, (26-29), Trivett of Winston-Salem placed first in the two-mile race, finishing in 11 minutes, 31 seconds, with Cox of
Davidson not far behind. The order in which the runners finished: Trivett (WS), first; Cox (D), second; Higgens (D), third;
Flynt (WS), fourth; Feuchtenberger (D), fifth; Kinney (WS), sixth; Moore (WS), seventh; Lienbeck (WS), eighth; Wilson (D), ninth; Scott (D),
tenth.

Duke Team Licks Auburn Plainsmen With 13-7 Score
Citadel, State, V. M. I., Wofford, and Wake Forest Lose Saturday
ELON LICKS W. C. T. C.
Carolina Beats State as W. & M. Dumps V. M. I.

While the Wildcats were resting last Saturday after their hard-fought 6-6 tie with N. C. State on October 28th, seven
other football contests took place in which Davidson's grid opponents participated.

Duke kept a clean slate by defeating Auburn 13 to 7, and Clemson downed Wake Forest by an even larger
margin, 13 to 7. In the only Big Five game of the day, North Carolina eked out a 6-0 victory
over N. C. State. The Citadel fell victim to Presbyterian College by the close score of 7-6, while William and
Mary conquered V. M. I., 14 to 0. The Elon Christians swamped the West Carolina Teachers, 45 to 6, and
Furman had little difficulty in overcoming Wofford in a 38-0 game.

Duke's Blue Devils opened up with an unexpected passing attack which caught the Plainsmen off guard, and both touchdowns came
as a direct result of aerial heaves. The Dukes first scored in the second period, when a long pass from
Rossiter to Hendrickson put the ball on Auburn's one-yard stripe; Bob Cox bucked it over. And then in the third
quarter, Rossiter’s 40-yard toss to Rogers netted the other counter. The Blue Devils made eight first downs to Auburn's four,
and gained 71 yards by passing to 12 for the Plainsmen.

The sparkling play of Henry Woodward, Clemson halfback, featured in the Tigers’ win over Wake Forest. He gained 89 yards,
four more than the entire Deacon backfield could get from running plays, and also did a bit of pretty passing
which paved the way for the Clemson touchdowns.

Carolina had the offensive edge throughout most of the game with State, rolling up 13 first downs to three for
the Wolfpack. The Tar Heels’ score came in the closing minutes of the first half, after a State punt had
been blocked and recovered on the Wolfpack 37-yard line. Captain Bill Croom, Carolina halfback, led his team to within scoring
distance during the first few minutes of the first quarter, but the State line held on the five-yard marker and
State’s Ray Rex made a 35-yard run on the first play to pull the Wolfpack out of the hole.

Presbyterian College continued its victorious march toward the South Carolina state championship when the Blue Stockings emerged victors in their
game with Citadel. All the scoring was crowded into the fourth period, with the Citadel making the first tally and
then missing the point after touchdown. Led by Perrin, P. C. came back to score and then get the invaluable
extra point.

Ralph Neal, Elon’s sensational fullback, and Web Newsome, quarterback, led in an attack that gave the Christians an easy 45-6
victory over the West Carolina Teachers.

WHAT ABOUT THAT TRIP?
Cars For Hire
Gulf Gasoline
M. P. HENDERSON
Chevrolets

Thurs. Nov. 8 - Wed.
NYAL 2 for 1 SALE
Fri. 9-10-11 Sat.

COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”
Davidson Center

MCELRATH - CENTER
Percy McElrath is Davidson's first string center, and alternate captain. He will be at the pivot position for the Wildcats
when they take the field for their classic meetings with the Citadel Bulldogs. Coach Newton considers him the best center
in the state.

Wildkittens to Meet Wofford Frosh Team
Davidson Freshmen to be at Full Strength for Terrier Contest

When the Davidson Wildkittens go on the field next Friday, they will be with a record of no victories and
two defeats behind them, but before them will be the hope of a victory over the Wofford yearlings, who will
oppose them in their third game of the season at this time. Nothing is known at the present of the
possibilities and power of the Terrier Pups, except a rather uncertain report that they were decisively defeated by the strong
Spartanburg High team earlier in the season.

There is a good deal which can be said concerning the Davidson team, however. The coaches are greatly gratified by
the advancement shown by the whole team in regard to fundamentals, and a general improvement in the use of tactics.
The freshman team this year has a wealth of potential material, but the majority of the players have had little
or no experience in actual competition. The improvement shown is remarkable, considering this fact. The freshman coaches report that the
blocking and tackling of the team have been bettered a great deal, and that the attack has strengthened. Punting and
passing also have undergone a change for the better.

The Wildkittens are expecting a hard fight Friday, however, and are working hard this week pointing for the game. They
will have the advantage of an almost perfectly conditioned team at the time of the game, since at this time
there are only a few injuries on the squad, and at that only minor injuries.

Wildcats to Play Old Bulldog Foes From Charleston
Classic Rivalry Between the Two Schools to be Resumed on Armistice Day
TWO FINE PUNTERS
Bulldogs Appear Superior to the Wildcats on Paper

Playing the last home game of the season, the Wildcats will face a powerful team from Citadel next Saturday in
one of the several inter-Carolina games which have taken place this year. The dope sheet favors the Charleston boys, due
to the fact that they held Presbyterian College to a 7-6 victory, and P. C. beat Wofford 20 to 0,
while the best the Wildcats could do against the Terriers was 28-13.

At any rate, the Davidson team may find it tough sledding when they enter the game Saturday, since the Citadel
boys were good enough to give the South Carolina Birds a mighty tight battle, and forced them to use their
regulars for three quarters of the game. The Davidson team will be out for revenge this year, however, for the
defeat handed them last year, when the Bulldogs copped a thriller, 7-0.

Davidson, having had a vacant date last Saturday, will have a well-rested squad for the coming battle. Davidson and Citadel
will be engaging in their thirteenth conflict when they meet Saturday. The series started in 1909, when the two teams
fought to a 0-0 tie. This score is an indication of the fight which has always characterized the games between
the two teams. The Wildcats have had a decided edge in the number of games won, since they have taken
eight of the twelve battles; two have been won by The Citadel and two resulted in ties. The greatest margin
of victory came in 1910, when Davidson won 27-6, and incidentally won the state championship. Only two of the other
games have been won by a two-touchdown margin.

The record of the series follows:
1909 Citadel, 0; Davidson, 0
1910 Citadel, 6; Davidson, 27
1914 Citadel, 0; Davidson, 10
1916 Citadel, 7; Davidson, 7
1920 Citadel, 13; Davidson, 27
1923 Citadel, 0; Davidson, 7
1927 Citadel, 0; Davidson, 5
1928 Citadel, 0; Davidson, 12
1929 Citadel, 6; Davidson, 7
1930 Citadel, 0; Davidson, 6
1931 Citadel, 7; Davidson, 14
1932 Citadel, 7; Davidson, 6

The probable line-up is as follows:
Davidson Posi. Citadel
Morgan L.E. Reese
Siewers L.T. Dratts
Potter L.G. Griffin
McElrath Center Symmes
Rives (c) R.G. McFadden
Cathey R.T. Ogilvie
Windham R.E. Yandle
Mackorell Q.B. Workman
Hutchins L.H. Faulkner
Wingfield R.H. Quarterman
Willson F.B. Ferguson

Shirts and Shorts
There is nothing mis- HANES Wonderfully about the cutting here and there. No skimping of wear, a half-inch heavy) always
tally with the tape-measure. A size forty-two is a size forty-two. MADE TO FIXED STANDARD

HANES Shirts, Shorts, and Union Suits (both light and knitted to fit. No Underwear could grow as HANES has grown,
unless it offered comfort, quality, and style! You'll be happy in HANES!
P.H. Hanes Knitting Company — Winston-Salem, N. C.
The Famous Samsonbak Union Suit
