THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 4, 1933

DAVIDSON 0 CAROLINA 6

Around the Wildcat’s Lair

'Cats Meet Wofford Next

Despite Carolina Eleven Pushes Over Score in Last Quarter

FINAL SCORE 6-0

Verble, Pittman, Willson Star for Davidson

A successful touchdown drive early in the final period enabled the University of North Carolina to take a 6 to
0 victory from the Davidson Wildcats last Saturday. Eight thousand fans were on hand to witness the game.

The play of Carolina’s second combination was largely responsible for the victory. They were in the game when the touchdown
was made, and George Moore carried the ball over from the one-yard line. The second backfield of Martin, Burnett, Moore,
and Bell gained more consistently than the Woolen, Captain Croom, Jackson, and McCachren combination.

Notwithstanding the fact that Carolina won the ball game and played better ball than Davidson, Davidson fans should be proud
of the fight their team put up. After scarcely pulling through against Elon in the opener, Wildcat backers became less
enthusiastic about their team. But that team on the field last Saturday, minus the services of that stellar field general,
Johnny Mackorell, put up a splendid battle and proved itself to be a strong, well-rounded team.

Despite “Doc” Newton's prediction that the Wildcat gridders would do well to hold Chuck Collins’ North Carolina Tar Heels to
four touchdowns, the Chapel Hill lads barely eked out a 6 to 0 victory over the Fighting Presbyterians. For three
quarters the ’Cats held Carolina’s highly touted team at bay, only to have Moore's fourth-quarter touchdown spell defeat for them.

Largely responsible for Carolina’s victory was Martin's fine punting and the ability of Jackson to return Davidson’s kicks. The Tarboro
boy was getting off some nice long ones that put Davidson at a disadvantage on every exchange of punts, in
spite of some excellent kicking by Paul Pittman, sophomore halfback.

Davidson was vastly underrated in the pre-game predictions of the press and showed far more stuff than even the most
optimistic expected, playing a smoother brand of ball in the first half than the Tar Heels did. In the second
half, however, the Chapel Hill boys came back and completely took charge until they had put over the winning six
points. The kick for the extra point was blocked.

Davidson's supposedly weak line played good ball throughout, and the work of Potter, Rives, Cathey, and Morgan was particularly outstanding.
Morgan was kept out of the conflict during the first half due to injuries, but when the sledding became tougher
in the second, Coach Newton sent “Big Jim” in, and he literally tore things up around his flank.

George Barclay was the outstanding man in the North Carolina line, and he was a thorn in the side of
the Wildcats all afternoon. Frankel and Brandt on the ends played good ball, even if the ’Cats did most of
their ground gaining on end runs.

Offensive honors of the day on the Davidson side go to Verble and Pittman, both sophomores. “The Midge” was trucking
that ball on several occasions and displayed his usual ability as a blocking back. Pittman was getting off some nice
punts and running exceptionally well.

However, orchids go to Ed Martin, Carolina quarterback, and to Jim Morgan, Davidson flankman. Martin's punts could be said to
have been largely responsible for Carolina’s victory. Despite Pittman’s excellent kicking, Davidson was losing on every exchange of punts due
to Martin’s powerful boots. Morgan, who played only in the second session and with an injured leg, put up what
could be said to have been the finest game on the field, both offensively and defensively. He always had his
man.

The game is now over, and the ’Cats won’t get a crack at the Tar Heels until next year, but
to the men who are playing their last year of varsity ball for Davidson, let it be known that you
gave them one whale of a game before they beat you.

Our interest now turns to the approaching conflict with Wofford, which is to be played in Spartanburg Saturday. The Terriers
enjoyed an open date while Davidson was engaging Carolina, and so have a two weeks’ rest before locking horns with
the ’Cats.

Davidson’s passing attack failed to click a single time. Of the nine tosses that filled the air, eight from Pittman
and one from Wingfield, none found the waiting arms of the intended receivers. Carolina completed four passes, one of which
put them deep in Davidson territory and aided their cause considerably.

In the opening encounter of the current season, South Carolina’s Gamecocks, led by the “Gaffney Ghost,” Earl Clary, dumped the
Wofford gridders for a 31 to 0 loss. The Spartanburg team just couldn’t seem to get going. South Carolina lost
to Temple in their second game.

The old boy hasn't done so well in the predicting line, so he'll limit his prognostication this time to the
statement, “Davidson will beat Wofford Saturday.”

Line-up:

Davidson (0) Pos. N. Carolina (6)
Grant LE Frankel
Siewers LT Tatum
Potter LG Barclay
McElrath Center W. Moore
Rives RG Kahn
Cathey RT Daniel
Windham RE Brandt
Wingfield QB Woolen
Pittman LH Jackson
Hutchins RH McCachren
Willson FB Croom

Score by periods:
Davidson 0 0 0 0—0
N. Carolina 0 0 0 6—6

Scoring summary: Carolina touchdown: Moore (sub for McCachren).

Davidson subs: Morgan, Hand, Johnson, West, Lee, Craven, Fort, Verble, Pearce, Ravenel, and Wingfield.

The Wildkittens made their debut on Richardson Field Saturday when they played Lees-McRae Junior College to a 6 to 6
tie. The Freshmen showed good stuff on the offense but couldn’t carry their threats to the goal line but once.
Maurice Peabody, Gracey, and Olschner stood out for the ’Kittens, while “Business” Clark appeared to be the whole works for
Lees-McRae.

With the Lees-McRae team came Fred Dickerson, erstwhile Davidson athlete. Fred is head coach and director of athletics at the
Banner Elk institution. At Davidson, he played football and basketball and was a member of the track team.

In this issue, we inaugurate something new for “The Davidsonian.” That is, statistics on the Davidson-Carolina game:

First downs: Davidson 3; Carolina 13.
Yards gained at line: Davidson 27; Carolina 190.
Yards lost at line: Davidson 16; Carolina 20.
Yards gained at ends: Davidson 58; Carolina 11.
Yards lost at ends: Davidson 0; Carolina 0.
Passes completed: Davidson 0; Carolina 4.
Yards gained on passes: Davidson 0; Carolina 51.
Passes incompleted: Davidson 9; Carolina 5.
Passes had intercepted: Davidson 0; Carolina 1.

Stribling Hurt

“Young” Stribling, prominent Georgia pugilist, was brought to an abrupt end when his left foot was severed in a motorcycle
accident Sunday. Stribling’s phenomenal rise to fame is known to most. He came up under the tutelage of his father,
through a series of small fights, to battle Max Schmeling for the championship of the world. How the big man
got a decision in 15 rounds is now history, and the entire sporting world will be sorry to see the
colorful young Georgian drop out of the fight picture.A prediction of Carolina subs: Yeager, Evins, Steph- ens, Gardner, Joyce, Blythe,
Barrett, Barwick, Martin, Montgomery, Burnett, McDonald, Shaffer, G. Moore, Bell, and Thompson. Officials: Referee, Foster (Hampden-Sydney); umpire, Perry (Sewanee); field
judge, Parrish (V. P. I.); head linesman, Hill (Wofford).

Kittens Face Powerful Foe Working Hard in Preparation for Strong State Freshman Eleven

The Wildkittens will run up against a powerful and heavy team when they meet the N.-C. State Freshmen here on
October 13 in their second game of the current football season. So weak was the offensive showing of the ‘Kittens
last week in the game with Lees-McRae that Davidson mentors are inclined to be a little pessimistic when speaking of
the coming encounter with State. The State Freshmen have one of the strongest teams of several years, with a big,
fast line, and a bunch of clever backs. By no means satisfied with the ‘Kitten offense, the coaches intend to
spend considerable time on that phase of the game during the coming week; new plays will be developed and perfected,
and both punting and passing will be stressed.

BREWSTER GRANT

Shown in action above is Brewster Grant, varsity end. Grant, who has successfully taken the place of the unfortunate “Shrimp”
Morris, did not go out for football his Freshman year at Davidson, and served as a member of the “B”
squad last season. This year he has won a varsity berth, and showed the true Wildcat spirit when he played
through the Carolina game with a broken-up chin.

N. C. Teams Win and Lose Saturday

State Loses as Duke Wins; Citadel and W. & M. Win

The results of last Saturday's football contests saw five of Davidson's 1933 grid opponents in action, as State lost a
well-fought game to the Georgia Bulldogs, while Duke humbled V. M. I. by a score of a decidedly lopsided nature.
The Citadel won over Erskine, 25-0, while W. & M. lost to Navy, 12 to 0. Although State, putting up
a game and fight, led at the halftime whistle by 10 to 7, they were unable to stand up against
an enraged Bulldog eleven in the second half. Georgia put out its entire power and State was powerless before the
drive of the Georgia line and the brilliant running of Chapman and Grant. It was State's ability to take advantage
of her opportunities that won her first score, which came as a result of an intercepted pass on the 25-yard
line. Her other score came just at the end of the first half, when McQuage, dropping back to the 45-yard
stripe, sent a beautiful place kick exactly between the uprights. Although the Wolfpack line holds about surprising strength, it was
unable to do much against the strong Georgia forward wall. The vaunted “pony backfield” was also practically ineffectual against the
Bulldog defense at its best.

In the first game of the Southern Conference season, Duke ran roughshod over the V. M. I. Cadets, the final
score being Duke 37, V. M. I. 6. The only Cadet score came as the result of a blocked punt,
which was recovered by V. M. I. and converted into a touchdown. The Cadets never stood a chance against Duke’s
powerful running and passing attack, and the best they could do was to hold the Blue Devils to six scores.
One of the outstanding features of the game, however, was the beautiful punting on the part of Penn, V. M.
I. end, who held off several Davidson's 45-yard line.

Frosh and Lees-McRae Fight to a Draw Here

Jones and Gracey Are the Outstanding Stars for Wildkittens

FINAL SCORE, 6-6

Clark Is Outstanding Star for Lees-McRae

Faced with stronger opposition than was expected, the Davidson Wildkittens saw their first game of the 1933 grid season end
in a 6-6 tie with Lees-McRae Junior College last Friday on Richardson Field. It was the season's second game for
the visitors, their first encounter with Cullowhee Teachers’ College having ended in a tie also. The ‘Kittens’ score came in
the second quarter after Armfield, Davidson lineman, had blocked a punt and recovered on Lees-McRae’s 10-yard line. Peabody then gained
five yards on an end run. A line buck by Olschener put the ball on the three-yard stripe, and on
the next play Peabody carried it over the line for a touchdown. Olschener’s try for extra point failed.

Davidson clearly outplayed Lees-McRae and exhibited superiority in all phases of the game with the exception of the passing department.
It was Lees-McRae’s aerial attack that paved the way for their score. In the final quarter, Steel of Lees-McRae intercepted
a pass thrown by Peabody. A penalty for holding on the next play carried the visitors back to their own
32-yard line, where Clark opened fire with two consecutive 16-yard passes to Green, the second of which netted 25 yards
and put the ball on the ‘Kittens’ 27-yard marker. On the next play, Clark ran the ball over. Gracey then
redeemed himself by breaking through and blocking Clark's try for extra point. The Wildkittens exhibited a weakness in both passing
and punting, failing to complete a single pass out of a considerable number attempted. The majority of the kicks failed
to carry much distance. The passing of Clark, Lees-McRae back, was outstanding. Gracey did fine defensive work for Davidson, and
Olschener and Peabody did a bit of pretty running.

Intramural Football Teams Begin Season

With the initial game of the intra-class league, the Freshmen and the Campus got off to a good start yesterday,
when the Freshmen met the Seniors in the initial encounter. The Juniors and Sophomores will lock horns today. The schedule
will continue until each team has met each of the other teams twice, and the club with the highest percentage
at the end of the season will be declared the winner. At the conclusion of the intra-class series, the Fraternity
League will start its race. All intra-mural tournaments are under the supervision of Heath Whittle, director of intra-mural athletics.

Collegiate Clothes for College Men, in Saxons, Glen Plaids, and Worsteds. Snap in tailoring, quality in material and all that’s
up to date.

COLLEGE PHARMACY

NEXT DOOR TO POST OFFICE

SANDWICHES SODA DRUGS SCHOOL SUPPLIES

High Art Clothing Company

114 SOUTH TRYON ST.

Next to First National Bank Building, Charlotte

Union Theological Seminary

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Distinguished for 121 years in the whole field of Theological Education, particularly in the making of Preachers.
