2 DEBATING TEAM VISITS NORTHERN COLLEGES

Alenda Lux Gbi Orta Libertas

The Davidsonian

GLEE CLUB STARTS SPRING PERFORMANCES SOON

Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 29, 1933 No. 24

INTERESTING LECTURE IS GIVEN THIS AFTERNOON BY PROF. CHARLES A. BEARD

Noted Historian Speaks in Chambers Auditorium to Large Group of Students and Townspeople

IS NOTED ECONOMIST

College Library Has Many of Author’s Outstanding Works

An exceedingly interesting lecture was heard this afternoon at 2:15, given by Mr. Charles Austin Beard, who is one of
the greatest scholars which the United States has produced. The text of Mr. Beard’s talk was not available at the
time of this printing. The college library has many of the speaker’s works, some of which are: An Economic Interpretation
of the Constitution of the United States, An Introduction to the English Historians, Readings in American Government and Politics, The
American Party Battle, and The Economic Basis of Politics. Thus, judging from his written words which are available to us,
he is not an entire stranger to the Davidson campus.

Mr. Beard is classed in Who’s Who in America as a university professor. He was born near Knightstown, Indiana, November
27, 1874, and was the son of William Henry and Mary (Payne) Beard. He was a Bachelor of Philosophy, De
Pauw University, 1898; LL.D., 1917. Oxford University, England, 1898-99; Cornell University, 1899-1900; Columbia, 1902-04; A.M., 1903; Ph.D., 1904. He began
teaching in the Department of Politics at Columbia in 1907, and was a full professor from 1915-1917. For five years
thereafter, he directed the Training School for Public Service in New York, following which he acted in an advisory character
in Japan.

His writings in the field of politics appear as early as 1904, and he published “The Development of Modern Europe”
with J. H. Robinson in 1907. Several works on American government and politics followed: a “History of the American People,”
with W. C. Bagley, in 1918, and a “History of the United States,” with his wife, Mary Ritter Beard, in
1921. His “Administration and Politics in Tokyo” appeared in 1923. With the advent of the “Rise of American Civilization,” in
1927, a work in which his wife collaborated, he achieved popular success. Other works followed in 1930, one of which
was “The American Leviathan,” the republic in the machine age. Mr. Beard is the editor of “Whither Mankind.” His home
is in New Milford, Connecticut.

Glee Club to Begin Spring Tour March 31

Songsters Will Visit Valdese for First Spring Performance

The Glee Club, under the efficient direction of Mr. Eugene Craft, of Charlotte, will begin its spring tour on March
31st, when it performs at Valdese. This program will be sponsored by the Parent-Teachers Association there. On Friday, April 7th,
the club will give a similar performance at Sharon Community, which will be sponsored by the young people of the
church. An engagement for the Glee Club to appear at Salem College, Winston-Salem, is being arranged, and the date will
probably be soon after the spring holidays. The Davidson orchestra will accompany the Glee Club on these trips.

The same selections which were used on the fall tour will be used, with the addition of several new numbers.
The latest song is Haydn Wood’s “Brown Bird Singing,” which is being rehearsed for the Valdese audience. Mr. Craft has
spent much time in directing the Glee Club. Through his earnest work the club has been a success. The president
of the Glee Club is W. W. Calligan; Bill Blair, the vice-president, and Leland McKeithan, business manager.

Pi Delta Alpha Hears Dr. Addison Brenizer

Prominent Charlotte Physician Gives Illustrated Lecture on Thyroid Glands and Goiter

An interesting and informative address was presented by Dr. Addison G. Brenizer before an open meeting of the Pi Delta
Alpha pre-medical fraternity held Friday evening in the faculty room of Chambers Building. Dr. Brenizer, who is one of the
most prominent surgeons in the country, is a resident of Charlotte. He has been prominent as a surgeon in both
peace and war, being in charge of hospital work centered at Bordeaux during the World War. Dr. J. W. McConnell,
of Davidson, introduced the speaker.

Dr. Brenizer devoted his address to that phase of medicine that has to do with the thyroid gland and goiter.
He led his audience in a fascinating study of goiter, basing his explanations on slides shown to the audience. The
first group shown was an interesting contrast of the different stages and types of the enlargement of these glands. He
mentioned the relation that iodine or (Continued on page 6)

Scabbard and Blade Enters Pistol Meet

The Davidson Chapter of Scabbard and Blade, national military fraternity, plans to enter a team in the National Pistol Match
of Scabbard and Blade for 1933. A letter has recently been received by Major C. R. Wright, president of the
local chapter of Scabbard and Blade, from Mr. Charlton Keen, inspector of the Fourth Corps Area of Scabbard and Blade,
inviting the chapter at Davidson to enter the match, and a reply of acceptance has been sent.

Approximately eighty chapters of Scabbard and Blade will enter teams in this annual contest. The Davidson team will probably consist
of Chuck Wright, Brooke Allen, Fred Ogden, Paul Brown, George Bailey, and W. W. Seymour. A coveted cup will be
given to the winning team. The specific requirements are that they use a .22-calibre revolver, that they use targets furnished
by the national headquarters, and that they be supervised by some of the military authorities of the school.

Members of the Junior class who will be officers in the Senior class next year will be selected for Scabbard
and Blade within the next two weeks. At the end of that time, those who have been thus honored will
be decorated at the weekly R. O. T. C. drill. It will be of interest to note that President Franklin
D. Roosevelt is an honorary member of the B Company of the Fourth Division of Scabbard and Blade. The purpose
of Scabbard and Blade, as expressed in the preamble to their constitution, is to unite in closer relationship the military
departments of American universities and colleges, to preserve and develop the essential qualities of good and efficient officers, to prepare
ourselves as educated (Continued on page 6)

SIGMA UPSILON RECENTLY BID THREE STUDENTS AND ONE MEMBER OF FACULTY

Fugate, Pratt, W. W. M. Thompson, and Professor Goldiere Are Men Honored by Fraternity

Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary fraternity, recently sent bids to one member of the faculty and three students. Those honored
are: Professor Goldiere of the faculty, and W. L. Fugate, Radford, Va.; L. W. Pratt, Louisville, Ky.; and W. M.
Thompson, Richmond, Va.

The purposes of Sigma Upsilon are:
1. To develop interest in literature.
2. To give opportunity for constructive literary ability to express itself.
3. To give constructive criticism of literary proclivities.
4. To give a field for controversial thinking to be expressed on philosophical and economical as well as literary lines.
5. To provide a social hour of enjoyment for both professor and student.

Much has been accomplished by Sigma Upsilon the past year. Many short stories and original dramas have been read. At
present a progressive drama of three acts is being written. One of the Senior members of Sigma Upsilon, Wills Hollingsworth,
has had a poem printed on the cover of The Scarab, the national organ of Sigma Upsilon.

World Problems Are Reviewed Before I. R. C.

Pressing International Topics Discussed by Williams, Fugate and McNair

Three talks featured the program of the International Relations Club in a meeting held last Friday night. In the absence
of the president, Duncan McBryde, Lyman Clardy presided over the meeting. Those making the talks were W. L. Fugate, Jack
Williams, Jr., and Edward McNair.

Mr. Fugate chose as his subject, “The League of Nations.” He divided his talk into three main heads, the first
being the purpose of the League. He showed that it was an alliance for the preservation of peace among the
nations. He then pointed out that its work consistedIn the settling of disputes, and the preserving of political independence of
all members of the League. He closed with a discussion of the very pressing problem that deals with the relation
of the United States and the League of Nations. He spoke of the discussion that is now prevalent as to
whether or not the United States should become a member of the League of Nations.

The second speaker, Mr. Williams, reviewed the book, “Scientific Disarmament,” by Victor Lefebure. He showed that the problem of disarmament
falls under three heads as discussed by the author. He stated that the first phase of the problem is to
induce nations to agree to a general reduction and limitation of arms by international agreement. Mr. Williams continued by showing
that the second phase dealt with the problem of whether we can disarm in such a way as to establish
security from the danger of sudden attack. He stated that the third phase urged us to deal with the problem
in a technical and scientific way rather than taking too much into consideration the political and economic differences. Mr. Williams
closed with the thought that all interested in the preven-
(Continued on page 6)

City Officials

Notice has been given to the citizens of the town of Davidson that a mass meeting of the citizens of
the town is to be held in the Mayor’s office on the evening of March 28, 1933, at 7:30 o’clock.
The purpose of this meeting is to nominate candidates for Mayor and for commissioners, in the general election which will
be held on May 2, 1933. The notices have been placed in conspicuous places throughout the town, and are signed
by W. H. Thompson, clerk of the board.

Debating Team

A Davidson debating team composed of Gordon H. Brown and Rawling Pratt-Thomas, with Tom Caldwell accompanying it as alternate, leaves
here tomorrow morning for an extensive Northern trip. The query of all the debates will be: “Resolved: That the United
States should cancel the inter-allied war debts,” Davidson representing the negative in every contest. Friday night they will debate the
University of Richmond and, continuing northward, they meet on Monday the team of Rutgers University, at New Brunswick, N. J.
Tuesday, an Oxford style debate will be held with Haverford College, Haverford, Penn. Each team will be allowed twelve minutes
to present its argument, followed by twelve minutes of cross-questioning, and ending with a rebuttal of eight minutes. No decision
will be rendered at the conclusion of this novel style debate. On Thursday, April 11, Bucknell University will be met,
and the team completes the trip Sunday.

Vesper Talk Made by President of Presbyterian College

Dr. John M. McSween, president of Presbyterian College in Clinton, S. C., made one of the most popular talks of
the vesper programs heard this season. His sincere, heart-felt words moved the audience greatly, and his forceful message held the
undivided attention of all. The service was opened by a prelude played by Bill Hart, the title of the piece
being “Abide With Me.” This was then followed by the singing of two hymns bearing the titles of “Fairest Lord
Jesus, Ruler of All Nature,” and “Soldiers of Christ, Arise.” Charles Myers, the leader, then read a portion of the
90th Psalm, followed by a short prayer led by Robert Glasgow. The theme of Dr. McSween’s message was “Playing It
Safe.” He said that he was old-fashioned and that unlike many other
(Continued on page 6)

Journalistic Contest to Close April First

The editorial contest which is being sponsored jointly by The Davidsonian and Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, is coming
right along under the leadership of John Lake, president of the latter organization. The contest, which was formally opened last
week, is chiefly intended to discover new material for journalistic work in the student body and also to promote interest
in the field of writing and in Delta Pi Kappa. Sophomores and all those Juniors and Seniors not connected with
the editorial staff of any of the three publications. This is the ruling in order that the contest may be
as fair to all as possible and, as has been said, to discover other promising writers. The writer of the
best editorial will receive as a prize honorary membership in Delta Pi Kappa. This has long been a much sought
after honor in the field of Davidson writers. The fraternity was established on the campus to recognize journalistic ability manifested
in work on the college publications. Faculty sponsors for the group are Professors Erwin, Foreman and Fleagle. The editorials may
be of any length, and may treat of any subject without personal criticism. Judges will be E. O. Guerrant, W.
C. Thompson, and J. E. Lake. It is asked that all editorials be typewritten with the writer’s name on a
separate sheet of paper. All editorials must be handed in by April 1. Freshmen especially are urged to enter this
contest so that those who have talent can be found and encouraged in their endeavors. Unless a Freshman is out
for the editorial staff of one of the college publications, there is little chance for him to show what he
can do.

Willson Presides Over Davidson Athletic Association Next Year

“Morris and Wingfield Selected From Sophomore Lettermen to Office as Vice-Presidents

ALL OFFICERS GRID MEN

John Pearce Will Be Secretary-Treasurer for Coming Term

Eb Willson, of the rising Senior class, was elected president of the Athletic Association for the year 1933-34, Saturday morning
during chapel exercises. W. J. Morriss, of Hattiesburg, Miss., and George Wingfield, of Reidsville, N. C., were elected as the
two vice-presidents. John Pearce, of Plant City, Fla., was chosen to serve as secretary-treasurer of the association. The nominees for
president were all those men in the present Junior class who had won letters. They are as follows: E. L.
Willson, Athens, Tenn.; J. W. West, Barium Springs; J. W. Lafferty, Rome, Ga.; P. J. McElrath, Bramwell, W. Va.; C.
M. Rives, Greensboro; F. M. Cochran, Davidson; L. W. Pratt, Louisville, Ky.; J. A. Halverstadt, Atlanta, Ga.; J. M. Holland,
Gastonia; R. C. Morrow, Michoacan, Mexico; E. N. Jenkins, Davidson, and H. H. Rhyne, Mount Holly. All men in the
present Sophomore class who won varsity letters were nominated for the position of vice-president. The nominees were as follows: J.
R. Morgan, Albemarle; A. J. Potter, Barium Springs; D. M. Hutchins, Lexington; V. W. Dillon, Marianna, Fla.; C. C. Harris,
Welch, W. Va.; C. H. Hand, Lowell; W. J. Morriss, Hattiesburg, Miss.; J. C. Mackorell, Hickory; George Wingfield, Reidsville; W.
P. Sprunt, Wilmington, and C. B. Ross, Davidson. All men from the Freshman class who had won their numerals were
eligible for the position of secretary-treasurer. The leading contestants after the first ballot had been cast were: Hack Sanders, Laurens,
S. C.; John Pearce, Plant City, Fla.; Henry Cathey, Charlotte, and Coley Windham, Gastonia.

Willson was a member of this year’s football team, belongs to Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. W. J. Morriss was
a member of this year’s football team and won his numerals in football, basketball and baseball. He is a member
of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. George Wingfield won his letter as a member of this year’s football team and
his numerals in football and track. He is a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity. John Pearce won his numerals in
football and is also a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. The election was in charge of Charlie Pearce, present
president of the Athletic Association.

Quadwranglers Club to Choose Officers

Dr. J. M. McConnell Will Speak at Forthcoming Meeting

The annual election for the purpose of electing officers for the coming year will be held at the next meeting
of the Quadwranglers Club, on April 6. This meeting was postponed for a week due to the fact that it
conflicted with an important town meeting. The present officers are: Dr. G. B. Watts, president; Professor H. E. Fulcher, vice-president;
Professor J. P. Williams, secretary, and Dr. H. P. Gwynn, member of the executive committee. For the forthcoming meeting, Dr.
J. M. McConnell, dean of the faculty, has been asked to speak, and he has chosen for his topic “South
Carolina; There She Stands.” South Carolina is the native state of Dr. McConnell, and it is expected that he will
pay tribute to his home state. At the last meeting, held on March 2, Professor J. B. Bailey, of the
Greek department, read an interesting paper on the “Beginnings of Medicine,” through which the earliest beginnings of medicine to the
modern epics of the curative science was discussed. Dr. Bell, a guest of the club, and Dr. McConnell aided the
discussion by adding remarks on the science.
