THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 22, 1933

Chatterton Stars At Local Theatre
Ed Wynn and Richard Dix Also on Next Week’s Program

Wednesday, November 22—The Chief
Ed Wynn brings himself and his wisecracks to the screen at last in his role of the Chief. He is the small-town, bashful store clerk, whose father was a local hero in the person of the chief of the fire department. In the show he gets mixed up with crooked politicians galore, and even runs for mayor. In a large fire, he becomes a hero and is made chief of the department, following his father’s footsteps. The show is full of comedy, and Wynn and Dorothy Mackaill are very good. Chick Sale and William Boyd are also in the cast.

Thursday, November 23—College Coach
Pat O’Brien takes the part of the coach of one of the prominent school’s football teams. In using all the means he can to get good players, Dick Powell, his outstanding player, is disgusted. Then, the coach's wife, Ann Dvorak, begins to flirt with some of the football players, and some peculiar situations arise. The film is good, in that it brings to the public many different views of the college story.

Friday, November 24—Jenny and Sally
No information available on this film.

Saturday, November 25—The Prize Fighter and the Lady
The two outstanding heavyweight boxers of the world are brought to the public, and they cause different opinions as to the eventual outcome of their long-awaited fight. Max Baer is the pug who is brought up to be a fighter and finally gets a chance at the champion, Primo Carnera. Baer had been in love with the lady, Myrna Loy, who went back to her old lover, Walter Huston. During the fight, when he is losing, she goes to him with her love, and the fight ends in a draw. Jack Dempsey is also in the cast.

Monday, November 27—Female
Ruth Chatterton plays the role of the big businesswoman who is very successful in her position. She is serious in her working hours, but after work, she goes with all the men, but stays away from them, thinking that they are merely after her money. She manages to stay away from them all until George Brent, as an inventor, comes along. They fall in love, and he becomes the boss for once.

Tuesday, November 28—Ace of Aces
Another of the war pictures filming the heroes of the air. Richard Dix does not want to go to war, but his fiancée, Elizabeth Allan, who is very patriotic, forces him to enlist. He goes to war and becomes a killer with forty-two planes to his credit. He meets Nancy, his fiancée, who is a wartime worker, in Paris, and the inevitable follows. She becomes sick of all the killing, and he wants to go on that way. Guilty to himself for shooting down a goodwill messenger, Thorne, the ace, goes out and is shot down with silent guns, but not killed. The show ends with the two lovers at home and their romance started again.

Local Postal Receipts Show Decided Increase
The local postal receipts of October show a decided increase over the corresponding month of last year. The amount of receipts of October a year ago was $1,082.09, which are overshadowed by last month's total of $1,342.05.

Mel Trotter to Speak In Vesper Service Soon
The Y. M. C. A. has secured Mel Trotter, a nationally-known evangelist, who is leading a series of services in Charlotte, to speak at the vesper services Sunday evening, December 3, at 6 o'clock. He will be accompanied by Homer Hammontree, known for his musical talent, having widely been with the leading evangelist of this country. Hammontree will have charge of the chapel program on Tuesday, December 5.

McCallie Graduates in Exodus to Homecoming
On Thursday afternoon approximately 22 graduates of the McCallie School in Chattanooga, Tenn., who are now students at Davidson, will set out for the annual classic between McCallie and Baylor Schools. The game this year will be staged in the University of Chattanooga Stadium next Saturday afternoon. These two schools have been keen rivals for more than 25 years, and every season a wider interest is spread among the students and alumni of the institutions. This year McCallie has weathered the first eight games without a single defeat, but were held to a 12-12 tie by the strong Riverside Academy eleven. Baylor's season has not been quite so successful, but experts believe them to have a team on a par with their ancient foe. Out of a total of 28 McCallie boys now members...Of the Davidson student body, all but six expect to be in the stands when the eleven representing their alma mater meets the rival of many in the Tennessee metropolis Saturday afternoon. In 1929, the McCallie team, composed of such men as Freddie Crawford of Duke, Eddie Laws, Georgia Tech captain, “Tarzan” Lackey of Georgia Tech, Jack Phillips of Georgia Tech, Tom Perkinson of the University of Georgia, and several others who haven't gained the distinction of these seasons, went through a pre-Baylor-game season similar to the one of this year’s eleven. The Baylor boys were triumphant, 7-0, by virtue of a pass tossed from the southpaw fingers of the famous tennis star, “Lefty” Bryan, Baylor quarterback.

Informal Meeting Held By Literary Fraternity

Members of Sigma Upsilon at their last meeting held a rather impromptu program. The program which had previously been arranged was done away with, and Wills Hollingsworth, chairman of the program committee, called on the faculty members to give discussions of some of the books which they had read during the summer and fall.

Brown talked briefly of “Expanding Universe,” by Eddington; “New Background of Science,” by Jean, and “Kingdom Coming,” by Bradford. Professor A. V. Goldiere gave a partial resume of Van Dyne’s “Dragon Murder Case.” Professor H. T. Lilly stated that he had read “Proust” in French for diversion, and that he had made some independent investigations of the Rosecrucian philosophy. Dr. W. P. Cumming gave a four-minute dissertation on “Mutiny of the Bounty” and “A Black Girl in Search of Her God.” Professor E. A. Beaty stated that he had read “Messianic Speculation in Israel” and also “Black Daniel.” Dr. Frazer Hood discussed the psychological portraiture of the life of “Marie Antoinette,” by Zweig. The meeting was concluded by the whole group attempting to complete couplets in which the rhyming words had been given.

’Cats Renew Practice For Wake Forest Game

The Wildcats begin extensive training today in preparation for their last game of the current football season, which will take place on Thanksgiving Day, November 30, at Charlotte, with Wake Forest's Demon Deacons furnishing the opposition. This contest is always looked forward to with keen anticipation by students and alumni of both colleges. As usual, the game this year should be of great interest, for the two teams will go on the field determined to take a good place in the state Big Five race. Last year, the ’Cats conquered the Deacons, 6-0, thereby taking fourth place and leaving Wake Forest at the bottom of the ladder.

A TIP FOR STUDENTS

Students who are able to review complete notes are much better prepared for examinations. With ABC Shorthand, which is quickly learned in 12 easy lessons, you can take lecture and reading notes verbatim. The complete course now sells for $1.00 at Davidson College Book Store.

Should Davidson win the coming encounter, the Wildcats will take third place, and Wake Forest and State will be tied for fourth. On the other hand, should the Deacons conquer, the situation will be exactly reversed.

DR. LINGLE TO RETURN FROM VIRGINIA NOV. 24

(Continued from page 1)

Head of the Assembly’s Training School in Richmond, this trip is the latest of numerous tours which have been made by Dr. Lingle this year, in connection with his relations to affairs of the Church.

LADIES GLEE CLUB PRESENTS MUSICALE

(Continued from page 1)

Received much applause for her excellent accompaniment, which was always appropriate to the spirit of the composition. Miss Bruton played one of her own compositions, “The Night Has a Thousand Eyes.”

DUKE DEFEATS CAROLINA, 21-0

(Continued on page 5)

Both touchdowns came in the last period. The Cadets, faced by a strong line, played an open game, completing eight out of sixteen passes attempted. From scrimmage, the Spiders gained 223 yards to 121 for the Cadets.

Four Out of Five College Men Come to JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP

Copyright, 1933, The American Tobacco Co.

It’s easy to see why so many women prefer Lucky Strike. Luckies are fully packed with long strands of choice tobaccos, round and firm to the very tips. That means Luckies always draw easily, always burn smoothly. It also means no annoying loose ends to cling to lips or mess up the nice things in a woman’s purse. And every day more and more women are showing their appreciation by saying “Luckies please.”

ALWAYS the finest tobaccos
ALWAYS the finest workmanship
ALWAYS Luckies please!

It’s toasted FOR THROAT PROTECTION—FOR BETTER TASTE