EASTER GREETINGS!

Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 12, 1933 No. 26

Williams, Fugate Are Victorious in Recent Publications Balloting
Jack Williams Editor of Quips and Cranks and Fugate Will Head Yowl

ELECTIONS VERY CLOSE
New Men Will Succeed McCallie and Pope

Jack Williams, Jr., of Waycross, Ga., was elected editor-in-chief of the “Quips and Cranks,” Davidson annual, and William Fugate, of Radford, Va., was elected editor-in-chief of the “Yowl,” in the publications elections held last week. Williams succeeds Bob McCallie as editor of the annual, and Fugate takes the place of Reeves Pope as head of the humor magazine.

Lyman Clardy, Lanier Pratt, Alex Schenck, W. T. Thompson, and Jack Williams, Jr., were the nominees for the editorship of the yearbook. All were eliminated on the first ballot, with the exception of Clardy and Williams. Williams was elected on the second ballot on Friday. The new editor has displayed exceptional journalistic ability, having held the offices of managing editor on the staff of the “Davidsonian” and the “Yowl.” He is a member of Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, and a former member of the Reporters’ Club, to which he was accepted in his Sophomore year. He was an assistant editor of the annual, associate editor of the Wildcat Handbook, and has assisted in the publicity department of Davidson College.

William L. Fugate, “Duck” Powell, and Jack Williams, Jr., were nominated for the editorship by the staff of the “Yowl.” Williams withdrew his name, after being elected editor of the annual. Fugate has made himself prominent on the campus with his humor articles which have appeared in the “Yowl.” He has also been connected with the “Davidsonian” as a contributor. Fugate was formerly managing editor of the “Yowl.” When asked about plans for the forthcoming year, he replied, “We are planning to have more literary work, short stories and the like, in the ‘Yowl’ of next year.”

Officers to Be Installed Soon

The date for the installation of the new officers of the Student Body and Student Activities has been set for April 21. This year it was decided by the students to vary a little from last year’s installation service and so instead of having the ceremony and then adjourning to the banquet hall for a supper, supper will be served as regular at the respective boarding houses and then the students will meet in the auditorium immediately after the supper hour. The ceremony will be presided over by Allen Mebane, president of this year’s senior class, and after all the officers have been installed, the president will hand the gavel over to Fred Smyre, president of the senior class for 1933-34. Following this ceremony, it is probable that refreshments will be served in the banquet hall. At the Friday night dance of the Bowery Ball weekend, all of the officers, past and present, will form a figure.

The following is a list of men who will be installed: Julian West, president of the Student Body; W. M. Thompson, president of the Y. M. C. A.; E. L. Willson, president of the Athletic Council; Odi Casali, editor-in-chief of the “Davidsonian”; Jack Williams, Jr., editor-in-chief of “Quips and Cranks”; W. L. Fugate, editor-in-chief of the “Yowl”; Fred Smyre, president of the Senior Class, and the following members of the Student Council: Sophomore Class, Harvey Glass and Dick Parker; Junior Class, Gordon L. Brown, Douglas Glasgow, and Walter Sprunt; Senior Class, Mack Holland, John Lafferty, A. B. McLean, Andrew Manson, and W. T. Thompson; also the following class presidents: Robert Richardson, sophomore class; Kenneth Weeks, junior class, and Fred Smyre, senior class.

COL. LITTLE TO INSPECT LOCAL R. O. T. C. UNIT

According to plans issued by Major V. T. Rhett of the local military unit, the annual inspection for the Davidson battalion will be held the 27th and 28th of this month. Col. James M. Little, of Winston-Salem, who is now stationed at Fort Bragg, will conduct the inspection for the U. S. War Department. The colonel will arrive at Davidson Thursday and will proceed with the inspection of classes. Friday morning this inspection will be continued, while Friday afternoon will be given over to a parade and personal inspection. At the same time there will be physical exercises, and one of the companies will be called on to establish an outpost. The military staff of the college is looking forward hopefully to seeing Davidson measure up to past standards in this inspection.

Gypsy Smith Will Lead Annual Spring Services
Comes Here for Speaking Engagement Sponsored by Local Y. M. C. A.

Rev. Gypsy Smith, Jr., will hold the annual spring evangelistic services for three days beginning Monday, April 24. These services are sponsored by the Y. M. C. A., and are the high spots of the spring program of “Y” work. The “Y” has been very fortunate in securing Rev. Smith, who is probably the most sought-after evangelist in America. It was necessary to apply for his services a year in advance on account of the great demand for his inspirational speaking. Since January Rev. Smith has been holding services in such prominent cities as Cumberland, Md., Memphis, Tenn., Bristol, Va., and Richmond, Va. He will come to Davidson from Durham, where he is conducting a two-week series of services. From here he will go to Petersburg, Va., where he will be during the month of May.

The series here will consist of two meetings each day, one at chapel in the morning and the other in the evening. The chapel period during his three-day visit will be lengthened to allow him sufficient time. Besides the regular services, there will be an opportunity for personal interviews, and Rev. Smith is also expected to meet with several of the religious and social organizations on the campus. In past years the spring services have been conducted by several well-known ministers, among whom are Dr. W. T. Thompson, Dr. Sam Glasgow, Dr. Vandermeulen, Dr. William Anderson, and Dr. Charles Myers.

“Y” Board of Control Picks 1934 Nominees

At the last meeting of the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control, which was held on April 3, seven men, three juniors and four sophomores, were nominated for next year’s board. Professor J. C. Bailey was nominated by the board to succeed Professor L. B. Schenck, who is automatically retired this year after three years of service. James Harris, Bill Johnson, and Alex Schenck were the nominees from the rising senior class, while Don Bailey, Hubert Morris, Ben Rose, and Walter Sprunt were nominated as candidates from the rising junior class.

The board of 1932-33 is composed of Dr. Arbuckle, chairman; Dr. W. L. Lingle, Dr. Moffett, Mr. F. L. Jackson, Prof. L. B. Schenck, Paul Brown and Sam Wiley who are members ex-officio, and Bill Flinn, Bob Glasgow, Bob McCallie, Lyman Clardy, and Lynn Huie, who are student members. Next year’s board will be made up of Dr. Arbuckle, Dr. Lingle, Dr. Moffett, Mr. Jackson, Professor Bailey, Sam Wiley and the nominees who are to be elected by a vote of the student body in the near future. An item of interest to every student on the campus is the fact that Sam Wiley will continue his excellent work as “Y” secretary during the coming year.

Winning Editorial

Bill Goodykoontz, of Bluefield, W. Va., won the editorial contest recently conducted by Delta Pi Kappa, journalistic fraternity, with the editorial: A Fish Tale—From the Bottom of the Sea. Bill, a Freshman, is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and a member of the Reporters’ Club. The editorial is a clever satire on church attendance at Davidson College. Thirteen editorials were submitted by the student body. Other editorials that received notice were those written by Stuart Noblin and Mims Rogers. J. E. Lake, W. C. Thompson, and Odi Casali were judges for the contest.

Richardson is Chosen Sophomore Class Head
Wins Over Eight Other Nominees After Deadlock in Voting

Robert B. Richardson, of Reidsville, was elected president of the rising sophomore class over Dick Parker in the final vote of last week. Addison Brenizer, Lamont Brown, Dick Hayworth, Gill Murray, Dick Parker, Bob Richardson, Hack Sanders, Archie Shuford, and Coley Windham were the nominees for the office for the forthcoming year. The voting between Richardson and Parker resulted in a deadlock the week before and this made necessary a new ballot, which was won by Richardson.said to be the first that has ever occurred in the annual class elections of the college.

Date Announced For Bowery Ball Week-End
Reeves Pope and His Southernaires to Play for Davidson Dances

Davidson's annual Bowery Ball is scheduled for the first weekend after the spring holidays. There will be three dances, all of which will be held in the Hotel Charlotte ballroom, with Reeves Pope and his Southernaires providing the music. For the formal Friday night dance, there will be a two-dollar and a half charge, and a two-dollar charge for the informal Bowery Ball Saturday night. The Saturday afternoon dance will be free, as all the expenses will be met by the local fraternities. Tickets for both the night dances may be purchased for only three dollars. This event has always been one keenly looked forward to on Davidson's social calendar by the younger society set all over the state, and this year will certainly be no exception.

Quadwranglers Club Elects New Officers

The Quadwranglers Club had an election of officers at its regular meeting last Thursday night. Professor H. E. Fulcher was elected president for the coming year. Other officers elected at the meeting included: Captain F. M. Cochran, vice-president; Dr. P. H. Gwynn, secretary and treasurer. Professors F. L. Blythe and J. C. Bailey were chosen to serve on the executive committee.

Lucas Called Home

H. W. Lucas left college last Sunday morning for his home in Staunton, Va., in response to a telegram from his father, notifying him that his mother had died. Mrs. Lucas died suddenly Saturday night. It is believed that her death was caused by heart failure. Herbert is well-liked here on the campus and the sincerest sympathies and deepest regrets of the students go with him in this time of sorrow.

Davidson Debating Team Returns From Successful Northern Trip

ASSISTANTSHIPS TO BE FILLED AFTER EASTER

All students who wish to apply for positions as assistants to professors, as monitors, or as library workers, should file their applications in the registrar’s office immediately. These jobs are limited to the juniors and seniors next year. If wishing an assistantship to a professor, the student must see the professor of whom he wishes to be the assistant and also file his application with Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, secretary of the faculty. If the student wishes to be a monitor, he should place his application with Dr. Sentelle and then with the registrar. The men applying for work in the library should see Miss Shaw and also Mr. Hengeveld. It is necessary that the applications be in immediately in order that the committee may decide the men chosen for the positions as soon as possible. The men will probably be selected during the spring holidays.

Ten Student Councilmen Chosen by Underclasses

Smyre, Weeks, and Richardson Automatically Become Members of Council

Mack Holland, A. H. Manson, A. B. McLean, John Lafferty, and W. T. Thompson, of the rising senior class, and “Skip” Brown, Walter Sprunt, and Duke Glasgow, of the forthcoming junior class, and Harvey Glass and Dick Parker of the rising sophomore class, were elected Student Councilors by the student body for the forthcoming year in-class elections held last week.

Smyre, president of the rising senior class; K. D. Weeks, of the forthcoming junior class, and Bob Richardson, president of the sophomore class of 1934, are automatically members of this organization, being the leaders of their respective classes. Each class had a large number of men nominated for this body, and due to this fact, it required several days to determine the men who would be members of the Student Council. Armistead, Halverstadt, Holland, Johnson, Lafferty, Manson, McLean, Reeves, and Thompson were the nominees for the Council from the rising senior class. The men from the forthcoming junior class nominated were “Skip” Brown, Elvery, Glasgow, Fred McPhail, Rogers, and Sprunt. Addison Brenizer, Brown, Glass, Al Murray, Bill Johnson, Dick Parker, Purnell, Tom Ross, Mark Senter, and J. B. Windham were nominated for the Council from the rising sophomore class.

Four Are Initiated Into Delta Pi Kappa

At the weekly meeting of Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, held last night at the Pi Kappa Phi house, four new men were initiated. They were: Dr. C. K. Brown, Prof. Ernest Beaty, Mr. F. L. Jackson, and Bill Goodykoontz. During the meeting, the winning editorial submitted in the recent contest sponsored by Delta Pi Kappa was read. A short talk was given by Odi Casali, recently elected editor of the “Davidsonian,” stating the policies of the school paper during the coming year. John Lake, president of the organization, announced that the fraternity had definitely decided against going national. Some talk has been current recently that Delta Pi Kappa would petition Delta Pi Epsilon, national journalistic fraternity, for membership. The local organization has voted against such a move at present. The initiation, which was presided over by John Lake, was closed after refreshments were served.

The Davidson debating team, composed of Leland McKeithan, Gordon Brown, and Caldwell, alternate, recently returned from a most successful northern campaign. On the trip, four debates were held with the University of Richmond, Rutgers, Bucknell, and Haverford Colleges. The Davidson debaters emerged with unanimous decisions in all except the last mentioned, which was conducted on the Oxford plan, no decision being given. The Davidson team avenged the defeat handed them last year by Richmond by easily gaining a 3-0 decision over the Virginians. The hardest debate was the one with Rutgers College of New York, which went to Davidson 3-0 after a spirited argument. Bucknell was also defeated by a 3-0 score. In each case, the Davidson team debated the negative side of the question, “Resolved: That the War Debts Should Be Cancelled.” On the trip, the team made arrangements for debates next year with Yale and Princeton Universities. Both schools will be met on the same northern trip next year. The trip closed the debating season with an exceedingly good record. A total of twelve debates were held this year, five of them being of the non-decision type. Out of the other seven, Davidson won five and lost two. Last year was also a very successful season. Out of seven contests, Davidson was victor in six. During the last two years, the Davidson debaters have lost only three out of fourteen debates. In addition to the northern trip, a southern and a western trip were made. McKeithan, Smith, and Humphrey made the southern trip, while Hugh Hawkins and Charles Moore debated westward. The debating team this year will lose two of its most valuable members by graduation, Charles Moore and Leland McKeithan. Both have been highly active in this work for the past few years. However, the prospects for next year appear bright with the return of four men who were active this year. Hugh Hawkins and Rawling Pratt-Thomas, juniors, and Gordon Brown and Bob Smith, sophomores, will return.

Reporters Club Holds Initiation

The Reporters’ Club recently brought their annual initiation ceremony to a close, when the club received into its rolls eighteen new reporters. The initiation was held in the Y. M. C. A. Social Center last Tuesday, April 4. The meeting was opened by the retiring president, John Lake. After a short talk to the pledges, the president read to them the constitution of the society and all that it signifies. Afterwards, the oath of initiation was given, and repeated by the pledges. Those newly accepted into the society of reporters include the following men: Bill Bowman, Addison Brenizer, Lamont Brown, Tom Downie, Harvey Glass, Bill Goodykoontz, P. D. Guerrant, Paul Harlan, Carlyle Lewis, Billy Merchant, Jack Plunkett, Roger Riley, Hervey Sutlive, John Fields, Ed Young, Charles Wooten, and Ross, Mark Senter, Walker. At the end of the initiation ceremony, a short business meeting was held, at which the officers for next year were elected. E. L. Powell is to be the president of the club during the coming term; Don Bailey, vice-president, and Sam Eaton, secretary-treasurer. A session was given over to the reviewing of old business and plans for the coming year. The proposition was made that the members of the Reporters’ Club who became managing editors be allowed to remain in the club. Heretofore they have been automatically dropped. However, it was decided...

(Continued on page 6)