THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 22, 1933

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Associated Collegiate Press

1933 (Associated Collegiate Press) 1934

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Communications to the Davidsonian must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

Editor W. S. JOHNSON
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
G. G. GUBDE Managing Editor
E. F. McPHAIL Managing Editor
B. L. SE Managing Editor
K. D. WEEKS Managing Editor
JACK HELLIN Alumni Editor
E. NORVELL Sports Editor
M. Editorial Writer
A. HUNTER News Editor
J. B. BAILEY Feature Editor
S. K. EATO Feature Editor
S. C. HENRY Feature Editor
C. S. McCALL Feature Editor
D. W. Review Editor
L. W. CLARDY Exchange Editor
A. F. SCHENCK Associate Editor
W. M. THOMPSON Associate Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, JR. Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
G. L. GREEN Assistant Business Manager
W. L. SPRUNT Assistant Business Manager
R. TAYLOR Assistant Business Manager
A. C. WADSWORTH Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1933

Toil, so they say, is the sire of fame. —Euripides.

FORENSICS

The grandeur of Rome and the beauty of Greece have long since faded, but the products of their respective Golden
Ages in architecture, statuary, painting, literature, and oratory have survived Time’s tooth and are the objects of admiration and wonder
of the present day. It is concerning oratory and its allied fields that this article proposes to discuss.

Most of us are acquainted with the famous Grecian and Roman orators who made the forums ring with their denunciations
or proposals; all of us know something of the renowned English statesmen who have made the Houses of Parliament echo
with their eloquence. The pen is mightier than the sword, and fluent words are mightier than two-edged swords. The power
of oratory! It is a marvelous spectacle to see an audience swayed from one viewpoint to another, moved from laughter
to tears, from a lazy antipathy to righteous indignation. The ability to think is a characteristic not possessed by many;
the ability to think while on one’s feet is a talent possessed by very few. And yet this is an
essential requirement at some time or another for every man in whatever vocation he may pursue. Is it afforded sufficient
prominence and conceded its true worth and importance?

Nearly everyone who reads these words has at one time or another been in an assembly when he was either
called upon to state his beliefs or thought himself capable of arising and expressing his opinions. When given the floor
all the carefully prepared thoughts take wings and you release a stream of unintelligible jargon in a scared falsetto voice
or no sounds come at all and having cleared your throat and glancing at the thousands of eyes with which
you are surrounded, you hastily slump into your seat feeling like a thief.

Some possess a natural talent for public speaking, others attain a high degree of perfection through constant practice, others reach
a state of mediocrity, some are always poor, others will never be able to speak at all. To whatever class
you may belong, practice and instruction will be of inestimable value. What vocation is there that does not demand this
attribute? Lawyers, ministers, politicians, business men, and teachers find it an absolute necessity. All others find it beneficial and helpful.
We cannot enumerate all the vocations that require it or the ways and means by which a man is improved.
When before an audience are you glued in your tracks, do your hands seem entirely in the way, and if
you dare move them do your gestures imitate the flappings of a wounded duck? Think of your appearance before an
audience and realize that it is necessary for you to gain poise, self-confidence, command of English, and the ability to
think clearly while on your feet. It is an indispensable requirement and must be acquired now, if ever.

Literary societies have fallen from grace as far as the students are concerned in recent years. They maintained more interest
among all students in years gone by than any other organization. Their revival is badly needed. The custom of having
Seniors lead chapel exercises is an excellent one. There is nothing that can bring out the “forensic qualities” in a
man like an appearance before a Davidson audience. Debating holds the center of the stage in Forensics at Davidson now.
The faculty realizes its importance and has co-operated to further its development and the interest shown is also growing in
the student body. It is recognized as a major extra-curricular activity and the keen competition in the tryouts this year
manifests a changing attitude on the part of the student body. Debating is the whetstone of the wits. It is
your duty to yourself to aid Forensic activity and to show an active interest therein. Only through such endeavor can
it be said of you, “Truth from his lips prevailed with double sway, And fools that came to scoff remained
to pray.”

REBUILD FAITH

In looking over this last so-called Century of Progress, we look in vain for any progress in faith. The Bible
tells us that faith is a great thing, but only a glance is necessary to impress us with the great
part that faith plays in our lives. Without faith, happiness would be an element of some Utopia, dreamed of, but
never realized. Without faith, nothing could ever be accomplished. We have faith that the sun will rise in the morning,
of course, but have we faith in our fellowmen? What faith have you in your best friend? Whom can you
trust? On whom can you rely?

The Bible also subordinates faith to love, and it is true that faith is the servant of pure love. But
why not faith for faith’s sake? Absolute trustworthiness seems to have gone out of style. Honesty, unconscious of its presence,
seems to have vanished with “rugged individualism” and the storekeeper who would walk several miles to pay back an overcharged
penny. The sign, “honesty is the best policy,” has been taken down, and “do your neighbor before he does you”
has been hung up. This has become a joke, and not a fact to be shamefully regarded.

College men have followed the trend of the times like sheep. They have a tendency to try to see how
much they can get by with. There is no doubt but that our economic slump was greatly if not entirely
caused by a sudden snap in the faith of men in each other. And economic stability cannot be regained unless
our former faith is built up again. College students seem to fail to realize that it is they that in
a few years must rebuild this faith, and they are not striving to engender it in themselves. What a wonderful
world this would be if everyone could be absolutely trusted! That is a Utopian idea, of course, but certainly it
will hurt no one to do his part. A good name is worth far more than holding such will ever
cost one. —G. L. G.

SEEKING YOUR JOB

In this new era of changing political, economic, and social life, the college graduate is going to find it very
difficult to secure a job. Four or five years ago, he would have found employers eagerly offering him jobs with
as good a salary as an inexperienced man could wish for. The job is not seeking the man today; the
man must do the seeking, and he is going to encounter a great deal of competition. The ranks of the
job-seekers have increased, and the employer has a very large number to choose from; naturally, the employer is going to
choose that individual who, in his estimation, has the most ability for the job he is offering.

What we must emphasize in job-seeking today is selling yourself. As a salesman sells his wares, so you must sell
your services. The employer is your customer; convince him that you are the man he is looking for, and that
your services are valuable to him. Before you can present a convincing argument you must have confidence. Don’t underrate your
abilities but, at the same time, don’t over-rate them. In order to make the employer have confidence in you, you
must have confidence in yourself.

Applying for a job nowadays is not to be approached in any haphazard manner. You should analyze your employer as
to his likes and dislikes as much as possible, so that you can conduct yourself, during the interview, in a
way that will appeal to him. Find out all you can about your employer and the job that you are
after, so that you can have a well-planned method of approach. A neat appearance is most important. One of the
best ways of creating a favorable first impression is neatness and correctness in dress. The man who shows care and
tidiness in appearance lends the impression to the employer that he will show the same in his job.

Cheerfulness, courtesy, and truth are all essential qualities to be observed in your interview. Whether you are filling out an
application blank or being questioned in an interview, tell the truth, for it will pay you in the long run.
Try to be cheerful even though you haven’t a dime in your pocket and your shoes are worn through. The
employer is not likely to be very impressed with a spiritless, pessimistic sort of individual.

This is a new era, and successful job hunting is no more an aimless tramping of the streets, and wandering
from door to door; it has become a science which requires careful, painstaking study. There are plenty of good jobs,
andOne of those good jobs is yours if you will start planning for it at an early date. Your services,
and the best salesman gets the best job.—Gordon Green.

Here and There

The students of Kenyon College, Columbus, Ohio, recently applied for permits to sell beer in the men’s dormitory and restaurant.
Excuses for oversleeping and missing 8 o’clocks are being done away with at Ohio University. Four band members will play
reveille from the library steps to arouse late sleepers. Football was abolished in favor of horseshoe pitching at Long Island
University this year. The only utility for grades at the University of Chicago is for purposes of transfer to other
institutions. Remember you are ‘selling’ NEWS DIGEST.

NEW TECHNIQUE

Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins, speaking before the Merchants Association of New York, said that in order to get the
fullest amount of stimulation out of the President’s recovery program, a new technique and another refinement would be necessary. She
continued by saying that the NRA had already done a great deal and that the industrial balance provided by it
would be an added factor in carrying it to success.

MAIL ROBBERY

Gangdom invaded our own little city of Charlotte last Wednesday in one of the most daring crimes of its history.
A mail truck was halted and robbed by some bandits, yet unknown, the amount of loot being estimated unofficially at
between $100,000 and $250,000. Every effort is being made to capture the parties responsible for the crime.

CAPITALISM DIES

Mussolini chants the funeral dirge of the death of capitalism: Hitler pronounces and applauds its fall. Russia has long celebrated
its demise. And the world is wondering when the other great nations will fall in line. But whether we denounce
it or uphold it, it has been a world-order, a system which has long held sway in the history of
the world. It has been responsible for the greatest creation of wealth in history. It has caused the establishment of
that truly American institution, the corporation. Society is in its debt. Its qualities have not all been evil. Its virtues
have been real virtues. The desert of feudalism has been filled with blossoms. And even now those who advocate a
change cannot give us a satisfactory principle with which to replace it.

KIDNAP MURDER

The strange kidnapping of Brooke Hart, 22-year-old son of a San Jose merchant, is at an end. Thomas H. Thurmond
and Jack Holmes have confessed that they were the assailants and that they killed the young man and threw his
body in the bay before demanding a $40,000 ransom from his father.

RELIGION

Germany is planning to reform religion. The Hitler authorities are banning the Old Testament, certain palpably superstitious parts of the
New Testament, and removing all crucifixes from the churches. The reason for removing the crucifixes is because they represent the
Jews, an alien people. However, the more educated realize that the crucifix is a product of Romans and not a
Jewish institution.

HUEY LONG

Huey Long is about to be “treed” by the indignant people who have followed his colors for years. The senate
committee investigating the 1932 senatorial primary election has already heard evidence relating to confiscation of funds for other purposes and
the graft and crookedness which filled the election under consideration. Crowds have cheered each bit of incriminating evidence and it
looks as if the people of Louisiana are tired of the Long regime and ready for a change.

FLOATING PLATFORMS

The U.S. is prepared to spend a million and a half to establish a seadrome for transatlantic purposes about five
hundred miles from shore. It will be about one-quarter the size which was originally intended and will be used as
a landing and refueling station. Germany already has a refueling ship in the South Atlantic and has found it very
satisfactory.

RUSSIA RECOGNIZED

After a sixteen-year lapse, the old Russian embassy in Washington will again be occupied by a Russian ambassador. Litvinoff, the
Russian commissar, and President Roosevelt have, after about a week of conferences, finally reached a decision whereby the U.S. resumes
all former trade and diplomatic relations. Propaganda of all kinds, however, will be barred. Also, the civil and religious rights
of Americans in Russia will be guaranteed.

TEAPOT DOME

Death has claimed one of the most famous witnesses of the Teapot Dome investigation. During the inquiry, he first sprang
into national limelight. A subpoena was issued for him to appear as a witness, but for almost a month the
investigation was at a standstill because the witness could not be found. He was finally discovered, however, on his farm
in Maryland and delivered evidence which proved of great importance. His name was James G. Darden.

Rifle Team Plans Several Matches

Sharpshooters Will Be Coached by Captain Seifert

The Davidson rifle team, with Francis Scott as captain, Gordon Green as manager, and Captain Seifert as coach, anticipates a
highly successful season, which will last from February 10 to March 24, 1934. Correspondence matches have been scheduled for February
17 with the University of Maryland and with Washington University; for March 3, with the University of Wisconsin and with
Lehigh University; and for March 10, with the New York Stock Exchange. Arrangements have also been made for a shoulder-to-shoulder
match with the Gastonia Rifle Club, and, if possible, one will be arranged with N.C. State. The selection of the
15 or 20 men who will comprise the team will be through an elimination contest sometime early in 1934. Last
year’s team, captained by Paul Brown, beat Rose Polytech by a score of 3947 to 3438, Montana State College by
1766 to 1717, and Michigan State College by 3452 to 3422. Material for this year’s team seems promising, and prospects
are even better than those of last year, it was stated.

HOOD ASKED TO AID IN AD RESEARCHES

(Continued from page 1)

Many advertisements are not based on sound psychological arguments. It is expected that certain definite facts relating to advertising appeal
will be revealed, which will radically alter advertisements displayed by magazines, billboards, and the like. Dr. Hood stated that sixty
psychology departments of various colleges throughout the country are engaged in the research, and that Davidson considers it a signal
honor to be included in the list of those participating.

WILLIAM & MARY BOWS TO DAVIDSON ’CATS, 12-7

(Continued from page 1)

Davidson Posi. W. & M.
Morgan L.E. Henderson
Siewers L.T. Stuart
Potter L.G. Shack
McElrath Center Bridges
Rives (C) R.G. Darden
Cathey R.T. Quirk
Windham R.E. Murray
Mackorell Q.B. Shade
Hutchins H.B. Bryant
Wingfield R.H. Young
Wilson F.B. Worrell

Score by periods:
Davidson 0 6 0 6—12
William & Mary 0 7 0 0—7

Scoring: Touchdowns, Davidson: Wingfield, 2; William and Mary: Johnson (sub for Franklin); point after touchdown, William and Mary: Stuart (placement).
Officials: Referee, Sanders (W. & L.); umpire, Jackson (E. & H.); headlinesman, Frew (W. & L). Substitutions — Davidson: Verble,
West, Grant, Lee, Yarborough, LeGore, Hand, Batte; William and Mary: Shade, Smith, Wallace, Young, Johnson, Upson, Myers, Darden, Beaker, Sorenson.

On Other Campuses

LEHIGH

The Pennsylvania highway patrol recently confiscated twenty-five cars belonging to students at Lehigh University. They were inspected by the police
department, and were classed by the judge as relics unfit to operate in the streets. Well, what about local “push-ems”?

MARQUETTE

Marquette University’s football team has the fastest water-boy in the world serving it. He is none other than the renowned
Olympic track star, Frank Metcalf. We recommend to the Marquette forces the original “water-boy play” as displayed by the master-minded
Georgians in the recent Georgia-Watts classic!

WASHINGTON

We pass this on as a significant bit of news of the week: The University of Washington is giving a
course in “bluffing,” and it is to be given in conjunction with the History and English departments. There is no
necessity of such a course at Davidson! Most of us are past masters at the art!

V. M. I.

On Armistice Day, the Virginia Military Institute celebrated jointly its ninety-fourth birthday and the fifteenth anniversary of the signing of
the Armistice. The celebration was marked by the firing of an artillery salute, a review of the battalion, and an
address by Dr. Douglas S. Freeman, editor of the Richmond News-Leader.

OHIO STATE

There is a twelfth position on the football team at Ohio State University. The extra position is called the “Humorist.”
During the games, he sits on the bench, and wears a uniform at all practices. His job is to keep
the team in a humorous state of mind, and to prevent them from becoming nervous before a big game. Fifty
men answered the coach’s call for the job, for which the selected man will receive a varsity letter at the
end of the season.

CAROLINA

Friday before the Homecoming game was a dangerous day for all hapless males that passed by the co-ed “domicile” wearing
a white shirt; every man so attired was stopped and the shirt removed either by force or persuasion. A crowd
soon gathered to watch the fun, contemplating on whether the co-eds were planning a shirt-tail parade. As this was being
considered, a streamer, made out of a clothesline of shirts, was flung from a window, each shirt bearing a letter
which when hung out made a slogan, “Welcome Alumni.”

FLORIDA

Leniency is apparently not a part of the make-up of the Freshman Guidance Committee at the University of Florida. Last
Thursday night, nine offenders came before the committee and received a total of sixty licks as punishment for violating freshman
rules.

STATIONERY CALLING CARDS FRATERNITY PAPERS Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates PROGRAMS See BILL JOHNSON 203 Watts Garland Court
Standard Printing Company CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Go to Europe Next Summer! This is the ideal graduation gift or summer vacation for college students. Plans are being
made to visit all different countries, and the cost is unbelievably low. See Jack Williams, Jr., our Davidson Representative for
particulars. John L. Moyers Tours Co. Atlanta, Georgia
