**The Davidsonian, February 8, 1933**

~The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief
ROM AMANSON

Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Contributing Editor
Review Editor
D. D. McBRYDE
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
R. K. MYERS
Associate Editor
Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Solicitor
H. B. DANIEL
Solicitor
M. DOUGLAS
Solicitor
W. B. OSPRONT
Solicitor
Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President
Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG
Secretary-Treasurer
L. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN
WINEN
G. E. ILY
E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY
W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES
W. L. NORTHEN
E. BOWER
C. E. NORVELL
E. BOY
E. L. POWELL
H. COVINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON
P. M. ROGERS
J. B. FLIN
R. L. ROSE
G. L. GULLETTE
T. H. SUTTON
JACK HELLINGER
N. W. WALLACE
C. HENRY
K. D. WEEKS
A. HUNTER
W. R. WARD
E. LORRAINE
W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD
W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS
PRATT-THOMAS

FEBRUARY 8, 1933

The worse the condition of society, the more visionary must a true code of morals appear.
—Herbert Spencer.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

We wish to commend the Pan-Hellenic Council for the success of the Mid-Winter Dances. We feel that the set given last week was the best in the last several years.

The orchestra was the best that has ever been to Davidson.

Despite the result of recent games, the basketball team has improved a great deal. We think they will give other members of the Big Five a real game when they meet in the forthcoming games.

South Carolina, in beating the great Kentucky five, caused one of the biggest upsets of the season. Since their tie with the powerful Auburn team last fall, we have come to think of South Carolina as a school capable of upsetting previous predictions.

The Southern Conference basketball tournament next March promises many thrills with North Carolina, South Carolina, Duke, N. C. State, Virginia, and Maryland furnishing the fireworks.

The next exodus of the student body and faculty will be to the inauguration at Washington, D.C., March 4.

The world is watching with interest the chancellorship of Adolf Hitler in Germany. This man has a great opportunity to help his country.

The wrestling team is to be congratulated on their win over Duke.

The Library has added many new books, especially in the biographical line.

TECHNOCRACY

The statements issued a short time ago by that group of Columbia University professors seem to have a good deal of substance in them, despite the fact that they have been minimized by many. Although the complete report of Technocracy has not yet been issued, there is reason to believe from what we already know that it will be rather revolutionary in its character. There are very few in America, and the world in general for that matter, who will deny that something of a very serious nature is wrong in our economic world today. The phrase, “returning to normal,” does not have much significance anymore, because we believe that if we perchance did return to normal times, or rather the abnormal times of 1929, the next depression would cause the whole economic system to crumble. The time has passed when we believe that prosperity is just around the corner. It would indeed be very pessimistic to believe that times will never improve, but we are led to believe that the improvement, when it comes, will not be a return to the conditions as they existed in 1929, nor can we think that in the light of present-day knowledge such times of so-called prosperity are desirable. According to the Technocrats, the war between man and machine reached a climax in 1918 when the peak of industrial employment occurred, and the maximum industrial production was reached in 1929. Since the introduction of the machine, production has increased stupendously, but the demand for manpower has decreased. In 1920 there were over two million men working in the railroad business. Today if the most efficient methods were used, the railroads could be run with the same efficiency using only about six hundred thousand men. The same is true in all other lines of endeavor, and how can any reasonable person expect unemployment to decrease under these conditions? Daily we are inventing machines to replace men, and yet the population is steadily increasing and these people must be fed. Surely we cannot condemn the machines as evil in themselves for putting men out of work, but we must devise some way in which to utilize them, and at the same time raise the standard of living or at least give all the opportunity to work and live happily. With the stupendous amount of overproduction obtained with so little labor, one does not need a very strong imagination to realize that with the proper distribution the standard of living the world over could be raised with more time for leisure and recreation. The Technocrats may be in error in their remedy, but surely they have given us something to stimulate our thought and something which may be very useful. Every innovation such as this has its radical features, and many points which the Technocrats have advanced do not seem to be logical, but their theory need not be taken wholly. They would abolish the present price system and substitute in its place the energy system. A person would be paid according to the amount of energy expended, and articles of goods would be evaluated according to the amount of energy required to make them. We can see many practical difficulties to such a system at first glance, but if it were put to the test, it might work out satisfactorily. It is certainly worth thinking about, because everyone would receive certificates representing the amount of energy expended. These certificates would be used to purchase goods. This whole system as the Technocrats present it, would be very scientific and the country would be controlled by engineers rather than politicians. This one feature alone should make the theory worth our time to consider it. The fairness of the system seems very evident, and although it may never be used just in this manner, we certainly think that some form of this will inevitably come in the future. Just how far in the future is a matter of speculation, as to how long our present economic structure can stand the strain.

ADOLPH HITLER AND GERMANY

Hitler’s recent appointment to the chancellorship in Germany seemed to portend evil for the future of Europe at the first glance at his past record as an agitator and nationalist, but the acquisition of this office has quieted, or seems to have quieted him to some extent. The rise of Hitler in Germany is phenomenal, and certainly no one can deny the fact that he has a magnetic personality which has placed him where he is, although many have thought of him as a demagogue and considered him very short-sighted. He has had power too short a time to judge him correctly yet, but his statements recently have been very sane and wise. He admits that all his plans cannot be accomplished at once; and probably four years will be needed for the completion of them. He showed good judgment, most think, in selecting men as members of his cabinet who represent the different political factions in Germany, and men who have never particularly supported him. Certainly one of the requisites of a leader is to be able to select competent men to assist him.

Hitler has always been very nationalistic and pro-German in his tendencies, and because of this the other countries of Europe thought that, if he were to come into power, the same spirit which pervaded Germany in 1914 would again be brought forth. Hitler stands as ever for the rights of the German people, and according to one German newspaper, which is not one of the Hitler organs, “a new day for Germany has come,” referring to his rise to power, but he does not mean to immediately build up Germany’s armed power. He intends for Germany to be on a par with the other nations of Europe, but he believes that the other nations should disarm to meet Germany’s ratio rather than that Germany’s armaments should be increased. Some will maintain that he does not mean what he has said, but surely we cannot discount any of his actions thus far, and he may be the one to lead Germany back into her proper place among the nations of the world where she properly belongs.

I saw a smart phaeton churn into fraternity court Friday and stop amid the scrunching of gravel. No other than gallant Oscar Bethea alighted like the king of Sweden to assist a charmingly irresistible girl to terra firma. “Some guys have all the luck...”

John Stevens who hails from the good town of Winston, pardon me, city of Winston, playing store of an afternoon. He was assisting in the bookstore a little and seemed to take it very seriously.Hear that our president, Dr. Lingle, is being treated royally down in the land of sunshine and flowers. The suite of rooms at his disposal in Orlando has a lakefront view. How we would loathe to leave such a place, but he departs soon and is expected to arrive home tomorrow. Our earnest "Y" secretary, Sam Wiley, is wearing a new blue hat. You have no idea what blue is until you've seen this hat. It looks well on him and they ought to be popular this spring.

By the paper last week, the girls at dear old Sophie Newcombe way down in New Orleans have taken up the pipe. This did not upset me so much, but I am really shocked to see Wannamaker’s ad in The Times advertising women’s trouser suits. Who ever thought it would come to this!

Bob McCallie, editor-in-chief of Quips and Cranks, was out at the coal bin, scuttle in hand, one afternoon last week. He and Billy Flinn like rooming in the Love Nest, but with spring in the offing, they look forward to the time when there will be no more coal to bring in.

Considerate Tommy Pheifer was telling a friend how swell he was treated while at the infirmary. Motherly Mrs. Robson does take good care of her boys. They do everything for the patient and the meals are delicious. Really, those who graduate without having spent any time at the college infirmary have missed part of their college course.

S. M. Hines and Buddy Robinson, two of our foremost musicians, tell the man at the P.O. they didn’t get some in their boxes soon. Why not try writing letters to yourself! It’s lots of fun and a sure way of getting loads of fan mail.

It passed about that Bob Morrow is a Jiu-Jitsu artist. He and his roomie, George Bailey, put on charity exhibitions every now and then. It would be really exciting to see him sling poor George across the room, but to make it perfect, he ought to put one foot on the chest of the victim and give a Tarzan yell.

I heard one coy young thing at the dance inquire what college I attended. Everybody seemed to be having the best time stamping their feet and Art Kassel was perfectly elegant. In fact, he was simply marvelous and it was one of the swankiest affairs of the social season. Everybody is anxious to know who writes this brilliant column. There is sure to be considerable excitement when the author signs his real name. In about six more issues, you'll know who he is and until then you'll just have to grin and bear it. But I’ve chatted enough and must cut this—the editor always does—and I hope you get along well with all your professors this semester and make “A” on everything.

TIP POFF.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. LAKE

V. M. I.
Bert Lown and his famous orchestra have been selected to play for the V. M. I. Mid-Winter dances this year. These dances will be held February 17 and 18. To those who have never heard Bert Lown and his orchestra, be it known that he has a very fine orchestra, even though it does not rate with Guy Lombardo, Jan Garber, Bernie Cummins, Wayne King, or Hal Kemp. Recently, he has played for the dances of some of the big Northern Schools.

Duke
Art Kassel and “Kassels in the Air,” who thrilled the girls and cheered the boys here last weekend, have been engaged to play at Duke this weekend, Friday and Saturday, February 10 and 11. There will be a dance Friday night from 9 to 1, a tea dance Saturday afternoon from 3:30 to 6:30, and a formal dance Saturday night from 8:30 to 12. The price for this series of dances is the nominal sum of $4. Separately, the night dances will be $2.50 apiece and the tea dance $1.50. He was very good here and we trust that he will be just as good at Duke. By appearing at Duke, Art Kassel has an honor bestowed upon his illustrious brow. This is the first big orchestra that has ever played for a dance at Duke.

Gettysburg
Dr. Joseph Fort Newton, rector of the St. Paul’s Episcopal Cathedral of Philadelphia, will deliver the baccalaureate sermon at Gettysburg College in June.

Hollins
Hollins was recently admitted to the Southern Association of Schools and Colleges.

France, in recent years free from great internal political trouble, has recently had a slight touch of an attempt at restoring the monarchy. This was in the form of a manifesto from the Duc de Guise, pretender to the French throne and Royalist head. This leader succeeded Duc D’Orleans upon the latter's death over six years ago, and up to the present time has made no attempt to enter French politics. However, recently he addressed his manifesto to war veterans, state employees, and taxpayers, in which he urged the return of a monarchy by the establishment of a dictator. He said that the present republic was too expensive and was impotent to govern France. He asked the French to choose between “authority, liberty, and monarchy, or oppression, anarchy, and socialism.” In drawing up his document, the Duc de Guise stated: “I represent the principles which render to the State the fullness of impartiality, independence, and stability. When I received the guardianship of these by birth in order to transmit them intact to my son, I inherited also a duty to recall them to the French nation.”

Leis, given to all who leave Hawaii, provide substantial incomes to those who weave them. The garlands of flowers are a part of an old Hawaiian custom of wishing all who are leaving Hawaii goodbye, and a return to the islands someday. It is said that every departee should have at least one lei, and that the popularity of the person is indicated by the number of leis. These garlands are made of flowers which grow wild in Hawaii, and they would be worth quite a good deal in the United States where they are rare. The leis are woven by hand, and in spite of the fact that they are sold for only twenty-five cents, a good deal of money is made in the lei trade. In spite of the depression, the business has increased within the last few years.

The city of Kastamouni, Turkey, has forbidden the women of that town to eat meals in the public baths. This has caused the women of Kastamouni to go to other towns to bathe so they may spend all day at the bathhouses as they formerly did in their hometown. Formerly, the bath was a great holiday for the women and children. They would prepare their lunches, go to the public bathhouses at daybreak, soak a while and then eat breakfast in the cooling room. After breakfast, the bathing would be resumed until dinner. After dinner, everyone would take an afternoon siesta and then return to the work of getting themselves clean. This continued some time until long after supper.

The recent British attitude toward Japan in the Manchurian dispute has led to believe that Great Britain was planning on helping Japan with some Tibet. In a recent statement issued by the Foreign Office, this was strictly denied. “There is no truth whatever in the report from Geneva that the government is working to secure a free hand for Japan in Manchuria in return for a free hand for themselves in Tibet. A free hand in Tibet is not and never has been an ambition of His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom or of the Government of India, and His Majesty’s Government's attitude in regard to the Chinese-Japanese dispute is not influenced in any way by considerations affecting Tibet.”

Delaware, if a bill before its Legislature passes, will soon take all the divorce trade from the presently popular Nevada. The bill which is to be voted on will grant divorces to anyone who has resided in Delaware at least ten days. The present Nevada law requires six weeks. Divorces will be granted for any cause, and there will be no alimony granted to the divorced wives. Should this bill pass the Legislature, the State of Delaware would be almost as liberal with its divorces as Russia is. Thus practically the only difference would be the necessity for waiting ten days in Delaware.

Lillian Leibrand wanted a wealthy suitor, so she went to a marriage broker, Mrs. Yetta Adler, and asked the latter to find a rich prospect for marriage. The charge for this service was ten dollars paid in advance. Mrs. Adler found a shoe clerk and a streetcar conductor, but neither answered Miss Leibrand’s requirements as to finances. She wanted a man with a large bank account, a rather rare specimen at present; and extremely rare is one who would marry under the conditions of Miss Leibrand. When the marriage market proprietor was unable to deliver the goods, the customer demanded her money, and after taking it to court, got it.

Adolf Hitler, new German Chancellor, is now attempting to have a “Four Year Plan” and is asking the German people to bear with him during that time. At the end of four years, if he has not fulfilled his promises, Hitler states that he will be willing to take any consequences. He also asked foreign nations to stand by without alarm, and observe only the results of his leadership. Hitler is trying to get German equality with the other foreign nations. What attitude the foreign nations will take is rather hard to say, but there is no doubt that France will be opposed to any raising of the status of Germany. Hitler, in a recent statement, also remarked upon his Anti-Semitic plans. He reassured foreign Jews that any action taken by the Hitler regime will be justifiable.