CONTRIBUTE TO: PRINCETON PROFESSOR Y. M. C. A. WILL GIVE TWO GIFT FUND ILLUSTRATED LECTURES

Alenda Lux Gbi Orta Libertas Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 6, 1933 No. 12

‘CATS CONQUER DEACONS, 20-13

Vesper Service Is Conducted By Rev. Melvin E. Trotter
Prominent Evangelist of Grand Rapids Is Conducting Meetings at Charlotte

BIG CROWD ATTENDS
Two Chicago Musicians Accompany Speaker on Tour

Rev. Melvin E. Trotter, well-known rescue mission worker and evangelist, of Grand Rapids, Mich., was heard by a large gathering of students at the vesper service last Sunday evening. Ed Humphreys of the Senior class was in charge of the service. After reading the Scripture, he called upon Wee Thompson to lead in prayer. Rev. Trotter's evangelistic party consists of Mr. Homer Hammontree, of Chicago, singer, and Paul Beckwith, pianist, also of Chicago. Mr. Hammontree is well known in the South, having been often in conferences in South Carolina and Virginia, and has been with Rev. Trotter 16 years. He announced that he would speak in chapel Tuesday morning. Rev. Trotter is conducting a series of services, lasting two weeks, at the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte and extended an invitation to all students.

Rev. Trotter chose as his text Isaiah 43-25, “I, even I, am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for my own sake, and will not remember thy sins.” Presenting his thoughts in an earnest and forceful manner, he put them in the form of an outline—“Blotted out of God’s own book,”—1 “By His own hand,” 2, “For His own sake,” and 3, “From His own memory.” He stated that there is a logical probability that God keeps His records of our transgressions in a manner comparable to the impressionable records of Edison. He illustrated this thought by the following story: “A young man was suspected of having killed his father and mother and stolen their money. The police, after throwing him in jail, summoned the boy’s fiancée and asked that she ask him two questions. She was willing, believing him innocent. She went to the boy and tried to console him. After talking with him of many things, she asked him: ‘Why did you kill them?’ The boy replied: ‘Because if I had the money I could marry you.’ She said: ‘I'll keep your secret.’ The next question was: ‘What did you do with the money?’ He told her and said it was for her. The girl left without telling the officers the answers to the questions. In court the next day, during the boy’s trial, they (Continued on page 2)

Local I. R. C. to Join Winthrop in Meeting

In response to an invitation from the president of Winthrop College, of Rock Hill, S. C., the Davidson College International Relations Club will join with similar clubs from colleges of this and adjoining states in the fifth meeting of the Model League of Nations Assembly, to be held on December 8 and 9. Representing Davidson will be Gordon Brown, Fred Smyre and W. T. Thompson.

The purpose of this unique assembly is to acquaint American students with the proceedings of the world-wide deliberative body—the League of Nations. Each country in the league will be represented by at least three students, and those colleges which give early notice of their willingness to send delegates will be given the more important countries. The Davidson delegation is to represent two countries, two of the delegates representing Switzerland and the remaining one, China.

Gordon Brown will deliver a condemnation of the German policy during the sitting of the assembly, and will later engage in debate with a representative from the University of North Carolina on the Japanese mandate question in the Pacific. Fred Smyre and W. T. Thompson will receive instructions as to the material for debate upon arrival at the Winthrop campus.

Dr. T. W. Lingle Gives Opinion Of Soviet Union Recognition
Believes That United States Has Acted Wisely in Re-establishing Diplomatic Relations

“The most conspicuous motive promoting recognition of Russia by the United States is commerce, and I believe that our government acted wisely in re-establishing diplomatic relations with that nation,” commented Dr. T. W. Lingle, head of Davidson's history department, when speaking to a Davidsonian reporter concerning the Soviet Union’s recognition by the United States on November 17.

The Davidson professor remarked that Russia’s recognition does not necessarily imply that Americans sanction the form of government existing in the Soviet Union, nor the abuses characteristic of it, but that similar conditions are prevalent in various other nations which have received recognition by our government. Nevertheless, Russia apparently has a durable form of government, possessing marked qualities of stability, and performing the customary functions of a governmental body over a large territory. Thus the Soviet form of rule measures up to the standards set by the United States as vital for recognition of our country.

Continuing, Dr. Lingle pointed out that Americans often speak of their intended exports to Russia, but that very little is said of the expected imports from that country. The sales of the United States to the Soviets will be limited, unless our government supplies Russians the money with which to pay American exporters, who will naturally bring great pressure to bear upon their government to supply credit for Russia. Moreover, it will eventually be necessary for the American taxpayers to assume the burden of the credit extended the Soviets, unless a balance of trade is reached between the two nations. “After all,” concluded Dr. Lingle, “there is no such thing as sales on a vast scale by one nation to another; it must be international trade, not international sale.”

Fraternities Pick Annual Sponsors
Annual Staff Expecting Names of Other Sponsors Soon

During the past few weeks, the various fraternities on the campus have been selecting their sponsors, which will represent them in the Annual. Letters enclosing the picture of a movie star have been sent to all the young ladies selected to serve as sponsors. This picture is to be used as a model so that a certain uniformity in style may be secured. The names of the sponsors, and the fraternity they represent, are listed below:

Beta Theta Pi, Miss Harriet Strother, Sumter, S. C.; Pi Kappa Alpha, Miss Virginia Booze, Greensboro; Kappa Alpha, Miss Evalina Stevenson, Charlotte; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Miss Mary Willis Roddey, Rock Hill, S. C.; Kappa Sigma, Miss Adelaide Fortune, Greensboro; Phi Gamma Delta, Miss Mary Virginia Barnes, Randolph-Macon College, Lynchburg, Va.; Theta Upsilon Omega; Pi Kappa Phi, Miss Corinne Ellison, Lancaster, S. C.; Phi Delta Theta, Miss Ellen Pratt, Louisville, Ky.; Sigma Phi Epsilon, Miss Donner Toups, Bogalusa, La.

The Annual staff is also trying to secure the names of the individual sponsors, but this list is not complete as yet. However, it is thought that the following will be represented: Quips and Cranks (editor and manager), Student Government, Y. M. C. A., Davidsonian (editor and manager), Yowl (editor and manager), Senior Class, Junior Class, “D” Club, The Battalion, Forensic Council, Court of Control, The Students’ Store, and the Glee Club.

Noted Brain Specialist Lectures to Pre-Meds

At the invitation of the Pi Delta Alpha pre-medical honorary fraternity, Dr. T. D. Sparrow, of Charlotte, gave a lecture last Friday night on the subject of brain injuries. The lecture was given especially for the benefit of medical students, but all those who were interested in the subject were invited.

Dr. Sparrow showed the group a drawing of the brain, pointing out its main divisions. He told of several mistaken ideas about brain injuries and of the effects on the brain of concussion and fracturing of the skull. Several instances in the doctor’s own experience were given. A skull prepared especially for demonstration purposes was shown, and the speaker pointed out how closely the bones of the head fitted together to protect the delicate brain enclosed. (Continued on page 2)

Prof. Edward King Will Lecture Here
Speaker Will Discuss “Italian Art: Renaissance and Baroque”

Professor Edward S. King, of Princeton University, will give illustrated lectures at Davidson on Monday and Tuesday evenings, December 11 and 12, on “Italian Art: Renaissance and Baroque.” Mr. King will also speak on this general subject at the chapel exercises Tuesday morning. He will make a survey of the subject, bringing out the matters of fundamental interest of the two periods, separately and in contrast.

The speaker is an authority on the Italian architecture and is well prepared to discuss the subject. Professor King taught at Princeton University for a year (1927-1928) and later taught at Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, for five years. At present he is at Princeton accumulating material sufficient for a thesis on certain aspects of American architecture.

Dr. Lambeth Speaks To Phi Beta Kappa
Honorary, Scholastic Fraternity Holds Anniversary Celebration

The Davidson Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa celebrated the tenth anniversary of its installation here last night with a banquet and initiation of new members. Dr. W. A. Lambeth, a graduate of Duke University, delivered an interesting address.

Dr. Lambeth made a record for himself at Duke University (at that time Trinity College) as an athlete and student. He has held the office of pastor in several important Southern Methodist churches in this section of the country since his graduation. Dr. Lambeth, an orator of note, has delivered the commencement address at Salem College twice and is in great demand all over the South. His address was intensely interesting to the members of Phi Beta Kappa, who heard him at this meeting.

Sophomore Week-End Set for December 15, 16Tucker’s Orchestra Will Play for Dances

Sophomore week-end this year will be on the 15th and 16th of December. This year the week-end will consist of three social functions to be held at the Charlotte Armory. Tommy Tucker and his Californians from the Hollywood Restaurant will provide the music for these social (Continued on page 2)

Y.M.C.A. Gift Fund Will Go To Unity Church This Year

“Y” Has Set Goal of One Thousand Dollars in Its Drive for Christmas Funds

THREE-DAY CAMPAIGN Students Will Be Offered Opportunity to Assist

The Christmas Gift Fund, sponsored each year by the Davidson Y.M.C.A., will be given this year to the Davidson Unity Church. Every member of the student body will be given the opportunity to help out this little church of the mill village. It has been customary for several years for the “Y” to offer the students this opportunity to do some service. By their contributions in the past, the students have helped individuals both here and in other places.

The campaign for the Christmas Fund will be on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, December 11, 12, and 13. During this time each man will be reached individually by those conducting the campaign, in order to give the students an opportunity to become acquainted with the work their money will do, and to see the real need for their contributions. The “Y” has set $1,000 as its goal, and the wholehearted support of every student is needed to reach the goal.

The Davidson Unity Church is the outgrowth of the Mill Chapel which was started several years ago by the “Y” with the support of the Davidson Presbyterian Church. The pastors for this church are members of the Davidson student body, who give their whole time, aside from school work, to the work of the Unity Church. The men who are at present student pastors are Sid Marsh and Don Brandon. In addition to conducting all of the regular church services, these men have found time to do a good deal of personal work among the people of the mill district. Former Davidson men who were student pastors are John Howard, Albert McClure, and DeWitt Helm.

The Christmas Fund this year will be used to pay the salary of the two student workers. This will take approximately $200 of the fund. Part will be used to alleviate cases of actual want and suffering among the people of the district, and to furnish them with food, clothing, and fuel. Another part will be used to provide a medical fund for emergency cases needing immediate attention. There is still a bill to be paid for the community shower house built last year, and there are several improvements to be made in the church building. All that remains will be put into a sinking fund to help provide for needs in future years.

The little church was started about three or four years ago in a one-room shack. After a short while a fund was raised to build an addition to this (Continued on page 2)

Dr. Frazer Hood Attends Meeting

Represents Davidson at Association of Southern Colleges

Dr. Frazer Hood, professor of psychology, left Davidson Monday night for Nashville, Tenn., where he will attend the regional convention of the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools which is being held in that city. Dr. Hood attends the meeting as the official representative of Davidson College, which is a member of the association. The purpose of the convention is to discuss standardization methods in Southern schools and to determine the rating of educational institutions in the region. The Southern Association is one of the four divisions of the American Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools. The national convention of the group will be held in St. Louis during January.

All-State Choice

JOHNNY MACKORELL “QUARTERBACK”

Johnny Mackorell, Davidson quarterback, who was chosen for a halfback post in the All-State selections made by the Associated Press and by the All-State Board. Mackorell also received honorable mention for a backfield position in the Associated Press’ All-American selections.

Johnston Talks At Huge Pep Meeting

Shirt-Tail Parade and Bonfire Are Features

The pep meeting held before the Wake Forest game, Davidson’s last of the season, was a gala occasion. Much spirit and enthusiasm was shown by all those who attended, and the entire student body was put on edge for the game on Thursday. The students first assembled in Shearer Hall. Here they were given an inspiring pep talk by J. B. Johnston, superintendent of Barium Springs. The group then assembled in front of Chambers, after a march through town. The pep meeting was climaxed by a snake dance by the freshmen around a huge bonfire on the freshman field.

At the assemblage in Shearer Hall, Hugh Hawkins and his assistants led the students in a number of songs and cheers. The band was present and helped the students in their cheering by playing several stirring marches. Hugh Hawkins then introduced Mr. Johnston. Mr. Johnston, a former Wildcat football star, is one of Davidson’s most loyal supporters. His pep talk was in the form of a prophecy of what was going to happen Thanksgiving Day. His talk did much to encourage and pep the student body. Coaches Doc Newton and Gene McEver were also heard while the students were in Shearer Hall.

The band then led the students in a parade through town and back to the front of Chambers Building. Several cheers were given here. Members of the team and members of the faculty were introduced and said a few words to the students while they were assembled there. “Doc” Charlie, Davidson trainer, was introduced and he had a few words of encouragement for the students and the team.

The freshmen then staged a shirt-tail parade to the freshman field. At the freshman field a huge bonfire, (Continued on page 2)

Medical Aspirants Are Given Aptitude Tests

Davidson students planning to enter a medical school after graduating were given the aptitude test required by the Association of American Medical Colleges today at 3 o’clock p.m. This test has been adopted by the association as one of the necessary requirements for admission to a medical school by the fall of 1934.

Davidson Places Third In Big Five Percentage

Three of Five Touchdowns Come as Result of Aerial Heaves

DEACONS LEAD AT HALF Mackorell and Morgan Star for Home Team

Bringing to a close a season highly successful in all respects, Davidson's Wildcats defeated the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest 20-13 last Thursday in a hard-fought Turkey Day classic staged in Central High Stadium, Charlotte. By virtue of the victory, the ’Cats took third place in the State Big Five race, Duke and Carolina placing first and second in the order named, and Wake Forest and State being tied for fourth.

The contest was featured by splendid exhibitions of aerial warfare, both teams tossing long passes with abandon, and three of the five touchdowns coming as the result of aerial heaves. Outplayed in the first half, and finding it hard to get started, the Wildcats came back strong after intermission to push over one counter in the third quarter and two in the fourth.

The Deacons were first to score, making their first touchdown of the season when a concentrated drive and two lengthy passes in the second canto placed the ball on Davidson’s six-yard stripe, where two smashing line plays carried it over. The half ended with the score 7 to 0.

But in the third quarter, Davidson’s sagacious Johnny Mackorell, brilliant triple-threat quarterback, and unanimous choice for All-State honors, shoved the offensive into high gear, and the ’Cats tallied their first counter of the game by virtue of a spectacular 60-yard pass from Mackorell to Morgan, Davidson end. The Wildcats were on Wake’s 40-yard line when Johnny took the ball from center, faded back to the 50-yard stripe, and whipped the long shot to Morgan, who was just across the goal line. The play was perfectly timed, and “Big Jim,” who was playing his best game of the season, caught the ball while running at full speed. Wingfield then kicked the extra point, tying the score.

The second Davidson tally came in the fourth quarter, when the hard-charging Morgan blocked a Deacon punt and Charlie Fort covered the ball in the end zone. Try for extra point failed.

Not content with a one-touchdown lead, the ’Cats rammed over another score after Yarbrough had recovered a Deacon fumble on Wake’s six-yard (Continued on page 3)

Omega Phi Alpha Holds Meeting Friday Evening

Omega Phi Alpha, honorary philosophy and psychology fraternity, held its regular monthly business meeting on last Friday evening, December 1, at 8:30 o'clock. At the meeting, names of prospective members were submitted to those present, but no action was taken. A program committee consisting of W. M. Thompson and James White was appointed for the coming year.

The purpose of Omega Phi Alpha is to stimulate interest in philosophy and psychology and the president suggested a list of books in the library on the subjects and expressed the desire that the members of the fraternity would avail themselves of the opportunity of reading some of them.

It was reported that the Faculty Committee on Lectures was endeavoring to secure Dr. Arps, dean of Ohio State University, and one of the most eminent psychologists in the country, to address the student body some time this winter. Dr. Hood was associated with Dr. Arps in summer work at the university.

The society is also planning a debate for the January meeting. The query, to be announced later, will relate to some phase of psychology. After the business meeting, refreshments were served to the members.