. : 7 ve . — MID-WINTERS : Ch r rie PS | t Ins 0 at | | a : DEBATING TO FEB. 3RD-4TH BEGIN SOON oe Glenda Lux GQbhi Orta Libertas Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 1, 1933 No. 16 Forensic Council Announces Varsity and Freshman Debating Schedules Davidson Debaters Will Entertain State Peace Conference Here Late in April DEBATE TOPIC DECIDED Teams Will Travel North, South and West to Debate Under the joint action of the Forensic Council and the Faculty Committee, three trips have been arranged for the varsity debating teams. This year the teams will debate more schools than ever before, including two newcomers, Haverford College, at Haverford, Pa., and The College of Charleston, at Charleston, S. C. Eight debates have been arranged with schools away from Davidson, one home debate, and one debate pending. The query to be debated this year is: “Resolved, That the United States should agree to the cancellation of the Allied War Debts.” The team which will uphold the negative on the Northern trip will be composed of Gordon (Skip) Brown and Rawling Pratt-Thomas, with Tom Caldwell as first alternate. They will debate the University of Richmond team at Richmond, March 31. On April 3 they go to New Brunswick, N. J., where they will debate at Rutgers University. The following day the team will go to Haverford, Pa., where they will argue the Haverford College team. The last debate on this trip will be with Bucknell at Louisburg, Pa. The Western trip includes debates with the University of Tennessee at Knoxville on March 10. From there they go to Sewanee, Tenn., to debate the University of the South on March 13. The final debate in this series will be held with Emory University at Emory View, Ga. The team debating on this trip will be composed of Charles Moore and Hugh Hawkins, with Ed Humphries as alternate. They will debate the affirmative side of the question. Leland McKeithan, president of the Forensic Council, and Bob Smith will make up the team for the Southern debating trip. John Richards is the first alternate for this team. The first debate will be held with the College of Charleston, March 3, at Charleston, S. C. The next debate is with Rollins College at Winter Park, Fla., March 8, and a tentative debate has been planned with the University of Florida at Gainesville, which will conclude the itinerary of the Southern trip. However, a debate with the University of Florida, to be held at Davidson March 11, has been arranged. Jack Williams, Jr., is debate manager. The Freshman debating team, composed of Bill Goodykoontz, Charles Hamrick, Dick Cann, and Ben MacKenzie, with Roger Riley (Continued on page 6) Dr. W. H. Frazer Gives Interesting Chapel Talk Present World Condition Subject of Address to Students “We shall emerge from this business depression only by going back to the old fundamental principles, and not by scheming and misrepresentation,” stated Dr. W. H. Frazer, president of Queens-Chicora College, when he addressed the Davidson College student body last Friday during their regular chapel service. The speaker made the present world condition the subject of his address to the students, and pointed out that economic and educational leaders are loud in their outcry against adverse forces now besetting them. “Captains of industry are looking on the structure of their life’s work, crashing to the ground, and they are unable to cope with the situation,” said the distinguished visitor. In Dr. Frazer’s opinion, one of the reasons why we have been unable to help the matters is that “we are unable to take incidents from the past and apply them to our present day problems.” The noted educator closed his address with the thought that the world should be regarded as a harmonious whole, and that those in search of solutions for the pressing problems should go back to the source of things. Freshman Trips Y.M.C.A. Fund Wednesday night, a group of men will canvass the dormitories to collect the money which the members of the student body pledged to the Y.M.C.A. Gift Fund in December. Members of this group will be assigned to various sections of the dormitories and will come by each room to receive the amount pledged and to see any individual who did not pledge but who wishes to make a donation to this cause. The total sum pledged so far this scholastic year amounts to approximately $725. This is far short of the $1,000 goal and it is sincerely hoped that through the earnest and cooperative efforts of the students, $1,000 will be pledged. With regard to the different amounts pledged in previous years, the sum received so far is not up to standard. Those in charge of this campaign have been working with untiring interest to put this fund across and the matter now lies in the hands of the students as members of the “Y” as to the outcome. Rifle Competition Among Classes Ends This Week Prize Will Be Awarded to Team Having Highest Score In order to increase interest in rifle marksmanship, class competition was arranged by Captain Brown and Sergeant Scott. This competition, which has been going on for some time, ends this week, and a prize of ten dollars is to be awarded to the class team having the highest score. Team captains were appointed for each class with instructions that ten men would be selected to represent each class. The captains were as follows: Ed McConnell, Freshmen; Baxter Simpson, Sophomores; Francis Scott, Juniors; and Brooke Allen, Seniors. The targets are to be fired upon from the four following positions, with five shots fired in each position: standing with hasty sling, sitting, kneeling, and prone. The five highest scores will constitute the team aggregate. From the group of shots developed from this competition, a team will be secured to represent Davidson College in team competition with other colleges throughout the nation, and also to compete for corps area championship and the Hurst trophy. Formerly the Davidson R.O.T.C. department has met with success in these fields. Davidson “Y” Work is Outlined to Visitors The State Student Cabinet of Y.M.C.A. has recently adopted a plan for the benefit of the associations in the colleges of the state. The purpose of this plan is to exchange experiences, plans, and ideas about “Y” work through the medium of deputations from each state school. The Davidson Cabinet was host last weekend to a deputation of ten men from the University of North Carolina. The Carolina Cabinet arrived in Davidson Saturday night at supper time. Supper was served at a local boarding house for the visitors. Afterwards a ping-pong tournament was run off between the two cabinets for the purpose of getting acquainted. Later there was a get-together and a feed at the Social Center. On Sunday morning the men from Carolina were taken out to see the Sunday School work which is carried on by the Davidson “Y.” The men were very interested in what is being done in this way at the Mecklenburg Sanatorium, at the Cornelius Methodist Church, and at the Mill Chapel. The two cabinets then attended the Davidson Presbyterian Church. After lunch the cabinets held a joint meeting in which the Y.M.C.A. work at (Continued on page 6) U.N.C. Sends Delegation of Its Y.M.C.A. to Hold the Vesper Service Sunday Bill McKee, President of the Davidson Cabinet, Introduced the Evening’s Speakers THE VALUE OF PRAYER THEME Hutchinson and Fountain Talk on Prayer and Bible Study As a result of an agreement made between the colleges of the state, a delegation from the University of North Carolina Y.M.C.A. conducted the Vesper Service last Sunday night. A large crowd attended, and the service was greatly appreciated. Mr. McKee, in turn, presented the speakers of the evening, L. L. Hutchison and L. H. Fountain. After several introductory hymns and a prayer, Mr. Hutchison read the Scripture from the second Epistle of St. Paul, and the sixth chapter of St. Matthew. The theme for the service was “The Value of Prayer and Bible Study to College Students,” and Mr. Hutchison spoke briefly about the Lord's Prayer. He compared it to a building, going in at the vestibule and finally arriving at the throne room, where “thou art the Kingdom, Power, and Glory forever.” Mr. Fountain then spoke on Prayer and Bible Study, and its value to college students. He said that he knew several boys who had found God only by constant prayer and through reading the Bible. He also suggested the idea of spending fifteen minutes each day reading the Bible, and fifteen minutes talking with others about God. This delegation was the result of a suggestion that the various college Y.M.C.A.’s in the state cooperate by exchanging visits of the cabinets. In this way, it is hoped to foster better spirit not only between the cabinet groups but also among the students.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

the colleges as a whole. The Davidson Cabinet will be guests at Chapel Hill sometime in the spring. In the meantime, there will probably be other delegations here. Men composing the delegation from the University were: Bill McKee, president; L. L. Hutchison, L. H. Fountain, James, who played the organ; John Acee, Ike Minor, Nesbit, Jack Poole, Winslow, and Humphries.

German Books Added to Carnegie Library
Dr. G. R. Vowles Announces List of Forty-four Books

The following are a few of the German books added this fall:
Fiedler, H. G.: A Book of German Verse (Supplement to The Oxford Book of German Verse).
Asch, Schalom: Die Kinder Abrahams.
Barlach, E.: Der arme Vetter, play.
Brod, Max: Tycho Brahes Weg zu Gott.
Dauthendey, Max: The most beautiful of his poems, selected by Walter von Molo.
Feuchtwanger, Lion: Erfolg (Success).
Forbes-Masse, Irene: Gabriele Alweyden. 1902, and Frieden.
Gotthelf: Die schönsten Erzählungen.
(Continued on page 3)

Activities Slips
Tomorrow morning in chapel, activities slips will be distributed in the Junior and Senior sections. All men in these two classes who have had Annual pictures taken are urged to fill out these slips carefully and completely. A great deal of time was lost last year because of the difficulty encountered in securing this information, and it finally became necessary to see each Junior and Senior individually. If the students in these classes will cooperate tomorrow, their help will be greatly appreciated by the Quips and Cranks staff.

President of Carolina
Davidson vesper services last Sunday night. A large Paul Brown, president of the Davidson A. Cabinet, presented Bill McKee, who is head of the University Cabinet. minutes each day praying, fifteen minutes reading.

Annual Mid-Winter Dances to Feature Kassel’s Music

Centennial Class
The committee appointed to promote action among members of the student body to make the Centennial Class of Davidson College, which will enter as Freshmen next year, above the average in quantity and in quality has been working steadily toward this goal. Cards were recently placed in the hands of the members of the student body which, after they have been filled out, are to be taken up and turned over to the college. These cards, as they contain the name of the prospective student, his parents’ name, his church, his previous training, will insinuate his scholastic, financial, and character ability, and aid the registrar greatly in obtaining the desired material and caliber for the class.

Articles have and will continue to appear in the Davidsonian and also in the state papers to stimulate interest in the plan and it is sincerely hoped that the student body as a whole will cooperate in the attempt to make it a success.

Four Seniors Promoted In R.O.T.C. Jan. 30th
Ogden, Wright, Moore, and McBryde Are Advanced in Rank

By a special order of January 20th, issued from the Reserve Officers Training Corps headquarters of this college, several men were promoted in their rank in R.O.T.C. The men receiving these promotions are as follows: Fred Ogden, of New Orleans, La., was promoted from the rank of Cadet Major to that of Cadet Lieutenant-Colonel; C. R. Wright, of Knoxville, Tenn., was promoted from Cadet Captain to that of Cadet Major; Charles Moore, of Charlotte, N. C., was promoted from Cadet First Lieutenant to the rank of Cadet Captain, and Duncan D. McBryde, of Linden, N. C., was promoted from Cadet Second Lieutenant to the rank of Cadet First Lieutenant. These men were called forward by Brooke F. Allen, Battalion A Adjutant, and received their promotions from the center of the field. Last year Don S. King, of Bristol, Tenn., was Cadet Lieutenant-Colonel, the highest honor which one can receive in the military department here at Davidson College, and which position Fred Ogden now holds. Sam Wiley, of Salisbury, N. C., held the position last year which C. R. Wright now holds. Sam is at the present time our “Y” secretary. These promotions are held several times during the year.

Observer Features Gen. Smith Article
A feature article concerning Gen. Wm. A. Smith, 65, appeared in the Charlotte Observer for Sunday, January 15, under the caption, “Gen. Wm. A. Smith—Confederate and Modernist.” There followed a story which told something of the life, war experiences, education, and philosophy of this great man. The article was illustrated by two pictures, one of them was of the General and the other was a view of his ancestral home in Ansonville. Portions of this article about this prominent character are as follows:

“The public attention which settled on the celebration of the 90th birthday on January 11 of General William Alexander Smith, commander of the North Carolina division of Confederate Veterans, aroused the popular interest to such an extent that it makes appropriate a review of his life and character.

“The conclusion was that he, more than any other veteran in the state perhaps, is typical of the modern citizen in thinking and action while at the same time remaining a typical Confederate. Were it not for recent apprisement the casual acceptance would see him only as a typical Confederate since,
(Continued on page 6)

Gala Affair Will Be Held at Charlotte Armory; Three Entertainments to Be Held
MUCH INTEREST SHOWN
Mulliss and Mebane Will Lead Figure as Council Representatives

Special to The Davidsonian
Terpsichore will revel on tap this weekend, Art Kassel and his Kassels in the Air furnishing the bla-bla. This superlative aggregation of the followers of Orpheus is noted for its capability in the production of melody, harmony, and mad orgies of rhythm. During the past season they have performed at one of Chicago's outstanding hostelries, the Bismark. I quote a Chicago daily, “Dispatches reaching us by dog-sled inform us that Art Kassel and his boys are to terminate their migratory passage south in Charlotte, N. C., where they will lead in the mid-winter festivities of Davidson College students. Our felicitations to these students. Their party should prove to be the very center of the maelstrom of the far-famed Southern conviviality. Art, one of our city’s favorite sons, carries our benediction with him on this tour and the assurance of a warm welcome upon his return to Ole Chi.”

Let me be more specific. Pan-Hellenics are to be staged in Charlotte, North Carolina’s famed Queen City of the South, on Friday and Saturday, February third and fourth. They are to number three—a formal dance 'twixt the hours of ten and two on Friday evening, a tea dance Saturday afternoon from five until seven, and an informal function from nine until the “witching hour.”

Rumors, which seem pretty well founded, indicate that innumerable girls will be here for the big party—the cream of our section’s feminine pulchritude—and that’s something. Young gentlemen, you have, in all probability, long since concluded that your scribe, the Davidsonian’s new foreign correspondent, is a novice in the field of journalism. Well, my friends, you were never more correct in your life. As a matter of actual fact, this is my initial foray into the journalistic field. I offer the above in explanation of this extremely unorthodox composition. I'm all steamed up about these dances. Only yesterday at a consultation of the leading physicians of this region my high blood pressure was, by unanimous vote, attributed to over-excitement caused by anticipation of the dances about which I propose to write.

The formal dance on Friday night will be featured by a Pan-Hellenic figure in which two members of each fraternity will escort
(Continued on page 3)

Rev. J. M. Walker to Be Next Leader of Vespers
Earned Distinction While a Student Here as a Leader and Athlete

It has recently been announced by Sam Wiley, “Y” secretary here, that next Sunday’s vespers will be conducted by the Rev. J. M. Walker, of Steele Creek, North Carolina. The Reverend Walker should occasion considerable interest among Davidson students, since he is one of the college’s foremost alumni.

The Rev. J. M. Walker is now the pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Steele Creek. For the last twelve years, he has been minister at this church, which has the distinction of being the largest rural Presbyterian Church in the country. Before his call to Steele Creek, the Reverend Walker was pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Marlington, West Virginia.

While at Davidson, he earned great distinction as a student. He was a graduate of the class of 1907, and was president of his class as a Senior. In athletics, he was a player on two major teams, being tackle in football, and pitcher in baseball. Due to his active and vital connection with his Alma Mater, he is known as a true Davidson alumnus, and his talk is being looked forward to with great anticipation and interest by many students.