Dr. Raynal Speaks At Sunday Vespers
Inspires Students to Improve Existing Conditions Through Christian Religion

GOOD ATTENDANCE
Audience Hears Scholarly and Inspiring Talk

At the weekly vespers service last Sunday evening, a large audience enjoyed a short talk presented by Dr. C. E. Raynal, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Statesville. Dr. Raynal, well known to many of the Davidson students, proved himself to be a profound scholar and a powerful speaker. Bob Coit was in charge of the service and Tommy Phifer led in prayer. The singing was conducted by Hubert Morris, with special music being rendered in the form of a piano solo by Kenneth Scott.

Dr. Raynal chose as his text the sixteenth verse of the fifth chapter of Ephesians, “Redeeming the time because the days are evil.” Elaborating on this text, Dr. Raynal stated that conditions in this world are far from ideal, “Our living conditions, our associations with our companions, and mainly, ourselves, are not at all what we would like them to be.” Stress is placed on the word “because,” in the text. Because things are not as we would like them is more reason that we should look to God and trust implicitly in Him. A President of the United States once stated, according to Dr. Raynal, that the recovery of the world would not be due to economic recovery, but to spiritual reawakening. In conclusion, Dr. Raynal reiterated the words of his text, “Redeeming the time because the days are evil.”

Ping Pong Match on Schedule This Week
Annual Match Drawing Large Group of Competitors for Prize

The annual Davidson College ping-pong tournament is now in full swing. Forty-five of the students of this institution are battling it out in the ping-pong room of the Y. M. C. A. this week for the honor of champion ping-ponger of Davidson. The winner of last year’s tournament graduated in June and by so doing left his title here to be won by the winner of this year’s contest. Harry Mixon was the winner of the last tournament.

Boys from the Freshman class to the Senior class are listed in the playing column. Football players, track men, basketball players, and tennis players are to be engaged this week in seeking after this honor, which will show that ping-pong is the game by which to prove what type of sport produces the best men. A list of the pairings and the winners of what few matches have been played are posted in the hall of the Y. M. C. A. By referring to this diagrammed form of the procedure of this tournament you may see who is ahead and whether or not football produces better men than the other sports.

The prize to go to the winner of this year’s tournament is five free passes to the Davidson picture show. These interesting contests between contestants for the title of champion ping-ponger may be witnessed every afternoon and night for the next week.

Fresh Game
As announced in The Davidsonian last week, the Davidson freshman eleven will meet the N. C. State freshmen on Richardson Field, Friday, October 13. The game will begin at 3 o'clock. State brings a powerful freshman eleven here, and the Wildkittens expect a hard scrap. Coaches Laird and Peabody will, in all probability, use the same line-up that started against Lees-McRae.

With the Social Fraternities

SIGMA PHI EPSILON HOLDS INITIATION:
Ben L. Moore, a member of the Senior class, was initiated into the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity last Tuesday night, October 3.

T. U. Os HOLD INITIATION:
Frank E. Parker, a member of the Sophomore class, was initiated into the Theta Upsilon Omega fraternity last Thursday night, October 5.

KAs EXPECT VISIT FROM DR. POTEAT:
The local chapter of Kappa Alpha fraternity is looking forward to a visit from Dr. H. M. Poteat this weekend. Dr. Poteat is a professor at Wake Forest College and is commander of Smith Province, to which Province the Davidson chapter belongs.| Robert N. Page Dies | After Long Illness | Page Was Brother-in-Law of Miss Cornelia Shaw, Davidson’s Librarian |

Robert N. Page, brother-in-law of Miss Cornelia Shaw, librarian, passed away at his home in Aberdeen, N. C., October 3, after a prolonged illness. He was 73 years old. Page was a prominent man in the financial, economic, and civic life of the Sandhill section and labored ceaselessly and faithfully in building up that part of the state. He was an able statesman, representing the seventh district in Congress for fourteen years, and an able businessman, having been outstanding in the business and industrial interests of the state. He was president of the Page Trust Company for seven years. Above all, he was an upright Christian gentleman and will be greatly missed. He was the brother of Walter Hines Page, Ambassador to Great Britain during the World War.

Eu’s Discuss Hitler And His Intolerance!

At the regular meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society Tuesday night, an extemporaneous debate on Hitler and his actions toward the Jews was the central part of the program. In this spontaneous discussion, it was brought out that no nation could prosper when its intolerant actions were disapproved of by her sister nations. Speculation as to the future of Hitler himself ranged from his starting a major conflagration to his being assassinated within a year. Another portion of the program was directed toward the installation of new members. A large part of the Freshman class intellect was inducted, much interest evidently being shown this year. The topics for discussion this year are unusually attractive and students will find it worth their while to attend.

DR. WALTER LINGLE MAKES ANNUAL TOUR (Continued from page 1)

“The Church and the Secular World.” At 2:00 o’clock in the afternoon, he spoke to the Auxiliary of the Synod. He spoke again that night on “Liberal Arts College and Christian Education.” On Wednesday, at a luncheon of old Davidson men, he gave his audience some idea of present-day life in the college. Dr. Lingle is expected back in Davidson the latter part of the week.

Freshmen Set Pace Erecting Bleachers

Freshmen have completed the erection of the bleachers on the local field. Aided by the forethought of the present Sophomore class in storing the bleachers both alphabetically and numerically, they were erected faster this year than ever before. Ten working days were consumed with approximately an hour and a half of work each day. The bleachers are being painted at present so as to be available for the large crowd that is expected for the V. M. I. game. If necessary, four thousand people can be accommodated.

Convincing Testimony

WEBSTER’S COLLEGIATE is the Best New Webster. See it at your college. G. & C. MERRIAM CO. Springfield, Mass.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 11, 1933

© 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Tell me something. What makes a cigarette taste better? What makes anything taste better? It’s what is in it that makes a thing taste better. CHESTERFIELDS taste better because we buy ripe tobaccos. These ripe tobaccos are aged two and a half years—thirty months. During this time, the tobaccos improve—just like wine improves by aging. CHESTERFIELDS taste better because they have the right kind of home-grown tobaccos and Turkish Tobaccos “welded together.” We hope this answers your question.

Chesterfield: the cigarette that's MILDER, the cigarette that TASTES BETTER.

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP “WHEN BETTER HAIR CUTS ARE INVENTED WE’LL INVENT ‘EM”

“DRUGS” A Complete “SUNDRIES” “Make Our Store Your Store” Reliable Prescription Druggists WHITE DRUG COMPANY “SODA” Drug Store “PRESCRIPTIONS”

WILDCAT SHOE SHINE SHOPPE Ted’s Place

“STATIONERY” CALLING CARDS PROGRAMS FRATERNITY PAPERS Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates See BILL JOHNSON @ 203 Watts Standard Printing Company @ Garland Court CHARLOTTE, N.C.