THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1933

Colorful Colorado
By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

(NOTE: The article appearing last time marked the close of “Trekking West.” However, feature articles will be written about other
interesting places visited, from time to time.)

Californians are the most modest people on earth when it comes to telling about their state. They never praise it
because they hate publicity and if a person chanced to repeat it, they said it would embarrass them greatly. However,
in spite of this, I am going to describe the trip to Lake Tahoe because this spot was most impressive
to me.

After spending the night at the Parkway Hotel in Reno, we departed the next morning for Carson City. Reno was
the most prosperous-looking place visited on the tour and is known as “The Biggest Little City in the World.” Swinging
through a great ravine out from Carson City, we saw Lake Tahoe embedded like a jewel between two great ranges
of the Sierra Nevadas. This lake snuggled away in the mountains is so blue that one is tempted to dip
a pen in it and its waters are pure enough to be used in car batteries.

BEAUTIFUL LAKE TAHOE

The colorings of the water are extraordinary. From a pale green at the shoreline, they blend into a brilliant hue
and in the distance become a royal purple. We drove along the shore of the lake for fifteen miles and
stopped at Globins resort to take some pictures. There we met several teachers from the Science Department of the Syracuse,
New York, School, who told us some interesting facts about the lake. There is only one lake in the world
above its altitude that is larger.

Before leaving the southern end of the lake for the open country, we passed hundreds of beautiful summer homes, traveling
on a highway that sometimes overlooked the lake from panoramic heights, other times at the lake level, and often passed
through wondrous stretches of forest.

THE ROYAL GORGE

Another interesting place is the Royal Gorge of Colorado. A description of the West would not be complete without mentioning
this great attraction. Here the world’s highest bridge spans the grand canyon of the Arkansas River. It is suspended 1,053
feet above the rushing river and is “Dedicated to Those Whose Hearts Beat to the Grandeur of Nature.” This giant
crevice fills one with fear, with delight, with reverence and meditation. Clouds come to rest on the snow-capped mountains surrounding
it and one looks down, down, and down into the giant chasm where the water rushes below. It defies description
with its grandeur and majesty. One becomes lost in thought while admiring this spectacle for it is said to be
the grandest thing in Colorado. The magnificent mountains, dark woods, and the awfulness of the gorge recall the passage from
Dante's Inferno:

“There is a place within the depths of hell
Called Malebolge, all rock, dark stained,
With hue ferruginous, e’en as the steep
That round it circling winds.
Right in the midst of that abominable region yawns
A spacious gulf profound.”

Next, we “Sagebrushers” had dinner and then followed the Gunnison route via Monarch Pass. For a thrill, drive a car
1,200 feet in the air on a narrow Colorado mountain road! Mountains! Colorado! Colorado! Mountains! How well the two go
together.

OUT OF THE PAST

La Veta Hotel in Gunnison where we stopped was a good example of a hotel built during the days of
the gold rush. It was an old building but it looked as if it had seen better days and I
know if it could talk it would have some interesting things to tell. The place used to be a thriving
center, but now it is a ghost town. Many of the houses were empty and most of the buildings had
not seen paint for 30 years. The lobby which used to be a scene of bustle and confusion is now
dark and gloomy and gas lights spurt from its handsomely carved panels and throw strange and fantastic figures on the
bleak walls. The rooms were large and frightfully bare. The bed was of solid mahogany as were all the furnishings,
and the heavy canopy over our heads was covered with fine but faded drapes. I rather enjoyed it, but Daddy
said the place depressed him and the next morning was glad to leave. “I felt like I was going to
have an attack of appendicitis in that place any minute,” he declared.

He leaned out to explain to every hitchhiker we passed after leaving Georgia that we were loaded, but had to
give it up as a hopeless job when we neared Los Angeles. Daddy had his watch set to Waycross time
and in the mornings while driving over the desert would say, “Get up, Jack, it’s six o'clock.” I would manage
to dress and then find out it was only four o'clock by my watch. However, this was necessary because on
the desert the heat is so intense it is best to travel in the early morning and at night, for
a rest period has to be called in the middle of the day.

Many amusing things happened. One day a well-dressed lady standing in front of us at a Los Angeles cafeteria asked
for milk. The waitress questioned, “plain or pasteurized?” The other replied, “I want cow’s milk.” The waitress was a regular
Zazu Pitts and she sighed, “Lady, they both come from the cow.”

THREE DANCES FEATURE ANNUAL JUNIOR SPEAKING
(Continued from page 1)

Indications show that there will be a large number of girls present and the anticipation of spring and beautiful weather
points to a big success. The members of the student body are urged to invite girls for the occasion and
to take advantage of an economical and mostEnjoyable weekend. Junior Speaking has come to be an annual affair at Davidson
and marks an occasion that is one of the crowning social events of the year. The social season has been
more or less cramped because of expenses, and it is believed that the committee acted wisely in engaging the Southernaires
rather than an outside orchestra.

Drama League
The Drama League Travel Bureau, a non-commercial organization, has at its disposal scholarships covering full tuition for the six weeks’
summer session at the Central School of Speech and Drama, affiliated with the University of London. These scholarships are primarily
intended for students interested in literary and drama study, but are also given for the more important purpose of promoting
international understanding. We are very eager that the donors of these scholarships shall not be disappointed in the response to
the unusual opportunity offered to American students. Students of the theatre and teachers of drama and its allied arts are
eligible to come before the committee on awards, and application blanks may be obtained from the League’s headquarters in the
Hotel Barbizon-Plaza, New York. We welcome all letters of inquiry concerning the granting of scholarships.

Dr. C. W. Davis Speaks at Y. M. C. A. Vespers
(Continued from page 1)
The same principle that applies to science also applies to literature. The people of today have insufficient faith in the
writers of contemporary literature. A type of literature based on a certain idea soon is followed by another type based
upon an entirely different idea; thus, the leadership of our authors is discredited.

"And we have seen just as marked a change along theological lines as in scientific and literary lines," continued Dr.
Davis. "The time will come when we will search deep into the purposes of our leaders who are controlling our
country, especially in the political world, where we find men who have been selling out the interest of our country
for a few almighty dollars."

The speaker then pointed out that we of today are facing chaos in every field, and that the leaders of
the future must be willing to put service before self. In connection with this statement, he told the story of
a certain wealthy manufacturer of Atlanta, Ga., who gave his three million, five hundred thousand dollar plant to his workmen
as a contribution to his fellowman. In closing, the speaker stated that the college men of today should endeavor to
build a sane, balanced, and righteous society for the advancing age.

French Plays Are Given Before Large Audience
(Continued from page 1)
M. William Hart rendered several organ numbers, some of which were: Les Cloches de Ste. Anne de Beaupre, by Russell,
and Massenet’s Meditation from Thais. Lanier Pratt gave a feature number on the program, La Poule et ses Poussins, after
playing it on a record made by a Harvard professor. Les Mademoiselles from Converse were excellent in their parts. Miss
Florence Pitts was the lawyer, Pathelin, and Miss Lois Hamilton, his wife. The draper was well portrayed by Miss Anna
McGowahan, and Miss Marion Finaly was fine in her role of the shepherd. The judge was played by Miss Helen
Pugh. The remainder of the cast consisted of “sergents, bourgeois, and peuple.” Le Cercle appreciates the cooperation of faculty members
and their wives of other departments, who assisted in the arrangements and who loaned articles of clothing. Professors Cumming, Erwin,
and Fulcher helped drill the cast and arrange the scenery and properties; John Marvin was in charge of an able
body of make-up artists.

Rev. Donald H. Steward Will Speak Next Sunday
“When Youth Goes Collegiate” is to be the very interesting subject of the talk given next Sunday night at the
Y. M. C. A. vespers service, when the Rev. Donald H. Steward, pastor of the Oakland Presbyterian Church at Rock
Hill, S. C., will speak. The Reverend Steward is an alumnus of Davidson. Dr. Steward has seen much of the
world. He was born in Mexico City and moved at an early age to England, where he was educated in
the great English public schools. At the age of sixteen, he came to this country, spending three years at Davidson.
He took his A.B. degree at the University of Louisville, and, upon continuing his work there, he took the degree
of Bachelor of Divinity at the Louisville Theological Seminary. Again crossing the Atlantic, he studied at the University of Edinburgh.
Here he was given a pastorate and remained until called to return to America as a minister in Birmingham, Alabama.
Thence, he went to Rock Hill and has been there for the past ten months.

Dr. Steward is a very young man and takes an especial interest in student problems; consequently, his address will strike
close to the hearts of the students.

A survey made by the Associated Press has shown that the new football rules, designed to prevent injuries and fatalities
in college and other football games, have resulted in cutting college fatalities alone.

When smokers keep buying the same cigarette day after day, it’s a pretty good sign that they’re getting what they
want: mildness, better taste—a smoke that’s the same. So we’re going right on making Chesterfields just as we always have:
selecting choice, ripe tobaccos, aging them, blending and cross-blending them, making them into cigarettes in the most scientific ways that
are known. As long as we do these things, we know that smokers will continue to say, “They Satisfy.” For
that’s what people are saying about Chesterfields. If you smoke, why not find out about them? A package or two
will tell you the whole story.

Chesterfield always
© 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
THEY’RE MILDER — THEY TASTE BETTER
