THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 5, 1933

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago:

FIVE YEARS AGO
John Currie, holder of the state dash record, was chosen head of the Athletic Association for the coming year. Carl Pritchett and Tom Brohard were elected vice-presidents. The R. O. T. C. Department was inspected by officials of the army staff from Washington, D. C. They began the inspection in the classroom and finished on the drill field. In the recent student body elections, Brown McQueen was named editor-in-chief of the Chameleon, a literary publication, and Aubrey Prown was selected as editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian, the college weekly. Ten neophytes became members of the Reporters’ Club when that organization held its initiation last Friday night. Davidson's track team lost a dual meet to N. C. State by the score of 73 to 53. The high spot of the meet was the running of Captain Currie and Heath Whittle. The local battalion of the Reserve Officers Training Corps was awarded the highest average on the distinguished rating with a grade of 92.43 percent. Coach Younger’s diamond artists left for a six-day invasion of Virginia last Monday.

TEN YEARS AGO
On April 7th, the student body unanimously voted to abolish all forms of hazing. The ballot came at the close of a three-month period during which hazing was experimentally abandoned, and the Court of Control was adopted as a means of handling the Freshman class. The faculty showed its appreciation by granting the student body an additional holiday. The gymnasium Saturday night was the most successful item of the festivity and was a glorious climax for the weekend.

Mu Beta Psi
At a recent meeting of Mu Beta Psi, a national musical fraternity, the following men were issued bids to become members of that organization: J. T. Blair, A. M. Cunningham, R. E. Conoley, W. M. Hart, S. M. Hines, H. H. Hodgin, D. P. McLain, W. M. McIlwain, M. R. Pop’, W. A. L. McKeithen, Jake Mackorell, and Frank Pucker. These men will be initiated at a meeting of the fraternity to be held sometime in the near future. Officers for the coming year will also be elected at this meeting.

Eumenean Literary Society Has Unusual Meeting
A varied and delightful program was presented to the Eumenean Literary Society on Tuesday night, March 28. Upon President Charlie Moore calling the meeting to order, he led in prayer, followed by the roll call and the reading of the minutes. Current events, given by Martin Barnett, were representative of the leading news items of the day and were well presented. He gave the leading arguments of the “Wets” and “Drys” about beer, which is to be legalized April 7. Then he stated that Amos Woodcock, national prohibition director, is concentrating his efforts on stopping up speakeasies. President Roosevelt at his first press conference was the next topic. The new President cast aside all precedent in the informal meeting, letting the reporters ask him questions, in addition to making informal statements. He was cheered heartily at the end of the meeting. In conclusion, Barnett mentioned the very significant remarks of Professor Smith, of the University of Toledo. He said that the great majority of rural road accidents are due to the lack of judgment on the part of the driver. Out of two hundred and thirty-three accidents considered in a recent survey, one hundred and twenty-seven were known to have been caused either by carelessness or indecent road manners on the part of the driver. Ed Hodge then read a very interesting paper on “The Relation of Chemistry to Water Works.” The processes that water goes through making it fit for municipal use were discussed.

NEW STAFF OF EDITORS TAKE OVER DAVIDSONIAN
(Continued from page 1)
Ben Rose, of Fayetteville, is a member of the literary life of the college through his column “The Davidsonian” last year, and will have the opportunity to exercise his talent this year as athletic editor. He is also serving on “The Yowl.” His leadership has been recognized and utilized in the “Y” work.

SMYRE AND WEEKS ELECTED TO LEAD SENIORS, JUNIORS
K. D. Weeks, of Rocky Mount, is a member...of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, and is president of the rising Junior class. He held the position of secretary-treasurer of the Sophomore class; made his numerals in baseball, and was elected to the “Beaver Club.”

Tommy Phifer, Mims Rogers, Walter Sprunt, K. D. Weeks, and Lee West were the nominees for the presidency of the 1934 Junior class. In the absence of Gordon “Skip” Brown, president of the Sophomore class, who was away on a debating trip, the voting was in charge of Joe Wadsworth, vice-president of the class.

Voting in all three elections was close. The closest was the voting for the presidency of the Sophomore class of next year, which resulted in a deadlock. Bill Bowman, Addison Brown, Dick Mayworth, Gill Murray, Dick Parker, Bob Richardson, and Archie Shuford were the nominees for the office, all of whom, with the exception of Parker and Richardson, were eliminated on the first ballot.

Jerome Clark, president of the student body, conducted the voting of the freshman class.

New Officers Chosen For Volunteer Band

The Student Volunteer Band met at the regular hour Sunday afternoon, April 2, to elect officers for the coming year. Francis Scott, of Tsinanfu, China, was elected president. Gammon, of Lavras, Brazil, was chosen as vice-president, and Harvey Ross, of Patzcuaro, Mexico, as secretary-treasurer, succeeding Bob Woodside and Francis Scott, respectively. At the recent state-wide conference held at Greensboro, Bob Coit, of Richmond, Va., was elected treasurer for the State group at large.

The local band of the Volunteers is composed of those students who are either planning to go to the foreign field and serve as missionaries, or are interested in missions and wish to become better acquainted with their organization and purpose. To arouse interest in missions, the band sends out deputations to spread the message of the foreign field; and to foster closer relations between the groups in the colleges, the churches arrange exchange deputations between institutions. The chapter's new leaders have outlined a study of the much-discussed “Thinking Missions,” and take this opportunity to extend a cordial invitation to any who would care to associate themselves with the band in this study, and in its other activities. The Volunteers meet every Sunday afternoon at 1:30 in the Social Center.

Mock Trial Features Phi Society Program

C. A. McNeill, acting president of the Philanthropic Literary Society, was impeached at the regular meeting on Tuesday night, March 2. The trial featured a startling expose by the prosecution of conspiracy among officers of the organization. The motion for impeachment was made by Courtney Ross, who accused the vice-president of contempt of authority, claiming that he had asked President Will Rachal to leave the hall in order that he might preside over the meeting. McNeill yielded the chair to H. W. Lucas, and the trial followed. Ross served as prosecuting attorney and W. W. Johnson acted as attorney for the defense. S. F. Marsh and W. L. Fugate were the most brilliant affair ever staged at Davidson. The Black Cat Cabaret, held in the

(Continued on page 4)

Headquarters sends out good music and good songs 6 nights a week to 50 million people from coast to coast... with the voice of Norman Brokenshire... just about the best announcer in this country... to tell you “Chesterfields are milder and taste better.”

...You sit at home in easy chairs, behind closed doors, while from a sound-proof room... perhaps thousands of miles away... comes the music that you listen to on the Chesterfield program.

Why is the Chesterfield Program broadcast 6 nights a week over a coast-to-coast network reaching 50 million people? Because we want every smoker in this country to know that Chesterfield cigarettes are milder. We want to tell every smoker from coast to coast that Chesterfield cigarettes taste better... We want everyone to know that they can depend on a Liggett & Myers product.

THEY’RE MILDER—THEY TASTE BETTER

© 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.