DEBATE WITH EMORY FRIDAY

The Davidsonian | Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

YOWL TO APPEAR SOON

Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 15, 1933 No. 18

DR. R. E. ROTH GIVES LECTURE ON TRAVELS OVER SOUTH AMERICA

Dr. T. W. Lingle Introduced the Lecturer With a Brief Survey of His Attainments

ILLUSTRATED BY SLIDES

The Lecturer Told of Many Fascinating Episodes of Travel

Last Monday night Dr. Robert E. Roth delivered a travelogue accompanied with brilliant lantern slides entitled, “Wonderlands of South America.”
Dr. Roth conducted his audience over an imaginary route through South America. The lecturer began the “journey” from New York,
by boat, and, sailing down through the Panama Canal, he arrived at Ecuador. The trail continued from here up the
Andes to Quito; from here to the capital of Ecuador; then into Peru to the capital, Lima; on into Bolivia,
to La Paz; thence along the coast of Chile to Valparaiso; and on to famous Buenos Aires, capital of Argentina;
then, through the City of Butantan, to Sao Paulo of Brazil; and finally through the Brazilian jungles to the South
Atlantic Coast.

On this trip, the lecturer told of many fascinating episodes of travel. He told of the weaving of Panama hats
in Ecuador, which get their name from the fact that they were formerly shipped from Panama. He explained about the
cacao industry, houses built on stilts, and of transportation and open-air markets. Also, Dr. Roth told of the remains of
Pizarro preserved in a glass sarcophagus; of llamas, the pack-animals of South America, which will consistently refuse to carry a
load of more than a hundred pounds; of Inca ruins of Cuzco in Peru, the stones of which are so
nicely fitted together that it would be impossible to fit a knife blade into them; of the nitrate fields of
Chile; of the Christ of the Andes which was erected to commemorate a boundary dispute; also Dr. Roth told of
Sugar Loaf Mountain, of the producer-to-consumer-direct method of milk delivery, and of the miles of palm-lined, mosaic-paved avenues of Rio
de Janeiro, and of many other fascinating items of travel lore.

Dr. T. W. Lingle introduced the speaker with a short summary of his attainments.

Dr. Lingle Returns From Speaking Tour

Makes Numerous Talks on Missions in Various Floridian Cities on Speaking Tour

At chapel Thursday morning the students were delighted to see back in his customary place their president, Dr. Walter Lingle.
For over three weeks Dr. Lingle has been on a speaking tour in Florida, having left here on January 14th
and returned February 9th. The group of thirteen men and women, called “The Florida Chain of Missionary Assemblies,” of which
he was a part, was composed mostly of distinguished missionaries from all over the world, representing practically all phases of
mission work. This body was chosen for the purpose of acquainting the people of Florida with the problems confronting the
missionary world of today. It was quite an honor bestowed upon President Lingle to be chosen as one of this
group. His part of the work was the con- (Continued on page 6)

Drive for 1937 Class

Information was received Monday from the office of Mr. Hengeveld, registrar, to the effect that some five hundred cards concerning
the prospective students of the class of 1937 have been turned in by the students of Davidson. These cards were
distributed among members of the student body two weeks previously. Each prospective student will receive a letter from the registrar
containing a bulletin and other information concerning Davidson. Mr. Hengeveld stated that the number of men already enrolled in the
class of 1937 exceeds the number of 1936 students listed on the books at this time last February.

Four Deputations Are Sent Out by Y.M.C.A.

Y. M. C. A. deputations grew to an unusually large number this week, and included several Student Volunteer missions. The
first was sent to Charlotte, where Sam Nicky and Ben Rose spoke at the Y. M. C. A., Nicky talking
to the younger boys and Rose to the larger group. This work is under the direction of the Boys’ Work
Department, which meets at 2:30 on Sunday afternoon. During the last week in this month and the first week in
March, this department will call on the Davidson “Y” to aid in the “Come Clean” campaign to be conducted in
city and county schools at this time.

The second deputation was to the First Presbyterian Church in Cornelius. Jake Mackorell led this meeting, a young people's meeting,
which was held at 6:30 Sunday night. Mackorell spoke on, “The Good Samaritan,” and Bob Orr furnished the special music,
a violin selection, accompanied by Avery Patton.

The Student Volunteer Band sent deputations to Mooresville and Statesville. At the First Presbyterian Church in Mooresville the speakers were
Pon Scott, Rufus Morrow, Harvey Ross and Carleton Chapman. They brought before the church the need of the missions, and
stressed the duty of the church in the time of such a need. In Statesville, Ordley Gammon, Jim Wilson and
Bob Woodside spoke at the Front Street Presbyterian Church. Rufus Morrow also spoke Sunday morning at the Charlotte First Presbyterian
Sunday School on the subject of the work in Mexico.

Dr. Williams Speaks at Sunday Vespers

Men as Subject of His Address “I Can”

An unusually inspiring service was enjoyed by a large number of students at the regular “Y” vespers last Sunday night.
Those who had the pleasure of hearing Dr. C. O. Williams, prominent pastor of the Statesville Avenue A. R. P.
Church of Charlotte, and president of the Charlotte and Mecklenburg Ministerial Association.

Ed Humphrey led the services and introduced Dr. Williams. Prayer was offered by Charles Bettis and Hubert Morris. This was
followed with a voice solo by Grainger Williams, accompanied at the piano by Ed McNair.

The text of Dr. Williams’ address was taken from Numbers 13:30, “And Caleb stilled the people before Moses and said,
‘Let us go up at once and possess it; for we are well able to overcome it.” He briefly explained
how the Children of Israel sent out twelve leading men, all spies, to look over the land that God had
promised them. Ten of them were impressed principally with the strength of the inhabitants, this, in their eyes, overshadowed the
wonderful riches of the land. “And we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their
sights,” they reported. But Caleb and Joshua, the other two, were not dismayed. They, also, had seen the gigantic size
of the inhabitants, but they knew that the God who led the Children out of the bondage of Pharaoh, mighty
sovereign of his time, the God who led them through the seemingly impassable Red Sea, could, with ease, give them
victory over the giants of Canaan. And so they, having faith in God, were ready to enter the land. Nevertheless,
the Children sided with the ten, and, as a result, they had to wander forty years in the wilderness. The
other ten men were condemned to die there, never reaching Canaan. Thus God deals with those who have not faith
in Him.

The world is divided into men who can and men who can’t, the cans and the can’ts. Dr. Williams told
of his entering college, and, because he was not prepared, being given a six weeks’ trial period. He naturally was
overladened with work to make up his deficiency. In geometry he had heard that if every theorem is not learned
the student absolutely could not pass. During the course of his studies, due to the excess of work, it became
necessary for him to leave out half of his book. Consequently it appeared that he would fail, but he kept
on trying. When the exams were over, fearing to go himself to the professor for his grade. Great was (Continued
on page 6)

Davidson Debating Team to Hold Initial Debate

Series of Matches Finished by Riflemen

ANNUAL JUNIOR PROM TO BE HELD WEEK-END OF MARCH 10th AND 11th

Skip Brown and Leland McKeithan Will Uphold the Negative Representing Davidson

AT 7:30 IN AUDITORIUM

Inter-Allied War Debt Cancellation Will Be Subject

The Forensic Council of Davidson has announced that on Friday evening at 7:30, in Chambers Auditorium, a debate will be
held between Davidson College and Emory University. The question to be debated is one of current interest. It is, Resolved:
That the United States should agree to the cancellation of the inter-allied war debts. At this late hour the speakers
for Emory, who hold the affirmative, have not been learned. Davidson will be represented on the negative, with “Skip” Brown
and Leland McKeithan as the speakers.

The judges have not been announced yet, but it is expected that they will be professional and business men of
Charlotte. There will be three in number.

The constructive speeches will be ten minutes, and the rebuttal will last five minutes. Emory is sending two speakers and
one manager who will be entertained by the Council during their stay here. As this is the initial debate of
the year, and being one that should be of interest to those who have been following this question, it is
hoped that a large crowd will be present.

Davidson is planning a busy year, as they have secured thirteenWil- debate manager, announces, will take them to some of
the largest colleges in the country. Debates, liams, I. R. C. INITIATES NEW MEN TO MEMBERSHIP | World Events Club
Attempts to Obtain Count Carlo Sforza for Lecture Series

Last Friday night at the weekly meeting, the Freshman debating team is planning to go to Banner Elk to engage
in a debate there at an early date. They completed a series of correspondence matches with several leading rifle teams
throughout the country. Among those with whom matches were held were the University of Georgia, to whom they lost by
a very narrow margin. The scores of the other matches were comparatively close, but all resulted in a loss. These
teams, which are rated among the best collegiate teams in the country, were the University of Maryland, Mississippi State, Georgia
Tech, University of Wyoming, and College.

As was reported in The Davidsonian last week, the rifle team had already engaged in several matches, but the scores
of all of them had not at that time been obtained. It will be remembered that the team had heard
from the matches with Washington and Lee and Michigan State, and that Davidson was victorious by a good margin over
both. However, all of last week’s matches were not in our favor as we were beaten by the University of
Washington, A. and M. College, and New Mexico Military Institute, the latter school barely eking out a victory. Inasmuch as
all men out for the rifle team have yet not handed in their scores, it was necessary that a five-man
team be picked for last week’s competitive matches. These men are, in order, as follows: Green, G. L.; Simpson, T.
O.; Scott, F. M.; Smith, J. M.; Brown, P. F.; the latter being the captain of the team.

Spanish Fraternity Interesting Talks on Southern Republic Given During the Course of the Program

The regular meeting of the local Spanish Club took place in its club room in Shearer Hall last Wednesday, February
8th. Jack Williams, Jr., was in charge of the program for the evening, which consisted mostly of a series of
short lectures centering around the study of America with special emphasis on the Republic of Argentina, a decision having been
reached that this meeting was to be dedicated to this particular study. These lectures were given both by students and
two members of the faculty. This club was the idea of and is controlled by the Davidson chapter of Sigma
Delta Pi, national honorary Spanish fraternity, the purpose and function of the club being to take as its members those
Spanish students whose interest and work warrant them a probable bid to the national organization when and if they fulfill
the necessary requirements.

The first of the talks of the evening was presented by Fred Smyre, who took as his subject, “The History
of Argentina.” The second of the talks was given by Blanton Little, who spoke on “The Literature of Argentina.” The
third and last student speaker was Robert Woodside, whose lecture was on “The Independence of the Spanish Colonies of South
America.” The fourth feature of the program was given by Professor Fleagle in a very interesting and enlightening address on
“Buenos Aires.” The conclusion of the meeting was in the form of a set of Spanish games on the parts
of the body, Professor Goldiere conducting these games. Both Professor Fleagle and Professor Goldiere, members of the Spanish department, are
faculty members of Sigma Delta Pi.

Mr. B. Hargraves to Be Vespers Speaker Prominent Chattanooga Lawyer Will Give Talk to Davidson Students Next Sunday Night

The speaker for Sunday night vespers will be Mr. Boyd W. Hargraves, a prominent Chattanooga lawyer. Mr. Hargraves is to
be in Charlotte Sunday afternoon where he will speak at one of the seven mass meetings sponsored by the Y.
M. C. A. there. The speakers for this program in Charlotte are among the very best in the South, such
as Dr. Lacy and others.

(Continued on page 6)

Southernaires to Play Set of Three Dances Presented at Charlotte Hotel Will Feature Entertainment

Attractions Will Be Given at Davidson

The weekend of March 10th and 11th has been set by the Junior Speaking Committee and the Pan-Hellenic Council as
the date for the Junior Prom. Junior Speaking is an annual event at Davidson and it is always anticipated with
a great deal of interest and enthusiasm. The class of ’34 plans to make the party this year the best
ever held on the campus. The Charlotte Hotel will furnish the brilliant setting and some of the events planned for
the weekend are: a formal dance Friday night, a luncheon or banquet in the banquet hall Saturday, an entertainment Saturday
afternoon, followed by a tea-dansant. The last of the series of three dances is scheduled for Saturday evening and it
will last until the midnight hour. Each of the ten social clubs on the hill will hold house parties and
their respective functions will round out the weekend festivities. The idea of the committee is to make the party this
year as different as possible from those held in the past.

Reeves Pope and his Southernaires have been engaged to play. This popular Davidson orchestra is gaining quite a reputation and
the orchestra should contribute a great deal to the success of the weekend. Those in charge are anxious to give
the best dances possible and at the same time make them reasonable in price. The Red and Black Masquers, the
college dramatic club, will probably present a comedy or farce Saturday afternoon as part of the afternoon’s entertainment. This production
will be given in the large auditorium and some of the club members will take the various roles.

Lanier Ward Pratt, president of the Junior class, announces the following committee to assist in the preparations: Charles May Jr.,
decorations; John William Lafferty, advertising and tickets; Lynn M. Huie, crowning of the queen; and E. L. Powell, local entertainment.

Third Issue of Yowl Will Appear March 1 Staff Has Obtained Permit to Mail Copies as Second Class Matter

The third issue of the “Yowl” will appear on March 1st. This was announced recently by Arthur Ross, business manager.
This issue will be shorter than the former issues, but will contain more cuts in the form of humorous drawings,
and so forth. The staff believes that this is a decided improvement. The staff also announces that they have obtained
a permit from the postal authorities to mail the “Yowl” as second class matter, thus those not living in dormitories
will receive their copies through the mail. The fourth and final issue of the “Yowl” will be published on May
1st.

I like the system of government in the United States, chiefly because it is non-democratic. I like the way a
President is elected and stays, no matter what the people may think about him.—Sir John Foster Fraser.

Junior College Tourney

Davidson has been chosen as the place for the State Junior College Tournament, to be played on February 23rd and
24th, in the form of an elimination series. There are eight schools entered, including Belmont Abbey, Presbyterian Junior College, Weaver
College, Rutherford College, Boiling Springs College, Wingate Junior College, Lees-McRae, and Mars Hill Collegiate Institute.
