THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1933

Social Fraternities

S. A. E’s CELEBRATE 50TH ANNIVERSARY:
Sigma Alpha Epsilon celebrated the 50th anniversary of the founding of the local Theta chapter. The celebration was in the
form of a dinner-dance given at the Charlotte Country Club on May 6. A short talk was given by Dr.
J. W. MacConnell on Sigma Alpha Epsilon in general and the golden anniversary. Dr. J. M. Douglas was the only
member present who was in Davidson at the time of the founding. He was a freshman at that time. There
were about seventy-five in attendance, including members of the local chapter, their girls, alumni and their wives, and several guests
from nearby chapters. A color scheme of purple and gold was carried out. Charlie Myers, toastmaster, made the address of
welcome to the guests.

The following guests were present: Professor and Mrs. E. J. Erwin, Dr. and Mrs. Archie Currie, Dr. and Mrs. J.
W. MacConnell, of Davidson; Mr. W. R. Cely, Mr. H. T. Mills, John Powell, Bill Thaxton, Reedy Rivers, and Miss
Eleanor Cely, of Greenville, S. C.; Mr. W. T. Covington, Mr. Nat Speir, Dr. and Mrs. A. G. Brenizer, Mr.
and Mrs. H. W. Moore, Mr. and Mrs. Sam Smith, Major and Mrs. James Martin Crawford, Dr. and Mrs. Elias
Faison, Mr. Charles Tillett, Misses Cortlandt Preston, Janet Mather, Peggy Foreman, Sophie Stephens, Elizabeth Johnson, Vera Oates, of Charlotte; Dr.
Scott Lyon, Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Douglas, of Davidson; Miss Roberta McKinnon, of Hartsville, S. C.; Miss Cynthia Barnes,
of Anderson, S. C.; Misses Elizabeth Minus and Bobbie Bennett, of Greer, S. C.; Miss Mary Bess VanLandingham, of Scotland
Neck, N. C.; Miss Margaret Crawford, of Rome, Ga.; Miss Virginia Staples, of Athens, Ga.; Misses Sara Stephens and Margaret
O’Hanlon, of Winston-Salem; Betty Woodward, of Quincy, Fla.; Miss Claire Robertson, of Durham. Music for the occasion was furnished by
the club orchestra.

K. A.’s SPONSOR RIVER HOUSE PARTY:
Kappa Alpha fraternity sponsored a party last Saturday at the lodge of Mr. Davidson on the Catawba River. Boating and
swimming were enjoyed in the afternoon and dancing at night. A sumptuous supper was served in buffet style. Chaperones were
Miss Sara Jameson and Dr. Tom Sparrow of Charlotte. The following guests were present: Misses Miriam Cannon, Betty Gay Coltrane,
Zibba O'Dell, Ellen White, of Concord; Carolyn Hammond, Virginia Carey, Betty Hunter, Amelia Webb, Eleanor Hayes, Catherine Crowell, Miriam Steele,
Maria Drane, Celia Wadsworth, Mildred Brown, Eleanor Killick, Grace Lawing, Frances Matheson, Virginia Pegram, May D. Marion, of Charlotte; Louise
Melchor, Louise Bell, of Mooresville; Katherine O’Farrell, of Kings Mountain. At the regular meeting of the chapter on May 4,
Baxter Yarbrough was initiated into the fraternity.

BETA’S ATTEND DISTRICT REUNION:
Representatives were sent from the local chapter of Beta Theta Pi to the district reunion held at the University of
Virginia last week. This district is composed of Washington and Lee University, University of Virginia, University of N. C., and
Davidson. The representatives were Rawling Pratt-Thomas, P. B. Beachum, Latimer McClintock, Byron Schriver, and Grainger Williams. Plans are being made
for the annual senior house party which is to be given next Saturday at Mr. Davidson’s lodge on the Catawba
River.

KAPPA SIG’S PLAN DANCE:
Members of the Kappa Sigma fraternity are making plans for a dance to be given in Mooresville next weekend. Music
is to be furnished by the Davidson orchestra.

MAJOR AND MRS. RHETT ENTERTAIN PI KAPPA PHI’S:
Major and Mrs. John T. Rhett entertained with a party for the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity at their home on
N. Main Street last Friday evening. About forty young people were in attendance. At a late hour a buffet supper
was served. The room was attractively decorated with roses and candles. Mrs. G. R. Vowles and Mrs. J. R. Withers
assisted Mrs. Rhett in looking after the pleasure of her guests. Visiting brothers from Duke attending the track meet invited
were: Brownlee, Fulmer, Reichman, and Landon.

When a man commences to feel what it is to be young, he is beginning to grow old. —Hearn.

Phi and Eu Societies Choose New Leaders
Next year’s officers of the Philanthropic Literary Society were elected at the meeting of Tuesday night, May 2. Wilbur Fugate
was elected president; Courtney Ross, vice-president; S. F. Marsh, secretary; W. C. Neal, treasurer; R. W. Johnston, supervisor, and C.
A. McNeill, critic. A short program was opened with a relation of current events by John Vass. Humorous selections were
rendered by McNeill and Johnston.

At the meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society last Tuesday, May 2, the election of officers was held. The elections
were as follows: President, Hugh Hawkins; vice-president, Don Bailey; secretary, W. B. Singleton; treasurer, Edward Hodge; critic, R. T. Banks.
The election of officers is held three times each year, except the election of treasurer, which is held once each
year. These officers will be installed before the end of this school year and will serve the first part of
next year.

Y. M. C. A. RETREAT
Members of the retiring Y. M. C. A. Cabinet spent the weekend at Montreat, enjoying the annual “Y” retreat.

Socialist Group
Rev. Tom Hamilton spoke to the Socialist group on “Hitlerism or“Internationalism” last Wednesday night. In his talk, he stressed the
dangers of nationalism such as exist under the present German government, and the Christian ideal of international cooperation. Professor Kenneth
Foreman will speak to the Socialist group Wednesday night, May 10th.

French Club Chooses Next Year’s Officers

The Davidson French club, “Le Cercle Français,” held a meeting on Wednesday, May 3, during which officers were elected for
the coming year. Lanier Pratt was elected to serve as president. The other officers elected were as follows: Robert Coit,
vice-president; George Gullette, secretary-treasurer, and Madison Armistead, steward. The meeting was featured by a six-reel moving picture of scenes taken
in France, Germany, and the Scandinavian countries. A friend of Dr. and Mrs. Watts took the pictures; his occasional appearance
in them added personal interest to the films.

Eta Sigma Phi Holds Convention April 28

Ed McNair Represents Local Chapter at Conclave in St. Louis, Mo.

Ed McNair attended the national convention of Eta Sigma Phi, which was held April 28 and 29 with Alpha Xi
Chapter at Washington University in St. Louis, Mo. The convention was primarily made up of social activities interspersed with business
sessions and lectures. Dr. Roy C. Flickinger, head of the classical department of the University of Iowa and editor of
the Classical Journal, delivered a lecture on Friday, April 28. The subject of his lecture was “The Future of the
Classics.” On Friday, the Alpha Xi Chapter of Eta Sigma Phi presented “Mostellaria Ploutus” in a very pleasing manner. Dr.
Frederick W. Shipley, of the Latin department of Washington University, delivered a lecture at the annual banquet of Eta Sigma
Phi on Saturday night. Eta Sigma Phi is a national honorary classical fraternity. It is made up of men who
excel in the study of Latin and Greek. Ed McNair was last year elected Megas Epistolographos, or National Corresponding Secretary,
of the fraternity.

MASQUERS TO OFFER PLAY BY OSCAR WILDE

(Continued from page 1)

A typical English governess who casts eyes at the Canon Chasuble. The group of English types is exceedingly well chosen
and their various personalities coupled with the sparkling dialogue, rich in Wilde epigrams, afford an amusing study. Mrs. E. J.
Erwin takes the part of Lady Bracknell and makes the most of her rich role. Miss Orrie Steele is to
be seen as Miss Prism, and her acting again exhibits her histrionic ability. Adele Arbuckle and Marjorie Hood imbue their
leading roles with beauty and charm. Miss Arbuckle was formerly president of the Dramatic Club at Agnes Scott and Miss
Hood has had wide experience in dramatics. The main male leads are played by Nicholas Moss and Wills Hollingsworth, who
give sophisticated parts a polish rarely seen. Bill Johnson and recruits from the Freshman class are cast as dignified English
butlers who intone their lines with the proper gravity. The mechanics of the play will be efficiently handled by Dave
Herring, stage manager; Ed Holt, property manager, and Don Stewart, electrician. Make-up will be in charge of John Marvin. The
play calls for three different sets and Professor Erwin has created an attractive English garden scene for the second act
background.

“We're settling things. SUPPOSE YOU TELL ME WHY YOU SMOKE GRANGER”

They used to sit down on a log and take the time to whittle their tobacco from a plug, to
be sure of having a cool smoke. “In those days, a man named Wellman, right here in Quincy, Ill., made
about the best tobacco you could get. He knew how to keep the flavor fine and mellow. Well, it’s like
this. Back in the old days, when men wore high hats and frock coats, they had plenty of time to
think things out, and they had sense, too.

© 1933 LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.

“Well, sir, the people who make this Granger Rough Cut acquired Mr. Wellman’s method, and they must have known how
the old boys used to whittle their tobacco to make it smoke cool. Yes, sir, this Granger is the real
stuff. The same mellowness and fine flavor that Wellman used to hand out to his friends. And it’s whittled into
big shaggy flakes all ready for the pipe. ‘Rough Cut’ they call it—‘cut rough to smoke cool’ is the best
way I can describe it. Regardless of price, Granger is about the best pipe tobacco I ever smoked. That’s why
I smoke it, and that’s why they call it America’s Pipe Tobacco, sir.”

Now we wanted to sell Granger for 10¢. It was just a question of how to do it for the
price. So we pack Granger in a sensible foil pouch instead of an expensive package, knowing that a man can’t
smoke the package. We give smokers this good tobacco in a common-sense pouch for 10¢. The Granger pouch keeps the
tobacco fresh.

GRANGER

GRANGER has not been on sale very long, but it has grown to be a popular smoke. And there is
this much about it—we have yet to know of a man who started to smoke it, who didn’t keep on.
Folks seem to like it.

Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
