THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 1, 1933

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Associated Collegiate Press

1933 1944

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: $2.00 the Collegiate year. Ten cents per copy.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor L. GULLETTE
Managing Editor F. SCHENCK
Sports Editor W. M. HARRIS
Editorial Writer W. O. N.
Exchange Editor W. CLARDY
Feature Editor A. JACKSON
Feature Editor R. P. TAYLOR
Feature Editor A. C. WADSWORTH
Review Editor W. L. CLARDY
Associate Editor F. SCHENCK

BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager W. L. JOHNSON
Assistant Business Manager G. L. LEE
Assistant Business Manager W. L. HARRIS
Assistant Business Manager R. TAYLOR
Assistant Business Manager A. C. WADSWORTH

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1933

Men and nations can only be reformed in their youth; they become incorrigible as they grow old.
—Rousseau.

OVER-CROWDED PROFESSIONS

According to the American Bar Association, 9,500 new lawyers are admitted to the bar each year in this country, and yet only half that number are needed to maintain the 1930 census ratio. This was 191 lawyers to every 100,000 population. There were enough lawyers in 1930, yet every day twice the number needed are admitted to the bar. Dean Pound, of the Harvard Law School, declares that one of the economic wastes in this country comes from ill-trained lawyers, and those lacking professional spirit, who crowd the lower ranks of the bar and assume the time and energy of the courts.

The over-crowded profession has become one of the tragedies of American life. Young men laboriously fit themselves for certain work. Coming out of school, they find the fields in which they would like to work, and for which they are prepared in some manner, over-crowded. There is no place for them. The result often is complete breakdown in both morals and courage. It seems a great many boys, who might become good artisans, are spoiled by being made into poor lawyers, poor doctors, and probably poor preachers.
—W. O. N.

“NOW THAT I AM A MAN...”

Since the dawn of history man has endeavored to decorate his surroundings and ornament his body with colors, carvings, and other furnishings which have advanced from rough-hewn stone figures and simple clay daubings to the highly complex dress of our bodies and the intricate designs of the interiors and exteriors of the architectural structures that exist today. As the centuries passed each left its contribution to the sum of human happiness and culture. Of course, there were certain periods which added nothing and some which actually lowered the standard set by previous ages.

We, of the Machine Age, egotistically believe that the present civilization exceeds that of any past race or epoch. We, of Davidson College, feel with great complacence that we belong to that select intellectual group of rapidly maturing individuals who favor this sphere with our presence. Both these suppositions are rudely shattered when we discover the campus bedecked with such inappropriate and vulgar embellishments as was the case several times last week.

No one objects to having college boys show their exuberance at being alive. Some biological function is probably served by this letting off of animal spirits. There is, however, a limit, and the strewing of paper over trees and lawn in the most conspicuous places both as regards location and the time of week when perpetrated is certainly far distant from the zone of normal human conduct. We do not think that any Davidson students have such perverted esthetic senses as to gain any satisfaction from this spectacle. It is certainly not an edifying sight; it possesses no elements of humor; it cannot be said that it is an inherited instinct. Rack our brains though we may, we can find absolutely no reason for this pastime. It is crude, distasteful, and a reflection upon us who call ourselves college men.

There are certain unfortunate individuals residing in the dormitories who seem to be unable to suppress their animal instincts and are forced to give vent to these impulses by shriekings and wailings that run the gauntlet from the imitation of a fire siren to the baying of a lone wolf. It is only at night that these students practice their weird moanings. We heartily nominate all such offenders for oblivion. If they can be discovered in their lairs by some would-be student while indulging in their nocturnal diversion oblivion would be undoubtedly forthcoming. Consideration for others is a virtue that they would do well to cultivate.

Music is one of the gentlest and most respected of the arts. It boasts of legions of devotees. We realize that practice makes perfect and that only through constant effort can perfection be attained. There are, however, some ambitious souls who monopolize practically all of the afternoon in a constant endeavor to master some tune. The afternoon is just as much a time for study and rest for many as the night is for others. Any concentration is entirely impossible when some melody with which you are very well acquainted is mutilated in an attempt to master it. The music starts and then suddenly in the middle of a measure there is a low squeak or a loud squawk and the ardent musician, not to be denied, begins anew. This process is repeated until the listener (because he cannot help himself) is on the verge of nervous prostration. We wonder if mutes could not find a wider vogue. The full volume of practice notes is extremely wearing on one’s nerves and patience.

Superfluous decorations, wailings, and loud, inconsiderate music practice—the elimination of these will make Davidson College a much better, cleaner, and more comfortable place to work and study.
—R. P. T.

HARVARD DROPS TRADITION

Law and tradition continue to fall before the modern spirit of experiment. This is true even at conservative, tradition-bound Harvard University. When the college was founded, morning chapel was made compulsory and the chapel bells rang each day at seven. This continued for two centuries. In 1886 compulsory chapel attendance was abolished in response to student protest, but the seven o’clock bells continued, waking, it is believed, a few of the light sleepers. At last, however, President Conant, a liberal, has ruthlessly overridden tradition. The bells will not be silenced, nothing so drastic as that, but hereafter they will ring at 8:40 a. m. The shorter work day will be tried regardless of habit and tradition. Whether under this new arrangement more men will be taken into Harvard has not been revealed. In view of the various plans to spread the work, this would seem inevitable. However, the scheme may be in line merely with our efforts to cut down production. The experts possibly have determined that an hour and forty minutes of wakefulness at Harvard is equivalent to a certain fraction of a pig or row of cotton. In any case tradition has been swept aside and Harvard has embarked upon a radically new experiment.
—Welch Daily News.

TO YOUR COLORS
(From “The Prison News”)

Wake up, ye rooters! Chant your college yell!
Shrill whistles toot for kick-off: games begin!
The lure of football briskly casts its spell:
Each Alma Mater backs eleven men.

The classroom hound must learn to run an end:
The campus-poser strive to buck the line.
Gay banners wave: the fair ones will attend
And every mother’s son must “Rise and Shine.”

The question now arises: “Which will win?”
As sturdy youths, indeed, compose each team.
With gridiron sleek: determination grim
And each staid guard impassable, ’twould seem.

With keenest eye each coach selects each soul,
Who, steadfast, his position must defend—
And whisk the pig-skin closer to the goal—
And carry on unto the journey’s end.

Wake Forest, North Carolina, Duke and State—
And Davidson, a mighty five, indeed,
With each famed unit pondering its fate—
While coaches sweat for tactfulness and speed,

“Oh! Gods of Chance, be with us,” each implores,
And faithful ones in cheering chorus scream—
Until the season’s end with final scores:
Then all root for the winning “Tar Heel” team.

No. 27,868.

The Tulane Glee Club staged an informal football game in Guatemala on a tour and now the natives, who have gone “griddy” have hired Bill Penny of Tulane to coach a team there.

The department of bacteriology of Akron University paid students $1,600 for blood transfusions last year.

Ninety-five students, of which five are girls, are enrolled in the embalming course at the University of Minnesota at Minneapolis.

NEWS DIGEST

NAZI CHIEF SOUGHT

Heinz Spanknoebel, reputed to be the Nazi chief in the U. S., was being sought in New York under a warrant which charged him as falsely representing himself to be a German diplomatic agent. The warrant was sworn out personally by U. S. Attorney George Medalie. Spanknoebel has no diplomatic or consular status but has falsely purported thus.

FORD GIVEN ULTIMATUM

President Roosevelt and his aides have flung the ultimatum to Henry Ford. Ford must give up his financial figures or immediate action will be taken by the government. This action is to obtain affirmative compliance with the automobile code which Ford has refused to sign. The billionaire auto magnate may face prosecution unless he furnishes information about his plant.

INSULL VERDICT

The extradition charges against Samuel Insull, former Chicago utilities magnate, nowIn hiding at Athens, Greece, came to an end Saturday before the Grecian court of appeals. The decision of the court will be given Tuesday. Insull is a name fresh in the memory of many Americans who were swindled and cheated by his bond issues when he was the head of Chicago utilities.

ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATION

Other attempts have been made on the life of Governor Robert H. Gore of Puerto Rico, who has been the object of severe political attacks. The attempted assassination came as the result of several appointments that Governor Gore has recently made. Several bombs have been found about the grounds of his residence and threats of poisoning have been received.

GRAF ZEPPELIN

The globe-trotter of the world, Germany’s Graf Zeppelin, has pointed her nose out to sea again after visiting Chicago and Washington on its latest trip to the U.S. Clear weather is ahead as the Graf leaves for Seville, Spain, its first port of call. The Graf has crossed the ocean half a hundred times and has traveled over sixty thousand miles.

GOLD PRICE SET

The price of all newly-mined gold has been set at $31.36 an ounce as President Roosevelt continued his plan for money control and price boosting. The President plans to create a new level for domestic commodity prices and to free the dollar from foreign influence. The result of his most recent action was to move stocks upward and throw confusion into the foreign exchange markets.

BIGGER POPULATION PROGRAM

A new Fascist rite, “the consecration of nuptiality,” will be celebrated October 30 in Rome with the marriage of two thousand couples. The ceremony will inaugurate the twelfth year of Fascism and will exalt the program of Premier Mussolini for a bigger population. The simultaneous marriage will be the largest of its kind ever held and will help to give the world an idea as to the power of Fascism.

LITVINOFF OFF FOR U.S.

Maxim Litvinoff, Russian commissar of foreign affairs, left Moscow Thursday on a trip to the United States in order to discuss the problem of Russian recognition with President Roosevelt. The commissar’s departure was veiled with mystery when he slipped away by special train via Berlin. He refused to discuss any plans or make any statements as to the probable outcome of the parley.

CHASE BANK CALLED LAX

Senator Couzens, Republican from Michigan, before the senate banking committee in the concluding session of its inquiry into Cuban loans, called the Chase National Bank officials lax in trying to protect the security-buying public. His declarations came after a Chase officer’s report of tremendous graft in the floating of bonds to finance public works in Cuba.

INFLATION

Talk of inflation is still the order of the day and credit expansion goes on despite the buying of gold. However, the concentration of the administration’s price lifting efforts on its gold price level will occasion no change in the credit expansion program. The dollar devaluation through raising the price of newly-mined gold, which the government will buy, succeeded last week in promoting moderate buying in stock and commodity markets. The credit expansion is expected to help business activity and escape the retarding factor of uncertainty over the future status of the dollar itself.

WASHINGTON & LEE

Explaining the significance of the 38 answers to a questionnaire sent to 45 students this summer in an effort to obtain some idea of student expenses, Dr. Robert H. Tucker, dean of the university, made the statement: “Although the survey is too limited to justify any generalization, it does indicate that Washington and Lee is not unduly expensive, and that the student who exercises self-control in expenses can go through school for $750 or less.”

From the Background

Dear Editor,

They tell me that that was some game in Raleigh last Saturday and that our own cats did well to earn a tie with the state boys thanks to the alert and elusive Mackorell and the fine establishment of the entire Davidson team. I heard that Wingfield tackled McQuage once and told him that one was for Sgt. Kirby who was with the state star in Clemson last spring. Last Friday T. F. Neal cut a class and Saturday he got a card charging him with three cuts. It seems there was to be a review during the period and it preceded an away-from-home game. Doubled and redoubled. Heath Whittle was in a sweat Friday when he tried to gather his freshman cross-country runners only to find that the second and fourth ranking ones had become homesick and gone to see their mothers. Did you know that Count Ilia Tolstoy was or is an SAE? Skating, that is roller skating season, is in the offing. It seems that Gin Thompson and Lib Rhett have revived the students' interest in the sport. Did you know that versa vice is vice versa of vice versa but that vice versa is vice versa of versa vice and not versa vice vice versa of versa vice? The best one-word description of P. D. Guerrant is harpo. At state they call Gullette Gillette and Legeare is pronounced Legree and not Legare. Further south they pronounce Martin Mawtin. Saw Wee Thompson among those who took advantage of the training let-off. The football squad was hunting freshmen Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday. Hunting freshmen who carried matches. T. H. McCallie joined the ranks of students who occupy the limelight with his speechmaking Monday morning. Eb Willson and Buck Kirkland have a time coaching a football team. Eb does the coaching and Kirkland tries to help him by using business tactics. Famous final words: “Colon, come up to see me sometime,” Randy.

FINE SHOWING OF BAND IS PRAISED

(Continued from page 1)

Barium Springs Orphanage, on asking for a concert, wrote as follows: “Be sure and bring that high-stepping drum major with you; he’s the best I’ve seen anywhere.” Several other congratulations have been received. Among them are one by James C. Harper, director of the famous Lenoir Band, and from Rev. Gordon Spaugh, of Winston, who writes: “I have seen football games and college bands in all sections of the country, but the Davidson Band is superior to any that I’ve seen.” Several newspapers carried comments on the band’s performance at the Duke game. Some of them were the Spartanburg, S.C. paper, the Charlotte News, and the Greensboro News.

“QUADWRANGLERS” HOLD MOCK TRIAL

(Continued from page 1)

This club meets once each month, but beginning November 1st, every second and fourth Thursday afternoon at 4 o'clock the club will have a social hour and light refreshments will be served. These club meetings will continue throughout March. It was announced that Dr. T. W. Lingle would be the speaker in November.