THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 25, 1933

W. & L. WRESTLERS HERE NEXT MONDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

WINTER FOOTBALL PRACTICE SESSION BEGINS

With the examination period ended, Davidson’s winter sport teams have resumed competition this week. Eight contests are listed for this
week’s calendar. Tuesday both the varsity and freshman basketball teams clashed with court teams from Wofford College in the Davidson
gym. The same night the Wildcat wrestlers opened their 1933 schedule in Lancaster, Pa., in a match with Franklin and
Marshall College’s matmen.

Thursday night, Davidson’s freshman basketball team will journey to Salisbury for a return game with the high school team in
that city. While Coach Unger’s wrestlers are entertaining the Washington and Lee grapplers in the Davidson gym next Monday night,
the varsity basketball team engages Furman University in Greenville, S. C.

Davidson Basketball Team Defeated in Six Encounters

Wildcats Lost to Duke and Carolina by Overwhelming Scores

To date the showing of the Davidson varsity basketball team has been anything but encouraging, having met defeat in all
of their six encounters. The Charlotte “Y”, Furman, North Carolina, Duke, and Erskine all boast victories over the local quint,
with the first named team having two wins to their credit. The Wildcats put up good scraps in the Erskine,
but were completely snowed under a heavy barrage of sharpshooting when they opposed the Charlotte “Y”.

Charlotte “Y” 37; Davidson 27

In the opening fracas the Linkmen of Charlotte “Y” tripped “Flake” Laird’s 1933 model Wildcat basketeers on the local floor
37 to 27. The game was fast and interesting with the “Y” leading 14 to 9 at the half. Edwards
of Charlotte was high scorer of the game with eleven points, while Peabody and Harris each garnered seven to top
Davidson’s scorers.

Charlotte “Y” 37; Davidson 29

In a return game with the lads from the Charlotte “Y” the ’Cats again suffered defeat, but showed improvement. The
second game was almost a repetition of the first one, and the Linkmen bagged the contest by 37 to 29.
Up until half time, Davidson was keeping pace with the “Y,” the score being 17 to 15 at intermission. Villas
of the “Y,” with thirteen counters, led the scoring. Holland caged nine points to be high man for the ’Cats.

Next Tuesday night, the varsity basketeers will meet its second South Carolina foe in Spartanburg, S. C., taking on Wofford
College, while the freshman team will amuse the Davidson students by clashing with Belmont Abbey here.

Furman 44; Davidson 30

In a nip and tuck affair that was interesting from the first whistle until the final gun, the Furman “Purple
Hurricane” gave the Davidson courtmen a 44 to 30 lacing. Led by the uncanny shooting of Nau, who garnered twenty
points during the fray, they were considerably better than the Wildcats. Harris led the Davidson contingent with twelve points.

North Carolina 56; Davidson 18

Carolina, led by Aitken and Weathers, All-Southern players, completely routed the Wildcat pentagon in Charlotte by the overwhelming score of
56-18. The score at half time was 36 to 9, and at no time did Davidson threaten the Tar Heels.
Harris of Davidson was high scorer of the evening, closely followed by Weathers and Aitken, who took in eleven apiece.

Duke 58; Davidson 14

Close on the heels of the lacing given them by North Carolina, the Davidson five was knocked into a cocked
hat by an especially strong aggregation from Durham, wearing the colors of Duke University, by the one-sided score of 58
to 14. The game belonged to the Blue Devils all the way through, and at no time did the Wildcats
show any flash. Thompson of Duke led the barrage on the basket with twenty-four markers. Lafferty was high for Davidson
with six.

Erskine 33; Davidson 32

In the last contest before the ’Cats took to their lair for a ten-day period of exams, they were nosed
out by a fighting crowd from Erskine, 33 to 32.

Many Davidson students and alumni were greatly disappointed by the action taken by the Southern Conference in its recent meeting
at Richmond, Va., in not admitting Davidson into its membership. Many thought Davidson’s chances of getting into the Conference would
be great, especially since the split was effected, but once again things looked different when the group decided to limit
its membership to the ten colleges already entered.

There will be no reason for disappointment when you consider the circumstances which influenced the decision of that body. One
of the chief reasons the split in the old Southern Conference was effected is that the body was too large.
There were twenty-three teams in it. At the Richmond meeting, the first of the group as a new conference, no
less than seven colleges made application for membership. The conference would not have benefitted a great deal by the split
if it had admitted the seven schools. The conference did the most logical thing and flatly refused membership to any
of the applicants. Had there been only three, or possibly four applicants for membership, we actually believe that the conference
would have admitted the schools and increased its membership to thirteen or fourteen colleges. But we hardly believe that it
will ever allow itself to grow into a 17-college, or greater, conference again.

At the Richmond meeting, the conference did not definitely limit its membership to ten schools, but rather indicated that the
limit would be expanded. A committee of three was appointed to make recommendations by September 1st for any college which
might be admitted at that time. That Davidson stands a good chance of being recommended by the committee is not
in the least doubtful. We base our opinion upon the fact that the Southern Conference recently tightened its scholastic requirements
for athletes, until the new rules approach the regulations which have been in effect here at Davidson from times remote
from our memories. A committee which finds a school that has had for some time regulations similar to those which
have just been put into effect by the conference will surely not fail to recommend that school. Once Davidson is
recommended before the body, we do not believe that members of it will deny her admittance. Before Duke, Carolina, N.
C. State, V. P. I., W. & L., V. M. I., South Carolina, and Clemson would blackball Davidson from the
Southern Conference, surely they would refuse to allow their athletic teams to meet those from Davidson.

Freshman Basketball Team Elects Sanders, Windham as Co-Captains

Sanders, of Gastonia, and Hack Windham of Laurens, S. C., were elected co-captains of the Freshman basketball team at a
meeting of the fifteen candidates out for the yearling team recently. The two will alternate as acting captain in coming
freshman games.Sophomore forward, led his teammates in individual scoring for the first six games played by Davidson's basketball team this
winter. Harris scored 15 field goals and 13 free throws to take the lead with 43 points, which was ten
more than the number scored by his nearest teammate. Captain Bruce Peabody was second with 33 points and John Lafferty
third with 29. Peabody gathered his total by scoring nine field goals and 15 free throws, while Lafferty’s total came
from 11 shots from the floor and seven from the free throw line. The points scored by Harris and Peabody
were more than half the number chalked up by the entire Wildcat team. Eight of the ten men who have
seen action in one or more games have compiled 150 points by making the basket 50 times from the floor
and a like number of times from the foul line.

Varsity scoring:
Players: G. FG. FT. Total
Harris 6 15 13 43
Peabody 6 9 15 33
Lafferty 6 11 7 29
Thomas 6 6 8 20
Dickerson 5 5 2 12
Wagner 3 2 1 5
Westcott 3 2 1 5
Boucher 0 3 3 6
Total 50 50 150

Fraternity Basketball Contests Start Tonight

The initial game for the preliminaries of the Interfraternity Basketball Tournament will be played tonight when the Phi Gams meet
the Kappa Sigs. After that, the preliminaries will proceed as follows: the Phi Delts vs. the Kappa Alphas on Friday,
January 27; the S. A. E.’s vs. the S. P. E.’s on Monday, January 30; the T. U. O's vs.
the Betas on Tuesday, January 31, and the Pi Kappa Alphas vs. the Pi Kappa Phis on Wednesday, February 1.
The winners in the first two groups will then play, and the victor of that contest will play in the
finals. The winning team from the victors of the next two groups will play the winner of the last, thus
determining the other team to play in the finals.

From Due West, S. C., namely Erskine College, by a 33 to 32 verdict. The game was a honey from
start to finish, no great margin separating the teams at any time, and the lead constantly shifting. Paker’s unerring eye
put Erskine in the win column, and made him high scorer of the game with twelve points, followed by Captain
Peabody of Davidson with ten.

NOTICE
Have your shoes rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Work done while you wait.
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY
“20,000 YEARS IN SING SING” — SPENCER TRACY — BETTE DAVIS
THURSDAY
“THE SON AND DAUGHTER” — HELEN HAYES — RAMON NAVARRO
FRIDAY
“SECOND WIFE” — SALLY EILLERS
SATURDAY
“BILLION DOLLAR SCANDAL” — ROBERT ARMSTRONG
MONDAY
“HARD TO HANDLE” — JAMES CAGNEY

Both Windham and Sanders were members of the Freshman football team this fall. Windham, a regular, played a tackle position,
and served as alternate captain of the eleven. Sanders, who plays a forward position, was a member of the Darlington
School team last year. Windham, who is a guard, played basketball for the first time last year with Gastonia High
School.

Forty-five Men Report For Football Practice
Many Varsity and Freshman Stars Answer First Call Monday

Last Monday Coach “Doc” Newton called all candidates for the 1933 varsity Davidson football team to come out for spring
football. Forty-five promising candidates answered the call, and this crowd was much larger than the coaches had anticipated. Uniforms have
been issued and light workouts have been given the players. Signal practice, blocking, fundamentals of offensive and defensive technique have
been given the players with harder work to come later. The workouts have been naturally short, due to the fact
that supper has been at 6:00 P. M.

’Cats Leave to Meet South Carolina Foes

Coach Laird and his Wildcat basketeers will leave January 30th for a two-day trip in South Carolina. They go first
to Greenville, where Furman will be the foe, then on the night of the 31st, it will be Wofford at
Spartanburg. The Wofford quintet is now leading the race for championship honors in South Carolina, and even though Furman stands
fourth they have an excellent five. These will both be tough foes. Coach Laird says, however, that his boys are
rapidly improving, and should be in good shape for their Palmetto trip.

A defeat at the hands of Furman earlier in the season has not been forgotten by the Wildcats, so they
will be seeking revenge Monday night. Lee West's services will be missed for the remainder of the season due to
an injured ankle, but Wagner is again eligible and will be ready for the call against the South Carolina teams.
Two full teams will make the trip, including Captain Peabody, Boucher, Lafferty, Harris, Holland, Dickerson, Wagner, Ross, C. McLean and
Yelverton.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
Richmond, Virginia
B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., LL.D., President

A graduate of Davidson and of Union studying abroad writes: “There are able scholars here whose books are known and
read all over the religious world. None of them can surpass some of our professors at Union as teachers, and
none of them can challenge a student to joyous, practical Christianity as did our professors there.”

The coaches are going to arrange within the week to put the supper hour off a half-hour, so that more
time can be devoted to practice. The practice is for men of last year’s Freshman team, the varsity men who
are returning next year, and any men who want to come out for the team. Cathey, Windham, Pittman, Verble, Burns,
and other outstanding Freshmen, added to such an array of players as Captain Rives, Alternate Captain McElrath, West, Willson, Mackorell,
Morgan, Morris, Potter, Wingfield, Hutchins, Hand, and others, should give the coaches a secret satisfaction. Some of these boys have
their togs out and are going through their paces daily, having the fundamentals of the game grounded in them in
preparation for the ambitious campaign of next season.

College Printing
Magazines, Catalogs, Handbooks, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Engraved Cards and Invitations.
“PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE”
Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you
A. M. MANSON, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE
STANDARD PRINTING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.
6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing, Exclusively, Always Best

THE GREATEST UNDERWEAR VALUE
You can pay more than HANES costs—but you can’t get more. Just try to match HANES values. There’s the Gold
Label Light Weight Union Suit or Shirts and Drawers. SAMSONBACK Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war belt. That’s patented and
can’t be imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and Shorts in a variety that will make it easy for the most fastidious to
choose from. All at prices that will make you wonder how it can be done.
P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.
