THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 27, 1933

‘CATS TACKLE TARHEELS SATURDAY

Around the Wildcat’s Lair

SPECIAL TRAIN WILL CARRY STUDENT BODY

By CASKIE NORVELL

Ye Ed can hardly say that he has worked himself up into a frenzy of ecstasy over the way the
team showed up last Saturday in their initial tiff of the current season. The Elon lads put up a stubborn
resistance, and a cocky Wildcat came off that field not quite so cocky. Orchids go to Paul Pittman, sensational sophomore
halfback, and the redoubtable Eb (Schnozzle) Willson, star fullback. Pittman, playing his first varsity game, exhibited a display of heads-up
football that would do credit to veterans. His uncanny toe greatly aided the Davidson cause, as he punted out within
the ten-yard zone with consistency. Schnozzle opened his final grid year with his old-time form, ripping the Elon line every
time he carried the ball. His 33-yard jaunt in the third quarter was the outstanding individual performance of the game.
The rest of the team played good ball, with the work of Captain Rives, Cathey, and Potter being particularly outstanding.

The main trouble seemed to be the inability of the forward wall to take the Elon men out. Time and
again Davidson’s fleet backs were nabbed from behind before they had time to get started. However, Davidson didn’t do so
badly in comparison with what some of its opponents did. The highly touted N. C. State eleven was hard-pressed to
trim Catawba 7 to 0, and V. M. I. bowed to Emory and Henry, 20 to 0. William and Mary
had a tough time of it taking the measure of Randolph-Macon at 12 to 0. Virginia was tied by Hampden-Sydney,
as was Clemson by Presbyterian. V. P. I.’s Gobblers barely got away with their game against Roanoke College. So there!
Davidson didn’t do so badly after all. Nevertheless, those Elon boys made an A-grade monkey out of yours truly. The
only drawback a five-touchdown victory would have had would have been that our prediction would still be two touchdowns off.
Never again will the old boy underrate the Christians, and spot them three touchdowns. They’re playing football down there now.

Now that the Elon game is history, the eyes of Davidson supporters turn to the impending imbroglio with the University
of North Carolina Tar Heels, at Chapel Hill Saturday. This will be Carolina’s first game, and they are priming daily
for the ‘Cats. Carolina has a strong forward wall and a nice array of shifty backs, led by Croom, Woolen,
McCachren, Burnett, and Martin. These boys can play ball, but lack experience in play this year, and by all rights
the Tar Heel machine should not click smoothly in this opening encounter.

A special train carrying around two hundred or more Davidson students will leave here early Saturday morning, taking a Wildcat
cheering section to Chapel Hill. It is the plan of Hugh Hawkins, varsity cheer leader, to take the band, and
his able assistant cheer leaders, and really get behind those ‘Cats out there next Saturday. Many Davidson students will recall
how last year Wake Forest journeyed to Chapel Hill, decidedly the underdog in the pre-season predictions of the press, and
caught the highly thought of bunch of gridders from Chapel Hill entirely unawares, and came off with most of the
glory in playing the Tar Heels to a 0 to 0 tie. The situation seems to be the same this
year. And despite early failure as a gridiron prognosticator, the Ed takes the liberty to say that he thinks the
stage is set for a one-touchdown victory for the fighting Wildcats. Watch ’em, boys!

SILVER SCREEN (Continued from page 6)

start at the bottom and are shown through many hard struggles, and end on the top. Then the grandchildren come
along into the scene, and their affairs are shown. Madge Evans, Russell Hardie and Eddie Quillan as the young people,
with Madge Evans the wife of one of the grandchildren.

WILDCATS WIN OVER ELON IN LAST QUARTER

Pittman’s Pass to Verble Paves Way for Lone Score of the Game

TROPPOLI OUTSTANDING

Elon Christians Show Unforeseen Strength in Play on Defense

Showing an unforeseen stubborn resistance, the Elon Christians made the Davidson Wildcats content themselves with a 6 to 0 victory
in the opening game of the 1933 grid season for both schools. The game was played Saturday on Richardson Field
at Davidson, and was witnessed by about two thousand spectators. The Wildcats, expected to win by about three touchdowns, found
themselves hard-pressed to ring up one, that coming in the final period. A combination of two Sophomore backs was responsible
for Davidson's only touchdown. In the opening minutes of the final canto, Pittman passed to Verble for a 22-yard gain
which placed the ball on Elon’s 6-yard stripe. In two tries Pittman carried it over. His kick from placement struck
the goal posts.

Playing under cover of wraps during the entire game, Davidson delved into its bag of tricks but once during the
afternoon, that being the touchdown play which was worked on a “single wing-back in motion” formation. Aside from this one
play, Davidson stuck to straight football, and did not give the scouts in the stands much to work on. That
Davidson decidedly outplayed Elon is obvious from the statistics on the game. The 'Cats gained a total of 232 yards
from scrimmage, as compared with 60 for Elon. And in all departments of the game Davidson showed superiority with the
possible exception of the success of a wild passing attack on the part of the Christians that managed to click,
and form the nearest thing to a threat that the Elon boys showed all evening.

The Wildcats threatened once before their touchdown. Late in the first period, Schnoz Willson got away on a reverse, and
ran 22 yards to Elon’s 3-yard marker, only to fumble, and the ball was recovered across the goal for a
touchback by Newson of Elon. That stellar Sophomore back, Paul Pittman, stood out in the afternoon's play, and he was
closely pushed for honors by Schnoz Willson, dynamic Davidson fullback. Troppoli of Elon came in for his share of glory,
dumping Davidson players time and again. In the Wildcat line Captain Rives played his usual good game, and he received
able support from Cathey and Potter. Both teams used frequent substitutes, and Davidson’s entire fleet of pony backs, Ravenel, Hutchins,
Pittman, Willson, Burns, Pearce, Verble, and Wingfield saw action during the game. Davidson was severely handicapped by the absence from
the lineup of their triple-threat backfield star, Johnny Mackorell, Hickory flash, who was laid up with an injured knee.

Davidson made nine first downs to six for Elon. Davidson took command of things from almost the beginning, held entirely
in Elon territory, and did much the same in the second stanza, but with little avail, as the Elon linemen
constantly nabbed Davidson backs before they could get off. In the third quarter Davidson again took the offensive, and pushed
into Elon territory, but failed also to score in this frame. However, in the fourth period the Pittman to Verble
pass put the Wildcats in scoring position, and Pittman went over for the touchdown. The game ended with the Wildcats
successfully defending their goal against a last-minute frantic passing attack on the part of the Christians.

Elon (0) Position Davidson (6)
Bovard LE. Grant
Waters LT. Siewers
Latham LG. Cathey
Walser Center McElrath
Aumen RG. Rives
Gerringer RT. Hand
Brawley RE. Morgan
Newson QB. Ravenel
Stallings LH. Hutchins
Winecoff RH. Pittman
Neal FB. Willson

Score by periods:
Elon 0 0 0 0—0
Davidson 0 0 0 6—6

Scoring summary: Davidson—Touchdown, Pittman. Officials: Causey (South Carolina), referee; Ison (North Carolina), umpire; Brandt (Tennessee), headlinesman. Substitutions: Elon—Troppoli.

Eb “Schnozzle” Willson, Wildcat backfield star, who was outstanding against Elon.

OPPONENTS OF D. C. WIN, LOSE

Wofford and V. M. I. Beaten; State and W. & M. Triumph

Among the football games played last Saturday, four results will be of special interest to Davidson students, since in each
contest one of the 1933 opponents of the Wildcats took part. V. M. I. was swamped by a strong Emory
and Henry aggregation, who took the Cadets into tow by a score of 20 to 0. The date of our
game with V. M. I. is October 14. N. C. State, whom we are slated to take on on October
28, was held by Catawba to a one-touchdown victory, State winning 7-0. William and Mary showed strength by winning over
Randolph-Macon, 12-0. Davidson plays the Indians November 18. Another opponent, Wofford, was overcome by South Carolina by the lopsided score
of S. C., 31; Wofford, 0. V. M. I. looked bad as Emory and HenryCapitalized on every fumble that was
made. Taking advantage of every miscue, the Wasps obtained an early lead and repulsed every threat made by the Cadets
during the second and third quarters. In the fourth canto, they swung into action themselves to score twice more. The
Cadet defense seemed to be unusually weak, since many times during the game Wasp runners slipped through for long gains.
Their passing attack failed them in the pinches also, when they might have been dangerous. State seemed to be holding
something in reserve as the Catawba line held steady under straight football. Yet the Catawban offense was not without power,
threatening on several occasions. State, however, appears to have a powerful aggregation, which might threaten at will.

KITTENS OPEN SEASON WITH LEES-McRAE

Coach Laird Has Not Yet Announced Starting Line-up for Initial Game

DEFENSE IS WEAK

Junior College Will Furnish Opposition to Freshmen Friday Afternoon

Lees-McRae Junior College will furnish the opposition to the Wildkitten eleven Friday afternoon at 3:00 p.m. on Richardson Field as
the Freshmen start out on what they hope will be a most successful season. It will be especially interesting to
Davidson students to watch the proteges of Fred Dickerson, Senior here last year, perform for the first time under his
leadership against the Davidson Freshmen. Not much is known about the Lees-McRae team at this time since they have played
but one game, which resulted in a tie.

As to the Freshman team, however, the ‘Kitten backfield and line seem to be looking pretty good on the defense.
The offense could be improved, however, and the coaches plan to work on that phase this week. Peabody is having
a bit of trouble finding punters and passers. The starting backfield will probably consist of Shemwell at quarter, Olschner and
Peabody at the halfback positions, and Phil Cook at full. Corbin and Quick will probably be used in the backfield
also. The exact starting line is not yet decided, but Coach Laird will probably use the following men Friday: At
the guards—McLean, Melton, and Johnson. At center—Gracey, Purdy, or Reed. At tackle—Armfield, Patterson, and Vass. At end—Moore, Cathey, and Dickson.

SPECIAL FOR CHAPEL HILL

Arrangements for a special train to Chapel Hill for the Davidson-Carolina game September 30th are being completed by Hugh Hawkins,
head cheerleader, with the cooperation of Mr. R. H. Graham of the Southern Railway System. The train will leave Davidson
about 8:30 Saturday morning and will reach Chapel Hill at noon. On returning, the train will stop over in Greensboro
Saturday night for those desiring to attend the Duke-M.I. football game. A petition passed by the students asking for a
holiday on the 30th was presented to the Executive Committee, but it was decided by that body to give single
cuts to those missing classes on that day. All those planning to go to Chapel Hill on this special train
must register at once with Hugh Hawkins.

Earl and Wilburn Clary were the thorns in the side of Wofford as they scored four of the five touchdowns
made during the game. Wofford looked bad in this, their opening game. William and Mary started out on what might
be another strong year as they trampled the Randolph-Macon team into defeat. With two of her opponents winning by not
such large scores, and two others being at the bad end of some extremely lopsided scores, Davidson might be able
in some sort to guess what sort of luck her schedule holds for her this year.

“DRUGS” “SODA”

A Complete Drug Store

“Make Our Store Your Store”

Reliable Prescription Druggists

“SUNDRIES” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

Snap in tailoring, quality in the material, and all that’s up to the minute.

Collegiate Clothes for College Men, in Saxons, Glen Plaids, and Worsteds.

WE WELCOME YOU — MEN OF DAVIDSON

High Art Clothing Company

Next to First National Bank Building, Charlotte

DAVIDSON AND TARHEELS TO MEET SEPT. 30

Wildcats Have a Fast Backfield While Tar Heels Have a Strong Line

BIG FIVE CONTEST

Wildcats Exhibited Poor Offense Against the Elon Christians Saturday

Predictions point to a battle of mid-season proportions when Davidson and Carolina meet next Saturday at Chapel Hill in the
only Big Five contest of the day, both teams being intent on getting off on the right foot in the
state championship. The two teams are somewhat evenly matched, Davidson having one of the fastest backfields in the state, and
Carolina one of the strongest lines. Such Wildcat backs as Mackorell, Willson, Pittman, Verble, and Wingfield will form a running
attack which Carolina will find hard to stop. On the other hand, the Tar Heel veteran line lists lettermen and
averages 186 pounds. It has been showing up well in scrimmage, while some of the outstanding members such as George
Brandt at end, Bill Collins at tackle, and Charlie Rives, all-state guard of last year, who will captain the 'Cats
during the current season, are seen as having chances to become the finest players Carolina has had at these posts
in years. Several of the backs have been showing considerable running ability. Bill Croom, who averaged five yards in each
try with the ball last year, looks particularly good. Jackson, McDonald, and McEachern have been outstanding rookies.

Davidson has the best backfield material in the state, in the opinion of Coach Chuck Collins, of North Carolina University,
who sized up Big Five teams in an address before the Charlotte Rotary Club last Tuesday night. The Tar Heel
mentor, who last fall stood much criticism from university alumni because his football team lost to Duke for the first
time in forty years, stated followers of Carolina expected his team to defeat the Wildcats by three touchdowns. He considered
this alumni expectation a joke. Collins’ summarization of North Carolina’s Big Five teams follows:

“DAVIDSON has three of the best backs in the state in Mackorell, Wingfield, and Willson. Those boys can run. But
Davidson is having line troubles, particularly at tackles and ends. Davidson will have a pretty fair team and will beat
somebody they’re not expected to. I understand they have a new formation and offensive attack to spring on us. All
I know about it is that a back’s in motion. If there are any Davidson scouts present, they can tell
Doc Newton that.

“STATE has some mighty good men. Mope Cumisky is the best fullback in the state. Ray Rex should be a
great player but has never quite come into his own. Last year, not so hot on pass defense.

“DUKE without a doubt has the best balanced ball club in the state.

“CAROLINA has a very good line, five regular backs, and our toughest job is keeping down enthusiasm. Some of the
boys on the Hill want to bet we will beat Davidson by three touchdowns. That’s a laugh! We probably will
have about as good a team as we had in 1929, but we aren’t meeting 1929 opposition.”

WHAT ABOUT THAT TRIP?

Cars For Hire

Chevrolets

Gulf Gasoline

M. P. HENDERSON

Fords

MADE TO FIXED STANDARD

CS Shirts and Shorts

There is nothing miserly about the cutting of HANES Wonderwear. No skimping of a half-inch here and there. HANES Shirts,
Shorts, and knitted Union Suits (both light and heavy) always tally with the tape-measure. A size forty-two is a forty-two.
No Underwear could grow as HANES has grown, unless it offered comfort, quality, and style! You'll be happy in HANES!

P. H. Hanes Knitting Company

Winston-Salem, N. C.
