THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 20, 1933

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday.
Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Alumni Editor
Sports Editor
Editorial Writer
Feature Editor
Feature Editor
Review Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
L. GREEN - Assistant Business Manager
W. L. SPRUILL - Assistant Business Manager
R. TAYLOR - Assistant Business Manager
A. C. WADSWORTH - Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1933

The fate of empires depends upon the education of youth —Aristotle.

WELCOME

Welcome to Davidson, Class of '37. Davidson College has been waiting 96 years for you. You are to be an exceptional class because four years from now you will go out as the centennial Class of this school.

Davidson College was founded by Concord Presbytery of the Southern Presbyterian Church in 1837. It was named for General William Davidson, a brave Presbyterian patriot, who was killed at Cowan’s Ford, only a few miles from here, while in the Revolutionary forces under General George Washington. Doctor Robert Hall Morrison, father-in-law of Stonewall Jackson, was the first president of Davidson College. The school has not closed its doors since its founding, although during the Civil War students of sufficient age enlisted for military service and left the college.

Davidson has grown gradually from an infant of 1837 to a college of about 650 students. Its numbers have been rigidly restricted by college authorities because they have adopted a policy of making Davidson an ideal school for about 600 young men. Any increase of applicants for entrance in Davidson has been met in past years by a corresponding raising of entrance requirements. And this year entrance requirements have been more rigid than ever. There were more applications for admittance in the school than ever before, and since the college authorities wanted you, Class of '37, to be the most talented and best to have ever gone out from the institution, they have been stricter than usual in accepting you individually. Not one of you came here unrecommended.

Now that you are here, select members of the “Centennial Class,” much is expected of you. To finish here four years hence as the best to ever leave Davidson, you must make the best start ever made by a Freshman class, and you must begin now. You are now a part of Davidson. Davidson will have its influence and become a part of you. Develop early the Wildcat Spirit, that abstract power which instilled itself into all those who preceded you. You have come here to try to store up in your minds a great deal of valuable information concerning this world in which we live. While here you can develop yourselves morally, physically, and socially as well as mentally. How well you develop depends upon the efforts you make. Your Freshman year is a period of preparation and for that reason it is the most important of your four college years. Therefore get off to a good start and you will enjoy your stay here. Once again, “Centennial Class,” we welcome you here to take advantage of and enjoy the opportunities offered by Davidson College.

JOE “SHRIMP” MORRIS

Early this summer, shocking word came to Davidson students and alumni that Joe “Shrimp” Morris, promising young Sophomore athlete, had been stricken with infantile paralysis while playing baseball at Edenton, North Carolina. Those of us who had seen that tower of strength on the gridiron evading two blocking halfbacks to throw some dashing halfback for a loss, or tackling some punt-receiving quarterback as soon as the ball was in his grasp, or catching a Mackorell-thrown pass for a first down; or seen him drive a baseball beyond a fielder’s head to defeat some diamond foe, could hardly perceive of such a fate.

“No more,” the doctors say, “will Joe go upon the field to help some Wildcat team to victory. He’s through.” What, “Shrimp” through? No, you can’t make me believe that. Many a night the past two years a group of us listening would hear him in a boastful voice tell of what he was going to do in an approaching football or baseball game. And he went out and did it, but never would you hear him boast of it afterward. “Shrimp” will be back. That spirit of his will make him well. The Wildcats will take the field this fall without the chattering Morris at his regular end. His never-say-lose spirit will be with the whole team, however, and his teammates will be pleading, as Irish did for Gipp, “Let’s win this for ‘Shrimp’.” Morris has our sympathy as well as our hopes for his recovery. The popular athlete, who was elected vice-president of the Athletic Association and chosen captain of the 1934 baseball team, an honor seldom bestowed upon a rising Junior classman, was taken recently from a Baltimore hospital to his home in Hattiesburg, Mississippi.

MILITARY SCIENCE

Recently a Charlotte newspaper carried a headline stating that Military Science had been made optional at Davidson College. The headline was incorrect and caused the college authorities no end of confusion with their registration of new students, who refused to take the military course. “The papers said it was optional,” they protested, “and my people don’t want me to take it.” The story itself was correct but some caption writer neglected the details of the item and merely wrote an erroneous statement for its heading. Several years ago the General Assembly of the Southern Presbyterian Church recommended to the Synod of North Carolina to advise the Concord Presbytery to ask Trustees of Davidson College to make Military Science optional at Davidson. The Synod of North Carolina in its recent meeting made this recommendation and advised the Trustees to make R. O. T. C. optional with students here, having in itself no authority to force the college to do so. The optional matter is one for the Trustees of Davidson College, and not the Synod to decide upon.

Recently in an editorial, the Greensboro News stated that it “has never been able to understand, among many other things, how or why a church-controlled institution, presumably founded upon Christian philosophy in which life is held sacred, peacemakers are hailed as the children of God, and brotherly love is proclaimed as a supreme tenet, should teach Bible or hold chapel one hour and send its youth out, under compulsion, to learn how to march, drill, shoot and stab the next.” If the author of the above could have taken military training at Davidson, he would easily understand that the R. O. T. C. is a good thing. The government and the church do not vie with each other in its basic teachings in this college community. There are many benefits to be acquired from military training as well as from Christian training. Lessons in discipline, preparedness, loyalty, patriotism, and peers are just as important as lessons in Christian principles. Besides, is it not true that if there is another war we, who are now in colleges and schools, will be the ones who will have to fight it? General Smedley Butler told the Veterans of Foreign Wars in convention at Milwaukee recently, that all wars were made “by the Tories and fought by the rest of us.” Wars are made for the benefit of business, speculation, and profits, by the so-called leaders of our country who do not have to engage in combat; and the youth of the country have to bear the brunt. Suppose there is a war. We would have to go. What good would all the Christian principles which we learned here do if we have not learned anything about protection? Because we are receiving military training here does not mean that we will go out from here to start a war. We study military science so that in case there is a war, we shall be better fitted for it. The R. O. T. C. has a place in Davidson. Since the establishment of a unit here in 1919, Davidson’s rating among colleges has not been lessened. The majority of students here are glad of an opportunity to take R. O. T. C. They are not the ones who object, it’s the outsiders, who don’t understand military science. Instead of trying to make the training optional or of having it abolished here, Davidson friends should praise and recommend the unit, which last summer brought distinction to Davidson by winning first honors in proficiency among colleges of the South.

ALUMNI SECRETARY

The Executive Committee of the Alumni Council at its meeting May 29, selected D. Grier Martin, secretary of the Alumni Association, to replace Professor Ernest Beaty, who temporarily held the position and taught during the past year. The need of a full-time secretary was keenly felt since Ernest Milton resigned a year ago to accept a position at Barium Springs Orphanage. The Davidsonian considers the Alumni Council wise in its selection of a former editor, athlete, and O. D. K. member as its secretary. Martin graduated from Davidson in 1932, receiving Cum Laude. Last year he coached intra-mural athletics while working for his Master’s degree.

RATE YOURSELF

Intelligence is what you get from home. Common sense you must develop yourself. Learning is what you obtain in school. Knowledge is what the world hands you. Judgment comes only with the years. Experience is a bitter medicine administered by life itself, and must be taken with a bit of conscience. Wisdom is a phantom often chased but seldom overtaken. Success or failure are a matter of opinion. Reputation is the golden scale. Contentment the final objective.—Buckeye, Archbold, Ohio.

NEWS DIGEST

REBELLION

Less than two hundred miles from the coasts of these United States a situation is even now developing which our children will read in their histories. We are in the midst of change. Armageddon is here. Institutions once stable are now tottering. America, the stronghold of capitalism, is carrying out a socialistic experiment.

The Cuban rebellion is now dominating the headlines of all the papers. A growing murmur against the cruelty and bigotry of Machado resulted in the overthrow of his government, the death of his adherents, and the present chaotic condition of his country. The remainder of the episode thus far is well known. De Cespedes was elected to Machado’s office but his triumph was cut short by another uprising. The issue is still unsettled as mobs sack and burn in the streets. Demonstrations against American interference are frequent and there is some fear for the American populace, but thus far foreigners have not been seriously maltreated, and it is hoped that with the aid of the United States destroyers in Havana a serious calamity can be avoided.

We must wait as long as possible to let the Cubans try and arrange their own affairs. The mob spirit is ruling now, but is gradually on the wane.

SLEEPING SICKNESS

A modern black death which began in Greater SaintLouis is at last on the wane after claiming over one hundred and fifty lives. This dread disease, sleeping sickness, has left no clues as to its source, its cure, nor its nature. The only important discovery has been that the germ is found in the kidneys but even with this help isolation is impossible. The germ works like a flash. The victims are stricken today and dead tomorrow. From Saint Louis the epidemic gradually spread, but its worst havoc has been in the city of its birth. Three scientists have literally devoted their lives to the study of this disease. It is supposed to be spread by the bite of some insect, so these brave men allowed themselves to be bitten by mosquitoes which had previously bitten some of the sleeping sickness patients. The result of this experiment is still uncertain, but the least we can do is to praise those men who have gambled with their lives in the interests of humanity. Let us give credit where credit is due.

STORM

This summer has been a period of unusually severe storms which have ravaged both the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. First a great natural upheaval rocked the beach resorts along the Atlantic Seaboard. Then Brownsville, Texas, was leveled and now the center of disturbance has come closer home. New Bern, N. C., was the last town to feel the force of the wind and waves. Coming out of the Bahamas and leaving a swath of destruction behind, the storm struck the North Carolina coast with full force, severing communications and destroying property. Ten lives are reported lost and the damage is estimated at $1,000,000 or more. The storm continued up the coast and across the New England States with abated intensity. The season for severe storms is now practically over, but the damage done this year has been much greater than usual. Several Davidson boys who are from New Bern and its vicinity are still anxiously awaiting word from their homes and families.

Blythe Returns From Study Tour

Professor F. L. Blythe, of the Spanish department of Davidson College, this summer made his fourth trip to Spain in order to continue his studies in Spanish. Professor Blythe sailed from New York on June 3rd aboard the Rex, an Italian steamer which at one time held the speed record for crossing the Atlantic. He arrived at Gibraltar on June 8th, spent two days there, went to Cadiz, and then to Madrid. He spent the majority of the summer studying at the El Centro de Estudios Historicos de Madrid, a school for foreigners. The political situation was very uncertain in Spain this summer, Professor Blythe said. Since he has returned, the government has been overthrown and a new president installed. Leaving Spain on August 25, he arrived in New York on August 31 aboard the Conti di Savoia, another Italian steamer. He returned to Davidson on September 1, terminating his trip exactly three months after his departure.

Graham Praises Newton’s Work

“Those boys are four weeks ahead of any team I’ve seen at Davidson in a long time,” remarked Irvine Graham, Davidson alumnus and trustee, as he was watching the Wildcats scrimmage here last Saturday. Graham, who used to be a football player and coach, was impressed by the way Coaches “Doc” Newton and Gene McEver had got their prospects in fine condition in such a small period of time. “Newton and McEver have done a fine piece of work in their one year here,” he continued. “Those coaches have trained their men in the fundamentals and it’s no wonder those boys block better and tackle harder than any I've seen here before.” When the Wildcats open their schedule here Saturday against Elon, it will be the start of the second campaign at Davidson for the two coaches.

Pep is Shown By Freshmen

Led by Head Cheerleader Hugh Hawkins, the Freshman class has had two very lively pep meetings in preparation for the first game of the season next Saturday. The Freshmen have responded enthusiastically to the call and promise to give excellent support to the “Red and Black Machine” in their first encounter. Cheerleader Hawkins is being assisted by eleven Juniors, namely: Byerly, Deans, Garrett, Guerrant, Hanrahan, Maynard, McCall, Monroe, Morris, Rogers, and Warren. From these men, two will be chosen to act as assistant cheerleaders this year and next year one of these will be elected head cheerleader. Hawkins urges the entire student body to attend the pep meeting Friday in final preparation for the game Saturday. Captain Pritchett, Coaches Newton and McEver and the band will all be on hand to add color to the meeting.

Rat Types

There is a rat which visits our room every night. He comes in by a secret passageway at exactly one o’clock and after making a round of the room to see that no one will be aware of his presence, he settles down in our waste basket to see what he can find. Monday night we decided to write a letter to the home-folks. I put a sheet of paper in my typewriter, but before we got started we changed our mind and went to bed, leaving the sheet of paper in the typewriter. After being in bed an hour, we were awakened by a slow, steady click of a typewriter. Looking up, we saw a rat working laboriously, pecking away at the keys. We watched him, being careful not to let him know he was being spied upon. After fifteen minutes of this stenographic work, the little visitor jumped down from the desk and was off. We waited a few minutes to make sure he was gone, and then got up to see what he had written. On examination, this is what we found written in small letters, evidently because he could not operate the capital shift key.

dear editor. thank you for leaving this sheet of paper in the typewriter. most of the rats here are plain rats but i have a human soul in me. i used to be a journalist but recently have not had an opportunity to write. there are a lot of things which happen around here that nobody knows about but me. lots of times i overhear conversations which would be interesting to your readers. sometimes i hear students talk in their sleep and i laugh myself silly at what they say. i would like to write a column for you every week, if you will leave a sheet of paper in this typewriter every monday night i will write you what i hear and see and maybe sometimes give you my opinion on some of the things which happen here. one thing i wish you would do is to put a little oil on this machine so i wouldn’t be so tired when i got through. you might bring me some bread crumbs to eat sometimes too. you may call me randy.

Valuable Additions to Library

The Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation of Philadelphia has recently presented the Davidson Library with several new books. H. A. Phillips’ “Meet the Germans,” written in English; Emil Doernenburg’s “Deutsch-Amerikanische Balladen und Gedichte,” written in German; Emil Ludwig’s “Wilhelm Hohenzollern, the Last of the Kaisers,” written in English; and a translation of H. Fallada’s “Little Man — What Now?” are the added volumes.

WHO, ME?

What with returning to school and seeing old friends, meeting afternoon classes, though with grave misgivings, going to or keeping away from Charlotte, as the case may be, planning for a nice Christmas vacation, and wondering both about money and the Freshman class, I’m more or less under the weather. Jack Williams and Ravenel, B. O., have been on the porch of Watts like Grant around Richmond for the past week. The main interest is more and richer Freshmen, although the upperclassmen are also included in the picture-taking proposition. When I came to Davidson I, along with a good many others, was told that it was just a part of the registration. First the treasurer, then the photographer, and after that the physical examination. And is my face red? Sunday, though not quite as usual, I went to church expecting to find more than enough seats downstairs. I must admit that I was somewhat taken aback when I found it was necessary to go the length or rather the width of the church and end up in the balcony just as I did when I was a Freshman. The old occasional’s got me along with the rest, for most of the post office boxes are rented. As far as I’m concerned, it’s another form of graft for me to get one. But that’s all right. Some of these days I’m going to get a letter and I'll die from the shock. And those overly-polite people might do well to take a tip. Not long ago a rather well-known Junior was working for the R. O. T. C. department, distributing uniforms to the incoming Freshmen. On finding one who wasn’t taking the course, he heartily congratulated him. An officer happened to hear him. Just exactly what happened next can perhaps be left out just as conveniently as it can be put in. At any rate, he’s working for the “guyment” no longer; he lost his job. MORAL: Congratulations are not always in order. And then there’s the Freshman here who had to be stopped on Sunday morning, last, when he dressed and started to rush uptown to get his mail. Incidentally, he may be the one who left a classroom quite suddenly when the professor mentioned the laws of pedagogy. He thought he'd gotten into a law class. During his year of absence, Professor Lilly became somewhat of a mythological figure. He was regarded as a sort of demigod with whom English eight was invariably mentioned. It wasn’t particularly surprising when there was a larger enrollment than usual for the aforesaid course. But now with things so tangible as parallel and written lessons, the myth’s faded. The absent professor from the college this year is that genius of dry wit, Dr. K. J. Foreman. It was he who said that his idea of a good salesman was a man who could go to Georgia in a depression year and make a killing selling Biographies of General Sherman. Mrs. Smith reports that she is approaching insanity. She says that it won't be long until she'll be seen grasping the bars and looking from the windows of a padded cell and at the same time muttering something about dressers and beds. And do the Freshmen have a surprise in store for them, or do they? Fraternity rushing programs are well under way. The surprise, pleasant or unpleasant as it may be, will come on and soon after the 25th. That’s the day bids go out. They gaze and gaze but little think and are able to resist anything except temptation.

A dillar, a dollar,
An eight o’clock scholar,
What’s happened to our school?
We used to cut two times a month,
But once by this new rule!

Mail Box Service

Better and more rapid mail service is promised Davidson students if they have their incoming mail addressed with their box numbers. Samuel G. Stough, acting postmaster of the Davidson office, stated that students, who have rented boxes, should inform their parents and friends of their complete address.

CONSTITUTION DAY

Last Sunday, September 17, marked the 147th anniversary of the adoption of the American Constitution, an event not celebrated generally as a holiday.