THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1933

ALUMNI MEETING IN CHARLOTTE 6:30—FRIDAY

ALUMNI NEWS

RICHMOND ALUMNI TO MEET

Fortune Magazine Tells Story of Cannon’s Rise

Famous Magazine Has Article on the Rise to Prominence of C. A. Cannon, Class 1915

A very interesting article appeared in the November issue of Fortune magazine concerning the history of the Cannon Towel Mills
and a running sketch of the life of Mr. Charles A. Cannon, '15, who is president of the mills. Along
with this article was a similar article relating to the rise of the elder Cannon to prominence in the manufacturing
and financial world.

Fortune gives the World War as the break that started Mr. Cannon on the road to higher success. Before the
war, bath towels were used sparingly, but when the war came and took all the hand towels, the people were
forced to use something else. Flour sacks were out of the question as the war took most of them; this
left the only alternative—bath towels. The American people began to realize that bath towels were far superior to ordinary face
towels, drank up more water, and due to this fact, coupled with their softness, they rapidly became popular. Fortune says
that the towel question finally became merely a question between Mr. Charles A. Cannon and the American people.

At present Cannon Mills manufacture more than half of all the towels in the United States. They have devised their
own trademark which appears on almost every towel that is bought. It is an inoffensive looking gun sitting on the
name “Cannon.” After a satisfactory machine for sewing this trademark on each towel was invented, it was quite easy to
determine a Cannon towel. When the war was over there were too many towels. Therefore the towel business decreased and
Mr. Cannon realized that something had to be done in order to keep the business going.

He finally arrived at the conclusion that style was lacking in towels. He called on Miss Virginia Hamill for help
and she came with many suggestions. But at first the majority of her ideas were thought to be expensive because
they would necessitate the installation of many new machines. Miss Hamill thought that towels should be full of color, carry
futuristic designs and many polka dots. Mr. Cannon agreed with her and they compromised by using a colored border but
less radical designs. So the first of the fancy Cannon towels were manufactured, coming forth in colors of green, pink,
and other pastel shades. Two or three years passed and Mr. Cannon finally decided that Miss Hamill’s original suggestions were
good, so once more the towel industry was revolutionized. Towels were made with polka dots, triangles, arrowheads, and in colors
to match with “Crane Plumbing Fixtures.”

The Cannons have built their own mills, have established their own mill villages, and of these things they are justly
proud. The elder Cannon established the town of Kannapolis, where the Cannon Mills are located, but the Cannon homes are
located along the shady streets of Concord. Kannapolis is the largest unincorporated town in the United States. It is composed
mostly of churches, mills, and houses for the mill workers.

Mr. Charles Cannon has been honored by the government in being offered many places on important committees, and is also
a director of one of the Federal Reserve Banks. He has played an important part in the development of industry,
religion, and education in North Carolina and surrounding parts.

Davidson Meets State Next Season at Night

According to a statement made public by Dr. Sermon, director of athletics at State, Davidson and N. C. State will
meet on the gridiron next year on September 29th, in a night game at Greensboro, at the World War Memorial
Stadium.

The Davidson-State classic has been played in this stadium at night on two previous occasions. In 1930 Davidson took the
Wolfpack into camp, 12-0, and the following year State won, 18-7. Last year the game came to Charlotte, where State
was again victorious, 7-3, in one of the most exciting games ever to be played in the Queen City. During
the current season Davidson and State played to a 6-6 deadlock in Raleigh.

Mecklenburg Alumni Meet Friday Night

Mecklenburg County Davidson alumni will gather at 6:30 Friday night at the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce for dinner and a
meeting. Letters have been sent to 390 alumni living in Charlotte, Davidson, Cornelius, Huntersville, Pineville, and Matthews, inviting them to
attend the first meeting of the year of this largest of Davidson alumni groups.

An attractive program has been arranged for the evening. Music will be furnished by the famed college quartet, an unusual
saxophone quartet, and the Davidson trio, all under the direction of Mr. James C. Pfohl, director of music. A short
skit will be presented by the college dramatic organization, the Red and Black Masquers. Mr. J. M. Walker, treasurer of
the college, will give information about the college, and Dr. J. M. Walker, pastor of the Steele Creek Presbyterian Church,
will talk on the need for an active alumni association in Mecklenburg County.

The menu will include roast turkey, cranberry sauce, rice and gravy, green peas, head lettuce, hot rolls, ice cream, and
coffee. The meeting will be on the night before the Davidson-Citadel football game, which is Davidson's last home game this
season.

On Friday night, November 17th, alumni in Richmond and Petersburg, Va., will meet for dinner. Captain Norton G. Pritchett, director
of physical education at Davidson, will deliver the principal address.

Inter-Class Basketball To Begin Next Monday

The seniors and freshmen will meet in the first game of this year's intramural basketball tournament next Monday. Heath Whittle
announced the coaches for the class teams to be Fred Smyre, senior; Courtney Ross, junior; Mack Holland, sophomore; and John
Lafferty, freshman. Everyone except lettermen will be eligible to play in these games. The purpose of having the tournament early
is to get it over before the regular season starts and to get those who expect to go out for
the varsity and freshman teams in good shape before regular practice begins.

Local Organizations Sponsor Cotillions

Two dances have been planned for the coming weekend by Davidson organizations in connection with the Armistice Day celebration. Friday
night, Scabbard and Blade, national military fraternity, will sponsor a cotillion at the American Legion hut in Mooresville from 10
until 2 o'clock. The Pan-Hellenic Council will sponsor a dance Saturday night in the Hotel Charlotte ballroom, with Artie Davis
and his orchestra furnishing the music.

WITH THE ALUMNI

'85 William F. Stevenson resigned recently as chairman of the Home Loan Bank Board. Stevenson, a former member of the
House, will continue as a member of the board. In a letter to the President, Mr. Stevenson suggested the adoption
of a rotation system for chairman of the Home Loan Board and in line with that he asked to be
relieved from the chairmanship duties. “In complying with your request,” the President wrote to Stevenson, “may I express to you
my appreciation of the very cooperative spirit shown in your letter and your constructive suggestion as to the valuable effects
of rotation of the chairmanship.”

'01—'10 In a recent report given by Mr. Johnston, superintendent of the Barium Springs Orphanage, before the board of regents
of the institution in the semi-annual session, it was found that the population of the home is now 304, which
is 10 less than the same date a year ago. During the twelve months, 45 children left the institution either
because of graduation, re-established homes, or obtaining work, with 35 children being admitted. This number, the report stated, were selected
from applications involving more than 300 children. At this same meeting, Rev. John R. Hay, '10, was elected president of
the board.

'11 Governor Ehringhaus recently visited the Flora Macdonald College at Red Springs. He was presented to the students by Mr.
Cutlar Moore, who was introduced by the president of the institution, Dr. H. G. Bedinger.

'13 The last issue of “The Davidsonian” carried the statement that Representative Ernest Graham of Red Springs had been named
vice-president of the Production Credit Bank at Columbia, S. C. Since that time word has been received that S. L.
Looney, of Tampa, Fla., has resigned as president of the Production Credit Corporation of Columbia and Ernest Graham, of Red
Springs, N. C., vice-president, was named to take his place.

'24 Joseph B. Hillhouse spoke recently over the National Broadcasting Company on the subject of “Default and Its Consequences.” He
is at present a student at Northwestern A.M., and an instructor of economics and business at the Armour Institute of
Technology at Chicago.

'27 Harry Goodykoontz has recently been called to the Presbyterian Church at Fayetteville, Arkansas. This is the church at the
University of Arkansas.

'27 Rev. W. A. Christian, Jr., is at present pastor of the Hollywood Community Church at Hollywood, Illinois. He has
been quite active in organizing young people’s work in the church and in establishing study classes for the adults.

'29 Mr. J. S. Causey has been appointed as purchasing agent of the Jefferson Standard Life Insurance Company. Mr. Causey
has been with the Jefferson Standard.approximately five years

“DRUGS” “SODA”

A Complete Drug Store

“Make Our Store Your Store”

Reliable Prescription Druggists

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

“SUNDRIES” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

321 Healy Building

Go to Europe Next Summer!

This is the ideal graduation gift or summer vacation for college students. Plans are being made to visit all different
countries, and the cost is unbelievably low. See Jack Williams, Jr., our Davidson Representative for particulars.

John L. Moyers Tours Co.
Atlanta, Georgia

and has served in several different departments. The appointment is regarded as a merited promotion.

'33 Rudy Conoley is serving this year as principal of the Collier City High School at Collier City, Florida.

Death

W. S. Clary, Jr., Export Tobacco Company buyer for twenty years, died in Washington, N. C., October 30th at the
Tayloe Hospital following an illness of one week. Mr. Clary underwent an operation for an acute attack of appendicitis; however,
this turned into peritonitis and it was from this sickness that he died. He was buried in Roxboro, N. C.

Newspaper Writers Honor Wildcat Team

Hugh Query, in The Gastonia Gazette

Little old Davidson more than held her own with the more powerful and more numerous Carolina linesmen Saturday. The one
touchdown was scored from the ONE-FOOT line and it took three thrusts to put it over. As it was the
third and last time, the runner was thrown back; but he had been thrust over on the backs of his
mates and the line was crossed. On the first thrust the Carolina announcer intoned, “Carolina stopped on the one-foot line,
for no gain.” The second play, he announced, “The ball is now resting on the two-foot line.” On the third
thrust, it went over. Playing without the services of the best back, Mackorell, Davidson put up a magnificent game against
odds. Morgan played only a little over a quarter. The first-string center, McElrath, went out early in the game. West,
the second string, lasted a while longer, and finally Lee, the third-stringer, went in. Windham and Cathey, 155 and 150-pounders
respectively, played the entire game against such stalwarts as Barclay, Brandt, Tatum, and Kahn, and the Carolina aces Daniels, Frankel.

Vernon Sechriest, in The Rocky Mount Evening Telegram

At Chapel Hill in the afternoon, I saw a Davidson College team, inspired with that fighting spirit I was afraid
had been lost when the veterans Monk Younger and Tex Tilson went back to their alma mater, V. P. I.,
hold the big blue and white team of the University of North Carolina at bay for two and one-half hours
in the greatest bit of fighting seen for many moons on a North Carolina gridiron.

Clay Williams is Named On NRA Advisory Board

It was hard for the fan to believe that that little band of red-shirted warriors could hold forth in the
manner they did. Of course, the Wildcats got some breaks. You can always look for them to get them. That
is part of the endowment of the Presbyterian college—in fact, intangible endowments are most prominent in many institutions today.

Davidson's backfield, starring Verble, had all the pep a coach could desire and Doc Newton is to be congratulated for
keeping up the fight of the fighting Wildcats. Doc’s father, a retired Baptist minister, was one of the proud spectators
seeing his first game and rooting for a Presbyterian team to tear on to victory.

Frank Spencer, in The Winston-Salem Journal

Richardson Field, Oct. 21—A gallant band of red-clad Davidson College Wildcats, battling before 10,000 spectators for Homecoming Day, fought their
hearts out here this afternoon, but could not stop the bone-crushing Blue Devils of Duke University in their march toward
national laurels and bowed to Wallace Wade's powerful squad, 19 to 7. Fighting until they dropped in their tracks, Davidson
gave all, but it was not enough to turn the tide as Wade elected to keep his varsity under cover
most of the game and relied on his reserves to fight on even terms with the Wildcats for almost three
periods. But it took the first team to break down Davidson's fighting defense and score twice in the second period,
and the forward wall to hurl back an attack in the first period that almost carried Davidson over the goal
and a touchdown.

Wilton Garrison, in The Spartanburg Herald

Bob Neyland, head coach at Tennessee, recently said: “That eleven (1931, constructed around the reconstructed one-legged Gene McEver) was Tennessee’s
greatest moleskin machine. McEver, you know, had to completely revolutionize his style of play. McEver, who had been an elusive
back, was forced by a knee operation to become a plunger and a forward passer. Yet he carried them over.
I made a statement once that he was the greatest back I ever saw. People said I was exaggerating his
importance. I was not heaping any ecomiums on him. McEver was the greatest back I ever saw. That 1931 team
was the best that Tennessee ever had. And McEver made it the greatest. Sure he had help. But he was
the difference between a great team and the greatest Tennessee ever had.”

Prominent Davidson Alumnus of Class of 1905 Appointed to Industrial Advisory Board

S. Clay Williams, '05, Winston-Salem, was named with four other leading industrialists as a member of the industrial advisory board
of the NRA, to replace five others whose terms have just ended. Mr. Williams is president of the Reynolds Tobacco
Company of Winston-Salem.

Secretary Roper, who made the appointments, announced that Pierre DuPont of the E. I. DuPont de Nemours Company; Myron C.
Taylor, of United States Steel; General Robert E. Wood, of Sears-Roebuck, and Robert E. Flanders, of Springfield, Vermont, would serve
on the board with Williams. The five men named took the places of five other leading industrialists, following the rotation
plan that has been inaugurated for the board by Secretary Roper. The men who were replaced are Walter C. Teagle,
of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey; Gerard Swope, of the General Electric Company; James A. Moffett, recently of
the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey; Austin Finch, of Thomasville, N. C., and John B. Elliot, California oil man.

Mr. Williams has been prominently identified with the NRA since its inception, and has served on several of its boards
and committees. A graduate of Davidson in the class of 1905, he continued his study at the University of Virginia
Law School. Upon graduation there he entered the legal department of the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, rose to the
position of vice-president, and several years ago was made president of the company.

Always a loyal supporter of Davidson, Mr. Williams has served on the Board of Trustees, the Executive Committee of the
Trustees, as a member of the Alumni Council of the Alumni Association, and as a member of the Executive Committee
of that body. Another son, alumnus of Davidson has also been prominently identified with the working of the National Recovery
Administration. Mr. Charles A. Cannon, president of the Cannon Mills Co., of Concord, N. C., has been on a number
of boards of the NRA. Coincident with the announcement of Mr. Williams’ appointment came information that Mr. William F. Stevenson,
’85, had resigned as chairman of the Home Loan Bank Board, although still retaining his membership on the board.

Believe It or Not!

THERE IS ONE BRAND OF FOUNTAIN PEN—NOT THICKER OR LONGER THAN OTHER PENS

Yet—

MADE SO IT HOLDS 102% MORE INK!

HAS A POINT THAT In Normal Position Writes FINE or MEDIUM or BROAD—Turned Over it Writes a fine line.

THIS SAME BRAND OF FOUNTAIN PEN WRITES TWO WAYS—FINE or EXTRA FINE HAIR LINE

HELD TO THE LIGHT THE TRANSPARENT RINGS SHOW THE INK WITHIN—SHOW WHEN TO REFILL

This Ends Running Dry at Some Critical Moment

STYLED FOR THE SMARTEST PEOPLE

The BARREL IS LAMINATED—BUILT UP RING UPON RING OF SHIMMERING PEARL AND JET, or PEARL AND TRANSPARENT AMBER, Which Looks
Like Pearl and Jet when Filled with Ink.

Parker’s Utterly New Vacumatic Filler REVOLUTIONIZES FOUNTAIN PENS

Less, Ultra-Smart, Laminated Pearl Beauty that holds 102% more ink. Tells you when to refill, hence ends running dry.

Geo. S. Parker now announces a marvelous new Pen development in the Parker Vacumatic Filler—a development that forever ends the
nuisance of having your pen run dry at some critical moment. Invented by a scientist at the University of Wisconsin,
and developed by Parker, the Vacumatic Filler is the first sacless pen containing no piston pump or valves,—nothing to render
it useless later. And it holds 102% more ink with no increase in size.

Go right now and see this new-day writer. See how it fills by vacuum—see the ink within through the clear-vision
rings—see the double writing with one Reversible Point. Demonstrations are being held at counters.

Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.

Parker VACUMATIC FILLER

Average on Paper but More Slowly on a Pen Point. Laminated Pearl or Plain Jet Pencil to Match, $3.50; Jet
or Plain Transparent Pen, $5; Pencil, $2.50

THIS IS AN INK THAT MAKES A PEN A SELF-CLEANER—CONTAINS A SECRET SOLVENT THAT DISSOLVES SEDIMENT, Dries 31% Faster than
Ordinary Ink.
