THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 22, 1933

CONVERSE AND DAVIDSON FRENCH SOCIETIES WILL GIVE PERFORMANCE HERE

(Continued from page 1)

Pathelin. He arrives with his ill-gotten spoils under his arm. Guillemette refuses to believe that he has paid for it.
Pathelin says that the merchant received nothing for it, and that he will soon come to get his money and
to ask about a roasted fowl which Pathelin had promised. The scheming couple arrange to put Pathelin in bed; the
wife is to claim he has been there for two months on the point of death. When the draper comes,
Pathelin is already in bed, groaning and asking for the apothecary. They play their part so well that the draper
thinks that perhaps he was mistaken and departs to consult his account books. Pathelin hops out of bed. They burst
forth into laughter and are interrupted by knocks on the door. Pathelin has no time to get back in bed,
so he mounts a broomstick and pretends to be in delirium. He tears around the room, raving in all dialects.
The draper finally leaves, persuaded that Pathelin is out of his head. Thereupon the lawyer and his wife fondle the
beautiful piece of cloth, which is now theirs, thanks to their rascality.

LE CERCLE FRANCAIS OF DAVIDSON WILL PRESENT ONE OF BERNARD'S COMEDIES

Tristan Bernard’s L’Anglais Tel Qu’on le Parle (English as Spoken) is a good example of modern Parisian comedy; a comedy
which is light, careless, often exquisite. Bernard is a keen observer of contemporary French life. L’Anglais Tel Qu’on le Parle
was played for the first time at the Comedie-Parisienne on February 28, 1899, and has been an unusually popular piece
on the stage of Paris and for amateur performances.

The scene is in the lobby of the Hotel de Cologne in Paris. The time is the present. Julien Cicandel
(L. T. Newland), a young Frenchman in the employ of a London banking house, has brought with him from London
Betty Hogson (Madison Armistead), daughter of James Hogson (H. B. Johnston), a wealthy merchant from Newcastle-on-the-Tyne. As the curtain is
drawn we find the elopers arriving at the hotel. Julien asks for two rooms and information as to the nearest
telegraph station. Betty is concerned about being left alone in the hotel. Julien requests that she speak French while in
Paris. (To a French audience her horrible French is one of the features of the comedy.) It so happens that
the regular interpreter, Monsieur Spork, is away from the hotel for the day, because of the divorce of his sister.
He has sent as a substitute Eugene (Robt. Coit), who, absolutely ignorant of any foreign language, will attempt to bluff
his way in all languages. The telephone rings. It is a call from London from Julien’s employer. Eugene understands nothing,
but tells the manageress that the call is to reserve rooms at the hotel. “And did they bawl me out!”
he says to himself.

Hogson arrives in search of Betty, shortly after Julien has left the hotel to send an urgent telegram. On seeing
the Englishman, Eugene reverses his interpreter’s cap and makes his getaway. In an agonizing conversation between Hogson, the manageress (Geo.
Gullette), and the porter (Jack Williams), the former finally succeeds in conveying the information that he wishes to see the
commissioner of police. He then registers and retires to his room. Betty then informs Julien that she believes that she
has heard her father’s voice. Eugene returns, consults the timetable and opines that he will be safe from the danger
of any more arrivals from England until the evening train. The manageress asks him where he had gone so suddenly.
“I heard someone calling for help—in Spanish,” says he. She demands that he turn his cap around and that he
remain at his post.

The porter has summoned the police commissioner who now comes to interview Hogson. Thanks to the ignorance of Eugene, the
commissioner (Lanier Pratt) is given to understand that Hogson was robbed of his pocketbook at the Gare du Nord. That
Hogson has a photograph of his supposed assailant rather mystifies the commissioner. Eugene is requested to find out the name
of the robber. He submits the name John Lroukx, which, he asserts, is spelt W K M X. The commissioner
rushes off hot on the trail. Hogson has become disgusted with the hotel and especially with the interpreter. He tries
to call him “Bad Interpreter” inFrench, but Eugene assures the manageress that Hogson is not angry and that his manner
is a typical English fashion of showing delight. Betty now comes in search of the interpreter. He claims that he
has a very sore throat and cannot speak. When he learns that she knows French, however, his voice is suddenly
restored. She sees her father’s gray hat and lets out a cry of horror. Julien enters, calling for the interpreter.
Eugene, in despair, takes him to be another Englishman and makes insulting remarks. On finding out that Julien is French,
the interpreter asks him to do him the favor of replacing him, inasmuch as he cannot understand Hogson’s English. “In
fact, I know no English at all. I speak only Spanish, Italian, Turkish, Russian, and Javanese.” Julien’s question in bad
Spanish explodes that claim. Eugene summons Hogson, thinking that now he will, through Julien, find out what it’s all about.
When Julien sees Betty’s father, however, he disappears. Immediately the commissioner enters with Julien in charge of a gendarme (D.,
K. Spencer). Misunderstandings are general until Julien receives a long-distance call from London. It is his employer who offers him
an interest in the bank. Of his earlier telephone call, he says that he must have been connected with a
“maison de fous.” On learning of Julien’s advancement, Hogson gladly gives him his daughter, so all ends for the best.
Eugene claims all the credit for the happy outcome of affairs and will go to London with Julien and Betty,
not to serve as interpreter, but in order to learn English.

DAVIDSON IS VICTORIOUS IN DEBATE WITH EMORY
(Continued from page 1)

The judges, who were three prominent men of Charlotte, decided unanimously in favor of the negative. The Forensic Council plans
an exchange debate with Emory University in Atlanta on March 16th.

QUIPS AND CRANKS TO BE MORE MODEST YEARBOOK
(Continued from page 1)

Assured by the able men serving on both the editorial and business staffs. Bob McCallie, as editor-in-chief, has added the
weight of his personality and talents towards making the book a success. Closely in cooperation with him has been his
business manager, W. C. Thompson. Prominent aids in the Junior staff are Lyman Clardy, as photographic editor; Alex Schenck, as
activities editor; Tee Thompson, as fraternities editor; Lanier Pratt, as managing editor; and John Hunter and Jack Williams as assistant
editors.

FRESHMAN CLASS WINS THREE BOUTS TO PLACE
(Continued from page 5)

Judges: Ison (Carolina), Unger (Indiana), Newton (South Carolina), McEver (Tennessee). Timer: Captain Pritchett (Tennessee).

ILLUSION: Josie, the lovely trapeze artist, stands upon a small platform. At the will of the magician, she leaps twenty
feet into the air to reach her trapeze. She uses no ropes, no ladder! A phenomenal leap for a woman,
or a man!

EXPLANATION: Josie didn’t jump... she was sprung! The twenty-foot leap is not dependent on Josie’s ability, but on a powerful
spring mechanism hidden beneath the stage which propels the artist upward through the air. The force is so violent that
the lady wears a light steel jacket which protects her from injury as she starts her astonishing leap.

1988, B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company

Consider the illusion that there is a mysterious way to give cigarettes a superior “flavor.”

EXPLANATION: Cigarette flavor can be controlled by adding artificial flavorings. By blending. And by the quality of tobaccos used. Cheap,
raw tobaccos can be “built up” or “fortified” by the lavish use of artificial flavorings. Magic has its place... but
not in cigarette advertising. Such magic, however, seldom holds the audience. Your taste finally tells you the truth. The cigarette
flavor that never stales, never varies, never loses its fresh appeal, comes from mild, ripe, fragrant, more expensive tobaccos... blended
to bring out the full, round flavor of each type of leaf. It’s the quality of the tobacco that counts!

It is a fact, well known by leaf tobacco experts, that Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than
any other popular brand. Because Camel actually pays millions more every year for choice tobaccos, you find in Camels an
appealing mildness, a better flavor. And Camels taste cooler because the welded Humidor Pack of three-ply, MOISTURE-PROOF cellophane keeps them
fresh. NO TRICKS... JUST COSTLIER TOBACCOS IN A MATCHLESS BLEND.
