THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 29, 1933

The Davidsonian
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915
Member of Associated Collegiate Press
1933 Caationne Chi) covemact) 1944
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday.
Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON......-..- Managing Editor
L. GULLETTE............. Managing Editor
F. McPHAIL............... Managing Editor
E. AWLING................. Alumni Editor
PRA AS....................... Sports Editor
A. HUNTER................. Editorial Writer
M. THOMPSON........... Feature Editor
CK WILLIAMS, JR........ Feature Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1933

THANKSGIVING
For all that God in mercy sends:
For health and strength, for home and friends
For comfort in the time of need,
For every kindly word and deed,
For happy thoughts and pleasant talk,
For guidance in our daily work,
For all these things give thanks.

For beauty in this world of ours,
For verdant grass and lovely flowers,
For song of birds, for hum of bees,
For the refreshing summer breeze,
For hill and plain, for streams and wood,
For the great ocean’s mighty flood,
For all these things give thanks.

For the sweet sleep that comes at night,
For the returning morning's light,
For the bright sun which shines on high,
For stars that glitter in the sky,
For these and everything we see,
O Lord, our hearts we lift to thee.
And give thee hearty thanks:
—Ellen Isabella Tupper.

LET’S DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT
Some nineteen hundred years ago James wrote, “Be ye doers of the word and not hearers only.” This is a very simple thought, but one which would bear much reflection, particularly by Davidson students at this time. During the Fall Services, we men of Davidson had an excellent opportunity of being hearers of the word, as presented by one of the most attractive and able speakers that has ever held such services here. We had revealed to us challenging ideals to strive for, and were shown methods and resources for achieving this ideal. But Dr. Lacy has come and gone, and the Fall Services are over. We have had this privilege of being hearers of the word; now there devolves upon each of us the duty of being doers.

From the standpoint of attendance and enthusiasm shown, these services were highly successful. But such criteria are of no real meaning. What is significant is whether these meetings will bring any lasting results as evidenced by the lives of the men on the campus. What is wrong with this campus is not a spirit of agnosticism or apostasy, but an apathetic attitude as regards religion: there is a feeling of unconcern, of indifference. These services will be successful if they stimulate thinking along the lines of Christian living; if they tend to tear down this passivity. For the majority of us are already hearers; but how few, on the basis of strong convictions, are doers.

There is this challenge left us from the Fall Services: to incorporate into our living those principles which we heard expounded, and to which doubtless we gave mental assent. May these services have a continued life and meaning in this student body, so that their influence will not have ended last Wednesday, or will not end in a month or a year or even a college generation; but will continue to make itself evident in the living of each man who was reached by this message.

THE SADNESS OF FAREWELL
When “O Davidson” is sung Thursday afternoon a sensation of profound sorrow will choke every Senior as he realizes that a number of the most gallant heroes ever to don the Red and Black uniform—and his own classmates—will have fought their last grim battle for the Alma Mater. And especially to those heroes themselves will the sadness be great; it means an end to the participation in the king of college sports. Short years have passed since they were seen as striplings exhibit the fight which has distinguished them. Today as stalwart men their strength is mightier but the spirit is not nobler—it could not be!

There are several varsity men of ’34 who, tomorrow, will have played their last game. Laden with honor we give them great praise. Nor would we forget the man who, for three hard years, strived and failed to place. They, too, are real Wildcats. To these men who have sacrificed, who have daily risked injury to win for old Davidson, we, as Davidson men, offer hearts full of praise and admiration.

Nor may we forget that other Seniors will tomorrow be viewing their last grid game as a body—that their sorrow is none the less poignant, their loyalty none the less true than that shown by their fighting classmates “on the line.” Class of ’34, your grid day has faded in a sunset of glory. Others must supplement you. But your sons have done their part. So like men you must say to the gridiron, “Farewell!”—U. H.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION
“We plainly perceive that the mind strengthens and decays with the body.” In an institution that is recognized for its high scholastic standing, it is fitting that the students should engage in a program of physical education. Without such care and development our physical beings deteriorate and a high type of mental performance becomes an impossibility.

Previous to the installation of the present physical education staff, a member of the faculty had charge of this work in addition to his regular class-room instruction. Naturally an efficient organization was out of the question, but under the skilled leadership of Captain Norton G. Pritchett and his able assistant, Heath Whittle, a remarkably fine system of physical training has been built up here.

Intra-mural sport competition, consisting of inter-class and inter-fraternity contests in all the major sports, is probably the most comprehensive and beneficial branch of Captain Pritchett’s program. The different classes and fraternities participate in football, baseball, basketball, and volley-ball games; the former also have gymnastic competition, tennis, golf, and boxing matches. There is an opportunity for every student to improve his body in some phase of this athletic activity. In these years when our bodies are still capable of great development and improvement, we are indeed foolish if we do not take advantage of the opportunity offered. Our bodies will decide what measure of success we will achieve in later life.

Captain Pritchett has developed Davidson’s track team to such an extent, that now it is one of the best in the South. He has moulded many track stars out of men who for the most part have never had any previous experience. Whittle who holds the Davidson College record in low and high hurdles; Flinn, a graduate of last year, who holds the pole vault record; Brannon, record holder in the one and two-mile events; McCall, broad jump champion; Fleagle, also a last year’s graduate, who sprints the 100-yard dash in 21.6; and Cochran, who holds both weight records and is captain of this year’s team. A rather impressive record; All these men came to Davidson with no knowledge of the talent they possessed, but due to Captain Pritchett’s keen insight and matchless training they became record-holders.

Davidson’s cross-country team has grown from a practically non-existent body into an organization that this season lost only to Carolina and tied Duke, who recently won the Southern Conference meet by placing five men among the first seven. Another startling tribute to Captain Pritchett. He has also developed many fine punters of the football team, a notable example being Thad Brock.

Juniors and Seniors not participating in any activity that will afford them sufficient exercise are required to take three hours of such recreation as will meet the requirements. The Freshman calisthenics under the R. O. T. C. Department is another portion of the physical education here. This brief survey shows that Davidson has a splendid system of athletics—a system that works to develop not only men who have some athletic ability, but, what is much more important, those who really need physical improvement. Captain Pritchett is a born leader in his classroom, before the student body, on the athletic field, wherever he may be. His work in physical education is a monument to his keen interest in the betterment of the students’ bodies so that they may better enjoy life and accomplish more in whatever line of endeavor they choose to pursue here in college and in later years.
—R. P.-T.

NEWS DIGEST
AMBASSADOR
Antonovich Trovanovsky, former Russian ambassador to the Court of Japan, has been chosen to be the first Russian envoy to the U. S., and his appointment has been approved by the Federal Government. He has previously served five years in Japan as a representative of his country there. As soon as the news of his appointment was made known there was a good deal of speculation as to its bearing on troubled Far Eastern affairs.

WELLES REPORTS
Ambassador Sumner Welles has visited President Roosevelt and after a long discussion has been sent on to Washington to lay the facts of the present Cuban situation before the State Department. The promptness with which Welles was dispatched to the capitol gives rise to the view that the situation of resident Americans in Cuba is extremely grave. Welles is to return to Havana when his business in Washington is concluded.

SPAIN
The Republic of Spain is conducting its first federal election under the new constitution and is having quite a time. The election has caused a number of deaths and injuries in frequent fights betweenRadicals and conservatives at the polls. It looks as if the new government is not having as easy a time as its friends anticipated.

COTTON
Forty-eight million dollars, constituting a four cents a pound advance to all holders of government cotton, is ready for distribution. A cotton ginner’s marketing agreement has also been drawn up and approved by the Federal Farm Administration. The agreement provides for maximum service charges and a system of national and state control. This announcement has been made by the farm administration and is favored by all the farmers.

THE NAZI POLICY
The Nazi policy has been aptly demonstrated in its treatment of one of Germany’s greatest citizens, Dr. Einstein. The property of the famous scientist and his wife has been seized and confiscated under laws “concerning the seizure of Communist property and property of enemies of the state.” When Dr. Einstein planned to go to the U.S. in 1932 he was asked by the American consulate in Berlin if he were a Communist and he replied that he refused to answer such foolish questions. It is believed that the Nazis acted on these grounds. The announcement of such action was signed by the secret police.

RUSSIA
Visitors to Russia say that the country is on the road to prosperity and wealth. To hasten the coming of such a time is the main reason why Russia was so eager to obtain recognition from the United States. It felt that such a step would benefit both parties. The inhabitants of the steppes were formerly illiterate, poor, and starving. Stalin has given them education. Stalin has given them machinery with which to raise food and clothing. And now the Soviet is seeking wealth through advantageous relations of trade with other countries.

STRATOSPHERE
The U.S. is following in the footsteps of several European countries who have previously sent up metal balls containing humans to explore the stratosphere. Our first attempt ended when Lieut. T. G. W. Settle and Major C. L. Fordney landed in a New Jersey swamp after traveling 11 miles up. Maybe someday we will even go beyond the 400-mile limit of the atmosphere and keep on up to the moon or Mars. But it will be a long time yet before we advance far enough for that.

BULLITT OFF
President Roosevelt has ordered Ambassador William C. Bullitt to leave immediately for Russia to organize the new embassy there and get it functioning immediately. It will be necessary to provide for adequate housing facilities and other matters of comfort and convenience. The new ambassador is to sail for Moscow next Wednesday.

NEW JOBS
The newly created civil works administration has gone to work immediately and in earnest. It is ready to announce that jobs for one million men have already been created and that soon four million men will be transferred from the bread line to the payroll. The program assigned this branch of the administration has gone forward satisfactorily and jobs have been apportioned to the needy in all the states.

Four Marx Brothers In Hilarious Picture
Barrymore Stars in “Christopher Bean,” Wednesday

Wednesday, Nov. 29 — Christopher Bean
Bean was a well-known artist whose pictures became very valuable after his death. Lionel Barrymore plays the part of the small-town doctor who inherited some of the paintings of the artist and lost them, and then attempted to procure one of the paintings from his housekeeper, Marie Dressler, by hook or crook. The doctor went to any length to get the painting, and then was found out by the housekeeper, who turned him back to truth and honesty, and the picture ends well. The acting and the theme are both good. Jean Hersholt and Helen Mack are also in the cast.

Thursday and Friday, Nov. 30 and Dec. 1 — Duck Soup
The four Marx brothers come back to the screen in their best and most hilarious picture yet. They attempt to mingle with society, and the picture is screaming with fun at their actions. There is no plot to speak of, but they always manage to get along very well without any plot and this is no exception. This one should not be missed.

Saturday, Dec. 2 — The World Changes
Paul Muni plays the part of the small-town boy who starts at the bottom of the ladder and works his way to the top. He starts as a young man and the picture carries him through middle age and into old age. The thoughts of the years are shown in his actions, and he plays the part with much force. Aline MacMahon, Donald Cook, and Mary Astor are in the cast.

Monday and Tuesday, Dec. 4 and 5 — Dancing Lady
This picture is entirely different from the usual run of pictures, and shows Joan Crawford in a role which suits her very well. There are some wonderful dancing scenes with Fred Astaire, who comes to the screen in this his first picture. May Robson, Franchot Tone, and Ted Healy and his Stooges are in the film, which is not lacking in fun. It is one of the best of the late pictures, and is very entertaining. The life of the chorus girl who rises to the place of the famous dancer is portrayed very well.

DR. LACY CONCLUDES ANNUAL ‘Y’ SERVICES
(Continued from page 1)

Wednesday morning Dr. Lacy took up the next thing that we should consider in following Christ. That is, the cross. Christ said, “He that would come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross and follow me.” It is all-important, if we would follow Christ, that we should realize the seriousness of the cross, and all that it stands for. Wednesday night Dr. Lacy brought his talks to a close with the thought of bringing Christ to others, through our own lives as well as by actual carrying of the gospel. We can do as much here in the college by the way we live, and in our influence on those who are now forming their beliefs, as any other way, according to Dr. Lacy. With this admonition, to show Christ to others by the way we lived, the speaker brought the Fall Services to a close. Dr. Lacy’s whole theme was taken from the thought of Luke 2:52, “Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man.”

PORTRAITS OF TWO ALUMNI RECEIVED
(Continued from page 1)

lotte Observer” has compared his work to that of Sir Joshua Reynolds. A formal unveiling of the two paintings will be held sometime in the future, probably during the 1934 commencement exercises, according to an announcement made Monday. In this connection, there is a movement underway to procure for Davidson portraits of all twelve of her past presidents. The first step in this movement was recently taken when the College Alumni Association presented to Davidson a painting of Dr. Henry Louis Smith, tenth president of the college. Lunsford and Smith Richardson, prominent Greensboro alumni, were instrumental in this work.

On Other Campuses

WAKE FOREST
Professor Neville Isbell, of the chemistry department at Wake Forest, and director of the band, has recently composed a march song entitled “Old Gold and Black.” Wake Forest has always needed a good number to play on the football field at the half, and this new composition fits the bill perfectly. The number will be played during the half at the Davidson-Wake Forest conflict in Charlotte Thursday.

FLORIDA
An intensive campaign has been conducted by the University of Florida alumni to ascertain the oldest living former student of any of the six state institutions which existed prior to the founding of the university in 1905. The title of being the oldest grad went to a member of the class of ’60 at East Florida Seminary.

NORTH CAROLINA
Page Abe Lincoln! Quoting the Daily Tar Heel, “Revolution has been narrowly averted in North Carolina. Chapel Hill, cut to the quick and stung to fury by the dry avalanche registered the other day, has finally been persuaded to abandon its impulsive plot to secede from the state.”

V. M. I.
In a recent cigarette poll made at V. M. I., it was found that the most popular cigarettes were Camels. The results in the voting show: Camels, 167 votes; Chesterfields, 164 votes; Luckies, 29; Old Golds, 2; Spuds, 5; Kools, 1, and Phillip Morris, 1. There were 157 non-smokers on the campus.

SOUTH CAROLINA
With national prohibition sent to the scrap heap and the prospective return of South Carolina’s quart-a-month system, the student at the University of South Carolina is left out entirely. From authoritative sources it was learned that, in case the system prior to prohibition is put into force, the student will be barred from receiving his quota, regardless of age.

JOHNS HOPKINS
Freshmen at Johns Hopkins conceived the idea of rigging up a short wave radio station to broadcast the whereabouts of sophomores cruising freshmen in cars, the night of the freshman banquet! It worked!

WASHINGTON AND LEE
All of the pomp and pageant of one of the most colorful coronations in the history of the new decadent Russian Empire will be portrayed on the floor of Doremus gymnasium on the night of January 26, when the leaders of Fancy Dress will usher in the twenty-eighth annual Fancy Dress Ball by depicting the Coronation of Alexander III of Russia. The ball will be called “The Coronation of Alexander III.” ... According to the International News Service, co-eds in Soviet Russia are majoring in shoemaking and minoring in carpet weaving so that they may prepare themselves for careers in the industrial world.

TEXAS
The University of Texas has recently received a first edition of the authorized translation of the Bible, familiarly known as the King James Translation, printed in 1611. Because of its influence upon the development of the English language and literature, it has come to be called “the greatest in the world.”

STATIONERY
CALLING CARDS
FRATERNITY PAPERS
Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates
PROGRAMS
See BILL JOHNSON @ 203 Watts @ Garland Court
Standard Printing Company
CHARLOTTE, N.C.