THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1933

Bruce Peabody Completes Successful College Life As Leader and Athlete

Born a Country Lad in Georgia and Was pies ie in Child- oO

IS PRESIDENT OF O. D. K.

Coincidences With Other Davidson Men Connected With Early Life

By GEORGE GULLETTE

In 1911 Edward Bruce Peabody was born in a small village, Iva, South Carolina. When Bruce was a baby, he was so small that they carried him on a pillow. Once, while his nurse was carrying him, he rolled off, fortunately on his mother’s lap, but unfortunately on his head. Perhaps that explains a lot of things.

Connected with his native town is a strange coincidence; it happens that he and Ansley Watson were brought up by the same negro mammy. Neither knew of this until last Thanksgiving when Bruce visited Anderson, S. C., and was greeted with, “Lawd, dere’s Bruce, growed up now!” Ansley’s father was the Peabody’s family doctor, and Reverend Peabody was, in turn, the Watsons’ pastor, christening little Ansley.

Soon after Bruce's birth, his family moved to Darien, a spot in the swamps of Georgia. There he went to kindergarten with Andy and Mac Manson. Bruce did not know Mac’s identity until his father recognized his name on a freshman basketball tournament program.

Bruce went through the gamut of all childhood experiences threefold. He had a combination of adventurous spirit, meanness, and strength that would make Huckleberry Finn and Tom Sawyer look like a couple of sissies day-dreaming. Moving to Jefferson and thence to Sugar Creek, his family finally settled temporarily in Tugaloo, Georgia, the “ham and eggs town.” That is indeed way back in the country for no inhabitants can be found for miles around. Surely all Davidson men have heard how Bruce, clad less than scantily, when confronted by some hostile hounds, tore out through a briar patch to a river and raced a water moccasin 200 yards to the other shore.

Bruce’s baseball ability is probably the result of his early training in cow pasture games. He truly led a pastoral life, and regularly went to the river for the cows and milked them in the mornings. He claims that the statement that cows give milk is false, for they do not give milk; you have to take it away from them.

Bruce and his brother Morris went with their father to visit another parish, the boys delighted in the company of some lad who could chew like Buck Mills. They indulged in the fascinating art and their father needed no explanations for their paleness and why they could not talk, much less eat. They have been total abstainers since then.

His family then moved to Conyers, Georgia, where Bruce took up with a disreputable crony and the two were inseparable as well as unstoppable. Their teacher sent them to the principal every day to be whipped, but the two won his good favor and were entertained by baseball stories instead. On one occasion, when his mother was entertaining the Ladies’ Aid Society, he and his running mate made an assault on what was to be the refreshments. No ice cream was had by the guests that day, much to his mother’s mortification.

But he lived through it all, and after a bit of preparation at Alexander Graham Junior High in Charlotte, he went through Central High, where he was elected vice-president of the student body. In the fall of 1929 he entered Davidson, a slim, hardy, ambitious freshman, weighing only 120 pounds. He is among those celebrities who roomed on the fourth floor of East, where no studying was done, but there was plenty of social life. He was one of the conspirators against nearsighted Jack Matthews, who ate half the gravy bowl before realizing it was not soup. Nevertheless, Bruce’s ability and popularity resulted in his election to the presidency of the Freshman class, which pointed him out as a future leader at Davidson.

His summers have been spent partly at the R. O. T. C. camp in Anniston where he, Brooke Allen, and “Chuck” Wright were particularly fast companions. Bruce has been promoted to Cadet Captain in the Davidson R. O. T. C. The other part of the summer he tarried in the country near Charlotte, and, pardon if I have seemed to make a renegade of Bruce, leaving out those more amiable parts of his character. His chief hobby is bird dog raising, and is he successful? The pedigreed dog he started with has now nurtured twenty-five pups. Bruce relates that once while teaching his dogs to retrieve a ball, he wished for a bird with which to give them more realistic training, and lo, a dead dove dropped no less than a yard from his side. Shall we call Bruce a child of Providence or a liar?

But now let us look at Bruce crowned with the success he deserves, and recognized by his schoolmates as a leader and man of solid character. The slim 120-pound freshman was later elected captain of the varsity basketball team and in his senior year the “Smiling Parson” was awarded a gold football as the best blocker on the football eleven. He also twice made letters in baseball, but his athletic ability only accompanied an interesting and attractive personality that gained success for him as a student leader and eventually the presidency of Omicron Delta Kappa.He also served as vice-president of the student body.

William and Mary Golfers Defeat Davidson 13½-5½

Davidson’s golf team lost to William and Mary linksmen last Tuesday, April 25, at Newport News, by a score of 13½ to 5½. Walters of William and Mary shot a 73 for the low score of the day. Jaffee and Burke, also of William and Mary, each scored 75’s. The William and Mary golfers took all four twosomes of the day. Joffee, famous in intercollegiate golf circles, defeated Wagner by the score of 3 and 2 in a close, well-played match. In the foursomes, Caldwell and Thompson defeated Burke and Bocock 2 and 1, and Wagner and Manson finished all even with Joffee and Walters.

Wildkittens Win From Central High Here 3-1

With Jenkins turning in a three-hit performance on the mound, the Wildkittens extended their winning streak by downing Charlotte High, 3 to 1, on Richardson Field, Thursday afternoon. Jenkins bested Josephs and King in a slab duel which produced some good baseball. Burns led the work with the willow, getting a double, single, and two walks from four trips to the plate. Charlotte’s lone run was scored on a home run by Black in the third. In the first two innings, Jenkins issued five passes, but after that, he settled down, and, except for Black’s homer, he was completely in control of the situation. King, the Charlotte ace, was touched for two hits, a single and a triple, scoring one run when he entered the game in the sixth, but he tightened up and allowed no more scoring.

Score by innings: R H E
Charlotte .......... 001 000 000—1 3 5
Davidson .......... 001 011 00x—3 6 2
Josephs, King and C. Beam; Jenkins and Moore, Clark.

Big Five Race
Davidson .......... 3 1 .750
Wake Forest ...... 2 1 .667
N. C. State ........ 2 2 .500
Duke ............... 1 2 .333
North Carolina .... 1 3 .250

Kendall Golfers Lose To Local Club 15-9

In a return match played on the local golf course last Saturday, the Davidson Golf Club defeated the Kendall Club 15 to 9. The best score for the afternoon was turned in by Mr. R. L. Jordan, of the visitors, who shot 37-39—76. Of the Davidson team, low scores of 79 were made by Dr. G. B. Watts and John Thompson. Dr. W. L. Lingle, Dr. R. D. Moffett, Dr. Watts, Capt. Cochran, Campbell Vaiden, and Thompson each scored three points for Davidson. Prof. A. V. Goldiere and J. P. Bunn each scored two points, and F. W. Hengeveld and F. B. Hobart one each. Coach McEver played for the visitors in the absence of one of their members.

Harris Turns Back Lenoir-Rhyne, 9-6

Davidson gathered 14 hits off two Lenoir-Rhyne hurlers to score nine runs and defeat the Bears 9 to 6 at Hickory Monday afternoon. Errors by Lenoir-Rhyne also contributed largely to their defeat. Buck Mills, Davidson shortstop, led the hitting with four singles in five times at bat. Morgan and Peabody, Wildcat players, connected for the only extra base blows. Morgan got a homer and Peabody a triple.

Score by innings: R H E
Davidson .......... 011 122 200—9 14 2
Lenoir-Rhyne .... 000 012 030—6 10 4
Harris and Whitley; Jarrett, Mesimer and Hughes, Payne.

WILDCAT TENNIS TEAM TROUNCES GENERALS

(Continued from page 5)
(Davidson) defeated Harless (W. & L.) 11-9, 4-6, 6-2; Scott (Davidson) defeated Ortner (W. & L.) 7-5, 4-6, 6-2. Doubles: Halverstadt-Myers defeated Wilson-Graham, 6-4, 6-4; Elvery-Thompson 3-6, 6-4, 6-4; Morrow-Scott defeated Snyder-Guggenheim, 12-10, 6-1.

O. D. K. TAP DAY WILL BE HELD BY CAMPUS LEADERS

(Continued from page 1)
entertain the various visiting clubs which may come to Davidson during the year. Omicron Delta Kappa has in recent years obtained a higher recognition in the United States than heretofore as an honorary fraternity.

BLOOD PRESSURE TEST

An ice-water test has been developed to find in early life of an individual a tendency toward high blood pressure. This allows the prospective high blood pressure patient to care for himself before the infirmity is upon him, and possibly escape it.

STUDENTS NOT INDIFFERENT

College students of today no longer maintain the blasé or indifferent attitude to life that they had a few years ago, Dean Virginia C. Gildersleeve, of Barnard College, said recently.

Duck Flies

SHOWING TODAY

HERE'S A FUNNY ONE THAT HAPPENED LAST NIGHT AT A MAGIC SHOW.

WILL A GENTLEMAN PLEASE STEP UP ON THE STAGE AND SIT DOWN WITH A DUCK INSIDE YOUR COAT? THANK YOU.

ALL RIGHT —I'LL BITE. WHY, SIR, HA! HA! HA! WANT TO KNOW HOW HE DID IT? HE GOT THE DUCK OUT OF A CANVAS BAG FIXED ON THE BACK OF THE CHAIR.

QUIT KIDDING YOURSELF. CAMELS ARE MILDER. TRY ONE AND SEE.

I'LL TAKE A CHANCE!

CIGARETTE? NOT ONE OF THOSE, THANKS. I HAD THE IDEA THESE WERE MILDER.

GOSH, RIGHT. CAMELS DO SEEM MILDER AND TASTE BETTER TOO. TO ME THERE'S NO FOOLIN' ABOUT THAT LINE. IT'S THE TOBACCO THAT COUNTS!

Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand. Try Camels and give your taste a chance to appreciate those finer tobaccos.