THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 8, 1933

Intercollegiate Press

New York—(IP)—More and more the duty of a women’s college should be to train its students in how to use
their leisure time, Robert M. MacIver, Lieber Professor of Political Philosophy and Sociology at Barnard College, Columbia University, said in
an address before the alumnae of the college here.

“This is a college of the fancy,” he said. “It is dedicated to the art of living and not, directly,
to the art of making a living. It is based on the presumption that practical techniques for the latter purpose
are best acquired in special schools, and that the looming leisure of the future makes it highly needful to educate
the young for life and leisure no less than for the working day.

“The principle of our college is this, that since we live in a world which is in some aspects—unchanging and
in other aspects changeful, we must be well prepared to meet and to understand both. The subjects of our curriculum
will be divided into two groups, corresponding to this division of aspects: the eternal, including the main group of sciences;
and the changeful, or the humanities, including the arts, philosophies, religions, as well as the social systems of mankind.

“The final purpose is to show the relation of the two so that in the business of living the student
may learn the place of each. Every student will, therefore, choose a focus of interest in one division, around which
other courses will be centered. This plan is specially conceived for a college for women, because the task of adjustment
at once to the changing and the unchanging is perhaps of special significance for them.”

Prof. MacIver is chairman of the commission of seventeen economists appointed last week by Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler to investigate
the economic crisis, with particular reference to methods of production and exchange. It is expected that this commission will study
very carefully many of the barter systems which have sprung up especially in the west as well as in the
east.

Philadelphia—(IP)—There’s a battle of the sexes on at Temple University. Co-eds are inconsistent, husband hunters; they “fawn and gush,” charges
a male critic. Men students are key hunters, fops, ill-mannered, a co-ed retorts. This all appears in the January issue
of the Owl, for which Edward W. Groshell, a male student at Temple, and Miss Temple Eaves, president of the
Women's League, tell what they would like to be like if they belonged to the opposite sex.

Groshell, after muttering “fervent thanks” that he is not a co-ed, says that if he were he would first of
all look up the word consistency and follow its dictates. He'd try to be an individual, he says, instead of
just “trying to keep up with the Janes.” He'd dress warm in winter, and “take a pair of fleece-lined slippers
to wear at football games where ten thousand girls freeze their ankles for the sake of trim form.”

“Fairness of face and feet displaying trim (and not so trim) form,” he goes on, “is indeed a valuable asset,
and if I possessed this uncommon feminine charm, I would capitalize on it; but my scholastic attainment would be a
result of knowledge, even in those courses where grades are computed on curves.”

“I,” says Miss Eaves, “would be a college man, not a ‘collegian’ or a campus big shot. If I happened
to be awarded a key, I would wear the key I valued most and put the rest somewhere where they
couldn't clank and warn everyone of my approach.

“I would not quote professional clowns—which would automatically taboo ‘vow-sah,’ ‘me, Moodam,’ and ‘she picked up her skirts and fa-lew,’
from my conversation. I would never give people the chance to say: ‘Why don't you go shave?’ I would never
wear a sweater with no shirt beneath, which means turtle-necks have been more or less tabooed.”

Annapolis, Md.—(IP)—Community chests in the home towns of players on the Navy football team have received checks for various amounts
along with the following letters:

“Last December the football teams of the Military and Naval academies played a game in Philadelphia, and the two institutions
have decided to devote a portion of the net proceeds from the game to unemployment relief.

“Out of the Navy's share thereof, the academy has decided to allot a small portion to some relief agency in
the home town of each midshipman of the academy’s football squad. Your locality was represented on the squad by Midshipman
; and you have been selected to be the distributor of these funds.

“Midshipman enjoys a very good standing at the Naval Academy (some letters read) in athletics and otherwise, and in addition
to forwarding this small...Contribution we are glad to make you conversant with that fact.”

Champaign, Ill.—(P)—Dr. Harry Woodburn Chase, president of the University of Illinois since 1930, has been appointed president of New York
University to succeed Dr. Elmer Ellsworth. From 1910 to 1930 Dr. Chase was president of the University of North Carolina,
and during his incumbency, the North Carolina institution became one of the most liberal and well-known universities not only in
the United States but throughout the western world.

Los Angeles—(P)—This city, which goes in for more genuine absurdities to the square yard than any other on earth, now
advertises Capt. William Hynes of the Los Angeles Police Red Squad. The “Red Squad,” it seems, because until last week
the world’s “reds” had left this town to the bathing beauties and the McPherson-Huttons. But Captain Hynes now has a
big job on his hands. He announced that he would ask for an investigation of a meeting at the University
of California in Los Angeles at which speakers had the temerity to suggest the benefits of world peace, even to
the point of compulsory military training, which was not nice. Business has been poor for Captain Hynes’ ears, and someone
actually said something about world peace. Among the “reds” at the meeting, it seems, were Upton Sinclair, the novelist, and
Loren Miller, a negro who has just returned from a trip through Russia. Dr. Ernest Carroll Moore, provost and director
of the university, was as much surprised at the reports about the meeting as was Captain Hynes. Dr. Moore, it
seems, was at the meeting and didn’t see anything out of the way. Then did Dr. Moore make himself Suspect
No. 1 in Captain Hynes’ eyes? Said Dr. Moore: “The university is anxious to do all it can for the
interest of world peace. Its halls are open to students who wish to discuss peace.”

Schenectady, N.Y.—(P)—"A new deal” in the attitude of college men toward politics was asked of Union College students at the
annual homecoming celebration by James E. Finnegan of New York. Referring to his fight to oust James J. Walker as
mayor of New York, Finnegan denied that all politics was “dirty” and urged his hearers to take enough interest in
politics to justify the high-priced educations they had received at public expense.

New York—(P)—In his annual report to the president, Dean Howard Lee McBain of the schools of political science, pure science,
and philosophy at Columbia University, asserted that the universities, while making little progress in the sphere of learning, have failed
to produce public leadership and have given little assistance in economic and political problems of the depression. “It is manifestly
a cause for regret,” said he, “that in the world’s present emergencies so little of light and leading has come
out of the world’s universities.”

Cleveland, O.—(P)—Ohio college football teams this year are getting a real judge for their football games. Appellate Judge Carl V.
Weygandt of Cleveland, who was elected this month to the office of chief justice of the Ohio Supreme Court, spends
all his Saturday afternoons during the football season either as field judge, referee, or head linesman on the gridirons of
the state. He is president of the Ohio Football Officials’ Association and is a graduate of Wooster College, where he
played football as an undergraduate.

(Continued on page 4)

“DRUGS” “SODAS”
Make Our Store Your Store
“PRESCRIPTIONS”
Student Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“SUNDRIES”

BULLETIN BOARD NOTICE
STUDENTS’ CRUISES
Magazine subscription scholarship workers and crew managers write immediately for very best student scholarship offers of leading publishers. Can be
worked there now. Permanent positions if experienced, also summer crews for the United States and foreign territory.
FOR FULL DETAILS WRITE
The Collegiate Scholarship Institute
219 Republic Building, Miami, Florida

Chesterfields are Milder
WHEN you ask a Chesterfield smoker why that’s his brand — he generally comes right out flat-footed and says... “It’s
because They’re Milder!” So we’re going to keep on doing everything we know how to keep them that way. That’s
why we look for and buy the mildest and ripest tobaccos we can get. That’s why we age them in
our warehouses till they’re mellow and sweet. We believe that even the shredding of the tobacco and the quality of
the paper it’s rolled in have a lot to do with the even-drawing, mild smoke that people enjoy in Chesterfields.
You can bank on this... every method known to science is used to make Chesterfield a milder, better-tasting cigarette that
satisfies.

Chesterfield Radio Program—Every night except Sunday, Columbia coast-to-coast Network.
