WILDCATS MEET TAR HEELS ON GRID SATURDAY

Vol. XXI The Davidsonian

Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 27, 1933 No. 2

YOWL TO MAKE APPEARANCE IN EARLY AUTUMN

Prose and Poetry Will Be Prominent in Quarterly Magazine

ART FEATURED

First Issue to Center Around Football

At a meeting of the staff of The Yowl, Davidson’s humor magazine, held early last week, plans were made for
the four issues of that publication which will be put out this year. The first issue of the magazine will
come out about October 15. This issue will not be a feature number, but will center around football and things
pertaining to that season. There will probably be in this issue a short story by some member of the staff.
The topics of the other numbers have not been definitely set as yet, but the December issue will probably center
around the Christmas season; the March issue of a spring nature, and the May number pertaining to graduation.

The Yowl will have something of a new idea this year, in that there will be in each issue some
article of a more literary nature. Stuart Henry will have charge of this phase of the magazine. Wills Hollingsworth will
have the say about the Poetry Department. This year, as last year, there will be a page devoted to the
material sent in by Joe Thompson, of the staff of The University Magazine, whose work was enjoyed so much last
year. The Art Department this year will be in the hands of Lorenzo McPhail. There will also be a page
devoted this year to Campus Chatter, probably in the form of a column. The editor of The Yowl, Bill Fugate,
urges that all Freshmen who have any talent along humorous or literary lines to come out for this work.

D. C. BAND IS HEARD ON AIR

College Inaugurates Series of Radio Programs Over WBT

Davidson inaugurated its first radio program over Station WBT in a quarter-hour program from 9:15 to 9:30 Monday night. Grier
Martin, the alumni secretary, had charge of the program, and after the playing of “O Davidson” by the college band,
under the direction of Music Director James C. Pfohl, introduced President Walter L. Lingle. Dr. Lingle gave a brief historical
sketch of the college, and introduced the new alumni secretary, Grier Martin, and the new director of music, James C.
Pfohl. After the conclusion of Dr. Lingle’s speech, the band played “Our Director’s March,” by Bigelow, and “The Washington Post
March,” by Sousa. The band then concluded the program by playing “O Davidson.”

CHEERLEADERS TO BE CHOSEN

The election of Junior cheerleaders was begun Tuesday morning, September 26, during the chapel period. There has been much competition
among the candidates for the two positions as assistants to Head Cheerleader Hugh Hawkins. Of the ten Juniors competing, two
will be elected by Thursday, September 28. These two men will assist Hawkins at all the athletic contests during the
year. During the latter part of the second semester, the head cheerleader for next year will be chosen from these
two.

The men who are candidates for the positions are: Fritz Byerly, Greensboro; Ed Garrett, Greensboro; P. D. Guerrant, Pasadena, Calif.;
Kirk Hanrahan, Kinston; Charles McCall, Bennettsville, S. C.; Gus Maynard, Bluefield, W. Va.; Geddie Monroe, Fayetteville; Harry Morris, Bessemer City;
Teal Rogers, Bennettsville, S. C.; and Paul Warren, Allendale, S. C.

DAVIDSON'S OLDEST AND YOUNGEST

Here is a picture of Dr. C. R. Harding, Davidson professor for the past 45 years, and James C. Pfohl,
who this year at the age of twenty took charge of the Department of Music, greeting each other as they
met on the campus at the opening of school. Dr. Harding, although past the age of retirement, is still very
active as a professor. Pfohl, who graduated at the University of Michigan, is one of the youngest college professors in
the United States. The picture was snapped by Bill Lyon, of the Senior class.

VIVID LECTURE DELIVERED BY REID GRAHAM

Davidson Alumnus Speaks Tuesday Night on “Scenes From India”

STUDIES AT YALE

Dr. E. F. Shewmake Introduces Speaker

Mr. J. Reid Graham, on Tuesday night, September 19, lectured and showed slides which made vivid his topic, “Scenes from
India.” Mr. Graham is an alumnus of Davidson and graduated as the valedictorian of his class. He then taught at
Gordon College, which is located in Rawalpindi, India. At present he is in the midst of his second year of
graduate work at Yale and is specializing in Mission History.

The speaker was introduced by Dr. E. F. Shewmake, of the English department, and began his lecture by stating the
ideas which other nations have formed of India and how incorrect these opinions have been proved by his own experiences
in India. People have thought that India is a place of romance and a land of misery, but Mr. Graham
found these statements untrue. “There is no more romance in India than anywhere else,” the speaker remarked, and then added,
“Nor is the land covered with wild animals as people often believe.” A number of picturesque slides were shown to
impress the audience with the beauty of India. This part of the demonstration was divided geographically into two parts—Kashmir, in
the northwestern part of India, and British India.

COLLEGE MEN AID HI-Y BOYS

Several Scout Troops to Be Organized by Y. M. C. A. Workers

As the work of the Davidson Y. M. C. A. gets under way for the year of 1933, a large
part will be taken by those interested in Boys’ Work. Sam Nickey, who has charge of this work, has planned
an extensive program for this year.

Hi-Y Clubs will be organized in Davidson and Cornelius. It is also planned to attempt Hi-Y Clubs this year in
Mooresville, Mt. Mourne and Huntersville.

The usual Scout troops will be organized. The Davidson troop will probably be in charge of Ed Hodge and Odi
Casali. George Gullette will have charge of the Cornelius troop. Soup Brannon will have something to do with the troop
which is planned for the Mill Chapel, and Tom Phifer will be in charge of the negro troop contemplated. Cub
troops will be tried this year in Davidson and Cornelius. A troop will also be re-established in Mt. Mourne.

(Continued on page 8)

GRID TICKETS ARE REDUCED

Ticket prices for Davidson’s home games will be substantially reduced this year, according to Captain Norton G. Pritchett, director of
athletics. The general admission charge for the remaining three games at Richardson Field, including the Home-coming game with Duke on
October 21, will be $1.65. This includes the tax. Last year, the general admission charge for the games at Richardson
Field was $2.00.

Captain Pritchett said that athletic authorities were endeavoring to make arrangements with officials at Carolina and State whereby special rates
might be offered Davidson students. The Wildcats meet Carolina at Chapel Hill Saturday, and play State at Raleigh on November
4.

It is probable that special rates will be offered to parents of students at the V. M. I. game on
October 14. Captain Pritchett said he hoped it would be possible to sell these tickets for $1.00.

Student tickets for the Thanksgiving Day game with Wake Forest in Charlotte will cost $1.00. Seats will be reserved for
student contingents of both schools.

PHI’S AND EU’S HOLD MEETINGS

H. Hawkins and W. Fugate Lead Programs of Literary Societies

The first regular meetings of Davidson’s two literary societies, Philanthropic and Eumenean, were held Tuesday evening in their respective halls.
A number of Freshmen were present at both meetings, it is reported, and a successful literary year is anticipated.

Programs at both society meetings were presented primarily for the benefit of the Freshmen and to give the college newcomers
an idea of the nature of regular literary society meets. At the Eu meeting, John Shirey was in charge of
the program, which included: the president’s welcome to Frosh, by Hugh Hawkins; an historical sketch of Eu Society, by Ed
Hodge; an informal talk intended to familiarize the Freshmen with their professors, by Jack Riens.

Officers of Eu Society elected last spring for this term’s work are: Hugh Hawkins, president; Don Bailey, vice-president; W. B.
Singleton, secretary;

(Continued on page 4)

PEP MEETING

Plans have recently been announced for one of the biggest pep meetings of the year, to be held on Thursday
night, September 28, at 7 o'clock, prior to the Carolina game. The pep meeting will take the usual form, originating
in Shearer Hall, where the student body will take part in the customary songs and yells. Head Cheerleader Hugh Hawkins
and his newly-elected assistants will preside at this meeting.

After the proper spirit of enthusiasm has been aroused, prominent members of the football team will say a few words
to the student body. These short talks will be followed by an inspiring “pep talk” by one of the most
popular members of the faculty, whose identity has not yet been disclosed.

The meeting in Shearer Hall will be followed by the Freshman shirt-tail parade, led by the college band, to the
front of Chambers Building, where more songs, yells, and speeches will be in order.

All students are urged to be on hand promptly at 7 o'clock.the 40-yard lines. From the slides of the pictures
in Kashmir, the audience received a vivid picture of life in India. The Himalaya Mountains were beautifully portrayed. The Indian
people found it necessary to wear sun helmets in spite of the cold weather. There is very little rainfall in
Kashmir, and therefore the inhabitants water the fields by banking the streams which flow down the mountain peaks. British India,
the land of five rivers, has three different religions. Mr. Graham stated that the belief in all religions being alike
is false, and while showing the slides he explained the different types of religion in British India. The first type
was the Hindooism religion, and the historic Hindoo temples were shown on the screen. The speaker was impressed with the
way the Hindoos regard nature by staring for hours at the sun, trees, and flowers without saying a word. The
religion known as Mohammedanism was next discussed. The Mohammedans use pools for ceremonial washing, and by dipping their feet in
the water they believe that their sins are washed away. A group of slides were shown of the Mohammedans while
worshipping. The worshipper stands, kneels, bows, and stoops while praying. “Should India be freed from Great Britain?” the speaker asked.
The people of India should not have their free- (Continued on page 8)

STUDENTS ARE SENT WELCOME

A cordial invitation for Davidson students to make the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce their headquarters when in the “Queen City”
was extended by the organization through C. O. Kuester, its executive vice-president and business manager, in a recent letter to
Mr. F. L. Jackson. The Charlotte Chamber of Commerce is located at 123 West Fourth Street. The body of Mr.
Kuester’s letter to Mr. Jackson follows:

“Wish you would spread the news around the campus of Davidson as usual that the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce extends
a cordial invitation to your students while in Charlotte to make their headquarters at the Chamber of Commerce. Any time
we can be of service to any of them, we will be only too glad and happy to serve them
and we want each and every one to feel that they have a friend in the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce
and the City of Charlotte and when they come to Charlotte they are coming to their own home town.”

FRESHMEN ENJOY FRATERNITY SOCIALS

Many Girls, Alumni and Visitors Are Present for First House Party of Year

VARIED ENTERTAINMENT

STUDENT DIRECTORY

On page four of this issue of “The Davidsonian” will be found the 1933-1934 Student Directory of Davidson College. The
students are listed alphabetically, irrespective of their classes. Following each student’s name, however, there is in parenthesis a number signifying
the class of which he is a member. A (1) signifies a member of the Freshman class, (2) the Sophomore
class, (3) the Junior class, and (4) the Senior class.

Several Banquets and Dances Are Sponsored for First Year Men

The annual Freshman house party, sponsored by social fraternities upon the hill in connection with the “rushing season,” brought many
feminine visitors to Davidson over the weekend. Nine of the ten national social organizations gave special programs to help entertain
the first-year men. Several of the fraternal clubs sponsored dances in nearby towns, while three held banquets to which the
Freshmen were invited with guests.

The Beta Theta Pi group held a banquet in their own house Saturday night. The affair was well attended by
first-year men. A buffet supper was given by Pi Kappa Phi Saturday night at their house. The Kappa Alpha fraternity
held a banquet, which several faculty members and rushees attended, in Charlotte Friday night, and a dance the following evening
in Gastonia. The Theta Upsilon Omega fraternity had a party, at which games were played and refreshments served, at a
cabin near Huntersville. Concord was the scene of a dance sponsored by Kappa Sigmas, and Mooresville was the scene of
similar functions held by the Sigma Phi Epsilons and the Phi Delta Thetas. A party at which dancing was enjoyed
was held at the Cavalier Club in Charlotte by the Pi Kappa Alphas. The Phi Gamma Deltas sponsored a dance-party
at a cabin on the Catawba River.

Beta Theta Pi: Misses Virginia Carey, Dot McClintock and Eleanor Stone, of Charlotte, and Carrie Walker, Zeta Mangum, and Louise
Chandler, of Burlington.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Misses Anna Lee Harris, Dot Jones, Dot Baker, and Elizabeth Owen, of Charlotte; Frances Stough, of Davidson;
Betsy Johnson, of Wytheville, Va.; Margaret Hackney, of Washington, D. C., and Evelyn Pannil, of Albemarle.

Kappa Alpha: Misses Virginia Peter, Grace Lawing, and Mary Wisdom Lambeth, of Charlotte; Eve Stevenson and Loleah Gray, of Camilla,
Ga.; Katherine O'Farrell, of Kings Mountain, and Jackie Williams, of Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Phi: Misses Frances Matheson, Suzanne Simmons, Mary Paine, Sara Thompson, Kitty Van Eschop, Biddie Mattox, and Lydia Stewart,
of Charlotte; Dot Miller, of Rock Hill, S. C.; Louise Melchor, of Mooresville; Odessa Newland, of Columbia, S. C.; Corrine
Ellison, of Lancaster, S. C.; Margaret Compton, of Sumter, S. C., and “Pud” Stewart, of Mt. Holly.

Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Sara Lib Price, Elizabeth Price, Miriam Steele, Dot Hand, of Charlotte; Dougie Long, Eleanor Killick, Mae
Lebby Smith, Lois Meacham, Eleanor Hayes, and Tut Gorrell, and Margaret Banks, of Greensboro; Louise Melchor, of Mooresville; Estelle Hall,
of Belmont; Ann Hoover, of Concord; Caroline Wharton and Margaret Gorrell, of Winston-Salem, and Libby Rhett, of Davidson.

Theta Upsilon Omega: Misses Tad Pardue, Ellen Hawkins, Nancy Bryant, Earle Pegram, and Caroline Rivers, of Charlotte; Adele Arbuckle, of
Davidson; Mabel McConnell, of Mooresville; Hibernia Hudson, of High Point; Gertrude Thompson, of Salisbury, and Corellie Lazenby, of Statesville.

Phi Delta Theta: Misses Harriet Moore, Mary Whitmore, Jane Ellen Taylor, Jane Wiley, Virginia Knee, Elizabeth Torrence, Lois Munroe, Mary
Payne, Margaret Gilliam, Caroline Hodge, and Bertha Burch, of Charlotte; Bernardene Johnson, of Asheville; Jane Gaw, of Greensboro; Margaret Cochran,
of Winston-Salem; Dorothy Schnessler, of Roanoke, Ala.; (Continued on page 5)

Professor Henry Emmett Fulcher, physics instructor at Davidson since 1925, was recently elected a fellow of the American Association for
the Advancement of Science, according to a notice from Henry B. Ward, permanent secretary of the group. According to a
section of the by-laws of the association, all members who are professionally engaged in scientific work, or who have advanced
science by research, may be elected by the council to be fellows on nomination or on their own application. The
words “professionally engaged in scientific work” as they occur in the above section are interpreted to include members who have
contributed to the advancement of science, usually by the publication of scientific research, or in other significant manner, such as
teaching or directing research in an institution of repute. This qualification is understood to have been met by members of
affiliated societies having a research qualification.

Professor Fulcher received his Bachelor of Science and also Master’s degrees from the University of Virginia. He also attended William
and Mary College in Virginia and the University of Chicago, before accepting the position of James Buchanan Duke Associate Professor
of Physics here.

MANY GO OUT FOR DEBATING

Thirty-three Men Respond as Candidates for Debating Team

Plans for the inauguration of the 1933-34 debating season were carried forward by the Forensic Council at its first meeting
of the year. The debating tryouts occupied the most important place in the plan-making, for it is this event that
opens the debating season. The tryouts will be held about the last of October. Thirty-three men have already signified their
desire to try out for a position on the team. The council has set a deadline to fall on October
15, after which date no other men will be allowed to take part in the tryouts. The subject for the
debating tryouts will be announced later.

GRIDGRAPH IS NOW A FIXTURE

Davidson students who are unable to accompany the football team on its invasions into various foreign territories will be able
henceforth to see a vivid portrayal of every game played by the Wildcats away from home, thanks to the latest
type of Gridgraph which has been installed in Shearer Hall by the Athletic Association. This large rectangular board, eight feet
by twelve, portrays immediately every play which takes place on the distant gridiron as soon as it flashes off the
wires. Numerous electric light bulbs, controlled by eighteen switches, will flash out a realistic play-by-play account of Wildcat games on
foreign soil, beginning—it is hoped by athletic officials—with the Carolina game this Saturday. The usual admission charge of fifteen cents
per student will be continued in order to defray expenses. (Continued on page 5)
