: : THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 5, 1933

BASEBALL TEAM MEETS LENOIR-RHYNE TODAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

’CAT GOLFERS MEET FURMAN IN NEXT MATCH

FIRING AT RANDOM

CASKIE NORVELL, Jr.

’Cat Cindermen Down V. P. I.

Last week Coach Laird held the pessimistic view that the Davidson baseball team appeared punchless. Well, the little imbroglio with
the boys from Catawba showed that Coach Laird’s proteges could wield the willow at any rate, and a 14 to
2 victory is no eked out win. This column predicts a good season for Davidson on the diamond. Two good
portsiders and a right-hander give the ’Cats a great pitching staff. Charlie Pearce and George Baily are the southpaws, and
Charlie Harris flings them over in the orthodox style. Between Harris and Pearce, the Catawba Indians were able to garner
but six scattered bingles. Peabody, with one safety out of two trips to the plate, is now the leading hitter,
with a .500 percentage. However, Mackorell, Whitley, and June Morrison are keeping pace with him, and batting honors are anybody’s
as yet.

Coach Unger’s yearlings are socking the ball at will in the early games. They knocked both Cornelius and Balls Creek
to all corners of the lot. In Richardson, the Freshmen have a fine right-hander, who has pitched neat ball in
the brace of games played to date. Loftin and Burns look good at the plate too.

The Davidson golfers came out of a big slump after the overwhelming defeat at the hands of the University of
Richmond and defeated a strong team when they toppled the Generals of Washington and Lee over the sporty Charlotte Country
Club terrain. Wagner had a 75, with five three-putt greens, which is good golf on any man’s team. Just let
him polish up on that game with old “Calamity Jane,” and the boy who shoots the sporty Blowing Rock course
in 64, eight under par, will be knocking off the titans of the links in short order. John Thompson’s good
golf comes as a welcome assistance to the team. Captain Tom Caldwell and Mac Manson, varsity linksmen of 1932, are
playing their consistently good games, and a good season appears to be ahead. Furman is the next foe on the
’Cat card.

Davidson’s Southern Conference stock took a good rise, no doubt, with the double track victory over V. P. I. Saturday.
The Gobblers are leaders in many Southern Conference sports, and if the ’Cats continue to knock off the big boys,
it shouldn't be long before Davidson is admitted to the Conference. Fleagle in the dashes, Pratt in the high hurdles,
Howard in the mile, and Glasgow in the 440, all turned in good times. For the Freshmen, Frazier again took
the spotlight, and kept his record of never having been defeated on the track spotless with firsts in the mile
and the 440. W. Turner, of V. P. I., Southern Conference record holder in the indoor high jump, gave the
stands a treat to a splendid exhibition of jumping, when he cleared the bar at six feet, one and three-fourths
inches to break the V. P. I. college record in this event.

The Davidson-Duke track meet, originally scheduled for April 1, has been changed to May 6, and will be held on
Richardson Field. Dame Rumor hath it, that a triangular affair, with Wake Forest as the third participant, may be run
off at this time. Any way you work it, it should be a whale of a good meet with some
fast times.

While on the subject of track, and especially as it concerns the Wildcats and the Blue Devils, we might mention
that Johnny Brownlee, ace sprinter and hurdler at Duke, clipped a tenth of a second off the Southern Conference record
for the century when he was clocked in 9.7 seconds in a trial last week. Fleagle ran a 9.9 hundred
against V. P. I., and last year bettered that time. It should be a close race, and can go to
either of them. Alex Little’s surprise showing in the 100-yard dash against the Gobblers was a welcome sight. With the
winner ripping it off in 9.9, Alex ran pretty close to a 10 flat hundred.

Tennis prospects are looking up, too. With two such figures of the Southern tennis world as Halverstadt and Lafferty playing
the top positions, there is no reason why the ’Cat netmen should not give any team plenty of opposition. Bryan
Grant has been lost to the Carolina team, and Wilmer Hines has taken his place at number one.

Davidson Team Begins Baseball Season With Victory Over Catawba

Varsity Shows Good Form in 14 to 2 Victory Over the Catawba Indians

HURLERS SHOW UP WELL

Heavy Hitting by Wildcat Nine Insures Well-Earned Victory

The Davidson nine opened their season here last Thursday by defeating Catawba 15 to 2. The Wildcat aggregation showed up
well, and were led on the mound by Pearce and Harris. Davidson opened the scoring in the third inning by
gaining one run, but didn’t garner the major number of their runs until the sixth, seventh, and eighth innings. They
gained here 6, 3, and 4 runs, respectively, thus giving them their 14 runs. In the sixth, the Wildcats piled
up their seven runs on a single, four doubles, an error, and two free passes. Two singles, two bases on
balls, and a sacrifice hit added three more to their score in the seventh, while two errors, a walk, a
double and two singles topped their scoring in the eighth.

The Catawba nine didn’t get their first run until the sixth inning, making it on two singles. Their second run
was made in the eighth in the same way. Robinson, playing second base, was the star for the Indians, gaining
one run and three hits for his team. The hurling for the losers was done by Witmer and Bartner, each
registering one strikeout. Pearce started the game for theWildcats, and held them to one hit while striking out four men.
Harris took over the mound in the fourth inning and succeeded in striking out five men. Both boys pitched an
excellent game, keeping the Catawba batters well in check. Line-up and summary:

Catawba AB R H A E
Appainaitis, ss 4 0 0 3 2 0
Bickett, lf 4 0 0 3 2 0
Robinson, 2b 4 0 0 3 2 0
Garland, cf 4 0 0 3 2 0
Gates, c 4 0 0 3 2 0
Lippincott, rf 4 0 0 3 2 0
Pearson, 1b 4 0 0 3 2 0
Leyden, 3b 4 0 0 3 2 0
Witmer, p 4 0 0 3 2 0
Totals 32 2 6 25 9 0

Davidson AB R H A E
Mook, ss 4 1 1 2 0
Bumgarner, 2b 4 1 1 2 0
Morrison, lf 4 1 1 2 0
Mackorell, cf 4 1 1 2 0
Morgan, rf 4 1 1 2 0
Mills, 1b 4 1 1 2 0
Whitley, 3b 4 1 1 2 0
Pearce, p 4 1 1 2 0
Harris, p 4 1 1 2 0
Totals 35 15 9 27 9 0

Score by innings:
Catawba 000 001 010—2
Davidson 001 007 34x—15

Two-base hits: Bumgarner, Mackorell, Mills, Morgan, Whitley. Sacrifice hits: Morgan. Struck out: By Pearce 4, by Harris 5, by Witmer
1, by Bartner 1. Base on balls: off Harris 1, off Bartner 2, off Witmer 3. Hit by pitcher: Pearce,
Pearson, Leyden, Bartner, Peabody, Harris. Winning pitcher: Pearce. Losing pitcher: Bartner. Umpire: “Rube” Brandon.

Frosh Nine Defeats Balls Creek Hi 16-6

In their first game of the season, the Wildkitten baseball team defeated the Balls Creek representatives by a score of
16 to 6, on Friday, March 31st. The game was played on the Davidson diamond. The Davidson nine connected with
the ball for a total of 14 hits, while the visitors tallied only eight. McFayden, Kitten second baseman, led in
the hitting by getting four hits out of five times at bat; his home run in the second inning brought
in two runs. Partridge and Loftin, both of Davidson, also hit well, each getting three hits out of five trips
to the plate. Jenkins was on the mound for Davidson during the first four innings, and allowed the visiting team
five hits. Sanders and Richardson pitched the remainder of the game, the former allowing Balls Creek two hits in three
innings, and the latter, one hit in two innings. E. Tuttle pitched the entire game for the losers. The game
was replete with errors, Creek making ten, and Davidson chalked up five.

Box score:
Balls Creek 200 121 000—6 8 10
Davidson 231 261 01x—16 14 5

Batteries: Davidson, Jenkins, Sanders, Richardson and Parker, Moore. Balls Creek, Tuttle and Shook.

Varsity and Freshman Track Teams Win With Fifteen First Places

KITTENS WIN, 76-41, Turner Shatters V. P. I. High Jump Record in Brilliant Exhibition

Davidson's Varsity and Freshman track teams both won their second victories of the season by defeating the V. P. I.
cinder representatives here on April 1. The Wildcats downed the Virginians by a 75 to 51 score, while the Freshmen
defeated the V. P. I. yearlings 76 to 41. The Davidson Varsity took the lead by winning all the dashes
and runs except the two-mile and the 880-yard runs, taking two of the three places in all events, with the
exception of the high jump and the pole vault. In the latter, Flinn of Davidson, Eddy of V. P. I.
and C. Turner of V. P. I. all tied for first at eleven feet. Dolan, Pittman, and Lee, all of
Davidson, tied for first to make a clean sweep of the Freshman pole vaulting. W. Turner of V. P. I.
led in the Varsity scoring with 13 points, while Captain Fleagle of Davidson, and Grimsley of V. P. I. tied
for second with 10 each. Fleagle took firsts in the 100 and 220-yard dashes; Grimsley led the field in the
880-yard run and in the broad jump. Pritchard of V. P. I. led the Freshman scoring with 11 points by
getting a first in the broad jump and second in the 100 and 220-yard dashes. The Wildkittens took firsts in
eight out of thirteen events, Evans winning both the 220 and the 100-yard dashes, and Frazier leading the field in
the mile run and 440-yard dash. V. P. I’s W. Turner featured the meet with his record performance in the
javelin throw and high jump. He threw the javelin 174 feet, to win first place and surpass the former V.
P. I. record by two feet. In the high jump, Turner cleared the bar at six feet one and three-quarter
inches, and thereby shattered his college record of six feet, set by A. S. Turner in 1913. A Senior this
year, Turner holds the Southern Conference high jump record of six feet, and the V. P. I. pole vault record
of 12 feet 2½ inches. An injured knee made it impossible for him to compete in the pole vaulting last
Saturday. The next Freshman meet is scheduled for April 7th, when the Wildkittens will compete with Winston-Salem Hi at Davidson.

Varsity summaries:
100-yard dash: Fleagle (Davidson) first; A. Little (Davidson) second; Hibbert (V. P. I.) third. Time: 9.9.
Mile run: Howard (Davidson) first; Morrow (Davidson) second; Kline (V. P. I.) third. Time: 4:50.1.
220-yard dash: Fleagle (Davidson) first; McCallie (Davidson) second; Hibbert (V. P. I.) third. Time: 22.8.
Shot put: Grinus (V. P. I.) first; Wagner (Davidson) second; Cochran (Davidson) third. Distance: 42 feet, 4½ inches.
120-yard high hurdles: Pratt (Davidson) first; McPhail (Davidson) second; Lyne (V. P. I.) third. Time: 15.5.
440-yard run: Glasgow (Davidson) first; Moore (V. P. I.) second; Jarvis (V. P. I.) third. Time: 53 flat.
Discus throw: Cochran (Davidson) (Continued on page 6)

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY
“PICK UP”
GEO. RAFT — SYLVIA SIDNEY

THURSDAY
“THE MIND READER”

FRIDAY
“RASPUTIN”
JOHN BARRYMORE — ETHEL BARRYMORE
LIONEL BARRYMORE

SATURDAY
Double Feature
“FAST WORK” and “MYSTERIOUS RIDER”
MAE CLARK — JOHN GILBERT

MONDAY
“SHOULD STRANGERS MARRY”
JACK HOLT — LILIAN BOND

TUESDAY
“BONDAGE”
