THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 8, 1933

*CATS WIN ONE OF FIVE GAMES PLAYED ON TRIP
(Continued from page 5)

Wermick C, (6) Dickerson
Suttner (4) G, Wagner
Turner (6) G, (4) Boucher
Substitutes: Roanoke—Rice; Davidson—Ross (3), Holland (2), Lafferty (1).
Referee: Denton (W. & M.).

V. P. I. 27; Davidson 22
“Monk” Younger’s V. P. I. basketball team kept the skids under their coach’s former pupils by caging several field goals
in the last few minutes of play for a 27-22 victory. Monk’s team overcame a 15-13 half-time lead only to
lose the advantage and then again forge ahead. “Buss” Hall, V. P. I. captain, and Dickerson, Davidson center, led the
scoring with 14 and 8 points, respectively.

The line-ups:
Davidson Position V. P. I.
Harris F. Hall (14)
Lafferty (1) F. Belote (6)
Dickerson (8) C. Seaman (7)
Peabody (4) G. Grath
Boucher G. Thomas
Substitutes: V. P. I.—Holsclaw; Davidson—Ross (6), Wagner (1), Holland (2).
Referee: Dear (V. P. I.).

Lynchburg 21; Davidson 24
The Wildcats closed their out-of-state journey by downing Lynchburg College in Virginia on Saturday night, 24-21. Davidson’s free throws gave
the Wildcats victory. Barnum, of Lynchburg, was high scorer with 13 points. Dickerson and Ross, with eight points apiece, led
the Davidson scoring.

The line-ups:
Lynchburg Position Davidson
Wichel (6) F. Harris (4)
Barnum (13) F. Lafferty
McClure (1) C. Dickerson (8)
Vouts (1) G. Peabody (2)
Waketine G.
Substitutes: Lynchburg—Hart; Davidson—Ross (8), Wagner (2).
Referee: Brown (W. & L.).

Davidson Track Team Faces Stiff Program
This year the Davidson track team will meet severe competition on the cinder paths, probably more severe than ever before.
The complete schedule cannot be announced as yet, but meets have been carded with Furman, V. P. I., Duke, Florida,
South Carolina, and Wake Forest. Following the regular scheduled season, the team will take part in the state meet which
is held in Durham in May.

Three trips appear on the schedule, including one to Gainesville, Fla., another to Columbia, S. C., and the third to
Durham. The other dual meets will be held on Richardson Field.

Plans are being made by Captain Pritchett to take five or six members of the Wildcat track team to the
Southern Conference Indoor Meet, which is scheduled for Chapel Hill on March 4. Captain Pritchett hopes to enter speedy Fred
Fleagle in the sprints; Bob McCallie, Lanier Pratt, and E. F. McPhail in the high hurdles; and Billy Flinn in
the pole vault. If the shot put is held in the meet, Miller Cochran will probably be entered.

CONVERSE FRENCH CLUB TO PRESENT PLAY HERE
The Cercle Francais, sponsored by the Davidson French Department, has had a very active year. Two plays have been prepared
and produced, and each year a public lecturer, speaking in French, has been presented. It is expected that this year’s
lecturer, a native professor of French, will be... (Continued from page 1)Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original
meaning and punctuation:

---

will visit Davidson in April. Plans are also underway for a joint meeting of the Davidson Circle with the Queens-Chicora
Chapter of Beta Pi Theta, honorary French fraternity.

March 25—Furman, here.
April 1—V. P. I., here.
April 15—Florida at Gainesville, Fla.
April 22 or 28—Wake Forest, here.
April 29—South Carolina at Columbia.
May 4—Duke, here.
May 12—State meet, at Durham.

Near Baton Rouge, La., there has been found a large bone pit several hundred feet square, in which scientists believe
will be found a large deposit of fossilized animal remains.

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY
"INFERNAL MACHINE"
CHESTER MORRIS

THURSDAY
"LUXURY LINER"

FRIDAY
"PARACHUTE JUMPERS"
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, JR.

SATURDAY DOUBLE PICTURE
"Past of Mary Holmes" and "Speed Demon"

MONDAY
"FACE ON THE SKY"
SPENCER TRACY

TUESDAY
"GOLDIE GETS ALONG"
LILY DAMITA

ILLUSION: The stage is all set for target practice. The magician lifts his bow and aims an arrow at the
bull’s-eye. His lovely assistant then steps in front of the target and she smiles through it all while the audience
gasps.

EXPLANATION: The arrow which the marksman "shoots through" his assistant simply folds up into the crossbow! The arrow which is
actually embedded in the target is shot by the girl herself from a belt concealed under her dress. It is
all done in a flash! So quickly the eye cannot detect the girl’s movements! To heighten the impression that the
arrow has gone right through, the girl releases a ribbon from the front of her dress—the continuation, apparently, of the
ribbon attached to the arrow in the target.

The audience is told that by certain magic processes tobacco can be made as soothing as cough medicine. EXPLANATION: The
easiest cigarette on your throat is the cigarette that is made from the choicest ripe tobaccos. Cheap, raw tobaccos are,
as you would naturally expect, harsh in their effects upon the throat.

If you have to consider your throat, the quality of the tobacco in your cigarette is important. It is a
fact, well known by leaf tobacco experts, that Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular
brand. Camels are as non-irritating as a cigarette can be because Camels use choice, ripe tobaccos. And because of the
matchless blending of these costlier tobaccos, Camels have a rich bouquet and aroma...a cool, delicious flavor. Keep the air-tight, welded
Humidor Pack on your Camels to assure yourself and your companions a fresh, cool smoke.

NO TRICKS—JUST COSTLIER TOBACCOS IN A MATCHLESS BLEND

---
