THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 13, 1933

Chemistry Meet

DAVIDSON’S LATEST PHI BETA KAPPA MEMBERS

Held In Florida

Prof. Thies Honored by Gamma Sigma Epsilon

The Beta Alpha Chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemistry fraternity, sponsored the first national conclave of that fraternity ever held in Florida on November 27. Delegates from fourteen chapters were represented at the meeting on the campus of the University of Florida.

At this convention, national officers of the fraternity for the coming year were elected. They were as follows: Dr. A. P. Black, University of Florida, Grand Alchemist; Dr. J. P. Montgomery, University of Alabama, Grand Recorder; Professor J. S. Pearce, Georgetown College, Grand Visor; and Professor O. J. Thies, Davidson College, Keeper of the Kult.

Professor Thies had the honor of being the only man to be re-elected to the same position this year. The Keeper of the Kult has to look after the ritual of the fraternity and to publish the directory.

A large banquet was held in honor of the visitors in one of the leading hotels on the night of November 28. The menus were printed on sheets of filter paper and were decorated with small strips of litmus paper.

Professor Thies and Rufus Morrow represented the Davidson Chapter at the convention.

(Courtesy Charlotte Observer)

Six seniors and seven alumni were initiated into Davidson's Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa last Thursday night. Shown left to right, they are: Front row: Odi Casali, Welch, W. Va.; J. T. Blair, Albemarle; W. T. Thompson and W. M. Thompson, Richmond, Va.; J. A. McGeachy, Fayetteville; and J. E. Dill, Buchanan, Va., all seniors. Back row: C. B. Bailey, '14, Charlottesville, Va.; S. T. Henderson, '17, and Neal Y. Pharr, '19, Charlotte; W. G. Humphrey, '18, Greenwood, Miss.; J. M. McBryde, '16, Fort Defiance, Va.; and E. G. Lilly, '19, Birmingham, Ala.

Emory Flinn of New York does not appear in the picture.

The convention talks were given by members of the organization, Bill Bogart speaking on “The Relation of the Sun to the Weather,” and J. E. Dill concerning the radio.

Sigma Pi Sigma Held Meeting Last Monday

Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity, held its regular meeting last Monday evening at 7 o'clock. Two talks were given by members of the organization. Professor Mebane of the Mathematics Department gave a lecture on current topics relating to physics.

The meeting, which marked the anniversary of the society, was then open for discussion, at which time plans for securing a speaker for an open meeting in the near future were discussed.

Brown and Smyre Talk At I. R. C. Convention

Davidson was represented by G. H. Brown and F. L. Smyre at the model League of Nations Assembly of the International Relations Club held at Winthrop College Friday and Saturday of last week. This convention met at Winthrop for its fifth year. Each country that is in the real league was represented by at least three college students.

The colleges represented were those scattered throughout North and South Carolina. The International Relations Club of Winthrop sponsored the assembly. Brown spoke condemning the actions of the German government.

Smyre, representing China, addressed the assembly which was considering the subject of disarmament and Japan on “China-Japan Relations.”

Entire Davidson Band Broadcasts Over WBT

The complete Davidson College Concert Band broadcast over WBT, Charlotte, last Wednesday evening. The program consisted of five selections by the band, and a plea was made for money with which to buy proper band uniforms for that organization.

The program was as follows: “O Davidson” was played at the beginning and ending of the broadcast; M. Cunningham, accompanied by the band, did a trumpet solo, “Jupiter,” by Goldman; selections from Sullivan’s “Pinafore” were played by the entire band, and the group rendered Sousa’s “Stars and Stripes Forever” in a special arrangement.

The program scheduled for this evening has not been planned as yet, but it will carry out a Christmas theme.

QUARTET ENTERTAINS

The Davidson College Quartet, composed of D. P. McLain, F. Hubert Morris, J. A. C. Robinson, and Frank Tucker, accompanied by Prof. J. C. Pfohl, sang at the Ladies’ Night Banquet given by the High Point Kiwanis Club in the Sheraton Hotel of that city, Friday night.

Monday evening, this group entertained the Parent-Teachers Association at Steele Creek.

DO YOU SMOKE PACKED Cigarettes

Copyright, 1933, The American Tobacco Company.

ALWAYS the finest tobaccos

No Loose Ends

WHY LUCKIES ARE SO MILD, SO SMOOTH

Open a pack of Luckies and lay the 20 cigarettes side by side. You can’t tell one from another. Every Lucky is round, firm and fully packed—with choice Turkish and domestic tobaccos.

ALWAYS the finest workmanship

Always Luckies please!

And every Lucky is free from annoying loose ends. The tips are clean-cut—the tobacco doesn’t spill out. That’s why Luckies draw easily, burn evenly—and are always mild and smooth.

“It's toasted” FOR THROAT PROTECTION—FOR BETTER TASTE