THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1933

Unique Utah
By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

(NOTE: This is one of a series of request articles describing a tour of the West while attending the convention of the National Editorial Association.)

Salt Lake City is truly an individual city. Approaching it on an avenue seven miles long, the first thing noticed is the magnificent capitol standing majestically on the crest of a rolling slope. It is said to occupy the most commanding site of any capitol in America. This city that arose from the desert is distinguished not only for its unique position but for the story of its growth. Nestled at the foot of high, snow-capped mountains which slope down, with America’s most remarkable body of water, Great Salt Lake, a few miles distant, Salt Lake City occupies a setting of rare charm. It is indeed “a sparkling gem in a lordly setting.”

After stopping at the hotel we unpacked and headed for the Temple Square. On our way we passed the Pioneer Monument, a massive granite pedestal surmounted by the bronze figure of Brigham Young. This great pioneer standing there had a quiet simplicity and stalwart pose. The pedestal was embellished with the figures of an Indian, a trapper, and the names of the first company of pioneers who came to Utah.

CHURCHES

The first church building noticed was the general office which was an imposing edifice of simple Greek architecture. The Temple was situated in the center of the city and surrounded by a stone and adobe wall. It was a pioneer landmark, yet its lines and freedom from ornamentation make it impressive. A party was being conducted through the grounds and buildings and we joined it as they were starting.

The Assembly Hall is a semi-Gothic structure and the furnishings were simple. Above the pipe organ a beehive was sketched on the ceiling. The bee is the state emblem and symbolizes industry. This building is used for the social, intellectual and religious uplift of the people. Meeting houses are constructed by tithes of the people in every ward of the city. The Mormons observe tithing strictly and seldom have to call on members for additional contributions.

The guide, who was a Mormon, asked if there were any ministers of the Church in the audience. There were several present, and he had them stand and tell about their work on the foreign field. One of the missionaries to England reported that after 12 years’ work in England he had three converts, but he liked his work for in trying to convert others he had become converted himself.

Contrary to popular opinion, Mormons are not allowed to have more than one wife. If they do and the church hears about it, they are ex-communicated. It is true that they used to practice this as did Abraham, but Congress forbade it. The church does not send out these missionaries. They send themselves and when not able to finance the venture often work years to make enough money to go. It would be interesting to quote the articles of faith of the Latter-Day Saints, but it is long and we shall pass on.

The Tabernacle roof is self-supporting and the arches are held together with wooden pegs and cowhide thongs, for no nails were used in constructing it. The organ in the Tabernacle is noted for its size and tone and the pipes range in length from five-eighths of an inch to 32 feet. This building is famous for its acoustics and a pin dropped in the pulpit can be heard while sitting in the rear of the auditorium. Ten thousand people can be comfortably seated and the building is arranged so that it can be emptied in three minutes.

The Temple, which took 40 years to construct, was also interesting. It is built of gray granite and the largest rocks are known as “Earth Stones” and they have to do with the creation of the earth. The “Moon Stones” were inserted in a line with the top of the first row of oval windows and they concerned the fulfilling of the prophecy in Mormon Scripture. Above them were the “Sun Stones,” which were related with the “All Seeing Eye.” On the capstones of the central tower was the soaring statue of an angel in a blaze of gold.

As you probably know, Mormons believe in the transmigration of souls. The guide got it into his head that Daddy was a Presbyterian preacher and asked him how the doctrines he had been expounding compared with Presbyterianism. Daddy assured him that he was a Presbyterian but instead of being a minister he was an editor. The guide continued his lecture by describing how his soul passed down from editors of the past.

Inside the Temple 1,200 people were praying for the dead. In the middle of the grounds were the statues of Joseph Smith, The Prophet, and his brother, Hyrum. Joseph Smith was a life-like character. The carriage of his whole body, especially the alert, intellectual head, were convincingly expressed. There was a dignity of repose and energy of life and gesture all the more impressive that it was kept under control. The Prophet, holding the Holy Scriptures, was in the act of expounding it to some listeners, and one felt that the message had mighty import.

Near the two statues was the new monument of the three witnesses of the Book of Mormon. This monument was in commemoration of the three men, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris, who bore witness of the revelation in this day and that the Book of Mormon is the story of the dealings with people on the American continent.

OLDEST HOUSE

Before leaving the grounds, one passes the oldest house in Utah. It was protected under a marble pergola and surrounded by an iron fence. As one looks into the little cabin and sees the hearthstone, one is reminded of the beautiful lines written by Whittier concerning his boyhood home:

“We piled with care our mighty stack
Of wood against the chimney back
The oaken log, green, huge, and thick,
And on its top the stout back-stick;
The knotty fore-stick laid apart,
And filled between with curious art
The ragged brush; then hovering near,
We watched the first red blaze appear,
Heard the sharp crackle, caught the gleam,
Of whitewashed wall and sagging beam,
Until the old, rude-furnished room
Burst flower-like, into rosy bloom.”

SALTAIR BEACH

In the afternoon Saltair Beach was visited for a swim in Great Salt Lake situated 15 miles from the city. Pennants and streamers were blowing in the air from the Moorish towers. Donning bathing suits we stepped down the pavilion floor into the water and were literally lifted off our feet. You can float or swim, but never sink. It’s impossible! The water is 22 percent salt, making it from six to eight times as salty as the ocean and you float like a cork over its briny top. It isn’t necessary to know how to swim and it requires no effort to float.

Saltair stood out a mile from shore on great pilings and aside from its unique bathing is one of the finest amusement resorts in the West. Not the least among the interesting features of Saltair was the sweeping view it affords of the country in all directions. Nearby were vast islands receding into a chain of mountain peaks and on one side was the Wasatch Range at the base of which nestled Salt Lake City. This strange setting on the waters of a mysterious “Dead Sea,” its spaciousness, set it apart as a place unique. It was a spot of strange beauty, subtle mystery, and vibrant romance.

Coming back to town the gas gave out and the car just managed to roll up to a tank at the airport, where it was refilled. We were so busy looking at the scenery we didn’t have time to look at a gas gauge and later repented of this when we became stranded on the desert with no gas.the nearest filling station miles away.

Silver Screen

Wednesday, March 8—King of the Jungle
This picture is similar to the Tarzan picture and is a bit fantastic. Buster Crabbe, Olympic champion swimmer and the world’s most perfectly formed male, portrays the role of the Lion Man, king of the beasts of the jungle. He grows up in the jungle, wild and ferocious. He is captured and brought to civilization, where he discovers himself to be a man. He falls in love with Frances Dee. He saves the city of San Francisco when a cargo of wild beasts escapes their cages, by his command over them. He goes back to the jungle that he loves. Although the picture is fantastic, it is rated as good. It is a picture of warm romance on two continents.

Thursday and Friday, March 9, 10—State Fair
Eight stars, notably Will Rogers, Lew Ayres, Janet Gaynor, Sally Eilers, Norman Foster, Frank Craven, Louise Dresser, and Victor Jory, make up an unusually good cast in this picture of farm life. It is the first big attempt of the talkies to give a picture of rural life in America. It is the story of the fortunes of Abel Franks’ family at the State Fair. Will Rogers is the lovable father. The Gaynor-Ayres team is up to par with the Gaynor-Farrell team in supplying the romance. It is an amusing picture and a restful one. Liberty gave this picture 8 1/2 stars.

Saturday, March 11—Sailor’s Luck
No dope was available at the time of the writing of this column on this picture.

Monday, March 13—Broadway
Joan Blondell, Ricardo Cortez, and Ginger Rogers are the chief attractions in this picture. They are ably aided by Adrienne Ames and Victor Jory. It is a picture of the New York underworld and their doings. Joan Blondell is the girl who is both good and bad.

Tuesday, March 14—Girl Missing
This one is a thriller. Queer events happen on a thrilling wedding night. Mystery, intrigue, and comedy make this picture. Ben Lyon, Mary Brian, and Glenda Farrell are the leaders. Guy Kibbee, Peggy Shannon, and Lyle Talbot add good support. This should be good.

Visiting Quartet
Friday morning, as a part of the regular chapel exercises, a quartet from Hampdon Institute will render a number of vocal selections. Hampdon Institute is a negro school located at Hampdon, Virginia, and it was at this college that Booker T. Washington was educated. The quartet which will visit here is widely known.

“Peace” Is Discussed By Dr. T. W. Lingle
Dr. T. W. Lingle led a discussion on the subject, “World Peace and Disarmament; R. O. T. C., Yes or No?” at the Fireside Forum last Friday evening. After the reading of a portion of the Sermon on the Mount as representative of the strong attitude toward peace of the writers of the Bible, two of the group led in prayer. Dr. Lingle opened the discussion with a summary of the developments in international relationships from their beginnings to the present time. There have been three periods in this development. First was the idea of world dominion by a single sovereign, under the regime of which Cyrus and Darius made the Medes and Persians the lords of the Eastern world, and under which Alexander, after he had gained supremacy over the then known countries of the earth, cried because there were no more worlds to conquer. The fall of this type of empire saw the beginning of the second era and the rise of the Feudal System. During this period, the whole of Europe was divided into estates governed by some member of the gentry. The third period was an outgrowth of the second. Its spirit was expressed by Andrew Jackson in the words which have come to be associated with him: “To the victor belongs the spoils!” This period began about the time of the Renaissance and in it have been all of the greatest wars of mankind, including the greatest of all—the World War. Individuals are making greater progress in relations between each other, Dr. Lingle explained. Nations are learning that the best way to settle disputes is to go to some disinterested third party and to accept his verdict on the matter as final. The leader stated that it was his belief that if the United States was a member of the League, the Japanese invasion of Manchuria could have been stopped in two weeks. Nations should organize to maintain peace as they have done to wage war. Although the United States has refused membership in the Court and the League, both of which it started, it will eventually have to join if public opinion becomes strong enough. With this feeling growing apace, there is a hope that we are in another great period of transition. R. O. T. C. was discussed pro and con, but the majority of those present seemed to agree that it was a good thing and a great factor in our national defense. However, the feeling of the group was that national defense is only a temporary preventive of war, and that permanent peace can only come when the people of the world have been educated by the teachings of Christ to a desire for it.

JUNIOR CLASS ANNOUNCES DATE OF JUNIOR SPEAKING
(Continued from page 1)
to the gaiety of the occasion. The orchestra will play from the south side of the ballroom, facing the main entrance, instead of the eastern end, as previously stated. This central location of the orchestra will increase the audition to a great extent. As a feature of the Friday night dance, there will be a figure, composed of members of the Junior class and their guests. This figure will be led by Lanier Pratt, Louisville, Ky., and Miss Florence Pitts, of Spartanburg, S. C. The other Juniors appearing in the figure are: Lynn Huie, Charlie Rives, John Lafferty, Duck Powell, Fred Smyre, Miller Cochran, Ed Humphrey, Alex Schenck, Ralph Smith, Mack Holland, Madison Armistead, Buck Kirkland, Lyman Clardy, Jim Harris, and T. Hooke McCallie. The figure will be unique in that it will be one of the first to be presented at a Junior Speaking dance, and also that it will be presented in the form of a Grand March. A novel arrangement has been made for the presentation of corsages to the young ladies participating. The feature of the Saturday night dance will be the crowning of the Queen of Love and Beauty. The Queen will be chosen by popular election from the floor and will be crowned by a special group from the Junior class. Pictures of the Queen and of several other of the most beautiful girls present will appear in the Sunday edition of both the Charlotte News and the Charlotte Observer, as well as in other outstanding newspapers in the state. Tickets are on sale throughout the entire week at the price of $3.00 and may be obtained from any of the following: Lynn Huie, Adolphe Rachal, Cal Kuykendall, Odi Casali, Fred Smyre, Ed Humphrey, Ralph Smith, Miller Cochran, Alex Schenck, John Lafferty, Duck Powell, and Charlie Rives. The Junior class has been working steadily to make the weekend successful, having initiated their efforts at the Junior Smoker, held during the month of February. During this smoker, the following committees were appointed: Advertising and Tickets, John Lafferty, chairman; Decorations, Charlie Rives, chairman; Crowning of the Queen, Lynn Huie, chairman.

DAVIDSON-FLORIDA DEBATE TO BE HELD HERE SAT. NIGHT
(Continued from page 1)
will debate Rollins College. On next Saturday afternoon at 3:00 o’clock, the same team will take the negative side of the question previously mentioned against the University of Florida at Gainesville. This debate will be broadcast over the radio station, WRUF. On Thursday, the 9th of this month, Charlie Moore and Hugh Hawkins will leave for a debating tour of the more western states, taking the affirmative side of the same question as stated before. On the 10th, they will debate the University of Tennessee at Knoxville. On the 15th, they will debate Sewanee University at Sewanee, Tenn. On the 16th, they will have a return debate with Emory University at Atlanta, Georgia.

GEO. W. LAPITZ
Factory Representative
TAILORING DISPLAY at the Soda Shop EVERY THURSDAY
Star Direct Tailors - $23.50 Up
B. O. RAVENEL
Student Representative

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY
“KING OF THE JUNGLE”
BUSTER CRABBE — FRANCES DEE
THURSDAY AND FRIDAY
“STATE FAIR”
WILL ROGERS — JANET GAYNOR — LEW AYRES
SATURDAY
“SAILOR’S LUCK”
MONDAY
“BROADWAY”
JOAN BLONDELL — GINGER ROGERS — RICHARD CORTEZ
THURSDAY
“GIRL MISSING”
GLENDA FARRELL — BEN LYON — MARY BRIAN

Have your poodle groomed at DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Work done while you wait.
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor