THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1933 — DUKE GOLFERS BAG STATE CROWN AS 'CATS PLACE THIRD

THE SPORTS PARADE

WILDCAT DIAMOND ORGANIZATION TAKES LEAD IN STATE RACE

FIRING AT RANDOM
CASKIE NORVELL, Jr.

Jimmy Halverstadt brought honor upon Davidson last week when he was runner-up for the tennis championship of the Big Five. Jimmy only fell before the excellent stroking of Wilmer Hines, Carolina, former national junior champion. He also paired with Captain Charlie Myers to take runner-up honors in the doubles, giving Davidson second place as a team. Wilmer Hines deserves everyone’s congratulations on his championship. He has secured it in his third attempt, having been stopped for two straight years by his former teammate, the illustrious Bryan “Bitsy” Grant, number 13 in the national ranking. Hines graduates this June, and Halverstadt has one more year in which to try for the net crown.

Alan Smith shot splendid golf over a rain-soaked terrain to bag the state championship. Despite his great golf, Smith’s team was forced to be content with second place, as a strong contingent of Duke linksmen, playing their home course, bagged the team championship. Davidson, led by Jack Wagner's two 79’s, took third.

The track team crashed through again. Wake Forest was completely swamped under a mob of fast times and good distances. The freshman team, too, continued their unbroken string of victories, and stand on the same footing with the varsity, with three wins to no defeats. Miller Cochran, a junior, crashed the limelight when he heaved the sixteen-pound iron ball 44 feet, 3 inches to break the Davidson College record in this event. He also took firsts in the discus and javelin throws to lead the scorers. Charlie Little came home with the sliced pork by taking a neat first in the two-mile run. This is Charlie’s first year on the team and is a fine example of what a man can accomplish if he'll just put out. McFadyen and Woodside finished second and third in this event, to give the ’Cats a clean sweep. Ras Evans and Earle Frazier took their customary firsts in the freshman division. Ras got wins in both dashes, and Frazier was first in the mile and the 440. Pitman pole vaulted eleven feet to take first place in that event.

The Florida-Davidson meet was called off due to the disinclination of Jupiter Pluvius, and from all reports, the ’Gators were plenty glad they didn’t have to encounter this fast running aggregation from Davidson.

The baseball team is at the top of the column in the standings of the Big Five with two victories against no defeats. The two victories are 4 to 3 wins over Carolina, gained in a brace of holiday games. Davidson's lead will be risked this week in games with Carolina and N. C. State, both on foreign soil. We don’t like to pick ’em wrong, and we feel sure we aren’t, when we say we expect the ’Cats to bag the pair of them, even though they will get a couple of sweet scraps. Jenkins, freshman southpaw, joined the ranks of the near great when he shut out Belmont Abbey, with two bingles, winning 2 to 0.

Duke is taking a commanding lead in Southern track circles, and when Davidson’s undefeated track team meets those Blue Devils, it will be one whale of a good meet. I’m just waiting to see that hundred and 220 between Fleagle and Brownlee.

A game that would have had a decided bearing on the Big Five race, one between Davidson and Wake Forest, scheduled for last Friday afternoon on the local diamond, was called off on account of cold weather. The Deacons are undefeated in the lone encounter they have had, which was a 12 to 1 massacring of N. C. State’s Wolfpack nine.

The proposed track meet between Davidson’s fresh and the lads from P. C. should be a fine exhibition. The South Carolina boys came up here last year and gave Davidson’s neophytes a terrific shellacking. An undefeated Wildkitten aggregation is going up against a hard foe, and the editor regrets that he does not choose to make a prediction for publication at this time as to the outcome of the meet, but it will truly be close.

Carolina continues their string of Southern Conference baseball victories, and the ’Cats hold two wins over the Tar Heels. What does that make us? To me it looks like we're leading anything in the Conference.

Davidson Leading in Big Five Baseball Standing

Davidson Team Hits Well to Defeat Elon, Catawba, North Carolina, and Charlotte, Bringing Total Number of Wins to Nine

With their final win over Elon, April 18, Davidson College’s Wildcat nine made it nine wins out of ten starts. The lone defeat was an 8 to 0 lacing given them by the Charlotte Hornets of the Piedmont League. This defeat did not affect Davidson’s standing in collegiate baseball circles. The ’Cats split a two-game series with the Hornets, winning the first encounter, 5 to 1.

The holiday campaign brought two victories over both North Carolina and Elon, and one over Catawba. This places Davidson in the lead for the Big Five championship.

Davidson 12; Catawba 7

In a game played on the Indians’ grounds, Davidson again defeated Catawba. This time the score was 12 to 7. The contest was played April 10. Charlie Pearce was on the hill for the ’Cats. Davidson scored six times in the eighth stanza to overcome Catawba’s lead, and thereby pull the game out of the fire. Pearce allowed eleven safeties, but went the route. The Wildcat sluggers bumped Vaniewsky for fifteen base blows, and he, too, remained on the hillock throughout the fray.

Score by innings: R H E
Davidson .......... 210 021 060—12 15 5
Catawba .......... 100 042 000—7 11 4
Pearce and Whitley; Vaniewsky and Cesareo.

Elon 2; Davidson 7

Davidson made eleven hits

Duke Wins Golf Crown In State Meet; Alan Smith Individual Star

Carolina Finishes Second in Keen Competition as Davidson and State Trail Leaders

A well-balanced contingent of golfers, representing Duke University, captured the state intercollegiate golf crown in a match played over the sporty terrain of the Hope Valley Country Club, Durham, last Friday. The Blue Devil aggregation finished the thirty-six-hole grind with a team score of 631. The University of North Carolina scored 638 to come in second. The Wildcats of Davidson College were but four points back of the Tar Heels, having 642, which gave them third place. N. C. State’s Red Terrors trailed badly, finishing up in the fourth position with 673.

Alan Smith of the University of North Carolina, Biltmore Forest champion, took off individual honors in the meet by coupling a 77 with a 72 to have a total of 149 for the thirty-six holes. Bayard Storm, sensational Duke sophomore, finished but a stroke behind the leader with a total of 150, gained by two sparkling 75 rounds. Roger Peacock, Duke number one, and 1932 champion, finished at 152 for a total. Fred Newnham, Jr., N. C. State’s ace, scored a pair of 78’s to lead his team in the scoring with a total of 156. Jack Wagner, Davidson star, and runner-up for the Biltmore Forest title, turned in a brace of 79's to be low man for Davidson. A poor 86 in the morning round kept Davidson’s Captain Caldwell out of the running, as he turned in a splendid 76 in the afternoon.

Summary:
Duke: Storm, 75-75—150; Peacock, 76-76—152; Caldwell, 81-82—163; Sullivan, 85-81—166. Team: 631.
North Carolina: Smith, 72-77—149; Laxton, 75-78—153; Cramer, 79-83—162; Michaels, 85-83—168. Team: 638.
Davidson: Wagner, 79-79—158; Caldwell, 86-76—162; Manson, 82-84—166; Thompson, 83-86—169. Team: 642.
N. C. State: Newnham, 78-78—156; Pastore, 84-81—165; Styron, 87-88—175; Rion, 89-88—177. Team: 673.

Davidson Golf Team Has Three Matches

Dropping two matches while bagging one, Davidson's golf team continued its northern trip this week. Furman was defeated before spring holidays, and the ’Cats have since then dropped matches to both Duke and North Carolina. Davidson defeated Furman in Charlotte, April 12, 14 to 4. Johnny Thompson was low man with a 75. McGee, Furman number one, shot a neat 77 to win from Jack Wagner, who slipped badly, and turned in a poor 80.

In a preliminary to the state tournament the Duke linksmen bumped the Wildcats, 10½ to 7½, over the rain-soaked Hope Valley club terrain. Wagner of Davidson took two points from Peacock, 1932 state intercollegiate champion. Captain Caldwell defeated Storm of Duke, but Caldwell and Sullivan took all possible points for Duke in matches with Manson and Thompson, thereby gaining enough points to win the match.

On the day after the state championship, Carolina waxed warm to completely rout the ’Cats, handing them a 17½ to ½ walloping. Caldwell managed to halve a side with Laxton and gain Davidson’s half a point. Coffin, Tar Heel number four man, turned in a neat 71 to lead the scorers for the day. All four Carolina players shot 75 or better.Count for seven runs to bump the Elon “giant-killers” 7 to 2, on Richardson Field, April 12. Charlie Harris, sophomore right-hander, turned the Christians back with seven scattered bingles. Extra base hits featured the game, with Mills and Morris hitting homers for Davidson, and Clark of Elon getting a four-bagger. The ’Cat sluggers touched the offerings of Newsome for eleven safeties and scored four runs in the eighth inning. 

Score by innings: 
Elon 2 R H E 
Davidson 7 11 3 
Newsome and Chandler; Harris and Whitley.

Davidson 5; Charlotte Hornets 1
In the first of a two-game series with the Hornets of the Piedmont League, the Wildcats played airtight ball to send the pros down, 5 to 1, in a game played on Robbins Field, Charlotte. Portsider George Baily was on the mound for Davidson and limited the Hornets to two hits, while his mates were garnering nine. The game was featured by the sparkling play of Buck Mills at shortstop, who handled eleven chances with remarkable skill.

Score by innings: 
Davidson 5 R H E 
Hornets 1 9 2 
Baily and Whitley; Lyle and Martin, Bell.

North Carolina 3; Davidson 4
In the initial game of a holiday series, Davidson College handed the University of North Carolina Tar Heel nine a 4 to 3 defeat in Winston-Salem, April 15. Charlie Pearce, chunky southpaw, was touched for eight bingles by the Tar Heel batters, but he kept them well scattered, and the ’Cats bunched their four hits in the second and seventh innings to come out on top. Bumgarner, Davidson second baseman, collected two for three to lead the hitters.

Score by innings: 
North Carolina 3 R H E 
Davidson 4 8 2 
Griffith and McCaskill; Pearce and Whitley.

North Carolina 3; Davidson 4
In the annual Easter Monday diamond classic, Davidson again administered a 4 to 3 defeat to Carolina. This time the game was played in Concord, and a large holiday crowd was on hand. Charlie Harris and Shrimp Morris played the leading roles in Davidson’s victory. Harris limited the Heels to seven bingles and brought in two runs by hitting in the pinches. Morris, lanky first sacker, also drove in two runs.

Score by innings: 
North Carolina 3 R H E 
Davidson 4 7 6 
Andrews and McCaskill; Harris and Whitley.

Davidson 0; Charlotte Hornets 8
In the second game of the series, the Hornets retaliated and jumped all over the collegians, blanking them 8 to 0. Julian West allowed the league team but eight hits, but poor support largely caused his downfall, as the Davidson team made six miscues behind him. The 'Cat sluggers were held well in check, being able to amass but four safeties during the game.

Score by innings: 
Davidson 0 R H E 
Hornets 8 4 6 
West and Whitley.

Davidson 12; Elon 2
Closing their state tour in Burlington, the Wildcat baseball team soundly spanked the Elon diamondmen, 12 to 2, April 18. George Baily, in rare form, held the Christians completely at bay until the ninth, when two runs crossed the plate. He allowed but eleven safeties during the game.

Score by innings: 
Davidson 12 R H E 
Elon 2 18 2 
Baily and Whitley; Briggs, Newsome and Chandler, Tadley.

Four Games Played In Inter-Class Ball
Inter-class baseball has been going on for a good many “set-ups” and then again some “upsets” also. In the first game, the Seniors played the Freshmen in which the Freshmen came out on top with a 13 to 9 victory. Next, the Juniors met the Sophomores, and this resulted in a 13 to 10 score for the Juniors. The Seniors were beaten by the Sophomores in their second game, by a score of 13 to 6. The Juniors won their second game by trouncing the Freshmen 12 to 6. All of these games were played in the first flight. In the second round, the Freshmen meet the Juniors, and the Seniors also meet the Juniors. The winners of these two games will advance to the finals.

’Kitten Tennis Team Wins From Winston
A Wildkitten net aggregation rose up last Friday afternoon and blanked the Winston-Salem High racqueteers 9 to 0 in a match played on the local courts. Lewis, at number one for the Davidson Freshmen, played splendid tennis to decisively trounce Hutchins, 6-0, 6-1.

Singles: 
Lewis (Davidson) defeated Hutchins (Winston), 6-0, 6-1; Barnett (Davidson) defeated Cranford (Winston), 6-3, 6-3; Bowman (Davidson) defeated Sneed (Winston), 6-2, 6-4; Bell (Davidson) defeated Walters (Winston), 6-2, 6-4; Hassell (Davidson) defeated Copeland (Winston), 6-2, 6-3; Gold (Davidson) defeated Houck (Winston), 6-1, 6-3.

Doubles: 
Lewis-Bell defeated Hutchins-Cranford, 6-3, 6-1; Barnett-Bowman defeated Sneed-Cranford, 6-2, 6-4; Gold-Hassell defeated Walters-Houck, 7-5, 6-2.

My Greatest Thrill AS TOLD BY GENE CANNON
My most thrilling experience came in the Carolina game at Chapel Hill last year. Sitting on the bench is no thrill as anyone who has done so will state. This had been the position from which I had seen most of the games, and you can imagine how I felt to get in this of all games. Bud Raker, who was captain of the team, was unfortunately injured in the game and when Coach Younger told me to go in I believe I had the greatest thrill of my football experience. Gene Cannon, who is a senior, lives in Roanoke Rapids, N. C. He made his numerals in track, and his “D” in track his junior year. He also made his letter in football this year.

’Cats and ’Kittens Win From Wake Forest by Fairly Large Scores
Cochran Breaks School Record by Heaving Shot Forty-four Feet, Three Inches

IS THIRD WIN OF SEASON
Eleven Out of Fourteen First Places Taken by Varsity
Davidson varsity and freshman track teams both kept their records clean last Saturday when they defeated Wake Forest representatives in a double meet here. The varsity came out on the big end of a score of 98½ to 27½ and the freshmen won over the Wake frosh, 81 to 41. The victories were the third of the year for both the freshman and the varsity squads, while neither has suffered a defeat thus far. Both teams took firsts in eleven of the fourteen events to pile up commanding leads. The varsity took all the scoring places in the century, the two-mile run, the javelin, and the broad jump. Miller Cochran, Davidson weight man, was high point man of the varsity meet with 15 points, gathered by firsts in the shot put, discus, and javelin throws. Evans and Frazier led the freshman scoring with 10 points each. A new record was set by Cochran in the shot put when he heaved the 16-pound weight 44 feet, 3 inches.

Varsity summaries:
100-yard dash: Fleagle (Davidson) first; A. Little (Davidson) second; McCallie (Davidson) third. Time: 9.9.
Mile run: Fuller (Wake Forest) first; Howard (Davidson) second; Morrow (Davidson) third. Time: 4:41.
220-yard dash: Fleagle (Davidson) first; Hayes (Wake Forest) second; McCallie (Davidson) third. Time: 22.1.
Shot put: Cochran (Davidson) first; Potter (Davidson) second; Hasty (Wake Forest) third. Distance: 44 feet, 3 inches.
Pole vault: Johnson (Wake Forest) first; Flinn (Davidson) second; Harrill (Wake Forest) and Lee (Davidson) tied for third. Height: 11 feet.
120-yard high hurdles: Pratt (Davidson) first; McPhail (Davidson) second; Cannady (Wake Forest) third. Time: 15.8.
440-yard run: Glasgow (Davidson) first; Russell (Wake Forest) second; Grant (Davidson) third. Time: 54.5.
Two-mile run: C. Little (Davidson) first; McFadyen (Davidson) second; Woodside (Davidson) third. Time: 10:43.
Discus throw: Cochran (Davidson) first; Hasty (Wake Forest) second; Dill (Davidson) third. Distance: 117 feet.
High jump: Rhyne (Davidson) first; Coble (Davidson) and Johnson (Wake Forest) tied for second. Height: 5 feet, 8 inches.
220-yard low hurdles: A. Little (Davidson) first; McCallie (Davidson) second; Russell (Wake Forest) third. Time: 26.1.
880-yard run: Fuller (Wake Forest) first; Cannon (Davidson) second; Gwynn (Davidson) third. Time: 2:5.2.
Javelin throw: Cochran (Davidson) first; Dickerson (Davidson) second; Bettis (Davidson) third. Distance: 159 feet, 8 inches.
Broad jump: Dickerson (Davidson) first; Flinn (Davidson) second; Armstead (Davidson) third. Distance: 21 feet, 7 inches.

Freshman summaries:
100-yard dash: Evans (Davidson) first; Faison (Davidson) second; Stroup (Wake Forest) third. Time: 10 flat.
Mile run: Frazier (Davidson) first; Weatherman (Wake Forest) second; Drake (Wake Forest) third. Time: 4:41.4.
220-yard dash: Evans (Davidson) first; Faison (Davidson) second; Stroup (Wake Forest) third. Time: 22.9.
Pole vault: Pittman (Davidson) first; Osborne (Wake Forest) and Dolan (Davidson) tied for second. Height: 11 feet.
Shot put: Windham (Davidson) first; Tipton (Davidson) second; Strain (Wake Forest) third. Distance: 42 feet, 1-4 inch.
120-yard high hurdles: Cathey (Davidson) first; Parker (Davidson) second; Peacock (Wake Forest) third. Time: 16.6.
440-yard run: Frazier (Davidson) first; Fraley (Davidson) second; Powell (Wake Forest) third. Time: 54.8.
Discus throw: Wells (Davidson) first; Stroup (Wake Forest) second; Tipton (Davidson) third. Distance: 106 feet.
High jump: Lee (Davidson) first; Mc- (Continued on page 6)