N. THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1933

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Managing Editor: W. T. JOHNSON
Business Manager: E. N. CASALI
Managing Editor: J. A. HUNTER
Managing Editor: R. BAILEY
Managing Editor: M. THOMPSON
Alumni Editor: JACK WILLIAMS, JR.
Athletic Editor: G. L. GREEN
Exchange Editor: W. L. SPRUNT
Feature Editor: R. TAYLOR
Feature Editor: A. C. WADSWORTH

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager: G. L. GREEN
Assistant Business Manager: W. L. SPRUNT
Assistant Business Manager: R. TAYLOR
Assistant Business Manager: A. C. WADSWORTH

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President: M. W. ALDERMAN
Vice-President: W. C. NEILL
Secretary-Treasurer: B. C. TRUMAN
Members: JACK PLUNKETT, BILL BOWMAN, ROGER RILEY, ADDISON BRENIZER, P. M. ROGERS, LAMONT BROWN, J. H. ROSS, DOWNIE CHARLES, SUTLIVE
LA, T. H. SUTTON

WEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 1933

Men must expect to work and sacrifice for their work if they are to accumulate enough of this world’s goods
to live with any degree of comfort. —Anonymous.

BE NATURAL
Gypsy Smith made quite a few impressions upon Davidson students during the Spring Services conducted last week under the auspices
of the Y. M. C. A. One statement in particular that was clever but very true was “the keynote of
success is B-natural, and if you don’t hit that key, you’ll b-flat.”

HONOR AT THE STUDENT STORE
It was a rather unpleasant but serious charge that Jerome Clark, past president of the student body, brought against the
students in assembly the other day. Throughout his term of office, Clark has tried to uphold or improve old Davidson
traditions and honor, and it was in Davidson’s interest that he made the charge which we repeat here: “The boys
here are not abiding strictly by the Honor System at the Student Store. They justify taking more than their money’s
worth with all manner of lame excuses which they should know are absolutely unreasonable. They make fun and joke about
eating broken crackers, which according to them are supposed to be free, and losing count of the number of cakes
they have eaten. While it is all right to have a bit of fun at the same time it is
far from right to carry the joke into a theft. It would be a terrific blow to the Davidson Honor
System, as anyone should be able to see, if the Student Store should have to close its doors or even
remove the Honor System therefrom, because the Honor System failed to work.”

BENEFICIAL LEISURE
To help solve the unemployment problem, President Ralph C. Hutchinson, of Washington and Jefferson College, at Washington, Pa., recently announced
that in the coming fall term unemployed men over 30 years of age will be admitted to classes where no
special fees are required. At the present time, there is a large number of white-collared men who are idle and
who would be glad to spend their imposed idleness in furthering their mental powers if they had the money with
which to do it. Other colleges and universities, which have lower enrollments now than in past years, could do a
service to these idle men and at the same time be helping themselves by following the plan used by W.
& J.

BABBITT BEGINS TO THINK
George F. Babbitt was that hypothetical man-in-the-street created in 1920 by Mr. Sinclair Lewis. It was strangely paradoxical that America,
itself teeming with Babbitts, came to hate this creation so much. For ten hectic years, our average American held the
booming tenor of his way. And then came the crash. During the post-war period—from the armistice to the depression—the destinies
of these United States were almost completely in the hands of big business; but as long as there was a
chicken in his pot and two cars in his garage, Babbitt did not worry about the destinies of his nation.
Little did it concern him that an annual average of 2,000,000 men were unemployed during the ’twenties. Meanwhile, in 1929,
the Frankenstein formed by the captain of industry rose up and devoured not only its creator but millions of his
unwitting fellowmen. And government was sternly advised to stay out of business. Even then Babbitt implicitly trusted the steel magnate,
the Wall Street banker, and the Smoot-Hawley tariff. He was soothed with assurances that “conditions are fundamentally sound” and that
they would remain so only if he relied upon “the fundamental integrity of this great nation.” Three precarious years passed.
Unemployment increased six-fold, wages were cut, and prices fell; confidence was lost, and banks failed. It was with the advent
of the “new deal” and the banking crisis that Babbitt really began to think. The lame ducks were buried, the
high-Tories expelled; the new administration broke with Wall Street, and confidence returned. President and Congress jointly pushed a vigorous campaign
of economic, industrial, and financial reform. Babbitt took hope. Suddenly he realized that the greater part of the nation was
enthusiastically supporting policies that radicals had championed for years. He found himself advocating and defending measures pointing toward possible solutions
that his complacent conservatism had never before been able to discern. Of at least one fact he was certain: his
repudiation of the antiquated policy of relying upon big business for guidance and leadership. Babbitt takes hope. He is looking
forward to much-needed political and social reform. He is relying upon the liberal leadership of an able administration. Babbitt—the new
Babbitt—is beginning to think. —STUART NOBLIN.

HILL RAIDIN’
University of Florida
Last Sunday marked the beginning of the fourth annual Honor Week at the University of Florida. The Honor Week is
a brief period devoted to the revival and stimulation of positive attitudes towards the Honor System, one of Florida’s most
treasured traditions. Serious classroom discussions, programs of campus organizations guided by pertinent speeches, and active, constructive criticisms by all students
were expected to be forthcoming throughout the seven days.

Middlebury College
Ahune, these clever Vermonters. A course in love-making has been added to the curriculum at Middlebury College. Members of the
faculty, first, second, and third-year students have enrolled. Such a course ought to go over great at Davidson. Especially under
the Middlebury plan, as the seniors act as demonstrators. And can our seniors take it???!!

Duke
This depression is getting bad. Members of a certain Duke orchestra had all of their instruments stolen during the first
week of April. However, fate was kind, so that when one member of the orchestra went into a pawn shop
in Greensboro to purchase more instruments, he found all of the stolen instruments. The matter was immediately reported to the
police, and the instruments were returned to the orchestra.

Clemson
It has been rumored about on the Clemson campus that new scientific methods were going to be used to clean
the barracks. As some wit has said, “Gentlemen, the old ‘Quick Henry, the Flit’ method will get rid of them
too.”

V. P. I.
From “The Virginia Tech” we find the headlines, “Experts Baffled by Swimming Pool.” It seems that engineers have not yet
solved the problem of how to fix the bottom of the pool. At Davidson, the problem did not get that
far. We never got the pool. Peculiar thing, how elusive these swimming pools are! Any blissful anticipations of swimming at
Davidson were rudely shattered at chapel the other morn. (And again... can our seniors take it???)

CURRENT EVENTS IN NATURE
By BILL WARD
In front of Dr. Harding’s residence, there is an interesting bird-constructed apartment house, containing two stories. Two Flickers were the
carpenters, but they have rented the upper flat to a pair of Starlings. It is a typical apartment house, the
two families living like dogs and cats. The young Starlings are always squalling, and Mrs. Flicker never has peace while
she is trying to incubate her eggs. A Flicker normally lays only seven or eight eggs in a clutch. But
if these are removed, she will continue to lay in the hopes of having a full clutch. Thus, when an
egg was removed each day from the nest,

WHO, ME? NEWS DIGEST
Hunter Pharr, when asked by Colonel Little, inspecting the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit, what he intended to be
when he grew up, replied that he didn’t know. The inspector asked again, and Hunter, being pressed, answered, “A man,
sir.”

It is interesting to note at this time the origin of pretzels. I very much fear that their creators would
raise their hands in holy horror to see pretzels rung on sticks set up by steins on small tables covered
with red-and-white-checked cloths, and other places for that matter. Incidentally, the tasty bit of cake dates back to the middle
ages. It was then the custom for the monks to give cookies to children as a reward for having said
prayers correctly. The pretzel is symbolical of the hands folded in prayer. Tempus fugit, etc.

Bob Matthews predicted a few days ago that “Stormy Weather” would be the hit of May, but if I believe
all the reports I hear from the first floor of West from such enthusiasts as...Blanton Little and Sam Milton, it’s
the 4th of April. May I suggest to some interior decorator that he will find a prolific field for expansion
at the Pika house. (The same applies to those of the medical profession.) That is if the practice of playing
buckity-buck indoors continues, for in the last week those who only watched have sustained many minor injuries. I’m told it
requires a squad of ten men to rake up the loose appendages after an encounter. The Pikas are a playful
lot; and all this reminds me of the predicament of Rotund Crisco Smallridge, who in a game of follow-the-leader, was
marooned on the front gable of the roof of his fraternity house and remained there in that precarious perch for
well over a half-hour, unable to remember how he got up; to fly away; or to defy the law of
Newton.

Saturday evening last found quite a few of the Davidson students at the local high school to see the coming
Bernhardts. However, Sam Thompson as Fanny Brown, fast and fascinating, ran the ladies of the cast a close second and
the men into hysteria.

Mark Symons seems to be declining rather than progressing in his career, materially speaking. Three years ago the Royal Academy
accepted a painting of the crucifixion from him which had been done in a modern setting. But in 1931 and
again this year it refused other pictures of his of the modern type. The most lately rejected one was of
the last supper in which both the host and guests wore dinner clothes of today.

“The Importance of Being Earnest” progresses. The cast, including Mrs. Erwin, Misses Steel, Arbuckle, and Hood, has begun work on
the third act. The finished product will be seen about the middle of May. The play itself is indeed clever,
and the combination of it and the lights who are working with it should render in the end that which
will be a living example of our being fearfully and wonderfully made.

Although few people know it, Edward McNair is one of the national officers of the national classical fraternity, Eta Sigma
Phi. Last weekend he attended the national convention at St. Louis. At the senior smoker Wednesday night, Ed was elected
permanent secretary for the class of ’33. He'll certainly see to it that records are kept and notices are posted.
In my opinion (ut opinor to Ed) the choice was a wise one.

It excites my curiosity to see William Bee Ravenel, 3rd, wearing green neckties and shirts, as green stands for hope.
But I wonder more about William Riley Cely, Jr., in his blue ones, as blue stands for hope satisfied.

The letter between “r” and “t” on this typewriter hath just been broken, and I shan’t be able to write
anymore of this stuff, which is probably very good for me and for the readers, poor things. During the coming
week, however, I intend to get a new “s” or a new typewriter. Either is far too expensive for me.

One ambitious Flicker was induced to lay 71 eggs in the space of 72 days. The Joe E. Brown among
Davidson birds seems to be the Whip-Poor-Will. As long as his mouth is shut he is a normal looking bird,
about the size of a Robin. But when he opens it, a cavity two inches across yawns before us. No
wonder his scientific name is Antrostomus, which is Greek for “Cave Mouth.”

Chimney Swifts are queer looking birds that are common at Davidson now. Late in the afternoon they can be seen
shooting over the campus like black bows-and-arrows. Their headquarters is in the chimney of the college heating plant, and they
roost and nest there in great numbers. It was long thought that these birds flapped their two wings alternately when
flying, but slow motion photography has proven the statement to be untrue. The Chimney Swift is not a “swallow,” but
is of the same order as the Whip-Poor-Will and the Hummingbird. The name “Swift” is well chosen, for the family
contains the fastest flying birds on the earth.

IT WAS thought that the passage of the beer bill would help to eliminate racketeering and crime, but such has
not been the case. The new form of vice which legal beer has pushed to a high peak is hijacking.
Trucks of beer from the manufacturers are suddenly held up by beer bandits and their contents confiscated to be used
by another gang. The pastime has become quite popular and, in the larger cities, threatens to continue the gang wars
which were the curse of prohibition. The worst feature of the whole thing is that nothing practical can be done
about it.

THE OLD question of silver coinage has come back strongly during the last few days so the Senate finally passed
the bill providing for the free coinage of silver. They are driving at cheaper money, the goal of all inflationists.
It was for this same principle that Mr. Bryan, in 1896, made his famous “Cross of Gold” speech when he
was a candidate for President on the silver ticket. The Republicans fought him to a standstill in this campaign and
the issue has been relatively quiet ever since until the recent abandonment of the gold standard brought it again to
the front. The idea in the minds of its proponents is that the value of money is directly inverse to
its quantity and so, double the amount of money and prices will double also.

THE MUMBLE and mutter of the conference in Washington is a taste of what all international conferences must be like.
Representatives from many countries come and discuss the weather, the depression, and the tariff, and then go home with nothing
but a memory of Uncle Sam’s hospitality. At least President Roosevelt will hear a lot of good excuses from our
debtors if no other good is done and their faces should give us an inkling of their attitudes.

WITH A VOTE of 64 to 20, the Senate last Friday passed the farm aid-inflation bill which confers some sweeping
powers on the shoulders of the President. It allows F. D. R. to expand credit and currency by at least
$6,000,000,000; and places equally as broad authority in Secretary Wallace to further raise the prices of basic farm commodities through
the levying of licensing fees and processing taxes, and through controlled production. The controlled inflation contemplates first an expansion of
$3,000,000,000 of credit through the open market purchases of government securities from Federal Reserve Banks. If this measure is not
adequate to get money into circulation and to raise prices the President will have several other doors open to him
in his attempt to benefit the farmer. The Federal Reserve Board will use its power prudently and regulate the expansion
by increasing or decreasing the reserve balances against deposit. The passage of this bill was one of the most drastic
steps ever taken by the United States Government and it promises to have far-reaching and unprecedented results. However, it looks
as if Roosevelt is on the right path, so go to it.

SENATOR BORAH, Republican of Idaho, seems to have quite a distaste for the actions of Great Britain and France toward
the United States. He declares that these two countries “seem to be going forward in a determined effort to manipulate
the currency so as to gain a decided advantage over the U.S. in trade.” In his recent address on war
debts he also asserted that these countries “are leaving out of their budgets the payment of the debts, are keeping
in their budgets the usual expenditures for armaments, and, in some instances, increasing the amounts.” The venerable statesman became quite
vindictive and, whether his assertions are true or not, it yet remains to be seen if these nations will take
the accusation which has been made of them.

THE GOVERNMENT of Cuba, which is periodically threatened with new revolts and uprisings, has gained considerable proficiency in quelling them.
A small outbreak, in which seven rebels, two soldiers, and the chief of police of the town of San Luis
were killed, occurred last Saturday but the government troops soon suppressed the outlaws.

MR. NORMAN H. DAVIS, general ambassador to Europe, at the League of Nations meetings, has opinions of his own. Germany
asks for restoration of equality in arms and all national defense within five years. Mr. Davis is alarmed at the
new course of events. Besides, what right have we to meddle in the affairs of France and Germany? The world
has already suffered from too much minding of other nations’ businesses. We would do better if we stayed in our
own backyard and allowed France and Germany, the aggressors, to settle this thing between themselves.

“THE MacNEIL thermo-electric sextant” can measure the position of the sun through thick obscuring clouds; it can feel heat from
smokestacks six miles away. This instrument will detect the heat of a man’s body at a mile, a horse’s at
two miles. Commander MacNeil is now experimenting with locating airplanes flying above the clouds at night by feeling the heat
from their exhausts. Smoke screens will be useless in future wars and the detection of icebergs will be equally sure
with this device.”—Industrial Bulletin.

Some of the arrivals from the south last week were: Indigo Buntings, Wood Pewees, Orchard Orioles, Kingbirds, Blue Grosbeaks, and
Summer Tanagers.
