THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 17, 1933

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON... Editor
CHARLES McCALL... Managing Editor
D. WILLS HOLLIN... Managing Editor
L. W. CLARDY... Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK... Alumni Editor
W. M. THOMPSON... Athletic Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, JR... Exchange Editor
F. McPHAUL... Feature Editor
J. R. TAYLOR... Feature Editor
J. A. C. WADSWORTH... Feature Editor
W. L. SPRUNT... Feature Editor
G. L. GREEN... Review Editor
W. T. THOMPSON... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
G. L. GREEN... Assistant Business Manager
W. L. SPRUNT... Assistant Business Manager
J. R. TAYLOR... Assistant Business Manager
J. A. C. WADSWORTH... Assistant Business Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BILL BOWMAN... President
D. B. BALDWIN... Vice-President
SAM GRAYTON... Secretary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN
W. C. NEAL
B. C. BARNES
JACK PLUNKETT
ROGER RILEY
ADDISON BRENIZER
P. M. ROGERS
LAMONT BROWN
J. H. ROSS
TOM DOWNIE
CHARLES SUTLIVE
HARVEY GLASS
T. H. SUTTON
BILL GOODYKOONTZ
W. T. THOMPSON
P. D. GUERRANT
JOHN WALKER

WEDNESDAY, MAY 17, 1933

The average mind can get nowhere except by marching, can go no further than its own position in the parade,
and is incapable of getting out of step.
—Dr. Norman Kingsley.

FINAL ISSUE
With this issue we end our work on “The Davidsonian” for the school year. This is our final issue of
the semester. We wish to thank the Student Body for its help in the past and ask for the same
cooperation when we resume publication next fall. We also welcome any constructive criticism and suggestions as to how we can
make “The Davidsonian” of greater interest to you as a reader.

BON VOYAGE
When the commencement services end on May 30, one hundred and thirty seniors will leave Davidson to exercise what knowledge
they have gathered while here the past four years in the encountering of new experiences that face them in the
future. Many of the seniors will enroll in higher institutions of learning, some will go to work at jobs which
they have been fortunate in getting, but the great majority are leaving with a faint hope of being able to
get something to do. We wish you success, Seniors, in whatever line of activity you may follow. Goodbye and Good
Luck.

IDEAL COLLEGE MAN
Rev. John A. Berens, dean of men at Marquette University, recently enumerated ten cardinal virtues of the “ideal college man.”
Dean Berens, who has been an instructor and advisor of boys for more than twenty years, listed the following requirements
from his observations:
1. He should have a strong ambition to succeed, together with a determination to overcome obstacles.
2. He should take part in the normal activities of extra-curricular affairs, but without excess in them.
3. He should possess the qualities of leadership, but this does not imply that he must be a class officer
or hold office in campus organizations.
4. He may do outside work if he must, but it is better to save money for one or two
years after preparatory school, and then to enter college.
5. As a character, he must possess the qualities of honesty, uprightness, courage, and fidelity.
6. He must be temperate.
7. Inasmuch as the countenance reflects the quality of the soul, he must give an outward appearance of pleasantness. He
need not be good looking or a Beau Brummel.
8. He must be neat in appearance and in habits.
9. He must be mature. A boy who appears immature at the age of 18 should delay entering college. A
year or two of work would bring him into contact with the difficulties of life; he would learn the value
of money and develop a better outlook on education.
10. He must conduct himself in such a manner as will give evidence of a sincere Christian gentleman.

PASSING THOUGHT
“I’ll pass this exam,” said the student resolutely, “or I’ll bust in the attempt.”

WATER IS BEST
A professor of science at California University finds that a single drop of water will furnish 200 horse-power of energy
for a year; yet praises are being sung for the invigorating, energy-giving values of beer.

REASON FOR NATIONAL DEFENSE
Wars arise when the statesmen and supposed leaders of one nation insult and get into disputes with those of another.
Wars are brought to a close when the better-trained armies of one nation defeat those of their opponents. Until our
statesmen and leaders can settle international disputes without insulting leaders of other nations, we cannot hope to get along without
an army. Our National Defense Act, the value of which President Roosevelt is seriously considering, provides the United States with
that well-trained army.

CURRENT EVENTS IN NATURE
By BILL WARD
One of the most interesting activities going on about the campus now is young birds leaving their nests and learning
to fly. It has long been debated whether the young birds fly by instinct, or whether they are taught by
their parents. Psychologists have about come to the conclusion that flying is largely unlearned, and when the little fellows are
old enough to leave the nest, they naturally begin flying. One experimenter placed several newly-hatched nestlings in a cage where
they would have no chance to stretch their wings or watch other birds fly. At the age when flying usually
begins he opened the cage, and the birds flew skillfully off, sailing about like old hands. The great economic value
of our campus Robins is better understood when we consider the enormous appetite of the nestling birds. A growing Robin
eats more than his weight each day, and over half this food is injurious insects. An average man, on a
similar diet, would order 100 pounds of meat and 50 pounds of vegetables and bread for his day's rations.

One of the most interesting nests on the campus is that of a wren on the porch of the College
Inn. These wrens can find the most unusual places in which to build their nests. In a certain dead tree
on the campus a pair of Flickers had just finished excavating a nest and had laid one egg when the
Crested Flycatchers arrived from the south. These pugnacious birds promptly took possession, and the rightful owners have been forced to
dig another cavity. The Crested Flycatchers make a common practice of placing a cast-off snakeskin in their nests. The ornithologists
have found no satisfactory reason for this queer habit. The popular explanation is that the snake skin acts as a
“scare-crow” to frighten the birds’ natural enemies from the nest. It has even been suggested that the fright of the
young birds over the skin causes their feathers to stand on end, thus forming the “crest”!

During the past few days several small boys from across the tracks have been noticed on the campus shooting at
the nesting birds with sling-shots and air rifles. If the students will tell these little fellows to move off the
campus, this useless destruction of beneficial birds will be stopped.

HILL RAIDIN’
N. C. State
The “Technician,” State College newspaper, was awarded first place among weekly newspapers in North Carolina for the second consecutive year,
in a contest held by the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, at the end of a two-day convention held at
Salem College in Winston-Salem, May 5 and 6. Great credit is given to the staff of the “Technician” for its
success, since the paper has one of the smallest staffs of any college newspaper in the United States.

Cornell
A student co-operative dining association at Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., that serves meals at $2.00 per week, has solved
the eating problem for 100 students who have been forced to cut down campus living expenses during the depression. All
expenses are met by the association itself, and first chance to join the organization was given to those who found
it absolutely necessary to cut expenses.

Nebraska
Out in the mid-west where men are men, and hogs are prevalent, we find the names applied to co-eds to
be rather enlightening. Such names as squaws, “muddy plows, oil cans, and ice wagons” predominate.

Florida
It has been the policy of every incoming editor of the Florida “Alligator,” college newspaper, to an-

NEWS DIGEST
WHO, ME?
Paraguay-Bolivia
The intermittent fighting for more than a year between Paraguay and Bolivia over the Gran Chaco territory ended in a
declaration of war signed by President Eusebio Ayala of Paraguay. The issue had almost been forgotten by the rest of
the world when the astonishing news came last week that the official decree of war had finally become an actuality.
The Gran Chaco territory lies on the border between the two countries and the boundary line has never been definitely
settled. The argument recalls the Venezuelan boundary dispute with England which was settled by arbitration, and the League of Nations
has had hopes that the new disagreement mightHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Harvard’s President

Harvard University has shown great wisdom in selecting Prof. James Bryant Conant to succeed the famous Dr. Lowell as president
of the school. The new president has been professor of organic chemistry at Harvard for a number of years. This
is a modern subject, calling for a mind which can accept new ideas and facts. For this reason and because
of his own personality, Professor Conant should be able to govern the college wisely and well. He is only forty
years old, one of the youngest presidents in the history of the university. Dr. Lowell had passed the age limit
which that institution, and others, arbitrarily set for their servants whether they are still fresh and able or not.

However, Professor Conant is old enough to have some sense and to be able to adjust himself to larger tasks.
He has a good store of humor, perspective, and ambition, and the students like him. He should go a long
way.

New Conference

England expresses joy that President Roosevelt will attend the world economic conference in London, “making a record crossing on the
United States cruiser, Louisiana.” The President, however, has emphasized and re-emphasized the fact that he has no intention of going
to London for a conference. It is probable, however, that the U.S. will be well represented, as indications point to
at least seven delegates who will make the trip, including Representative Doughton of North Carolina.

I think the President is right by refusing to absent himself from the center of affairs in America. He was
elected to serve us and he should be on hand to see that that service is given. Moreover, the delegates
sent will be able to give the President’s opinion and bring back a report. Nothing much ever comes of these
conferences, anyhow.

Reichstag Meets

It has been learned on reliable authority that the German Reichstag will convene on May 17 in order to make
an impressive and solemn declaration to the world of Germany’s desire for peace. The Nazis say that Hitler will not
beat around the bush or try to argue but, with a large perspective, “will attempt to expound Germany’s wish for
peace, coupled with a plea that nations keep their hands off her internal policies and let her work out her
salvation for herself.”

Gandhi

Poor Gandhi is having a hard time in his latest and most exacting fast. Gandhi is already an old man
and his continual fastings are beginning to wear him down. Two days after the beginning of his new fast he
became dangerously ill and several specialists have since been to visit him. But the Mahatma refuses to give up so
soon. The doctors say that he is very weak, but not yet in a complicated condition. He has fifteen more
days to go without food and he will keep his vow even though he does not live through it.

Gold Rush

For years the lonely mountain gulches near Canon City, Colo., have heard nothing except the howls of the coyotes. But
today new excitement and new sounds have come to these hills. The sound of picks and axes and the excited
chatter of veteran prospectors and clean-shaven tenderfeet. Robert Heard, a negro prospector, discovered “pay dirt” yielding $38 a ton and
before he had calmed down from the excitement, the canyons were thick with others. A tent city sprang up overnight.
Claims were staked, re-staked, and squabbled over, while more and more men and women were coming to the gold country.
It was 1848 again on a smaller scale.

Looking Up

“Many people have frankly despaired of our civilization and maintain that it is not merely upon trial but that it
has failed. Others, pointing to the swift and even fundamental changes that have overtaken other people in other parts of
the world, have freely predicted the break-up of the foundation of our government.

“These fears I do not for a moment share. Nor do I believe that they are entertained by any substantial
portion of our people. America is made of stout stuff and our democracy runs too far back into the history
of the struggle for liberty to succumb merely because our government machinery is out of adjustment. We do not discard
the automobile because the carburetor fails to work; we proceed to adjust the carburetor.”—U.S. Attorney-General Cummings.

Paris Fears

Fear was growing in France when Chancellor Adolf Hitler announced that the Reichstag would be convened soon. Paris is afraid
that Hitler will announce Germany’s intention to re-arm despite the Versailles Treaty. Although Herr Hitler says that it is only
to be a declaration of peace, the French are too close to Berlin to find any optimism in a meeting
of the Reich at this crucial time.

France is relieved that England is behind her, but there is little hope in officialdom that there is any sanction
for dealing with this new issue without reverting directly to the Treaty of Versailles.

And now the Bookman is dead. With the coming of The American Review I hardly know whether to be glad
or offer my diatribe for the loss. Certainly the new publication is nothing like the old. A comparison of the
two is impossible. It’s like saying, “I like to swim. Can you ride a horse?”

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
