THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1933

DAVIDSON CINDER TEAMS MEET V. P. I. GOBBLERS SATURDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

CATAWBA MEETS VARSITY IN BASEBALL TOMORROW

Freshmen Launch Track Season Successfully by Victory Over Charlotte

Captain Pickard of Charlotte is High Scorer of Meet With Thirteen Points

Davidson’s Freshman track team opened its season here Friday, March 24, with a victory over Charlotte High School. The Freshmen took nine first places in the meet to pile up 74 1-3 points to 42 2-3 for the losers. Captain Pickard, of Charlotte High, was high scorer of the meet with thirteen points. He took firsts in the shot put and broad jump, and a second in the javelin throw to collect his total. Ras Evans, Davidson sprinter, and Earle Frazier, Davidson distance runner, were next in order with ten points each. Evans won firsts in the 100 and 220-yard dashes, while Frazier took firsts in the mile and 440-yard runs.

Davidson’s track teams opened their track seasons successfully last weekend, turning in impressive victories. The Freshmen showed strength in defeating Charlotte High School, 74 1-3 to 42 2-3, last Friday, for the first victory turned in by a Davidson yearling team over the Queen City school in many a year. Their victory was not a surprise, but was exactly as Captain Pritchett had predicted before the meet. In six events the Freshmen won the first two places, while the visitors gained the same distinction in two.

The summary:
100-yard dash: Evans (Davidson) first, Faison (Davidson) second, Rich (Charlotte) third. Time, 10.2 seconds.
Mile run: Frazier (Davidson) first, Merchant (Davidson) second, Hinson (Charlotte) third. Time, 4 minutes, 41.2 seconds.
220-yard dash: Evans (Davidson) first, Faison (Davidson) second, Graves (Charlotte) third. Time, 23.2 seconds.
Pole vault: Lee, Dolan, Pittman (all of Davidson) tied for first. Height, 10 feet.
110-yard high hurdles: Cathey (Davidson) first, Parker (Davidson) second, Isenhour (Charlotte) third. Time, 16.3 seconds.
440-yard run: Frazier (Davidson) first, Fraley (Davidson) second, Maffitt (Charlotte) third. Time, 54.9 seconds.
Discus: H. Wells (Davidson) first, Sears (Davidson) second, E. Helms (Charlotte) third. Distance, 104 feet, 3 inches.
220-yard low hurdles: Isenhour (Charlotte) first, Pittman (Davidson) second, Graves (Charlotte) third. Time, 26.9 seconds.
880-yard run: Shuford (Davidson) first, Ryans (Charlotte) second, Cothran (Davidson) third. Time, 2 minutes, 12.1 seconds.
High jump: Lee (Davidson) first, McCachren (Charlotte) and Wells (Davidson) tied for second. Height, 5 feet, 6 inches.
Shot put: Pickard (Charlotte) first, C. Helms (Charlotte) second, E. Helms (Charlotte) third. Distance, 42 feet, 3 inches.
Broad jump: Pickard (Charlotte) first, Armstead (Davidson) second, Parker (Davidson) third. Distance, 20 feet, 6 inches.
Javelin throw: C. Helms (Charlotte) first, Pickard (Charlotte) second, Cochran (Davidson) third. Distance, 145 feet, 8 inches.

The Varsity’s 86 2-3 to 38 1-3 victory over Furman on Saturday also was impressive. Cold weather and rains slowed up the track considerably, but despite the times several of the races were close and provided thrills at the finish. Captain Fleagle had little trouble in beating Alley, South Carolina champion, to the tape in the 100 and 220-yard dashes. His points in these two events gave the Wildcats an early lead. George Gullette in the mile, and Charlie Little in the two-mile run, provided the surprise element to the meet. Gullette led the milers all the way except when he was passed by Hopkins of Furman about 200 yards from the finish. A sprint put him in the lead again and he won the event. Little, who is making his first appearance on the team this season, held the lead in the two-mile run until the final 100 yards, when Warren of Furman passed him to come in first.

Miller Cochran added his bit to the Wildcat score by taking firsts in the shot put and discus throw, and a second in the javelin throw. Cochran has the college record for the discus throw and by his showings in practice was expected to set a new Davidson mark in the shot put last Saturday. Several Sophomores and newcomers made excellent showings in their first varsity meet, and should be valuable additions to the track squad. Gullette, in the mile, C. Little, two-miler, McPhail, who won the high hurdles, Glasgow, who came in first in the 440, Armstead, in the broad jump, Brown, in the high jump, Lee, in the pole vault, and McFadyen, a two-miler, added points to Davidson’s total Saturday in their varsity track debut. Gwinn, Alex Little, Dickerson, McCallie, Bettis, Flinn, Wagner, Coble, Morrow, Dill, Corbin, and Cannon were the other lettermen and members of last year’s squad who accounted for points in Davidson’s victory.

Davidson’s varsity baseball team will make its 1933 debut tomorrow afternoon on Richardson Field against Catawba. Coach Laird is still undecided as to his starting pitcher, but will pick his opening day mound worker from Charlie Pearce, George Bailey, Charlie Harris, and Julian West. The starting line-up excluding the pitcher includes Whitley, catcher; Morris, first; Bumgarner, second; Mackorell, third; Mills, short; Peabody, Morrison, and Morgan, outfield. The team will take the field minus the services of Captain Bradsher, who was injured in practice several weeks ago.

This afternoon the Wildcat golf team is playing the famous Washington and Lee team at the Charlotte Country Club. The visitors have only one man, Henry Cohen, from last year’s team. Their sensational Billy Howell was lost by graduation.

The Davidson-Duke track meet scheduled for next Tuesday at Richardson Field has been indefinitely postponed, since the Blue Devils have a meet on the following Friday afternoon. The Duke coach must have realized that his team would have to exert a lot of energy to handle the Wildcats this year and probably didn’t consider it profitable to meet two strong track teams in a row.

The favorites emerged victors in the varsity tennis tournament which was finished last week. Jimmy Halverstadt defeated John Lafferty in the finals to retain first ranking for another year. Captain Charlie Myers, who failed to compete in the tournament because of illness, Tee Thompson, and Dudley Elvery ranked three, four and five, respectively. The last two named were semi-finalists in the tournament.

Other events carded for the coming week include:
March 31—baseball—Balls Creek High vs. Freshmen, here.
April 1—track—V. P. I. Varsity and Freshmen vs. Varsity and Freshmen, here.
April 5—baseball—Lenoir-Rhyne vs. Varsity, here. M. P. C. I. vs. Freshmen at Mount Pleasant.

With this, “Cat Tales” comes to an end. We hope that it has been as much a pleasure for you in the reading of “Cat Tales” as it has been for us in the writing. The rest is silence.

’Cats Will Meet Army

Captain Norton G. Pritchett, director of athletics at Davidson, has announced that the Wildcats will meet the United States Military Academy at West Point in football on October 6, 1934. The only time before that the two teams have met was in 1929, when the Cadets won 23 to 7 after a hard scrap.

Davidson to Play Host To Gobbler Tracksters

Varsity and Freshman Teams of Both Schools to Participate in Double-header Saturday

Saturday the Davidson tracksters encounter V. P. I. here in a double-header meet, both Varsity and Freshmen running. The meet, which is the second for both Davidson teams and the first for both Virginia teams, will begin at 2:30 and the events will be run off interchangeably. Last year the Wildcats defeated the Gobblers 81 to 41 here, and have a good chance of doing the same this year, but not without a fight. V. P. I. sent several men to the Southern Conference Indoor Meet at Chapel Hill on March 4th, in which they made an exceptionally good showing. Captain Turner placed first in the high jump, setting a new record when heCleared the bar at a little over six feet. In the pole vault, he has cleared about 12 feet, 2 inches. However, there is a possibility that the V. P. I. captain will not participate in the meet here due to a leg injury. In the low hurdles, Lyne will probably be the invaders’ best; and in the weight events, Grinus, who last year was tossing the shot around 45 feet when the season closed, will lead the attack, backed by one or two others, proving to be much trouble. Neither Grinus nor Turner participated in the meet here last year because of injuries. Brown and Coble, in the high jump, and Flinn and Lee in the pole vault, will compete for Davidson against Captain Turner, while Cochran will meet with Grinus in the shot put. A. Little and McCallie will represent the ’Cats in the low hurdles in competition with Lyne of the visitors.

Not much is known concerning the Gobblers’ Freshman team. However, in the Freshman Indoor Meet at Carolina, a V. P. I. Freshman pushed Evans mighty close in the 60-yard dash and placed second to him. Since that time, both have improved and should run a close race again.

# My Greatest Thrill
AS TOLD BY DICK WHITFIELD

I think that almost anyone on the football team will admit that beating Wake Forest last Thanksgiving Day was the greatest thrill the team has ever gotten, but there are other thrills which a lineman may receive aside from winning games and making touchdowns. Perhaps the average spectator doesn’t realize it, but a well-executed block of an opposing player, a clean tackle, or the recovery of a fumble furnishes a great thrill to the “mules” who have no opportunity of carrying the ball.

In the game with Washington and Lee in Lexington, Va., my Junior year, I received my greatest share of these thrills. It was my second big varsity game—and—I was keyed up to the highest pitch. Whether that was the cause of it or not, I don’t know, but I played the best game that day of my two years of college football. We scored in the third quarter and spent the remaining 20 minutes guarding that precious 7-point advantage. The Generals came inside of our 15-yard line six times in the last quarter, but we managed to hold them for downs each time and the final score was 7-0. Coaches Younger and Tilson were as happy as I’ve ever seen them and I felt the way they looked—thrilled.

Dick Whitfield hails from Hacketstown, New Jersey. During the past football season, he was alternate captain of the team and acted as regular captain for most of the games on account of the injury of Captain Gardner. Dick also made his letter this year on the wrestling team. He wrestled in the unlimited division.

Furman Defeated by Davidson in First Meet of 1933 Season

Halverstadt Is Winner In Varsity Tournament

The annual tennis tournament at Davidson College, held to determine the varsity team, has just been completed with Jimmy Halverstadt being named champion, by virtue of his victory in the finals over Johnny Lafferty, by the scores of 6-4, 6-1, 6-2. The champion made his way to the final bracket by defeating Dudley Elvery, star of last year’s Freshman team. Lafferty reached the last division when he defeated W. T. (Tee) Thompson in the semi-finals.

Halverstadt has made quite a name as a tennis player. He won his numerals on the yearling squad his first year at Davidson, and in his Sophomore year last season, he played in the number one position on the varsity team. He has paired with Lafferty to take the Georgia state doubles title and was runner-up in the Middle Atlantic singles championship last August, losing to Teddy Burwell in the finals. The tournament boasted such famous stars as Jack Mooney, Lefty Bryan, and Wilmer Hines.

As a result of the tournament standings, a ladder has been made up as follows, with the first six named forming the varsity: Jimmy Halverstadt, Johnny Lafferty, Charlie Myers, Tee Thompson, Dudley Elvery, Bob Morrow, Tommy Phifer, Francis Scott, Wee Thompson, Leland McKeithan, Johnny Creech, and John Lake. To advance on the ladder, a player may challenge the man just above him, and if he wins, advance to his place. The loser must defeat the man just below him before he can challenge again.

Davidson Golf Team Loses to Richmond

A foursome of sharpshooters composing the golf team of the University of Richmond, champions of Virginia last season, decisively defeated the Wildcat linksmen, 16 1-2 to 1 1-2 in the ’Cats’ opening match, over the Charlotte Country Club course, last Friday. Claude Swanson and Bill Riegels, Numbers 1 and 2, respectively on the Richmond team, turned in a neat pair of 75’s to take low medal honors of the day. Jack Wagner, with a 76, was best for Davidson.

Individual: George Swanson (Richmond) defeated Jack Wagner (Davidson) 2 points to 1. Bill Riegels (Richmond) defeated Captain Caldwell (Davidson) 2 1-2 points to 1-2. Ed Meredeth (Richmond) defeated John Thompson (Davidson) 3 points to 0. Roland Wright (Richmond) defeated Mac Manson (Davidson) 3 points to 0.

Freshman Net Team Picked by Matches

The Freshman tennis tournament, held this week to determine the positions on the Wildkitten tennis team, has reached the finals with only a few upsets. Morrow sprang a big upset when he defeated Brenizer in the first round. Bell was picked to win over Barnette in the semi-finals but he lost to him after a grueling five-set match which lasted over three hours. The rest of the favorites had an easy time defeating their opponents. Lewis, the favorite of the tournament, has not lost a set so far in the tournament matches.

This year’s team will consist of the following men: Bowman, Bell, Lewis, and Barnette. These four men reached the semi-finals in the tournament determining the team.

Summary:
First round: Lewis defeated Murray, 6-0, 6-0; Barringer defeated Huntington, 6-1, 6-4; Hassell defeated Wells, 6-1, 6-2; Bowman drew a bye; Barnette defeated Lindsay, 6-1, 6-2; Morrow defeated Brenizer, 6-0, 6-1; Bell defeated Marvin, 6-0, 6-0; Gold defeated Goodykoontz, 6-0, 6-3.

Quarter-finals: Lewis defeated Barringer, 6-0, 6-0; Bowman defeated Hassell, 6-2, 7-5; Barnette defeated Morrow, 6-1, 6-2; Bell defeated Gold, 6-2, 6-2.

Semi-finals: Barnette defeated Bell, 6-3, 6-2, 2-6, 1-6, 6-3; Lewis defeated Bowman, 7-5, 6-4, 6-3.

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY
“CLEAR ALL WIRES”
LEE TRACY — UNA MERKEL

THURSDAY
“GRAND SLAM”
PAUL LUKAS — LORETTA YOUNG

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
“42ND STREET”
WARNER BAXTER — RUBY KEELER

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“SO THIS IS AFRICA”
WHEELER AND WOOLSEY