THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 15, 1933

V. P. I. WRESTLERS MEET VARSITY SATURDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

PRELIMINARIES IN BOXING BEGIN TOMORROW

Both the varsity and freshman basketball teams will bring their schedules to a close within the week. Tomorrow night the
varsity and freshmen play a double-header with the varsity and yearling teams of Carolina at Chapel Hill. Friday the two
Davidson teams journey to Raleigh to meet quintets representing N. C. State. The freshman game will be its final on
the Davidson schedule, but the varsity will not close its season until next Tuesday, when Lynchburg College visits Davidson for
the second meeting between these two teams this season.

Wrestling and boxing also have their place on the card for the week. The matmen will play hosts to V.
P. I. here Saturday in what will be the last home match of the season for the Wildcats. Preliminaries, and
possibly finals, will be held in the boxing tournament which Captain Pritchett has planned to start tomorrow afternoon in the
basketball gymnasium.

Coach “Red” Laird let us tag along behind his proteges to Winston-Salem last Saturday night, and we must admit that
although Davidson suffered defeat, she played one of the best offensive games we have ever seen a Davidson team play.
The forty-four points scored by the Wildcats were the most scored by a Davidson team in any game in the
last two years. It was twelve points more than the number scored in any game this season. Fred Dickerson played
his usual good game against Wake Forest, and several times made opposing guards look sick by his fakes. Because of
his diminutive size, Dickerson had the Winston-Salem fans wondering why Coach Laird used such a small man at center, but
all doubts were removed when they saw Fred go into the air and control the tip-off several times. Besides scoring
twelve points, Dickerson also played a stellar floor game.

Too much Mulhern and Malloy proved too much for the Wildcats and the lead set by these two Wake Forest
stars was just one point too great for the Davidson efforts to overcome. Harris, Ross, and Peabody also played brilliant
games against Wake Forest. Harris started the Davidson rally in the second half and kept it going by intercepting several
Deacon passes and dribbling or passing down for shots at the basket. His seventeen points were the highest individual total
of the game and also high for the season among the Wildcats. Harris came out of a slump, in which
he failed to score a field goal and only made five fouls in four games, to tally seven times from
the floor and three from the free throw line. Ross committed his first foul in intercollegiate play against Wake Forest
Saturday night, and before the game was over he had three chalked against him. Despite the fouls, his game was
much improved. Captain Peabody again committed too many fouls and had to be removed before the final whistle, but while
he was in the game his play was brilliant.

In the only game of the inter-fraternity basketball tournament during the week, the Betas barely nosed out the S. A.
E.’s, last year’s champions, by a score of 34 to 33. The victory gave the Betas the right to meet
the Pikas to determine a finalist to oppose the Kappa Sigs.

Wake Forest Downs Davidson in Hard-Fought Battle 45-44

Duke and N. C. State Also Win Victories Over Wildcats During Past Week

Davidson's varsity basketball team continued its losing ways last week, when three members of the Big Five administered defeat to
the Wildcats. Duke University, N. C. State, and Wake Forest each emerged with victories over Davidson.

Duke 44; Davidson 25

A powerful Blue Devil team, undefeated in the state, defeated the Wildcats for the second time this season at Durham
last Tuesday night, by a score of 44 to 28. The Davidson team showed a great deal of improvement over
their earlier season play against the Duke team in Charlotte. Duke held a 16-10 advantage at half time. Horne, Duke
forward, and Dickerson, Davidson center, led the scoring with twelve points each. The line-ups:

Duke (44) Position Davidson (25)
Horne (12) F. Harris
Hayes (3) F. Ross
Thompson, J. (1) C. (12) Dickerson
Weaver (2) G. (6) Peabody
Thompson, H. (6) G. (4) Boucher

Substitutes: Duke—Lewis (8), Bell (2), Polack, Clark (1), Young (2); Davidson—Holland (2). Referee: Knight (Durham).

N. C. State 39; Davidson 16

After being held to a five-point lead at the half, State's Red Terrors came back strong in the second period
to hold Davidson to three free throws, while they themselves found the basket for twenty-one points, to win their first
Big Five victory at the expense of the Wildcats here last Thursday night. The visitors presented a defense that allowed
the Wildcats four field goals, two of which were scored by Dickerson, who led the losers with seven points. Beaghen,
State center, was high point man with eleven points. The line-ups:

N. C. State (39) Position Davidson (16)
Johnson (6) F. Holland (1)
Jay (9) F. Ross (2)
Beaghen (11) C. Dickerson (7)
Clark (0) G. Peabody (4)
McQuage (3) G. Boucher (2)

Substitutes: State—Partel (2), Nelms, Avery, Rex (2), Dixon; Davidson—Wagner, Harris, Lafferty (1). Referee: Hackney (U.N.C.). Umpire: Touhey (Colorado U.).

Wake Forest 45; Davidson 44

Staging its most spirited play of the year, Davidson's basketball team put a scare into Wake Forest before finally losing
to the Demon Deacons 45 to 44 at Winston-Salem Saturday night. The game was the first and only meeting of
the two teams this season. Wake Forest was the first to score, when Malloy dropped one in soon after the
game started. The Deacons forged to a nine-point lead with the ‘Cats scoring only three points, but a sudden spurt,
led by Dickerson and Harris, put the Davidson team on even terms with their opponents again. The score was tied
several times during the first half, but two field goals and a free throw just before the intermission gave the
Wake Forest team a 24-20 lead when the rest period came.

The Deacons started a scoring spree immediately after the second half started, and tallied nineteen points before they ceased their
attack, just eight minutes before the end of the game. With the score 43-27 against them, the Wildcats, led by
Harris, rallied, and in two minutes made the score close again at 43-39. A stall by the winners in the
dying minutes of the game gave them a well-earned victory. Harris, of Davidson, led the scoring with seventeen points, while
Mulhern, of the winners, led his teammates with fourteen. Dickerson, Davidson center, played a great floor game in addition to
contributing twelve points to the Wildcat cause. The line-ups:

W. Forest (45) Position Davidson (44)
Barnes F. Harris (17)
Mulhern (14) F. Ross (10)
Swing (9) C. Dickerson (12)
Owens (7) G. Peabody (3)
Malloy (11) G. Wagner (2)

Substitutes: Wake Forest—Earp (4), Forney; Davidson—Holland, Boucher. Referee: Hackney (U.N.C.).

Davidson Freshmen Win Two of Three Contests

Kittens Defeat Mt. Ulla and Balls Creek; Lose to Darlington

The Davidson freshman basket-ringers continued their good work during the past week by turning in two victories out of three.
Mt. Ulla High School and Balls Creek High School fell victims before the attack of the local quint, and Darlington
School for Boys defeated the yearlings in the lone setback of the week. The victory over Balls Creek marked the
first time this season that the freshmen have won two games in a row.‘Wittens' week three starts. Creek) Darlington have
humbled this team. Mt. Ulla High 27; Davidson Fresh 47. The Wildkitten basketeers put the pressure to completely rout the
Mt. Ulla High five in the local gym last Thursday night. The game, coming as a preliminary Saturday night, Charlie
Harris, star sophomore forward, increased his total points for the season to 86 to hold the lead in individual scoring
on the Davidson basketball team. Fred Dickerson, center, scored thirty-one points in the three games played by the Wildcats last
week to move into second place with 77 points, displacing Captain Bruce Peabody, guard, who was able to register only
thirteen points. Harris was ahead thirty to twenty-seven in scoring field goals while Dickerson led with his credit. Peabody was
next in scoring foul throws, with twenty-eight, two more than the number scored by Harris, who was next in order
with twenty-six. “Cotton” Dillard, forward on the freshman team, scored thirty points in the three games played by the yearling
team last week to move into first place in individual scoring among teammates with 72 points. Dick Parker, guard, who
was leading last week, scored only five points during the week, and dropped into a tie for third place, permitting
Burns to move from fifth to second place.

Varsity Scoring:
Mt. Ulla (27) Position Davidson (47)
Sloup (3) F. (8) Sanders
Carrigan (7) F. (18) Dillard
Barber (7) C. (15) Burns
Howard (2) G. (2) Parker
Brown (8) G. (2) Windham

Scoring substitutes: Davidson—Marchant (2). Referee: Morris (Davidson).

Balls Creek High 15; Davidson Fresh 32
In the second of a two-game contract with Balls Creek, the Davidson Freshman quintet again decisively defeated the high school
team. Sanders of Davidson led a constant barrage on the Balls Creek basket, and the outcome of the contest was
never in doubt. Sanders of Davidson and Carpenter of Balls Creek tied for high scoring honors with seven tallies apiece.

Balls Creek (15) Position Davidson (32)
Carpenter (7) F. (7) Sanders
Amat F. (6) Dillard
Tuttle (2) G. (5) Burns
Troutman (6) G. (3) Parker
Murray G. (5) Windham

Scoring substitutes: Davidson—Benfield (2), Cumbie (4). Referee: Sherrill.

Darlington 34; Davidson Fresh 18
A strong quint, representing the Darlington School for Boys in Rome, GA, invaded the Davidson stronghold last Saturday night, and
gave the local yearlings a good 34 to 18 shellacking. The consistent Georgia prep team was more than Davidson throughout,
and at no time did the ‘Wittens threaten to take the lead. Darlington was outstanding until he was removed from
the game on account of injuries received during play.

Darlington (34) Position Davidson (18)
Potts (10) F. Sanders
Anderson (10) F. (6) Dillard
Thorpe (6) C. (4) Burns
Hackett, R. (5) G. Parker
Walden G. (2) Windham

Scoring substitutes: Darlington—Hackett, W. (3); Davidson—Marchant (6). Referee: Morris (Davidson).

Unger Invites Faculty Wives to Gobbler Match
Wildcat Wrestlers Make Final Home Appearance Here Saturday
Coach “Doc” Unger, wrestling coach, extends an especial invitation to the members of the faculty and their wives to attend
the wrestling meet Saturday night between V. P. I. and Davidson. The meet will be the last for the Davidson
grapplers here. Unger stated that quite a few ladies have been in attendance at meets held here this season, and
that since wrestling has seemed a favorite sport with them, it should prove very interesting to the wives of faculty
members. A section of seats will be reserved for faculty members and their wives. V. P. I. brings one of
the best wrestling teams in the Southern Conference to face the Davidson wrestlers Saturday. The visitors hold a 16-14 victory
over Carolina this season. Before the matches begin, Coach Unger and another wrestler will give a fifteen-minute exhibition, explaining and
demonstrating various wrestling holds. This demonstration will start at 7:30 and the matches immediately after it is over. Jackins, of
Barium Springs, will handle the referee’s whistle.

Boxing Tournament Will Begin Thursday
Preliminaries in Davidson's boxing tournament will begin tomorrow afternoon and last through Friday, it was announced by Captain Pritchett, director
of athletics, who has been coaching the pugilists. The bouts will be held on the basketball court in a ring
enclosed in ropes, and intercollegiate boxing rules will be observed. Students will officiate in the preliminary bouts. Following the preliminaries,
semi-final and final bouts will be held in seven different weights. Efforts have been made to secure Dr. Oren Moore,
Davidson alumnus, Jake Wade, Observer sports editor, and Wade Ison, Charlotte News sports editor, as judges. Those who signed to
compete in the tournament, and their weights, are as follows: Fugate, 121; Gee, 119; Ormand, 117; Dolan, 130; D. Glasgow,
132; R. Glasgow, 128; Marshall, 133; H. Morris, 128; James, 139; Hassell, 136; B. Moore, 140; Pennington, 136; J. Thompson,
135; Alderman, 152; Frazier, 148; Moffett, 154; Slaughter, 147; Beachem, 158; Blackwelder, 160; J. Lee, 182; C. Moore, 175; Smith,
168; Taylor, 169; Unlimited: Johnston, Morrison.

Newton Out Again
Members of the Davidson student body were glad to see Coach “Doc” Newton and Mrs. Newton out last Sunday, after
a week's illness which confined them to their home. Due partially to inclement weather conditions, but largely to the illness
of Coach Newton, only two workouts were held last week for the football candidates in their spring training program.

Davidson Teams Leave On Cage Tour Tomorrow
Tomorrow afternoon twenty men of the varsity and ten of the freshman basketball teams will journey to Chapel Hill where
they will meet the teams of the University of North Carolina. Leaving Chapel Hill Friday, they will go to Raleigh
to encounter the quintets of N.C. State. The Wildkittens will meet the Tar Babies and the Wildcats will meet the
Carolina varsity in the Tin Can at 7:30 tomorrow night. Friday night the two Davidson teams play another double-header in
the State College gym in Raleigh, the Freshmen playing State Freshmen and the Varsity taking on the State Varsity.

Including every intermediate requisite for the smartly dressed college man.
IDEU'S DAVIDSON SHOP

“PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE”
Programs, Newspapers, Engraved Cards and Invitations. Catalogs, Handbooks, Bulletins, Magazines, Etc. 6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing,
Exclusively. Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you.
A. M. MANSON, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE
Always Best
STANDARD PRINTING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.
