THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1933

Silver Screen

Wednesday, March 1—The Woman Accused—(Paramount)
Nancy Carroll has the leading role in this Liberty-Paramount prize story. The picture is taken from the story, “The Woman
Accused,” that ran in Liberty Magazine, which was composed by ten of the leading authors of the day. The story
was good, and the picture has the possibilities of being an interesting cinema. Cary Grant plays opposite her in this
mystery thriller.

Thursday, March 2—Blondie Johnson—(Warner)
Joan Blondell, as a new kind of gold-digger, is a commander of man, but when she meets the commander of
woman, portrayed by Chester Morris, things happen. Fast moving with the attractive Joan Blondell at her best.

Friday, March 3—Hello Everybody—(Fox)
The famous Kate Smith, star of the radio, plays the lead in this story of a girl who saves her
village from “Big Business.” Sally Blane and Randolph Scott (a Charlotte, N. C., boy) supply the romance. It is the
singing of Kate Smith that makes the picture worth seeing. The popular musical hit, “Moon Song,” was taken from this
picture. Wait until you hear Kate sing it. A dance routine that Kate does will bowl them over into the
aisles.

Saturday, March 4—From Hell to Heaven—(Paramount)
The beautiful Carole Lombard heads the cast of this picture. She is ably supported by Jack Oakie and the good-looking
David Manners. It is the story of people who stake their souls on sixty seconds. They are people in mental
torment. Carole Lombard is good in the race track scene.

Monday, March 6—Child of Manhattan—(Paramount)
Nancy Carroll, the beautiful baby-faced redhead, plays the role of a modern Cinderella in a dance hall. John Boles is
the striking prince. He marries her, and she thinks it is only a grand gesture on his part. However, it
turns out that he really loves the gal. The situation seems highly unbelievable at times, but good acting by Nancy
Carroll and John Boles makes it a good performance. It may be classed as good entertainment.

Tuesday, March 7—Topaze—(M-G-M)
John Barrymore chose this role above all others because it was most to his liking. It is the story of
a professor who loses his job and, innocently enough, becomes entangled with crooks. Learning their motive, he “outcrooks the crooks.”
And not only that, but won the villain’s girl. The picture is different. John Barrymore’s acting is as good as
always. Myrna Loy and Gloria Stuart give him excellent support. The high comedy of Barrymore makes the picture delightfully entertaining.

A riot which followed the refusal of students at the City College of New York to accept faculty censorship of
The Ticker, student newspaper, resulted in the suspension of eleven students.

When in Need of a Haircut USE YOUR HEAD and Go to Norton’s NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Famous Track Stars Will Feature Indoor Games To Meet at Carolina
WIDMYER - MARYLAND
FULMER - DUKE
DAVIDSON Will Be Represented by Five Varsity and Three Freshmen

Leading the long procession of stars to the spectacular Southern Conference Indoor Games at the University of North Carolina March
4 is the flying Earl Widmyer of the University of Maryland, who at the Millrose games recently outstepped Wykoff, world’s
outdoor record holder. Widmyer is slated for a brilliant race when he meets Lynn, Clemson’s Southern Conference outdoor champion, and
Brownlee of Duke, who has also been credited with 9.8 for the 100-yard dash, and who is scheduled for still
another brilliant duel with Eli Finkelstein, Washington and Lee hurdler. Brownlee holds the Conference outdoor low hurdle record and is
co-holder of the indoor record with Finkelstein. This will be their first meeting and an epochal one in the indoor
games, for Finkelstein was injured and out of competition last year.

Clarence Jensen of North Carolina and Captain Billy Lauck of Virginia are slated for another fine race. Jensen holds the
indoor mile record, and Lauck is the Conference outdoor record holder. Of the other prominent stars who will participate in
the games are: Wellford, Virginia record holder in the 440-yard dash;Fulmer, Duke’s brilliant quarter-miler and broad jumper, who was a
member of last year’s Conference championship relay team; and Higby, Carolina’s broad jumper, who hopes to stop Fulmer. North Carolina
will be the defending champion in the big meet, which will also carry non-conference, freshman, and scholastic divisions. Every Southern
Conference institution has indicated that it will be represented. Duke and Virginia look like especially likely teams to dethrone the
Tar Heels, but Maryland, Washington and Lee, and other teams look very strong. Davidson will be represented this year in
both the varsity and freshman events. At the present time, it appears certain that at least eight men will be
sent to represent the Wildcats, five of these varsity and three freshmen. In the 60-yard sprint, Fleagle, Glasgow, and Bob
McCallie will be entered. In the 70-yard high hurdles, Pratt.

The following freshmen will also go to the games: Ras Evans, in the 60-yard sprint; Billy Merchant in the three-quarter-mile
run, and Frank Parker in the 70-yard high hurdles.

Last year Davidson tied with P. C. for the championship of the non-conference division, and the year before last the
Wildcats won the title. Last year these indoor games at Chapel Hill, which are a regular feature each year, drew
43 teams and more than 300 contestants. This year, although the Conference is smaller than it has been in recent
years, a great number of contestants are expected, and the games hope to be even better than in the past.

Despite the depression, Columbia University has discovered that a cross-section of 103 graduates of the Columbia School of Business are
earning an average of $5,000 a year each. The yearly incomes of the 103 range from $360 to $100,000.

NOTICE
Have your shoes repaired at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP. Work done while you wait.
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

THE GREATEST UNDERWEAR VALUE
You can pay more than HANES costs—but just try to match HANES values. There’s the Gold Label Light Weight Union
Suit or Shirts and Drawers. SAMSONBACK Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war belt. That’s patented and can’t be imitated. Pull-Over
Shirts and Shorts in a variety that will make it easy for the most fastidious to choose from. All at
prices that will make you wonder how it can be done.
P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.

Some Come Sooner, Some Later
Eventually ALL Johnson's Barber Shop

U-PUSH-EMS
New Rates at M. P. Henderson’s Gulf Station

WEDNESDAY
“WOMAN ACCUSED”
NANCY CARROLL

THURSDAY
“BLONDIE JOHNSTON”
JOAN BLONDELL

FRIDAY
“HELLO EVERYBODY”
KATE SMITH — RANDOLPH SCOTT

SATURDAY
“FROM HELL TO HEAVEN”
CAROLE LOMBARD — DAVID MANNERS

MONDAY
“CHILD OF MANHATTAN”
NANCY CARROLL

TUESDAY
“TOPAZE”
JOHN BARRYMORE
