FALL SERVICES BEGIN SUNDAY

The Davidsonian

Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

G. C. GLEE CLUB HERE FRIDAY

Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 15, 1933 No. 9

Dr. Ben Lacy Will Lead Y. M. C. A. Fall Services

Series to Begin Next Sunday With the Morning Church Service

IS DAVIDSON ALUMNUS

Personal Conferences to be Held With Students

The Fall Evangelistic Services, conducted by the Y. M. C. A., will be under the leadership of Dr. Ben R. Lacy, Jr., president of Union Theological Seminary of Richmond, Va. The services will begin on Sunday, November 19, with the morning church service at 11:15, and will be continued at the vesper hour, which will be combined with the evening church service. Each morning Dr. Lacy will speak at the regular chapel period. He will also hold a seven o'clock service each evening. The evening hour will be opened with a special song service, which is being arranged by the music department of the college.

Dr. Lacy is well known to the students of Davidson College. Seniors will remember that he conducted a similar series of services when they were freshmen. He was himself an outstanding undergraduate as an athlete and campus leader, playing on the varsity football team and holding many student body offices. He has been honored with membership in Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity, and in Phi Beta Kappa. At present, Dr. Lacy is the president of the Alumni Association. Dr. Lacy studied at Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar, after his graduation from Davidson. During the war, he was a chaplain overseas, and is one of the most beloved men in that service. While he is at Davidson, Dr. Lacy will stay with Dr. R. S. Burwell on Concord Street.

One of the special features of the Fall Services this year is the series of personal conferences and group discussions which Dr. Lacy hopes to hold. All men who would like to discuss further any of the topics on which Dr. Lacy speaks, or any other subjects, will be welcome to these open forums. More specific announcements will be made concerning them after Dr. Lacy’s arrival, but all men are urged to bear them in mind and be preparing to take part in them. The general theme of Dr. Lacy’s talks has not been announced, but it will be made public before the end of the week.

In giving the information concerning the Fall Services, Sam Wiley, Y. M. C. A. secretary, said: “The evangelistic services in the fall and spring are the high peaks of the ‘Y’ program for the year, and this series of services will mean a lot to the spiritual life of the (Continued on page 6)

Glee Club To Be Host To Visitors

Greensboro College Glee Club to Sing

Twenty-six young ladies compose the Greensboro College Glee Club, which presents a concert in Chambers Auditorium Friday evening, November 17, under the auspices of the Davidson Glee Club. Misses Alice Barrow, Martha Nell Carson, Laurie Felder, Camilla Foreman, Mary Louise Lytch, Mary Lois Moser, Lorraine Sills, Hazel Waddell, Charlotte Hammer, Nina Jones, Polly Moser, Jane Nafe, Mary Lib Robbins, Katie Sue Taylor, Elizabeth Williams, Reba Wilson, Sarah Wariner, Virginia Booze, Isabel Boyles, Cody Hipps, Eva Mae Lassiter, Elizabeth Lodge, Marianne Mann, Mildred Royal, and Jane Whicker make up the personnel. Miss Grace Coltrane will accompany the group. Misses Hipps, Boyles, and Mann will render popular selections in the approved trio arrangement. Mr. Edward Molitore, director of the club, who is a well-known singer, will be included on the program in a group of vocal selections. Mr. Charles W. Pier, noted cellist, will also perform.

This program marks the first attempt of the season of the Davidson Glee Club in bringing to Davidson a series of concerts.

To Speak Here

DR. BEN R. LACY, JR.

Dr. Benjamin Rice Lacy, Jr., president of Union Theological Seminary, who will speak at the annual Fall Y. M. C. A. Services beginning next Sunday.

Phi Beta Kappa To Initiate Six Men

Dr. W. A. Lambeth, of Asheville, to be Speaker; Six Alumni to Join

The Phi Beta Kappa Chapter of Davidson will hold its fall initiation and banquet Monday, December 5, according to an announcement by Dr. P. H. Gwynn, president. The chapter has secured Dr. W. A. Lambeth, pastor of the Central Methodist Church, Asheville, to make the principal address. Dr. Lambeth is in constant demand as a public speaker and for several years was pastor of one of the most influential Methodist churches in Washington, D. C.

The following alumni, who were members of the Old Mimir Society, the (Continued on page 6)

Forty Freshmen Answer “Y” Call

Group to Conduct Night School in Mill District

The Y. M. C. A. last week held a meeting for all freshmen who were interested in “Y” work. There were about forty men present, and the group was very enthusiastic in its response to the suggestions which were made by Sam Wiley and E. L. Powell.

One of the first plans made was to conduct a study class, probably based on the book, “Ten Studies on the Sermon on the Mount.” Some member of the faculty will be asked to discuss a part of the book each night until the members of the group can themselves take over the leadership of these meetings. Friday night at 7 o'clock was selected as the meeting time, and the place will be the Social Center. If this time does not conflict with other meetings, it will probably be selected as the regular time.

The suggestion which met with great response was the plan to conduct a night school for illiterates in the mill district. Sam Wiley has been planning this for some time, and he hopes to be able to carry it out with this group under the leadership of upperclassmen.

Various ways of rendering service to the college were suggested and discussed by the group. It was agreed that they should take over the job of ushering at the “Y” vesper meetings. A definite schedule for this work will probably be announced later.

The suggestion was made that upperclassmen be asked to discuss the different phases of “Y” work for the benefit of the freshmen in this group. The idea of this is to get the new men in line for definite service in some special branch of the “Y” work. Wiley and Powell both emphasized the fact that this group was not a formal organization with any set purpose, but it was a band, loosely organized, to work together in Christian fellowship to help others.

Debate Try-Outs To Be Brought To Close This Evening

Six Debaters and Three Alternates to be Chosen by Judges

TEN MEN ARE ELIGIBLE

Eliminations Held Last Thursday, Friday, and Tuesday

On Thursday, Friday, and Tuesday nights, the Forensic Council, headed by E. J. Humphrey, has held debating tryouts in Chambers Building. Ten men have been selected as eligible for the debating teams. About ten men competed at each tryout, each candidate speaking five minutes on a chosen point of the query to be used by Eta Sigma Pi this year, “Resolved, That the Powers of the President Should be Substantially Increased as a Settled Policy.” On Thursday night, G. H. Brown, R. M. Cann and W. F. Goodykoontz were selected as eligible for the teams; Friday, R. Pratt-Thomas, R. H. Smith, J. H. Fitzgerald, and A. C. Stutts were chosen from nine candidates, and W. L. Fugate, J. R. Harper, and E. I. Humphrey were the successful men on Tuesday night.

The final elimination will be held tonight at 7 o'clock to determine the six men who will compose the teams and the three who will be the alternates. The student body is especially urged to attend the tryout tonight. The audience is assured of entertainment by the extraordinarily good speeches and keen competition that will be displayed. Furthermore, a good audience is necessary if the judges are to fairly judge the speakers, especially in respect to the speakers’ poise on the platform.

The Forensic Council, of which Ed Humphrey is president, has Dr. C. K. Brown, Dr. W. P. Cumming, Dr. P. H. Gwynn, and Prof. A. Currie as judges of the speeches. The teams will make three nine-day trips to various colleges, competing in four debates each trip.

Medical College Test Given Soon

Pre-Med Students to Take Aptitude Examinations December Sixth

The aptitude test, given by the Association of American Medical Colleges to all students planning on entering a medical school next fall, will be given on Wednesday, December 6. This test has been adopted by the association as one of the normal requirements for admission to any institution for the study of medicine in the United States. The test will be given on the same date at all colleges over the country. Any student desirous of entering some medical school in the fall of 1934 must take this examination, it was stated by I. W. Hengeveld, registrar. This is the only date on which the test may be taken. Anyone wishing to take this examination should make application to Mr. Hengeveld immediately.

Week-End Parties Entertain Citadel And Davidson Men

Pan-Hellenic Council, Scabbard and Blade Sponsor Affairs

MANY GIRLS PRESENT

House Cotillion Given Friday; Party Follows Game

The Pan-Hellenic Council, acting in conjunction with the Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, sponsored a house party for the Davidson students the week-end of November 10-11. Friday night, the members of Scabbard and Blade gave a cotillion at the American Legion Hut in Mooresville. Music for the occasion was provided by Billy Knauff and his orchestra from Charlotte. An interesting feature of the evening was the appearance of all senior members of the Davidson R. O. T. C. division in uniform. The Pan-Hellenic Council staged their affair Saturday evening at the Charlotte Hotel Ballroom in Charlotte, following the Davidson-Citadel game that afternoon. Many Citadel students were onHand for the festivities, which were presided over by Archie Davis and his orchestra. A list of the girls who attended the house party follows:

Beta Theta Pi: Elinor Stone (Continued on page 6)

Dr. C. K. Brown Attends Meeting
Brown Delivers Talk Before Southern Economics Association

Dr. C. K. Brown, professor of economics, attended the yearly meeting of the Southern Economics Association in Atlanta, Ga., last week. The opening session on Friday morning was given over to the discussion of transportation. At the session on Friday morning, Dr. Brown gave a talk on “Railway Transportation in the South,” and placed particular emphasis on the financial difficulties of the railroads. He pointed out the great decline in railroad traffic which began in 1926 and showed that the financial condition of the southern railroads was worse than that of any other section because traffic began to decline here in 1926 rather than in 1929. In 1933, the traffic began to pick up more in the South than in any other section, with the result that southern railroads are much better off today than they were a year ago. Dr. Brown concluded that the prospects for the South as a whole are much better as long as they hold to the present policy of economic nationalism and isolation.

Prof. M. S. Heath, of the University of North Carolina, gave a lecture on “Motor Transportation” at the same session on Friday. The two lectures were much discussed by the group, composed of about forty prominent economists of the South. Other sessions of lesser importance were held on Friday and Saturday.

“I think that the people of North Carolina are against liquor, and whenever they are given the opportunity to express themselves on a wet and dry issue, unconnected with other issues, they have shown that they are dead against it. This, I think, is what happened last Tuesday, November 7,” said Archibald Currie, professor of economics and political science, in an interview on the repeal of the 18th amendment. Several other interesting facts were also revealed as the result of the interview, part of which follows:

Question: Did prohibition really prohibit the drinking of liquor?
Answer: Yes.

Q: Will repeal lead to more drinking on the part of the general public?
A: Yes, I think so.

Q: Will repeal rid the country of bootleggers?
A: Not entirely. We will always have bootleggers. We had them before prohibition, but on a smaller scale.

Q: Will government regulation of liquor be successful?
A: It never has been.

Q: What power, if any, does the federal government have over the state regulation of liquor? Can it produce uniformity?
A: It has none. It can produce uniformity only through its power to control interstate commerce. It can assist the state government by pro- (Continued on page 2)

Wildcats Down Citadel Cadets By 24-6 Score
Scouts Miss Game

Members of the B-squad were sorely disappointed when they reported for practice Monday afternoon because there were no new plays for them to learn and run against the varsity this week. It happened that Coaches “Doc” Unger and Flake Laird had gone to Williamsburg, Va., to scout William and Mary, whom Davidson meets this Saturday. When they got there, the coaches learned that the Indians had gone to Emory and Henry to play the Wasps there in a night game. The two immediately changed their course towards the scene of the game. It was 8:30 p.m. when they got to Wytheville. The game had started half an hour before and there was yet 60 miles to go. Disgusted, they decided to call it a day and came back to Davidson after a fruitless journey.

Dr. Frazer Hood Chosen To Office
Eight Professors Attend North Carolina College Conference in Greensboro

Dr. Frazer Hood, professor of psychology, was elected president of the North Carolina College Conference which convened in Greensboro, November 9-10, for their annual meeting. Dr. Hood will serve for one year. Between thirty and forty colleges were represented. Dr. T. W. Lingle, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Prof. John C. Bailey, Dr. C. R. Harding, Mr. Hengeveld, and Mr. Gwynn of the Davidson faculty were present. Dr. H. T. Hunter of the Western Carolina Teachers’ College was elected vice-president. Dr. N. W. Walker of the University of North Carolina was elected secretary-treasurer. Also, Dr. T. W. Lingle was elected to the chairmanship of a committee which is to prepare an athletic manifesto. (Continued on page 6)

Cercle Francais Plans Trip Soon
Society Leaves November 27 to Attend Converse Meeting

Le Cercle Francais, honorary Davidson French club, has recently completed plans for a trip to be taken on November 27 to Spartanburg, S. C., where it will be the guest of the Alliance Francais, the French club of Converse College, in a joint program. The French fraternity plans to take on the trip the eighteen members of the club, accompanied by the two faculty sponsors of the group, Professors Watts and Goldiere. They plan to leave Davidson in time to reach Spartanburg by 4:00 p.m.

This visit comes as a sequel to the meeting in Davidson last year of the two clubs. The two clubs have met together several times in the past, and the joint meetings have proved a great success. At the time of their arrival at Converse, the Davidson club will be honored by the Converse club in a presentation of Rostand’s “Les Romanesques” by the members of that group. At 6 o'clock Converse College will be host to the visitors at dinner in the college dining hall. At 8 o'clock the Davidson club will present a program in the college auditorium, at which time, upon request, Tristan Bernard’s comedy, “L’Anglais Tel Qu’on Le Parle,” will be repeated by the Davidson group. As a curtain raiser, the comedy, “Cupidon Dentiste,” will be presented by the members of the club recently admitted to the Cercle Francais. The comic dialogue, “L’Incendie,” will also be given in costume by Lanier Pratt and Bill Hart. J. M. Harris will act as stage manager for each play, and Lyman Clardy will have charge of make-up.

Quarterman Is Outstanding for Visitors in Spite of Overwhelming Defeat
MACKORELL RUNS WILD
Hutchins and Wingfield Score Other Wildcat Touchdowns

Led by the brilliant playing of Johnny Mackorell, the Davidson Wildcats came from behind in the opening period of the game to rout the Citadel Bulldogs 24 to 6 in a spectacular Armistice Day battle. The game, sponsored by the Charlotte Junior League, attracted approximately 4,500 customers, who were given a treat in broken field running, down-field blocking, first downs, and touchdowns.

With the score knotted at 6-6 in the second period, Davidson had the ball on its own 25-yard line. Wingfield flipped a lateral to Mackorell, who, instead of running around his right end, cut back to his left toward the entire Citadel team and, aided by machine-like interference, threaded his way to the goal line. Wingfield and McElrath cut down Ferguson and Quarterman, Citadel backs, near the goal line in a successful effort to aid their teammate.

A 65-yard kick by Quarterman, Citadel’s famous punter, put Davidson in the hole in the opening period, when the ball rolled out on the 10-yard line. The Cadets, aided by 15 and 8-yard dashes by Ferguson, drove from their 41 to the goal line, where Quarterman on the second down crashed off-tackle for a touchdown. Ferguson tried the line for extra point, but was stopped. A 20-yard run by Wingfield led the Wildcats to Citadel's goal line, where another run by Wingfield took the ball around for a touchdown, tying the score.

In the next kickoff, Citadel began a drive which carried them to Davidson's 30, where Workman of Citadel fumbled. It was after an exchange of punts that the 'Cats scored their second touchdown, on the brilliant 75-yard run by Mackorell. At the opening of the final quarter, Mackorell threw a 16-yard pass to Hutchins, who seized it in the clear and ran 30 yards for a touchdown. Quarterman and Baker led a Citadel march which was stopped on the 'Cats’ 13-yard line, when Hutchins batted down Baker's pass over the goal line. (Continued on page 6)

Boxing Trophies Now On Display
Coveted Medals Will Be Awarded Next Spring

Captain N. G. Pritchett has displayed nine medals in the trophy case in the lobby of Chambers Building, seven of the medals being for boxing, one for gymnastic ability, and one for physical improvement. The boxing medals are to be awarded to the winners in the 120, 130, 140, 150, 160, light-heavy, and heavyweight classes in a boxing tournament among Davidson students to be held this spring, in the latter part of February and the first week of March. Boxing instruction and training, under the direction of Captain Pritchett, will be begun immediately after the Christmas holidays. Better performances than last year are predicted for this spring’s tournament because of this training and because five of last year’s champions, B. F. Ormand, H. Morris, E. N. Frazier, C. Moore, and J. Dolan, are still in school.

The gym medal will be given to the man making the highest number of points in gymnastic competition. Score points will also be kept between the classes, according to Captain Pritchett, to determine which class is most gymnastically inclined. The physical improvement medal will be awarded to the student who shows the highest total gain in size during the year. In February, measurements will be taken of the neck, biceps, forearms, thighs, calves, and chest. Weight is not considered in this competition, and only fairly muscular men are eligible. These measurements will be compared with those taken at the beginning of school, in order to determine the winner.