4:30 P.M. R. O. T. C. INSPECTION THURSDAY AND ORATORICAL CONTEST HERE FRIDAY Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas Vol. XX
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 26, 1933 No. 27

Manson, Kirkland Chosen Vice-Pres. and Sec.-Treas. of Rising Senior Class
McLain, McPhail, Wadsworth, Yelverton Nominated Vice-Presidents; Harris, Hurst, Neill, Secretary-Treasurer

FRESH ELECTIONS SOON
Class of '35 Chose Fred McPhail Vice-President, and Charlie Harris Secretary-Treasurer

In the voting which closed last week, Andy Manson was elected to the office of vice-president of the rising Senior
class, and Buck Kirkland to the position of secretary-treasurer. At the same time, the rising Junior class chose Fred McPhail
as their vice-president for next year, and Charlie Harris to the secretary-treasurer’s office.

Those nominated from the floor for consideration in the Senior class elections included Brewster Grant, John Hunter, Buck Kirkland, Andy
Manson, and Buck Ross. All but Kirkland and Manson were eliminated on the first ballot, and, as had been decided
beforehand, the man receiving the greatest number of votes, Andy Manson, was declared vice-president, and Buck Kirkland was chosen secretary-treasurer
for the coming year.

Next year’s Senior vice-president, who belongs to the S. A. E. social fraternity, was formerly secretary-treasurer of his class in
his Sophomore year, at which time he was also elected to the Beaver Club. Manson has also been a member
of The Davidsonian staff.

Buck Kirkland, a Pi Kappa Alpha, has recently been chosen for the position of varsity football manager for next year.

(Continued on page 4)

Oratorical Contest to Take Place Soon
Davidson Contestants to Be Chosen in Preliminaries This Evening

The State Peace Oratorical Contest will be held at Davidson on Friday, April 28, at 8 o'clock, during which the
place of the next contest will be decided upon. Suggestions as to how the association may function more effectively in
building up a sentiment for world peace will comprise the basis of the discussion. Duke, Guilford, and N. C. State
will most likely participate. Prizes amounting to one hundred dollars in cash will be awarded. This award is the gift
of the Misses Seabury of Bedford, Mass. They have set aside a sum, the income of which is sufficient to
make awards annually in forty states.

Jack Williams, Jr., is in charge of arrangements, music, and the selection of the judges. Those who have been invited
to act as judges are: the Rev. W. G. Clark, superintendent of schools; Frank A. Edmonson, Attorney John Shaw, Attorney
L. B. Vreeland, and Mrs. W. B. Ramsay, president of Mitchell College, all of whom are from Charlotte. The judges
invited from Statesville are: the Rev. A. P. Millstead, and Mrs. E. M. Land, general director of the Women’s Federated
Clubs. The state chairman will be present and following the contest an informal reception will be given in the banquet
hall. The preliminary contest to select Davidson’s contestant will be held Wednesday night.

Sigma Upsilon
At a meeting of Sigma Upsilon, national literary honorary society, on April 10th, the following officers were elected for the
coming year: Lyman Clardy, president; Gordon Wood, secretary; Gordon Brown, treasurer; Tom Wood, steward. Professor Goldiere, of the Davidson faculty,
who was elected to membership before the spring holidays, was initiated at a meeting last Monday night. The retiring officers
of Sigma Upsilon are: Bob McCallie, president; Charlie Myers, secretary; Bill Mulless, treasurer; Ed Handcock, steward.

Prospects Are Good For Centennial Class
From Mr. Hengeveld’s office comes the information that Davidson College has the largest mailing list of prospective students for next
year’s Freshman class that it has ever had since he has been at Davidson. The definite registration at present is
the same as it was this time last year.

A great effort is being made to complete the registration of the new class by the beginning of summer, but
since so many schools are at the beginning of their closing periods it will possibly take a longer time to
receive all the required data concerning prospective students.

The main purpose of this centennial class is to have a good class of men—not necessarily a large one—but most
essentially a good one. The class for next year is practically a third full now, and judging by the number
of requests for catalogues, an extremely large one is to be expected.

The names of prospective students that have been turned in by the student body number the large total of 750.
A direct contact with a person is of much greater value in getting a boy to come to Davidson than
any literature that can be sent out from here, and for that reason students are urged to do their share.

Formal Installation of New Men is Held
West, Thompson, Willson, Casali, Williams, Fugate, Smyre Accept Offices

Last Friday night in Chambers Auditorium the annual formal installation of newly elected student body officers was held. Immediately after
this service, refreshments were served in the banquet hall. Allen Mebane, president of the class of '35, presided. At each
tap of the gavel the incoming and outgoing officers went on to the stage, the newly elected leaders using the
left steps and the old going up on the right. The first stroke of the mallet brought to the platform
Jerome Clark, retiring student body president, with his Student Council and Julian West, newly elected head with the new council.
After the incoming group had taken the oath, President Clark in a very brief but tasteful talk thanked the student
body for its loyal support during his administration and in bequeathing his position to the new president, wished for him
the same support. President-Elect West, in accepting, pledged his support to those who had entrusted him with this office, and
asked for the same spirit of “team work” that characterized the outgoing regime.

Paul Brown and Wee Thompson, old and new Y. M. C. A. presidents, respectively, were the next on the stage.
Brown, in turning the reins of office over to Thompson, handed him the Bible, which he stated was the constitution
of the Young Men’s Christian Association, and wished to the president-elect a most successful year in his work. Thompson, in
accepting, asked that a more unanimous interest be taken in this work at Davidson and offered to serve to the
best of his ability as president of the Y. M. C. A.

At the next sound of the gavel, Charlie Pearce and Eb Willson mounted to the rostrum and Pearce, in a
very few words, relinquished his office as president of the Ath-

(Continued on page 7)

DR. R. H. LAFFERTY TO TALK HERE TOMORROW
On Thursday evening at 8 o'clock, Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity, will hold its regular meeting in Chambers. They
have been very fortunate in securing Dr. R. H. Lafferty, of Charlotte, as the speaker of the evening. The lecture
will be on the relation of physics to the medical profession, and it will be illustrated with slides. Dr. Lafferty
was reared at Davidson, and after graduating here with high honors, received his M.D. at the North Carolina Medical College.
He then taught for a few years there, distinguishing himself in X-ray work. At the present he is head of
the X-ray department of the Charlotte Sanatorium. The meeting will be open, and all townspeople and students are cordially invited.

R. O. T. C. Inspection
The annual spring inspection of the Davidson College R. O. T. C. battalion will be held this Friday afternoon. Colonel
James M. Little, who is now stationed at Wi Sal, will be in charge of the inspection. Colonel Little will
arrive on Thursday morning to begin his examination. Thursday and Friday he will examine the R. O. T. C. classes,
and Friday afternoon, beginning at 2:00 o'clock, he will inspect the units on the drill field. A parade, company, platoon,
and squad drills, physical exercise drill, and a combat post exercise will be held. Members of the local unit began
final preparations for the inspection early this week. Rifles were being cleaned and uniforms cleaned and pressed in an effort
to earn an “excellent” rating again this year.

Members Chosen to “Y” Board of Control
Hubert Morris, Alex Schenck, and Walter Sprunt Are Selected

In the recent Y. M. C. A. Board of Control elections, Professor J. C. Bailey was elected to serve in
this organization by popular acclamation, and Alex Schenck, of the rising Senior class, and Hubert Morris and Walter Sprunt of
the rising Junior class were elected to serve on the board by the student body. The elections were begun on
April 2, and due to several runoffs continued until after the spring vacation, when voting was resumed. James Harris, William
Johnson, and Alex Schenck were the nominees from the rising Senior class. Schenck was elected over Harris on theFinal ballot.
From the rising Junior class, Don Bailey, Hubert Morris, Ben Rose, and Walter Sprunt were nominated for the office. Bailey
and Rose were eliminated on the first ballot. (Continued on page 4)

Dr. McKay Heard by Pre-Medical Society

Dr. Robert W. McKay, noted urologist of Charlotte, spoke recently at a meeting of Pi Delta Alpha, pre-medical fraternity, held
on April 7. Dr. McKay is an eminent physician and a most interesting man. He is the brother of Dr.
Hamilton McKay, also of Charlotte, who has spoken at Davidson before. Dr. R. W. McKay attended Davidson and the University
of Virginia, and took his medical degree at Johns Hopkins University. The speaker was introduced by Dr. J. W. MacConnell,
the college physician. He presented a most interesting account on the subject of quack doctors, outlining the rise of these
pseudo doctors from the time of their origin down to their present standing in the world. He spoke in particular
of the custom of medical training in Germany, by which all quacks are eliminated. The student, after his training is
completed, must take a government examination and, if he passes, is given a government stamp to prove that he is
legally authorized to practice medicine. After this program, delicious refreshments were served by the members of the fraternity.

CHEMISTRY FRATERNITY ELECTS NEW OFFICERS

Local officers for Alpha Alpha chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national chemical honorary fraternity, were elected by members of the
club at a recent meeting. Rufus C. Morrow, Jr., of Zitacuaro, Mexico, was chosen president of the chapter for the
coming year. Other officers included Odi Casali, of Welch, W. Va., secretary; J. T. Blair, of Albemarle, treasurer; and Benjamin
L. Moore, of Pendleton, S. C., sergeant-at-arms. Avery Patton, of Greenville, S. C., is the retiring president of the local
chapter. Gamma Sigma Epsilon was founded at Davidson in 1919.

Davidson Students Hear R. H. Edwards

The Davidson Lecture Committee last Thursday night brought to the Davidson student body a speaker of great authority in the
United States on Student Counseling and Education, Mr. R. H. Edwards, of Cornell University. Mr. Edwards presented a most interesting
talk to his Davidson audience on the subject of “The Place of Persons in Educational Processes.” Mr. Edwards defines education
as growth under guidance. He then proceeded to show the function of the teacher in this process. The teacher's duty,
according to Mr. Edwards, is to stimulate the student and assist him in the process of personal development. In this
process, the personal relationship becomes the outstanding factor. But, as Mr. Edwards showed by several examples, no human being has
yet been able to meet all these qualifications. “Only Jesus Christ, the master teacher, in all the experience of the
human race, has been able to stand up to the standard.” According to Mr. Edwards, it is His methods, then,
that we would best follow, so far as we are humanly able. Mr. Edwards is the director of United Religions
at Cornell, and also holds a course on this subject at the University of Chicago.

Annual Bowery Ball is Brilliant Affair

“Southernaires” Furnish Music for Colorful Event Held Last Week

Davidson’s annual Bowery Ball, including a group of three dances, was held last week in the Hotel Charlotte ballroom, and
proved to be an unusually successful and brilliant affair. The ten social fraternities on the hill invited a large number
of guests up for the occasion, which consisted of a formal dance Friday night, a tea dance Saturday afternoon, and
the colorful Bowery Ball Saturday night as an enjoyable climax. A figure for the old and new officers of the
student body was held at the Friday night dance, and an impromptu figure for those in costume was had Saturday
night. The Southernaires, Davidson College orchestra, furnished the music, and contributed much to the success of the affair with its
good music and clever novelty numbers. The Bowery Ball has always been a highlight on Davidson’s social calendar, and the
event this year was no exception. Social fraternity visitors for the occasion included:

Beta Theta Pi: Misses Colum Schenck and Susan Gregory, Greensboro; Betty Voegtlen, Summit, N. J.; Peggy Becker, Philadelphia, Pa.; Anne
Marvin, Charlottesville, Va.; Jessie Rose, Henderson; Mary Ware, Darlington, S. C.; Tiny Nickelson, Edgefield, S. C.

Kappa Alpha: Misses Courtland Preston, Eleanor Hays, May Marion, Katherine Crowell, Virginia Carey, Charlotte; Mary McCay, Concord; Katherine O'Farrell, Kings
Mountain, S. C.; Florence Pitts, Spartanburg, S. C.; Nancy Moore, Gastonia; Isabelle Pollock, Bluefield, W. Va.

Kappa Sigma: Misses Dot Jones and Mary Paine, Charlotte; Barbara Witherspoon, Beverly Burgess, Adelaide Fortune, Greensboro; Etta Burt Warren, Trenton;
Betty Dangerfield, Norfolk, Va.; Kitty Rankin, Mount Holly. (Continued on page 4)

SCABBARD AND BLADE BIDS NINE NEW MEN

On Wednesday, April 12, during parade drill, Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, issued bids to the following nine Juniors:
W. M. Brown, of Knoxville, Tenn.; F. P. Hartison, of Mt. Ulla; E. J. Humphrey, of Wilmington; W. T. Johnson,
of Charlotte; W. A. Kirkland, of Durham; A. H. Manson, of Jacksonville, Fla.; T. H. McCallie, of Chattanooga, Tenn.; E.
L. Powell, of Mobile, Ala.; and C. M. Rives, of Greensboro. Twice yearly, once in the fall and once in
the spring, this fraternity extends invitations to new men. The new men are to be initiated on Wednesday, April 26.
An informal initiation will be held in the afternoon and the formal at night in the regular meeting place.

Hugh Hawkins Named Varsity Cheerleader on Second Ballot of Student Vote

Is Elected by Supremacy Over McCallie as Smith Loses on First Vote

ALLEN CONDUCTS ELECTION

McCallie, Smith Chosen Junior Cheer Leaders in Fall Elections

As a result of the student body elections held last week, Hugh Hawkins, of Charlottesville, Va., was chosen for the
position of varsity cheerleader for the coming year. Hawkins was elected over T. Hook McCallie, of Chattanooga, Tenn., in the
second ballot. Brooke Allen, retiring cheerleader, conducted the election. The men nominated for this office were Hawkins, McCallie, and Ralph
Smith, of Dillon, S. C. In the past, it has usually been the custom to have only two Junior cheerleaders,
from whom the varsity cheerleader is selected at spring elections. McCallie and Smith were selected early in the fall to
these positions. However, due to an injury suffered by McCallie in the early fall, it was necessary for Hawkins, who
had been runner-up in the fall elections, to substitute for McCallie as Junior cheerleader until the latter’s recovery. Due to
this fact, Allen decided to retain all three men and make all eligible for the varsity post. Hawkins is a
member of Sigma Phi Epsilon, social fraternity.

Rev. Gypsy Smith Opens Evangelistic Services

World-Renowned Evangelist Has Large Attendance at First Meeting

Rev. Gypsy Smith, Jr., launched the Spring Evangelistic Services with a deeply spiritual address centering on the theme of Christ's
talk to Nicodemus, as recorded in the third chapter of John: “Ye must be born again.” This was the first
of a series of addresses delivered by Mr. Smith, extending over the period from Monday evening to Wednesday evening, the
time set apart for the Spring Services. On Tuesday evening, Mr. Smith spoke on the subject, “How Can a Man
Know That He Has Been Born Again?” After the singing of several hymns by the student congregation, Mr. Smith prefaced
his remarks on “Spiritual Rebirth” by reading the entire third chapter of John, which tells of that classic visit by
the Jewish Rabbi to the Master. The text was taken from the seventh verse, which reads, “Ye must be born
again.” Man in his original state was created in the image of God. This state he forfeited by yielding to
the tempter’s insistent knock, and henceforth, by all the laws of God's wisdom, it was impossible for him to love
God. Impossible—yes, until the image of God was restored in man’s heart by the incoming of Jesus Christ. Only through
a rebirth could man understand the will of the Creator. The verse may be translated to read, “Ye must be
born above,” or “Ye must be born anew,” but, in all events, the meaning and power back of the words
is the transformation of the earthly, fleshly being into the spiritual being by the miracle of rebirth. Mr. Smith compared
the exuberance of the spiritually reborn person to a forest, heavy with the fullness of the garb of spring. (Continued
on page 8)

DuPont Fellowship

Charles Bettis received a DuPont Junior Fellowship to the University of Virginia, to do his graduate work in mathematics. Bettis
is a member of Phi Beta Kappa honorary fraternity. Bob McCallie received a part scholarship in English to Vanderbilt University.
He is also a member of Phi Beta Kappa honorary fraternity. Campbell Wildman was chosen first alternate for the fellowships
awarded men who intend to take advanced work in science by the zoology department of the University of North Carolina.
