THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 27, 1933

Wildcat Coach Takes Pessimistic Attitude
Disappointed in Showing Made Against Elon Eleven

“My highly touted fast backfield turned out to be nothing but Pittman,” was the statement made by Coach Doc Newton, when asked what he thought of the Wildcats’ performance against Elon last Saturday. “We will be doing well to hold Carolina to four touchdowns.” It may be that the disappointment of the coach over the showing his gridders made against the Christians has made him a little pessimistic. His predecessor, Monk Younger, was given to issuing statements like the one above. Newton, barring accidents, will be able to present his full strength against the Tarheels. Mackorell, who was unable to participate in the Elon contest, will be in good condition by Saturday. Wingfield, who has been suffering from a bad shoulder, will be in the Carolina game. These two should bolster up the strength of the Wildcat backfield. The remainder of the team is primed for the Chapel Hill affair. Newton is working this week in an attempt to stop up the holes in the line, through which the Elon defensive men came almost at will. It is probable that the Davidson mentor will start the same line that he put into the game last Saturday, except that Potter will probably start at Cathey’s guard. The Barium Springs boy played a fine defensive game against Elon. Siewers will hold on to the disputed tackle position, but Johnston, Ross, and the other tackle candidates will get their try. The Wildcat forward wall this weekend runs against what is probably the best line in the state. The Tarheel line averages about 186, and contains six lettermen. The result of the game will depend to a great extent on the outcome of the clash between the lines of the two institutions. The squad in the Wildcat camp has been working on the plays which, with two exceptions, were not used against Elon. Newton expects to bring an array of plays against the Tarheels which have not been scouted. After a light scrimmage today, the 'Cats will take a short workout Thursday, and will leave Friday for Chapel Hill.

Tryouts Held For Concert Orchestra
Will Be Limited to Thirty Members With Ten Violins

Initial tryouts for the Davidson College Concert Orchestra were held last Thursday afternoon in Chambers Auditorium, under the direction of Mr. J. C. Pfohl, new head of the college music department. The ability of the woodwind and brass instrumentalists was more or less known through their part in the bands, consequently they did nothing more than turn in their names as interested. About ten violinists reported for the tryout, and the greater part of the afternoon was given over to arranging them tentatively in the order of their ability. The list of members is not complete as yet, however, and it will be limited to thirty players so as to keep the orchestra in strict instrumentalism in order to obtain good balance. The effectiveness of the orchestra will be hampered somewhat due to the lack of the larger orchestral instruments such as the ’cello and string bass. However, the material looks very promising and with a good deal of hard work should turn out well. Concerning the aim of the orchestra, Mr. Pfohl has this to say: “This orchestra will play only the best in music, being entirely separate from the college orchestra. During the course of the year it is my desire that the orchestra shall give several performances on the campus as well as appear in nearby cities.” The orchestra will have its rehearsals on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons, at the hour designated in the practice schedule which appears in this issue elsewhere.

M. E. Hicks Will Give Shooting Exhibition

A free exhibition of plain and fancy shooting will be given by Mr. M. E. Hicks, world famous marksman, at the Mooresville show grounds on Thursday the 28th at 3:30. This exhibition will include a remarkable number of difficult feats with rifle, revolver, and shotgun. Also a lecture on the practical and safe methods of using firearms. How to develop your marksmanship and how to become an expert shot will be shown by this famous marksman. The purpose of this free program is to demonstrate the accuracy and efficiency of the Peters brand of ammunitions.These combined elements are limited to the best thirty. 

Big Steps Forward
New Men Will Be Added
15 Form Concert Orchestra

The College Band, under the direction of Mr. J. C. Pfohl, has already, within the limits of its short existence, made a fair bid for a prominent place in the musical life of the college. The band is composed of about forty members of the R. O. T. C. Band with the addition of about ten men not taking R. O. T. C. A group of five musicians forms what is to be known as the Concert Band. All of these, in addition to the Glee Club, the Concert Orchestra, and private lessons on the organ, are under the care of Mr. Pfohl. The Concert Band will give several band concerts throughout the course of the year. The college is covering the expense of a great deal of new music and racks, and with this added equipment, the band should make much progress. Mr. Pfohl says that the material is good, and the men seem earnest in their work. The men who have shown unusual instrumental ability, and upon whom the formation of the band rests, are: James Crooks, sousaphone; Andrew Cunningham, trumpet; Bradley Harris, clarinet; Ed Johnson, trombone; Hubert Morris, French horn; H. Parker, baritone; John Robinson, trombone; Tom Ross, baritone; and Frank Tucker, sousaphone. A more complete list of the band is not available at this time since the tryouts that determine the player’s status have not been definitively passed upon. A schedule showing the practice hours of these and the other musical organizations appears elsewhere in this issue.

Professor John Thompson Brown, for 20 years head of the English department at Winthrop College, in Rock Hill, S. C., died at his home on September 11 after a lengthy illness which had prevented him from teaching since last March.

COLLEGE MEN AID HI-Y BOYS
(Continued from page 1)

Gordon Wood will be asked to take the position of General Division Scout Master. Besides these organizations, a manual training shop will be held in Davidson to teach the boys the use of tools and how to use their hands to make practical things. Sid Marsh will help to a large extent here. In the way of athletic teams, there will be a football team from Cornelius, two teams from Davidson, and two Mill Chapel teams. Here is an opportunity for many Davidson men to get into active Y. M. C. A. work. Upperclassmen as well as Freshmen interested in this type of work may get into line by seeing Sam Nickey, and are urged to do so as soon as possible.

VIVID LECTURE DELIVERED BY MR. REID GRAHAM
(Continued from page 1)

...dom until sudden changes are made in the Indian’s mode of living. Mr. Graham then went on to explain their shortcomings. The people of India have what is known as the “outcast group” who are not recognized by the general class of people. The women are in the minority, are uneducated, and have no privileges. There are over 500 women now begging on the streets of India. Illiteracy is also blamed for India’s lack of freedom. Ninety percent of the inhabitants are illiterate. The people are superstitious and some worship this way. The speaker concluded this part of the lecture by saying, “If the devotion of this tribe could be changed for something worthwhile, it (India) would be an asset to humanity.” Mr. J. Reid Graham explained in the conclusion about the progression of Christianity in India. The people are being taught self-respect; education is gradually becoming a major part; the numerous diseases are being checked as hospitals have been built; and the principles of Christianity are being explained in the schools.

Wake Forest Will Rebuild Wait Hall

Work of clearing away debris of the burned Wait Hall was started last Tuesday at Wake Forest College to make way for a new administration building. The new construction will be three stories high and will cost about $85,000.

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY
THIS DAY AND AGE (Special)

THURSDAY
SHANGHAI MADNESS
SPENCER TRACY—FAY WRAY

FRIDAY
STRANGER’S RETURN
LIONEL BARRYMORE—MIRIAM HOPKINS

SATURDAY
CHARLIE CHAN’S GREATEST CASE
WARNER OLAND—HEATHER ANGEL

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
MORNING GLORY
KATHARINE HEPBURN—DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, JR.

Granger smokes right in a pipe made to smoke in a pipe. It is the right cut. It has the right flavor and aroma. Granger is what it says it is—pipe tobacco—made to smoke in a pipe. And folks seem to like it because it is in a sensible package. It is 10 cents.

Granger Rough Cut
...the tobacco that’s MADE FOR PIPES
© 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.