THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 17, 1933

Alumni News Notes

Social Fraternities

Mr. Bud Paker, ’32, was a recent visitor on the campus, spending Sunday here with friends. Mr. Joe Johnston and
Mr. Ernest Milton, both of Barium Springs, were visitors here Monday for the baseball game with State College. Mr. W.
R. Cely and Mr. H. T. Mills, both of Greenville, S. C., were recent visitors on the campus.

Dr. W. S. Currell, who was professor of English at Davidson College from 1886 to 1895, was honored at an
enjoyable banquet celebrating his seventy-fifth birthday on May 13. Dr. Currell is now professor of English at the University of
South Carolina. There were about a hundred guests at the banquet and Dean Reed Smith, '01, was in charge of
the program. Dr. Walter Lingle spoke at this occasion.

Mr. W. O. Lingle, Jr., ’28, was a recent visitor in Davidson, spending Mother's Day with his parents, Dr. and
Mrs. W. L. Lingle. Mr. Lingle is at present connected with the advertising department of the Procter and Gamble Soap
Company.

The New York Alumni Chapter of Davidson graduates held its annual banquet last Thursday, May 11. At this meeting, Clifton
Murphey was elected president for the coming year and Dick Gray was elected secretary for the same time.

Mr. Osmond L. Barringer, ’97, of Charlotte, was a recent visitor to the campus.

Dr. J. P. Matheson, of Charlotte, spoke last Friday evening over the radio in behalf of the flower show, which
will be held Wednesday and Thursday in the Charlotte Armory.

Following is a copy of a wedding invitation recently received: “Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Kelly Waymer announce the marriage of
their daughter, Margaret Edna, to Mr. David Frank Murphey, on Wednesday, the third of May, nineteen hundred and thirty-three, Saint
Louis. At home after May sixth, Henryville, Indiana.”

The following announcement was made public recently: “Mr. and Mrs. John Lee Thompson, of Dunn, N. C., announce the marriage
of their daughter, Miss Christine Bishop Thompson, to Mr. Gardner Humphrey Green, of Brooklyn, New York. The marriage will be
a social event of June.” Mr. Green, the son of President and Mrs. Green of the Berry School, is a
graduate of Davidson College. He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and Kappa Sigma. Since graduation,
he has been connected with the personnel department of the New York Stock Exchange. After their marriage, Mr. and Mrs.
Green will reside at 10 Midwood Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

BIRTH

Rev. and Mrs. Dewitt Helm, of West Jefferson, N. C., announce the birth of a son, Dewitt Helm, Jr., on
April 24, 1933, at the Charlotte Sanatorium.

Mu Beta Psi Selects Hines for President

Mu Beta Psi held its annual initiation and election of officers Monday night in the Scabbard and Blade hall. The
new officers elected were: S. M. Hines, president; A. M. Cunningham, vice-president; and Henry Hodgin, secretary-treasurer. The new members of
the fraternity who were initiated were: J. T. Blair, A. M. Cunningham, Henry Hodgin, S. M. Hines, Dave McLain, Bill
McIlwinen, J. A. C. Robinson, and Frank Tucker. The old members were: W. W. Caligan, George Baily, Johnny Marvin, Ed
McNair, Robert Orr, Byron Schriver, and Granger Williams. Officers for the past year have been: Granger Williams, president; Geo. Baily,
vice-president; and Byron Schriver, secretary-treasurer.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Holds Two Meetings

Gamma Sigma Epsilon held an open meeting Wednesday evening, May 10. A group of freshmen and sophomores interested in chemistry
were guests. Several papers of interest were read, after which tasty refreshments were served. Phi Beta Chi, honorary scientific fraternity
of Queens-Chicora College, Charlotte, entertained the Davidson chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon at an open meeting there Monday, May 15.
The Davidson group had charge of the program.

Beta’s Have Annual Senior House Party

Beta Theta Pi held its annual senior house party last weekend at Mr. Davidson's lodge on the Catawba River. Swimming
and dancing were enjoyed in the afternoon. After a delightful repast, dancing was enjoyed, music being furnished by the Rhythm
Ramblers, a popular negro orchestra of Charlotte. The following guests were present: Misses Dot Hand, Sallie Montague, Virginia Pegram, Dot
McClintock, Hilda Allen, Mary Elizabeth Horne, Mary Sue Turner, Charlotte; Dot Miller, Rock Hill, S. C.; Elizabeth Dargan, Rosanne Howard,
Frances Dargan, Florence; Betty Barton, Greenwood; Sue VanDyke, Gastonia; Jane Goodwin, Greensboro; Lorena Fairbanks, Ft. Dupont, Del.; Eleanor Turrentine, Wilmington;
Peggy Seawell, Kershaw, S. C.; NancyHoward, Margaret Brown, Concord.

Kappa Sig's Entertain With Dance: The Kappa Sigma fraternity entertained with a dance this past weekend at the American Legion
Hut in Mooresville. Music for the occasion was furnished by the Davidson orchestra. The party was very fine and was
enjoyed by all. The following guests were present: Claiborne Bunch, Columbia, S.C.; Martha Neal, Waynesville; Prof. F. L. Blythe.

Professor F. L. Blythe, of the Spanish Department, is planning to sail for Spain from New York City on board
a ship of an Italian line, immediately following the college commencement. He will spend the summer vacation studying and traveling
in different sections of Spain. Professor Blythe has spent time before in Spain, having studied at the University of Madrid
and El Centro de Estudios Históricos of Madrid. He plans to return to the States sometime in September.

Nina Penton, Salem, N.J.; Lib Limehouse, Orangeburg, S.C.; Ruth Ballard, Gastonia; Dot Norwood, Laurens, S.C.; Blanche Coley, Stantonsburg; Lib Gray,
Winston-Salem; Hortense Jones, Greensboro; Lucy James, Greenville; Sammy Hyatt, Asheville; Katherine Bonitz, Greensboro; Rachel Carroll, Wilmington; Betty Simmons, Eleanor Killick,
Cokey Preston, Anne Purnell, Jessie Purnell, Bertha Burch, Charlotte.

S. A. E.’s Complete Elections: The following officers have been chosen to head the local chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon:
Alex Schenck, president; Bill Reid, vice-president; Jack Plunkett, secretary; K. D. Weeks, treasurer. Sid Tomlinson was elected Pan-Hellenic representative.

Prof. Porter to Give Course at Beaufort: A special class in zoology will be conducted by Professor Porter at Beaufort,
N.C., this summer, beginning June 5. The class, which will consist of about twelve boys, is planning to rent a
house and live there together. It has selected Beaufort because the Government Fish Hatchery is located there. The regular course
in zoology will not be followed, but instead a special study of marine life will be made. Eight hours credit
will be given for this course, which will last five weeks.

DR. C. F. MYERS CLOSES Y. M. C. A. VESPER SERVICES (Continued from page 1): A person forgets himself. The
last period is the one so greatly enjoyed by man, when he has a great task before him, and life
high adventure, as he gladly works and pays for what he earns. The speaker continued, saying that individualism is hard
to obtain in college, and still more difficult to acquire in later life. “Faith in God,” he said, “is one
of the prime essentials necessary to carve out a fearless character.” As an example of the importance of this element,
Dr. Myers told the story of the young college man who was a splendid athlete, and who derided the fact
that so many people had such strong faith in God. His father was wealthy, and he had nothing to worry
him; he had no desire to put faith in God, since there was no immediate need. A few years later,
the boy's father, who had lost his entire fortune, committed suicide; the son was left without money, and forced to
live in France. Not until then did the young man realize his need of faith in God. Dr. Myers then
cited statements made by the four best-known atheists of today: Darrow, Dreiser, France, and Mencken. He broke down the arguments
of each, and then gave quotations from the four most prominent Christians of the present time: Jane Addams of Chicago,
Kagawa of Japan, Glenfield of Labrador, and Schweitzer of Africa. These four followers of Christ were contrasted with the four
atheists. In his word of advice to members of the graduating class, Dr. Myers urged that each man resolve to
do something for his hometown and for his church, making his contribution willingly. He stated that fearless individualism is the
greatest need of the present day, in the church, home, and school. Dr. Myers closed his appealing message by giving
an interesting quotation of Stradivarius, famous violin maker, in which that great artist gave all the requirements necessary for a
perfect instrument.

Why do Chesterfields taste better? Just two words... They Satisfy. Yes, I have heard about two words; and now and
then three words—but “They Satisfy” means “To gratify fully.” These two words “they satisfy” fit Chesterfield because Chesterfield Cigarettes are
milder. Because Chesterfield Cigarettes bring better flavor and aroma. Chesterfield’s way of blending and cross-blending fine Turkish and Domestic tobaccos
brings out better flavor and aroma. They Satisfy! Chesterfield the cigarette that’s MILDER the cigarette that TASTES BETTER. © 1933,
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
