—— THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1933

Proposed Change Would Affect Freshman Voting

Amendment is Tabled and Will be Voted on Soon

At a recent meeting of the student body, there was proposed a change in the constitution with reference to voting in the student elections. The newly proposed amendment, if passed, will prevent freshmen from voting before the installation service which is held around April 24 each year. This amendment will effect fairer elections because generally freshmen do not know the men for whom they are voting. It will help prevent the election of athletes and other men who are thrown before the eyes of the student body constantly and who may not necessarily be the best men for the office. The vote of the Freshman class usually turns the elections and, for this reason, it has been thought advisable to prevent them from voting until the major offices have been decided. The amendment is now on the table and it is to be voted on the twenty-ninth of this month.

The proposed amendment of Article I, Section 3, Davidson College Constitution, shall read as follows: There shall be a student council which shall be composed of fourteen members, including the president of the student body, the presidents of the respective classes, and ten councilmen of whom five shall come from the Senior class, three from the Junior class, and two from the Sophomore class. There shall be no president of the Freshman class. Freshmen become members of the student body with full right to vote, immediately upon the installation of the president of their rising Sophomore class.

Visitors Entertained By T. W. Lingle Family

Social Fraternities

Kappa Sig’s Hold Elections

Members of the Kappa Sigma fraternity recently elected the following men to head their chapter for the new year: J. Mack Holland, president; C. M. Rives, vice-president; W. T. Thompson, second vice-president; W. B. Ravenel, treasurer; Treadway Purnell, secretary. Mack Holland is also Pan-Hellenic representative.

Pi Kappa Phi’s Have Party

On Wednesday night, April 12, members of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity held an informal pre-holiday party at their house. A goodly number of girls were in attendance. Delicious refreshments were served. The following girls were present: Martha Matheson, Frances Matheson, Susanne Simmons, Kitty Van Echop, Jean Wheeler, Jane Fallaw, Eleanor Killick, Mildred Young, Margaret Gilliam, Martha Ware Pitts, Lib Sutton, Charlotte; Louise Melchor, Mooresville; Sara Withers, Davidson; Rachel Porterfield, Wytheville, Va.

T. U. O.’s Complete Elections

The following men were elected to head the T. U. O. fraternity for the next year: Miller Cochran, president; Frank Tucker, vice-president; Hugh Ray, secretary; John Steele, corresponding secretary; A. S. Gatewood, treasurer. Miller Cochran is Pan-Hellenic representative.

The way to increase a vocabulary is very like the way to increase your personal acquaintance. Put yourself in the way of meeting as many different phases of expression as you can, read widely, talk with clever people, and whenever you come across a new word or expression train yourself so far as possible to understand it, just as you would train yourself to classify and remember people.

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago

FIVE YEARS AGO

Installation of new Student Councilmen was held in chapel on April 18. Bob Kell, the new president of the Student Council, was installed, along with Monroe Gilmour, Mac King, Bill Parnell, Bill Bailey, Fred Ratchford, John Welton, Leb Sand, Tom Brohard, John McTurris, Carl Pritchett, Pete Glidernell, Thad Brock, and Dan Goodykeentz, who compose the Council. The appointments to the staff of “Quips and Cranks” were made by J. R. Covington, elected editor-in-chief of the yearbook. Raymond Lake was selected judge of the Court of Control, and Bill Regon, Hub Knox, Tom Hill, Heath Whittle, Jim Haurret, Dean Rusk, and Hub Covington were selected members of the court.

Davidson netmen, in the North Carolina State College Tournament, were interrupted by inclement weather. John G. Roddy, playing number one for Davidson, reached the semi-finals before wet weather forced the play to stop. Dick Carr and his partner, Roddy, also reached the semi-finals in the doubles.

Captain N. G. Pritchett was chosen as athletic instructor of Davidson College. Captain Pritchett was formerly attached to the physical training department of Wake Forest.

Professors Beaty, Davis, and Goldiere will return to Davidson from universities where they have been studying to resume their activities here. Professors Crow and Schenck are planning to attend universities in the fall.

Davidson Wildcats invaded Virginia to win two games from Lynchburg College on April 2, and one from V. P. I. The freshman track team defeated the Bingham Military Institute by the score of 72 to 41. Neal of Davidson was high scorer with 15 points, and McCall was a close second with 12 points.

Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity, issued bids to thirteen men of the military department. “Pioneer,” a new book by Prof. C. K. Brown, has recently been released by the publishers.

G. C. Hill, Richmond, Va., was elected secretary and treasurer of the rising Senior class. Those nominated for the office were: Hill, Lake, Causey, and Ratchford.

A college yell contest is being sponsored by the Davidsonian. Prizes will be offered for the best yells.

TEN YEARS AGO

S. D. Elkins, of Davidson, was elected president of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association in a meeting held at Queens College last week.

Elias S. Gaison was elected president of the Athletic Association for next year, and Jim Hendrix was elected vice-president, while Flake Laird won out in the race for the office of secretary.

New Watts and the south wing of Chambers are to...be built during the coming summer. Railroading in North Carolina, major sports at a recent meeting of the Athletic Association. Editor-in-Chief W. M. Heston has announced his staff for the ’24 “Quips and Cranks.” President Varhees, president of the United Chapters of the Phi Beta Kappa honorary fraternity, was a visitor on the Davidson campus last week.

New Theory of Energy Advanced by Dr. Sacks

Ann Arbor, Mich.—(IP)—What is it that gives you that extra bit of energy for split-second action in time of emergency? According to Dr. Jacob Sacks of the department of pharmacology at the University of Michigan, it comes from the quick chemical breakdown of so-called animal starch stored in the muscles. This fast breakdown is similar to the choking of an automobile to give it that quick response before the vacuum tank and carburetor—the lungs and heart in man—buckle down to their job. Normally, he says, the muscles do their work by burning lactic acid with the oxygen in the blood stream. But occasionally the body must move very quickly during a short period of time, requiring faster energy than oxygen can be carried to the muscle tissues. In these emergencies, Dr. Sacks says, glycogen, or animal starch stored in the muscles, undergoes two quick chemical breakdowns. One gives lactic acid in large amounts. Another gives hexosephosphate, a glycogen and phosphorus compound, he says. Energy sufficient for short but violent exertion is the by-product of both processes. But if the extra stress keeps up, the heart has time to increase its rate of beating and to pump more oxygen-charged blood to the muscles so that they can keep on with the work imposed on them.

The Clemson track team romped on the Wildcats last week to the tune of 78½ to 33½.

The wrestling team elected Sindawood captain for next year. Selser was chosen as manager of the grapplers. The varsity letter was standardized in major sports at a recent meeting of the Athletic Association.

During the Easter holidays, Dr. T. W. Lingle had as his guests Dr. and Mrs. R. C. Garth and their daughter, Clara. Mrs. Garth is the daughter of Dr. Lingle. Dr. Garth has returned to his work in New York where he is a teacher of physics in Brooklyn College. His wife and daughter are remaining with Dr. Lingle until May. During a part of the holidays, Dr. T. W. Lingle and President Lingle had as their guests Rev. Dr. J. W. Lynch, Mrs. Lynch, and Dr. Reid. Dr. Lynch, a cousin of the Lingles, is professor of Bible at Wake Forest College, and Dr. Reid is professor of Philosophy and Psychology at the same school. Dr. T. W. Lingle is to give the commencement address at Candor, N. C., Friday evening, May 5.

Delta Phi Alpha Has Plans for New Club

A business meeting was held by Delta Phi Alpha in the Scabbard and Blade room on April 4. The roll was answered by quotations, followed by the reading of the minutes. Paul Brown reported for the committee appointed to develop plans for the organization of a Junior German Club. A suggestion was made that it be named “Deutsche Verein,” and this proposal, together with eleven constitutional articles suggested by the committee, was passed unanimously. It was generally agreed the issuing of bids to seniors by “Deutsche Verein” would not be worthwhile. Those voted on for membership in the proposed society were W. M. Brown, J. M. Johnson, W. B. Ravenel, G. R. Wood, and H. T. Morris, and all these men were accepted. The suggestion was made that faculty membership be somewhat broadened. Action on this was postponed.

Speeches Are Given by Pres. Walter L. Lingle

On Friday, April 21, President Lingle spoke to the North Carolina Division of the Association of University Women of America in the Sir Walter Hotel at Raleigh. The subject for his talk was: “What the University Ought to Do for the University Woman, and What the University Woman Ought to Do for Her Community.” This organization is very large and has a wide influence. There were representatives of university women there from all over the state. Last Sunday, April 23, President Lingle preached two commencement sermons. In the morning he spoke to the Cornelius High School graduating class at Mount Zion Church on the subject: “Shall I Sell My Soul?” In the afternoon he journeyed to Huntersville and there spoke to the graduating class in the high school auditorium on: “How Shall I Invest My Life?” Next Saturday Dr. Lingle will speak to the public school teachers of Iredell County at Statesville.

© 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

TURKISH TOBACCO comes to this country in bales. The leaves are small and tightly packed. Each bale contains about 40,000 leaves, rich and aromatic. Four certain spots are famous for the quality of their Turkish tobacco—Xanthi and Cavalla in Greece; Samsoun and Smyrna in Turkey. And it is principally from these places that our buyers get the Turkish tobacco for Chesterfield. These Turkish tobaccos are blended, in just the right amount, with Domestic tobaccos. It is this blending and cross-blending of just the right amount of Turkish and Domestic tobaccos which gives Chesterfield a flavor that neither possesses alone.

Early in the 17th century, tobacco seed from America was taken to Turkey. Different soil, different climate, different temperatures night and day, and different farming methods produced an entirely new tobacco—small in size, but very rich and aromatic.

DOMESTIC TOBACCO is stored in huge wooden hogsheads. Each hogshead contains about 1000 pounds of tobacco.

The cigarette that’s MILDER
The cigarette that TASTES BETTER