THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1933

“Grand Hotel” Discussed At German Meeting Here

Delta Phi Alpha Has Interesting Review of Famous Novel

Delta Phi Alpha, the honorary fraternity which recognizes proficiency in the German language, held its regular meeting last Thursday evening at the home of Dr. Guy R. Vowles. After the roll call, to which each member answered with a German quotation, the program led by Paul Brown was diverted into a discussion of the now famous novel, “Grand Hotel.” This discussion was very interesting and informative, and was thoroughly enjoyed by the attending members. The fraternity plans to review several of the more recent German novels and to submit these reviews to The Davidsonian for publication. It is hoped that these reviews will stimulate interest in German literature. At the close of the program Dr. and Mrs. Vowles served light refreshments to the members.

There was a discussion of a plan to form a German Club that will be similar in its functions to the present Spanish Club. This will enable those who are interested in the study of the German language to become identified with a German organization, although they have not completed the necessary semester hours that are required in order to become eligible for membership in the Delta Phi Alpha. Definite plans for the formation of such a club will be carried on at a future meeting of the fraternity.

Students Defeat Faculty on Links

The first of three student-faculty golf matches was played Saturday afternoon on the local course. The students emerged victors by winning four of the six foursomes, scoring twelve and one-half points to the professors’ five and one-half.

Mac Manson and Bill Bowman of the student team defeated Professor Fulcher and Dr. Watts in the feature match of the afternoon, winning all three points. John Thompson-Bob Gregory, Tom Bowles-Campbell Vaiden, and Alex Schenck-Charlie Myers were the other student victors. Professor Blythe-“Doc” Newton, and Mr. Hengeveld-Mr. Hobart saved the day for the elders by winning their foursomes. Dr. Moffett and Dr. Lingle were unable to participate in this match, but they have assured us that their services will be rendered in the future meets. These two have developed into very skillful golfers and should add to the strength of the faculty team.

Members of the 1933 golf team will be chosen from the students participating in these matches. They have been displaying unusual ability, and it is thought that Davidson will be well represented on the links this spring.

DONALD H. STEWART SPEAKS AT VESPERS

(Continued from page 1)

healthy body that God has given him, in useless folly. Degeneration of a man’s physical frame affects not only himself but his children and his children’s children for many generations.

In closing Mr. Stewart quoted this passage:

“To every man there openeth
A highway and a low,
And the high soul climbs the highway
And the low soul gropes the low.
And in between on the misty flats,
The rest drift to and fro;
But to every man there openeth
A highway and a low,
And every man decideth
The way his soul shall go.”

DRAMATIC CLUB BIDS SIX TALENTED ACTORS

(Continued from page 1)

ing which the members adjourned to the Social Center. After the initiation ceremonies had been conducted by officers, Ed Hancock and Jack Williams, a short business session was held. The club is planning a production early in the spring. Special announcement was made of the Little Theatre play to be given in Charlotte, “The Wild Duck.” Billy Flinn, chairman of the refreshment committee, served punch and sandwiches to the assembled actors.

SIGMA DELTA PI INITIATES SEVEN NEW MEMBERS

(Continued from page 1)

At this time it was decided that the election of officers would be held at the first meeting in April. The next scheduled meeting of Sigma Delta Pi will be on Wednesday, March 15. No definite program has as yet been arranged.

Davidson Five and Phi Literary Society Ten Years Ago Elects New Officers

On March 24th the Philanthropic Literary Society held its regular meeting. There was no regular program, but a short business meeting was held, after which the meeting was adjourned in order that the members might attend the intercollegiate debate. The two literary societies are for those students who are interested in learning public speaking.

At the meeting on February 14th the following new officers were elected: W. M. Rachal, president; W. L. Fugate, vice-president; C. A. McNeill, secretary; H. W. Lucas, treasurer; J. G. Morrison, critic; C. Ross, supervisor. This literary society elects its officers three times each year, while the Eumenean Society elects officers only twice each year. D. D. McBryde acted as president the first term, while S. Noblin was president the second term. Rachal, the newly elected president, will preside until the end of the year.

At the last meeting, which was held on the seventh, D. M. Jones gave a few current events and McBryde gave a very interesting talk. After the two talks there was the football, baseball, basketball and trackmen: Monsieur Gos, a native French author, entertained the students, faculty, and townspeople of Davidson with an interesting address in French on the Swiss Alps. At a meeting of the wrestling team, Tom E. Hill was elected captain for the coming year. The Glee Club returned from a very successful tour of the South. One of the high spots of the trip was a day in Atlanta, Ga., where they broadcast over station WSB. Carl Pritchett and Frank Hall, varsity debaters, lost a close decision to the Williams and Mary team. The subject was, “Resolved: That the United States should cease to protect by force of arms capital invested in foreign lands.” 

A debate was held on the query: “Resolved: That Technocracy would be an advance to the country.” C. A. McNeill argued the affirmative, while W. T. Johnston upheld the negative.

TEN YEARS AGO

The Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa was formally installed in Davidson College on March 1st. The chapter was presented to the college by President Chase of the University of North Carolina in a very impressive ceremony. The 1923 basketball season ended with Davidson losing a close game to Elon. The season was, however, a success, with nine wins out of seventeen starts. At a meeting of the board of trustees, it was decided to replace the old Watts dormitory, which was recently destroyed by fire, with a new modern building. The baseball team is rounding into shape with great promise. Captain Pat Crawford is expecting a fine season.

Mr. Herring of Duke To Speak at Vespers

The Y. M. C. A. vesper services will be conducted next Sunday night by Mr. H. J. Herring, who is assistant dean at Duke University and is vitally interested in Y. M. C. A. work. He is a member of the Duke Y. M. C. A. board of directors and has been unusually helpful to that organization in the work it has accomplished. The men who attended the state-wide “Y” cabinet meeting held last year at Duke were greatly impressed by the talk he made. Mr. Herring is a young man and is qualified to advise students upon ever-present problems which confront them.

Students Initiated Into Sigma Pi Sigma

Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary physics fraternity, held its regular meeting last night, March 7, in which two new pledges were initiated into membership. These two men were Dan Currie and Billy Blair, bids having been issued to them at the beginning of the second semester. At the meeting preceding the one held last night, three other pledges were initiated: Bill Bogart, Hubert Powell, and James White. The plan had been that all five were to be taken in at the same time, but various circumstances arose which prevented the former two from being present. Besides the initiation, the meeting also included a brief business session and a very interesting program in which several members took part. Sigma Pi Sigma was founded at Davidson in 1917 and has since become one of the foremost national honorary fraternities. The founding of this fraternity was largely due to the work of Drs. J. L. Douglas and J. M. Douglas, present members of the Davidson faculty, the former being head of the mathematics department and the latter head of the physics department.

A new radio tube, said to be a practical source of unlimited “cold light” with which television screens can be flooded, has been demonstrated by the Myers Electrical Research Laboratory in New York.

Don’t know what it is, but it’s back to Nature. Maybe it’s something else. I don’t know just what it is, but somehow or other I’ve just got to slip out in the woods and sit down on a log. I always take the old pipe along. Thinking somehow seems easier when you are smoking a pipe. I can fill up my pipe with Granger, and somehow just seem to see things clearer than at any other time.

©1933 LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.

TEN CENTS

The Granger pouch keeps the tobacco fresh. Don’t know what it is about Granger, but it must be made for pipes—real pipe tobacco. Somehow, there’s a flavor and aroma about Granger I never found in any other tobacco. When I pack my old pipe tight and good with these big Granger flakes, it’s about the coolest smoke I ever enjoyed. It makes me downright pipe-hungry every time I look at the package.

Some years ago we made a painstaking, scientific study to find out, if we could, the kind of tobacco best suited for pipes. Down in the Blue Grass regions of Kentucky, we found a tobacco called White Burley. There is a grade of this tobacco between the kind used for chewing and the varieties suitable for cigarettes that is best suited for pipes. This tobacco is used in Granger. This tobacco is prepared by a method worked out many years ago by Mr. J. N. Wellman. It gives Granger a fragrance and mellowness that pipe smokers like, and makes it burn to a clean, dry ash. Granger never gums a pipe. Granger has not been on sale very long, but it has become popular, and there is this much about it: We have yet to know of a man who started smoking it, who didn’t keep on. Folks seem to like it.