THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 6, 1933

Sigma Pi Sigma Observes Twelfth Birthday
Physics Organization Founded At Davidson
Dr. J. M. Douglas, Who Helped Organize Fraternity, Is Still Active in Group

FOUNDED DECEMBER 11
Fraternity Now Has Chapters in 26 Leading Colleges

When nine physics students and faculty members gathered at the home of Dr. J. M. Douglas here twelve years ago
for the purpose of creating an organization which would bring those particularly interested in this science into closer association for
their mutual benefit, little did they realize that they were establishing a fraternity which was to bring honor and distinction
to the school in which it was founded.

Monday, December 11, marks the twelfth anniversary of the founding of Sigma Pi Sigma as a local organization at Davidson
College which has since grown to be the only national honorary physics fraternity having chapters in the recognized colleges and
universities. At first, the organizers of Sigma Pi Sigma were not concerned with the extension of their project, but after
three years, because the local fraternity had been so successful in promoting its aims, a movement for nationalism was launched.
The first expansion was to Duke University in 1925, and in consecutive years chapters were installed at Pennsylvania State and
Centenary colleges, until at the present time there are 26 chapters scattered over the United States and in the Philippines.
Among the leading universities in which chapters of Sigma Pi Sigma have been installed are Chicago, Purdue, Washington, West Virginia,
Kentucky, Oklahoma, and Colorado.

The membership of the physics organization is classified into active, alumni, and honorary. The fraternity now has more than 1,500
members, scattered over 37 different states and in six foreign countries. The present honorary membership includes such notables as A.
H. Compton, of Chicago; K. T. Compton, president of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge; F. K. Richtmyer, of Cornell University;
Carl K. Darrow, of the Bell Telephone Company; Cornelius Lanczos, of Princeton University; W. F. G. Swann, of the Bartol
Research Foundation; W. S. Lee, of Charlotte, and other prominent physicists.

Much of the success of Sigma Pi Sigma, especially during the early years of its organization and expansion, is due
to the efforts of Dr. J. M. Douglas, head of the Davidson physics department, who, besides aiding in the foundation
of the fraternity, has been active and able in creating interest and enthusiasm since its beginning.

Sigma Pi Sigma has for its objective the fostering and encouragement of scholarship, research, and the creation and stimulation of
interest in physics. It makes possible common ground for the discussion and development of physics by both faculty and students.
Recently the fraternity became affiliated with the Institute of Physics so that members of Sigma Pi Sigma now share in
the publication privileges of the institute.

Several times each year a publication, titled “Radiations of Sigma Pi Sigma,” is compiled at the national headquarters and sent
to members of the fraternity. The journal usually contains more than 60 pages of information concerning the activities of the
chapters of the fraternity and of its members. It is now an established policy of Sigma Pi Sigma to hold
two national conventions each year, to which delegates from each chapter are sent. These meetings are held in connection with
those of the American Physical Society.

Much consideration has been given by the fraternity to the finding of positions for graduates in physics, and it will
push the study of this problem aggressively in the hope of being able to place more of its members after
their undergraduate work has been completed. Sigma Pi Sigma also makes investigations and encourages its members to enter such fields
as the medical profession, X-ray specialists and technicians, biophysics, and air-conditioning. Each chapter of Sigma Pi Sigma maintains a scholastic
award each year for one of its graduating members.

M. N. States, of the Central Scientific Company, is national president of Sigma Pi Sigma; G. D. Collins, of Cornell
University, is vice-president, and Marsh W. White, of Penn State College, is executive secretary. The national executive council is composed
of R. C. Colwell, of West Virginia University; R. C. Young, of William and Mary; D. W. Cornelius, of the
University of Chattanooga; F. A. May, of St. Lawrence University, and J. M. Douglas, of Davidson College. Dr. Douglas is
also chancellor of the council.

Every chapter holds two meetings each month, at which time papers are read and current developments in physics are given
and discussed by the members. Each chapter tries to have two open meetings each year, before which groups some outstanding
man in his field is selected to speak. The Alpha Chapter here has since its establishment held a high place
among honorary fraternities at Davidson. Its present officers include J. E. Dill, president; E. C. Snead, vice-president, and W. M.
Bogart, secretary-treasurer. Professor H. E. Fulcher, of the department, is faculty advisor. Professor Fulcher, together with Dr. Douglas, has been
very active in the organization. At the first national convention of Sigma Pi Sigma, held at Davidson in 1927, Professor
Fulcher was elected national executive secretary, in which capacity he served two years.

Faculty members associated with the Davidson chapter include, in addition to Dr. Douglas and Professor Fulcher, Dr. J. L. Douglas
and Professors W. N. Mebane and W. W. Wood. Besides the student officers mentioned above, the student membership includes J.
T. Blair, J. M. Douglas, Jr., S. K. Eaton, Phifer Erwin, Percy McElrath, W. A. Parker, J. H. Powell, A.
S. Rachal, and J. W. White. To obtain membership a sophomore must have three semesters in physics with an average
of 95. A junior or senior must have three semesters in the course with an average of 90. Interest in
physics is another requirement for membership. The organization limits its membership to three percent of the student body in any
one year.

“Uncle” Enoch Relates Davidson Experiences

“Yes, Suh, I’se been heah abouts since freedom,” declared “Uncle” Enoch, when asked about his life the other day. Enoch,
who is well over sixty years of age, enjoys the distinction of being Davidson’s oldest and most faithful janitor. Every
morning at seven, he can be found busy at work, keeping the many halls and rooms of Chambers in order,
and tending to countless other things which fall to his lot. His job is a hard one, but he never
complains, and goes about his work in a cheerful manner.

Born at the close of the Civil War, Enoch has seen many changes in the life and customs of the
people in and around Davidson. According to him, the present campus was at first a bare unenclosed plot, dotted here
and there by tall pines. However, to remedy this, the students declared a holiday every March, and this holiday was
used to plant grass and set out trees. This custom continued for several years and the campus we have now
is a gratifying result of this plan. A lake was also located on the campus, at the site of what
is now the golf course. Enoch well remembers the time when he helped to uproot the trees on what is
now Richardson Field. Rumple and Georgia dormitories are also part examples of his handiwork, and were erected by Dr. Henry
Louis Smith, to take care of the increased enrollment of students.

During the burning of Chambers in 1921, he was sent to the roof of Georgia to keep the sparks from
burning it. Evidently, this was a hard job because Enoch “wore out a whole pair o’ pants.” Besides being an
all-round good janitor, Enoch has quite a reputation as a prophet among the students. The snow last year came the
day after he said it would. Numerous other incidents have come about in this same way, and now if anyone
wishes to know exactly what will happen in the future, all he has to do is to consult Enoch.

Stalwart Guard "TUBBY" HAND-GUARD
Tubby Hand, and tackle, who was out of most of the playing this season due to injuries. He was in
the Wake Forest game though, and this reliable 255-pound heavyweight played a great game. Hand has another year here.

Musical Comedy Heads Week’s Movie Program

Wednesday, Dec. 6—The Right to Romance
Ann Harding gives up the life she loves, that of a social worker, to marry Robert Young. She attempts to
reform him from his carefree life of a rich man, and find romance. This she finally does, and mixes with
it some very good acting. Nils Asther and Sari Maritza are also in the cast.

Thursday and Friday, Dec. 7 and 8—Footlight Parade
About the best of the late musical comedies, this show has the best points of all of them combined. Ruby
Keeler and Dick Powell take care of the dancing, with James Cagney as the director of the numbers and Joan
Blondell his secretary. Cagney makes a big hit in a song and dance number of his own. Among the very
good songs are “Honeymoon Hotel,” “Sittin’ on a Backyard Fence,” and “Shanghai Lil.”

Saturday, Dec. 9—Hell and High Water
Richard Arlen isThe garbage collector for some ships. His best friend is a Japanese fisherman. Life around the waterfront is
shown, and a beautiful girl, Judith Allen, almost commits suicide by jumping off Arlen’s boat, but jumps in a net
he keeps from losing the garbage. The plot is very interesting, and the acting good.

Monday, Dec. 11—Havana Widows
Joan Blondell and Glenda Farrell are gold-diggers who set out to make their fortunes and their man. Guy Kibbee comes
along and almost steals the show from them, however. They find themselves in Havana, after their men, and the show
gets funnier and funnier.

Tuesday, Dec. 12—Ace of Aces
Richard Dix is a sculptor who goes to war only after his girl almost forces him to. He does not
like war, but becomes the Ace of Aces with 42 victories to his credit. Then he meets his fiancée in
France, who wants him to stop fighting, against his wishes. He goes out to be killed and is shot down,
but not killed, with no attempt at protecting himself. Then he and his fiancée, Elizabeth Allan, are reconciled. The supporting
cast includes Ralph Bellamy and Theodore Newton, and others.

Mrs. W. L. Lingle Is Thanksgiving Hostess
Thanksgiving Day was observed on Friday this year at the home of Mrs. W. L. Lingle when she entertained a
group of young people who live in Richmond, Va. Walter Lee Lingle, Jr., only son of Dr. Lingle, and an
alumnus of Davidson College, was present at the dinner. The other guests were Misses Virginia Wright, Margaret Glass, and Dorothea
Higgins; and W. M. Thompson, W. T. Thompson, J. Harvey Glass, and W. H. Higgins.

DAVIDSON PLACES THIRD IN BIG FIVE PERCENTAGE
(Continued from page 1)
At that point, Mackorell cut off right tackle, crossing the goal line standing up. Wingfield’s try for point was good,
and the score stood 20 to 7. With the ensuing kickoff, the Deacons began an 85-yard march down the field
which netted their second tally, a splendid pass of almost 50 yards from Mason to Swing and another throw of
20 yards putting the oval on the Davidson three-yard line, where Wilson took it over. Wake Forest garnered 14 first
downs to eight for the Wildcats, and the Deacs gained a total of 180 yards from scrimmage as compared with
143 for the ’Cats, but when the scoring punch was needed Davidson was there with the goods. Pat Swan, hefty
Deacon All-State tackle, was bottled up by Davidson's charging forwards during most of the game, but nevertheless, he broke through
the line several times to throw Wildcat runners for losses. The line-up follows:

W. F. (13) Posi. Dav. (20)
Hooks L.E. Morgan
Chetty L.T. Siewers
Hardee L.G. Potter
Reinhardt Center McElrath
Hood R.G. Rives (C)
Swan R.T. Hand
Swing R.E. Windham
Gold Q.B. Mackorell
Wilson (C) L.H. Wingfield
Russell R.H. Hutchins
Meyers F.B. Willson

Score by periods:
Wake Forest 0 7 0 6—13
Davidson 0 0 7 13—20

Wake Forest scoring—Touchdowns, Meyers, Wilson; extra point, Clark (placement). Davidson scoring—Touchdowns, Morgan, Fort, Mackorell; extra points, Wingfield, 2 (placement).

Substitutions: Wake Forest, center, Clark; guard, DeAngelis; end, Hardee; backs, Griffin, Holton, Martin, Mason, and Lawhorn. Davidson: Guards, Hand; tackle,
Cathey; end, Grant; backs, Verble, Legare.

Officials: Arnold (Auburn), referee; Collins (Vanderbilt), umpire; Sanders (W. & L.), field judge; Daniels (Georgetown), headlinesman.

GET YOUR Xmas Cards at the Students’ Store
SCHOOL SEAL, FRATERNITY SEAL, and PLAIN CARDS AVAILABLE
REASONABLE PRICES

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY
“THE RIGHT TO ROMANCE”
ANN HARDING—ROBERT YOUNG—NILS ASTHER—SARI MARITZA
THURSDAY AND FRIDAY
“FOOTLIGHT PARADE”
RUBY KEELER—DICK POWELL—JOAN BLONDELL—JIMMY CAGNEY—250 of the World’s Most Gorgeous Girls
SATURDAY
“HELL AND HIGH WATER”
RICHARD ARLEN—JUDITH ALLEN
MONDAY
“HAVANA WIDOWS”
GUY KIBBEE—JOAN BLONDELL—GLENDA FARRELL
TUESDAY
“ACE OF ACES”
RICHARD DIX—ELIZABETH ALLAN

With The Greeks
K. A's HAVE PARTY: The Kappa Alpha fraternity held an informal party at their house on last Wednesday. Refreshments were
served. The following girls were present: Alice Cowles Barringer, Eleanor Hayes, May D. Marion, Katherine Crowell, May Libby Smith, Martha
Johnston, Eve Stevenson, Eleanor Killick, Amelia Webb, Virginia Pegram, Mary Wisdom Lambeth, Georgia Underwood, Mary Lib Moore, Laleah Gray, Betty
Simmons, Charlotte; Grace Carpenter, Statesville; Libby Rhett, Davidson.

PHI GAM’s PLEDGE NEW MEMBER: Robert Browder Stewart, '37, of Montgomery, Alabama, was formally pledged as a member of Phi
Gamma Delta fraternity November 29.

DELTA KAPPA OF PHI GAMMA DELTA CELEBRATES TENTH ANNIVERSARY: November 16, 1933, the tenth anniversary of the founding of the
local chapter of Phi Gamma Delta was celebrated by a formal dinner at the S. & W. private dining room
at Charlotte. Several alumni Phi Gam’s were present and the meeting was one of fellowship and pride. Bob Gorrell, '32,
former president of the chapter, made the principal talk of the evening. Dave McLain was the toastmaster of the occasion
and Mims Rogers the historian.

PI KAPPA PHI's ENTERTAIN: The Pi Kappa Phi's entertained during the Thanksgiving holiday with a house party. The party began
on Thursday night when a buffet supper was served at a late hour at the chapter house on Fraternity Court.
The guests included: Misses Frances Ferguson, of Spartanburg, S. C.; Elizabeth Norman, of Winston-Salem; Margaret and Louise Melchor, of Mooresville;
Margaret McKnight, of Gastonia; Mary Withers, of Davidson, and the following girls from Charlotte: Sarah Thompson, Helen Jones, Emma Renn
Jones, Pete Carroll, Rhett Carroll, Sarah Yarborough, Carolyn Hammond, and Eleanor Matheson.

Barium Springs Wins Over Winston-Salem
Barium Springs Orphanage defeated the R. J. Reynolds High team from Winston-Salem, 7-0, in a homecoming game witnessed by several
Davidson football stars and former Barium players. The game was hard fought, Barium scoring as a result of a daring
35-yard pass over the goal line in the last minute of the second quarter.

(Continued on page 4)

Four Out of Five College Men Come to JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP

Honorary Fraternities Begin Activities Again
The honorary fraternities on the campus have resumed activity since the recent interruption of their programs through the initiation of
pledges. A list of the presidents of these fraternities appeared in the last issue of The Davidsonian. However, a correction
is due. Jack Williams, and not James White, as it appeared on that list, is president of Omega Phi Alpha.

Omicron Delta Kappa held its first meeting since the initiation of pledges last Tuesday evening, where objectives for the year
were discussed. Sigma Upsilon met Tuesday evening to discuss plans for the literary life of the college and its publications.
Alpha Phi Epsilon will meet Thursday evening to select new members, to be chosen from those men who have shown
debating and oratorical ability. Gamma Sigma Epsilon held a meeting Monday evening to discuss the initiation of new members, selected
from those who have done unusually well in the study of chemistry. Delta Phi Alpha held a meeting Tuesday evening
at the Social Center, at which time James White gave a book report and Gordon Wood discussed twelve German plays,
from which one will be selected for presentation by the club at a later date. Delta Pi Kappa has arranged
for a meeting for Wednesday, December 13, but no definite plans were available for this issue. This fraternity is a
local one recognizing literary ability in college publications. Sigma Delta Pi held a meeting Tuesday evening to complete the plans
that had been opened for discussion at the previous meeting in regard to the development of programs relating to the
language and customs of Spain and Latin-America.

German Music Again Features Davidson Air Program
Last Wednesday night another of Davidson's radio programs was broadcast over Station WBT in Charlotte. These programs, conducted by Mr.
J. C. Pfohl and Mr. Grier Martin, have brought favorable comments from Davidson supporters and alumni throughout this section of
the country. Wilbur Edwards opened the broadcast with a violin solo and was followed by David McLain, who sang a
popular negro spiritual. Hubert Morris was featured in a solo which was played on the French horn. An appropriate Thanksgiving
selection was sung by McLain in concluding the program. Next Wednesday night the Davidson Band will be featured and the
selections will be announced later by Mr. Pfohl.

PFOHL POSTPONES RECITAL
It was announced today that Prof. J. C. Pfohl has decided to indefinitely postpone his organ recital, originally scheduled for
December 18, due to the crowding in of musical events during the Christmas season.

EXAMINATIONS
Students who are able to review complete notes are much better prepared for examinations. With ABC Shorthand, which is quickly
learned in 12 easy lessons, you can take lecture and reading notes verbatim. Complete course now sells for $1.00 at
Davidson College Book Store.

“DRUGS” A Complete Drug Store “SUNDRIES”
“Make Our Store Your Store”
Reliable Prescription Druggists
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SODA”

Where Will You Be Next Summer?
Decide now to go to Europe with the Davidson party. Moyers is foremost for a tradition of serving the traveling
public. It represents the peak of luxury at low cost. For particulars, see Jack Williams, Jr., our local agent. John
L. Moyers Tours Co. 321 Healy Building, Atlanta, Georgia.
