THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 6, 1933

DAVIDSON 20 WAKE FOREST 13

Around the Wildcat’s Lair

COLUMBIA ACCEPTS ROSE BOWL BID

By CASKIE NORVELL

Once again the Davidson College gridders proved that the Wake Forest jinx is very definitely smashed, when they took the Deacons into camp 20-13 in their annual Turkey Day classic. Johnny Mackorell, again the center of attraction, rode high, wide, and handsome to rout the Wake boys. In addition, however, orchids go to Jim Morgan, Captain Charlie Rives, “Schnozz” Willson, Johnny Siewers, and Henry Cathey, to say nothing of “Little Joe” Wingfield. That’s a mean array of them, and we award still another to Pat Swan, bulwark of the Deacon forward wall.

A 50-yard pass from Mackorell to Morgan, who was standing in the end zone, was the most spectacular play of the afternoon. With the ball on Wake Forest's 37-yard stripe, the brilliant Davidson field general took the pass from center, faded back to midfield, and tossed a beautiful spiral diagonally across the field to Morgan, who caught it on the run in the end zone.

Now football is over, and it is with regret that we see four great Wildcat fighters, Rives, McElrath, Grant, and Willson, hang up the Davidson moleskins for the last time. These boys have fought hard for the ’Cats, and they will be remembered for their part in one of Davidson's most successful seasons.

Coming up to take their places are, at center, Hugh Gracey, brother of Vanderbilt’s All-American Pete Gracey, who starred on the frosh this year, and J. B. Lee, sub-center this year, and well-seasoned under fire; at the guard that Rives leaves vacant, admirable material found in Hand and Cathey, one or the other of whom may be shifted there, so that John Newton can show what he has at end, and Coley Windham may go back to tackle, his natural position. Then the fullback berth, held down so brilliantly by the dynamic “Schnozz”... well, LeGare and Verble both look good. This boy Yarborough should show plenty of stuff, too... and just watch this Quick from the freshman team.

Our All-State appears in this issue, and we hope it suits everyone. If it doesn’t, there’s nothing we can do about it, as it was picked on votes of seven sports writers, and everyone was treated fairly, with personal sentiment cast aside. We were pleased to notice that the Associated Press mentioned Johnny Mackorell for All-American at a halfback post. He was unanimously picked on every All-State team, while Jim Morgan, Charlie Rives, and George Wingfield got second team selections, as Percy McElrath got honorable mention.

The great Duke eleven had the misfortune to bow to Georgia Tech, 6-0, in their last game, thereby ruining a perfect season. Too bad Blue Devils... this column pulled for you for the Rose Bowl, and believes you would have gotten the bid, had you gotten by the Ramblin’ Wrecks. Notre Dame unceremoniously bumped the hitherto undefeated Army eleven, 13-12, to crash them from their pinnacle. Princeton has the best claim to the mythical title, licking Yale, 27-2, for a perfect season, with no defeats and no ties. They say they will not consider a Rose Bowl bid. North Carolina scored twice in the final canto to defeat its ancient rival, Virginia, 14-0, in their annual Thanksgiving game. Furman rose in its mighty ire, and downed Clemson, 6-0, in a Palmetto State classic. Southern California’s Trojans couldn't be denied, and licked the potent Georgia Bulldogs, 31-0. It looks bad for the East on New Year’s Day. Auburn, stormy petrel of the Southeastern Conference, ventured into the Southern, only to meet defeat at the hands of Billy Laval’s South Carolina Gamecocks, under the leadership of the brilliant Earl Clary, 16-14.

DAVIDSONIAN’S ALL-STATE TEAM IS MADE PUBLIC

Mackorell Is Chosen for All-State Team by Unanimous Vote

CRAWFORD ALL-AMERICAN

Rives and Morgan of Davidson Also Named

By CASKIE NORVELL, JR.

As has been its custom in the past, “The Davidsonian,” through its sports editor, now makes public its annual All-State football selection. The 1933 picks are, we think, up to the usual high calibre that has marked the choices of this paper in the past. The 1933 All-North Carolina eleven is a powerful organization, the line averaging 191 pounds from end to end, and the pony backfield attaining an average weight of 184 pounds. This is a mighty eleven for any team to have to go up against, and was picked largely on performance against Davidson.

A change in the picking system was made this year. In the past, the sports editor picked the team on his own personal opinion, but this season, the sports editor asked the alumni secretary, Grier Martin, Odi Casali, and four sports reporters, Lamont Brown, Addison Brenizer, Harvey Glass, and Paul Harlan, to pick teams in addition to his own. Each man chose a first, second, and third team. A first team selection meant five votes for a player, a second team three votes, and a third team one vote. From these statistics, three teams and an honorable mention list have been gotten up.

On the flanks are found two great wingmen in Tom Rogers, sensational 170-pounder from Duke, and Davidson’s mighty “Big Jim” Morgan, who showed the dirt of many a stadium to some highly-touted backs of the opposition. He rose to his greatest heights against Wake Forest in the annual Turkey Day classic. He is fast, aggressive, and is death to safety men returning punts. Earl Wentz polled 19 votes, to place the versatile Duke flankman on the second team, along with Raymond Redding of N. C. State, who played such a bang-up game against Davidson. Carolina’s Brandt was just behind Redding in the balloting, and Swing of Wake Forest was selected to be his running mate on the third team, beating out Rossiter of Duke by one vote.

At the tackles, no one can deny that the pickers did the best possible. Duke’s All-American lineman, Freddie Crawford, and Wake Forest’s man-mountain, Pat Swan, were outstanding, and were unanimous choices of the pickers. Crawford is a demon in the line, and was generally conceded a place, his play against Tennessee being particularly outstanding. Swan, a junior, weighs 235 pounds, and is the sparkplug of the Wake team. His greatest game was against Clemson in Charlotte. Durner, Crawford’s brilliant running mate, made second team in a walk, and Tatum of Carolina got 15 votes to get on this eleven. Third team honors went to Siewers, of Davidson, and Daniels, of Carolina, who saw action both at center and tackle.

The hottest race was for the guards, after Barclay, Tar Heel ace, had garnered one of them unanimously. Charlie Rives, Davidson; Mutt DeAngelis, picked last year by this paper, Wake Forest, and Carl Schock, Duke, waged a mean battle, with the Davidson captain finally winning out with 25 votes to 20 for DeAngelis. Barclay, who made third team All-American, is one of the best guards ever to play for the Chapel Hill institution, and took in all 35 votes. Rives, a repeater from last year, played consistently all season, and despite a knee operation, showed up brilliantly. Second team honors go to Mutt DeAngelis, Wake Forest, and Captain Carl Schock of the mighty Blue Devils, who beat out State’s Stanko by four votes. Potter, steady Wildcat guard, was placed on the third team as Stanko’s running mate.

Another unanimous choice was the pivot post, where every ballot was cast for that brilliant center, E. B. Dunlap, of Duke, who last week was awarded a place on this paper’s All-South Atlantic eleven. He is a fine center, both offensively and defensively, and undoubtedly deserves this post. Other centers receiving mention were Sabol, Wolfpack sophomore, and Percy McElrath, alternate captain at Davidson.

THE DAVIDSONIAN’S ALL-STATE TEAM

As Picked by Caskie Norvell, Jr., and Associated Sports Writers

POSITION FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM THIRD TEAM
L. E.—Rogers, Duke (35) Wentz, Duke (19) Siewers, Davidson (7)
L. T.—Crawford, Duke (35) Durner, Duke (20) Daniels, Carolina (6)
L. G.—Barclay, Carolina (35) DeAngelis, Wake Forest (20) Stanko, State (13)
Center—E. B. Dunlap, Duke (35) Sabol, State (19) McElrath, Davidson (9)
R. G.—Rives, Davidson (25) Schock, Duke (18) Potter, Davidson (8)
R. T.—Swan, Wake Forest (35) Tatum, Carolina (15) Hand, Davidson (8)
R. E.—Morgan, Davidson (31) Redding, State (15) Swing, Wake Forest (8)
Q. B.—Mackorell, Davidson (35) Hendrickson, Duke (16) Martin, Carolina (5)
L. H.—McQuage, State (24) Wingfield, Davidson (18) Wilson, Wake Forest (11)
R. H.—Cornelius, Duke (33) Laney, Duke (14) Croom, Carolina (10)
F. B.—Rex, State (31) Cox, Duke (18) Willson, Davidson (12)

HONORABLE MENTION: Ends: Rossiter (Duke), Frankel (Carolina), Windham (Davidson); tackles: Cathey (Davidson), Phipps (Duke), J. Dunlap (Duke), Hood (Wake Forest); guards: Isaacs (State); backs: Woolen (Carolina), Cumiskey (State), McDonald (Carolina), Hutchins (Davidson), Jackson (Carolina), Martin (Wake Forest), Myers (Wake Forest).

PIKAS FINALISTS IN VOLLEYBALL

Pi Kappa Alpha Team to Meet Winner of K.A.-S.P.E. Battle

The Pi Kappa Alphas entered the finals of the inter-fraternity volleyball tournament Monday by virtue of a win over the Phi Delta Thetas. The match was well contested, though not going to three sets. The score was 21-7, 21-16. This match was much harder fought than the score indicates, the ball in long rallies going over the net as many as fifteen times. The players for the Pikas follow: Dickson, Quick, Hamrick, Milton, Little, Wehner, Smallridge, Morgan, and McLain. For the Phi Delts, Allen, Sanders, Armstead, Richardson, Glasgow, James, McKinney, Barnes, Breeden, and played. After losing the first game to the Alpha, 21-14, thePhi Epsilon came from behind to win the next game, 21-17, tying the score. The match on account of darkness was continued Tuesday. At the time of publication of this paper, the results were not known. The players for the K. A.’s were DuBose, Sprunt, Duff, Bowman, McPhail, Hutaff, Downie, and McCloud. Kappa Sigma was called off. P. E.’s played Snead, Swope, Jenkins, McCall, Hunter, Casali, Elvery, Barnette, and Young. The quarter-final matches played off during the week resulted in the Pikas defeating the Betas, 21-6, 15-21, 21-19; the Phi Gamma Deltas were defeated by the Phi Delts, 21-17, 21-19; the Sigma Phi Epsilons defeated the Pi Kappa Phis, 21-1, 21-15, and the Kappa Alphas won from the Theta Upsilon Omegas, 21-5, 21-3.

Davidson, who were placed on the second and third teams, respectively. No other centers were mentioned. The backfield was pretty well sewed up, with only one man failing to get at least thirty votes. North Carolina’s greatest backfield man, Johnny Mackorell, the flash from Davidson, was a unanimous choice for the quarterback job. The brilliant Davidson field general, who created offensive pyrotechnics all season, could not be denied, and he was given the vote of every man doing the picking. Mackorell, in his junior year, played brilliant ball, calling signals like a veteran, hitting the line like a fullback, running in the open like a halfback, and blocking like a lineman. His defensive work was excellent. Horace “Horse” Hendrickson, Duke field general, garnered 16 votes and was placed on the second team over Ed “Pepper” Martin, North Carolina’s brilliant kicker, whose booming punts kept Davidson at bay. Bob McQuage, N. C. State, received six votes for quarterback, but as he bagged 24 for halfback, he was awarded this position on the first team. With McQuage, a brilliant runner and drop-kicker, already at one halfback, the other was a simple matter, as the Devils’ brilliant Corky Cornelius, who scored all Duke points against the Vols, barely missed being a unanimous choice.

(Continued on page 6)

Freshmen Win Annual Basketball Tourney

The Freshman class won the annual intramural basketball tournament with the completion of the last game on the schedule. The winning of this tournament contributed 20 points toward the total of the Freshman class. The class receiving the highest number of points for athletic competition throughout the year will be awarded a cup by the Athletic Council. The freshmen won five games. The scores of the various classes follow:

Senior Class
Seniors 24 - Frosh 26
Seniors 21 - Sophs 19
Seniors 27 - Juniors 19
Seniors 35 - Sophs 28
Seniors 23 - Juniors 22

Junior Class
Juniors 24 - Frosh 33
Juniors 24 - Sophs 16
Juniors 32 - Seniors 35

Sophomore Class
Sophs 37 - Juniors 24
Sophs 28 - Seniors 23
Sophs 48 - Frosh 29

Freshman Class
Frosh 20 - Sophs 26
Frosh 20 - Seniors 24
Frosh 33 - Juniors 24
Frosh 33 - Juniors 22
Frosh 39 - Seniors 24

A brief resume of the tournament will show that the Sophomore class did not win a single game during the entire tournament, while the Junior class won only two and the Seniors won a total of three. Each class was defeated at least once. The schedule, arranged by Heath Whittle, supervisor of intramural sports, provided that each team play every other team twice. The line-ups for the respective teams follow:

Senior team — Smyre, Gladstone, Reed, Kirkland, Adcox, McCallie, Newnan, Halverstadt.
Junior team — Santiago, Rose, Byerly, Monroe, Elvery, McFayden, Sutton, Coleman, Smith, McPhail, McIlwinen, Morris, Little, Barnes.
Sophomore team — Hornbeck, Leukle, Hamrick, Lay, Barnett, Gillespie, Loftin, Frazier, Lindsay, Ball, Pearce, Tipton, Stewart, Harper, McClung.
Freshman team — Knorr, Porter, Woodward, Gaw, Robinson, Mauze, Swindle, Cowan, Peters, LeGrand, Quick, Barnes, Gracey, Peabody.

How They Finished

Wake Forest __0

COLUMBIA GETS ROSE BOWL BID

Lions Chosen by Stanford Over Army, Duke, and Nebraska

After much speculation, the Lions of Columbia University, New York City, have been awarded the Rose Bowl bid by Stanford University, the western representative. Columbia authorities signified their intention of accepting, according to a radio announcement made just before this paper went to press. The announcement came as a surprise to most, as Columbia was decisively defeated by Princeton and plays a rather unrepresentative schedule in addition. However, this will be the east’s representative, as the Stanford team had the privilege of picking its opponent. The Cardinals got the right to represent the west by virtue of victories over Southern California and California, although they were tied for the Pacific Coast title by the University of Oregon. Army was supposed to have had the inside track until they were surprisingly defeated by Hunk Anderson's Notre Dame Ramblers, 13-12. With Army out of the way, Duke was rated next in line for the bid, but Wallace bowed to Tech, 6-0. With these two great teams now numbered among the defeated, there was speculation as to who would get the bid, and many thought it should go to Coach X. Bible's Nebraska Cornhuskers, who were champions of the Big Six. Georgia and Princeton, the country’s only undefeated and untied major eleven, announced last week that due to an agreement with Yale against post-season games, they would not accept, should the bid be tendered them. Columbia's claim is based on the following record: Columbia 39—Lehigh 0, Columbia 15—Virginia 6, Columbia 0—Princeton 20, Columbia 33—Penn State 0, Columbia 9—Cornell 6, Columbia 14—Navy 7, Columbia 46—LaFayette 6, Columbia 16—Syracuse 0.

A species of fly said to be unique on this continent has been found on the campus of Fordham University and is being carefully studied by biology students at the university. Columbia’s tradition ghost, who haunts the tunnels and halls of the college dorms, made its appearance to members of the Freshman class in John Jay Lounge the other night.

Wade's boys also lost out, as they

Tech Shatters Duke Chances for Bowl Game

Carolina Wins Thanksgiving Game From Virginia, 14-0
V. M. I. 0; V. P. I. 0
William and Mary Defeats Richmond University, 6-0

In a weekend filled with surprises and upsets, Davidson's 1933 opponents finished the football season Saturday, as Duke lost more than just a game to Georgia Tech, while other teams found varying fortune in their Turkey Day battles.

In their traditional Thanksgiving Day classic, the Carolina Tar Heels came out of a deadlock in the fourth quarter and punched out two successive touchdowns to down the stubborn Virginia Cavaliers, 14 to 0. The North Carolina boys outplayed their opponents practically throughout the game but seemed to lack the final scoring punch until a tense last period. The Citadel, threatened by a strengthened Wofford eleven, in the end triumphed over their foes by a two-touchdown margin, 14 to 0, as the Wofford threats failed to materialize into actual scores. V. M. I. showed unforeseen strength Thursday to hold the favored V. P. I. Gobblers to a scoreless tie, actually threatening the Tech goal seriously once, and outplaying their opponents in most of the game. V. P. I. never threatened seriously. William and Mary, expected to lose in their classic Thanksgiving Day battle with the University of Richmond, came out of the heap with a Spider scalp hanging from their belt, and a 6-0 victory to show to the home folks.

Saturday's gridiron shows brought threatening disaster to North Carolina’s contender for the Rose Bowl position, as Georgia Tech's warriors rose in their might and trampled down the hopes of the Blue Devils, 6 to 0. The Devils seemingly had the best of the fight by the statistics, but the ability to break up their pass attack, and Tech's own dazzling pass offense, drove the Techmen to a touchdown in the second period, and the stalwart Tech line repulsed the only serious bid by Duke for a score. The Blue Devils suffered also from the loss of Horse Hendrickson, who was removed from the game on a charge of slugging, since Hendrickson had proved a sparkplug in the Duke offense. This defeat broke up an otherwise perfect season and probably ruined Duke's chances for a trip to the Rose Bowl.

Johnny Mackorell Unanimous All-State

Wingfield, Morgan, and Rives Are Chosen for Second Eleven

In the recent all-star selections of the Associated Press, the All-State Board, and similar organizations, several Davidson men were mentioned. Foremost among these was Johnny Mackorell, flashy Davidson quarterback, who was a unanimous choice for a halfback position on the All-State teams of both the All-State Board and the Associated Press. He was also given Honorable Mention for All-American by the Associated Press. Carl Schock, Duke captain, beat out Capt. Charlie Rives of Davidson for the guard position by one vote on both the All-State Board and Associated Press elevens. He was placed on the second team. Other men on the All-State Board team were Morgan at end, and Wingfield at halfback. Morgan made second team end on the Associated Press pick, while Wingfield was awarded Honorable Mention. McElrath received Honorable Mention at center on both picks.

IF YOU COME ONCE... YOU’LL COME ALWAYS
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

WHAT ABOUT THAT TRIP?
Cars For Hire
Gulf Gasoline
M. P. HENDERSON
Chevrolets - Fords

Jewelry Box
Contains Can For Her - Xmas...
GIVE US YOUR ORDER NOW
COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”
Davidson Colors by Nunnally