THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1933

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief
W. T. JOHNSON

Business Manager
G. L. GREEN

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
G. A. WICKES

Managing Editor
B. P. MOFFATT

Managing Editor
B. L. ROSE

Managing Editor
K. D. WEEKS

Alumni Editor
J. A. HUNTER

Athletic Editor
P. D. GUERRANT

Exchange Editor
J. A. HUNTER

Feature Editor
W. T. THOMPSON

Feature Editor
P. D. GUERRANT

Feature Editor
J. A. HUNTER

Review Editor
W. T. THOMPSON

Associate Editor
P. D. GUERRANT

Associate Editor
J. A. HUNTER

Associate Editor
W. T. THOMPSON

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
W. L. SPRUNT

Assistant Business Manager
R. TAYLOR

Assistant Business Manager
A. C. WADSWORTH

President
M. W. ALDERMAN

Vice-President
B. C. BARNES

Secretary-Treasurer
ROBISON ARNIZER

P. M. LAMONT
BROWN
N. M. ROSS
TOM DOWN
J. H. ROSS
CHARLES SUTLIVE
H. SUTTON
W. T. THOMPSON
P. D. GUERRANT
J. A. HUNTER
PAUL HARLAN
W. WALLACE
J. A. HUNTER
I. W. WHITE
CARLYLE LEWIS
F. WOOD
L. McCLINTOCK
ED WOOTE
N. ILL MERCHANT
FIELDS YOUNG

WEDNESDAY, MAY 10, 1933

Where there is no vision, the people perish.
—George Washington.

The sympathy of the Student Body is extended to Dr. H. B. Arbuckle in the death of his brother, Dr. J. B. Arbuckle; and to A. A. Dofflemyer in the death of his mother.

MOTHER’S DAY
This Sunday, May 14, will be observed throughout the United States and several other nations as Mother’s Day. The honor of the origination of this day belongs to Miss Anna Jarvis, of Philadelphia, who, after her mother had died in 1906, decided to remember the anniversary of her mother’s death. By May, 1908, she had interested many individuals and organizations in the observance of the second Sunday in May as Mother’s Day, and as a result of her efforts Philadelphia observed the day in that year. Miss Jarvis wrote thousands of letters to influential men in all walks of life, interviewed many public men, and pleaded for the observance of the day, until State after State adopted its observance. England began to observe the day, and soon all churches did likewise. On May 10, 1913, a resolution passed the Senate and the House of Representatives to make the second Sunday in May a national holiday “dedicated to the memory of the best mother in the world, your mother.”

Mother’s Day is observed through some distinct act of kindness, visit, letter, gift, or tribute to show remembrance of the mother to whom general affection is due. The slogan of the day is in honor of “the best mother who ever lived,” and the badge of the day is a white carnation, in memory of a mother deceased, or a red carnation to honor one who is living.

THE DEPRESSION AND EDUCATION
According to Dr. Clarence Cook Little, former president of the University of Michigan, education will be helped a great deal by “the depression” which the United States has been in for some time, whenever we get over the miserable thing. “The period of economic depression in which the United States finds itself at present may well be a God-send to higher education. It may be that the dropping of the log of financial stringency on the fire beneath the educational pot may speed materially the ‘boiling down’ process. Unnecessary and useless superstructures to the higher educational edifice may pop like bubbles, and after the first shock of the noise of their explosion everyone may well be happier and healthier,” says Dr. Little.

“The colleges and universities of the United States can well afford to go through a period of self-contemplation and study in order to eliminate modern over-refinement and assume again more of the qualities of simplicity and vigor which characterized the days when the beams that went into our national development were hand-hewn, and carried the imprint of strong individual effort and personal achievement.”

STUDENT LOAN FUND
Because the Davidson student body believed that the building of a swimming pool with the money saved by the Student Store Fund was not practical for the present, the sum was turned into a Student Body Loan Fund. The money will be handled by the administration in the same manner as the College Loan Fund. For many years the Student Store Fund has accumulated money for the future erection of a swimming pool on the campus. Since it has taken a long time thus far and would take a longer time still to acquire the sufficient sum for such a project, the Student Store, with the approval of the student body, thought it best to make better use of the money. The suggestion for a Student Body Loan Fund was put before the students by Jerome Clark and immediately met with approval. The money may be used for another purpose at any time when the cause is satisfactory to the students. A loan fund is the best thing for which the money could be used. It will prove beneficial to many needy students.

NOTICES OF VIOLATORS
The Davidson Student Council has adopted the plan of announcing at the student body assembly meetings the punishment of violators of the Honor System by the honor boards. The announcement mentions the reason the penalty has been imposed and of which class the violator is a member, but withholds the name of the penalized student. The plan was started by J. B. Clark, Jr., past-president of the student body, and his council. It has been continued by Julian West, rising president, and his new council with quite a bit of display for those who have disregard for the Honor System. In making its statements in this manner, the council frequently reminds students that the Honor System does operate on the campus, and saves the guilty person embarrassment. Two-fold are the advantages of these notices. It shows the students that those whom they have chosen to offices are not shirking distasteful duties, and the Honor System will benefit greatly by the additional fear it imposes on the students.

HILL RAIDIN’
Tulane
Politics is waxing hot and heavy in the Arts and Sciences School at Tulane. A few weeks ago one political party placed their man in office by a one-vote win. The election was contested by the losing party. After much heated discussion, a second vote was ordered by the faculty.

Syracuse University
As a result of the information coming from a recent questionnaire sent out by Dr. Eugenie A. Leonard, the freshmen at Syracuse think that a girl should learn how to dance, smoke, drink, and neck before entering college. (They all laughed when she sat down to play ... but she had gone to Syracuse.)

University of South Carolina
The entire cut system now in force at the U. of South Carolina was radically changed at a meeting of the faculty last Wednesday, when seniors with a “B” average were granted voluntary attendance to classes and the number of cuts for other students was raised to four for courses carrying five semester hour credits or less and eight for courses carrying six semester hour credits.

University of Florida
The recent issue of the “Alligator” was the annual Gripe and Grievance edition. In this issue, the students were given full freedom of the press in order to voice their objections to the college, administration, etc. However, for some reason, whether because of strenuous campus activities during the past week or perhaps because of a lack of things to gripe about, the number of articles intended for the issue fell off greatly.

Clemson
Concluding the annual inspection of Clemson's R. O. T. C. unit by the War Department during the latter part of April, Major Wilson McK. Spann, of Fort Benning, inspecting officer, announced that Clemson should retain its official rating of “Excellent.” Congratulations! The old “Quick Henry the Flit” method must have worked.

CURRENT EVENTS IN NATURE
By BILL WARD
One thing that has always puzzled me is how a Whip-Poor-Will can keep up for so long a time that same monotonous cry of “Whip-Poor-Will! Whip-Poor-Will!” without ever pausing to catch his breath. While out camping near Davidson a few nights ago an unusually long-winded bird opened up in a tree near my “lean-to.” Since sleep was out of the question till he decided to move on, I took up a pencil and paper and put a mark down for each call. At the bird’s first pause I stopped and counted the marks. There were 137! I thought certainly I had found the champion Whip-Poor-Will of the world. But when I returned...

WHO, ME? NEWS DIGEST
Hugh Warren Jones is certainly the coming artist of Davidson. His cover for the May issue of the Yowl is just too too. He has the modernistic element in his work and is still draftsman enough that one doesn’t often mistake his “Still Life of Cherries” for “Lady With a Fan.”

Jack Goodykoontz also went to see King Kong. Having seen Tarzan, the Panther Woman, and the Lion Man, I suppose he thought that he owed it to the beast to see him. In spite of the fact that the creation looked rather “seamy at the joints,” I heard Jack advise a friend to go see the picture at the matinee. Incidentally, Drs. Cumming and Foreman like pictures of the horror type. Each saw “King Kong,” to say nothing of other thrillers.

O. M. Anderson and H. H. Ostwalt took the...prize for optimism. (I consider an optimist one who still hopes to see Paramount quoted at 312 in the same year in which South Carolina goes Republican and the Prince of Wales is married in the completed Cathedral of St. John the Divine.) In preparation for a recent Greek review they did an extended bit of study. They translated page after page of Greek and planned to celebrate afterwards, no matter what happened. If the marks were good, the celebration would commemorate the event; if not, it would obliterate it. It so happened that none of their study did them any good, for the whole review was composed of sight passages.

Henry Hodgin is certainly a movie fiend. He always knows what’s on and who's playing and when they appeared last and under whose direction. He knows the little interesting facts about the stars and always has very original remarks to make about all of them. The best yet was his comment on Katharine Hepburn which was that she had a passionate nose.

With exams coming on, I am returning to childhood (how far’s the journey) from much study discover the following nursery rhyme:

Bah, bah, student,
Have you any bull?
Yes sir, yes sir,
Notebooks full!

Hal Marshall went to the institution of North Carolina for those of unsound mind on Wednesday last. The next day I heard someone inquiring as to his whereabouts on the day before. In replying he said, “I went to Morganton, and I don’t know why I was allowed to return.” Later he told me that he did that to save time, as he, as well as the rest of the students who went on the trip, were invariably asked that question.

Dr. Vowles on last Saturday was at peace with the world or at enmity with it and anxious to get out and start the battle, for at any rate the class had just begun when he asked if he would incur the ill will of those present in case he dismissed the class. And when Lyman Clardy screamed out, “NO, SIR!” the class was accordingly disbanded.

Professor E. A. Beaty got the most extended and most enthusiastic ovation of any person bid to O. D. K. that I have ever heard of. I say heard of, because on that particular day I wasn’t in chapel, but on asking what the rumble of distant thunder meant, I was told that it was the result of his being chosen into that organization.

and looked up the records of others, I found that I had timed a very inferior bird indeed. Townsend records one Whip-Poor-Will that called 664 times on a stretch. But the most long-winded of all the Whip-Poor-Will clan was a bird watched by John Burroughs. This bird called 1,088 times without once stopping for breath! But the most amazing part of the whole thing is that in spite of such a monotonous stream of sound, the males alone call. Mrs. Whip-Poor-Will scarcely utters a sound! Surely the bird world is turned upside down!

The Whip-Poor-Will has a close relative here who has just gotten in from a winter in South America. This is the Nighthawk, or “Bull-Bat,” as he is more commonly called. This is a very beneficial bird, and in the stomach of one specimen the remains of 500 mosquitoes were found. In yet another stomach examined by the United States Department of Agriculture the remains of 1,800 winged ants were identified. And still we southerners use the “Bull-Bat” as a target to test the carrying power of our shotguns! How the nighthawk catches this great number of insects in one evening is hard to explain. However, he is a relative of the Whip-Poor-Will, with a mouth similar in size. Late in the afternoon he flies swiftly through the air with this enormous mouth gaped wide open, sweeping up everything in his path. Woe to the insect which gets in the way. Nature has also provided the Nighthawk with bristles extending out on each side of the mouth. If an insect dodges the mouth he is liable to be caught in these hairs. Then a quick tongue reaches out, and one more mosquito is added to the 499.

Quite suddenly, in the last few days, the campus has become full of young Robins, just out of the nest. The Robin is a member of the thrush family, and it is not hard to realize that at this time of the year, for the young birds show the spotted breasts of their thrush relatives.

FARMERS STRIKE

While the Senate and House of Representatives were struggling with the farm aid bill, a meeting of farmers was held in Des Moines, Iowa, who voted to strike on May 13. The Senate is attempting to pass the Simpson amendment to the farm relief bill in an effort to appease the rumble of the approaching storm in the west. At the same time the farmers agreed to withhold farm produce from the market until the prices for their goods were raised high enough to cover the costs of production. The resolution appealed to state officials to restore civil government and give the farmers some means of fighting the depression on equal terms. Such strikes have been tried before and failed but the farmers are getting desperate and when hunger threatens a coward will fight even a losing fight.

FAIR PLAY

President Roosevelt called upon the leaders of the nation’s business last Thursday and made a plea for fair play and co-operation for the benefit of America’s business. He asked that labor be given the first consideration and pointed out that, when prices begin to rise after a long period of depression, wages lag in the general process of readjustment. “I therefore ask you,” he said, “who represent in all probabilities the majority of the employers of the nation, to refrain from further reduction in the wages of your employees, and I ask you also to increase your wage scales in conformity with and simultaneously with the rise of the level of commodity prices in so far as this lies within your power.” He continued by pledging the co-operation of the government in whipping into line those probable minorities which would persist in unfair practices and these would be subversive to a safe and sound policy of readjustment.

MARKETS RISE

Roosevelt’s speech caused a new spurt in the market which sent prices soaring to their highest pitch for the year. The American dollar, however, dropped to 80 cents in relation to gold currency and the pound sterling also registered a new low. When the brokers arrived at the exchange today they found thousands of orders from all parts of the country and the buying remained frenzied all day Friday. Sales for the day totaled 5,000,000 shares and more than 330 stocks reached new highs with U. S. Steel, the nation’s leading industry, in front.

ENEMIES MEET

Japanese officials have proposed a conference with Soviet Russia for the purpose of settling the relations between the two countries. The delegates will meet in Tokyo as soon as it can be arranged. Japan and Russia have been on bad terms ever since the Russo-Japanese war and this proposal is an attempt to better the disturbing conditions which for years have pointed toward another conflict. Now that Japan has taken Manchuria and gained a foothold in China proper, it is even more evident that conditions are becoming strained. Russia fears a Japanese invasion of Siberia, which has little means of protecting itself, while Japan does not like the threatening rumble from Moscow. Japan has shown an aggressive spirit and this proposal for conciliation is another shock from this surprising nation. However, I think that Russia will gladly be willing to reconcile herself with Japan and that the conference will be held.

KIDNAPPING

The kidnapping of the McMath girl was another episode in a long series of similar crimes which are becoming more and more frequent. The deluge of such acts began with the brutal murder of the Lindbergh child. In the recent McMath case the little girl was taken from school by a negro man who said that he had been sent for her. It forcibly illustrates the laxity of the American school system that the girl was allowed to leave with the negro even when neither she nor the school authorities knew him in the least. It does not alter this accusation to learn that the kidnappers were later caught and confessed, but only after Mr. McMath had paid $80,000 for the recovery of his child. The schools and parents should both take heed and see that more care is taken to safeguard the future generation of Americans.

TARIFF TRUCE

President Roosevelt and Guido Jung, Italian minister, held a long talk and have clasped hands in an agreement to reduce arms, to return to the gold standard, to expand credit, and to hold a tariff truce. The results came after four days of discussion on these problems as well as the question of war debts. Jung, in a message to reporters, said, “A truce in the field of tariffs and other obstacles to international trade is essential if the conference is to undertake its labors with any hope of success. We are in agreement that a fixed measure of exchange values must be re-established in the world and we believe this measure must be gold.”

JAPAN, ENGLAND, FRANCE

Japanese officials report that their country is in accord with the American proposal for a tariff truce but with certain reservations. Their reservations follow those made by England and France who seem rather cool towards our idea. No downright refusal of co-operation has come from any of these countries but they all feel that their tariff position must be protected by safeguards.