1. 4 v ye SCIENCE ACADEMY O. D. K. TAP DAY MEETS FRIDAY : THURSDAY Alenda Lux Gbi Orta Libertas Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 3, 1933 No. 28 DAVIDSON TO BE HOST TO SCIENCE ACADEMY FRIDAY Dr. J. C. Bullitt Will Deliver Presi- dent’s Address as Annual Meet- ing Opens Here THIRTY-SECOND MEETING Many Visitors Are Expected to Attend Two-Day Convention The thirty-second annual meeting of the North Carolina Academy of Science will be held at Davidson College, Friday and Saturday, May 5 and 6. All meetings, except the business session at 4:15 Friday afternoon, are open to the public. The objects of the Academy are to promote study and scientific research and to furnish a means of publication of such articles as may be deemed worthy. The influence of the Academy has been noticeably felt in the improved curricula, especially in the sciences, of high schools all over the state. The Executive Committee will meet on Thursday evening at 8:00 o’clock. The officers are as follows: President, J. B. Bullitt, U. of N. C.; Vice-President, Dr. Earl H. Hall, N. C. C. W.; Secretary-Treasurer, Dr. H. R. Totten, U. of N. C. The remaining members are: Dr. C. M. Heck, N. C. State; Dr. W. L. Porter, Davidson College, and Dr. F. W. Sherwood. The opening meeting will be held Friday at 9:30 a. m., at which time papers of general interest will be presented. The presidential address will be delivered at 8:30 p.m. Friday, in Chambers Auditorium. Saturday morning the Academy will meet in sections as follows: General Section, Chemistry Section, Physics Section, and Mathematics Section. The college will entertain the Academy at lunch Friday. There are about 150 members, including college professors, physicians, foresters, and business men. Students Decide to Amend Constitution Freshman Voting Affected by Amending Article I, Section 3 Last Friday at the chapel hour, Davidson students voted on an amendment of Article I, Section 3 of the Davidson College Constitution, proposed by the recently retired Student Council. The proposed amendment states that “Freshmen become members of the student body with full rights to vote, immediately upon the installation of the president of their rising Sophomore class,” and it is designed to eliminate certain evils which seem to exist in local student body elections. The voting was decidedly in favor of the amendment. Before the passing of the amendment, the section read as follows: “There shall be a Student Council which shall be composed of fifteen members, including the president of the student body, the presidents of the respective classes, and ten councilmen, of whom five shall come from the Senior class, three from the Junior class, and two from the Sophomore class. The president of the Freshman class shall not become a member of the Student Council until after Christmas. Freshmen become members of the student body with full rights to vote, immediately upon the seating of their president on the Council.” Inasmuch as the ruling had been changed previously to do away with the president of the Freshman class, the last clause of the section will be changed to fit the recent amendment. Two main reasons were given by those wanting the amendment passed. They claimed first that the freshmen, on arriving at college, are not familiar nor acquainted with the abilities of the eligible candidates and therefore cannot cast a fair and intelligent vote; and second, that the first year men are easily persuaded by their upper classmen friends to vote for the latters’ candidate. Passage of the amendment, they claimed, would eliminate the existing evils and bring clean elections back on the hill. W. T. Thompson Starts Work on New Handbook Work on the 1933-34 Wildcat Handbook has begun under the leadership of W. T. Thompson, recently appointed editor. The outlining of the work has been made and the book should round into shape by the beginning of examinations. Sophomores appointed to edit different sections of the publication include: Don Bailey, Student Government; Sam Dalton, Athletics; Jack McGee, Publications; and John Smith, Religious Activities. Each man has complete charge of his section. The book will probably go to press the latter part of the month. Copies will be mailed to all next year’s freshmen by the registrar in August. The business end is in charge of Joe Wadsworth, business manager. He has appointed two freshmen, Addison Brenizer and Charlie Thompson, as his assistants. Brown Wins First Place With Forceful Speech In Peace Declamation Here Prominent Davidson Debater Stresses Futility of War and Urges World-Wide Peace Gordon Brown, representing Davidson College, won first place in the annual Peace Oratorical Contest, held Friday night at Chambers Auditorium, with his oration on “The Unseen War.” First place carried with it a personal prize of $60, and a silver loving cup which is presented to the winning school to be retained a year. The second prize of $40 was won by Margaret Mauney, who represented Lenoir-Rhyne College. The contest is awarded $60, and second place $40. It was announced by Professor Elwood C. Perisho, of Lenoir-Rhyne, who is chairman of the North Carolina Intercollegiate Peace Association, that the prizes will be changed for the forthcoming year. First prize will consist of $50, second prize $30, and third prize will be $20, he announced. It was also announced by Professor Perisho that the 1934 contest will be held at Lenoir-Rhyne College in Hickory. The judges for the contest were the Rev. W. G. Clark, Charlotte; Frank A. Edmundson, Charlotte; the Rev. A. D. Milstead, (Continued on page 4) Colonel Little Inspects Davidson R. O. T. C. Unit Class Work and Field Work Judged by Official; Rating Will Be Given Later Colonel J. M. Little, of the Fourth Corps Area, U. S. Army, conducted the annual inspection of the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit on Thursday and Friday, April 27 and 28. Colonel Little arrived in Davidson Thursday morning, April 27, and made an inspection of the class work, armory, and equipment on Thursday and on Friday morning. Certain sections were selected from each of the four classes to stand in classroom work. On Friday afternoon Colonel Little inspected the field work of the unit. The battalion was formed at 2:10, an hour earlier than usual, and was reviewed and inspected by Colonel Little and the officers of the Davidson unit. Following the inspection of the battalion, Company B was drilled in close order and Company A was drilled in platoon extended order drill. Colonel Little has inspected the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit for the last three years and he expressed the opinion that the showing this year was just as good as it has been in former years, if not better. The official report of the inspection will not be received before the latter part of May; however, Major Rhett stated that he is very much pleased with the splendid showing of the unit. Colwell, Johnson Are Appointed Managers Colwell Chosen for Yowl Staff and Johnson for Davidsonian W. T. Johnson will be business manager of “The Davidsonian,” and A. W. Colwell will head the business staff of “The Yowl” for the coming year, it has been announced by Bob McCallie, president of the local Board of Publications. The business staff of “Quips and Cranks” has not yet been officially announced. These men have been active on the business staffs of their respective publications for some time. The appointments of the new annual staffwill appear in the next issue of “The Davidsonian.” G. L. Green, W. L. Sprunt, J. R. Taylor, and J. C. Wadsworth have been selected as assistant business managers of “The Davidsonian” for next year, by Johnson. A. G. Brenizer, W. C. Branton, Val Cassells, J. B. Goslin, J. R. Hayworth, S. M. Hutaff, R. B. Lindsey, J. S. McMullin, R. P. Morrow, S. F. Marsh, T. F. Neal, H. L. Ross, W. B. Singleton, Fields Young, and C. L. Young are solicitors on “The Davidsonian” business staff. Due to the large number of solicitors, it is expected that some will be eliminated. The factors that will determine whether or not a man will continue on the business staff will be his ability and diligence.

Manson, Powell Chosen to Head Student Store

The Brooke Student Store Board, composed of Allen and Leslie Thompson, managers; Mr. F. L. Jackson and Mr. M. W. McGill, faculty representatives; Jerome Clark, president of the student body and chairman of the board; Fred Fleagle, Athletic Association representative, and Bob Glasgow, Student Council representative, at their last meeting chose Andrew Manson buying manager of the store for the ensuing year, and E. L. Powell, bookkeeping manager. After a very lengthy discussion of the eleven applicants, a secret ballot was held, which resulted in the election of Manson and Powell to fill these two responsible positions. At this meeting, the board also fixed the salaries of the managers and clerks, which comes under its jurisdiction. The two retiring managers, Allen and Thompson, have handled the affairs of the store ably during the past year.

Annual Y.M.C.A. Spring Services Are Concluded By Rev. Gypsy Smith

Inspiring Messages Brought to Student Body by Famous Evangelist in Three-Day Service

The Gypsy Spring Services, conducted by Rev. Smith, Jr., drew to an end with the address on last Wednesday evening, April 19. Speaking twice daily, Mr. Smith reached students and visitors alike with his message of Rebirth and Repentance. All the services were well attended. Monday evening, Mr. Smith spoke on the subject of “Spiritual Rebirth,” with the visit of Nicodemus to Christ as the scriptural background to his words. Tuesday morning, at the chapel hour, the salient points of the preceding talk were summarized; that evening he spoke on “Repentance,” selecting the words of Christ as recorded in the first chapter of Mark for the text, “Repent ye, and believe in the Gospel.” The morning talk on Wednesday centered on the theme, “Fishers of Men,” as suggested in the fifth chapter of Luke; that night, Mr. Smith gave the history of his family and told something of Gypsy life under the title, “From Gypsy Tent to Pulpit.” In this connection, he read the eighth chapter of Romans, dwelling with especial emphasis on the fourth verse, “Walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit.” Speaking Tuesday evening, Mr. Smith declared that repentance is neither fear of things seen or unseen, nor conviction of a duty, nor yet a sense of sorrow, but rather, a right about face on the present life to a full knowledge of the love of God as a Father.

(Continued on page 3)

Halverstadt Chosen For Judge of Court

McCallie, Pratt, Schenck, Ravenel, Dees, Grimes, Purnell, Chosen Members

On Saturday afternoon, Jimmy Halverstadt was named Judge of the Court of Control for the coming year. Other members selected at that time to serve on the Court were: T. H. McCallie, L. W. Pratt, A. F. Schenck, W. B. Ravenel, R. O. Dees, Jr., L. M. Grimes, and L. T. Purnell. The members were appointed by the president of the student body in conjunction with the senior members of the Student Council. Halverstadt is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, and ranks number one on the varsity tennis team. Several weeks ago, he was runner-up to Wilmer Hines in the State Intercollegiate Tennis Tournament, and paired with Charles Myers to take runner-up honors in the doubles. The Court of Control, an organization which has grown out of the student body as a means of handling freshmen, has met with great success this year from both upperclassmen and freshmen. The retiring members of the Court are: W. A. Flinn, Judge; D. M. Bernard, F. L. Dickerson, C. R. Wright, C. M. Rives, E. L. Powell, D. M. Hutchins, and B. L. Rose.

O. D. K. TAP DAY WILL BE HELD BY CAMPUS LEADERS

Davidson Chapter to Hold Annual Spring Ceremony Here on May 7

TO BID FACULTY MEMBER

2 Nearby Business Men to Be Received as Honorary Members

The annual spring tap day of the local chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, will be held in the Davidson chapel tomorrow. At this time, the ceremony will be administered to several seniors, who will be tapped first, and to various juniors who have been outstanding in their three years of participation in campus activities. There will be no especial order followed in the tapping of the rising seniors. The local chapter plans to issue a bid to one member of the faculty, whose identity will be made known at that time. They have also invited several outstanding men living in the vicinity of Davidson to become honorary members of O. D. K. President Frank C. Brown, professor of English at Duke University, and retiring president of the National Convention of Omicron Delta Kappa, has been invited to preside over these ceremonies, although no definite arrangements have as yet been made. Following the tap day on Thursday, the annual initiation banquet is to be held on Tuesday night, May 9.

As a sequel to the Omicron Delta Kappa initiation this week comes the report on activities of the Beaver Club. At the first meeting of O. D. K. after tap day, the list of twenty names selected by this year’s Beaver Club will be presented to the members of the senior organization. Members of next year’s Beaver Club, of whom there will be ten, are to be picked from this list. The Beaver Club forms a type of junior O. D. K., to which members of the Sophomore class who show greatest promise along lines of leadership are elected by the senior organization. Their main duty is to (Continued on page 6)

Farce of Masquers Progresses Rapidly

Talented Cast Will Present Play on May 12

The Red and Black Masquers are speedily bringing Oscar Wilde’s “The Importance of Being Earnest” to perfection under the direction of Ed Hancock, president of the organization. Since this is the last play that President Hancock will produce, he is striving to make it the most finished presentation of the year. From all evidences at rehearsals, the play will fulfill his ambitions. The feminine roles are being filled expertly by Mrs. E. J. Erwin and Misses Adele Arbuckle, Kalista Hood, and Orrie Steele. Mrs. Erwin has unbounded opportunities for characterization in her part as an English lady of high society. Miss Steele, who appears as a prim and precise governess, presents an authentic portrayal, resulting from her researches in the subject. Likewise, Kalista Hood and Adele Arbuckle are to be commended for the interpretations of their roles. In regard to the male support, Wills Hollingsworth, last seen in “The Game of Chess,” and Nicholas Moss, of “Moonshine” fame, are capably taking the main lead. Gordon Wood appears as a rather liberal and scholarly Episcopal rector. English butlers in all their starch and formality are impersonated by Bill Johnson and Roger Riley. Dave Herring, who is well experienced in stage mechanics, serves as stage manager, with the assistance of Ed Holt and Don Stewart. They have taken upon themselves the task of recreating the scenery; and they undoubtedly plan to remedy the artificiality of the present sets. Due credit is to be given Professor E. J. Erwin for his supervision and coaching during the endless rehearsals. The definite date for the presentation of the play, which is one of the best and most amusing ever produced here, is May 12.