THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 8, 1933

STATE’S RED TERRORS MEET VARSITY TOMORROW

THE SPORTS PARADE

DARLINGTON ENGAGES FRESHMAN QUINTET SATURDAY

Contests for Davidson's athletic teams for the week include five basketball games. Last night the Wildcats met Duke’s Blue Devils
at Durham. Tomorrow night, N. C. State’s Red Terrors visit Davidson for the first meeting of these two teams this
season. On Friday night the Freshman team journeys to Balls Creek to meet the high school team of that burgh
in a return engagement. Saturday night the Kittens will be hosts to Darlington Junior College at Davidson, while the Varsity
encounters Wake Forest at Winston-Salem. Next Tuesday Elon College meets the Varsity here.

Coach “Red” Laird’s basketball team showed quite a bit of improvement on its trip into Virginia last week. The Roanoke
game was a rip-snorter from beginning to end, and the Virginians barely came out victorious after being extended an extra
period. With less than five points separating the two teams, nine foul goals were leading scorer for the Wildcats. Monk
Younger’s V. P. I. team also had difficulty in caging more points than the Wildcats, and were not sure of
victory until the final whistle. Davidson's efforts were finally successful against Lynchburg College, despite that team’s use of near-football tactics
on the court.

George Bailey, varsity basketball manager, attributed the Davidson victory over Lynchburg College to the left hind foot of a negro
graveyard rabbit that “Monk” Younger, former Davidson coach, gave him after the V. P. I. game Friday night. George says
that he’s not a bit superstitious, but he’s going to carry that rabbit’s foot with him during the rest of
the basketball season and then maybe on the baseball mound with him.

More than forty students have begun competition in gymnastics for individual and class honors. Of this number, fifteen have completed
more than half of the events.

If Captain Pritchett’s boxing pupils continue to improve as rapidly in the next few days as they have in the
past, there is a possibility that the preliminaries to the boxing tournament may be run next week.

Bailey, the gentleman from High Point, who refereed the wrestling match between Duke and Davidson last Thursday, had the Davidson
students at his mercy during the entire match, but even at that he thought they were noisier than students at
any wrestling match that he has called this winter. When told after the match that it was the quietest the
Davidson students had ever been at a wrestling contest, he quickly replied that he thought they were exceptionally noisy.

N. C. State’s basketball team will visit here tomorrow night anxious to register its first victory in the Big Five
race. The Red Terrors have lost to Carolina and to Duke in Big Five competition, but have possession of third
place in the Southern Conference standings with five victories and two defeats. State will come here fresh from a road
trip through Virginia where she won games from Virginia, Washington and Lee, V. M. I, and V. P. I.

DID YOU KNOW THAT:
Critics consider Kentucky’s team this year the greatest basketball team that ever shot at baskets... South Carolina has four All-American
high school players on its basketball team this year... the Gamecocks administered the only defeat that Kentucky has suffered this
winter... Navy’s basketball team has won 16 straight games... The Charlotte Observer is conducting a contest...

’Cats Win One of Five Games Played on Out-of-State Trips
Harris Scores 68 Points To Lead Varsity Cagers
Lynchburg Loses to Davidson While Furman, Wofford, Roanoke, and V. P. I. Win Close Contests

Charlie Harris, Sophomore forward on Davidson's varsity basketball team, continued to lead individual scoring for the Wildcats. Davidson’s varsity basketball
team won one game and lost four last week in games played on out-of-state trips. On the South Carolina journey,
which began last Monday, the Wildcats dropped two games, being defeated by Furman and Wofford. On the Virginia trip, Davidson
lost to Roanoke College and V. P. I., but won from Lynchburg College.

Harris, with 68 points, is closely followed by Captain Bruce Peabody with 57. The star Sophomore was ahead of his
teammates both in scoring field goals and free throws, caging 23 and 22, respectively. Captain Peabody was runner-up in both
departments with 19 field goals and a like number of free throws.

All the games were close, with not more than five points separating the teams in any game except the Wofford
contest, which ended with the S. I. A. A. leaders holding a 15-point advantage. The playing of Dickerson and Ross
featured the Wildcat play in all five games on the two trips. Dickerson, who has been converted into a regular
pivot man, showed the greatest increase in scoring by caging 12 field goals and 10 fouls in the last five
games to increase his total to 34 points for third place in the standings with 46. Dick Parker, guard, led
his Freshman teammates in scoring with 44 points, gathered from 19 field and six foul goals. Dillard, a forward, Co-captain
Windham, a guard, and Co-captain Sanders, a forward, were next in order with 42, 39, and 34 points, respectively.

Furman 28; Davidson 23
In the first game of the trip, played in Greenville, S. C., the Wildcats fell for the second time this
year before Furman University because of the accurate shooting of Roper, Furman center. Davidson held an 11-7 advantage at half-time,
but the South Carolinians soon forged ahead to win 28 to 23. Roper, the Furman center, was high scorer with
16 points. Ross with seven and Captain Peabody with five led the Wildcats.

Furman Position Davidson
Nau (6) F (4) Harris
Roper (16) C (2) Holland
Smith (4) G (5) Peabody
Adair (2) G (2) Boucher

Substitutes: Furman—Turner, Littlejohn; Davidson—Dickerson (1), Lafferty (2), Wagner. Referee: Toohey (Newberry).

Wofford 39; Davidson 24
Wofford College avenged their season's lone defeat, which Davidson handed them at Davidson two weeks ago, by crushing the Wildcats
39 to 24. Davidson fought stubbornly the first half, allowing the Southern leaders to hold a 15-11 lead, but Wofford
gradually pulled ahead during the second half. Bullington with 12 points was the leading scorer, while Dickerson with 10 was
next.

The line-ups:
Wofford Position Davidson
Pollard (3) F (3) Harris
Robertson (9) F (2) Ross
Mooneyham (5) C Holland
Bullington (12) G (2) Peabody
Hill (2) G (5) Wagner

Substitutes: Wofford—Cannon (2), Eaker; Davidson—Dickerson (1), Lafferty (2), Wagner. Referee: Toohey (Newberry).

Varsity Scoring:
Player FG FT TP
Harris 23 22 68
Peabody 19 19 57
Dickerson 12 10 34
Parker 19 6 44
Dillard 18 6 42
Windham 18 9 39
Sanders 14 6 34
Ross 20 9 49
Johnson 6 3 15
Marchmont 1 1 3
Joyce 1 1 3
Pinton 1 0 2

Coaches Pleased by Football Prospects
The spring football squad is...Rounding into shape very nicely after more than two weeks of practice. About thirty-five men are
working out regularly and the prospects for next year’s team look exceptionally well. Workouts are held every day on the
practice field and a practice game is played. The first game, played last Friday, brought out some excellent material, especially
among the men who are filling the places of the Seniors. Davidson was nosed out of victory in an extra
period, after the teams were tied at 24-all at the end of the regular playing time. The Wildcats held a
13-8 advantage at half-time, but five field goals and three fouls put Roanoke in the running during the second half.
Garland led the scoring with 14 points, while Harris was high point man for Davidson with seven. The line-ups: Roanoke
Position Davidson Purrine (5) F. (7) Harris Garland (14) F. (5) Peabody

Big Five Standings W. L. Pct. Duke 5 0 1.000 North Carolina 4 1 .800 Davidson 2 2 .500 N.C.
State 0 2 .000 Wake Forest 0 4 .000

Davidson Wrestlers Defeat Duke 15 to 11 Five Out of Eight Matches Are Taken by Wildcats Davidson's wrestling team won
its first match in three starts this season here last Thursday night by defeating Duke University’s matmen 15-11. The match
was the Blue Devils’ first of the present season. Duke was first to score when Onisko gained a time advantage
of 8 minutes and 18 seconds over Dillon, of Davidson, in the 118-pound class. Jenkins, of Davidson, evened the count
by scoring a 4 minute, 15 second time advantage over Talley in the 125-pound class. Duke won the next match
when Troxler had time on Owen but the next four matches all went to Davidson, when Forte, Quarterman, Potter, and
Captain Taylor gained time advantages, to assure the Wildcats of victory. Keeper, wrestling in the unlimited class for Duke, scored
the only fall of the meet when he pinned Whitfield, of Davidson, with a body scissors and half-nelson, after eight
minutes of wrestling. Whitfield held a time advantage at the time he was thrown. Baily, of High Point, refereed the
matches in excellent fashion. He kept the cheering of the Davidson students at a minimum except between matches, when the
students gave vent to their tied-up enthusiasm. Coach “Doc” Newton and McIver seem very well pleased with the prospects. Freshman
Quintet Wins Three of Four Contests Played Here Last Week M. P. C. I., Balls Creek High School, and Lees-McRae
Lose to Wildkitten Team The Davidson Freshman basketball team weathered a four-game siege last week, emerging with but one defeat
against three victories. Belmont Abbey was the only team to put the Wildkitten quint on the short end of the
score. This was the only contest played on foreign territory.

Davidson Fresh 14; Belmont Abbey 40 Belmont Abbey's basket-ringers whipped into action to turn back a strong Davidson Freshman quint
on the former’s floor, by the impressive score of 40 to 14. Cartwell of Belmont led the scorers with 18
points. Burns and Marchant were high for the ‘Kittens with four points each.

Davidson Fresh 29; M. P. C. I. 28 Davidson's own Freshman team came close to defeat the highly-touted Mount Pleasant
Collegiate Institute aggregation in a thriller, 29 to 28. The game was close at all times, and the score indicates
thoroughly the intensity of the play. Fleming with 11 counters, led the scoring, followed by Parker of Davidson with nine.

Davidson Fresh 34; Balls Creek High 26 Showing belated power on the part of the high school, the Davidson Freshman
quintet put them to rout, 34 to 26. At half-time Davidson had the comfortable lead of 22 to 8, but
the high school boys put on the steam in the last half, and made the game close. Dillard of the
Frosh had 12 points in the scoring column to nose out Troutman of Balls Creek for high scoring honors.

Davidson Fresh 38; Lees-McRae 24 Davidson's yearling five continued its winning streak by decisively trouncing the formidable Lees-McRae Institute quint
in the local gym by a 38 to 24 count. Lees-McRae turned on all the steam in the first half,
and were well out in front at intermission. In the final canto, however, Coach Mathis’ boys rallied, and completely outplayed
the visitors. Sanders, Davidson forward, was high scorer, making 12 points. Agle scored seven points to top the scorers for
Lees-McRae. To date the Freshmen have had a fairly successful season, having five victories against but four defeats. The teams
beaten include Independence of Charlotte, Salisbury High School, Mount Pleasant Collegiate Institute, Balls Creek High School, and Lees-McRae Institute. Belmont
Abbey has put down the ‘Kittens twice, while Salisbury High School and the Wofford Freshmen each hold one victory over
Davidson.

Suits and Overcoats Individually Tailored and Fitted: Priced From $16.50 to $38.50 Mr. P. S. RANDOLPH, Special Representative IVEY'S DAVIDSON
SHOP Seven Years Experience in Outfitting College Men Our New Tailoring Department Opens Tuesday FEBRUARY 14th
