DEBATERS SUCCESSFUL ON NORTHERN TRIPS

The Davidsonian
Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

UNION SEMINARY DEPUTATION HERE THIS WEEK

Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 5, 1933 No. 25

Odi Casali Chosen Head of College Weekly by Vote of Student Body
Wins Over Clardy, Schenck, and Williams, Former Managing Editors, for Important Office
CLARDY REACHES FINALS
New Editor Culminates Several Years’ Training in Journalistic Field

Odi Casali, of Welch, W. Va., was recently elected by Davidson College students as 1933-1934 editor-in-chief of “The Davidsonian.” Casali was elected over Lyman W. Clardy, of Talladega, Ala., in the second ballot on last Wednesday. All of the managing editors, L. A. Schenck, of Charlotte; W. M. Thompson, of Richmond, Va., and Jack Williams, of Waycross, Ga., were eligible for election. Thompson, who had been previously elected president of the Y. M. C. A. for the coming year, withdrew his name from the running. Schenck and Williams were both eliminated on the first ballot.

Casali is a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. He has been quite active in intramural athletics, and in his Freshman year earned numerals in football, wrestling, and baseball. He is also a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemical fraternity, being elected to this honor in his Sophomore year, and a member of Sigma Delta Pi, national honorary Spanish fraternity.

The new editor has been active along newspaper lines for quite a few years. Not only was he associated with the newspaper, “The Welch Daily News,” in his home town, but his election to the editorship culminates three years of active college newspaper life. Last year Casali was sports editor of “The Davidsonian” and at present has been collaborating with George Baily in reporting Davidson sports to outside papers.

Clardy, Schenck, Thompson, and Williams, the retiring managing editors, have all been quite active along newspaper and collegiate lines during their years at Davidson. All were reporters for “The Davidsonian” their Freshman year and all were elected to the Reporters’ Club. They remain associate editors during the coming year.

The newly-elected editor assumes leadership of “The Davidsonian” with this issue.

Y.M.C.A. Holds Annual Installation of Cabinet
Thompson and Dr. Arbuckle Make Short Talks in Impressive Ceremony
MRS. VOWLES SINGS SOLO
Sam Wiley Leads Prayer and Glee Club Renders Selections

The annual installation of the Cabinet was held at the regular Sunday vesper hour in Chambers Auditorium last Sunday evening. At this time the old Cabinet turned over the reins to the new. Paul Brown, the retiring president, traced the past year’s activities, covering the work that has been done this year and showed the progress which had been made in former years and the hopes which are held for future years. He was somewhat disappointed in the lack of co-operation which he experienced in his work with the Davidson student body. He maintained that although most Davidson men are professing Christians, their spiritual life is not all it should be.

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle was the main speaker of the evening with the “Charge to the New Cabinet.” He charged each member of the Cabinet to have a deeper personal consecration of their lives to the work of Christ. He showed what the “Y” Cabinet can do to help the student body in a spiritual way. Those present were urged to support the Y. M. C. A. and its officers.

Next, W. M. Thompson, the incoming president, spoke and asked the co-operation of the students in all work with the “Y.” He said that the Y. M. C. A. was not merely the president and Cabinet but the whole student body, and as members of the “Y,” they should strive to further the work of that organization. He then led in a short prayer of consecration.

The Davidson Glee Club was present and rendered a selection at the opening of the ceremony. The Quartet also gave a number and Mrs. Vowles sang a solo. Sam Wiley led in prayer and the service was closed with the Mizpah Benediction.

The newly installed Cabinet is: W. M. Thompson, president; Tommy Phifer, vice-president and Social Life chairman; Bob Coit, vice-president and Deputation chairman; E. L. Powell, Freshman work; Rufus Morrow, Student Life; Lynn Tuie, Vesper services; Sam J. A. McGeachy, Chapel services; Julian West, Self-Help and Vocational Guidance; W. T. Nickey, Boys’ Work; Francis Scott, World Evangelism, and Bill Johnson, Music.

BEARD TALKS ON MODERN THOUGHTS ABOUT HISTORY
Students and faculty of Davidson enjoyed the privilege of hearing a very interesting lecture, given by Mr. Charles A. Beard, one of the most prominent historians in the United States, on Wednesday, March 29, in Chambers Auditorium. The subject of the lecture was “Contemporary Thought About History.”

Mr. Beard was introduced by Professor John P. Williams, who has long been a personal friend of the noted scholar. Professor Williams presented Mr. Beard as a teacher, administrator, adviser, and writer. He told of the international reputation and the widespread interests of the speaker, who is the author of many of our best textbooks on history. Mr. Beard, he said, is one of the few men today who are willing to defend their beliefs in the face of strenuous opposition. Professor Williams also expressed the enthusiasm with which Davidson greeted the long hoped-for visit of Mr. Beard.

Mr. Beard announced that his lecture would concern “Contemporary Thought About History.” Before beginning, he made a special point to differentiate between contemporary thought and modern thought, which are often confused. History, he said, has three aspects: (1) history which is actuality; (2) history which is record; and (3) history which is thought about the other two aspects of history. The first group includes everything thought, said, or done. It includes all the sciences, arts, etc. Out of this group are made all departments of thought. The second group includes all documents in history. The third group is made up of all men’s thoughts about history. The speaker explained that written history is thought about history, which thought inevitably changes. He announced that the purpose of his lecture was to sketch the meaning, scope, and aims of contemporary thought about history.

DELTA PI KAPPA INITIATES THREE FACULTY MEMBERS
Journalistic Fraternity Accepts Prominent Professors into Membership at Last Meeting

Three members of the faculty, Dr. C. K. Brown, Prof. Ernest Beaty, and Mr. Jackson, were issued bids to Delta Pi Kappa, local honorary journalistic fraternity, at the regular meeting held last Wednesday night at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity house. Dr. Brown delivered the main address of the meeting, talking on Journalism, its meaning, aims, and scope.

The editorial contest which has been sponsored by the fraternity closed last Saturday night. Thirteen editorials were handed in, but the winner has not been chosen.

Lanier Pratt, president of the Junior class, was initiated into the fraternity at the last meeting. The next meeting will be held next Tuesday night at the Kappa Phi fraternity house.

A number of years ago Engineer Donohue of the Missouri Pacific experienced a breakdown on the Kickapoo grade. He sent the following message to the master mechanic, W. T. New, “Mr. New, number two has busted her flue while going through Kickapoo. What would you have me do? Donohue.”—Railway Age.

New Staff of Editors Take Over Davidsonian
Paul Gullette, Hellinger, McPhail, Norvell, Rose, and Weeks Selected by Outgoing Editors
ALL MEN OF EXPERIENCE
Hellinger Chosen to Hold New Post of Alumni Editor

At a recent meeting of the retiring managing editors of “The Davidsonian,” the following men were selected to hold positions for the next year: Paul Gullette, Jack Hellinger, Sam Norvell, Jr., Fred Rose, George McPhail, and Caskie D. Weeks. These men were included in the group of assistant editors for the ensuing year, along with Alderman, Guerrant, Jack Plunkett, Wilson Wallace, and others.

These men were selected from the following group: Mat Alderman, Guerrant, Jack Plunkett, Wilson Wallace, W. C. Neill, Tom Sutton, Ren Barnes, Latimer McClintock, P. M. Rogers, Tom Wood.

The six men are successors to the retiring managing editors of this year, Lyman Clardy, Alex Schenck, W. M. Thompson, and Jack Williams. These six men, who have thus evidenced ability and faithfulness in publication, will be chosen as the managing editors for 1934-1935. From these men, the editor for the next session will be chosen. As managing editors, these men are responsible to the editor for print, their work, and sending out assignments to reporters, collecting material, and the arrangement of the dummy.

Caskie Norvell, Jr., was chosen to succeed Odi Casali, the newly-elected editor-in-chief, as the Wildcat editor. In previous years, it has been the custom to have four managing editors and one athletic editor. This year it was decided to select an alumni editor in addition to the athletic editor. Jack Hellinger was chosen to fill this position for the ensuing year.The planning of the other sheets, as has been the custom heretofore, the editor's remarks and the feature columns will occupy the editorial page. The managing editor automatically strikes a man’s name from the “Club” in each issue. This year, however, the named editors will assume the position as was the case with the selections of Gullette, of Phi Le Cercle Francais; Florence, Ala., Gamma Delta; his cross-country, and the Scout George, a member of the fraternity; numerals have taken campus NC! Jack Hellinger, of New York, is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity; he is Junior basketball manager, and a member of the “Beaver Club.” McPhail, of Charlotte, is a member of Alpha social fraternity; the Student Council; Spanish Club, and the track team, where he has distinguished himself as a hurdler. He is active in “Y” and social work. Caskie Norvell, Jr., of Greensboro, belongs to the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

(Continued on page 3)

Debating Team

The varsity debating team, composed of Gordon H. Brown, Leland McKeithan, and Tom Caldwell, which set out on a northern trip last Friday, should soon be returning from what started out as a very successful trip. By the latest report received from the debaters, the University of Richmond lost the decision to Davidson’s orators last Friday night. The judges awarded the verdict to the Davidson team by a unanimous vote.

Continuing the trip north, the varsity met the Rutgers University team Monday night, and Haverford College Tuesday in an Oxford style debate. No verdict was rendered at the conclusion of this novel style debate. The decision of the Rutgers debate was not known at the time of publication of this issue. Tomorrow, the Davidson team will meet Bucknell University, thus completing the northern trip, and will return Sunday. In all this series of debates, Davidson has taken the negative. The subject discussed was: “Resolved: That the United States should cancel the Inter-Allied war debts.”

Rising to the post of managing editor automatically strikes a man’s name from the “Club” in each issue.

Smyre and Weeks Elected to Lead Senior, Junior Classes

Pi Delta Alpha to Hear Dr. R. W. McKay Friday

Dr. Robert McKay, a noted urologist of Charlotte, will speak at a meeting of the pre-medical fraternity Pi Delta Alpha on Friday evening, April 7, at 7:30 p.m. Dr. McKay is an eminent physician and a most interesting man. He attended Davidson and the University of Virginia, later took his medical education at Johns Hopkins University, and has received excellent training. He has been very successful in his practice of medicine. All students, both faculty and interested persons, are cordially invited to attend. This is the third open meeting held by Pi Delta Alpha this year. It is hoped that these meetings will continue to be as popular as they have been in the past. The gratifying results have been to the members of the fraternity. Additional announcements relative to the occasion will be made in chapel on Friday morning.

D. C. AND SALEM FRENCH SOCIETIES TO GIVE PLAYS

Plans are being completed for a joint performance of the French Club of Davidson and the Cercle Francais of Salem College, Winston-Salem, on April 22. The same play, Tristan Bernard's “L’Anglais Tel Qu’on le Parle,” which was presented early in February at Queens-Chicora College, Charlotte, will be produced. Robert Coit, L. T. Newland, and Jack Williams will present a portion of Jules Rolland’s recent comedy, “Knock.” George Gullette and Robert Smith will give a recital of a French record, consisting of a conversation between two gossipy women, on the same date. The young women of the Salem honorary society plan to present “L’Ecole des Belles Meres,” by Brieux. The public performances will be followed by a reception in honor of the visiting players. Plans are being made by a large number of Davidson students of French to make the trip on April 22.

The regular monthly meeting of Le Cercle Francais will be held Tuesday evening, April 11. The club has had for the central theme of its meetings this year French holidays and religious festivals. In keeping with this plan, the April meeting will be devoted to the two celebrations, April 1, Journee des Poissons, and Passion Week. It is expected that several reels of motion pictures of Europe, with special attention to France, and the scene of the religious drama of the Passion Play, Oberammergau, in Bavaria, will be shown at this time.

MR. TOM HAMILTON TO CONDUCT OPEN FORUM

The Y. M. C. A. is exceedingly fortunate in securing as its leader for the Open Forum this week Mr. Tom Hamilton, son of Mrs. C. H. Hamilton of Davidson. Mr. Hamilton graduated from Davidson College in 1927, and the following year taught at Chamberlain Hunt Academy at Port Gibson, Miss. He then went to Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, where he received both the degrees of B.D. and Th.M. Since leaving the Seminary, Mr. Hamilton has been studying theology at the University of Tubingen at Wurtemburg, Germany, and returned only recently to Davidson.

The subject for the discussion will be the recent developments of Hitler’s regime in Germany, dwelling mostly on the politico-religious situation there in view of the recent developments against the Jews. These Open Forums are held every Friday night at 9 o’clock at the Social Center.

Great Deal of Interest Shown in Annual Election Held Friday and Saturday

BOTH MEN OUTSTANDING

Voting for Presidency of Sophomore Class Results in Deadlock

Fred Smyre of Gastonia was elected president of the rising Senior class, and Kenneth D. Weeks of Rocky Mount was elected leader of the rising Junior class in the elections held Friday and Saturday of last week. The voting for the presidency of the rising Sophomore class resulted in a deadlock, and this forced the making of another ballot. The finalists were Dick Parker and Bob Richardson. No results were available as “The Davidsonian” went to press.

A great deal of interest was manifested in these annual elections. The voting was close, and several times it was necessary for two or more ballots to be made in order to determine the winners. It has been stated that the tie resulting in the election for the president of the rising Sophomore class was the first in the history of the college.

Fred Smyre was elected over J. W. Lafferty and L. M. Huie in the second voting held on Saturday. The victor has held prominent offices on the campus. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi, social fraternity; president of Sigma Delta Psi, national honorary athletic fraternity, and is a member of Omega Phi Alpha, local honorary fraternity of philosophy and psychology. He is also the president of Sigma Delta Pi, national honorary Spanish fraternity. Smyre is manager of the 1934 basketball squad, and a member of the Davidson baseball team. Brewster Grant, L. M. Powell, Charlie Rives, and “Duck” Huie were the nominees for the office of president of the Senior class.

Lanier Pratt, president of the Junior class during the past year, had charge of the election. D. Weeks, president-elect for the Junior class, emerged the victor over Walter Sprunt in the final voting held Saturday. Weeks is the present secretary and treasurer of the Sophomore class. He holds a position on the baseball nine; is a member of the Beaver Club, and a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, national social fraternity.

(Continued on page 3)

UNION SEMINARY BRINGS TEAM WITH DEPUTATION

Saturday afternoon the annual deputation from the Union Theological Seminary at Richmond will visit Davidson, bringing with it as usual the baseball team to compete with the college varsity nine. The baseball game will be played on Richardson Field Saturday at 2:30. Last year Union defeated the Wildcat nine, and this year they have Poole, the same former pitcher, who was instrumental in bringing about their victory.

The deputation will have charge of both morning and evening services at the church, and also the vesper service. In addition to this, they will visit several of the nearby Sunday Schools and the Mecklenburg Sanatorium Sunday morning. They will probably also go to Charlotte to talk to the boys at the Y. M. C. A. there at a special meeting Sunday afternoon.

Joe Overmyer, who was for a while the pastor’s assistant at the First Presbyterian Church in Gastonia, will speak at the morning church service, while Harvey Kidd will deliver the sermon at the evening service. At vespers, Phil Roberts, now president of the student body of the Seminary, will talk. Roberts is a graduate of Presbyterian College, where he was also president of the student body, and he was recently selected to the Larus Fellowship.

A few other members of the deputation will be: Gene “Major Hoople” Clark, Harry Moffett, Earl Thompson, and Walton Sugg, all Davidson graduates.