DEACONS AND WILDCATS RENEW KEEN RIVALRY THANKSGIVING DAY

Alenda Lux bi Orta Libertas

MEL TROTTER AND HOMER HAMMONDTREE WILL CONDUCT VESPER SERVICES SUNDAY

Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 23, 1933 No. 11

‘CATS TO BATTLE DEACONS TOMORROW

Toynbee Discusses Foreign Prospects In Lecture Friday

Noted Lecturer Considers German Situation Parallel to That in Japan

WAR NOT IMPENDING

The International Relations Club Sponsors Lecture

“The Current International Situation,” a topic of universal discussion, was the subject of a talk given Friday evening, November 24, by one of the most notable speakers Davidson students have had an opportunity to listen to, Dr. Arnold J. Toynbee, director of studies in the Royal Institute of International Affairs, and research professor of international history on the Sir Daniel Stevenson Foundation at the University of London. Dr. Toynbee came to Davidson under the sponsorship of the International Relations Club on the local campus.

The distinguished speaker, after being introduced by Dr. T. W. Lingle, discussed the social and political relations which prevail between Germany, Russia, Austria, and Japan. “There are two danger points in the world today,” he began, “Germany and Japan are both in the state of revolution. These two countries are alike in the respect that only 20 per cent of their university graduates are able to find positions. The graduates have to wait until five or ten years later before they are able to go to work.”

“Germany has practically wiped out the Communist party,” he continued. “The situation in Germany today is terrible, and the Germans have suffered an economic crisis since the war.” Dr. Toynbee was struck with the helplessness of opposition to the Hitlerite government in Germany. The mail, radio, press, telegraph, public gatherings, etc., are in the hands of the government and are therefore closed to opposition. All opposition is isolated and paralyzed.

“There is an ill-feeling between the old and young in Germany,” the speaker continued, “The young think that they are privileged to push the old out of their position, and the old are resentful of this.

“What are the present and future effects of Germany's ‘National Socialist’ revolution upon the rest of Europe? War is more likely since youth is beginning to believe that war is the only (Continued on page 3)

Relic of Ney Is Now On Exhibit

Testament of Mysterious Figure Is Placed in Library

The internationally enigmatic figure of Paul Stuart Ney, designer of the Davidson College Seal and reputed Marechal of France, broods over the exhibition case of the library this week. A French New Testament, which belonged to him and contains his handwriting, has been in the Lingle family for nearly a century; Moses Lingle, a graduate of Davidson and uncle of President Lingle, the present owner of the volume, received the New Testament from Ney about 1840. This book, now on exhibit in the library, is open to Ney’s autograph and a page of French script (largely a paraphrase of selections from the Sermon on the Mount).

Paul Stuart Ney, whose profession was that of teacher, prepared Moses Lingle for entrance to Davidson. The problem of P. S. Ney’s true identity is, next to that of the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence, the pet hobby of local antiquarians.

Professor T. W. Lingle has also presented for loan exhibit three old books which have been in the family for generations. These include a book of devotional and liturgical literature, printed in Weimar, Germany, in 1744, a copy of the Heidelberg Catechism, printed in Halle, 1795, and a German Bible, with illuminated title page and with the original wooden, leather-covered boards, printed in 1770.

Dr. Martin Hardin (Courtesy Charlotte Observer)

Martin D. Hardin, who painted the two oil portraits, one of the late Woodrow Wilson and one of Col. E. L. Baxter Davidson, both alumni of Davidson College, which have been presented to the school. Dr. Hardin is a widely known artist and was formerly of Charlotte.

Portraits of Two Alumni Received

Paintings by Hardin Will Hang in Chambers Building

Two oil paintings, one of the late Woodrow Wilson, the other of Col. E. L. Baxter Davidson, have recently been presented to Davidson College, and were received here Monday. The portraits, which were painted by the well-known artist, Dr. Martin Hardin, hang at each end of the faculty room on the second floor of Chambers Building.

Both Woodrow Wilson and Colonel Davidson were prominent students at Davidson; Wilson entered in 1873, and Colonel Davidson in 1876. At the present time Colonel Davidson is president of the Mecklenburg County Alumni Association of Davidson College. It was through the influence of Colonel Davidson that our school received the two portraits, which will immortalize in Davidson halls these two prominent alumni.

Dr. Martin D. Hardin, painter of portraits, is pastor of a Presbyterian Church in Ithaca, N. Y. He was formerly pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. Although he has started painting only in recent years, his work has become well known, and he is a writer in the “Char- (Continued on page 2)

Mel Trotter Chosen To Lead Vesper Services

The Y. M. C. A. has secured Mel Trotter, superintendent of city missions of Grand Rapids, Mich., and world-known evangelist and preacher, to speak at the vesper services Sunday evening, December 3, at 6 o’clock. He will be accompanied by Homer Hammondtree, widely known for his musical talent, having been with some of the leading evangelists of this country.

The occasion of Mel Trotter’s visit to Davidson is due to the fact that he is leading a series of services in Charlotte from December 3 to December 17, at the invitation of a number of the Presbyterian churches in Charlotte. He will preach at the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte and at Davidson.

Rev. Mr. Trotter is well known in all parts of the United States, having held meetings in every state. Homer Hammondtree, who will be with Trotter at the vesper services on Sunday evening, December 3, will have charge of the chapel program on Tuesday, December 5, and will probably have charge of the vespers on Sunday evening, December 10. Hammondtree is a recognized musician, having studied music in America and abroad.

Dr. Lacy Concludes Annual Y Services In Address Nov. 22

Speaker Emphasizes Social and Spiritual Aspects in Development of Man

DREW LARGE AUDIENCE

Series of Addresses Covers Period of Four Days

Continuing his series of talks on “Man,” in conjunction with the Fall Evangelical Services, Dr. Ben R. Lacy, president of Union Theological Seminary, spoke to an appreciative audience Tuesday and Wednesday in the chapel period and again in vesper service at night.

In his talk Wednesday morning, Dr. Lacy emphasized the social aspect of development in the process of becoming a man. Dr. Lacy believes that this phase of development is as important as any in the making of a man truly foursquare. Christ Himself was a man of social nature, since He was often called upon to attend social functions. At night the speaker emphasized the spiritual side of development, showing the extreme importance of a full well-rounded spiritual life. This phase completed the foursquare development in being a man. (Continued on page 2)

Dr. Lambeth To Deliver Address

Will Be Guest-Speaker at Phi Beta Kappa Initiation Tuesday

Dr. W. A. Lambeth has been secured to make the address at the Phi Beta Kappa banquet and initiation to be held Tuesday, December 5. This marks the tenth anniversary of the installation of the Phi Beta Kappa Chapter here.

Dr. Lambeth is a graduate of Duke University (then old Trinity College), where he made a record as a student and athlete. Since his graduation, he has served as pastor of some of the most important Southern Methodist churches in this section. For several years he was the pastor of the Mt. Vernon Church, the leading Southern Methodist Church in Washington.

Dr. Lambeth is a man of great personal charm and popular appeal as an orator. On two occasions he has delivered the commencement address at Salem College and is in great demand as a speaker all over the South. His address will be of interest not only to the members of Phi Beta Kappa but to the members of the student body and to the people of the town.

Most of the alumni to be initiated at this time were honorary members of the Mimir society which preceded Phi Beta Kappa at Davidson. The faculty members of Mimir and those students who would have made Mimir were made members of Phi Beta Kappa when it was organized ten years ago. After the organization of Phi Beta Kappa the Mimir society was discontinued.

President Lingle Gives Lectures In Richmond

Dr. Walter L. Lingle returned Friday to Davidson after a week’s visit in Richmond, Va. While in the city Dr. Lingle delivered a series of lectures to a class composed of elders and deacons of the churches of Richmond.

In addition to delivering these lectures, Dr. Lingle also addressed the Ministers’ Association, speaking at the morning chapel exercises at the Union Theological Seminary, and at the Assembly’s Training School. He also attended a meeting of the Richmond-Petersburg Alumni Association held in the refectory of the Union Theological Seminary. At this meeting Dr. Lingle, Captain Pritchett, and Grier Martin were the speakers.

Dr. Lingle attended the William and Mary-Davidson football game with Richmond friends.

Six Davidson Men Attend Statewide “Y”Conference State “Y” Leaders Gather at Greensboro to Discuss Mutual Problems

BRUCE CURRIE SPEAKS

Davidson Students Take Active Part in Programs

Davidson College was represented by six men at the “Y" Conference which was held at the Woman's College of North Carolina University on Sunday, November 26. Representatives were present at the conference in Greensboro from most of the men and women's colleges of this state. A large number of problems were discussed by both the Y. M. C. A. and the Y. W. C. A. State Student Cabinets. Those who attended from Davidson were W. M. Thompson, E. J. Humphrey, Lyman Clardy, Duke Glasgow, Walter Sprunt, and Sam Wiley.

The conference began at 10:00 a.m. with a meeting in the Y Hut. Other meetings followed in succession throughout the day. One interesting meeting was the one at which Dr. Bruce Currie, an alumnus of Davidson College and now of the Union Theological Seminary in New York City, spoke to the group. Dr. Currie also conducted a communion service. W. M. Thompson presided over the Y. M. C. A. State Student Cabinet meeting. During this meeting, local campus problems of the various schools represented were discussed. Plans were also discussed for the inaugurating of a Student Christian Movement in North America. After the discussion groups had concluded their work, a picnic supper was served to the conference members. After the supper, the meeting was brought to a close with devotional exercises which were led by the group from Davidson College.

Faculty Enjoys Talk By Lingle

Twenty Faculty Members Attend Quadwranglers Meeting

Thursday afternoon, at 4 o'clock, November 23, the Quadwranglers enjoyed a delightful tea and informal discussion in their regular meeting place in Chambers. The hostesses, Mrs. J. M. MacConnell, Mrs. C. R. Harding, and Mrs. J. P. Williams, served a delicious refreshment course of coffee, tea, sandwiches, and cakes, in an attractive style. Approximately twenty members of the faculty were present and an enjoyable time was had talking shop and discussing current problems of the day. The guests were divided into small groups and the viewpoint on current problems thus obtained proved interesting as well as varied since the various professors gave their opinions based on personal experience and the particular course that they taught.

The same evening at 7:30 o'clock the club met in their regular meeting place to hear a talk prepared by Dr. T. W. Lingle. Dr. Lingle chose as his subject Scandinavia, and proceeded to tell in detail of the three countries, Sweden, Norway, and Denmark.

I. R. C. Holds Business Meeting Wed. Nov. 12th

The International Relations Club, presided over by its president, Lyman Clardy, held a short meeting Wednesday, November 22, at which several timely business matters were discussed. The first affair taken up was the invitation of the International Relations Club of Winthrop College to the Davidson club to send three delegates to the “Model League of Nations” to be held there December 8 and 9, and to which almost every college and university in North and South Carolina will send delegates.

Christmas Gift Fund

“The first duty of Davidson College and community during lean years is to relieve need and suffering at home.” This feeling led the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet to decide that the Christmas Gift Fund shall be given this year to the Davidson Unity Church. Each year the “Y” conducts a campaign throughout the student body to raise a sum of money which is given to some worthy cause. Through the channel of Unity Church, formerly called the “Mill Chapel,” the amount raised this year will be administered to alleviate cases of destitution arising from long-continued economic stress. Food, clothing, and medical attention will be provided where needed. The campaign will be held December 11, 12, and 13. The objective will be $1,000.

Honorary Council Led By Thompson

Council Composed of Presidents of Honorary Fraternities

The Honorary Fraternity Council, headed by W. T. Thompson, is composed of the presidents of the various honorary fraternities here and is formed to ensure the cooperative development of their aims and programs. The following list comprises those men who have been honored by their groups to lead them as presidents and to represent them on the Honorary Fraternity Council: Phi Beta Kappa, Dr. C. M. Richards; Omicron Delta Kappa, Fred Smyre; Sigma Upsilon, Lyman Clardy; International Relations Club, Lyman Clardy; Sigma Pi Sigma, Joe Dill; Alpha Phi Epsilon, W. L. Fugate; Scabbard and Blade, W. M. Brown; Eta Sigma Phi, W. T. Thompson; Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Rufus Morrow; Delta Pi Alpha, Francis Scott; Delta Pi Kappa, Lyman Clardy; Omega Phi Alpha, James White; Cercle Francais, Lanier Pratt; Sigma Delta Psi, Fred Smyre; Pi Delta Alpha, Rufus Morrow; Sigma Delta Pi, Fred Smyre.

Scabbard and Blade announces that the decoration of its recent pledges will take place Friday afternoon at the drill hour, and that the initiation will follow that evening.

Omicron Delta Kappa met with Dr. William Moseley Brown, its national executive secretary, who, while on his way to a southern convention, stopped here. Dr. Brown related briefly the history and purposes of the leadership organization.

Dramatists Plan First Performance of Year

The first performance to be given by the Red and Black Masquers this year will be “The Second Shepherds Play.” This is a medieval miracle play, and its purpose is to give the people a conception of the birth of Christ. It will be presented during the Christmas services. The time for the tryouts for “The Second Shepherds Play,” which is under the direction of Professor Erwin, will be announced later. As yet no definite program has been made for the remainder of the year, but there are several plans on foot. Among these is the presentation of the plays, “Children of the Moon,” by Martin Flavin, and “Candida,” by George Bernard Shaw.

SUPPER HOUR CHANGED

According to the general custom at Davidson, the supper hour will be changed from 6:30 to 6:00 o’clock after the football season closes. This change will go into effect at supper Friday night of this week.

Davidson Is Primed For Final Game Of Season With Dekes

Coach Doc Newton Expecting Tough Fight With Ancient Football Foe

DAVIDSON IS FAVORED

Davidson’s current season, so far a very successful one, will be brought to a close tomorrow when the Wildcats meet the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest in a Turkey Day classic to be staged at Central Stadium, Charlotte. A great deal will depend on the coming encounter, the outcome of which will have considerable effect upon the order of the State Big Five standing. Both Wake Forest and Davidson have been defeated by Duke and Carolina, and tied by State. Therefore, should the 'Cats be victorious in tomorrow’s contest, Davidson will take third place on the Big Five ladder, and Wake Forest and State will be tied for fourth. On the other hand, should the Deacons conquer, the situation will be exactly reversed.

The game tomorrow will also be the final one for the Deacons, who have played only five encounters this year, having lost four and tied one. Davidson’s record for the season is usually good, as the Wildcats, out of a total of eight games played, won five, tied one, and lost two. Wake Forest has failed to make a single touchdown this year, whereas her opponents have crossed the Deacon goal line eleven times for a total of 73 points. Davidson has tallied 89 points to 57 for the opponents. Although the dope sheet is in favor of the 'Cats, nevertheless Davidson's head coach, “Doc” Newton, is expecting a hard game—one which will find the Wildcats pitted against a powerful, fast-charging line, and an array of good defensive backs. The Davidson line will be the lightest, and probably the weakest, that the Wake Forest eleven has faced this season. Moreover, the Deacons employ a driving offense which will subject the ’Cat forward wall to considerable punishment. That this type of play holds yard-gaining possibilities is evidenced by the fact that Wake Forest garnered more first downs than either Carolina or State. The Wildcats should be able to put their full strength on the field tomorrow, as none of the men are suffering from injuries.

Chemistry Frat Has Convention

Professor Thies and Rufus Morrow Represent Davidson

The Alpha Alpha Chapter of the Gamma Sigma Epsilon was represented last Saturday at the biennial convention held in Gainesville, Fla. by Prof. O. J. Thies and Rufus Morrow. Professor Thies, who is a national officer, and Morrow, president of the local chapter, made the trip by automobile, and returned to the college Wednesday. The convention, which ended Tuesday, consisted of several addresses, chapter reports, and business transactions, while certain changes were made in the legislature of the fraternity. Several banquets and a sight-seeing trip were also arranged, and the wholehearted response of the delegates marked these as a big success. Gamma Sigma Epsilon, which is a national honorary fraternity, was founded at Davidson in 1919 and since then has grown to ten active chapters, scattered over the nation. Membership is given on the basis of outstanding work and interest in chemistry. This year seven men received bids from the Davidson Chapter, and plans are now being made for the initiation, which will take place in the near future.