THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1933

EDITORS VIEW FAMED WINDOW

The Last Supper Window
By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

Among the interesting places visited by the National Editorial Association during its convention in Los Angeles was Memorial Court of Honor at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Glendale. Here is enshrined the famous Moretti recreation in stained glass of Leonardo da Vinci’s great painting “The Last Supper.” More than 200,000 persons have viewed the window since it was installed a few months ago. Created from Leonardo’s own sketches, the window was seven years in the making. Flanking it on either side are reproductions of Michelangelo’s greatest sculptures.

As one enters through the Cathedral Corridor, the eye is drawn toward the row of beautiful statues that proclaim the genius of Canova, Thorvaldsen, and other great sculptors. At the end of the Corridor was the winged angelic figure, “In Memoria,” an original by Luppi, Italy’s greatest living sculptor. Turning to the left, one becomes aware of the great radiance at the end of the long vista which is “The Last Supper” Window. So gloriously does “The Last Supper” Window dominate its setting that one does not notice at first the architectural splendor where it is enshrined. It is the only place where all of Michelangelo’s greatest works are gathered together. Here were exact reproductions of the immortal Medici “Madonna,” the tender “Pieta,” the symbolical memorials “Day and Night” and “Twilight and Dawn,” and, near the entrance, the gigantic “Moses,” the only full-sized, exact reproduction of the “greatest masterpiece of the world’s greatest sculptor, Michelangelo.”

“The Last Supper” shows a scene of immense movement. Jesus has just spoken the fateful words: “I tell you that one of you shall betray me.” All the apostles are agitated and Judas, in his agitation, has tipped over the salt cellar. Jesus only is calm and unmoved. Leonardo da Vinci said: “I do not finish the face of Christ—no one can finish that.” Each figure lives within its own character and they draw back while Jesus remains alone with his sorrow. Each figure appears worried and Jesus is the center of the painting for amid the turmoil that surrounds Him, He alone is still.

“The Last Supper” Window is constantly changing. God’s sunlight is the only light that illumines the figures (which are twice life-size) and each hour heaven paints a new picture. A fleecy cloud crosses the path of the sun and the picture softens and subdues. The sun breaks forth and the painting radiates in splendor and glorious color. At twilight the shadows lengthen and the picture is dimmed, the apostles seem to leave, one by one, until at last only the face of Jesus appears—calm, majestic, but so alone. Surely this great painting has a spiritual message and any person is made a better man or woman from having seen it.

ROMANTIC NEW ORLEANS

Let us jump from the West Coast to the heart of the Southland. Returning by romantically old and yet modern New Orleans, we visited the Shedds who used to live in Waycross. They greeted us with characteristic hospitality and took us first to Audubon Park which is an extremely beautiful spot with its live oaks and tropical foliage. Among the colleges and universities seen were Loyola, Newcomb, and Tulane.

Jackson Square is the heart of old New Orleans. The Cabildo facing the square is where the transfer of the Louisiana Purchase occurred. The Pontalba Apartments, built by the Duke of Pontalba, was where the old aristocracy used to live. An artist colony is now housed in these buildings. One of the quaintest streets in the Old Quarter was La Rue St. Pierre, overhung with iron balconies. Other places of interest visited were the historic St. Louis Cathedral, the oldest one still standing in America, and Paul Morphy House, the home of the great chess player. The old Absinthe House was the haunt of the Lafitte Pirates and also the birthplace of the famed Mardi Gras. The house on Chartres Street built by Dominique You was pointed out also. He was the leader of a band of conspirators who planned to rescue Napoleon from St. Helena.

In the Italian Quarter we stopped and had a dish of spumone and a cassata. Visiting the great wharfs, we saw them loading bananas on the ships to be shipped all over the world. New Orleans is the second port in size in the United States. Canal Street is of course the principal business thoroughfare and brings out both the modern and the ancient charm of this great city. Following the Canal out to the Southern Yacht Club situated on Lake Pontchartrain, in the afternoon we passed scores of beautiful boats returning from a weekend of sailing. Their great number and size proved that New Orleans goes in for yachting in a big way. Returning to the city, one passes old cemeteries that are unique amongburial grounds.

SPANISH CONSUL

During dinner that night the new Consul from Peru, Dr. Vasquez, and his wife, dropped by for a visit. They met each other at the International House at Columbia University in New York City and married after an acquaintance of eleven days. Mrs. Vasquez is an American girl and speaks no Spanish. He is of course a Spaniard, but is learning English—at least the love words—under his charming wife’s direction. I talked to him in Spanish and do you know that man is a Ph.D. and cannot understand his own language! They are very happy and I think the universal language of music brought them together for the first piece of furniture purchased for their new home was a grand piano.

That night we visited the French Market after midnight for a cup of coffee. This spot is hallowed by age and romance. Sitting down at a coffee stall with pewter sugar bowls on the marble counters, we saw the huge coffee urns and baskets where the crullers were kept. Three crisp crullers were served with each cup of coffee. Belles and beaux come here after the theater in evening dress and, perching on the high stools, their feet in the sawdust, sip the delicious coffee. Even the walls were filled with romance and the aroma of the coffee arouses in one’s mind the haunting memories of days gone by. To this place came Andrew Jackson, Henry Clay, Thackeray, and Jenny Lind, to sip this coffee blended only as French Creoles can blend it. It doesn’t hurt you and the natives drink from 10 to 15 cups a day. How interesting it was to watch them make it! They piled the coffee in a strainer—a tablespoonful to each cup—and then when it became heated poured in two tablespoons of boiling water. It became soaked in ten minutes and was ready for serving.

MARKET PLACE

Next, the market was visited. Wagons were arriving with produce and the vendors were doing a good business even at such an early hour in the morning. In the fish market were salmon, scarlet crabs, shrimp, croakers, pompanos, Spanish mackerel, and bullfrogs. Spanish moss was placed in the crab boxes so they tangled their claws and could not escape. Since then the city commission has doomed the old French market and it gave way to a “modern, electrolyzed” plant. Notwithstanding the advantages of such a plant, we were sorry to hear of it and like to think of it just as it used to be.

The next morning after a swim in the pool we visited some of the old antique shops in the French Quarter. The sweeping charm of old antiquity is still preserved there and it was delightful to explore them at random. Rare old jewels, furniture, mirrors, and other priceless objects of art were seen. The women of the old aristocracy in New Orleans who have experienced financial reverses come down to these shops after closing hours and list their jewels. Priceless objects may be secured for a few picayunes, but the shopkeeper never reveals the name of the unfortunate owner.

The Arts and Crafts Club is the rendezvous for artists. Le Petit Theatre Du Vieux Carre is one of the first Little Theatre movements in this country and it is housed in a most picturesque building. The theatre was entered by the loggia, whose doorway was an adaptation of the old carriage entrances to the courtyards. This loggia served as a passageway and also as an access to the patio. The floor was of flagstones, and the ceiling was dark, stained vine. There was a large crystal chandelier hanging from the ceiling and the walls were plain with replica tapestries and at one end there was an old chest from Verona.

The finishing touch was a dinner at Antoine’s which is the most famous of French restaurants. Never have I tasted such food and the price was reasonable compared to American cafes.

This is the last article I shall write in attempting to describe the trip to California while attending the convention of the National Editorial Association. Aside from visiting many interesting places and cities, as I look back I feel that the most enjoyable part of the trip to me was the one month of constant association with my Dad.

DEBATING TEAM ENDS SOUTHEASTERN TRIP

(Continued from page 1)

They will debate on the same subject. The debate with Haverford University will be an Oxford plan debate. No decision will be rendered.

They're Milder and yet

© 1933 Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

You get what you want, and you don’t have to take what you don’t want. It’s like this: You don’t want a strong, rank cigarette; you don’t want one that’s tasteless. You want one that lets you know that you are smoking, but you don’t want one that’s bitey. Chesterfields are milder... and yet They Satisfy.

Chesterfield the cigarette that’s MILDER

the cigarette that TASTES BETTER