Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 1, 1933

OBSERVER FEATURES ‘GEN. SMITH ARTICLE

(Continued from page 1)

From the time of cessation of service in the Southern cause he has always worn its gray uniform. He would see his symbolism again in the maintenance of General Smith’s antebellum style of living, in his ancestral home filled with Confederate relics, and in his prominence in the veterans’ organizations in which he has risen from private to general, commanding the state division. But the ability of this Confederate soldier to win marked success in the paths of peace shows that his two outstanding characteristics are not antipodal. Proof of this is the picture of his life.

William Alexander Smith was born in Ansonville, a village in Anson County, known in the old days as the ‘town of the aristocrats.’ Its citizenry was made up almost completely of proud old families, among the most prominent of whom were the Smiths who, as original settlers of the town, assisted in its laying out and had the choice of its home sites.

BACK FROM WAR MAIMED

The article continues by telling something of the ancestry of General Smith and of his volunteering for the Southern cause. He saw service at Burwell’s Bay until the end of ’62 and played an important role in many of the decisive battles of the war. In one encounter he was seriously wounded and afterwards became a cripple for life. After the war he returned home to build up the family fortunes and unlike many of his unfortunate friends, was able to save his home and make a decent living. An account of his opening a store is given as follows:

In 1866, General Smith, like a modern of the present youth, staked his all on a turn of the wheel and opened in Ansonville a store on whose shelves was every article that could be secured—on credit. Faith and hope were his as he sold to a clientele for miles around on the same principle. Sometimes instead of dispensing credit, he and his customers bartered. A new stock was obtained. No additional accounts were put on the books.

A REAL MODERNIST

To this point, General Smith has been depicted as a modernist in affairs that concerned himself and his welfare. There is generous proof that he was a modernist too in his conceptions of his duty to his fellow man. There have been philanthropists in all ages among those of vast fortunes, but it has remained for the last two centuries to produce men who have devoted goodly portions of smaller incomes to the welfare of their fellows. Though General Smith is not to be classed as a financier, he has rendered service in proportion to his means.

General Smith has been inspired to all his activity in the field of learning by his recollections of his own inadequate early education, acquired with much difficulty in the traditional log schoolhouse, and by his desire to send boys to college better prepared to meet the curricular demands than he was when he stood the entrance examinations in Greek and Latin in the old days at Davidson.

VIEW OF COLLEGE POLICY

There is one policy that I am delighted to see is gradually coming back into use by all colleges of today, said General Smith as he ruminated upon the educational ideals. That is the insistence by the faculty that students shall make a definite average from semester to semester to continue as a member of the institution. But that is not an idea that this generation has evolved, he said, as he leaned forward to seriously emphasize his statement. That was a regulation that existed generally in colleges three-quarters of a century ago. The abandonment of that policy for a time must have been a result of the war, for schools had to depend for

---their clientele on those who could pay. "There grew up consequently a lack of appreciation for the advantages of an education. Now that the opportunity for higher education is a common one," he concluded with a smile, "the faculty can inaugurate a demand for greater selectiveness."

He takes an active part in affairs of the Episcopal Church at Ansonville and designed the All Saints Chapel there. He has been elected to the board of managers of the Thompson Orphanage of Charlotte and the board of trustees of the University of the South at Sewanee.

"As could be expected from a man assuming such leadership, General Smith became an eager supporter of the good roads program that was to project North Carolina as one of the most progressive states in the Union. Of like advancement was his position in the votes for women and prohibition campaigns, since he was an ardent supporter of both.

"Of final proof of the modernity of this man is the creed he adopted for himself when he as a young man started out on his long career, a creed which could as conceivably be promulgated by the youth of today. 'Perseverance, economy, unremitting attention to business, honorable dealings, not too great haste to become rich but keeping capital and earnings actively employed. Practice liberality; be helpful to others and keep good company.'"

FORENSIC COUNCIL ANNOUNCES VARSITY AND FRESHMAN TRIPS
(Continued from page 1)

alternate, will have an exchange debate with Lees-McRae College on March 11. This year the Forensic Council will have the honor of entertaining the State Peace Conference at Davidson, April 28. Since Davidson has not entertained this conference in four years, it is appropriate and fitting. The purpose of this conference is to stimulate interest in world peace. The Misses Seabury of New Bedford, Mass., have offered as prizes a hundred dollars in cash and a silver loving cup. The first prize is sixty dollars and the second is forty. The silver loving cup goes to the school which wins at the conference. There will be six or seven contestants from the various schools in North Carolina. Some of the former participants are Duke, State, Lenoir-Rhyne, Davidson, and Guilford. The speaker to represent Davidson has not been selected, but it is expected that a selection will be made some time in the near future.

DAVIDSON "Y" WORK IS OUTLINED TO VISITORS
(Continued from page 1)

Davidson was outlined. Each Davidson man gave a brief report of his own field of duties and activities. The members of both cabinets agreed that the weekend was very beneficial, and the Davidson "Y" is looking forward to sending a return deputation to Chapel Hill some time in the near future.

U-PUSH-EMS

New Rates at M. P. Henderson’s Gulf Station

SCARLET SODAS
TOBACCOS
See Our New Line of Stationery
TANAGER SUNDRIES
Hot Chocolate
Coffee
Phone 9143
Tomato Bouillon

To tell only good cigarette... that the makers of Chesterfield Cigarettes are the only ones who can buy good tobaccos and manufacture cigarettes scientifically... would be nothing short of foolish. For all tobacco is sold in open auctions—where anyone can buy if he will pay the price. Even the machines on which different cigarettes are made are alike. This much, however, is true: By using the right kinds of Turkish and Domestic tobaccos in just the right proportions... by blending and cross-blending them together in the most careful way... we make Chesterfield what smokers say it is... a cigarette that’s milder, that tastes better. Just try them. 

Chesterfield Radio Program—Every night except Sunday, Columbia coast-to-coast Network.

© 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

THEY’RE MILDER — THEY TASTE BETTER