THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 22, 1933

DAVIDSON 12 W. & M. 7

Around the Wildcat’s Lair

WAKE FOREST THANKSGIVING

CASKIE NORVELL

William and Mary was added to the list of Davidson victims last Saturday, when the Wildcats journeyed to Williamsburg to
lick the Indians, 12-7, on two touchdowns by “Little Joe” Wingfield. Johnny Mackorell, stellar Wildcat backfield man, again ran wild
to show that his great play against The Citadel was no morning glory burst of fire, but that he is
the greatest back in the Carolinas. Jake Wade says that Corky Cornelius, Duke flash, is the only back in the
state that even approaches Mackorell, and he can’t do so many of the things that Johnny can.

In the William and Mary imbroglio, Mackorell ran the initial kickoff back 70 yards, and in addition tossed passes hither
and yon to put Davidson in scoring position. He gets an orchid. Sharing in honors, and also receiving an orchid,
is “Little Joe.” This hunk of dynamite took many passes from Mackorell, the Wildcat ballistician, and played tag with the
William and Mary boys, until he had shaken himself free and scored two touchdowns. He also passed to Mackorell in
the end zone, but from across the field the official saw Mackorell step out of bounds, and the play was
called back.

The play of the entire team is to be heartily commended, and the line work of Potter, Rives, McElrath, Siewers,
Cathey, Hand, and Morgan was particularly outstanding. “Schnozz” Willson came back into his own, and made some of those great
tackles that he is famous for... you know, the kind that resound all over the field.

By licking William and Mary, Davidson made a perfect season’s record against Virginia teams, as they did last year. The
’Cats have beaten V. M. I., 6-0, and now have taken William and Mary, 12-7. Last season the locals took
V. M. I. 12-0, and Washington and Lee, 7-0. W. & L. has had a most successful season this year,
tying West Virginia and licking Kentucky. It is a pity that the Generals and the ’Cats don’t play this year,
as it would be a whale of a good game.

The freshman team completed a rather disastrous season by bowing to the Duke yearlings, 32-0. The Davidson boys could show
little offensive, and the Blue Imps ran wild. The freshmen tied Lees-McRae Junior College, 6-6, in the opener, and have
lost to freshman teams from N. C. State, V. P. I., and Duke. Their lone victory was a 32-0 drubbing
given the Wofford freshmen.

As Turkey Day approaches, the Davidson student body is becoming Wake Forest-minded. Last year, on Richardson Field, a Wildcat team
that wouldn’t and couldn’t be beaten broke a ten-year jinx, and knocked off Wake Forest, 7-0, as Charlie Pearce intercepted
a Deacon pass and ran 53 yards to touchdown. The true-toed Bruce Peabody added the extra point, and in his
last game scored Davidson's final point for 1932. This year things look bright for another Davidson victory. And now that
the old jinx is very definitely broken, there is no reason why Davidson shouldn’t beat the boys from Wake by
about three touchdowns. It would never do for the ’Cats to get cocky on the prediction of an amateur prognosticator,
but we still think Davidson will win, and have plenty left over. On paper, which is a very unreliable way
to figure football, the Wildcats have it all over the Deacons, but one can never tell. The Deacons have not
scored this season, and have been beaten by Catholic U., Duke, Carolina, and Clemson. Their lone claim to glory is
a scoreless deadlock with N. C. State. On the basis of the showing of both teams against Duke, Davidson is
10 points to the good.

WILDCAT HARRIERS DOWN CAVALIERS BY 21 TO 37

Victory Over the Virginia Team Brings Successful Season to Close

FRAZIER FINISHES FIRST

Merchant Falls Near End of Race

Led by Captain Earle Frazier, the Davidson harriers closed their 1933 cross-country season in a blaze of glory when they
triumphed over the University of Virginia runners at Charlottesville last Saturday, 21 to 37. The meet was run over a
hilly three-mile course and, with Frazier setting a fairly fast 16 minutes and 5.5 seconds pace, the Wildcats were able
to place six men in the first ten.

Billy Merchant, diminutive sophomore runner, gave the Davidson supporters a scare late in the race when, due to an indisposition,
he fell out on the road, but it proved to be nothing serious, and he had fully recovered in a
short time.

The order in which the runners finished, with the number of points scored by each, is as follows: Frazier (Davidson),
1; St. John (Virginia), 2; Oakes (Davidson), 3; Gullette (Davidson), 4; Banta (Virginia), 5; Morrow (Davidson), 6; Glass (Davidson), 7;
McFadyen (Davidson), 8; (points do not count in team scoring), Strange (Virginia), 9; Walcott (Virginia), 10; Rosenberge (Virginia), 11.

This was the last meet of the year for the Davidson harriers. In the rating of teams in the state,
and also in Virginia, this year’s team holds a high place. It has won three victories, tied one meet, and
lost one, this to Carolina, who was later beaten by Duke. In the first meet of the season, they tied
the Duke runners, last-year holders of the Southern Conference trophy. Then they advanced through the ranks with wins over N.
C. State, 19 to 39, and Washington and Lee, 20 to 43. The boys from Chapel Hill barely won over
the Wildcats, 27 to 29, to bring the scene up to the present. This is the strongest showing made by
a Davidson cross-country team in several years. The coaches expect as strong, if not stronger, team next year. They have
arranged already for meets with several teams in the South, including Duke, Carolina, N. C. State, Virginia, Washington and Lee,
and perhaps a meet with Navy. A state meet may be arranged, and Davidson officials are attempting to have it
held at Davidson.

Mountain Park Downs Davidson All-Americans

Junior College Boys Hand “All-Americans” Their First Licking

Last Friday afternoon on Richardson Field the “B” team lost a hard-fought game to Mountain Park Junior College, the final
score being 12-0. The “All-Americans” kicked off to Mountain Park. On the first play, the Mountaineers worked a spread play
for 45 yards. Failing to gain through the line, they attempted several passes but to no avail. The “B” team,
after a try through the line, punted out of danger. Neither team showed much drive in the first two periods.
Both teams took to the air in the second period. The half ended with the ball in possession of the
Mountaineers on their own 30-yard line.

Davidson's “B” team kicked off and the receiver was stopped after a gain of ten yards. On a reverse 20
yards were picked up over left tackle. The Mountaineers started a drive from their 40-yard line to Davidson’s 6-yard line.
On the third try, Fitzgerald, Mountain Park back, took the ball over for a touchdown. Extra point was not made.
Late in the same quarter, Walker intercepted a pass from Sanders intended for Richardson and raced over for the second
touchdown. Placement kick was blocked.

In the final period, both teams took to the air. Neither team was able to gain much ground by this
route. The game ended with the ball in Davidson's possession on their own 45-yard line. Fitzgerald and Walker showed up
best for Mountain Park, while Sanders, Young, and Barringer were outstanding for the “All-Americans.” This week the “B” team...

Big Five Race

Team W L T Pet.
Duke 3 0 0 1.000
Carolina 2 1 0 .667
Davidson 1 2 0 .333
State 1 2 0 .333
Wake Forest 0 3 0 .000

Soph Tackle

Henry Cathey, a sophomore tackle on Davidson's football team, played one of his best games of the year in last
Saturday’s game. He has been a key lineman and a valuable player as guard.will learn Wake Forest plays, which they
will run against the varsity in preparation for the Thanksgiving game. A game with the Huntersville All-Stars will probably be
played by the reserves the latter part of the week. The “B” team won, 18-0, the last time they played
the All-Stars.

Freshman Class Ahead In School Basketball
Winner of Tournament to Receive 20 Points on Trophy

The Freshman class is leading in the intra-mural basketball tournament which has been held over the last two weeks. The
schedule is so arranged that each class plays every other class two times. The last of these games are being
played this week. Each game has been close, and they have been well attended, the fever of excitement running high
at times. The Freshman team has defeated the Senior team by 27-25, and the Juniors by 33-22. The Sophomores lost
to the Juniors by 26-14, while the Seniors won over the Junior team by 27-17. This leaves only the Freshman
class out of the four classes to remain unbeaten thus far in the tournament. The winner of the tournament will
receive twenty points toward the trophy which is awarded at the end of the year to the class having the
best intra-mural record.

Duke Defeats Carolina 21-0 In Fast Game
The Citadel Triumphs Over Oglethorpe Eleven With 13-0 Score
WAKE FOREST IDLE
Richmond University Downs the V. M. I. “Keydets,” 15-0

Only four of Davidson’s 1933 football opponents took part in games last Saturday, as Duke licked Carolina, 21-0, Citadel defeated
Oglethorpe, 13-0, and V. M. I. fell victim to a strong Richmond aggregation, 15-0. Duke's powerful team had little difficulty
in overcoming the Tar Heels, scoring two touchdowns in the first quarter, and one in the last. The Blue Devils
made seven first downs, scattered throughout the game, while Carolina tallied six, all of which came in the last half.

Horace “Horse” Hendrickson, brilliant Duke quarterback, led the way with the first two scores, one counter being made when he
circled right end for 11 yards, and the second coming as the result of a pass to Rossiter, halfback, which
netted 31 yards.

In the Citadel-Oglethorpe contest, the Cadets drove 67 yards to a touchdown in the opening period, and scored the final
counter in the final quarter when Quarterman intercepted a pass and raced 22 yards to cross the goal line. Oglethorpe
failed to make a single serious threat. The splendid punting of Charlie Quarterman, Bulldog halfback, featured the game. Time and
again he kicked out of bounds inside the Oglethorpe five-yard line, and one of his punts hit the chalk inches
from the goal.

A highlight of the V. M. I.-Richmond contest was the running of Perry Schultz, Spider back, who broke through the
V. M. I. line for gain after gain, one long gallop of 68 yards netting the first touchdown for Richmond.
The Spiders made a field goal in the first quarter, when Joyce booted the (Continued on page 6)

STATISTICS
W. & M.-Davidson Game
W.&M. Dav.
First downs 8 10
Yards gained from scrimmage 148 85
Yards lost at scrimmage 42 24
Passes attempted 7 15
Passes completed 3 8
Passes had intercepted 1 0
Yards gained from passes 46 76
Yardage on punts 305 340
Average yards on punts 34 34
Yards punts returned 36 41
Yards penalized 48 35
Ball lost on fumbles 1 0

“Little Joe” GEORGE WINGFIELD “HALFBACK”
“Little Joe” Wingfield made two touchdowns in the game Saturday with William and Mary. He is Davidson’s speediest back, and
his brilliant playing has been outstanding in all games during this season.

Freshmen End Gridiron Season With Blue Imps
Gracy Leads ’Kittens Through Stiff Five-Game Schedule

The Davidson freshmen gridders played their last game of the current football season Saturday, when they engaged the powerful Duke
University freshmen at Asheville. The game with the Imps marked the end of a somewhat disappointing season for the freshmen,
who have lost three games, tied one, and won one. Nevertheless, they have always put up a good fight and
shown the spirit for which Davidson teams are noted.

Probably the most outstanding man on the Davidson team is Hugh Gracy of Franklin, Tenn. Holding the pivot position for
the freshmen, Gracy seemed to be in every tackle and was the leading defensive man on the team. Johnson and
Armfield are some others who have seen active service, while Dickson and Cathey, stalwart ends, were old hands at snagging
passes and smearing the opposition on end runs.

In the backfield the Kittens depended mostly on the services of Maurice Peabody, Phil Cook and Bill Quick while Garrison,
a former Reidsville High School star, was particularly good at passing and punting. Cook, who hails from California, starred mainly
on his defensive work. Peabody and Quick, both Charlotte boys, did most of the ground gaining for the backfield.

Freshman scores:
Davidson 6 Lees-McRae 0
Davidson 0 BosoNi Geotate 13
Davidson 0 Wofford 0
Davidson 0 Duke 32

DUKE FRESHMAN ELEVEN TOPS WILDKITTENS 33-0
Blue Imps Run Wild to Lick Davidson Frosh Team
SMATHERS IS STAR
Wildkittens Show Little Power on Offensive

Playing their final game of the current season, Davidson's Wildkittens were defeated last Saturday at Asheville by a strong aggregation
of Duke University yearlings, 32 to 0. The Blue Imps flashed a fine offensive attack and kept the ball in
Davidson’s territory almost the entire game. Accurate passing on the part of Parker, Duke quarterback, netted two touchdowns, and paved
the way for another. The Duke frosh were unable to gain but little through the ’Kitten line, and on this
account were forced to take to the air, where their fine passing attack stood them in good stead. The Wildkittens,
handicapped by a weak pass defense, found themselves unable to bottle up the aerial heaves of the Blue Imps. Moreover,
numerous Davidson fumbles of punts cost the 'Kittens much yardage, and enabled Duke to score easily on several occasions.

Outstanding among the Blue Imps were Quarterback Parker and Halfback Smathers. For Davidson, Phil Cook did a bit of pretty
playing in the backfield, while Armfield and Johnson did well in the line.

The line-up follows:
Duke Frosh Position Dav. Frosh
Evans LE Cathey
Cardwell LT Hunter
Power LG R. Johnson
Swicegood Center Gracy
Greenwood RG Purdy
Rohers RT Armfield
Taliaferro RE Moore
Parker QB Shemwell
Gilander LH Peabody
Smathers RH Quick
Campbell FB Cooke

Score by periods:
Duke Frosh 6 6 13 6—32
Davidson Frosh 0 0 0 0—0

Scoring: Duke touchdowns, Smathers, 3; Evans, Levin (substitute for Gilander). Extra points: Parker, 2 (place-kicks).

’Cats Meet Deacons in Thanksgiving Day Game

In their last game of the season, the Wildcats will meet the Demon Deacons from Wake Forest Thanksgiving Day at
the Central High School Stadium in Charlotte. The Deacons have new coaches this year, but as yet have not been
able to get going. Wake Forest has not scored on any team this year. Last year the Wildcats whipped the
boys from Wake Forest 7-0.

CHEW GUM FOR PEP
Gum chewing has the effect of increasing peppiness about 8 percent, according to a psychology professor at Colgate.

IF YOU COME ONCE... YOU’LL COME ALWAYS
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY
“THE CHIEF”
ED WYNN—“CHIC” SALE—DOROTHY MACKAILL

THURSDAY
“COLLEGE COACH”
DICK POWELL—ANN DVORAK—PAT O’BRIEN
And An All-American Line-up

FRIDAY
“JENNY AND SALLY”
JAMES DUNN—SALLY EILLERS

SATURDAY
“PRIZE FIGHTER AND LADY”
MYRNA LOY—MAX BAER—PRIMO CARNERA
JACK DEMPSEY

MONDAY
“FEMALE”
RUTH CHATTERTON—GEORGE BRENT

TUESDAY
“ACE OF ACES”
RICHARD DIX—ELIZABETH ALLAN

FREE
this EVERY BLADE GUARANTEED
DAVIDSON, N. C.
5 Permedge Shaving Cream
The razor blade you've dreamed of... shaves and more shaves per blade. It’s the Permedge—sold only at Rexall Drug Stores.
We want you to try them with this special offer. Give your face this treat today!
WHITE DRUG CO.
package of RAZOR BLADES with each tube LAVENDER mentholated 35¢ DRUG STORE

better than Wake Forest.
