The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Associated Collegiate Press

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

Editor
W. Ty JOHNSON

EDITORIAL STAFF
G. L. HILL Managing Editor
E. F. ZIMMERMAN Managing Editor
B. L. ROSE Managing Editor
K. D. WEEKS Managing Editor
JACK HELLING Alumni Editor
C. E. NORVELL Sports Editor
RAWLING PRATT Editorial Writer
A. HUNTER Exchange Editor
B. B. BAILEY Feature Editor
S. K. EATON Feature Editor
S. C. HENRY Feature Editor
C. S. McC. Feature Editor
D. W. HOLLIDAY Review Editor
L. W. CLARDY Associate Editor
A. F. SCHENCK Associate Editor
W. M. THOMPSON Associate Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, JR. Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
G. L. HILL Assistant Business Manager
W. L. SMITH Assistant Business Manager
R. TAYLOR Assistant Business Manager
J. A. C. WADSWORTH Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1933

Read not to contradict and confute, nor to believe and take for granted, nor to find talk and discourse; but to weigh and consider.
—Bacon.

FRESHMAN VOTING

Last spring the student body passed a regulation depriving the freshman class of the right to vote in student body elections. Those who proposed the ruling considered it a good thing because in their estimation elections in the past had been controlled and decided by freshmen who knew not the man for whom they were voting, and consequently many students had secured offices when they were not fully capable of serving in the posts.

Recently Davidson held its election for junior cheerleaders and the upperclassmen voted upon the candidates, selecting two. The freshmen did not vote. The abilities of the respective candidates were unknown to the upperclassmen voters because very few of the voters ever attended pep meetings and saw the candidates perform. The freshmen are the ones who attend pep meetings and they were the ones who saw and were able to judge the cheerleader candidates, but they could not vote. We do not wish to leave the implication that the best men for the position were not selected, but it does seem strange indeed that the ones who were the best judges in the case were not allowed to exercise the right of selecting the officials?

SCHOLARSHIP

One of the essential things in a successful year at college is scholarship. There will appear upon the campus all kinds of opportunities to take the place of study. Some of the students feel that their studies should never interfere with their college life. Perhaps they would be right if they were attending a dancing school or a school for the society seeker. Scholarship is the primary factor in college experience. Failure does not necessarily mean that the trunk must be packed and shipped immediately. More often mediocrity—commonness—in a life of high opportunity creeps in and wrecks all. Be alert, be active, participate in extra-curricular activities, but make scholarship count—The Gettysburgian.

ON MILITARY TRAINING

Editor of The Davidsonian:

In the issue of September 20, there appeared an editorial in defense of military science at Davidson College. While not questioning the right of the editor to express his opinion on the subject, we feel that those at Davidson who think differently should be granted the same right of expression, particularly since circumstances are rapidly forcing the question to a definite decision by the Board of Trustees.

One of the most abominable practices here at Davidson is the complete denial by authorities of the right of the student himself to make a choice in this matter. Only in case of conscientious objection on the part of the parents can a student be excused. Often the student, seeing the situation face to face, objects; but his parents further away cannot. Hence they urge him to take the course for its disciplinary value, if any. Of course, students physically unfit are exempt, but these are few in number. The Editor of The Davidsonian, in criticizing an editorial which appeared in The Greensboro News attacking military training, said: “If the author of the above could have taken military training at Davidson, he would easily understand that the R. O. T. C. is a good thing.” We seriously question this statement. There is an increasingly large number of students at Davidson who have taken military science and who are definitely opposed to its continuance because they regard it as wholly unethical and un-Christian training. Certainly the editor of The Davidsonian does not defend war. Yet he boldly defends one of the instruments created purposely “to furnish the bulk of the officers required in the event of war” as the R. O. T. C. manual puts it. We are in hearty accord with him when he says, “Wars are made for the benefit of business, a population, and profits, by the so-called leaders of our country who do not have to engage in combat, and the youth of our country have to bear the brunt.” But we would change the tense of this last sentence. The youth of our country have had to bear the brunt in the past, but the brutal crime of 1914-1918 taught the youth of all countries the folly of going out to murder each other for the sake of the bloody wealth of a few mercenary industrialists. Therefore we deny the editor’s statement that we would have to go to war. We challenge it in the spirit of the Oxford Union which resolved not to fight for king and country under any circumstances; we challenge it with those eight thousand American college students who have voted never to engage in war for any reason whatsoever; and finally, we challenge it in the spirit of thousands of ministers of Jesus Christ who have pledged themselves never to support another war.

The editor has asked, “What good would all the Christian principles which we learned here do, if we have not learned anything about protection?” If this is an implication that he regards the principles of Jesus Christ as insufficient in meeting the needs of the modern world, we must disagree. Before we admit the failure of world brotherhood and pacifist non-resistance, we should like to see them tried. Ever since the first cave man armed himself with a club, individuals and tribes and nations have sought protection in brute force and they have never found it. The technique of the modern militarists who say that preparedness is the way to peace is merely an outgrowth of the savage ideas of early man. No one can count the empires whose military greatness has passed into the dust of the ages; they sought protection in armed preparedness. Those today who advocate preparedness as the way to peace must somehow explain away the fact that their ideas have held sway for hundreds of years and we have never found peace. The fatalistic doctrine of military preparedness has been injected into our educational system, and throughout our nation we find secondary schools and colleges which have training corps for perpetuating war. Even colleges supported and supposedly controlled by the church have been placed in that category. If Davidson, which is under the authority of the Southern Presbyterian Church, continues to support the program of war preparation, how can we ever hope for peace? It should be humiliating to peace-lovers and friends of Davidson that this college has been cited in the past by militarists as a church institution where missionaries and ministers of the next generation, by taking the R. O. T. C. course, are giving the tacit approval of organized religion to armed preparedness. Surely it is a hollow mockery to say it is a preparedness “for peace.” As Albert Einstein says, “We are either for war or against war, and mere lip-service matters not at all.” There is a ghastly irony in this Davidson scene. At 10:15 a.m. we are compelled to worship the God of Love and the Prince of Peace. At 3:05 p.m. we are compelled, with rifles on our shoulders, to study the art of mass-murder. This article, may it be understood, is not an attack upon individuals, but upon a system.

R. M. CANN,
W. F. GOODYKOONTZ,
JACK GOODYKOONTZ.

HERE AND THERE

Deans at several schools report higher scholastic standing coincident with depleted finances.

The proper means of loafing will be the object of attainment in a new course of instruction offered this fall at Butler University, Indianapolis.

The University of Chicago has the largest football stadium in the country. It is capable of seating 110,000 people.

Hide tanning was one of the demonstrations featured at the 1933 farmers’ short course of Texas A. and M. College, offered with the object of helping farmers to “live at home.”

A Georgia Tech student unnecessarily repeated a course in the same room under the same professor without either of them realizing the fact.

Players on the University of Hawaii football team wear no shoes but develop great accuracy in kicking and can punt fifty yards with ease.

Work has begun at the University of California, at Berkeley, on a new cross-country course which is being designed to afford a complete view of the race by both judges and spectators.

Three hundred students at the University of Michigan signed pledge cards to support the NRA in a drive on that campus.

More than one hundred former Rhodes scholars attended a farewell dinner aboard the Holland-American liner “Veendam” in honor of the 32 Rhodes scholars-elect who sailed for England the following day.

The incoming class of 422 students at Manhattan College is the largest ever entered at that institution.

President Arthur E. Morgan of Antioch College, Yellow Springs, Ohio, has opened his dining room to 50 students who will board there at cost.

Boston University has acquired a roof garden on top of one of its college buildings which will be used by the art classes of that institution.

A big job was completed when the Bureau of Economic Geology at the University of Texas published a thousand-page volume on all the present known rock strata of that state.

On Other Campuses

NEWS DIGEST

From the Background

V. M. I.

From the V. M. I. “Cadet” we find the following: “When freshmen at Davidson College go to church they are required to sit in the balcony. Evidently they think less of their freshmen than we do of our rats, if the seats are comparable in hardness.” If this is true, what do we think of our faculty, since the new seating arrangement?

CLEMSON

Over half the entire Clemson cadet regiment in full dress uniform will swing down historic Pennsylvania Avenue, in Washington, on Friday afternoon, October 13, passing in review before General Douglas MacArthur, chief of staff of the United States Army, and other notables. This expedition to the nation’s capital is the most ambitious in its scope ever before undertaken by a South Carolina college. It is inspired by the Clemson-George Washington football game, but aside from this one sporting event is a most wholly educational trip.

WASHINGTON AND LEE

An epidemic of influenza at Washington and Lee, which during the past week threatenedTo reach serious proportions, is now dying down, according to a recent report made by Dr. Reid White, university physician. On Friday, however, sixteen students were still confined to Jackson Memorial Hospital. In addition, five students were reported to be sick in fraternity houses, and four in dormitories.

U. OF CHICAGO
At the University of Chicago, a freshman bewildered by the questions asked on an examination, searching for an alibi for his inexcusable and complete ignorance, wrote on his paper, “Only God knows the answer to those questions.” The teacher, wholly in a spirit of fairness, returned the paper with the addition of these words: “God gets an A; you get an F.”

U. OF MISSISSIPPI
These versatile co-eds at the U. of Mississippi have indeed invented a new means of “study stimulation.” Disliking the idea of being distracted from their studies by fulfilling their numerous social engagements, they have voluntarily shaved their heads to keep from having too many dates. The college barber accomplished in thirty minutes what the dean could not have done in four years. Moral: “All deans should be barbers.”

SILVER SCREEN
Wednesday, October 11—Ann Vickers—One of Sinclair Lewis’ most successful novels brought to the screen, starring Irene Dunne as the immortal Ann Vickers. With her in the picture are Bruce Cabot, as the army officer, and the father of her child, Walter Houston, as the man she finally married, and Conrad Nagel and Edna May Oliver. The story is of one who goes from the settlement houses through the life of a reformer, and head of a girls’ industrial home, into disgrace with the birth of another child to the unwed mother. The show is vivid, daring and sensational.

Thursday and Friday, October 12-13—The Morning Glory
The latest picture starring Katherine Hepburn, with Douglas Fairbanks in the leading male role. It deals with the small-town girl who comes to the city in hopes of making good on the screen. She is not given a chance, and one night is noticed, at a party, when she is drunk, giving an histrionic sketch. Through this medium, she is at last given a chance on the stage, and makes good. Anyone who enjoys Katherine Hepburn at all will certainly think very much of this picture, as a great deal of her is shown.

Saturday, October 14—Too Much Harmony
A great musical comedy, with Bing Crosby, Judith Allen, the girl who first appeared in “This Day and Age,” Jack Oakie, Skeets Gallagher, and Lilyan Tashman. There are numerous song hits, “Thanks,” “Buckin’ the Wind,” “Boo-Boo-Boo,” “The Day You Came Along,” and “Black Moonlight.” This is one of the season’s fastest-moving musicals, and is very interesting. There is some variety from the general run of this type of picture lately, and the songs especially are good.

Monday and Tuesday, October 16-17—Walls of Gold
This picture will not be released until two days after this edition of The Davidsonian. Consequently, there are no previews on it so far. However, Sally Eilers and Norman Foster play together in it.

HITLER
The German dictator has again put his foot down forcibly and the German newspapers are feeling the effects. First it was the Jews and now a new edict has demanded the abandonment of what is understood in America as the freedom of the press. A series of drastic laws was passed by the cabinet and signed by Chancellor Hitler to the effect that the publishing of treasonable articles abroad or the introduction of them into Germany was a crime punishable by death. All anti-Nazi propaganda was forbidden. This law makes journalism a licensed profession with Aryanism and Nazi patriotism as the necessary qualifications. The effect of this will be the junking of another of our democratic ideals and the substitution of a series of penalties for the curbing of the press. What Hitler’s next step will be is a mystery none knows except himself. This man continually surprises us with what seems to us as unconventional ethics, but remember, a dictator is always right.

PECORA
The rise of Ferdinand Pecora, swarthy counsel for the senate banking committee, has been little short of remarkable. For years he worked as assistant district attorney of New York with few really big jobs to face. Then came the senate inquiry into the affairs of J. P. Morgan and Pecora rose to national prominence by his energetic prosecution, and Pecora was made. Several years ago Tammany defeated him when he ran for the district attorneyship of New York. Now he is back again and with a reputation for competence and ability. The Bronx democrats are now deserting Tammany and taking their places beside McKee and Pecora on the independent democratic ticket. It looks like a battle royal between Tammany and Pecora and the ones in the know are moving towards the little Italian. Can it be that the reign of the tiger is almost over?

PERKINS
The American Federation of Labor and Secretary of Labor, Frances Perkins, are now in complete accord since Miss Perkins has supported the demands of labor for shorter hours and higher pay than they are now receiving under the NRA. The secretary recently went before the annual convention and gave her hearty support to all their suggestions. She says, “We must go on with a unified purpose to an ever-improving standard of living and assurance of economic security for all our people and sufficient leisure to enable us to enjoy the blessings which our resources and our equipment can make available to all of us.” “We cannot stop with the present minimum wages and maximum hours of labor,” Miss Perkins added as the delegates cheered her vigorously.

TRAGEDY
A worker threw away a burning cigarette into the dry underbrush. A fire blazes up and quickly spreads. Thirty-three men die when they are unable to escape from the forest. Thousands rush to their rescue but to no avail. There was no opportunity to escape. Tragedy in California.

Fifty thousand lie dead of a strange malady similar to malaria and the living are too weak to bury the dead. The plague sweeps on without abating. The stricken country does not know what to do and is in a turmoil. Tragedy in China.

W. L. Stribling is gone. The perfect physical specimen who fought the greatest heavyweights in the world is dead. His motorcycle and a car collided on a Georgia highway and the wreck was fatal even after his foot had been amputated in an effort to save his life. Tragedy in Georgia.

And yet the world goes on!!!

INTEREST INCREASES IN Y. M. C. A. WORK
(Continued from page 1)
In Statesville, Audley Gammon and Hervey Ross led the vesper services at Mitchell College, while Lynn Huie and Douglas Wauchope were conducting a meeting at the First Presbyterian Church of that city. The Cornelius Christian Endeavor Society heard an evening program last Sunday conducted by John McMullen, A. B. Rhodes, Murphy Smith, Nathan Wauda, and John Morgan. The work at Cornelius has been permanently established and the programs will be continued throughout the year by Y. M. C. A. deputations. All the deputations report successful trips and a renewed interest in Y work among the boys.

Dear Editor,
I happened to be in chapel this morning when Jule West announced that someone had been to see him about changing Monday morning breakfast from 7:55 to 8:30 o’clock and I sure got a laugh out of the announcement. The students in this day and time are getting lazier. They cut across the grass, sleep through Sunday breakfast, and now want to stay in bed a little longer Mondays. First thing you know they’ll want breakfast served them in their beds, then a little later they’ll want elevators in dorms, then maybe conveyors to take them to classes, and eventually they’ll have these aged professors coming to their rooms to tutor them. Wouldn’t college life be grand then?

Jack Williams and B. O. Ravenel are on the rampage again. They want everybody to have his picture taken next week. “It’ll be your last chance because the photographers won’t be back,” they say. What an annual it would be if every student has his picture in it! Yes, what a yearbook. Maybe then we could enter it in a contest with Ballyhoo.

Did you know that there is a Charlie Harris at Duke, another one at Wake Forest, as well as one here at Davidson? And they are all prominent. Duke’s Harris is a tennis star, Wake’s is a would-be journalist, and ours is a basketball and baseball star and feminine admirer.

These freshmen should take pity on Phil Cook, freshman fullback from Pasadena, California, and quit stealing caps from him. Last week he made his fourth purchase of a red skypiece from the student store.

I heard that you cut chemistry class Monday because you weren’t prepared for a daily writ and Dr. Arbuckle decided not to quiz the class.

Did you hear about Billy Northern being grabbed on the arm by a fem in Spartanburg last Saturday? He was walking down the street when suddenly someone reached through his right arm. Looking around he noticed it wore a skirt and was he surprised!

I overheard Archibald Shuford say something about a redhead in his sleep last night, and then a few minutes later he mumbled, “I know what I’ll do, I’ll borrow Grier’s car and go down sometime.”

Mac Porter goes with a girl in Salisbury who answers to the name of Tillie Jones. What ho, maybe here’s more material for a Mac-and-Tillie comic strip.

That boy Archie Shuford must live right. They tell me that he thumbed a ride in Chicago this summer that carried him all the way to his home in Hickory.

Caleb West must have been caught in a jam Monday morning. I saw him rushing toward Chambers Building with a bottle of milk in one hand and some crackers in the other. I wonder if he was the one who wanted breakfasts moved to 8:30 Mondays.

The boys sure romped Wofford last week and here’s hoping they take care of the cadets this Saturday.

Yours,
Randy.

VOLUNTEER UNION ELECTS F. SCOTT
(Continued from page 1)
In conjunction with the Y. M. C. A., the local group is sending out representatives to lead mission study groups in neighboring colleges. The officers on the campus for this year are: Francis Scott, president; Audley Gammon, vice-president; Hervey Ross, secretary-treasurer, and R. E. Woodside, deputation secretary.

PLAY TO BE GIVEN AT QUEENS-CHICORA
(Continued from page 1)
Actresses,” will play the leading role portraying Mrs. Solness, wife of the Master Builder. Her Norwegian birth and training are regarded as giving Madame Hammer an advantage in interpreting this most difficult Ibsen heroine. Prices for the play have been announced as 50 cents, 75 cents, and $1.00.

SMOKER GIVEN BY SOPHOMORES
(Continued from page 1)
Idea and several other plans were suggested. Nothing definite, however, was decided upon, but the committee, headed by the class president, will continue to work on the affair, and submit its conclusions at an early date.

DIRECTOR OF MUSIC TO GIVE RECITALS
(Continued from page 1)
Year. These concerts are being planned so as to provide rich and varied entertainment, and Davidson College invites all of its students, faculty, and friends to take advantage of this opportunity.