THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1933

Books Cavalcade: Noel Coward: New York; Grosset and Dunlap, 1933.

The movies haven't been particularly prominent in any lines of publication. True, our magazine market is drenched in a plethora
of motion picture magazines, telling the diets, the social life, and the milder scandals of our more prominent Hollywood Thespians.
However, books by members of the profession are limited to an occasional novel by Elissa Landi, or a cheap edition
of Clara Bow’s Autobiography. Due, probably, to the fact that all good picture scenarios are taken from formerly successful plays
or novels, scenarios are never published. That is, they were never published until the appearance of Mr. Coward’s Cavalcade. True,
it is called a play, but it is obviously a motion picture scenario. It was performed on the stage in
London last season, and the general consensus of critical opinion agreed that the stage limited the panoramic effect of the
piece. In order that the critics might not shake teasing fingers in his direction, Mr. Coward dubbed his play “sentimental
trash” before it appeared.

Cavalcade will be called sentimental trash by almost everyone who reads it, but only because the readers will be ashamed
to tell how much they were really moved by this remarkably simple little epic. It is an epic of the
intimate, cozy, unbelievable type. Though its construction is flimsy, and some of the characters are merely named, it contains a
grain of something that cannot be passed off when the book is laid aside. The history of England during the
last thirty-five years is told through two families, the Marryots, aristocrats, and the Bridges, their servants. The action is sprinkled
with nostalgic songs and references to public men of each period, giving the whole play an unbelievable reality. The action
is developed through Jane Marryot’s eyes. The entire play pivots about her personality. She is drawn with careful little touches,
while the other characters are merely sketched. At the beginning, she is a young wife, seeing her husband leave for
the Boer war. At the final curtain, Jane, now Lady Jane, with one son drowned on the Titanic, the other
killed in France, makes her toast to 1930: “Let’s drink to our sons who made part of the pattern and
to our hearts that died with them. Let’s drink to the spirit of gallantry and courage that made a strange
heaven out of an unbelievable hell, let’s drink to the hope that one day this country of ours, which we
love so much, will find dignity and greatness and peace again.” A story of one family, it is the story
of all families; the history of one nation, it is the history of mankind. If this be “sentimental trash,” Mr.
Coward may feel complimented at being dubbed “trashy.”

Scientists Treated When Peak Rampages

Durango, Co.—(IP)—Scientists who have been studying the strange disintegration of Carbon Mountain near here were treated to another laboratory view
of the process last week when the restless peak went on a rampage again. Persons living within miles of the
mountain were startled when they heard thousands of tons of rock tumble down the mountainside for nearly an hour.

MEMBERS CHOSEN TO “Y” BOARD OF CONTROL (Continued from page 1)

Professor Bailey was selected to serve on the board by popular acclamation of the student body. He takes the place
of Professor L. B. Schenck, whose term of office has expired. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, Prof. L. B. Schenck, and
Mr. F. L. Jackson are the present faculty members, while Lyman Clardy, William Flynn, Robert Glasgow, L. M. Huie, and
Robert McCallie are the student members of the board. The members ex-officio are Rev. H. M. Moffett, Dr. W. L.
Lingle, Paul Brown, and Sam Wiley. The Board of Control handles the finances and other important business of the local
Y.M.C.A.

NOTICE

Have your shoes rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP Work done while you wait. C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS” Make Our Store Your Store Student Supplies WHITE DRUG CO., Inc. “SODAS” “SUNDRIES”

Richmond, all over the religious world. None UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., LL.D., President A graduate of
Davidson and of Union studying abroad writes: “There are able scholars here whose books are known and read professors at
Union as teachers, and none of them can challenge a student to joyous, practical Christianity as did our professors there.”
Virginia of them can surpass some of our

TOBACCOS STUDENT FOUNTAIN SERVICE W. S. HENDERSON NEXT DOOR TO POST OFFICE CANDY SUPPLIES

W. L. PITTZ TAILORING DISPLAY at the Soda Shop EVERY THURSDAY Star Direct Tailors $23.50 Up B. O. RAVENEL Student
Representative

Unusual Meeting Is Held by Phi Society

A very well-rounded meeting was enjoyed by the members of the Philanthropic Literary Society on Tuesday, April 11. Cameron Deans
read a humorous selection entitled “Gushers.” Bill Fugate followed with a talk on “The Political Situation in Europe.” Particulars of
the Hitler regime and its far-reaching influence were related, and a very absorbing conjecture was made as to the courses
which would be followed by the European states in case war should break out among them. A very clever debate
between Robert Johnson of the affirmative and W. M. Beatty representing the negative was given on the question: “Resolved: That
a thirty-hour week should be established.” The decision was rendered in favor of the affirmative. A proposal for an inter-society
debate was discussed, but no definite plans have as yet been made for this debate.

Silver Screen

Wednesday, April 26—Central Airport This picture, starring Richard Barthelmess, brings him back to the role which has always seemed to
fit him best. He is shown as a crack pilot, and seems to live in the role. Sally Eilers plays
with him, and also is at her best. The show is not dull, gives something different, and should be very
good.

Thursday, April 27—The Kid From Spain Eddie Cantor is none other than Don Sebastian, II, the matador of great renown.
Of course, Eddie does not know which end of the bull is the front, but that does not detract from
the interest of the picture. And, as usual, the beautiful girls are there galore. The picture should be even more
enticing than it seems, and should not be missed.

Friday, April 28—Elmer the Great Joe E. Brown and his mouth are back again, and the mouth is larger than
before, and speaks funnier. Again he is in the role of a baseball player, but that should not lean towards
too much repetition. Even with the same thing, there is always originality in his person.

Saturday, April 29—Jungle Bride and Telegraph Trail Nothing more can be said than two pictures are presented. Both of the
pictures are said to be rather slow and a trifle dull, but should help to pass away a few hours
of leisure.time.) Monday and Tuesday, May 1 and 2—King Kong

At last a really great representation of prehistoric life is brought to the movie-goer. Not by any means does the
show cling directly to the sane and sober, but it shows life as we think it should be sometimes. The
adventures of a movie company are shown in Africa with all the prehistoric animals of any importance, and the giant
ape, 60 feet high, is brought back to New York. There the fun begins, when the ape ascends the Empire
State Building with Fay Wray in his arms. Besides King Kong and Fay Wray, Bruce Cabot and Robert Armstrong do
themselves well. The show is a fine one for strong nerves, and nothing could be better to increase the imagination.

MANSON, KIRKLAND CHOSEN VICE-PRES. AND SEC.-TREAS. OF THE RISING SENIOR CLASS

(Continued from page 1)

In the rising Junior class elections, the following men were nominated for the position of vice-president: Dave McLain, Fred McPhail,
Joe Wadsworth, and Hugh Yelverton. For the office of secretary-treasurer, the nominees were Charlie Harris, Jim Hurst, and Pete Neill.
In the first ballot, McPhail was elected to the vice-presidential office, and Harris to the secretary-treasurership.

Fred McPhail, a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, was a member of last year’s Student Council, and also
belongs to the Spanish Club. He was recently elected to a position as one of the managing editors of The
Davidsonian and will represent his fraternity on the Pan-Hellenic Council for next year. McPhail has already won enough points to
guarantee a varsity letter in track this year.

Charlie Harris will captain next year’s basketball team. He has been showing up well in the pitcher’s position on this
year’s baseball team. Harris is associated with the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

The date of the election of officers to the rising Sophomore class has not yet been announced. The close of
these elections will leave few other student body ballots to be run off.

New Library Books

The college librarian has announced that the library has purchased the following books selected from a list of the most
popular recent books:

Paduick: Temple Gardener of Cairo.
Buchan: The Gap in the Curtain.
Seldes: The Years of the Locust.
Byrne: A Woman of the Shee.
Mobon: Maria Theresa of Austria.
Hawthorne: Romantic Rebel.
Strode: The Story of Bermuda.
Dallas: The Romance of a Renegade.
Mansfield: Bliss and Other Stories.
Barnett: The Land of Lochiel and the Magic West.
Grotton: The Three Jameses.
Franck: Foot Loose in the British Isles.
Garvin: The Life of Joseph Chamberlain.
Lockwood: Pioneer Days in Arizona.
Franklin D. Roosevelt: Looking Forward.
Stone: What is Boy’s Work.
Ruxton: Wild Life in the Rocky Mountains.
Blaushord: What's the Matter With New York?
Sugimoto: A Daughter of the Samurai.
Lyric Virginia To-Day: An Anthology of Poems by Contemporary Poets of the Old Dominion.
Wagner: Korea.
Neihardt: Black Elk Speaks.
Petrie: Seventy Years in Archaeology.
Tillich: The Religious Situation.
Hartshorne: Character in Human Relation.
Radio and Education in 1932.
Powers: The Indian as Peacemaker.
Lockhart: British Agent.

ANNUAL BOWERY BALL IS BRILLIANT AFFAIR

(Continued from page 1)

Phi Delta Theta: Misses Roseanne Howard, Kitty Cunningham, Rock Hill, S. C.; Lib Geay, Winston-Salem; Mary Brooks, Bluefield, W. Va.
Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Mary Lib Cunningham, Alice Grubbs, Tut Gorrell, Greensboro; Dot Hines, Durham; Ellen White, Concord; Lib Price,
Charlotte; Dorothy Dosch, Durham.
Pi Kappa Phi: Misses Mildred Lorick, Louise Dyess, Augusta, Ga.; Betty Barton, Greenwood, S. C.; Dot Miller, Rock Hill, S.
C.; Lib Nolan, Spartanburg, S. C.; Corrine Ellison, Lancaster, S. C.; Louise Melchor, Mooresville; Jean Wheeler, Charlotte; Mary Clare Stokes,
Wilson; Thelma Tuten, Jonesboro, S. C.; Clabourn Bunch, Rock Hill, S. C.; Lib Limehouse, Orangeburg, S. C.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Misses Louise Rankin, Eleanor Steadman, Fayetteville.
Sigma Phi Epsilon: Misses Harriet Moore, Frances Matheson, Charlotte; Miriam Stevenson, Winston-Salem; Bessy Cheatan, Durham.
Theta Upsilon Omega: Misses Elizabeth Gatewood, Danville, Va.; Peggy Ashcraft, Charlotte; Frances Medlin, Charlotte; Kalista Hood, Davidson; Marie Wishart, Lumberton;
Martha Neal, Salem.
Pi Kappa Alpha: Misses Sis Wiley, Rock Hill, S. C.; Caroline Rowan, Esther Brown, Cynthia Barnes, Anderson, S. C.; Isabel
White, Concord; Katherine Bonitz, Margaret Sellers, Greensboro; Kitty Van Echop, Charlotte; Gamelle Raney, Salisbury.

Students with literary ability will be interested to know that “Hound and Horn,” a prominent American magazine, is sponsoring a
contest open to all undergraduates in the United States for the best piece of prose and verse. In order to
stimulate interest in young writers in this country, a prize of $100.00 for the best short story, not to exceed
5,000 words, and a prize of $50.00 for the best piece of verse, not to exceed five pages, have been
offered. A great many contributions from thirty-seven states and as many colleges have been submitted. The contest will be open
to all undergraduates in the United States until June 1, 1933.

Eu Literary Society Has Varied Program

A variegated program and business discussion occupied the attention of the Eumenean Literary Society on Tuesday night, April 11. William
Singleton opened the program with a delightful talk on “Beauty.” He developed the central thought, that beauty makes life worth
living, by explaining and giving examples of the four kinds of beauty: physical, intellectual, moral, and spiritual.

An open forum was held on the subject of “Resolved: That the capital of the United States should be more
centrally located.” After a vigorous discussion, the negative side was awarded the decision by a vote of the house.

The question of the society’s securing a bronze plaque in memory of Woodrow Wilson was discussed as the first item
of business, and the decision upon the matter was postponed. Considerable discussion was aroused as to whether credit should be
given to members who represent the society on deputations to other colleges. It was decided to give credits for this
service.

Girl Scouts Choose Teaching as Career

New York—(IP)—Teaching is still the favorite profession of American girls, according to a poll taken recently by the Girl Scouts.
Of 10,575 girls between the ages of 11 and 18 interviewed by the organization, 9,962 said they expected to support
themselves. Sixty-four percent of them wanted professional careers, and the majority planned to become teachers. Nursing came second in popularity
in a list which included writing, dancing, window dressing, interior decorating, newspaper work and acting—in the movies.

STUDENTS’ CRUISES

Magazine subscription scholarship workers and crew managers write immediately for very best student scholarship offers of leading publishers. Can be
worked there now. Permanent positions if experienced, also summer crews for United States and foreign territory.

FOR FULL DETAILS WRITE
The Collegiate Scholarship Institute
219 Republic Building, Miami, Florida

College Printing

Magazines, Catalogs, Handbooks, Etc.
Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you
A. M. MANSON, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE
6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing, Always Best
STANDARD PRINTING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Cards and Invitations. Exclusively.
