THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 25, 1933

Local Cast Gives Blackface Show
College, High School, and Grammar Grade Students Take Part
MISS GAY DIRECTS
Good Crowd Attends in High School Auditorium

Featuring a beautiful selection of Davidson College fashion “models” and a negro wedding, the Dixie Blackbirds Minstrel entertained a fair-sized and appreciative crowd last Thursday night at the high school auditorium. Except for occasional lapses of memory after only adept attention to promptings, all added to the general hilarity of the entertainment. The actors performed their various parts with praiseworthy aptitude, in the opinion of a large part of the audience.

The minstrel was especially attractive because its complete cast was assembled from high school pupils, college students, and, in the popular Juvenile Minstrel, from grammar school students and picanninies. The Senior Minstrel, originally and mistakenly announced as Professor Bailey of the Greek department, was Rufus King Sanford. His comedians, all of whom pleased the appreciative audience, were George Gullette, David McHanrahan, Clarence Lain, Geddie Monroe, and Rozelle.

The chorus girls, whose beauty and charm made a decided hit with the audience, were Mildred Cashion, Miriam Goodrum, Merle Knox, Edith Sherrill, Jennie Thompson, and Mary Withers. Perhaps the climax of the evening's entertainment was reached when “Clemesa Robinson”—Annie Griffith, and “Yancey Blakely”—Wills Hollingsworth, were married by the negro parson “Brother Bevo”—Geddie Monroe. Professor Lily of the English department was scheduled to play the part of the negro preacher, but a change was made when he found it would be impossible to play the part. It is said that both Professor Lily and Professor Bailey regretted exceedingly their inability to participate.

In this skit, the part of “Maudy Clemson” was played by Julia Hobbs; “Clemson,” by Campbell Vaiden, and “Alexander Butler,” the negro lawyer, by Rozy Rozelle. One of the most appreciated parts of the show was a clever contrasting skit portrayed by Elizabeth Rhett and Blanche Knox. Miss Rhett took the part of the Flapper of 1933; Miss Knox was the Belle of 1750.

The Womanless Fashion Show was a hilarious gem in which Davidson students, attired in the latest gowns, demonstrated, with the utmost poise and grace, the newest modes. The pulchritudinous gentlemen were Ed Garrette, Carl Chapman, Blanton Little, Baxter Moore, Rufus Sanford, and Max Williams. The Circle men of the Minstrel were Enid Bowers, Max Williams, Blanton Little, Baxter Moore, Ed Garrette, and Carl Chapman. The whole production was under the special direction of Miss Kay Gay, of Millen, Georgia.

FRESHMEN CAMPUSED BY COURT OF CONTROL
(Continued from page 1)

Presided over by Jimmy Halyerstadt, the court held its first sitting last Wednesday night. Several men presented legitimate excuses and were not punished. Twenty-four, however, were “campused”—i.e., they will not be able to go outside of Davidson city limits or to the theatre during the period from Monday morning until midnight, Friday, October 27. The court was very lenient in its rulings, postponing the “campusing” until after Homecoming, as this was the first offense of these freshmen. The meeting was more of a warning than a punishment for the delinquent first-year men, and as a result, they are expected to conform more readily to the freshman regulations.

NATIONAL SOCIETY HONORS FOUNDERS
(Continued from page 1)

the Unknown Soldier’s Tomb at Arlington Cemetery, Washington, D.C. Membership in the Scabbard and Blade is composed of students of high leadership and moral calibre, who are proficient in military and academic training. They are elected every spring by the active members of Scabbard and Blade.

ATHLETES COOK MEALS

Athletes at the University of Iowa are cooking their own meals and living...

“Bombshell” is to Show at Theatre
Local Theatre Shows “My Weakness,” Starring Lillian Harvey and Lew Ayres

Wednesday and Thursday, October 25 and 26—My Weakness
This is not a repetition of the many musical comedies of the season, as many suppose. It is a comedy, with much music mixed in, but there is the absence of the many dance scenes, the time taken up with interesting action and songs. The picture stars Lillian Harvey, the beautiful English girl, who is as easy on the ears as on the eyes. With her are Lew Ayres, in the lead, and Charles Butterworth and Harry Langdon furnishing the comedy. Also featured is Mary Howard, the daughter of the comedian, Will Rogers.

Friday, October 27—The Way to Love
Maurice Chevalier’s latest starring picture, with Ann Dvorak, Edward Everett Horton, and Minna Gombell. It is very much different from the usual Chevalier picture, though it retains the comedy and romance, it brings in much of the fun of the old slapstick variety. The story is concerned with the sad young girl and the poet-philosopher. The fun is carried out in the carnival atmosphere and the show is really pleasing.

Saturday, October 28—The Wrecker
Another character portrayal by Jack Holt, again the strong lover, with Genevieve Tobin in the lead. There is a sufficiency of action for those who favor it, and the picture is not so bad.

Monday and Tuesday, October 30 and 31—Bombshell
This show brings together two people that it seems almost impossible to place in the same picture. Lee Tracy, the publicity director of the famous star, Jean Harlow, meet in many interesting situations, and in which he places the star in bad with her husband and the other stars. Franchot Tone and Frank Morgan are in the cast, which is very good, and the picture is one of the best among the current hits. It should not be missed.

The Social Fraternities

BETA’S HOLD INITIATION:
On Wednesday night, October 18, Jacob B. Balsley, a member of the Sophomore class, was initiated into the Beta Theta Pi fraternity.

S.A.E.'S GIVE SUPPER:
After the dance Saturday night, members of the local chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and alumni went to the Wayside Grill for supper. The Sigma Alpha members enjoyed it very much.Epsilon fraternity also announces the pledging of Sam K. Eaton, a member of the Junior class.

S.P.E.’s INITIATE TWO JUNIORS: Phi Epsilon initiated M. Porter, Jr., of Waycross, Ga., and A.C. Rogers, of Bennettsville, S.C., into membership Thursday night, October 19. Both are Juniors.

SCHOLARSHIP CUP PRESENTED S.P.E.’s: The local chapter of Sigma Phi Epsilon recently received a silver loving cup from its grand chapter in Richmond, Va., for leading the fraternities in scholarship on the Davidson campus in 1932.

PHI GAM’s HOLD INITIATION: Phi Gamma Delta fraternity initiated Albert Whitney, a member of the Junior class, into membership on Thursday night, October 12.

Hats Featuring
CLOTHES
Bruce Peabody
Ties
Billy Lyons
RAY HARRISON
Shirts
Formerly With Stetson
“D” REPRESENTATIVES
Davidson, N.C.
For the COLLEGE MAN
Buck Ross
Gill Murphy
Shoes

GIRLS AND ALUMNI MAKE HOMECOMING SUCCESSFUL
(Continued from page 1)
Grey Degrotte, McClintock, Hickory; Reidsville; Dorothy Charlotte; Betty Vass, Betty Shalett, Philadelphia, Pa.; Rosanne Howard, Florence, S.C.; Elizabeth Faw, North Wilkesboro.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Dorothy Coates, Atlanta, Ga.; Shirley Jennings, Spartanburg, S.C.; Virginia Hardin, Sedgefield; Claudianna Evans, Anderson, S.C.; Julia Seay, Anderson, S.C.; Margaret Wentworth, Asheville; Mary Wentworth, Asheville; Kitty Vanechop, Charlotte; Marian Townsend, Red Springs; Margaret Sikes, Red Springs; Frances Stough, Davidson; Mary Harris, Welch, W.Va.; Betty Simmons, Charlotte.

Kappa Alpha: Jane King, Johnson City, Tenn.; Dorothy King, Bristol, Tenn.; Amelia Martin, Bristol, Tenn.; Rosa Miller, Agnes Scott; Katherine Crowell, Charlotte; Miriam Concord; Jane Shelton, Sweet Briar; Eleanor Hayes, Charlotte; May Lebby Smith, Charlotte; May D. Marion, Charlotte; Virginia Pegram, Charlotte; Patty Virginia Pratt, Converse; Alice Barringer, Charlotte; Evalina Stevenson, Camilla, Ga.; Sarah Crosby, Chester, S.C.; Ellen White, Concord; Cowles Anne Little, Charlotte; Mary Elizabeth Sanders, Roxboro.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Catherine Alexies, Elizabeth Whitehead, of Wilmington; Eliza Lewis, Oxford; Elizabeth Lucas, S.C.; Mary Barr Prince, Anderson, S.C.; Rankin, Fayetteville; Adelaide Fleming, Atlanta, Ga.; Adelaide Fortune, Greensboro; Laura Troutman, Atlanta, Ga.; Sarah Stevens, Winston-Salem; Billie Stroud, Chapel Hill; Libby Jones, Charlotte; Beverly Simpson, Jacksonville, Fla.; Eleanor Greenville, S.C.; Louisa Moore, Bennettsville, S.C.; Dorothy Williams, Jacksonville, Fla.; Mary Wisdom Lambeth, Columbia, S.C.; Frances Hart, New Bern; Carol League, Greenville, S.C.; Cokie Preston, Charlotte.

Kappa Sigma: Colum Schenck, Wilfred Schlosser, Greensboro; Jane Gaw, Greensboro; Eleanor Nunn, New Bern; Nina Salem, N.J.; Dorothy Rogers, Atlanta, Ga.; Jane Hashagen, Gastonia; Esther Richardson, Atlanta, Ga.; Elizabeth Park, Raleigh; Bettie Rickard, Schenectady, N.Y.; Elizabeth Baldwin, Troy Hills, N.J.; Sarah Fire, Hilda Pinnix, Reidsville; Edenton; Carolyn Rowan, Isabelle White, Concord.

Pi Kappa Phi: Anna Mae Feuchtenberger, Bluefield, W.Va.; Corrine Ellison, Lancaster, S.C.; Judith MacPenton, Lillian Dorothy Long, Concord; Belmont; Laurin, Lancaster, S.C.; Esther Huff, Lancaster, S.C.; Heath Long, Roanoke Rapids, Va.; Madeline Paxton, Greenville, S.C.; Mildred Thomas, Biscoe; Elizabeth Redwine, Monroe; Joe Caldwell, Monroe; Rhett Redfern, Wadesboro; Anne Ware, Darlington, S.C.; Carolyn Arnette, Winnsboro, S.C.; Betty Barton, Greenwood, S.C.; Mary Claire Stokes, Wilson; Dorothy Horne, Wilson; Jewel Ratley, Florence, S.C.; Mary Lyles Aiken, Florence, S.C.; Libby Rhett, Davidson; Betty Grier, Spartanburg, S.C.; Hazeline Owen, Edgemoor, S.C.; Winona Gruver, Asheville; Frances Alexander, Winston-Salem; Betty Cassell, Allisonia, Va.; Betty Grey, Gastonia; Ruth Beaty, Sumter, S.C.; Carr Harris, Danville, Va.; Elizabeth Wylie, Clover, S.C.; Ruth Cameron, Southern Pines; Little, Raleigh; Chase, Isley, Helen Messick, Sally Montague, Grace Morton, Carolyn Hammond, Verna Warrell, Dessa Newman, Margaret Gilliam, Sarah Thompson, Lila Tucker, Irene Choice, Harriet Lydia Stewart, Charlotte.

Phi Gamma Delta: Caroline Wharton, Winston-Salem; Mary Nickey, Memphis, Tenn.; Waywey Lumpkin, Columbia, S.C.; Laleah Grey, Camilla, Ga.; Mary Elizabeth, Charlotte; Sarah Charlotte; Morgan Hazen, Knoxville, Tenn.; Estelle Hall, Miriam Steele, Charlotte; Nimmnicks, Fayetteville; Dorothy Sellars, Burlington; Wilhelmina McKay, Concord; Lois Oglethorpe, Greensboro; Beulah Metz, Charlotte; Marion; Lucy James, Greensboro.

Theta Upsilon Omega: Rose Rogers, Greensboro; Virginia Fraley, High Point; Martha Neal, Waynesville; Katherine Gay, Millen, Ga.; Caroline Rivers, Charlotte; Nancy Bryant, Charlotte; Kalista Hood, Davidson; Peggy Ashcraft, Charlotte; Elizabeth Gatewood, Reidsville.

Phi Delta Theta: Charline Fleece, Louisville, Ky.; Betty Wrenshall, Asheville; Jane Steele Hannon, Charlotte; Edith Allen, Talladega, Ala.; Maria Long, Roanoke Rapids; Nancy McNeely, Cooleemee; Emily Hinshaw, Winston-Salem; Mary Withers, Davidson; White, Durham; Rosa Heath Long, Roanoke Rapids; Joyce Sayre, Asheville; Margaret Wardlaw, Charlotte; Betty Gruver, Asheville; Martha Morrison, Asheville.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Dorothy Tarleton, Charlottesville, Va.; Anna Wills and Catherine Taylor, Greensboro; Virginia Moore, Bennettsville, S.C.; Weaver, Anderson, S.C.; Mabel Henry, Concord; Jean Quinn, Statesville; Martha Neese, Burlington; Frances Monroe, Fayetteville; Elizabeth Leake, Fayetteville.

DR. RICHARDS TALKS AT VESPER SERVICE
(Continued from page 1)
The soul has something of eternity in it and is restless until it rests in God. Only when we grasp the value of our own souls can we help the souls of those about us.

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY
“MY WEAKNESS”
LILIAN HARVEY—LEW AYRES
CHARLES BUTTERWORTH—HARRY LANGDON

FRIDAY
“THE WAY TO LOVE”
MAURICE CHEVALIER—ANN DVORAK

SATURDAY
“THE WRECKER”
JACK HOLT—GENEVIEVE TOBIN

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“BOMBSHELL”
JEAN HARLOW—LEE TRACY

You often hear the word balance—something is out of balance—top-heavy, not on an “even keel.” What you read, “Chesterfield Cigarettes are a balanced blend,” means that the right amounts of the right kinds of tobacco are welded together; that is, home-grown tobaccos, the right kind, the right quantity—are blended and cross-blended with tobaccos from Turkey and Greece. When these tobaccos are balanced one against the other, then you have a mild cigarette. When they are in balance, then you have a better-tasting cigarette. May we ask you to read again the statement on the back of the Chesterfield package? May we ask you to try Chesterfield?

Blended: Balanced
© 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.