THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 13, 1933

The Davidsonian
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915
Member of Associated Collegiate Press
1933 Game Coverage 1934
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Editors by 6:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

EDITORIAL STAFF
G. L. JOHNSON.................Editor
E. F. RAWLING........Managing Editor
B. L. PRATT-THOMAS...Managing Editor
K. D. WEEKS........Managing Editor
JACK HELLINGER...Alumni Editor
C. E. NORVELL, JR...Sports Editor
A. HUNTER........Exchange Editor
B. B. S. K. S. C. S. 4. D. W. L. W. DY. Ay F: PA She W. M. THOMPSON JACK WILL: 

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1933

Today is your day and mine, the only day we have, the day in which we play our part. What our part may signify in the great whole we may not understand; but we are here to play it, and now is our time. This we know: it is a part of action, not of whining. It is a part of love, not cynicism. It is for us to express love in terms of human helpfulness. —Jordan.

MERRY CHRISTMAS

Since Christmas recess begins Wednesday, December 20, at 12:30 p.m., another edition of The Davidsonian would not be out before students leave for their homes. Therefore, with this issue, we bring to a close our work on this weekly for the year 1933. The next issue of The Davidsonian will appear Wednesday, January 10, 1934. The Davidsonian staff wishes to take this means of expressing “A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year” to the Davidson student body and to its other readers.

SUPPORT THE Y. M. C. A. DRIVE

Tonight will be your last opportunity to pledge your support to the Y. M. C. A. in its Christmas Fund drive. Each year the Davidson Y. M. C. A. sponsors a Christmas Fund drive, the proceeds of which go to some worthy and needy cause. In past years the goal of the drive has been set at $1,000. In 1932 the goal was not reached, so this year it has been set at $750. This year the contributions will be used to support the work of the Y. M. C. A. in the mill district across the railroad tracks. As was pointed out in chapel Monday morning, there is great need among the mill workers. The $750 goal will be easily reached if every student does his part to make the drive a success. The Y does not ask that every man give beyond his individual capacity, but it merely offers him an opportunity to contribute what he can to a pressing cause. All Davidson students are members of the Davidson Y. M. C. A. and should take part in its work. Those who are unable to render their services should by all means lend aid by some contribution. The cause is a worthy one. Give it your support. If you have not yet contributed, you have an opportunity to do so tonight.

STEALING

A starving man may steal bread for himself and family, a professional thief may make away with the crown jewels, a banker may swindle thousands out of their hard-earned savings, and a so-called Davidson student may steal money from a fellow student. Stealing is judged as a sin by the majority of people and justly so, no matter what the cause or circumstances, but we believe that if the purpose of this article was to philosophize, it would be possible to draw some line of demarcation between the types listed above and classify them according to their gravity. We also firmly believe that in all probability the latter example would be chosen as the most despicable and heinous of them all. There are in our midst individuals who have stooped low enough to steal money from their student associates. Not only have they stolen, but they have added injury to insult by being brazen and contemptuous of all common laws of decency and proper conduct by remaining among us, mingling with us, perhaps even as friends and companions. They have hidden in the crowd and proved themselves to be both thieves and cowards. A common thief has a certain amount of courage and bravery in his make-up for without some such characteristic it would be impossible for him to accomplish his objectives. He takes practically no chance; he cannot easily be singled out, branded with his true character, and shipped. Unconsciously protected by the group of honorable men who compose the body of which he is unwelcomely a member, he plies his nefarious trade. He steals from men who are theoretically his friends; he robs men who have need of money as much or very probably more than he does; he sells his own soul and entirely quenches his spark of conscience. It is indeed necessary to invent a new category in which to place this type of criminal. The person or persons who have stolen possessions from students this year may read this editorial. If he does, let him take heed and govern his actions accordingly. We would like to catch him, but if he must remain with us, his conduct must be amenable to the rules of society. To the students: you could do no greater service to yourself or to the student body than to lend material aid in the apprehension and dismissal of the contemptible individual who has perpetrated such crimes. If we must await his removal by time or by other circumstances over which we have no control, let us make it exceedingly difficult and extremely dangerous for him by being careful with our money and belongings, and by letting our sentiment and attitude be actively shown and vigorously felt throughout the student body. —R. P.-T.

Here and There

In a recent number of the American Medical Journal, statistics were quoted to show that the general health of college students was falling from the standards of some years ago. Research over a number of years revealed that students’ health grew worse during the years spent in school.

After a one-year trial, crew racing has been eliminated from the sports schedule of the University of California at Los Angeles.

Bob Woll, Monmouth College star and one of the outstanding players in the piste Nineteen, weighs only 129 pounds.

Women are invading the male professions at the University of Wisconsin where 74 of the 121 students in the School of Journalism are women; they also outnumber the men in the School of Physical Education and have made their debut in agriculture and chemical engineering.

Hunting the polecat is the latest intramural sport at Earlham College.

Professors at the University of Chicago are combining football and geometry by preparing texts with geometrical theorems illustrated by football plays and devices. This is one way to get students to study geometry.

A student at Marshall College is earning his way through college by embalming cats to sell to anatomy students.

One of the finest morgues operated by a college newspaper is maintained by the Temple University News which began keeping clippings of all its material in 1926.

“Doctors bury their mistakes; I make mine into sausage,” stated Professor Brancioni after he discovered that Louisiana State University’s prize-winning Poland China sow was butchered by mistake by the meat-cutting class.

At the University of Minnesota hospital, soup is cooked in large steam-heated 50-gallon kettles and more than twenty-five tons of dessert are turned out in a year.

Dr. Frederick Rand Rogers, dean of Boston University’s Department of Health, declared that the beautiful chorus girl is almost certain to be intelligent; that catch phrases like “Beautiful but dumb” are merely superstitions and that in the long run good things tend to go together.

Fifteen poultry raisers from Indiana and Illinois have registered in the poultry short course at Purdue University.

Dr. J. F. Doneboo, an alumnus of Washington and Jefferson, has seen the last two hundred and one football games played by teams representing his alma mater.

The five most heavily endowed universities in the United States are Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Chicago, and the University of Rochester.

Not so with a thief on this campus.

Felix Relieved

It took Dr. J. W. MacConnell, Davidson’s student physician, to relieve Felix, the college's mascot wildcat, of the agony caused by a small collar around his neck. Dr. MacConnell, aided by Trainer “Doc” Charlie, and Coaches Bruce Peabody and “Doc” Unger, cut the collar in two, making use of a pruning knife and a hook attached to a long pole to perform the operation. With the collar off his neck, Felix is now wondering if someone won't provide him with a more healthful domicile.

TOMMY TUCKER TO PLAY ON DEC. 15-16

(Continued from page 1)

of the class, has charge of the program. Several members of the faculty with their wives have been invited to act as chaperons at all the dances. Invitations have been sent to the following Charlotte people to also act as chaperons: Mr. and Mrs. Osmond Barringer, Mr. and Mrs. Joe Edens, Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Kuester, and Mr. and Mrs. Caldwell McDonald. Girls from all sections of the South and East have been invited to attend this house party. A large number of recent graduates have planned to return to the campus for this occasion. All of the ten social fraternities on Davidson campus will hold open house inConnection with the sophomore weekend.

DR. LAMBETH URGES TRAINING OF MINDS

PI KAPPA ALPHA HONORS RETIRING COUNCILOR

(Continued from page 1)

towns, and a delegation of students from Mu Chapter at Presbyterian College. Dr. Arbuckle, head of the Chemistry Department at Davidson, has been a member of Pi Kappa Alpha since 1886, being initiated by Tota Chapter at Hampden-Sydney. It was through his vision that the fraternity was able to weather a siege of hard luck and trouble in the late 1880s, and it was with regret that the 1933 convention accepted his resignation as Grand Councilor.

Dr. Arbuckle’s resignation brought to a close almost fifty years of active service in Pi Kappa Alpha organization. He was first associated with the Grand Council in 1894 when he was elected as Grand Princeps for a three-year term. Again in 1901 he was elected to the same position for a four-year term. Then in 1911 he was elected Grand Councilor, in which capacity he served continuously until he voluntarily declined the position at the organization’s national convention held last August in Troutdale in the Pines in Colorado.

Dr. Arbuckle early became interested in boys’ and fraternal work. Besides his association with Pi Kappa Alpha, he has taken an active interest in Boy Scouts, Y. M. C. A., and other honorary and social fraternal organizations. He organized and was scoutmaster of the first troop of Boy Scouts in Atlanta, Ga., taking up the activity while he was a professor at Agnes Scott College. He still prizes highly a cup which was presented to him by the troop when he left Atlanta.

(Continued from page 1)

into membership in the scholarship organization. The initiated included J. A. McGeachy of Fayetteville, W. M. Thompson and W. T. Thompson of Richmond, Va., J. F. Dill of Buchanan, Va., Odi Casali of Welch, W. Va., and J. T. Blair of Albemarle, all members of the Senior class, and Neal Yates Pharr and S. T. Henderson, both of Charlotte; J. M. McBryde of Fort Defiance, Va.; W. G. Humphrey, of Greenwood, Miss.; E. G. Lilly, of Birmingham, Ala., and C. B. Bailey, of Charlottesville, Va. Emory Flinn, of New York, another member of the Mimir Society, was unable to attend the initiation, although extended a bid.

After the address, the newly-initiated and faculty members retired to the banquet hall for the annual fall banquet, presided over by Professor Archibald Currie. J. A. McGeachy, E. G. Lilly, Dr. J. W. MacConnell, and Dr. Lambeth were called upon for short talks.

LETTERS AWARDED TO CROSS-COUNTRY AND FOOTBALL MEN

(Continued from page 1)

Higgins, W. H.; Peters, R. T.; K. M., and Wilson, R. M. At the same meeting of the Athletic Council, the matter of the size and type of varsity letters was decided. It was decided that all varsity letters given in major sports would be eight inches in size. The minor sports letters will have an insignia inside the letter for differentiation, but will be the same size as the regular letter. Other minor details were decided upon. The motion was also made and carried at this meeting to give a special award to any man who might win a state athletic event or make an all-state team. Also, a special award will be made to the team which may win a state championship in any athletic field.

Friday night, December 8, the sixteen Davidson football lettermen gathered at the home of Mr. and Mrs. “Doc” Newton for a smoker and meeting. The lettermen enjoyed several tables of bridge, followed by informal discussion of the past and the football season for next year. Afterwards, an election was held when the captains and managers were chosen. Following this, delicious refreshments were served by Mrs. Newton, assisted by Mrs. Gene McEver.

DAVIDSON MEN PLAY IN MUSIC CONCERTS

(Continued from page 1)

number on the program and appeared to be the audience’s favorite. The Music Department of Davidson College was well represented in this group of outstanding artists. Harrison Bradley was a member of the clarinet section, David McLain of the drum section, Hubert Morris of the French horn section, and A. M. Cunningham of the trumpet section. Professor James C. Pfohl, head of the Davidson Music Department, played in the bass violin group.

Dr. Arbuckle came to Davidson in 1913, and in his first year here was elected one of the faculty advisers to the Y. M. C. A., and has served continuously since, being re-elected every three years by a vote of the student body. When the Y. M. C. A. organized a board to control its finances, Dr. Arbuckle was elected president of the board, a position which he still holds. He was also instrumental in organizing Gamma Sigma Epsilon, a chemical fraternity, which has since grown into a national society. He also holds membership in Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa.

Prominent Pi K. A.’s present at the ceremony included District Princeps Arthur P. Harris, Jr., of Albemarle; C. R. Johnson, W. S. Horne, T. T. Upshur, W. Tisdale, L. A. McCall, Jr., all of Presbyterian College; A. V. Russell and H. L. Horton, Jr., of Albemarle; Edwin F. Shewmake, of Davidson; Frank C. Smith, A. J. Beall, Robert W. Lafferty, and George M. Ivey, all of Charlotte.

Prof. Currie to Address Alpha Phi Epsilon

Last Friday night the Davidson Chapter of Alpha Phi Epsilon, national honorary debating fraternity, held its first official meeting of the year. The purpose of this meeting was to issue bids to seven men who have shown themselves to be outstanding in forensic activities, or who have exhibited potential speaking ability. Tonight there will be another meeting, at which time the new men will be introduced to the faculty. Professor Archibald Currie, professor of political science, will make an address before the members and newly-pledged men. Men to whom bids were issued are as follows: R. A. Banks, Robert Coit, John Fitzgerald, Stuart Henry, Rufus Morrow, and Walter Sprunt.

DR. LINGLE SPEAKS

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, addressed the monthly session of the organization of the men of the Belmont Presbyterian Church Tuesday evening. The meeting, at which supper was served, was held in the Sunday School building.

On Other Campuses

WASHINGTON AND LEE

A new set of absence rules has been approved by the Washington and Lee faculty, and will become effective on January 29. Under these new regulations, men with a C average, having cuts allowed them, are permitted to take without penalty as many voluntary absences in each class as there are class and laboratory meetings each week. Absences excused on account of illness are not counted as voluntary absences. Students on the dean’s list are not subject to absence regulations so long as their work is regarded by the dean’s office as satisfactory.

VIRGINIA

The University of Virginia and the Southern Conference seem to be at the parting of the ways again. The 3-3-3 Athletic Committee met in Charlottesville, and it is reported that one of the proposals before it was that Virginia resign from the conference, make its own set of rules, and step out into independent football circles once again. The proposals have been made before, but have never been carried through. If such a move were made, it will be a great question as to who will be invited to take the vacant place. William and Mary, Richmond University and Davidson seem to be the ones that have the best chance to enter.

V. P. I.

One of the most colossal inventions of the modern age was uncovered at V. P. I. the other day. One student, troubled with the habit of falling asleep in class, decided to overcome his handicap. With admirable determination, he has schooled himself to go to sleep with his chin in his hands so that just as he dozes off, the hand slaps him hard enough to wake him up again. Peculiar type, these Virginians!

CITADEL

In accordance with the annual custom, all members of the freshman and varsity football squads were given a holiday of five days. This holiday could have been taken by freshmen and sophomores either after the football game Thanksgiving, or they may begin their Christmas furlough five days before the remainder of the corps get off. The juniors and seniors may distribute their holidays through the semester and take them one at a time over the weekends, or may use them as applied to the soph-fresh ruling.

TEXAS

If a student were to take all the courses offered by the University of Texas, he would have to study 106 years at the university, provided he did not fail any courses; he would then possess 33 degrees, ranging all the way from home economics to petroleum engineering.

GEORGIA

At the University of Georgia, it costs 27 cents to cut a class. You pay $40 a quarter for education. A quarter comprises 11 weeks of five days each when the off-day is subtracted. Discount five more days for holidays and suspensions of classes, and a total of 150 classes a quarter is what is obtained for $40. Now by simple division one finds that each class you cut costs 27 cents, and figures don’t lie. And then, if you cut a class to take a co-ed down to the local “speakeasy”... ah well!

N. C. STATE

In an examination given recently at State College, every student in the class made a perfect grade. The exam was in Spanish. This was the first time in the history of the institution that such an event has occurred. State students are wondering whether the professor left the room or not!

STATIONERY CALLING CARDS FRATERNITY PAPERS Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates PROGRAMS See BILL JOHNSON 203 Watts Garland Court Standard Printing Company CHARLOTTE, N.C.