THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1933

THE SPORTS PARADE

(Ried Nadel)

Freshman Track Team Wins

Issued by Managers Varsity Schedule—Begins With Catawba Nine on Home Ground

George Neal, varsity baseball manager, and Ansley Watson, manager of the Freshman team, made public the schedules of their teams
for the 1933 season last Monday. Outstanding among the announcements appears to be the fact that the yearling schedule is
decidedly shorter than that of last season.

The season officially opens for the varsity on March 30, with Catawba furnishing the opposition. After this game, the ’Cats
take on Lenoir-Rhyne on the local lot. In a two-game series in 1932, Lenoir-Rhyne took the opener, 3 to 2,
but Davidson, with George Baily on the mound in his hometown, set the Bears down in their own backyard, 21
to 2.

In the last home game before spring holidays, the Wildcats will face Union Theological Seminary, and in addition, Hurler Knox
Poole, who turned the locals down so handily last year. Only one other game is to be played before the
holiday season, and that is a return game with Catawba here. During the vacation, the following teams will meet: Elon,
here; Carolina, Winston-Salem, and again at a place yet to be decided upon, and Elon at Elon.

In baseball, Coach “Red” Laird has started daily scrimmages to get a line on possible starters for the opening game
which is two weeks off. Laird seems to broaden his ever-present smile when talking about the possibilities of the candidates
he has to work with this year. With the exception of pitchers and outfielders, he has only two teams with
which to work, but competition is so keen among candidates for the different positions that Laird is holding inter-varsity in
preference to varsity-freshman scrimmages in order to get the best observation of his candidates.

Competition is keenest at second base, where Bumgarner, a hard-hitting Sophomore, and Mock, who came up from Rutherford College this
year, are battling for the post. Joe Morris, because of his height, seems to have ousted veteran Bruce Peabody from
his first base spot. Although the little parson is still working out at the initial sack, he may be shifted
into the outfield, which already has more than its share of candidates.

Although Fred Smyre is giving him plenty of competition, the veteran Buck Mills is holding his own at short and
will most likely start at the post. Johnny Mackorell, who played shortstop for the yearlings last year, is showing up
brilliantly at short and should have no trouble in winning the hot corner assignment over Billy Ravenel and Happy Gladstone.
The infield will be rounded out by Whitley, who will have to do most of the catching himself, although Burns
and Rives appear good understudies.

The outfield should be well taken care of this year, with the Morrison brothers, both lettermen; Morgan, leading hitter among
the Freshmen last year; Peabody, who may alternate at first base, and Weeks, Rogers, and Newman fighting for first honors.
Captain Bradsher should take over his post at center when his broken ankle has sufficiently healed.

Pitching should present no problem to Laird this season, since he has Pearce, Baily, and West from last spring’s varsity,
and Harris, Coble, Ashton, and Becker from last year’s successful Freshman team. Pearce, Baily, and Becker are left-handers, while all
the others throw from the right side.

The track men got their chance to show off last Friday and Saturday, and although the Freshmen led in the
scoring, several brilliant prospects for the varsity were brought to light. Davidson should be well represented in the dashes with
Glasgow and Wingfield aiding Captain Fleagle and Dickerson; in the hurdles with McPhail aiding Little, McCallie, and Pratt; and in
the distances with McFayden, Morris, Gullette, and Woodside helping Howard and Morrow. More than twenty-five are working daily with thirteen
lettermen to earn berths on the track team.

Tryouts in golf are being held this week to select a four-man team to play the ten-game schedule this spring.
Captain T. P. (Continued on page 6)

The schedule follows:
March 30—Catawba, here.
April 5—Lenoir-Rhyne, here.
April 8—Union, here.
April 10—Catawba, there.
April 12—Elon, here.
April 15—North Carolina, Winston-Salem.
April 17—North Carolina, place pending.
April 18—Elon, there.
April 21—Wake Forest, here.
April 25—North Carolina, there.
April 26—N. C. State, there.
May 2—Lenoir-Rhyne, there.
May 10—Duke, there.
May 11—Wake Forest, there.
May 15—N. C. State, here.
May 17—Duke, here.

In spite of its brevity, the Freshman schedule is representative this year. The majority of the games are on a
home and home basis, but there is one three-day trip on which Wake Forest, North Carolina, and N. C. State
will be played. The Freshmen are engaging some of the best Freshman, high school, and prep school teams in the
state. To date, Coaches Unger and Mathis have gotten little information as to the line-ups, with the exception of the
hurling material. Three moundsmen appear to stand out above the rest. They are Richardson and Jenkins, right-handers, and Sanders, a
portsider. The Freshman season opens one day after the varsity makes its initial appearance, with Ball Creek High furnishing the
opposition on Richardson Field.

The tentative schedule follows:
March 31—Balls Creek High, here.
April 5—M. P. C. I., there.
April 21—Belmont Abbey, here (pending).
April 24—Balls Creek High, there.
April 28—Belmont Abbey, there (pending).
May 4—Wake Forest Frosh, there.
May 5—North Carolina Frosh, there.
May 6—N. C. State Frosh, there.
May 10—M. P. C. I., here.

My Greatest Thrill
AS TOLD BY JACK WAGNER

Writing about the thrills that a lineman has during his football career is a very difficult thing to do. If
someone does not believe this, ask any of the men that play. However, my greatest thrill occurred in the Wake
Forest-Davidson game of this past fall. It is a very insignificant thing, but I will always remember it. Wake Forest
had driven us back in the third quarter to our own one-yard line, and Charlie Pearce had to punt from
15 yards in Intra-Mural Competition.

Wrestling Leader
Charlie Forte, of Barium Springs, was selected by his teammates to lead them throughthe 1934 season. Forte wrestled in the
145-pound division.

Charlie Forte Leads Davidson Wrestlers

Charles T. Forte, of Barium Springs, N.C., was recently elected captain of the wrestling team for next year. At the
same time, John A. Hunter, of Donner, La., was selected varsity manager. Forte is a member of the Sophomore class
this year and wrestled in the 145-pound class. He wrestled at Barium Springs before coming to Davidson and made his
numeral in the sport last year. He also made his numeral in football last year and was on the varsity
squad this year. Forte gained six points on the mat this year by defeating Devan of Washington and Lee, and
Reed of Duke, both time advantages. An injured shoulder kept him out of the V.P.I. and Carolina matches. The new
leaders succeed Ben B. Taylor, Jr., of Baton Rouge, La., who was the captain of the mat team this year,
and Sam V. Daniels, of Huntington, W.Va., who was varsity manager.

Ten Matches Arranged For Wildcat Golf Team

Preliminary Tryouts for the Team Are Now Being Held

Davidson’s golf team will play ten matches during the coming season, it was announced recently by T.P. Caldwell, captain and
manager of the team. Three of the matches are scheduled for Charlotte, while the others will be played away. In
the first three contests, Davidson will be hosts to Richmond University, Washington and Lee, and Furman, at the Charlotte Country
Club course. The schedule opens on March 24. Two trips, one into Virginia and the other to Georgia, are booked
for the team. The Virginia trip begins April 24, when Davidson returns Richmond University’s visit. After a return match with
Washington and Lee at Lexington, Va., the Wildcat team will journey to Greensboro, where Carolina and Duke Universities will be
met on consecutive days at the Sedgefield course.

(Continued on page 6)

back of our own goal line. Our line didn’t hold as it should and the Wake Forest players rushed the
kicker, causing him to hurry his kick and consequently it was a very high punt, which didn’t go but about
11 yards. A Wake Forest player, Captain Bill Green, caught the ball on our 12-yard line. The coaches had had
me going down on punts so I was near when he caught the punt. I tackled him, he fumbled the
ball and I recovered, thus giving our team another chance to punt out of danger. I think this was my
greatest thrill.

Jack Wagner is Davidson’s only four-letter man, making the varsity award in football, golf, basketball, and track. He made the
Associated Press all-state second team in football.

Varsity Lettermen Compete, But Places Do Not Count in Scoring

The Freshman tracksters displayed their merit last Friday and Saturday by winning the inter-class meet with 67 3-4 points. This
especially showed a great deal of strength among the frosh because it is the first time that the first-year men
have won this meet in several years. The Sophomores were second with 51 3-4 points, the Seniors next with 17
1-2, and the Juniors trailed with 13 points. Varsity lettermen competed but their places did not count in the class
scoring.

John Lee, of the frosh team, was high point man, taking first in the high jump with five feet, seven
inches, placing second in the javelin throw, and tying for second in the high jump. Other scoring honors were divided
among Ras Evans, who won both the sprints, Earl Frazier, who won both the distance events, Fred McPhail, who won
both hurdle events, and Charles Bettis, who placed in three of the weight events. All three gained ten points. The
Freshman team this year has greater potentialities and prospects for a more successful season than any preceding frosh group. They
should win all their meets and this includes the state meet at Chapel Hill. The purpose of the meet was
not only to give the coaches an idea of the possibilities of the team, but also to work the men
into a little better shape. Next Friday there will be a more strenuous meet in which the full distances will
be run. Since this is their first competition of the year, and due to a rather cold wind, the times
were nothing exceptional.

The summary is as follows:

100-yard dash: Evans (F), first; Faison (F), second; Glasgow (Soph), third; Wingate (Soph), fourth. Time, 10.3 seconds.

Shot put: Potter (Soph), first; Tipton (F), second; Bettis (Sen), third; Peabody (Sen), fourth. Distance, 35 feet, 10 inches.

High jump: Lee (F), first; Peabody (Sen), second; Gammon (Soph), Brown (Sen), Wells (F), tied for third. Height, 5 feet,
7 inches.

350-yard run: Glasgow (Soph), first; Bell (F), second; Faison (F). Time, 44 seconds.

Three-quarter-mile run: Frazier (F), first; Rose (Soph), second; Gullette (Soph), third; Oakes (Jun), fourth. Time, 3 minutes, 37 seconds.

120 high hurdles: McPhail (Soph), first; Cathey (F), second; Parker (F), third; Stephens (F), fourth. Time, 16.6 seconds.

Broad jump: Wingfield (Soph), first; Armistead (Jun), second; Peabody (Sen), third; Stephens (F), fourth. Distance, 19 feet, 8 inches.

220-yard dash: Evans (F), first; Glasgow (Soph), second; Faison (F), third; Gullette (Soph), fourth. Time, 23.6 seconds.

Pole vault: Pittman (F), first; Dolan (F), and Lee, J. (F), tied for second place; Lee, J.B. (Soph), fourth. Height,
11 feet.

660-yard run: Rose (Soph), first; Corbin (Jun), second; Shuford (F), third; Cothran (F), fourth. Time, 1 minute, 34 seconds.

Discus throw: Dill (Jun), first; Bettis (Sen), second; Potter (Soph), third; Sears (F), fourth. Distance, 110 feet.

Javelin throw: Bettis (Sen), first; Lee (F), second; Johnston (F), third; Coit (F), fourth.

One mile and half: Frazier (F), first; McFadyen (Soph), second; Morris (Soph), third; Woodside (Jun), fourth. Time, 7 minutes, 49
2-5 seconds.

220 low hurdles: McPhail (Soph), first; Parker (F), second. Time, 29.4 seconds.

Harris Is Chosen as Basketball Captain

Smyre and White Elected Managers of Next Year’s Teams

Charlie Harris, of Welch, W.Va., was chosen captain of the 1934 basketball team at a meeting of the lettermen recently.
Harris’ selection marked the first time in years that a Sophomore was so honored. The new leader won the respect
of his teammates the past season by leading them in individual scoring. Last year he captained the yearling team and
also led them in scoring. Before coming to Davidson, he starred in athletics at Virginia Episcopal School and won state-wide
recognition in football, basketball, baseball, and track. Besides being skillful in cage play, Harris shows promise of being one of
the leading twirlers for the varsity baseball team this spring.

At the same meeting, Fred Smyre, of Gastonia, N.C., was elected manager of the 1934 team, and James White, of
Graham, N.C., Freshman manager. Donald Bailey, Jack Hellinger, and Billy Ravenel were selected Junior managers, with Ray Richardson as alternate.

COMMENCEMENT and Then GRADUATION

A SENIOR’S desire is to have a lasting remembrance of college life. These are brought about by college ties, formalities
and .... Commencement Invitations

See E. O. Guerrant A. M. Manson

Davidson Theatre

Lewis Stone John Barrymore Frederick March Warner Baxter Rubie Keller

WEDNESDAY MEN MUST FIGHT Dina Wynward

THURSDAY TOPAZ Gloria Stuart Myrna Loy

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY SIGN OF THE CROSS Claudette Colbert

MONDAY AND TUESDAY 42nd Street George Brent Bebe Daniels
