Dean Herring, Prominent Man at Duke University, Is Speaker at Vespers

Holds Position of Assistant Dean and Is Connected With the English Department

NICHOL CONDUCTS SERVICE

“Lot’s Choice” Was the Subject for His Interesting Talk

“Lot’s Choice” was the subject of the talk delivered by Dean Herring of Duke University at the Y. M. C. A. vesper service last Sunday night. Dean Herring holds the position of assistant dean at Duke University and is connected with the English department. He was one of the most popular speakers to appear at vespers last year, and his talk this year presented the same appeal.

Henry Nichol had charge of the service and after the singing of two hymns he led the students in prayer. Bob Orr, accompanied at the organ by Bill Hart, rendered the beautiful and impressive “Largo” as a violin solo. The speaker was then introduced by Nichol.

Dean Herring began his talk by pointing out that as we understand the common things of life, we are better able to meet the important things that we encounter. He then reviewed the common story of the parting of Abraham and Lot. “So Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan; and Lot journeyed east.” He pointed out that if we look into this story, laying aside its Biblical position, we would probably class Lot as a sharp, shrewd, trained business man, the man we would want to handle our dollars. We would probably class Abraham as a soft-headed and short-sighted business man. He then went on to show that if we look down deep to see what underlay each choice we would find in Lot selfishness and a love for power, but we would finally come to decide that Lot was really short-sighted in his choice. He was “blinded by the grass.” He was unable to look over the grass of material things to see what really lay behind. We find in Abraham’s case a spirit of unselfishness and a sense of values that made his name great to his own nation and the whole world.

Dean Herring pointed out the fact that Lot’s choice has been made by the people of the world all down the ages to the final destruction of the makers. The Roman Empire took Lot’s way and vanished. Napoleon and the German people were not able “to see over the grass.” Even here in America we have been guilty of making Lot’s choice in our economic life. We as a nation have looked only at the profits and our only desire is to make it easy for ourselves, and that was just Lot’s motive when he “pitched his tent toward the cities of the plain.”

The college man, according to Dean Herring, has the most favorable chance to get a correct sense of values. The college man has the leisure and the right atmosphere to enable him to avoid making Lot’s choice, but even in our sheltered college life we are guilty of making the same mistake that Lot made. We may neglect our physical and mental selves, blinded by the grass of laziness. We may also fail to place the right value on our social and religious life. Dean Herring closed by picturing the fact that behind Abraham’s choice had led him to a sense of values that was really worthwhile. We can never hope to make our choices aright unless God’s aid is behind us to lift us up and allow us to see over the grass of worthless things to the truly worthwhile things beyond.

Hood’s Class Visits Morganton Asylum

Dr. Hood’s class in abnormal psychology visited the state institution for the insane at Morganton on Wednesday, May 3. The class of about thirty-eight members left Davidson about 9:30 Wednesday morning in automobiles. They arrived in Morganton at 11:30. At 1:30 the class went to the institution, where they assembled in the office while the patients were brought in singly. The doctor lectured on the particular case, then asked the patient questions and allowed the members of the class to ask questions. Four cases were studied in this way: a woman suffering from manic-depressive insanity, a man suffering from mutism, a young dentist, and a very interesting case of a man suffering from delusions of grandeur and persecution.

After observing these cases, the class divided into two parts and went through the asylum. Each group was led by a doctor. The class got a great deal of practical knowledge on diagnosis and treatment on this trip, and had the opportunity to observe concrete examples of types that have been studied.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1933

Oxford Group Holds Meeting on Campus

New Religious Movement Introduced by Group of Visiting Leaders

The Oxford Group was introduced on the Davidson campus last week with the visit of three ministers, all deep and concentrated Christians who have recognized in this movement vital and early-church principles that have lost their place in the maze of modern-church organization. These men came at the invitation of Davidson students who had in various ways come in touch with the movement and desired to learn more of it from within.

Dr. Sherwood Day, a leader in the international movement, has carried to distant lands the message of Christ. He is a Presbyterian minister from Hampden-Sydney, Va., and was accompanied here by Dr. Levery Evans, pastor of a Baptist Church of Richmond, Va., and by Rev. George Hammond, pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Canton.

An open meeting was held Tuesday evening, and it proved so interesting and profitable that the students requested a similar meeting be held on the following night. Dr. Day outlined briefly the history of the group. It was started about ten years ago by an American minister, Dr. Frank Buchman, then at Cambridge University. He felt the church had failed to give proper stress to personal consecration and began his activity towards remedying the situation among the students there. The movement got its name, “The Oxford Group,” because the first group consisted of students from Oxford University. It is more correctly called The First Century Christian Fellowship, for, as Dr. Day said, “It is the Church of Christ at work. It is not an organization, but a movement spelled with a little ‘m’.” In applying the truths of Christ, the group is guided by the fourfold test of absolute love, absolute unselfishness, absolute honesty, and absolute purity. Anything, in the problems of life, that clashes with this standard is promptly dismissed as contrary to the will of God.

Silver Screen

Wednesday, May 10—Today We Live

Another war story, starring Joan Crawford and Gary Cooper. The action takes place in England and on the battlefields of France, during the World War. She goes to France and falls in love with Gary Cooper, forgetting her childhood sweetheart, Robert Young. At this time, Robert and Joan’s brother, Franchot Tone, appear, and the story progresses.

Thursday, May 11—A Bedtime Story

This show is supposed to show the greatness and unselfishness of Maurice Chevalier. As a wealthy French sporting man, he returns from a hunting trip in Africa.and finds that his fiancée does not expect him until the next day. With this bit of news, he proceeds to throw a great party, with three different girls. Returning home, he finds a waif, Baby LeRoy Weinbrener, in his car. The servants ask no questions and dress the baby in Rene’s pajamas and put him to bed. After this, the engagement is broken, and Rene gives all his love to the baby.

Friday, May 12—Diplomaniac
This is the latest show produced by Wheeler and Woolsey. There is no information on this picture other than it is supposed to be their best, and this is the first time it will be shown in the entire South.

Saturday, May 13—The Story of Temple Drake
This is the famous, or infamous picture that George Raft refused to make, claiming that it would hurt his popularity. Jack LaRue took his place, and did the role well, with no trace of sentiment at all. The story is of a well-raised young southern girl, Miriam Hopkins, who leaves a party with Buster Collier, seeking excitement, to the disapproval of her fiancé, William Gargan; and falls into the hands of a notorious bootlegger, Jack LaRue, who plays the part of Temple Drake.

Monday, May 15—Song of the Eagle
This, also, is one of the very newest pictures, and there is no information about it, except the cast. Charles Bickford, as usual, plays the hard man, and is assisted by Richard Arlen and Mary Brian.

Tuesday, May 16—Barbarian
Ramon Novarro’s last picture, showing him as a dragoman of Egypt. Myrna Loy, as the sophisticated English girl, comes to Egypt, and Novarro falls in love with her. Of course, she has come to Egypt to marry Reginald Denny, and this is where the romance comes in. At last, Ramon Novarro persuades Myrna to come to the desert with him.

Pre-Med Fraternity Addressed by Bailey
Professor of Greek Delivers Paper on “Beginnings of Medicine”
“Beginnings of Medicine” is the title of a most interesting, informing, and entertaining paper delivered by Professor John C. Bailey of the Greek department before a recent meeting of Pi Delta Alpha pre-medical fraternity. All present exhibited a great deal of interest and listened eagerly. Local officers for next year were elected at this meeting. Those men chosen to lead the work for the coming year are: Rufus C. Morrow, Jr., president; William M. Brown, vice-president; Rawling Pratt-Thomas, secretary, and John H. Fitzgerald, Jr., treasurer. An enjoyable social hour was held immediately following the regular meeting.

Clardy Selected to Head Delta Pi Kappa
At the regular meeting of Delta Pi Kappa, journalistic fraternity, held last Wednesday night, the officers for the coming year were elected. These are: L. W. Clardy, president; L. S. Gamble, vice-president; W. M. Thompson, secretary and treasurer. Following the election of officers, several men, outstanding in journalistic work and managerial ability, were nominated and passed on for membership. These men are: W. T. Johnson, B. O. Ravenel, A. W. Colwell, business managers of the publications for next year; W. L. Fugate, editor of the Yowl; E. L. Powell, president of the Reporters’ Club, and A. H. Manson.

Men Are Chosen to Write I. R. C. Papers
Articles to Be on Some Subject of International Interest
A regular meeting of the International Relations Club was held on Friday night, April 28. The feature of the meeting was the selection of twenty-three men who, if they desire to become members of the I. R. C., shall write a paper, 300 to 500 words, on some subject of international interest. The papers must be in by May 10th. These papers shall be carefully read and judged, and from them the best will be picked and the authors immediately issued bids to this club. The following men were selected: Don Baily, Dick Banks, Gordon Brown, Joe Bryant, Barrie Caldwell, Albert Colwell, Joe Drake, George Gullette, Mack Holland, Andy Manson, Bradford McLean, Fred McPhail, Lorenzo McPhail, Jack Plunkett, William Rachal, Mims Rogers, Ben Rose, Bob Smith, Walter Sprunt, Rawling Pratt-Thomas, Tee Thompson, Kenneth Weeks, Jim White.

Three Editors Lead Publications Board
The Publications Board for the three student-edited publications of Davidson College was formed anew after elections were completed last week, in which Odi Casali, Jack Williams, and Bill Fugate were given positions for next year. These three men, of whom Casali will represent “The Davidsonian,” Williams the “Quips and Cranks,” and Fugate “The Yowl,” will succeed the old board, which consisted of Bob McCallie, Ed Guerrant, and Reeves Pope. From the nature of their positions, Odi Casali and Bill Johnson were up for election from “The Davidsonian,” Jack Williams and Owen Ravenel from “Quips and Cranks” and Bill Fugate and Bill Colwell from “The Yowl.” These three student members, along with Mr. F. L. Jackson and Professor F. K. Fleagle, will form the financial board of the publications for the coming year. This board regulates the financial end of the publications, by means of quarterly reports from the business managers. If a deficit looms large in the budget of one of the publications, it is the duty of the board to take action on this lack of funds.

Modern science is more favorable to theism than to pantheism. The main tradition of Christian philosophy is not shaken by the new discoveries—Dean Inge.

What is caviare to the general is usually only buckshot to the particular—Bennett Craig.

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY, MAY 10
“TODAY WE LIVE”
JOAN CRAWFORD—GARY COOPER

THURSDAY, MAY 11
“BEDTIME STORY”
MAURICE CHEVALIER

FRIDAY, MAY 12
“DIPLOMANIAC”
BERT WHEELER—ROBERT WOOLSEY

SATURDAY, MAY 13
“SHAME OF TEMPLE DRAKE”
JACK LARUE—MIRIAM HOPKINS

MONDAY, MAY 15
“SONG OF EAGLE”
RICHARD ARLEN—MARY BRIAN