THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1933 — The Davidsonian Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915
SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina. Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRANT Editor-in-Chief
A. M. MANSON Managing Editor

EDITORIAL STAFF
L. W. CLARDY Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS Managing Editor
J. H. CASSELL Athletic Editor
J. E. B. LAKE Exchange Editor
J. W. WHITE Feature Editor
S. S. GAMBLE Feature Editor
J. T. GOODYKOONTZ Contributing Editor
J. A. HANCOCK Review Editor
D. D. McBRYDE Associate Editor
R. L. McCALLIE Associate Editor
C. F. MYERS Associate Editor
B. B. SUGG Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. LONGINO Business Manager
A. H. MANSON Assistant Business Manager
ALVIN BAYER, JR. Solicitor
H. B. DANIEL Solicitor
J. M. DOUGLAS Solicitor
J. L. GREEN Solicitor
W. P. SPRUNT Solicitor
J. R. TAYLOR Solicitor
A. C. WADSWORTH Solicitor
J. E. WHITE Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
J. E. B. LAKE President
J. E. LEWIS Vice-President
J. GREGG Secretary-Treasurer
J. M. ALDERMAN
J. H. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN
J. L. McILWAIN
G. E. BAILEY
E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY
W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES
W. L. NORTHEN
J. E. BOWERS
C. E. NORVELL
J. E. BOYD
E. L. POWE
J. H. COVINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON
P. M. ROGERS
J. B. FICKLIN
B. L. ROSE
J. L. GULLETT
T. H. SUTTON
JACK HELLINGER
N. W. WALLACE
J. C. HENRY
K. D. WEEKS
J. A. TEW
W. R. WARD
J. E. LORRAINE
W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. DAVIS
J. W. WHITE
W. F. PRATT-THOMAS

FEBRUARY 22, 1933
I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called,
with all lowliness and meekness, with long-suffering forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit
in the bond of peace.—Ephesians 4:1, 2, 3.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING
Dr. Chandler, the visiting Congregationalist minister from Connecticut, gave some interesting sidelights on two vital issues of the day, Church
Unity and Pacifism, in his sermon Sunday morning.

Dr. Chandler, in his sermon, said in regard to foreign missionary work that the Oriental mind is confused at the
various creeds, beliefs, doctrines, and rituals of the different churches, thereby emphasizing unity. Later in an interview, he said that
the Oriental does not know which to believe, and worse than that, the more intellectual Orientals are laughing at our
differences. “We seem to miss the point of all missionary work; for it is not the expounding of the Bible
that they need but direct personal service to meet their spiritual and material needs. Christianity is a direct service to
a human need. We must disregard creeds, rituals, etc., and unite in meeting their personal needs, if foreign missions are
to make real headway,” Dr. Chandler said.

In regard to Pacifism, Dr. Chandler spoke in his sermon of having heard, during the war, a minister say from
his pulpit that Christ was not a pacifist, and tried to prove it. Later, in the interview, Dr. Chandler discussed
the effect of American “Pacifism” on the Orientals. He said that they could not understand why the Christian nations participated
in the World War, and why each claimed Christ was on their side. Moreover, the Oriental thinks we are money-crazy.

These illuminating sidelights are indeed thought-provoking and important to us today. They call for contemplation and action.

Dr. W. E. Davis made a splendid talk at vespers. It was highly informative, practical, and challenging.

Technocracy, World Peace, Tariff, Politics, Socialism, Communism—words that scare us in their problematic meanings, can thrill us even more if
we challenge them and do our best, according to Christ’s teaching, to solve the questions involved in each term.

The prospect of Junior Speaking being only ten days away sounds good. Youth likes to frolic about a bit after
a winter’s hibernation.

Senator Carter Glass, of Virginia, chose to stay in the Senate and fight currency inflation. In this, coupled with the
viewpoint that the Reconstruction Finance Corporation is the first American dole, with others to follow, we believe that he is
perhaps right in fighting these things in the Senate. We need a strong conservative student of finance and there is
no one as capable as this Virginia statesman.

KNOWLEDGE
Many years ago that famous philosopher, Socrates, said that Knowledge is Virtue, and Virtue is Knowledge. According to this theory
Davidson College students should be a very moral group, since, possessing the one, they will naturally be graced with the
other. However, two fallacies exist here. In the first place, it is doubtful whether knowledge is virtue; and in the
second place, it is doubtful whether Davidson students are sufficiently endowed with knowledge in the first place.

Davidson College, to be sure, can do little to correlate knowledge with virtue. But what it can do is to
teach this knowledge, and teach it in such a way as to be easily applicable. Then, for those who still
lack virtue, the college is not responsible. For “to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to
him it is sin.”

The theme for this editorial is to be found in the paragraph above: “What it can do is to teach
this knowledge and teach it in such a way as to make it easily applicable.” Educators have known for a
number of years that the best way to teach a science is to make it concrete by means of experiments.
It would surely be an inadequate chemistry or physics course that did not have laboratory work in conjunction with the
classroom lectures. The reason for this is obvious: We have difficulty forming mental pictures of abstract, indefinite laws; whereas if
we work out these laws with concrete materials, and see their application, they become real to us and are easily
comprehended.

In the past number of years this theory of learning by doing has become increasingly popular. At the present time
in many of the larger universities accounting classes have laboratory work just as do physics classes, economics classes have problems
to work out, psychology students have cases to study, and so forth. Since a thing becomes real to us only
as we experience it for ourselves, it is obvious that a great bulk of laws and principles, even though they
be embellished with striking illustrations, can mean but little to the average student.

This year the students of Sociology here at Davidson are having the opportunity of doing a bit of relief work
for the county, and in this way are discovering at first hand the conditions and results of conditions studied in
class. With this opportunity for observing and coping with situations as they exist, Sociology will mean far more to the
student than would otherwise have been possible. Furthermore, for several years the class in Abnormal Psychology has taken one trip
each year to Morganton in order to see actual cases and their treatments. This is of utmost importance to the
student, if he is to receive the full value from his education. A long step has been made in the
right direction. But it is only as these field trips are co-ordinated with classroom lectures that a college education will
mean what it should in a man’s understanding of his world.

W. M. THOMPSON.

WHY COLLEGE?
Such a topic appearing on the editorial page of a college newspaper may seem rather queer. Its appearance in a
high school organ would seem much more natural, for surely students already enrolled in college should know just exactly why
they came to college. Of course many may differ in their thoughts on just what is the real purpose of
coming to an institution like Davidson or any other for four years, and probably these numerous opinions are justified.

In the past the idea of many who attended college and most of those who didn’t attend college was that
the chief purpose was to fit one for the making of money, or phrasing it differently, the purpose was to
teach young men and women how to succeed when they entered the business or professional world. The consensus of opinion
seems to be changing lately. Undoubtedly there are some who still think that any person possessing a college degree will
make a success in the world, but they are in the minority. Of course all reports show that college graduates
do earn more money than others, but this fact does not prove that this capacity to amass money was acquired
by their attendance at some college or university. It may mean merely that the persons with the most intelligence naturally
want to obtain as good an education as possible, and no one can say that they would not have attained
just as great an amount of success if they had not gone to college. Many educators at the present time
are attempting to discourage the idea that a college is a place to train the youth of the nation how
to make a living, but to build up the conception that college is a place in which we should learn
better how to live. It seems to us that this should be the main purpose ofHere is the cleaned OCR
text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Any institution of higher learning. All of us will have leisure time, and what more beneficial service could a college
or university perform than to teach us how to make the best use of our spare time? Applied instruction such
as this is of the utmost importance.

I SAW WORLD SPECTATOR

THE JUNIOR’S FOXY FRIENDS

Full many a quiet, modest man,
About this time of year,
Perceives by sudden evidence
His popularity’s immense,
And he’s a man of consequence
With girls both far and near.

The P. O. brings him varied styles
In letter-writing fads;
Where once he found a lonesome “snooze”
He now sees dainty grays and blues,
And envelopes of other hues
(And they’re not tailor’s ads).

What cordial notes from many maids,
Disdainful once, are his!
He’s asked to visit Converse
And Queens with flattering frequency,
With bids from Sweetbriar, too; dear me,
How popular he is!

Perhaps at first these things seem strange
But really it’s quite clear.
There is no cause for wonderment
About the goal of their intent.
The reason’s very evident,
Junior Speaking is near.

R. W.

A number of students rush down to buy the latest jig-saw puzzle. Nearly everybody is fascinated by this craze, not
excepting the faculty.

Smoke belching forth from a window on the third floor of West one day last week. Everybody was all excited
and you have never seen such tearing around. A mattress caught on fire and the whole hall helped to put
the fire out.

Washington Merry-Go-Round at the local cinema. They make a picture out of any book these days. Somebody commented, “It won’t
be long until we'll see Van Loon’s Geography enacted with thrills packed in every reel.”

A Senior wrote the father of his girl saying that he was a suitor for her hand and wanted to
know if he would be acceptable as a son-in-law. You would be more than surprised to know who it is.

Chick Gatewood taking Billy Shewmate’s picture out by the side of East Dorm Friday afternoon. He made several and Billy
got so tired of standing in the sun. But Chick wouldn’t snap it until everything was just right and kept
Billy waiting in spite of his earnest pleadings.

About 20 pretty girls fluttering around the campus bubbling over with excitement last Friday afternoon. They had just arrived from
Converse and presented a French play in a most commendable way that night.

The smiling countenance of our own Charlie Pearce beaming from the sports page of the Charlotte Observer Thursday morning. He
and Bill Goodson were both declared winners in the Carolinas Flaming Five contest. This means they were selected as the
outstanding sports figures of the Carolinas and that’s something.

This completes the low down for the past week. It has been written in an inimitable style which partly accounts
for its broad popularity. In just three more issues you will probably know who Tip Poff is. Several parties are
suspected but cross my heart nobody but the editor himself really knows.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. LAKE

The Tulane Hullabaloo put out a burlesque number for the February 10th issue. It is pretty fair.

Washington and Lee

The boys at W. & L. must be pretty much power. We are told that each student receives about 366
letters during the nine months of the school year. We would be thankful to get that many during the four
years up here.

Georgia Tech

The fraternities at Tech have a very good idea for friendship among fraternities. About this time of every year the
several classes in each fraternity will entertain their respective classes in other fraternities.

Four or five years ago not many persons mentioned the cultural value of a college education. Everyone was making money
then, and few had any spare time in which to live any sort of a contemplative life. Because of subsequent
economic conditions, millions of people have spare time now in the greatest abundance. Of course, conditions now are abnormal, at
least we still have hope for better times economically, but few wish for such times again as we enjoyed in
1928-1929. With the prospect of much more spare time in the future than we have had in the past, the
problem of leisure time looms important. It is our guess that colleges in the future will spend more time on
cultural subjects which give the student a basis on which to build his life, rather than many trivial subjects which
have characterized the curriculums of some of our leading colleges and universities.

President-elect Roosevelt has recently been given a bullet-proof speaker’s desk for broadcasting. This gift, by the Columbia Broadcasting System, is
lined with steel plates to protect Roosevelt from any more attempts at his life. The desk offers protection to the
speaker, shielding his body from below the waist to several inches above his shoulders. The desk is equipped with four
radio microphone outlets and a stand and lamp for manuscripts. The desk was designed under the partial guidance of the
members of the secret service.

James M. Mead, chairman of the House Committee on the Post Office and Post Roads, predicts a return to the
two-cent postal rate in a few more months. He said that the three-cent rate has reduced the volume of mail,
while the equipment, carriers, and mail cars have been forced to continue on the old plan. Mr. Mead stated that
about seventy-five million dollars worth of additional mail could be carried without the addition of any equipment. At the present
three-cent rate, a great many mail cars, carriers, and post offices are running half-empty. The cost of operation continues, but
the volume of mail is smaller. Mr. Mead predicts that the next Congress will revise the postal rates to return
to the two-cent rate. He predicts a return to the two-cent rate by July first.

The question of whether the powers of the world should embargo arms shipments to China and Japan is a frequently
discussed topic. Great Britain has become more and more in favor of putting an embargo on arms to both nations.
Some think that since China is not as well equipped, she should be allowed to receive arms. When this partiality
enters, complications arise. How to get the arms to China without letting Japan capture them is a question. The idea
of arms limitation to Japan would mean that the nations would be forcing the manufacturers to turn down one market
for another one which probably is not as good. The best plan would be a complete embargo by all the
nations on arms to both China and Japan. This would soon bring the war to a close, for without imported
supplies, Japan could not continue the war. Recently she made an appeal to Chile to organize her nitrate producers so
that Japan could get nitrate for explosives. If this supply were shut off, together with the possibility of reshipment from
other countries, Japan and China would soon have to come to terms.

Of course, there is some reason in the idea of forbidding Japan to import arms, meanwhile selling arms to China.
It would give both countries an even chance and give China a chance to win back the territory taken from
her by Japan. Complete freedom to sell, such as is in force at present, only permits Japan to go even
farther in the conquest and bullying of China. From the viewpoint of the individual, it is the correct way, because
it allows greater freedom of enterprise. From the standpoint of benefit to society in general, complete embargo is the better
method.

Mr. W. H. Moorfield, president of the Manchester, England, Coal Exchange, recently described a theory which, if used, would convert
coal mines into oil wells. The process consists of forcing hot hydrogen under high pressure into the mines and pumping
the resulting oil to the surface. Whether this method would be practical, and whether the reaction would require accurate adjustments
is not known. Coal, consisting mostly of carbon, would be changed into oil, a hydrocarbon, by the addition of hydrogen
in the right proportions. Whether a catalyst would be required, or whether any special apparatus would be too costly for
ordinary use is not known.

Mr. Léon Maxwell, of the faculty of Newcomb College at New Orleans, holds to the theory that jazz is the
American folk song. The United States is still too young to have a regular folk song, so jazz must be
considered the folk song according to the definition of one. The usual definition is a song that everybody knows. Many
people try to class negro spirituals, cowboy and mountaineer songs as folk songs, but since only that particular group knows
the songs, they could hardly be classed as folk songs. On the other hand, there are a great many people
who do not like jazz, and who know nothing at all about it. It is probable that this is quite
a large percent, but exactly what percentage of the population must like a style of song and know the songs
of that type to make it a folk song is hard to determine. It may be that the United States,
spread over such a wide area, has no single folk song, but many types of folk songs, each one in
its own locality.

---
