THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1933

DR. GWYNN IS CONDUCTOR

Even if we educate the negro into equality, we must at the same time educate the white to accept him; and here the question arises as to where the starting point lies. Some argued that we should treat the negro as equal in dealings and in business, but make a different case of him as a race. Facts of entire segregation were discussed, as putting them all in a colony to themselves and letting them rule themselves. But it was shown that this did not prove successful in Liberia, and was condemned as a solution. The closing points were that purity of the races should be kept, but for biological reasons; that intermarriage does not occur in the higher classes of either race, except in certain very exceptional cases.

Due to the dances the following weekend, the Fireside Forum will meet again next Friday at nine in the Social Center. At this time the subject for discussion will be “Disarmament and World Peace,” and as a sub-head under this, “The Pro’s and Con’s of R. O. T. C.” will be debated.

COLLEGE STUDENTS HELP IN SOCIAL WELFARE WORK

The Department of Public Welfare furnishes transportation for the students, who usually work in groups of twos or threes. 

MANY DEPUTATIONS TO GO OUT DURING WEEK

Rock Hill, where it will participate in the College Hill Church service, held yearly at this time. The service will have as its speakers Charlie Moore and John Howard of Davidson, and two young ladies from Winthrop. A deputation will also go to N. C. C. W.

WILDCAT GRAPPLERS END SEASON WITH 14-14 TIE

Potter brought Davidson into the lead by time advantage over Auman. Then Idol tied it up by his time decision over Whitfield. Davidson will lose

PRELIMINARIES

Weaver (34) Position (43) L.-McRae
Bonnett (2) F. (8) Sigmon
Pittain (5) F. Slaughter
Ponson (19) C. (19) Greene
Ingle (2) G. (9) Williams
Sarsahner G. (6) Agle

Greene (11) C. (6) Dengate
Shoun (5) G. (7) Davis
Sigmon (6) G. (4) Feldmanonly two men this year, Whitfield and Captain Ben Taylor. Most of the remaining classes are filled by Sophomores and indications point to a successful team next year. Summaries: 

118 pounds—Hussey (U. N. C.) defeated Harris, time advantage 7:55.  
126 pounds—Mathewson (U. N. C.) defeated Jenkins, time advantage 7:35.  
135 pounds—Sprunt (Davidson) defeated Davis, time advantage 3:08.  
145 pounds—Hiller (U. N. C.) defeated Griffith with a crotch hold in 7:50.  
155 pounds—Quarterman (Davidson) defeated Spell, time advantage 2:57.  
165 pounds—Capt. Taylor (Davidson) threw Pickett with scissors and wrist lock in 4:28.  
175 pounds—Potter (Davidson) defeated Auman, time advantage 1:00.  
Unlimited—Capt. Idol (U. N. C.) defeated on this date, when Leslie Thompson will be the speaker and the Davidson Quartette will probably furnish the special music. The usual Sunday afternoon deputation will go to the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. Harvey Glass is to speak to the smaller boys at this time.

WINGATE WINS CAGE TOURNAMENT  
(Continued from page 5)  

SEMI-FINALS  
B. Springs (29) Position (43) Wingate  
Mauney (6) F. (6) Coble  
Jolly (12) F. Smith  
Leonard (10) C. (14) Harrington  
Lonon (1) G. (6) Geddy  
Brown G. Lane  

Scoring substitutes—Wingate: York (17).  

Position (37) B. Abbey  
F. (10) Ware  
F. (10) Cantwell  
L. McRae (28) Agle (4)  
Williams (2)  

Scoring substitutes—Weaver: Holcombe (6); Lees-McRae: Shoun (1).  

Mars Hill (27) Position (39) B. Springs  
Nettles (6) F. (10) Mauney  
Fox (7) F. (16) Jolley  
Stroupe (1) C. (7) Leonard  
Swann (6) G. (1) Lonon  
Liester (2) G. (3) Camintz  

Scoring substitutes—Mars Hill: Parham (5); Boiling Springs: Wilson (2).  

Rutherford (23) Position (37) B. Abbey  
Deal (5) F. (7) Cantwell  
Bronson (7) F. (7) Ware  
Ridenhour (2) C. (8) Dengate  
Pierce (6) G. (8) Feldman  
Pierce (6) G. (7) Doris  

Scoring substitutes—Rutherford: Sigmon (3).  

Officials for the tournament: Ison (North Carolina), Touhey (Colorado), Mathis (Davidson).  

ILLUSION: Look at this remarkable lady... with three lovely and perfect heads... all attached to a normal body. She appears to sit on the stage, with the lower part of her body concealed by flowers. She can wink, smile, and nod. She can talk, laugh, and sing—all at the same time. Thousands of people have seen this feat of magic and pronounced it a wonderful sight!  

EXPLANATION: Audiences used to pay an extra fee to go behind the scenes to see how this trick was worked. They discovered that the three-headed woman was merely a reflection in a mirror. The glass showed the heads of three girls but the body of only one. The other two were cleverly hidden so that only their heads showed in the mirror.  

SOURCE: "Magic Stage Illusions and Scientific Diversions" by Albert A. Hopkins... Munn & Co., New York  

This "three-headed woman" trick goes way back to the early days of magic. Also old is the suggestion that protection for your throat and freedom from coughing can be achieved through some magic trick.  

THE EXPLANATION: The easiest cigarette on your throat is the cigarette that is made from the choicest, ripe tobaccos. Cheap, raw tobaccos are, as you would naturally expect, harsh to the throat. Ripe, costly tobaccos are mild, mellow—gentle. The question is whether a cigarette is made from cheap tobacco or the more expensive grades. It is a fact, well known by leaf tobacco experts, that Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand.  

Men and women have smoked more billions of Camels than any other brand because of the appeal of more expensive tobaccos and matchless blending.  

Won't you stack up your own experience with a cigarette made from milder, costlier tobaccos... against magic claims about "cigarettes and your throat"?  

Try fresh Camels—in the air-tight, welded Humidor Pack that seals the freshness and coolness, the mildness and flavor of Camels... inside.  

NO TRICKS... JUST COSTLIER TOBACCOS IN A MATCHLESS BLEND