THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 29, 1933

BARIUM CELEBRATES 50TH ANNIVERSARY

ALUMNI NEWS —> COACHES PLEASE ALUMNI

ORPHANAGE CELEBRATES FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY

J. B. Johnston, '01, Vice-President of Alumni Association, Is Head of Barium Springs

NEED FINANCIAL AID

Other Davidson Men Assist in Running Presbyterian Orphanage

As Davidson College approaches its hundredth anniversary, an institution near Davidson and close to the hearts of all Davidson men
is celebrating its fiftieth anniversary. The Presbyterian Orphans’ Home at Barium Springs, N. C., has been operating for half a
century. At the head of this great institution is Joseph B. Johnston, 1901, vice-president of the Alumni Association, and one
of the most loyal supporters that Davidson has. Mr. Johnston went to Barium Springs in 1922, and since that time
has done much to make the orphanage one of the outstanding institutions in the country.

In a recent issue of the Charlotte Observer was a complete story of the home, of its beginning fifty years
ago, of its removal to Barium Springs, of the growth of the place, and of the management. Mr. Johnston is
ably assisted by other Davidson alumni in the work he is doing. Ernest Milton, formerly secretary of the Davidson Alumni
Association, is treasurer; Ralph McMillan, '27, is coach; R. G. Calhoun, '29, teaches and helps with the coaching. With a
deficit of about $100,000, the orphanage is making a special appeal to the Presbyterians of North Carolina this year for
financial aid. The number of occupants of the home had to be cut down this year to 303, some 60
less than were present at the orphanage last year.

Davidson Band Elects Officers for the Season

The Davidson College Band last week elected its officers for the year. At a meeting of the organization on November
23, the following men were elected: A. M. Cunningham, New London, Conn., president; D. P. McClain, Cleveland, Tenn., vice-president, and
Hubert Morris, Winston-Salem, business manager.

The Davidson Band, under the direction of Prof. J. C. Pfohl, is the best that Davidson has ever had. More
interest is being shown by the students this year than ever before. The college band has made a splendid showing
at all of the Davidson College football games, and several times it has played on the Davidson radio program Station
WBT, Charlotte.

Davidson on the Air

The Davidson Glee Club conducted the weekly radio program over Station WBT, Charlotte, last Wednesday night from 8:30 to 8:45.
The introduction was appropriately done with the singing of “O Davidson.” This was followed by “Now Let Every Tongue Adore
Thee,” Bach, and “Lo, a Rose E’re Blooming,” by Praetorius. A piano solo, Chopin’s “Waltz in B Minor,” was rendered
by Kenneth Scott, freshman accompanist of the glee club. Humming “Lo How a Rose E’re Blooming,” the glee club brought
the program to a close.

Joe Johnston Speaks At Final Pep Meeting

The Wildcat spirit will be much in evidence at the final pep meeting of the year, to be held tonight
in preparation for the Wake Forest-Davidson game. Joe Johnston, popular Davidson alumnus of Barium Springs, will give the meeting a
good send-off with a speech at Shearer Hall, after which a torchlight parade will proceed through the streets of Davidson
and across the campus. The parade will end at Chambers Building, where more yells and speeches will be given, and
immediately afterward a shirt-tail parade will lead the Wildcat followers to the bonfire at the freshman field. Around the blazing
bonfire yells, songs, and music by the band will hold full sway, as the mighty Wildcat prepares for his ancient
foe, the Demon Deacon.

Joseph B. Johnston, in his eleventh year at the Presbyterian Orphans’ Home, is one of Davidson's outstanding alumni, and is
serving his second term as vice-president of the Davidson College Alumni Association. (Cut courtesy Charlotte Observer.)

Dr. Brown Interviewed On Monetary Question

“I think the most inflationary incident of recent weeks is not the gold buying plan of the government, but the
President’s promise in his talk on October 22 that if farm prices could not be raised in one way they
would be raised in another,” stated Dr. C. K. Brown, '23, professor of economics, in an interview on the subject
of inflation. “There seems to me to be no reason for thinking that this does not mean outright printing of
paper money if continued should be necessary,” said Dr. Brown. “Whether the government has any other plan to try before
printing paper money, I do not know, but the gold buying plan now being used will probably not make prices
rise to the desired levels. However, other factors may enter in and work toward that end, making the printing of
paper money unnecessary. So far, the government seems to have failed to shake the confidence of the bulk of the
public in its money.

“The government really has a twofold objective with regard to prices: one is to raise the average prices back to
the 1926 level, the other is to remove the disparity between farm prices and industrial prices, which has existed for
a decade, but which has become greater since 1929.

“There is likely to be a conflict between these two objectives, and it will be extremely difficult to attain both
of them. The government is not very clear as to which will take precedence in the event of such a
conflict. Certainly the attainment of both of them is a much more difficult task than the mere raising of prices
to the 1926 level would be.

“Even if the 1926 level is achieved, the economic distress of large sections of our country will not be relieved
unless these disparities have been removed.

“However, by that time, there is much danger that speculative forces will have grown so strong as to make it
difficult to keep the price level from rising far above the 1926 figure.

“The disparity between farm and industrial prices goes back to questions of our international commercial policy in the 1920's. During
those years our farmers were forced to sell in a free world market while the government encouraged manufacturing enterprise by
protective tariffs. It is doubtful that monetary manipulations alone can restore the farmer to his former position relative to industry.

“Regardless of the manipulations through which money is put, the farmer is apparently destined to occupy a very unfavorable position
in our national economy unless the former commercial policies are reversed.”

In summarizing, the main thought might be said to be this: The major difficulty in regard to our monetary policy
is not the lowness of the price level, but the disparity between farm and industrial prices. This difficulty was caused
by our tariff policy of the 1920's, by which the American farmer was forced out of the world market. The
result was a rapid falling of farm prices.

WITH THE ALUMNI

Recently there appeared an article in the Concord Tribune praising the loyalty of General William A. Smith. Following is an
excerpt: “That General William A. Smith, of Anson County, has worn the Confederate gray since the day he laid down
arms at Appomattox.”

'92-'08

It has been announced that Dr. Walter Lingle, '92, and Dr. Oren Moore, '08, have been chosen as members of
the executive committee of the Mecklenburg Civic League in Charlotte. This body was created about six weeks ago primarily for
the purpose of promoting good citizenship and law enforcement in the county.

'94

Dr. F. M. Register, superintendent of the Caswell Training School for Defectives, has conceived a plan by which the lot
of these pupils can be brightened. He suggests that members of various organizations and clubs give a small sum of
five cents apiece and at the end of each month these pupils are to be paid off. This system is
similar to the one used in the state penitentiary and it gives the inmates something to work for, thus providing
more interest in their own advancement.

'06

Dr. Hamilton McKay spoke on the program at a recent meeting of the Mecklenburg County Medical Society.

'06

Dr. Thomas McCoy, of Charlotte, was among the especially interested professional men of that city who took part in the
unveiling of the memorial to Bishop Cheshire and Rev. Edwin Osborn, Sunday at St. Mark’s Episcopal Chapel near the Long
Creek bridge outside of Charlotte.

'07

Rev. J.M. Walker, of the Steele Creek Presbyterian Church, conducted the devotional exercises at a recent meeting of the Woodlawn
Parent-Teachers Association. He used as his theme, “The Child in the Home.”

Dr. Bruce Currie, a member of the faculty in Union Theological Seminary, New York, will conduct a seminar in students’
problems at Woman's College. Dr. Currie, for a number of years a leader and teacher at conferences of students, is
also a writer. His books include “Facing Student Problems,” “Jesus and His Cause,” and “The Bible and the Quest for
Life.”

Roscoe D. McMillan, of Red Springs, governor of the 57th District of Rotary International, has been invited to be present
at an international convention to be held in Asheville.

Ernest Graham, president of the Production Credit Corporation of Columbia, has been given the added duties of president and a
director of the Regional Agriculture Credit Corporation of Raleigh, N.C.

F. H. Coffey, of Lenoir, was re-elected president of the Southern Furniture Manufacturers Association at its final conference at Grove
Park Inn, Asheville.

The Blue Eagles of Belmont, coached by D. C. Hunter, have made an enviable record for themselves in the Midget
Class. They are the only team to have defeated Barium Springs, national champions, and the only ones to have scored
on their home ground.

E. D. Kuykendall, of Greensboro, presided over the informal smoker held in Graham Memorial at the University of North Carolina
recently. Governor J. C. B. Ehringhaus spoke to these second-year law students. Kuykendall is president of the class.

Marriages
Mr. Daniel Senn LaFar and Miss Frances Elizabeth Marshall were married last week at the home of the bride in
Rock Hill, S.C. Immediately after the ceremony, the couple left on a wedding trip and on their return, they will
be at home in Gastonia, where Mr. LaFar holds a responsible position as an official of the Boysell Manufacturing Company.

Births
Born to Mr. and Mrs. David N. Lucas, a daughter, Elizabeth Fairley, July 14, 1933, Burgaw, N.C.

Sound Waves Tonight
George Burns will probably go crazy again. In addition to trying to cope with the usual mad antics of his
wife, Gracie Allen, he will have to cross wits with “Chico” Marx of the four Marx brothers, who is making
a special appearance on this broadcast. Guy Lombardo, who furnishes the music for this half-hour of entertainment, has added another
piano player. This gives the orchestra two pianos for the first time. Hugo D’Ippolito is his name. Like ten of
the other eleven in the band, he comes from London, Ontario. His father taught music to Carmen and Liebert Lombardo,
and, strangely enough, he looks more like the Lombardo brothers than they do themselves.

Seymour Simons, composer of some of the outstanding song hits of the past decade, conducts his own orchestra as the
feature of a new series of half-hour programs, which started over the Columbia network last Saturday night. The time is
Saturday night from 8:30 to 9:00 o'clock. He has written such pieces as “Honey,” “Tie a Little String Around Your
Finger,” and many others. Dorothy Page, ballad singer, also will be heard on this new program, which will originate in
Detroit.

Tomorrow at 10:15 a.m., a special Thanksgiving program will be broadcast from Saint Paul’s Cathedral in Boston, Mass. The choir
will sing a select group of Thanksgiving hymns.

SUCCESSFUL COACHES
"Doc" NEWTON - Head Coach
GENE McEVER - Asst. Coach

From all apparent indications, it seems that Davidson’s two coaches, Williams “Doc” Newton and Gene McEver, have proved eminently satisfactory
to the alumni of the college. There has been nothing but praise for the two mentors from former students who
have seen the team in action. Newton and McEver have directed the Wildcats through one of the most successful seasons
they have ever enjoyed, winning five games so far, losing only two, and getting a tie in another. There seems
a strong probability that the team will make it six victories tomorrow, but whether the game with Wake Forest is
won or lost, the coaches may be complimented on the fine showing that their team has made. Taking games from
Elon, Wofford, V.M.I., The Citadel, and William and Mary, the Wildcats showed a power and a skill that they have
not demonstrated in recent years. They reached a climax against the Bulldog team from South Carolina, and Johnny Mackorell and
his fellow backs ran wild for four touchdowns and one of the largest margins of victory that Davidson has ever
been able to get against The Citadel. Behind beautiful blocking, Johnny Mackorell, Davidson’s sure bet for all-state, ran 85 yards
against N.C. State to score a touchdown. The Wolfpack got one of their own, and the game ended in a
tie. Against Duke and North Carolina, the Davidson outfit did all and more than was expected of them. Sports writers
all over the state were high in their praise of the fighting spirit of the Wildcats after these two losses.
So, as alumni demand the scalp of Chuck Collins at Carolina, ask that Hunk Anderson be replaced at Notre Dame,
and mutter something about the poor coaching at N.C. State, Newton and McEver can sit back and heave a sigh
of satisfaction at a job well done, and can feel sure that, win or lose, they have the backing of
a loyal alumni body.

Speaker Congratulates K.A. Social Fraternity
Mr. Paul M. Speake, traveling secretary of the Kappa Alpha fraternity, spent the past weekend with the local chapter of
Kappa Alpha. Mr. Speake thoroughly investigated the condition of the chapter, both scholastically and financially. Mr. Speake congratulated the chapter
on its activities during the past year.

Ted Husing will again be on the air at 1:45 p.m. with a broadcast of the annual Penn-Cornell game at
Franklin Field, Philadelphia. After the game, he will reveal the sixth annual All-Radio football team, which he and Les Quailey
have selected based on their observations of the games they have broadcast. The following teams have been observed this season
by the broadcasters: Pittsburgh, Manhattan, Saint Mary’s, Washington and Jefferson, Northwestern, Yale, Fordham, St. Bonaventure, Harvard, Notre Dame, Southern California,
Pennsylvania, and Cornell. The annual West Point-Notre Dame gridiron struggle will be broadcast at 1:45 Saturday. This game will be
played in New York at the Yankee Stadium and Ted Husing will give a play-by-play description. This Saturday there will
be a special broadcast from England of the new musical comedy, “Mr. Whittington.” Johnny Green of the Columbia Broadcasting System
wrote this play. Jack Buchanan is the star in this new musical show. The roar of the mighty Niagara Falls
will be heard in an unusual broadcast over a CBS network Saturday at 9:30 p.m. Microphones will be lowered over
the rushing torrent so the roar can be heard plainly.

LECTURE NOTES
Students who are able to review complete notes are likely better prepared for examinations. With ABC Shorthand, which is fully
explained in the textbook, students can take complete lecture notes. The complete course now sells for $1.00 at Davidson College
Book Store.

Where Will You Be Next Summer?
Decide now to go to Europe with the Davidson party. Go Moyers. Moyers is foremost for a tradition of serving
the traveling public. It represents the peak of luxury at low cost. For particulars, see Jack Williams, Jr., our local
agent.

John L. Moyers Tours Co.
321 Healy Building
Atlanta, Georgia

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY
“CHRISTOPHER BEAN”
MARIE DRESSLER—LIONEL BARRYMORE

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY
“DUCK SOUP”
THE FOUR MARX BROTHERS

SATURDAY
“THE WORLD CHANGES”
PAUL MUNI

MONDAY
(Not Signed Up As Yet)

TUESDAY
“ACE OF ACES”
RICHARD DIX—ELIZABETH ALLAN
