THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 29, 1933

ALL-SOUTH ATLANTIC IN THIS ISSUE

* Around the Wildcat’s Lair

WAKE FOREST TOMORROW

The Turkey Day classic of the “Big Five” will be staged in Charlotte tomorrow, when the Wildcats of Davidson College
take on the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest in their annual imbroglio. Feeling is at a fever pitch, and each
eleven is out to put it on the other. Last year Davidson broke a ten-year jinx, when they licked the
Dekes, 7-0, on Richardson Field. There are a goodly number of Deacons playing tomorrow who remember seeing Charlie Pearce intercept
their pass and race 53 yards for a touchdown; and then watching Bruce Peabody convert for the first Davidson victory
over Wake Forest since 1921.

Playing their last game in the Red and Black moleskins of Davidson will be Captain Charlie Rives, Alternate Captain Percy
McElrath, “Schnozz” Willson, Wee and Tee Thompson, Brewster Grant, Parks Harrison, and A. W. Rice. Of these men three are
regulars, Rives, McElrath, and Willson. These men will close brilliant careers in North Carolina football circles, and all should come
in for some sort of recognition when the all-state pickers get together.

The Davidson and Wake Forest bands will both be on hand, and the usually colorful crowd is expected. The Wake
Forest and Davidson student bodies will attend en masse to cheer their team on to victory. The Davidson supporters are
confident of victory.

On any basis you pick it, Davidson is the team to predict for the victory. Davidson’s splendid record of only
two losses, those to the powerful North Carolina team, 6-0, and the Pasadena-bound Duke gridders, 19-7; combined with a tie,
and five victories, makes them favorites. The ’Cats played the formidable N. C. State gridsters, who were only downed 7-0
by Duke, to a 6-6 tie. However, the Wake Forest boys also tied State, their affair ending 0-0. Davidson victories
are: Elon, 6-0; Wofford, 28-13; V. M. I., 6-0; The Citadel, 24-6, and William and Mary, 12-7. Wake Forest has
no such impressive record, having been dubbed the “Scoreless Wonders.” Paper and pencil figuring is a poor way to compare
teams, but for the satisfaction of so many who like to compare them this way, here is how Davidson and
Wake Forest stack up on paper. Wake Forest lost to Clemson, 13-0. Clemson was defeated by Wofford, 14-13, and licked
The Citadel, 7-0. Now, Davidson licked Wofford, 28-13, and The Citadel, 24-6, making them a good bit superior to the
Deacons on this basis.

Davidson plans to put its full strength on the field, and the state’s best backfield, composed of the ubiquitous Mackorell,
the speedy Wingfield, the elusive Hutchins, and the dapperling Willson, will be ready to give those big Deacon linemen a
day of it. However, Swan, DeAngelis, Swing, and Chetty are powers to be reckoned with, and the Davidson line is
going to have no simple afternoon opening holes for those great ball carriers, but this column again goes on record
as picking the Wildcats to win.

Looking around the world of football, we come first to the neat way in which the N. C. State Wolfpack
held the Duke gridders, 7-0. We noticed where Nick Laney led the yardage for the mighty Duke backfield. The highly-touted
Army team caught a tartar, but managed to squeeze through for a 12-7 victory over Navy. Princeton, the East’s claim
to glory, continued its victorious march over Rutgers, 26-6. However, Rutgers accomplished what eight other opponents failed to do, score
on the Tigers. Georgia nailed Georgia Tech, 7-6, in that annual classic in the Peach State. Southern California nipped Notre
Dame, 19-0, and Stanford sewed up the Rose Bowl bid, licking California, 7-3.

SOUTH ATLANTIC PLAYERS NAMED BY DAVIDSONIAN

Duke Places Three Men While Other Schools Place One

MACKORELL RATES TEAM

Star Quarterback Only Davidson Man on Team

With the picking of an all-eastern team by Jock Sutherland, Pitt coach, the open season on all-star football teams was
inaugurated. At this time “The Davidsonian,” through its sports editor, has seen fit to select an all-South Atlantic team. Players
have been selected from any school that is in the territory of the Southern Conference, regardless of whether their school
is a member of the conference or not. Most sports writers select only conference players, thereby unfairly neglecting splendid players
in other institutions. In this selection “The Davidsonian” plans to give those who deserve it a break, and puts out
this team on that basis. It follows:

Ends: Hancock (V. M. I.), Rogers (Duke)
Tackles: Crawford (Duke), Swan (Wake Forest)
Guards: Barclay (North Carolina), Dial (Virginia)
Center: Dunlap (Duke)
Quarterback: Mackorell (Davidson)
Halfbacks: Sawyers (W. & L.), Clary (South Carolina)
Fullback: Quarterman (The Citadel)

On the flanks, Charlie Hancock, of Virginia Military Institute, and Tom Rogers, versatile Duke end, get the call. Hancock has
played bang-up ball all season, his play against Davidson being particularly outstanding. Tom Rogers is the better of a pair
of excellent flankmen, and has been conspicuously mentioned as an all-American prospect. Other good ends in this section were Brandt,
North Carolina; Morgan, of Davidson, and Smith, of Washington and Lee.

Duke’s mighty Freddie Crawford undoubtedly gets one tackle berth, and the other has been awarded to Pat Swan of Wake
Forest. Crawford's play during the current season has been of the highest calibre, and he will, no doubt, make many
all-American teams. As a running mate, the Deacon stalwart, Pat Swan, is a good choice, as this big 235-pounder is
fast and aggressive, and is death at smearing line plays. It was hard to leave off men like Ogilvie of
The Citadel, Durner of Duke, and Berger of Virginia.

One guard, George Barclay of North Carolina, was outstanding, but the other was hard to choose. After much consideration, Virginia’s
Dial was chosen over a host of good men, including DeAngelis of Wake Forest, Potter and Captain Rives of Davidson,
Captain Shock of Duke, and Stanko of N. C. State. The two chosen appeared to be better all-around linemen than
the rest, and thereby gained the berth over those who were especially adept in their particular line of play.

In Dunlap, one of two famous brothers, who play side by side, the Blue Devils of Duke University present easily
the best center in this neck of the woods. His passing, and his other offensive play, coupled with his able
work on defense, go to land him this place on the team. McElrath, pivot man for the Davidson Wildcats, came
in for consideration, but injuries have kept him out so much of the season that the palm goes to Dunlap.

This section of the country was literally overstuffed with good backfield material. In Johnny Mackorell, no one will deny, Davidson
had the outstanding back in the South Atlantic district. This boy behind a heavy line would be unstoppable, and he
gets our vote for first place as the field general. Need we say he is triple threat? Men like Horace
“Horse” Hendrickson, of Duke, and Carolina’s fine punter, “Pepper” Martin, and Mattox of Washington and Lee, are all good quarterbacks,
and deserve special mention.

Three halfbacks were given positions on the team, when Quarterman, The Citadel’s fine punter, was given the fullback berth over
Ray Rex of N. C. State, and “Schnozz” Willson, of the Wildcats. At the two halfback posts we find Sawyers
of Washington and Lee, and Earl Clary of South Carolina. Sawyers, playing on a fine team, has led them to
some great victories, and has made two touchdown runs of over 80 yards against major competition.

THREE REGULARS IN LAST GAME

In the cuts above are shown three Davidson regulars, who will don the Red and Black moleskins for the last
time, when Davidson and Wake Forest meet tomorrow at Central Stadium in Charlotte. They are, reading from left to right,
Alternate Captain Percy McElrath, center; Captain Charlie Rives, guard, and E. L. “Schnozz” Willson, fullback. These are all veterans on
many Wildcat campaigns, and are receiving prominent mention for all-state honors.

Fraternities Begin Annual Volley Ball

S. P. E.’s and T. U. O.’s Win Over Kappa Sig’s and S. A. E.’s, Respectively

The annual fraternity volley ball tournament was inaugurated Monday with Sigma Phi Epsilon vs. Kappa Sigma, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon
vs. Theta Upsilon Omega playing their first round matches. Theta Upsilon Omega eliminated Sigma Alpha Epsilon afterThree hard-fought games. The
scores were as follows: 8-21, 21-3, 21-15. This match was much harder fought than the score indicates, the ball in
long rallies going over the net as many as fifteen times. The players for the T.U.O.'s follow: Cochran, Loraine, Dalton,
Squires, Parker, Fraley, Gatewood, Ray, and Dillon. For the S.A.E.’s: Weeks, Douglas, Hellinger, Evans, Roberson, Tomlinson, Reed, Manson, and Kornegay.
After winning the first game, 21-5, and dropping a closely contested second, 24-26, Sigma Phi Epsilon came back in the
last to defeat the Kappa Sig's, 21-19. Both teams played unusually well. The S.P.E. players are as follows: Sneed, Hunter,
Casali, Jenkins, Porter, McCall, Elvery, Swindle, Swope. For the Kappa Sig's: Purnell, Rose, Carlson, Morrow, Ravenel, Lindsay, Gaw, Gracey, and
Byerly played.

TWINS FINISH AT 15
An unusual set of twins is enrolled at the University of California. The girls are taking their doctor’s degree at
the present time, and earned their master’s before they were twenty and had graduated from college at 15.

Earl Clary, the “Gaffney Ghost,” has been the sparkplug of the Gamecock attack for three years, and with Sawyers was
the class of the South Atlantic halfbacks. Honorable mention goes to backs like Casey of V.P.I., McQuage of N.C. State,
and Laney and Cornelius of Duke. At fullback, as mentioned above, is Quarterman. His fine punting ability and line plunging
tactics won him his place.

Big Five Race
Duke Takes First in State Big Five Race
Team W. L. T. Pet.
Duke 4 0 0 1.000
Carolina 3 1 0 .750
Davidson 0 1 1 .000
State 0 2 2 .000
Wake Forest 0 2 1 .000

Wrestling Workouts Started Last Week
At present ten new men and four old ones are out for varsity wrestling; as soon as football is over
there will be at least eight more, most of whom are veterans. In practice for the past week Coach Unger
has been spending most of his time with the lighter weights, but as soon as football is over he hopes
to begin to work more with the heavyweights. A meet with Appalachian College is being planned for December 18. After
the holidays the matmen will take a trip into Virginia where they will meet Washington and Lee on January 12,
and V.M.I. on January 13 at Lexington. On February 3 they will meet V.P.I. at Blacksburg. All of the meets
scheduled with Big Five opponents will be held on home ground. Duke comes here the tenth, Carolina the sixteenth, and
State the twenty-fourth of February. Coach Unger stated that he was very well pleased with the work of the squad,
especially with that of the new men. Coach Unger requests that anyone weighing less than 130 pounds interested in wrestling
to see him as soon as possible. The new men out for the team include W.M. Beaty, J.H. Graham, T.B.
Gold, D.M. Jones, L.D. McPhail, J.H. Ostwalt, R.W. Ogburn, R.C. Sours, J.R. Taylor, and J.K. Thompson. The old men out
are V.W. Dillon, T.H. Griffith, E.N. Jenkins, and P.M. Kirkpatrick. Those who will come out as soon as football is
over are Captain C.T. Borte, C.H. Hand, J.M. Hodgin, Johnson, A.J. Potter, L.E. Quarterman, and J.D. Siewers.

SPECIAL
New Feather Touch Sheaffer Fountain Pen for only $5.00
COLLEGE PHARMACY
NEXT DOOR TO POST OFFICE

Fords
WHAT ABOUT THAT TRIP?
Cars For Hire
Gulf Gasoline
M.P. HENDERSON
Chevrolets

Devils Down N.C. State, 7-0; Citadel Defeated; Elon Tied
With the close of the football season drawing near, a season highly successful for Davidson, the Wildcats’ 1933 opponents met
varying fates in some of the last games of the year Saturday. Duke’s championship team, led by Nick Laney, clinched
in Saturday’s game the Big Five title, went into a tie with the South Carolina Gamecocks for the possession of
the Southern Conference flag, and advanced nearer still to the goal of an undefeated season. But N.C. State put up
a whale of a fight against the highly-touted Devils, rising to unexpected heights, and held the desperately fighting Blue Devils
to a 7-0 win. Although the Duke team by statistics showed a great deal more power than the Wolfpack, garnering
nine first downs to their opponents’ two, they lacked the final punch to put the pigskin over. The State team
showed an unusual spirit, playing inspired ball in her gallant goal-line stands. The Citadel went down in defeat before a
powerful Clemson Tiger Saturday, as Jess Neely’s boys showed newfound power to crush the Bulldogs, 7-0. The victory was more
complete than it might sound by the score, for the Tigers ran up 17 first downs to The Citadel’s 2,
and gained 301 yards from scrimmage to their opponents’ 35, only to be stopped several times on the very goal
line by a fierce Bulldog stand. In the last game of the season for both teams, Guilford tied Elon Saturday
in one of the biggest upsets of the North State Conference, coming through in the last period with two touchdowns
to knot the count at 13 to 13.

(Continued on page 6)

MIDDIES DOWNED BY ARMY CADETS IN CLOSE SCRAP
Huge Crowd of 79,000 Sees Navy Bow Before Army, 12-7
CLARK STARS FOR NAVY
Spirit Runs High at Traditional Contest
Before a crowd of 79,000, the Midshipmen of the United States Naval Academy bowed to the Cadets of West Point
in a hard-fought football game last Saturday. Although the Middies put up one of the best and gamest fights of
the season, the Cadets overpowered them and won by the score of 12 to 7. The traditional rivalry was evidenced
greatly at the game Saturday, with both of the student bodies present to encourage their team to victory. In keeping
with the time-honored custom, both academies put on a short but perfect exhibition of drilling during the half rest period.
The exhibition of each school was received with about the same amount of applause. The sensational punting of Bill Clark,
Navy back, saved the Midshipmen from losing by a larger score. The star halfback for the Navy aggregation, Chung-Hoon, a
native Hawaiian, did not see service in this clash because of a knee injury suffered in the Princeton game on
November 11. All through the game a fighting spirit was manifested by the Navy squad that discouraged the Army mule
several times. But the game turned out the way it did because the mule kicked harder and more consistently than
the goat butted. Buckler, the probable all-American halfback for the Army, scored on a 25-yard run through the center of
the hard-fighting Navy forward wall. The other score was made in the early stages of the game on an 81-yard
run by Johnson. This run was the return of one of Clark’s kicks. This game, which showed more drive and
trick plays since the two teams played to a 21-21 tie in 1926, saw the Navy suffer defeat for the
fifth time.

(Continued on page 6)

Freshman Quint Start Workouts Last Week
Coach Bruce Peabody issued the initial call for candidates for the Davidson freshman basketball team last Thursday, and a large
crowd turned out for the first practice. Coach Peabody ran the boys through a little passing and dribbling exercise, and
then dismissed the squad. The freshmen have a hard schedule ahead of them, and intensive practice will be held between
now and the first game, which will probably be soon after the Christmas recess. The team is fortunate in having
a number of outstanding prep school and high school stars, around which to build a team. Those with some reputation
as players are Cathey, of Gastonia High; Gracey, of Battle Ground Academy; Quick and Peabody, of Charlotte High; Knorr, of
Staunton High, and others of equally good calibre. No “weeding out” of the players has been made as yet, and
any of the men out may be on the first string when the season opens.

Shirts and Shorts
MADE TO FIXED STANDARD
There is nothing miserly about the cutting of HANES Shirts and Shorts. No skimping of wear. HANES Shirts, Union Suits
and Shorts (both light and heavy) are always cut and knitted with the tape-measure. A size forty-two is a size
forty-two. No Underwear could grow as HANES has grown, unless it offered comfort, quality and style! You'll be happy in
HANES!
P.H. Hanes Knitting Company
Winston-Salem, N.C.
The Famous Samsonbak Union Suit
