Big Pep I Meeting Precedes Duke Game

Mr. Johnson of Barium Springs Expected to be Here

On Friday night, October 20, in preparation for the Duke game the next day, the biggest pep meeting of the
year excepting that before the Wake Forest game will be held. The meeting will begin at Shearer Hall at 7
o'clock, where the usual songs and cheers will be given; and it is hoped by Cheerleader Hawkins that Mr. Joe
Johnston, of Barium Springs, one of the most ardent and enthusiastic Wildcat supporters, will make a pep talk. After the
meeting at Shearer, a shirttail parade will form and march over the campus, and up and down the highway. It
will probably go by the homes of several professors, who will be asked to give pep talks. The parade will
end in front of Chambers where more yells will be given and possibly someone will make another talk.

Two Members Speak To Ministerial Band

The Ministerial Band held the first of its bi-monthly meetings for October last Thursday evening at 9 o'clock in the
Social Center. The devotional was led by A. M. Faison, following which were two informal talks, one, “The Place of
Evangelism in the Ministry,” by Don Brandon, and the other, “Fellowship,” by T. D. Mullis. The program for the evening
ended in a social hour of friendly chatter and refreshments. About twenty-five members were in attendance.

The Southern Presbyterian Church has sounded as its keynote for the year, “Personal Evangelism at Home and Abroad.” Choosing from
this the theme of his talk, Don Brandon applied the principles of personal evangelism in the life of the minister.
He introduced his topic by emphasizing the importance and need for personal evangelism both at home and abroad, then developed
his points according to the three-fold standard of looking IN to yourself, looking UP to God, and looking OUT to
your fellowman for more consecration in the matter of reaching men’s souls. T. D. Mullis then brought the first part
of the meeting to a close with his talk on “Fellowship.”

The officers for this year are: Herbert Lucas, president; Murphy Smith, vice-president; W. A. Benfield, secretary and treasurer.

Queens Is Forced to Postpone Ibsen Play

The play, “The Master Builders,” by Ibsen, sponsored by Queens-Chicora College and scheduled there for October 14, was called off,
according to an announcement by Professor E. J. Erwin Saturday morning, due to the sudden illness and complete nervous collapse
of the leading lady. The day before it was to be presented at Queens-Chicora, the business manager of the cast
telephoned Professor Erwin and stated that the remainder of the tour had been postponed. According to all recent reports, the
play was highly successful and would have proved extremely popular to the entire student body.

Rare Coin Collection Will Be Exhibited

A collection of rare and foreign coins and bank notes will be opened in the reading room of the library
on Friday of this week. This numismatic collection will inaugurate the new exhibition case, for which, from time to time,
new collections of interesting objects will be arranged. Eighteenth-century American coins, pieces-of-eight, and queerly shaped oriental coins will add glamour
to the array. Both townspeople and faculty members are co-operating by lending samples from their private collections. An excellent assortment
of American fifty-cent pieces, including the chief commemoration coins, collected for many years by Mr. Thompson, cashier of the Davidson
bank, will be on display. Mr. Kimbrough is lending his unusual collection of early American coins. Particularly appropriate at this
time, when proponents and opponents of inflation are fighting a bitter battle in this country, is the complete assortment of
German inflation money, from one mark to five billion mark notes. They give a silent but forceful narration of the
course of uncontrolled inflation in Germany ten years ago. Unusual coins from India, Siam, China, Chosen, and Japan, and other
countries, are on display.

Fraternity News

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Beta Chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha announces the initiation of the following men: Charles Harris, James Hodgin, James Morgan, and
Hiram Grantham. Election of officers: Dallas Wehner, president; Eb Willson, vice-president. Pi Kappa Alpha announces the pledging of John Knox
Abernathy, of Winter Haven, Fla.

PI KAPPA PHI

Epsilon Chapter of Pi Kappa Phi announces the recent initiation of Benjamin Wyche, of Weldon; Sam Hines, of Warsaw, and
Harry Campbell Vaiden, of Augusta, Ga. After the initiation, an informal party was held. This past weekend the chapter entertained
informally in connection with the V. M. I.-Davidson game. Girls attending were: Misses Kalista Hood, of Davidson; Mary Withers, of
Davidson; Isabel Pollock and Beth Norman, of Salem College; Betty Barton and Dessa Newman, of Rock Hill; Kay Gay, Millen,
Ga., and the following girls from Charlotte: Frances Matheson, Jean Wheeler, Kitty Van Eschop, Carolyn Hammond, Sally Montague, Rhett Carrol
and “Pete” Carrol.

Davidson - V. M. I. Statistics

Yards gained from scrimmage: Davidson 211, V. M. I. 192.
Yards lost from scrimmage: Davidson 23, V. M. I. 63.
Forward passes attempted: Davidson 3, V. M. I. 6.
Forward passes completed: Davidson 1, V. M. I. 0.
Forward passes incomplete: Davidson 1, V. M. I. 3.
Passes intercepted: Davidson 1, V. M. I. 3.
Gained from passes: Davidson 6, V. M. I. 0.
First downs: Davidson 9, V. M. I. 9.
Average length of punts: Davidson 35, V. M. I. 31.
Average length of punt returns: Davidson 9, V. M. I. 10.
Yardage lost from penalties: Davidson 20, V. M. I. 40.
Fumbles: Davidson 1, V. M. I. 3.
Fumbles recovered: Davidson 0, V. M. I. 4.

Local Talent to Put On “Dixie Blackbirds”

Girls, Professors and Students to Take Part in Minstrel

On Thursday night, October 19th, there will be presented at the Davidson High School Auditorium “Dixie Blackbirds,” a minstrel sponsored
by the Davidson High School. This play is under the special direction of Kay Gay, of Millen, Georgia. The fact
that the minstrel will be made up entirely of high school pupils, college students, and professors will makeit an unusual
attraction. In addition to the minstrel, there will be a womanless Fashion Show, the cast being made up of college
students. Those who are taking part in this display of pulchritude are Enid Bowers, Carl Chapman, Ed Garrette, Blanton Little,
Baxter Moore, Rufus Sanford, and Max Williams. The very latest gowns and dresses will be displayed with the utmost grace
and poise.

Before the fashion show, there will be a Juvenile Minstrel. This will be put on by grammar school pupils and
picaninnies. Then the curtain will rise for the Senior Minstrel, which is made up of black-faced comedians and chorus girls.
The King of the Minstrel will be played by Professor Bailey. How Professor Bailey will look as the king is
unknown, but will probably be worth seeing. Other comedians are George Gullette, Kirk Hanrahan, David McLain, Geddie Monroe, and Clarence
Rozelle. The chorus girls are Mildred Cashion, Miriam Goodrum, Merle Knox, Edith Slaughter, Hazel Sherrill, Jennie Thompson, and Mary Withers.
The negro preacher, Brother Bevo, will be played by Professor Lily. Alexander Butler, the negro lawyer, will be played by
Rozy Rozelle; Maudy Clemson by Julia Hobbs; Clemson by Paul Warren; Clemesa Robinson by Annie Griffith, and Yancey Blakely by
Wills Hollingsworth.

In the fifth part of the show, only two characters are presented. Now (Flapper of 1933) is taken by Elizabeth
Rhett—Then (Belle of 1750) is taken by Blanche Knox. The Circle men are Enid Bowers, Carl Chapman, Ed Garrette, Blanton
Little, Baxter Moore, and Max Williams.

Garfield Resigns as Williams President

Last week Dr. Harry Augustus Garfield, son of the late President James A. Garfield, tendered his resignation to the college
board of trustees of Williams College, Williamstown, Mass. This also marked the twenty-fifth anniversary of his being inducted into office
as president of this institution. Dr. Garfield, who will be three score and ten this week, was famous during the
World War for his work as U. S. Fuel Administrator, and later for the Institute of Politics which he founded
at Williams College and which has been widely copied by other colleges and universities. The resignation will become effective next
June 30.

Mayan Joins Staff At Tulane University

Senor Alfredo Barrera Vasque, native of Yucatan and a direct descendant of the ancient Mayans, has joined the staff of
the Middle American Research Department at Tulane University, which for years now has delved into the lore and culture of
his ancestors, where he was a professor for some time. He spoke the tongue of this ancient people long before
he learned any other language.

Western Union Has Increase in Receipts

Western Union for the months of August and September show receipts a decided increase over those of the corresponding months
of the year 1932 as compiled recently. The figures show that for September, the receipts totaled $290, an increase of
$26 over the preceding month and an increase of $55 over September of last year. There was an increase in
the August receipts of $63 over August, 1932.

“D” CLUB TO MEET EVERY TWO WEEKS

(Continued from page 1)

It was decided to hold meetings of the “D” Club every two weeks on Wednesday night at 7:30. It is
planned to use the vacant house on Fraternity Court between the Pi K. A. house and the S. A. E.
house as a meeting and social room for members of the “D” Club. This plan is fairly certain to be
accomplished within the next few weeks, according to President Mack Holland. Tentative arrangements were made whereby members of the “D”
Club may be allowed to attend athletic contests at Davidson College free of charge after graduation. These plans are as
yet incomplete. Another plan of the “D” Club calls for a football dance at the close of the gridiron season.
Captains of all athletic teams in the state will be present under present plans.

Dean Davison answered questions which the students asked about Oxford and the Rhodes Scholarships after he had completed his lecture.
Dr. G. R. Vowles, who introduced the speaker, was a Rhodes Scholar from North Dakota in 1907-1910. He announced to
the Davidson students that the applications for the Rhodes Scholarships must be in his hands by the end of October.

NATIONAL SOCIETY HOLDS CEREMONIES

(Continued from page 1)

Paul Pittman Named As Soph Councilman

(Continued from page 1)

Upon, and in the final counting, the latter had a majority. The newly-elected councilman hails from Barium Springs and is
a prominent member of this year’s varsity football team. As a Freshman, he made numerals in both football and track.

Davidson students now in school and members of this organization are: W. M. Brown, captain; T. H. McCallie, 1st lieutenant;
W. A. Kirkland, 2nd lieutenant; E. L. Powell, 1st sergeant; Andy Charles, Rives, Ed Humphrey, and Parks Harrison.

“DRUGS” “SODA”

A Complete Drug Store

“Make Our Store Your Store”

Reliable Prescription Druggists

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

“SUNDRIES” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

WHAT ABOUT THAT TRIP?

Cars For Hire

Chevrolets Gulf Gasoline

M. P. HENDERSON

Fords

© 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

I've swung many a stick and I know how to spin ’em. I’ve smoked many a cigarette and I know
how to taste ’em. Chesterfields are milder—they taste better—and man they do satisfy!

Chesterfield

the cigarette that’s MILDER

the cigarette that TASTES BETTER
