THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 15, 1933

TREKKING WEST

STIRRING PAGEANTRY IN OPENING CEREMONIES AT LOS ANGELES

By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

Entering the Los Angeles stadium, one is struck first by its immensity. It is the largest stadium in the New World, with the exception of Soldier Field in Chicago. At the Olympiad, hundreds of flags, the colors of all the competing nations, floated above its rim. The place seemed radiant with rippling flags and thousands of people dressed in white were streaming in the great tunnels to witness the games. On the peristyle were the words of Baron De Coubertin, representative of the spirit in which the games are held, “THE IMPORTANT THING IN THE OLYMPIC GAMES IS NOT WINNING, BUT TAKING PART. THE ESSENTIAL THING IS NOT CONQUERING, BUT FIGHTING WELL.”

We sat down with the crowd of 105,000 jamming the coliseum and waited only a short while until the ceremonies of the stirring pageant began. Two thousand athletes, the youthful flower of the world, passed proudly in the Parade of Nations, their 39 flags waving in the brilliant sunshine of a perfect day. Vice-President Charles Curtis was received on his arrival by Count Henri De Baillet-Latour, President of the International Olympic Committee, and William May Garland, President of the Olympiad Committee, who made more than ten trips to Europe in an effort to bring the games to America. After the presentation ceremony, these dignitaries proceeded to the tribune of honor, while the choir sang “The Star-Spangled Banner.” Lieut. Harold Roberts led this magnificently organized chorus of 2,000 voices and it was a choral achievement that will never be forgotten. After a hushed silence, Vice-President Curtis pronounced the games officially opened with these sixteen words, “IN THE NAME OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES I PROCLAIM OPEN THE OLYMPIC GAMES OF LOS ANGELES, CELEBRATING THE TENTH OLYMPIAD OF THE MODERN ERA.”

DRAMA UNFOLDED

Instantly the fanfare of trumpets on the tall peristyle sounded the call. The Olympic torch burst into flames. This gave the athletes their cue and as the column of representatives from Greece entered, those in the huge stadium started cheering while members of the committees formed in a half circle on the field in front of the tribune of honor. There was a salute of ten cannons followed by 1,000 choral voices while the Olympic flag was dramatically raised, towering amid the other colors flapping from the ramparts. Dr. Robert Sproul, president of the University of California, delivered the benediction.

THE OLYMPIC OATH

The most tremendous moment came when all the athletes assembled to pronounce the Olympic oath. Lieut. George C. Calnan of the United States Navy, veteran of three international classics, stepped forward and raised his hand, repeating the oath, “WE SWEAR WE WILL TAKE PART IN THE OLYMPIC GAMES IN LOYAL COMPETITION, RESPECTING THE REGULATIONS WHICH GOVERN THEM AND DESIROUS OF PARTICIPATING IN THEM IN THE TRUE SPIRIT OF SPORTSMANSHIP FOR THE HONOR OF OUR COUNTRY AND FOR THE GLORY OF SPORT.” The athletes assembled represented the cream of the athletic world. The erectness of their carriage, the eagerness and pride with which they stepped behind their flags, and the attractiveness of the girl athletes combined to make an everlasting impression. Some of them had come from countries ten thousand miles away—by steamship, train, automobile, and airplane.

PARADE OF NATIONS

The dramatic entrance of Greece was a fitting gesture since the games originated there. The other countries followed in alphabetical order with the United States bringing up the rear. The Argentines came in white polo shirts and trousers, followed by Australia, who had the first girl representative; then Austria, and Belgium. Brazil came next, in white sweaters trimmed in blue. They were followed by the Canadians, who appeared in dazzling red coats and white flannels. Chile, China, and Colombia were next, with one representative each. They were followed by Czechoslovakia and Denmark. The sole representative from Egypt passed in a red turban, and Estonia just preceded Finland. The French delegation was in blue coats and white trousers. England was led by Lord Burghley. This titled Englishman was the most popular man at the Olympics. Germany was dressed in grey trousers, blue coats, and yachting caps. Haiti, Holland, and Hungary passed, followed by India in blue turbans and blue coats. The Irish Free State colors were carried by Dr. Patrick O'Callaghan. Italy's delegation was dressed in white outfits, blue shirts, and white trousers. There were no women athletes in their party because Il Duce does not favor their taking part in athletics. The Japanese were in straw hats and blue coats. They were followed by Yugoslavia, Latvia, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, the Philippine Islands, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, South Africa, Uruguay, and the United States. I missed Russia but their government is not recognized by ours and she could not take part.

One of the striking features of the spectacle was the courtesy shown to the athletes by the spectators. Everyone was requested to remain seated five minutes after the ceremonies to allow the athletes to reach Olympic Village before the traffic jam. Those present extended this courtesy to the participants and while remaining sang.Songs. There was a wonderful spirit exhibited at the games. We heard the crowd cheer when a negro school teacher from Chicago won his race and became the fastest runner in the world. We will not make fun of other countries when we come to know them better and realize how these sports draw good sports together. In closing, I will quote Count De Baillet-Latour, “May joy and good fellowship reign, and in this manner, may the Olympic Torch pursue its way through the ages, increasing friendly understanding among nations, for the good of a humanity always more enthusiastic, more courageous and more pure.”

The great difference, intellectually speaking, between one man and another, is simply the number of things they can see in a given cubic yard of space. Do you remember Huxley's famous lecture on a Piece of Chalk, delivered to the working men of Norwich in 1866, and how the piece of chalk told him secrets of the immeasurable past, secrets of the unfathomed depths of the sea? The same thing happens with a book. I remember picking up a copy of Macbeth belonging to a great Shakespearean scholar, Andrew Bradley, and reading casually his penciled notes in the margin. The scene was one which I knew by heart and thought I understood; but his notes showed me that I had missed about half a dozen points on every page. It seems to me that the writers who have the power of revelation are just those who, in some particular of life, have seen or felt considerably more than the average run of intelligent human beings. It is this specific power of seeing and feeling more things to the cubic yard in some part of the world that makes a writer's work really inspiring.—Gilbert Murray in “Tradition and Progress.”

Waste not fresh tears over old griefs. —Euripides.

Probably even the most cautious inquirer would be willing to assert that, as individuals, men can and do learn. But is it quite so clear that men in groups, in societies, in nations, can and do learn? If so, what is the explanation of constant trying all over again, in the name of progress, of those forms of folly, of wrong and of oppression which the scholar well knows have long since been demonstrated to be futile as aids in the development of the life of men? If one reads with reflection the history of those civilizations and those states which have come and gone, as well as the teachings and the preachings of those leaders of the intellectual and spiritual life who are the chief ornaments of human history, and then looks about him at the happenings of today, he will have care not to be too confident in giving an affirmative answer to the question, Can men learn? —Nicholas Murray Butler.

For at least three quarters just prior to his leaving the university, the student should be trained in the reading of newspapers and helped to follow the trend of world affairs. If such a program is put into effect in the University of Washington, its graduates will be far better educated and their influence far more weighty in the body of citizens of which they have become members. —University of Washington Daily, 1926.

The degree of intelligence exercised by all of us certainly doesn’t seem to entitle us to much credit as wide-awake men. —Melvin A. Traylor.

A lesson which history teaches us is that the truly great man is not the extremist. —John Drinkwater.

Wages are much to be preferred to charity. —Bishop Manning.

GEO. W. LAPITZ
Factory Representative
TAILORING DISPLAY at the Soda Shop EVERY THURSDAY
Star Direct Tailors - $23.50 Up
B. O. RAVENEL
Student Representative

...has to be a different kind of tobacco from that used in cigarettes...and it has to be made by an entirely different process...

Out in Kentucky, where they have pretty women, fast horses, and blue grass, there grows a tobacco called White Burley. It doesn’t grow anywhere else in the world. There is a type of this White Burley that is best suited for pipe smoking. It is neither too thick nor too thin. It is not light and chaffy; at the same time, it is not rank or strong. 31” is the government classification for White Burley. Since no other pipe tobacco has yet been found which seems to equal White Burley, this is what we use in making Granger Rough Cut. Next, we use the Wellman Method, a famous 1870 method of making pipe tobacco, to give Granger its fine flavor and fragrance. Then, too, Granger is “Rough Cut” — just like they used to “whittle” their tobacco off a plug with a jack-knife. It smokes cool, lasts longer and never gums a pipe. And finally, we want to sell Granger for 10 cents. Good tobacco—right process—cut right. So we put Granger in a sensible soft foil pouch instead of an expensive package, knowing that a man can’t smoke the package. Granger has not been on sale very long, but it has grown to be a popular smoke. Folks seem to like it.

TEN CENTS
©1933 LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.