4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 20, 1933

Vespers Are Begun Again by Dr. Lingle
Impresses Upon Students the Importance of Putting First Things First

The Y. M. C. A. vesper services for the new year were fittingly opened last Sunday evening by Dr. Walter
L. Lingle, president of the college. Leading the evening's devotion was Lynn Iluie, with Carlton Chapman at the organ. The
student congregation was led in prayer by W. M. Thompson, president of the “Y,” after which Mr. Chapman played an
organ solo.

Dr. Lingle chose for the scripture reading a passage from the sixth chapter of the Gospel of St. Matthew, centering
his remarks on the nineteenth through the twenty-first verses. His talk revolved around the important task of establishing that sense
of values which leads the individual to place first things first, “Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon the earth,
... but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven for where thy treasure is, there will thy heart be also,”
wrote the apostle in his letter to the Christian world. From this rich selection, Dr. Lingle brought his hearers lessons
that should grip the heart and will of every student as he faces the year lying now before him.

Two cases were used in exemplifying the type that does not possess the proper sense of values: one, the rich
young ruler who visited the Master, then returned to the oblivion whence he came because he failed to place God
above riches; and the second, a broken man who came to Dr. Lingle a few years ago in Atlanta who
also departed unhelped because he would not let God take the place of his sensual life.

These vesper services constitute the chief spiritual expression of the students as a student unit, and to these meetings the
“Y” Cabinet cordially invites both old and new men. Form the vesper habit now.

Dr. Price H. Gwynn Attends Conference in Lisle, New York
Also Lectures in Montreat and Attends Hazen Foundation Conference

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, coming back to help in the full program starting a new session at Davidson, will have
a chance to judge the truth of facts learned at the conference of the Hazen Foundation, held in Lisle, N.
Y., this summer. Dr. Gwynn, after acting in the absence of Professor Fleagle in the capacity of director of the
summer school, went to Montreat, N. C., where he lectured for a two weeks’ period in the Assembly’s Training School.
It was after this work that Dr. Gwynn encountered what he considers the most beneficial part of his summer. He
was invited, along with 59 other college professors from all over the East, to attend a conference for those interested
in student counselling. Dr. Gwynn served while at the conference on the executive committee, also appearing on the program at
various times.

This convention is sponsored by the Hazen Foundation, headed by Mr. Edward Hazen, former official of the Curtis Publishing Company.
Mr. Hazen, who had not the advantages of a college education himself, had accumulated rather a large fortune, and wanted
to use it where it would do the most good. He had observed that there was rather a strained personal
relation between the student and the majority of his professors. Consequently, he became greatly interested in developing closer personal relations
between students and faculty members at liberal arts colleges, and left a part of his fortune to this end. As
Dr. Gwynn reports, this work is becoming interesting in the ideas which it brings forth, and he believes that a
great deal of good might be done by the convention if it is followed through in the correct manner.

WEDNESDAY, 27TH, IS PLEDGE DAY
(Continued from page 1)

...day, during which time fraternities will maintain a ‘silence towards Freshmen and no rushee will enter a fraternity house. Bids
will be issued through the post office and at 7 o'clock p.m., all bidded Freshmen will go to their rooms.
If a rushee has received an invitation to join more than one of the social organizations, then two members from
each fraternity sending him a bid will be permitted to spend fifteen minutes alone with the rushee after the end
of the silence period. If the invited Freshman wishes to join a fraternity, from which he has received a bid,
he will go alone and appear at that organization’s house at 9 o'clock p.m., when he will be pledged and
permitted to wear a pledge pin.

As far as I can tell... and I’ve smoked a lot of them... CHESTERFIELDS are always the same. They have
a pleasing taste and aroma. I smoke ’em before breakfast and after dinner. If I smoke ’em when I’m working.
I smoke ’em when I’m resting. And they always suit me right down to the ground. The cigarette that’s MILDER,
the cigarette that TASTES BETTER. They satisfy.

Chesterfield
© 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.Wednesday, Sept. 20—Torch Singer
This is the latest picture that has been made starring Claudette Colbert. She is shown as the torch-singing entertainer in
a Broadway night club. The part does not, or would not, seem to fit the star very well, but with
her voice and her acting, she does very well in the show.

Thursday, Sept. 21—Rafter Romance
Ginger Rogers is the down and out girl who is put in the attic room to share it with Norman
Foster, who works at night while she works during the day. They form an intense disliking without knowing each other,
and then meet and fall in love away from the attic room. There they discover they have much fun together.
The acting is very good, and the whole performance is very interesting.

Friday, Sept. 22—Pilgrimage
As the title suggests, the story is one of a mother who makes one of the Gold Star Mother trips
to the grave of her son in France. The thought is good, and Henrietta Crosman plays the part of the
heart-broken mother very well. The humor is lacking, though.

Saturday, Sept. 23—To The Last Man
The most recent and one of the best of the “forgotten” western pictures. The pure western style, though, is somewhat
removed by the presence in the cast of Randolph Scott, Esther Ralston, Buster Crabbe, Jack LaRue, and the comedy inserted
by Noah Beery. This does very well for one of Zane Grey's finest stories.

Monday, Sept. 25—Beauty For Sale
Madge Evans stars in this attempt at dramatics. The story is not wholly dramatic, though, as in parts, Una Merkel
puts in an appearance and livens the story. Rated as one of the best of the very newest pictures produced.

Tuesday, Sept. 26—Another Language
Robert Montgomery as the husband of the bride, Helen Hayes. The story is very heavy with family unrest, and Louise
Closser Hale, in her last picture, plays the part of the jealous mother very well. John Beal, as the father,
also does superb acting. The bride is bewildered when brought into this household, but manages to finally straighten her husband
and reconcile the family with her great acting ability. Helen Hayes and John Beal are especially outstanding in their acting.

ALUMNI PERSONALS
(Continued from page 3)
Rev. Eugene Clarke was graduated from Union Theological Seminary last spring and has accepted a call to the pastorate of
Speedwell, Stevens, and Greenwood Presbyterian churches in Rockingham County, North Carolina.

'30 Fred Dickerson will coach football and basketball at Lees-McRae College at Banner Elk, N.C., during the coming year.

'33 Jack Wagner, Statesville, was the sensation in the Carolinas amateur golf tournament which was held at Linville, N.C. this
summer. He defeated Tully Blair, medalist and former titleholder, in the first round of match play. Wagner was eliminated later.
He will teach and coach at Statesville High School during the coming year.

Faculty Directory
Professor | Class Room | Office | Residence
Arbuckle, H. B. | Chem. Lab. | (Clayton, Wed.) | Concord Rd.
Beaty, J. M. | (Clayton, Wed.) | Concord Rd.
Blythe, J. M. | (Clayton, Wed.) | North Main
Douglas, J. L. | Concord Rd.
Douglas, J. M. | Concord Rd.
Ewbank, H. E. | Thompson St.
Eagle, B. K. | Concord Rd.
Fulcher, H. E. | Concord Rd.
Goldiere, A. V. | Concord Rd.
Grey, A. W. | North Main
Gwynn, P. A. | Harding, C. R. | Hood, F. | Kimbrough, J. T. | Tilly, M. | Lingle, T.
W. | McConnell, J. M. | McConnell, W. | Mebane, W. N. | Porter, W. L. | Pritchett, N. G.
| Richards, C. M. | Schenck, L. B. | Sentelle, M. E. | Shewmake, E. | Thies, G. R. |
Vowles, G. R. | 307 Ivy St. | 302 Williams St. | North Main | Concord Rd. | Concord Rd.
| Concord Rd. | North Main | North Main | Concord Rd. | North Main | North Main | Concord
Rd. | South Main | Concord Rd. | North Main | North Main | Concord Rd.

WEDNESDAY
"THE TORCH SINGER"
with CLAUDETTE COLBERT

THURSDAY
"RAFTER ROMANCE"
GINGER ROGERS

FRIDAY
"PILGRIMAGE"
NORMAN FOSTER & MARIAN NIXON

SATURDAY
"TO THE LAST MAN"
A Zane Grey Story

MONDAY
"BEAUTY FOR SALE"
with MADGE EVANS

TUESDAY
"ANOTHER LANGUAGE"
with ROBERT MONTGOMERY & HELEN HAYES

RAY HARRISON
Formerly With Stetson "D"
Featuring Darby Tailors & Co.
Baltimore, Md.
No C. O. D.’s
We Please — Then You Pay!!

Davidson, N. C.
Hats
Shirts
Ties
Shoes

WELCOME OLD AND NEW STUDENTS
Student Supplies of All Kinds, Drugs, Etc.
WHITE DRUG CO.
