DEAN DAVISON WILL SPEAK HERE MONDAY WEEK

Che Mabidgontan

Vol. XXI Alenda Lux Abi @rta Libertas

FRATERNITY AVERAGES MADE PUBLIC

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 4, 1933 No. 3

S.P.E.’s to Retain Harper Trophy In Scholarship

Sigma Phi Epsilon Attains Highest Average Recorded in Fourteen Years

BETAS ARE SECOND

System of Grading Changed to Alphabetical Basis

Sigma Phi Epsilon won first place among the social fraternities at Davidson in scholastic averages during the 1932-33 session to
retain the Harper trophy for the second consecutive year, according to a statement made public by F. W. Hengeveld, registrar,
Monday. The Sig Eps held an average of 2.482 to lead the Betas by .355 points. Last year Sigma Phi
Epsilon, which is Davidson’s youngest fraternal group, averaged 88.14 percent to earn one year’s possession of the Harper cup for
the first time. This year the system of grading was changed from a numerical to an alphabetical basis. In compiling
the results, Registrar Hengeveld assigned to an “A plus” the value of 3.5; an “A,” 3.0; a “B plus” 2.5;
a “B,” 2.0; a “C plus,” 1.5; a “C,” 1.0; and a “D,” .5. The winner’s average, according to Hengeveld,
was the highest that had been recorded by a social group since he assumed his position here fourteen years ago.

Members of the Sig Ep Chapter which accumulated the high average include: Class of ’33—C. E. Bettis, F. H. Bixler,
H. K. Boucher, R. E. Conoley, S. V. Daniel, Jr., F. L. Elvery, C. L. Howard, H. Morrison, A. Patton,
Jr., and E. W. Shackelford; Class of ‘34—J. T. Blair, O. Casali, J. H. Fitzgerald, C. F. Gold, Jr., H.
M. Hawkins, E. J. Humphrey, J. A. Hunter, E. C. Snead; Class of '35—D. B. Elvery, S. G. Henry, W.
I. Morris, C. S. McCall, Jr., T. D. Miller, R. M. Porter, J. H. Pod, A. C. Roger; Class of
’36—M. J. Barnett, G. P. Erwin, J. W. Knox, A. L. Murray, W. R. Satterfield, C. G. Smith.

The Betas showed the greatest amount of improvement among the ten social fraternities, moving from eighth place a year ago
to second place in the standings this year. The averages as announced by Registrar Hengeveld for the 1932-33 session are
as follows:

Sigma Phi Epsilon ----------------- 2.482
Beta Theta Pi ----------------------- 2.127
Kappa Sigma ------------------------ 2.116
Sigma Alpha Epsilon --------------- 2.016
Phi Gamma Delta ------------------- 1.953
Phi Delta Theta --------------------- 1.905
Kappa Alpha ------------------------- 1.875
Pi Kappa Phi ------------------------- 1.864
Pi Kappa Alpha ---------------------- 1.813
Theta Upsilon Omega -------------- 1.733

Gridgraph Board Proves Success; Offers Thrill to Large Throng

Machine Installed in Shearer Hall Will Give Davidson Students and Townspeople Comprehensive Accounts of All Out-of-Town Football Games in Which
Davidson Participates

While the team was fighting a glorious battle on enemy territory, two hundred and fifty loyal Wildcat supporters gathered in
Shearer Hall last Saturday afternoon to watch the progress of the game through the medium of the newly installed Gridgraph.
This clever machine was purchased from the company bearing the same name as its product by the college at a
cost of $425.00, and has been set up in Shearer Auditorium with Heath Whittle in charge.

The apparatus consists of a miniature field made of green mesh marked off in proportionate ten-yard lines surrounded by the
opposing line-ups on either side, and below it are the possible results of any play. Each player and each result
has its corresponding light which is flashed on at the proper time. Two red lights, one on the left and
the other on the right, indicate which team has the ball, and a third red light is turned on to
represent the touchdowns. The mesh is transparent enough for a small extension bulb to shine through and represent the ball.
Each play is transmitted by Western Union to a branch office located in the off-stage wings of the hall and
from there to the manipulators of the board. There are fifty switches that lead to the various bulbs and it
takes five operators to manage them. In this, Whittle was assisted by Dudley Elvery, Lanier Pratt, C. C. Quick, and
Bob Woodside. Mr. Abernathy, at the wires, was assisted by Polk Moffett. An admission fee of fifteen cents was charged
to students, and a fee of twenty-five cents to townspeople, from which a total of $40.00 was collected. This goes
toward defraying the expenses of the board and operators.

ASSISTANTSHIPS ARE ANNOUNCED

Fifty-six Students Appointed to Assist Instructors in Various Courses

Fifty-six students were appointed by the Faculty Committee to serve as assistants to instructors for the 1933-34 school session, according
to an announcement by F. W. Hengeveld, registrar. These men were selected from a large field of applicants from the
Junior and Senior classes. These choices were made by the heads of the various departments, as faculty members to whom
the assistants will serve. Administrative officials estimate that approximately $3,500 will be paid out to students through these assistantships to
help defray part of their college expenses. Four students will be assisting in two departments.

The list of appointments as made public by the registrar are:

Bible: R. T. Coit, J. M. Currie, B. F. Ormand, E. L. Powell, C. B. Ross, J. W. West.
Biology: E. S. Brannon, B. B. Fort.
Business: A. B. McLean, E. W. Morrison.
Chemistry: M. W. Alderman, J. H. Fitzgerald, E. S. Hodge, R. C. Morrow.
Education: S. M. Hines, D. K. Spen- (Continued on page 4)

Campus is Scene of Frantic ’Cat Spirit

Pep Meeting and “Shirt-tail Parade” Led by Hawkins and Band

In a mammoth pep meeting held Thursday night in Shearer Hall the entire student body of Davidson College gave vent
to wild enthusiasm in encouraging the Wildcat football team in its annual clash with the Tar Heels of the University
of North Carolina. The college band, directed by Mr. J. C. Pfohl, played several military selections and the college song,
“O Davidson,” which brought forth ardent cheers from the student body.

Dr. C. K. Brown, of the faculty, made a brief talk which encouraged and inspired the team. A demonstration of
the new Gridgraph which has been installed in Shearer Hall was carried out by Captain Norton Pritchett, director of athletics.
This device, as was shown, presents a very clear picture of a football game, the plays of which are received
by telegraph and represented (Continued on page 4)

HOMECOMING DRAWS NEAR

Football Game and House Parties Will Be Features

With homecoming less than three weeks away, thoughts are beginning to turn toward house parties and the first dances of
the year. The Pan-Hellenic Council has just announced that preparations are being made for two entertainments, a formal dance Friday
night, October 20, and an informal one Saturday night. Music for both occasions will be furnished by Nick Laney, “The
Crooning Halfback,” and his Duke University Orchestra. The council has engaged the Charlotte Hotel ballroom for both functions. Nick Laney
has just returned from Blowing Rock where he and his orchestra had a highly successful season at the Mayview Manor.
For the past several years Nick Laney has steadily gained in popularity throughout the state and has played for dances
at Charlotte and Gastonia.

Dean Davison Will Speak On Scholarships

Former Rhodes Scholar Will Lecture on Rhodes Scholarships and Oxford

OXFORD GRADUATE

Davidson College to Select Candidates in Early December

Dean Wilburt C. Davison, head of the Medical School of Duke University, will give an illustrated lecture on Oxford and
Rhodes Scholarships in Chambers Auditorium on Monday evening, October 16, at 7:30 p.m. He comes under the auspices of the
Davidson College Committee on Lectures.

Dr. Davison, a graduate of Princeton, holds three Oxford degrees, and was awarded the degree of M.D. by Johns Hopkins
University. He went to Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar from New York in 1913, won his “blue” in rowing, served
with the Red Cross in France and Serbia, and distinguished himself in physiology. He served on the faculty of Johns
Hopkins eight years, rising to the position of assistant dean. He was called to Duke University to organize and head
the Medical School in 1927. He is one of the best-informed men in the United States on the subject of
the Rhodes Scholarships.

The state committees will meet early in November or early in December. Davidson College will nominate candidates. A candidate may
appear in the state of his residence or that in which he has taken his college course. Application blanks and
information may be had from Dr. G. R. Vowles. The final date of selection is in January.

Hanraban and Warren to Be Cheerleaders

Rufus Morrow was in charge of the services and Robert Woodside and Arnold Rhodes led in prayer. The musical feature
of the evening was a clarinet solo by Harris Bradley, accompanied at the piano by Kenneth Scott. Mr. Ovens’ subject
for the evening was “Placing the Emphasis.” He spoke of the tendency of the American people to place more emphasis
on things of this world rather than spiritual things. As an example he cited the case of more emphasis being
placed on the Midway at the Century of Progress Exposition than on the scientific and other educational exhibits.

“I once attended a large church in New York,” said Mr. Ovens, “which was equipped with the finest organ and
had the most wonderful choir I had ever seen. But there were so few people in attendance that I thought
I had made a mistake about the hour.” He went on to say that in the same city he attended
a theater where tickets were selling at four dollars apiece. The place was packed and jammed with standing room only
available. It was self-evident where this emphasis was being placed.Within the last six months, there will be three dances. The
price for the set is three dollars and, individually, two dollars for the Friday night dance and one dollar and
a half for the Saturday night dance. Friday night, the dance will be from 10 to 2, and Saturday night
from 8:30 to 12. The fraternities are all having house parties, and many beautiful girls are going to be here
for the occasion. On account of the Duke-Davidson game, a goodly number of boys and girls from Duke are expected.
A cross-country meet with Duke will also feature the weekend.

CERCLE FRANCAIS OPENS MEETINGS
Many Interesting Activities Are Planned for the Coming Year

Members of Le Cercle Français, the French honorary society, met last Monday night at the Kappa Alpha house, where many
business items of importance were discussed. Lanier Pratt, presiding, took over his duties as president, succeeding Bill Flinn from last
year. The following men were elected as officers: Bob Coit, vice-president; Aud Gullette, secretary and treasurer; and Madison Armistead, steward.

Among the activities planned for the coming year is a trip to Converse College, Spartanburg, S.C., where Davidson members will
present a French play. Another social event of interest will be the traditional “Grand Restaurant,” in which Le Cercle Français
members and Davidson faculty will manage a cafeteria in true French style. At this gathering, the student members of the
society will be served by the faculty, who will act as waiters. All conversation, including orders for food, will be
in French. In addition, trips have been planned to Salem College, Winston-Salem.

Hawkins and Aud to Third Ballot

In the final vote for the Junior cheerleaders last week, Kirk Hanrahan and Paul Warren were elected as understudies to
Head Cheerleader Hugh Hawkins. Hanrahan is from Kinston, and Warren, a member of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity, is from
Allendale, South Carolina. These two accompanied Hawkins to Chapel Hill last Saturday and will continue to do so at all
important out-of-town games. At some time in the second semester, one of them will be elected as varsity cheerleader for
next year.

Hanrahan and Warren were elected from a field of ten men: Fritz Byerly, Ed Garrett, Guerrant, Charles McCall, Pasadena, California;
Jennettsville, S.C.; Gus Maynard, Bluefield, W.Va.; Geddie Monroe, Fayetteville; Harry Morris, Bessemer City; Teal Rogers, Jennettsville, S.C. In the first
ballot, all were eliminated but Hanrahan, McCall, Monroe, Rogers, and Warren. The second ballot left Byerly, Hanrahan, and Warren in
the running, and on the third ballot, Byerly was eliminated.

Delta Pi Alpha Has Initiation For Five

The first meeting of Delta Pi Alpha, the German honorary fraternity, was held Monday night at the home of Dr.
and Mrs. G.R. Vowles. F.M. Scott, president, presided over the meeting, which had as its purpose the initiation of new
men into the fraternity and the forming of plans for the work of the year. Refreshments were served to those
members present. Those initiated were: Dr. C.R. Harding, of the faculty, W.M. Brown, B.B. Fort, B.O. Ravenel, and G.H. Wood.
The old members of the fraternity are: Dr. and Mrs. G.R. Vowles, Professor H.T. Lilly, W.B. Corbin, I.H. Scott, W.M.
Thompson, W.T. Thompson, and J.W. White.

DEBATES SCHEDULED

An extensive series of national and international collegiate debates are scheduled for the winter. Oxford debaters in London will contest
with Chicago University, Stanford with Cambridge, and Bates with Iowa.

Notice to Sophomores

There will be a Sophomore class smoker in the banquet hall of Chambers Building Thursday, October 5, at 8:00 p.m.,
Robert B. Richardson, president of the class, announced Monday afternoon. Plans for Sophomore weekend and nominations for student councilman to
fill the vacancy left by Dick Parker, who failed to return to school this fall, are the main matters to
be discussed at the gathering. All members of the class are urged to attend the meeting.

Davidsonian to Have Rotogravure Section

Will Give a Complete Pictorial Review of Events to Readers

Beginning with this issue, “The Davidsonian” will present weekly to its readers a complete pictorial review of events that happen
in the college world in Collegiate Digest, a rotogravure section that is included with your subscription to this newspaper. Collegiate
Digest is a section exactly like the rotogravure sections in the Sunday editions of the large metropolitan dailies, although it
will confine its editorial content to pictures that deal with the life and activities of college and university students throughout
the United States. It will give to every student the opportunity of watching what his fellow students in other institutions
are doing and will keep him in touch with educational and scientific developments throughout the world. There is an old
newspaper slogan which states that “one picture is worth ten thousand words,” and Collegiate Digest will tell many volumes of
stories to its readers every week. Across its eight pages every week will parade the people who have made college
and university news in the world during the past seven days.

Porter Has Zoology Course at Beaufort

Fifteen Students Have Enjoyable Time Studying at the Beach

(Editor’s Note: The following is an article concerning Professor W.L. Porter’s Zoology course this summer at Beaufort, written by Campbell
Wildman, of the class of ’33.)

By CAMPBELL WILDMAN

By now it is a well-known fact all over the hill that Davidson had a summer Zoology course down at
Beaufort, N.C. And doubtless many rumors are extant concerning the very large time that was had by the bunch, to
say nothing of various individual adventures. Many pages could be devoted to these little sidelights of our expedition, but far
be it from me to bore you with incidents, humorous or scientific—maybe you're not interested in Zoology anyhow. But we
must have the facts. Full credit for the idea and its fulfillment goes to Professor Porter who conducted the class
and made all the arrangements for boats and equipment, and believe me, it was a job well done. We had
two small boats which were used for local work—when we wanted to go out to the shoals to look for
specimens, the whole bunch piled in and off we went, to wade around for hours, finding shells, worms, fish, sponges,
and whatnot. And what a supper we could lay away when we got home. But the high spot of the
week was the day that we went out on the government boats. The Bureau of Fisheries has a sixty-foot cabin
cruiser, the Sandpiper, and they were very nice about taking us on a trip nearly every week. Usually, we would
be out and...

Fraternities Issue Bids to Students

Invitations Extended on Tuesday Evening After Two Weeks’ Rushing

LARGE NUMBER PLEDGES

Twelve Upperclassmen Included in Group

As the 1933 fraternity rushing season came to a close Wednesday, September 27, one hundred and eleven men were pledged
to the ten national fraternities at Davidson. After two weeks of rushing, the fraternities extended bids to those men whom
they desired to have as members of their respective chapters. The bids were issued following a meeting of the Pan-Hellenic
Council on Tuesday night, immediately after the beginning of the period of silence. From that time until Wednesday night, the
upperclassmen were not allowed to speak to the Freshmen to whom they were extending bids. The period of silence ended
at seven o'clock, and the new men signified their intention to join a fraternity by presenting themselves to that particular
house by nine o'clock. Among those who accepted bids were one Senior, six Juniors, and five Sophomores. This year’s pledge
group, not much larger than that of last year, still shows about forty-eight percent of the Freshman class to be
included in the fraternity list. Following is a list of those who accepted bids:

Beta Theta Pi: R.M. Atwater, Burlington; W. Edwards, Charlotte; C.C. Fowler, Hendersonville, Tenn.; K.A. Huckins, Jacksonville, Fla.; R.H. Johnston, Jr.,
Lebanon, Ky.; F. Kuester, Charlotte; G.W. McCoy, Bartow, Fla.; R.F. McLendon, Bennettsville, S.C.; D.R. Sellars, Burlington; J.C. Winn, Greenville, S.C.

Pi Kappa Alpha: C.B. Austin, Greenville, Tenn.; G.H. Bailes, Anderson, S.C.; H.W. Davis, Salisbury; J.W. Dickson, Anderson, S.C.; C.H. Ellis,
High Point; L.K. Hill, Statesville; D.J. Johnson, Red Springs; K.H. Knorr, Staunton, Va.; R.H. Lafferty, Charlotte; W.W. McClain, Davidson; M.
Peabody, Charlotte; C. Quick, Charlotte; W. Snow, High Point; J.M. Spinks, Mt. Hope, W.Va.; M.V. Yount, Hickory.

Kappa Alpha: I.G. Anderson, Tampa, Fla.; P.R. Cook, Pasadena, Calif.; G.C. Cowan, Charlotte; J.C. Crowell, Charlotte; C.B. Gladden, Chester, S.C.;
J.D. Johnston, William Lay, Mauze, Bluefield, W.Va.; C.W. Kansas City, Mo.; A.S. Moffett, Charlotte; J.H. Sadler, Charlotte; C.W. Sprunt, Wilmington;
R.M. Vance, Clinton, S.C.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: I. Field, Asheboro; R.S. Johnson, Charlotte; Greenville, S.C.; H.W. Charlotte; R.H. Robinson, Kappa Sigma: W. Dickson, Gettysburg,
North Wilkesboro; B.L. Reidsville; J.G. Gaw, Greensboro; C. Gracey, Franklin, Tenn.; W. Higgins, W.P. Hill, Richmond, R. Howell, Tarboro; H.
Greensboro; R. Melton, B.F. Moseley, Greenville; Winston-Salem; Gay Pi M. Russell, Mont; Davidson; J.L. Oakey, Paw Creek; M. Clark, Greenville,
Armfield, Fay- Fryfogle, Laurinburg; Hill, Moore, Charlotte; SEG Atlanta, A. Finley, Columbia, H. Boggs, Greensboro; J. Pais B. Carlson, Garrison,
H.H. Hig- W.B. Kuykendall, Decatur, Ga.; G. Norfleet, D. Shemwell, Albany, Thompson, Gastonia Kappa Phi: H.W. Bondurant, Caldwell, Charlotte; G.D.
Cas- Allisonia, Va.; T.G. Corbin, Fre- W.D. Covington, Wadesboro; J. Hunter, Charlotte; D. Franklin, Roanoke, Va.; V.B. Higgins, Char- lotte;
W. Horie, Wilson; H. Howie, Monroe; H.E. Parker, Sumter, S.C.; W.D. Patterson, Charlotte; R.T. Peters, Bluefield, W.Va.; F.E. Ren- frow,
Sumter, S.C.; C.W. Shuff, Greenville; W.A. Stuckey, Sumter, South Carolina.

Phi Gamma Delta: J.R. Branton, Greenville, Miss.; R.A. Brock, Chattanooga, Tenn.; A.O. Cooke, Greensboro; H.T. Dyer, Greenville, Miss.; W.T. Hall,
Belmont; C.E. Leak, Greensboro; H.H. Overton, Greensboro; R.H. Patterson, Trenton, Tenn.; A.T. Port, Winston-Salem; D.J. Stowe, Belmont; H.G. Sugg, Green...
