THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 1, 1933

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRANT - Editor-in-Chief
A. M. MANSON - Managing Editor

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. CLARDY - Managing Editor
F. SCHENCK - Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON - Managing Editor
A. S. WILLIAMS - Managing Editor
D. I. CASALI - Athletic Editor
E. B. E. - Exchange Editor
W. WHITE - Feature Editor
S. GAMBLE - Feature Editor
T. GOODYKOONTZ - Contributing Editor
F. A. HANCOCK - Review Editor
R. P. McCALLIE - Associate Editor
C. F. MYERS - Associate Editor
B. B. SUGG - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
T. JOHNSON - Assistant Business Manager
H. A. MANSON - Assistant Business Manager
ALVIN BAYER, JR. - Solicitor
H. B. DANIEL - Solicitor
M. DOUGLAS - Solicitor
W. B. SPRONT - Solicitor
T. R. TAYLOR - Solicitor
E. A. WHITE - Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President - S. GAMBLE
Vice-President - LEWIS GREGG
Secretary-Treasurer - L. McCLINTOCK

RH ALDERMAN
L. WINE
G. E. BAILY
E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY
W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES
W. L. NORTHEN
E. BOWE
C. E. NORVELL
I. E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
H. COVINGTON
S. P. PRESS
S. K. EATON
P. M. ROGERS
B. FICKLIN
B. L. ROSE
L. GULLE
T. H. S.
N. ACKHELLINGER
N. W. WALLACE
C. HENRY
K. D. WEEKS
A. HUNTER
W. R. WARD
E. LORRAINE
W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD
W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS
PRATT-THOMAS

FEBRUARY 1, 1933

“A friend is one who smiles on our fortunes, frowns on our faults, sympathizes with our sorrows, weeps at our
bereavements, and is a safe fortress in all times of trouble.” — Helen Hunt.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

The spiritual life of the community was enriched last Sunday by the splendid sermon by Dr. Foreman at the morning
church service and the inspiring service given by members of the Y. M. C. A. from Carolina at vespers Sunday
night.

Dr. Foreman preached one of the best sermons we have heard in many months last Sunday morning.

We were glad to see such a fine attendance at vespers Sunday night. The Carolina deputation gave an excellent program.

It was inspiring to hear members and leaders of the Y. M. C. A. from Carolina. The chapel was filled
with both worried and smiling faces. However, there is one consolation in that the results were not in most cases
as bad as anticipated.

The Wildcats came back against Wofford in true Davidson fashion. Coach Laird and his boys deserve a big hand for
their thrilling victory over this team that had been thus far undefeated.

The Davidson victory was especially impressive because not only had Wofford a clean slate before the game, but they were
also leading South Carolina teams and at the top of the S. I. A. A. loop.

We not only wish the Wildcats success in the coming Big Five games, but believe they will be more successful
now than earlier in the season.

Spring football practice started off with a bang. Already several scrimmages have taken place. Coaches “Doc” Newton and Gene McEver
are hard at work, and mean business. We feel the 1933 edition of “Those Fighting Wildcats” will be something of
which to be proud.

Quite a bit of interest has been stirred up by the boxing school Captain Pritchett is conducting. Enlarged noses, ears,
eyes, and other bruises seen on the faces of some boys on the hill.

The interchanging of deputations from college Y. M. C. A.’s and Y. W. C. A.’s is a fine movement and
we hope it will continue.

The night skating while precarious, is a sure sign of an early spring.

The Pan-Hellenic dances ought to be successful with a good orchestra, girls, and everything.

AFTER COLLEGE, WHAT?

In about four months, in all parts of the United States, colleges will hold their graduation exercises, and thousands of
young men and women will be attempting to find for themselves a place in the game of life. Many will
succeed in securing a position in the already overcrowded industrial system and will soon be drawn into the struggle for
advancement. A much larger percentage will be unable to locate themselves, and will thus drift along until some place accidentally
opens for them, or they become crushed under the mob. Another group of the graduates will continue their education in
order to be better able to offer competition when they finally enter the game of life.

The first group, those who are able to get into the business world now, will in later times have a
much greater advantage than those who enter during prosperous times. Facing the present economic conditions will teach them many things
which they would not otherwise have learned. After they have withstood the stresses of the present period, the members of
this group will know how to meet any similar crisis in the future. They will be trained in the school
of hard knocks.

Very little can be said for the second group, but that we all hope it will be as small as
possible. In these times it is almost as economical to join the third group, which is made up of those
who are anxious to limit their activities, but to advance far above the mass in the activity of their choice.
They attempt to specialize in one phase of life, and in the end, to make themselves of service to society
by their superior knowledge in their particular field. At the present time this method is much more appealing than before.
Now there are no golden opportunities awaiting the college graduate, but by specialization and continued study the college graduate can
create an opportunity. His services will be desired if he has a superior knowledge in a specialized phase of the
modern world.

Thus a college graduate who goes into a job directly from college is soon able to gain a great deal
of practical experience which is necessary in almost any field. This experience teaches him something which he cannot get in
college; but it will advance him only to a certain point. The man who continues his training along a specialized
line will be behind the previously mentioned man, because of his lack of experience, but, having gotten his practical education,
he will be able to advance to a higher level than his companion.

—JAMES W. WHITE.

CLASS OF 1937

A few weeks ago there appeared in The Davidsonian an article urging all the members of the student body to
speak to at least one good prospect and attempt to influence him to come to Davidson next fall. The purpose
of this campaigning as stated in that article, was to gain a large Freshman class next year in order to
have the largest class in the history of the college, graduate on its hundredth anniversary. Many of our students carried
out their promise and obtained the names of high school and preparatory school students who would consider coming to Davidson.
These names were turned in, and a committee has made a list of these. Other plans are also being laid
to carry on this campaign, but we want to impress on the members of the student body the necessity of
keeping up the interest in this endeavor. Needless to say there are many good men whose names have not been
turned in to this committee, and who would possibly come to Davidson. There is a great amount of work which
can be done in this campaign, and the members of the student body should take it upon themselves to look
up any men, who would be desirable students at Davidson, during the coming spring and summer. This is an endeavor
which could be carried on and fostered to a great extent by the alumni, who may be in contact with
some men not known to members of this student body. If interest is allowed to lag, the outcome will be
doubtful, but if every person on this campus would take it upon himself to make an honest effort to bring
men to Davidson for the next incoming class, there is no reason why the project should not be very successful.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. LAKE

Tulane
The audacity of some of the “guhls” of today. Some of the young ladies at Sophie Newcomb have taken up
the manly habit of smoking pipes, the one smoking habit that we men thought was left for us alone. The
Tulane Hullabaloo shows a picture of five of them smoking.

University of Alabama
These gals. A Chicago University co-ed in a Latin class translated Arma virumque cano as “I cry for the arms
of a man.”

The Chesterfield program now presents Ruth Etting on Monday and Thursday nights at 9 o'clock; Tom Howard, George Shelton, and
Elizabeth Barthell, Tuesday and Friday at the same hour.

I SAW WORLD SPECTATOR

THE BALLAD OF THE PRODIGAL SON

“Why coom ye hame sae soon, my son,
Why coom ye hame sae soon?
Ye’re here before the end of Feb.,
Ye used to coom in June;

“Why are ye hame fra’ college, son,
Wi’ trunk and suitcase now;
The sparwe’s scarce begun to chirp
Upon the birchen bough?”

“O mither, mither, don’t be sad,
It’s bonny,” said the son,
“I’ll swink nae more till Michaelmas,
Vacation has begun,”

“Ye're nae telling the truith, my son,
Your cheek is flushed wi’ bluid,
Ye’re nae telling the truith, my son,"We’re nae been acting guid.”
“O mither, mither; my health is bad, I’m lean as is a lath, And I’m sent hame to rest a
wee From moiling on my math.”
“Ye’re nae telling the truith, my son, Your eye is sunken doon, Ye’re nae telling the truith, my son, What
brings ye hame sae soon?”
“O mither, mither, I’m put on Pro, And overcut a class, The Dean has sent me hame to ye To
bide for aye, alas!”
“Then ye can swink and moil, my son, And fra’ my hame ye’ll go, For I'll nae pay to feed
and clothe A son that’s put on Pro.”

W. S. Davidson become skate-conscious all of a sudden. Everybody is skating these days and those who don’t know how
are learning. It has come to the point where a charming young matron about town has taken it up. I
won't divulge her name, but must admit that she’s an expert. Postmaster Louis Potts found it necessary to put up
a sign forbidding skating in the P. O. After all, you have to draw the line somewhere.

... the fun-loving son of a prof. pinned a “Kick Me” sign on unsuspecting Ed Hancock who was doing some
practice teaching at the local high school. I hear it almost broke up the class, and Ed was at a
loss to imagine the cause of all the merriment until his attention was called to the label on his back.

... beau brummel Malcolm Grimes, Jr., received a whole crate of oranges last week. And popular, why you almost have
to stand in line to visit him. I called and I must say they are delicious.

Sensation-loving Caskie Norvell spread it around that Brown-Eyes McCue is entered in the Golden Gloves Tournament in Charlotte. Buck Mills
sent in his name and placed him in the 170-lb class. Just lately McCue has become an authority on pipes.
He rooms with Bernard who is a real connoisseur of good pipes and in turn McCue has become an expert.

... a goodly crowd attended “20,000 Years in Sing Sing” at the local cinema. I didn't go because I didn't
see how I could remain through such a long picture and I afterwards heard anyway that it was much too
mellow.

... and heard intellectual Fanny Wood telling Bill Johnson how much he adores caviar. Debonair Bill retorted, “Yes, isn’t he
a swell singer.”

TIP OFF. Wednesday and Saturday at nine bells they have Bing Crosby. Winthrop Joseph Szigeti, Hungary’s greatest violinist, will play
for the benefit of the Winthrop audience, Friday, February 3rd.

Allegheny College
There is an editorial in the Allegheny school paper entitled: “Is This Education?” Here ’tis:
“I can solve a quadratic equation, but I cannot keep my bank balance straight.
“I can read Goethe's ‘Faust’ in the original, but I cannot ask for a piece of bread in German.
“I can name the kings of England since the Wars of the Roses, but I do not know the qualifications
of the candidates in the elections.
“I know the economic theories of Malthus and Adam Smith, but I cannot live within my income.
“I can recognize the ‘Leit-Motif’ of a Wagner opera, but I cannot sing a tune.
“I can explain the principles of hydraulics, but I cannot fix a leak in the kitchen faucet.
“I can read the plays of Moliere in the original, but I cannot order a meal in French.
“I have studied the psychology of James and Titchner, but I cannot control my own temper.
“I can conjugate Latin verbs, but I cannot write legibly.
“I can recite hundreds of lines of Shakespeare, but I do not know the Declaration of Independence, Lincoln’s Gettysburg Address,
or the Twenty-third Psalm.”

Leon Trotsky, originator of the Russian Five Year Plan and former Soviet leader, in a recent book, has declared that
the maintenance of the present Soviet system depends upon revolution in other European countries. Trotsky, writing the history of the
Russian Revolution, makes attacks upon Stalin and his policy. Trotsky claims to be the founder of the Five Year Plan;
and shows not only its good points but its weaknesses. He admits that the Soviet cannot continue along its socialistic
lines unless there is a world revolution. Trotsky thinks that when Russia embraced Communism it aided the advancement of humanity
and that the Russian Revolution is only a link in the world revolution which will come by degrees. At the
present time, therefore, Russia is awaiting revolution in other countries. Until that time she cannot make great steps forward.

Canada has a radium deposit which is as large as the one in the Belgian Congo, from which most of
the world’s supply of radium is gotten at the present time. The Canadian deposit has a supply of pitchblende from
which the radium is extracted. The process of extraction is very expensive so that a gram of radium has a
market value of about $100,000. The Canadian deposit, which has been worked for only a year, is very rich, but
is far from any railroad. The ore must be carried over eight hundred miles of swamp before the nearest rail
connection is reached. This is worthwhile in the case of the radium ore, which is worth about $6,250 a ton.
The deposit contains not only radium ore but silver, copper, gold, cobalt, bismuth, manganese, and coal but these latter minerals
are not valuable enough to warrant their being mined so far from any railroad.

Since 1920, the rate of deaths from cancer has been increasing, while the deaths from tuberculosis have declined. The balance
of the death rates is thus maintained, although the causes have changed slightly. Cancer usually attacks its victims in the
latter part of their lives, unlike tuberculosis, which gains headway in youth. The percent of increase of cancer is shown
by the statement that in 1920 the probability of dying of cancer was about 7 percent while in 1930 it
was approximately 9 percent.

While the Technocrats attempt to analyze the industrial system and at the same time squabble among themselves, the American Institute
of Electrical Engineers holds meetings and discusses the latest advances in the field of electrical engineering. In a recent convention
in New York, the Institute was told of an electrical device for mixing chemicals. This apparatus operates the valves and
churns by electricity, and also determines the strength of the chemicals mixed. The result is that the product is prepared
quicker and has a uniformity which is not possible with hand-operated mixers. The use of this electrical apparatus will reduce
the number of men necessary in the operation of many chemical processes. Another labor-saving device is an automatic paper cutter
which speeds up the process and at the same time eliminates the necessity for one workman to each machine.

In spite of all proposals for disarmament, and in spite of all naval treaties, France, though it is within her
rights to do so, is building a new battleship which will cause a great setback in the little progress that
has already been made in the direction of disarmament. This battleship, to be named the Dunkerque, is to be different
from any previous type of vessel. She will be larger than the so-called pocket battleships, and smaller than the dreadnoughts,
and will have a tonnage of about 22,500. This type of vessel is not mentioned in the naval treaties, so
that France has a freedom of which she is taking advantage. She is even making plans for some sister ships
to follow the Dunkerque. There are two ways of meeting this situation: one way is by the immediate limitation of
this type of warship by the major nations at a conference. To make this a success it is necessary to
act very soon, before France does very much work upon her ship. The other method would be to allow the
nations to compete with one another in the building of these ships, with a result that the citizens would be
weighted down even more with taxes. It seems that the former method is much more practical, because there are enough
taxes placed upon the people of the different nations at the present; but if the plan is to work it
must be done very soon, for if France has done very much work on her ship she will naturally want
to use it and not waste it. In passing, we might wonder how France can honestly refuse to pay her
debts to us, but at the same time start spending huge sums of money upon her navy. But that is
another question.

A New York farmer has made an attempt to disprove the saying that “You can’t eat your cake and have
it too.” He had a farm out of which he was making little or no profit. The soil was an
extra rich loamy variety, so the man decided to sell some of his farm. He has been pressing the soil
into small packages about the size of bricks, and through the five and ten cent stores has been selling the
packages to people who have potted plants. Thus the farmer sells his land but keeps his farm. He states that
his supply of loam will last for quite a long time.

One thing which escapes the machine age is pretzel bending. Attempts have been made to do this by machinery, but
the results are far from satisfactory. The pretzel bender still holds his place in industry just like the watchmaker who
has to put his watches together by hand. The pretzel bender is an artist, trained to note the exact feel
of the dough and to put just the right twist in the pretzel.
