THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 20, 1933

WILDCATS OPEN WITH ELON

Around the Wildcat’s Lair

LARGE NUMBER OUT FOR FRESH TEAM

By CASKIE NOVELL '52.

During a summer in which most of the members of the student body spent their time chasing blondes, following the
best dances, or trekking to the Windy City for the Century of Progress Exposition, yours truly, the old news hound,
was endeavoring to track down some dope on Davidson athletics and athletes. Despite the hardships involved, a few items of
interest turned up, and so we find ourselves back at the grind with prospects before us for a swell athletic
year.

To start things off, Jack Wagner, erstwhile Davidson athlete, crashed the headlines by eliminating the famous Tully Blair in the
opening round of the State Amateur Golf Championship. Two years ago Blair was runner-up to Emmett Spicer for the southern
amateur crown, in the tournament held at the Sedgefield Country Club. Then the entire student body was shocked and decidedly
depressed by the news of the illness and temporary paralysis of that popular Davidson star, Shrimp Morris. Morris, star end
in football, and all-state first sacker and varsity captain in baseball, was stricken with what was thought to be infantile
paralysis while playing summer ball in Edenton. He is now on the road to recovery, and every loyal Davidson man
is pulling for Shrimp to come around O.K.

Jimmy Halverstadt, Davidson's top-ranking net star, entered several important tennis tournaments, and made creditable showings in all of them. It
will be remembered that Jimmy was runner-up to Wilmer Hines in the State intercollegiate meet last year. A number of
Davidson athletes played semi-pro ball this summer, and the illustrious Graham Lunsford (Doc) Mathis landed a regular berth with the
Winston-Salem Twins of the Piedmont League.

Attention now centers on the approaching grid season, however, and this column will make every effort to cover it fully
throughout the season. The ’Cats take on Elon this Saturday in the opening encounter for both teams, although the Christians
had a little practice tiff last weekend, in which they came off rather second-best to say the least. Coaches Newton
and McEver are priming a strong team with a light, fast-charging line, and as fine an array of shifty backs
as ever you set your peepers on, for that opening game. The line-up is yet indefinite, but it wouldn’t surprise
the old boy to see those Wildcats line up something like this next Saturday: Morgan and Grant on the flanks;
Hand and Ross at the tackle berths; Captain Rives and Cathey, guards; McElrath, captain, at the pivot position, and Willson,
Wingfield, and Hutchens as alternate backs. Such men as Potter, Windham, Johnson, Burns, Batte, Bumgarner, Verble, West, Pittman, Pearce, and
others will undoubtedly see service before the game is over. The return of several of the luminaries from Barium Springs
helped the coaches out of a bad hole, and brightened prospects considerably.

RED AND BLACK FRESHMAN COACHES

Wildkittens to Play Lees-McRae This Year, But Handicapped

5 GAMES LISTED

Bruce Peabody Assists Laird and Unger in Coaching Duties

Starting practice for their first game of the season with Lees-McRae, Davidson’s Freshman football team is showing promise. The number
of men out for this year’s squad is larger than that of last year, and the 1933 team will also
have a weight advantage over the team of 1932. Flake Laird has been drilling the men in fundamentals, and has
sent them through limbering up exercises every afternoon. Last week Coach Laird had his backs taking out ends, and wingbacks
blocking out tackle, while the linemen were working on double-teaming exercises.

Promising among linemen are Gracey, from Battle Ground Academy, and Purdy of Barium Springs, both centers, and Cathey, of Gastonia,
end and tackle. McCauley, Johnson, Dickson, Armfield, and Moore are also showing up well in the line. Corbin and Cook
look good in the backfield. At present the main problem is that of securing a good punter, several men having
tried out for this job, but none being qualified to any great extent. Assisting Coaches Laird and Unger is Bruce
Peabody, who returned to Davidson this year to take up post-graduate work, and who fills the position which “Doc” Mathis
held last year.

Freshman schedule:
Sept. 29—Lees-McRae, at Davidson
Oct. 13—N. C. State-Fresh, at Davidson
Oct. 20—V. P. I. Fresh, at Blacksburg, Va.
Nov. 10—Wofford Fresh, at Davidson
Nov. 24—Duke Fresh, at Durham or Asheville

Jimmie Halverstadt, stellar netman of the Senior class and number one man on the Wildcat team the past two years,
completed the summer with an enviable record in Southern tennis circles. In the early part of the summer, Jimmie traveled
to Fort Benning, Ga., and was defeated there in the finals. In the tournament of the City of Atlanta, he
reached the finals, only to be downed by Billy Reese; also, in the doubles, Jimmie and his brother, William Halverstadt,
former Wildcat star, were defeated by Mooney and Simpson. In the Southern tournament, the Davidson captain enjoyed a victory over
William Hess of Texas, with a score of 7-5, 3-6, 8-6, and was able to continue his upper hand on
Hess by helping defeat him and his doubles partner later in the schedule. He was defeated in the semi-finals by
Lefty Bryan and Jack McDiarmid, the latter having defeated Bryan Grant the week previous.

At the Mid-Atlantic tournament held in Charlotte, Jimmie lost to Wilmer Hines after a hard-fought four-set battle, in which the
Wildcat’s set-points threatened to turn the tables more than once. The final score was 6-1, 2-6, 5-7, 8-6. In the
doubles, which he played with Lenoir Wright, number two man of Carolina, Halverstadt stubbornly held on to the invincible combination
of Billy Reese and Jack Mooney.

Davidson Will Have Broadcast Period

Plans are under way for a weekly radio program to be broadcast over WBT, Charlotte, by Davidson College. Arrangements have
been made with the broadcasting company in Charlotte, and the program will start next week. Although no definite time has
yet been set, it is expected that the program will be on the air Monday night. The programs will last
for a quarter of an hour and will be varied in content. Prof. James T. Pfohl, the new director of
music at Davidson, will have charge of the musical side of the program.

With the return of five men from the 1933 Wildcat football team, including Charles Fort, J. B. Lee, Paul Pittman,
A. J. Potter, and Julian West, ten lettermen have returned to represent Davidson on the gridiron, and with the assistance
of several Sophomores, the ’Cats should turn in a season’s record even better than that of last year. The backfield
positions will probably be filled by men who won their letters last season. With Mackorell at quarter, Willson at full,
and Hutchens and Wingfield at the halfback positions, Davidson will present a well-rounded backfield—perhaps the most formidable in the state.
Siewers, Koenig, Lee, Ravenel, and others will undoubtedly see service before the game is over. The return of several of
the luminaries from Barium Springs helped the coaches out of a bad hole, and greatly aided Davidson’s reserve strength.

The average age of the squad is a little over twenty years, and the height is 5 feet 10½ inches,
while the average weight is but 157 pounds. However, the prospective starting line-up averages close to 180 pounds. Davidson is
facing a most difficult schedule this season and will be represented by a first team that should look something like
this: Ends, Morgan and Grant; Tackles, Hand and Ross; Guards, Captain Rives and Cathey; Center, McElrath; Backs, Mackorell, Willson, Wingfield,
and Hutchens.

Little is known of what Elon will bring to Richardson Field except that in a recent imbroglio with Wallace Wade’s
Duke athletes, they were completely massacred by Nick Laney and Co., who ran up five touchdowns to win 32 to
0.\ {gan and Grant; Hand and Ross. However, two years ago, when tackles; Captain Rives and Potter, Davidson and Elon
last met, the guards; McElrath, center; Mackorell, team from up Burlington way the quarterback, Willson, fullback, and locals, and a
Wildcat with his tail Hutchens and Wingfield, halfbacks. hanging peculiarly close to be- tween his legs came off that field
Excellent reserve strength is found in such linemen as Batte, Barrenger, with no proud boasts of the 13 to 2
Brewer, Harrison, Johnson, Koenig, victory that had been recorded in Parker, Rice, Siewers, Thompson, his favor. So, you never can
tell, Windham, and West; and in such but the editor will volunteer a pre- diction of victory by at least
three touchdowns. backs as Bumgarner, Burns, Legare, Partridge, Pearce, Pittman, Ravenel, Sanders, and Verble. Barium Springs, the prospects for the
and his partner were defeated by program. The Glee Club, Band, Or- Julian Robertson and Wilmer Hines, chestra, and Quartet
will be used. 11-9, 6-4, 6-3. Talks by members of the faculty and Back in his home state for the
administration, interviews of members Georgia titles, Jimmie again came of the coaching staff and of the stu- within an ace
of the top by yielding dent body, will make up the programs. in the finals, 6-1, 9-11, 6-3, 6-1. Jimmie
More definite information as to the tennis this spring. Merchant Recovering Billy Merchant, who ran on the Freshman track team
last year, sprained his ankle last Wednes- day when he stepped in a hole between Chambers Building and the dormitories.
Merchant was compelled to walk on crutches for several days, but his ankle is improving and he is not using
crutches at this time. Morris Elected Captain of Base- ball While Cochran Chosen Captain of Track Team In last spring’s
athletic elections at Davidson College, captains and man- agers were elected for this season in track and baseball. R. O.
T. C. Shoes Mille Cochran, stellar weight man, was elected to lead the 1934 cinder- men, and Bill Brown was
elected manager, with Jim Harris as Fresh- man manager. All three are Seniors. Junior managers appointed were Blanton Little, Jimmy
Simpson, and Horace Smallridge. “Shrimp” Morris was named to lead the diamond aggregation, and Dallas Wehner, varsity manager, with Skippy
McNeill, Freshman manager. Morris is a Junior, while Wehner is in the Senior class. Radios Student Lamps Hardware of All
Kinds COME AND SEE US M. H. Goodrums & Co. Junior managers were named as fol- lows: Ed Holt, Caskie
Norvell, and Bob Orr. In Opening Game Squad Is Larger and Heavier by Inexperience College, some sixty Freshmen reported last
Thursday as candidates for David- last year; the line will average over 170 pounds. However, the coaches consider their men
lacking in expe- rience. For the first three days, Coach Unfortunate Wildcat JOE MORRIS, Morris Reported To Be Recovering Doctors
Hold High Hopes for Star Athlete’s Complete Re- covery from Illness Shrimp Morris, who was reported early in the summer
to have contract- ed a case of infantile paralysis, would now seem to be on the road to re- covery.
Morris had been playing his usual position on a team in the Albemarle League when he suffered a paralytic stroke.
He was rushed to Johns Hop- kins and the physicians later discov- ered that the paralysis comes from a sort
of infection at the base of the spine. Since several cases similar to that of Morris’ have been cured in
the last year, the doctors hold out bright hopes of his complete recov- ery in time. A few days ago
Morris was moved to his home in Hattiesburg, Miss. Word was received by friends here that the former athlete could
now move his right leg a little. Good Prospects The Davidson varsity cross-country team, with six members from last year’s
squad and six runners from the Freshman team trying out, prom- ises to be the best in many seasons. Veteran
members of the squad will be Gullette, McFadyen, Morrow, Mor- ris, Oakes, and Woodside. Sophomores include Merchant, Frazier, Shuford, Glass,
and Smith. Even though The rising le Frazier, captain of last year’s Freshman team, has not registered yet, Coach Whittle
said that he would be back in school within the next few days, and will be de- pended upon to
uphold his record of winning every race in which he has run since coming to Davidson. Coach Whittle also stated
that Billy Merchant, who ran second to Frazier in every race last season, will be a bright prospect this fall.
One meet has been scheduled with Duke for both the varsity and Fresh- men, and will be run at Davidson
October 21. Meets with V. M. I., University of South Carolina, Univer- sity of Virginia, Washington and Lee, the University
of North Carolina for the varsity, and Winston-Salem High, Guilford College, and two meets with Charlotte High for the Frosh
have been tentatively arranged. For Fall Track ’Cats Will Meet Elon Saturday For First Game Elon May Prove More Formid-
able Foe Than Majority of Davidson Men Expect LINE-UP UNKNOWN Weight of the Opposing Teams Should Be About Even Davidson
opens its 1933 football sea- son Saturday when the Wildcats meet the Elon Christians on Richardson Field. For the past
two weeks, Coaches McEver have been con- sistently drilling the Davidson candi- dates, and a long scrimmage was held Saturday
in which the first and sec- ond teams participated. Elon will have the advantage of having played a game last
Saturday, and may prove to be a far more for- midable foe than many Davidson stu- dents expect. Also, it
is permissible for the Christians to play Freshmen on the varsity team, and this should prove to be another point
in their fa- vor. Elon’s grid record for last year is not very impressive due to the fact that a
large number of letter men were lost by graduation. But this year’s team will have the services of twelve letter
men, besides added strength from various places throughout the nation. Walser, of Salisbury, at center, and Neal, of Ensley, Ala.,
at fullback, have strengthened Coach Walker's machine considerably. Moreover, the Elon backfield will outweigh that of Da- vidson, the average
of which is ap- proximately 160 pounds. However, the Wildcats have plenty of speed to off- set this handicap. The
weight of the opposing lines will be about even, depending upon whether or not “Tubby” Hand, who recently has been
idle due to an ankle injury, starts at a tackle berth. Should Siewers start in place of Hand, the Davidson
line would be some seventy pounds lighter. At the present it is impossible for Coach Newton to name his line-up
for the Elon game, since the two David- son teams which scrimmaged on Rich- ardson Field last Saturday were evenly
matched. The selection will be made shortly before game time. The following men are working hard with the hope of
seeing their names in the starting line-up: Ends, Morgan, Batte, Grant, Windham, Young, Koenig, and Faison; tackles, Hand, Siewers, Ross,
and Harrison, Brewer, Thompson, Craven, Johnson, Potter, Rice; guards, W. Cathey, Rives, Thompson, Forte; centers, McElrath, West, Lee, Barringer, and
Knox; backs, Mack- orell, Willson, Hutchens, Wingfield, Legure, Verble, Burns, Yarbrough, Pittman, Slaughter, Pearce, Bumgar- ner, and Johnson. Price of
admission to the game Sat- urday will be one dollar; a charge of $1.65 will be made for all other
games on Richardson Field. New amplifiers, enabling a play-by- play account of the game to be an- nounced to spectators
in the stadium, were installed last Monday. Another feature along this line is a recently- purchased Grid-Graph. By means of
this convenience, a graphic picture of out-of-town games will be presented to Davidson students in a comprehen- sive manner. This
Graph will probably be installed in Shearer Hall. be run, and every Freshman not out for football is urged to
enter. There will be approximately twenty- five prizes given by various boarding This schedule contains some of the houses and
business concerns in Da- best teams in the South, which will vidson. make interesting competition for the Last year Frazier
ran the 1.7-mile Davidson outfits. course in 9 minutes, 35.5 seconds, tak- On Thursday, September 28, the an- ing 54.5
seconds off the school record nual Freshman Cake Race will be formerly held by Rufus Morrow. WELCOME STUDENTS We Guarantee
Our Work NORTON’S BARBER SHOP Collegiate Clothes for College Men, in Saxons, Glen Plaids, and Worsteds. Snap in tailoring, quality
in material and all that’s up to the minute. WE WELCOME YOU — MEN OF DAVIDSON High Art Clothing Company
114 SOUTH TRYON ST. Next to First National Bank Building, Charlotte Geo. Calfas, Manager “Pete” Abernethy, Salesman
