ANNUAL PHOTOGRAPHER HERE OCT. 16-20

Vol. XXI

Dean Davison of Duke Univ. Lectures Mon.
Will Speak on Oxford University and the Rhodes Scholarships

RHODES SCHOLAR

Six Graduates of Davidson Have Attended Oxford Previously

An illustrated lecture on Oxford University and the Rhodes Scholarships will be given in Chambers Auditorium at 7:30 Monday evening, October 16, by Dean Wilburt C. Davison, head of the School of Medicine at Duke University. Doctor Davison went to Oxford in 1913 as a Rhodes Scholar from the State of New York. Since the re-allotment of the Rhodes Scholarships, according to districts, he has had a prominent part in administering the new plan. He has served on state and district committees of selection from Richmond to New Orleans. Last year he served in Virginia and North Carolina and then on the district committee in Atlanta.

Davidson has had six of its graduates to enter at Oxford. Wilson Plummer Mills of the class of 1903, Dr. Benjamin Rice Lacy of the class of 1906, Shelby L. McCoy of the class of 1918, Dr. James McDowell Richards of the class of 1922, Robert F. Davidson of the class of 1923, and Dean Rusk of the class of 1931, have been the fortunate ones. Rusk is now entering upon his third year at Oxford. He is specializing in Economics, Philosophy, and Political Science, and spends his summers in Germany studying the political movements there.

In our district (Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Tennessee) each state will appoint two men on January 2nd or 4th. They will appear before the district committee in Atlanta. From the twelve state candidates, four will be appointed Rhodes Scholars. As all applications must be in the hands of state committees by November 18th, it will be necessary for Davidson College candidates to be approved by the Rhodes Executive Committee of the college soon after the first of November. At the close of his lecture, Dr. Davison will answer questions about appointments or studies in Oxford.

Concert Orchestra Organized by Pfohl Makes First Appearance Before Students in Chapel Friday

Mr. J. C. Pfohl, the director of music, announced that the personnel of the newly-formed concert band has been selected from among the members of the R.O.T.C. and regular college band. The band expects to play a concert during the month of November. The numbers to be rendered in this program will consist of the highest type of band music. Mr. Pfohl showed that although most people associated bands with football games and military events, that it is really only one of the phases of band music, and that the concert band is rapidly coming into prominence in the musical field. This band will fill the large gap which exists between the regular band and the symphony orchestra. The band has a rather large group of soloists of outstanding ability and these men will add greatly to the variety and interest of the program.

The concert orchestra was introduced to Davidson when it played in chapel Friday, October 6. The orchestra, under the direction of Mr. Pfohl, played the “Mignonette Overture” by Baumann, and “Valse” by Schmidt. Mr. Pfohl stated that the orchestra had surpassed his expectations so far, although it is still hampered by a lack of some very important instruments, some of which are: oboes, bassoons, alto and bass clarinets, string basses, and kettle drums. Plans are being made for a program to be given in the near future which will be entertaining and interesting. Mr. Pfohl is confident that the orchestra will add a great deal to the musical life of the campus.

Honor Roll

Honor Roll students for the 1932-33 session were announced Monday by F. W. Hengeveld, registrar. To make the Honor Roll, a student must average a grade of 95 or more throughout the year. The list:

CLASS OF 1933
C. E. Bettis, P. F. Brown, Jr., S. J. Bryant, T. P. Caldwell, J. C. Calhoun, F. L. Elvery, W. L. Houshouser, A. G. Little, R. L. McCallie, J. T. McClung, W. A. L. McKeithen, W. E. McNair, W. F. Mulliss, H. F. Nichol, A. Patton, Jr., W. W. Seymour, E. W. Shackelford, E. G. Williams.

CLASS OF 1934
J. T. Blair, S. M. Hines, J. A. McGeachy, W. M. Thompson.

CLASS OF 1935
M. W. Alderman, W. M. Bogart, R. T. Coit, J. M. Douglas, W. C. Neill, J. H. Powell, A. B. Rhodes.

CLASS OF 1936
A. G. Brenizer, Jr., J. W. Hassell.

Debate Club Has Meeting
Many Students Signify Desire to Go Out for Varsity Team

The Davidson Forensic Council held its first meeting of the year on Tuesday, October 3, and organized its activities as far as was possible so early in the season. The faculty approval of the prospective debate rivals was secured, and other matters of importance were discussed in detail.

President Ed Humphrey hopes to arrange ten debates away from Davidson, and six debates on the hill. He hopes to secure debates with Yale, at New Haven, Conn.; Lehigh and Swarthmore, Pennsylvania; the University of Miami, at Miami, Fla.; Center College, in Ohio, and others. Securing debates with these is by no means certain, but twenty letters have been written to schools in the North, South, and West for that purpose.

The tryouts will be held Tuesday night, October 31, in Chambers Auditorium, unless further notice is given. The subject has not yet been announced, but will probably be made known in a few days. At the time of publication, 35 men had signified their desire to go out for the varsity team. The Council hopes to arouse the interest and support of the student body still further, and to secure enough men to turn out three teams, with their alternates, capable of competing with any other collegiate team.

The officers for the year 1933-34 are as follows: President, Ed Humphrey; first vice-president, Jack Williams; second vice-president, Skip Brown; secretary, Hugh Hawkins; treasurer, Rawling Pratt-Thomas; debate manager, Bob Smith.

Dr. Walter Lingle Makes Annual Tour
Davidson Head Addresses Alumni, Church Groups, and Prep Students

Dr. W. L. Lingle left Saturday morning, October 7, for a speaking tour on which he will visit Chattanooga and Birmingham, returning by way of Atlanta.

On Sunday he preached at the Second Presbyterian Church in Chattanooga. Monday morning he spoke to the students of McCallie School. At noon he addressed a group of Davidson alumni and in the evening the Men’s Club of the Second Presbyterian Church.

In Birmingham on Tuesday he addressed the Synod of Alabama on (Continued on page 3)

According to Jack Williams, editor-in-chief of the Quips and Cranks, the photographer will be in Davidson on October 16 to take student pictures. As this will be the photographer's last visit to Davidson, a drive will be made to get as many pictures made as possible at this time. Members of the Annual staff will personally interview all men who have not as yet had their pictures made and make appointments to have them taken at a convenient time. It is thought that this will avoid delay and will be more efficient than the method used heretofore.

Annual Photographer’s Last Visit Scheduled for October Sixteenth
Only Baseball, Basketball and Track Team Pictures Will Be Taken When the Photographer Returns in the Spring

The faculty pictures, fall sports, fraternity groups, and all other campus activities will also be taken at this time. The photographer will return in the spring to take the basketball, baseball, and track pictures. However, no student pictures will be made at that time. Owing to the added expense of each additional trip of the photographer from Philadelphia, it is hoped that all remaining student pictures can be made on October 16 so that this section of the book can be closed. The pictures are being made this year by Zamsky Studios of Philadelphia.

Sophs Ballot on Councilman
Brown, Cathey, Dillard, Goslen, Partridge, and Pittman Nominated for Councilman

Due to the failure of Dick Parker, Sophomore member of the Student Council, to return to school at the beginning of the fall session, it has been necessary for a new member to be selected by the Sophomore class to serve in this capacity. Accordingly, at a recent meeting of the Student Council, four men were picked from the rolls of the Sophomore class to be presented to the members of that class for a vote. The second-year men had the privilege of nominating from the floor any man in addition whom they wished to put up. Thus, after a meeting of the class, at which two additional names were entered, the following six men were put to the vote of the class: Lamont Brown, Henry Cathey, Herman Dillard, J. B. Goslen, John Partridge, and Paul Pittman.

In the elections from which the reports were available at the time this paper went to press, all nominees had been eliminated but Partridge and Pittman. The other Sophomores who represent their class on the Council at the present time are Harvey Glass and Bob Richardson, president of the Sophomore class.

Smoker Given by Sophomores
Plans Are Discussed for Annual Class House Party

Plans were begun for the Sophomore house party last Thursday night when the second-year men held a smoker in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. Bob Richardson, president of the class, presided. Before discussion was opened on the house party, two men, Henry Cathey and J. B. Goslen, were nominated as additions to the list of Student Council nominees formerly selected by the regular members of the Council. This election is necessary to fill a vacancy left by Dick Parker’s withdrawal from school.

President Richardson then presented a plan, devised by the committee on program arrangements. The proposal was to have the usual two dances, one on Friday night and one on Saturday night, but the latter afternoon to have an open house by all the fraternities, during whichTime barbecue will be served in the fraternity court.—Considerable discussion was rendered on this (Continued on page 2)

Director of Music to Give Recitals

The first in a series of organ recitals by James C. Pfohl, director of music, will be presented on Thursday evening, October 19, at 8:00 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. The recitals in this series are to be given on the third Thursday evening of each month and it is expected that many persons will avail themselves of this opportunity to hear the best in musical literature. It is the desire of the Department of Music to present to the public several series of programs throughout the (Continued on page 2)

Prof. Blythe Praises ’Cats

Applauds Wildcat Spirit in Pep Meeting for Wofford Game

A lively and well-attended pep meeting was held in Shearer Hall Friday night, in preparation for the Wofford game Saturday, and was featured by a talk by Professor F. L. Blythe. The band opened the meeting by playing a sprightly tune, after which several of the best Davidson yells were given.

Following this, Head Cheerleader Hawkins introduced Professor Blythe. In the course of his speech, Professor Blythe praised the fighting and “never-say-die” spirit that has always characterized the Davidson football team. He stated that he has never seen a Davidson eleven that was not a true Wildcat team and added that this year, in his opinion, the team is even stronger and harder fighting than last year’s. Professor Blythe ended his talk by predicting a decisive defeat over Wofford.

The strains of “O Davidson” followed, the rafters shaking with the vibration thereof. Several more yells were then given, after which Hawkins urged that the student body in singing “O Davidson” at football games would please insert the name of the opposing team instead of singing “every foe.” The meeting was closed by Hawkins asking that the students please be as quiet as possible Friday night for the benefit of the players.

“D” Club Plans Big Welcoming

Student Co-operation Asked in Giving Rival Teams Cordial Reception

The “D” Club is planning to take care of the visiting athletic teams on the campus this year in order that the visitors will be made to feel at home on the Davidson grounds. The organization, ably led this year by the president, Mac Holland, and backed up by Captain Norton G. Pritchett, hopes to entertain the athletes from other schools by the use of the fraternity houses, and by allowing the visitors to go to the Davidson Theater free of charge.

In order to carry out the plans it is necessary to have the co-operation of the student body. It has been suggested that a button be placed on the visitors so that they may be recognized by the students and taken care of. “This experiment will go into effect when the V. M. I. football squad (Continued on page 5)

Play to Be Given at Queens-Chicora

Ibsen’s “The Master Builder” will be presented in the auditorium of Queens-Chicora College Saturday evening, October 14, led by a company of professional artists headed by the eminent Norwegian-American actress, Borgny Hammer, and including Marion Tatum, Robert Donaldson, Sydney Smith, Bram Bossen, and Borgny Noreen.

Madame Hammer, a native of Bergen, Norway, and described by one critic as “one of the greatest of living (Continued on page 2)

Volunteer Union Elects F. Scott

Chosen President of the State Student Volunteer Union

Francis Scott, of the Senior class, was elected president of the Student Volunteer Union for the State of North Carolina at the recent meeting of the State Fall Council held in Charlotte. A representation from ten colleges over the section gathered to consider filling the vacancy that will result upon the resignation of Florence Moffett, president. The latter action became necessary when Miss Moffett found that she could no longer meet the demands of the position as president and maintain her previous work in Queens-Chicora, where she is a student. However, she has consented to remain in office until the last of the Fall Institutes, at which time Francis Scott will continue the work in her stead.

The colleges represented were Appalachian State Normal, Asheville Normal, Catawba, Davenport, Davidson, Duke, Johnson C. Smith, Flora Macdonald, Guilford, and Greensboro College. Definite plans for the Fall Institutes were drawn up. They will be held in Asheville, November 4 and 5; in Charlotte, November 6 and 7; in Greensboro, November 8 and 9; and in Raleigh, November 11 and 12. This is being done in order to centralize the effort expended within these sections to bring to the attention of churches and other colleges the cause of Foreign Missions.

Contrary to popular opinion, the Student Volunteer Movement is not composed solely of those Christian young people who plan themselves to go abroad as missionaries, but also includes all students in the colleges of America whose interest in missions is that of the investigator and supporter. It is with this in mind that the Volunteers on the campus invite all who may be interested to join them in their meetings on Sunday afternoon in the Social Center at 2:00 o'clock. Aside from sending out deputations in con- (Continued on page 2)

Blazers Selected at Senior Class Meeting

Fourth Year Men Also Propose Special Privileges in Tuesday Smoker

Blazers and privileges were the items discussed at the Senior smoker last Tuesday night in the Chambers reception room. The fourth-year men decided to obtain navy blue coats with white insignia, and in two-button style. Three men, President Fred Smyre, W. A. Kirkland, and A. H. Manson, were appointed on a committee to investigate prices and to select a tailor.

Only two privileges were proposed by the Seniors for presentation before the faculty for its consideration. “Six excused absences for every fourth-year man each semester in each subject, and the right to keep cars on the campus after the Easter holidays is all we want,” the Seniors unanimously exclaimed.

1932-1933

The Davidsonian

Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 11, 1933 No. 4

Pan-Hellenic Council Plans For Homecoming

Nick Laney’s Orchestra to Furnish Music for Social Events

HARRIERS TO RUN

Tickets to Go On Sale This Week

Homecoming, always a red-letter day in the history of Davidson, will be celebrated on the week-end of October 21, and will be featured by the Duke-Davidson football game and two dances sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council. The first dance will be a formal affair, held on Friday night, October 20, to be followed by an informal dance on Saturday night. Nick Laney, who recently completed a most successful engagement at the Mayview Manor in Blowing Rock, will furnish the music for both occasions. Within the past six months, Laney and his orchestra, composed of Duke students, have also played engagements at Charlotte and Greensboro, and their music has been enjoyed by many people throughout the state.

The Pan-Hellenic Council has announced that tickets for the dances may be secured this week from any member of that body. Tickets for the set will be three dollars, but taken individually, the price for the Friday night dance will be two dollars, and the admission Saturday night, one dollar and a half. The Friday night dance will be from 10 until 2; the dance Saturday night from 8:30 to 12.

A number of girls will be here on bids of the social fraternities, all of which are having house parties for the occasion. Also, many Duke students attending the game are expected for the dances.

The Duke-Davidson contest has always been a big attraction to both Blue Devil and Wildcat supporters alike, and the game is expected to draw a capacity crowd. Another feature of Homecoming Day will be a cross-country meet in which the Davidson varsity and freshman runners will encounter the teams from Duke.

Interest Increases in Y.M.C.A. Work

First Freshman Feed Is Held in the Social Center

Increased interest in the student activities of Davidson College Y. M. C. A. has been evident in the work of the past week. A series of feeds for the freshmen have been planned, and deputation work to nearby points has begun in earnest.

The first of the freshman feeds was held in the Social Center last Tuesday night at 9 o'clock, with about twenty-five new men and a number of upperclassmen present. Billy Northen, Geddy Monroe and David McLean entertained the freshmen with several songs. These three musicians are known as the Pills Brothers. After the music, an informal feed was enjoyed. Similar parties will be held at the Social Center each Tuesday night at 9 o'clock. Invitations to the freshmen are mailed weekly.

Y. M. C. A. deputations last week included one to Banner Elk, one to North Wilkesboro, two to Statesville, and one to Cornelius. The Banner Elk deputation included Rufus Morrow, Duck Powell, Sam Nickey, Ellis Oakes, and Moreland Cunningham. All of these taught Sunday School classes in Banner Elk, and Rufus Morrow conducted the regular morning worship service in the Banner Elk Presbyterian Church on Sunday, October 8. Religious services at outpost churches near Banner Elk were conducted by this deputation on Sunday afternoon. Duck Powell spoke at vespers in the Banner Elk Church in the evening, and an important feature of all the services was the music of Moreland Cunningham, who played the trumpet.

Sam Wiley, secretary of the Davidson College Y. M. C. A., led a number of services in North Wilkesboro and other towns in Ashe County last Sunday. Sunday night he preached the initial service of a new church in Laurel Falls. (Continued on page 2)