THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 29, 1933

Dr. Gammon Delivers Address at Vespers
Popular Charlotte Minister Appeals to Students

Dr. E. G. Gammon, pastor of Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, gave a very interesting and practical talk at “Y” vespers last Sunday evening. After the first hymn, Ben Fort and Bob Coit led in prayer, and the scripture was read by George Gullette, who had charge of the meeting. Wilbur Edwards then played a violin solo, accompanied on the piano by Douglas Wauchope.

Dr. Gammon’s theme was “Being a Stumbling Block to Others.” He developed this theme by telling students that they should live lives of such influence that students of weaker character would not be enticed by their actions to do some evil. The Bible said that it was better for a mill-stone to be hung around a person's neck and he be cast into the sea, if he is going to be a stumbling block for someone who is seeking the Kingdom of God. Some persons can do something which will not hurt them very much, but if a person of weaker character sees this act it will hurt them very much.

Dr. Gammon went on to say that he had a friend in New York who had told him that he drank whiskey at times, but never in the presence of his brother-in-law, because he could not control his actions when he saw a bottle of whiskey. We can see from this example that we ought to look out for our brother as well as ourselves.

Sigma Pi Sigma Holds Initiation of New Men

S. K. Eaton, of New Bern; Phifer Erwin, of Davidson; Percy McElrath, of Bramwell, W. Va.; and A. S. Rachal, of Low Moor, Va., were initiated into Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary physics fraternity, at its regular meeting recently. To obtain membership in the fraternity, which was founded at Davidson College, December 11, 1921, and has since grown into a national organization composed of 26 chapters, some of which are in leading universities in the United States, a student must show proficiency as well as an interest in physics and its promotion. A sophomore must have had three semesters in the course and maintained an average of 95. Juniors and seniors must have an average of 90, with no grade less than 85, for three semesters to be eligible for membership.

Davidson Talent Plays With State Symphony

The North Carolina State Symphony has accepted for membership five Davidson students and Prof. James C. Pfohl, director of music. These men will appear with the symphony when it gives its concert at the Armory Auditorium in Charlotte on December 7. Those accepted are: Prof. James C. Pfohl; Harris Bradley, clarinet, Beckley, W. Va.; A. M. Cunningham, trumpet, New London, Conn.; D. P. McClain, drums, Cleveland, Tenn.; Hubert Morris, French horn, Winston-Salem; and Buddy Robinson, trombone, Talladega, Ala.

FACULTY ENJOYS TALK BY LINGLE
(Continued from page 1)

Norway and Denmark, that compose the major portion of Scandinavia. The speaker pointed out that there were many things that we might learn from these people in the care of homes, outdoor life, and abundance of good food. As an example, he mentioned that one hotel at which they stopped while touring Scandinavia, offered one hundred and twenty-five different introductory or cocktail courses prior to the regular meal. The speaker emphasized forcefully that the people of Norway, Sweden, and Denmark were less mixed racially than any other race of people in the world.

Dr. Lingle, “Davidson’s most widely-traveled man,” combined a historical background with his own personal experience to make a highly successful talk. This month there will be a tea for both the men and women of the club and an open Christmas meeting of the club is planned.

Davidson Band Will Hold First Concert

The Davidson Band will give its first concert of the year at Barium Springs Saturday, December 2. The band will play at the Winston-Barium Springs football game, celebrating the Orphanage’s homecoming, and will present its formal concert at 6:30 that night.

PAINTINGS DONATED TO COLLEGE
(Courtesy Charlotte Observer)

These two oil paintings were recently donated to Davidson College through the influence of Col. E. L. Baxter Davidson, the one on the right of the late Woodrow Wilson. The painting on the left is a portrait of Colonel Davidson himself. Both were students at Davidson. The paintings will be hung in either end of the faculty room on the second floor of Chambers Building. The program is not complete as yet, but it will definitely include the suite “Atlantis,” by Safranek.“Selections from Pinafore,” arranged by Seredy; “Straussiana,” selected from Straus’ famous waltzes; “Black Man,” by Sousa, and the concert march, “Hall of Fame,” by Vlavdoti. Morton Cunningham, solo cornetist of the band, will render “Jupiter,” a polka by Goldman, and Dave McClain will sing “Sylvia.” This will be the first of a series of concerts to be given by the band this winter, the next on schedule being at Catawba College, the details of which will be announced later.

Prof. John C. Bailey Speaks on Classics

The Alpha Nu Chapter of Eta Sigma Phi, national classical fraternity, met last Monday night. The principal speaker of the evening was Professor John C. Bailey, of the Greek department. He spoke on the value of classics to the college man. In his talk, Professor Bailey also discussed the modern methods of teaching classical literature. Following this talk, W. T. Thompson, president of the local chapter, led an open discussion on the value of a classical fraternity in a college. The members also discussed how the fraternity could be made more interesting to its members. After the discussion, there was a feed, which ended the program for the evening.

SORORITIES OVERCROWDED

Due to the rise in enrollment at Stanford University, the campus sororities have to face a real problem of overcrowding.

Four Out of Five College Men Come to JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP

French Departments Have Joint Meetings

Following a custom of two years’ standing, Le Circle Francais, the French fraternity of Davidson, held a joint meeting with the French Club of Converse College at Spartanburg, S. C., Monday afternoon and evening. Leaving immediately after lunch, the members reached Converse about 4 o'clock Monday afternoon. The Converse club presented Rostand’s “Les Romanesques,” and at 6 o'clock was host to the club at a dinner served in the main dining hall. The Davidson program, beginning at 8 o'clock, consisted of a one-act play, “L’Anglais Tel qu’on Le Parle,” a one-act skit, “Cupidon Dentiste,” and “L'Incendie,” by Lanier Pratt and Bill Hart. The program ended with two vocal selections, “Avant de Quitter ces Lieux,” from Faust, by Dave McClain, and “La Berceuse de Jocelyn,” by Frank Tucker. Le Circle was accompanied by Dr. G. B. Watts, head of the Davidson French department, and Prof. A. V. Goldiere.

TOYNBEE DISCUSSES FOREIGN PROSPECTS

(Continued from page 1)

Way to gain what is wanted. Personally, I do not think war is going to break out now. Why? Because war is more terrible when two sides are so evenly matched, and each side thinks it has a good chance of victory. Before the last war, the nations were divided into fairly equal camps which resulted in a far more devastating war than when one side is weak and the other strong. This is a danger signal for future wars of serious nature.

“After the war, Russia and Germany felt something in common because of having been ‘de-classed.’ Germany now realizes that her expansion cannot be westward, as attempted in the World War, but it must be eastward. Russia is in an uncomfortable position because Hitlerite Germany is on one side and militaristic Japan is on the other.

“Italy has been unfriendly toward France because of the inequality of the division of post-war plunder. However, Italy and France are trying to prevent Austria from uniting with Germany because the German population would be increased against them.

“Italy cannot remain neutral. She must either throw in her lot with Germany and antagonize France, Britain, and the United States, or she must prevent Austria from allying with Germany by joining with France and creating a customs union in Austria.”

Dr. Toynbee concluded by saying, “Some outlet for frustrated youth of Germany should be provided by other nations as well as by Germany, or war is necessary.”

A reception was given for Dr. Toynbee in the banquet hall by the International Relations Club after the lecture.

“DRUGS” “SUNDRIES”

A Complete Drug Store

“Make Our Store Your Store”

Reliable Prescription Druggists

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

“SODA” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

Other cigarettes like the tobacco used in other cigarettes. It is mild, ripe—not harsh, or strong. Then again, Chesterfields taste better. They are seasoned in the right way with the right kind of Turkish Tobacco. There is nothing flat or tasteless about them. You’re telling me “They Satisfy”!

CIGARETTES are made of tobacco, wrapped in paper, and they may look alike; but that doesn’t mean that they are alike. Chesterfield Cigarettes are not like other cigarettes. The tobacco is not like the tobacco used in other cigarettes. It is mild, ripe—not harsh, or strong. Then again, Chesterfields taste better. They are seasoned in the right way with the right kind of Turkish Tobacco. There is nothing flat or tasteless about them. You’re telling me “They Satisfy”!

© 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.