THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 11, 1933

Philanthropics Have Temperance Debate

A debate on the repeal of the eighteenth amendment was the feature of the Philanthropic Literary Society meeting Tuesday night. Miller Cochran and Sid Morrison defended the affirmative and Bill Johnson and C. O. McNeill assumed the negative in the opening debate of the year. The central thought of this timely theme was “would the cause of temperance be promoted or hurt by the repeal of the prohibition amendment?” The argument was very spirited, affording a good start for the coming year’s endeavor.

Also on the program was a talk on the history of the Philanthropic Society by Courtney Ross. In his talk he portrayed the prominent part the society has played on the campus since its founding in 1837.

The attendance of the first meetings has been unusually good, a large proportion of the freshmen showing interest in the society.

Initial Edition of Yowl Goes to Press

That ancient, time-honored organ of accidental origin, the offspring of one Chameleon, endured by a long-suffering critic’s organization, to-wit, the Davidson student body, has gone to press.

Amid cajolings, threats, groans, and what-not, the magazine has finally left the editor’s hands and must face the cold, cruel world alone. Even while arguments were going on as to the contents of this initial issue, the Yowl slipped unobtrusively out of the spacious office which bears its name and, once out, ran to the printer for dear life, afraid that there would be nothing left in it after the blue pencil society had done its work. Another magazine, made from rejected material is NOT for publication!

In the words of the first editor of this illustrious Yowl, “If we can shed a little sunshine into the otherwise drab and monotonous life of books, classes, and lectures, we are satisfied.” More, we have performed a service, we have done our duty, we have carried enlightenment, we have opened up new—SAY, DON’T GO AWAY! Well, anyhow the YOWL is coming!

Music Departments Gain in Recognition

Regular Weekly Engagements Made With Charlotte Station for Broadcasts

Mr. Pfohl, who has just taken charge of the music department of the school, has improved it very much. Many more students than previously are taking an interest in the different forms of music. Mr. Pfohl carried the concert band over to Charlotte two weeks ago, where it broadcast over WBT. After much work, Mr. Pfohl secured a weekly date with WBT to broadcast. The time was changed from Monday evening until Wednesday evening from 8:30 till 8:45.

The quartet, which is composed of Hubert Morris, first tenor; J. A. C. Robinson, second tenor; Frank Tucker, baritone; Dave McLain, bass, will broadcast over WBT tonight at 8:30.

The program is as follows: “O Davidson,” “O No John” (English Folk Song), “Drink To Me Only With Thine Eyes” (Old English Air), will be sung by the quartet, after which Frank Tucker will sing a baritone solo. Dave McLain will then sing a bass solo. The quartet will then sing “Short’nin Bread,” by Wolfe, and “A Brown Bird Singing,” by Wood, which will conclude the program.

Until further notice the broadcast of the music department will be on Wednesday evening from 8:30 till 8:45.

CLEMSON WINS IN GAME WITH N. C. STATE, 9-0

(Continued from page 5)

But then two long passes by Repasky, Indian back, paved the way for the Newberry score, and Lambeth place-kicked the extra point. With only five minutes left, the Bulldogs made a steady drive from Newberry’s 36-yard line to drive over a touchdown. A line play earned the extra point.

The contest between William and Mary and Washington and Lee was marked with thrills from the opening minutes when the Generals scored after a 55-yard run-back of a William and Mary punt to the end of the final period when the Indians passed eight times in a wild attempt to score. Both teams made eight first downs, but William and Mary was unable to gain much yardage, except for passes completed at intervals.

FIRING AT RANDOM

(Continued from page 5)

Virginia vs. COLUMBIA.
V. P. I. vs. William and Mary.
Washington & Lee vs. YALE.
Maryland vs. TULANE.
GA. TECH vs. Auburn.
SEWANEE vs. Southwestern.

Fords

WHAT ABOUT THAT TRIP? Cars For Hire

Gulf Gasoline M. P. HENDERSON

Chevrolets

KENTUCKY vs. Cincinnati.
The Citadel vs. FURMAN.
WAKE FOREST vs. Richmond.

ALABAMA vs. Miss. Aggies.
MISSISSIPPI vs. Marquette.
L. S. U. vs. Centenary.

Always At Your Service

At Davidson or Charlotte

LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOPPE

J. B. Ivey & Co. of Charlotte, N. C. are at Miss Minnie’s TODAY AND TOMORROW With a Complete Line of College Men's Clothing SHOES, HATS AND FURNISHINGS

DROP IN

Copyright, 1933, The American Tobacco Co.

ALWAYS the finest tobaccos

ALWAYS the finest workmanship Always Luckies please!

It’s not by accident that Luckies draw so easily, burn so evenly. For each and every Lucky is fully packed—filled to the brim with sweet, ripe, mellow Turkish and Domestic tobaccos. Round, firm—no loose ends. That’s why Luckies are so smooth.

“it’s toasted” FOR THROAT PROTECTION—FOR BETTER TASTE