THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 22, 1933 | Alumni News

Davidson alumni who are trustees of Davidson, and who were here last Wednesday for the semi-annual meeting of that body, were Mr. Stamps Howard, '35, Tarboro; Mr. B. W. Moseley, '33, Greenville; Rev. M. S. Woodson, '32, Salisbury; Rev. E. D. Brown, '32, Statesville; Rev. A. A. McLean, '35, Lenoir; Mr. J. C. Harper '35, Lenoir; Rev. W. H. Goodman, '34, Kannapolis; Rev. S. Arrowood, '34, Concord; Rev. W. C. Brown, '33, Barium Springs; Rev. W. M. Fairley, '34, Raeford; Rev. A. R. McQueen, '35, Dunn; Mr. W. A. West, '32, Fayetteville; Prof. K. A. McDonald, '33, Hope Mills; Rev. D. H. Scanlon, '32, Durham; Rev. T. G. Tate, '32, Gastonia; Mr. S. A. Robinson, '33, Gastonia; Mr. W. H. Belk, '34, Charlotte; Rev. C. R. Nisbet, '34, Charlotte; Dr. R. A. Dunn, '32, Charlotte; Mr. H. N. Pharr, '32, Charlotte; Rev. M. S. Huske, '35, Reidsville; Mr. T. D. Dupuy, '34, Greensboro; Rev. J. R. Phelps, '34, Pollocksville; Mr. Walter P. Sprunt, '34, Wilmington; and Mr. E. P. Graham, '33, Cooleemee.

David Grier Martin, R. '32, is taking advanced work in history at Emory University, Atlanta, Ga., and is also coach for intramural basketball and football.

E. C. Dwelle, '32, of Charlotte, is attending the Harvard Business School in Boston, Mass.

Major J. Steve Simmons, '11, is now in charge of the laboratories of the Army Medical School at Washington, D. C., and Professor of Pathology. He is regarded as an authority on Dengue Fever and has written many articles on Tropical Medicine. Major Simmons was assistant in biology at Davidson under Dr. J. Wilson MacConnell, and while here made some interesting collections in entomology. He has invited Col. MacConnell to be his guest at the spring seminar courses at the Army Medical School. This item will be of interest to the friends of both these prominent men.

Two alumni who have been recent visitors in Davidson were Lelon Sink Baker, '32, Lexington, who is traveling for Penney's clothing concern, and Robert S. Gorrell, '32, Winston-Salem, who is in business at his home in Winston-Salem.

The Rev. "Tim" Pharr, '12, and the Rev. Homer B. Henderson, D.D., of the United Presbyterian Church of Grove City, Penn., are conducting a two weeks’ series of evangelistic services at Cass, W. Va., during this month in the Cass Presbyterian Church.

John A. Thames, '18, is secretary to Congressman J. Bayard Clark, father of Jerome Clark of the Senior class, who is president of the student body. Mr. Thames has filled this position for some time and is attending law school.

Frederick Riker Hellegers, '34, Passaic, N. J., is attending Princeton this year. Mr. Hellegers is a member of the Princeton debating team and is also affiliated with the University Glee Club.

Mrs. N. T. Smith, our beloved supervisor of dormitories, was called to Winston-Salem last Thursday at the death of her brother-in-law, Mr. W. C. Wright. Mr. Wright was the husband of Mrs. Smith’s only sister, who passed away about a year ago. We extend our deepest sympathy to Mrs. Smith in her bereavement.

Franklin Fricker, '21, Detroit, who is a chemist with the Ethyl Gas Co. in Detroit, and his wife, were recent visitors in Davidson. Mr. and Mrs. Fricker were guests in the home of Dr. and Mrs. Archibald Currie. Profs. Brown, Cumming, Schenck, and Beaty, classmates of Mr. Fricker, and their wives, attended an informal party given by the Curries in honor of their guests.

ALUMNI ENGAGEMENTS

Recently, the interesting engagement was announced of Miss Jane Muhlberg, a daughter of Dr. and Mrs. William Muhlberg of Clifton, and Mr. Albert Nast Halverstadt, a son of Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Halverstadt, of Atlanta and Winter Park, Fla., in the Cincinnati Enquirer. This announcement was made at a tea given by Mrs. Muhlberg in honor of her daughter and it was attended by intimate friends of the bride-elect. Miss Muhlberg is a charming young lady and was outstanding at Sweetbriar College, where in her Senior year she was chosen Queen of May in recognition of her beauty and scholarly attainments. Since her graduation from Sweetbriar, Miss Muhlberg has continued her study of bacteriology at the University of Cincinnati. Her father is interested in this field and is a leader and authority on medical matters. He is vice-president and medical director of the Union Central Life Insurance Company and has won for himself national prestige. He was graduated from the University of Cincinnati and later studied in Europe. On his return to America, Harvard offered him the position of assistant professorship in its medical college, where he remained for some time. Mr. Halverstadt was graduated from Da-

(Continued on page 4)

TRUSTEES HOLD REGULAR MEETING; HEAR REPORT

(Continued from page 1)

secure an unusually good freshman class for next year.

Report of the President of Davidson College to the Trustees, February 15, 1933

Student Enrollment

During the session 1932-33 there have been enrolled 331 students. The table below shows the number of students registered for each of the past five years. The table also shows the actual cost of running the college for these years. The figures are taken from the official reports of theregistrar and treasurer, of these Student Enrollment Current Expenses 1928-29—$286,835.46 1929-30—$311,430.25 1930-31—$287,524.44 1931-32—$270,000.00 1932-33 Estimated—$263,765.00

Registration for Next Year
We are making extraordinary efforts to secure a fine registration for next year both in respect to quantity and quality. Literature concerning the college has been sent to every male member of the Senior class of every accredited high school and preparatory school not only in North Carolina but in a half-dozen other states.

MR. BOYD W. HARGRAVES SPEAKS AT “Y” VESPERS
(Continued from page 1)
We should let the other fellow know without asking that Jesus is the supreme ideal of our life. He would know by our actions if they were what they should be. Mr. Hargraves pointed out that we think it's all right for a person to go literally crazy over a football game or a wrestling match but would think a man was out of his head if he became enthusiastic at all over religion. We would call him a fanatic. He stated that we never marvel at nature because it is commonplace, but that any machine fascinates us beyond words. We're not enthusiastic enough about our religion or our God.

The speaker then asked this startling question, “How many people have you talked to in the last seven days about Jesus Christ?” and followed it up with a story of a boy who lived near him whom he taught in Sunday School. The boy, he said, grew up and was tempted by the evils of life while he was away at school, and yielded. He ran from college and went to Chicago, where he got in with the wrong crowd and with them he went to San Francisco. There he became involved in a very daring robbery, was caught, jailed, and wrote home to his brother. His father heard of his plight and came to the speaker for assistance. In his letter to his brother, the boy had spoken ungratefully of his old father and had cursed him, but nevertheless, the father still loved and cared for his son, and told the lawyer to get his son out of prison at any cost; that he would give every cent he had. Mr. Hargraves said he went to California to see the boy and there after a long talk with the boy made him repent toward his earthly father and then asked him of his Heavenly Father. The boy repented fully and after about a year in prison came home to his heart-sick father and from then on he also loved his Heavenly Father. This freedom the speaker accredited to the prayer group that prayed for him every day back at home and to the prayers the boy offered in prison.

The speaker then pointed out that we don't agonize enough in our prayers. That sometimes when we are praying that if the Lord would come and ask us just what we wanted we couldn't tell Him. In closing, Mr. Hargraves stated that our lives should be like a street-lighter—that every life we touch should light up for Christ, and long after we cannot be seen anymore, our influence should continue. He closed his talk with a prayer in which he asked Our Heavenly Father not to let us bother about everyday affairs of life, but give us trust in Him, which was our only source of strength. After another song, the service was dismissed in prayer by Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of the college. Mr. Hargraves came to Davidson from Charlotte, where on Sunday afternoon he spoke at one of the seven mass meetings held at the Carolina Theatre, and sponsored by the Y.M.C.A. of that city.

NEOPHYTES INITIATED BY TEN SOCIAL FRATERNITIES
(Continued from page 1)
E. Parker, Charles M. Sutlive, James Johnson.
Phi Delta Theta: Walter H. Brown, Val Cassels, Carleton B. Chapman, James C. Cothran, Daniel B. Griffin, Carlyle B. Lewis, Richard A. Parker, Jr., Albert W. Price, Jr., A. Haskell Sanders, Warner M. Wells, Jr.
Sigma Phi Epsilon: Albert L. Martin, Barnett, Al Murray, Phifer Erwin, James Knox.

NOTICE---Have Your Shoes Rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Work Done While You Wait
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

Well, that’s something about cigarettes I never knew before. I’d never thought much about what’s inside a Chesterfield Cigarette. But I have just been reading something that made me think about it. Just think of this, some of the tobacco in Chesterfield—the Turkish—comes from 4000 miles away! And before it is shipped every single leaf is packed by hand. All because Turkish tobacco is so small and delicate. Of course, I don’t know much about making cigarettes, but I do know this—that Chesterfields are milder and have a very pleasing aroma and taste. They satisfy—and that’s what counts with me!

Spicy leaves of TURKISH tobacco are strung to dry and cure in the sun.