THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 6, 1933

ALUMNI! SEND IN YOUR ACTIVITIES : ALUMNI NEWS CORRESPOND WITH YOUR ALUMNI SECRETARY

On January 2, 3, 4, and 5, Rev. John L. Fairley will lead the Conference on Religious Education and Publication
sponsored by the Assembly Training School at Richmond, Va.

'10 Coit M. Robinson, prominent Gaston County textile executive living at Lowell, N. C., was seriously injured in an automobile
accident near Gainesville, Ga., Saturday morning. According to information received, Mr. Robinson may lose one of his hands. He was
the only one in his party that was seriously injured. They were en route to Atlanta to attend the Tech-Duke
football game when the car in which they were riding overturned.

'11 Brian Bell, who is head of the sports department of the Associated Press for the western part of the
United States, has been writing a number of athletic articles concerning the major teams of that section.

'22 Rev. P. D. Miller, D.D., will lead the Home Mission section of the conference sponsored by the Assembly’s Training
School in Richmond, January 18 and 19.

'28 Walter Lee Lingle, Jr., was a recent visitor to the campus, coming to Davidson to spend the Thanksgiving holidays
with his mother and father, Dr. and Mrs. W. L. Lingle. He is at present connected with the Procter and
Gamble Company in Cincinnati, Ohio.

'32 John Ashcraft and Don Leeper were on the campus Monday for a short time.

'33 Hugh Turrentine has secured a position with the National Oil Company in Wilmington.

'33 George Sherrod is at present connected with the Retail Credit Company in Greensboro.

'33 John Belk Stevens sailed from Smyrna, Turkey, the first of this month and expects to arrive in this country
in time to participate in the Gorrell-McConnell nuptial ceremony the last of this month.

'33 W. C. Thompson spent a short time on the campus Monday. He is at present connected with the Glasgow-Stewart
Company in Charlotte.

Band Gives Concert at Barium Springs

A football game, homecoming banquet, and a concert by the Davidson Band featured Homecoming Day at Barium Springs Orphanage Saturday,
December 2. A number of Davidson graduates and students were present for the activities. The Barium Springs football team, source
of many a Davidson star, started the program by defeating the team from R. J. Reynolds High School of Winston-Salem,
7-0.

The game was followed by a banquet in the Orphanage banquet hall, at which the alumni, band, football players and
students were present. Immediately after the banquet, the visitors attended the Davidson Band's first concert of the season. The band
was directed by James C. Pfohl, and 42 members of the band participated. The concert was opened by the concert
march, “Hall of Fame,” by Olivadoti, which was followed by “Selections from Pinafore,” by Gilbert and Sullivan. Morton Cunningham, solo
cornetist, rendered a well-received number, “Jupiter,” by Goldman, accompanied by the band. The climax of the band program was reached
in the playing of Safranek’s suite, “Atlantis,” the story of the lost continent. Other numbers by the band which received
much praise were “Straussiana,” an arrangement of the most popular waltzes of Strauss, and “The Black Man,” by Sousa.

BARIUM SPRINGS WINS OVER WINSTON-SALEM

(Continued from page 3)

Stuart, on the defense, and Pike and Deas on the offense were outstanding for Reynolds High, while the offensive playing
of Oliver and Blue and the defensive work of Lackey starred for Barium Springs. The scoring play was the 35-yard
pass from Freeman to Potter in the second quarter, right after a Winston pass had been intercepted. Blue kicked the
point.

A great many alumni were in Charlotte and Davidson Thanksgiving for the purpose of attending the Davidson-Wake Forest game. A
few of those attending were Tom Gignilliat, '32, Mick Bradshaw, '32, John D. McConnell, '32, Charlie Pearce, '33, Smiley Williams,
'14, Bob Everette, '35, Tom Morrison, '32, George Sherrod, '33, Don Mower, '33.

Marriages

'26 Miss Eleanor Steel Tomlin and Mr. Frank Robbins McLaughlin were married November 28 at the home of the bride’s
parents in Statesville. After their wedding trip the couple will make their home at the McLaughlin residence in Statesville. The
bridegroom holds a position with the State Highway Commission and is at present located in Statesville.

'31 Miss Lucy Floyd and Mr. Joseph Morton Baird were married at high noon on December 2 at the First
Methodist Church in Oxford. The couple will live in Oxford, where Mr. Baird is engaged in business.

'32 Miss Nancy Edith Marshburn, of Guilford College, and Mr. Braxton Richmond Bailey, Jr., of Advance, were married November 29
at the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. After the ceremony Mr. and Mrs. Bailey left for a wedding trip to
Florida. On their return they will reside in Advance, where the bridegroom is connected with the firm of B. R.
Bailey and Sons.

Engagements

'13 The marriage of Dr. Heath Nesbit, of Charlotte, and Mrs. Pauline H. Zowers, of Kinston, will be solemnized early
in the next month.

Sound Waves By “BUGG” BARRINGER

Lombardo has had his contract renewed with the White Owl people and his harmonious dance melodies will continue to be
heard every Wednesday night at 9:30. The long-term contract renewal is effective December 20, the present contract expiring on the
previous Wednesday. The program has been a Columbia feature for nearly four years, Guy Lombardo and his Royal Canadians having
been featured during the entire time, while Burns and Allen were added almost two years ago and have been with
them ever since.

Singin’ Sam, who has been on the air for nearly three years for the same sponsor, has decided that he
needs a rest. The company has released him from his long-term contract and his much-needed vacation will start after the
Thursday broadcast. Edwin C. Hill will take over Singin’ Sam's time and will be heard every night except Saturday at
8:15 over the Columbia network.

As a result of the popular response to his special guest appearance with his orchestra on the “American Revue” on
Sunday, November 26, Jack Denny and his musical-inclined boys will fill the orchestral assignment on that series for seven weeks.
They started last Sunday night. Denny and his orchestra are now filling an engagement at the Statler Hotel in Boston.
During the time of this engagement they will have to commute to New York every Sunday for their broadcast. Ethel
Waters, Broadway songstress starring in “As Thousands Cheer,” will continue to be starred on the program. This program is heard
each Sunday night at 7 o'clock.

An unusual broadcast will be heard over the air this Friday from 4:00 to 4:15 p.m., when an inside glimpse
of the patent office will beGiven by Conway P. Coe, Commissioner of Patents. Commissioner Coe will describe some of the
curious inventions which have been submitted to his office, such as a potato bug gatherer, several pairs of ventilated shoes,
and a machine gun that was patented 30 years before the Civil War. He will also describe the necessary requirements
for obtaining a patent and tell what happens to the 80,000 applications that pour into his office every year. Lieutenant
Gar Davidson, coach of the mighty Army team that wasn’t so mighty last Saturday, will speak during the broadcast of
the All-American Football Show over a nation-wide Columbia network on Friday night at 9:30. This broadcast will continue for half
an hour. For those that have the energy to get up early, a good program will be broadcast through the
Columbia station, WABC, in New York, a program direct from India. This program will start at six in the morning
next Wednesday. There will be a short introductory talk by Lord Brabourne, governor of Bombay, which will be followed by
a description of a Bombay street scene and a concert of Indian music by native artists. The program will be
broadcast by the British Broadcasting Company, which will transmit it to the United States, where it will be re-broadcast over
the Columbia chain. Tonight Fred Waring will be heard from the Rainbow Room of the Carter Hotel in Cleveland, where
Fred and his gang made their first broadcast of all time. The Old Gold theme, which Maestro Fred adapted from
a hymn, will open the broadcast, and the next offering will be a college medley of the colleges in Northern
Ohio. The all-Waring program, which is a lot better than the old one, will continue with a novelty number featuring
the frog voice of Poley McClintock, and the scat-singing of Johnny Davis. The glee club comes next on the program,
with Stuart Churchill and Tom Waring as vocalists. Next on the program comes “You’re an Old Smoothie.” Babs will do
the vocalizing.

CAT TEAM FINISHES DIFFICULT SCHEDULE WITH FINE RECORD
Davidson Team Approaches the Standing Set by State Championship Squad of 1926

LOSE TO DUKE, CAROLINA
Win Six Games, Tie One, and Lose Two

With the 1933 football season practically over, Davidson students may look back with pride over the standing made by their
fighting Wildcat eleven, a standing which equals, if not surpasses, the record made by the state championship team in 1926.
The Davidson warriors have excelled in their class this season, having won six games, tied one, and lost two. These
two losses were to teams out of Davidson’s class this year, since Duke has proven itself to be of big-league
calibre, taking some of the big fellows into camp, while the other, Carolina, has played good over class and beaten
some schools this season also. In the first contest of the season, the Wildcats came out victorious over a hard-fighting
Elon Christian eleven, a team which won the Little Six title this year. The Wildcats, always slow to start, had
trouble in beating the Christians, finally scoring in the last canto as a result of a pass from Pittman to
Verble. The Wildcats, however, played for the most part straight football in this game.

It was in the next contest that the ‘Cats met defeat at the hands of Carolina, but they went down
fighting, and Carolina knew that she had been in a football game when the final whistle blew. With the Wofford
eleven offering a scoring attack against Davidson's shock troops in the start of their game, the Wildcats came from behind,
and went into immediate action. The final score of the test with the Terriers was 28 to 13. In the
next home game, which took place with the V. M. I. Cadets on October 14, the ‘Cats were able to
overcome the fighting Cadets, 6 to 0. The score came on a brilliant run by Hutchins after he had intercepted
a V. M. I. pass, a run of 35 yards. The Cadets, out to revenge their defeat of last year,
fought well, and forced the Davidson boys to put out considerably to eke out a win. In their annual homecoming
day event, the Wildcats went down in defeat before the Duke power, the strongest team in the state, and one
of the strongest in the South this year. The home team gave a good account of itself, however, and Coach
Wade was forced to put in his first-stringers when he wanted a score to win. At State on the next
Saturday, another North Carolina team was met and a satisfactory result brought about. Johnny Mackorell starred on a brilliant 85-yard
run for a touchdown, aided by the smooth blocking of his teammates, and the score was tied soon after on
a drive by State. And thus the score remained for the rest of the contest, 6-6. When Davidson caught on
to the unusual Citadel shift, they walked over the Bulldogs in a real Wildcat manner, avenging in full the 7-6
defeat at their hands in 1932. Davidson clicked on all four in the offensive and the defensive, to offset the
brilliant punting of Quarterman. Mackorell again featured the game with one of his long runs. The final score was 24-6.
On their only out-of-state trip this year, the Wildcats traveled up to William and Mary and came back with the
Indians’ scalps, having chalked up a 12 to 7 win over the strong Virginia team. To bring a successful season
to an appropriate close, the Wildcats went to Charlotte Thanksgiving, and, running wild against their traditional rivals, topped the Wake
Forest Demon Deacons by a 20-13 score.

About Cigarettes - Now, Chesterfields are made by high-speed machines that turn out 750 cigarettes a minute, and the cigarettes
are practically not touched by hand. Not so long ago practically all cigarettes were made by hand. By the use
of long steel ovens—drying machines of the most modern type—and by aging the leaf tobacco for 30 months—like wine is
aged—Chesterfield tobacco is milder and tastes better. Only pure cigarette paper—the best made—is used for Chesterfield. And to make sure
that everything that goes into Chesterfield is just right, expert chemists test all materials that are used in any way
in the manufacture. Chesterfields are made and packed in clean, up-to-date factories, where the air is changed every 4½ minutes.
The moisture-proof package, wrapped in Du Pont’s No. 300 Cellophane—the best made—reaches you just as if you went by the
factory door. In a letter to us, an eminent scientist says: “Chesterfield Cigarettes are just as pure as the water
you drink.”
