THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 18, 1933

DAVIDSON 6 V. M. I. 0

Around the Wildcat’s Lair

HOMECOMING NEXT SATURDAY

By CASKIE NORVELL

The Cats successfully defended their old stamping grounds last week, trimming the “Flying Squadron” of V. M. I. 6 to
0. It was a swell game. After two home games, the boys withstood the invasion of their lair.

Dewey Hutchins, by all means, gets this week’s orchid. Last week we mentioned using this lad as a blocking back,
but you can let one of those other boys do some of that blocking and give this chap from Lexington
the ball, and then watch what happens. It is for that nifty 35-yard gallop for a touchdown that we award
this orchid to you, Dewey.

The return of Percy McElrath to the line-up was decidedly encouraging, although Julian West and J. B. Lee have been
holding down that pivot position in his absence, and doing it well. Still, three centers in good shape are always
better than two. Dodson, Smith, and Urick did some fine line slashing for the Flying Cadets, and nearly tied up
the old ball game when the Davidson forwards stopped their gallant drive just feet away from the goal line.

The Freshman club took a 14 to 0 beating from the beefy N. C. State yearlings on Richardson Field Friday.
The second State touchdown came as the result of a fumble. Quick and Gracey were outstanding for the Kittens.

Interest now centers on the Homecoming clash with the powerful Blue Devil eleven of Duke University. Homecoming, always a gala
occasion at Davidson, with its social functions, cross-country meet, and big football game, will run true to form this year.

Coach Wallace Wade invades Davidson after a 10 to 2 victory over the formidable Volunteers of Tennessee, a feat of
no mean merit. The Dukes put up a wonderful game against the Vols, and impressed sports writers as probably the
strongest team in the South.

My poor performance as a predictor last week does not prompt the editor to the utter folly of announcing that
Davidson will take Duke Saturday. Davidson is going into that game decidedly the underdog, and not one sports writer in
the country will predict a Wildcat victory. However, there is a chance for Davidson to come through. Duke will hit
Davidson just at the psychological moment. Duke has pointed for the Tennessee game all season, raising their standard of play
to its highest pitch, which no one will deny they reached last Saturday. Naturally, they will be cocky and suffer
a decided let-down. The Davidson fighting spirit alone will hold them to two touchdowns, and with the added psychological advantage,
Davidson can tie, and even win from the Blue Devils. It would gladden the old boy’s heart with joy to
see those Davidson backs knife the big Blue line for victory. Go get ’em, Wildcats!

Davidson's highly-touted backfield, Hutchins, Mackorell, Willson, Pittman, Wingfield, Burns, Ravenel, Verble, LeGare, and Pearce, will have every opportunity to match
wits with another strong galaxy of backs. Duke will present Corky Cornelius, “Horse” Hendrickson, Bill Cox, and none other than
the illustrious Nick Laney, the “Crooning Halfback.” All-American Freddie Crawford will find the sledding tough against such linemen as Rives,
Cathey, and Morgan. But, Freddie won't be so easy to get through, either, and it’s going to be a battle
of linemen and breaks.

The Ed. picked sixteen out of nineteen right last week, boosting his percentage from .714 to .842.

DAVIDSON SCORES THIRD WIN OF SEASON

STATE FROSH HAND KITTENS FIRST DEFEAT

Freshman Eleven Holds Heavy Invaders to 14-0 Score

GRACEY IS STAR

Wolflets Make Second Touchdown on Fumble

A powerful Freshman team from N. C. State invaded Richardson Field last Friday and defeated the Davidson Wildkittens by a
score of 14 to 0. It was the first defeat of the season for the local frosh. State presented a
strong crowd of yearlings, who according to advance dope were expected to take the Kittens by about five touchdowns. The
plucky Davidson team put up a splendid scrap, and but for a fumble in the last quarter would have gone
down by but one touchdown. The power plays and the blocking of the State boys proved the deciding factors in
the game.

After puttering back and forth during the opening canto, the Wolflets took the ball over on a concentrated drive in
the second quarter, during the early moments. The point was added from placement, putting the East Raleigh Freshmen in the
lead, 7 to 0. The other seven points came in the last quarter when Quick fumbled inside his 20-yard line,
and State recovered, resulting in a touchdown. The point was again made from placement, and the game ended shortly thereafter,
with State on the long end of a 14 to 0 score.

Captain Gracey was outstanding in the Davidson line, making many sensational tackles, and blocking a punt in the closing minutes
of the game. The Wildkittens developed a formidable passing combination when Quick to Peabody clicked several times during the game.

DUKE OVERCOMES TENNESSEE VOLS

Wade’s Blue Devils Show Surprising Strength in Winning, 10-2

Six of Davidson’s 1933 grid opponents engaged in contests last weekend, and only two emerged victorious as Duke subdued Tennessee,
10-2, and Wofford defeated Lenoir-Rhyne, 7-6. State tied Florida in a night game at Coral Gables, the score being 0-0;
V. P. I. downed William and Mary, 13 to 0; North Carolina fell a victim to the Georgia Bulldogs in
a one-sided game of 30 to 0, and Furman overcame The Citadel by a 14 to 0 score.

Playing before a homecoming crowd of 20,000, Duke’s Blue Devils broke the Volunteers’ seven-year reign over Southern football. The Dukes
played an inspired game, scoring in the second period when Cornelius, standing on Tennessee’s 18-yard line, kicked a field goal.
And then in the fourth period, this same Cornelius ran over the touchdown and then kicked the extra point.

Wofford eked out a victory over the Lenoir-Rhyne Bears, the touchdown coming in the first minute of play, when Bouknight
ran 55 yards to cross the goal line. Anderson then kicked the extra point, which later proved to be the
margin of victory. The Bears’ tally came in the fourth canto after a furious passing attack which carried the ball
to Wofford’s five-yard stripe. Poovey bucked it over for the touchdown, but the kick from placement struck the crossbar.

The Florida ’Gators were slated to beat State’s Wolfpack, but the Carolinians rallied at the crucial moments, and fighting with
their backs to the wall, held fast for a scoreless tie. Time and again the ’Gators made serious threats, but
the Wolfpack tightened down in the pinches, often in the very shadow of their goalposts. On the other hand, State
did poor offensive work, never getting closer than Florida’s 45-yard line.Maintaining its record of never having lost a game to
William and Mary, V. P. I. defeated the Indians 13 to 7 in a game featured by the brilliant performance
of Holsclaw and Casey, who counted for the Institute’s 13 points. (Continued on page 6)

HUTCHINS ON 35-YARD GALLOP
(Courtesy of The Charlotte Observer)

Above is shown Dewey Hutchins breaking off his left tackle for a 35-yard gain in the game Saturday with V.
M. I. for a touchdown after intercepting a Cadet pass in the second half. This photo was taken by Billy
Lyon, a member of the Senior class. It was the second longest run of the day, being short by one
yard of Hutchins’ 36-yard jaunt.

HARRIERS TO MEET DEVILS

The varsity and freshman cross-country teams will stretch their legs to their longest length to win against the University of
Virginia’s cross-country team on November 18th. The meet was postponed last Saturday. The harriers will run against the University of
Virginia’s cross-country team on November 18th. Freshmen will meet Duke Yearlings on the same date.

KITTENS PLAY TECH PLEBES

Freshmen Will Leave Friday on First Trip of Season

After a month of strict and grueling training, the varsity and freshman teams will participate in their first meet of
the current season Saturday morning. Their opponents will be the varsity and frosh teams from Duke University. While the strong
Duke eleven is meeting Davidson’s varsity next Saturday, the Wildkittens will be taking the field against the plebes from Virginia
Polytechnic Institute at Blacksburg, Va. Little is known of the V. P. I. team, except that they are a healthy
lot, and it is said they built bricks when bricks were cheap.

The 'Kittens have a light, but fast-charging team, and it is decidedly uncertain as to how this game will come
out. Coaches Laird and Peabody will take their charges to Blacksburg Friday afternoon in preparation for the contest Saturday. The
same boys that have played against Lees-McRae and State will see most of the action in Saturday’s game.

DAVIDSON DEFEATS DOGGED V.M.I. SQUADRON 6-0

Flying Squadron Threatens Wildcats’ Goal in Third Quarter

BACKS SHOW DRIVE

Dewey Hutchins Furnishes the Crowd With Thrills

Davidson defeated Virginia Military Institute here Saturday for the third consecutive year, when Dewey Hutchins intercepted a pass and raced
36 yards for a touchdown in the second quarter. The Wildcats’ lone score came after Pittman’s fumble, which was recovered
by Hancock of V. M. I. on the Cadets’ own 35-yard stripe. On the next play, Billy Smith, V. M.
I. quarter, dropped back to pass. Hutchins grabbed the ball at the line of scrimmage, cut to his left, and
evading two tacklers, galloped down the sideline and across the goal. Pittman’s attempted place-kick went wild, and the half ended
soon after with the score 6-0 in favor of the Wildcats.

Outplayed in the first half, the Flying Squadron came back in the second to dominate the game, and launched a
scoring threat which failed only twice through the line of the Wildcats. Halting their drive on the 28-yard line, Dodson
began the longest march of the day, broke loose around right end for 25 yards, and substitute Urick made 11
yards around right end, putting the ball on the Wildcats’ 24-yard stripe. Dodson made it a first down on a
reverse, and Smith made a spinner for three yards. Dodson gained four yards, and on the final down, drove through
left guard, falling just short of the goal line, ending their biggest scare.

Twice later, Davidson burst out with threats, but never got inside the 25-yard line. Hutchins and Wingfield made two long
punt returns through the V. M. I. team, furnishing the crowd with spectacular dashes. Charlie Hancock, rangy end for the
Flying Squadron, stood out in the visiting line. Dodson and Urick were the chief ground-gainers, using a tricky lateral pass
play for their only gains of more than a few yards. However, the visitors’ air attack, for the most part,
failed miserably, not completing a pass in six attempts, and three of them falling into enemy hands. (Continued on page
6)

We Guarantee Our Work
We Appreciate Your Business
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

The Freshmen had a meet scheduled with Winston-Salem High School for last Saturday, but the meet was postponed.

Davidson should line up something like this: Armfield and Johnson, ends; Cathey and Shen, guards; Captain Graham and Dickson, tackles;
Moore, quarterback; Peabody and Olschener or Quick, halfbacks; Cook, fullback.

APPLICANTS EXAMINED FOR P. O. VACANCIES
(Continued from page 1)

Applications must be properly executed and filed with the United States Civil Service Commission, Washington, D. C., prior to the
hour of closing business on October 31, 1933. Full information and application blanks may be obtained from the local board
of civil service examiners at the Post Office, or from the United States Civil Service Commission, Washington, D. C.

Get it at COLLEGE PHARMACY
SODA, CIGARS, SANDWICHES, SUNDRIES

The Famous Samsonbak Union Suit

There is none better. No skimping a half-inch here and there. HANES Shirts, Shorts, and Union Suits (both light and
heavy) always tally with the tape measure.

Collegiate Clothes for College Men

All that’s new in Top Coats, Raglans, Polos, and Tubes in the leading fabrics. Snap in tailoring, quality in material,
and all that’s up to grown-up standards. High Art Clothing Company, 114 SOUTH TRYON ST., CHARLOTTE, N. C.

P. H. Hanes Knitting Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.
