THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 4, 1933

MANY ALUMNI TO RETURN TO SEE FOOTBALL GAME

Interest Is Aroused by Brilliant Showing of Wildcats Against Carolina

LUNCHEON AT 12:30

Several Other Features Are on Homecoming Program

Indications are that a large crowd of alumni will return to the campus for the Homecoming festivities on October 21st, when Davidson’s scrapping Wildcats face the powerful Duke University eleven. Davidson exhibited last Saturday a typical fighting team, and presented a line which out-charged and out-fought a reputedly superior forward wall. Playing without Mackorell, star triple threat man, the team held the Tar Heels to a 6-0 score, following predictions by most sports authorities that Davidson would be swamped by the might and force of the North Carolinians.

Already numerous requests for reservations are being received, and it appears that one of the largest crowds ever to see a Homecoming game will be on hand for the battle on October 21st. Besides the football game, there are several features on the program for returning alumni and their friends. In the morning at 11 o’clock, the Davidson cross-country team will engage the Duke runners. Immediately following this will be a short meeting of the alumni in the auditorium of Chambers Building, at which time a short address of welcome will be given, and some music will be rendered. Following this, at 12:30, there will be a luncheon in the banquet hall of the Chambers Building, to which all alumni are invited. The concert orchestra, under the direction of Mr. James C. Pfohl, the new music director, will play at this hour.

After an intermission of about an hour, the football game will hold the spotlight.

Alumni Marriages

Rev. David Rolston Bitzer and Miss Pettus were married June the 19th in the First Presbyterian Church at Charleston, W. Va. The couple was married by Dr. G. L. Bitzer of Holly Springs, Miss., a former trustee of Davidson College. W. T. Bitzer, '13, was the best man. Mr. Bitzer is the assistant pastor of the church in Charleston.

Rev. William I. Howell, of Mocksville, and Miss Virginia Long, of Statesville, were married Wednesday, September the 27th, at the First Presbyterian Church in Statesville. Immediately after the ceremony, the bride and bridegroom left for a motor trip to points in West Virginia and upon their return to North Carolina, they will be at home in Mocksville, where Mr. Howell is pastor of the Presbyterian Church.

Mr. G. L. Gladstone and Miss Evelyn Anderson were married September the 2nd in Clarkton.

Alumni Deaths

Dr. Cyrus J. McCombs, aged 52, for many years a practicing physician in Gastonia and prominently identified with Masonic activities, died suddenly at his home in the Mint Hill section of Mecklenburg County. Death was ascribed to heart affection.

Radio Program Time

The time for the regular weekly radio broadcast by Davidson College over WBT has been set for 9:00 to 9:15 each Monday night. Next week a group of selections will be given by the college quartet. Much favorable comment has been received on the first program. Alumni and friends are invited to write in criticisms or suggestions for the program.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Dr. J. W. McConnell was made a member of the County Relief Board this summer. Dr. McConnell is also a member of the board of the Mecklenburg Sanatorium.

Major J. S. Simmons, professor of pathology at the Army Medical School in Washington, D. C., has gone to St. Louis, Mo., to help combat the epidemic of sleeping sickness. Major Simmons was at one time assistant in biology at Davidson College.

Dr. and Mrs. DeWitt Kluttz, of Washington, N. C., recently attended a medical convention at Chicago, Ill.

An article in one of North Carolina's prominent newspapers recently gave the true story of how the schools of Kannapolis, the largest unincorporated town in the world, have been kept running. All the honor was given to Mr. Charles A. Cannon, towel tycoon of Concord, N. C. Following is an excerpt from the original story: “Headed by the distinguished and upright citizen, a man among men, Charles A. Cannon, of the Cannon Mills Company of Kannapolis, this company has out of its generosity paid for two months of the operating costs of the school, since Kannapolis has had a high school. That is not the record for one year, it has been kept up for many years and represents a tremendous sum when put together.”

Ben F. Haggod has been elected president of the Glenwood Cotton Mills, of Easley, S. C., and the Pickens Mills, of Pickens, S. C.

Robert MacMillan, who graduated with honors from the Duke Medical School last year, is taking his internship at the Lakeside Hospital in Cleveland, Ohio.

W. M. Powell was graduated from the Yale Law School in 1932 and is now located with the Franenthal and Johnson law firm in Little Rock, Ark.

Word was received that in the National Board Examinations, which is open to students of all medical schools in the United States, about the first of January,schools in the United States, Monroe T. Gilmour, of Davidson College and Harvard University, son of Dr. A. D. P. Gilmour, tied with another man for the third highest grade made in the entire country.

'29 Sam Y. Brown finished Emory University Medical School this year and is now doing his intern work.

'30 Rev. A. M. Warren, who graduated from Princeton Seminary after going to Columbia Seminary for two years, was ordained as an evangelist at McClellanville, S. C. He recently accepted a call at the First Presbyterian Church in Frankfort, Ky.

'30 Henry Edward Russell was ordained as a minister of the Presbyterian Church in April, a month prior to his graduation from the Columbia Theological Seminary of Decatur, Ga., and is now pastor of the Presbyterian Church in McDonough, Ga.

'31 Buck, pitcher and property of the Detroit Tigers, pitched in a baseball game at Tarboro recently.

'32 Alec Montgomery has been transferred from Columbus, Ohio, to Rock Hill, S. C. He is with the Equitable Life Insurance Company.

'32 Alex St. Clair is taking his second year at the University of South Carolina Law School.

'32 Bennett Mosely is working with his father in Greenville, N. C. He is in the insurance business.

'32 Reece Williams and Charlie Spencer are attending the University of South Carolina Law School.

'33 Bruce Sugg is at present working in a tobacco warehouse in Greenville, North Carolina.

'33 Reeves Pope and Mac Manson are attending the Tulane Medical School.

'33 Bill Monroe is in the hardware business, being associated with a hardware store in Fayetteville.

'33 Karle Bradsher played summer baseball with the Burlington team and is now connected with the May Hosiery Mills in that city.

'33 Tom Caldwell is working for the Brown and Williamson Tobacco Company in Louisville, Ky., and at night is attending Law School at Jefferson Law School.

'33 Jack Wagner, Davidson football star, is now playing with the Charlotte Bantams. Thad Brock, one-time star Wildcat end, is also playing with this team. Henry Sapp, former Davidson Marrow, International League and George Washington quarterback, is running the team.

'33 Ed. McNair is teaching in the Commercial High School of Atlanta, Ga.

'33 John Belk Stevens sailed September 30th for an extended trip to Southern Europe, Turkey, Asia, and other Mediterranean countries. He will be gone about three months, returning to the United States.

'33 Charlie Norfleet is attending the Medical School at the University of Pennsylvania.

'33 Woodrow W. Caligan entered Duke University this fall with the intention of getting his M.A. degree in English.

'33 Harry Mixson is connected with the Equitable Life Assurance Society in Columbia, S. C. For the past two months Mr. and Mrs. Mixson have been making their home in Columbia.

'33 Ed. Hancock is teaching English this year in the Fairview Junior High School at Bluefield, W. Va.

Literary Groups Hold Respective Meetings
Members of Freshman Class Show Interest in Work

The Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary Societies, at their regular meetings Tuesday night, gave interesting programs before a large number of old and prospective members. Members of the Freshman class desiring membership in the respective societies were passed on by the members and inducted.

At the Philanthropic meeting, the program was in the form of a debate on the question of the repeal of the 18th Amendment. This subject was ably discussed both pro and con.

The Eumenean Society gave an interesting program including a talk by Murphy Smith on "Why Marines."

Births
On July 7, 1933, born to Mr. and Mrs. Lex Kluttz, of Raleigh, a daughter, Anne Carlyle Kluttz.

Engagements
'32 Mrs. Robert Wilson Gorrell, of Winston-Salem, announces the engagement of her daughter, Margaret, to John D. McConnell, of Davidson. The wedding will take place in December.

Statesville High Gets Coaches From '33 Class
Allen L. "Buck" Mills, former Davidson College athlete, has been made backfield coach at the Statesville High School for the current season. Mills will also teach in the school. While at Davidson, Mills was a star halfback on the varsity football team. His 73-yard run against Wofford last season will be remembered. In baseball, Mills was varsity shortstop, and in his Senior year was awarded a berth on "The Davidsonian's" all-state team.

It is interesting to note that Jack Wagner, a classmate of Mills', will serve as line coach in the same school. Wagner and Mills played football on the Davidson team together for three years. Wagner is holding down a position on the Winston-Salem professional team. He is playing left tackle. He was second team all-state tackle last year. Another Davidson alumnus on the Camel City team is Thad Brock, captain in 1929. He is playing both end and guard. He was all-state at guard for the pros.

A review of current events was conducted by Tredway Purnell, followed by two readings, one by Gordon Wood, and a humorous one by Richard Banks.

When you happen across a friend... and he offers you a pipe-load of tobacco, he doesn’t make any speeches about it. He just says... "It’s made to smoke in a pipe... and folks seem to like Granger."

Granger Rough Cut — the tobacco that’s MADE FOR PIPES