THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 22, 1933

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRANT
M. MANSON
L. W. CLARDY
Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK
Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON
Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS
Managing Editor
B. B. CASSELL
Athletic Editor
J. E. LAKE
Exchange Editor
W. W. WHITE
Feature Editor
J. S. GAMBLE
Feature Editor
J. T. GOODYKOONTZ
Contributing Editor
FRANK MANGUM
Review Editor
D. D. McBRYDE
Associate Editor
R. L. McCALLIE
Associate Editor
C. F. MYERS
Associate Editor
B. B. SUGG
Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON
Assistant Business Manager
A. H. MANSON
Assistant Business Manager
ALVIN BAYER, JR.
Solicitor
H. B. DANIEL
Solicitor
J. M. DOUGLAS
Solicitor
J. L. GREEN
Solicitor
W. P. SPRUNT
Solicitor
J. R. TAYLOR
Solicitor
A. C. WADSWORTH
Solicitor
J. E. WHITE
Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
J. E. LAKE
President
J. S. GAMBLE
Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG
Secretary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN
R. L. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN
J. L. McILWAIN
G. E. BAILEY
E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY
W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES
W. L. NORTHEN
J. E. BOWEN
C. E. NORVELL
J. E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
J. H. COVINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON
P. M. ROGERS
J. B. FICKLIN
B. L. ROSE
J. L. GILLESPIE
T. H. SUTTON
JACK HELLINGER
N. W. WALLACE
J. C. HENRY
K. D. WEEKS
J. A. HUNTER
W. R. WARD
J. E. LORRAINE
W. T. THOMPSON
J. W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS
J. PRATT-THOMAS

FEBRUARY 22, 1933

“If the devil ever laughs, it must be at hypocrites; they are the greatest dupes he has; they serve him better than any others, but receive no wages; nay what is still more extraordinary, they submit to greater mortifications to go to hell, than the sincerest Christian to go to Heaven.” —Colton.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

Those who attended vespers last Sunday heard an inspiring talk by Mr. Boyd Hargreaves, a prominent lawyer of Chattanooga, Tennessee.

The weather bureau of the Davidsonian forecasts that spring is close at hand with perhaps only one cold spell left.

The next journey of the “Wildcat Special” will be to the inauguration at Washington. Quite a few are planning to attend. We hope they will keep out of the path of stray bullets.

We are wondering what this second Roosevelt will do as President. Theodore Roosevelt was a fine President and we have hopes that Franklin D. Roosevelt will be just as good. He will have to be better if he pulls this country out of the depression.

We hope Carter Glass will accept the position of Secretary of the Treasury. He is capable, honest, and the best-fitted man in the country for the position. Naturally, we would like to see a Southerner in the Cabinet.

The victory of the wrestling team over V. P. I. was a thrilling sight to see. Coach Unger and his team deserve a great deal of credit.

The prospects of a state championship in wrestling are good and we hope the boys will down Carolina and win it.

Let us not forget to keep the Y. M. C. A. Spring Services in mind. With Gipsy Smith, Jr., as the speaker, they ought to be splendid.

The question of repeal is causing much interest all over the country and in the “dry” South it is none the less turbulent. It seems to us, however, that the question of unemployment is far more important.

All Davidson music lovers should not fail to hear Fritz Kreisler when he appears at the Armory Auditorium in Charlotte on February 28. He is probably the greatest living violinist today. His rendition of his own compositions, the Old Refrain and the less familiar but nonetheless beautiful “Caprice Viennois” should be worth any effort expended to attend the concert.

—D.

The track team is working hard now and looking forward to their trip to Florida where, at Gainesville, they will meet the University of Florida.

DAVIDSON WALKS

“They shall not drown here, by Sir John! If I may save their life!” —The Chester Plays.

It is somewhat with this spirit that we write this editorial, having regarded for the last half-hour the pitiful and ridiculous floundering and slipping, sliming and slithering of our fellow students as they make their various ways along the ooze and muck of Davidson’s walks. Says Webster, “A walk is a path specially arranged or paved for walking.” Had he been a student sufferer would he have written thus? Our doubts are rather strong. We are reminded of the aged lady who, upon visiting Venice, wrote: “We stayed only one day here. The town flooded.” One student has gone so far as to propose a “Rho, Rho, Rho” fraternity!

The rusticity of unpaved campus walks is beautiful—that is, on sunny days. But when weather, such as has been our lot for the past week, turns these walks into slime, we forget appreciation of beauty and turn our thoughts to utility, wishing for the day when Davidson walks shall be paved. Is it not a worthy cause? Would it not be a wise investment? Regard with us this root of many ills. The local infirmary will affirm the contention that most absences from classes when due to sickness are caused by colds. Then inquire of the students as to the reason thereof. In a large number of cases the answer will be, “Wet feet!” Isn’t the coughing in chapel and church, which threatens to supplant the vanished hissing as one of our woes, another irking result? Less important perhaps, yet to be considered, is the effect of the walks upon the personal appearance of the students. Should they like peacocks be belittled by their feet? Lastly, doesn’t the grass of our beautiful campus suffer from the insufficiencies of our paths? Many of our scholars trample upon it merely to avoid “floundering and slithering in the slimy tove.”

Answering these questions in the affirmative and deeming our cause worthy, we make our plea: fulfill our need for paved walkways in the same way that you have met our other wants, Davidson. Then and only then shall we be able to say without apprehension, somewhat as the Buddhists do, “Then rain if thou wilt, O Sky!”

—ALEX SCHENCK.

FIRESIDE FORUMS

Under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. at Davidson, a group meeting called the fireside forum was started some time ago, but attendance fell off before Christmas, and no more were held. This forum was revived last week, however, and in the future, they will be conducted every two weeks in the Y Social Center. Dr. P. H. Gwynn led the discussion in the one held last week on race relations, which is a very pressing problem especially here in the South, and the discussion group proved very successful.

Because of the nature of the discussion, the group is conducted informally and it is rather small. Such a discussion could not be conducted with an extremely large group, or it would have to be turned into a lecture, but for the present, the Y. M. C. A. invites the members of the student body to participate in these discussions. We come here to gain an education, or should come here for that purpose, and we certainly are not making the most of our opportunities if, when we have such a chance as this, we do not make use of it. Of course, the spiritual value is great, but all of these discussions are not about religious matters, although the viewpoint of the Christian is always brought forth. These groups in the past have been eminently worthwhile, and topics in the future will be chosen which should be of most interest to students on this campus.

The Y. M. C. A. has sponsored many endeavors at Davidson, most of them on a much larger scale than this, but we believe that none are more worthwhile than this forum. None attend who do not really wish to do so, and like the “Y” vespers, the atmosphere is one of true sincerity and a seeking after knowledge.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. LAKE

Georgia Tech

The following are the ten most popular songs of the past decade as picked by 370 radio artists, musicians, music writers, orchestra leaders, and others:
“Ol’ Man River,” Jerome Kern — 1927
“Man I Love,” George Gershwin — 1928
“My Blue Heaven,” Walter Donaldson
“Goodnight Sweetheart,” Noble Ray
“When Day Is Done,” Katscher
“Stardust,” Hoagy Carmichael
“I’ll See You in My Dreams,” Isham Jones — 1924
“Tea for Two,” Vincent Youmans — 1924
“Lover Come Back to Me,” Sigmund Romberg — 1928
“Russian Lullaby,” Irving Berlin — 1927

“What Is This Thing Called Love?” “Chloe,” “My Heart Stood Still,” “Who?” “All Alone,” “Crazy Rhythm,” and “Me and My Shadow,” were runners-up to the first ten.

Agnes Scott

Six members of the senior class of Agnes Scott were recently elected to Phi Beta Kappa: Mary “in the same bank. Such is life!”

I SAW WORLD SPECTATOR

Peter, Peter, pumpkin eater,
Had a wife and couldn’t keep her
Even in a London cell
They couldn’t keep her very well.

Theresa Crowd.

... and peered out at George Sherrod, enthusiastic track manager, who sauntered past my window while I was writing this column. He’s had the hardest luck of anybody I know. Some time ago he lost some money in the Greensboro bank that failed. After its reopening, he continued to bank there and now it has gone under again and so George has lost money twice ... more students planning to attend the inauguration in Washington, D. C., onMarch 4th. They will go by special train and plan big doings in the capital city. Among the crowd are: Ed Guerrant, Brown-Eyes McCue, Ralph Smith, Arthur Ross, Jim Harris, Carleton Chapman, Bob Gregory, Caskie Norvel, Allen Mebane, Parson Peabody, and Jerome Clark. I heard it reported that a new arrival named Vaiden, from somewhere in Georgia, sent his girl a postcard, a special delivery letter, a telegram, and two boxes of candy all on the same day recently. He must be the answer to a maiden’s prayer. Earnest Tempus Fugate, who can write poetry nearly as well as I write this column, scanned some of his lines not long ago. Here is a masterpiece for you: 

Says the shoe to the stocking, “I’ll rub a hole in you.” 
Says the stocking to the shoe, “I’ll be darned if you do.”

And like the one about the old maid who, before retiring, looked under her bed and found a man there. She was asked if she screamed for help. “No,” sighed the other, “he did.”

The “trustys” of Davidson meet for a one-day session since our last confab. There has been a rumor of a cut and all the faculty members were holding their breath. As a matter of fact, our business has been managed in such a capable way I am glad to announce to everyone that a cut was not necessary.

A large crowd of Charlotteans was on hand to dance to Rudy Valle’s suave music last Friday night. After one of those pretty sorority girls from Queens-Chicora sells a fellow a ticket, he has to go whether or not. Rudy says he likes the South, and judging by the people who were in the stampede to shake hands with the “King of Crooners,” they like him. Why, he didn’t play more than forty-five minutes altogether, he was so busy shaking hands, and this went on from the minute he stepped off the train until time to leave.

I heard the Fijis threw one grand and glorious party in Charlotte Saturday night. The occasion was their annual formal Pig Dinner. This gastronomic wonder was given at one of the better cafes where there is an excellent restaurateur.

Loads of people went to see “Employees’ Entrance” at the local cinema one night last week. Somebody aptly said, “We wanted to see what one looked like.”

I read in the paper where all the columnists in New York are down in Florida where the sun shines bright. I wish I could go down there for a while. I’m one male mortal who needs a rest—it’s such a job to keep up with 600 students. I hear the next issue of the Yowl appears on March 1st and I can hardly wait to get my copy. The Yowl is quite the vogue this season. I do hope the party who writes “Trekking West” will arrive soon. I’m worried about his ever being able to get back.

Now here is some advice for Davidson housewives: be sure to buy Rip Van Winkle rugs the next time you purchase such things; they have a longer nap. Here is something you social aspirants have been waiting to hear, too: the surest way to cross the social chasm is by bridge.

TIP OFF. Clarke, Virginia Heard, Elizabeth Lightcap, Eulalia Napier, Gail Nelson, and Margaret Telford. Erskine John “Hurry” Cain, Alabama’s All-American back, received one vote for President in the last election. Strange but true. Emory University will inaugurate a French village next summer during the summer school. During the session, students in this class will have class work and recreation apart from the other students. They will carry on conversation entirely in French.

Wake Forest crashed the National Rating of Football this past year for the first time. The Deacon eleven was given 84th place in the first hundred. Duke was placed 52nd, State 72nd, but Davidson, although we frocked Wake Forest and Carolina, did not place.

Clemson The Tiger tells us that Furman is giving a dance every Saturday night in the Poinsett Hotel in Greenville, sponsored by the College Club of Furman. Duke Welborn and his College Club orchestra will furnish the music.

The Oxford Union, which recently voted that its members would not fight for king and country in case of war, has caused quite a bit of commotion in Oxford. One night at one of their meetings, while the secretary of the Union was reading the minutes pertaining to the resolution not to fight, a group of other Oxford students entered the hall, seized the minute-book, tore out the minutes, and departed without interference. Although pacifists, some of the members of the Union were indignant that the president did not offer resistance to the intruders.

The fastest man has ever traveled on his two feet is 100 miles per hour. This record was made recently by two ski racers at Saint Moritz. The men had a very steep slope specially laid out and smoothed for them. Any irregularity would cause the skiers to lose their balance when they were going at such a terrific speed. The slope was marked so that the speed could be determined by a stopwatch. The skiers wore specially designed costumes which cut down their air resistance. The force of the wind was so great that they had to squat down and hold to specially designed handles on the tips of the skis. The new record was much faster than last year’s record of 89 miles per hour.

A $90,000,000 appropriation to farmers who need seed for the coming season has just been approved. This puts the Department of Agriculture in a peculiar position, and one which shows the weakness of the present political machinery in Washington. The Department of Agriculture is authorized to distribute $90,000,000 (which was collected from the people, a great many of them farmers) to the farmers who need to buy seed and fertilizer for the coming year. At the same time, the same department is required to make every effort to cut down the production. Who knows but that after they have given a great deal for seeds, they will want the farmers to destroy part of the crops? It seems that it would be much simpler in the first place not to use this seed appropriation, and let the crop be smaller of its own accord. There is no doubt but that the $90,000,000 could be used in many other ways.

Dr. Robert Cornish of the University of California has invented a machine which he thinks will restore to life anyone who has just had a fatal heart attack. His machine has been tested by him once and has not yet proved successful, but Dr. Cornish insists that his machine is practicable and intends to make another test. The apparatus consists of a see-saw plank arrangement, so that the ends of the plank alternate every six seconds. The victim is placed upon the plank, which is set in motion; oxygen and artificial respiration being applied at the same time. The theory of the apparatus is that gravity will make the blood move one way and the valves close, making the blood move throughout the veins on its return course when the plank is tipped the other way. This alternating of the force of gravity, with the use of the valves in the arteries, creates a pressure which sends the blood to the vital organs. Dr. Cornish believes that his first test was not successful because the victim had been dead too long. To be successful, the machine must be used very soon after the heart attack.

Not only do we have with us now Technocracy, but Biocracy, which applies biological laws of the human body to economics and government. Dr. Walter B. Cannon, professor of physiology at Harvard, recently disclosed his plans for a new form of social order to a group of alumni at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He said, “Civilization is in a mess. Nothing could be more cruelly stupid than the existing situation with train elevators bulging while thousands of hungry are in bread lines; with growers of cotton and wool unable to dispose of their stocks while children are suffering from nakedness; with factories idle while men willing to work in them are shut from their doors.” Dr. Cannon then went on to show how the law of the human body could control the situation and bring it back to an even keel.

In a recent issue of Collier’s, the cartoonist brought forth an invention to cure all unemployment, a machine requiring a hundred operators which did the work of one man. It is quite right that this invention would cure unemployment, and the same might be done with agriculture. Provide the farmers with hand trowels and let them work their fields by the use of these instruments. Everyone would have plenty of work, and there would be no great surplus. Of course, the efficiency would not be very high and the workers would have to do a great deal to accomplish even a fraction of what a modern machine operated by one man can do. Technocracy attempts to reverse the procedure. It wants machines with which one man can do the work of one hundred. This is being done at present to some extent, but with the result that unemployment is increasing. Technocracy changes the conditions by accepting unemployment, but giving everyone some unemployment instead of letting a few have all the leisure time. Through control from the top, each man is allowed to work only a certain length of time. Thus he has part of the time used by working and part of it in leisure instead of his working all the time and someone else working none of the time.

According to the V. P. I. paper, the University of Richmond students favor membership in O. D. K. to Phi Beta Kappa.