THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 6, 1933

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Associated Collegiate Press

1933 Canora SHED) ov 1934 = Covenace)

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION $2.00 the Collegiate year. RATES: Ten cents per copy; Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 12:00 o'clock p. m., Monday. Letters to the
Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

Editor W. T. JOHNSON
Managing Editor G. L. GULLETTE
Managing Editor E. F. McPHAIL
Managing Editor B. L. ROSE
Managing Editor K. D. WEEKS
Alumni Editor JACK HENGER
Sports Editor C. E. NORRIS
Editorial Writer RAWLING PRATT
Feature Editor A. HUNTER
Feature Editor S. B. BAILEY
Feature Editor S. K. EATON
Feature Editor S. C. REID
Feature Editor C. S. McC.
Teed Editor D. W. HOLLINGSWORTH, JR.
Associate Editor L. A. LANE
Associate Editor A. A. SMITH
Associate Editor W. J. ANDERSON

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Business Manager
Business Manager
Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1933

The only hope of preserving what is best lies in the practice of an immense charity, a wide tolerance, and
a sincere respect for opinions that are not ours. —Hamerton.

THE SCENE CHANGES

The helmeted warriors have retired from the turfed gridiron, and before long agile young men clad in shorts will dash
across the hardwood courts and hold the attention of the spectators. And so the scene changes, and although the actors
on the football field have made their exit, the memory of their accomplishments lingers with us and gives rise to
a glow of satisfaction.

The defeat of our rivals, the Demon Deacons, on Thanksgiving Day brought our 1933 football season to a close with
a very appropriate climax. It was indeed a day of thanksgiving for the entire student body. A victory over Wake
Forest is sufficient reason for widespread jubilation and rejoicing, but when we review the events of this Fall’s football history,
we find that there is a great deal for which we may be thankful.

Davidson has just experienced the best season since 1920 when we won the State Championship. This year’s record of six
games won, two lost, and one tied is certainly an achievement of which we may be justly proud. The total
number of points that Davidson’s eleven scored on opponents this year is greater than that of any other season since
1926. This year’s graduating class will take only three regulars from the team. Their loss will be severely felt, but
it is indeed unusual and gratifying to know that we will not lose a greater number of players. The freshman
team promises some excellent material for next year and with the returning varsity men as a nucleus around which to
build, the coaches will probably fashion a team that will surpass the performance of the 1933 machine.

The men on the squad this year played a winning game. They did not fight to escape being beaten, they
did not battle for a tie, they did not endeavor to eke out a victory—they played to win and win
well. Whatever their motives, we owe them a debt of gratitude. A man sacrifices an enormous amount of energy and
time on the football field and very few ever reap a worthy reward. They may play for fame, for physical
development, for financial reimbursement, for revenge, for pride, for the game’s sake, but whatever their personal aims may be, in
an effort to gain them, each individual contributes his share to the building up of a football team that will
bring honor and glory to the institution and its students. Whether rightly or wrongly, a college or university is judged
to a great extent by the kind of teams that it produces. To the coaches and to the players, we
admire your spirit, your pluck, your fight, your ability “to play up and play the game.”—R. P.-T.

OUR MASCOT AND HIS COLLAR

Eight years ago, when Felix, our mascot, was very young, some ambitious students entered the wildcat’s cage and put a
collar around his neck. Since then Felix has grown to be a rather large cat and the collar, which at
the time it was put on the mascot’s neck was a good fit, is now too small to afford any
comfort to Felix. In fact, if something is not done about it, soon the piece of leather will eventually choke
Felix to death.

The appeal comes from Trainer “Doc” Charlie, who is Felix’s best friend, and also from Bruce Peabody, who has discussed
at length with the trainer the problem of the removal of the collar. Felix’s ferociousness has increased with his age,
and to put it in “Doc” Charlie’s words, the “Cat is too mean to fool with now.” Consequently, the trainer
balks at the suggestion of entering the cage and removing the collar. Instead, he makes an appeal to Davidson students
and alumni to make practical suggestions as to how the collar might be removed from Felix’s neck. These suggestions may
be addressed to “Felix, in care of The Davidsonian.”

HONORARY ORGANIZATIONS

“Honorary fraternities exist on the campus as an acknowledgment of achievement in various lines of college endeavor in order that
groups of men, both faculty and students, may be able to associate more closely with other men on mutual interest.”
This ideal has been set up by those who conceived of honorary fraternities as organizations directly beneficial in their nature,
and honorary in the true sense of the word, rewarding achievement as well as providing for the furtherance of the
particular line of endeavor represented.

Since the time when the above purpose was formulated, the majority of the honorary fraternities have striven toward this two-fold
goal. They are the organizations in which membership has become a true honor and a real benefit. On the other
hand, there have been notable instances of so-called honorary fraternities which have not attained either of the requirements provided for
by those who control this line of activity. They have neither given just reward for achievement nor provided adequate opportunity
for the closer association prescribed. Yet they continue to be honorary fraternities. They continue to be classified along with the
much more worthy orders in spite of their inactivity and their widespread reputation as to the lack of benefit arising
from membership in them.

The inactive and inefficient fraternities are few, yet their effect is detrimental to those fraternities which are carrying out their
purpose in a conscientious way. The meetings of the former are few and generally disorderly; their activities extend to little
outside of issuing bids and collecting initiation fees and dues. Membership is desired chiefly for whatever prestige may be gained
rather than through a sincere interest in the field of endeavor represented by the fraternity.

The organizations which conform to the requirements cited constitute so great a majority that they could, through their representatives or
through some other authoritative body, insist that the activities of the weaker fraternities be conducted in more strict accordance with
the principles which they themselves observe. A thorough investigation into the activities, finances, and governing policies of the clubs and
fraternities in question would reveal the true nature of the organizations. A great improvement would be seen if honorary fraternities
could be required to show a detailed account of the extent to which they have directed their activities toward the
objective prescribed by the authorities. —F. McP.

Here and There

Efforts are being made at the University of Colorado toward desnobbing the campus. Every student crossing the bridge over the
lake must shake the hands of everyone he meets. So far it has been successful.

A questionnaire reveals that 298 of the class of 1937 came to Princeton for an education, 179 because of the
university’s name and reputation, and 70 for contacts and social advantages.

University of Missouri students may “crash” Columbia theatres three times this fall during the football season, according to a decision
of the Student Council and the theatre managers. This may be done Saturday nights following a victory.

A back-to-the-farm movement has begun at Pittsburgh University where the co-eds have become wrapped up in a crocheting vogue and
really expect to wear “home-spun.”

According to a psychological study of several years at Purdue University, college students do worry. Some of the causes for
worry and percentage of students perplexed by these are: studies—42 per cent; financial—30 per cent; family affairs—15 per cent; religion—4
per cent; affairs of the heart—only 9 per cent.

All students living in fraternity houses at Marquette University, Milwaukee, have their names, characteristics, and peculiarities listed with the police.

NEWS DIGEST

NAZI FEELING

The feeling in America against the Nazis and Hitler is growing stronger. A German professor who was lecturing in Ford
Hall, Boston, on the Nazi policy, was almost mobbed by a crowd of Bostonians who became angry at his doctrines.
The police charged a crowd of 5,000 and many cracked heads resulted from the ensuing conflict. The lecture was finally
delivered while a heavy police guard surrounded the building.

PINE PAPER

The U. S. makes another step in its advance toward internal independence. This time it is the making of paper
from the southern pine tree. Formerly all of the pulp used in making newspapers was imported from Canada and was
spruce pulp. The Canadian price was twenty-seven dollars and ninety cents a ton. The South can now produce good newsprint
for nineteen dollars and six cents a ton. And so a new “gigantic industry” in the South is under way.

GOLD GOING

The gold reserve of France is steadily going away. This terrific drain upon the holdings of the Bank of France
has been going on for some time and now the statistics show...that the gold reserve has reached its lowest point
since April 1932. France formerly had the largest gold reserve in the world, but now it is a different story.

LYNCHING
This year, as never before, the number of lynchings shows a decided increase over those of former years. In every
paper is the story of some mob raiding a certain jail or of some victim of mob violence. The latest
to shock the country because of its later developments was that of the slayers of young Brooke Hart of San
Jose, Calif. The murderers, Thomas Thurmond and Jack Holmes, were lynched by a mob who entered the jail and took
them away.

THE GERMAN CHURCH
The church fight in Germany reached a climax today when the entire Reich’s church cabinet, governing body for all Protestant
church groups in Germany, resigned. The bitter controversy between Hitler and the Protestants has been over interpreting the letter of
the Biblical story. The Nazis hold that certain portions should be omitted. However, the resigning body has come back with
the statement that “the gospel will naturally remain as the foundation on which the message of Christ will rest.”

DRINKING
With the coming of legal liquor there comes a new and important problem: the problem of decent drinking. During prohibition,
the addict of intoxicants found it necessary to hide while he drank. Now it is a different matter. What shall
we do about the matter? As someone in authority states, “It is better to have decent drinking in decent places,
than indecent drinking in indecent places. If we deny the hotels the right to dispense wines and liquors, we are
going to perpetuate the speakeasy, and perpetuating the speakeasy means the continuation of bootlegging, necessarily.”

BANS NATURALIZATION
The Austrian government has issued a decree stating that no foreigner will be given a chance at Austrian citizenship except
under special conditions. This move was made at the insistence of those who are fearful of the future of Austria
in its relationships toward Germany and on account of the present German policy.

LINDBERGHS
The Lindberghs in their tour of Europe and Africa are now on the west coast of Africa waiting for favorable
weather, when they will attempt to span the Atlantic. They plan to leave Africa and head for Natal, Brazil, a
little over a thousand miles away. This will be their second crossing of the Atlantic together.

AL SMITH
Al Smith has put himself into something of a hole when he began to flail President Roosevelt and the public
works plan. His attitude has called forth some severe criticism from Father Coughlin and others in the public eye. Smith
says that the program is failing and that the professors in the brain trust are making anagrams of alphabet soup.
The former New York governor writes that the new civil works administration was created “to hide the failure of another
existing federal agency.”

VESPER SERVICE IS CONDUCTED BY TROTTER
(Continued from page 1)
brought forth records from a dictaphone which had been concealed in the cell during the preceding conversation. This evidence convicted
the boy easily. Mr. Trotter compared this theoretically with the records which he assumed to be kept by the Master.
The sins are there, even though unseen, but they shall be blotted out upon confession and repentance. Our consolation is
in the fact that the hand which recorded them is the hand which blots them out. Sin against God is
real sin, grave sin. David wept for his sins against his Lord, and not against his mortal friends and foes.
“The wages of sin is death,” and similar statements in the Bible are countered by this portion of the text—“that
blotteth transgressions for my sake.” Some people apparently believe themselves to be doing God a great favor by coming unto
Him; they do not think of His suffering on the Cross to save us for His own sake. A source
of great joy to Mr. Trotter, he says, is the statement of an Orthodox Jew to the effect that he
was more inclined toward a belief in the power of Jesus, by observing the change in Mr. Trotter's life following
his, Mr. Trotter’s, conversion by the city missions of Grand Rapids, of which he is now superintendent. This change of
life is made possible by the fact expressed in the text—“and I will not remember thy sins,” permitting a healing
influence to rest upon a spirit free from the effects of past sins. God had His remedy for our sins
even before our life began. It is comparable to human remedies for misfortunes which occur in modern times,—the wrecking crew
of a train, for instance, is always ready and waiting to deliver aid to the victims of accidents, which occur
so often. In much the same manner, God is ready with His remedy of salvation for sin. God forgets a
confessed sin, but does not forget an unconfessed sin. Mr. Trotter concluded his message by reiterating the words of his
text, “I, even I, am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for mine own sake, and will not remember thy
sins.” Dr. W. L. Lingle closed the service with a prayer.

NOTED BRAIN SPECIALIST LECTURES TO PRE-MEDS
(Continued from page 1)
Dr. Sparrow emphasized what a difficult thing it was sometimes for a surgeon to tell what is wrong with a
patient if the patient remains unconscious. The injured person’s respiration, blood pressure, and temperature must be taken into consideration to
discover the nature of the injury. Dr. Sparrow showed several X-ray photographs of fractured skulls, some injured by severe blows
and others by bullets. The majority of the injured persons photographed were Dr. Sparrow’s own patients.

SOPHOMORE WEEK-END SET FOR DECEMBER 15, 16
(Continued from page 1)
functions. He is a CBS artist and plays under the auspices of the Music Corporation of America. His homecoming engagements
at the Universities of Georgia and Washington and Lee prove his popularity below the Mason-Dixon line. All ten of the
social fraternities on the campus will have house parties in connection with the sophomore weekend. A great number of girls
have been invited for the occasion and several have graciously consented to act as sponsors. The affairs will be well
chaperoned by both faculty members and prominent Charlotte people. An all-campus vote in the University of Michigan is to be
held to give students an opportunity to voice their opinions on campus beer-selling question, the university ban on automobiles, and
the honor system.

On Other Campuses

MINNESOTA
Beer and football apparently do not mix, that is, not in the air anyhow, for University of Minnesota officials have
refused to sanction radio broadcasts of Minnesota football games, if sponsored by brewery concerns.

COLUMBIA
The much-talked-of Nudist Cult spread to Columbia University campus, when the freshmen, who outnumbered the sophomores, divested the latter of
their respectable clothing during the annual flag day affair. Columbia University reporters, questioning people on the street, discovered that five
out of six men think that college students are loafers. The sixth man’s opinion could not be printed!

WASHINGTON STATE
Attempts are being made at Washington State to convince women that a football game is not a fashion show. Under
the direction of Mortar Board, co-eds were given a lecture concerning the finer points of football plays and rules.

McGILL
The faculty of arts at McGill University has installed a portable shower bath in the basement of the arts building
for the benefit of sleepy students returning from a dreary lecture or an all-night party.

N. Y. U.
Wonders of wonders ... From “Collegiate Capers” in the “Commercial Bulletin” we learn that Freddie Crawford annually intimidates, compels, and
otherwise causes Duke freshmen to purchase brooms from him. When the Gotham columnist got this impression of our gentle giant
is beyond our comprehension. (from the Duke Chronicle.)

CLEMSON
Long-suffering cadets who have had to sit in remote corners of the college auditorium at Clemson, unable to hear the
speaker, are at last going to have some relief. Professors of the physics department are about to install an electrical
amplifying system to carry the words of the speaker from the stage to all parts of the chapel.

Y. M. C. A. GIFT FUND WILL GO TO UNITY
(Continued from page 1)
building, and in 1932 John Howard and the people of the community built a log cabin to be used by
the Men’s Bible Class for prayer meetings, and for socials. Last year the fund went to pay the salary at
the Mill Chapel, and to Mr. John W. Luke to help educate sixteen students at Glade Valley High School. In
past years it has gone to the Foreign Mission Board of the Presbyterian Church, to the Barium Springs Orphanage, Lees-McRae,
and to Frank Price, missionary to China. The fund will be administered by the student pastors of the Davidson Unity
Church. They are here not only during the school season but also during the holidays and during the summer. It
is the hope of the “Y” that all students will see the actual needs which confront them and will contribute
gladly and just as freely as possible.

JOHNSTON TALKS AT HUGE PEP MEETING
(Continued from page 1)
which had been previously set up by the freshmen, was lighted and the freshmen did a snake dance around it.
To climax the meeting, a dummy representing the Demon Deacons was tossed into the flames of the fire and burned.
Sacramento Junior College, California, held a tong dance last week in which a Chinese theme was worked out for all
the decorations, favors, and floor show.

STATIONERY CALLING CARDS FRATERNITY PAPERS
Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates
PROGRAMS
See BILL JOHNSON @ 203 Watts @ Garland Court
Standard Printing Company CHARLOTTE, N. C.
