THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 25, 1933

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Associated Collegiate Press

1933 1934

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: $2.00 the Collegiate year. Ten cents per copy. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., on Monday. Letters to the
editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

Editor WIER JOHNSON Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Alumni Editor
Sports Editor
Editorial Writer
Exchange Editor
Feature Editor
Feature Editor
Review Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1933

Manhood, not scholarship, is the first aim of education. —Ernest Thompson Seton.

RETROSPECTION

The time has come and gone when old acquaintances are renewed; when the lukewarm blood of old alumni courses through
their veins with the revived heat of football battle; when the color and clamor of the crowd rejuvenates those loyal
supporters into a state of holiday festivity; when deep and tender sentiment is aroused as priceless memories soothe and clear
the minds of harried business men; when students celebrate with comely belles and sparkling social functions: Home-Coming! An event which
embodies all those inherent characteristics of a home and one’s return thereto. A return to the home of intellectual achievement,
to familiar and ever-remembered haunts and scenes, to the place where undying friendships were born and nurtured, to those days
which were probably the happiest that we ever spent. Home-Coming, a word whose connotation is metamorphosed into an actuality when
this annual occasion is observed. As long as we commemorate this event with our usual appropriate exercises no requiem will
be sounded for those memories that are with us always, but which have to be freshened and regenerated if they
are to retain possession of their fullness of meaning. The Home-Coming just gone was certainly a decided success. We find
many incidents lingering with us which will remain until we return as alumni some time in the distant future. Some
of them are these: The crowd of 10,000, the largest that we have ever witnessed at Home-Coming or any other
game here... the scarcity of girl’s tickets and the resulting troubled students ... we feel that it is indeed unfortunate
that this situation has to exist at certain games, after all the students make the school and should be given
every consideration. Frosh Bandmaster Dick Brock was quite spectacular in his direction of the band and the band is to
be commended for its music, marching, and formation of letters. Congratulations, Mr. Pfohl. We admire Shrimp Morris ... his telegraphic
message to Captain Rives is characteristic of the man... we wonder how much the Duke line outweighed Davidson’s ... Julian
West’s injury was the cause of grave concern ... we hope his recovery will be speedy and complete. Davidson lost
five yards on penalties and Duke lost seventy--a team like the Blue Devils can afford such losses. Laney, Crawford, and
Cornelius were Devil stars in our estimation. Johnny Mackorell scintillated for the Wildcats ... the brilliant performance of any star
is made possible only with the full co-operation of his teammates. Davidson’s touchdown came as the result of several perfect
plays. The crowd of girls, relatives, and alumni that swarmed down upon fraternity court at the conclusion of the football
tiff was marvelous to behold. The packed ballroom at the Charlotte Hotel strikingly showed the festive mood that took possession
of us all. These are just a few of the impressions that have remained with us. Whatever we may have
seen and still remember, it is without a doubt the general consensus of opinion that Home-Coming again achieved complete success
as it has done since its establishment many years ago.

—R. P. T.

THE COURT IN ACTION

When James Halverstadt had several freshmen stand up in a student body assembly Monday morning and pronounced upon them a
campus restriction penalty, he showed that the Court of Control, over which body he presides as judge, is very active
in exercising its unpleasant duties of preventing laxity on the part of first-year men in observing their regulations. Halverstadt pointed
out that he did not make the freshmen stand because he wanted to humiliate them, but rather to impress upon
them that they are expected to meet certain requirements. He also revealed that the court was willing to investigate all
matters, if the student body would co-operate with them.

DUKE TOOK IT EASY

The Charlotte News did its circulation at Davidson no good when it included in comment of the Duke-Davidson game the
phrase that Coach Wallace Wade “did not care about piling up a huge score” over the Wildcats. There is no
reason to believe that Duke wouldn't try to beat the Davidson team by as large a score as possible. If
those Blue Devils were not trying to crush the Wildcats by a huge score, explain why they sent so many
Davidson players out of the game with injuries? Wade's team was lucky to get away with a 19-7 victory despite
the fact that they gained much more yardage from scrimmage than did the losers.

MADE IT LOOK SERIOUS

The “News” also tried to capitalize upon the injury to Julian West, Davidson student body’s president and second-string center, who
was carried off the field Saturday in an unconscious state. As a circulation scheme the Charlotte paper streamed its front
page with the words, “Davidson Grid Star Near Death of Injuries Received in Game,” but in its account of the
condition of West it went on to mention that the Davidson student leader was resting comfortably. Davidson students who were
in Charlotte Saturday night were terrified at the erroneous headline, when actually there was no need to worry because West
had regained consciousness early in the night.

TAR HEELS WANT RECOGNITION

The following editorial was clipped from a recent issue of “The Daily Tar Heel,” student publication at the University of
North Carolina, and expresses what should be considered a narrow-minded opinion of some writer:

“The criticism has been made recently that even if our football team should go through an undefeated season, it would
receive no consideration for national championship, or Rose Bowl invitation, because it does not play teams representative, or of the
calibre of the best in the country.

“Georgia Tech and Vanderbilt are the only two teams on our schedule worthy of national consideration. Georgia, State, and Duke,
while in repute in the South, extend their domain no further, and can give no honor, nationally, to the team
that defeats them. Florida, Wake Forest, and Davidson are well and good for opening games, or rest periods, but not
for football games. Would it not be better if our schedule ran more like this: Wake Forest, Georgia, Vanderbilt, State,
Navy, Georgia Tech, Columbia, Davidson, Duke, and Virginia?

“Here, some will say that since we cannot present a creditable showing in our present schedule, how could we hope
to win against teams of the calibre mentioned?

“The answer rests in the fact that such games would help to make us known in the North, where the
University of North Carolina football team is unheard of. It would give us national recognition, which our 1929 record did
not do successfully because of the fact that we played only relatively poor teams. And is that recognition, aside from
subsidation, not the best way to attract students, and thereby football players?

“That schedule would be only a step in the right direction. With these added games, we might be able to
put ourselves athletically in the same position as we have held scholastically for so many years.”

What we wonder is how Carolina hopes to gain recognition even in the South, much less nationally, if the team
they put upon the field can do no better than take a tumble to the tune of a 30-0 score
before Georgia, which school, “while of repute in the South, can give no honor nationally to the team that defeats
them”; lose 9 to 0 to Florida and barely win by one touchdown over Davidson, which schools “are well and
good for opening games, or rest periods, but not for football games.” It looks to us that the little recognized
schools are playing Carolina’s “best team since 1929” for rest period games.

NEWS DIGEST

WAR PREPARATIONS

Twenty-five millions of dollars has recently been allotted for national defense, the majority of which will go toward the strengthening
of the air forces. The Army and Navy will get four hundred new planes. Also many new federal projects were
listed and a new $10,000,000 army motorization program. This expenditure will go a long way towards meeting the insistent demands
of both Army and Navy in regards to unpreparedness.

JAPANESE

The Japanese naval, land, and air forces are to make a war display for the benefit of Russia with Emperor
Hirohito taking personal charge of the maneuvers. The annual maneuvers are to be conducted on the shores of the Japan
Sea, the section of homeland closest to Russia in Asia. This location is near Vladivostok and would probably be where
the Russians would land in case of a Russo-Japanese war.

LIQUOR TAX

The government is expecting to make a “killing” out of repeal in the form of a high liquor tax. They
hope to secure$500,000,000 by this tax. The administration is drafting a new program with a proposed levy of $2.60 per
gallon. This income would be offset by the automatic reduction of $227,000,000 in special taxes during prohibition. The import problem
is perhaps the hardest one to deal with and the government has decided to refuse permits for importation.

TRADE
An official survey by the British Board of Trade shows that Japan led all nations in the increase of trade
for the first six months of 1933. The survey gave statistics showing that Japan’s exports increased at the amazing rate
of 55.3 percent over the first six months of 1932.

FRANCE HITS BACK
Premier Edouard Daladier, in the tense atmosphere of the opening session of the house of deputies, took up the gauntlet
of Germany and flung back a reply demanding that an answer be given for Germany's action in leaving the arms
parley and the League of Nations. He challenged Germany to return to the arms council by saying, “France will be
in Geneva October 26 when arms negotiators reassemble.”

BAN POLITICAL GROUPS
The Czechoslovakian government has issued an edict which authorizes the dissolution of all political parties organized or directed against the
government or its policies. This law is aimed chiefly at the German national Socialist and National groups which have heretofore
been very disturbing in Praha, capital of Czechoslovakia.

RUSSIAN RECOGNITION
The question of Russian recognition and the enlargement of trade relationships with Russia draws near. The time has come for
a decision and this has already been considered at a cabinet meeting, but officials are reticent as to what was
done. Recognition depends upon several factors involving an agreement with Russia.

AUSTRIA
The tense German-Austrian situation became still tenser as the result of a fight between six Nazis armed with revolvers and
some volunteer Austrian troops who were stationed near the German border. One Austrian soldier and also one Nazi were wounded
in the exchange of fire.

CUBA
A new crisis has arisen in Cuba. As the militant and numerically strong ABC radical secret society, one of the
chief supporting factors of the Grau San Martin government, announces that it is withdrawing its support from the present leaders.
This action caused the belief to spread that a new crisis was facing the government that recently succeeded that of
De Cespedes, but what the outcome will be remains to be seen.

SIAM
The revolt in Siam and the schism in the royal family is becoming more and more bloody. Aerial battles are
marking the war while up-country rebel troops and loyal forces clashed in severe fighting which saw many killed on both
sides. The fight for government supremacy has become largely a matter of control in the air. Trade has fallen off
considerably. Foreign legations are watching developments closely. Popular sentiment is swinging toward the rebels who seek to oust the present
communistically-inclined government but against the king.

Duke Fraternity Spirit Is Believed Dying
“Fraternal spirit is not as strong as it formerly was, and consequently there are fewer students interested in fraternities,” said
Dr. Francis W. Shepardson, pre-eminent in the fraternity field, when he visited Miami University, the birthplace of nine Greek letter
social groups which later became national. He felt that a broader loyalty to school and community had removed the inlooking
attitude of chapters.

On Other Campuses

EMORY
Emory University has changed its idea about a freshman being green! That is, they have formed a decided opinion otherwise,
since a certain freshman penetrated the hitherto unexplored interior of the Nurses’ Home. It seems like a confused freshman spent
twenty minutes therein searching vainly for his class in history. After some time, he found his way to the Educational
Building, a wiser boy, and much richer in experience.

NEWCOMB
Page Mae West! We thought that the Mae West figure was the national rage at present, but apparently the girls
at Newcomb think otherwise. It seems like a cigarette before meals and green vegetables keep the Louisianians from acquiring excessive
avoirdupois!

LOUISIANA
Plans are being made at Louisiana State University for the formation of local fraternity chapters on the campus to the
number of thirty. The eighteen social fraternities at L. S. U. include about 20 percent of the male student body,
and the new movement has been instituted to raise the membership to about 40 percent, which is normal for state
universities.

DUKE
Unprecedented in the history of the University was the display of spirit and enthusiasm aroused by the students over the
Tennessee game. Novel as it was, the effects produced were enlightening. It proved that Duke students were capable of things
which were considered impossible for them.

WASHINGTON AND LEE
There has been a regular ole “whoop it up” war going on between the dry cleaners of Lexington and students
of Washington and Lee. Seems as though the cleaners have raised their prices and the students “can’t take it.” The
following extract from the college paper will show partly the attitudes taken: “In last Tuesday’s issue of ‘The Ring-tum Phi’
we served notice on you that unless you could justify your price increase within three days, court action would be
taken. Your arguments Wednesday night have failed to prove to us that the enormous increase was necessary. Therefore, unless the
desired adjustments are made by twelve noon tomorrow, the entire case will be handed over to the proper authorities at
that time.”—(Editor—Ring-tum Phi). The above was addressed to the cleaners and pressers of Lexington, Va.

SOUTHWESTERN
We have often heard of things going from the ridiculous to the sublime and vice-versa, but a new standard has
been set on the Southwestern campus, when a certain co-ed went into the dean’s office and borrowed a nickel to
make a phone call and then asked the secretary in charge if she would kindly add the loan to her
tuition fee. This same co-ed also wondered if an ounce of convention was not worth a pound of lure???

From the Background
Dear editor, Dr. Jock Hood was quite surprised Wednesday morning when he walked into the auditorium and saw a banner
with the words “beat those blue devils” written thereon. The psychology prof felt better about the matter when he considered
that maybe in chapel was the best place to down devils after all. The letter between the A and D
on this typewriter has just gone bad and I guess the only remedy for it is to use another machine
instead of going ahead with this one. Somebody must have told Captain Charlie Rives about crooning halfbacks and now he
is trying to be a moaning, yodeling, groaning, humming, or what have you guard. He practices daily in the gym
shower room. They usually tell it on professors when they speak of absent-mindedness, but Dunlap Covington qualified for the vulnerables
the other day when he went to dinner at Hallums. Sitting down at the table he spied a bowl in
front of him. In went a few crackers which he crumbled and a spoon carried some of the food to
his mouth before he found out it was gravy. I slipped off to Charlotte to the shindig last Saturday night
and happened to be around the Charlotte Hotel when Joe Drake, Buck Kirkland, and John Hunter were in a most
embarrassing position. Were their faces red? If you’re inquisitive you might ask them about a certain situation. Al Stevens was
in a sweat the other night when he got word from his girl in Schenectady, New York that she would
be down on his bid for homecoming. Stevens, to be nice to his girl, had asked her down but actually
did not expect her to accept it seems. Robert E. Lee Jr., a descendant of the famous southern general, plays
halfback for Mercer University of Macon, Georgia and due to his exploits on the gridiron against both Army and Navy
he is being mentioned as possible timber for All-American honors when the naming time rolls around again. Fussell Garner of
Macon, Missouri has a hitchhiking plan which gets him places and at the same time keeps his thumb from getting
sore. He carries a red can on which is written the words “gasoline.” Take heed Davidsonians. Tee Thompson is still
wondering how he got white dust in his hair in the middle of psychology class the other day. Saw many
of my old friends back for homecoming and got a kick out of hearing so many “glad to see you”
uttered. The freshman who got up in chapel to announce the sale of several girls’ tickets which he had bought
for the Duke game sure got the razz at first but the razz turned to rush as soon as the
student body was dismissed. My personal nomination for the most loyal Davidson follower is Dr. Burwell, the gray-haired man who
can be seen at all Y vesper services, all church services, and at all Wildcat athletic affairs. Dr. Oren Moore,
popular Charlotte doctor who can always be pointed out to freshmen as the man with the carnation in his left
lapel, is without a doubt the most loyal Wildcat football follower and Lawrence Wilkinson who is always seen with Dr.
Moore is in my opinion next. If our boys put up as gallant a fight against State this Saturday as
they did against Duke it is going to be just too bad for the Wolfpack.

Randy.

STATIONERY
Printing of all Types
CALLING CARDS
FRATERNITY PAPERS
PROGRAMS at Reasonable Rates
See BILL JOHNSON
203 Watts @ Garland Court - Standard Printing Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
