HOMECOMING WILL BRING MANY ALUMNI

Vol. XXI

The Davidsonian

Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

DEVILS-'CATS SCRAP IS MAIN FEATURE

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 18, 1933

No. 5

CATS DRILL

Nick Laney to Play For Pan-Hellenic Dances This Week

Pan-Hellenic Council Planning to Make Dances Best of Year

ALUMNI TO RETURN

Unusual Interest Shown in the Events This Year

As the date of the first Pan-Hellenic dances of the year approaches, at which the annual custom of Homecoming will be celebrated, Davidson students watch the preparations in anticipation of a most enjoyable weekend. A great deal of thought and preparation has been expended by the members of the Pan-Hellenic Council in an attempt to make the period of Homecoming a success. A varied and many-sided program will be afforded for the entertainment of the student body and the many alumni who plan to return.

Among the several events on the program are a cross-country meet between Davidson and Duke, both freshman and varsity teams, to be held Saturday morning, the annual Homecoming game, this year with the Duke Blue Devils opposing the Wildcats, and the aforementioned group of dances. The “D” Club and the Beaver Club will supervise in the matter of making the alumni feel at home on the campus, and also in tending to the wants of the visiting teams.

The Homecoming dances, of course, hold the spotlight on the program. Word was received Saturday that Nick Laney was definitely coming, and the singing halfback and his orchestra will furnish the music for the formal dance on Friday night and the informal dance on Saturday night. Besides the efforts made by the Pan-Hellenic Council to make the dance a success, including the placing of posters in nearby towns and announcements sent to various outside men, (Continued on page 6)

Newton and McEver Broadcast Over WBT

Martin to Interview Coaches About Prospects

The radio program tonight promises to be one of the best yet put on the air; the time is from 8:45 to 9:00. The program will be opened with two piano solos by Kenneth Scott. Following these two musical selections, there will be an interesting interview of Coaches Newton and McEver, conducted by Mr. Grier Martin, the alumni secretary. The interview will last about six or eight minutes, giving sufficient time for both coaches to give a brief description of the condition of the Wildcats and the prospects for a pro-Davidson outcome in the game to be played with the Blue Devils of Duke on Homecoming Day, next Saturday. Mr. Pfohl, the director of music, will close the program with two cornet solos. If the program sounds interesting to you, make it a point to drop in on some friend who is fortunate enough to have a radio or join the men at the “Y” a little before 8:45 tonight.

Masquers Will Give Play in Near Future

The Red and Black Masquers, dramatic organization, plans to present a three-act comedy in the near future. The play to be given has not been decided upon, but announcement will be made by the middle of next week. At that time, tryouts will be held and practice will begin. At an informal meeting of the Masquers held recently, plans were discussed for the coming year, but nothing definite was decided upon. Professor Erwin of the English department is faculty adviser of the club and the officers are as follows: Wills Hollingsworth, president; Jimmy Simpson, vice-president, and Gordon Wood, secretary.

National Society Holds Ceremonies

Local Chapter of Scabbard and Blade Holds Special Meeting

On October 27th the various companies and alumni posts of the National Society of Scabbard and Blade in a larger number of our cities, celebrate the anniversary of the birth of Scabbard and Blade Day. Company B of the 5th Regiment, the local company at Davidson, is celebrating this event by a special meeting. In the afternoon of October 27th, Scabbard and Blade will decorate the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at the Arlington Cemetery, Washington, D.C., in memory of its three thousand members who participated in the World War.

The National Society of the Scabbard and Blade was founded nearly 30 years ago at the University of Wisconsin by five cadet officers, and last year a memorial flagpole was erected by the society there in memory of its founders. It now has 78 chapters in 45 states and a total membership of approximately 20,000. The purpose of the society is to defend American traditions and ideals, promote the interests of R.O.T.C. training, preserve and develop the essential qualities of good and efficient officers and to spread intelligent information concerning the requirements of our country. Active membership in Scabbard and Blade is limited to outstanding cadet officers in the R.O.T.C. units. (Continued on page 3)

Applicants Open Competitive Examination to Be Held

To fill the vacancy in the position of postmaster in this city, the United States Civil Service Commission has announced, at the request of the Postmaster General and in accordance with an order of the President, an open competitive examination. To be eligible for the examination, an applicant must be a citizen of the United States, must reside within the delivery of this post-office, must have so resided for at least one year preceding the date for close of receipt of applications, must be in good physical condition, and within the prescribed age limits. Both men and women are admitted. Under the terms of the executive order, the Civil Service Commission will certify to the Postmaster General the names of the highest three qualified eligibles, if as many as three are qualified, from which the Postmaster General may select one for nomination by the President. Confirmation by the Senate is the final action.

Dean W. G. Davison Gives Lecture On Rhodes Candidates

Students Learn of Oxford and Cecil Rhodes From Duke Medical Head

HOLDS DISCUSSION

Speaker Draws From Own Experience Abroad

Dean Wilbur C. Davison, head of the Medical School of Duke University, and a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford in 1913, as a representative from the State of New York, gave a lecture on Rhodes Scholarships in Chambers Auditorium on Monday evening. About 150 interested students were present to hear the learned scholar speak about the chances the American student has of becoming a Rhodes Scholar. The speaker was impressed by the fact that when the members of the Committee for Rhodes Scholarships meet to select the candidates, they do not know who is to be the fortunate winner. “Every student has a chance, every student may be capable, and you can never tell who is to be the lucky one,” Dr. Davison remarked.

Dean Davison told briefly about Mr. Rhodes, the leader of the movement, and showed the similarity between Mr. Rhodes and Mr. Duke. Speaking of Mr. Rhodes, Dr. Davison remarked, “He showed the world not only what he wished to do but what he was able to do.” This description should apply to every American student. The speaker gave a number of reasons why students should apply for Rhodes Scholarships. Students wish to go to Oxford because of the social life which they will receive by their contact with the English people. Some students apply because of the business training; others apply for scholastic reasons to increase their knowledge, and others to take work for the purpose of graduate teaching in that particular field. There are many different types of training at Oxford, and the fundamental training is a tremendous asset to the student. “The student of today who goes to Oxford will profit much more than I did because of the great improvements which have been made in the educational system,” the speaker stated. The various types of training at Oxford consist of: medicine, science, philosophy, economics, English literature, theology, mathematics, modern languages, forestry, anthropology, archeology, music, and oriental languages. (Continued on page 3)

Literary Fraternity Sigma Upsilon Pledges Banks, Hines, Henry, Goodykoontz

At the first meeting of Sigma Upsilon, national literary fraternity, which was held on Monday, October 9, the names of four students were voted on and passed as prospective members of the fraternity. The new pledges include two Seniors, S. M. Hines, one Junior, S. C. Henry, and one Sophomore, R. T. Banks. The new members are to assemble in an examination room for the night of Monday, October 23, at which time the new members are to read the themes which they are required to write at the period of entrance into the fraternity. Sigma Upsilon, which recognizes student literary talent, has at present ten Davidson faculty members and nine student members. The faculty members are: Dr. Beaty, Dr. Brown, Dr. Cumming, Professor Erwin, Professor Fleagle, Dr. Hood, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr. Sentelle, Dr. Shewmake, and Mr. Wiley. The student members for this year are as follows: D. W. Hollingsworth, president; L. W. Pratt, vice-president; G. H. Brown, secretary.Henry, and one Sopho- W. F. Goodykoontz. The initiation ceremony will be held. This national fraternity, which rec- ognizes Professor members, includes student members. The student members are G. H. L. W. Clardy, W. L. Fugate, G. R. Wood, and T. F. The officers for the present term are L. W. Clardy, G. R. Wood, secretary, and Wood, treasurer.

Davidson College Represented at Collegiate Confab
Smyre Reports Inter-Fraternity Conference as Very Successful This Year

PRESS HAS DELEGATES
Casali and Ravenel Attend Publication Conferences

Davidson was represented at intercollegiate conferences in Chicago last week by three members of the Senior class. The National Undergraduate Inter-Fraternity Conference was attended by Fred Smyre, president of the Davidson Pan-Hellenic Council. The conference was in session at the Palmer House on October 13th and 14th. At the opening on Friday, short speeches were made by several of the thirty-six representatives. Upon convening after lunch on the same day, the dean of men at Missouri University emphasized the importance of scholarship, friendship, and character. The evils of hazing were cited, and discussions concerning finances were held by representatives. At 7:30 in the grand ballroom of the Palmer House, the conference and the National Pan-Hellenic Congress assembled for a banquet, after which a dance was held. On Saturday, Dean Sanders of Ohio Wesleyan stressed the importance of fraternity representation in college administration. One of the purposes of the National Intercollegiate Conference was to break down the barriers existing between various fraternities and to bring about a more friendly relationship. The North Carolina colleges represented were Carolina, Duke, Davidson, and State. According to Fred Smyre, the conference was most successful. Casali, editor of The Davidsonian, and Owen Ravenel, business manager of the Quips and Cranks, attended the meeting of the Annual Photographer.

Davidson Purchases Ford V-8 Fire Engine

The city fathers have announced the purchase of an ultra-modern Ford V-8 fire engine costing over three thousand dollars. The truck is equipped with modern fire-fighting accessories, including a pump that can exhaust over four hundred gallons of water a minute. This engine will replace the ancient equipment that has embarrassed the college and town in the past years. Mr. E. N. Linker will hold the position of day fire chief, and Mr. J. F. Riley will act as night chief. Due to the fact that students are only in town for nine months of the year, it will be necessary to organize a volunteer company of about fifteen citizens. However, the students are expected, as in the past, to furnish their own company which will assist the citizens in any emergency. The college has been right behind the town in this venture and has willingly cooperated to make this protection possible.

Homecoming Schedule

At eleven o’clock in the morning, a cross-country meet with Duke will take place. Following this, at eleven forty-five, there will be a meeting of the Alumni Association in the auditorium of Chambers Building, where Dr. Lingle will welcome the alumni. Mr. Pfohl, director of music, will play on the organ, and the coaches will be presented to the alumni. At twelve-thirty, there will be a lunch in the hall of Chambers, at which time the concert orchestra will play. The feature of the day’s program will be the football game between Duke and Davidson, with the kick-off at two-thirty.

The photographers for the 1934 “Quips and Cranks” have been in Davidson since last Monday and expect to remain throughout the week. It was definitely stated by members of the annual staff that this is the photographers’ last visit to Davidson, and that it will be necessary for students wishing to have their pictures made to make arrangements for sittings this week. Faculty pictures, fall fraternity groups, and all other campus activities are also being made at the present time. The photographer will return in the spring to take the basketball, baseball, and track pictures. However, it was announced by the staff that no student pictures will be taken at that time. Due to the added expense of each additional trip of the photographer from Philadelphia, all students are urged to have their pictures made before Saturday, in order that this section of the book may be closed.

“D” Club to Meet Every Two Weeks
Monogram Club Plans to Close Gridiron Season With Big Dance

Most of the members of the college “D” Club were present at an important meeting held last Wednesday night in the club hall on west campus. Officers present included Mack Holland, president, who presided, and Miller Cochrane, secretary-treasurer. A proposal that the “D” Club entertain visiting athletic teams at Davidson was favorably discussed, and it is planned to write each team a friendly letter of welcome before the contest, entertain the visitors at movies and fraternity houses during their stay.

Two Lecturers Are Secured by Committee
Dr. Newsome, of U. N. C., and A. J. Toynbee Are Selected

Two lecturers have been secured by the Lecture Committee, of which Dr. Shewmake is the chairman, to present addresses to the Davidson students and faculty during the month of November. Both of these lectures will be in the field of history. The first of these, Dr. Newsome, secretary of the North Carolina Historical Commission and of the North Carolina Literary and Historical Association, will deliver a lecture on November 6th, concerning some phase of history.

Prof. Williams Gives Advice to Freshmen

At a brief meeting of the Freshman class after chapel Monday, Professor J. P. Williams, Dean of Freshmen, gave the new men some advice and explanation in regard to the rules connected with the results of the first month's review. Professor Williams explained that there was some concession allowed to Freshmen failing to pass as many as three three-hour semester courses, the danger of expulsion (in this case) being less likely at the end of the first month. The first-year men were, however, enjoined to start work in earnest now, more so than ever, because continued failures might mean a request for withdrawal at the mid-semester or Christmas examination periods.

FOR STRONG DUKE TEAM
Football Features Homecoming Event
Wildcat Team Pointing to Important Game With Tennessee’s Conquerors
EXPECT LARGE CROWD
Blue Devils Have Impressive Record

Homecoming, always looked forward to by students and alumni as the red-letter day on Davidson's social calendar, will find the Wildcats pitted against one of the strongest football teams in the South when they encounter the Duke Blue Devils Saturday on Richardson Field. The two teams will enter the fray with the odds strongly in favor of the Duke aggregation, who have won by decisive scores every game played this season. In last year’s contest, the ‘Cats held the Blue Devils to but two touchdowns, the score being 13 to 0. While Davidson was busy defeating V. M. I’s “Flying Squadron” last Saturday, a powerful, well-polished Duke eleven hammered its way to a clear-cut victory over the highly-vaunted University of Tennessee Volunteers, 10-2. The Dukes outplayed the Vols throughout the entire game, making eight first downs to the visitors’ two, and gaining 131 yards by rushing, to their opponents’ 95. During the past seven years, until the game last Saturday, U. T.’s Volunteers had been beaten only twice, one of those defeats being at the hands of Alabama’s Crimson Tide, when coached by Wallace Wade, who is now head mentor at Duke. Previous to the Tennessee game, Duke had walloped both V. M. I. and Wake Forest by scores of 37-6 and 22-0, respectively. Nor does Davidson, with three victories and one defeat, have a record to be ignored. Elon, Wofford, and V. M. I. have fallen victims to the Wildcats by scores of 6-0, 28-13, and 6-0, respectively. North Carolina gave Davidson its only defeat.

Frat. Council Elects W. T. Thompson as Head
Twenty Honorary Fraternities Represented at Meeting

At a meeting of the Honorary Fraternity Council on Tuesday, October 10, W. T. Thompson was elected president and Rufus Morrow, secretary of the organization. This council insures smooth cooperation between the different societies in their activities and programs. Dates and times of meetings were decided on. Members of the council include the Literary Societies, Scabbard and Blade, Pi Delta Alpha, Ministerial Band, Eta Sigma Phi, “D” Club, Sigma Delta Psi, Alpha Phi Epsilon, Delta Pi Kappa, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, O. D. K., Sigma Pi Sigma, Le Cercle Francais, Mu Beta Psi, Delta Phi Alpha, Beaver Club, Omega Phi Alpha, Sigma Upsilon, and Red and Black.

Paul Pittman Named as Soph. Councilman

In the Sophomore voting last week, Paul Pittman was elected to replace Dick Parker on the Student Council. The balloting lasted three days with John Partridge as the runner-up in the final run-off. Four men were nominated by the council and two were added by the class as candidates for this office. Lamont Brown, Herman Dillard, John Partridge, and Paul Pittman ran as council nominees, while Henry Cathey and J. B. Goslen were selected by the class itself. In the first ballot, Brown, Cathey, and Goslen were eliminated, leaving Dillard, Partridge, and Pittman in the running. The third ballot found only Partridge and Pittman to be voted on.