THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 11, 1933

DAVIDSON 28 WOFFORD 13

Around the Wildcat’s Lair

'Cats Tackle V.M.I.

Well, boys, the old Davidson Wildcats continued their A-grade brand of football, and took over the Wofford Terriers, 28 to 13. Despite a first-quarter Wofford touchdown, made when Davidson second-stringers were on the field, and another in the final canto, the ’Cats were decidedly masters of the situation throughout the game.

It would break the editor to even present carnations this week, much less orchids, as so many of the local lads played some splendid ball. Take Dewey Hutchins, for instance. That boy, who has been used largely as a blocking back, was given the ball on several occasions and checked out for long gains. More power to him.

Then there was “Little Joe” Wingfield, whose sweeping end runs, and sharp off-tackle thrusts largely aided the Davidson cause. Wingfield made the initial Davidson touchdown, and also kicked the extra point. In this line, Davidson showed a decided adeptness, four Wildcats trying the after-touchdown kicks, and all making good. Wingfield, Pittman, Hutchins, and Ravenel were the men who did the kicking.

Wimpy Ravenel, thrust into the fracas in the last quarter, carved his niche in the Hall of Fame when he intercepted a pass on his own 10-yard marker, and raced through the entire Wofford team before he was finally nabbed on the Terrier 20-yard stripe. A touchdown followed, largely as a result of this spectacular run.

The line also comes in for a decided share of praise. A. J. Potter, Charlie Rives, John Siewers, Henry Cathey, Coley Windham, Jim Morgan, and Julian West all gave those Wofford boys plenty to think about. Potter was particularly outstanding.

The dynamo of the Wofford attack was Bouknight, pile-driving fullback. He ripped the Wildcat line to shreds on several occasions, and was largely responsible for Wofford’s scoring two touchdowns.

The varsity tackles V.M.I. this week on Richardson Field, in what is termed by many as the football classic of the week. The two teams have met fifteen times before, with V.M.I. holding an edge of two games in the win column. After success as a predictor in the game with Wofford, the editor predicts a victory for Davidson over the Flying Squadron. In all probability Mackorell and Willson will be used sparingly or not at all. This is a blow to the Davidson cause, but that string of backs who showed what they could do down at Spartanburg will be in there and we still pick the ’Cats to take the Cadets.

Backs like Legare, Burns, Verble, and Ravenel showed plenty of fire against Wofford, and should give those massive V.M.I. forwards plenty to worry about. Army gave the V.M.I. boys a nice 32 to 0 shellacking last Saturday. However, this does not indicate weakness at the Virginia school, but merely power at West Point. This was by no means a poor showing as we can see, when we compare the showing of the V.M.I. boys with that of their neighbors, the University of Virginia, who bowed to Ohio State, 75 to 0.

As a prognosticator, the old boy picked fifteen right and six wrong for a percentage of .714 in his initial attempt, and so here goes for this week with the ed’s choice in capitals:

DAVIDSON vs. V.M.I.
WOFFORD vs. Lenoir-Rhyne.
CATAWBA vs. Newberry.
GUILFORD vs. Randolph-Macon.
ROANOKE vs. Elon.
Western Carolina vs. APPALACHIAN.
North Carolina vs. GEORGIA.
N.C. STATE vs. Florida.
Duke vs. TENNESSEE.
CLEMSON vs. George Washington.

(Continued on page 6)

WILDCATS WIN OVER WOFFORD ELEVEN 28-17

Fighting Davidson Team Scores Four Touchdowns to Lick Wofford

WOFFORD STUBBORN

Ravenel, Wingfield, and Willson Furnish Thrills

With both teams showing decided offensive power, the Davidson Wildcats took their annual game from the Wofford Terriers by a score of 28 to 13. The game was played in Spartanburg last Saturday.

Coach Newton started his shock troops for Davidson, and the Terriers immediately took advantage of the situation, and a short punt put them in possession of the ball in mid-field in the opening minutes of the game. Here they began a drive, which with Bouknight doing most of the ball-toting, was not stopped until Crouch had gone over for the touchdown. Anderson added the extra point to put Wofford in the lead, 7 to 0.

The Wildcats immediately took the situation in charge, and made their touchdown drive. Holding the ball around the 50-yard line, with fourth down and two yards to go, Willson tore around end for 30 yards before being dropped, and successive line plays by Wingfield and Mackorell placed the ball in scoring position as the quarter ended. As the second period opened Wingfield carried the ball over, and then added the extra point from placement to tie things up at 7 to 7.

Shortly thereafter Davidson gained possession of the ball in mid-field, after the Terriers had failed to gain in their allotted four downs. Clever reverses mixed with sparkling end runs put the Davidson boys again in scoring territory, with “Schnoz” Willson bucking over for the touchdown. Hutchins added the extra point with a well-directed place kick. Score: Davidson 14, Wofford 7.

At the beginning of the third stanza, the Davidson boys launched their aerial attack in earnest. A moment later Midget Verble weaved his trail through the Wofford boys for a third Davidson touchdown, Pittman adding the extra point. Score: Davidson 21, Wofford 7.

In an attempt to pull the game out of the fire, the Terriers also took to the air in the final quarter. By mixing some successful tosses in with some plain and fancy running, the Terriers chalked up another touchdown. Anderson and Bouknight led the drive, and Anderson passed to Gallman for the score. The kick was blocked. Score: Davidson 21, Wofford 13.

The Wofford boys dug their cleats deep into Davidson territory again, and were on the ’Cats’ 20-yard stripe when Wimpy Ravenel intercepted Anderson’s pass, and took off towards the goal. He was finally brought down on the Wofford 20-yard line. Line plays yielded the distance, and Johnny Mackorell bucked over for Davidson's fourth and last touchdown, with Ravenel adding the extra point. Score: Davidson 28, Wofford 13.

The running attack of Davidson pony backs, Wingfield, Mackorell, Willson, Hutchins, Pittman, Burns, Legare, Ravenel, and Verble, all of whom saw action, appeared largely responsible for the four Davidson touchdowns. The line, too, opened wide holes for the “Pony Express” to ride through, the work of Potter, Siewers, and Cathey being particularly commendable. Hutchins’ blocking was decidedly worthy of mention.

Bouknight, hard-hitting fullback, appeared to be the spark-plug of the Wofford eleven, and was highly responsible for the scoring of Wofford’s two touchdowns.

Line-up:
Davidson (28) Pos. Wofford (13)

Outstanding Blocker

DEWEY HUTCHINS HALFBACK

DEWEY HUTCHINS

Shown above is Dewey Hutchins, used largely as one of the “Unsung Heroes,” a blocking back, who got loose against Wofford on several occasions.

A Tribute

The entire sporting world was saddened and greatly depressed to hear last Tuesday of the death of W. L. “Young” Stribling, Southern boxer. The game young fighter succumbed to peritonitis, which set in following the crushing of his pelvis and left foot in a motorcycle accident two days before.

At this time, when his death is so fresh in the minds of all of us who love clean sports, and clean sportsmanship, we feel that a word in praise of “Young” Stribling is decidedly in order. Starting from the bottom, with the aid of his father and mother, who were his manager, trainer, and best backers, this fighting Southern boy rose through a series of minor fights to arrive at a point just short of the championship of the world. However, even in that last fight, when he was so hopelessly battered by the heavy pounding of the fists of the powerful Uhlan, Max Schmeling, he fought gamely, scarcely able to see, until the referee could no longer allow the fight to continue, and awarded Schmeling a technical knockout.

And so, even as he had lived, a true son of the South, and as game a lad as ever donned a glove and climbed between the ropes, Stribling passed on, surrounded by his best backers, mother, father, wife, and child, and fighting to the end.

Scoring touchdowns: Davidson—Wingfield, Willson, Mackorell, Verble. Wofford—Crouch, Gallman. Points after touchdown: Davidson—Wingfield, Hutchins, Pittman, Ravenel. Wofford—Anderson.L.E. Gallman | Ross LT, L. King | Craven L.G. Knotts | West Center M. Jones Johnston R.G. Hoover Hand RT, Harding Windham RE. Moore Wingfield QB, Anderson Hutchins LH Funderburke LeGare RH Crouch Burns F.B Bouknight

Score by periods:
Davidson -------- 0 14 7 7—28
Wofford -------- 7 0 0 6—13

Substitutes:
Davidson—Mackorell, Rives, Cathey, Potter, Batte, Willson, Verble, Rice, Lee, Pittman, Ravenel, Siewers, Thompson.
Wofford—Hawes, Parnell, McCravey, Lineberger, Smith.

Officials—Causet (South Carolina), referee; Von Kolnitz (South Carolina), umpire; Ison (N. C. State), head linesman.

CLEMSON WINS IN GAME WITH N.C. STATE 9-0
Duke Licks Wake Forest in Only Big Five Battle
ARMY 32; V. M. I. 0
The Citadel Tied and W. & M. Defeated

While Davidson was busy defeating Wofford last Saturday afternoon, the current football season was truly getting underway, with seven other contests taking place in which the eight remaining 1933 grid opponents of the Wildcats participated. The only Big Five battle of the day was waged between Duke and Wake Forest, the Blue Devils emerging the victors with a one-sided score of 22-0. Vanderbilt had a struggle in defeating North Carolina, the score being 20-13. Clemson scored an upset by overcoming North Carolina State 9-0, as the Elon Christians won a 7-6 victory over the Langley Field Airmen, and Army walloped V. M. I., Davidson’s next opponent, by a score of 32 to 0. The Newberry-Citadel game ended in a 7-7 tie, while Washington and Lee licked William and Mary, 7-0.

Although Duke was by no means hard-pressed to win Saturday, nevertheless Wake Forest was impressive, even in defeat. The Demon Deacons held Duke’s second string team to almost no gain in the first quarter, and during the second period, the Blue Devil varsity was able to ring up only one tally. But the last half found Duke playing a steadier game, to score 16 points and bring the total to 22.

Long forward passes featured the game between Carolina and Vanderbilt, with every touchdown coming as the direct result of yardage gained through aerial attacks. The Tar Heels had an advantage in pass yardage, with 139 to the Commodores’ 95. Carolina was outplayed during the entire first canto, as Vanderbilt completed pass after pass to score two touchdowns; the third score came in the fourth period.

The highlight of the Clemson-State encounter was the performance of Clemson’s Alex Stevens, whose brilliant punting and running gave the Tigers the margin over State throughout the game. His punts averaged 37 yards, one long boot in the first quarter traveling 75 yards to State's five-yard stripe. Moreover, Stevens pounded the highly touted State line for a total of 54 yards in 15 tries.

In the game with Langley Field Airmen, the Elon Christians found themselves trailing 6-0 as the half ended. But the North Carolinians played better ball in the third period, pushing over a touchdown, and then gaining the winning point as Neal flipped a pass to Brownley.

The Army Cadet eleven took V. M. I. into tow very easily, showing great speed as King and Buckler made long gains through the line and returned punts for considerable yardage. The passing attack of the West Pointers proved to be of great strength when Army made four touchdowns in the second and third quarters.

Citadel was highly rated to win over Newberry, but only a last-minute touchdown enabled them to tie the Indians, 7 to 7. Both teams failed to show any substantial drive during the first three periods, and as the fourth quarter began, both were scoreless.

(Continued on page 6)

Snap in tailoring, quality in material and all that’s up to the minute. All that’s new in Top Coats, Raglans, Polos and Tubes in the leading fabrics.

High Art Clothing Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
114 SOUTH TRYON ST.

SODA
COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”
NEXT DOOR TO POST OFFICE
SANDWICHES SCHOOL SUPPLIES DRUGS

Johnny Mackorell, 'Cat triple-threat quarterback, who returned to the fray last Saturday after being on the injured list for the first three weeks of the season.

As the time for the first scheduled cross-country meet comes near, the varsity and freshman squads seem to be fast approaching good condition. The first meet for both yearling and varsity groups is set for next Saturday, when the freshmen run against the Winston-Salem High School team, and the varsity ties up with the Winston-Salem All Stars. Last year both the Wildkittens and the ’Cats won over the Winston teams by large margins, and with strong teams in prospect, they hope to repeat their victories.

In the first time trials, held last Friday, Frazier ran the three-mile distance in the fast time of 16 minutes flat, followed within a minute's time by six of his teammates. Cox, who has been showing up well for the freshmen, ran the two-mile course in 11 minutes, 20 seconds.

The varsity schedule, as arranged so far, shows a meet with Winston-Salem on October 14, Duke here October 21, on the morning of Homecoming; Washington and Lee here, to be on November 3, and University of Virginia at Charlottesville, November 18. The freshman schedule is not yet known completely, but they will meet the Duke freshmen on Homecoming along with the varsity.

“D” CLUB PLANS BIG WELCOMING
President Holland stated, “The ‘D’ Club meets every two weeks to discuss the Davidson athletic program for the year.” The other officers of the club are Charlie Rives, vice-president, and Miller Cochran, secretary.

V. M. I. MEETS ‘CAT GRIDMEN HERE OCT. 14
Davidson to Engage Cadets Here Saturday in Annual Classic
FIFTEENTH CONTEST
Wildcats Superior to Squadron Paper

The Wildcats will play their second home game of the season Saturday with V. M. I’s “Flying Squadron” furnishing the opposition. Although the Cadets have not done so well this year, they are expected to put up a hard fight and Coaches Newton and McEver are drilling their charges accordingly.

Davidson will probably enter the game Saturday the slight favorites as far as comparative scores go, and as far as the previous showing of the two teams is concerned. In the three games that Davidson has played so far, two are in the won column and one in the lost column, while V. M. I. has lost all three of their games, although they faced much stronger opposition. The Wildcats have scored 34 points to their opponents’ 19, while the Cadets have countered 6 points to their opponents’ 89.

V. M. I.’s opening game of the season was somewhat of a disappointment, being defeated 20-0 by a strong Emory and Henry team. In their second game of the season, the Cadets played the powerful Duke University team at Greensboro and were swamped 37-6 in a one-sided contest. The only Cadet score came as a result of a blocked punt, which was recovered by V. M. I. and converted into a touchdown in the first period of the game. The beautiful punting of Penn, V. M. I. end, held off more than one attack and was one of the outstanding features of the game, while Meredith Urick, quarterback, did very well in the backfield.

Last Saturday the Cadets were taken into camp, 32-0, by the fast Army eleven, in the second and third periods. The Virginia team fought pluckily and held off half a dozen attacks in the first and final quarters, but the West Point team was decidedly too fast and heavy.

Davidson’s two victories, over Elon and Wofford, and the “moral” victory over Carolina have shown that the ‘Cats have a team which stands a good chance of defeating V. M. I. However, the ’Cats exhibited a weak defense against Wofford, and Coaches “Doc” Newton and “Gene” McEver are putting special emphasis on this part of the game. Several long scrimmages were held during the first part of the week, and Coach Newton is gradually whipping his squad into shape for the coming contest, which promises to be a hard one.

Both teams will be able to put practically their full strength on the field, and Saturday should see a mighty battle between the two gridiron rivals.

We Guarantee Our Work
We Appreciate Your Business
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Davidson Theatre
THURSDAY
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, JR.—KATHERINE HEPBURN
“WALLS OF GOLD”

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
NORMAN FOSTER—SALLY EILERS
“WALLS OF GOLD”

WEDNESDAY
“ANNE VICKERS”
IRENE DUNNE—BRUCE CABOT—WALTER HUSTON

FRIDAY
“MORNING GLORY”
KATHERINE HEPBURN

SATURDAY
“TOO MUCH HARMONY”
BING CROSBY—JUDITH ALLEN