FINAL ISSUE

CONGRATULATIONS COMMENCEMENT COACH MAY 28-30 LAIRD

-Qlenda Lux Abi Orta Libertas

Vol. XX : DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 17, 1933 No. 30

ATHLETES GIVEN AWARDS IN ALL SPRING SPORTS

Bob Fetzer, U.N.C. Director of Athletics, Speaks at Annual Athletic Day Ceremonies

FROSH RECEIVE NUMERALS

Archer Wins Physical Development Trophy Over Yarborough

Robert A. Fetzer, Davidson graduate and former Davidson coach, who is now director of athletics at the University of North Carolina, was the speaker of the occasion, when Davidson honored her athletes at the chapel hour Tuesday morning in Chambers Auditorium. The annual affair, which in past years was held at night and at the beginning of the spring sports program, was presided over by Charlie Pearce, retiring president of the Athletic Association. Certificates were presented to athletes who earned letters in football, basketball, wrestling, track, baseball, tennis, and golf during the past school year. Following this was the awarding of the Physical Improvement Trophy to William Archer, a member of the Freshman class, who showed the greatest amount of muscular development during the year. The Gymnastic Trophy, awarded each year to the winner in gymnastic competition, was presented to Lacy Adcox, a member of the Junior class. Ralph McMillan, director and coach of athletics at Barium Springs Orphanage, was awarded the gold football given each year by the Athletic Association to the alumnus showing the most interest in Davidson sports. Before introducing the speaker, Charlie Pearce presented footballs won by the Wildcats in their 1932 season to E. L. Willson, newly elected president of the association. Announcement was made of the awarding of varsity letters and freshman numerals to athletes who took part in spring sports. Forty-five upperclassmen earned their varsity “D,” of which thirty-four were for baseball and track. The monograms and numerals awarded in the spring sports were:

Varsity baseball letters: Baily, G. E., Hickory; Bumgarner, F. L., Belmont; Harris, C. C., Welch, W. Va.; Mackorell, J. C., Miami, Fla.; Mills, A. L., Statesville; Mock, F. L., Lexington; Morgan, J. R., Albemarle; Morris, W. J., Hattiesburg, Miss.; Morrison, J. G., Stanley; Morrison, J. D., Stanley; Peabody, E. B., Charlotte; Pearce, C. W., Plant City, Fla.; West, J. Whitley, J. C., Burlington; Ruffin (Mgr.).

Varsity track letters: Bettis, C. E., Morristown, Tenn.; Cochran, F. M., Davidson; Dickerson, F. L., Greensboro; Fleagle, F. B., Davidson; Flinn, W. A., Atlanta, Ga.; Glasgow, D. M., Charlotte; Gullette, G. L., Blacksburg, Va.; Gwynn, W. B., North Wilkesboro; Howard, J. R., Atlanta, Ga.; Little, A. G., Valdosta, Ga.; Little, C. H., Charlotte; McCallie, R. L., Chattanooga, Tenn.; McPhail, E. F., Charlotte; McFadyen, A. A., Raeford; Morrow, R. C., Zitacuaro, Mexico; Pratt, L. W., Louisville, Ky.; Rhyne, H. H., Mt. Holly; Wagner, J. M., Statesville; Sherrod, G. S., Greensboro (Mgr.).

(Continued on page 4)

R. O. T. C. Competition

Last Friday afternoon at the final military drill of the year, the annual company competition was held. Cadet Captain Paul Brown, commander of Company “B,” was presented with a loving cup for the best company. A similar trophy is given every year to the commander of the company which makes the best showing in the competitive drill. This year Captain Brown, ably assisted by Lieutenants Flinn, Smith, Calhoun, and Mackorell, has worked hard with his men and developed them into a most unusually well-drilled group. The judges of the competitive drill were Major Rhett, Captain Cochran, and Captain Seifert, professors of military science and tactics.

Junior Marshals

By a recent vote of the Junior class, Lyman Clardy, Mack Holland, Duck Powell, and Fred Smyre were elected to serve as Junior Marshals during the commencement. Alex Little had previously been selected by the Senior class from last year’s Junior Marshals, Bill Mulliss, Bruce Peabody, and Charles Norfleet to serve as Chief Marshal. The four juniors were selected from a group of ten nominees. On the first ballot, Clardy, Powell, and Smyre were chosen, and Holland was selected on the second ballot. Boggs Corbin, John Drake, Brewster Grant, Lynn Huie, Wee Thompson, and Julian West were the other nominees.

Students Attend N. C. Federation

Brown, Clark, Smyre, and West Represent Davidson at Student Convention

Last Friday and Saturday, Gordon Brown, Jerome Clark, Fred Smyre, and Julian West attended the North Carolina Federation of Students’ convention at Chapel Hill. At lunch Friday, President Graham of the University of North Carolina spoke. Shortly after lunch a meeting of the convention was called. At supper that night Mr. Carl Goerch made a talk that was quite humorous. Saturday morning was devoted to discussion groups. These groups were divided into: Honor System, Discipline, Publications, College Athletics. At lunch Saturday, Dean Herring of Duke delivered an address. After lunch the convention was called together again and the election of officers was held; also, the resolutions of the convention were recorded. A banquet was held that night for the convention, at which the officers for next year were installed. After the banquet, all were invited to the Grail Dance. This year the convention was considerably larger than it has been. Several junior colleges were represented. By way of this convention, each institution is given the opportunity to profit by the best points in the student government of the other institutions of the state.

Dr. C. F. Myers Closes Y. M. C. A. Vesper Services

Large Vesper Audience Hears Dr. Myers Speak on “Peerless Individualism”

The year’s series of Y. M. C. A. vesper services was brought to a close last Sunday night when Dr. Charles F. Myers, of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, delivered the final address. The service was opened with the singing of two hymns, after which Bill Flinn read the First Psalm as the Scripture lesson. Sam Wiley then led in prayer. The quartet of the Myer’s Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte led the singing and offered two beautiful selections. The theme of Dr. Myers’ message was “Fearless Individualism,” his text being the words of our Lord, “What is that to thee? Follow me.” He began by telling the story of a certain official who was to leave his city, and who called before him the outstanding men of various vocations, desiring to learn what each had accomplished along his own walk of life. Men of numerous occupations—ministers, doctors, and business men—all gave glowing reports of what they had done to further the development of civilization. A teacher was then asked what he had done, and replied that he had not accomplished much; that he had only taught all the other men to do the work of which they were so proud. In this connection, the speaker said that the professors of Davidson bear the same relation to their students as this teacher bore to his fellow townsmen. Dr. Myers then stated that there are three stages in every man’s life: one in which he asserts himself, another in which he is disgusted with himself, and still another, when

(Continued on page 3)

NINETY-SEVENTH CLASS TO RECEIVE DIPLOMAS MAY 30

Dr. Coffin and Dr. Lacy to Be Principal Speakers at Graduation Exercises

FACULTY GIVE RECEPTION

Seniors to Lead Discussions Before Alumni Association

Dr. Henry Sloane Coffin, of New York City, and Dr. Ben R. Lacy, of Richmond, Va., are the principal speakers for the ninety-seventh annual commencement exercises of Davidson College, which begin Sunday, May 28, and continue through Tuesday. Dr. Coffin will deliver the baccalaureate sermon Sunday morning, and Dr. Lacy will make the commencement address at the graduation exercises Tuesday night. Dr. Coffin, a Presbyterian minister, is one of the most widely known preachers in the United States. He is also a famed author and has written many religious works. Dr. Coffin is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and received his education at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, at Yale, and at Harvard. Dr. Lacy, Davidson graduate in 1902, is president of the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. He was a Rhodes Scholar and won many honors during his years at Davidson. This brilliant speaker has been heard several times before on visits to Davidson. On Monday at 5:00 p.m., there will be a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Alumni Council. The Alumni Council will meet at 8:00 p.m. the same day. Alumni Day will take place on Tuesday and several interesting and unusual meetings have been arranged. There will beFour alumni discussion groups will be held at 10:00 a.m. Each discussion group will be led by three or four members of the Senior class. The purpose of the gatherings is to give the alumni inside information about the (Continued on page 4).

Branton and Evans Are Elected Soph Officers
Bowman, Branton, Cumbie, Evans, Goslin, Lindsay, Sutlive, Taylor, Nominated

Coleman Branton was elected vice-president of the rising Sophomore class, and Ras Evans was elected secretary and treasurer in the election held during chapel on Saturday, May 13. Bob Richardson, class president, called a meeting of the class on Thursday morning after chapel. At this meeting, Bowman, Branton, Cumbie, and Sutlive were nominated for vice-president, and Evans, Goslin, Lindsay, and Mills Taylor for secretary and treasurer of the class. The first ballot was held in chapel on Friday morning, when Cumbie and Sutlive, nominees for vice-president, and Goslin and Taylor, nominees for secretary and treasurer, were eliminated. The run-off on Saturday morning resulted in the election of Branton and Evans.

Both Branton and Evans have been active in campus activities during their one year at Davidson. “Cokey” Branton is an assistant football manager and is on the business staff of the “Quips and Cranks.” Ras Evans has made a fine record in freshman track.

Cheap Railway Rates

Announcement was made recently by the Southern Railway System of several special bargain round-trip arrangements. In these trips, the fare will be one cent for each mile traveled between stations in the South. One of these round-trip groups is especially interesting to Davidson alumni, as it will enable them to attend commencement at minimum transportation rates. Tickets are on sale May 27, 28, and 29, and the return limit is June 3, more than covering the commencement period.

Dr. C. S. Matthews Dies

Rev. C. S. Matthews, D.D., an alumnus of Davidson College, passed away at his home in Lumberton, N.C., last Thursday. It is thought that his death was caused by heart failure. Dr. Matthews was a graduate of the class of 1895. He acted as an assistant professor here at Davidson for a while, and then went to Princeton Theological Seminary. He was a pastor in Kentucky for some time. Later, he moved to North Carolina, where he served as pastor of the Lumberton Presbyterian Church until his death. His son, W. C. Matthews, a student at Davidson, left Thursday to attend the funeral. The students extend to him their deepest regrets and sincerest sympathies in his sorrow.

Dramatic Group Gives Last Play

“The Importance of Being Earnest” Is Last Production of Masquers

The final curtain was rung down on the current theatrical season of the Davidson Red and Black Masquers with their production of Oscar Wilde’s “The Importance of Being Earnest,” a three-act comedy, before a large and appreciative audience last Friday night at Chambers Auditorium. A talented cast produced the play, and the action was ably characterized by the Thespians. The play was under the direction of Ed Hancock and supervised by Professor E. J. Erwin. The cast was as follows:

John Worthing - Wills Hollingsworth
Algernon Moncrieff - Nicholas Moss
Rev. Canon Chasuble - Gordon Wood
Merriman - Bill Johnson
Gwendolyn - Lady Bracknell
Cecily Cardew - Miss Prism
Miss Orrie Steele

The plot concerned Ernest Worthington, a carefree young gentleman of England, and his efforts to win the hand of Gwendolyn Fairfax, whose social career was planned by her aunt, Lady Bracknell. Ernest’s wishes are blocked by his friend Algernon Moncrieff, who, in turn, is in love with Cecily (Continued on page 4).

Various Courses to Be Given in Summer School

Professor Fred K. Fleagle Will Again Be Director of Summer Session

The summer session of Davidson College for the year 1933 will begin, as authorized by the trustees, on June 5 and end on July 14. The requirements for admission to this session are the same as those for the regular session, since all of the courses offered are of college grade and character and are so recognized by the college. Professor Fred K. Fleagle will be the director of the summer session again this year. All communications regarding summer school should be addressed to him.

Work will be offered in English, History, Political Science, Education, Bible, Mathematics, Economics, Foreign Languages, and Sciences, with the understanding that no class will be given in any special branch of these subjects unless there is a reasonable demand for it. Teachers should be interested in two special courses that are being offered in the field of elementary education. The fees for the summer session, payable to the college, will be $47, distributed as follows: Tuition—$30, Room Rent—$12.50, and Laundry—$4.50. Board will run from $5.00 to $6.00 a week.

FESTIVAL MARSHAL

W. Allen Mebane, Jr., president of the Senior class, is one of the marshals of North Carolina’s first Cotton Festival, which is being held in Raleigh this Friday.

LITERARY SOCIETIES

The Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary Societies held installation of officers at their regular meetings Tuesday night, May 9th.

WILDCATS WILL FINISH AT TOP DESPITE DEFEAT

By Duke—Davidson Licks State Monday and Wake Forest Tuesday to Retain Lead

PEARCE BESTS BARNES

Duke’s Victory Gives Wake Forest Chance to Tie ’Cats

In spite of dropping the final game of the season to Duke Wednesday, the Davidson Wildcats retained their lead in the Big Five race. Their lead is by virtue of five wins as compared with three losses, as Wake Forest places second with four victories and three defeats. Should Wake Forest defeat Duke tomorrow, they will tie Davidson for the state championship, but if Duke defeats Wake, the ’Cats will get the title. Sports writers in the state refuse to give Davidson credit for a third victory over Carolina in the Big Five standings. Credit for three victories over the Tar Heels would clinch the title for Coach Laird’s boys with six wins and three losses.

The Big Five standings:
Won Lost Pct.
Davidson 5 3 .625
Wake Forest 4 3 .571
North Carolina 3 3 .500
N. C. State 3 4 .429
Duke 2 4 .333

In three games played on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday of this week, Davidson licked State, 12 to 8; Wake Forest, 2 to 1; and dropped a ragged contest to Duke, 7 to 4.

Duke 7, Davidson 4

Wildcat errors served to defeat the Davidson team on Richardson Field Wednesday, Duke winning 7 to 4. For five innings, things went about even with the ’Cats having a slight edge due to Mackorell’s circuit clout, but the Blue Devils evened things up in their turn at bat. They followed this with another run in the sixth, four in the eighth, and still another in the final canto. The Davidson team tried a rally in the last two innings. They scored once in the eighth when the speed merchant, Mills, streaked around the sacks to score a home run. Then in the final frame, with two away, Bumgarner hit a four-bagger, scoring relief hurler Harris ahead of him. Peabody grounded out to retire the side and end the ball game.

Baily started for Davidson and was touched for seven bingles during the little more than seven innings that he worked. However, poor support was largely responsible for his downfall. Poor support to George Baily.

The line-ups:
Duke AB R H O A E
Welsh, 2b 4 0 2 3 2 0
Mitchell, cf 4 0 1 0 0 0
Michael, ss 4 1 1 2 3 0
Wagner, lf 3 2 0 4 0 0
Thompson, rf 5 1 2 0 0 0
Wentz, c 5 0 2 2 0 0
Weaver, 1b 4 2 2 13 0 0
Hendrickson, 3b 4 1 0 1 0 0
Coombs, p 4 0 1 0 2 0
Totals 37 7 11 27 7 0
(Continued on page 6)

Pan-Hellenic Council

The ten social fraternities on the campus have elected the following representatives for the Pan-Hellenic Council during the coming year: Beta Theta Pi, Fred Smyre; Pi Kappa Alpha, Buck Kirkland; Kappa Alpha, Fred McPhail; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sid Tomlinson; Kappa Sigma, Mac Holland; Phi Gamma Delta, Duck Powell; Pi Kappa Phi, Brad McLean; Theta Upsilon Omega, Miller Cochran; Phi Delta Theta, Ben Barnes; Sigma Phi Epsilon, John H. The new council has had no meeting as yet, but one will be called soon in order to elect the new president. Bill Mulliss, of Martinsburg, W. Va., filled this office during the past year.