THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 1, 1933 - DUKE BLUE DEVIL WRESTLERS HERE THURSDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

MOUNT PLEASANT MEET FRESHMEN THURSDAY

Davidson Freshmen Lose to Wofford Yearlings in Preliminary

Davidson College’s basketball team had its first taste of victory this season last Tuesday night, January 24th, when it downed the quint of Wofford College 27 to 25 in a most exciting extra period tilt. In a preliminary game, the Wildkittens suffered defeat at the hands of the Wofford Fresh, being crushed by the score of 37 to 20.

The varsity game started exceedingly slow as neither team was able to score at first. Although both Davidson and Wofford took many shots at the basket, the ball did not drop through. The South Carolina team was the first to score and for a while the two scores remained nearly the same. But about the middle of the half, Wofford began slowly to get the edge on the ’Cats and when the half ended, the former were leading 14 to 5. Davidson’s defense seemed to be holding exceedingly well during the first half, but somehow Mooneyham, Wofford's tall, lanky center, eased the ball through the hoop to chalk up seven of the 14 points scored by his team during the period.

The second half, both teams started fast. This time, however, it was Davidson's time to have the advantage and she certainly took it. Although approximately the same men began the second half as the first, it seemed like another Wildcat team entirely. They started from the whistle to fill up the gap in the scores, and as the gun sounded, Harris dropped in the foul that tied the score. In spite of Wofford’s admirable attempts, they were unable to do so. Their defense and their will were strong, but the score told the tale.

Davidson scored first during the five-minute extra period, but on the next play Wofford tied the score again. Then the visitors scored again only to have the ’Cats score. Wofford scored a foul, making the score 25-26, but just as the gun sounded, Dickerson of Davidson dropped a foul in and the game ended Davidson 27, Wofford 25. The play of Mooneyham, for Wofford, and Boucher, for Davidson, was brilliant. The former was high scorer, scoring 11 points.

Davidson (27) : Wofford (25)
Ross (4) RF. Robertson
Harris (7) LF. Burlington (9)
Holland (4) Center Mooneyham (11)
Peabody (6) RG. Cannon (5)
Boucher (1) LG. Leaker

Substitutions: Davidson — Lafferty (4), Wagner, Dickerson (1); Wofford — Few, Norvell, Shuller, Allen.
Referee: Hackney.

The Freshman game was an entirely different tale. Both teams started off in good shape and apparently ended up in the same shape except that one had a larger score than the other. Although the Wildkittens scored first, they were unable to hold the lead and early in the first half the visitors began to pile up their score, but were unable to advance further. The South Carolina Fresh sustained the attack and then began to pile their own score higher, until the end of the game when the score stood 37 to 20.

Despite the defeat at the hands of Washington and Lee, Davidson’s wrestling team has shown improvement and should give a good account of themselves. Coach Unger appeared with the team Monday for the first time since he became ill ten days ago. His team made the Pennsylvania trip without him, and since its return had been working out regularly without his personal instruction. Although still weak, Coach Unger hopes to have his team ready for the Duke match.

Varsity Wins First Victory By Defeating Wofford 27-25

Dick Parker Leads In Freshman Scoring

Dick Parker, star Freshman guard, is leading the Freshmen in individual scoring for the first five games of the season. Parker scored 11 field goals and four free throws to take the lead with 26 points. Coley Windham was second with 21 points and Hack Sanders third with 16. Windham gathered his total by scoring eight field goals and five free throws, while Sanders’ total came from six shots from the floor and four from the free-throw line.

Freshman scoring:
F.G. F.T. T.P.
Parker 11 4 26
Windham 8 5 21
Sanders 6 4 16
Dillard 5 1 11a 4 1 9 Bitte) ch ccscesecseussuuucucass 4 0 8 Red Johnston, g. -------------- 1 1 3 WeeWigeetiin = sees ete sae 1 1 3 Matchatitaticscncecce-ceccco ack 1 0 2 Muptonvticesecensseneseasocuces 1 0 4 Totals: ssvesseee egac cue estes 42 17 101

Franklin & Marshall Grapplers Down ’Cats

Franklin & Marshall College at Lancaster, Pa., defeated the Davidson wrestling team 31-3 last Tuesday night in the first meet of the season for the Wildcat grapplers. Taylor, Davidson’s captain, won his match by a time advantage for the only Wildcat points. Warren Jones, Davidson's 118-pound wrestler, had his collarbone broken when he was thrown for a fall with a body slam by Dietrich of Franklin & Marshall, and will be unable to wrestle again this winter.

Summary of the events:
Dietrich, 118 (F.M.) won by a fall over Jones (D.) in 4 minutes, 36 seconds.
Jenkins, 125 (D.) lost to Bleakly (F.M.) by a fall in 31 seconds.
Bader, 135 (F.M.) defeated Owen with a fall in 7 minutes, 55 seconds.
Forte, 145 (D.) was thrown for a fall in 2 minutes, 56 seconds, by Phillips of Franklin & Marshall.
Cassel, Franklin-Marshall captain, threw Quarterman, 155 (D.) in 3 minutes.
Schnitzer, 165 (F.M.) gained a three-minute, 56-second time advantage over Potter of Davidson.
Taylor, Davidson’s captain, wrestling in the 175-pound class, defeated Hauer (F.M.) by a time advantage of 7 minutes, 32 seconds.
Buesh of Franklin-Marshall defeated Whitfield of Davidson by a time advantage of 3 minutes, 56 seconds.

Kappa Sigs, K. A.’s, and S. A. E.’s Are Winners

The inter-fraternity basketball tournament, which began last week, is now well under way. Three games of the first round have already been played: the Kappa Sigs vs. the Phi Gams, the K. A.’s vs. the Phi Delts, and the S. P. E.’s vs. the S. A. E.’s.

In the first game of the tournament, last Wednesday, the Kappa Sigs defeated the Phi Gams by the score of 31-23. Fred Fleagle, with 16 points, was high scorer for the victors. John Creech, with 11 points, was high scorer for the losers.

On Friday night the K. A.’s won over the Phi Delts in a last-minute rally. The score was 16-14. Al Grant, Phi Delt forward, was high scorer with 10 points, and Bill Flinn, K. A. forward, was next with five.

On Monday night the S. A. E.’s staged a final-quarter rally to defeat the S. P. E.’s 21-14. The high scorer was Bill Reid, S. A. E., who accounted for 11 points; Charlie Howard, S. P. E., was second with six. The S. A. E.'s scored nine points in the final period to win the game.

The tournament promises to be more interesting as it progresses, although “Doc” Newton, head football coach, has prohibited winter football candidates from participation.

Davidson Matmen Lose To Washington and Lee In First Home Contest

Forte and Whitfield Win Time Advantages to Score Davidson’s Six Points

A strong array of grapplers from Washington and Lee University was too much for the Davidson varsity wrestling team, and the Blue and White aggregation won the encounter, 22 to 6. The matches were held in the Davidson gym last Monday, and were exciting from beginning to end. Individual contests were close, but as a team the W. and L. aggregation was vastly superior to the local contingent. The two matches won by Davidson were both on time advantages, Forte winning over R. Devan in an extra period affair, in the 145-pound class, and Whitfield taking the measure of T. Devan in the unlimited division. Two falls were registered, both by Washington and Lee wrestlers. Thomas of W. and L. pinned Dillon in the 118-pound class, and Pritchard threw Potter in the 165-pound weight.

Summary:
118-pound class: P. Thomas (W. & L.) defeated Dillon by a fall in 4 minutes, 30 seconds.
126-pound class: Sarkis (W. & L.) had a time advantage of 7 minutes, 18 seconds over Jenkins.
135-pound class: Munger (W. & L.) had a time advantage of 8 minutes, 3 seconds over Owens.
145-pound class: Forte (Davidson) had a time advantage of 5 minutes, 18 seconds over R. Devan (extra period).
155-pound class: Smith (W. & L.) had a time advantage of 1 minute, 5 seconds over Quarterman.
165-pound class: Pritchard (W. & L.) defeated Potter by a fall in 8 minutes, 45 seconds.
175-pound class: Thomas (W. & L.) had a time advantage of 1 minute, 6 seconds over Taylor.
Unlimited class: Whitfield (Davidson) had a time advantage of 9 minutes, 26 seconds over T. Devan.

Big Five Standings
Team W. L. Pct.
North Carolina 4 0 1.000
Duke 4 0 1.000
Davidson 0 2 .000
N.C. State 0 2 .000
Wake Forest 0 4 .000

Ben Taylor, 175-pound member of the Davidson team, showed the renowned Wildcat spirit Monday when he went on with his match, although he had an attack of influenza. Despite his handicap he almost tasted victory.

Various “schools” of psychology are characterized by the same narrow bigotry as may be found among contending sects.—Dr. Charles S. Myers.

“PRESCRIPTIONS” Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“DRUGS” “SODAS” “SUNDRIES”

Junior Colleges May Play Tourney Here

Through the negotiations of Captain N. G. Pritchett, director of athletics in the college, Davidson is attempting to have the State Junior College Basketball Tournament played here on February 23rd and 24th. The tournament includes: Belmont Abbey, Presbyterian Junior College, Weaver College, Rutherford College, Boiling Springs College, Wingate Junior College, Lees-McRae, and Mars Hill Collegiate Institute. It will be played by elimination series, which will make seven tilts to be played in all. In case the tournament is brought here there will be a slight charge imposed on Davidson students in order to defray the expenses of the teams. The tournament will present an excellent opportunity for students and coaches to see some of the most promising athletes of the day in action. These men, after they graduate from the junior college in which they now are, will still be eligible for two more years of college athletics and this would present a good opening to interest them in Davidson. There would be an excellent opportunity for the students and fraternities to entertain the boys and try to get them to attend school here when they finish junior college. The plan therefore proves to be an advantage both as entertainment for the students and an advertisement for the college, and it is hoped that if it is completed that the students will co-operate in making it a success in both respects.

History will record it of us that we were a people who gave up work and took to politics, who laid down our tools and sat on committees.—Sir Ernest J. P. Benn.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
CONVENIENT SANITARY SERVICE
More than 50,000 hair cuts for students in our 20 years, is our record of SERVICE. Come by---every student does sooner or later.

DAVIDSON

Work Done While You Wait
NOTICE---Have Your Shoes Rebuilt at the
SHOE SHOP
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

For the College Man
Tab Collar Shirts, by Arrow $1.95
Wool Check Ties, by Resilio 1.00
Check Suspenders, by Hickok 1.50
IDEY'S