THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 5, 1933

“Macbeth” Presented Here by Noted Cast

Last Friday night in Chambers Auditorium the famous Shakespeare Players gave a presentation of “Macbeth.” The cast, composed of three ladies and seven men, put on the entire play with the aid of a few local “extras.” The two leading parts, Macbeth and Lady Macbeth, were played by Mr. James Hendrickson and Miss Claire Bruce. The other parts were accomplished by changes of costume. The student body of Davidson was very fortunate to be able to see this company. These players have toured with outstanding performances in forty-one states, playing various Shakespearean works in the principal educational institutions of the country.

Every player in the company has had varied theatrical experience, from that of a clown to that of a student of the American Academy of Dramatic Arts. Mr. Hendrickson and Miss Bruce have established themselves as two of the leading exponents of the classic drama on the American stage. In addition, all of the cast proved to be polished actors and rendered a most eloquent performance.

Several Davidson students co-operated with the company in filling roles as extras. Arthur Haake, Wills Hollingsworth, Bill McIlwinen, Mills Taylor, and Gordon Wood took such parts as banquet guests and passers-by. Off-stage noises and other sound effects were furnished by these students. The Shakespeare Players came to the campus as guests of the Red and Black Masquers, and after the performance several of the actors were entertained by a number of the social fraternities.

NOTICE
Have your shoes rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Work done while you wait.
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

Deputation to Go to Kannapolis Thursday

Thursday a deputation from the Davidson Y. M. C. A. will go to Kannapolis to help in a pre-Easter, city-wide campaign. The campaign is under the supervision of Mr. D. G. McLauren, but will be furthered through the aid of the deputation. The deputation consisting of John Howard, Leslie Thompson, and the Quartet, will take part in a supper meeting Thursday night. At this time they will meet with the Hi-Y group and the Torch Bearers as the opening meeting of their four C’s campaign. These two groups will be the nucleus for the work which will extend to all the city schools of Kannapolis. Saturday, as a part of the same program, the second half of the Passion Play will be given on the screen. The campaign will close Sunday afternoon with a large mass meeting at which Professor Foreman will be the principal speaker.

Upon being interviewed about the matter, McNeill issued the following statement: “I take my impeachment by the Phi in all good nature. I realize that we all make serious blunders while in public office. My mistake, however, was one of over-eagerness to serve the best interests of our beloved society. I realize that the society, and especially Mr. Rachal, our esteemed president, is due a very humble apology, and I shall make this apology at the next meeting of our society.” It is not believed that the effectiveness of the society's work in the future will be in the least impaired by this internal rift. A program of outstanding interest has been arranged for the next meeting.

Some Come Sooner, Some Later
Eventually ALL
Johnson’s Barber Shop
W. S. HENDERSON
NEXT DOOR TO POST OFFICE

TOBACCOS
CANDY
STUDENT SUPPLIES
FOUNTAIN SERVICE

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
Richmond, Virginia
B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., LL.D., President

A graduate of Davidson and of Union studying abroad writes: “There are able scholars here whose books are known and read all over the religious world. None of them can surpass some of our professors at Union as teachers, and none of them can challenge a student to joyous, practical Christianity as did our professors there.”

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”
Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“SODAS” “SUNDRIES”

“PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE”
College Printing
Magazines, Programs, Newspapers, Catalogs, Handbooks, Bulletins, Engraved Cards and Invitations. Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you
A. M. MANSON, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE
Always Best
STANDARD PRINTING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing, Exclusively.

Program Is Given by Davidson Music Club

On the night of March 28th, Davidson music lovers gathered in Chambers Auditorium to attend what proved to be one of the most enjoyable and one of the most interesting musical programs that has been given here in some time. The Davidson Music Club presented Portia Jenkens, a gifted young colored girl, who amazed, even astounded the audience by her skill and artistry as a pianist. Miss Jenkens was supported by Mrs. C. W. Perry, who sang two beautiful numbers, and also by the male quintet from Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte. The program was unusual, in fact, almost revolutionary in that it was given entirely by negroes, yet one could not help feeling that everyone present went away a far better person in regard to his conception of race differences.

The program opened with Miss Jenkens playing one of Haydn’s Sonatas. This number was remarkably well chosen for it revealed in a marked way the ability of the young pianist. She played with a masterly skill and technique and displayed interpretative qualities of the first rank. She seemed to be showing her audience that she was mistress of the situation and that they need have no fear that as far as she was concerned the program would be a success. Mrs. C. W. Perry next sang “What's in the Air Today,” by Robert Eden. Her voice was clear and mellow and showed remarkable quality and range. The quintet then sang the twelfth chapter of Ecclesiastes and followed by singing an arrangement of Rachmaninoff's famous “Prelude in C Minor.”

The fourth number was a group of three piano compositions: “Pavan,” by Sharpe; “Solfegietto,” by Bach, and “The Second Mazurka,” by Saint-Saëns. Sharpe’s “Pavan” was a melody that captivated the audience. The delicate theme that kept insisting on coming back into the composition together with the powerful passages in the lower register of the piano made it a number not soon to be forgotten. The Bach “Solfegietto” was a technical study designed chiefly to display skill in playing and Miss Jenkens utilized it in a wonderful way to show her own ability. The “Second Mazurka” was one of the tuneful creations so characteristic of Saint-Saëns. Denza’s “A May Morning” was rendered by Mrs. Perry in just as admirable a way as her first number had been.

The sixth group included two negro compositions, the spiritual “Nobody Knows de Trouble I See,” and Dett’s ever-popular “Juba,” with its characteristic rhythm and harmony. By this time the program was masterfully marching on to its brilliant conclusion and the quintet as their last contribution sang two spirituals, followed by “Joshua Fit de Battle of Jericho.” As encores, they gave “Little David Play on our Harp,” and a third spiritual, the name of which was not announced.Jenkens had saved her most brilliant number for the last to form in a fitting way the climax of the evening. Mendelssohn’s “Mid Summer Night’s Dream” was played in a manner that left nothing to be desired. The familiar strains of the Wedding March floated out to spell-bound hearers. The power, the beauty, the artistry, the creative genius of the great Mendelssohn fittingly closed an evening of superb music, an evening long to be remembered in the minds of all who were present.

Dr. Lingle Speaks at Important Ceremony

In line with the many duties accorded the president of a denominational college, our head, Dr. Walter I. Lingle, finds it his privilege at many times to speak at neighboring churches and colleges. It was at a service of this type that he was honored last Sunday when he preached at the First Presbyterian Church in Durham. The occasion was the ordination and installation of the elders and deacons. This is an important event in the church calendar and Dr. Lingle was greatly honored in being chosen as the speaker. A number of distinguished laymen of the church attended this service in Durham. Among these were President Graham of Chapel Hill, Dean Bradshaw, also of the University of North Carolina; Judge Bryson of Duke, and Dr. J. B. Wright, president, Raleigh. This service, according to Dr. Lingle, was both impressive and beautiful, and he feels that he was greatly privileged in being asked to speak at an occasion so important to the life of the church. Among his engagements along the same line in the near future, Dr. Lingle is to speak on April 10 at the chapel service at Catawba College. He is expecting to take as the subject of his talk, “The Ministry as a Life Work,” and will discuss matters and situations relating to this theme.

W. C. Pressly and Mr. G. K. Hudson of Silver Screen

Wednesday, April 5—“Pick Up”
This is a picture with a good cast, but an average story. George Raft, whom some consider the successor to Valentino, is the hero, and Sylvia Sydney is the heroine. Good acting in a mediocre plot. Average.

Thursday, April 6—“The Mind Reader”
Warren William gives us another splendid characterization, this time of a mind reader. He lives his fake life but when he wants to make the girl he loves believe that he is not faking, he fails. Constance Cummings is the girl, and she is good. A good picture.

Friday, April 7—“Rasputin and the Empress”
This is one of the great pictures. It ranks with the best of all time. While not historically exact in some places, it is most illuminating. Splendid acting by the “Royal Family,” Ethel, Lionel, and John Barrymore. In fact, it is acting of the finest sort. They are all three at their best, and it is said John rises to the greatest heights of his career. This is absolutely one picture you don’t want to miss. It is indeed one really great and grand picture. See it by all means.

Saturday, April 8—“Fast Workers” and “The Mysterious Rider”
Saturday brings a double-header program. The first picture includes: John Gilbert, always good, and Robert Armstrong. Mae Clarke is the feminine interest. The great lover Gilbert is out of role but it is good nevertheless. He has a good cast backing him. In the other picture we have a first-class westerner, with a cast above the average. It is taken from the story of the same name by Zane Grey and it is one of his best stories. The picture should be good.

Monday, April 10—“Sweepstakes”
Lionel Barrymore, one of the greatest character actors the stage or screen, gives another splendid characterization. It is a genuine picture of life that is portrayed here. Passions of love, hate, and chance are characterized by splendid acting. Lionel Barrymore is at his best. The beautiful Gloria Stuart is also in the cast.

Tuesday, April 11—“Bondage”
No dope was available at the time of the writing of this column.

The editor of the Illinois Baptist can be humorous as may be seen from the following article, “How to Preserve a Husband,” found in his editorial columns:
“Be careful of your selection. Do not choose too young. Take only such varieties that have been reared in a good moral atmosphere. When once decided upon and selected let that part remain forever settled and give your individual attention to the preparation for domestic use. A good many husbands are spoiled by mismanagement in cooking and are not tender and good. Some women keep them constantly in hot water. Some let them freeze by carelessness and indifference. Some keep them in a stew by irritating ways. Others roast them. Some keep them in a pickle all their lives. It cannot be supposed that any husband will be tender and good, managed in this way, but they are really quite nice when properly treated. Even poor varieties may be made sweet, tender and good by garnishing them with patience, well sweetened with smiles and flavored with kisses. Then wrap them in a mantle of charity, keep warm with a steady fire of domestic devotion and serve with peaches and cream. When thus prepared they will keep forever.”

Editor Waller is careful not to venture an opinion on how to keep wives sweet.

MOCK TRIAL FEATURES PHI SOCIETY PROGRAM
(Continued from page 3)
appointed by the chair to constitute a committee to formulate rules for the trial. Witnesses were called by the prosecution to prove that the defendant had made the aforesaid request to the president, and a witness was called on behalf of the defense to show that the request had been made in a joking manner. The hall returned a censoring McNeill and asking him to apologize to the society.

A man going down a street in Chicago, came to a taxidermist’s shop and stopped long enough to criticize some of its wares. Scrutinizing an owl, he said, “That owl is not stuffed right; its head is not on right, the body is not poised right, the feathers are not fixed right; and if I could not stuff an owl better than that I would go out of the taxidermist business.” Just then the owl moved. He had criticized a live owl.—Ex.

Mother was very annoyed. “Bertie,” she said, “I thought I told you not to play with your tin soldiers on a Sunday. It’s very wrong.”
“That’s all right, mother,” replied the boy. “On Sunday, I call them the Salvation Army.”—Ex.

Big Sister—“Oh, why doesn’t the baby stop crying? I don’t know what to do with her.”
Little Sister—“Didn’t the directions come with her?”—Selected.

The animal-cracker factory in our neighborhood blew up, and it rained cats and dogs for hours.—Judge.

COMMENCEMENT and Then GRADUATION
A SENIOR’S desire is to have a lasting remembrance of college life. These are brought about by college ties, formalities and Commencement Invitations. See E. O. Guerrant A. M. Manson.

Let Us Help You Get Ready For IDEY'S DAVIDSON SHOP.