THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 1, 1933

DAVIDSON 6 N. C. STATE 6

Around the Wildcat’s Lair

WATTS AND GEORGIA IN ANNUAL CLASSIC

CASKIE NORVELL

The ’Cats and the ’Pack gave the crowd thrills last week when they played to a 6-6 tie in the annual Dad’s Day game at N. C. State. State came from behind to tie when McQuage’s touchdown cancelled Mackorell’s scoring gallop. This column had picked a Davidson victory, but is quite content with the result, as State has one of the most potentially great elevens in the Southern Conference. Orchids this week go to the entire team: Captain Rives, McElrath, Potter, Morgan, Windham, Hand, Siewers, Mackorell, Wingfield, Hutchins, Willson, Cathey, Lee, Fort, Grant, and LeGare.

Davidson has no varsity or freshman games this coming weekend, so the gridiron interest centers on the inter-dormitory imbroglio, on the eve of which this column goes to press. Watts is to play Georgia in the annual classic Tuesday afternoon.

So much has been said in the papers about Duke playing their second team against Davidson, and that this was what held them to a two-touchdown victory. May we say at this time that available statistics on the game showed that the Wildcats also used their second team, fourteen substitutions being made by each team.

Wimpy Ravenel, Davidson reserve quarterback, crashed the limelight by placing a well-aimed boot into the water pail on the field the other day. He claims he aimed at the bucket, and maybe he did. Anyhow, the question has been raised by several North Carolina papers as to whether or not you could say “he kicked the bucket.” Let’s hope not.

Special attention should be called to the splendid punting of Johnny Mackorell, Wildcat field general, and potent candidate for all-state honors. In the Duke game, Mackorell averaged 37.5 yards, one of his boots traveling over 60 yards.

There were some notable upsets in the football world last Saturday, and the old prognosticator suffered accordingly. His average dropped from .842 to .761 as a result of four defeats in last week's predictions, the ties being knocked out, as is customary. We picked some long shots, such as Washington and Lee over Princeton, and the Generals more than held their own, and though beaten 6 to 0, displayed a better brand of ball than the Tigers. The Pitt-Notre Dame fracas went against us, as we again took a chance on a long one. A lot of games were ties, notably the Vanderbilt-L. S. U. contest, that between West Virginia and Davis-Elkins, and the Furman-Mercer game. Another heartbreaking loss was Alabama's bowing to the highly-touted Fordham Rams, 2-0.

Two games the old boy picked in direct opposition to other sports writers of the state came out as he predicted. We refer to the Catholic U.-Wake Forest game and the V. P. I.-South Carolina fray. The Gamecocks, playing their second game within 50 hours, spanked the Gobblers, 12-0, and went into a tie with Duke as leaders of the conference.

The choices for this week are listed below, with the Ed’s choice in CAPITALS, and though we pick some long shots, we don’t bet on them and wouldn't advise you to do so either. Here they are:

DUKE vs. Auburn.
N. C. STATE vs. North Carolina.
CLEMSON vs. Wake Forest.
CARNEGIE TECH vs. Purdue.
PRESBYTERIAN vs. The Citadel.
FURMAN vs. Wofford.
GEORGE WASHINGTON vs. Tennessee.
GEORGIA TECH vs. Vanderbilt.
OHIO STATE vs. Indiana.
GEORGIA vs. Florida.
PITTSBURGH vs. Centre.
L. S. U. vs. South Carolina.
VIRGINIA vs. Maryland.

Davidson Runners Decisively Defeat N.C. State Team

Gullette Leads Harriers Over Hard Course in Fast Time

FRAZIER UNABLE TO RUN

Davidson Places Six Men in First Ten

A powerful cross-country team from Davidson continued its thus far successful season last Saturday when it traveled to Raleigh and defeated the State harriers on a hard 3.5-mile course by the lopsided score of 19 to 39. Led by Gullette, the Wildcats were able to place six runners among the first ten, this being the entire Davidson team, since Frazier, the Davidson number one man, was unable to compete due to a bad cold. The course was run in the clocked time of 19 minutes, 40 seconds, which, considering the extra length of the course, is rather fast.

The State team is being coached this year by Red Lewis, whom most followers of track will recognize as the member of the 1933 Duke team, and who set such a fast pace in the mile event during that season last year. The order in which the runners finished, and the points scored was as follows: Gullette (Davidson) 1, Oakes (Davidson) 2, Merchant (Davidson) 3, Fallon (State) 4, Smith (State) 5, McFadyen (Davidson) 6, Glass (Davidson) 7, Morrow (Davidson) 8, (points did not count in team scoring), Floyd (State) 9, Boonous (State) 10, and Hines (State) 11.

The Davidson harriers present this year the strongest team which has represented the school in several years, and gives fair promise of being able to go through its season undefeated, since it tied the Duke team on the Homecoming Day meet. There will be a meet held on Friday with the strong Washington and Lee team, led by Ralph Dunaj, furnishing the opposition to the Davidson runners. Later in the season there will be meets with the University of Virginia, the Winston-Salem All-Stars, and possibly with the University of North Carolina.

Frosh Are Ready For Wofford Tilt

‘Kittens Are Hindered by Injuries Received in V. P. I. Game

Although the Davidson freshmen have not won a game this year, they are favored to win over the Wofford yearlings in the game here November 10th. Coach Laird and Coach Peabody have been giving the freshman squad strenuous workouts for the past two weeks, and the team seems to be in fine shape. However, the 'Kittens will be handicapped by several injuries. Olschner received two fractured ribs in the V. M. I. game, and Peabody sustained a bad ankle; Vass, a lineman, has a cut eye.

In spite of these injuries, the spirit is running high, and the ‘Kittens are expected to emerge with a victory.

B Team Has Two Games Scheduled

All-Americans to Play Huntersville All-Stars Here Friday

The Davidson “B” team, popularly known as the All-Americans, is expected to meet the Huntersville All-Stars next Friday afternoon on Richardson Field. The probable line-up is as follows: Ends, Newton and Young; tackles, McClung and Cathey; guards, Hodgins and Blackwelder; center, Barringer. The backfield men are Johnson, Casali, Faison, and Slaughter. Substitutes: Rachal, Rogers, Lay, and Garrett. The average weight of the line is 165 pounds; of the backfield, 150.

On November 17th, the “B” team meets Mountain Park Junior College, also on this field. The All-Americans have been practicing Citadel's plays in order to run them against the varsity next week, and so will use them in the game Friday. The “B” team has the distinction of never having been beaten, and it is hoped that these games will not mar their record.

Stellar Flankman

JIM MORGAN - END

JAMES MORGAN

Jim Morgan, whose playing was outstanding in the Davidson-State football game. Morgan, in his two years of varsity playing, has proven himself to be a mainstay at the position of end, and should make a strong bid for All-State this year.

Kappa Sigmas to Battle Phi Delts

Two Fraternities Will Play Off Tie Game for Title

In the finals of inter-fraternity football, the Phi Delta Thetas and the Kappa Sigmas fought to a 6-6 tie Monday afternoon, in a game replete with thrills and excitement. In order to

Duke Team Licks Kentucky ’Cats With 14-7 Score

Elon, W. & M., and V. M. I. Also Win Important Contests Saturday

NONE IN BIG FIVE

Carolina, Citadel, Wofford, and Wake Forest Beaten

While Davidson was in the midst of her battle with State this last weekend, all eight of her 1933 opponents were engaging in contests, in games ranging from Thursday to Saturday, with the results showing four of them winning their contests, and four losing.

At Orangeburg Thursday, South Carolina nosed out Citadel in a hard-fought game, 12 to 6. Although the Gamecocks were evidently under wraps, in preparation for their game with V. P. I. Saturday, still they were forced to use their varsity for a good part of the game. Citadel actually outgained the Gamecocks in total yardage due to their decided superiority in the air. The Bulldogs completed six passes out of sixteen attempted, for a total gain of 85 yards.

Friday saw two of the Wildcat opponents playing, as Wake Forest was taken in by Catholic University, and Elon whipped the Naval Apprentices at Newport News, Va. by a 40-0 score. The Christians outclassed their opponents in every department of play. The Deacons, although they held anDecide the championship, another game is scheduled to take place tomorrow afternoon. The Phi Delts advanced to the final round by winning three decisive victories. They defeated the T.U.O.’s, the K.A.’s, and the Pikas, in the order named, the scores of all three contests being 18 to 0. The Kappa team reached the finals by virtue of 6 to 0 victories over the Pi Kappa Phi's and the S.P.E.'s. In other games taking place last week, the S.P.E.’s conquered the Beta boys, 6 to 0, while the Pi Kappa Alpha team overcame the S.A.E.’s and the Phi Gam’s, the first game being won by yardage, and the score of the second being 12 to 0.

Sig Card Tournament To Be Held Soon
Local Merchant Sponsors Bridge Tourney Which Begins November 6th

The college bridge experts will get a chance to show their ability in a tournament sponsored by Ray Harrison, local merchant, as a publicity stunt. In addition to this, a prize of five dollars in merchandise will be given to each player of the winning team. The tournament opens Monday, November 6th, and will be played on an elimination basis, with the winners of two out of three rubbers advancing and eliminating the losing pair. The admission fee will be twenty-five cents per person. All entries must be in before Saturday, November 4th, at 6:00 p.m. The articles offered to the winners will be on window display at Ray Harrison’s.

The edge over the Cardinals in the first half, were unable to stop a certain elusive Jankowski, who scored both of the Catholic touchdowns in the second half. The final score was 12 to 0. Duke string Blue Devils, continuing their streak of unbroken victories, moved on Saturday, and the Wildcats were at the small end of a 14 to 7 score. The team had its moments, too, as when its passing attack resulted in the score, but it was only the marvelous punting ability that kept the driving Blue Devils from running up the score. The summary, however, shows that the Kentuckians outgained the Duke team in total yardage, registering 12 first downs to Duke's six.

The Carolina Tar Heels, doped by all the sports writers to lose to Georgia Tech by several touchdowns, put up a marvelous fight, holding the Yellow Jackets for the first three periods. In the last period, the scoring power of both teams was shown when the Jackets scored on a field goal, and a few minutes later, ran up another seven points on a driving attack to Carolina’s goal. Carolina ran her stuff at this time, and mixing an aerial attack with some nice running, ran the ball over the Tech goal line, to bring the score to 10-6. The Tar Heels barely failed on another attempt a minute later, but the game ended at that score.

William & Mary's strong team showed their heels to the eleven from Georgetown University in somewhat of an upset Saturday, with the result that the Indians came out on the good end of a 12-6 score. The play of Smith and Shade was outstanding for the Indians.

(Continued on page 6)

Just Arrived---Large Assortment
SHEAFFER LIFE-TIME PENS
YOUR NAME IN GOLD---FREE
Your name on your own Pen in gold for 25c
COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”

WHAT ABOUT THAT TRIP?
Cars For Hire
Gulf Gasoline
M. P. HENDERSON

Statistics
David. State
Yards gained from scrimmage 54 221
Yards lost from scrimmage 31 17
Passes attempted 6 8
Passes completed 3 5
Passes had intercepted 0 1
Yardage gained from passes 57 61
Net yardage gained 80 205
First downs 6 13
Average yardage on punts 35 34
Yards punts returned 23 9
Yards penalized 5 50
Ball lost on fumbles 1 0

’Cats Make Ready For Citadel Team
Teams Will Clash on Richardson Field in Annual Battle

With vengeance in their hearts towards the Citadel football team for a defeat suffered at their hands last year, the Davidson Wildcats are fast preparing for the clash on November 11th. The Bulldogs beat Davidson last year by one point, 7 to 6. A large crowd was present last year at the contest between these two light but fighting teams and an even larger one is expected this year as the game is to be played on Armistice Day. Citadel has a strong team this year, with several prospective all-state men on it, although last Saturday they suffered a defeat of 12-6 at the hands of the South Carolina University aggregation. None of the Davidson gridsmen were injured in their clash with N.C. State last Saturday and after resting this week should be in shape to play a great game against the Bulldogs. “The Davidsonian” will carry a fuller account of this next week.

’Kittens Defeated
Ellington of High Point Wins Cross-Country Race Here

Wallace Ellington, running the two-mile course in 11 minutes, 29.7 seconds, led High Point High School to an easy victory over Davidson freshmen in a cross-country meet here Friday afternoon, 17-45. This made the third straight victory of the season for the High Point team. The order in which the runners finished was: Ellington (H.P.), first; Phibbs (H.P.), second; Davis (H.P.), third; Cox (D), fourth; Law (H.P.), fifth; Cooke (H.P.), sixth; Hubbard (H.P.), seventh; Higgins (D), eighth; Fowler (H.P.), ninth; Wilson (D), tenth; Scott (D), eleventh; Peters (D), twelfth. Hubbard and Fowler did not figure in the scoring, since High Point placed five men ahead of them.

Big Five Race
W L T Pet.
Duke 2 0 0 1.000
Carolina 1 0 0 1.000
N.C. State 0 0 2 .000
Wake Forest 0 1 1 .000
Davidson 0 2 1 .000

Davidson and State in Tie at Raleigh
Wolfpack Comes From Behind on McQuage’s Touchdown to Tie ’Cats
REX IS THREAT
Mackorell Scores for Davidson on 85-yard Gallop

The Davidson Wildcats battled North Carolina State to a 6-6 tie at Raleigh Saturday in a hard-fought game. With the score deadlocked at the half, 0-0, Davidson took the lead in the third quarter when Johnny Mackorell intercepted a pass on the Wildcat 15-yard line and raced 85 yards for a touchdown. The attempt for the extra point failed. The blocking on the play was almost perfect with Davidson men cutting down two would-be tacklers on the five-yard line, permitting Mackorell to complete his touchdown run. In less than four minutes, State pushed over a touchdown to tie the score, but Windham, Wildcat end, broke through to block McQuage’s place-kick, thus preventing State from going into the lead. Late in the third quarter, State threatened again. They advanced the ball to Davidson's 26-yard line, and McQuage cut back over right tackle and crossed the goal. The ball was called back, however, and a 15-yard penalty was imposed upon State for holding. During the final period, both teams made frequent use of the forward pass in an attempt to score the winning touchdown; neither was able to break the deadlock, but State drove to the Wildcat 7-yard line after recovering a Davidson fumble in mid-field. In the closing seconds, McQuage, with the ball on the 7-yard line and first down, tried for a field goal, but Siewers, Wildcat tackle, smashed through to block it. The game ended a few seconds later with the score remaining 6-6. The game was featured by expert blocking by both teams. Davidson offered a perfect barrage of blockers in front of Mackorell on his 85-yard touchdown run. McQuage was also aided.

(Continued on page 6)

Georgia to Meet Watts on Gridiron
Classic Battle Between Rival Dormitories Promises Thrilling Contest

The classic and annual battle between Watts and Georgia will be renewed tomorrow in a struggle, which promises to be one of the most spectacular pigskin battles of the season. In the last conflict, Watts was able to gain a 7 to 0 victory. The tentative line-up is as follows:

Watts
Ends: Miller, Bethea; tackles: Whitney, Wallace; guards: Weiner, Sprunt; center: Johnson, W.; halfbacks: Manson, Humphrey; quarterback: Smyre; fullback: McCallie.

Georgia
Ends: McKinney, Byerle; tackles: Nickey, Goodykoontz; guards: Brown, Powell; center: Reid; halfbacks: Branton, Sutton; quarterback: Johnson, J.; fullback: Archer.

The question as to admission has not, as “The Davidsonian” goes to press, been decided. Suffice it to say that both teams seem confident of victory, and the spirit ran high at the pep meetings held on Monday evening.

$29
The Famous Knit-Tex Angora TOPCOAT
Here they are---the new ones. Just wait till you see them. The models are smarter than ever, the fabrics newer looking and more stylish, the coats more luxurious. Made by the makers of the famous Worsted-tex Suit.
The TATE-BROWN COMPANY
Charlotte, N.C.