PHI BETA KAPPA ELECTIONS

The Davidsonian

Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 1, 1933 No. 7

Phi Beta Kappa Issues Bids to Six Students
McGeachy, W. M. Thompson, W. T. Thompson, Casali, Dill, and Blair Honored

A. G. McGEACHY LEADS
W. M. Thompson and W. T. Thompson Rank Second and Third in Average

Six members of the Senior class have been invited to become members of Phi Beta Kappa this fall semester, according to an announcement made public by Dr. P. H. Gwynn, secretary of the Gamma Chapter of North Carolina, located here. A. G. McGeachy, W. M. Thompson, W. T. Thompson, Odi Casali, J. E. Dill, and J. T. Blair are qualified for membership in this honorary fraternity. All of their grades averaged higher than 94 percent, two percent higher than the membership requirement of 92. McGeachy has the highest scholastic average among the group with 97.44. W. M. Thompson, with 97.18; W. T. Thompson, 96.10; Dill, 94.54; Casali, 94.48, and Blair, 94.40 completed the list.

The qualifications of Phi Beta Kappa are two-fold. First, the students must have the three-year highest averages in the Senior class; and second, they must be of good moral character. These qualifications make the Phi Beta Kappa the most respected and sought-for of all honorary fraternities in the United States. Phi Beta Kappa is the oldest and largest of honorary Greek letter fraternities in America. Founded at William and Mary College, Virginia, in 1776, it had soon established chapters at Yale, Harvard, and Dartmouth during the eighteenth century. Since then, many chapters have been added until now there are over 100 chapters in the best institutions of the United States and Canada, and its enrollment has grown to 60,000 members. It started as a social fraternity and developed to an honorary society as a reward for excellence in scholarship. Its motto is “Philosophy, the Guide of Life.”

A. G. McGeachy, of Fayetteville, who has the highest average in the Senior class, is also a member of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet and has been active in many societies. W. M. Thompson and W. T. Thompson, of Richmond, Va., are probably the only twins Davidson has ever had to make Phi Beta Kappa. Both of them have been exceedingly active in most all of the school activities. W. M. Thompson is president of the Y. M. C. A., while W. T. Thompson is the editor of the “Wildcat Handbook.” They belong to several honorary fraternities and are members of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. J. E. Dill, of Buchanan, Va., is president of Sigma Phi Sigma honorary (Continued on page 6)

French Society Holds Initiation
Six Men Taken in at Recent Meeting

In a recent meeting of Le Cercle Francais, national honorary French fraternity, which was held last Monday, six new men were received into the rolls of the chapter. These men participated in a most interesting program which was presented by the members of the club. Those initiated at this time were Archie Coleman, Harvey Glass, Dave McLain, Fred Slaughter, Frank Tucker, and Ben Wyche.

The meeting was opened with a one-act play, “Cupidon, Dentiste,” which was presented by four of the newly-initiated members, Coleman, Glass, Slaughter, and Wyche. After the completion of the play, the initiation ceremony was performed, and the pledges were accepted into the chapter. A series of French songs was rendered by Dave McLain and Frank Tucker, followed by a reading in French by Bob Coit. The entire club then joined in a number of French games. After the singing of several chansons, delicious refreshments were served to the club, and shortly afterwards the meeting was adjourned. At this, the first formal meeting of (Continued on page 3)

West Recovers
Julian W. West, president of the student body, who was injured in the game with Duke on October 21st, has recovered sufficiently to resume his duties on the campus. West was in a Charlotte hospital for six days recuperating from a concussion of the brain as a result of an injury received in the game. He was brought to the college infirmary for one day, but was taken back to Charlotte in order that he might have more quiet and recuperate more quickly. On last Friday, West again resumed his duties in chapel as president of the student body, and expressed his appreciation for the interest taken by the students in his recovery.

Military Program Given in Chapel
Major Rhett Speaks on Need for Well-Trained Officers

Last Friday was celebrated throughout the entire United States as National Scabbard and Blade Day. In keeping with the other units of the organization, the Davidson Chapter, B Company, Fifth Regiment, observed the day by conducting the college chapel exercises. Cadet Major W. M. Brown presided over the chapel exercises, and Cadet Captain E. J. Humphrey read the devotionals and gave a prayer. Cadet Major Brown introduced the speaker, who was Major John T. Rhett. Major Rhett spoke on the need for trained officers in the Reserve Corps. He told of the founding of the fraternity and how important it has become in the colleges and universities that have the Reserve Officers Training Corps. All the members of Scabbard and Blade of the local chapter were on the platform in uniform. The following members of the faculty belong to the local chapter: Major Rhett, Captain Cochran, and Captain Seifert. The following students are members of this national honorary military fraternity: Cadet Major W. M. Brown, Cadet Captain-Adjutant E. J. Humphrey, Cadet Captain D. L. Powell, Cadet Captain Parks Harrison, Cadet Lieutenant T. H. McCallie, Cadet Lieutenant C. M. Rives, Cadet Lieutenant A. H. Manson, Cadet Lieutenant W. T. Johnson, and Cadet Lieutenant W. A. Kirkland.

Fine Showing of Band is Praised
Many Complimentary Letters Received by Professor Pfohl

The Davidson Band, judging by the letters received by Prof. J. C. Pfohl, 20-year-old director of music here, has earned a place of distinction by its performance at football games. An extract from a letter by Robert Long, section chief for Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, reads as follows: “I enjoyed the football game (Davidson-Carolina) but the thing which interested me most was the great improvement of the Davidson Band.” At the same game, Earl Slocum, head of the University of North Carolina Music Department, wanted to know “where Davidson got such fine concert material.” Mrs. S. D. Jackson, head of Public School Music at Johnson City, Tenn., inquired as to the “catchy little tune played by the band and which I heard whistled on the campus while there.” Needless to say, it was the march “Cheerio,” by Edmund Franko Goldman, the most widely known band director in the country today. At a supervisors’ conference at Greensboro last week, Goldman expressed interest in the fact that his marches were so popular on the Davidson campus and promised to send an autographed picture of his band. Joseph B. Johnston, manager of the (Continued on page 2)

Poets of England Discussed in Talk Here by Dr. Mims
Poetry of Browning and Wordsworth Explained by Vanderbilt University Lecturer

INTERESTING SPEAKER
“Lost Leaders and Happy Warriors” Was Theme

“Lost Leaders and Happy Warriors” was the subject of a lecture delivered in the Chambers Auditorium last Friday, October 27th, by Dr. Edward Mims, head of the English Department of Vanderbilt University. The reputation that Dr. Mims possesses as a brilliant lecturer attracted a large audience. After being introduced by Dr. Cumming, of the Davidson English Department, Dr. Mims explained that the title of his lecture was a combination of two famous poems, the former by Browning, the latter by Wordsworth. In writing “Lost Leaders,” Browning had Wordsworth in mind as a model. Taking up the first poem in detail, the speaker named seven different types of people who might qualify as Browning’s “Lost Leaders.” There is the young man who, having great possibilities, dies early in life. John Keats is an apt example. Then, too, Lost Leader is used in the sense of the man who possesses wealth, position, and intellect and seemingly is destined for great things but who refuses to make the effort. “A third Lost Leader is that man who, if given decent opportunities, would become great but who never has the chance, (Continued on page 6)

“Quadwranglers” Hold Mock Trial
Lingle to be Speaker for Next Meeting

The Quadwranglers Club met Thursday evening, October 26, in Chambers Building, at which time a very interesting program was given. The meeting was called to order by Prof. H. E. Fulcher, the president. Since it was an open meeting, the ladies and other guests were welcomed by the president. The honor guests of the evening were the former president of Davidson College, Dr. Martin, and Mrs. Martin. Three musical numbers were rendered by the college quartet, composed of Frank Tucker, Dave McLain, Hubert Morris, and Buddy Robinson, accompanied at the piano by Douglas Wauchope. Captain Cochran, the program chairman, secured Professor Erwin to take charge of the entertainment. This consisted of four secret service men who were ordered to bring in findings about the Quadwranglers. These reports were heard before a military court consisting of Major Rhett, Captain Cochran, and Captain Seifert. The findings and penalties proved very interesting and entertaining to those present. Professor Blythe, assisted by Mrs. Gwynn, served delicious refreshments. The hall was decorated with autumn flowers, which Mrs. O. J. Thies furnished. (Continued on page 2)

Scabbard and Blade Will Sponsor Dance
On the night of November 10th, the local chapter of the Scabbard and Blade military fraternity is planning to give a dance between the hours of 10 and 2. A well-known orchestra from Charlotte will furnish the music for the occasion. The admission fee will be one dollar. All Junior and Senior officers in the battalion will wear their uniforms to the dance. The chaperons for the occasion will be Major and Mrs. Rhett, Captain and Mrs. Seifert, and Captain and Mrs. Cochran. The following members of the Scabbard and Blade have charge of all the arrangements for the dance: T. Hooke McCallie, Charles Rives, and Buck Kirkland. This dance will be held in Mooresville, probably in the American Legion Hut, the place to be announced definitely at a later date.

Edward Humphrey, Debating Tryouts Planned for Next Wed., Nov. 15Number of Upperclassmen Plan to Take Part in Competition

JUDGES ARE APPOINTED

Forensic Council Has Charge of Arrangements

“Resolved, that the power of the President should be substantially increased as a settled policy” will be the subject for the annual debating tryouts to be held in Chambers Auditorium on Wednesday night, November 15th, at 8 o'clock. Forty-four upperclassmen of the three upper classes have signified their intentions of taking part in the competition, and each speaker will be allowed five minutes in which to develop one point relating to the subject. Judges for the occasion will be three members of the faculty, who have not as yet been chosen. The members of the Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies will meet in Chambers Building to hear the debate.

The officers of the Forensic Council, who had charge of the arrangements for the tryouts, include the following: I. J. Humphrey, president; Jack Williams, first vice-president; “Skip” Brown, second vice-president; Rawling Pratt-Thomas, treasurer, and R. H. Smith, debate manager.

The men who have signed up as candidates for the debating team are as follows: O. M. Anderson, Donald Bailey, Martin Barnett, Don Brandon, Coleman Branton, Gordon Brown, R. M. Cann, C. D. Deans, Warner DuBose, John Fitzgerald, Edward Garrett, R. H. Gladstone, Jack Goodykoontz, Gullette Harper, William Goodykoontz, George Charles Hamerick, J. R. Hugh Hawkins, Edwin Holt, John Hunter, Robert Joanson, Charles Lucas, Tom Marchant, W. D. Morton, J. L. Newton, S. M. Nickey, B. F. Ormand, J. S. Oswalt, E. L. Powell, Rawling Pratt-Thomas, A. S. Schaal, R. S. Riley, P. M. Rogers, J. L. Shirey, W. B. Singleton, J. M. Smith, R. H. Smith, A. C. Stutts, Tom Sutton, W. T. Thompson, and Jack Williams.

Dr. B. R. Lacy to Lead Y Services

Annual Fall Meeting to Begin November 19th

The Y. M. C. A. has been very fortunate this year in securing Dr. Benjamin R. Lacy for the fall services. These services are an annual institution, and, since their inauguration a number of years ago, have played an important part in the student life on the campus. The Y. M. C. A. has always sought to have one of the outstanding religious leaders in the South to conduct these services, and this year it has secured one of the outstanding men in the Southern Presbyterian Church.

Dr. Lacy is a graduate of Davidson, and, as president of the Alumni Association, is one of the most loyal supporters of the college. In his undergraduate days he was outstanding as an athlete and a campus leader, playing on the varsity football team, and holding many student body offices. He has been honored by the Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa fraternities. Dr. Lacy, after graduation, won a Rhodes Scholarship, and continued his study at Oxford University. He was a chaplain overseas in the World War, and it is said that to this day anyone who speaks against Dr. Lacy in the presence of any enlisted men is inviting trouble, so great is their love for him. For many years a pastor in Atlanta, Ga., he is now president of Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., and is molding the future leaders of the Southern Presbyterian Church.

The services will be held this year from November 19th through the 22nd. There will be two exercises daily, beginning with church on Sunday and continuing through an evening service Wednesday night. All students are urged to set aside these dates so that they will not miss a great religious (Continued on page 6)

Lecture Advance

The second of the series of lectures arranged by the Faculty Lecture Committee will be delivered in Chambers Auditorium Monday evening, November 6th, at 7:30. Dr. A. R. Newsome, of Raleigh, will be the speaker. The subject of the lecture is “Rip Van Winkle Awakened—North Carolina From 1824-1840.” Dr. Newsome, who is secretary of the North Carolina Historical Commission and of the State Literary and Historical Association, is regarded as one of the leading historians of North Carolina. He is the author of numerous articles on the history of the state.

Senior Blazers to Be Blue and Gray

Special Privileges Sought by Senior Class Have Been Denied

Shortly before the Christmas holidays, the members of the class of 1934 will appear in their new blazers. Fred Smyre, president of the class, announced that the seniors had made their selection and that those desiring blazers would be measured for them within the next month. The blazers this year will be made in both blue and gray. The coats will be two-button, single-breasted, skeleton-lined models with a half-belted back. On the breast pocket there will be a large light-gray D about the size of the pocket and containing the class numerals, 34. Such additions as bellows pleated pockets, back, and welt seams are optional and can be had at no extra cost. The cost of the blazers will be $8.50 each. Trousers to match the coats may also be had, but the charge will be the same as for a regular pair, that is, there will be no reduction for a group purchase.

Each year the Senior class wears some type of blazer as a distinction of their rank. This year the blazers are along rather conservative lines, as to color and to cut. About thirty seniors have signified their intentions to purchase them.

Smyre also announced that the senior privileges for which the class had petitioned had been declined.

Statistics Given About Students

Enrollment Figures Show North Carolina in Lead

The following statistics about the enrollment, the states, and vocational aims of the student body have been compiled by the registrar. The total enrollment of the student body at Davidson this semester is 615. The freshmen lead with 195, the sophomores have 167, the juniors 142, and the seniors 111. There are 15 candidates for the A.B. 1 degree, 127 for A.B. 2, 178 for B.S. 1, and 271 for B.S. 2. Also, there are seven special and 17 pre-med students.

Twenty-two states and nine foreign countries are represented in the student body this year. North Carolina leads all the other states, having 335, while the remaining states have 243 distributed as follows: South Carolina, 49; Virginia, 32; Georgia, 29; Florida, 26; Tennessee, 19; Alabama, 16; Mississippi, 12; New York, Pennsylvania, Kentucky, and Texas, 5 each; Connecticut, 3; Arkansas, California, and New Jersey, 2 each, and District of Columbia, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Missouri, Wisconsin, and West Virginia, 1 each.

The distribution from the nine foreign countries is as follows: China, 8; Korea, 3; Mexico and the Philippines, 2 each, and Puerto Rico, Canada, Brazil, Japan, and India, 1 each.

There are 15 denominations represented. The Presbyterians lead with 401. The Methodists have 83, the Baptists 40, the Episcopalians 34, the Lutherans 16, the A. R. P.’s 7, the Congregationalists 5, the Catholic, Christian, and Moravians, 3 each, the Disciples, (Continued on page 3)

Eight Seniors Tapped For O. D. K. Membership

Brown, Halverstadt, Hawkins, Holland, Kirkland, Manson, Powell, Thompson, Selected

EXERCISES TUESDAY

Prof. Currie Explains History and Purposes of Circle

Eight prominent members of the Senior class were tapped for membership into Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, through its Delta Circle in the annual fall Tap Day exercises held during chapel period yesterday morning in Chambers Auditorium. William M. Brown, of Knoxville, Tenn.; James A. Halverstadt, of Atlanta, Ga.; Hugh M. Hawkins, of Charlottesville, Va.; J. Mack Holland, Jr., of Gastonia; W. Alexander Kirkland, of Durham; Andrew H. Manson, Jr., of Jacksonville, Fla.; Edward L. Powell, Mobile, Ala., and W. Taliaferro Thompson, Jr., of Richmond, Va., received invitations for membership in the circle by that group's peculiar method of bidding students.

W. M. Thompson, secretary-treasurer of the organization, opened the exercises with a devotional, after which the speaker of the occasion, Professor Archibald Currie, was introduced by Fred Smyre, president of the Delta Circle. Professor Currie gave the historical background of the fraternity, stating that it was founded at Washington and Lee University in 1914 by a group of the leaders of that college. Included in that group were two Davidson men, Dr. Henry Louis Smith, a former president of Davidson College, and I. P. Davis, well-remembered for his athletic ability here at Davidson.

“Membership in this fraternity is a challenge,” said Professor Currie, going on to state that men were not selected because of what they had previously done, but rather because they possessed those qualities of leadership which would enable them to do outstanding work in the future. After this, the student members of the circle tapped those men that they had previously chosen for membership and the latter signified their acceptance by following the student member to the platform. Here they were decorated and welcomed by Thompson into the circle with a ribbon by the president and secretary.

William M. Brown, a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, is the captain of Scabbard and Blade, and holds the position of cadet-major in the R.O.T.C. Brown is also the manager of the track team and “Slave-driver.” James A. Halverstadt, a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, is the (Continued on page 6)

Plans Announced For Next Dance

Pan-Hellenic Council Sponsors Affair November 11th

The Pan-Hellenic Council has announced plans for a dance to be held in Charlotte Saturday, November 11th, following the Davidson-Citadel football game. The dance will be held in the Hotel Charlotte ballroom. The music will be furnished by Jelly Leftwich and his Duke University Club Orchestra. This orchestra is one of the most popular collegiate groups in the South, having played for several Davidson dances in the past, as well as having featured social activities of other Southern colleges and universities.

This dance will be a feature of a house party which is to be held by all of the social fraternities. The first event of the weekend will be a dance in Mooresville, sponsored by Scabbard and Blade, national military fraternity. The football game will feature Saturday afternoon activities. The Pan-Hellenic dance Saturday night will climax the weekend.

The dance is to be held from 8:30 until 12 o’clock. It will be informal, and the admission fee will be one dollar and seventy-five cents. The Pan-Hellenic Council has also made plans for Thanksgiving dances, scheduled for Friday and Saturday, December 1st and 2nd. More complete plans will be announced later concerning these dances.