The Davidsonian

Lux Gbi Orta Libertas

Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 8, 1933 No. 21

Dr. Foster, Director of Pollack Foundation, Will Talk Here Monday Night

Speaks on Some Pressing Social and Economical Problems Which World Confronts Today

IS WIDELY KNOWN AUTHOR

Will Address Classes in History and Political Science

Dr. T. W. Foster, director of the Pollack Foundation for Economic and Social Research, will speak here at Chambers Auditorium
Monday evening, March 13, on some pressing social and economic problems which the world confronts today. Dr. Foster is an
accomplished speaker, and is an author of some note, having written a book on “Debating and Public Speaking,” which was
used in Davidson College as a textbook several years ago.

On Monday morning Dr. Foster will speak to the combined classes of Drs. Lingle and McConnell and Professor Currie, in
the latter’s classroom. He will probably discuss some world problem. The students and professors are invited to hear him. Dr.
Lingle, through whose efforts the speaker is coming, has written the Chambers of Commerce of neighboring towns inviting all those
interested in the problems of today to hear Dr. Foster. Dr. Lingle, as a delegate to the annual meeting of
American and Political Science held last April in Philadelphia, heard Dr. Foster speak at this convention, and he declared that
he made such an inspiring speech that he was forced to acknowledge applause several times. While here Dr. Foster will
be the guest of Dr. Lingle at his home.

Donald H. Stewart Speaks at Vespers

“Let No Man Despise Thy Youth” Is Text Chosen

The vesper service Sunday night was unusually interesting and inspiring. The speaker, Reverend Donald H. Stewart, a very highly educated
and widely traveled young man, is pastor of the Oakland Presbyterian Church at Rock Hill, S. C.

After the Bible reading, Ben Rose and Charlie Moore led in prayer. Following this, J. H. Ross rendered a violin
solo, “Chanson Triste,” accompanied at the piano by Henry Hodgin. Reverend Stewart was then introduced.

The subject of his talk, “When Youth Goes Collegiate,” was very appropriate for a college audience. The speaker chose his
text from I Timothy 4:12, “Let no man despise thy youth; but be thou an example to them that believe;
in work, in manner of life, in love, in faith, in purity.” This sentence was a part of a letter
written by Paul to Timothy, who was then a young man on the eve of going out into life as
his own master. Paul was warning him to be an honest, upright, God-fearing man.

Mr. Stewart compared this spot in Timothy’s life to the modern young man’s departure for college. Here he gets out
from under the protective wings of his parents; at first, he usually has very few friends to warn and guide
him. In other words, he is suddenly thrown out into a new atmosphere to do exactly as he pleases; to
sink or swim; to work honestly and faithfully and reap a good harvest or to spend his time and money
unwisely.

Going further, he said that college years were not only a period to develop one’s mind but, much more important,
to develop good morals and to submit one’s self to Jesus Christ. This new world into which he suddenly comes
is full of temptations which he has to combat. He should have the ideals of Jesus Christ before him and
constantly strive toward His qualities. “If the world is not to despise you, don’t despise yourself.” This is the theme
that ran through Reverend Stewart’s talk. A young man coming to college should resolve to lead a clean and honest
life and stick to this goal—“the coat of arms of God and one’s family is too high and noble to
slur it.” And lastly the speaker mentioned how sad it is to see one destroying the strong, (Continued on page
3)

T. J. Espinosa

Mr. Espinosa, a Senior in the Business Administration College of the University of Florida, is the other member of the
debating team. He is secretary of the Debating Club and also president of the Cosmopolitan Club. This is Mr. Espinosa’s
second year of varsity debating.

Dramatic Club Bids Six Talented Actors

Neophytes Presented Skits That Exhibited Their Talent to Old Members

Several campus Thespians were initiated into the Red and Black Masquers, dramatic group of the college, at a recent meeting.
Men honored for histrionic ability demonstrated in various club productions were N. A. Moss, of Kings Mountain, S. C.; D.
P. McLain, of Cleveland, Tenn.; G. R. Wood, of Charleston, W. Va.; J. H. Simpson, of Athens, Ga.; T. F.
Wood, of Wilmington, N. C., and W. L. McIlwinen, of Fayetteville, North Carolina.

In keeping with the club custom, the neophytes presented skits that exhibited their talent. The first group of Moss, Tom
Wood, Gordon Wood, presented a domestic comedy that would have done credit to a New York revue; the second play,
starring McLain, Simpson, and McIlwinen, was also a very humorous farce and was awarded a prize. These acts were given
on the stage in Shearer Hall, follow- (Continued on page 3)

DELTA PI KAPPA HOLDS JOURNALISTIC CONTEST

Delta Pi Kappa, local honorary journalistic fraternity, announces a contest in editorial writing. All Sophomores and Freshmen and all Juniors
and Seniors not connected with the editorial staff of any of the three publications are invited to take part in
this competition. The winner of this contest, as a prize, will be given a membership in Delta Pi Kappa. The
president of Delta Pi Kappa, John Lake, announces that they intend to petition Pi Delta Epsilon, national honorary journalistic fraternity,
in the near future.

The contest opens Wednesday, March 8, and closes at 12 o’clock Saturday night, March 25. All editorials must be handed
in to John Lake at 105 Watts or to the editor of The Davidsonian by that time. The editorials may
be of any length. Any subject may be treated, but the editorials must contain no direct personal criticisms or unbecoming
language. They must be typewritten, double-spaced. No name must appear on the sheets containing the article, but the writer will
put his name on an outside sheet, clipped to the editorial. The papers will be graded by E. O. Guerrant,
W. C. Thompson, and J. E. Lake. The Davidsonian reserves the right to publish any or all of the editorials
submitted. All interested in journalism are encouraged to enter their articles in this contest. It is believed that a contest
of this nature will stimulate interest and be good experience for those taking part.

Davidson-Florida Debate Will Be Held Here Next Saturday Night at 7:15

“Skip” Brown and Rawling Pratt-Thomas Will Uphold Negative Side of Question

DEBATING TEAMS ACTIVE

Patterson and Espinosa, Excellent Speakers, Will Support Affirmative

Davidson, represented by Gordon Brown and Rawling Pratt-Thomas, will debate the University of Florida in Chambers Auditorium next Saturday night
at 7:15 o'clock. The question, Resolved: That the United States should cancel the war debts which Europe owes her. All
who heard the debates against Emory College are familiar with the declaiming merits of Brown. However, this will be Pratt-Thomas’
initial debate.

The affirmative will be upheld by two very able men, J. B. Patterson and F. J. Espinosa. The former is
a Senior in the Arts and Science College. Although this is his first year of intercollegiate debating, he was winner
of both Freshman and Sophomore declamation medals. He recently took part in the debate with the University of Dublin from
Ireland. The latter is a Senior in the Business Administration College. This is his second year on the varsity debating
team, and he is secretary of the Debate Club. He was selected as the student body delegate to the student
convention to be held in Miami, Florida.

A delegation from Central High in Charlotte will be present to hear the debates. Last Saturday, Davidson, represented by Bob
Smith and Leland McKeithan, debated the College of Charleston, but the results have not been heard. Tonight, the 8th, they
(Continued on page 4)

Interesting Talk on Jehol Given at I.R.C.

Paul Porter to Speak at Some Later Date on Technocracy

At the meeting of the International Relations Club, held last Thursday night, Dr. T. W. Lingle, professor of history at
Davidson, gave an interesting talk on the aggressors around the province of Jehol. Dr. Lingle presented the subject in a
very interesting way,Bringing in points of interest from the time of the first troubles to those of the present day.
At the close of the address, important business was discussed. The club is making tentative plans to bring several speakers
here during the year, the most outstanding one being Paul Porter, field secretary for the League of Industrial Democracy. Mr.
Porter has traveled extensively and is an interesting and versatile speaker. His talk will probably deal with the current question
of Technocracy. The date of his appearance will be announced later, as no conclusive plans have been made. Several members
of the I. R. C. are making studies of the war in the Far East, unemployment, and other problems which
are confronting the world at present. At the next meeting, some of those making studies of these topics will probably
make their reports. At the conclusion of the meeting, refreshments were served.

New Men Initiated

Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, initiated fifteen new members Wednesday night. These new members are Lyman Clardy, Jack Williams,
Alex Schenck, W. M. and W. T. Thompson, Jim White, Lyne Gamble, Jack Goodykoontz, Mack Manson, W. C. Thompson, Reeves
Pope, Woodrow Calligan, Bill Ward, Allen Mebane, and Bob Glasgow. After the initiation, some business was brought up in which
the possibility of getting a course in Journalism was discussed. Also, it was decided to petition Delta Pi Epsilon for
a charter. The next meeting is to be held Wednesday night.

Mr. J. B. Patterson, who will represent the University of Florida in the debate to be held here March 11,
is entering his first year of varsity debating. He has been the winner of both the Freshman and Sophomore declamation
medals.

Sigma Delta Pi Initiates Seven Members

Men Honored Were Williams, Casali, Smyre, Reid, Johnson, Humphreys, and Woodside

In a beautiful and impressive candle-light ceremony led by its president, Frank Bixler, Sigma Delta Pi greeted seven new initiates
to its rolls last Wednesday. The ones who received this honor were Jack Williams, Odi Casali, Fred Smyre, Bill Reid,
Hugh Johnson, Ed Humphreys, and Bob Woodside. It might be well to remark in passing that Sigma Delta Pi is
the national Spanish fraternity, to which members of the Junior Spanish Society are admitted when they complete their Junior year.
Its purpose is to get the students interested in Spanish literature and language. The initiation was held in the club
room in Shearer Hall on March 1, and was attended by the faculty members, Professors Goldiere and Fleagle. The ceremony
was followed by a reception, at which time delicious refreshments were served.

(Continued on page 3)

DR. F. W. SHEPARDSON VISITS BETA THETA PI

Davidson Dr. Francis W. Shepardson, national president of the fraternity, was its guest Saturday. The occasion was the initiation ceremony.
Dr. Shepardson came to Davidson from Duke, where he attended a convention of Omicron Delta Kappa. Besides being national president
of Beta Theta Pi, Dr. Shepardson is also president of the Association of College Honor Societies, president of the College
Fraternity Editors Association, and past-president of the National Interfraternity Conference, and Phi Beta Kappa. While at Davidson, Dr. Shepardson was
a guest in the home of Dr. Walter L. Lingle. The program Saturday was: 4:30, Alumni Meeting; 6:30, Banquet; 8:30,
Formal Initiation; and at 10:30, a fellowship session of alumni, initiates, and members of the active chapter. Alumni present were:
Walter L. Lingle, Davidson; R. H. Frazier, Greensboro, N. C.; J. S. Causey, Greensboro, N. C.; F. H. Chamberlain Jr.,
Lincolnton, N. C.; C. W. Gilchrist, Charlotte, N. C.; J. A. Winn, Greenville, S. C.; W. H. B. Shaye, Greenville,
S. C.; W. F. Hall, Statesville, N. C.; Ed Fewell Jr., Rock Hill, S. C.; A. T. Edelman, Statesville, N.
C.; H. T. McMillan, Charlotte, N. C.; J. H. McClintock, Charlotte, N. C.; G. W. Vick, Jenkinjones, W. Va.; and
John I. Smith, Greenville, S. C.

Junior Class Announces Date of Junior Speaking Postponed Until 17-18

Plan to Combine With Senior Class in Presenting Unusual Week-end Attractions

DANCE PLANS UNALTERED

Elaborate Arrangements Made for Figure for Saturday Night Dance

It was announced today that the Junior Speaking house party has been postponed until March 17 and 18. The Junior
class and the Senior class have attempted to combine their week-end entertainments into one group, to be held on the
above dates. The Juniors will carry out their plans as originally proposed, however, regardless of the results of the proposed
merger with the Seniors. If the two classes agree on a combined week-end, the Seniors will present their part of
the entertainment on the campus, while the Juniors will give the dances in Charlotte, according to plans which have already
been announced to the student body. As previously announced, the house party will be featured by three dances: a formal
dance on Friday night, from 10 until 2; a tea dance on Saturday afternoon, from 4:30 until 6:30, and an
informal dance on Saturday night, from 9 until 12. The price of admission to the entire set of dances will
be $3.00. All three dances will be held in the Hotel Charlotte ballroom. The music will be furnished by Reeves
Pope and his Southernaires, an orchestra surpassed by few which have played for Davidson dances. The Southernaires have arranged several
novelty numbers which promise to add greatly to the entertainment.

(Continued on page 4)

Students Addressed By Dr. Higgenbottom

Noted Missionary Discusses Results of Welfare Work in India

Dr. Samuel Higginbottom, of Allahabad, India, spoke to the student body in chapel Saturday, discussing his work in India and
the general situation which exists there. Dr. Higginbottom, a graduate of Princeton University, went to the Indian mission field in
1908. He has become well known for his agricultural work in teaching the Indians how to raise enough food to
feed the population, and at present he conducts a school of agriculture in Allahabad. He has been decorated by the
British government for his work. Dr. Higginbottom described how he went to India as a young college graduate and was
assigned to teach economics, a subject which he had not studied to any extent. But it was in search of
examples to show his class that he visited some of the Indian villages and saw there the appalling poverty of
the natives. He conceived the idea then of showing them how to raise enough food for the support of the
population, and although discouraged by his fellows, he kept that idea. Finally, “after five and a half years of arguing,”
he was allowed to return to the United States to study agriculture, but on his own financial responsibility. Encouraged by
his wife, he entered Ohio State University in 1909 and was graduated in 1911. He returned to India with sufficient
capital to start his school and started adapting his knowledge to the conditions in India. Adventures with the weeds, the
heat, and the general difficulty of starting his experiments were interestingly and amusingly described by Dr. Higginbottom, who said that
when the temperature in Allahabad reached 120 degrees, they began to consider it hot. He went on to say that
when he found how to grow crops in India he had only begun, for then he had to conquer the
native ideas and superstition, such as the veneration of the cow, and the idea of transmigration. He showed the fallacy
of the former by proving the cost to the natives of their worship of the cow. The latter he finds
more difficult, for the Hindus have as a part of their religion the idea that each animal contains a soul,
and consequently they will not kill them.
