VARSITY DEBATE TRYOUTS WILL BEGIN NOV. 9

The Davidsonian

Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

WILDCATS PLAY LAST HOME GAME THIS SATURDAY

Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 8, 1933 No. 8

Varsity Debaters Will Hold Tryouts Beginning Tonight

Eliminations to be Held on Wednesday, Thursday and Monday Nights

MANY ARE COMPETING

Finals to be Held Night of November Fifteenth

The tryouts for the Davidson debating team, which has the prospects of being one of the strongest teams ever to
represent Davidson, will be held in Chambers Auditorium tonight, Thursday night, and the following Monday night, with the finals scheduled
for Wednesday, November 15. The time for each tryout is at 7:00 p.m.

An immense amount of interest has been shown in debating this year which was exhibited by the large number of
boys who responded to the call for tryouts made by Ed Humphrey, president of the Forensic Council. Forty-two men announced
their intentions of trying out for the debating team, which made it necessary to divide the tryouts into three elimination
contests. Fourteen men will debate tonight and tomorrow night, respectively, and the same number will debate the following Monday. Four
men will be chosen from each group, and the final tryout for these twelve men will be held on Wednesday
evening, November 15. From these men, the nine best debaters will be selected who will compose the debating team of
six men and three alternates.

The judges of the debates will be Dr. C. K. Brown, Prof. E. J. Erwin, Prof. A. Currie, and Dr.
P. H. Gwynn. The subject of the debate is “Resolved: That the Powers of the President of the United States
Should be Substantially Increased as a Settled Policy.” Each speaker is limited to five minutes and must develop only one
point on either side of the argument. The contestants will be judged on the conclusiveness and the persuasiveness of the
argument presented, the oratorical ability and stage conduct of the speaker, and the use of the English language with special
emphasis on the construction of sentences.

With indications of an excellent debating team to represent Davidson, three extensive trips have been arranged by the Forensic Council.
The team will meet leading colleges and universities in the North, South, and West. These meets are scheduled for the
early spring. The team will debate Lehigh University, Washington and Lee, University of Richmond, Centre College, Southwestern University, College of
Charleston, University of Georgia, University of Florida, and University of Miami.

It is the desire of the Forensic Council to stimulate as much interest as possible on the campus toward the
debating team at Davidson. Ed Humphrey, president of the Council, stated that he would like to urge the members of
the student body to be present at the debating trials, and particularly on the final night, to constitute an audience
for the speakers. The subject of the debate is a topic of national (Continued on page 6)

Library Displays Oriental Curios

Examples of Japanese and Russian Arts Are Shown

The coin collection in the library has been replaced this week by an exhibit of Russian and Japanese art. This
exhibit includes a Russian ikon and two Japanese household gods. The Russian ikon, an image of the Grand Duke Alexander,
was bought by Dr. Frazer Hood while he was in Italy, where it had been brought by a Russian emigrant
who took it from the Cathedral of Minsk. It has been blessed by a patriarch of the Greek Orthodox Church,
and therefore is considered by orthodox believers to have special sanctity and the ability to perform miracles.

The Japanese household gods are gifts to Dr. W. P. Cumming from a converted Christian. They are paintings of great
antiquity, and have been worshipped for generations in the private shrines of the homes of the donor’s ancestors.

Last For Nine

Nine members of the Davidson football squad will make their final home appearance when the Wildcats meet the Citadel Bulldogs
on Richardson Field Saturday afternoon. For Captain Charlie Rives, Alternate Captain Percy McElrath, Eb. Willson, Julian West, Brewster Grant, Wee
Thompson, Tee Thompson, Albert Rice, Poindexter Craven, and George Ross it will be the last collegiate performance on the Wildcats’
home grounds. Davidson, after the Citadel game, will meet William and Mary and Wake Forest, but in games away from
the campus. William and Mary will be played in Williamsburg, Va., November 18th, and Wake Forest in Charlotte Thanksgiving Day.

Committee Chooses Rhodes Applicants

Seven Seniors and Three Juniors Selected to Compete for Scholarship

The committee on Rhodes Scholarships, composed of Professors H. T. Lily, W. P. Cumming, and G. R. Vowles, have recommended
the application of ten Davidson students for the Rhodes Scholarships. G. H. Brown will appear before the examining committee in
New Jersey, Odi Casali and Gordon Wood in West Virginia, W. B. Ravenel in South Carolina, W. T. Thompson in
Virginia, J. A. McGeachy, Rufus C. Morrow, Francis H. Scott, W. M. Thompson, and E. J. Humphreys in North Carolina.

Careful consideration was given to all applicants, and a written report to the executive committee of the faculty was made
and passed on by them. Two from each state will be selected, and at a district meeting a choice of
four will be made from the twelve candidates from six states. There were ten applicants for the North Carolina scholarships.
The committee found it very difficult to reduce the number to five, the number allowed any one state. Applications were
sent to the recommended candidates and must be in the hands of the state committee by November 18th.

Dr. Lingle Makes Tour of Georgia

Visits Several Southern Schools and Colleges on Trip

Dr. T. W. Lingle, of the History Department, and Mrs. Lingle have returned from a trip through Central Georgia where
they visited the Berry Schools, near Rome; Darlington, Emory, Agnes Scott, and the Presbyterian Theological Seminary, near Decatur. While on
this tour they visited many alumni and friends of Davidson. Leaving Davidson Friday morning, they arrived at Decatur at 6:30
that evening. Saturday they visited the seminary, at which Dr. Lingle made a brief chapel address, “Are We Laying the
Emphasis on the Proper Place in Preaching?” Davidson is well represented at the seminary, with Dr. J. M. Richards, son
of Dr. C. M. Richards, Bible professor here, at the head of the institution. (Continued on page 2)

System of Selecting Managers is Changed

At the meeting of the Davidson Athletic Council last Friday night, the method of electing football managers was somewhat altered.
Prior to this, only lettermen have been allowed to cast votes for the three Junior and three Senior managers. In
the future, all men out for varsity football will have a vote in filling these positions. Because varsity managerships are
such important posts, one major and two minor letters being given to the three Senior managers, more of a popular
vote was desired in picking from the candidates. Because of this, the system of election was changed. (Continued on page
2)

McGeachy Will Be Vesper Speaker in Armistice Address

To Talk on “Possibility of World Peace in Our Day”

STATE-WIDE PEACE MOVE

Sponsored by Executive Committee of College “Y” Cabinets

In place of the regular program of Y. M. C. A. vespers, this Sunday, November 12th, will bring a special
type of procedure to the students of Davidson College in the form of an Armistice Day address. This program will
follow out the spirit of a resolution, made at the fall meeting of the North Carolina Student Y. W. C.
A. and Y. M. C. A. Cabinet and Executive Committee, which met in Greensboro October 15th. The resolution, in part,
was as follows: “In the past the major emphasis has been on war, and it is the purpose of this
body to promote the idea of peace in the commemoration of Armistice Day this year.” Thus it would seem that
this body is striving, by the devotion of this time to a program concerning world peace, to avoid, in the
greatest degree possible, the usual spirit of war on that day, and to have a spirit of peace on the
campuses of the colleges of the nation. This executive committee is made up of representatives of college Y. W. C.
A.’s and Y. M. C. A.’s in the state.

The speaker procured by the Davidson committee, for the carrying out of this project, is Dr. D. P. McGeachy, of
the Decatur Presbyterian Church in Decatur, Ga. Dr. McGeachy plans to speak to the vesper group on the subject, “The
Possibility of World Peace in Our Day.” The speaker has announced that he will make his appeal to the students
constructive rather than critical. Since Dr. McGeachy is recognized in the South as an authority on the subject of world
peace, the program will carry an added weight. Dr. McGeachy is quite well known in ministerial circles in the South,
having been the pastor of the Decatur Presbyterian Church for some years. He has had three sons to graduate from
Davidson College, and one of these sons is now preaching in a nearby pastorate.

A special effort is being extended by the Y. M. C. A. leaders to have a full attendance at the
vesper service this Sunday, and the students are urged to co-operate with the Y. M. C. A. in the carrying
out of the Armistice Day program.

Lecture on North Carolina’s History Given by Newsome

Secretary of State Literary and Historic Association Spoke Monday Night

EAST AND WEST RIVALS

North Carolina Formerly Called Rip Van Winkle

Last Monday night, A. R. Newsome, of Raleigh, delivered a lecture on the history of North Carolina before Davidson students.
After serving as secretary of the North Carolina Historical Commission, he taught at the University of North Carolina. He is
now the secretary of the State Literary and Historic Association. He was introduced by Dr. J. M. McConnell, dean of
the faculty.

The title of the lecture was “North Carolina 1815-1935, Awakening of Rip Van Winkle.” Newsome said that in 1815 there
were many more slaves than white people in North Carolina. The population of over half of the counties decreased and
the population of the state as a whole decreased. In the middle east portion of the state, the people were
more educated and more cultured than in the west. The land valuations decreased very much, and there was no large
commercial center in the state. “North Carolina was like a man bleeding from both arms.” There was also a lack
of industry and there were only three state banks.of which the first one was established in 1804. There was no
educational system, except private schools, in the state at this time, and over one-third of the adult white people were
illiterate. There were two main factors which caused these conditions, Nature and Government. There were few navigable rivers in the
state, and practically no harbors; there were no good roads and water transportation was very poor. Economic dependence resulted in
political and social dependence. The courts, which were controlled by the small minority, dictated county, state, and national politics. The
eastern part of North Carolina held an easy lead over the western part of North Carolina in counties, and in
that way had control of the government in the state. Nathaniel Macon was a man who opposed protective tariff, educational
system, and internal improvements. He represented the aristocracy planters of the east. North Carolina was known (Continued on page 2)

Goblins and Ghosts Offer Thrills as Halloween Night is Celebrated

Lack of Color and Costumes of Davidson Campus Spooks Does Not Detract From Audacity of Pranks

Halloween night proved a source of much merrymaking and hilarity in Davidson and the neighboring towns. Warm weather combined with
the spirit of the crowds placed this year’s celebration far ahead of recent ones. No one shivered from cold, but
there were goblins and ghosts enough to produce cold shivers, particularly among those of superstitious nature. Noise makers converted the
usual quiet of the evening into a veritable din, and costumes lent a spookish air to the scene. Several boarding
houses on the college campus were attractively decorated with corn stalks, pumpkins, and Halloween accessories, while many delightful parties were
given for the younger boys and girls. What struck the close observer with more force than the costumes, the noises,
or anything else, however, was the wholeheartedness with which the people entered into the fun. There seemed to be a
different spirit in the larger towns, from the previous celebrations held last year. More people participated, when before they had
remained on the curbstones and, whether due to frozen fingers or frozen assets, seemed content to let the other fellow
put on the show.

Davidson’s celebration was fairly quiet when compared with larger towns, but there are many freshmen here, whose peaceful nature was
somewhat imposed upon in the early hours of the morning. At 2:00 a.m., a long wail from the siren brought
many students down to the Student Store in their pyjamas, to learn that it was only a false alarm. This
ceremony was immediately followed by a midnight round of several upperclassmen to freshmen’s rooms, apparently for no good reason (taken
from the freshmen’s point of view). A few freshmen who boasted that they had no fear of the “Big Black
Bear,” were terrified in the dead of the night by the appearance of a seemingly huge monster, which gleamed grotesquely
at them. However, upon investigation, they found that it was nothing but a gentle calf, which had been led around
by two sophomores to inflict terror upon the freshmen. Several men who had the ill fortune to be out of
town at that time, returned to find their personal belongings piled at a ridiculous angle in the halls or any
other place which appealed to the humor of the movers. The numerous opportunities of stirring up the anger of the
football managers were taken into consideration by certain mischievous boys of the town, and the signs over which the managers
so patiently struggled were found in various foreign places. (Continued on page 6)

Prohibition Poll

The Davidsonian held a straw vote on the subject of the repeal of the eighteenth amendment yesterday in the student
body assembly. The immediate cause for this ballot was the wide interest shown in the state-wide election held yesterday on
the question of repeal. The result of the vote will definitely settle the question of the sentiment existing in the
student body for or against prohibition. The results were not available when this issue went to press, but will be
published in the next edition.

Six Juniors Added to Military Staff

Forty-six Third-Year Men and Twenty-five Seniors Are Now Enlisted

Information received Monday from the office of Major John T. Rhett, head of the local R.O.T.C. department, was to the
effect that six members of the Junior class have recently been appointed to fill vacancies in Davidson’s R.O.T.C. unit. H.L.
Simpson, J.M. Smith, R.H. Smith, and J.R. Taylor were selected, being chosen on consideration of class merit and general adaptability
to the course. Each year the governmental headquarters of R.O.T.C. stipulates a certain number of men who are allowed to
take the advanced course, and it happened that an insufficient number were enlisted this year, thereby allowing certain extra vacancies
to be proportioned among the various colleges throughout the nation. Of these vacancies, Major Rhett was able to secure six,
one less than the number obtained in 1932. The newly-appointed officers bring the total number of juniors enlisted to forty-six.
Twenty-five seniors are enrolled.

O.D.K. Initiation Held Last Night

Nine New Members Received at Formal Exercises

The Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, held its formal initiation exercises last night. Those initiated
were W.M. Brown, J.A. Halverstadt, H.M. Hawkins, J.M. Holland, W.A. Kirkland, A.H. Manson, E.L. Powell, and W.T. Thompson. Mr. C.A.
Cannon of Concord was also initiated. Mr. Cannon, president of the Cannon Mills, and an alumnus of Davidson College, was
extended a bid to O.D.K. last spring, but was not initiated then because of an important business engagement. Following the
initiation exercises, a banquet was held in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. Dr. J.M. McConnell, dean of the faculty
of Davidson College, made the principal talk. Other speeches were given by Dr. W.L. Lingle and Mr. F.L. Jackson. Fred
Smyre, president of the Delta Circle, was in charge of the exercises and acted as toastmaster at the banquet.

Armory Rifle Range Improved by Burton

Sergeant B.R. Burton, of the R.O.T.C. department, has recently completed several internal improvements on the Armory building, the major part
of his efforts being concentrated on the rifle range in the basement. In place of the old lighting system on
the range, a new and improved one has been installed, in which, unlike the old, those firing are not at
all blinded by exposed bulbs and at the same time they are unable to shoot the lights out. The windows
have been securely closed to allow better vision. Perhaps the greatest improvement is the movable targets, which enable the firer
to remain in the rear of the range and, by means of a series of pulleys, draw his targets to
him in- (Continued on page 2)

Bulldogs-Wildcats Meet in Armistice Feature Saturday

Junior League of Charlotte to be Sponsors of Saturday’s Football Game

CADET CORPS TO ATTEND

Visitors Will Present Their Famous Silent Drill

The Citadel-Davidson game, which will be played on Richardson Field on Armistice Day, will be sponsored this year by the
Junior League of Charlotte. Each year for the past several years, the proceeds of one game on the Davidson schedule
have been turned over to this organization. The whole routine of the game, such as advertising, selling tickets, ushering, and
the like, has been turned over to the League. Last year the Junior League sponsored the Davidson-State game in Charlotte.
Those who attended that game will remember the large crowd which attended and the excellent way in which the game
was handled.

The “Armistice Day Classic” this year will probably be the most colorful game of the current season. The entire Citadel
Cadet Corps has planned to attend the game and will arrive at Davidson on their special train about noon on
Saturday. At the “half,” a picked platoon of the Cadets will execute their famous “silent drill.” In addition, a large
crowd of Davidson and Citadel alumni is expected to be on hand for the game.

Aside from the color in the stands, two old rivals will take the field in a game which should be
a fight from start to finish. Last year down at Charleston, the Bulldogs snatched a victory from a superior (so
it was rated) Wildcat team by the slim margin of one point. This year the Wildcats, still tasting the blood
of N.C. State’s Wolves, will be out to take revenge on the Cadets, who have suffered defeats in two successive
games at the hands of South Carolina and Presbyterian College. The Bulldogs, on the other hand, are determined to repeat
last year’s victory.

The Junior League is a charitable organization made up of one hundred and twenty-five young matrons and debutantes of Charlotte.
It has a varied program of charity, but the particular service of this group is the maintenance of a Baby
Hospital, which along with its other charities entails a budget of $7,000 per annum. In this hospital, twenty-one destitute children,
who are all under two years of age, have a well-cared-for home. The League also takes an active part in
finding permanent homes for these unfortunate children. The young ladies of the League have expressed their appreciation to the two
colleges for the privilege of sponsoring this game, which they hope to make a successful financial venture.

Dr. Frazer Hood Attends Meeting

Serves as President of Board of Trustees at Lees-McRae

Dr. Frazer Hood, head of the Davidson College Department of Psychology, last Tuesday morning attended a meeting of the Board
of Trustees at Lees-McRae College, which held an adjourned session at the school in Banner Elk, N.C. The meeting was
called for the purpose of considering a change in the school charter. It was necessary to change the charter in
order that the college might increase its territory, by purchase or acceptance of donations from outsiders.

Several distinct changes were recommended by the board, all of which they unanimously adopted. Dr. Hood, who is president of
the group, said it was quite remarkable that these particular changes were accepted so wholeheartedly, but it is a traditional
policy of the council to settle all questions of importance by the consent of all its members. The board chairman
also stated that plans are under way to enlarge the Presbyterian plant at Banner Elk. They hope to do some
additional (Continued on page 6)
