THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1933

Rev. LeRoy P. Burney Makes Vespers Talk
Pastor of Historic Sugaw Creek Church Stresses “Loyalty to Self”

ALUMNUS OF DAVIDSON
McGeachy Will Speak Next Sunday

Rev. LeRoy P. Burney, pastor of the historic Sugaw Creek Church, addressed those attending the Sunday night vespers on the
subject of “Loyalty to Self.” After an organ prelude by A. Wauchope, F. L. Smyre, who had charge of the
service, read the fifteenth Psalm as the scripture. L. W. Pratt and F. H. Scott led in prayer. W. Edwards
rendered the beautiful “Traumerei” as a violin solo, accompanied on the organ by A. D. Wauchope.

Mr. Burney is an alumnus of Davidson. While in college he was a member of the varsity debating team. After
graduation, he taught at Rome, Ga., and from there accepted the call to the pastorate of the Sugaw Creek Church.
He began the discussion of his theme, “Loyalty to Self,” by pointing out that our loyalty has much to do
with our attitude toward life. He showed that the thing which we call self is really vastly more than the
various physical sensations which we know. Self goes back into the realm of the intellectual, and further still into the
realm of the spiritual. We were made in the image of God, so loyalty to self is loyalty to God
and to the principles of Christ, the great exponent of true self.

The speaker showed that today we long for freedom but are in complete ignorance of its real meaning. True freedom
is a loyalty to the Master of men; the striving to gain a Christ-like self. As a criminal tries to
hide, so we try to hide our sins from the light, not so much because we are afraid of public
opinion but because our better selves are striving to trample underfoot our lower nature. Mr. Burney stated that to be
truly loyal to self we must exercise ethical constancy in the great issues of life. He showed that to be
truly loyal to ourselves we must learn that God cares for others. We need only to look at the suffering
in the world about us to realize that we must strengthen ourselves to live in a world with humanity. He
closed with the thought that we need only to call on God to have the Master Touch placed on our
lives. He illustrated this by the story of an old violin which was up for auction, but because of its
worn condition was passing almost unnoticed. Then a man came through the crowd and, taking the violin in his hands,
began to play. The crowd was awed into silence and after the man had ceased playing, large bids were brought
forward. The master touch had been applied.

Announcement was made that Dr. D. P. McGeachy, of Decatur, Ga., will speak at the next vesper service on the
subject of World Peace.

Dr. J. L. Douglas Is Sick With Pneumonia
Dr. John L. Douglas, head of the Mathematics Department, is again ill at his home on Concord Avenue with a
light case of pneumonia. He had returned to his classes Tuesday after about ten days’ absence with acute bronchitis, but
was again confined to his home. Although his case of pneumonia is light, Dr. Douglas is not expected to meet
with his classes again for over a week. Professors W. W. Mebane and J. T. Wood will meet with Dr.
Douglas’ classes until he recovers sufficiently to reassume his duties.

Seniors Considering Cap and Gown Order
The Senior class, already anticipating the final event in their college career, have begun taking steps toward obtaining the caps
and gowns for commencement. Fred Smyre, president of the class, announced that the order for the caps and gowns will
be given to C. E. Ward Company, which has handled these arrangements in the past. John Hunter has been appointed
chairman of the committee to consist of two or three others as yet unnamed. This committee will have charge of
the future arrangements toward acquiring the caps and gowns for commencement.

Grier Martin Leads Program Over Radio
Last Wednesday night the seventh of a series of radio programs sponsored by Davidson College was conducted under the direction
of Grier Martin, alumni secretary. The program was opened with “O Davidson,” played by Frank Tucker and Kenneth Scott on
the piano. Playing his own accompaniment, baritone David McLain sang “River, Stay ‘Way From My Door,” “My Little House,” and
“The Jolly Roger.” Guion’s “Run, Mary, Run,” was rendered by McLain with Scott again accompanying. Because of the copyright on
the song, “Old Man River,” Tucker was cut short as he started to sing it. Permission must be granted from
the copyright owners or a heavy fine will be imposed upon the sponsors of the program. Then followed the vocal
selection, “I Love You Truly,” sung by McLain with Frank Tucker accompanying on the piano. McLain sang “Roses of Picardy”
as the next to last number of the program. For the final selection of the evening, Tucker sang “Roses of
Picardy.” He played his own accompaniment for this selection. The program was concluded with the playing of “O Davidson.”Concert
The radio program tonight from 8:30 until 8:50 will consist of a number of selections played by the Davidson College
Band under the direction of Professor J. C. Pfohl. Included in the group to be played will be the “Cheerio”
number that has proved so popular at the football games. Grier Martin, alumni secretary, will make a short talk about
the game on Saturday with the Citadel, which is to be played on Richardson Field at 2:30 Saturday afternoon.

Munchausen Appears In “Meet the Baron”
“Berkeley Square” Will Be Feature Picture on Screen Wednesday

At last the Baron Munchausen comes to the screen, with Jack Pearl and Jimmy Durante, Ted Healy and his stooges,
Zasu Pitts, and Edna Mae Oliver. The Baron, Jimmy, and Jack Pearl are lost in the African jungle, and the
Baron gets away from the party. When found, the people think Jack Pearl is the Baron, and he goes to
America as a hero, with Jimmy as his business manager. He speaks at a girls’ school, and the Baron appears,
and the show gets funnier and funnier. It should be very good.

November 8—Meet the Baron

Thursday, November 9—Ever in My Heart
Barbara Stanwyck marries a German, Otto Kreuger, in the United States, before the war starts. When the war begins, the
Americans take their spite out on him, and he leaves the country to protect his wife from his troubles. She
goes to war as a nurse and finds him behind the allied lines as a spy. Her love for country
and him interfere, and not knowing what to do, they kill themselves to keep her from betraying either herself or
him. The drama and tragedy are very good.

Friday, November 10—Berkeley Square
The outstanding picture of the current season, with Leslie Howard, Heather Angel, the British star, and Beryl Mercer. It is
the highly romantic and imaginative story of a twentieth-century man who goes back into the eighteenth century to find his
love, in Heather Angel. The story varies between these two centuries, and the plot is very interesting and entertaining, and
the acting very sweet and touching. This picture should not be missed.

Saturday, November 11—The Way to Love
Somewhat different from the usual picture, though it retains most of the best parts. Maurice Chevalier plays the part of
the poor poet-philosopher, with Ann Dvorak as his love. The action takes place partly in an old-time carnival, with much
of the old-time fun and hokum in it. Edward Everett Horton is the partner of Chevalier, and a jack-of-all-trades, and
furnishes much of the fun. There is enough music in the show for those who like to hear Chevalier sing.
John Miljan and Minna Gombell are also in the cast.

Monday and Tuesday, November 13 and 14—The Worst Woman in Paris
Benita Hume is Adolphe Menjou’s mistress in Paris. They both tire of the arrangement, and she leaves and goes to
the United States. She falls in love with a college professor, who is about to become the president of one
of the great universities, and he with her. She does not wish to marry him and ruin his career, as
she will do in the future, with her reputation. Helen Chandler is his secretary, who is in love with the
professor, Harvey Stevens, and Benita Hume tells the professor she is going back to Paris to the man she left,
and for him to marry his secretary. Menjou is in poverty, and when she gets to him they sell the
jewels he had given her, and marry, with her getting her reputation as the worst woman in Paris for seemingly
coming back to him when he was about to come into possession of the fortune that she brought him.

A Correction
In last week's issue, an article which gave the enrollment of Davidson College from different states listed West Virginia as
having one student here. This should have been 26. The mountain state’s enrollment gives it a tie with Florida for
fifth place, which also has 26.

Class Rings
Class rings for Juniors and Seniors are on sale at the Students’ Store. A change in the company has made
it possible for the rings, though of the same quality, to be purchased cheaper than before, it was announced. Orders
placed now will be filled by Christmas.

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY
“MEET THE BARON”
JACK PEARL—JIMMY DURANTE—ZASU PITTS

THURSDAY
“EVER IN MY HEART”
BARBARA STANWYCK—RALPH BELLAMY—OTTO KREUGER

FRIDAY
“BERKELEY SQUARE”
LESLIE HOWARD—HEATHER ANGEL

SATURDAY
“THE WAY TO LOVE”
MAURICE CHEVALIER—ANN DVORAK

MONDAY
“THE WORST WOMAN IN PARIS”
BENITA HUME—ADOLPHE MENJOU

TUESDAY
“AFTER TONIGHT”

When I think of milder cigarettes nowadays, I always think of Chesterfields. Because Chesterfields are milder. They’ve got plenty of
taste and aroma to them but they’ve got mildness too! I smoke Chesterfields all day long—when I’m working and when
I’m not, and there’s no time when a Chesterfield doesn’t taste milder and better. I’ll put in a good word
any time for a cigarette like Chesterfields—they’re mild and yet they satisfy.

Chesterfield
the cigarette that's MILDER
the cigarette that TASTES BETTER
