THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1933

The Grand Canyon
By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

(NOTE: This article is next to the last of a series describing a tour of the West while attending the
convention of the National Editorial Association.)

A tour of the West would not be complete without visiting the Grand Canyon, and returning by Williams, Arizona, one
comes to Grand Canyon National Park—the land of sublime canyons and gorgeous chasms.

“Touched by a light that hath no name,
A glory never sung,
Aloft on sky and mountain wall,
Are God’s great pictures hung!”

Many stories are told of what people have said on first looking at Grand Canyon. Rising from the base of
the canyon were mountains with their tops a little below. The flaming colors defied description. Walking up a little further
the scene was entirely different with an even more beautiful picture. The canyon presented a wonderful sight with its symphony
of mass and color. The Colorado River had chiseled out the inner gorge which was bordered by tier on tier
of mountains carved by erosion from the earth’s strata. Take the grandest thing to be found and paint it in
all its glory and the result is the Grand Canyon.

BEAUTIFUL HARMONY

All below was hemmed in and only the sky was an outlet for the rocks millions of years old. It
seemed to express the harmony sought in pictures and was as beautiful as a rare flower. Its immensity was inconceivable
and the panorama changed from a crystal clearness to a slumbrous haze.

The Colorado River was observed at the bottom of the canyon, between walls of black granite, twelve hundred feet high,
as it flowed from the side of a mountain and glided in its oily smoothness until it broke into violent
waves where it beat against the rocks. Thousands have tried in vain to describe it but, can one describe a
gulf more than two hundred miles long, forty to twenty wide, one of eighteen that stretched away toward the source
of the Colorado more than a thousand miles? It has been called “God’s most flaming signature across earth’s face.” One
can compare it and describe it, but after all the Grand Canyon is the Grand Canyon and that is all
that can be said. If Niagara Falls, the Empire State Building or the Washington Monument were placed in this giant
pot, field glasses would be necessary to pick them out from the whole panorama on your next visit. “In these
depths there dwells the silence, majesty, and poetry of the mystics, while a holy terror defends its shades against worldly
thoughts and the mean passions of earth.”

Fred Harvey’s famous El Tovar Hotel was located on the edge of the canyon. Visiting the observatory built on Bright
Angel Trail, we looked through the binocular telescope for a glimpse of the peaks below. In the Hopi House we
ran across Josephine Biddle, who lives out from Philadelphia. The Biddles were among those who toured the West with the
newspaper crowd. She said her brother, John Biddle, had taken a burro and was exploring the trails leading down into
the canyon.

The luncheon at Bright Angel on the canyon rim was delicious. It is the same food served at El Tovar
Hotel only it is much more reasonable. All water used at the hotel has to be carried many miles in
tank cars and the supplies have to be transported, too.

HERMIT RIM DRIVE

After lunch we drove along the southern rim of the canyon. On its sides were pines, cedars, junipers, pinyon, mesquite,
Spanish bayonet and other wild flowers. There was also a wide range of bird life to be found here. We
met one of the boys who was in the party in California trip and he had just flown over the
canyon. He described it to me in glowing terms and exclaimed, “It cost me only ten dollars!” I didn’t have
time to say that I would like to fly over the canyon, too, because before I knew what was happening
Daddy had spirited me away from the tempter and I was driving back toward Williams, Arizona.

CARLSBAD CAVERNS

Mr. Guy Woolford described Carlsbad Caverns in such an enthusiastic way while in Atlanta Daddy determined to visit it the
first opportunity. Carlsbad is said to be the most spectacular of subterranean marvels. It is hidden beneath the cactus foothills
of the Guadalupe Mountains of the Southeastern Rockies. Since it was discovered within the last few years it has not
been open long to visitors. One walks more than seven miles underground while exploring it, and 42 miles, including many
corridors and chasms, are yet unexplored.

SEVEN-MILE TOUR

At the entrance of the cavern guides joined the party to escort it beneath the surface. First came the Queen’s
Room, where we left the outside world and entered a veritable fairyland. In this chamber were crystal curtains that seemed
to be made of the finest silk and glistened and dazzled the eyes with their silvery sheen. The air was
cool and bracing and the temperature remained the same both summer and winter. The room where dinner was served was
more than 350 feet high and three-quarters of a mile in length, and after the long walk looked inviting. The
plates were served cafeteria style and it was a novel experience to eat in a cafeteria 750 feet below the
earth’s surface. The Papoose Room had been opened only a month on our visit and new rooms are being added
all the time. “The Giant Dome” was the most wonderful formation in the cavern. It takes a hundred years for
these stalagmites to grow a quarter of an inch andThis one was 62 feet high and 16 feet in diameter.
Geologists have estimated its age at 60,000,000 years. At the “Rock of Ages” a rest period was called and all
the lights turned off. In one corner of the great cavern, a girl was singing “Rock of Ages.” There were
about 350 in the party and nobody made a sound. The effect was astounding, sitting there in utter darkness hearing
only her voice singing this hymn.

FLIGHT OF BATS

Coming back by elevator to the earth’s surface, we waited until the flight of the bats in the late afternoon.
During the summer months, millions of these bats fly out at dusk and return at dawn. It required three hours
for them to leave the cave and they were so numerous they resembled a black cloud. The flight of these
bats was responsible for the discovery of the cave. Jim White, a cowboy, noticed this black cloud while rounding up
cattle a few years ago and later explored the cavern, being the first person to view its wonders.

INTERCOLLEGIATE PRESS

Champaign, Ill.—(IP)—Is there too much democracy in American universities? Are there too many students in the colleges of the country
who ought to be in the mills or behind plows? That may be the opinion of some educators, but when
New York University begins operating under its new president next fall, it will find itself on the side of more
democracy in education. The new president is to be Dr. Harry W. Chase, president of the University of Illinois and
former president of the University of North Carolina, who believes that American universities must train leaders and raise the general
level of “social enlightenment in this complex age,” if they are to perform their full function.

“As I see it,” he says, “the function of our great American universities is twofold. They must, of course, train
leaders. ... If higher education can mean greater usefulness, more happiness and a higher degree of enlightenment for men and
women who have come to them, they have accomplished something fine and worthy. Such a belief as this has found
expression in our American life in the tremendous increase in enrollment in our universities of late years, and, in spite
of all the problems of such a growth, I am convinced it is indicative of a significant viewpoint toward higher
education in American life which institutions like New York University are responding to with a high degree of capacity. Certainly,
if New York University were to err, I would rather have it err on the side of being too democratic.”

Chapel Hill, N. C.—(IP)—Courses in marriage are a proper and necessary part of the modern university curriculum, according to Prof.
Ernest R. Groves of the University of North Carolina Sociology Department, who has just written a book telling about it.
The book, “Marriage,” was published last week by Henry Holt & Co. Dr. Groves says, in part: “We have at
present sufficient information emerging from the various fields of science that have to do with human behavior to justify the
serious study of marriage by college men and women. From every quarter, the demand is insistent that preparation be given
those entering marriage, and it is generally realized among educators that the past laissez-faire attitude cannot persist. It is apparent
that a definite responsibility for the development of preparation for marriage rests upon the colleges and that the time has
come when no institution (Continued on page 4)

To See if Our Ads Are Read and to Prove the Quality of Our Work we again offer to accept
this ad and 15c, if presented by 3 o’clock Saturday, March 18th, for one of our good haircuts.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

ILLUSION: In India, the fakirs present a spectacle to tourists. Two lovely performers break bottles and lamp chimneys before the
eyes of the audience, and throw the jagged pieces into a box already filled with broken glass. They step barefooted
into the box and do an Oriental dance in the glass without injury.

EXPLANATION: The performers toughen their feet in a strong solution of alum water and thoroughly rub them with pulverized resin
before they appear. They throw the freshly broken glass around the edges of the platform. The glass on which they
actually do dance is very thick, heavy, and filed or ground so that the sharp edges are rounded off. The
girls just pretend to dance on the sharp glass.

Source: “Magic Stage Illusions and Scientific Diversions” by Albert A. Hopkins, Munn & Co., New York. Copyright, 1933, B. J.
Reynolds Tobacco Company

CAMELS - One of the tricks of cigarette advertising is to pretend that “Heat Treatment” is an exclusive process, making
one cigarette better than any other.

EXPLANATION: All cigarette manufacturers use heat treatment. It is a routine process of manufacture. The first Camel cigarette ever made
was manufactured under the heat-treating process. Every one of the billions of Camels produced since has received the necessary heat
treatment. Harsh, raw tobaccos require intensive processing under high temperatures. The more expensive tobaccos, which are naturally mild, call for
only a moderate application of heat. Heat treatment never can make cheap, inferior tobacco good.

It is a fact, well known by leaf tobacco experts, that Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than
any other popular brand. This is the most important statement ever made in a cigarette advertisement. Weigh its words: Consider
what it means. Then try Camels. Camels are fresh...in the air-tight, welded Humidor Pack.

NO TRICKS - JUST COSTLIER TOBACCOS IN A MATCHLESS BLEND
