THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 27, 1933

DAVIDSON ALUMNI TO GATHER HERE FOR ANNUAL HOMECOMING ON OCTOBER TWENTY-FIRST

Varied Program Is Being Planned for Returning Men

ALUMNI PERSONALS — DUKE-DAVIDSON GAME

The thin grey line of those warriors who seventy years ago followed Lee and Jackson had dwindled down to five feeble men at the 48th annual picnic of Mecklenburg Confederate Veterans. Col. W. A. Smith, commander of the North Carolina division of the grey-clad armies of the South, gathered around him four of his old comrades and they lived again through the highlights of that memorable past.

Plans are under way for the Homecoming program for October 21. Although not definitely completed, the arrangements include a short address by the new music director, a luncheon in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. Of course, the main attraction of the day will be the Duke-Davidson football game which will be played the afternoon of the 21st on Richardson Field. Duke is rated as the best team in the state, and the Wildcats are hard to beat in their home lair on Homecoming Day, so a great game is expected for the afternoon.

Many alumni are expected to return to the campus for that memorable weekend. Last year something over three hundred returned, and an even larger crowd is anticipated this year. All alumni who are expecting to be present at the luncheon are requested to notify Grier Martin, alumni secretary, so that arrangements may be made. Alumni are invited to bring their wives, families, friends, or girls to the luncheon.

Prominent Davidson Man Passes at Home In Washington, D.C.

On March 9, 1933, one of Davidson’s most distinguished alumni passed away. Col. Edward T. Brown, '79, died at his home in the Mayflower Hotel in Washington, D.C., from pneumonia which he contracted while attending the inauguration of his close personal and political friend, Franklin D. Roosevelt, as President of the United States. The Saturday before his death Colonel Brown sat on the reviewing stand with the new President.

Born in Gainesville, Ga., in 1858, Colonel Brown began the practice of law in Athens, Ga., following his graduation from Davidson in 1879. He later moved to Atlanta where he was senior member of the firm of Brown and Randolph. While there he was made a lieutenant-colonel on the governor’s staff. A first cousin of Woodrow Wilson’s first wife, Brown became a close personal friend of the wartime President, as well as a political ally. He was tendered several high governmental posts, but refused them, preferring to remain a private citizen. For many years he was chairman of the State Democratic Committee of Georgia. This distinguished Davidson alumnus had a large part in the development of the cave section of the Shenandoah Valley. In 1919 he purchased Endless Caverns and developed it into a famous resort. During Wilson’s stay at the White House, Brown spent much of his time there, and the two men were companions on numerous golf expeditions. Colonel Brown was buried in Athens, Ga. He is survived by a son, Major Edward M. Brown, and a daughter, Mrs. Marjorie King.

Changes

A few changes have been made in the residences of the faculty for this year. Professor Gwynn and Coach “Doc” Newton have made their homes on Concord Road in the new houses which were built this summer. Heath Whittle is occupying Dr. Foreman’s residence on North Main Street while the latter is away on a leave of absence.

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, president-emeritus of Washington and Lee University and one of the South’s outstanding educators and speakers, recently addressed a county-wide mass meeting in the interests of the 18th Amendment.

Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, preached at the Hopewell Presbyterian Church. This was the first time that Dr. Lingle has preached in Hopewell and a large congregation attended.

Dr. J. M. McConnell, dean of instruction and head of the History department of Davidson College, recently addressed the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce. Dr. McConnell discussed the “New Deal,” the London Economic Conference, and the gold standard. This talk was the first of a series which will be given by prominent speakers discussing present economic conditions.

Sermons by Rev. Taliaferro Thompson, of the faculty of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., marked the close of the summer season at Montreat, assembly ground of the Southern Presbyterian Church.

Dr. B. R. Lacy, president of the Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., was among the leaders of the Southern Presbyterian Church who attended the sessions of the North Carolina Synod, when it held its 120th meeting in Greensboro recently.

Mayor George W. Coan, Jr., of Winston-Salem, N.C., has been appointed a member of the North Carolina Public Works Advisory Board by President Roosevelt. Mayor Coan succeeds Herman G. Baity, dean of the Engineering School, University of North Carolina, as a member of the board.

John W. Moore, for the last ten years principal of the Reynolds High School, was elected superintendent of the Winston-Salem City Schools by the school board August 31.

After three years of membership in Drug, Incorporated, the Vick Chemical Company of Greensboro, New York, and Philadelphia, is once more operating as an independent organization, but is still under the same management and personnel. Mr. Lunsford Richardson is president of the company.

Charles A. Cannon, of Concord, N.C., was appointed a member of the State Recovery Board but found it impossible to accept the appointment.

Resignation of J. Eris Cassell, principal of Concord High School, Concord, N.C., for the past four years, was announced recently. It is understood that Mr. Cassell will leave the teaching profession and engage in business in another city.

Alfred Lindley, of Sampson, Turkey, is spending the vacation with parents and other relatives. It has been two years since his last visit to the United States.

A. S. Farnsworth, of San Antonio, Texas, was a recent visitor on the campus. He has been visiting in Charlotte for the past month.

Chalmers Davidson has been studying at Harvard and has completed his Ph.D. degree except the writing of his thesis. He will teach at the Blue Ridge School, at Hendersonville, N.C., this winter.

Boyce F. Martin has recently accepted a position as assistant dean of the Harvard School of Business Administration. Mr. Martin graduated from this school and has since been connected with the American Telephone Company in New York.

Billie Archie is now teaching French at Wake Forest College. Up until this time he was teaching at the Gulf Coast Military Academy at Gulfport, Miss.

H. C. Harrell, of Ellenboro, passed his medical examination July 25, 1933, and is now able to practice medicine in North Carolina.

Bob Kell has been awarded an Athletic Fellowship at Emory University, Emory University, Ga. He has been teaching at Battle Ground Academy. At Emory he is studying English and coaching.

A. J. Hewlett is coaching at Greenville High School, Greenville, N.C.

Dr. R. N. Hunt graduated June, 1933, receiving the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery. He was graduated from the Dental School, University of Maryland.

L. L. Boyd has received his first lieutenant’s commission and is with the C.C.C., stationed at Shiloh, National Park, Tennessee.

W. B. McGuire and E. Z. DuBose, '32, were both on the Board of Governors of the Duke Bar Association last year. Mr. McGuire was the president of the board.

W. C. Ragin is now connected with a dye concern at Laurinburg, N.C.

Hugh McAllister is at present studying medicine at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N.C.

Graham “Doc” Mathis has recently accepted a position as coach at the Kinston High School, Kinston, N.C.

Charlie Harrison is in the Aviation School at Randolph Field, San Antonio, Texas.

Horace Erwin is working in the foreign department of the Chase National Bank in New York City.

John D. McConnell spent a part of the summer in New York with Chase National Bank and studying at Columbia University. He has accepted a position with the Wachovia Banking and Trust Company in Winston-Salem, N.C.

Listen, Alumnus

Davidson College was on the air last Monday night from 9:15 to 9:30 over Station WBT, Charlotte, and will be broadcasting for fifteen minutes each Monday night during the school year. SoTurn your dials, Alumnus, to 1100 kilocycles, and listen to the Wildcat speak. No regular time has yet been given for the program, but it will remain between 9:00 and 9:30 for the time being. In the program last Monday night, Dr. W. L. Lingle made a short talk of introduction, and the Davidson College Band, under the direction of Mr. James C. Pfohl, rendered several marches, concluding the program with “O Davidson.”

Alumni Marriages

'28 Mr. Boyce F. Martin and Miss Helen Artt were married this summer at the Church of the Ascension in New York City. The ceremony was very simple and afterwards the couple left for a wedding trip to Atlanta and other Southern points. Mr. and Mrs. Martin are now making their home at Soldier's Field, Mass.

'30 Mr. and Mrs. Paul Joseph Neff announce the marriage of their daughter, Elizabeth, to Mr. Robert Bull Erckman on Tuesday, the twenty-sixth of September, at the First Congregational Church, St. Louis, Mo.

DAVIDSON ALUMNI ARE PROMINENT IN MEETING

Dr. Moore McConnell Elected Moderator of North Carolina Synod

Graduating Class Is Very Successful

Fifty-four out of sixty-four reporting graduates of Davidson in the class of '33 either have jobs or are continuing their work in graduate school, according to the results of a questionnaire sent to the members of the class during the summer. Sixty-two replies were received to the 132 questionnaires which were sent out. Fourteen of the men are in business, and two are planning to enter school this fall. Twelve of the graduates plan to enter the ministry and enter theological seminaries. Law schools claim nine of them, and six will go into medicine. Five have teaching positions, and three are taking graduate work leading to that profession. Nine of the reporting Seniors were still undecided as to what they would do.

Davidson College figured quite prominently in the recent meeting of the Synod of North Carolina which was held in Greensboro. The Church of the Covenant, of which Rev. R. Murphy Williams, '96, is the pastor, was host to the Synod, although most of the meetings were held in the buildings of the Woman's College at Greensboro. Many of the leading ministers at the meeting were members of the alumni body. At the opening of the assembly, Claude T. Carr, ’98, resigned from the position of director of religious education, a position which he has held for the past ten years.

Dr. J. Moore McConnell, dean of the faculty at Davidson, was chosen as Moderator for the year, 1933-34. Davidson College was selected as the meeting place for 1934. This action was in line with the practice which has been followed in the past several years of meeting at various colleges throughout the state. Dr. McConnell defeated Dr. Ben R. Lacy for the Moderator’s place by a small margin. Dr. W. T. Thompson, '05, spoke before the Synod in behalf of Union Theological Seminary. In an early issue of The Davidsonian, a more complete account of the activities of these men will be given.

UNUSUAL RECORD

Jim Lewis, fifty-three-year-old, sleepy-eyed, hump-backed negro engaged as one of the wreckers of the old administration building at Wake Forest College, paused between shovels of brickbats today long enough to tell one of the professors that he holds some sort of a record for stealing chickens. Forty years ago, the negro said, he swiped a White Leghorn rooster from Mr. Peed, who was then a merchant at Wake Forest. It was the same rooster Jim had sold him earlier in the day. The next morning he used the cock to clean the soot out of his fireplace chimney, and then sold him as a Black Game bird to the obliging Mr. Peed. Later in the day he swiped the rooster again. This time with the use of pokeberry stain he converted him into a Rhode Island Red. Merchant Peed bought him again, without any questions. The final sale was made the following day when the rooster was presented as he was the first time in his White Leghorn attire.

“I stole him again that night,” Jim drawled, “and et 'em for Sunday mornin’ breakfus’.” The darkey stated that the merchant never caught him until Dr. John Powers, Wake Forest physician, then a clerk in the store, told Peed about it.

“Did he prosecute you for stealing?” the professor asked.

“Nawsir,” Jim replied. “He sed if a man wuz big enuf’ fool to let a nigger steal his same rooster five times he shouldn’t do nothin’ about it.” Peed, by the way, is now proprietor of a brick mill which supplied brick for the new medical building here.—J. L. Memory, Jr., in “Charlotte News.”

'30 Mr. Albert J. Thompson and Miss Vivian Maxine Austin were married at Chesterfield, S. C., on Wednesday, April 19, 1933. Mr. Thompson is connected with Cecil Ellington and his orchestra at Saratoga Springs, New York, and after September 1 the couple will be at the Roosevelt Hotel, Saratoga Springs, New York.

'31 Mr. William Carson Lee and Miss Caroline Hart Thompson were married July 30th at Charlotte, N. C. Mr. Lee is connected with the Belk Brothers store and the couple will make their home in Charlotte.

'31 Mr. Thomas Stephen Neal and Miss May Elizabeth Gatewood were united in marriage August 5th at the Presbyterian Church in Yanceyville. Mr. Neal holds a position with the May Hosiery Mills, at Burlington, N. C.

'32 Mr. Chester Wellington Arnold and Miss Edna Slack were recently married in Greensboro. Immediately after the ceremony Mr. and Mrs. Slack left for an extended tour of the New England States. They will be at home in Greensboro after October 1st.

'33 Mr. Frank Elvery and Miss Ruth Powell, both of Tampa, were married at the Presbyterian Church, August 12, 1933, by Rev. James F. Merrin.

'32 W. W. Cashion has been connected for some time with the Commercial Investment Trust Company in Charlotte, N. C.

'33 C. H. Little, Jr., has been named coach of track and assistant in other sports at Oakhurst High School.

'33 Charles Norfleet, Moffet MacConnell, Charles Myers, Ned Dwelle, ’32, John Keller, ’32, Powhatan Conway, ’32, are attending Harvard Business School, Soldiers Field, Boston, Mass.

'33 W. B. Ward and Ben Taylor traveled in Italy during the summer and are expected in the United States some time during the last of September.

'33 Avery Patton has a teaching assistantship in chemistry at Tulane University.

'33 H. D. Cashion has obtained a position with the New York Life Insurance Company. He will be located in Charlotte. George Neal is also located with this company in Charlotte.

A great many alumni were visitors on the campus this weekend for the Elon-Davidson game. Following is a partial list of the alumni who were here: Robert Gorrell, John Belk Stevens, Nab Armfield, Stokes Munroe, John D. McConnell, Al Grant, Tom Gignilliat, Hugh Query, Ed Kuykendall, J. B. Johnston, Ernest Milton, and others.

JUST A NOTE IN MUSIC

He: “What would you think, sweetheart, if I should whisper that you were a harp of many strings?”
She: “I should wonder, dear, if you thought I was a lyre.”

Statistics on Davidson-Elon Game

Statistics for the Davidson-Elon game here Saturday are:

| Elon | Davidson
| --- | ---
| First downs | 6 | 9
| Yards gained from scrimmage | 60 | 232
| Yardage lost from scrimmage | 14 | 1
| Forward passes attempted | 16 | 8
| Passes completed | 5 | 1
| Passes incompleted | 9 | 6
| Passes intercepted | 2 | 1
| Yards gained from passes | 48 | 33
| Yardage from scrimmage | 258 | 233
| Number of punts | 16 | 13
| Yardage of punts | 590 | 438
| Average length of punts | 36.8 | 33.7
| Yardage punts returned | 60 | 20
| Yards lost from penalties | 20 | 25
| Fumbles recovered | 2 | 1

Freshman Managers

As the football season opens and the competition among the candidates for managing positions gets under way, quite a number of Freshmen have reported for work in this field. So far twelve Freshmen are out for manager, among whom are Bailey, Branton, Finley, Gaw, Harkins, Kuykendall, Moffett, Morrison, Norfleet, Port, Sellars, and Taylor. The last call for Freshman managers will be issued Thursday.

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP
WELCOME STUDENTS
We Guarantee Our Work

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
SPECIAL DAVIDSON STATIONERY
COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”
GET YOUR COURTESY CARD