6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 12, 1933

Carl Pritchett Leads Wildcats Hit Spree

Louisburg Team Wins Over Freshman Nine

Vesper Service

Former “Y” Secretary Speaks to Students on Subject of Christianity

“Jesus teaches us that it costs to be a Christian,” said Carl Pritchett in a most illuminating talk given at the Y. M. C. A. service last Sunday night. Carl was the secretary of the “Y” here last year and is now attending the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. This year he was a member of the annual deputation from the Seminary to Davidson. While at Davidson as a student, Pritchett was captain of the basketball team and president of the student body.

The service was opened with a prelude by Edward McNair, after which John Howard led in prayer. After the singing of a few hymns, and the responsive reading of Psalm 103, Sam Wiley read the scripture lesson, John 15:9-27. Following this, a special violin selection was rendered by Gordon Green, after which Wiley introduced the speaker.

Carl Pritchett began his talk by saying that although he was not going to speak on any particular subject, he was going to say three things to the students for their consideration.

The Wildcat nine, with Charlie Pearce pitching, took advantage of ten bases on balls and a like number of errors and made six hits to bring in ten runs to defeat the Davidson freshmen on the local diamond Monday, by a score of 10 to 6. Morgan and Peabody were the Davidson stars, while Robinson stood out for Catawba.

The game was close from the beginning and not until the eighth inning did the Wildcats clinch the game, when they went on a hitting spree and scored six runs. Catawba’s big inning came in the fourth frame when the Indians, led by the hitting of Robinson, scored four runs to tie the score. Davidson came back in the next inning to score one tally and then held the lead for the rest of the game. Pearce pitched the entire game, allowing nine scattered hits and striking out seven. Wildness on his part in the fifth inning cost him four runs.

Charlotte High Nine Defeats Wildkittens

The Charlotte High School diamond outfit slugged timely and heftily to rout Doc Unger’s Wildkittens, 17 to 9, last Friday at Robbie’s Field, Charlotte.

The Charlotteans slugged the apple to touch the offerings of Richardson for 13 base blows, which led to 17 runs. The ’Kittens shelled Josephs from the hill in the first inning and amassed a total of ten hits during the contest. Burns, with four bingles out of five trips to the platter, led the hitters of both teams. Brady, Charlotte left fielder, took three out of five to lead his team’s hitting.

Charlotte High ---- 242 201 42x—17 14 2
Davidson Fresh ---- 320 030 100—9 10 10

PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE

Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Handbooks, Etc. Engraved Cards and Invitations. Nothing too large or small for our plant—

A. M. MANSON, Manager

6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing

Always Best

STANDARD PRINTING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.and thought. 

Catawba Ab R H O A | Batteries: Josephs, King and Beam; Richardson, Jenkins and Senter, Moore. 

First, Pritchett said that Christianity is Jesus Christ. Some people find it rather hard to believe wholly in the Bible, but Christianity is not a book; it is a real, living, and live person. Many people today feel a resentment towards Jesus Christ and the church. They look at one person and say, “Well, if he is a Christian, then I haven't the slightest desire to be a Christian.” The point here is that we must not worship God through Christians, but we must realize that with Christ as a fortress our position is unassailable. 

The second point that Mr. Pritchett stressed was that Jesus Christ lives in the hearts of Christians. Here the speaker quoted Dr. Fosdick, eminent minister, saying, “You will not find God at the end of an argument, but instead you will find Him in the human heart.” God, who is all-powerful, all-knowing, and all-compassionate, dwells in the human heart. We are always speaking of the cost of that thing, and the cost of this thing, but we seldom stop to ask the cost of the forgiveness of sin. This brought the speaker to his final point. “We are not willing to pay the price!” We always want to make reservations. Many of us are like the rich young ruler, perfectly willing to work for God, but unwilling to give up our worldly pleasures for Him. The reason that that young ruler became a Christian was that he had a tragic need in his soul and God met that tragic need with a tragic demand. Jesus teaches us that it costs to be a Christian. Think how much His disciples had to pay. “The foxes have their holes, the birds their nests, but the Son of Man has naught to lay his head.” The glorious truth is that Christian life is a life of constant growth away from sin. Some men’s lives are ruined by a spirit of enmity—some are not willing to pay the price of the life’s work—all is only a small part of the price that you have to pay for the reality of Jesus Christ, but it is worth it.

FRESHMAN TRACK TEAM COPS HONORS IN TRIANGULAR MEET (Continued from page 1)

(Charlotte) fourth. Height: 10 feet, 8 inches. 220-yard low hurdles: Byrd (Winston) first; Isenhour (Charlotte) second; Pittman (Davidson) third; Morris (Winston) fourth. Time: 26.8. 880-yard run: Evans (Charlotte) first; Berthold (Winston) second; Shuford (Davidson) third; Duggins (Winston) fourth. Time: 2:09. Discus throw: Copeland (Charlotte) first; J. C. Helms (Charlotte) second; H. Wells (Davidson) third; E. Helms (Charlotte) fourth. Distance: 109 feet, 11¾ inches. High jump: Lee (Davidson) and Pike (Winston) tied for first; McCachren (Charlotte) and Fenter (Charlotte) tied for third. Height: 5 feet, 7¼ inches. Javelin throw: Pearce (Davidson) first; Gill (Charlotte) second; Holder (Charlotte) third; Pickard (Charlotte) fourth. Distance: 149 feet, 11 inches. Broad jump: Pickard (Charlotte) first; Holder (Charlotte) second; McClintock (Charlotte) third; Hassell (Davidson) fourth. Distance: 21 feet 4½ inches.

REPORTERS’ CLUB HOLDS INITIATION (Continued from page 1)

ed to table the proposition until the next meeting, so that a decision could be made. At the close of the business meeting, a delicious feed was served. The meeting closed with the welcome extended to the new members by the old.

Cnty 66 tobacco? Well... here it is... already whittled FOR you. Granger Rough Cut is tobacco whittled right... that’s one reason why it burns so slow and cool.

WHEN we started to make Granger Rough Cut we knew that fine tobacco burnt hot because it burnt so fast. It kept your pipe hot. You could hardly hold your pipe in your hand, it got so hot at times. Then we remembered that some folks back yonder used to “whittle” their tobacco. So we made GRANGER just like “whittle” tobacco — “Rough Cut.” It smokes cooler and lasts a lot longer. And also, you'll find it never gums the pipe. So far, so good. Now we wanted to sell this tobacco for 10c. Good tobacco—right process—cut right. It was a question of how to do it for the price. So we put GRANGER in a sensible soft foil pouch instead of an expensive package, knowing that a man can’t smoke a package. We gave smokers this good GRANGER tobacco in a common-sense pouch for 10c. GRANGER has not been on sale very long, but it has grown to be a popular smoke. And there is this much about it — we have yet to know of a man who started to smoke it, who didn’t keep on. Folks seem to like it.

Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. © 1933 LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO. The Granger pouch keeps the tobacco fresh TEN CENTS