THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 25, 1933

~The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina. Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRANT Editor-in-Chief
A. M. MANSON Managing Editor

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. M. THOMPSON Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS Managing Editor
D. CASALI Athletic Editor
R. E. LAKE Associate Editor
H. S. GAMBIT Feature Editor
B. GAY Review Editor
D. Associate Editor
R. Associate Editor
C. Associate Editor
B. Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON Assistant Business Manager
ALVIN BAYER, JR. Business Manager
H. B. DANIEL Solicitor
J. M. DOUGLAS Solicitor
G. L. GREEN Solicitor
W. P. SPRUNT Solicitor
R. TAYLOR Solicitor
A. C. WADSWORTH Solicitor
E. WHITE Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
E. President
G. GAMBLE Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG Secretary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN
L. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN
L. McILWINEN
G. E. BAILY
E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY
W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES
W. L. NORTHEN
E. BOWERS
C. E. NORVELL
E. BOYD
E. L. POWELL
H. COVING
S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON
P. M. ROGERS
B. FICK
B. ROSE
L. GULLETTE
H. HELLINGER
N. W. WALLACE
C. HENRY
K. D. WEEKS
A. HUNTER
W. R. WARD
E. LORRAINE
W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD
W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS
PRATT-THOMAS

JANUARY 25, 1933

“There are moments when, regardless of whatever be the attitude of the body, the soul is on its knees.”—Victor Hugo.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

It is with a sigh of relief that we face the new semester. Exams and all that they imply are
over. A new chance awaits us. Let us make the most of this opportunity.

Hints of spring are seen in the warm weather, fresh buds and early flowers, but the weather bureau of the
Davidsonian predicts that a good deal of cold weather is to come before spring finally arrives.

To the Freshmen—Don’t be discouraged. Many a better man than you has flunked a subject or two. Take heart.

Reeves Pope and his staff are to be congratulated, especially on the last issue of the Yowl.

The basketball season thus far has been rather unsuccessful, but let us remember that the team is handicapped in stature,
and that they are a Davidson team, and we should support them.

The vesper services the past several Sundays have been especially good. Let’s get into the habit again.

The approaching mid-winters promise much fun and frivolity for all.

The Stough brothers are to be congratulated on their run of good pictures lately.

It was with a good deal of disappointment that we learned that Davidson along with other applicants was not admitted
into the Southern Conference.

We are inclined to believe that Davidson, along with William and Mary, will be the first two colleges in either
Virginia or the Carolinas to be admitted into the Southern Conference. It would be fitting, as these two schools are
among the oldest in the South.

We hope that Davidson will be admitted to the Southern Conference at their meeting this coming September. It would be
highly beneficial for us and fitting that we should be taken in.

Our sympathies are with those who have started spring football practice.

CALIFORNIA AND PROHIBITION

Last November when Roosevelt was swept into office by an overwhelming majority, many opponents of prohibition thought that we would
have the repeal or modification of the Eighteenth Amendment immediately. The result of the action of Congress on this matter
and President Hoover’s veto is well known, although few friends and supporters of the Amendment entertain much hope that it
will in its present status remain unchanged. The sentiment of the whole country last November, or by far the greater
part of it, was that prohibition as it exists now was a complete failure and that any change would be
for the better; and of course many people still have the same idea about this which they had at election
time. Many in this country who had formerly been advocates of prohibition and were known to be drys, openly opposed
this Amendment. There have been some, however, who have maintained that the Eighteenth Amendment in its present form is the
best way to handle the situation in this country. These people have a strong point in their favor, because their
argument before the election was that conditions would be much worse than they are now if the prohibition law were
done away with. Their arguments have been proven to be properly grounded in the case of the repeal of the
Wright Act in the State of California. This act which supplemented the national prohibition act was repealed in November, and
the results since then have been very interesting. There were many predictions by prohibitionists that drunkenness and reckless driving would
increase if this act were repealed, and these have all come true. Statistics were taken in Los Angeles thirteen days
before the repeal of the Wright Act and thirteen days after the repeal, and we shall give them as a
matter of comparison. For the period of time before the repeal of the act there were 889 arrests, and for
the corresponding time after the repeal there were 1,095 arrests. In the November period there were 363 traffic accidents, 492
injuries and nine deaths. In the same period in December, accidents numbered 507, injuries in traffic 695; and deaths reached
the record-breaking total of twenty-nine.

These few figures reveal, in a manner which no amount of argument or debate would, just exactly what is the
effect of the repeal of a law controlling the liquor traffic in any state. The most ardent wet must pause
in the face of these facts and wonder if the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment is the correct solution after
all, if we must face increased crime. From the effect in this one state, we must wonder what would be
the nation-wide result if Congress repeals the Eighteenth Amendment. Certainly many politicians have been proven to be in the wrong
when they stated that conditions under prohibition were at their lowest ebb and could not be worse, for the results
in California have conclusively proven that conditions not only can be worse but are at the present time worse than
when the state prohibition law was in effect.

A HINT

A good start is half. A good beginning immediately turns all efforts into the right paths. Many a career of
brilliant possibilities is marred by a wrong or bad beginning. Many people spend the latter part of their lives trying
to correct the errors they made during the earlier part, and there are many persons who never get over their
mistakes of early life. Many a noble enterprise has fallen because its foundation was bad. Poor preparation for a business
or a career does not bring a man great success, but most frequently brings him failure. These principles also apply
in our school life. The beginning a student makes often determines whether he will pass or fail the course. With
the recent examinations, came the close of the first semester and the beginning of the second semester of the present
school term. It is needless to say that few if any of us learned as much about the different courses
we took as we should like to have learned. But what we failed to do last semester is a thing
of the past now, and should not burden our minds. Our efforts should be concentrated on the semester which just
began. It is of utmost importance that we start this semester well. Of course, in some of the subjects we
take this term, our success will depend upon what we learned about the subject last semester. Despite this handicap, we
can still attain success in these subjects if we begin them well. Often have we been told that the essence
of success in study is the ability to stick to it until the task is mastered. This is gained largely
through practice. By starting the practice now at the beginning of the semester, we can acquire the habit that much
sooner and thus attain a greater degree of success which will be more knowledge of and a better grade in
our subjects.

—ODI CASALI.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. LAKE

Washington and Lee

The Washington and Lee Fancy Dress, which will be held this weekend, will not be broadcast over the Lucky Strike
Hour as it was last year. This is due to the fact that the Lucky Strike program this year is
under contract, and the hour is broadcasting only from New York, Chicago, and San Francisco. Bernie Cummins and his internationally
famous dance orchestra will furnish the music for this great occasion, which is considered by many as the greatest set
of dances in the South and one of the best in the country. The Fancy Dress is known all over
the country and people come from all over the States to participate in this festival. During Bernie Cummins’ tour of
the South this week and next week, when he will go to Washington and Lee and Georgia Tech, Jan Garber,
the latest sensation in dance orchestras, will play every night at the Trianon ballroom in Chicago. He will be playing
as a substitute for Cummins. This is broadcast.

WORLD SPECTATOR

The German Reichstag has recently made plans for the reclaiming of a large tract of land from the sea near
Schleswig-Holstein. This project, somewhat similar to the Zuider Zee operations carried on by the Dutch, will restore a large tract
of land which has slowly and steadily been given up to the ocean. The Germans, however, are not in as
great a hurry as the Dutch were, and have allowed one hundred years for the completion of the project.Project. The
method used by the engineers and geologists will be to build a dam, the longest one in the world, separating
the sea from the land to be reclaimed. The land will then be drained and turned over to agriculture. Another
project, to build up the surface of the land, is to run the rivers through settling basins and thus let
the silt in the rivers supply the land which the ocean has been taking away. Possibly if the condition of
business all over the world gets much worse we will be forced to have disarmament. Chile has recently come to
the conclusion that in these hard times its battleships are costing too much. Now Chile has laid up all her
battleships and has dismantled a great many of them. For quite a while one of the battleships has been tied
up to a dock and has been without fire in her boilers, the necessary energy for the maintenance of the
ship being supplied by connecting the ship to a land power electricity line. With the reduction of the navy, Chile
is now in a position to save money on armaments and use the appropriations for better things.

The war between Paraguay and Bolivia is still going on, though there are no great battles at the present. In
skirmishes and engagements between small units, the Bolivians have been charged with using dum dum bullets against the Paraguayans. These
soft-nosed bullets spread when they hit their target and make a very bad wound. As a result, they are forbidden
by international law. The claim by Paraguay may be only propaganda to promote ill feeling toward Bolivia.

Mr. Earl Hanson has just returned from an eighteen-month trip into the northern jungles of South America. His trip into
the wilds was made in order to gather scientific information about terrestrial magnetism for the Carnegie Institution of Washington, D.C.
While he was there, Mr. Hanson learned quite a good deal about the condition of South American international relations. Mr.
Hanson said that “the casual traveler through these countries is given the impression that South America is on the verge
of blowing up.”

The 1933 edition of Brassey’s Naval Shipping Annual, a British publication, has directed rather sharp criticism against the United States
battleships Colorado, Maryland, and West Virginia. The annual pointed out that “the speed is low and the main armament of
sixteen-inch guns is less in number than in British ships. Notwithstanding the adequate thickness of the belt and barbette armor,
the horizontal protection appears weak, and the entirely unarmored forward end of the vessel, if shot away at the stem
near the water line, would diminish speed by a matter of knots.” The United States Chief of Naval Operations does
not deny the above statements, but only contends that the ships, when new, were of what was then called good
design. These battleships cannot compare to some of the British ships of newer design and construction such as H.M.S. Nelson,
but we could, if the need arose, put quite a bit of improvement upon our present ships.

The Rockefeller Institute of Medical Research has recently announced the discovery by two members of its staff of a way
to locate the cells in the human body which are responsible for the immunity of persons to disease. The method
used is to inject harmless particles of magnetized iron into the body. The cells producing immunity pick up these particles
in the same manner that they pick up the dangerous germs which produce disease. It is the habit of these
cells to cast loose from their supports when they have “eaten” enough microbes. In the same manner, the cells cast
off when they have absorbed enough particles of iron. By simply placing a strong magnet against a portion of the
body, these free cells are attracted to that part of the body and may be collected. Experimenters have succeeded in
transferring these cells from the body into glass dishes where they may be cultivated.

In spite of the fact that there is more currency than in 1929, bartering centers have sprung up in all
parts of the United States. People, unable to sell for money at a decent price, are bringing their products to
several small offices, where they are told where they can find someone who wants to swap. This barter is not
confined to products, but service is also rendered by barter. Thus the cobbler repairs the butcher’s shoes and in return
is paid off in meat. The dentist accepts plumbing service as payment for dental work. This idea of barter was
probably the first form of business and reverts to the old idea of production for a demand instead of for
a market.

Jan Garber is now playing nightly over WGN in Chicago about 11:30. Jan, in talking to reporters, said that all
of his pieces were new except Rudy. Jan has improved a great deal in the last year and this is
the explanation for it. Right now he looks like another Guy Lombardo.

University of Chattanooga
The men at the University of Chattanooga have decided to let the girls go in “dutch” with them on their
dates. Good idea during this depression time. Here is the editorial entitled: Should Co-eds Pay?

“Women in their fight down through the ages for equality with men have craved to be independent creatures. They have
desired to enter the business world, and they have; they have aspired to be doctors, lawyers, pilots, steeplejacks, and baseball
players, and they are. Having scorned the bonds of monogamy, placed on them by the polygamous male, they have demanded
less discrimination between the sexes, and they have more freedom in les affairs d’amour. In fact, women have waged a
successful fight against many prejudices concerning the weaker sex.

“The men at U.C. have watched the co-eds struggle—on the dance floor, in the classroom, etc. They have felt very
distressed about certain conditions existent. The men have now decided on certain innovations in order to help the darling ‘guhls’
to ‘make the world safe for democracy’ of women. The men decided, therefore, to allow the petites mademoiselles to donate
half the fortune expended on dates. The gallants realize what an up-hill battle the ‘balls and chains’ are waging; so
their innate chivalry comes to the fore with this suggestion.

“The men give reasons for this, but recently, unprecedented action. They declare that, during the panic, girls have as much
as they, and that it is rather discouraging when a date costs $6.10—yes, six dollars and ten cents. Didn’t you
dames know that? After three bucks for a corsage, three bucks for a dance, and a dime for incidentals (just
how many incidentals can one buy for ten cents?), it is rather depressing when the gal orders a sandwich and
malted milk at intermission. So there is the situation of the arrogant male.”

Under the hanging mistletoe,
The homely co-ed stands,
And stands, and stands, and stands, and stands,
And stands, and stands, and stands.
—Thresa Crowd.

Well, here we are back again with Xmas past, the exams over and the new semester already begun. Now we
can count the days until the spring vacation and study in the meantime. I had a grand Xmas but it’s
good to be back. Some of the crowd got real nice presents. For instance, modest Lynne Huie is sporting a
swelegant cig case. Congrats. But let us go on, you know a columnist is as good as his last column.
I think this one is a pip so read it and weep.

Aspirin tablets put on special at Whites with a spoon to match. I think that shows good business sense. After
these exams reach for an aspirin and you'll probably need two when you get your report.

Little Sally Moore in front of the College Inn Thursday morning instead of school. Between sniffles she explained she wasn’t
at school because of a bad cold. They say Sally is one of the best readers in her class. Yes
indeedy.

Our president, Dr. Lingle, sally forth on a trip to Florida. While away he will make 38 speeches. That seems
a big assignment for even Huey P. Long, doesn’t it?

Ort Williams driving a new Chrysler. I told you that salesman would sell him and sure enough he must have
been convinced.

Davidson’s own Babe Dedrickson flying around the cinder track in a cloud of dust. It’s little Elizabeth Henderson who ran
a half-mile without stopping and was ready for more. Her strapping male companion gasped between breaths, “No, I think you’ve
had enough. You better run home now.”

I heard some Sig Ups remark that they were embarrassed to death at meetings lately. They have been holding spelling
matches and some of them say they never could spell. But they keep on going, my dear; they wouldn’t miss
for anything.

A lot of studs are counting big on Midwinters, Art Kassell is to play and a bevy of college boys
will be on hand. Orchidaceous debs will dance as some debs do if for nothing but an excuse to buy
some new evening shoes. And more than likely they’ll need them. I really don’t care what kind of shoes mine
wears as long as she brings a small appetite. The girl that goes with me will have a grand chance
to try reducing.

I heard from a source near the president that Jo Jones is not permanently closed but will soon be open
for business after having “Going Out of Business” signs plastered around.

So-and-So groaning about that fellow Tip Poff. I still protest against being taken seriously. I think Davidson can be divided
into two classes. Those who want their names in this column and those who want to keep them out. Requests
come in all the time not to publish this or that, but I notice those who complain are the first
ones who rush down to the P.O. to read our stuff. Anyway, it’s something new under the sun, and I
am a persistent goer-out and try to give satisfactory service. It’s fun to give a pat on the back to
the deserving.

Your old maestroach, TIP POFF.
