4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 17, 1933

——

ATHLETES GIVEN AWARDS IN ALL SPRING SPORTS

(Continued from page 1)

Varsity tennis letters: Elvery, D. B., Tampa, Fla.; Halverstadt, J. A., Atlanta, Ga.; Myers, C. F., Greensboro; Morrow, W. R.,
High Point; Scott, F. H., Tsinanfu, China; Thompson, W. T., Richmond, Va.; Grant, A. H., Mebane (Megr.).

Varsity golf letters: Caldwell, T. P., Yazoo City, Miss.; Manson, A. M., Jacksonville, Fla.; Thompson, J. P., Davidson; Wagner, J.
M., Statesville.

Freshman baseball numerals: Burns, W. W., Hickory; Brown, W. L., Barium Springs; Cathey, G. B., Loray; Clark, M. H., Dothan,
Ala.; Haake, A. H., Brooklyn, N. Y.; Jenkins, J. A., Tarboro; Kuykendall, S. D., Davidson; Loftin, J. F., Gastonia; McFadyen,
E. B., Cameron; Mann, C. L., Greenville, Miss.; Moore, W. B., Cramerton; Partridge, J. J., Atlanta, Ga.; Sanders, A. H.,
Laurens, S. C.; Senter, M. H., Chattanooga, Tenn.; Stewart, D. M., Pinehurst; Walker, J. M., Charlotte; Richardson, R. B., Reidsville;
Watson, A., Anderson, S. C.

Freshman track numerals: Blackwelder, L. J., Davidson; Branton, W. C., Greenville, Miss.; Cathey, H. A., Charlotte; Cothran, J. C., Beauharnois,
Canada; Dees, J. L., Greensboro; Dolan, J. D., Mitchell Field, N. Y.; Evans, R. H., Fayetteville; Faison, A. M., Durham;
Frazier, E. N., Charlotte; Fraley, W. J., High Point; Glass, J. H., Richmond, Va.; Hassell, A. P., Takushima, Japan; Johnston,
J. B., Barium Springs; Lee, J. N., Barium Springs; Merchant, W. A., Blowing Rock; Parker, F. E., High Point; Pearce,
J. R., Plant City, Fla.; Pittman, P. C., Barium Springs; Sears, C. L., Barium Springs; Shuford, A. W., Hickory; Smith,
C. G., Rocky Mount; Tipton, G. T., Kingsport, Tenn.; Wells, H., Mt. Olive; Windham, C. L., Gastonia; McConnell, D. M.,
Chester, S. C. (Mer.).

Freshman tennis numerals: Barnett, M. J., Meridian, Miss.; Bell, W. F., Kwangju, Korea; Bowman, W. F., Aberdeen; Hassell, J. W.,
Seguin, Texas; Lewis, C. B., Davidson; Lindsay, R. B., Winston-Salem.

DRAMATIC GROUP GIVES THE LAST PLAY OF YEAR

(Continued from page 1)

Cardew, the young ward of Moncrieff’s, and a very unsophisticated girl. Cecily is closely guarded by Miss Prism, a typical
English governess, who casts eyes at the Canon Chausuble. Mrs. E. J. Erwin took the part of Lady Bracknell and
made the most of her rich role. Miss Orrie Steele as Miss Prism carried out to perfection her role and
exhibited her histrionic ability which bordered on professionalism. Misses Adele Arbuckle and Kalista Hood, playing the leading female roles, imbued
their parts with charm in carrying out their characters of a sophisticated girl, and the opposite extreme of one who
lived in a world of imagination only. Miss Arbuckle was formerly president of the Dramatic Club at Agnes Scott College,
and Miss Hood has had wide experience in dramatics. The sophisticated male leads, ably carried by Nicholas Moss and Wills
Hollingsworth, gave a polish rarely seen in amateur theatricals. Bill Johnson and Roger Riley, recruits from the Freshman class, were
cast as dignified English butlers and intoned their lines with the proper gravity. Gordon Wood, as the rector, carried his
clerical role with the air of a professional and made an impressive study of the part.

The play was a more ambitious undertaking than the usual Masquer production, and was executed in a smooth manner. It
was a fitting finish to the close of the season. The settings were handled effectively by the stage manager and
the property men. The following men were responsible for this success: Director, Ed Hancock; stage manager, Dave Herring; property manager,
Ed Holt; electrician, Don Stewart, and the make-up artists which included Johnny Marvin and Henry Hodgin. The entire production was
under the personal supervision of Professor Erwin. Music during the intermission was played by William Hart at the organ.

NINETY-SEVENTH CLASS TO RECEIVE DIPLOMAS MAY 30

(Continued from page 1)

various phases of college life. These group discussions last year were intensely interesting. At 11:30 a.m., there will be a
general meeting of the Alumni Association in the college chapel. Reports from the various groups will be made at that
time, and officers of the Alumni Association and alumni trustees will be elected. Several brief and snappy talks by officers
of the group will be given, and the seniors will be initiated into the Alumni Association. The alumni lunch will
be at 1:00 o'clock.

Red and Black Masquers Dramatic Club Selects Hollingsworth, Simpson, and Wood

The Red and Black Masquers, college dramatic organization, elected officers for next year at their last meeting of the season,
held Monday night at the Kappa Alpha house. Wills Hollingsworth was elected president; Jimmy Simpson, manager; Wood, secretary-treasurer.

The meeting consisted of both business and social features. The business part was devoted to the election of new officers
and to a financial report on the club’s recent production of Oscar Wilde’s “Importance of Being Earnest.” The club members
expressed themselves as being pleased with the success of the play and the enthusiastic ovation it received. After the routine
matters had been disposed of, the club acted as host to the lady members of the cast of “The Importance
of Being Earnest,” and to freshmen who aided with the play either by taking part or assisting with the sets.
Refreshments were served and a pleasant social hour was passed honoring the guests.

New Officers Chosen Last Monday by I. R. C.

The International Relations Club, at its regular meeting last Monday night, held the annual spring initiation and election of officers.
Twelve men, three of whom are rising seniors and nine members of the oncoming Junior class, were taken into the
society. These were selected on the merits of a paper which each wrote concerning some subject of international interest. Out
of a group of twenty-three men who submitted papers the following were chosen: Don Bailey, Gordon Brown, Sam Eaton, George
Gullette, Fred McPhail, Lorenzo McPhail, William Rachal, Ben Rose, Walter Sprunt, Rawling Pratt-Thomas, Tee Thompson, and Kenneth Weeks.

After the initiation, officers for the coming year were elected. L. W. Clardy was chosen president; L. W. Pratt, vice-president,
and Walter Sprunt, Jr., secretary and treasurer. D. D. McBryde, member of this year’s Senior class and retiring president of
the club,

——

Choose Leaders Monday and Gordon Glee Club Officers

The following men were elected officers of the Davidson Glee Club for the coming year at the last meeting, held
last Wednesday night: J. T. Blair, president; D. P. McLain, vice-president; L. D. McPhail, vice-president, and Carleton Chapman, librarian. The
retiring officers of the organization are: W. W. Caligan, president, and G. E. Baily, business manager. The club had a
successful year, having made several concert tours in North Carolina and adjacent states.

Officers Are Chosen For Forensic Council

Edward J. Humphrey, of Wilmington, was elected president of the Forensic Council for the coming year at a meeting of
retiring council members last Friday. Humphrey succeeds Leland McKeithan of Aberdeen. Other officers selected by the old council, which consisted
of McKeithan, Jake Mackorell, Jack Williams, and Gordon Brown, to serve for the ensuing year, are: Williams and Brown, vice-presidents;
Hugh Hawkins, secretary; Rawlings Pratt-Thomas, treasurer, and Robert Smith, debate manager. At a later meeting of the old and new
council, the duties of each officer were outlined. Plans for debating tryouts and oratorical contests for next year were outlined.

Capt. Pritchett Buys Grid-Graph Machine

Captain Pritchett stated today that he has purchased a grid-graph, so that Davidson students will be able to see the
play-by-play results of next year’s away-from-home football games. The grid-graph is a new device. It is operated by electricity and
is about eight by ten feet in size. Electric lights show the exact position of the ball on a miniature
field. When in playThe lights move on the board in the same way that the ball moves on the playing
field. The type of play also is shown by electric signs. By means of the grid-graph, a person in Davidson
can watch a game that is being played hundreds of miles away.

A brief farewell speech was made, wishing those who will carry on next year a most successful session. The alumni
will be the guests of the college. There will be a reception on the campus at 3:45 p.m. for the
alumni, seniors, students, and friends. This is given by the faculty and their wives. There is going to be something
new at Davidson this year when the graduation exercises will be held at night. The academic procession will begin its
march at 7:30 Tuesday evening. While the sun is going down, about 130 seniors will receive their diplomas. During the
exercises, six honorary degrees will be awarded to distinguished alumni and others.

Professor Foreman Talks on Socialism

Professor Kenneth Foreman spoke to the Socialist group on “The Value of Socialism” last Wednesday night at their regular meeting
in Phi Hall. In his talk, Professor Foreman discussed the Christian ethical reasons for Socialism.

This meeting concluded the series which has recently been started, and due to the splendid interest manifested in them, it
has been decided to continue these discussions at the reopening of school. At the same time, several prominent speakers from
the outside will be secured.

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”
Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“SODAS” “SUNDRIES”

Silver Screen

Wednesday, May 17—Lilly Turner
Ruth Chatterton, as Lilly Turner, marries Gordon Westcott, who is arrested for bigamy, and leaves Lilly. She is cared for
by Frank McHugh, who marries her to protect her. Then George Brent appears, and he plans to marry Lilly, when
McHugh, who drinks all the time, is in an accident. She stays to care for the man who protected her,
and she and Brent part.

Thursday, May 18—Cynara
New views on the eternal triangle. Ronald Coleman, Phyllis Barry, and Kay Francis compose the triangle, and they manage to
put themselves in many scenes.

Friday, May 19—Warrior’s Husband
An amusing farce with the scene laid in the land of Pontus, in 800 B.C. The country is ruled by
a band of Amazons, who control the men and do the fighting. Elissa Landi is the sister of the Queen
and the idol of all the hopeful young men. When at last they meet the Greeks and are conquered by
them, David Manners manages to convince her that the woman’s place is in the home. It is a novel and
interesting production.

Saturday, May 20—Lucky Devils
A completely new type of show, in that it shows the really great heroes of the movies, the ones who
take all the chances in the screen “accidents,” and receive none of the credit. The story portrays the men who
double for the stars and is full of daredevil acts. Bill Boyd, Bruce Cabot, Joel McCrea, and William Gargan are
the stars in the show.

Monday, May 22—Working Man
This show demonstrates the real greatness of the character actor, George Arliss. From the great aristocracy, he comes down to
the level of the ordinary, successful man, as a manufacturer of shoes. In his youth, he had been ousted in
a love affair to a present rival shoe manufacturer. Later, while fishing, he gets into the home of his rival’s
children, his rival having died, and learns to love them. He manages to become their guardian, and they live with
him, and he consolidates the two great shoe companies. It is a very good production.

Tuesday, May 23—Made on Broadway
What promised to be a good show turned out to be not so good. There are some good parts, but
it is very slow. Robert Montgomery leaves his wife, Madge Evans, after having a quarrel with her; meets Sally Eilers,
and attempts to make a lady of her. When things are not going so well, she attempts to blackmail his
friends. He lets her take her departure and goes to resume matters with his wife. Most of the good acting
of Madge Evans is wasted, but the show is above the usual.

Wednesday, May 24—Little Giant
Edwin G. Robinson’s latest, fastest, and funniest picture. In it, he is “Bugs” Ahearn, a beer baron from Chicago. When
the government muscles in on the beer racket, he retires to California and makes society his ground. He buys polo
stables and racing tracks and is played for a sucker by the Santa Barbara crowds. He calls his gang from
Chicago and tries some strong-arm methods on the socialites. The funniest and fastest part of the show comes when the
Little Giant and his men play polo.

Thursday, May 25—Hell Below
This picture does much better for Robert Montgomery than others lately. In it, he is the naval officer whose orders
have sent many men to their deaths. When he is court-martialed, he sends his girl, Madge Evans, back to her
invalid husband, and proceeds to take his medicine. The show is helped in no small way by Jimmy Durante, along
with a tame kangaroo. Robert Young, Eugene Pallette, and Walter Huston are all fine in their roles.

Friday, May 26—The Eagle and the Hawk
The latest picture made by Fredric March. It will be the first time that this show has been shown in
this vicinity.

Local R. O. T. C. Unit Gets Excellent Mark

In a statement concerning the recent annual R. O. T. C. inspection, Major John T. Rhett said that the local
military unit received a grade of excellent, which is the highest possible rating. Commenting on any possible change or abolition
of R. O. T. C. for next year, Major Rhett stated that he had received no official notification concerning such
action, and that he was practically sure the R. O. T. C. would continue for the coming year.

Within the last few days, a list of men tentatively accepted for the advanced course in R. O. T. C.
has been issued. The following men make up the list: L. F. Byerly, J. H. Batte, R. T. Coit, W.
F. Brewer, C. D. Deans, J. M. Douglas, Jr., S. K. Eaton, C. T. Fort, G. L. Green, H. F.
Gregory, B. C. Barnes, J. H. Oswalt, T. M. Phifer, R. M. Porter, A. J. Potter, J. H. Powell, L.
E. Quarterman, W. B. Ravenel, A. B. Rhodes, K. W. Richardson, A. C. Rogers, B. L. Rose, B. O. Simpson,
A. Stutts, T. H. Sutton, D. M. Hutchins, G. R. Wood, H. Yelverton, E. B. Garrett, J. A. C. Robinson,
W. L. Northen, A. M. Cunningham, C. A. Coleman, R. L. Orr, P. M. Rogers, C. B. Ross, C. C.
Harris, W. B. Templeton, and E. G. Holt. There is also an alternate list made up of: J. O. Davidson,
F. H. Hillier, R. O. Dees, J. R. Withers, J. K. Thompson, T. H. Griffith, and J. R. Taylor.

College Printing
Magazines, Catalogs, Handbooks, Etc.
“PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE”
Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you
A. M. MANSON, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE
6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing, Always Best
STANDARD PRINTING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Engraved Cards and Invitations. Exclusively.

INCLUDING SIX SPECIAL ELEVEN! GOLF SETS $3.50 Set
IDEY'S DAVIDSON SHOP
WILSON CLUBS

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY
“LILLY TURNER”
RUTH CHATTERTON — GEORGE BRENT

THURSDAY
“CYNARA”
RONALD COLEMAN — KAY FRANCIS

FRIDAY
“WARRIOR’S HUSBAND”
ELISSA LANDI — DAVID MANNERS

SATURDAY
“LUCKY DEVILS”
BILL BOYD — JOEL McCREA

MONDAY
“WORKING MAN”
GEORGE ARLISS — BETTY DAVIS

TUESDAY
“MADE ON BROADWAY”
