THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 15, 1933

Harvey Stars in “My Lips Betray”

“Take a Chance” Musical Comedy to Show

Wednesday, November 15—The Day of Reckoning
Richard Dix and Madge Evans play the part of the wife who are taken through the trials and hardships of
their lives together. Conway Tearle, Una Merkel, and Stuart Erwin are also in the cast, which is exceptionally good. As
they go through life, all of their friends are either put into prison or they die. The film is very
depressing in parts, though the thought and the acting are good. Little Spanky of the comedies is very good in
his part.

Thursday, November 16—Take a Chance
Another of the popular musical comedies of the present day, and more luxuriant than the majority of these. James Dunn
and Cliff Edwards play the comedy roles, with June Knight, Buddy Rogers, Lillian Roth, and Lillian Bond. Some very good
songs are presented, and the picture is very entertaining. Among the songs are “Eadie Was a Lady,” and “I’m a
Night Owl.” The trio of Dunn, Edwards, and June Knight are shown in their trip from carnival shows to the
stage.

Friday, November 17—My Lips Betray
Lilian Harvey is back again in one of the shows which presents her to the best advantage, in a singing
role. John Boles is in the lead and El Brendel is also in the cast. John Boles sings very well,
and the picture is very good, and should not be missed.

Saturday, November 18—White Woman
Carole Lombard takes the lead in the part of the White Woman, and Charles Laughton gives another fine characterization. Kent
Taylor and Charles Bickford are also in the cast, which is good. The show is very new, having been released
in the past few days, and consequently there is no information concerning it.

Monday and Tuesday, November 20 and 21—Olsen’s Big Moment
Another one of the most recently released pictures, starring in a comedy role, and his comeback to the screen in
this and in “My Lips Betray” is very good. Barbara Weeks takes the feminine lead.

Dr. Richards Speaks To Ministerial Band
The Ministerial Band held its regular meeting Thursday night at nine, in the Y. M. C. A. building. After listening
to the Scripture as read by Herbert Lucas, and being led in prayer by Don Brandon and Woody Thrower, the
band enjoyed a very helpful and interesting talk by Dr. C. M. Richards.

Dr. Richards began by warning those present that his message might prove discouraging to some in view of the fact
that approximately twenty thousand ministers throughout the land are without churches, and that many entered the ministry because it presented
itself to them as a profession which practically guaranteed a comfortable living. However, he made a plea to the candidates
for the ministry to enter the work of the church, accepting their call as a divine privilege rather than assuming
the attitude of the professional man. “Now,” said Dr. Richards, “is the time to learn to do hard, intellectual and
faithful studying—a characteristic of good ministers.”

On Sunday evening, November 5, Herbert Lucas, president of the band, led the service of the Pineville Presbyterian Church, the
pastor of which is a Davidson alumnus, the Rev. W. A. Nicholson. Woody Thrower, a member of the church, introduced
the speaker and read the Scripture for the service.

Tucker and McClain Entertain at Chapel
The student body was favored at the chapel exercises last Friday by several numbers rendered by Frank Tucker and Dave
McLain, members of the Davidson Glee Club. Tucker opened the program by singing “Old Man River.” Called back by applause
for two songs he sang “River Stay 'Way From My Door” and “Roses of Picardy.” Tucker’s entertainment was received with
much enthusiasm by the students, as shown by round after round of applause. Dave McLain, accompanied at the piano by
Professor James Pfohl, sang two numbers, “The Jolly Roger,” and “Run, Mary, Run,” which were received with equal appreciation.

GREENSBORO GLEE CLUB
The Girls’ Glee Club of Greensboro College for Women, which will give a concert in Chambers Auditorium next Friday night
at eight o'clock, sponsored by the Davidson College Glee Club.

Church Attendance Is Topic of Debate
“Resolved: That Church Attendance Be Compulsory at Davidson College,” was the topic of debate at the Eumenean Literary Society meeting
Tuesday night. E. F. Horine defended the affirmative and E. L. Bivens assumed the negative. The crux of the argument
was whether better Christian results would be obtained through compulsion or with the students being allowed to follow their own
conscience.

The negative maintained that compulsion often put the student in such a frame of mind that he got no benefits
from the service, and that after being compelled to go to church for four years, upon graduation he would be
so relieved that he would not attend services at all. The affirmative, on the other hand, maintained that compulsion would
put the student in the habit of attending church and that after all,Sacrifice was part of religion. A true Christian,
contended the affirmative, would attend services for the sheer love of it, and regardless of how boring the service was,
some beneficial effects were to be found in it. The minor features of the program were talks by Wilbur Edwards
and Bivens on current events.

Davidson Student Body Gives Repeal Majority

The Davidson student body favored repeal of the 18th amendment by a majority of 25, a straw vote poll conducted
last week revealed. The result was 255 favoring and 230 against repeal. The Freshman class favored retention of the prohibition
law, being the only one to do so. They cast 106 against and 66 for repeal. The other classes gave
majorities for repeal: the seniors, 41 to 28; juniors, 67 to 44, and the sophomores, 81 to 52.

Band Plays Popular Marches Over Radio

The Davidson College radio program was again presented last Wednesday night when twenty-five members of the concert band played several
very popular marches. Grier Martin, alumni secretary, announced the program, and Mr. James C. Pfohl conducted the band. The program
was opened with the playing of “O Davidson,” and this was followed by “Hall of Fame,” a concert march by
Olivadoti. The band then played “Men of Ohio,” by Fillmore, and “Cheerio,” Edmund Franko Goldman’s latest march which has been
so popular at the football games. Miss Angelia Morrison of the Junior League of Charlotte then made a short talk
on the Citadel-Davidson game which was to be played last Saturday on Richardson Field, which was sponsored by the Junior
League. Following this, the band played “El Capitan” by Sousa, and the “Chicago World's Fair Centennial March,” by Mader. At
the conclusion of the last piece, the time limit was up, and the band was unable to close with “O
Davidson.” Tonight the program will consist of several selections by the college quartet, composed of Dave McLain, Hubert Morris, Buddy
Robinson, and Frank Tucker.

Dr. A. Currie Speaks On Peace Possibility

Dr. Archibald Currie, head of the Political Science Department, was the principal speaker at the Armistice Day chapel program, which
was sponsored by the International Relations Club. The subject of Dr. Currie’s talk was “The Outlook of World Peace Today.”
Dr. J. M. McConnell, faculty advisor to the club, gave a brief history of the International Relations Club, and stated
that there are at present about six hundred clubs in the various colleges and universities. Lyman Clardy, president of the
Davidson Chapter of the I. R. C., read appropriate selections from different portions of the Bible commanding the world to
peace. “The mental attitude of war among nations is the most essential factor to the future peace of the world,”
was the key statement in Dr. Currie’s talk. He began by describing that famous Armistice fifteen years ago, which came
like a bolt out of the blue to a startled world. Since then, however, there has been an unusual amount
of pessimism in regard to the future of world peace. The nations are more highly armed today than in 1916,
but optimism for the preservation of peace is based throughout on man’s change in his mental attitude toward war. Since
1922 there have been sixty-four states of the world which have assembled to discuss the reduction of armaments, and, although
these meetings have largely failed, they may be taken as an indication that man is preoccupying himself with the maintenance
of peace. A new note was sounded when the leaders of the nations subscribed to the doctrine that moral disarmament
must take precedence over material disarmament. And upon these encouraging signs, Professor Currie based his optimism for future peace.

“DRUGS” “SUNDRIES” A Complete Drug Store “Make Our Store Your Store” Reliable Prescription Druggists WHITE DRUG COMPANY “SODA” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

There are 6 types of home-grown tobaccos that are best for cigarettes:

BRIGHT TOBACCOS U.S. Types 11, 12, 13, 14.
BURLEY TOBACCO U.S. Type 31.
SOUTHERN MARYLAND TOBACCO U.S. Type 32.

U.S. Type 11 is produced in the Piedmont Belt of Virginia and part of North Carolina. U.S. Type 12 is
produced in eastern North Carolina. It is light in color and body, and is milder than the Burley used for
pipes. These are home-grown tobaccos for making cigarettes. U.S. Type 32, Maryland tobacco, is noted for its burn. In this
respect, Maryland excels most other kinds of tobaccos used in Chesterfield. U.S. Type 13 grows in South Carolina. U.S. Type
14 is produced mostly in southern Georgia—a few million pounds in northern Florida and Alabama. U.S. Type 31 includes what
is called White Burley tobacco. It was first produced by George Webb in 1864.

Then Chesterfield adds aromatic Turkish tobacco to give just the right seasoning or spice. Chesterfield ages these tobaccos for 30
months—2½ years—to make sure that they are milder and taste better.

Tobacco being sold at auction on a Southern market.

Chesterfield: the cigarette that’s MILDER, the cigarette that TASTES BETTER.
