THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1933

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRANT - Editor-in-Chief
A. M. MANSON - Managing Editor

EDITORIAL STAFF
L. W. CLARDY - Managing Editor
A. F. SCHEN - Managing Editor
W. M. THOM - Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS - Managing Editor
B. H. CASALI - Athletic Editor
J. E. LAKE - Exchange Editor
J. W. WHITE - Feature Editor
J. S. GAMBLE - Feature Editor
W. T. HANCOCK - Review Editor
D. D. McBRYDE - Assistant Editor
R. L. McCALLIE - Assistant Editor
C. F. MYERS - Assistant Editor
B. B. SUGG - Assistant Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON - Business Manager
A. H. JOHNSON - Assistant Business Manager
ALVIN BAYER, JR. - Solicitor
H. B. DANIEL - Solicitor
J. M. DOUGLAS - Solicitor
J. L. GREEN - Solicitor
J. R. TAYLOR - Solicitor
A. C. WADSWORTH - Solicitor
J. E. WHITE - Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
J. E. LAKE - President
J. S. GAMBLE - Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG - Secretary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN
J. L. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN
V. L. McILWAIN
G. E. BAILEY
E. F. McPHAUL
D. B. BAILEY
W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES
W. L. NORTHEN
J. E. BOWERS
C. E. NORVELL
J. E. BOYD
E. L. POWE
J. H. COVINGTON
S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON
P. M. ROGERS
F. B. FICKLEN
B. L. ROSE
J. L. GULLETTE
T. H. STURGESS
J. HELLINGER
N. W. WALLACE
J. C. HENRY
K. D. WARD
A. W. R. WILLIAMS
J. E. W. T. McKAY
W. W. WILLIAMS

MARCH 15, 1933

THOUGHTS IN PASSING
For they can conquer who believe they can.—Virgil.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING
The earthquake which shook Southern California last Friday night, killing many people and destroying Long Beach, one of the most beautiful little cities on the Pacific Coast, was the worst in that state since the San Francisco earthquake. As San Francisco was rebuilt, even better than before, following that disaster, we believe that Long Beach will, despite the critical financial condition, be reconstructed more substantially in the immediate future.

The debating team arrived in Davidson safely after having spent eight days in Florida on a debating tour. The trip was very successful, although they were temporarily held up by the closing of the banks.

We hope that interest in the campaign for the Centennial Class will be kept up, because it is a project well worth while, and each individual student can help a great deal if he will.

We offer our congratulations to the newly-elected student body officers. We hope they will serve the student body as well as the old officers, and we have every confidence that they will.

Robert Orr, violinist, rendered two beautiful numbers at church recently. He played the adagio movement from “Moonlight Sonata” and “The Dream.” They were played with technique and understanding, one moving with celerity and the other reticent and wistful. Mrs. Watkins, a musician of unusual ability, was accompanist at the organ.

General Mecklenburg, of The Charlotte Observer, recently wrote Dr. Walter Lingle, president of Davidson College, a letter of congratulation in the columns of the paper. He commented on the favorable impression the floodlights make on passing tourists. It is pointed out that the lights show up to a great advantage the principal buildings in the group.

We believe President Roosevelt is to be congratulated on the speech he made on the banking situation last Sunday night at 10 o’clock. The talk in itself was nothing which we had not read in the papers, but, by explaining the situation to the people of the United States himself, he went farther than he was called upon to go. By such actions as these the new President seems to have the backing of the entire nation.

Prospects for the track team this spring seem very good, and we have high hopes for a successful season.

Last week-end we enjoyed some of that long-awaited spring weather. Let’s hope that we will have some similar weather in the very near future, and that it will come to stay.

CONFIDENCE
For the past four years political leaders, bankers, business men and others have tried to instill in the minds of the public that the only hindrance between this country and prosperity again was confidence. Most people believed it at that time and still believe it, but despite the utmost efforts on the part of the government and bankers we simply could not regain any of the confidence we had lost in the leaders of the land. During the past months, people began doubting that we would ever regain this precious thing, confidence, and subsequently prosperity. Certainly no one, or very few, wished for prosperity such as we had before the depression, but it is the sincere wish of all that the twelve million men and women now out of work will have the opportunity to put their efforts to some line of endeavor.

On March 4th, the day on which Mr. Franklin D. Roosevelt was inaugurated President of the United States, the newsboys of Washington were shouting that leading banks in New York and Chicago had closed their doors. This was due to the withdrawal of gold from these banks in large quantities. This may have been due to a lack of confidence in the President or to other causes which could not be definitely determined. At any rate it certainly came at an inopportune and inauspicious time for Mr. Roosevelt. The subsequent action of President Roosevelt in calling a special session of Congress and his action in the banking crisis has been commendable. We are forced to admire Mr. Roosevelt for the prompt and speedy action he has taken in this matter and the amount of responsibility which he is willing to assume. With the closing of the banks naturally there was a feeling of fear throughout the country, but most financial and business leaders believe that this is the action which would have had to result ultimately, and this sudden crisis may be the turning point of the depression. The banks which are on a solid foundation are being allowed to open, while others less stable will not be allowed to do business. The fact that a bank opens is a sign that it is safe, and this fact will do more and has done more to restore confidence in the American people than any other single action in the past four years. It seems paradoxical to say, at the time when this article is being written, when every bank in the United States is closed that the people have renewed confidence in the government and its leaders, but we believe that all the present signs prove this statement to be true. Mr. Roosevelt has only been in office a little over a week, and of course we cannot say what course he will follow the rest of his term, but he surely has made a favorable beginning, and he has the backing of the entire country in this present undertaking.

COURTESY
Davidson students have the reputation throughout the South of being gentlemen, and we believe that this reputation as a whole is justified. Courtesy in all forms, however, is one of the requisites of a gentleman, and it seems that some of our students through sheer carelessness or thoughtlessness lack a certain courtesy. This is the habit of many of our students of attending lectures, delivered by prominent speakers, brought here by the faculty committee on lectures, in all forms of attire. Many attend these lectures in sweaters and others without coats. This certainly is not a very bad fault or a serious lack of courtesy, and it can be easily corrected. Most men who deliver lectures to college students are attired in formal dress, and the professor who introduces them is attired in the same manner. Of course students are not supposed to attend these lectures attired in evening clothes, but the least we can do would be to put on a coat, and this little courtesy is surely due the speaker. It would add greatly to the general appearance of the audience and raise the Davidson student body in the eyes of the speaker.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. LAKE

Washington and Lee
Recently at W. & L. there were nineteen men “tapped” by Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity. O. D. K. was founded there nineteen years ago and has spread all over the nation today; it now has thirty-one chapters. Dr. Henry Louis Smith, who was president of Davidson for some time, was president of Washington and Lee at that time and was one of the charter members of this organization.

University of South Carolina
Tests were made at Radcliffe College, Tufts College, and Columbia University of men and women with respect to money and love affairs. All men preferred a million dollars to a perfect love affair, while 92 per cent of the girls preferred the love affair.

At the University of Edinburgh there is a fine for students cutting classes. The fines are collected and used for charity.. . . business-like Bill Thompson threw the latest issue of Vogue into the waste basket at the P.O. It seems that he subscribed to Vanity Fair by club subscription and they sent him Vogue instead. Can’t you just picture Thompson reading Vogue? Dear me!

. . . an enterprising florist shop in Charlotte displayed a sign in the window announcing, “We give the earth with every plant.” That’s high-pressure salesmanship to suit these hectic times.

. . . and overheard a party remark that our janitor has many elements under his control. He can make you feel hot or cold, happy or morose. And I’m sure you won’t dispute it, especially on these cold March mornings.

. . . many funny things happened Monday after the bank holiday. You thought we were broke, but the profs weren’t any better off. They seemed to enjoy telling their financial condition and so I guess it’s all right to give the facts. Prof. Beaty carried around 76 cents all last week; Prof. Goldiere boasted of 50 cents and Dr. T. W. Lingle had a total of 90 cents. Those of you who were fortunate to have money in the local bank need never worry about it. Not long ago the bank inspector of North Carolina declared it to be one of the best managed and among the soundest banks in the state.

. . . some friends discussing how absurd women’s hats are these days. I agree and yet when some people put them on they look very appropriate.

. . . the story I circulated some time ago that Jo Jones would reopen substantiated. They plan a formal opening soon.

. . . at least one Charlotte debutante with candor and humor in large and equal parts. Thus, the denial of a rumor that she was engaged: “There is not a word of truth in it,” she declares, “but I’m thankful for the report!”

. . . Bob Smith and Treadway Purnell before the judge about a fortnight ago. They bummed a ride and to their dismay discovered the man was a bootlegger with his car loaded with spirits. The worst part came when he was caught and insisted the stuff belonged to them. They spent a while in jail, but instead of hiring a lawyer, told the truth and were promptly released. Now they are most particular and you almost have to have credentials before picking them up.

. . . a group of locals across the hall wise-cracking about a certain party. Their description of him was that “if you told him seeing was believing, he wouldn’t look!” Strike me pink!

. . . by the Raleigh paper where English society women have taken up poker. I wonder if that means London Bridge is falling down?

. . . ran across some corking good boners lately. Not all of them were made by Freshmen either. They show beyond a doubt how to be nonchalant when that embarrassing moment comes. For example:
- The ruler of Persia is the Pshah.
- Ralph’s father was a seaman. His mother was a marine.
- A scout is a fiend to all and a bother to every other scout.
- Typhoid fever may be prevented by fascination.
- Gender shows whether a man is masculine, feminine, or neuter.
- Magna Carta provided that no free man should be hanged twice for the same offense.
- The people of Japan ride about in jigsaws.
- Rebecca was filled with the milk of human kindness and nursed Ivanhoe through a serious illness.
- A panacea is a temple dedicated to all the gods.
- Philosophy means being able to explain why you are happy even when you are poor.
- Napoleon had three wives: Josephine, Maria, and Elba.
- King Alfred conquered the Danes.
- A metaphor is a suppressed smile.
- A polygon is a man who has many wives.
- Mandolines are high officials in China.

TIP OFF. At Christmas the total collected is used to buy the president a present. Last year he received an excellent cigar.—The Plainsman.

“The original optimist: The upperclassman at Lincoln Memorial University who hazed a young professor by mistake and then signed up for a course under him.”—The Gamecock.

The recent gold embargo in the United States has had a peculiar effect upon those who use gold for commercial purposes rather than merely as currency. The dentists, since their supply of pure gold has been cut off, have to fall back on other metals in their making of plates, gold caps for teeth, and fillings. Jewelers, however, are in a decidedly advantageous position, because it is generally felt that at the present time, gold, silver, platinum, diamonds, and other jewels are more valuable than the cash which would be given for them. Therefore the jewelers are holding their stock, and are not even attempting to make sales.

Since Hitler has taken charge of Germany, Poland has been very excited over what Hitler will attempt against the smaller state. The Poles are very glad that Hitler has gained control, yet they fear that war may soon be brought on. Germany has been worrying Poland about the “Polish Corridor;” and now that Hitler is in, the Poles think that the situation will reach a head, and some definite action will be taken. A great many believe that this means war between Germany and Poland, with the other European nations joining in. Poland seems to be rather confident that if Germany declares war upon Poland, France will come to her aid and declare war immediately. It may be that Hitler is planning on war, but at the present time he is hardly well enough established in power in Germany to start warring with other nations. There is no doubt, though, that if Hitler thought he was able to conduct a war with any reasonable success, he would not hesitate to do so.

Not only is Hitler’s foreign policy causing a great many to worry, but his domestic platform, especially his anti-Semitic ideas, are causing trouble in Germany. Not only are German Jews disturbed by the Nazis, but many Jews of foreign citizenship. Six Americans, five of whom were Jews, have been attacked and molested by Germans, frequently in Nazi uniforms. They have sent their pleas to the American consul, who has in turn brought the charges to the attention of the Nazi police head. Not only has the American consul had to demand the safety of his countrymen, but the consuls from many other countries have had to do likewise.

In an effort to accurately determine the speed of light, a mile-long vacuum tube has been built and the experiments have been made. Dr. Francis G. Pease has been in charge of the work, succeeding Dr. Albert Michelson, who eight years ago determined the speed of light by flashing a beam from one mountain top and back. Dr. Pease has conducted the recent experiments with the vacuum tube, and having gotten his data, is now dismantling his apparatus. He states that it will take about six months to compile all the statistics he has gathered in his experiments. Quick calculations show that the new experiment gives a slightly slower speed than that calculated eight years ago. It is impossible to say which is more accurate.

There is now a “back to the land” movement in progress, but it is not successful in all cases, because of the fact that a good percent of those who are going to the farms know nothing about farming. A great many do, however, know their farming, and are thus able to do well on their own accord rather than require charity in the city. Others of the unemployed, fascinated by the idea of farming, leave the city and settle in places entirely unsuited to their needs, attempting to raise enough to support themselves. Needless to say, they find it almost impossible to make a living, and are just about as bad off as they were before.

The recent bank holiday has left a great many in peculiar places, among strange people, with no money to go farther. Quite a few of Florida’s winter visitors have had hard times procuring money to get home, or to cover their expenses in Florida. They have, in a great many cases, been sent money orders from their homes, so that they could pay their expenses home, where credit would be granted freely. It has been estimated that in two days, the Miami post office cashed $78,000 in money orders. It has also been shown that in a four-day period 7,000 people left, an increase of 2,500 over the usual number of the same period.

The New York hotels grant credit to customers for all expenses within the hotel. It is said that a great many people, a large percent of whom are honeymooning couples, have been caught without cash in the New York hotels. They are given every convenience the hotels offer, but have no money to enjoy the sights and life of New York outside the hotels. Thus they are little better than prisoners in the hotel.

A new form of communication, on the order of the radio, has been announced by the Radio Corporation of America. The idea is based upon extremely short wave lengths which are broadcast and rebroadcast every twenty-five miles. The idea is to have a line of small relay stations instead of the regular telegraph lines of the present radio broadcasting. It is predicted that these lines of “poles” would be able to send facsimiles of newspapers, letters, and even pictures at a price which will be able to compete with telegraph companies. Television for these short wave lines is also thought possible.