THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1933

The Bookshelf

Peace in the Heart—Archibald Rutledge. Doubleday, Doran and Co, 1932.

In the beauty and wonder of the dawn, in the solitude of the deep woods, in the magic of moonlight
on the river, one man has found peace and contentment, and in this book has written of them in an
informal and entertaining way. Probably none of our southern writers is better qualified to write a book of this nature.
Although he is now a professor of English literature at Mercersburg Academy in Pennsylvania, Archibald Rutledge writes of the life
he knows best—the life on the large southern plantation which is his real home.

Born at “Hampton,” an old rice plantation on the banks of the Santee River, Rutledge has roamed the great forests
until he is almost on speaking terms with the wild creatures which abound there. With a trusted negro boy for
his companion, he roamed up and down the broad river which flowed by his door, or plunged into the forest
which almost surrounded the plantation. This love of nature was encouraged by his father, Colonel Henry Middleton Rutledge of Civil
War fame, and the boy soon became a student and a lover of wild life. Even now every vacation finds
him again at “Hampton,” stalking a deer without a gun or paddling down the beloved river, weird in the light
of the stars.

Rutledge knows how the deer spend the night in roaming through their feeding grounds, and how they sleep all day
in some favorite spot. For he has watched, and instead of shooting, has learned and appreciated. He has found the
otter, that elusive phantom of the water, sporting on the banks of an isolated lagoon. He has observed the wild
creatures as they live their individual lives, now frightened by the flood or the storm, now rushing pell-mell before the
hounds, but always returning when the danger has passed to the calmness and serenity of life free from civilization. Rutledge
has seen in the lives of these animals a joy and a controlled freedom which comes when we obey the
laws of nature.

But this is not a book on Natural History, nor an Animal Psychology, for in the out-of-doors Rutledge has found
an even more wonderful secret. Behind it all he sees a God, who has made all and who watches all,
and with this discovery has come “Peace in the Heart.” A joy of living, a calmness of spirit, a worship
of Him—these are the jewels to be found in nature for the one who searches. “Seeing the sudden beauty of
a marsh wren, walking through the tattered and ominous splendor of a cyclone, watching a grim bull alligator riding the
breakers, he has found it simple to believe in their creator. He is no preacher, but he does tell how
he found in nature the magic of contentment.” —W. B. WARD.

Vor Sonnenuntergang, Schauspiel by Gerhart Hauptmann, Berlin, S. Fischer Verlag, 1932.

From two standpoints the title of this play is eminently suited. For it is first of all the story of
a man who, just “before the setting of his sun,” attempts tragically to bring a new love into his life;
and secondly it is a play written by a man who is himself in the years shortly before the setting
of his sun.

Often, as men grow older, their mental powers deteriorate; and so it is not infrequent that one sees the pitiable
case of a famous author, once an artist and master, turning out works in old age which lack the power
and inspiration of former works, and which in a measure dim the brilliance of an otherwise sparkling legacy to his
art and reputation. But such

TOBACCOS CANDY STUDENT SUPPLIES FOUNTAIN SERVICE
W. S. HENDERSON NEXT DOOR TO POSTOFFICE

“DRUGS” “SODAS” Make Our Store Your Store Student Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc. “PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”

GEO. W. LAPITZ Factory Representative TAILORING DISPLAY at the Soda Shop EVERY THURSDAY Star Direct Tailors - $23.50 Up —
B. O. RAVENEL Student Representative

FOR FULL DETAILS WRITE STUDENTS’ CRUISES
Magazine subscription scholarship workers and crew managers write immediately for very best student scholarship offers of leading publishers. Can be
worked there now. Permanent positions if experienced, also summer crews for United States and foreign territory.
The Collegiate Scholarship Institute 219 Republic Building, Miami, Florida

Davidson Theatre.

THURSDAY GENEVIEVE TOBIN “RIDE ’EM COWBOY” “SELF-DEFENSE”

WEDNESDAY “ANN VICKERS” CONSTANCE BENNETT — GILBERT ROLAND

SATURDAY Double Feature

FRIDAY “THE GREAT JASPER” RICHARD DIX

“PLEASURE CRUISE” — ROLAND YOUNG

MONDAY “CHRISTOPHER STRONG”

TUESDAY “A LADY’S PROFESSION” ALLISON SKIPWORTH — SARI MARITZA

Davidson Five and Ten Years Ago

FIVE YEARS AGO

In their first practice game last week, the baseball team started the year off right by defeating the Duke Power
Company 8 to 3. The following men were bid by Phi Beta Kappa last week and will be initiated on
May 25: C. F. McCrue, W. B. Bradford, J. M. Akers, and J. P. McKnight. Converse Glee Club made its
annual appearance at Davidson on last Saturday night under the auspices of the Junior class, rendering a varied program to
an audience that almost filled Shearer. The club is always well received.

On Wednesday, April 4, staff officers from the War Department will arrive at Davidson for inspection. The officers will make
a thorough inspection of the R. O. T. C. unit here and Davidson’s remaining an honor military unit depends upon
their report.

TEN YEARS AGO

The petition of the Senior class to be allowed to attend church services under the honor system was declined after
being carefully considered by the executive committee. The Y. M. C. A. has succeeded in obtaining the services of Mr.
David Ovens, manager of one of Charlotte’s largest department stores, to speak for vespers next Sunday evening. In keeping with
the progress of college dramatics, the Davidson Dramatic Club is planning to issue a yearbook that will compare favorably with
similar publications by other North Carolina dramatic associations.is not the case with Gerhart Hauptmann. Hauptmann is himself over seventy; but
this fact reveals itself in this play not through a weakening of mental powers, or a maudlin sentimentality, but rather
through a deeper understanding of the nature and feelings of an old man. This thought is expressed by The Observer
(London): “This is the work for which Germany has waited for years, the culmination of Hauptmann’s life as a playwright,
and what is believed to be the most important literary production in Germany of the past few years. Over seventy
himself, Hauptmann has written the history of a seventy-year-old man, rich, respected, who maintains the right to his own life
in the face of all that his grown-up family protest against. Married sons and daughters declare that the old man
must be mad when he owns that he loves a young woman considerably beneath himself in station.”

This play would be of particular appeal to a person interested in human nature; for it is essentially a study
of conflict between human desires, and the eventual outcome. It is the psychological history of a man who, accustomed always
to respect and obedience from his family, finds suddenly a concerted opposition on their part, to which he is unable
to adjust himself at his age. It would be easier to treat such a situation, of an old man falling
in love with a young woman much below himself in station, with farcical humor, presenting the main character in a
comical way. But Hauptmann, with the profound insight of a man who has himself come into close contact with life,
presents this character not as ridiculous, but as tragic.

The character portrayal in the play is excellent. Before the completion of the first act, one feels that he knows
well each character—each child, with his varying degree of avarice toward the old man’s wealth; each snobbish friend of the
Geheime Rat (the old man); his delightful friend, Geiger, in reality a portrait of Professor H. G. Feidler, of Oxford;
the humble family of the Peters; and the rest of the characters who are involved in this interaction of personalities.
One who has read a great deal of Hauptmann might fear lest he be disappointed in this last play. But
such a fear will quickly be dispelled. For this work is in itself a powerful study of human life.

—DELTA PHI ALPHA.

LARGE NUMBERS ATTEND JUNIOR SPEAKING DANCE (Continued from page 1)

ningham, Tut Gorrell, Dorothy B. Hines, Greensboro; Iky Dyer, Winston-Salem.

Kappa Sigma: Misses Martha Morrison, Asheville; Sophie Stephens, Dot Jones, Betty Simmons, Charlotte; Frances Everett, Rockingham, and Adelaide Fortune, Greensboro.

Beta Theta Pi: Miss Virginia Carey, Charlotte.

Kappa Alpha: Misses Florence Pitts, Spartanburg; Katharine O’Farrell, Kings Mountain; May D. Marion, Eleanor Hayes, Margaret Kimbrell, and Katharine Crowell,
Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Misses Carolyn Rowan, Isabel and Ellen White, Esther Brown, Concord; Sara Thompson, Charlotte; Virginia Bailey, Hickory; Jackie
McCormick, Macon, Ga.; Lola Lane, Florence, Ala.; Mildred Holbrook, and Will Nimons, Converse.

Phi Delta Theta: Misses Toi Monroe, May Smith, Charlotte, and Margaret Crawford, Rome, Ga.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Misses Miriam Stevenson, Salisbury; Agnes Shockelford, Durham; Eleanor Killick, Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Phi: Misses Mary Payne, Kitty Van Echop, Lib Sutton, Dorothea Frederickson, Mildred Armond, Charlotte; Sylvia Steele, Blanche Boyd,
Statesville; Louise Melchor, Mooresville; Sara Dyess, Augusta, Ga.; Virginia Harrison, Wytheville, Va.; Margaret Shannon, Jefferson, S. C.; Etta Bynum, Columbia;
Kathie Bonnitz, Greensboro; Betty Barton, Greenwood, S. C.; Susan Thornton, Elberton, Ga.; Ernestine Holland, Raleigh; Corinne Ellison, Lancaster, S. C.;
Dot Miller, Rock Hill, S. C.; Susie Hanson, Columbia, S. C.; Lib McLaurin, Dillon, S. C.

NOTICE

Have your shoes rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP. Work done while you wait. C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY Richmond, Virginia B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., LL.D., President

A graduate of Davidson and of Union studying abroad writes: “There are able scholars here whose books are known and
read all over the religious world. None of them can surpass some of our professors at Union as teachers, and
none of them can challenge a student to joyous, practical Christianity as did our professors there.”

College Printing Magazines, Handbooks, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Engraved Cards and Invitations. Exclusively.

“PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE”

Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you. A.-M. MANSON, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE. 6,600 Square Feet of Floor
Space Devoted to Printing, Always Best.

STANDARD PRINTING CO. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Drawers. SAMSONBACK Shorts in a variety that will make it easy for the fastidious to choose from. All at prices
that will make you wonder how it can be done.

THE GREATEST UNDERWEAR VALUE

You can pay more than HANES but just try to match HANES value. There’s the Gold Label Light Weight Union
Suit or Shirts and Drawers. Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war belt. That’s patented and can’t be imitated. Pull-Over Shirts
and Shorts in a variety that will make it easy for the fastidious to choose from. All at prices that
will make you wonder how it can be done.

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.
