THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 22, 1933

SUCCESSFUL MEETING AT RICHMOND ALUMNI NEWS

ALUMNI SEE THANKSGIVING GAME

RICHMOND AND PETERSBURG ALUMNI HOLD FIRST MEETING

Captain Norton G. Pritchett, Director of Athletics at Davidson, Was Principal Speaker

OFFICERS WERE NAMED

Dr. W. L. Lingle Gives Vital Information Concerning College

Alumni of Richmond, Petersburg, and vicinity were present at dinner and a meeting held at the refectory at the Union
Theological Seminary on Friday evening, November 17. About forty-five of the former students of the college were present for the
meeting. Captain Norton G. Pritchett, director of athletics at Davidson, was the principal speaker of the evening. He gave an
account of the physical side of college life, with special emphasis on the progress made at Davidson in intra-mural sports.
Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of the college, made a brief address to the chapter, giving vital information concerning the
college. The alumni secretary, Grier Martin, then made a brief report of alumni activities. Mr. J. H. Van Landingham, president
of the chapter, was toastmaster for the dinner, and was in charge of the program at the meeting which came
after the meal. Mr. Van Landingham called on Rev. J. Blanton Belk for a short impromptu address. Officers were selected
for the coming year. Mr. J. H. Elder was elected president, Dr. G. C. Bellingrath was made vice-president, and Charles
Spencer was elected secretary. J. H. McKinnon, Jr., was in charge of the arrangements to be made at the seminary.
Dr. Ben R. Lacy, president of the Alumni Association of Davidson, as well as of Union Seminary, was at the
meeting and was called on for a short talk.

Western Union Shows Increase in Receipts

A decided increase in receipts over last year has been recorded at the local Western Union. During October of last
year $192.00 was received, to be topped by last month’s receipts of $272.00. An increase of $272.00 this quarter has
been shown over last quarter. Many more telegrams were sent during the rushing season of this year than last. There
was an approximate increase of 20 percent over last year.

Forty-six Seniors Have Averaged 85 or Better

The list of seniors who have made an average of 85 or more since their entrance into Davidson has been
posted on the bulletin board in the lobby of Chambers Building. The list, in order of averages, follows: J. A.
McGeachy, W. M. Thompson, W. T. Thompson, J. E. Dill, Odi Casali, J. T. Blair, R. C. Morrow, A. F.
Schenck, F. H. Scott, S. C. Henry, E. J. Humphrey, S. M. Hines, James W. White, B. B. Fort, L.
W. Pratt, F. P. Harrison, W. A. Parker, W. M. Brown, J. H. Fitzgerald, D. K. Spencer, H. A. Wilson,
R. T. Banks, W. M. Hart, L. W. Clardy, E. W. Morrison, E. N. Jenkins, J. A. Halverstadt, E. L.
Powell, W. L. Fugate, W. B. Corbin, A. Dufflemeyer, M. Armistead, A. B. McLean, S. M. Nickey, R. E. Woodside,
T. H. McCallie, B. L. Moore, F. L. Mock, J. H. Robbins, A. W. Colwell, W. T. Johnson, H. R.
Pratt-Thomas, W. A. Kirkland, J. S. Steele, J. S. Drake, and Ellis Oakes.

Many Rooms Renovated

More than 50 rooms in Watts, Georgia, East and West have been renovated this year, Mrs. Smith states. The renovation
includes cleaning, painting, and repairing, and is done at a minimum cost to the student. The expense is borne partly
by the school and partly by the student.

ANALYZE PROFESSORS

At the University of Berlin students are allowed a period of six weeks to analyze and select their professors.

HARD LUCK

Frank Carideo, former all-American quarterback at Notre Dame, has failed to win a single major game during his first two
years as head coach of the University of Missouri.

Barium Coach Gets Praise in Write-up

Recently there appeared a very interesting article in one of North Carolina’s most prominent newspapers on R. M. “Red” McMillan,
’26, and his coaching at Barium Springs Orphanage, Barium Springs, N. C. He heads what is probably one of the
most unique coaching plants in the nation. This institution for boys and girls has more different football teams than any
other educational school in the country, it is believed. Seven distinct division teams, playing in a division set aside for
each team. At the weight of 80 pounds the tots get their first taste of football and as they grow
larger they progress in the football way. From the 80-pound team they are promoted to the 100-pound outfit; from there
they go to the 110-pound squad, and so on until they finally reach the varsity. By the time a player
has gone through seven years of football under one unified system there should be no doubt in his mind what
to do when the time comes to clip the halfback instead of tackle him. For years the Barium teams have
been outstanding in their class. Coach McMillan himself has had a most eventful career on the gridiron and performing on
the track here back in the years of 1922 through 1926. Before coming to Davidson to play he played for
the Winston-Salem High School team when that eleven played Fayetteville for the state championship. Mr. McMillan said that he had
some thrills while playing football here that are very cherished memories. He tells of the time when Davidson held a
strong V. P. I. team to a 7-7 tie after the mighty Virginians had defeated a mighty Centre team and
were predicted to hand Davidson a terrible lacing. Coaching football is one of the greatest things a man can do,
McMillan thinks. Outside of the Sunday School, and classroom, coaches and athletics are doing more for boys and youth than
anything else, he contends. “The one thing Barium and McMillan try to get over to the boys in training them
for the king of sports is that the game is helping them alone and not the school or the coach.
Give all an equal chance. Demand respect and give the same, is my formula for coaching,” the red-head states.

Varsity Basketball Has Good Prospects

After a poor season last year, in which only three of nineteen games were won, the varsity basketball squad has
begun practice for the coming season. Prospects are bright, and better results are expected this year. There is a large
squad on hand, and several more are to be out after the football season is over. Many sophomores are on
the squad and some will see action this season. Four lettermen, Captain Harris, Holland, Lafferty, and Ross, are back; they
will undoubtedly be counted on to do most of the work. Although no games have as yet been scheduled for
the coming season, the team will probably see action against several strong foes some time before Christmas. Two of their
probable opponents will be the Statesville All-Stars and the Charlotte “Y.”

WITH THE ALUMNI

'81 That America is fast heading toward a state of socialistic democracy, in which the attitude of the young men
of today will largely determine the nature of its application, was the opinion Dr. Henry Louis Smith presented to the
American Business Club at a recent meeting in Greensboro. Dr. Smith, who spoke on the subject, “The Socialistic Swing of
Modern Civilization,” stated that the socialistic trend has been under way.

'92 Speaking before the members of the Second Presbyterian Church Men’s Club recently, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson,
declared that the economies of the NRA harmonize with the ethics of Christian teaching. Music for the meeting was provided
by a quartet of present Davidson students composed of J. A. C. Robinson, Frank Tucker, Hubert Morris, and David McLain,
under the direction of Professor J. C. Pfohl, director of music at the college.

'15 Rev. Norman Johnson delivered a most interesting and enlightening sermon last Sunday at the First Presbyterian Church of Rocky
Mount, speaking on the subject of “Foreign Missions.” This sermon was used as an introduction to a week of prayer
and self-denial for foreign missions in the Southern Presbyterian Church.

'16-26 Dr. Tom Sparrow, '16, presided at a program giving an insight into the work and needs of Barium Springs
Orphanage last night. This program was sponsored by the Men's Fellowship Circle of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. After
the main program, Ernest Milton, '26, treasurer of the Presbyterian institution, showed several reels of motion pictures taken at Barium
Springs. Mr. Milton has been asked to show these pictures in many parts of the state, being called back to
some places twice. He has recently returned from an extended trip to the eastern part of the state where he
visited Wilmington, New Bern, Greenville, and Tarboro, showing these motion pictures at all places.

'23 Rev. LeRoyP. Burney, pastor of the Sugaw Creek Presbyterian Church, has recently published a column in the Mecklenburg Times
entitled “Countryside Broadcastings.” In this column, he gives his views on the aftermath of the prohibition situation and also the
views of others on the subject.

Rev. V. S. Broyles has recently been issued a call to the First Presbyterian Church at Canton, Miss. He goes
there from Rapidan, Va.

E. K. Emurian, '30, and F. L. Wood, '31, students at Union Seminary in Richmond, have been giving talks over
WRVA in Richmond on Wednesday afternoons.

Grid-Graph of Game Witnessed by Many

Approximately 170 students and townspeople witnessed the Grid-Graph report of the Davidson-William and Mary football game in Shearer Hall, Saturday,
November 18. In the four games that have been reported on the Grid-Graph, Davidson has won two, tied one, and
lost one, the defeat being at the hands of Carolina.

SPEC New Feather Touch Sheaffer Fountain Pen for only $5.00
COLLEGE PHARMACY NEXT DOOR TO POST OFFICE

WHAT ABOUT THAT TRIP? Cars For Hire Gulf Gasoline M. P. HENDERSON: Chevrolets

Engagements

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Allen Moore, of Charleston, S. C., have announced the engagement of their daughter, Miss Elizabeth Ann
Moore, to Mr. Charles Buddette Wolfe. The wedding will take place in February. Mr. Wolfe is connected with the South
Carolina Power Company in Charleston.

Death

Dr. A. M. Fraser, well-known Presbyterian minister and educator, died at his home in Staunton, Va., November 18. He was
dean of the ministry of Staunton and was very active in the service of the church. He served as Moderator
of the General Assembly of the Southern Presbyterian Church, of the Synod of Virginia, and of the Presbytery of Lexington—the
highest honor in the gift of the three bodies. He also served as president of Mary Baldwin College, retiring about
1929. While a student at this institution, Dr. Fraser had as a friend and classmate Woodrow Wilson. When he was
graduated from Davidson, he taught school for a year and then entered Columbia Theological Seminary.

Dr. William Hanna Neel, a native of Mecklenburg County, died recently in New York City. He was head of the
lecture bureau of the New York Times. Dr. Neel was the son of Captain Alexander Neel and a descendant of
Captain Henry Neel, an officer in the Continental Army.

Dr. William Calvin Steele died at his home in Mount Olive on the night of November 14. Dr. Steele was
stricken with an attack of paralysis Thursday while speaking at a meeting of the Mount Olive Rotary Club, urging the
establishment in Mount Olive of a public reading room and library. Dr. Steele was president of the Wayne Medical Society.
He had been an elder in the Mount Olive Presbyterian Church for more than thirty years. He was still in
active practice of medicine at the time of his death and he was often called “the friend of the poor.”

Births

Mr. and Mrs. M. W. McGill, of Davidson, announce the birth of a daughter, Mary, at the Presbyterian Hospital in
Charlotte on November 16, 1933.

MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION HEADED BY DAVIDSON ALUMNI

Wiley Speaks for Kannapolis Group

Sam Wiley, secretary of the Y. M. C. A. of Davidson, delivered the principal address at an elaborate mass meeting
of the young people of Kannapolis last Sunday afternoon. This meeting was sponsored by the Torch Club and the Hi-Y
Club of that community and served as a climax to a week of prayer observance. During the past week, the
young people in that town heard addresses by various well-known religious leaders in the state. They conducted prayer sessions at
the schools each afternoon and meetings were held in the lobby of the Y. M. C. A. at night.

NEW MUSICAL TALENT URGED BY MR. PFOHL

Since the personnel of the Davidson Band and Orchestra has been announced, several letters have been received by Professor Pfohl
from high school directors to the effect that many of their best players at Davidson were not represented. Pfohl, whose
work has remarkably strengthened the music department here, has stated that he is not begging students to come out for
the organization, but that he would appreciate as full a representation of the campus music talent as possible. Pfohl says
that particularly string talent is needed, and if any violin, ‘cello, or double-bass players are on the campus, he asks
that they use their talent building up the symphony orchestra and at the same time gaining for themselves additional experience.

PLANS MOVING PICTURES

Professor Stoeppelwerth at Concordia College, Ind., is planning the production of four moving pictures, one of which will show a
full day at the college.

STAR GETS TEETH

A Detroit City College track star, in need of dental work but out of funds, took three large gold medals
to his dentist, which the medical man melted, using part of the gold for filling the teeth and accepting the
rest in payment.

VIBRATING TABLE

A 600-pound vibrating table has been developed in the mechanical engineering laboratory at Stanford University which can create on a
small scale the effect of an earthquake. The purpose of the invention is to test shock resistance of bridges, dams,
office buildings, and other structures.

Chas. A. Cannon, ’15, Succeeded by A. M. Fairley, '16, as President of N. C. Cotton Group

CANNON MAKES TALK

New President Is From Laurinburg

The North Carolina Cotton Manufacturers Association was headed last year by a Davidson alumnus and this year that alumnus relinquished
his place to another Davidson man. At a meeting of this association held recently in Pinehurst, Mr. A. M. Fairley,
'16, of Laurinburg, was elected president, succeeding C. A. Cannon, '15, Kannapolis towel magnate. Both of these leaders in industrial
affairs of this state were at Davidson at the same time. Mr. Cannon, president of the organization, gave a report
on the progress and development of textile and cotton manufactures in this state. He declared that the textile industry was
one of the oldest industries and that it was acquainted with its A. B. C.’s a year ago, but since
then it had to become familiar with the N.R.A. and the A.A.A. workings. Cannon, in his address, declared that the
N.R.A. “is a great plan that is being tried in this country during the emergency to increase employment, increase wages,
and control potential over-production.” In closing his talk, Mr. Cannon voiced the approved sentiment of the textile industry, saying, “The
cotton textile industry has supported the President’s recovery program wholeheartedly from the first. I do not think that we should
expect less than a sympathetic, co-operative spirit from all the departments in Washington.”

Classes to Compete in Volley Ball Tournament

As a part of the intra-mural sports program, the several classes will have representative teams in the volley ball tournament
to take place soon. The tournament is under the direction of Heath Whittle, director of intra-mural sports. Each team will
play two games with each of the other teams, making a total of twelve games. To the winning class will
go twenty points toward the intra-mural trophy awarded each year for general excellence in sports, and fifteen, ten, and five
points to each of the remaining teams in their respective order. Following this tournament, there will be one to decide
which among the fraternities is champion in this sport.

NO MORE RUNNING OUT OR IN — due to this Vacumatic Filler Pen Invention

Holds 102% more Ink—Shows when to refill!

Parker’s Revolutionary Pen—Laminated Pearl, ultra-smart and exclusive

Parker now presents an utterly revolutionary pen—invented by a scientist at the University of Wisconsin. A pen that gets rid
of the customary rubber ink sac,—but not a sacless pen to abolish valves. It contains no device that will render
it useless later. It holds 102% more ink, with no increase in size! And its ultra-smart and exclusive barrel—fully patented—is
built up ring upon ring of laminated Pearl and Jet, as shimmering as velvet, Amber that looks like jet till
held to the light. Then you can see the quantity of ink within—see when to refill. This eliminates running out
of ink at some critical moment during lectures or exams. This “miracle pen” obsoletes all other types. It is guaranteed
mechanically perfect. Go to any nearby counter. Try it today. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wisconsin.

Every other ring looks like solid Jet or Pearl. You can see the ink in the pen yet.

That’s the best idea yet

Parker VACUMATIC FILLER

Laminated Pearl or Plain Jet Pencil to Match, $3.50 Jet or Plain Transparent Pen, $5; Pencil, $2.50

ALL PURPOSE POINT... REVERSIBLE...WRITES TWO WAYS
