THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 13, 1933

Vacation Period to Begin December 20
Holidays Will Last Two Weeks; Railroads Reduce Rates

Christmas vacation for Davidson students will begin at 12:30 on the afternoon of Wednesday, December 20, as announced by the faculty, and will continue until 8:30 a.m., Thursday, January 4, 1934. Dr. Sentelle announces to the student body that the cut regulations for the days before and after the holidays will be ruled over a longer time on the double cut basis. Double cuts will go into effect on Sunday, December 17, and continue through Wednesday, December 20. After the holiday period is officially closed, double cuts will extend from 8:30 Thursday, January 4, through Saturday, January 6. This ruling will hold unless the student is detained by sickness and held to his bed.

The Southern Railway has announced its holiday rates in close conjunction with the Christmas holiday period. Rates are to go into effect on December 14 and will be good until January 15. The rate will be a cent and a half a mile for day coach travel, and two cents a mile for Pullman fare. Duke's schedule calls for a Christmas period extending from December 16 to January 3; Carolina has from December 20 to January 2; North Carolina State has from December 16 to January 3; while Wake Forest is allowed the period from December 18 to December 30. Of the girls’ colleges in the state, Queens-Chicora will be on vacation from December 18 to January 5, while the Women’s College of the University of North Carolina, or N.C.C.W., will be allowed from December 20 to January 4, the same as Davidson.

Davidson Represented At Language Meeting

At the meeting of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association which was held recently at Duke University, Davidson was represented by eight members of the faculty, including Dr. Shewmake, Professor Erwin, Professor Cumming, of the English Department; Professor Fleagle, Professor Blythe, of the Spanish Department; Dr. Watts, Professor Goldiere, of the French Department, and Dr. Vowles of the German Department. Professor Fleagle presided over the Spanish section in the absence of its chairman, and Dr. Vowles read a paper before the French and Italian section. Dr. Clement Volliner of Duke was elected president of the association for the coming year. The meeting next year will be held either in Charleston, S.C., or in Atlanta, Ga.

Beaty Leads Discussion On Religious Traditions

Professor E. A. Beaty spoke to more than twenty-five freshmen present at the Fireside Forum Friday evening on the subject of “Seeing Through Religious Traditions,” bringing out how men should regard custom and formality in religion and in life. Professor Beaty touched on the practice of church rituals, showing both their positive and negative value, and what they had led to in many cases. He made a comparison of religious observance in his own childhood and those of today. One of the men asked Professor Beaty what he thought of the younger generation, to which he replied that he considered it, as a whole, better than his own generation. Regarding the situation of religion in the world today, he said that he believed the world was to see a moral and spiritual awakening which would revolutionize the present views of men. He cited definite examples in the past of just such a spiritual movement, and he drew a comparison between what preceded them and what we have gone through for some time.

J.C. Harper Presents Band With Composition

James C. Harper, alumnus, and member of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College, and director of the band of Lenoir High School, has presented the Music Department with a complete concert band arrangement of his own composition, “The Fencing Master.” This selection will be heard on the future programs of the Concert Band. “The Music Department is glad to receive music that its listeners wish it to have played,” according to Prof. J. C. Pfohl, “and to play request numbers.”

Mr. Jackson Attends Meeting at Rochester

F. L. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson College, attended the fourteenth annual meeting of the Association of Business Officers of Colleges of Eastern States held at Rochester University, Rochester, N.Y., December 8 and 9. More than 125 business officials representing over 100 colleges attended the convention. The program included an address by Professor F. A. Pearson, of the Cornell Economics Department, who traced the relationship of basic commodity prices with the standardized value of the dollar. Professor Pearson, associated with Professor George F. Warren, is an adviser of President Roosevelt in the management of currency. Subjects of “College Operation and Management,” “Student Loans,” “College Fees,” and “College Insurance” were discussed at the meeting. Through the influence of Mr. Jackson and a representative from Wake Forest College, the association will meet in Pinehurst next year, as guests of Davidson and Wake Forest colleges.

Musical Comedy Is On Local Cinema Program

Wednesday, Dec. 13—Sitting Pretty
Jack Oakie stars in the latest musical comedy yet produced. He is the dancing man who pulls all the jokes, and good ones, too. Jack Haley, Ginger Rogers, Thelma Todd, and Gregory Ratoff are also in the cast. The show has some beautiful girls, and should be very good.

Thursday, Dec. 14—Should Ladies Behave?
This is a story of three beautiful ladies who are very much interested in love, and their actions along this line. The three are Alice Brady, Katharine Alexander, and Mary Carlisle. Lionel Barrymore and Conway Tearle make the remainder of the cast, and the picture presents some good acting.

Friday, Dec. 15—If I Were Free
This is a story of an unhappy romance that failed, and of the attempts made to hold it together. Irene Dunn does some fine acting, and Clive Brook, Nils Asther, and Henry Stephenson make up the cast.

Saturday, Dec. 16—Cradle Song
Dorothea Wieck poses as the nun who is full of mother love, and takes it out upon a young foundling left upon her threshold. At the time, the foundling is Baby LeRoy. Miss Wieck is excellent in her role, which does not seem to be good enough for her. John Kent is the male star who does not appear in the life of a nun very much.

Monday, Dec. 18—The Girl Without a Room
No information available.

Tuesday and Wednesday, Dec. 19 and 20—Lady Killer
James Cagney in the role of the tough fellow whom all the ladies fall for. The general mixture of roughness and tender scenes are mixed in along with some good acting and comical scenes. Mae Clark, Margaret Lindsay, Henry O'Neill, and Leslie Fenton are also in the cast.

Davidson Scout Troop Is Active Organization

The Davidson Scout organizations, under the supervision of Ed Hodge, scoutmaster, resumed their activities last week. The weekly meetings had been called off during football season due to lack of sufficient time. Friday the scoutmaster will take one of his troops to the Court of Awards in Charlotte, in order that the thirteen badges of distinction earned last summer may be presented. Cyrus Calvin and Harold and James Mooney have earned at least five merit badges, and are therefore eligible as Star Scouts, the third highest honor that a Scout can receive. Star Scout badges will be given them by the Court of Awards. Frank Jackson, Jr., John Withers, and Bob Wood will receive Second Class badges, and the following will be taken in as members of the Tenderfoot Class: Charles Sherrill, Robert Church, Jim Currie, John Gibson, James Hannah, Noah Settle, and Bill Wood.

There are two groups of Davidson Scouts, both sponsored by the local Y.M.C.A. One is made up of boys from the east side of the tracks, and the other of boys from the west side. Both will hold meetings in the future each Wednesday afternoon.

Examination Schedule—Session 1933-34—First Semester

A.M. Examinations Begin at 9:00
P.M. Examinations Begin at 2:00

Jan. 18
Freshman
A.M. Economics 1
P.M. Greek A, 4, 5, 6

Sophomore
A.M. Economics 1, Psychology 3, Geology 3
P.M. Greek 1, Greek 2

Junior and Senior
A.M. Psychology 4
P.M. Business 3, Scientific Greek

Jan. 19
Freshman
A.M. English 1
P.M. Physics 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8

Sophomore
A.M. English 2
P.M. Physics 1

Junior and Senior
A.M. English 3, 6, 8, 9
P.M. Physics 2, Political Science 4

Jan. 20
Freshman
A.M. Spanish A

Sophomore
A.M. Spanish 1

Junior and Senior
A.M. Spanish 23, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, Education 1 20 P.M. | Math. 3, 4. Political Science 3 | Math. 1 Math. 2 Business 1, Psychology 2 Mon A.M. 22) P.M: *French A French 1 French 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. Geography 2 A.M. Basic Philosophy 1, Economics 4, Tues Math. | Political Science 2 23 P.M. | German 2, 3, 4: Education 3 German A | German 1 Political Science 1 Wed A.M. History 1 | History 1 History 2, 4, 7. Applied Math. 1, 2 24 P.M. | Latin 2, 3, 4. Economics 3 | Latin A Latin 1 Sociology Thur A.M. | Basic Language History 3, 5, 6. Fine Arts, Italian 25 P.M. Biology 1 Biology 1 | Biology 2, 3, 4. Business 2, Philosophy 4 Fri. A.M. Bible 1 Bible 2 Bible 6, Astronomy, Geography 1 26 P.M. | Education 4, Psychology 1 Sat. A.M. | Education 2 Chemistry 1 Chem. 2 Chem. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. Economics 2 27 P.M. | R.O.T.C. 1 R.O.T.C. 2 R.O.T.C. 3, 4

Recitations for the first semester will end at 12:30 p.m. on Wednesday, January 17th.

Five Pledges Taken in By I. R. C. Last Friday

Initiation ceremonies of the pledges of the International Relations Club took place last Friday evening at the regular meeting, at which Dr. J. W. McConnell was a visitor. The selection of pledges is based on the relative merit of papers on subjects of international interest written by such students as received an invitation from the club to do so. The five men who won places for themselves this year are Madison Armistead, C. A. McNeill, W. C. Neill, P. M. Rogers, and Robert Smith. Armistead’s paper dealt with “Mahatma Gandhi,” the great leader of the untouchables of India. Neill discussed “The World Court,” and Smith, choosing a subject closely linked with the court, wrote “Disarmament Defeating Its Own Purpose.” “Will the NRA Succeed?” was the subject for the paper developed by Rogers. McNeill took the recent developments in Eastern European affairs and discussed them under the heading, “Hitler and Austria.”

Rare Bindings Will Be Shown in Library Soon

Rare, old, and modern bindings are the feature of the coming week's exhibit in the library. The display in the exhibition case will illustrate the history of the bookbinder's art. Among the types of books will be the early scroll, early vellum bindings, hand-tooled leather, oriental bindings, and examples of unusual modern bindings. Christmas and the exam. students’ rare books, autographed editions, and manuscripts will be on display. Loans for this display are still needed.

WHEN YOU GRADUATE

To pass your bar, medical, dental, teaching, or other professional and state examinations, you will have to review three or four years’ notes. With ABC Shorthand, learned in 12 easy lessons, you can take accurate notes and be adequately prepared for all examinations. Get a copy at

Mid-Winters

According to Fred Smyre, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, Mid-winters will come the second weekend in February. Guy Lombardo will not be able to play, but one of the following orchestras will be selected: Jan Garber, Ted Weems, or Bernie Cummings. This year the Pan-Hellenic Council is attempting to put on the largest set of affairs that have ever been sponsored by any Davidson organization.

Musicians Perform On Dec. 1 Chapel Program

Miss Ellen Southwick and William Wright presented a musical program at Friday's chapel exercises, December 1, which received much praise from the student body. Miss Southwick is an instructor in piano at the Woman's College of the University of North Carolina and Mr. Wright is a well-known violinist of Winston-Salem. Numbers by Miss Southwick were: “Etude in A Flat Minor,” by Chopin, and Moskowski's “Caprice Espagnole.” Wright rendered “Air on the G String,” by Bach, “Hungarian Dance No. 6," by Brahms, and as an encore, “Largo,” by Handel.

Davidson Quarter Hour

Davidson College radio programs, presented weekly this fall over Station WBT in Charlotte, have called forth much praise from both alumni and non-Davidson listeners from Michigan to Florida. Letters of commendation have been received from Florida, Georgia, North and South Carolina, West Virginia, Connecticut, and Michigan. The Davidson male quartet sang on three programs, the Symphony Orchestra played once, and several soloists have appeared to complete the musical programs. Of the non-musical programs, Coaches Newton and McEver have given a radio survey of Davidson's football prospects, and “Skip” Brown has spoken on the Geneva Conference. The programs in the future will include interviews of prominent men on the campus who will give surveys of various activities at Davidson. Professor Pfohl will give an organ concert on the program December 20, and Capt. N. G. Pritchett will speak on the first program after Christmas.

NEED A TRIM FOR THE WEEKEND?

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP

Davidson College Book Store

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY
“SHOULD LADIES BEHAVE?”
MARGUERITE CHURCHILL—LINDSAY

THURSDAY
“SITTING PRETTY”
JACK OAKIE—JACK HALEY—GINGER ROGERS—THELMA TODD and the PICKENS SISTERS

FRIDAY
“IF I WERE FREE”
IRENE DUNNE—CLIVE BROOK—NILS ASTHER—HENRY STEPHENSON

SATURDAY
“CRADLE SONG”
DOROTHEA WIECK

MONDAY
“GIRL WITHOUT A ROOM”
CHARLES FARRELL—CHARLES RUGGLES

TUESDAY
“LADY KILLER”
JAMES CAGNEY—MAE CLARK

Dr. Thomas Cook Leads Y.M.C.A. Sunday Vesper

Rev. Thomas Cook, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Salisbury, was the speaker at the Y.M.C.A. vesper service last Sunday night. Hugh Hawkins, who had charge of the service, read the scripture from John 12:20-26. Bob Smith and Ed Humphries then led the audience in prayer. Mrs. G. R. Vowles, accompanied by the organ, sang “A Clean Heart,” after which Hugh Hawkins introduced the speaker of the evening. Rev. Mr. Cook put the emphasis of his address on the 24th verse of the scripture: “Except a grain of wheat fall into the earth and die, it abideth by itself alone; but if it die, it beareth much fruit.” Rev. Cook compared a man’s life to the only grain of wheat in the world. There are four things that we could do with the grain: We could destroy it, we could consume it, we could hoard it, or we could plant it. Any one of the first three of these things would be foolish and unprofitable. The last plan is the only wise one. If the grain were planted and allowed to die in the earth, soon it would bear forth and come 60 grains of wheat. By repeating this process, enough wheat to feed the world could soon be grown. In a like manner, we can destroy, consume, or hoard our lives, but the wise man will give his life in self-forgetful service. He will let his own life die by forgetting it while leading others to Christ, and in turn, his life will blossom forth. “If you let your life die in self-forgetful service, it will bring forth much fruit,” Cook concluded. The service was closed by a hymn, and the benediction by Dr. Moffett.

CATALOGUE BEING ASSEMBLED

Material is being assembled now for the 1934 edition of the Davidson College Catalogue, it was announced by P. W. Hengeveld, registrar. The catalogue will be published, available for students, before March 1, two weeks earlier than in past years. Quotations on the work are being received from printers at the present time, and the contract will be awarded in the near future.

Among other fines imposed upon undergraduates at Union College, Schenectady, is a fine of 6 cents if caught wearing hats within the walls of the college.

Wildcat Coats

And Are They Wildcats? Plenty Red and Plenty Black Red and Black----Black and Red TWO STYLES And the Price is So Low Just $9.95

Pajamas Slipovers

TATE-BROWN COMPANY
Charlotte, N. C.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Distinguished for 121 years in the whole field of Theological Education, particularly in the making of Preachers.

An All-Inclusive Tour!

This is what you will enjoy if you go to Europe with the Davidson party next summer. Plan to go now by getting something towards it for Christmas and the rest as a graduation present. You will visit 11 countries and every detail, baggage, hotels, transportation—will be taken care of.

HOLLAND-AMERICAN LINE
29 Broadway, New York

JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.
Local Agent