THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1933

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Associated Collegiate Press

== 1933 == == 1934 ==

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

V. T. JOHNSON Managing Editor
B. L. SEWELL Managing Editor
K. D. WEEKS Managing Editor
JACK HELLINGER Alumni Editor
C. E. NORVELL Sports Editor
R. A. RAWLINGS Editorial Writer
J. A. HUNT Exchange Editor
J. B. BAILEY Feature Editor
S. K. EATON Feature Editor
S. C. HENRY Feature Editor
C. S. McCALL Feature Editor
D. W. HOLLAND Review Editor
L. W. CLARK Associate Editor
A. F. POINDEXTER Associate Editor
W. M. THOMPSON Associate Editor
JACK WILLIAMS Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Business Manager
Business Manager
Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1933

There is but one straight road to success, and that is merit. The man who is successful is the man who is useful. Capacity never lacks opportunity. It cannot remain undiscovered, because it is sought by too many anxious to use it. —Bourke Cockran.

DAVIDSON’S MUSICAL ORGANIZATIONS

Probably the most obvious deficiency in Davidson’s extra-curricular activities has been remedied by the coming of Mr. J. C. Pfohl to this institution. For several years the absence of any talented and efficient musical director left its mark on our campus and Mr. Pfohl’s acceptance of the position offered him here has been of great value. The change wrought in the existing musical organizations and the creation of new groups has been phenomenal. The band is no longer a disorganized unit of non-cooperating individuals, but a complete and coordinated whole. This regeneration has caused widespread comment both in the newspapers and in personal communications. Pride has displaced the feeling of shame on the part of the students who viewed the band in public demonstrations in times past. Its music, formation, and appearance is as good as that of any college band that we have seen and a great deal better than many of them.

Davidson possesses fine concert material, courses, and many talented musicians in the student body and the quality of the music produced is splendid. The origination of a concert orchestra has indeed been a progressive step. Unexercised talent will have the opportunity to express itself—violins and other stringed instruments have been slighted, but now one of the most beautiful forms of music will find a means of expression. The orchestra has made few appearances to public audiences yet, but we hope it will soon become an indispensable part of all musical programs either in conjunction with the Band and Glee Club or alone. The Glee Club and Quartet are busily at work and will no doubt continue the standard of perfection set by the Band when they begin their programs. We now have three first-class musical organizations compared with two mediocre ones of a year ago and mediocrity may be too complimentary a term at that.

We wish to commend Mr. Pfohl, the members of the band, and the drum major for the excellence that they have achieved. Their performance is greatly appreciated by the student body.

—R. P. T.

ARMISTICE DAY

November the eleventh commemorates the close of the great World War. We should pay homage to those noble souls who sacrificed themselves upon the field of battle, but should remember that all war is futile and results only in economic ruin and intense suffering.

“Lord God of Hosts; be with us yet, Lest we forget—lest we forget!”

MOVE POST OFFICE

Much has been written and said about students walking on the grass and creating a pathway between Chambers Building and the post office, but it seems that it all has been to no avail. There is one solution, however. Did anyone ever think of moving the post office from its present site to one to the left of the Carolina Inn? This move would put the concrete walk in front of Chambers to use once more.

LIFE—A REFINING PROCESS

Someone has said that we meet only ourselves in any circumstances in life; people and events are of worth and significance to us only inasmuch as we see in them a likeness to some quality within ourselves which we recognize and evaluate. If this were quite true and we could know ourselves perfectly, it would take practically all of the element of surprise out of life. However, as a matter of fact we shall always be conscious of some variation between realization and anticipation. So much of life is lived in and for the future that we shall be forever overtaking experiences to which we have looked forward. But always much of the worth of the experience will be lost unaware. Surprise will often blind us to the challenge of unexpected worth. Disappointment will embitter us so that we cannot put our whole selves into bettering a situation. And we may spend idle time rubbing our hands in satisfaction over some bit of existence we have foreseen as it turns out to be. Life can be a refining process in the everyday if we are aware, and daily contacts may be immeasurably enhanced through discernment.

—“The Hornet” (Furman University)

IN THE NATIONAL FOCUS

North Carolina has a football team over at Duke University that has perched itself squarely in the national focus and for that reason, the hopes and aspirations of the people of the state generally, without show of littleness or partisanship, troop alongside Wallace Wade’s fine squad as it continues to chop its way to victory after victory. It is not often that North Carolina gets itself mentioned for having a football team worthy of national note. Mediocrity or worse is the usual rating of such aggregations in the state, but the Duke mentor who is himself a character of national renown in the field of football, has developed at Duke University a team that seems to have the power to match its genius with that of any in the South, if not in the whole country, and whether you are football-minded or not, that is an attainment that gives North Carolina a press-agentry that few other developments could provide.

—The Charlotte Observer.

Here and There

The night watchman at South Dakota State College has, during his duties, walked around the campus enough to equal a trip two-thirds around the world.

The Parenthesis Club, a unique organization at the State Teachers College in Trenton, N.J., is only open to bow-legged men.

There is now in operation at the University of California a machine to crush atoms. It is done with the deuton, science’s tiny but powerful “bullet.”

University of Oklahoma authorities have forbidden the drinking of beer in fraternity houses, but will allow students to drink it in campus stores where it is sold.

Public school teachers of Philadelphia are studying puppetry and marionettes in a special course at the Moore Institute of Art.

From the psychological clinic of the University of Hawaii comes the startling statement that 25 out of every 100 students will cheat if the chance of escaping detection is good.

At Fordham University it appears that the faculty are appointed by name. Father Deane is dean, a Father Whalen acts as dean of discipline, Mr. Shouten is in charge of debating, and Mr. Voekal (pronounced vocal) is in charge of the glee club.

The Princeton football coaching staff is unique, as every member of it has been head coach at some university.

A young married couple is studying biscuit-making and law at the University of Washington.

The twenty-three-year University of Chicago tradition of singing “Wave the Flag” ended with the departure of Amos Alonzo Stagg from the athletic department.

On the Illinois Wesleyan campus this year there are four co-operative houses in which students live by a budget, dividing the expenses among themselves.

An Experimental Theater has been organized on the Ohio University campus for the purpose of presenting some of the more recent popular comedies.

NEWS DIGEST

FARM STRIKE

The widely spread farm strike through the mid-west had reached a crisis Monday when embattled farmers attempted to stem the flow of foodstuffs to the market. One man was killed, three were injured and thousands of dollars worth of produce were destroyed in the mad fighting over a wide area. The farmers say that they will never give up the fight until the Federal Government has come to their rescue with the needed legislation.

GREECE

The failure on the part of the Grecian courts to give up Samuel Insull, Chicago utilities magnate, to the U.S. has resulted in the sending to Greece of one of the sternest and most scathing notes in American diplomatic history. The State Department in Washington informed Greece that the action of its courts was utterly untenable and, for that reason, the U.S. declared its intention to end the Graeco-American extradition treaty as soon as possible.

GUINAN DEAD

Texas Guinan, queen of New York night clubs, died suddenly Sunday in Vancouver, B.C., while she was on a tour. The loud-voiced blonde whose name was kept constantly before the public eye had led a varied life since her birth in Waco, Texas. She had been in the movies, on the stage, ran night clubs, and had hadfrequent courtroom battles over the prohibition question. However, she is known best on Broadway for her unique contributions to its vocabulary, where she coined the classic phrase, “Hello Sucker.”

JERUSALEM
For several days there has been severe rioting in and around Jerusalem as the result of the Arabs’ uneasiness over the increase in Jewish immigration. However, conditions are now outwardly quiet although underneath the surface unrest is still breeding.

JAPANESE EVACUATE
The Japanese army has evacuated south of the Great Wall of China and is concentrating its forces further northward in Manchuria along the Soviet-Russian border where threatening outbreaks have warranted such action. The evacuation took place suddenly after almost six months’ occupation of the North China area.

PARLIAMENT DISSOLVED
The British governor, General Sir David Campbell, has dissolved the Maltese parliament and declared a state of emergency arising out of the acute political crisis caused by differences between the Maltese and British authorities.

INDUSTRY CONTROL
A resolution demanding that business remain free of government interference and control was made public Thursday by Gerard Swope, chairman of the Business Advisory and Planning Council of the Department of Commerce. The resolution also expressed satisfaction with the work already done by the government and pledged themselves to assist it in every possible way.

MENDIETA
The Grau San Martin Cuban government has failed to establish order and now all sides are clamoring for the nationalist union leader, Col. Carlos Mendieta, to take the helm of state. However, in spite of the entreaties from all sides, Mendieta shies away from the provisional presidency which is offered to him. He is following the advice of his nationalist friends who urge him not to commit political suicide by taking over the government at this critical stage in its affairs.

BUYING GOLD
The U.S. is continuing her policy of buying gold for importation into the country. The President is doing this in an attempt to raise prices at home. The Federal Reserve Bank in New York is doing most of the buying, but negotiations thus far have been surrounded by a wall of secrecy. Up to now thirty-six thousand ounces have been received at the total price of more than $2,100,000.

NORMAN DAVIS
Norman Davis, chief United States delegate to the Geneva Arms Conference, thinks that he may forsake the conference and again enter private business on his return to the U.S. next week. It is learned on high authority that Davis will again be urged to take the helm in a large international company which will seek to liquidate the vast and tangled affairs of Kreuger and Toll which involve thousands of investors throughout the world.

Student’s Act Brings Praise for Davidson
Fulfillment of Promise to Pay for Bed is Typical
The honest act of a Davidson student brought panegyric words for the college in a letter addressed to Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of the school, coming from the general secretary of the Y.M.C.A. in one of North Carolina’s leading cities. Last Saturday night the particular student happened to run out of funds while in that city. He went to the man at the desk at the “Y,” pulling the now popular gag, “I'll gladly pay you Wednesday for a bed tonight.” Moved by the youth’s request, the deskman put him up for the night, probably not expecting to be paid. But Wednesday morning in the morning's mail the “Y” secretary found a letter in which the money to pay for the room was enclosed. So thinking the incident would make President Lingle feel good, the secretary immediately wrote him a letter, from which the following excerpt is taken:

“In this morning’s mail I had a nice letter from him (the student) enclosing the money to pay for his room Saturday night. This may seem a little thing, but if you knew of the hundreds each year who are going to pay us for a room and never do, you would know how we feel when one man actually does what he agrees to do. However, this is not contrary to our experience with Davidson men. We have always found them to be perfect gentlemen and we have never yet had a Davidson man promise us anything in the five and a half years that I have been here that he hasn't done.”

LECTURE ON N. CAROLINA HISTORY BY NEWSOME
(Continued from page 1)
by other states as Rip Van Winkle, until the spirit of Macon was repudiated.” Archibald D. Murphy, of Hillsboro, was one who lamented the backwardness of the state and laid the present foundation of our commonwealth. Murphy advocated internal improvements, an educational system, constitutional reform, water and land transportation, and several similar policies. The advocates of an educational system won their first victory in 1825 when a literary fund for the public schools system was formed. Murphy’s system was defeated by the landowners of the eastern part who did not want an educational system, and who were against anything which caused them to spend any of their money. In 1824 the west defeated the east, and the next time Jackson was supported by all of North Carolina, but to the west Jackson was a great disappointment. Finally, the west, led by Swain, the governor, and other leaders, broke the power of the east. After 1835 North Carolina embarked on a period of rejuvenation, and it was then that Rip Van Winkle was awakened.

ARMY RIFLE RANGE IMPROVED BY BURTON
(Continued from page 1)
instead of walking up to them. This is much safer and will speed up the firing. A wall has also been constructed as another safety device on the right of the firing point to keep spectators from walking in front of the rifles. Still another improvement is in the fact that the targets may be adjusted to different heights for prone and standing positions. Other improvements in the building include mainly the rearranging, renumbering, and repainting of the rifle racks. At the end of last year several of the racks were broken down and many of the numbers missing. Now a student may easily find his rifle by consulting the list which is to be found on the end of each rack. Sergeant Burton did the majority of this improving during his spare time.

On Other Campuses
HARVARD
We learn that Harvard has abolished Yale locks from its dormitories. In line with this rather startling policy of patriotism it will be but a matter of time until the Vassar student body puts a ban on Smith cough drops and Yale takes drastic action against the Harvard classics. (“The Spectator.”)

CATHOLIC U.
School history was made at Catholic U. when the freshmen won the annual tug-o-war from the sophs. In former days, it was a tradition that the freshmen should not win this event, even though upperclassmen had to join in the battle, but this year the first-year men came out on top! They are already demanding senior privileges! What we want to know is just what are “senior privileges”?

PURDUE
It has been rumored by the Purdue Exponent that the formation of a “We Ain’t Been to the Fair But We Have Heard All About It” club has materialized. The ideals of the club shall be the convenience and protection of the small minority that have not attended the Chicago show!

WASHINGTON U.
It was found that the average student at the University of Washington has more money in his pocket than the average professor.

SALEM COLLEGE
The rules of Salem College dated 1732:
1. Baths can be taken only by special permission and at times indicated by the professors.
2. Sleeping quarters are not to be visited by students during the day.
3. The strictest order is to be observed in the embroidery room.
4. Pupils are never to go out of sight or hearing of the instructor when walking.

NOTRE DAME
Nearly 10,000 persons have visited the campus of the University of Notre Dame in the course of the last few weeks. The campus has attracted tourists from all but three states of the Union, and from Canada, Germany, Poland, Cuba, and Puerto Rico.

WASHINGTON AND LEE
The student publication at W. & L., the “Ring-Tum Phi,” was awarded first place in the contest for class “A” newspapers conducted by the Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association at its sixth annual convention held at Richmond, Friday and Saturday of last week. The contest was judged on the basis of make-up, general news value, and journalistic style.

N. C. STATE
All but 10 of the 100 counties of North Carolina are represented among the student body of N. C. State College with Wake County leading in the number enrolled at 254 and Guilford, second with 55. Representatives from 25 states and two foreign countries, France and Puerto Rico, are listed among the student body.

SYSTEM OF SELECTING MANAGERS IS CHANGED
(Continued from page 1)
The subject of alumni tickets to football games was also discussed at the last meeting. A proposal that alumni tickets should be free was introduced, and some progress was made toward its acceptance, although plans are not yet complete.

DR. LINGLE MAKES TOUR OF GEORGIA
(Continued from page 1)
and two Davidson graduates are members of the faculty. Dr. and Mrs. Lingle came in contact with several friends of Davidson at the Berry Schools, among them, E. G. Clary, of the class of 1916, and Clifton Russell, Dr. Lingle’s nephew. On Sunday, Dr. Lingle spoke at the school’s church services on “Christian Idealism.”

STATIONERY
CALLING CARDS
FRATERNITY PAPERS
Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates
PROGRAMS
See BILL JOHNSON
203 Watts
Standard Printing Company
Garland Court - CHARLOTTE, N.C.