SOPHOMORE WEEK-END FRIDAY AND SATURDAY

The Davidsonian | Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

MERRY CHRISTMAS AND HAPPY NEW YEAR

Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 13, 1933 No. 13

Tommy Tucker To Play On Dec. 15-16 For Soph Week-End

Class of '36 to Stage Brilliant Affair Beginning Friday Night

WIDESPREAD INTEREST

Popular Radio Artist Engaged by Sophomores

With their annual week-end only two days off, the Sophomore class of Davidson College is making plans for one of the largest and best sophomore house parties ever given. A committee, consisting of representatives from the ten social fraternities and of several non-fraternity men, is planning to provide a week-end that will do credit to the class of 1936. Tommy Tucker, Columbia Broadcasting artist, has been secured from the Music Corporation of America to play for this week-end. This orchestra recently played from the Hollywood Restaurant in New York City.

Sophomore week-end will start Friday night, December 15, with a formal dance at the Charlotte Armory. This affair will start promptly at ten and will continue until two o’clock. A feature of the dance will be the fraternity medley. Several no-breaks will also feature. The committee has made arrangements to decorate the Armory, and extensive plans have been made to give the huge building a festive atmosphere.

On Saturday afternoon, Tommy Tucker will again play at the Charlotte Armory. There will be no form of entertainment on the campus given by the sophomores, but the tea dance in Charlotte will attract many students. This affair will begin at four o'clock Saturday afternoon and will continue until seven that night. Saturday night, the sophomores will again sponsor another dance, featured by several no-breaks and songs of the different social fraternities. Miss Clifford, who does the torch singing, will render several blues numbers at each dance.

In last Sunday’s “Charlotte Observer” there were pictures of five girls who will sponsor the sophomore affair. The sponsors are: Misses Alice Cowles Barringer, Charlotte; Dosty Blackmon, Rock Hill, S. C.; Mary Gillespie, Atlanta, Ga.; Rose Rogers, Greensboro, and Eve Stevenson, of Charlotte and Camilla, Ga.

The students who compose the sophomore committee include Mitchell Arrowsmith, Martin Barnett, Osmond Barringer, Coleman Branton, Henry Cathey, Herman Dillard, John Dolan, Ras Evans, Malcolm Grimes, Gil Murray, John Partridge, and Bob Richardson. Richardson, who is president (Continued on page 2)

Harpist Will Play For Student Body Monday

Miss Ruth Whittington Pfohl and Miss Louise Nelson will present a program in chapel Monday, December 18, at the request of the Music Department of Davidson College. Miss Pfohl will play several numbers on the harp, varied so that the great possibilities of the harp will be demonstrated. Both artists are at present members of the faculty of the School of Music of the University of Michigan. Miss Pfohl has studied under Carlos Salzedo, America’s famous harpist and teacher, and now she has one of the largest harp classes in the world at the University of Michigan. In addition to that, she is librarian of the University’s School of Music, and is now at work on a book concerning the cataloguing of music. Miss Nelson, her accompanist, received her master’s degree from the University of Michigan and has studied extensively abroad.

They have both appeared with several of the country’s leading orchestras. Only recently, Miss Pfohl received great praise for her rendition of the harp solo of the Ravel “Septette,” one of the most difficult selections for this instrument. Miss Pfohl is a sister of Professor J.C. Pfohl, head of the Music Department here.

Pi Kappa Alpha Pays Honor To Retiring Grand Councilor

Local Chapter Presents Gift to Dr. Arbuckle

Through its Beta Chapter, at Davidson College, the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity paid honor to Dr. Howard Bell Arbuckle, retiring Grand Councilor of the fraternity, in a ceremony held at the Pi Kappa Alpha house last Thursday evening. The nature of the honor given Dr. Arbuckle was a gift from the fraternity to its “grand old man,” who had retired this year from the presiding office of the national fraternity after twenty years of active service. The gift, a silver tray, pitcher, and goblets, was presented by George M. Ivey, of Charlotte, former District Princeps, and an alumnus of Alpha-Alpha Chapter at Duke.

The ceremony took place at a regular weekly meeting of the fraternity, and was attended by the local chapter, prominent alumni from nearby (Continued on page 2)

Christmas Service To Be Held Sunday

Program for Vespers Will Be Entirely Musical

The annual Christmas vesper service will be held Sunday in Chambers Auditorium. In the past this service has been the outstanding vespers of the year, and has been well attended by both students and townspeople. The program will be entirely musical with several scriptural readings between hymns. Three well-known artists have been secured to take part on the program. They are: Ruth Whittington Pfohl, harp; John Kenneth Pfohl, ’cello, and Albert Blumenthal, violin. The Glee Club, the Orchestra, and the Concert Band will also render several selections.

The service will be in the dim candle light, and the auditorium will be decorated with pine and cedar branches. The Concert Band will gather in the faculty room before the service and play the chorales: “Morning Star,” “O Cheering Light” by Hagen, “Hark, The Herald Angels Sing,” by Mendelssohn, “Angels, From the Realms of Glory,” by Smart. The service will start at 7:30. There will be no evening worship at the Presbyterian Church.

Y Gift Fund Campaign To Be Concluded Today

The campaign for the Christmas Gift Fund has been in progress now for the last two nights, and closes with solicitations this evening. As was announced in last week’s Davidsonian, the fund this year goes to the Davidson Unity Church. Splendid talks by Dr. H. B. Arbuckle and the two student workers, Don Brandon and Sidney Marsh, have brought to the attention of the students the need existing in the community served by this church. Sam Wiley, Y. M. C. A. secretary, expressed the purpose and ideal of the drive when he said, “If the Christmas Fund is to be a real expression of the spirit of giving, it should be contributed to by all the members of the student body.” In order to keep the students posted on the percentage of individuals contributing, statistic “thermometers” for each of the dormitories have been placed in the entrance to Chambers Building, showing the progress day by day.

The goal has been decreased from $1,000.00 to $750.00 in view of the economic situation of today. However, it is the unanimous contributing of the students, rather than the sum reached, that will mark the success or failure of the campaign. The money will be used to give Christmas joy and baskets of nourishing food to the sixty-nine families in the neighborhood; to provide medical attention where it has been sorely needed; to make repairs in the church building; to replace the dilapidated benches that are serving there now, and to provide a heating system for the shower bath house constructed last summer. Also, a “sinking fund” will be established for future emergency.

Honored by Group

Dr. Howard B. Arbuckle, head of the Chemistry Department, was presented with a gift here Thursday night for faithful service as Grand Councilor of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Davidson Men Play In Music Concerts

N. C. Symphony Orchestra Gives Program in Charlotte

The North Carolina State Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of Lamar Stringfield, noted youthful composer and Pulitzer Prize winner, gave a concert in Charlotte, N. C., last Thursday night. The orchestra also gave concerts in Winston-Salem and Raleigh, N. C., on following nights.

A well-balanced and interesting program was offered by the orchestra. The first selection was a Mozart overture. Then came Dvorak’s “New World Symphony” which brought out the music of the classes of people in the “New World” as written upon his return from a trip to the States. The climax of the program was the rendition of “The Legend of John Henry.” The audience was interested particularly in this piece as it was written by the conductor himself. Peter Tchaikovsky's “Marche Slave” was the last (Continued on page 2)

Dr. Lambeth Urges Training of Minds To Phi Beta Kappa

Gamma of Phi Beta Kappa Celebrates Tenth Anniversary December 6

SIX PLEDGES INITIATED

Large Audience Enjoys Former North Carolinian’s Address

“The purpose of education is not the furnishing of the mind with a store of facts, but the training of that mind to think and by thinking to arrive at a proper conclusion,” said Dr. W. A. Lambeth, of High Point, in his address before a group attending the Phi Beta Kappa initiations at Davidson College last Wednesday night. “The prodigy is of little value to the world or to himself, and the same can be said of the mental gymnast who can do great feats of memory or perform other mental stunts. The mind of a really educated man is the mind that is able to think straight through a problem until this just conclusion is reached, a mind that is tolerant, that avoids too great individualism, that is not sectional in its affections, that is able to live and act in co-operation with its fellows.”

Dr. C. M. Richards, president of the local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, introduced the speaker, who in the course of his scholarly and entertaining address brought out many interesting points in defining the educated mind. Dr. Lambeth has recently assumed the pastorate of the Wesley Methodist Church in High Point, being removed there from the Second Street Methodist Church in Asheville. He has, during his career, served many outstanding churches in this conference, and was for a while pastor to a large congregation in Washington, D. C. He has established a very remarkable reputation throughout the Methodist Church as a minister, orator and student.

Before the address, at which the new initiates wereIntroduced to the audience, six members of the Davidson Senior class and seven alumni, who were members of the old Mimir Society, which preceded Phi Beta Kappa on the Davidson campus, were taken (Continued on page 2).

Prof. Edwin King Lectures On Italian Renaissance Art

Young Princeton Lecturer Analyzes Florentine School in Series of Illustrated Lectures Monday and Tuesday Nights

A series of important educational lectures on the subject of “Italian Art” were presented in Chambers Auditorium Monday and Tuesday by Prof. Edward S. King, of Princeton University. Professor King has made an exhaustive study of this topic and is considered an authority on renaissance art of the Italian school. All three of the lectures were beautifully illustrated by the use of lantern slides, which greatly vivified the talks. The speaker, who was introduced by Dr. C. R. Harding, of the Davidson Greek Department, spoke Monday evening on “Florentine Art of the Fifteenth and Sixteenth Centuries,” choosing this period for great artistic richness, and this particular school because, he stated, it represents sixty percent of the great art of the period.

In his lecture Tuesday night Professor King spoke of architecture primarily. Lantern slides depicted the various architectural styles as they were described and explained by the lecturer. A talk in chapel Tuesday morning was utilized as a connecting link between the two lectures. Declaring that the Gothic works of Italy are rivaled only by the Classic studies in Greece, the Princeton lecturer described at length the features and types of the former. The two main features, he stated, in the Gothic period were a striking realism, and a highly symbolic view of the world and its characters. A transcendental attitude is manifest among Gothic artists and their works.

Prominent among the fifteenth and sixteenth century artists and their masterpieces discussed by Professor King were Masaccio, Ghiberti, Botticelli, Fra Angelico, Piero Francesco, Da Vinci, Raphael, and Michelangelo. Paintings, statuary groups, cathedral groups, portraits, and other artistic manifestations by these Italian masters were described, explained, and criticized. Two bronze doors of Ghiberti, each of which required twenty years of intensive work to complete, were described by the speaker as “decorative and graceful religious scenes,” displaying the scientific attitude of Florentine art. The later master, Michelangelo, described the famous second set of bronze doors by Ghiberti as fit to be called the “Gates of Paradise.”

In “The Tribute Money,” the greatness of the Florentine artist has produced, through a creative imagination, a masterpiece from a seemingly insignificant theme. This is typical of numerous works of the period, according to Professor King. In concise fashion, Leonardo Da Vinci’s “Madonna of the Rocks,” “Mona Lisa,” and “The Last Supper” were criticized by the speaker; so also were the “Sistine Madonna” of Raphael, the “Sistine Chapel,” “Last Judgment,” and “Medici Tombs” of Michelangelo, and other less important artistic creations of the period.

Professor King, who has taught at Princeton University and at Bryn Mawr College, is at present at Princeton accumulating material for a thesis on certain aspects of American architecture since his graduation from Trinity College.

Exam Schedule

On page three of this issue will be found the examination schedule for the first semester of this year, as announced by F. W. Hengeveld, registrar of Davidson College. Examinations, which begin on January 18, have been scheduled this year under the old system; all certain courses being given at the same time and day. Last year the examination schedule was set up according to the periods the classes were held, with several tests being given in the same subject. Students should clip and post the schedule.

Founding of Duke Trust Celebrated

Governors Ehringhaus and Blackwood Address Assembly

The ninth anniversary of the signing of the indenture of trust by James Buchanan Duke, which created an endowment of many millions of dollars to be used for philanthropic purposes, was celebrated Monday, December 11, at Furman University, in Greenville, South Carolina. It is the custom each year for a meeting to be held in connection with this endowment, at which time an explanation of the meaning and scope of this great plan is presented. Usually, some college which benefits from the endowment puts on a program. Last year Davidson College put on such a program.

Governor J. C. B. Ehringhaus and Governor Ibra C. Blackwood delivered addresses at the all-day celebration in Greenville. In connection with this program, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, made a few remarks on “The Interest of the Duke Endowment in Higher Education.” Representatives of numerous orphan, hospital, religious, and educational institutions were also present at the meeting. Furman University and Davidson College are equally endowed, each, since the establishment of the endowment on December 11, 1914, and up to December 31, 1932, having received a total of $469,677.25.

Mr. Duke planned in his indenture to build a great university, and at the same time to materially assist three strategically located colleges of liberal arts, the three being Davidson, Furman, and Johnson C. Smith University.

College Dramatic Club Presents Miracle Play

The Red and Black Masquers Club will present a Christmas play Friday night at 7 o’clock in Chambers Auditorium. This will be the first play that the club has presented this year. The performance will be free. The play to be given is entitled “The Second Shepherd's Play,” written by an unknown author. The first part of the play is a farce, but it changes towards the end and becomes very serious and sacred. The cast is as follows: First Shepherd, Gordon Wood; Third Shepherd, Miller Cochran; Mak, Nat Wanda; Angel, Bill McIlwinen, and Virgin Mary, Adele Arbuckle. The play is being directed by D. W. Hollingsworth, Jr., and it is under the personal supervision of Professor E. J. Erwin.

D. C. Bulletin Devotes Interest to New Men

The January edition of the Davidson College Bulletin will be devoted to the interest of students who might be contemplating entering Davidson. More than 25,000 copies will be printed and distributed to high school seniors in practically every school in the Southern States. Lists of seniors are being obtained now from state boards of education. F. W. Hengeveld, registrar, announced that it would be well for Davidson students, while home for the Christmas holidays, to speak to their friends about Davidson, and be prepared to turn in the names of prospective students. Cards for this purpose will be placed in the dormitories in January after the recess closes, it was announced.

Letters Awarded To Cross-Country And Football Men

Sixteen Players Receive Letters for Gridiron Service During Season

MANAGERS ELECTED

Varsity and Freshmen Distance Runners Given Recognition

In a recent report of the Davidson Athletic Association, announcement was made of the awarding of the varsity letters in football and cross-country, and the awarding of freshman numerals for the same sports; letters were also given to the various managers of sports, and to the varsity cheerleader. The following men were awarded the varsity “D” in football for the 1933 season: Cathey, H.; Grant, J. B.; Hand, C. H.; Hutchins, D. M.; Lee, J. B.; Mackorell, J.; McElrath, P. J.; Morgan, J. R.; Potter, A. J.; Rives, C. M.; Siewers, J. D.; West, J. W.; Windham, C.; Wingfield, G.; Willson, E. L., and Verble, I. E. Service letters were awarded to the following men: Harrison, F. P.; Rice, A.; Thompson, W. M., and Thompson, W. T.

The following men were given letters accorded the managers of varsity sports: varsity football managers, Kirkland, W. A., and Caldwell, J. B.; freshman manager, Drake, J. T.; basketball manager, Smyre, F.; baseball manager, Wehner, D.; track manager, Brown, W.; wrestling manager, Hunter, J.; tennis manager, Thompson, W. M.; freshman manager basketball, White, J.; freshman manager track, Harris, J. M.; freshman manager baseball, McNeill, C. A. Hugh Hawkins was also awarded the varsity “D” for service as varsity cheerleader.

These men made ten or more points during the 1933 cross-country season and were awarded letters: Frazier, E. N.; Gullette, G. L., and Oakes, E. The following freshmen were awarded numerals for service rendered during the 1933 football season: Armfield, K.; Arrowood, P.; Branch, J.; Carlson, C.; Cathey, C.; Clarke, H.; Cook, P.; Corbin, T. G.; Dickson, J. A.; Garrison, B. L.; Gracey, H.; Hunter, J. L.; Johnson, D. P.; Johnson, R.; Johnston, J.; Lanier, G. G.; McClain, W. W.; Melton, R.; Moore, H. W.; Olschener, E. W.; Patterson, V.; Peabody, M.; Purdy, R. R.; Quick, C. C.; Reed, B. J.; Sadler, R. H.; Shemwell, D.; Thurston, T. G.; Vass, L., and Winn, J.

The following freshmen made one or more points during the 1933 cross-country season and were awarded numerals: Cox, W. F.; Feuchtenberger, (Continued on page 2).

Hood Attends College And High School Meet

Dr. Frazer Hood, professor of psychology in Davidson College, has recently returned from the thirty-eighth annual meeting of the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools held in Nashville, Tenn., on December 4-8, 1933. Dr. Hood represented Davidson in the absence of Dr. J. M. McConnell. This association, which is composed of representatives from most of the colleges and high schools in the South, had as its objective at this meeting a closer relationship between secondary schools and colleges.

One report given at the meeting brought out some very interesting statistics. The percentage of high school graduates that go on to college is greater in Mississippi than in any other state represented in the association. Also, the percentage of failures of students from Mississippi is least. These statistics were compiled for all of the Southern States, North Carolina being near the top in all departments.

A novel feature was the address of ex-Governor Sweets of Colorado, who spoke on the NRA and what colleges can and should do towards furthering the success of the movement. Other questions discussed were “Education and the Depression” and “The Need of Modifying College Curricula to More Accurately Meet the Changing Social and Economic Structure of Life.”