THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 28, 1934

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Associated Collegiate Press

1933 (Associated Collegiate Press) 1934

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

ODI_CASALI Editor
W. T. JOHNSON Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
G. L. GULLETTE Managing Editor
E. F. McPHAIL Managing Editor
B. L. ROSE Managing Editor
K. D. WEEKS Managing Editor
JACK HELLINGER Alumni Editor
RAWLING THOMAS Editorial Writer
A. HUNTER Exchange Editor
J. B. BAILEY Feature Editor
S. K. TO Feature Editor
C. S. Feature Editor
D. W. CRARD Associate Editor
A. F. Associate Editor
W. M. THOMPSON Associate Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, JR Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
GREEN Assistant Business Manager
W. SPRUNT Business Manager
R. TAYLOR Assistant Business Manager
A. C. WADSWORTH Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 1934

He who freely magnifies what hath been nobly done, and fears not to declare as freely what might be done better, gives ye the best covenant of his fidelity.
—John Milton.

The Student Body extends its sympathy to Grier Martin in the loss he has suffered in the death of his father.

DAVIDSONIAN NOMINATIONS

By virtue of their work on “The Davidsonian” during the past year, the following are eligible for editorship of this publication for 1934-35, and are hereby nominated: GEORGE L. GULLETTE, JACK HELLINGER, E. FRED McPHAIL, BEN L. ROSE, KENNETH D. WEEKS.

ONLY FOUR PAGES TODAY

Because of the absence of Grier Martin, alumni secretary, from Davidson, there is no Alumni Page this week. Martin was called to his home in Covington, Georgia, last week on account of the sudden death of his father, and since there is no one here familiar with the alumni secretary’s work, material for an Alumni Page this week was not assembled. The loss of this page together with the loss of several advertisements this week forces this issue to be of only four pages. There will be no issue of “The Davidsonian” next week since Spring Recess opens tomorrow and classes resume Wednesday, April 4.

THE SPIRIT OF THE “D” CLUB

Recently the “D” Club accepted a new constitution under which to operate in the future. Two weeks ago the complete document was published in “The Davidsonian.” Last week an editorial discussed several of the features of the new constitution of Davidson’s major athletic organization. We feel, however, that the primary objective of this new development has not yet been fully understood and appreciated either by those chiefly concerned or by the student body. We believe that all this effort has been spent in an earnest endeavor, on the part of those who are sincerely interested, to build up a spirit of sportsmanship and honesty among the wearers of the “D” as regards their relations with each other, the coaches, and the student body. “Honesty in what respects?” is the question that naturally follows.

A member of the “D” Club who has taken upon himself the obligations inherent to the fundamental nature of that body as now constituted, has agreed to abide by the regulations as set forth and to do his utmost to see to it that his fellow members do likewise. Now this is a serious proposition and one that cannot be set aside without seriously compromising the integrity of the individual. Probably one of the most important items is the fact that he has promised to follow the training regulations explicitly. If he does not do so, he is cheating his teammates by not shouldering his share of the responsibility, and by perhaps ousting a candidate from the team who has conscientiously trained, but who unfortunately lacks some measure of ability that the other possesses. Thus he enjoys privileges and rewards that do not rightfully belong to him.

In this issue of “The Davidsonian” there is being published a complete list of all those who are out for freshman and varsity track and varsity baseball. The authorities wish that the students, that is all students, whether members of the “D” Club or not, report all violations of training rules. They desire to build what might be termed an “esprit de corps” among Davidson College athletes... an honest devotion to sound athletic training and wholehearted participation in all sports. A worthy objective, but one that can be reached only by the complete co-operation of the students and the athletes themselves.
—R. P.-T.

WHY NOT EXAMINE THE FACULTY?

It is interesting to note that at several colleges students are charging that members of the faculty should be examined each year just as the students themselves are. Students at Union College in Schenectady, N. Y., asked faculty members the following questions just “to see how many instructors are adding strength to the college and how many are doing their job right”:

“Does he find his greatest interest in his students and in intellectual pursuits?

“Does he seek to enlighten his students, rather than to make them recite fundamentals?

“Does he try to introduce them to life and thought, not coach them to pass examinations?

“Does he put himself forward as a dispenser of truth, not as an ingratiating vaudeville actor?

“Does he give the student all that he has of scholarship, wisdom and understanding, despite their supposed immunity to such?

“Does he stimulate the mind of the student to suggest ideas and to correlate the loose end of information?

“Is he striving to be a personal friend of the student, a guide and an inspiration?

“Is he enthusiastic, alive, free from all dull pedantry and dogma?”

The students went on to say that it is the professor who makes the college, and a college is only as good as its worst professor.

“The Daily Illini,” publication of Illinois University, made a similar suggestion that its instructors be given an examination to see where they stand. Here is an editorial from that paper:

“What’s new in education? About this time of the year we are forced to look over schedules for the coming semester. We do so without much enthusiasm for the most part, for we realize there is nothing new in the time table.

“Of course, some well-meaning adviser will inform us that if we haven’t taken geodetics, we should because it will give us new fields to conquer. Or if there has been no economics course on our program, we should take one to make us realize better what is going on in the world these days. All of which is true if we apply the definition of new as anything of which we have previously had no knowledge.

“But what is the geodetics instructor going to give his class that he didn’t give last year? What will the economics or psychology professor tell his students that the ones last semester could not have learned? What new variants or methods will be made use of that were not available before? In other words, are we sure that our instructors are not stagnating, are they merely doing research in dusty bookshelves without giving a thought to the things of today which are affecting them and which they in turn may also be changing?

“Unfortunately, many do not feel impelled to present new material because they know their course is ‘required.’ Since the student must take it, why make any special attempts to make it more interesting? If it was good enough last year, why change it now?

“Perhaps a solution could be had in a system of examinations for instructors at the end of each school year. In all fairness to the student, he should be certain that the man who teaches him is also able to ‘get a passing grade.’

“At present we have no idea as to how this would be taken care of—who would give the quizzes or who would do the grading. And we do know that the suggestion is not being made in a facetious frame of mind, but with all seriousness in intent and purpose, for the protection of the student and the stimulation of the faculty members.”

Here and There

Mr. Josiah K. Lilly, of Indianapolis, has presented 1,000 sets of the works of Stephen Foster to college and city librarians throughout the United States.

A university airport is being constructed at Purdue University with funds appropriated by the federal government.

Banquets commemorating the founding of the University of Iowa were held in 11 states in the Union and the District of Columbia.

NEWS DIGEST
By DOPEY McCALL

BIG STRIKE AVERTED

An automobile strike involving nearly two million workers and threatening the moves made against the depression was narrowly averted by the conciliatory measures of General Johnson and President Roosevelt. The trouble started because the automobile magnates refused to recognize the American Federation of Labor and the workers protested. All the workmen in the plants, the dealers, the salesmen, and all others connected with the industry were threatened with unemployment because the industrial leaders were prepared to fight to the last ditch. They felt that it was up to the Federation to recognize their right and ability to run their own business as well as for them to recognize the labor organization. The truce was of great importance to the administration and to the general public.

PHILIPPINE INDEPENDENCE

The question of Philippine independence, discussed and rediscussed ever since the close of the war with Spain, was finally settled last week when it was voted by Congress to give the islands a commonwealth government for ten years under the supervision of the United States and then they are to have complete independence.and their own republic. The bill called for a constitutional convention to meet in October and there draft the measures to be used during the ten-year transition period.

NEW NAVY

Following the example of France, England, and Japan, the Congress of the United States has voted a half-billion dollars for a huge naval building program. The bill provides for the construction of one hundred destroyers and subs, a new airplane carrier, and one thousand new airplanes. The program will cover seven years and President Roosevelt is ready to sign the bill, but the speed with which the operations will be concluded will depend upon the generosity of the budget bureau.

INSULL AGAIN

Insull must be enjoying life more now than he did when he was a Chicago magnate and only had to flaunt his money to get anything he wanted. That at least is the moral of many a novel, e.g., that money does not mean happiness but rather the contrary since the best things in life are enjoyed more when they are harder to get. With very little fortune left, the old man chartered his own boat and headed for Abyssinia where lives as king the descendant of King Solomon and the Queen of Sheba. The once proud millionaire is to give the “lion of Juda” a small fortune provided by some of his Chicago friends and there the old man will finish his days away from the avenging justice of the many creditors and paupers he left behind him. And that, my friends, is more fanciful and more true than any novel.

NEW ANAESTHETIC

A new anaesthetic which physicians believe will revolutionize operations has been demonstrated in the Sinai Hospital in Baltimore. This new substance, as yet unnamed, is a white powder which will put the patient to sleep within twenty seconds after it is given. It is dissolved in water and given as a hypodermic injection. There are no bad after-effects and the patient can eat a full meal both before and after the operation.

CATASTROPHE

A blaze sweeping across Hakodate, an important Japanese coast town of two hundred thousand souls, caused the loss of over eighty percent of property and about one thousand lives, it was stated in a report from Tokyo Wednesday. The fire began when several chimneys were toppled over in a gale and the wind fanned the rising flames to all parts of the city. Firemen battled the fire all that night and most of the next day without success, but the battle finally ended when the fire could find nothing else to burn. It was one of the greatest tragedies in Japan since the late earthquake.

ROUMANIA

The recent attempted assassination of King Carol of Roumania has resulted in prison for several of the most famous names in the Roumanian capital. A score of prominent intellectuals have been arrested, among them Victor Gomoiu, one of its leading surgeons. The police have attempted to suppress the names of the ring-leaders while they are establishing a connection between the attempt on the life of the king and the recent murder of Premier Duca, who was shot down in a railway station after a visit to Carol at his country estate.

DEPUTATION FROM SEMINARY SPEAKS

(Continued from page 1)

The first fundamental need is “a definite belief in a personal God.” Two great tragedies today are atheism and indifference. The most widespread of these two is indifference. It is a privilege to attend Davidson, he stated, but it is also a great responsibility because of the chance which we have to be indifferent to the words of God. Man must believe in a definite God. He must not have an abstract belief, but must believe in “a God who is Father, Lord and Master.”

The second essential need is a devoted relationship in our hearts to Jesus Christ. We must know Christ as Lord. There are two great things that will bring one to God: prayer and the Bible. The third fundamental is a “definite sense of individual, moral responsibility.” We need a society of men and women who realize their responsibility. Christ will hold each person responsible for his own life. This, and responsibility for the lives of others, is true Christian service. Being a Christian is not easy because it is not easy to do these three things. Mr. Jones closed his talk by urging us all to believe in these things, and closed with a prayer. The meeting was concluded by a hymn and the benediction by Dr. Walter L. Lingle.

SOCIAL EVENTS ARE FEATURED

(Continued from page 1)

Beth Harper, Rocky Mount; Monroe, High Point.

Kappa Sigma: Misses Nell Joslin, Raleigh; Grace Richardson, New York, N.Y.; “Tut” Gorrell, Greensboro; Alice Alexander, Jean Montgomery, Virginia Carey, Virginia Coby, and Alice Cowles Barringer, Charlotte.

Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Miriam Steele, Dorothy Baker, Elizabeth Moore, Charlotte; Louisa Rankin, Wilhemena Monroe, Fayetteville; Pearl Stoops, Cleveland, Tenn.; Margaret Abernathy, Roanoke, Va.; Susan Wycliffe, Wytheville, Va.; Leelia Reynolds, Louisville, Ky.; Chloe Frierson, Sweetbriar; Dolly Greer, Randolph-Macon; Elizabeth Lucas, Agnes-Scott; Sarah Stevens, Winston-Salem; Courtney West, Newport News; Frances Scales, Greensboro; Jane Morgan, Lexington, Ky.

Phi Delta Theta: Misses Frances Haywood, Salem College; Elizabeth Sponnenbarger, Tallahassee, Fla.; Mathilda Kyser, Talladega, Ala.; Frances Passmore, Elizabeth Houck, Atlanta, Ga.; Lillian Price, Memphis.

Pi Kappa Phi: Misses Carolyn Hodge, Carolyn Rivers, Carolyn Hammond, Charlotte; Emily Smith, Carolyn Clark, Lawrenceville, Va.; Frances Callahan, Wilson; Corinne Ellison, Lancaster, S.C.; Miriam Cannon, Concord; Libby Atkinson, Timmonsville, S.C.; Mary Louise Cargill, Columbia, S.C.; Libby Rhett, Davidson; Jean McCaig, Wilmington; Lelia Grey, Camilla, Ga.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Misses Georgia Fanny Whitlock and Frances Upchurch, Greensboro; Ellen White, Concord; Jean Ware, Kings Mountain; Mary Frances Erlick, Charlotte; Margaret Peeples, Oxford; Doris Paine, New Orleans, La.; Margaret McLeod, Darlington, S.C.; Pearl Gillette, Wilmington; Nancy Wall, Boydton, Va.; Dorothy Tarleton, Charlottesville, Va.; “Bunny” Maples, Camilla, Ga.; Margaret Kline, Salisbury; Frances Jordan, Meridian, Miss., and Gloria Bee, Podunk, N.M.

SPRUNT ELECTED “Y” PRESIDENT

(Continued from page 1)

chosen later. At present, this board includes five members of the faculty, the “Y” president and secretary, three members of the Senior class and two members of the Junior class.

On Other Campuses

A law has been passed in California which prohibits high school students from becoming members of any secret organization other than the same type as the Hi-Y and DeMolay. Thus some college frats in that state are liable to prosecution. However, the fraternities contend that pledging a man does not make him a member of the organization, so high school students continue to wear pledge buttons secretly.

Forty percent of the entire student body at the University of Georgia are either earning or borrowing money to pay their way through college. One hundred and seventeen of the 524 earning their money are employed under the Federal Emergency Relief Administration.

At Randolph-Macon the non-fraternity men made higher averages than the fraternity men during the first term. The student body average was 78. Students at Maryland are attempting to abolish final examinations. Their latest attempt consisted in having sixteen fraternity and sorority leaders express their dissatisfaction to one lone leader who upheld the present system.

A college professor is a guy who leads a hard life in order to keep a soft job. We've just found out what happens to people who are run down. They wind up in the hospital—(Florida Alligator).

A certain co-ed at the junior dance at the University of Minnesota was persuaded to take off her shoes in order to reduce her height advantage over her escort so that a photograph of the leaders would present a more uniform appearance.

A recent survey of an eastern university showed that 60 percent of its students sleep through three hours of classes a week.

Robert E. Lee has only recently been given credit he justly deserved for his educational philosophy, which was far in advance of his times—Dr. George H. Denny, President, University of Alabama.

Workmen making a new football field just outside Alexandria, Egypt, uncovered beautifully painted walls, probably belonging to the tomb of a Graeco-Roman. The spot is the site of an ancient Roman camp.—(Ring-Tum Phi.)

EXHIBIT OF GERMAN ART IS GIVEN HERE

(Continued from page 1)

particularly interesting, since this material is not often employed. Nueckel, quite well known in America as an illustrator, has published a novel called Destiny, in which the entire story is portrayed by means of pictures. Three of his original lead cuts are in the collection being shown here. They all show a great deal of animation and imagination, as well as much technical skill.

Some of the pictures which create most discussion are those done in the abstract and cubistic styles. These are two of the types of art developed during 1905 and 1925. They are the artist’s effort to discover new ways of expressing himself. This type of art represents an experiment to interpret ideas in geometrical pattern form or to correlate art with music.

As a background for students of German art, a set of reproductions of the old masters of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries is being shown. These represent the engravings, woodcuts, and watercolors of Duerer, Cranach, Holbein, and their contemporaries. One of the favorites is a study for a painting of Saint Jerome representing the head of an old man. It is done with extreme care and attention to realistic detail. One of the major reasons for the success of these old masters was the assiduity with which they studied the details of their subjects, taking nature for their guide.

CALLING CARDS FRATERNITY PAPERS Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates PROGRAMS See BILL JOHNSON @ 203 Watts Garland Court Standard Printing Company CHARLOTTE, N.C.