THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 3, 1934

Y OPONGDRD BOYS: PROGRAM

Sixty Men Already Participating In Various Forms Of Boys’ Work

The Boys’ Work Department of the Davidson Y. M. C. A. is looking forward to a highly successful year with
approximately sixty men already participating in the program, which is under the direction of Ben Rose and Ed Hodge, members
of the “Y” cabinet. Since many men carry over into college their interest in Boy Scouts and other organizations, it
has been the custom in the past to maintain these activities for those interested, and at the same time render
a great service to the boys of the surrounding communities.

This year the work has been divided up into five departments, namely: The Hi-Y group, Football Scouts, Boys’ Clubs, and
a workshop for boys. The Hi-Y group, with Archie Shuford, captain, will have Billy Merchant, Bob Sours, and Haywood Hill
as assistants to aid in this work. They will conduct various campaigns to help the needy, build character, and make
the spirit of Jesus Christ effective in teams. These men will each focus on a boy's personal, school, and social
life.

The football teams, which are under the supervision of Abbott Whitney, captain, with Lawrence Reel and J. J. McNabb as
assistants, will organize the boys into several teams, and thus build up a spirit of competition and fair play in
athletics.

The Scouts, with Ed Hodge, Scoutmaster, and J. S. Cook, M. B. Crisp, Harmon Woodward, R. M. Wilson, Ernest Dooley,
Harold Sugg, and Dick Hayworth as assistants, will carry on a program with which every student at Davidson is familiar.

The Boys’ clubs, which this year will be divided into two groups, one for white boys and the other for
colored boys, will have Carlyle Lewis, Jack Branch, Chester Chase, L. C. Vass, F. S. Furness, Tredway Purnell, John Walker,
and Ernest Dooley in charge. These men will conduct various games, parties, and other social activities during the year.

The workshop, with J. S. Cooke, R. M. Wilson, and Bob Sours as instructors, will again conduct classes in the
manual arts among the boys of the surrounding communities. However, due to the removal of old Louisiana dormitory which served
as the workshop last year, the classes will not be conducted until a definite place has been decided upon. Many
recent additions have been made in the way of tools for the shop, and a record number of boys are
expected to attend.

Although only a small number of men have been assigned so far to these committees, more will be added later
in order that the best results in these departments may be obtained.

New ‘Davidsonian’ Staff Moves Into Elm Row

The editorial and business staffs of the Davidsonian have moved their permanent office into the east building of Elm Row,
renovation of which has just been completed. The new office for the college weekly is just opposite the old office
in the west building of Elm Row, which has been the headquarters of the paper for several years. For the
past two years, however, owing to a lack of necessary space in the old quarters, temporary offices have been set
up in the parlors of various dormitories.

The interior of the building, one of the oldest on the campus, has been completely gone over, the walls having
been papered and the woodwork painted. The new office will house both the editorial and business departments of the paper,
and all equipment will be kept there. The headquarters ofthe "D" Club, in the same building, has also finished. Wildcats
Play West Pointers (Continued from Page 4) men that they have on the squad this season. In Jack Buckler, the
Army has a halfback who was probably one of the best, if not the best, in the country last year.
Buckler was mentioned on a great many of the All-American teams for last season. The probable lineups:

Davidson Pos. Army
Morgan -------- LE --------- Uppers
Siewers -------- LT --------- Miller
Officers -------- LG --------- Brearly
Lee ------------ C ---------- Clifford
Rater ---------- RG --------- Stillman
Windham ------- RT --------- Beall
Mackorell (c) --- QB --------- King
Wingfield ------- LH --------- Grove
Hutchins ------- RH --------- Buckler
Yarborough ----- FB --------- Stancock (c)

Y.M.C.A. FRESHMAN FEEDS: Thursday night, a series of feeds will be held for the members of the Freshman class. Each
year the Y.M.C.A. holds these feeds for the Freshmen, the work this year being under the direction of Bob Coit.
Invitations will be sent out and the men are expected to assemble at the Y Social Center at 9 o'clock.
About 20 men will be invited and the feeds will be continued each Tuesday and Thursday night until the whole
class has attended. The purpose of the meetings is to get the new men acquainted with the boys of their
class and some of the members.

It is very important that each man attend these feeds at the time he is invited. In the afternoon, a
group went to the convict camp and held a service. This camp is a few miles out from Huntersville. The
group consisted of the following boys: Kenneth Scott, Bob Williams, Jim Chrisman, and P.W. McClanahan. The program was entirely musical.

During the past week, deputations have been sent to nearby churches. On Sunday morning, Arnold Rhodes went to the Cornelius
Presbyterian church and conducted the services there. J.B. Ficklin conducted the morning services at Bethel Presbyterian church.

Home economics students at the University of Texas are offered a course in home designing. Washington University (St. Louis, Mo.),
during the 1933-1934 school year, received gifts totaling $858,818.

Approximately 31,300,000 persons are attending school in the United States at the present time.

Kennedy's Shoe Shop
"We use the best material"

Get Your Morning Sleep and THEN...
Come To The Little Pep for Breakfast
For good eats with good service at a reasonable price
LITTLE PEP
CHARLOTTE DAVIDSON HOTEL DAVIDSON

We begin with the right kinds of mild ripe Domestic tobaccos. Then we age and mellow them like rare wines
for flavor and taste. Next, we add just the right kinds and the right amounts of Turkish tobaccos to give
Chesterfield the "seasoning" that helps to make them taste better. Finally, we "weld" these tobaccos together the Chesterfield way—different from
any other—to make Chesterfield a milder, better-tasting cigarette.

MONDAY
ROSA PONSELLE
WEDNESDAY
NINO MARTINI
KOSTELANETZ ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS
9 P.M. (E.S.T.) COLUMBIA NETWORK

SATURDAY
GRETE STUECKGOLD
