FRATERNITIES PLEDGE LARGE NUMBER AT END OF RUSH WEEK

THE DAVIDSONIAN

LIBERTAS ORTA

WILDCATS MEET N. C. STATE AT GREENSBORO SATURDAY

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 26, 1934 No. 2

GREEK LETTER SOCIETIES CLAIM LARGE NUMBER

Davidson’s Nine Social Fraternities End Brief Rushing Season

116 NEW MEN PLEDGED

Half Freshman Class, Six Upper-Classmen Accept Bids

One hundred and sixteen men signified their intentions to join one of the nine social fraternities on the Davidson Campus by appearing at the houses of their choice at nine o'clock, Wednesday night, September 19th. This concluded a rushing period which began September 12th with the opening of school and paused at 10 o'clock, Tuesday, to begin the Day of Silence, which ended at seven o'clock Wednesday evening. One hundred and ten of these men were Freshmen, composing exactly half of the class of 1938, while six were transfers from other schools. Leading in the quantity of pledges were Pi Kappa Phi and Kappa Sigma, each pledging sixteen men. Rush week was cut to six days by the faculty as an experiment. Due to the shortness of the period, rushing was unusually hectic and competitive. In their efforts to entertain the new men, fraternities utilized dances, feeds, smokers, and banquets in the six-day period. A list of the pledges and the fraternities follows:

BETA THETA PI: F. A. Cathey, Gastonia; M. Hall, Elkin; W. D. Hobbs, Asheboro; I. Hogan, Burlington; C. Kuester, Charlotte; Oren Moore, Jr., Charlotte; H. D. McLaughlin, Charlotte; J. Overall, Springfield, Ky.; G. Tipton, Kingsport, Tenn.; R. Wallace, York, S. C.

KAPPA SIGMA: Wade Barrow, Denver, Colo.; C. T. Brown, Jr., Charlotte; L. Crew, Goodwater; C. C. Elder, Greensboro; E. T. Fant, Jr., Sherman, Texas; W. H. Frampton, Jr., Hartsville, S. C.; H. N. Hill, Richmond; Howard King, Greensboro; J. P. McLaurin, Jr., Dillon, S. C.; J. E. McQueen, Little Rock, S. C.; N. H. McGeachy, Fayetteville; T. F. Morrison, Jr., Concord; R. C. Sours, Charlottesville, Va.; W. K. Sparks, Gaffney, S. C.; Joel Thompson, Raleigh; Robt. Wyatt, Jr., Raleigh.

PI KAPPA ALPHA: T. D. Brady, Greensboro; G. B. Cleveland, Staunton, Va.; C. Cline, Concord; Milton Crisp, Welch, W. Va.; J. R. Durham, Norfolk; R. H. Hardin, Jr., Banner Elk; John Horton, Albemarle; R. M. King, Concord; J. O. Lafferty, Charlotte; M. L. Lafferty, Concord; R. D. Neal, Ruffin; A. P. Ogburn, Mobile, Ala.; C. I. Raynal, Statesville.

KAPPA ALPHA: J. P. Bailey, Rock Hill, S. C.; Marsh Calloway, Blytheville, Ark.; Alton Frizzelle, Snow Hill; J. B. Graham, Goldsboro; W. H. Harris, Roxboro; Bronston Kenney, Frankfort, Ky.; Gilbert Palmer, Memphis, Tenn.; J. J. Peterson, Jr., Mobile, Ala.; A. L. Seifert, Davidson.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON: Harris Barksdale, Jackson, Miss.; R. Bahnson, Winston-Salem; Max Brittain, Charlotte; H. P. Eve, Augusta, Ga.; Y. Faison, Charlotte; George Mathis, Durham; S. C. Martin, Davidson; A. T. McLean, Lumberton; Charles Moore, Charlotte; W. Nicholson, Union, S. C.; James Newton, Livingston, Ala.; B. Williams, Clinton, S. C.; William Turner, Greenwood, S. C.; W. S. Shepherd, Charlotte.

PI KAPPA PHI: R. J. Alderman, Jr., (Continued on Page 5, Col. 5)

Grid-Graph In Shearer To Be Used This Year

It has been definitely announced by Heath Whittle that the Grid-graph in Shearer Hall will be operated this year. Since many students are planning to go to Greensboro for the Davidson-State game next Saturday, it will be necessary to find out how many men will be here to see it on the Grid-graph board. If there are enough to pay for the use of the wires the board will be run. Otherwise, it will not be operated. The charges to see the State game will be fifteen cents for students and twenty-five for faculty members and outsiders. Due to the fact that the Army game is to be played so far from home, there will be an increase in prices in order to cover the increased cost for the use of the wires. The Grid-graph will also be run for the Citadel game October the twenty-seventh.

FIGHTING ’CAT LINE WILL MEET HEAVIER WOLFPACK SATURDAY

WINDHAM CATHEY HAND LEE POTTER SIEWERS MORGAN

The Wildcat line, that triumphed over Elon last Saturday. It consists of: Lee, center; Hand and Potter, guards; Cathey and Siewers, tackles; and Morgan and Windham, ends.

HOLLING HEARS DAVIDSON HEAD

Delivers Address On “Christian College Objectives” At Opening Exercises

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, was the featured speaker on the Hollins College opening exercises last Friday evening. The exercises were opened with a musical processional after which Dr. Randolph, president of the College, took charge of the program and introduced Dr. Lingle. Hollins was founded in 1842 and became the first chartered school in Virginia, and one of the first in the nation for the higher education of young women. In making the opening address, Dr. Lingle chose as his subject “Some of the Objectives of a Christian College.” He began by stating that “Christopher Columbus started on his history-making voyage without knowing where he was going; he arrived in America without knowing what he was there for; and, when he returned to Europe he did not know where he had been.” Dr. Lingle then showed how this example could be compared to a great many college students who “have not defined in their minds the aims and purposes which they have in view.” Particular stress was placed on the idea that students should reach out into various fields, such as Music, Art, and Philosophy, and lay hold of some of the best in each of those departments. Other objectives pointed out by Dr. Lingle were the importance of the college in teaching men how to think and in developing their personalities. Saturday morning Dr. Lingle drove to Lexington, Va., where he attended the Washington and Lee-Wofford football game. Sunday morning he conducted services at the First Presbyterian Church of Lexington.

Faculty Makes Ruling For Church Attendance

Juniors and Seniors are no longer accorded the privilege of attending the Vesper service and counting it in place of regular church attendance. This was the substance of an announcement made a few days ago by the Dean's Office. Heretofore members of both classes could go to the Vesper service in place of going to either morning or evening church service, but they will no longer be permitted to do this. The Y. M. C. A., which sponsors the Vesper services, would like to have attendance entirely voluntary rather than somewhat compulsory as in past years. A faculty committee has ruled that the interpretation of the college rule should not be made to include Vespers, but should mean only services held in the church itself. Dr. Sentell also wishes to remind Juniors and Seniors that they are not to use seats assigned to underclassmen either in chapel or church. If they do they will receive absences. Juniors and Seniors reporting attendance on their home church are asked to fill out the regular blanks, substituting the name of their church for the Davidson church. This is to be done in place of signing the list in the Dean’s Office.

DAVIDSON DEFEATS ELON IN OPENING ENCOUNTER

Passing And Running Attack Led By Mackorell Enables Wildcats To Defeat Elon 33-6 And Revenge Last Year’s Scare Despite Battle Put-Up By Visitors

In the initial game of the 1934 football season the Davidson College Wildcats defeated the Elon Christians here Sept. 22, 33-6. The Presbyterian aggregation got off to an early start by chalking up 13 points in the first quarter. Johnny Mackorell, star Wildcat triple-threat back, was in his usual form in all three of his assignments, and particularly did he stand out on the heaving end of the passing attack, which featured the offense of both teams. For the Christians, Neal and Captain Newsome shone in the backfield, along with Troppoli and Herrington, two stalwart flankmen for the visitors. Early in the first stanza, after Henry Cathey, Davidson tackle, recovered Neal's fumble on the Elon 11 yard line, the Wildcats opened up their attack with a trio of passes, the last of which connected from Mackorell to Morgan for the initial score. Pittman’s place-kick split the uprights for the extra point, making the score, Davidson 7, Elon 0. Later in the same period Mackorell intercepted a pass intended for an Elon back, giving Davidson the ball on the visitors' 45 yard line. Wingfield passed to Windham for a first down. Mackorell arched one to Morgan for 15 more, and the Wingfield-Windham combination again clicked to add 12, putting the spheroid on the five yard line. Yarborough then bucked the center of the line three times for the remaining distance to the goal. Pittman's placement was blocked. Score: Davidson 13, Elon 0. Captain Johnny Mackorell then showed the fans that he could still lug the leather in a very superb fashion by breaking through Elon’s left tackle for a 40-yard jaunt that again put the Wildcats in scoring position, and in spite of a five yard penalty and a loss of the same amount the ‘Cat quarterback made good two passes that resulted in another six points. Dewey Hutchens carried it across the last stripe. Peabody failed to convert for the additional one point. Score: Davidson 19, Elon 0. Later in this quarter Peabody, substitute back for the Wildcats, snagged an Elon pass and ran 40 yards across the goal line, but the play was called back and Davidson penalized for clipping. In the third period the Presbyterians advanced the ball to Elon’s five yard mark, but the Elon forwards broke through on three successive plays to throw the local backs for a total loss of nine yards, finally giving the Christians the ball on the 14-yard line. Neal, however, booted to Wingfield on the visitors' 45 yard line, and he brought it back to the 23-yard marker. Mackorell then broke through to the eleven, and on a second effort advanced to the six. In two more stabs Hutchens took it over. Mackorell’s toe sent the pellet straight through the uprights.For the extra score: Davidson 26, Elon 0. On the first play of the last quarter, Pittman, Davidson halfback, punted to Newsome, who fumbled and let the ball roll across the goal line, where Armfield, Wildcat tackle, fell on it for his team’s touchdown. Pittman’s place-kick was good. Score: Davidson 33, Elon 0.

The Elon eleven then opened up a passing attack that filled the air with one heave after another until the end of the contest. Finally, after they had advanced well into Davidson's territory and lost the ball on downs, Pittman kicked out to Captain Newsome, who returned the ball about two yards. He immediately started heaving aerials from side to side, and in four plays, the ball fell into the hands of Abbitt, Elon halfback, who crossed the goal line.

With only a few minutes remaining, the Wildcats ran several line plays, and the opponents had a chance to shoot one more pass for an eleven-yard gain, which gave them exactly ten first downs to Davidson’s fifteen. Coaches Newton and McIlwain made so many substitutions it was very difficult to see any one man long enough to really size up his playing, but Jim Morgan and Coley Windham showed up nicely on the pass receiving, and Henry Cathey gave an excellent performance, both offensively and defensively.

(Continued on Page 4, Col. 4)

Information On Rhodes Scholarships Available

A new supply of “memoranda” of the Rhodes Scholarships, dated September 1934, has just been received by Dr. Vowles, institutional representative of the scholarships. The conditions under which the scholarships are awarded remain unchanged. A student may apply in the state of his college or of his legal residence. Applications must be in the hands of the state secretaries by Nov. 17. Davidson candidates must first apply to the local committee at a date to be named later, probably about Nov. 1. Those interested are urged to confer at an early date with members of the committee (Professors Vowles, Lilly, and Cumming) and secure copies of the “memorandum,” which gives a digest of the information necessary and contains an application blank. “Oxford of Today,” revised edition of 1928, by Crosby and Aydelotte, presents much more detailed information, and is in fact the most authoritative source.

(Continued on Page 2, Col. 3)

To Hold Try-outs Soon

The Red and Black Masquers, Davidson’s dramatic club, wishes to offer all students who are interested in dramatics, stage directing, make-up, and acting an opportunity to show their talents on Thursday, September 27. Try-outs will be held concerning three one-act plays, probably around the last of October. These will be: “A Night at an Inn,” by Lord Dunsany; “Wurzel Flummery,” by A. A. Milne; and another play which has not been determined as yet. Two of these will be for Freshmen, one for upperclassmen.

At a meeting held Friday, September 21, Jimmy Simpson was elected Vice-President, to take the place of Nate Wauda, who failed to return to Davidson this year. The club plans to give more opportunity for students interested in this type of work than was offered last year. More plays will be presented and more interest will be generated.

College Dramatic Club

Hand has had an injured shoulder, and Siewers an injured hand, but both men will be able to play against State.

COUNCIL DANCE CALLED OFF

Non-Union Orchestra Unable To Entertain Dancers After Elon Game

The Pan-Hellenic Council dance which was to have taken place in the Charlotte Hotel Ballroom after the Elon game last Saturday, with Stubby Taylor's Orchestra playing, was called off because of complications with the local orchestra union. Complaints were made to the manager of the Charlotte Hotel by union officials against the playing of a non-union orchestra in the ballroom. The management at once communicated with officers of the Pan-Hellenic Council here, and it was definitely decided to call the dance off.

Speaking before the Student Body at the regular chapel session last Friday, Rogers, President of the Pan-Hellenic Council, expressed to the students the regrets of the council at being unable to stage the dance, explaining the reason for its postponement. Rogers announced that another set of dances has been planned for the weekend of the Duke game here, Saturday, October 19 and 20. Hal Thurston and his popular orchestra for dances through the United Radio Artists have been secured for these dances. Tickets, which include a Friday and a Saturday night dance, can be secured for the low price of three dollars, the lowest price ever offered for a set of Pan-Hellenic dances. The nine social fraternities will help to make the weekend of October 20th a success and the council asks the cooperation of the students in helping to put the dances over. In accord with a Faculty ruling, this will be the only set of dances given by the council during the football season, except for the Homecoming Dance, which will be held this year on November 10, the weekend of the Carolina-Davidson game at Davidson.

State Game Programs On Sale This Saturday

The 1934 edition of the football programs will be on sale at the N. C. State game next Saturday night, at the usual price of twenty-five cents per copy. The outstanding difference in the newly conceived programs and former ones is found in the new, modernistically designed covers. The covers will be different for each of the six games at which they will be sold. In addition to bearing the names of Davidson and the opposing team, the cover will carry pictures of football players in action. On the front page of the program, there will be a picture of the Davidson coaching staff and a short article by Grier Martin. On the following pages, there will be pictures of the members of the Davidson squad with statements pertaining to height, weight, and football ability. The starting lineup and the names of the members of the squads will be found in the middle of the program. The remaining pages will contain pictures of the members of the opposing team and also a short article pertaining to their football ability, height, and weight. The programs are to be sold at the N. C. State, Duke, William and Mary, V. M. I., North Carolina, and Wake Forest games. Lamont Brown is in charge of selling the programs.

UR-FIFTY OF MEN TAKE COURSE IN ROTC

Two Hundred New Men Will Take Optional Military Training This Year

EIGHTY IN ADVANCED

Three Hundred And Thirty Students Are Taking Course

Of the two hundred freshmen who entered college this year, only thirty-eight have been exempted from taking Military Training, which is optional for the first time. Of this number, thirty-one were exempted by their parents’ requests, four were physically disabled, and three other students were taking the pre-medical course. The results shown above proved that compulsory military training, a question which has caused much controversy and criticism of Davidson College Trustees in the past, has had a minimum effect on students participating in the Military Science course. Davidson College has made an admirable disposition of the issue by leaving the gate open for students to step aside if they elect not to engage in this type of physical education.

Several years ago, the General Assembly of the Southern Presbyterian Church recommended to the Synod of North Carolina to advise the Concord Presbytery to ask the Trustees of Davidson College to make Military Science optional at Davidson. The Synod of North Carolina, in its meeting last winter, made this recommendation and advised the Trustees accordingly. The Trustees, acting in accordance with this advice, took action and passed a ruling at their spring meeting by which all students whose parents requested within ten days after college opened that they be exempted, were allowed to enter without taking Military Training. Also, those students who had previously participated in two years of military science under government supervision were exempted along with those who were physically disabled or were taking the pre-medical course.

According to Major Rhett, professor of military science and tactics, there will be forty-four seniors and forty-one juniors in the advanced department of R.O.T.C. Ten juniors who received appointments last year failed to return to Davidson College. Additional juniors were selected to fill these vacancies last week. The total R.O.T.C. Department has three hundred and seventy-eight students in its organization against three hundred and fifty-six at the same date last year, an increase of twenty-two students. The above figure for this year included forty-four seniors, forty-one juniors, one hundred and thirty-one sophomores, and one hundred and sixty-two freshmen. Major Rhett stated, “The initial drills of the band (one of the R.O.T.C. departments) and the R.O.T.C. companies were excellent. Prospects for a good year seem certain.”

123,305 persons attended the Institute of Arts and Sciences at Columbia University during the past year, the largest attendance noted since the establishment of the institute. 88 of the 192 Rhodes scholars in 1933 were from the United States.

Wharton Will Publish Roosevelt Biography

Don Wharton of Smithfield, a member of the Class of '27, and who was once a member of the Greensboro Daily News staff, but who for the past two years has been with the New Yorker, will soon publish a biography of President Roosevelt entitled, “The Roosevelt Omnibus,” according to an announcement in the New York Times’ book review section. The book will consist of broad selections of the most significant and entertaining articles, cartoons, caricatures, and photographs of Franklin D. Roosevelt that have been published during the course of his life. The book is described as “a kind of contemporary biography” and is being published late in October.

Mr. Wharton was an outstanding figure in all Literary Circles while at Davidson. He has climbed rapidly in his work in the world, and it is the hope of those at Davidson that his book will gain national recognition.