THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 12, 1934

FELIX EXTENDS HIS BEST WISHES FOR MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY 1935

IN EVERY SEASON FOR EVERY SPORT

MANY AGONISTICS

Coach “Doc” Unger’s wrestling team got off to a brilliant start by their three victories last week. Those wins were quite decisive, too, which is most gratifying, because the teams met included some grapplers who have been among the best in amateur circles. I think Wildcat supporters can look to this outfit to come through with a brilliant season on the mat. Coach Unger is not only an extremely well-qualified tutor, but he has probably the largest group of agonistically inclined stalwarts to work with this winter that have ever reported for the team at Davidson. It is very true that few of these men have had previous experience before coming to Davidson, but with the leadership of Charlie Fort to inspire them and the faithful instruction of Unger to show them how it should be a well-producing aggregation.

GREATEST WILDCAT

Captain Johnny Mackorell continues to be glorified, and the longer honors come the better they get. He started off by receiving an honorable mention on the Associated Press all-America selection, he then garnered a halfback position with the all-state eleven, next he was chosen as quarterback on the little all-America first team, and Sunday morning The Charlotte Observer pictured him with Carolina’s all-America guard, George Barclay, as co-captains of the all-South Atlantic football team. Mackorell is probably the greatest grid warrior that has ever been produced in the Davidson camp. Certainly, he has brought more publicity and praise upon himself and his college than any other protege of Presbyterian coaches. Not only is his athletic prowess of the first rank, but his name graces the Dean’s list in scholarship, and the last report recorded under his nomenclature in the Registrar’s office shows nothing but A's and B’s, mostly the former. Too much praise can’t be directed toward this exceptional Wildcat, he deserves it and he can take it.

STARS ON ALABAMA

Looking over the football records of the 1934 season it can be very clearly observed that “stars are still falling on Alabama.” On every All-America football selection that has been published thus far, the names of at least two members of the South’s Rose Bowl representative have appeared. The most outstanding men on this very unusual eleven are Millard “Dixie” Howell, halfback, Don Hutson, end, and Bill Lee, tackle. These have all been accorded all-America berths on various picks. The choice of this edition of the Crimson Tide as bearer of the east’s gridiron tidings to the Pacific Coast in the Tournament of Roses at Pasadena on New Year’s Day, is the ultimate fact of recognition that Coach Frank Thomas has vindicated his ability as a worthy successor to the celebrated Wallace Wade, who, while serving as head mentor at the University of Alabama, marshalled his charges in the beautiful Rose Bowl. Felix has already picked the Southerners to bring home the ba-

(Continued on Page 6, Column 1)

BRIGHT SEASON ANTICIPATED IN BASKETBALL

Harris, Yelverton, Windham, Morgan, And Ross Return For 1935 Season

PLAY TWENTY GAMES

Wildcats Will Have Eight Games Here During Season

With five Varsity lettermen returning to the court this year, prospects for the 1934-35 basketball team look unusually bright. According to present indications Davidson will have one of the best quintets in several seasons. Only two of last year’s lettermen, Mack Holland, and John Lafferty, were lost by graduation. Those returning are Capt. Charlie Harris, forward; Hugh Yelverton, Cole Windham, and Jim Morgan, guards; and Courtney Ross, center. To supplement this list are several stellar players from last season's Freshman team: Dick Cathey, Ken Knorr, Maurice Peabody, Lefty Porter, and Bill Quick. The basketeers will meet 21 foes, playing two before Christmas with 8 home games during the season. Not listed on the schedule below are games with Erskine and Wake Forest which will both be played here at an undecided date. The schedule:

Dec. 15—Charlotte “Y,” here.
Dec. 17—Lenoir-Rhyne, Hickory.
Jan. 2—Duke, at Charlotte.
Jan. 3—Wofford, here.
Jan. 5—Carolina, at Charlotte.
Jan. 7—Oglethorpe, here.
Jan. 10—Lenoir-Rhyne, here.
Jan. 14—Catawba, at Salisbury.
Jan. 16—N. C. State, here.
Jan. 28—Wofford, at Spartanburg, S.C.
Jan. 29—Oglethorpe, at Atlanta, Ga.
Jan. 30—Atlanta “Y,” at Atlanta, Ga.
Jan. 31—Jewish Progressive Club, at Atlanta, Ga.
Feb. 5—Catawba, here.
Feb. 11—Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Feb. 12—Duke, at Durham.
Feb. 16—High Point College, at High Point.
Feb. 22—N. C. State, at Raleigh.
Feb. 23—Wake Forest, at Raleigh. (Pending).

Fraternity Basketball Will Start In January

Pairings for the Inter-Fraternity basketball tournament, to be run off immediately following the Christmas holidays, came from Heath Whittle’s office Monday. This tournament will mark the halfway point in the program of winter and spring sports for the fraternities on the hill. After compiling the points aggregated in the first two sports, football and volleyball, it is revealed that Kappa Sigma and Sigma Phi Epsilon are tied for first place with 27½ points apiece. Kappa Alpha runs a close third, having amassed a total of 22½ points. In former Inter-Fraternity competition this year, the Kappa Sig’s victory in football started them out in the lead. The Pikas were runners-up and the S.P.E.’s and K.A.’s tied for the third place position. The S.P.E.’s were victorious in the volleyball tournament, the K.A.’s took second, and the S.A.E.’s and Kappa Sig’s tied for third place. There should be keen interest in the basketball tourney, as there remains only baseball and varsity competition after its completion. The K.A.’s hold the title from last year—the S.P.E.’s were runners-up. A ball may be procured from Heath Whittle at any time, if any fraternity wishes to take advantage of early practice. No man is eligible for play if he has won his numeral or varsity letter in this sport and no man can compete during his spring training in football or track. This provision is made to prevent injuries of any kind during this period. All teams, with the exception of the K.A.’s and S.P.E.’s will enter the second

WINTER SPORTS COACHES

Here are pictured winter sports coaches of varsity Wildcat teams. Coach “Red” Laird on the left, is beginning his fifth year as basketball mentor and “Doc” Unger, above, will this year produce his fourth Wildcat wrestling outfit.

Seniors Conquer Freshmen 15-7 In Basketball Play-Off

Soccer Tournament To Begin Play This Week

Class Teams Practice For First Organized Soccer Games On Campus

A new form of sport will make its debut at Davidson this week when the new intra-mural soccer tournament between classes gets under way. Although a few students have played soccer on the campus during the past few years, this is its first appearance as a regular organized sport. The innovation is being received enthusiastically, and the class teams have been practicing faithfully for over a week. A large number of men have come out for these practice sessions, and they have elected captains for the various teams as follows: Senior, Bob Coit; Junior, A. H. Haake; Sophomore, Kenneth Scott; and Freshman, C. R. Bixler. The first game of the tournament is scheduled for Thursday afternoon between the Seniors and Freshmen. On Friday afternoon the Juniors will play the Sophomores. There will be no games next week, and the tournament will be completed after the holidays. In introducing soccer Davidson is falling in with the trend of modern sport. The game originated many years ago in England, but has spread now all over the world. It has the distinction of being the only sport involving a large team that has had a place in the Olympic games. Soccer is played on a field the size of a regulation football field. There is a goal at each end of the field through which the players endeavor to kick the ball. On the whole the rules closely resemble basketball, except that the ball must be kicked instead of thrown.Passed. The ball may be propelled by any part of the body except the hands, arms, and shoulders. Each team consists of eleven players. They consist of one goalkeeper, the only man who can touch the ball with his hands; two fullbacks, who play only on the defense; three halfbacks, who play both defense and offense; two wings, who guard the sidelines; two insides, the chief offensive players; and a center. Round by virtue of a bye. The winner of this game will meet the Pi Kappa Phi’s in the second round. Other second-round matches are as follows: Beta Theta Pi vs. S.A.E., Phi Gamma Delta vs. Kappa Sigma, and Phi Delta Theta vs. Pi Kappa Alpha.

* MERRY CHRISTMAS * HAPPY NEW YEAR *

Select your gifts now for every member of the family.

COLLEGE PHARMACY

Headquarters for NUNNALY’S CANDIES—EVENING IN PARIS AND SEVENTEEN TOILET SETS—KAYWOODIE—YELLOBOWL—MEDICO PIPES—SHAVING SETS

* MERRY CHRISTMAS * HAPPY NEW YEAR *

Elvery, Legare, Munroe, McFayden, Ravenel, Yager

Senior Team

JUNIORS TAKE THIRD

Keiswetter And Martin Are Outstanding For Yearlings

The Seniors swamped the Freshmen in the play-off match of the inter-class basketball tournament Monday night, Dec. 3, by a score of 15-7. The different class teams finished in the following order: Seniors, Freshmen, Juniors, and Sophomores. Each team played twice and the play-off was necessitated by each of the two final teams winning six games. Led by Capt. Lawrence Reid, the Freshmen defeated the Seniors in one of the early round matches 19-18. This game was featured by quick passing and the accurate goal shooting of Freshmen Preacher Martin and Bill Keiswetter. The Freshmen team was composed of “Sky” Cline, Keiswetter, Martin, Ellwood Moyer, and Reid. The Sophomores failed to win a game in the entire tournament; nevertheless, they gave some of the winning teams a tough fight. In a semi-final game with the Seniors, the last year men barely eked out a victory with a 12-7 score. Leonard Woodard and “Sandy” Moffet showed up well for the Centennials. The Sophomore team was Lewis Crew, “Sandy” Moffet, Frank Purdy, John Sadler, and Leonard Woodard. Led by Capt. Bill Bell, the Juniors defeated the Sophomores in a second-round match 13-7. Both teams played well, but the passing of Bell and the goal shooting of Don Stewart proved too big an obstacle for the second-year men. The Junior players were Bill Bell, Martin Barnett, Earl Frazier, George Leukal, Joe McNabb, Hunter McClung, and Don Stewart. The Seniors’ victorious team was composed of Dud Elvery, Archie Legare, Colin Munroe, Archie McFayden, “Wimpey” Ravenel, and C. M. Yager.

FORT LEADS MATES TO THREE STRAIGHT WINS

Spray, Draper, And High Point Y.M.C.A. Teams Fall Before Davidson Onslaught

QUARTERMAN UNBEATEN

Moffett And Dillon Show Promising Lightweight Talent

Charlie Fort, 175-pound captain of the latest edition of Wildcat wrestlers, led his teammates into three decisive victories over Y.M.C.A. teams from Spray, Draper, and High Point last week. Van Dillon, 125-pound man, and Lawrence Quarterman, in the 165-pound bracket, were two others who came through with three wins to more clearly light the way for the ’Cats. These preliminary victories were over Spray “Y,” 22-10; Draper “Y,” 21-13; and High Point “Y,” 21-9. Coach “Doc” Unger, commenting upon the results of these opening engagements, stated that much work in fundamentals was needed by the new men but that he was confident that the team would come through with a successful season. The official season opens after exams and will include Duke, Carolina, State, and several other Southern Conference teams. The heavier weight divisions seem pretty well cared for this year, but there is much competition for posts in the lighter bracket. Polk Moffett, 118-pound lightweight, turned in three noble performances, winning two and losing to the High Point man after being steamed to reduce poundage. The prospects for a successful year seem all the more bright when considering the ability of the opposing men. Draper produced three All-Southern Y.M.C.A. wrestlers, and High Point, in the forms of Jim McLaurin and Bill Nolan, presented two All-Southern Conference wrestlers from State, who won their matches only by time advantages. Jim Hodgin, 175 pounds, turned in good work, although forced twice to fight outside his weight limit. Owen, 145, and Knox Thompson, 135, chalked up two victories for a percentage of .666. The High Point “Y” team returns to the campus next Saturday afternoon to try to seize revenge from that band of Wildcats who so rudely mishandled them the preceding Saturday. Bringing a new threat, Percy Idle, a former unlimited Carolina grappler, they hope to put up a more formidable showing. Idle will meet the captain of the ’Cats, Charles Fort, who promises that it will be no idle engagement that afternoon. There were two exhibition matches in last week’s schedule and Davidson split evenly. Walker of Spray was defeated by Parker of Davidson in 1 minute and 59 seconds time advantage, and Moore of Davidson lost by a fall to Squires of Draper after 7 minutes. Statistics for the Spray-Davidson match: 118 pounds, Moffett (D) over Taylor, 4:53 time advantage; 126 pounds, Dillon (D) over Wade, 3:20 fall; 135 pounds, Thompson (D) over Murphy, 4:31 time advantage; 145 pounds, Owen (D) over Roberts, 1:08 minutes time advantage; 155 pounds, Simpson (S) over Shirey, fall after 1:36 minutes; 165 pounds, Quarterman (D) over Fulcher, fall after 7:5 minutes; 175 pounds, Fort (D) over Roberson, fall after 4:25 minutes; unlimited, Newnam (S) over Hodgin, fall after 5:32 minutes. Statistics for the Spray-Davidson battle: 118 pounds, Moffett (D) over Taylor, 4:53 minutes time advantage; 126 pounds, Dillon (D) over Cassell, fall after 3:20 minutes; 145 pounds, McBryde (D) over Owen, 8:26 minutes time advantage; 155 pounds, Bailles (Dr) over (Continued on Page 6, Column 1)

Hod Gets A Hand

For a two-way band, we point you to the bunch Hod Williams has brought together. As a straight dance band, it hands you everything you want except a partner; and as an entertainment feature, it wows 'em. Hod’s psychic, or something. He has hunches as to what a crowd’ll like, and he gives it to them plenty. And how he and the boys can put an edge on the songs they sing; come in, by all means, and do a little listening, along with your gay dancing. Every evening, 7 to 9; no cover charge. Fixed-price dinners, 85c and $1.

HOTEL CHARLOTTE

FRESHMAN SEASON TO OPEN SOON

Davidson Freshmen Play Pawcreek Here Tomorrow Night At Eight

The Davidson Freshmen will open their 1934-35 basketball season with Pawcreek tomorrow night at 8 o'clock. The game will be played here. A tentative schedule has been announced by Coach Grier Martin. Early in February, the ’Kittens will make a trip into Virginia, playing Augusta Military Academy, Fishburne Military Academy, and Woodbury Forest. The Freshmen have had about ten days of practice and seem to be rounding into form. Saturday afternoon in a scrimmage against the varsity, they showed up as well as could be expected. Fourteen men have been issued uniforms. They are as follows: Keiswetter, Cline, Moyer, Reid, Martin, Reinhardt, Overall, Barrow, Lafferty, Iverson, Harris, Dennis, Neal, and Smith. The following tentative schedule was announced by Coach Grier Martin:

Date Game
Dec. 13—Pawcreek, here.
Jan. 8—Pawcreek, there.
Feb. 5—Augusta Military Academy, Fort Defiance, Va.
Feb. 6—Fishburne Military Academy, Waynesboro, Va.
Feb. 7—Woodberry Forest, Orange, Virginia.
Feb. 9—Georgia Military Academy, here.
Feb. 19—East Carolina Teachers College, here.

Wear a Tate-Brown Tuxedo to the dance and you will be one of the best-dressed there. Double and Single Breasted $28.50 & $32.50

Tate-Brown Co.
STUDENTS SHOP
Third Floor
SEE OUR WINDOWS