THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 21, 1934

Gastonia Pastor Is Speaker Here
J. H. Henderlite Advises Optimism in Vesper Talk

Dr. J. H. Henderlite, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Gastonia, was the speaker at vespers Sunday evening. He chose for his topic, “The Sunshine Club,” the spirit of which he centered on the example of an heroic cripple, Joe Schnitzler, of Mt. Pleasant, Michigan. E. G. Holt was in charge of the service, and called on Blanton Little to lead in prayer. Morton Cunningham and Hubert Morris played a cornet duet, “In the Garden,” with A. D. Wauchope accompanying at the organ.

“The Sunshine Club,” said Dr. Henderlite, “is different from optimism, which is usually nothing more than mere words. It is something inside of us, something independent of the outside weather. I heard the other day a definition of the pessimist and the optimist: The pessimist is the man who, when offered the choice of two evils, takes both. The optimist is the man who, when the world hands him a lemon, takes it and makes a glass of lemonade out of it.” Joe Schnitzler was such a man. He contracted a severe bone disease which resulted in the amputation of both legs and one of his arms, yet he went ahead with his study of law and was invited to practice in partnership by a prominent lawyer of his town.

He devised a tricycle-sort of an affair which he can propel and guide about town and every day is on hand early at his office. He makes it a practice to enter in all the activities of his fellow citizens, and even enjoys an occasional hunting trip. He has decided the world has no use for a recluse, so he sees to it that he gets into the life of his community as much as possible. Joe has come out of his experience with the following philosophy of life: “Don’t feel sorry for the other fellow. Let him get out and make a place for himself in the world. Success? Well, it’s not money. Real happiness depends on what is inside of you; and your attitude toward other people. Let a man hide his troubles and he will forget he ever had them. I believe in God, though I can’t understand His ways.”

Dr. Henderlite nominated Joe Schnitzler for the presidency of the Sunshine Club and issued a general invitation to his hearers to join with it in its spirit.

Omega Phi Alpha Holds Initiation Ceremonies

Omega Phi Alpha, honorary philosophy and psychology fraternity, initiated ten new members at the meeting held last Friday evening. Jack Williams, Jr., president of the chapter, conducted the initiation ceremony. Relatively little interest has been shown in Omega Phi Alpha until this year and for the first time a formal initiation ceremony was observed. Lyman W. Clardy, of the club, wrote the impressive initiation ceremony which was used. Those initiated were: Rigdon Dees, Hugh Hawkins, William M. Brown, John Carroll Miller, G. T. Newman, Albert Colwell, Robert H. Smith, Audley Gammon, and Warner DuBose. G. H. Brown and John Fitzgerald were unable to attend and will be initiated at a later meeting.

W. T. Thompson is program chairman of the club. The program consisted of an enjoyable paper on “Laughter” by Audley Gammon. Mr. Gammon told something of the history of laughter and its effect on the individual. It is announced that Rigdon Dees is to give the main talk at the next club meeting, to be held in April.

Seniors Have Smoker To Discuss Class Gift

A discussion of the gift to be given to the college by the Senior class this year was the main business brought up at the senior smoker held Friday evening, March 16, in the Chambers banquet hall. Approximately sixty seniors were present at the informal meeting which was presided over by Fred L. Smyre, president of the Senior class. Several suggestions for a senior gift were offered, but none has yet been accepted. The suggestions will be looked into and will be voted on at the next meeting of the class.

The senior week-end which will be given for the graduating members by the faculty was next discussed. An outline of the affair was made and the seniors selected April 7 as the most suitable date for the occasion. They announced their desire to have a banquet with girl visitors to the campus. Refreshments were served at the close of the meeting.

Students Permitted Radios Rest of Year

At the meeting of the executive committee of the faculty held last Thursday, March 15, a petition was offered to the committee by the president of the student body, Julian West, concerning the using of radios in the dormitories, with the result that radios will be allowed from this time on, under jurisdiction of the Student Council. Mrs. N. T. Smith, supervisor of dormitories of the college, was instrumental in procuring the approval of the committee on this question.

West announced that no restrictions would be placed on students owning radios, unless complaints were lodged against them, and offered the following plan to enforce the proper use of radios: Every student owning a radio will be asked to turn his name in to those in charge. A typewritten list will be made of these names. If a complaint is made against a certain person, a check will be made by that person's name, and a card of warning will be sent to him. When three complaints are recorded against any one person, he will be asked to turn in his radio. If anyone fails to turn in his name as possessing a radio, and it is found out, only two complaints will be necessary to forfeit his radio.

This plan is only being tried out this year, and, whether it succeeds or not, the president of the student body next year will have to appear before the executive committee at the beginning of the year in order to procure permission to continue this plan.

Glee Club and Band to Summer School To Open On June 11

Wide Selection of Courses Offered to Students

Davidson’s annual Summer School session will begin this year on June 11, and will continue for a period of six weeks, according to Professor F. K. Fleagle, head of the Department of Spanish, who has charge of the Summer School. The customary wide selection of courses for members of all four classes will be offered. “This session should be of interest to students who are behind in any work, or to those who wish to graduate in a shorter length of time,”said Professor Fleagle. The courses to be given and the instructors who will teach them have not been definitely decided upon.

Conflagration Damages Johnson’s Barber Shop

Last Wednesday afternoon at about 12:30 o'clock the local fire-fighters were called to the building occupied by Johnson's Barber Shop, where a fire had been started from some unknown source. Twice later in the day, alarms were put in for blazes in the same locality. The first fire was believed to have been entirely extinguished, but about 3 o'clock another broke out and again at 7 o'clock flames were reported to be existing in the rear of this building. The barbers declare that the last one was set on purpose, because papers soaked in some sort of highly inflammable fluid were discovered at the scene of the blaze.

Theatre Presents: "Fashions of 1934"

William Powell and Bette Davis To Be Starred

Davidson theatergoers will see practically all new shows this coming week. There is one of the most popular of the present beauty extravaganzas, "Fashions of 1934," and some good action pictures, but the rest will probably be scorned because they are so new that they have not had the opportunity to become famous.

Wednesday, March 21—"Journal of a Crime"

This story deals with the old case of the woman who loves her husband, and finds that he is unfaithful to her. The action is very dramatic, and includes stars with much ability towards drama. Ruth Chatterton, Adolphe Menjou, and Claire Dodd are in the cast.

Thursday and Friday, March 22 and 23—"Fashions of 1934"

There is nothing much to do with the name of this picture, but there are a few scenes which will be enjoyable both to the men and women who like fashions, and those who show the fashions. William Powell takes the lead with Bette Davis. He manages to get in on a new racket, that of stealing fashions from Paris and selling them as his own. In the cast are Hugh Herbert and Frank McHugh, and there is much comedy mixed in with the action and beauty.

Saturday, March 24—"Wharf Angel"

This is one of the newest pictures that was mentioned above, and includes in the cast Victor McLaglen, Alison Skipworth, and Dorothy Dell. The picture is too recent to give any information about.

Monday, March 26—"Honeymoon"

This is a comedy in which Johnny Mac Brown and Sally Eilers take the leads.

Tuesday, March 27—"Jimmy the Gent"

Cagney comes to the front in another of his all-action pictures, mixing blondes and bonds, as the big business man. The blondes are Bette Davis and Alice White, and the bonds are just bonds. To help with the humor is Allen Jenkins, and Alan Dinehart is also in the cast.

Sidney Minault Addresses Club

Le Cercle Francais Hears Ohio Graduate Tuesday

Le Cercle Francais held an open meeting last night in Chambers. The original plan of the club was to have a joint meeting with the Alliance Francaise of Salem College, but due to sickness in the cast of the play which the Salem club was to present, the girls were unable to come. However, in spite of this misfortune, the club presented a very entertaining program. Mr. Sidney Minault, a graduate of the University of Ohio and a native-born Englishman who has spent the greater part of his life studying in France, was the guest speaker of the evening. Mr. Minault was well versed in both the English and French languages and gave a lecture in French on incidences from his life in the United States and France.

Lanier Pratt, president of the Davidson circle, presided over the meeting and gave a recitation in the form of a comic dialogue which had been taken from one of the phonographic records that the local French classes are now studying. Immediately following Pratt’s recitation was the presentation of Tristan Bernard’s one-act comedy, "L’Anglais Tel Qu’on le Parle." The cast included the following members of the club: La Caissiere, George Gullette; Le Garcon, Jack Williams; Julien Cicandel, (Continued on page 6)

Dr. W.L. Lingle Talks In South Carolina

Dr. Walter L. Lingle left Davidson Thursday, March 15, to make an address to the Association of Deacons of the Harmony Presbytery. The meeting was held at the Old Indian Town Church, located between Kingstree, S.C., and Myrtle Beach, S.C. Many church officers and citizens of the Kingstree community and surrounding communities attended this convention. The following night, Dr. Lingle spoke at the Kingstree Presbyterian Church, which is one of the oldest churches in this country, having been built in 1730. While in Kingstree, Dr. Lingle met many of the Davidson alumni of that section of South Carolina. He attended a fish fry on a river Friday night and many of the alumni of Davidson were present. On Sunday, March 18, Dr. Lingle delivered a sermon at the Greeleyville Presbyterian Church, Greeleyville, S.C. Rev. R. H. Ratchford, who is pastor of the Greeleyville Church, is an alumnus of Davidson College. Dr. W.L. Lingle returned to Davidson Sunday evening from Greeleyville.

Play at Berryhill High

The glee club and concert band will play the one given at Davidson and at Le- fer greatly from any expense incurred. A Complete Drug Store Steals Cree Sette agate of Thursday. Cats inva groups will leave Da- "You Can’t Look Your Best for the Dances Without Reliable Prescription Druggists." WHITE DRUG COMPANY "SUNDRIES" "PRESCRIPTIONS"

The next time you go out to St. Louis, I wish you could just go to this factory and see how they make Granger Rough Cut. I tell you, it just makes your mouth water to get a good whiff of that tobacco when it comes out of those hot ovens. Everything about that St. Louis factory is just as clean as your own kitchen.

Granger Rough Cut: the pipe tobacco that's MILD, the pipe tobacco that's COOL.