r r BOWERY BALL TO INSTALLATION OF FEATURE DANCES OFFICERS TO TAKE THIS WEEK-END PLACE FRIDAY

Alenda Lux Abi Orta Libertas Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 18, 1934 No. 25

Dewey Hutchins Is Chosen To Lead “D” Club
George Wingfield Elected Vice-President of Athletic Organization
GULLETTE IS SECRETARY
“D” Club to Extend Influence on Training Rules

On Monday night, April 16, the “D” Club, monogram club of Davidson College, held its election of officers for the coming year. Dewey Hutchins, of Lexington, N. C., was elected president. Hutchins succeeds Mack Holland, of Gastonia, N. C. George Wingfield, of Reidsville, N. C., was elected vice-president. The retiring vice-president is Charlie Rives, of Greensboro, N. C. George Gullette, of Blacksburg, Va., was elected secretary-treasurer, succeeding Miller Cochran, of Davidson, North Carolina.

Hutchins has starred on the Wildcat team for the past two years, playing in the halfback position. He received honorable mention from a number of sources for the All-State honor. He belongs to the Kappa Alpha social fraternity. George Wingfield, also noted for his ability as halfback on the Davidson football team, plays on the Wildcat baseball team. Wingfield was on the Davidsonian’s second All-State team and was mentioned on several other All-State elevens. He is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. George Gullette has run on the Davidson cross-country and track teams for the past two years. He belongs to the International Relations Club, Le Cercle Francais, is an associate editor of the Davidsonian for 1933-34, and is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

All of the junior members of the “D” Club were nominated for the offices. The one receiving the highest number of votes was president, the next highest, vice-president, and the third highest, secretary-treasurer. Those junior members of the “D” Club are as follows: Bumgarner, F. L., Belmont, N. C.; Elvery, D. B., Tampa, Fla.; Glasgow, D. M., Charlotte, N. C.; Gullette, G. L., Blacksburg, Va.; Harris, C. C., Welch, W. Va.; Hand, C. H., Lowell, N. C.; Hutchins, D. M., Lexington, N. C.; Lee, J. B., Barium Springs, N. C.; McFadyen, A. A., Raeford, N. C.; McPhail, E. F., Charlotte, N. C.; Mackorell, J. C., Miami, Fla.; Morgan, J. R., Albemarle, N. C.; Potter, A. J., Barium Springs, N. C.; Siewers, J. D., Winston-Salem, N. C.; Wingfield, Geo., Reidsville, N. C.

College Magazine To Have New Features
Editor Fugate Completes Job With This Edition

Wilber L. Fugate, editor of “The Yowl,” announced today that the last edition of this student publication will appear the latter part of this week. Many new features have been added and the magazine enlarged to such an extent that it is thought to be the biggest “Yowl” ever published at Davidson. The editors have worked night and day in an effort to fill its forty-four pages with the best material obtainable.

Outstanding additions to the magazine include: a number of caricatures and writings dealing principally with prominent campus figures, a poll or questionnaire of the Senior class in which the seniors use their privileges, and a section devoted to interviews with the captains of this year’s various athletic teams. The next issue will be the third and last issue of the year.

Two short stories by Gordon Wood and Stuart Henry are also new features in the coming edition. Henry’s story is something new hereabouts in that it follows the James Joyce pattern and is entirely devoid of punctuation. Wood’s story is a psychological study of a man with a very peculiar mania—in fact, somewhere or other he has accidentally misplaced his face. The cover is a satirical drawing arranged in the true “Skip” Brown fashion with its fading colors revealing an amusing glimpse of Hitlerite Germany.

New ‘D’ Club Head

Dewey Hutchins, Davidson halfback, who was chosen at the election of officers of the “D” Club, monogram club of Davidson, to head the club for the coming year. Hutchins is from Lexington, N. C. The office was formerly held by Mack Holland of Gastonia.

E. F. McPhail Elected New Class President
Harris and Montgomery to Hold Other Offices

Fred McPhail was elected president of his class for the ensuing year in the recent Junior class balloting. He was elected over Hugh Yelverton on the fourth ballot. Charlie Harris was elected vice-president on the second ballot and Peyton Montgomery was made secretary and treasurer on the third ballot.

McPhail is from Charlotte and has made an outstanding record on the Davidson campus. He is a member of the Student Council and the Pan-Hellenic Council. He was elected vice-president of his class last year and managing editor of the Davidsonian. McPhail is a member of the “D” Club, the Spanish Club, and the International Relations Club. He is an outstanding member of the track team, in which sport he won his varsity letter. He belongs to the Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Those nominated for president were Warner DuBose, Duke Glasgow, Blanton Little, Dave McLain, Fred McPhail, Teal Rogers, Joe Wadsworth, and Hugh Yelverton. Charlie Harris, the new vice-president, is from Welch, W. Va. Harris was captain of the basketball team this year and is one of the strongest pitchers on the baseball team. He is a member of the “D” Club and belongs to the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Others nominated for vice-president were Mims Rogers and John Siewers. Peyton Montgomery, chosen secretary and treasurer, is from Reidsville. He is a member of the track squad (Continued on page 6)

Nominate Men For Class Councilmen
Election of Members Will Continue Through Friday

The election of members of the Student Council to serve next year began today and will continue through Friday, according to an announcement by Julian West. In accordance with the constitution, the nomination committee Monday night nominated for election to the Student Council eight men from the rising Senior class, of whom five are to be elected; from the rising Junior class, five, of whom three are to be elected; from the rising Sophomore class, four, of whom two are to be elected. Opportunity was given in chapel yesterday for nominations from the floor, this completing the nominations. The members of each class vote only for the candidates from their own (Continued on page 6) (Continued on page 6)

Furman President Makes Chief Talk For Founders Day
Dr. Geer Warns Against Over-Secularization of Church Schools
BAND GIVES CONCERT
All Departments of School Aid in Celebration

Davidson College, 97 years ago a school of four small buildings, elementary courses and kerosene lights, paused on Founders’ Day, April 12, to pay tribute to its past and consider the future of the institution. In a day which saw the Wildcat nine defeat the vaunted Duke ball club, all departments of the college united in the celebration of the occasion. The music department, band and glee club occupied prominent positions on the program and a half-holiday from study was declared by the faculty.

Dr. Ben E. Geer, president of Furman University, was the principal speaker of the occasion. Speaking at chapel, he analyzed the future of the church school and warned of the danger of “a Founders’ Day where there has been a wide departure from the ideals of the founders.”

“In the early days of Davidson and Furman, both church schools, their leading teachers were those with avowed faith in Christian teachings. If we are to maintain Christian character as church schools,” stated Dr. Geer, “we dare not depart from the simplicity and conviction of those who founded.”

Speaking of the financial character of church schools, Geer warned against over-secularization and stated, “When and if Davidson College should become financially independent of its supporting Presbytery, so that it does not require for its existence the sacrifice of its people, then Davidson College will face a decline to secularization. It thus loses the power to serve the church in the finest way.

“A warm religious life is not inconsistent with academic honesty, with untiring research in any field. I firmly believe in the church school for I firmly believe in the church.” That was his declaration of belief in the future of church schools.

Quoting Matthew Arnold, he expressed the present national crisis as a nation “wandering between two worlds, one dead, the other powerless to be reborn.” In Washington there has been confusion, grasping and doubt; in the nation there has been a general laxity and decadence in na- (Continued on page 6)

Davidson Men Speak For Alumni Meeting
Wiley and Brown Speak at Greenville, S. C.

Sam Wiley, secretary of “Y” work here, together with G. H. “Skip” Brown, president-elect of the student body for next year, attended a Davidson alumni meeting held on last Thursday, April 12, at the Imperial Hotel in Greenville, S. C. The meeting brought together about twenty of the most prominent alumni in Greenville and from nearby towns.

Both Wiley and Brown made addresses at the meeting. Wiley presented a cross-section of the progress of the college during the seven years which he has been connected with it. He also spoke of the plans for the future and more especially of the centennial program. Wiley pointed out the duties of an alumnus of Davidson College. “Skip” Brown spoke generally on forensic activities here on the campus.

The meeting was presided over by Mr. John Smith, of the class of 1924, president of the society. This meeting marked the end of the term of office of the present officers and new officers were elected. Dr. George Wilkinson (1912) was elected president for the coming term; Mr. Hugh Aiken (1918) was elected vice-president, and Mr. William Mattison (1926), secretary and treasurer. Davidson’s oldest alumnus, Dr. E. P. Davis, of the class of 1873, was also present and gave a short informal talk to the society.

Bowery Ball To Be HeldSaturday At Charlotte Armory Archie Davis and His Carolina Orchestra Will Provide Music FORMAL DANCE FRIDAY Saturday Afternoon Dance Free to Students

The Annual Bowery Ball, the big costume dance of the year, will be held next Saturday night, April 21, in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium. Music will be furnished by Archie Davis and his orchestra from the University of North Carolina. This orchestra played for The Citadel dances last November 11. It is composed of ten men and a torch singer, and has the latest type of amplifying equipment.

The Armory-Auditorium will be gaily decorated in a crazy design with nineteen different colors of streamers. Balloons will be released from the top of the hall. Confetti and paper serpentines will be furnished to all couples. Prizes will be awarded to the boy and girl having the best costumes.

There will be a set of three dances: a formal dance Friday night from 10 until 2:00; an informal tea dance Saturday afternoon from 4:00 until 7:00, and the Bowery Ball Saturday night from 8:30 until 12:00. The first two dances will be held in the Charlotte Hotel, while the Bowery Ball will be held in the Armory-Auditorium. The price for the set of tickets will remain the same as announced until Thursday noon, when the price will be increased. The features of the dances include the costume dance Saturday night and the Saturday afternoon, which is free to students. Outsiders will be assessed a nominal sum. These dances, sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council, will probably be the last of the year.

At the formal dance on Friday night, the usual figure, led by the Pan-Hellenic Council members, will be made at 10:45 o’clock instead of the usual time, in order that the baseball men may be able to attend. The figure will be led this time by Julian West, retiring president of the student body, with Miss Miriam Blakely, and by Skip Brown, next president of the student body.

Installation Service Will Be Held Friday Old Officers to Relinquish Positions to New Men

Davidson College’s old regime will pass over its authorities to the newly-elected campus officers Friday evening, April 20, in Chambers Auditorium. Beginning at 7:15, there will be held the annual installation services, and a banquet for the old and new leaders. Afterwards, they will go to Charlotte for the first dance of the Bowery Ball weekend, many of them to participate in the figure.

Bells will be rung at 7:00 and 7:15 o'clock Friday evening, the ceremony beginning at the latter bell. With F. L. Smyre in the chair, the new and old officers will go up on the stage, the old men on his right and the new men on his left. J. W. West, retiring president of the Student Body, is to make a short talk and administer the oath to the new Student Councilors, after which G. H. Brown, the rising president, will also speak. Following this, W. M. Thompson will turn over the presidency of the Y. M. C. A. to W. P. Sprunt; E. L. Willson will turn over the presidency of the Athletic Association to A. J. Potter; Jack Williams, Jr., will turn over the editorship of “Quips and Cranks” to R. H. Smith; Odi Casali will turn over the editorship of “The Davidsonian” to K. D. Weeks; W. L. Fugate will turn over the editorship of “The Yowl” to L. D. McPhail; F. L. Smyre will turn over the presidency of the Senior class to E. F. McPhail, and C. M. Rives will turn over the captaincy of the football team to John Mackorell. The last ceremony is a new item in the installation program.

(Continued on page 6)

Presided over by F. Smyre, Davidson College’s old regime will pass over its authorities to the newly-elected campus officers Friday evening, April 20, in Chambers Auditorium. Beginning at 7:15, there will be held the annual installation services, and a banquet for the old and new leaders. Afterwards, they will go to Charlotte for the first dance of the Bowery Ball weekend, many of them to participate in the figure.

Annual “Y” Spring Services Will Begin Sunday, April 29

Dr. Frank C. Brown, of Charleston, W. Va., who will speak at the spring services here, beginning April 29. Dr. Brown has a brilliant scholastic record, having received both A.B. and M.A. degrees at the age of 19, and has traveled extensively in Europe.

Bill Bowman Chosen Junior Class Head Windham and Brown Elected to V.-Pres. and Sect’y-Treas.

W. F. Bowman, of Aberdeen, was elected president of the rising Junior class in its elections held the past week. Chosen to serve with him were C. L. Windham, Gastonia, vice-president, and Lamont Brown, Barium Springs, secretary and treasurer.

A committee composed of the members of the Beaver Club nominated the following men for offices: For president, Bill Bowman, Coleman Branton, Addison Brenizer and Treadway Purnell; from the floor, Henry Cathey, Joe Dees and Paul Harlan were nominated. For vice-president, Earl Frazier, John Partridge, John Pierce, Coley Windham and Baxter Yarborough, who was nominated from the floor. For secretary and treasurer, Lamont Brown, Mal Grimes and J. B. Goslin were nominated by the Beaver Club. Joe Johnston was nominated from the floor.

Bowman, captain of this year’s golf team and winner of numeral in freshman tennis, is a member of the Reporters’ Club and Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Windham, co-captain of freshman basketball his freshman year, earned his letter in football this year and is affiliated with Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. Brown, recently chosen a managing editor of “The Davidsonian,” serves on the editorial staff of the Annual and the business staff of the “Yowl.” He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

In the election for president, Bowman, Branton, Brenizer and Purnell remained after the first ballot. Bowman and Branton remained after the second ballot, and Branton was eliminated on the next voting.

(Continued on page 6)

Alpha Phi Epsilon Bids Six New Men Forensic Fraternity to Elect New Officers Thursday

The Davidson chapter of Alpha Phi Epsilon, national honorary forensic fraternity, issued bids to membership Friday, April 13, to six students. These men will be initiated some time in the early part of next week. Those men bid are: D. B. Bailey, Rock Hill, S. C.; D. R. Brannon, Kannapolis; Warner DuBose, Jr., Mobile, Ala.; C. A. McNeill, Davidson; P. M. Rogers, Florence, Ala., and A. C. Stutts, Eagle Springs.

The fraternity will hold its election of officers for the coming year tomorrow night. At that time, also, plans will be made for sponsoring a debate between the Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies in the near future.

(Continued on page 6)

Dr. Frank C. Brown of Charleston Will Be Featured Speaker TO LAST THREE DAYS Speaker Holds Degrees From Hampden-Sidney

The program for Spring Services, an annual event sponsored by the “Y” Cabinet, has been completed, according to an announcement made by Mr. Sam Wiley, secretary of Davidson's Y. M. C. A. These services will start April 29 at the morning church hour and special services will be held at vespers and twice daily through the following Wednesday. Daily services will be held in the morning at the chapel exercises and at night at 7:00 o'clock. The chapel period will be lengthened during these services. Chapel will start at 9:00 a. m. Monday and at 10:05 a. m. Tuesday and Wednesday.

Dr. Frank C. Brown, pastor of the Bream Memorial Presbyterian Church of Charleston, W. Va., will be the featured speaker at these exercises. Dr. Brown is a native of Lewisburg, W. Va. He gained the outstanding achievement of graduating from Hampden-Sidney College at the age of nineteen with both A.B. and M.A. degrees. After two years of teaching, he attended Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va., where he prepared for the ministry. Dr. Brown then sailed to Scotland and took post-graduate work at United Free Church College at Glasgow. During his student days he held the post of assistant pastor of Henry Drummond Memorial Church in Glasgow. Since returning to the United States he has held pastorates at Logan and at Charleston, W. Va., where he is now located.

Dr. Brown is one of the outstanding young pastors of the Presbyterian Church and has been highly recommended to conduct these services. The “Y" Cabinet feels especially fortunate in securing such a popular young speaker for these, the most important services of the spring program. It has been intimated that Dr. Brown will use the morning hour at chapel for intimate talks to the student body and the general public will not be admitted to these addresses. However, all interested persons are cordially invited to attend the evening services. Opportunity will be given Davidson students for informal talks with the speaker.

D. C. Debaters Lose Twice In Past Week University of Florida and Wake Forest Debate Here

Davidson debaters were defeated twice this past week when they met the University of Florida here Tuesday, April 11, and again on Saturday, April 14, when they went down before a strong Wake Forest team. On both occasions the Davidson teams supported the affirmative side of the question: “Resolved, that the powers of the President should be substantially increased as a settled policy.” The master of ceremonies or presiding officer for both events was Gordon H. Brown, another Davidson student debater.

In a losing battle of words Tuesday evening, A. C. Stutts and R. H. Smith, speaking for Davidson, defined the issue clearly and then proceeded to show that a progressing nation has need of an expanding and pliable constitution. The changes that they jointly argued, they assured us, could be best brought about by the constructive system which they advocated. In their turn, W. R. Terry and Lonnie Wurm, representing the University of Florida, sought to prove to a small but appreciative audience that the powers of the President of these United States were already sufficient to meet the demands of any government and, furthermore, that the President of the United States did not use all the power that was vested in him anyway. Wurm went further in reviewing the past Presidents and their administrations in order to prove that we could not expect to have a man as capable as Washington or Lincoln in the office at all times.

(Continued on page 2)