le 4 DEBATING TEAM TUESDAY SOUTHERN TOUR Alenda Lux Gbi Orta Libertas Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY
14, 1934 No. 17

Mid-Winter Dance Program Features Famous Orchestra

Large Crowds Attend Pan-Hellenic Presentation in Charlotte Armory

THREE DANCES GIVEN

Emerson Gill Plays for Annual Social Affair

The Annual Mid-Winter Dances, sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council of Davidson College, terminated Saturday night, February 10, with a well-attended
informal affair. Music for the dances was furnished by Emerson Gill and his orchestra, who was obtained through the Music
Co-operation of America. Gill and his orchestra have recently completed engagements at several well-known social centers, among them the Lotus
Garden at Cleveland, the Steel Pier at Atlantic City, and the Mt. Royal Hotel in Montreal. Accompanying the orchestra was
Frieda Holt, torch singer, whose selections added much to the enjoyment.

The series of dances, a formal one Friday night, from nine till two, a tea dance Saturday afternoon from four
till seven, and an informal dance Saturday night from eight-thirty till twelve, were held in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium. Despite the
frigid weather which prevailed over the weekend, the floor was well filled at every dance. Between the dances on Saturday,
many of the social fraternities gave banquets at various restaurants and hotels in Charlotte.

The Armory-Auditorium was decorated especially for the dances in blue and white, with a large red and black “D” as
a background for the orchestra. At the formal dance, a figure was formed, consisting of the Pan-Hellenic Council, the fraternity
representatives and their dates. The ten social fraternities were hosts to a large number of girls, who had been invited
to attend the dances. There were approximately twelve different states represented by the visit-

(Continued on page 6)

Roles for “Candida” Assigned In Finals

Masquers to Present Early Production of Shaw

Tryouts for George Bernard Shaw's noted play, “Candida,” were held in the Social Center on Thursday evening, February 8. At
that time final selections were made for the roles. Miss Orrie Steel was selected for the part of Proserpine Garnett;
Mrs. W. P. Cumming for Candida Morell; Nate Wauda for Burgess; Bill Goodykoontz for Eugene Marchbanks; Wills Hollingsworth for James
Morell, and Jimmy Simpson for Alexander Mill.

Under the direction of Gordon Wood and the personal supervision of Professor E. J. Erwin, “Candida” gives promise of being
one of the best productions the Red and Black Masquers have ever presented. The first rehearsal was held Monday evening,
February 13, at which time special attention was given to the stage effects and settings.

One of Shaw’s best-known plays, “Candida” was written in 1894, then based upon a still earlier one of Shaw’s plays,
“Love Among the Artists,” which was unsuccessfully submitted to publishers in 1881. The conclusions of both of the plays, as
Julius Bab has pointed out, are almost identical in situations and words. “Candida” was first produced in Germany in 1894.
With Agnes Sorma as Candida, the play was a decisive success in that country, but English theatrical managers would have
nothing to do with it. In recent years, however, it has been played throughout England, America, and the Continent, receiving
considerable praise from critics of the drama.

The Red and Black Masquers, who are to give “Candida” some time in early March, have as their officers, D.
W. Hollingsworth, president; G. R. Wood, secretary and treasurer, and J. H. Simpson, manager.

Juniors Announce Important Smoker

Will Make Arrangements for Junior Speaking

All Juniors are urged to attend the class smoker tonight in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. The purpose of
the meeting will be to discuss and make final plans for Junior Speaking weekend. The smoker will be held at
eight-thirty. Members of the class are asked to bring five cents in order to pay for refreshments. The date and
final plans will be announced to the student body in the near future.

Beaty Addresses Vespers Audience

Latin Professor Discusses Inscriptions on Cross of Christ

Prof. Ernest A. Beaty, of the Latin Department, delivered the address at the vesper hour last Sunday evening, taking his
theme from the trilingual inscription over the Cross of Christ, as we have it related in the nineteenth chapter of
John. Don Bailey, who was in charge of the service, called on W. C. Neill and A. B. Rhodes to
lead in prayer. Frank Poe, accompanied by A. D. Wauchope at the organ, played “Traumerei” as a clarinet solo.

Professor Beaty pictured first the farce of a trial before Pilate, the decision of the governor to place over the
cross in the three languages of the day the mocking title, “Jesus of Nazareth, The King of the Jews,” and
the visit of the religious rulers to Pilate requesting that the inscription be changed to “He said, ‘I am the
King of the Jews’.” With that as a historical background, Professor Beaty proceeded to show how the great distinguishing impulses
characteristic of the people who spoke those languages written on the scroll may appear in our own lives; and how
by placing Christ at the head of these forces we may lift them to near-perfection.

To the Romans, knowledge, power, and success in conquest were life’s supreme gifts. In the individual it is ambition, and
he who writes “Christ” above his ambition will succeed. To the Greeks, beauty was the most treasured thing in life.
Beauty is the most godlike characteristic within us—it is near us all for God made the universe beautiful. And, indeed,
the Greeks had an appreciation for the beautiful that no people have had since, but they made their mistake in
having no standard of beauty outside of themselves. Professor Beaty added, “Fix your eyes on Christ, who changes the caricature
of our limitations into masterpieces worthy of eternity.”

To the Hebrews, religion and morality were life’s supreme purpose. It was they who gave the world the promise of
the Messiah and preserved that promise through all the hardship and terror that was theirs. But they forgot that real
religion is from within; that communion with God and theology are vastly different. In closing, Professor Beaty remarked, “The trouble
is not because we have Babbits in the pulpit, but because Jesus has left the pews. We may refute any
creed, but not Christ.”

Concert Band to Play For Chapel Next Week

The Davidson Concert Band will make its first public appearance since Christmas on Wednesday, February 21, when it will play
before the Board of Trustees during the chapel period. The concert, which is preliminary to the band’s formal concerts beginning
in March, will give the members of the board their first opportunity of hearing the band under Professor James Pfohl's
direction.

Selections on the program will include the march, “Hall of Fame,” by Olivadoti, the overture, “Selections from Pinafore,” by Gilbert
and Sullivan, and the overture, “Stradella,” by Verdi. Morton Cunningham, solo cornetist of the band, will render a solo, “Jupiter,”
by Goldman.

Southern Trip To Be Begun Monday By Debating Team

Brown and Pratt-Thomas Will Represent Davidson College on Tour

TO RETURN FEBRUARY 26

Debates to Be With Georgia, Florida, Miami, and Charleston

“Resolved that the powers of the President of the United States should be substantially increased as a settled policy” will
be the question of a series of debates in which Gordon “Skip” Brown and Rawling Pratt-Thomas will participate during the
Southern debating trip beginning February 19th and ending the 28th. They will uphold the negative side of the question in
each debate.

Leaving Davidson February 18th, Brown and Pratt-Thomas will debate the University of Georgia, at Athens, on the 19th; the University
of Florida, at Gainesville, on the 21st; the University of Miami on the 23rd, and the College of Charleston February
26th. The debate with Miami University will be held in the afternoon on an open-air platform secured from the city,
and the meet with the University of Florida is to be broadcast over a Gainesville radio station. Decision will be
rendered by judges at the University of Georgia; and by the audience at the University of Charleston. No decisions will
be given at the Universities of Florida and Miami. Contracts for the four debates have been arranged and received by
the Forensic Council. Dr. C. K. Brown of the Department of Economics has coached the Davidson team.

Davidson Trustees To Hold Meetings

Executive Committee Plans Semi-Annual Session

The Executive Committee of the Trustees of Davidson College will meet Tuesday, February 20, in Charlotte, and Wednesday the trustees
will convene here for their regular semi-annual meeting. On Wednesday in chapel there will be a special musical program presented
for this body by the musical organizations on the campus, under the direction of Professor Pfohl.

There are forty-nine trustees of Davidson College, thirty-three of whom are elected by the Presbyteries of North Carolina, four by
the Presbyteries of Florida, and twelve by the Alumni Association. In North Carolina, Concord Presbytery has the most members on
this board, having eight, while Mecklenburg has five, and Orange and Fayetteville, four each. The remainder of the North Carolina
and Florida Presbyteries are entitled to two each. All trustees are elected for a term of four years.

The Executive Committee, which holds practically all the power of the trustees between meetings, is elected each year at the
commencement meeting of the trustees. This group is composed of ten members of the Board of Trustees. The present officers
of the trustees are: Dr. R. A. Dunn of Charlotte, president; Mr. H. S. Richardson of Greensboro, vice-president; Mr. S.
A. Robinson of Gastonia, secretary, and Mr. F. L. Jackson of Davidson, treasurer.

Otts Foundation Talks Are Being Delivered

Two of the series of lectures on the Otts Foundation at Davidson College were delivered here the first part of
the week before a mixed assembly of townspeople and students. The lectures, which are being conducted by Rev. Clarence Edward
Macartney, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Pittsburgh, Pa., attracted much attention on the campus and were well attended.
Dr. Macartney used as his general theme, “Christian Faith and the Spirit of the Age.” The specific lectures under this
topic were, “The Christian Book,” which

(Continued on page 2)

Forty years of faithful service is the enviable record of Dr. William Richard Grey, professor of Latin language and literature
at Davidson. Dr. Grey holds second place in regard to service, being exceeded only by Dr. Harding, who has been
here for forty-five years. Dr. Grey was born in the Providence Church community of Union County, about ten miles south
of Charlotte.He attended Sugaw Creek High School for the major part of his high school education, entering Davidson in the
fall of 1880 as a student. During his freshman year, there was very little hazing due to an unfortunate shipping
episode the previous year. However, hazing came again into its own during the next few years. At that time, there
were only 125 students and six professors at Davidson. The president, Dr. A. D. Hepburn, besides performing the duties of
his office, taught eight courses. There were only about twenty courses in all being offered then.

One of the most amusing occurrences during Dr. Grey's student days happened when a dog, suspected of being mad, ventured
into church one Sunday night. When the dog’s presence was discovered, bedlam broke loose. The service was halted while screaming
ladies took to the higher benches, closely followed by men and boys. One student, who had escorted his girlfriend to
church, had feared such an incident and had a pistol with him which he discharged at the mongrel, all in
vain. Finally, the beast was hit over the head by some venturesome person and dragged out of church. It is
said that the service was begun again when the preacher climbed down off the pulpit crying, “Oh trembling souls, dismiss
your fears.”

Dr. Grey received his A.B. degree in 1884, graduating in a class of 49 students, the largest class up to
that time. He was an outstanding student, graduating with honors in Latin and Greek and giving a philosophical oration on
“Brutus of Shakespeare.” Dr. Grey taught for five years in the local grade school before entering Johns Hopkins where he
received his Ph.D. degree.

There have been many changes since his student days, Dr. Grey pointed out. This difference is noticed in athletics more
than anything else. While he was a student here, there were no intercollegiate games at all. There were no organized
sports, but the students played occasional games of baseball and football between themselves. There were no social fraternities in those
days, their place being taken by the literary societies. Davidson students were able to indulge in aquatic sports at that
time in Lake Wylie, which was situated just below the present-day golf course. The remains of the dam, broken one
night during a storm, may still be seen. The gullies, according to tradition, were just as big, if not bigger,
in those days as they are now, but they were not frequented nearly so much.

The only buildings on the campus then were the old chapel (now Shearer Hall), the two society halls, Oak and
Elm Row, Old Chambers, and Tammany, a dormitory between the old chapel and Oak Row. All the present-day dormitories have
been built since then. The grass was only mowed twice a year and then it was for the hay which
it provided.

Dr. Grey came back to Davidson to teach in 1893 and has served on the faculty since that time. Since
then, the faculty has increased in numbers from seven to forty-two. As has already been pointed out, there have been
many changes at Davidson during that time. The faculty is six times as large as it was, and the student
body five times as large. Many changes have been effected both in buildings and grounds, which combine to give Davidson
the beautiful campus which it has today.

Seven New Men Bid By Sigma Pi Sigma
Rachal Holds General Discussion on Subject of Camouflage

In a recent meeting of Sigma Pi Sigma, the honorary physics fraternity, held on February 5 in Chambers Building, seven
men were elected into the membership of this fraternity. This group included two seniors, one junior, and four sophomores. They
are: seniors, B. L. Moore, Pendleton; R. C. Morrow, Zitacuaro, Mexico; juniors, E. S. Hodge, Charlotte; and sophomores, A. P.
Hassel, Takushinia, Japan; A. A. Kuhn, Davidson; T. M. Marchant, Greenville, S. C.; J. H. Morrow, Gastonia; and A. W.
Shuford, Hickory. These men will be initiated into the fraternity about three weeks from the date of the meeting on
February 5.

A. S. Rachal gave a talk on the general subject of camouflage. Professor Fulcher discussed short wave disease treatment, the
neutron, and the treatment of rheumatic arthritis. This discussion was based upon the research now being done along that general
line.

Pfohl to Reorganize Orchestra This Week

With an increased membership and a change in the practice schedule, Professor James C. Pfohl, head of the Music Department,
announces that a complete reorganization of the College Concert Orchestra will take place, effective this week. The change in schedule
is as follows: Full orchestra practice, Monday, 7:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.; string sectional rehearsal, Wednesday, 7:00 p.m. to 8:00
p.m.; full orchestra practice, Friday, 4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.

Mr. Pfohl takes this opportunity of urging all students who play any orchestral instruments to avail themselves of this chance
to join the orchestra and to report next Friday afternoon at Chambers Auditorium for full practice.

Williams Announces Progress on Annual
Staff Now Preparing Clubs and Organizations Sections

The Davidson Annual is progressing very rapidly, according to Jack Williams, Jr., editor. All the individual photographs that have been
taken and a large number of the group pictures are ready for the press. The editor stated that this year,
probably due to better times, there have been more individual photos taken than have been made for quite a few
years in the past.

The staff is now working on the sections of the various clubs and organizations. This year, according to Williams, it
will be necessary for an organization to have a contract in order to secure a section in the Annual. Half
the payment for the sections must be paid when the material is secured, and the other half before the first
of April. The editor wishes particularly to stress that prorating the cost of the different sections to members of the
organization when they come for their books in the spring should be avoided, as it will be rather confusing to
the staff as well as to the individual and the organization.

More than the ordinary number of individual orders have been made this year. Any person wishing to have enlargements made
will be able to do so by seeing any member of the Annual staff or the representative of the photographer.

Dr. Gwynn Gives Talks To Charlotte Audience

“While there is one divorce in every six marriages in the general statistics, there is only one in fifty in
Christian families in the United States,” Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr., head of the Department of Education of Davidson College,
told his audience at the home training school conducted at the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte last night. Dr. Gwynn’s
topic was “Family Adjustments in the Spirit of Jesus.”

(Continued on page 2)

Cochran Captures First In Shot Put In W. Va. Games
Track Captain Betters Own Record Made Last Year by Half-inch
FRAZIER, OAKES RUN
Six Teams Participate in Annual Indoor Meet

In the recent West Virginia Indoor Games, held annually at the University of West Virginia in Morgantown, Miller Cochran, captain
of the 1934 Davidson track team, and holder of the school records in the discus and shot put, took first
place against hard competition in the 16-pound shot put event. Cochran broke his own record by a half-inch in taking
this place, since his distance in the test was 44 feet, 3½ inches. Other schools entering men in this event
were Pitt, Michigan State, Ohio State, Penn State, and West Virginia University.

Cochran has starred in this field for three years, ever since he entered track competition. He has made his letter
for the two years since he has been in varsity competition. As was mentioned above, he has been chosen captain
of this year’s edition of the Wildcat track team. Cochran is engaged in several other activities on the campus other
than athletics. He is a member of the Theta Upsilon Omega social fraternity. He also holds a high position in
the Davidson military unit, serving as captain of the band.

In the same Indoor Games, two other Davidson men took part, with noticeable results. Earl Frazier, star sophomore miler, took
fourth place against a fast field in the mile event. In doing this, Frazier ran the best time of his
career, running the distance in the good time of 4 minutes, 33 seconds. This time comes within three seconds of
the school record set up by “Soup” Brannon in 1932. Ellis Oakes also placed in this event, taking seventh. It
is interesting to note that the (Continued on page 3)

Students Choose Various Vocations
Y.M.C.A. to Establish Vocational Guidance Institute

The recent vocational inventory taken from the student body shows that business, medicine, and law are the three leading prospective
vocations. Thirty-two different vocations were tabulated, representing many different walks of life. It is interesting to note that ministry is
tabulated as fourth in the inventory, since Davidson is one of the leading church schools in the South. There were
one hundred and ninety-one men who signed their cards as being undecided. Teaching appealed to forty-three out of the four
hundred forty-two men who voted and one vote each was tabulated for army, library, sculpture, radio, mathematics, and social science
work.

The local Y. M. C. A. will hold, in the near future, a Vocational Guidance Institute. The vocational inventory was
taken because it was believed that a good many men had changed their minds concerning their life’s work, and judging
from the results of this census, the Y. M. C. A. will know which vocation to emphasize in their program
next summer. One week will be devoted to each of these vocations according to the stress laid upon them as
shown by the chart, and during this time an article will appear each week in The Davidsonian in order to
keep the student body in touch with the work that will be carried out.

Each week a prominent man in each profession will be brought here to explain and guide the students in their
study of each vocation. Books will be available and a notice will be given to the student body when this
program is to begin. At the present time, the arrangement of the program places business at the head of the
weekly study and medicine or law to follow the second week.
