THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 14, 1934

The Davidsonian - Founded by the Class of 1915

Associated Collegiate Press
1934 Collegiate Digest 1935

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock P.M., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcomed, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

Editor
K. D. WEEKS

Business Manager
J. A.C. WADSWORTH

Managing Editor
Martin BARNETT

News Editor
Paul HARLAN

Sports Editor
Tom MARCHANT

Assistant Managing Editor
John WALKER

Assistant Managing Editor
Harvey GLASS

Assistant Sports Editor
LaMont BROWN

Exchange Editor
Mimi CROWE

Feature Editor
Carlyle LEWIS

Feature Editor
Scotty McLEOD

Associate Editor
G. L. GUTTERIE

Associate Editor
E. F. McPHAIL

Associate Editor
B. L. ROSE

Associate Editor
Jack HELLINGER

Business Manager
Vitus GOSLEN

Business Manager
Tom ROSS

Business Manager
J. S. McMULLEN

Business Manager
R. P. MONROE

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1934

To have what we want is riches, but to be able to do without is power.—G. MacDonald.

PARAGRAPHICS

The Davidson-Carolina game didn’t prove to be the “breather” for Carolina as they had expected after all. Up until the last quarter, they were forced to use the first string men in order to protect their margin of victory.

Homecoming was a decided success despite the bad weather Saturday. An unusually large number of alumni returned to the campus to spend an enjoyable weekend, and they certainly were not disappointed. They were loud in their praise for the many improvements that had been made on the campus.

Mr. Joe Johnston of Barium Springs and president of the alumni association made one of the most appropriate and most original pep talks we have ever heard when he spoke before a large crowd in Shearer Hall last Friday night.

The true Wildcat Spirit was shown both on the field and in the stands last Saturday. If this spirit can be maintained for the rest of the season, there is no reason why we shouldn’t win the remaining two games on our schedule, V. M. I. and Wake Forest.

THE PRESENT TREND OF COLLEGE FRATERNITIES

From great universities and colleges of the east comes news of what may be an important trend in campus life. At Swarthmore, the smallest of them, only twenty-seven freshmen from a class of ninety became pledges to the five national fraternities having chapters there. That is less than half of the number of pledges last year, when there were sixty-four freshmen out of a class of one hundred and ten. It also is stated that fifteen students prominent in college life resigned from fraternities last year.

At Cornell, which has been for many years a sort of fountainhead of the Greek letter societies of national scope, the interfraternity council announces that 371 new members have been taken in this fall from the freshman class. Last year the same sixty fraternities initiated 434 new members. Eleven of them failed this year to add a brother to their roster. The Cornell correspondent of the New York Times states plainly “that the shrinkage in enrollment, while not serious at this stage, is regarded as a part of a trend which began several years ago and is largely the result of economic conditions... Whether the return of good times will affect the situation and bring about a continued growth in the fraternity system at Cornell is a matter of conjecture.”

At Yale, there is a situation approximating an upheaval, which has raised a doubt as to the survival of the junior fraternities, all of which are branches of national bodies which in most American colleges are represented by four-year chapters. Alpha Delta Phi, which at Yale dates from 1836, has announced it will elect no new members this year and will close its $175,000 home. Psi Upsilon has announced its withdrawal from the interfraternity council in the college and from the national fraternity, which was chartered in 1839. It has abandoned its secret ritual and will continue as a club. The Yale situation is said to arise primarily out of the establishment there of residence colleges which constitute a sort of equivalent of fraternities and, it is said, “make fraternities unnecessary.” But at Yale, as at Swarthmore and Cornell, economic considerations have been important and inescapable factors.

The importance of the situation at Yale drew from President Angell an encouraging address, in which he said: “The fraternity problem is the one outstanding problem left over from the old Yale. Its answer is not easy, in fact may be extraordinarily difficult. But the fraternity has in past years served as a very necessary part of Yale’s social life, and I am confident that when they have sufficient adjustments to the changed conditions, which are a result of the advent of the college plan, these adjustments will be found to be of such a nature as will satisfactorily take care of the enduring social interests of the undergraduates.”

Through a century of American college life, fraternities have justified their existence and have grown in numbers, in enrollment, and in prestige. Accused by non-sympathizers as clubs predicated on snobbery, they have nonetheless, under proper leadership, exerted a fine force in nearly all schools. In the very nature of things, choice of members was and is a matter of selectivity, and the result is the establishment of a clannishness. But that is characteristic of all social groups. We select our friends as best we may, and we like to be with those whom we like.

Yet in recent years there has been an inflation of fraternity costs that is open to serious and justifiable criticism. Initiation fees have become very heavy, and dues are large enough to prove a burden to most students. If fraternities are to exist in a healthy state, there must be a common-sense revision of these costs. Else the chapters can have as members only the sons or daughters of the wealthy. And when that situation comes to pass, the fraternities are doomed.
—THE ATLANTA JOURNAL.

We are proud of Davidson; we are proud of the Davidson Band. We are proud that they can play the difficult “Overture to William Tell” and that they march with class and play their notes clearly. But it sorely grieves us that it must sink to the realms of High Schoolry by playing “She'll Be Comin’ Round the Mountain” and “Hail, Hail, the Gang’s All Here,” and “The Old Gray Mare” at our football games.

CONCERNING WORN-OUT MUSICAL NUMBERS

We resent not the rendition of these classics once or twice, or thrice, but to hear them played five and six times each game wears upon even the worst of ears. Along with our complaint against this type of number, we feel that “Washington Post,” “Cheerio” (the song with the vocal and whistle chorus) are called upon entirely too often. Why not give the rest of the repertoire a break?

There are words to “The Good Ole Ship of Fortune,” such as “Brass will be the railing,” “Wood will be the fuel,” “Puss will be the Housecat” and “Coffee will be the beverage” when she comes. But to the sharp and intolerant sense of humor of modern youth, they are simply non-humorous. And even if they were effective, nobody knows the words. The result is pitiful and depressing, although the band plays well and the cheerleaders are hard-working and able. Surely a band which is praised as being among the best in the South will not, by necessity, repeat the old favorites so often. From opinions expressed in the stands at recent games, we believe that a snappy, well-varied, march program will add more to the pep of a football game than the singing of parodied folk tunes—even if the parodies were sung with relish and gusto.

We are 100% behind the band and believe that a fine symphonic band is now vital to a cultural school, as Davidson is. The work in the music department has been nothing short of phenomenal. But we reaffirm that a first-class band should relieve the “old standbys” and give them a much-needed rest.

As for the playing of other well-known parodies, we appreciate our band’s not playing “The Washington and Lee” swing, and the University of Maine Stein Song, except in reference to those schools. If they were aware of the fact, they would appreciate it too. Parodied by nearly every High School and smaller college in the country, their songs are so good that they have been made distasteful. We also commend our band on the fact that it has played “O Davidson” sparingly during recent home games. Out of justice to the leaders of the Band, we state that it is highly probable that they themselves dislike to play these numbers but play them believing that they are desired by the students. However, after speaking to many on this point and noticing the reactions at the football games, we believe that the Student Body is annoyed by the constant repetition of this type of number.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES
By Eni Bowers

University of Georgia
Phil Harris, National Broadcasting star, dedicated his nation-wide NBC radio program from WJZ, New York, Saturday, November the eleventh.

University of South Carolina
The students at the University are voting at the polls this week whether or not they will continue their present system of honor. According to a survey on the campus, Freshmen as well as upperclassmen are still in favor of the wearing of “rat” caps. The attitude of most members of both groups was that the caps are an essential part of the University and that they portray the school spirit and the right to wear one should be looked upon as an honor.

Colleginia
A Wisconsin University professor found after research on the problem of intoxication that a hen in such a state will lay three times as many eggs as her sisters. Drunken chickens will probably be the fad now... The University of North Carolina claims the title of the oldest state university in the country. The school was chartered 144 years ago... Inmates of San Quentin, California State Prison, may enroll as extension students in the University of California... “When your hair has turned to silver”—the government will confiscate it... According to Miss Josephine Leies, organizer of the Blind Date Bureau of DePaul University, states that sixty-eight percent of the boys want brunettes, eleven percent want blondes, and the rest will take what they can get... To prepare women of Chile for their newly acquired right to vote, the University of Chile has inaugurated courses in public affairs... Governor W. H. Murray of Oklahoma says that too many highballs and too much baseball are bothering the schools today... The Harvard University Library has purchased a collection of more than8,000 photographs of important figures of the last century, including more than 100 of Lincoln. Making investigations at Heidelberg and at the University of Chicago, Dr. George Wald has discovered that the pigment of the eye contains vitamin A, and that a lack of it is likely to cause “night blindness,” a condition which sometimes precedes total blindness. The Rockefeller Foundation has recently granted McGill University at Toronto a gift of $1,000,000 for the foundation of a department of neurology. Eighty-eight of the 192 Rhodes scholars in 1933 were from the United States. Ohio University officials at Athens have leased a hotel which is being used as a cooperative rooming house for 65 men students. Approximately 87 percent of the colleges and universities in the United States are not broadcasting their football games this year. Washington University in St. Louis, Mo., during the 1933-34 school year, received gifts totaling $858,818. “The jazz age is at its ragged tail end; it is no longer smart to be immoral,” says Rabbi A. H. Silver. It has been estimated recently that there are still more than four million illiterates in America, despite the great efforts made to educate the people of the nation. The majority of the freshmen at Brown University this year have selected either medicine or engineering as their careers. Law, which led last year, is third this year. Mrs. Nelson Mebane was hostess to the Twentieth Century Club Friday afternoon, November 9. Mrs. Lewis Schenck gave an interesting paper on The Berry School.

COMPASSING By Scotty McLrop

No Home-coming alumnus could in any way be disappointed in the way that the fighting Wildcats showed up against the evident superiority of a well-drilled Carolina team. The coaches and all the players certainly merited the wholehearted support that has been given them. Over five hundred of our old grads were on hand for the fray and the slight rain was no large drawback to the gala day. Home-coming, as a Davidson institution, is foremost among the periods of alumni migration, and a popular day with the students. It has been developed from days long gone by and steadily is increasing as a campus custom eagerly anticipated by the graduates and students alike.

SEEN AND HEARD

The stupidity of an erring Chinese gentleman in regard to two banquets which were planned for post-hop celebrators in Charlotte Saturday night; he confused the Pikas with the Country Gentlemen, thinking them to be an identical organization—one and the same. Finally, the latter club availed its members of the facilities of the town Pep. The potency of Bob Atwater’s appeal revealed in the fact that his gal arrived here Thursday night for the weekend. Stokes Aderton shadowing Bud Raker at the hops. Carl Carlson’s sister staggering the stag line. Mary Frances Crosby making a big hit. She is Miss “South Carolina” according to pulchritude judges in a decision rendered last year; Harvey McConnell obviously agrees with the decision and should be a competent judge. John Sadler being embarrassed at the K.A. house. The Chemist Convention in full sway but not very well under control. Crowded elevators. Anna Mae Feuchtenberger and Salty Peters hitting it off very nicely. The well-known Davidson bird-cage with Geddie Munroe, Wimpy Ravenel, Billy Northen, and P. D. Guerrant. Hugh Yelverton in a little automotive upset. Baxter Yarborough with a professor's red-headed daughter.

NEW ALUMNI

Buddy Gardner, Bo Ravenel, Lanier Pratt, Hooke McCallie, Twink Kirkland, Allen Mebane, Billy Walser, Jeff Robbins, married Mose Macfie, Frank Holt, married Don McQueen, John Foster, Johnny Creech, John Stevens, Brewster Grant, and numerous others renewing old campus friendships. Also Coky Branton who says he’s coming back next year.

FLASH

The following interesting telegram was received by the Alumni Office, and receives exclusive publication herewith:

Bert Lown
Seventeen People
Featuring Rhythm Girls Trio
Available November Thirtieth
December First
If Interested Wire
Care Western Union Here
Jack Mason
Manager

Unquote. That supplies a remotely possible tune dispenser for Thanksgiving and Wake Forest festivities. Last year it was Buster Spann and his South Carolina Gamecocks in the Hotel Charlotte.

(Continued on Page 5, Column 1)

NEWS of Years Gone By

NOVEMBER 16, 1914

Students voted ten dollars from damage fees to pay for placing stepping stones across the street in front of Mr. Schofield’s store, a needed improvement. Davidson held Carolina to a 16-3 score in a spectacular game in Winston-Salem before 2,300 spectators. The College was preparing for Senior Speaking with Friday afternoon and night, and Saturday morning, afternoon, and night being given over to the oratorical exercises. What fun! You should see the advertisements of what the well-dressed college man was wearing in 1914!

NOVEMBER 17, 1919

The “Y” announced that it would run a first-class picture every Friday night for the students; there was no charge, but all who would were asked to contribute. Pictures starred Mary Pickford, Douglas Fairbanks, John Barrymore, and Wallace Reed. The student operators were fast becoming proficient and were running almost without any slips (we wonder). Headline: “Seek and Ye Shall Find Our Annual, Maybe.” The Davidson Battalion paraded in Charlotte for its Armistice Day celebration, which was a much-taking four companies and sixteen-piece band. Editorials reflect a desire for more social life on the campus. (The S. P. U. isn’t a new idea at Davidson.) Headline: Freshman Deserts the College to Take Unto Himself a Better Half. The faculty granted the senior petition asking for exemption to those having grades over 85 from final exams.

NOVEMBER 13, 1934

Davidson was preparing for its Homecoming game with Carolina. (The score was 6:0, Car.) The Davidsonian called to mind that Lunsford Richardson, donor of Richardson Field, made the first score ever made by a Wildcat against Carolina; it was back in 1910. A few weeks earlier the Davidsonian carried an article cleverly written by Dr. Harding on the death of the Davidson Wildcat.

NOVEMBER 16, 1929

Every class was preparing a stunt to be presented in Chamber Auditorium on Homecoming night. Davidson put on its annual radio program over WBT for half an hour. Dr. Currie made a short talk, and the band played “I Get the Blues When It Rains.” (That piece must have originated at Davidson).

SELECTED PAPERS of PHINEAS SPOON

BOOK REVIEW

The Roosevelt Omnibus, edited and annotated by Don Wharton, Alfred A. Knopf, New York, 1934

A true biography of a great man is the joint work of two generations. The first, his contemporaries who have seen his face; the second, a subsequent generation who with the faculty of detachment have found his place. After the shaping hand of Time has done its work, men and events as separate factors settle into their proper perspective.

If we subscribe to this idealistic concept of biography, then the biographers of Franklin Roosevelt are yet unborn. In this moment of his ascendance, his personality too completely dominates a whole in which he is properly but an integral part. Don Wharton, a young and brilliant North Carolinian, is one of those who hold to the belief that no man can be judged in the temper of his time. Quite objectively, in the “omnibus technique” he has humbly set about the scrivener’s task; selecting the simple facts of the Roosevelt personality. The Wharton contribution to that ultimate “Life of Franklin Roosevelt” resembles a great structure of which nothing more than the facade has been built. He has left it to the artisans of some more extraneous time to give the edifice its peculiar finish and find its proper place in the skyline milieu.

When as a senior, at Davidson College, the yearbook he edited won the national collegiate award for merit, his career was already cast in the mold of distinction. In the few years since his graduation, Mr. Wharton has been attached to the editorial staffs of several New York periodicals, notably “The New Yorker” magazine. “The Roosevelt Omnibus” is his first published volume. It is a symposium of Rooseveltana: a many-sided picture of a great man as he grew. Except for his terse annotations and sometimes spicy footnotes, Wharton has made no authorial contribution to the subject matter of his “omnibus.” It is a selection of reprinted material with nothing in common but its subject. It is the saga of a hero recorded in diverse mediums: caught by the lens, interpreted by the cartoonist’s pen, refined by the journalist. With good taste, finesse, and a refreshing degree of intellectual honesty, Editor Wharton has arranged his borrowings from artist, cameraman, and journalist into a perfect homogeneity.

I am particularly impressed with two distinct merits in Don Wharton’s Roosevelt Omnibus. Firstly, Mr. Wharton’s accumulated minutia is prodigious. If you are curious to know what Mr. Roosevelt eats for breakfast, how many of what brand of cigarettes he smokes daily, the size of his hat, his average income for the last twenty-seven years, or what he said as a New York state senator about Theodore Roosevelt, you’ll find the answers within the pages of this exhaustive omnibus. These facts are legion. The thoroughness with which the man’s intimate life has been probed suggests that Mr. Wharton has tried to press the Roosevelt personality between the covers of his book. And in a very real sense, he has quite succeeded.

I am likewise impressed with the singularity and consistency of Mr. Wharton’s purpose. There is no digression. His initial aim is to reveal the Roosevelt character. Nowhere does he lose caste in the role of raconteur. He restricts himself to his proper sphere in the biographical division of labor.

The Roosevelt Omnibus has a dual appeal. For those who sing “Hosannah” at the mention of his name, and today they are unnumbered, this encyclopedia of facts will go far to satisfy an almost insatiable desire to know more about the man. But what is more important than the satisfaction of this capricious demand, is the possibility that the Roosevelt Omnibus as an ambitious character study may have a peculiar historical value to those who will someday want to interpret the events of these strenuous times in the light of the man around whom they revolve.

(Signed) Phineas Spoon.

EDITOR’S LAMENT

Getting out a paper is no picnic. If we publish original matter, they say we lack variety. If we publish things from other papers, we are too lazy to write. If we stay on our jobs, we ought to be out rustling news. If we don’t print contributions, we don’t show proper appreciation. If we don’t print them, the paper is filled with “junk.” Like as not some fellow will say we swiped this from another paper. He’s right; we did—Exchange.

Miss Carolina Moffett and Mr. Harry Moffett of Richmond, Virginia, spent the weekend with their parents, Rev. and Mrs. H. M. Moffett.