THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 24, 1934

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by the Class of 1915

MEMBER
Cinted Collegiate

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

K. D. WEEKS .......... Editor
J. A.C. WADSWORTH ... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor .......... MARTIN BARNETT
Managing Editor .......... PAUL HARLAN
Managing Editor .......... TOM MARCHANT
Managing Editor .......... JOHN WALKER
Sports Editor .......... HARVEY GLASS
Exchange Editor .......... LAMONT BROWN
Feature Editor .......... ENIP BOWERS
Feature Editor .......... CARLYLE LEWIS
Associate Editor .......... SCOTTY McLEOD
Associate Editor .......... J. L. GULLETTE
Associate Editor .......... E. F. McPHAIL
Associate Editor .......... JACK HELLINGER

BUSINESS STAFF
Asst. Business Mgr. .......... VAL
Asst. Business Mgr. .......... TOM
Asst. Business Mgr. .......... J. S. McMUTTE
Asst. Business Mgr. .......... REDE MORROW

It is our hope that those of you who are guilty of these charges will change your disposition and acquit
yourselves as freshmen should in the remaining seven months of school and thus overcome a bad impression which you have
made these first two months.

STUDENTS WILL HEAR PROMINENT MUSICIAN
Davidson College is to have the opportunity of hearing soon Palmer Christian, one of America’s most prominent virtuosi. Christian is
especially fortunate in being gifted with an imagination and an artistic intuition that present the instrument of today in a
manner that takes full advantage of its resources. His programs are not a “constant roar” from beginning to end, nor
on the other hand do they confine themselves to a class of music that may be defined as “sugary-sentimentalism.” But
they are well balanced, and consequently present the organ of today not only from the point of view of its
traditional tone qualities, but also with due regard to the orchestral possibilities and subtlety of effect which individualize the instrument.

Mr. Christian’s programs are particularly interesting, as he holds the belief that the laymen must be intrigued by organ concerts
as well as the musician. To that end, he plans programs that maintain interest by means of varying moods, by
using music that has melodic appeal, and by an elaborate use of the tone color found possible on the fine
organs of the day.

LIBERAL vs. CONSERVATIVE
By Warner DuBose, Jr.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1934

All power, even the most despotic, rests ultimately on opinion .... Hume.

PARAGRAPHICS
It is very pleasing to know that Dr. Arbuckle is getting along well enough so that he was out riding
last Sunday afternoon. His return to the Chemistry building is being anxiously awaited.

The Y. M. C. A. Fall Services begin next Sunday and will extend through the following Wednesday night. Dr. J.
Blanton Belk, the speaker for these services, comes to us highly recommended and from all reports should be of unusual
appeal to students.

POOR SPIRIT SHOWN IN FRESHMAN CLASS
In the first issue of The Davidsonian, there appeared an editorial welcoming the Freshman Class to this campus as an
integral part of the Davidson College student body. Besides a publication of welcome from the upperclassmen, it also had for
its purpose to make known to the class of 1938 a few of the traditions and policies of campus life
by which it was assumed they would gladly honor and abide. At that time, it was not expected that action
would have to be taken by the Court of Control and other responsible organizations to enforce the few mild regulations
placed upon them and to discipline the unusually large number of violators.

Freshmen are not subject to any form of hazing here and it is a fact of which we are all
proud and glad. Hardly ever is there an exception to this policy, but it is quite disappointing to know that
there are so many exceptions on the part of the freshmen as regards their regulations. It is a frequent occurrence
to see a freshman without his cap, or have one refuse to carry your laundry or refuse to run an
errand for you. One freshman, when requested to perform an ordinary task for an upperclassman a few days ago, is
quoted as saying: “Are freshmen supposed to do that?”, and although setting out under the guise of fulfilling the request,
never did do it. This incident is illustrative of an attitude that has frequently recurred of late. However, the most
appalling thing has been their indifference toward pep meetings which is indeed a reflection on their school spirit. So poor
has their attendance been at these meetings that before the last football game a special pep meeting had to be
called for the freshmen alone, and to ensure their presence the Court of Control was there to make a check
of the attendance.

In making these assertions, we do not condemn every member of the freshman class. A large number cannot be criticized
for failure to observe these requirements, but nevertheless there is a number, which is more than just a few, who
if allowed to continue their listless and indifferent attitude, will bring down upon the class an undesirable reputation. We heartily
commend the Court of Control for the action it has taken in such cases, and we would like to encourage
upperclassmen to report cases which come up before them.

Many of the party leaders of the decades just past would turn over in their graves if they were aware
of the movements going on in the politics of the country today. The old partyists could not understand the changes
that are taking place in the old party organizations of this country. The Democratic and Republican parties are losing their
hold on the people of the States and their place is being taken by two factions of each of the
parties. The Liberal and the Conservative wings of these political entities are coming to the forefront and dominating the political
situation. It is no longer to be conceived that these old organizations will control the course of our ship of
state.

The factions were first noticed to be active, though not publicly so, in the election of 1927. On the night
of November the fourth in that year, there were many of the old timers aghast at the trend of the
voting of some of the states. As the reports came in, it was seen that the “Solid South” could no
longer be counted upon to vote the straight party ticket. In this election, we find the conservative attitude swaying the
populace against the more liberal policies of the opposing party. But these policies could not meet the demands made by
a crisis, and it fell in a backwash of indignation. The Liberals rode in on the tidal wave. But such
is not the case now, for as it was then the parties held opposing views, while now it is a
case of the parties themselves being split into two factions, the Liberals and the Conservatives.

In both parties now are the two factions, one upholding the policies of Roosevelt, and the other, the conservatives, standing
against these policies being continued as other than emergency measures. The Conservative movement is just now coming to life in
a definite way since the beginning of this present administration, for until the past few months they have been reconciled
to the activities of the White House as emergency measures. But now they think that it is time to slow
up a bit on these plans and projects for it is beginning to take on a too permanent aspect to
suit their particular tastes. They are asking for a little more cautious action, and not this plunging method. It is
true though that during the immediate past action was very preferable to a static position, and they recognized it and
were glad to fall in line with the drastic steps to meet the drastic situation, but now the outlook has
changed. These conservative men are asking for action to suit the times, they are afraid that the present course will
deprive us of a chance to be liberal in anything, so they are attempting to meet the situation before it
arises.

But the Liberals also have their say. The Liberals argue that the times are changing and that we have to
anticipate the changes and be ready for them when they come. They want to continue along the lines as set
down by the president, and perhaps even go farther. They seem to like the running way of doing things and
abhor the cautious method of picking our steps. There is no doubt that some wonderful things have been accomplished in
their reign in office and that some of their policies have a great deal of value, but time will tell.
But this is the very point of controversy. The Old Guard of both the parties is going to have some
trying days trying to satisfy both the factions of their respective organizations. But if they will be able to do
this for the new parties—The Conservative and The Liberal—are due to take their place in the new era of politics.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES
By Enip Bowers

Washington and Lee
When the 29th annual Fancy Dress Ball takes place this year at W. & L., the calendar will be turned
back 120 years, to the time when the eyes of all the world were focused on the European diplomats gathered
in gay Vienna to undo the changes wrought by the Napoleonic wars. The official title for the ball will be
“The First Imperial Ridotto of 1815”. According to the custom, the bell will be rung from the time victory of
the Generals on the football field is announced until seven o'clock. Each freshman taking turns at the rope. From then
until midnight the bell will be rung on the hour, the number of strokes each hour to equal the number
of points scored by the Generals.

Tulane University
The time-honored absent-minded professor came to...Life the other day when an eccentric member of the English Department entered a classroom
and began calling the roll. He called several names and there were no answers. He continued down the list, noticing
that a murmur began to rise from the students. The professor looked around the room and finally glanced towards the
doorway where he recognized a familiar figure. The professor immediately took his roll book and departed for parts unknown. He
was in the wrong building.

University of South Carolina

Around 9,800 calls are made daily from the approximately forty campus phones. The chief operator of the central exchange says
that girls make as many dates as the boys. The busiest time is between the hours of six and seven
when these nightly engagements are made.

Something seldom heard of—an upperclassman was passing one of the dormitories and heard groans emitting from one of the windows.
Upon investigating, he saw a sight that struck him speechless, for there bent over a chair in a most undignified
manner was a senior uttering sounds of woe while a lowly freshman, with a calm and deliberate manner, was administering
punishment upon him with a hairbrush with resounding licks. It was later learned that the freshman was paying off a
bet.

Collegiana

In the Peloponnesian Islands, the custom is to rub noses instead of shaking hands... FERA work denied Fraternity men at
W&L... Students at Yankton College in South Dakota have resorted to picketing the girl’s dormitory in enforcing the strike on
“dating” the girls that reside on the campus... Freshmen at Furman are given examinations on the contents of their handbooks...
A school of social service designed primarily to train government relief workers was established at the University of Georgia... Dr.
William W. Bennett of Union College says that college students are more after grades than they are knowledge... A sophomore
at Adelbert College in Cleveland, Ohio lost his trousers on one of the busiest corners of the city when thirty
freshmen ripped them from him... Upperclassmen at Harvard are not required to attend classes or take the half-term examinations in
November and April... Left-hand ping-pong is being instituted at the University of Minnesota in order to cure students who stammer...
There are now 400 bicycles at Smith College in North Hampton, Mass. They have become such a nuisance that special
traffic rules are being formulated.

Duke-Davidson Weekend Enjoyed By Thousands

Continued from Page 1

Evelyn Stephens, New Bern; Lila Tucker, Charlotte; Leone Brooks, Atlanta, Ga.; Martha Withers, Columbia, S.C.; Lala Womble, Winston-Salem; and Margaret
Crawford, Atlanta, Ga.

Kappa Sigma: Nina Pinton, Greensboro; Nita Smith, Gastonia; Lucy Spinks, Wilmington; Ann West, Winterhaven, Fla.; and Edith Wyatt, Raleigh.

Pi Kappa Phi: Mary Clare Stokes, Wilson; Jean Stough, Cornelius; Carolyn Hammond, Charlotte; Virginia Carey, Charlotte; Frances Ray, Charlotte; Libby
Rhett, Davidson; and Dosty Blackmon, Charlotte.

Phi Gamma Delta: Ann Kimmons, Hoptown, Ky.; Adelaide Ranter, Richmond, Va.; Courtney West, Newport News, Va.; Dot Clendenin, Greensboro; Patsy
Jones, Greensboro; Marjorie Pye, Greensboro; Katherine Ellison, Greensboro; Corteland Preston, Washington, D.C.; Frances Tomlin, Jackson, Tenn.; Blevnis Vogler, Winston-Salem; Mary
Lib Walston, Winston-Salem; Miriam Steele, Charlotte; Agnes Crowder, High Point; Helen Lebby, Charleston, S.C.; Caroline Neave, Salisbury; Mary Flenniker, Knoxville,
Tenn.; Jean Montgomery, Charlotte; Margaret O’Harlon, Winston-Salem; “Pete” Schlosser, Greensboro; Mary Withers, Greensboro; Wilheima Monroe, Gettysburg; and Mary Roman, St.
Louis, Mo.

Phi Delta Theta: Kitty Rose, Jacksonville, Fla.; Jeanne Earley, Indianola, Miss.; Betty Carter, Montgomery, Ala.; Evelyn Bagby, Raleigh; Georgie Underwood,
Charlotte; Mary Horn, Charlotte; and Anne Preston, Columbia, S.C.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Francis Weathersbee, Greensboro; Caroline Shaw, Bishopville, S.C.; Margaret Cline, Salisbury; Jean Orr, Charlotte; Peggy Townsend, Charlotte; Miriam
Stevenson, Salisbury; Sara Wise, Greenville, S.C.; Catherine Currie, Bishopville, S.C.; Teeny Cook, Salisbury; Sara Hines, Oxford; Adele Powell, Oxford; Nancy
Redfern, Asheville; Rinda Gay, Welch, W.Va.; Virginia Casali, Welch, W.Va.; and Goudyloch Erwin, Davidson.

EDITOR’S NOTE: Due to unavoidable circumstances, the column “Selected Papers of Phineas Spoon” does not appear in this space this
week. It will appear on this page next week and every week following. The subject matter of the next one
will be related to the one last published.

An Open Letter To The Censors

Continued from Page 1

The system is exclusively a Student Body contribution. The voice that rises in censure to violators of our code, the
voice that pronounces final judgment is the corporate voice of an undergraduate majority. To accept its expression of opinion in
matters pertaining to discipline, and still to throttle the same voice as a legitimate expression in the matter of other
issues is to “The Student Policies Union” eminently unjust. This inconsistency is our peculiar grievance.

Education does not consist, for example, in mastering languages. It is properly found in that moral training which extends beyond
the precincts of the classroom to the campus and to life. It teaches that a more ignoble thing can be
done to fail in recitation. With unanimity, we will agree that the intellectual department of Davidson College life is directed
by men who are devoted to this high purpose of education. Young and eager minds are not constrained in classrooms.
The daily work of our professors involves the firing of enthusiasm, the whetting of intellectual appetites. The gates of universal
knowledge are thrown open. The only exhortation is to enter. No imposition of authority restricts the field of intellectual inquiry.

But consider the anomaly in the social field! Step out of the classroom and you leave the climate of freedom.
A line of demarcation is traversed and one reverts to a static atmosphere charged with the command to conformity. It
is the difference between the limitless vistas seen from the mountain tops, and the trammelled valleys that lie between where
signs direct the path to travel and fences front forbidden acres. More specifically, it is the difference between the liberty
to voice any opinion in an economics class, and the a priori restrictions imposed from above upon the integrity of
conscience in campus life.

When you consider that this Student Body cannot publicize its own dances by posters on the campus, nor by unrestrained
mention in the college paper without running afoul of the intentions of the authorities, you must confess that our grievances
are not imaginary. It makes little matter what fortune awaits the hackneyed “dancing issue.” What we insist upon is a
free student press. This is our immediate objective. In the case of outside control on the editorial policy of “The
Davidsonian,” the free voice of the Student Body is stopped in the throat.

In recapitulation, this is our creed. We believe that within the very precinct of this collegiate atmosphere we are entitled
to a wholesome, balanced social life. Further, we insist that the institution of dancing is an integral, legitimate part of
this generation's culture. But, more particularly—and in this belief we are united—we have an inalienable right to determine for ourselves
in the pages of this paper whether or not we shall subscribe to the accredited conventions of a contemporary culture
almost universally sanctioned by parents and other responsible thinkers. That same voice which sounds out so strong in support of
the Honour System has a right to free discussion in these pages.

This article is written with the hope and expectation that there are many readers of this paper whose sentiments these
are.

Signed: Student Policies Union.

NOTE: The names of the co-signers to this article are at “The Davidsonian” office, and are available for inquiry.

STATIONERY
CALLING CARDS
Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO.
Printers of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and of the DAVIDSON COLLEGE ALUMNI JOURNAL.
PROGRAMS
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
