THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 25, 1934

ALUMNI NEWS

Oldest Alumnus In Annals of Davidson

OLDEST ALUMNUS DIES

Heart Attack Fatal to General W. A. Smith, Member of Class of ’65

FOUGHT IN CIVIL WAR

Ten Confederate Veterans Attend Funeral Services at Ansonville

General W. A. SMITH, ’65, of Ansonville, Davidson’s oldest alumnus, died at his ancestral home in Ansonville on April 16.
He was ninety-two years old at the time of his death. Death was attributed to a heart attack. Funeral services
were held at Ansonville, and he was buried at Wadesboro. Ten comrades of the North Carolina Department of the United
Confederate Veterans, of which he was commander, attended the funeral. The casket was covered with the stars and bars of
the Confederacy.

General Smith was born January 11, 1842, on the Nelms homestead near Ansonville. After attending a local academy he entered
Davidson College, where he remained until shortly after the war broke out. He then joined the Anson Guards, a company
raised by Captain R. T. Hall, which was later consolidated with the Buncombe Rough and Ready Guards, captained by Zebulon
Baird Vance, who later became North Carolina’s war governor. He served with this company until 1862, when he was seriously
wounded in the Malvern Hill engagement.

When the war was over he found that the family fortune had been swept away, and so as a young
man, in 1866, he entered the mercantile business. He later organized two cotton mills, and then retired to his farm
near Ansonville. He was quite active in the organization of the United Confederate Veterans, having been commander of the Anson
camp of the organization, inspector-general of the second brigade of North Carolina, and later commander of the North Carolina Department.
He is survived by his widow, Mrs. Nannie Flake Smith.

Train Wreck Proves Fatal To E. D. Vaughn

Winston Alumni Express Feelings in Resolution

EDGAR D. VAUGHN, ’84, prominent Winston-Salem alumnus, died in Winston-Salem, April 11. Mr. Vaughn was injured in a train accident
and died shortly thereafter. The Winston-Salem Chapter of Davidson alumni passed the following resolution on the death of Mr. Vaughn:

“God having in His infinite love and wisdom called home our beloved friend and fellow member, Edgar D. Vaughn, we,
the members of the local unit of the Davidson College Alumni Association, wish to express at this time our feeling
of deep personal loss and genuine sympathy for his entire family. He was a gentleman of quiet manner, careful and
reflective judgment, and was highly respected by the men of his own college. In his walk and conversation he exemplified
in the highest degree the qualities of a true Christian gentleman. His life has been a constant source of blessing
and inspiration to those of our membership who have always looked to him as a man whose example might be
followed in the perfect assurance that it would lead us to noble and useful service.

“Davidson College has lost a loyal son and a faithful friend. He was a staunch supporter of her interests and
welfare. The college is justly proud of the success and services of this honored and valued alumnus.

“We rejoice in the assurance of his abiding trust and faith in God our Father, for we ‘sorrow not as
those without hope.’ May the peace of God come and abide in all of our hearts.

“We wish this statement of our high and lasting esteem to convey to his own family, the citizens of this
city, and the entire membership of the Davidson College Alumni Association, our recognition.”of the ‘passing over’ of one of our
number.” The resolution was signed by the following: William T. Baker, John S. Foster, Jr., Charles M. Davis, John D.
McConnell, and John W. Moore.

The trustees of Muskingum College (New Concord, Ohio) have lifted a 97-year-old ban against card playing and dancing by students.

General W. A. Smith, 65, Davidson College's oldest alumnus, died at his home in Ansonville, April 16.

Dr. W. J. MARTIN, former president of Davidson, was a recent visitor at the home of his daughter, Mrs. Martin
Foil, of Concord. He was accompanied by Mrs. Martin.

Rev. E. B. ROBINSON, of Talladega, was recently elected Moderator of the Tuscaloosa Presbytery at the semi-annual meeting at Pisgah
Presbyterian Church, near Selma, Ala.

Dr. BEN R. LACY, president of Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va., recently declined the call as pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church of Raleigh.

Dr. JOHN McSWEEN, president of the Presbyterian College, Clinton, S. C., will deliver the baccalaureate sermon at the annual commencement
exercises of Columbia Seminary on May 13.

Rev. R. C. WILSON, pastor of Kings Mountain Presbyterian Church, read a history of the first twenty-five years of the
church, in celebration of its 50th anniversary. Rev. E. P. DAVIS was mentioned in Rev. Wilson's history as the first
pastor of Kings Mountain Presbyterian Church.

W. B. GARRISON, Gastonia businessman, was chairman of the membership committee which had charge of the campaign for new members
of the Gastonia Chamber of Commerce last week.

J. B. GALLENT will act as director and professor of chemistry at the summer school session of Brenau College, Gainesville,
Ga.

HARLEE BRANCH is associated with the legal firm, Colquitt, Parker, Troutman, and Awkright, in Atlanta, Georgia.

RICHARD Z. QUERY, JR., of Charlotte, was recently elected to membership in Alpha Omega Alpha medical fraternity of Duke University.

CROSWELL RAGIN has received a position with the Laurinburg Institute, where he is working in Laurinburg.

ALLEN WHITEHEAD is working for the Dow-Ethys Company at Carolina Beach, Wilmington.

Alumni visitors on the campus recently were: R. C. GARTH, '19, New York; R. B. PARKER, '27, Rome, Ga.; W.
C. RAGIN, '31, Laurinburg; E. B. WILKINSON, '31, Decatur, Ga.; T. M. GIGNILLIAT, '32, Seneca, S.C.; A. H. WHITEHEAD, '32,
Wilmington; and the following graduates of the class of 1933: L. B. COLQUITT, J. R. HOWARD, J. K. PARKER, E.
B. WILKINSON, all of Decatur, Ga.; W. F. MULLISS and C. F. MYERS, both of Boston, Mass., and J. J.
STEWART, of Mount Holly.

Deaths

Dr. EDWARD S. VASS died recently at Schenectady, N. Y., after a brief illness.

“It’s toasted”

Luckies are always kind to your throat

We think you’d be impressed if you saw Luckies being made. You'd see those clean, silky center leaves—and you really
wouldn’t have to be a tobacco expert to know why farmers get higher prices for them. They are the mildest
leaves—they taste better. You’d be impressed by Lucky Strike’s famous process—“It’s toasted”—designed for your throat protection. And we know you’ll
be truly fascinated when you see how Luckies are rolled round and firm, and fully packed with long golden strands
of choice tobaccos. That’s why Luckies “keep in condition”—why you'll find that Luckies do not dry out—an important point to
every smoker. And you'll get the full meaning of our statement that Luckies are always in all-ways kind to your
throat.

Only the Center Leaves—these are the Mildest Leaves

Copyright, 1934, The American Tobacco Company.
