THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 10, 1934

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915.

Member of Associated Collegiate Press

1933 (Associated Collegiate Press) 1934

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor and other communications intended for publication must be signed.

Editor-in-Chief: W. T. JOHNSON
Managing Editor: G. L. CASALI
Managing Editor: E. F. McCARTY
Managing Editor: B. L. ROBERTS
Managing Editor: K. D. WEAVER
Managing Editor: JACK HENDERSON
Alumni Editor: C. E. NORVELL
Sports Editor: RAWLING PRATT
Editorial Writer: A. HUNTER
Feature Editor: B. B. BAILEY
Feature Editor: S. K. EASON
Feature Editor: S. C. HENDERSON
Feature Editor: D. W. HOLLINGSWORTH, JR.
Review Editor: L. W. CLARDY
Exchange Editor: A. F. SCHENCK
Assistant Editor: W. M. THOMPSON
Assistant Editor: JACK WILLIAMS

BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager: G. W. WADSWORTH
Assistant Business Manager: W. L. WADSWORTH
Assistant Business Manager: A. C. WADSWORTH

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1934

All higher motives, ideals, conceptions, sentiments in a man are of no account if they do not come forward to strengthen him for the better discharge of the duties which devolve upon him in the ordinary affairs of life.
—Henry Ward Beecher.

Deepest sympathy is extended to Registrar F. W. Hengeveld, and Students A. M. Faison, W. D. Herring, and H. M. Ray in their recent bereavements.

BACK AGAIN

Although we have been back at school for scarcely a week, the time to most of us is immeasurable unless we seriously contemplate the date of our return and deduce the actual length of our being back in harness. The Christmas holidays have faded into the hazy realm of recollection and it is not easy for us to realize that such a short time has elapsed since those days when we stayed awake all night and slept until two on the following afternoon. Remarkable indeed is the ability possessed by human beings to change from one situation and mode of living into another and to readjust themselves successfully to the changed environment in a twinkling of an eye.

Remarkable also is the amazing rapidity with which a student can return to the same rut and routine of the pre-holiday period. And it is in this fact that danger lurks for many. Unsatisfactory scholarship in one or more subjects has been the failing for many of us, especially in the freshman class. We have intended to do better, but days have slipped into weeks and weeks into months and there has been no visible improvement. There are others who have flirted with “flunking,” barely making passing grades. To these two groups, we wish to say that the time is short—entirely too short—unless we apply great effort during the next few weeks, before and during examinations. The majority of men flunk at least one course while they are in college. Follow the line of least resistance if you will and follow the crowd, but remember that it is possible to pass if you are willing, not to make any great sacrifice, but to simply put forth an intelligent amount of effort. Forget the bull-session for several weeks, imagine Charlotte is a hundred miles away, cut the show attendance down, and whenever you sit around and do nothing in particular, think of the time during Spring Holidays when you will sit around and do plenty in the way of preparation for re-examinations. Now is the easiest time to pass, now is the easiest time to pull averages up, now is the time to hold your own. It is not a question of “Can you do it?” but “Will you do it?”

You will never regret hard work now. Embarrassing moments when your parents get hold of you and of your report can be avoided. Self-respect, confidence, and satisfaction can be gained. Do not have to be “back again” when other fellows go vacationing in the spring and summer. And now it’s up to you!
—R. P.-T.

DON’T LET YOURSELF BE BURIED

“A farmer had an old blind horse which had outlived his usefulness. One day he fell into an old well. The farmer looked in and saw him standing deep in the water. There seemed to be no way to get him out, as he was quite useless, and the well abandoned and dangerous, the farmer ordered his men to fill up the well and leave the horse buried in it.

“The men began to shovel dirt into the well. But the horse was not willing to be buried. When the dirt began to pour in upon him, he began to shake it off and tread it under foot. As the well was filled up the horse came nearer and nearer to the surface, and when the men finished their task the horse walked out into the pasture.

“The very things which conspire to bury the lion-hearted these days, are used by them to lift themselves out of difficulties and into the light. The very last thing one should do is to agree to stay dead and buried.”

The above is not ours, but was taken from the columns of another newspaper. We reprint it here because of the lesson it carries.

A WISE STEP OR NOT

“To be or not to be,” that is once more the question here at Davidson College, many years after the death of its illustrious author. In reality, to be clearer, our question is “To join or not to join the Southern Conference” (that is if we’re invited, of course).

It is not my purpose to take sides on this question, but merely to present the facts on both sides to the Davidson student body, and let the boys hash it out among themselves.

There are many advantages to be had if Davidson should ally herself with the Conference teams. For example, this year we had a player of great ability, rated by his coach as better than All-American Beattie Feathers, yet the best he could do was receive honorable mention on one All-American team, and pick up a few sectional honors. He was entirely overlooked when the All-Southern pickers whipped into action. Were we affiliated with the Southern Conference, there is little doubt but what he would have been prominently mentioned on All-American selections, and landed a berth on the All-Southern.

Another advantage of belonging to the Conference is that it encourages a school to play a representative schedule, as a certain number of Conference teams must be met.

On the other hand, should Davidson join the Conference, the glory that comes to us, the underdog, when we knock off some of these powers of the mighty Conference, would come to us no more, and a Davidson victory over a Conference opponent would be no more than what was to be expected.

As for playing a representative schedule, the 1934 Wildcat schedule lists games with four Southern Conference opponents, and past schedules have listed that many or more, which is all we would have should we join the Conference. In addition to that we have games with Army, and William and Mary, which would certainly be classed as “big time” organizations.

And last, would it be wise to play even as big a schedule as we play? Would it not be better to stay out of the Conference, and lay off schools like Duke and Carolina, and substitute Washington and Lee, Richmond, Furman, or other schools of our own size in their places? Those are merely questions for thought, and the writer would appreciate suggestions in the form of an editorial answer to see what can be done about this problem that confronts us. Of course, this is purely on a supposition that we are extended a bid, because we haven’t even been asked to join yet you know.
—CONN IR.

Here and There

Almost one-fourth of the 1,853 women students registered at University of Nebraska are employed in some kind of outside work, according to Miss Amanda Hepner, dean of women.

Yale alumni are about to abandon the policy of having a former Yale player as coach. Harry Kipke, Michigan grid mentor, or T. A. D. Jones, Howard’s brother, may coach the Eli team next year.

American and English students may study under “Red Professors” at the First Moscow University’s 1934 Summer School. Six weeks’ courses ranging in subject matter from “Political Economies of the Reconstruction Period” to “Crime and Punishment in the Soviet Union,” ten in all, will be given in English by the foremost teachers of the U. S. S. R.

An examination at the University of Mississippi asked for the principal parts of any Latin verb. Upon one paper was written: “Slippeo, slipere, falli, bumptus.” The returned paper had these words: “Falio, failere, fluncto, suspendum.”

Heat will be turned off in nearly all the buildings on the main campus at the University of Minnesota on Sunday and holidays when no classes are scheduled and it is estimated that $5,000 will be saved through this action.

NEWS DIGEST

Honor

The old adage of “honor among thieves” has been generally accepted but the idea that criminals should have an honorable attitude even towards their confinement is almost unheard of. However, this has always been the case as regards the Kilby prison of Alabama. Three hundred and thirty prisoners were freed there on good behavior for Christmas holidays at home and all of them except four kept their word and returned at the time set.

Congress Meets

The long-awaited meeting of Congress, the Congress which has caused so much discussion and argument, has come at last. The crisis is here. Whether we escape from the depression or not depends upon the actions of the present Congress. This meeting...Promises to be the most important Congressional assembly in years. The President's message was an indication of just how serious the present task was to be. In his message, President Roosevelt laid down the most radical policy ever presented to a Congress of the United States. His policy was virtually one of Socialism. The government is to have a hand in the production and labor conditions of practically every business. The national debt is to be raised higher than any point in history. The nation is to be completely reorganized. The policy of “laissez-faire” is gone, dead and buried, and government control of industry reigns in its place.

Flood
California, the Sunshine State, received a heavy blow to its reputation last week when the rain suddenly began pouring down in torrents and did not stop until almost fifty persons had lost their lives in the flood which followed. The flooded portion occupied a large area in the vicinity of Los Angeles and the major number of deaths was in this region.

Default
The yearly occurrence of France's default in regards to the American war debt has just been passed. It is getting to be quite a habit for France to pat its debts and the other nations of the world, especially the United States, are becoming riled at such action. The House of Representatives applauded when Britten, Republican of Illinois, called the debtor nation a cheater and suggested that an embargo be placed upon the light wines imported from France.

Arms Parity
Sir John Simon, British foreign secretary, frankly says that he wishes to give Germany arms parity. He wishes to make the German army equal to those of the other strong nations of the world. He believes that the attempts of the Allies to reduce the strength of the German army is only breeding more strife. He and all other statesmen are convinced that a new war in Europe would hurt everybody.

Drys
The dry leaders have organized for the next fight. With the assertion that the country stands morally disgraced by its defeat at the hands of the repealists, the National Temperance and Prohibition Council took its stand and called on all the foes of liquor to fight its traffic. The council has just completed a merger of thirty-four other temperance organizations and plans to fight the traffic of liquor to the last ditch.

Navies
Experts fear that there is danger of a huge naval building race between now and the opening of the 1935 naval conference in Washington. Special emphasis was laid on building by the United States and Japan. This gloomy portrayal was made in a report by Deputy Vascello of the Italian navy. The report went on to say that there are various naval controversies between France and Great Britain, Britain and the United States, the United States and Japan, and finally, between France and Italy. Of all these, Deputy Vascello believes that the one between the United States and Japan is the worst and the one most likely to turn into a building race.

Cuba
The storm over Cuba is beginning to gather force again. The heated temperaments which have already deposed two rulers in the past four months are at it again and this time they are trying to break the rule of a third man, President Grau San Martin. Riots and mass assemblies have occurred and it looks as if more are to come and come with increasing violence.

Fred Waring Leaves Old Gold Program
New Year Sees Other Changes in Radio Programs
By Bug Barringer

Old Gold has pulled the first mistake of the year and has let Fred Waring and his glee club go. Ted Fiorito and his band from the Pacific Coast have been signed to take Waring’s place on the air. Maybe this is a break for us listeners after all, ‘cause Waring will probably start broadcasting more than once a week. He deserves more and more time on the air. Whoever gets him on their program will get one of the most promising of the younger orchestra leaders and one that has plenty of satisfied listeners. Until February 7, Waring will still be heard at 10 o'clock over WBT.

The Mills Brothers, which were only signed for three guest appearances, will still come on with Bing Crosby each Monday night at 8:30 over the Columbia System. Gus Arnheim and his ace band from movieland have been signed to appear on this program till Bing leaves the Pacific Coast in February. This won't be the first time that Bing and Gus worked together; they made a series of popular records a few years back that made Crosby famous.

Next Sunday night on the Chase and Sanborn hour, Rubinoff and his omnipresent violin will celebrate the signing of a new contract for the fourth year. This will be an all-request program. Rubinoff and don’t forget his violin have only played for one sponsor during his three years in radio. A single audition won him a contract which has been renewed three times.

Last Thursday night the announcer talked for a few minutes on how a certain brand of cigarettes would not affect the nerves, then the orchestra played the current favorite “Got the Jitters.” The Camel Caravan puts on one of the best shows on the air with Glen Gray and his Casa Loma orchestra, Do, Re, Mi and Irene Taylor. They can be heard every Tuesday and Thursday nights at 10 o’clock over CBS.

The Pickens Sisters—Helen, Jane, and Patti—have returned from the West Coast from making pictures and are now on the ether waves every Wednesday night from WJZ and its associated stations. The Pickens girls all hail from Georgia and all three are pretty brunettes. They have been singing that smooth harmony together since grammar school days.

Tomorrow afternoon at 1:15 Billy Sunday will speak from New York over CBS. This is the first time that Sunday has been to New York in seventeen years. The famous evangelist is now conducting a series of revivals there.

Ted Fiorito, whose band succeeds Fred Waring’s on the Old Gold series February 7, is the composer of the “Unfinished Symphony.” He started working on it at the age of 19 and he is still laboring over it.

LARGE PERCENTAGE OF STUDENTS MAKE PLEDGES
(Continued from page 1)

Paid, and during the next few weeks a concentrated drive will be made on collections. Part of the money was used for relief work during the holidays, being administered to the workers in the neighboring mill district through the Davidson Unity Church.

WILDKITTEN CAGE TEAM TO MEET CENTRAL HIGH
The Davidson freshman basketball team will meet a strong quintet from Central High in Charlotte twice during the coming week, once on Friday, January 12, and once on Tuesday, January 16. Both games will be played in the Central High gymnasium in Charlotte.

On Other Campuses

Virginia
Secretary Ickes, Chairman of the Public Works Administration, announced yesterday that the PWA Board has approved a loan grant of $379,000 to the University of Virginia for a new engineering building. One-third of this amount is an outright gift and the other two-thirds is a loan. The announcement came as a surprise since Secretary Ickes had previously announced that the State of Virginia had received all the money to which it was entitled. The $379,000 was a part of $1,200,000 allotted yesterday for public works in Virginia.

Ashland
Editorials have been abolished in the Ashland College paper because of the belief that the editor’s ideas are no better than those of the student body and that they do not represent the policy of the paper.

Louisiana Tech
Versatile, this Mae West. The lady with the “Come up to see me sometime” complex has been chosen to be judge of the girls who make up the beauty section of the Lagniappe, Louisiana Tech annual.

Louisiana
The aeronautical faculty of the Louisiana State University this year consists of 41 members, all except two of whom are members of the regular staff of the university. This is undoubtedly what some term “Higher Education”!

Harvard
Harvard University owns enough football equipment to outfit six thousand men. Prince Toumaneff, once a general in the Russian Imperial Army, is librarian at Harvard University.

V. M. I.
Beginning at 8:30 p.m. Friday, January 19, Station WSM of Nashville, Tenn., will broadcast a program featuring V. M. I. This entertainment will constitute part of a radio series which will be offered twice weekly. It will be sponsored by the National Life and Accident Insurance Company, Inc., of Nashville. The broadcast purposes to bring the leading colleges and universities of America before the public. It will be made up of bits of history, dramatic incidents, medleys of college songs, etc., concerning these schools.

Tufts
Look over this experiment completed at Tufts recently; improve on it if you can. An element—Woman, Symbol—Member of the human family, Occurrence—Can be found anywhere man exists. Seldom occurs in free native state. Quality depends on state in which it is found. Physical properties—All sizes and colors. Always appears in disguised condition. Usually covered with coat of paint or a film of powder. Boils at nothing and may freeze at any moment. Chemical properties—Extremely active. Possesses great affinity for gold, silver, platinum, and precious stones of all kinds. Violent reaction when left alone by men. Great ability to absorb all kinds of expensive foods at all times. Sometimes yields to pressure. Some turn green (envy) when placed near better appearing samples. Ages very rapidly. Fresh variety has magnetic properties. Highly explosive and likely to be dangerous in inexperienced hands.

PRICHETT ATTENDS CHICAGO ASSEMBLY
(Continued from page 1)

Universities, among which were speeches by the chancellor of the University of Kansas and the vice-president of Notre Dame.

STATIONERY
Printing of all Types
CALLING CARDS
FRATERNITY PAPERS
PROGRAMS at Reasonable Rates
See BILL JOHNSON
203 Watts
Garland Court
Standard Printing Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.