6 : THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 24, 1934

Fighting Cats Bow To Blue Devils
Continued from Page 4

Yarborough is injured and replaced by C. S. Howard as he receives a big hand from the crowd for his outstanding work in today’s game. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats are fighting desperately, giving Duke plenty of trouble with its varied aerial attack. Pittman begins fire with a long return of Parker's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets 9 yards. Verble and Pittman crash the red line. Whitener finally crashes over right tackle for the final touchdown. Score, Duke 20; Davidson 0. Still, the Wildcats areing of students in large general groups such as A, B, C, or D would be a desirable trend in the development of examinations and gradings.

As Felix Sees 'Em
Continued from Page 4

full life from his college days, and on seeing him the students will realize that he is a man who has touched life at many points. I believe the average may lose a few yards once in a while, but when one of the plays clicks, it pays nice dividends. The daring young trapeze and their fair companions. A young Spanish gentleman gave his version of the Carioca on a tight wire.

In reply to the students who want to be exempted from examinations if they attain an average of 85 or more, Dr. Bennett said, “Good students should be given comprehensive examinations if they want to try for scholastic honors, while others who may not desire to try for such honors might be exempted from taking exams, if any are to be exempted.”

Music Department Will Present Concert Series
Student season tickets for the series of three musical concerts to be presented this year by the music department will cost $1.00, according to an announcement made last Wednesday in chapel by Dr. W. L. Lingle. The admission to each concert individually will be 50 cents. Admission to this series for those other than students will be $2.00 for the set and 75 cents for each concert. These concerts will be given by the following artists: Palmer Christian, organist; Joseph Brinkman, pianist; and Wilson Angel, bass. Tickets are on sale now by members of the musical department.

Davidson Frosh Downed By V. P. I. Cadets
Continued from Page 4

linemen. Cregger was forced to fall on the ball to prevent the ‘Kittens from making a touchdown. This resulted in a safety for the local gridmen, their only score of the game. Early in the third quarter, V. P. I. got the ball on the Davidson 26 yard line by a fortunate exchange of punts. Cregger crashed through the line for four successive gains of 14 yards, 2 yards, 3 yards, and 6 yards to cross the goal line, making the second V. P. I. touchdown. Again, the kick was blocked, making the score 12-2, the final count.

The lineups:
V. P. I. Davidson
Nichelson LE Hill
Bixler LT Overall
Graham LG Grey
Hogan C Williams
Robbins RG Hogan
V. P. I. 2, 0, 0, 0

Officials were: Referee, Hackney of North Carolina; Umpire, Mason of Duke; Head Linesman, Ison of North Carolina.

Kennedy’s Shoe Shop
Skilled Workmanship at Reasonable Prices

The passing arrangement that was pulled against Duke is one of the rarer examples of this sort of game, but it shows very clearly the beauty and profit of risking the possibility of losing a little ground, and at the same time making it highly possible for a nice substantial gain. It’s about among the “ten thousand wonders of the big top.” The clowns staged their usual fireman act. Men, two men (count 'em) were shot from a cannon. And don't forget the horses; without them it wouldn’t be a circus! Yes, even the most blasé of collegians found something to admire or argue about.

S.A.E Beats Betas
Monday afternoon the S.A.E.’s gained a place in the second round of the inter-fraternity football tournament by defeating the Betas 6-0 in a hard-fought game. Throughout the contest, the two teams battled on equal terms, the S.A.E.s gaining their advantage when only 40 seconds of play remained. This was only the first round match, the other seven fraternities advancing on byes to the second round.

Tennis Tourney Near Finals
Continued from Page 4

Four men are in the quarter-finals, three of which are seeded. In the upper bracket, John Walker first disposed of Tom Sutton in a 6-2, 6-4 manner and then upset the dope with a surprising three-set victory over Martin Barnett. Jake Morrow, Walker's opponent in the quarter-finals, has wins over R. H. Robinson 6-2, 6-4 and Bob Lindsay 10-8, 6-4. In the lower bracket, Carl Carlson has entered the quarter-finals in a rather hard-pressed way, having been forced to three sets in each match. Loyd Fenithenberger was his first victim by a 6-3, 2-6, 6-3 score and then Carlson put Henry Cassidy out of the running with a 6-2, 4-6, 6-3 match. Carlyle Lewis, ranked number two, has had a comparatively easy time so far as he has only dropped two games in his first two matches. Lewis won from Louis Crew 6-1, 6-1 and then he took Ed Bivens to town in two straight love sets, 6-0, 6-0.

Boys’ Work Program Gets Fully Underway
The Boys’ work of the Y. M. C. A. has been launched successfully with every department working. The Boys’ Club across the tracks has been started and the Hi-Y club of Davidson held its first meeting last week. The football teams have started both at Davidson and Cornelius under the direction of John Brown at Cornelius, and J. J. McNabb and Lawrence Reid at Davidson. The Mill Chapel Work, under the direction of Carlyle Lewis and Jack Branch, has started with fifteen boys present.

Davidson man will not only hear Dr. Belk gladly but will be drawn to him personally and will find him both a speaker of unusual attractiveness and a counselor of great sympathy.” The first service of the meeting will be Sunday morning at the regular church hour. Dr. Belk will also speak in the evening at six o'clock at the regular vesper service. The chapel hour on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday mornings will be lengthened and the evening services will be at seven o'clock.

Ideal Barber Shop
In Back Of Ray Harrison's
Shave 15c
Haircut 25c
“Come give us a trial”

The Minister of Tomorrow—
Needs the best of theological training that is available today.
UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

The Chesterfields you’re smoking now are just like they were last year or any other year—because we always buy the right tobaccos—uniformly ripe and mild.

WEDNESDAY
ROSA PONSELLE
NINO MARTINI
GRETE STUECKGOLD
KOSTELANETZ ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS
9 P.M. (E. S. T.) — COLUMBIA NETWORK

MONDAY
SATURDAY