THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 25, 1934

VA. POLY LOSES TO ’CAT TRACKMEN

| Around the Wildcat’s Lair |

HALVERSTADT STATE TENNIS CHAMP

Felix renders his loudest growl of the week to Jimmy Halverstadt for the excellent performance he turned in at the
State Tennis Tournament staged on the University of North Carolina courts last Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. The apparent ease with
which Jimmy marched through these three days of play is particularly noteworthy. He played five matches throughout the tourney without
losing a single set, and only John Higgins, Duke No. 2 man, was able to force him into extra game
sets. Barney Welch, first-ranking Duke star, was the other finalist, and if the score of this match is a true
indication of their playing, he gave the Davidson ace little trouble in his quest for the championship. It was only
fair that Halverstadt and Lafferty dropped the doubles title to Welch and Higgins after four sets, because these Blue Devils
deserved something for being humiliated by the masterful Wildcat netmen in the singles. We would have been very grateful if
these boys had come through on top, but so long as Carolina was left with only a bunch of messed-up
courts this corner is satisfied. Those Tar Heels have made a clean sweep in the State net tourney every season
for the past half-decade, so the time is certainly ripe for them to quit hoggin’ it.

Ras Evans truly made the cinders fly in Miles Stadium at Blacksburg Saturday, when he won three races and tied
for first in another, in the track meet with Virginia Tech. I understand he was clearly in front on the
century, but near the finish there were two marks about five yards apart, and the Davidson sprinter, thinking the tape
to be stretched at the first line, made a leap for it, which slowed him down enough to allow the
V. P. I. opponent time for a tie before they crossed the second mark, where the string actually was. He
garnered 19 points in spite of this misfortune, which is a record number for this particular arena and will no
doubt remain so for many meets to come. All of the Wildcat tracksters came through quite nobly in this encounter,
as well as the centennial representatives. Johnny Pearce made the best heave in the javelin event that any Davidson field
man has been able to do since Coble established the school record in 1931 of 180 feet, 2 inches. Johnny’s
throw covered more than 175 feet, which is a good distance for any college sophomore.

Now that the brighter side of the Wildcat’s lair has been surveyed, it behooves us to get a glimpse of
the men on the diamond, who thus far have done little more than cast a shadow of gloom over its
interested fans. Can it be true that these men are playing for personal glory rather than to win for the
institution they represent, the coach, and a decent team record? Do the players have the necessary confidence in their pitchers,
and do the hurlers feel that they will always receive the best support possible from their teammates? It’s hard to
admit that Davidson simply doesn’t have a winning ball team, and I don’t think that is the case, even though
the record so far would make one have such an impression, but I do believe this Wildcat nine could muster
more team spirit and self-assurance than has been displayed in its contests during the first part of the season. The
let-down from last year is a little more disappointing than we had expected, and hence it is more difficult to
understand, but faith in Coach Laird and his charges hasn’t been entirely abandoned.

Davidson students will have a chance to see the finalists of both the singles and doubles in the State tennis
tourney meet again when the Duke Blue Devils engage the Wildcats on the local courts Thursday afternoon.

A third college record was broken in the field events during the meet at V. P. I, when John Lee
added two and three-quarters inches to the pole vault height. He pulled himself over the bar at 11 feet, 8¾
inches, whereas the old mark was 11 feet, 6 inches.

Davidson Wildcats Lose Three Games During Past Week

Baseball Nine Drops Games to Carolina and Wake Forest

DEACONS WIN TWICE

Harris and Jenkins Pitch Against Wake Forest

The Davidson College baseball team ran up against unusually stiff opposition last week, losing three games to their Big Five
opponents. The first contest was dropped to the University of North Carolina, 9 to 0, while the two remaining games
ended 11 to 7 and 4 to 1 in favor of the Wake Forest Demon Deacons. One other contest, which
was scheduled with Carolina last Tuesday, was called off because of the weather.

Carolina, 9; Davidson, 0

Carolina defeated Davidson for the third consecutive time in a game played at Chapel Hill Wednesday. The Tar Heels, led
by the hitting of Gus Mclver and Captain George Brandt, apparently had little trouble in maintaining their Big Five and
Conference leadership, Southern. Ernest McKeithan, Carolina pitcher, limited the 'Cats to six scattered hits, while his teammates used Richardson of
Davidson for a total of 16 safeties and scored in six out of eight innings. Gus Mclver led the Carolina
attack with a single, double, and triple in four trips at the bat. Captain Brandt accounted for the most spectacular
play of the game with a beautiful running catch of a foul that dropped in the middle of a mass
of players on the bench.

Wake Forest, 11; Davidson, 7

In the first of a two-game series on Richardson Field Friday, the Wake Forest Demon Deacons eked out an 11
to 7 victory over the Wildcats. Charlie Harris occupied the mound for Davidson, striking out five men and allowing only
11 hits during the game. Johnny Mackorell accounted for a three-bagger while Jim Morgan came second in the hitting department
for the ‘Cats with a two-base hit. For Wake Forest, Mitchell, Patton, and Alexander led with two runs each. Alexander
knocked the only home run of the game. The Deacons took advantage of the errors made by the ‘Cats and
together with 11 hits, easily made up for the difference in scores.

Wake Forest, 4; Davidson, 1

In the last game of the season to be (Continued on page 6)

Junior Team Advances In Intramural Sports

In the intramural baseball games of the past week, the Junior team was the most successful, winning two games and
losing none. They beat the Freshmen, 11-6, on Thursday, and on Monday they swamped the Seniors, 19-9. Dewey Hutchins pitched
both games for the Juniors, while Bill Pritchard and Benny Garrison pitched for the yearlings, and T. Hooke McCallie hurled
for the Seniors. The last part of the Freshman game on Thursday was played in a pouring rain.

On Wednesday afternoon the Sophomores defeated the Seniors, 6-4, in a closely fought battle. T. Hooke McCallie also pitched this
game for the Seniors, and Benfield was on the mound for the second-year men. Yesterday afternoon the Sophomores met the
Freshmen in the final game of this tournament, but the results of this game were not available when the paper
went to press.

In the second tennis match of the intramural series, the Sophomores defeated the Seniors, 4-1. The members of the Sophomore
team are Addison Brenizer, George Hornbeck, Jake Morrow, and John Walker. The Senior team is composed of Wilbur Fugate, Mack
Holland, Palmer Kirkpatrick, and Charlie Rives. Four of these matches were singles and the other was doubles. Each team will
meet the representative from every other class twice during the tournament.

Buff Shoe Shop ‘Modern Shoe Rebuilder

’Cat Golfers Lose Match With Duke

Linksmen Are Decisively Defeated by 15½-2½ Score

The Duke University golf team made a clean sweep in its match with the Davidson linksmen last Saturday on the
Carolina course in Charlotte, winning 15½-2½. Cliff Perry, of Winston-Salem, Duke sophomore, came out low man in the 18-hole match
with a classy 74, netting a steady 37 for each nine. Bill Cannon, Davidson sophomore player, had the lowest score
for nine holes, getting a 36 for the first nine; he was unable to repeat this score on his second
round, however. The results of the match are as follows: Perry (3) defeated Barnes (0); Powell (3) defeated Bowman (0);
Perry and Powell (3) defeated Barnes and Bowman (0); Sullivan (2½) defeated Hamrick (1½); Budd (2) defeated Cannon (1); Sullivan
and Budd (2) defeated Hamrick and Cannon (1). Total: Duke 15½; Davidson 2½.

The Davidson golfers left today on a four-day trip to Chapel Hill, Durham, and Raleigh, where they will play three
successive matches, topping them off by competing in the State Intercollegiate Golf Tournament. This afternoon the Wildcats engage the Carolina
golf team at Chapel Hill. Tomorrow they will be given a second crack at the Duke Blue Devils, whom they
will play in Durham. Friday, N. C. State will be met in Raleigh, and on Saturday the State Tournament will
be held, probably on the Hope Valley course, located between Chapel Hill and Durham. The order in which the men
of the Davidson team will play had not been decided at the time this paper went to press, but Bowman,
Barnes, Hamrick, and Cannon will no doubt see service. The Wildcats have done themselves justice against strong competition so far
this year, and they still have most of the season before them.

Freshman Tennis Team Visits Ellsworth Vines

After having been rained out of the tennis meet with the Charlotte HighTennis team, the Davidson frosh team trooped over
to the Charlotte Hotel to try to get a glimpse of Big Bill Tilden and Ellsworth Vines, who were in
Charlotte to play a match on their professional tour of the United States. Tilden went out one entrance of the
hotel about the same time the team entered the other, but due to the perseverance of Henry Cassidy, they finally
got permission to see Vines. Ed Garrett, manager of the Centennial team, was the first to enter the room of
the famous Vines, greeting him with a “Hi, Vines, old boy,” while the members of the team timidly lingered outside.
However, Vines was very friendly and said he was always glad to see people who were interested in tennis. When
asked about Jimmy Halverstadt, Vines immediately said he had heard about the ability of the Wildcat star and hoped he
would succeed in winning the state intercollegiate tennis tournament. He also complimented the Davidson varsity team on their record this
year and was greatly surprised to hear that the Wildcats had defeated Georgia Tech. The following night at the Charlotte
Armory-Auditorium, Vines defeated "Big Bill" Tilden, the old master of the courts, in a fast match before a crowd of
1,500 spectators. Both players were at top form and since nothing depended on the match, displayed some fast and terrific
tennis. The match was played on a canvas-covered floor, which added to the fastness of the game. The preliminary to
the contest was played between Gledhill and Chapin and was won by the former, 6-2, 6-1.

Named After Coach
While the track teams were at V.P.I. last weekend, some of the boys had the privilege of visiting a few
of the interesting places around the campus of the Virginia institution. Among these was the dairy barn where several hundred
very fine head of cattle are kept and milked by the students in the agricultural school, and one of these
animals, the most contented looking of the herd, so they report, is named “Monk” for the former Wildcat mentor, Monk
Younger, who left Davidson in 1932 to take a position on the coaching staff at the Blacksburg school.

Freshmen Nine Wins Over Belmont Abbey
Score First Win by Defeating Catholic Nine 8-2
Departing from their usual form, the Wildkitten baseball team broke into the win column for the first time this season
by virtue of an 8-2 victory over the Belmont Abbey nine. The game was played Thursday afternoon on Richardson Field.
Improved fielding and hitting and three-hit pitching by “Lefty” Porter were the main factors that wrought the change in the
scoreboard. Porter struck out eight men and allowed no hits after the third inning. He was well supported by his
teammates, who gathered ten hits while making only one error. Leading the little ‘Cats at bat was Jim Dickson, frosh
catcher, who hit three times out of four trips. Corbin and Shemwell also starred, gaining a double and a single
each. Kerman was the satellite for the visitors and responsible for both their runs. In the third inning, Davidson hopped
on Kearns for two hits which, coupled with two errors, two sacrifices, and a walk, scored three runs. Belmont tallied
once in both the first and third innings. Due to rain, the game lasted only seven and one-half innings. Batteries
for Davidson were Porter and Dickson; for Belmont, Kearns and Campbell. Davidson smashed out ten hits, gained eight runs, and
made one error. Belmont got two runs on three hits and made seven errors. The freshmen did not fare so
well in a practice game with a team from Cornelius, losing 7-2. Allowed only four hits by Sherrill, the "Kittens
made two runs and one error, while the team from Cornelius touched Gracey for nine hits and seven runs. A
home run by McConnell in the second inning was the scoring feature of the day. Batteries for Davidson were Gracey
and Lanier; for Cornelius, Sherrill and Howard. The Wildkittens play Newton Wednesday, Campbell College Thursday, and Louisburg College Saturday, all
games to be played on Richardson Field.

Delta Phi Alpha Picks Next Year’s Officers
Gordon Wood was elected president of Delta Phi Alpha, national German fraternity, next year in a meeting held on April
10 at Dr. G. R. Vowles’ house. The meeting was called to order by a scripture reading and the roll
was called, each member answering with some German selection. Dr. Vowles read a few lines from the works of Muller-Partenkirchen
and the election of officers followed. W. B. Ravanel was elected vice-president and Martin Barnett was selected as secretary.

Four Out Of Five College Men Come To Johnson’s Barber Shop
Davidson, N. C.

SLEEP LATE and DINE WITH US
LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOP.

Tar Heels Defeat ’Cat Tennis Team
Davidson Wins One Singles; Two Doubles Matches
After a very successful season of ten consecutive victories, the Davidson Wildcat tennis team was defeated by the University of
North Carolina netmen last Wednesday afternoon by a score of 6 to 3. The match was played on the courts
at Chapel Hill and two Davidson players remained to take part in the state tournament which started on Thursday. Collectively,
the Tar Heel team was superior to the Wildcats, as can be evidenced by the score, but Jimmy Halverstadt, playing
the number one position for Davidson, carried off the individual honors. Maintaining his championship form, he decisively trounced Harris of
Carolina, 6-2, 6-1. Davidson's No. 3 doubles team, composed of Barnett and Scott, also showed up well in winning their
match. Tennis at Carolina has been notable in the past, as national honors have been won for several years, but
the loss of such stars as Wilmer Hines and Lenoir Wright has considerably weakened this aggregation. During the past several
years, Carolina teams have amassed a total of almost one hundred victories and incurred no defeats. In acquiring this excellent
record, they have defeated many outstanding eastern teams from colleges and universities larger than Carolina. It was hoped that Davidson,
with its strong team this year, would be the first to defeat the Tar Heels after their long reign in
North Carolina, but the Wildcats were defeated after putting up a fine struggle to the last. Davidson meets Carolina again
this season in another attempt. The summary is as follows:

Singles: Halverstadt (D) defeated Harris (C), 6-2, 6-3. Willis (C) defeated Thompson (D), 6-3, 6-2. Levitan (C) defeated Lafferty (D),
6-2, 7-5. Morgan (C) beat Barnett (D), 6-4, 6-4. Minor (C) beat Lewis (D), 6-1, 6-4. McGlinn (C) defeated Scott
(D), 6-2, 6-3.
Doubles: Halverstadt and Lafferty defeated Harris and Willis, 6-3, 6-1. Levitan and Morgan beat Thompson and Lewis, 6-1, 6-3. Barnett
and Scott beat Minor and McGlinn, 6-3, 4-6, 8-6.

HOW THEY STAND
The Davidson Wildcats and the North Carolina Wolfpack are still trailing in the Big Five baseball race. The Carolina Tar
Heels are ahead of the other schools in the state, having a perfect record. Duke and Wake Forest are tied
at present for third place, both having won three games and lost one. The standings:
Team W. L. Pct.
North Carolina 4 0 1.000
Duke 3 1 .750
Wake Forest 3 1 .750
Davidson 2 7 .222
N.C. State 1 4 .200

Varsity And Frosh Track Teams Win Over Virginia Tech.
’Cat Cindermen Triumph Over Blacksburg Team 67-59 in Dual Meet
EVANS HIGH SCORER
Wildkittens Down Opponents With Score of 62½-54½
The Davidson varsity track team defeated Virginia Tech last Saturday with a score of 67 to 59, while the freshman
team came through to win over the V.P.I. freshmen, 62½ to 54½. A new high scoring mark for Miles Stadium
was set by Evans of Davidson, who made 19 points with firsts in the 220-yard dash, quarter-mile, low hurdles, and
a tie for first in the 100-yard dash.

Varsity summary:
100-yard dash—Pritchard (V.P.I.) and Evans (D.), first (tie); Hibbert (V.P.I.). Time: 10 flat.
Mile run—Mothershed (V.P.I.), first; Frazier (D.), second; Morrow (D.). Time: 4:32.7.
220-yard dash—Evans (D.), first; Pritchard (V.P.I.), second; Faison (D.). Time: 21.9.
Pole vault—Hartman (V.P.I.), first; Lee (D.), second; Fazio (V.P.I.). Height: 12 feet.
Shot put—Cochran (D.), first; Kerns (V.P.I.), second; McElrath (D.). Distance: 45 feet, 9 inches.
120-yard high hurdles—McPhail (D.), first; Pratt (D.), second; Holbertson (V.P.I.). Time: 16.1 seconds.
440-yard dash—Evans (D.), first; Hibbert (V.P.I.), second; Hagan (V.P.I.). Time: 52.8 seconds.
Two-mile—Frazier (D.), first; Bell (V.P.I.), second; Kline (V.P.I.). Time: 10:08.2.
Discus—Cochran (D.), first; Kerns (V.P.I.), second; Carrill (V.P.I.). Distance: 124 feet, 9 inches.
220-yard low hurdles—Evans (D.), first; McPhail (D.), second; Lyne (V.P.I.). Time: 25.6 seconds.
High jump—Kerns and Rollins (V.P.I.), tied for first; Gammon (D.). Height: 5 feet, 11 inches.
Javelin—Pearce (D.), first; Hardy (V.P.I.), second; Lenz (V.P.I.). Distance: 175 feet, 4 inches.
Half-mile—Mothershead (V.P.I.), first; Oakes (D.), second; Corbin (D.). Time: 2:03.5.
Broad jump—Kerns (V.P.I.), first; Armistead (D.), second; Pritchard (V.P.I.).

(Continued on page 6)

CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

“DRUGS” “SUNDRIES”
A Complete Drug Store
“Make Our Store Your Store”
Reliable Prescription Druggists
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
“SODA” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25
“A MODERN HERO”
RICHARD BARTHELMESS—JEAN MUIR
THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, APRIL 26 AND 27
“WONDER BAR”
AL JOLSON—DOLORES DEL RIO—DICK POWELL
SATURDAY, APRIL 28
“SHE MADE HER BED”
RICHARD ARLEN—SALLY EILERS—ROBERT ARMSTRONG
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, APRIL 30 AND MAY 1
“TARZAN AND HIS MATE”
JOHNNY WEISMULLER—MAUREEN O’SULLIVAN
