THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 25, 1934

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Associated Collegiate Press — 1933 — 1934

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 4:00 o'clock Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

KENNETH D. WEEKS... Editor
J. A. C. WADSWORTH... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
J. B. BARNETT... Managing Editor
J. H. ANDERSON... Sports Editor
PAUL McPHAIL... Associate Editor
TOM GULLETTE... Associate Editor
G. L. GULLETTE... Associate Editor
E. F. McPHAIL... Associate Editor
B. L. ROSE... Associate Editor
JACK HELLINGER... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
W. E. BRANTON... Assistant Business Manager
A. G. BRENIZER... Assistant Business Manager
J. B. GOSLEN... Assistant Business Manager
R. P. MORROW... Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 1934

A certain freedom to go wrong is essential in a university, where men are learning, not to obey, but to
choose. —Raleigh.

OUR PRESENT GRADING SYSTEM

Certain ever-present murmurings from numbers of the student body have prompted this piece. So numerous have been these complaints, in
fact, that this writer has often wondered that someone else had not long before sought to call attention to the
matter—namely, the deficiencies of the present grading plan.

Instituted last year, the system of letter grades has been constantly a discouraging factor to those men who are striving
for high scholastic standing. So disheartening have been the results in some cases that former excellent students have actually abandoned
their aspirations and contented themselves with mediocre grades. It is with a knowledge that the college seeks to remove discouraging
factors and feelings of unfairness from the path of high scholarship that this is written.

Unfortunately, the technical points which must be introduced make the matter tedious. The letter system was ushered in to offset
the evils of the numerical scheme. That is, it was thought impossible to grade a student to within a point
of what his semester’s work was worth. If the letter system had entirely supplanted the old, perhaps the present plan
would have been advantageous. However, this is not the case. Two points must be noticed. First, in most cases professors
keep numerical grades and translate them into letters at the end of the semester. That is, most reviews and writs
(and many examinations) are graded with numbers such as 97, 92, or 78. At the end of a period, an
average is taken and a letter substituted. Second, every student’s total average is reduced to a number during his Senior
year to determine whether or not he will be awarded Phi Beta Kappa, Summa Cum Laude, Cum Laude, or simply
some extra cuts.

Let us regard the technical side of the present system. Under the plan in use the following values are assigned:
A = 95—100; B = 85—94; C = 75—84. Now notice the values that are assigned when a Senior’s average
is taken (on this average honors are awarded): A+ = 97; A = 95; B+ = 90; B = 85,
etc. (Actually an intermediate step is taken, but the results are exactly this.)

Some illustrations of how matters work out are enlightening. Student X has three courses in which his reviews and writs
are graded with numbers (and practically all have at least this many). At the end of the semester, his respective
teachers in these three courses consult their records and find that X has averaged 97 in the first course, 93
in the second, and 89 in the third. These numbers are translated to read A, B+, and B on his
final term report. (Sometimes the plus sign is omitted.) When X’s total average is taken during his Senior year as
a basis for determining honors, he is given 95 for his A, 90 for his B+, and 85 for his
B—an average of 90 for the three courses. In reality (according to his professors’ grade books), X has averaged 93
for the three. Some will wonder at the great stir over three points. They should recall that honors are awarded
often on the basis of fractions of a point.

To show that the average student loses also, even though he is less concerned, let us consider Y. He has
averaged 88, 85, and 81 on three courses in which numerical grades are still used by his teachers. Y receives
two Bs and a C on his semester report. When his average is taken during his last year, Y is
given 85 for his Bs and 75 for his C—an average of 81+ for the three courses. Really he has
averaged 84+.

Z’s case actually happened. He was told that he made 92 on a course. Yet Z received a B which
will amount to 85 when his total average is taken. A rather amusing incident occurred this year when a Senior
received the grade of A+ on all his courses yet lowered his total average. (The numerical system had been in
effect during his first two years.)

These examples are neither extreme nor rare. They and many like them are arising constantly on the campus. It is
not the fault of any individual or group. Rather, the system as it now exists is faulty. Fortunately, there are
several ways to remedy the situation. If honors are to be awarded in the future on a numerical basis (as
they are now), a uniform and comprehensive use of plus and minus signs should remedy matters. Or, if not this,
a return to the old system would be helpful. On the other hand, if honors were to be awarded on
the faculty’s estimate of the individual, a system of grading similar to that in many of our universities could be
instituted. Under this plan there are only three grades: excellent, satisfactory, and unsatisfactory. This scheme should appeal to those who
object to the constant clamor on the part of students for grades simply for grades’ sake. These alternatives are merely
two among many. There are perhaps numbers of superior plans. Regardless of which is the best, however, it should be
said that almost any new plan would be welcomed by great numbers of the student body.

A CONTRIBUTOR.

“A PLACE SHOWETH THE MAN”

Nothing so utterly reveals the inherent stuff out of which a man is made than a tenure of office at
the head of any body politic, and this Student Body in particular. With his election, he is at once catapulted
from the ranks to a place of some elevation. The fact of his election is an indication of nothing more
substantial than that a voting majority hazards the guess that there is residual in him a capacity for intelligent leadership.
But the assumption, as such, that lifted him up, that singled him out, is short-lived. Very shortly it loses its
quality of conjecture, crystallizing into a positive conviction which either corroborates or contradicts the hypothesis at the basis of his
election.

About a year ago, Julian West was installed as President of this Student Body. In the oath he took there
was nothing but an earnest profession of his willingness to accept a challenge. Now, in all human affairs there are
efforts and there are results, and the strength of the effort is the measure of the result. His tenure finished,
it is the proper time for an evaluation of his efforts and an appraisal of their consequent results. Six hundred
men have watched him in his work. Where his aptitude for leadership was once untried, it is now, as a
result of experience, common knowledge and the degree of its effectiveness can be reasonably calculated.

Retrospect reveals that in substance he was equal to the demands of diplomacy and executive technique which were duties incumbent
upon him. He withstood the infinity of pressures to which the fact of leadership necessarily exposed him. He answered the
challenge of commitment by taking an uncompromising stand for principle. In the recital of these qualities there resides the quintessence
of adequacy. And yet, in them, we have still not touched the signal characteristic which gave the man distinction.

Julian West was singular in this, that whatever he said came straight from the shoulder. He spoke what he thought
without equivocation. With full faith in the primacy of idea over words he never played upon the latter in the
role of a demagogue, although to a weaker man the temptation might well have been irresistible. He attached a greater
import to the unvarnished substance of what he had to say, and less to its embellishment.

In these noisy, strenuous times with claptrap and balderdash everywhere abounding his intellectual honesty was refreshing, and in it lies
Julian West’s peculiar merit.

Exactly 95 men and 35 women are listed in the University of Michigan B. M. O. C. Bluebook, a volume
listing statistics on the important people on that campus.

An advanced course in police administration will be given at the University of Hawaii summer session by August Vollmer, recognized
as an outstanding authority throughout the world on police procedure.

The Broadcaster

The other night at the installation services of the new student body officers, my heart palpitated with joy when the
retiring student body president, Julian West, recommended The Broadcaster to the students. Julian, in referring to what was written last
week about “smooching,” employed this point in his final address to the students. Thanks, Jule!

This week I am a bit tennis-minded after having seen Tilden and Vines pound that ball Thursday night over in
Charlotte. A large number of tennis enthusiasts from Davidson were present and were treated to a marvelous exhibition. Vines was
the winner, but not until after he had fought strenuously through two long sets. Several students who attended the match
with me were in doubt about whether or not the match was “framed.” I do not think the outcome of
the match was planned before time, because the two brilliant performers were fighting for each and every point. I do
not believe that Tilden could have beaten the determined Vines on this night.

And speaking of tennis, we have a wonderful tennis team right here at Davidson. It is interesting to note what
Jake Wade wrote in his “Sports Parade” in the Charlotte Observer. Mr. Wade wrote that Bob Crosland must be doing
some more of his fine work over at Davidson, judging from the brilliant record of the Wildcat netmen. The strange
thing is that Crosland...hasn't been over to Davidson yet! He was supposed to coach here one Saturday, but was rained
out. A tennis coach at Davidson would help out considerably the interest in tennis at Davidson. The funniest thing of
the week which I heard was what Jack Gaw had to say about Ellsworth Vines. Jack and the other men
on the freshman tennis team went over to talk to Vines the day before his match. Jack returned happily to
the campus and told of his experience to the writer. He said that he shook hands with Vines and received
his autobiography. At the same time, Jack took out a card which was signed “E. Vines, Jr.” Bearing in mind
that this is not a sports column, I apologize. But let me say that the writer of “Firing at Random”
last week made a grave error when he wrote that “a bit of poor strategy was exercised in the track
meet with the University of Tennessee, by running Earle Frazier in the one-mile when it was known that no member
of the opposing squad could equal the time of any three of our milers, rather than enter him in the
two-mile race, in which the Vols used a man better than our two runners, but considerably slower than Frazier.” If
Frazier had run in the way that the sports writer indicated, this would not have made enough difference in the
score for Davidson to win the meet. The thing which lost the meet for the Wildcats was the fact that
only two places were counted in the events held, and Davidson had been accustomed to counting three places. Davidson has
track coaches who know what they are doing, and who do not exercise poor strategy. Now I'll ask you a
question. Should freshmen be allowed to vote? Are you satisfied that the freshmen have no voice in the elections? I
would like to have your opinion about this subject. Emphatically, yes, freshmen should be allowed to vote. I feel that
the student body made a terrible mistake last year when it passed the rule prohibiting freshmen to vote in student
elections. The main reason given for this action was that the freshmen swayed the elections because they did not know
the students for whom they were voting. This is a mistaken theory. The theory that freshmen do not know the
upperclassmen is exactly vice versa. At the time of elections, the upperclassmen do not know the freshmen, but the freshmen
do know the upperclassmen. The first-year men have had sufficient time to know the leaders on the campus and they
know just as well as the rest who is best suited for an office. And don’t you think that a
man on entering Davidson, and paying the same as you do to go to school, should have a voice in
the election of officers who are to serve them the following year? It was a crime this year that freshmen
could not vote for men from their own class in the student council and student body elections. Here was a
time when the upperclassmen did not know the freshmen who were nominated. Who knows who are the best cheerleaders besides
the freshmen who see the men do their stuff at the pep meetings and at the football games? The freshmen
certainly should vote in this election. I am not the only one who holds the opinion that freshmen should vote.
I have spoken to many students and professors concerning this and they believe the same. What do you think? Let
me know. I would be overjoyed to hear from you, whether you agree with me or not. It would be
a fine move for the student body to restore the privilege of voting to freshmen next year.

New Books Announced For Library Collection

Miss Cornelia Shaw, college librarian, announced recently the arrival of a number of new books on music, composers, and musical
criticisms. The books have already been catalogued and placed on the shelves. The new books include:

“George Gershwin,” by Isaac Goldberg, an informal, yet scholarly account of the life and work of the renowned composer and
pianist.

“Stephen Collins Foster,” by Harold Vincent Milligan, which is probably one of the most comprehensive biographies of Foster in existence.

“Great Singers on the Art of Singing,” by James Francis Cooke, is an account of “educational conferences with foremost artists.”

“Cesar Franck,” a biography of the composer by Vincent d’Indy.

“Victor Herbert,” by Joseph Kaye, “the biography of America’s greatest romantic composer.”

“The Standard Concert Guide,” by George P. Upton and Felix Borowski, published by A. C. McClurg & Co., is a
convenient and practical key to better music. It was written for music-lovers who are uninitiated in the fine points of
music appreciation.

Let’s Listen In

Schumann-Heink: The starting time for the series by Mme. Ernestine Schumann-Heink, in which she is to sing and talk, has
been set for April 29th, 9:00 p.m., WJZ-NBC.

Snell: Congressman Bertrand H. Snell, of New York, minority leader of the House, will be the fourth and concluding speaker
in the “Republican Reaction” series in its broadcast over CBS, Wednesday, April 25, 10:30 p.m.

Gershwin: George Gershwin, famous American composer, actually writes out all the orchestra parts for his programs, “Music by Gershwin,” on
the NBC, Mondays and Fridays at 7:30 p.m.

Gable: Clark Gable will be the guest star on the Hall of Fame program next Sunday night, NBC, at 10:30.

John Charles Thomas: Baritone, will be heard in recital with Daly’s orchestra, NBC, 9:30 p.m., Wednesday.

Hamilton Fish, Jr.: Representative of New York, will speak over WJZ, Thursday night, 7:15-7:30, on “Foreign Trade Agreements and War
Debts.”

Bori: Lucrezia Bori, soprano, and concert orchestra, may be heard over WJZ, Thursday night, 8:30-9:00.

Mencken: Former editor of The American Mercury, will speak over NBC-WJZ Friday night, 7:15-7:30. “What Is Ahead” is the subject.

Lawyers: “Meeting the Lawyer's Responsibility to Improve Criminal Justice,” Earl W. Evans, president American Bar Association. WEAF, 10:30-10:45, Saturday night.

JOE COOK is now the master of ceremonies of the Colgate House Party, which is heard over NBC, Saturdays, 9:00
p.m.

A dozen outstanding HORSE RACES have been booked for broadcast over CBS, including the Kentucky Derby, from the historic course
at Churchill Downs, Kentucky.

ELIZABETH DAY, former stage star, does impersonations of various movie heroines in the WABC-CBS broadcasts of “Forty-Five Minutes in Hollywood”
each Sunday, 10:30 p.m.

LEE WILEY, deep blues singer, joins the cast of Paul Whiteman’s Music Hall over NBC, Thursdays, 10:00 p.m.

WAYNE KING and his orchestra have inaugurated a new series of weekly broadcasts over CBS, Sundays, 10:00 p.m. These programs
will supplement his Monday programs of the same hour.

It takes 35 hours of rehearsing for the BEAUTY BOX THEATRE cast to get their one-hour operetta, presented over the
NBC-WEAF network from 10:00-11:00, Tuesdays.

BING CROSBY will remain on the air until the end of May under a new contract extension. He is heard
with Jimmy Grier’s orchestra over a coast-to-coast CBS network from Los Angeles, at 8:30 p.m. each Monday.

FRED WARING'S well-known, softly-played “Sleep” was adopted by Fred in 1919 from an old hymn, “Visions of Sleep.”

Because he played a guitar left-handed, JACKIE HELLER, NBC's 61-inch tenor, got his start in the show business. He is
heard at 5:15 p.m. each Tuesday and Friday, NBC.

OZZIE NELSON, HARRIET HILLIARD own Washington and Baltimore-attendance records as a result of stage appearances.

HARRY RICHMAN has been signed as a regular performer on JACK DENNY’S Wednesday evening show, 10:30, NBC.

The WABC-CBS spanning the world broadcast last Wednesday resulted in the breaking of a record. It was for transmission of
a message around the entire world. The old time was five minutes, 10 seconds; and the new record was 4
minutes, 46 seconds.

On Other Campuses

COLLEGE HOPS

This week’s publications of other colleges, that the writer was privileged to scan, carried leading articles on the outstanding orchestras
which are to play at coming dances at their respective institutions. Glen Gray and his Casa Loma Orchestra played for
the Spring Hops at V. P. I. last weekend. On April 27 and 28, Nobel Sissle and his orchestra from
New York will play for the Spring Festival at Carolina. Arrangements for “Finals” at different schools have already been made.
Hal Kemp and his International Favorites are booked to play for the junior-senior dances at Carolina; Jan Garber will play
at W. & L.; Isham Jones will furnish the music at the University of South Carolina; Guy Lombardo and His
Royal Canadians will be at Southwestern University in Memphis, and Glen Gray will play at State.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

Believe it or not! Founders’ Day at the University of Virginia was not held on the day the College was
founded, but on Thomas Jefferson's birthday, April 13.

STATE COLLEGE

“One-Half Co-ed” happened to be a heading of an article that appeared in the State College “Technician.” The problem at
hand was that the Self-Help Director was ordered by the FERA to place 3.5 percent co-eds in work, which is
the eligible percentage of the co-ed enrollment. The director is worrying as “to which half of which co-ed will he
have to dispose of in order not to get rid of the better half.”

UNIVERSITY OF WASH.

Rushing committees of the different social fraternities at the University of Washington are looking for new methods of rushing warfare
since rules at that school have outlawed the use of beverages stronger than three point two and women as pledging
aids.

GEORGIA TECH

In an article in the “Technique,” Elmer, a unique reporter, says that the honorary fraternities at Georgia Tech should be
called “Suction” or “Professional” fraternities instead of honorary. The reporter continued to say that the organizations have very lax requirements
other than the cash fee.

DUKE

Knighthood is still in flower at Duke! Several nights ago three co-eds and several men students were badly beaten by
six hoodlums. The ladies were accosted while waiting for a bus, and when they refused to get in the car,
the attackers proceeded to force them. Three of the students happened to come along at that time and rushed to
the aid of les femmes.

UNIVERSITY OF VA.

A sober ad—“Lost: Did you find a punch ladle in your pocket Sunday morning? If so, kindly return to the
Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity house. (University of Va. Topics.)”

This week's attempt at the longest word was Himmelhergottkreuzemillionendonnerwetter—“all right, Guy.”

Although the proposal to merge Northwestern University and the University of Chicago has been rejected, a committee of prominent educators
is continuing its investigations of the educational implications of consolidation of the two institutions.
