THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 14, 1934

K. A’s WIN FRAT. CAGE TITLE

Around the Wildcat’s Lair | COCHRAN SETS NEW RECORD

Now that “Old Boy” Norvelle, the renowned orchid thrower, has withdrawn from school, sophomore members of the reporters’ staff have
fallen heir to the editing of sports in The Davidsonian, and this week while my colleague is making up the
page it is the duty of yours truly to do a bit of firing at random.

Our varsity basketeers cinched the cellar position in the big five race when they lost to N. C. State and
Wake Forest last Wednesday and Thursday nights, respectively. Their season’s percentage was boosted, however, by their defeat of the Lenoir-Rhyne
Bears on Saturday evening. Monday and Tuesday the ’Cats invaded other big five lairs, taking on Duke and Carolina, the
two favored contenders for the state championship. The 'Kitten five also engaged these opponents along with the upperclassmen. No scores
are available as this goes to press.

Two of the smoothest quintets in Southern prep circles showed their wares on the local court during the weekend, when
on Friday night the Darlington Tigers of Rome, Ga., took a drubbing from the Wildkitten five, and Saturday evening the
McCallie School team from Chattanooga promptly and thoroughly trounced the frosh. Potts for the Romans and Sims of the McCallie
quint were the satellites for the visitors. They knew where the basket was and didn’t seem to have any trouble
putting the old spheroid through it.

Felix, the grey-furred feline, who keeps himself in the wired cage near the north end of the gymnasium, is pretty
well informed about what is going on around the Wildcat lair, and he says “Doc” Newton and Gene McEver are
going to put an eleven on the gridiron next fall that will make all of the big-time coaches at other
big five colleges sit up and take notice. He asserts that the West Pointers will warm the ’Cats up for
Duke, Carolina, and State, through whom the Newton-McEver aggregation will run like a fire truck through traffic. That all sounds
mighty good, Mr. Felix, and if those pony backs of the '33 line-up can hold their stride, with a scrapping
row of forwards to help them get started, yes, sir, the Wildcat gridmen will go to glory.

Spring practice hasn't shown enough yet for many prognostications to be advanced, but with the lettermen returning and some promising
members of last fall’s yearling squad as candidates, it has the earmarks of being an epochal year in Davidson football.

By the way, if you want to read some interesting Davidson grid history, get copies of The Charlotte News for
the past few weeks and read “Isonglass,” a sports column by Wade Ison. He has been sponsoring an all-time Davidson
football contest, and nearly every day for about three weeks some story concerning either an individual star or some team
that shared in making gridiron history for the Wildcats has appeared in his article. This contest closes tomorrow and all
indications are that one of our present stars, Johnny Mackorell, will occupy a backfield post on the final selection. Anyone
will do, he can play them all.

Coach Unger’s grapplers lost their first match to a North Carolina foe when they were taken down Saturday night by
the Blue Devil matmen. So far these boys have had a rather disastrous season, due to handicaps of various sorts,
but they aren’t through, you'll hear something from this wrestling squad yet.

The boys from the Orient are, no doubt, glad to know that a soccer football field has been laid off
on the lower athletic ground. This is a great game and will make an excellent addition to the intramural sports
program.

Jake Wade's “Golden Glove” tournament went over in a big way. There were more than 200 fighters taking part, boys
who fought for the love (Continued on page 6)

K. A. Cage Team Wins Fraternity Hardwood Title

Kappa Alpha Five Routs Sigma Phi Epsilon Quint 36 to 19 in Finals of Tourney

LAY STAR PERFORMER

Winners’ Fine Teamwork and Fighting Spirit Aid in Victory

Kappa Alpha routed Sigma Phi Epsilon, 36-19, in the finals of the inter-fraternity basketball tourney Monday night. The game, at
first, was slow, with neither team making much progress, but the K. A.’s soon found the basket and, led by
Bill Lay, the outstanding player of the evening, they soon forged ahead, 17-9, at half time. In the second half
they continued their stellar play, and continued to increase their lead, giving the S. P. E.'s little opportunity to score.
Lay was high scorer, amassing a total of 21 points. Downie, with 10 points, also played well for the winners,
while Barnett was best for the losers.

The K. A.’s won their right to play in the finals with wins over the Phi Delts and the Phi
Gams, while the S. P. E.’s beat the Kappa Sigs and the Pikas.

The line-up for the final contest was:
K. A. (36) Posi. S. P. E. (19)
McCallie (2) R.F. Hunter (1)
McPhail (5) L.F. Barnett (7)
Lay (21) Center Snead (5)
Moffett R.G. Elvery
Downie (10) L.G. McCall (2)

Substitutions—K. A.: Dubose; S. P. E.: Jenkins, Casali, Swope, Knox.

In the semi-finals, the S. P. E.'s turned back the Kappa Sigs, 17-16, in one of the most exciting games
of the tourney. Neither team was ever ahead more than three points, and the game was in doubt right up
to the final whistle. Jenkins and Barnett were best for the winners, while Gaw and Rives stood out among the
players of the losing team. The line-up is as follows:
S. P. E. Posi. Kappa Sig
Jenkins (4) R.F. Rives (5)
Hunter (3) L.F. Gaw (5)
Snead (2) Center Rose (2)
Barnette (5) R.G. Lindsay (2)
Elvery L.G. Byerly (3)

Substitutions—S. P. E.: McCall (2).

The other semi-final game was not as exciting, the K. A.’s running roughshod over the Phi Delts, winning 36-11. Their
smooth machine began clicking at the outset and coasted along to an easy victory. Downie and Lay won scoring honors,
each getting 13 points. West and Barnes for the losers scored most of the Phi Delt points. The line-up:
K. A. (36) Posi. Phi Delts (11)
Downie (13) R.F. Barnes (4)
McPhail (3) L.F. Feuchtenberger
Lay (13) Center McKinney
McCallie (7) R.G. West (6)
Moffett L.G. Armistead

Substitutions—K. A.: Dubose, McLeod, McPhail; Phi Delt: Goodykoontz, Breedon (1), Price, Cothran, Wells, Griffin.

In the other two games last week, the Kappa Sigs entered the semi-finals by virtue of their 27-20 win over
the S. A. E.’s, while the S. P. E.’s defeated the Pikas.

Davidson Five Meets Devils and Tar Heels

Frosh Team Will Accompany Varsity on Trip

The Wildcats met Duke's Blue Devils at Durham on Monday, the 12th. The following night the Davidson quintet played Carolina
in Chapel Hill. The freshman basketball team accompanied the Varsity on their trip and played the Duke and Carolina freshmen
in games immediately preceding the respective varsity matches. These two games concluded the 'Cats’ conference schedule.

Sets New Record

Miller Cochran, who bettered his own college record by one-half inch to win first place in shot put for Davidson
at the West Virginia Indoor Meet Saturday.

Grid Candidates Work Hard in Spring Drills

To Hold Scrimmage Between the Red and Black Squads Soon

Friday brought to a close another strenuous week of spring football practice under the tutelage of Coaches Newton and McEver.
Due to the cold weather, however, no scrimmage was held Saturday between members of the Red and Black squads, as
had previously been scheduled. The 50-odd candidates have been taking daily workouts on Richardson Field for the past two weeks,
and the coaches feel that their charges are in good condition. These workouts have been unusually hard, and from now
on the practices are expected to move along at full clip. Much of the time has been devoted to special
work on the freshmen, and on promising reserves, drilling them in fundamentals and in the Newton-McEver style of football. Plenty
of rough work was also provided for the squad in order to get them in shape for this Saturday’s scrimmage.Scrimmage,
which will be between members of the Red and Black squads. Coach Newton will probably use Mackorell, Hutchins, Ravenel, and
Cook in the backfield for the Reds, while the Blacks will likely be made up of Wingfield, Pierce, Verble, and
Pittman. Newton is undecided on whom he will use in the line, but plenty of good men are on hand
who should see action next year. From the freshman team and the reserve squad are some good-sized men who will
fill in the gaps left by Rives and McElrath. Charlie Rives and Eb Willson are assisting Newton in the spring
drills this year.

Wildcat Wrestlers Lose to Blue Devils
Davidson Grapplers Will Meet Tar Heel Team Here Friday

Winning five out of eight matches, two of them by falls, the Duke wrestling team defeated a fighting Wildcat team
19 to 11 at Durham on Saturday night. Captain Thurman Troxler, Duke 135-pounder, and Bill Apple, Blue Devil 165-pounder, still
remain undefeated for the season. Troxler pinned Griffith of Davidson in four minutes while Apple won by a time advantage
over Potter. Captain Charlie Fort of Davidson won a time advantage over Reid of Duke in the 155-pound class. Davidson’s
only victory by a fall came when Quarterman pinned West in 5:47. In the feature match of the evening, Blackwelder
of Davidson won a time advantage of almost eight minutes over McGrail in the unlimited class. The summary:

115—Dodd, Duke, time advantage of 1:22 over Harris, Davidson.
125—Killen, Duke, time advantage of 3:23 over Thompson, Davidson.
135—Captain Troxler, Duke, pinned Griffith in 4:15.
145—Chandlee, Duke, pinned Taylor, Davidson, in 4:26.
155—Captain Fort, Davidson, time advantage of 8:30 over Reid, Duke.
165—Quarterman, Davidson, pinned West, Duke, in 5:47.
175—Apple, Duke, time advantage of 6:45 over Potter, Davidson.
Unlimited—Blackwelder, Davidson, time advantage of 7:58 over McGrail, Duke.

Referee—Bill Bailey.

Continuing their wrestling schedule, the Davidson grapplers will hold the first home meet next Friday when they meet Carolina in
the Alumni Gym. The Wildcats will be looking for better luck this year than last year when they were only
able to tie the boys from Chapel Hill. They will probably have the services of two varsity men whom they
missed so much at the first of the year, since Sprunt is getting back into condition, and Potter is already
back in competition. Of interest to wrestling fans will be the entering of Percy Idol, one of the best wrestlers
in the South.

Special Soccer Planned For Intramural Program
New Sport May Be Included in Program Next Year

“Intramural soccer is planned for Davidson this spring,” Capt. N. G. Pritchett announced Monday. “While no regular games are scheduled
for this year, goals have been erected on the freshman field, and all who have played, or would like to
play, are urged to come out.” Practice will be held at 4:15 on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, and at 3:30
on Tuesdays and Thursdays. All who care to participate are asked to meet at the proper times. If enough interest
is shown, soccer will be included in the regular program of intramural sports next year.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Distinguished for 121 years in the whole field of Theological Education, particularly in the making of Preachers.

JOHNSTON’S and NUNNALLY’S CANDIES
COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”
Fountain “Special”--- Hot Fudge Sundae, 15c.

Cast Your Ballot
The widely publicized contest for the All-Time Davidson football team comes to a close at noon, Thursday. All students who
have not yet cast their votes but wish to do so are reminded that their ballots must be in by
that time. Although the contest is drawing to a close, there has been no let-up in the voting, and sponsors
believe that even if it were drawn out a year, votes would continue to come in. Ballots and a partial
list of probable candidates appeared in last week’s edition of The Davidsonian.

Wildkittens Overcome By McCallie Cage Team
Yearlings Gain Wins Over Darlington, Concord in Good Week

The Davidson freshman basketball team weathered a three-game siege last week, emerging with but one defeat against two victories. The
’Kittens met the Concord Merchants and Manufacturers Club at Concord and later the Darlington and McCallie prep basketeers here at
Davidson. The game with the Concord club, which was held in the gym of the Concord High School, ended in
a 36-16 point victory for the ‘Kittens. The home team had little trouble in rolling up a lead over the
opposing club. Cathey, Quick, Knorr, and Peabody were the bright lights of the Wildkitten attack, while Deaton starred for the
losers.

Friday night the Davidson team scored their second victory of the series by defeating the Darlington prep cagers from Rome,
Ga., 21-15, in a game marked by tight defensive play. The floorwork of Quick and Peabody, guards, again stood out
for the 'Kittens.

In the McCallie game here Saturday night, the ‘Kittens’ luck took a decided turn and the game ended in favor
of the prep school team by a score of 27 to 18. The fast-stepping McCallie team proved too much for
the ‘Kittens and only the efforts of Peabody and Quick saved the game from being a washout. Sims was the
star of the McCallie attack. The line-ups:

Darling. (15) Posi. Dav. (21)
Potts (5) RF. Peters
Hackett (4) LF. Knorr (8)
Miller (2) Center Cathey (8)
Collins (4) RG. Peabody (5)
Williams LG. Quick

McCallie (27) Posi. Dav. (18)
Brumby (3) RF. Peters (4)
Ch'gton (4) LF. Knorr
Rymer (4) Center Cathey (3)
H'd’rman (4) RG. Peabody (6)
Sims (12) LG. Quick (4)

Peabody Leads Frosh Basketball Scorers
Maurice Peabody is leading the scorers on the Davidson College freshman basketball team, having gotten 30 field goals and three
foul shots for a total of 63 points. He is followed by Cathey with 48 points, Captain Quick with 41,
and Porter with 39. Other scores on the team are: Knorr, 31; Swindle, 6; Woodward, 5; Peters, 8; Barnes, 1.

Wildcat Cagers Trounce Lenoir Rhyne 31 to 24
Captain Harris, Lafferty and Ross Lead Davidson Five to Victory Over Bears

LOSE TO STATE FOES
N. C. State and Wake Forest Outclass Wildcat Basketeers

The Davidson basketball team dropped two contests to N. C. State and Wake Forest on the state trip last week
and returned to the campus to trounce Lenoir-Rhyne Saturday night. The score was 31 to 24.

The Davidson cagers were far outclassed by North Carolina State’s Red Terrors, who defeated the Wildcats 50 to 20 in
Raleigh, February 7. The victory gave the State quint the Big Five leadership. The Wildcats were no match for the
Red Terrors and Coach Ray Sermon used eight relief men throughout the contest. Milan Zori, State’s towering sophomore center, was
high scorer with 10 points, followed closely by Ross, Davidson ace guard, who scored nine points. Jay, Lambeth, Rex, and
McQuage starred for Tech, while the floorwork of Harris and Lafferty stood out for Davidson. The Line-up:

Dav. (26) Posi. State (50)
Lafferty (5) RF. Lambeth (6)
Harris (6) RF. Aycock (8)
Morgan (6) Center Zori (10)
Holland LG. Rex (3)
Ross (9) RG. McQuage (6)

Substitutions—Davidson: Yelverton; State: Sherrill (4), Jay (6), Harris (4), Flythe (3), Womble, Pratt, Smith, and Williams.

The Davidson basketeers went out of Big Five ranks to defeat the Lenoir-Rhyne Bears at Davidson Saturday night. The score
was 31 to 24. Paced by Courtney Ross, center who accounted for 10 points during the fray, the Wildcats managed
to cling to a slight margin most of the game, leading by 14 to 13 at halftime. Close behind Ross’
leading point total was John Lafferty's eight points, which he accounted for with four field goals. Deal led the Bears’
offensive with seven points. The line-up:

Dav. (31) Posi. L.-Rhyne (24)
Harriss (7) RF. Deal (7)
Lafferty (8) LF. James (5)
Ross (10) Center Padgett (2)
Holland (1) LG. Stasavich (5)
Morgan (5) RG. Overcash (4)

(Continued on page 6)

Ends a Cold SOONER
PROVED BY 2 GENERATIONS

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY
“YOU CAN’T BUY EVERYTHING”
MAY ROBSON—JEAN PARKER—LEWIS STONE

THURSDAY
“THIS SIDE OF HEAVEN”
LIONEL BARRYMORE—MAE CLARK—TOM BROWN

FRIDAY
“GOOD DAME”

SATURDAY
“SEARCH FOR BEAUTY”
“BUSTER” CRABBE—TOBY WING—ROBERT ARMSTRONG—IDA LUPINO

MONDAY
“AS HUSBANDS GO”
WARNER BAXTER—HELEN VINSON

TUESDAY
“DARK HAZARD”
EDWARD G. ROBINSON—GENEVIEVE TOBIN
