THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 18, 1934

COMMENCEMENT— JUNE 3-6

ALUMNI NEWS

FOUNDERS’ DAY A SUCCESS

Several Chapters Hold Founders Day Meetings
Speakers From College Sent to Six Local Meetings—Officers Selected

Very successful alumni meetings in many southern cities were a prominent feature of the Founders’ Day program which was run
off last Thursday. Speakers from the college were sent to six of the local gatherings. In addition to the meetings
which were held last Thursday, four local groups held meetings last fall, and four others are planning gatherings for the
latter part of this month. The Charlotte, Richmond, Birmingham, and Chattanooga clubs met last fall, and the Washington, Philadelphia, New
York, and Boston chapters will meet next week.

WINSTON-SALEM

A large crowd of alumni from Winston-Salem and the vicinity heard Coach “Doc” Newton and Professor Ernest Beaty talk at
their Founders’ Day dinner, which was held in the assembly room of the Sunday School building of the Presbyterian Church.
The following officers were selected: J. W. Moore, '12, president; Rev. W. T. Baker, ’25, vice-president; John Foster, ’28, secretary
and treasurer. They succeeded George W. Coan, Jr., '11, president; J. Harold McKeithen, '22, secretary and treasurer.

GREENSBORO

Professor A. Currie and Captain Norton G. Pritchett spoke to over fifty Davidson alumni of Greensboro and the surrounding section
at their meeting at the Greensboro Country Club Thursday night. Officers to succeed T. D. Dupuy, ’01, president, and L.
L. McAlister, ’20, were selected. They were Dr. Frank Sharpe, ‘10, president, and Paul F. Causey, ‘26, secretary and treasurer.

GREENVILLE, S. C.

Alumni in Greenville and the vicinity met Thursday night to celebrate Founders’ Day. G. H. Brown, president-elect of the Davidson
Student Body, and S. S. Wiley, “Y” secretary, spoke to the chapter. Officers selected were Dr. George Wilkinson, '12, president;
Hugh Aiken, ‘18, vice-president, and W. B. Mattison, ‘26, secretary and treasurer. They succeed J. I. Smith, '24, president, and
B. R. O'Neall, '15, secretary and treasurer.

CONCORD

F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, Flake Laird and “Doc” Unger, coaches, and the quartet attended the meeting of
the Concord alumni chapter, which was attended by over forty former students of Davidson. Officers elected were W. W. Flowe,
Sr., '95, president; George Batte, '27, vice-president, and Nevin Sappenfield, '27, secretary and treasurer.

GASTONIA

Seventy-one alumni attended the Gaston County chapter meeting which was held at the Armington Hotel Thursday. Dr. P. H. Gwynn,
Jr., professor of education and sociology, and Gene McEver, assistant coach in football, made the principal addresses. Officers selected for
the coming year were W. B. Garrison, ’20, president; C. T. Stowe, '28, and Rev. R. C. Wilson, ‘10, vice-presidents,
and D. S. LaFar, ‘31, secretary and treasurer. They succeed R. D. Hall, '19, president, and W. T. Spencer, '26,
secretary and treasurer.

ATLANTA

Dr. Frazer Hood, professor of psychology at Davidson, spoke to a large group of Davidson alumni at the meeting of
the chapter held at the Henry Grady Hotel last Thursday. Officers for the coming year selected were Scott Candler, ’07,
president; Harlee Branch, '27, vice-president, and H. F. McMillan, '31, secretary and treasurer. They succeed Dr. E. L. Bishop, '12,
president; Rev. P. D. Miller, D.D., '22, vice-president, and W. S. Woods, '27, secretary and treasurer.

WITH THE ALUMNI:

'80 Colonel BAXTER DAVIDSON, of Charlotte, is aiding a movement to induce the government to establish the birthplace of President
James K. Polk as a national shrine on the outskirts of Pineville.

'93 The Rev. S. W. MOORE, of Bluefield, will return to his pulpit at the First Church of that city,
on the first Sunday in May, after a prolonged absence due to sickness.

'97 OSMOND BARRINGER, of Charlotte, a leader in the automobile business and a close student of traffic conditions and regulations,
has recently been chosen to head the traffic survey of Mecklenburg County.

'05 Representative J. B. CLARK, of Fayetteville, Democrat of North Carolina, was selected April 13 to succeed Representative Pou as
a member of the House Rules Committee.

'06 Dr. B. R. LACY, president of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., held communion services at the First Presbyterian Church
of that city recently, but made no statement concerning the call made him by that church some time ago.

'09 Dr. JOHN McSWEEN, president of Presbyterian College, Clinton, S. C., has accepted the invitation of Georgia Military College to
deliver the baccalaureate sermon, June 3.

'10 Rev. F. S. BLUE, of Burlington, conducted the devotional services at the 328th semi-annual convention of the Orange Presbytery,
which wasRecently in session at the Buffalo Presbyterian Church, Lee County, Dr. H. G. BEDINGER, president of Flora Macdonald College,
delivered an address on April 10 at the Orange Presbytery convention. Rev. MARION HUSKE, Reidsville, submitted a report on Christian
Education at the convention of the Orange Presbytery.

JOHN J. BARNHARDT, of Concord, was recently re-elected as a director of Cannon Mills Company, Kannapolis. CHARLES A. CANNON, of
Concord, was re-elected president of Cannon Mills in a meeting of stockholders on April 10. J. R. WILKINSON, of Greenville,
S.C., has been transferred from the State Department in Washington, D.C., to Leghorn, Italy, where he is the American consul.

Rev. J. R. WALKER, pastor of the West Raleigh Church, delivered the sermon at the First Church, Durham, on March
25, when new elders, deacons, and associate deacons were ordained and installed. Rev. DONALD STEWART, pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church of Charlottesville, Va., who is to soon become pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Chapel Hill, was unanimously voted
membership in the Orange Presbytery at its sessions held last week.

WILLIAM S. WOODS, secretary of the Atlanta Alumni Association, has been made an assistant vice-president of the Trust Company of
Georgia. He is also president of the Atlanta-Harvard Business College Alumni Association and was largely instrumental in the recent creation
of a scholarship fund by that organization which will enable local students to attend the Harvard Business School.

LAWRENCE DUMAS is with the legal department of the CWA in Washington, D.C. CHARLES N. LANIER has moved from Charlotte
to Florence, Ala., where he will establish a Kelvinator agency. Rev. J. R. PHIPPS, former pastor of Bethel and Springwood
churches, was transferred recently to Wilmington Presbytery. He has accepted a call to Westminster Presbyterian Church, Whiteville.

W. B. HANCOCK, Albany, N.Y., has been made assistant cashier of the Albany office of the Equitable Life Insurance Society.

Deaths:
The Rev. ROBERT A. LAPSLEY, for the past twelve years editor of the adult and home department quarterlies of the
Southern Presbyterian Church, died suddenly on March 23 at his home in Richmond, Va. He had been in ill health
for several years.

First Founders Day Pronounced Success:
Davidson's first Founders’ Day, celebrated last Thursday, proved a large success from every point of view. The day was set
aside by the trustees to commemorate the ninety-seventh anniversary of the founding of the college, and students, faculty, alumni, and
friends of the institution joined in the celebration. The principal address of the day was made by Dr. Ben E.
Geer, president of Furman University, who was introduced by President Walter L. Lingle. The Furman president, who was until recently
a textile executive, pointed to the past of Davidson, and then turned to the future. He discussed the position of
the church school in the educational system of today and pointed out the fact that there is a definite need
for schools of the type of Furman and Davidson.

Dr. J. M. McConnell, dean of the faculty and professor of history, briefly traced the splendid history of the institution.
The band concert, which was held in the Chambers Building because of the cold weather, and the baseball game with
Duke, which Davidson won, climaxed the day’s events at the college. Alumni meetings in many southern cities rounded out the
Founders’ Day celebration. Large crowds and a great deal of interest were reported by the representatives of the college who
attended the meetings. Dr. Walter Lingle, commenting on the day’s activities, said that the day would likely become a permanent
feature of the college program, and that the Founders’ Day in 1937, when the college will be 100 years old,
would be a particularly large event.

Only the ROUND and FIRM and FULLY PACKED Luckies are always kind to your throat. Luckies are always in all-ways
kind to your throat. For every Lucky is made of the choicest of ripe, mellow Turkish and domestic tobaccos—and only
the clean center leaves—they taste better. Then, “It’s toasted”—for throat protection. And every Lucky is made so round, so firm,
so fully packed—no loose ends. That’s why Luckies “keep in condition”—do not have that objectionable tendency to dry out, an
important point to every smoker. Luckies are always in all-ways kind to your throat.

Center Leaves—these are the Mildest Leaves. NOT the top leaves—they’re underdeveloped—they are harsh! They taste better. NOT the bottom leaves—they’re
inferior in quality—coarse and sandy!
