THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 7, 1934

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915

Associated Collegiate Press
1934 Collegiate Digest 1935

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

Editor
K. D. WEEKS

Business Manager
J. A. C. WADSWORTH

EDITORIAL STAFF:
Managing Editor
JOHN WALKER

Managing Editor
Harvey GLASS

Managing Editor
Edw BOWERS

Managing Editor
Carlyle LEWIS

Managing Editor
Scotty McLEOD

Sports Editor
G. L. GUTTERT

Exchange Editor
B. F. McPHAT

Feature Editor
B. L. ROSE

Associate Editor
Jack HELLINGER

Associate Editor
J. B. GOSTEN

Business Mgr.
VAL CASSELS

Business Mgr.
Tom ROSS

Business Mgr.
J. S. McMULLEN

Business Mgr.
R. P. MORKOW

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1934

No act falls fruitless; none can tell how vast its powers may be; nor what results, enfolded dwell within it
silently.
—ANONYMOUS.

PARAGRAPHICS

Home-coming has promises of being a great occasion this year. The big pep meeting the night before the holiday on
Saturday is expected to be the biggest of the year and will arouse more spirit than has been exhibited so
far this year. Even though the Wildcats are the underdogs, the results of the game are unpredictable under such conditions
as playing on the home field and before a Home-coming crowd.

The Y. M. C. A. Fall Services which were concluded the middle of last week were all well attended and
the speaker, Dr. Belk, proved very popular with the students. During the course of an interview, Dr. Belk stated that
the present generation at Davidson College is far ahead of the generation at Davidson during his day back in 1915
as far as moral and spiritual qualities were concerned, but he added that there was still plenty of room left
for improvement along this line on the campus.

HOME-COMING, WELCOME ALUMNI!

WITHIN the budding grove of one’s freshman year it is hard to see the glimmer of water at the hazy
end of the laurel avenue. Yet, the days aren’t counted before one has to look back to the pleasant groves
of youth. And how irretrievably pleasant they were! And upon attempting to return to them, one almost always finds that
the laurels and roses are culled already. Almost always.

All this is merely a high-fallutin’ way of stating the nostalgic, mutable fact of how time unrelentingly creeps up on
the undergraduate, leaving him, before he knows it, on the graduate side whence there is no coming back—hardly any. (The
undergraduate is indeed almost before he knows it a graduate—we were quite young when we started writing this, and here
we are with a diploma practically in our hand! So we've got a pretty good idea as to how the
Old Boys, long since passed beyond these portals of learning, must feel. Sorta puts a lump in the throat, don’t
it?)

And the worst part is that “no coming back” business. At least there’s hardly any real turning back to what
one knew before. Those out there, whom we shall soon ourselves be joining, are returning to the campus. “Ah,” they
will sigh; and then one sees them checking themselves before committing the hackneyed faux pas of remarking how the old
school ain’t what it used to be. And that is true; it definitely is not what it used to be—but
how they wish it were. There is something golden about these four years here, a light shines down on the
elms and on the oaks while one pursues undergraduate studies that never can shine quite as yellow again.

And yet there are those who claim that one’s whole existence is only a shifting of the mind’s phantasmagoria. One
does not actually exist in a present at all; the only reality is one’s imagining of the future, one’s remembrance
of things past. But, why should those golden years be doomed to a going-down into darkness? Memory requires only the
gentle coaxing of familiar surroundings, the magic cue of association, the assistance of sympathy. Why should not those years flock
back trailing all their clouds of glory?

A good many alumni of Davidson will be returning to the campus on Saturday the Tenth. With them they will
be bringing hopes of recapturing some of the flavor of former years. They will find a great many of their
old companions here--some of them perhaps still in school; they will in their minds be attempting to reconstruct that old
life and spirit they knew here. Why shouldn't they succeed?

Nothing can be more valuable to us than our alumni. Nothing can be more dear to our alumni than the
“old days”. In those old days they knew a certain beauty that lurked in the trees, in the ivy around
old eaves, over green lawns: it’s still here. They knew a wonderful friendliness, and a sound of never-omitted greetings; a
common striving toward the betterment of the College, evinced in a communal brotherhood; and a fighting, rip-roaring, irresistible Wildcat Spirit—are
these still here?

Let us prepare to greet our Home-coming Alumni with our sincerest cordiality, let us do everything in our power to
make them feel at home again among us, let us cheer our team and fight our way through the Home-coming
Game with all our might! We must capture the old times for our alumni; shall we not also be alumni
before we know it?—wistfully chanting: “Et In Arcadia Ego”.

RADIO COMES TO DAVIDSON

Last week, the installation of a radio extension wire for the purpose of broadcasting programs from the college was a
probability. This week it is an actuality. The wire has been connected; and the initial performance has been given over
it.

The major portion of gratitude and praise for the completion of this project is due Mr. W. A. Schudt, Jr.,
manager of station WBT, who secured from the Columbia Broadcasting Service permission to help us in bringing the wire to
Davidson. It was he who solved the various difficulties which arose; and saw that the most advantageous arrangements were made.
Without his aid the extension undoubtedly would have remained a dream for the present.

However, the purpose of this editorial is not to praise any group or individual, but to point out some of
the benefits which would come from such a venture. It is only natural for anyone who has heard of the
project to ask whether the investment is a sound one or not. To inquire whether broadcasting directly from Davidson is
worthwhile; and whether it is financially sound.

To the abstruse question of monetary values, we can only answer that we have no accurate figures at the present,
and therefore we do not know what the loss or gain would be. But the financial end of the question
is not for us to discuss. If there is nothing more than commercialism in our broadcasting, then it is absolutely
pointless that we continue. If, however, its purpose is the dissemination of the spirit of Davidson to those who are
interested in the college; if it is the regeneration of academic life in the minds of the alumni; if it
is the articulate expression of the living organism, which is student life; or if it increases the circle of interested
friends—these things we believe the radio capable of doing—then it is of unlimited value. Its worth cannot be expressed in
terms of profit and loss.

If we, in our broadcasts, can make others see the college as we see it; if we can interpret Davidson
to the world at large, then we have accomplished more than can be symbolized by a dollar bill.

In reply to the other question which is apt to rise; could not the program be presented in Charlotte just
as adequately as at Davidson, there are several answers. The negative one is undoubtedly the most accurate. We could not
present the same Davidson from the Charlotte studio that we present here on the campus. The voices might be the
same. The program might not change in any particular. Yet there would be a different undertone, a different set of
values. It is foolish to believe that we could give the identical impression to our audience when the sources of
the emotions are removed. Here in surroundings which are a part of ourselves, it is easy to portray subtle and
almost intangible feelings which would be lost to us as soon as we are removed from the immediate environment.

In addition to the characteristic atmosphere which is our heritage, there is another factor which makes radio broadcasting from the
campus particularly desirable. It is the increased range and versatility of subject matter which is found on the campus. Such
a range would include football games, debates and other events which are perforce limited to a particular area. In using
such events we can make our programs attractive to an audience with extremely wide interests.

Hence we may reasonably believe that with our excellent broadcasting facilities we will be able to present an individual, interesting
self-portrait. In doing so we...will doubly justify the wisdom of the executive committee which made the fulfillment of the project
possible. Its objective is to -

THE SPIRIT THAT NEVER DIES

Page 1

From DAVIDSONIANS of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO
The new organ that was given to the school by Mrs. Sara E. Morrison was formally presented to Davidson by
Ex-Governor Cameron Morrison... Edward Sierer Heefner, Jr., William Rollan Hill, Frontis Withers Johnston, and Andrew Heath Whittle were tapped into
O. D. K.... V. M. I. defeated Davidson 12-0 after a stubborn fight... It was announced that Homecoming day would
be November 16... Twenty-five Juniors were taking advanced R. O. T. C. work... The R. O. T. C. battalion was
reviewed last week by Major W. E. Duvall.

TEN YEARS AGO
The Wildcats were tied by N. C. State 10-10... Dr. Tollie Thompson spoke to the Davidson students in the Y.
M. C. A. fall services... Homecoming day was to be November 15... The Ministerial Band heard Professor K. J. Foreman...
The Dramatic Club is planning to present three one-act plays Nov. 14... D. B. Wharton, A. H. Hollinsworth, and C.
W. Williams were chosen to represent Davidson in the Davidson-Emory debate.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO
Georgia Tech defeated the Wildcats 33-0 in a sea of mud... The R. O. T. C. Battalion will parade in
Charlotte for the N. C. State game... Watts defeated Georgia in Inter-Dormitory basketball.

TWENTY YEARS AGO
Dr. J. W. McConnell returned to Davidson after visiting in New York... The Furman football game that was to have
been played Saturday was cancelled... Carolina defeated Davidson, 16-3.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES
By Enip Bowers

Emory University
There are about forty arrogant freshmen at Emory who refuse to wear the traditional “Freshman Cap,” thus a disciplinary rule
has been resorted to—that of placing their names on a “black list” which would mean that these delinquent men will
be deprived of participating in extra-curricular activities.

Nathan Yagol, Emory graduate student, was arrested by the DeKalb police on October 14th, and is being held without bond
pending grand jury investigation of charges that he and three other persons are guilty of “inciting insurrection.” The charges against
Yagol grew out of what he says was an anti-war meeting held in one of the private homes at Emory.
(Is this a land of liberty and free speech?)

Wake Forest
A petition is being passed around the Deacon campus relative to having Sunday movies in Wake Forest. Two-thirds of the
student body have already signed the new petition. In it was a clause that twenty percent of the receipts would
go to a charity fund.

Mystery surrounds a new “hair cutting” gang at Wake Forest. Two students were seen hairless after an escapade in the
rear of the medical building. Several solutions have been suggested—that there is a freshman crew of haircutters—that fraternity “brothers” of
the two victims cut their hair.

Washington & Lee University
After the Homecoming rally in front of the W. & L. gym, the freshman class attired in full sleeping regalia
built a huge bonfire after which they participated in a “torch parade.” The entire student body including the “pajamarites” crashed
the theatre—with the permission of the manager.

A $2,000 damage suit was the outgrowth of the arrest of two W. & L. students for an alleged violation
of the Virginia anti-hitch-hiking law. The plaintiffs’ lawyer claims that the two freshmen knew the constable, and that they were
victims of a conspiracy.

Dr. Gaines, president of the college, said in his statement concerning student-owned cars that the administration feels that automobiles, however
dangerous, are a part of the civilization of the age, and that college students who have permission from home should
be capable of exercising proper care and judgment.

Collegiana
Virgil Weathers, president of the Carolina student body and John Poole, president of the Senior class, expressed their desire for
better relationship between Carolina and Duke to the Freshman class at Duke University... A new goat dynasty has been founded
at the U. S. Naval Academy since King Bill IV, Navy’s (Continued on Page 8, Column 4)

“SELECTED PAPERS of PHINEAS SPOON.”

Of “Natural Rights”
In a political sense, the use of the terms “right” and “wrong” implies the existence of autonomy and the choice
of actions. This is purest sophistry in a universe where all effect is determined by irresistible cause. An apple drops
to the ground because it has no choice but to fall. There can scarcely be any morality to a system
where conformity with law is inevitable. When compliance is an act of positive necessity, wrong-doing is unthinkable. If divergence from
order is not tolerated then divergence is impossible. And it is divergence hurtful to the prevailing system which alone constitutes
wrong.

History is a record of bloody strife over clashing “rights.” Wherefore all the sweat and strain? Does a “right” exist
as a thing-in-itself? No man, in the last analysis, can defend title to privilege or immunity on the ground of
its being a “right.” In every instance, social and political, “rights” have an efficacy only when supported by force, present
or immanent. What effective deliverance can I secure from the tyrannous hand of the strong man except by appeal to
the hand of the stronger (viz: the State). What guarantees my well-being at the hand of the latter except his
mercy, his benevolence. If he should will to enslave me, and have power to, despite the most vehement and impassioned
protestation of “transgression,” compliance will be an act of necessity, perhaps of prudence. When the bridge breaks, the traveller must
be precipitated into the gorge. Gravity is irresistible, sovereign. Can there be any valid appeal from it? There is no
recourse from the dicta of sovereignty, where obedience is not a reasoned action but a plain necessity.

COMPASSING the CAMPUS
By Scotty McLeod

HOMECOMING at Davidson—a gala day of handclasps, back-slaps, smiles of recognition, and the awakening of dormant college friendships. It is
one of the few times when the old grad is able to recapture something of his former spirit of the
Davidson campus; and, possibly, he gazes with shining eyes at the young undergraduates who have so much before them, as
he has so much behind him, on the pages of Life History. With a feeling of warmth and college brotherhood
we, of Davidson’s centenarian campus, WELCOME THE ALUMNI back to their old haunts.

There is somehow an inexplicable sadness in the prospect of a returning alumnus, to his mind and to ours. To
himself, he must feel just a little more out of place than he did when a student here and “just
one of the boys.” Forever onward, he has only a collection of memories to make his college life a real
thing. To us, he appears as a very good old gentleman to whom we show the greatest of courtesy and
respect; but his life is apart from ours, our interests are not his, and the campus of today is an
area segregated from his life and connections. How remarkable it would be if we could void the segregating line of
years and place alumni and undergraduate in complete and companionable juxtaposition. Such a congenial contiguity being impossible, we can only
dream of it and make our best efforts to obtain its near-culmination.

RADIO
WBT officials have stated that our Chambers Auditorium presents more suitable acoustics for broadcasting purposes than their own studios in
Charlotte. This statement was made after Davidson College presented its initial ether program from its own campus last Friday night.
With Grier Martin announcing and Professor Pfohl directing the three musical organizations of the Hill, the half-hour program was a
novel and interesting collegiate presentation. Dr. Lingle delivered a brief talk, inaugurating the new series; and there have been numerous
letters and telegrams acknowledging receipt of the very fine program. The series could be developed into one of the best,
and very likely will. Skip Brown, campus crasher of Variety, will handle the announcing henceforth, according to an exclusive report
to this column.

ETCETERA
We're looking for that first issue of the funny old YOWL most any day now; just can’t wait to peruse
its pages of delightful humor and poignant sentiments... Bob Atwater caught red-handed by Mrs. Moore in Winston; he still likes
that song, though... And Mildred Troxler... Diana Dyer and her mother in Davidson Sunday... Hallowe'en celebrations among the locals last
Wednesday eve; several youngsters were frightened horribly by the collegians, we hear... Why is it that Georgia dorm has never
won a football game in their long rivalry with Watts... What puzzles us is the penurious quality of local telephone
operators; they absolutely refuse to part with the correct time, always referring you to W. U.... It strikes us as
a compelling fact that this year’s graduating class is one of the very strongest that we have ever known; it
possesses definite qualities of leadership in all phases of activity: scholastic, athletic, social, and spiritual.

STATIONERY
CALLING CARDS
Fine Printing
QUEEN CITY PRINTING Co.
Printers of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and of the DAVIDSON COLLEGE ALUMNI JOURNAL
PROGRAMS
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
