DEES AND McLEOD CHOSEN CHEER LEADERS BY STUDENT BODY

THE DAVIDSONIAN

4 ALENDA LU xX UB! ORTA LIBERTAS

WILDCATS TO MEET ARMY AT WEST POINT SATURDAY

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 3, 1934 No. 3

NOV. 17 IS DATE FOR RHODES APPLICANTS

Davidson Students Must Apply To Local Committee By November 3

NO EXAMINATION NEEDED

Professors Vowles, Lilly And Cumming On Committee

As noted in the Davidsonian of last week, applications for the Rhodes Scholarships at Oxford University must be in the hands of the state committees by November 17. Saturday, November 3, has now been designated as the date on or before which application in writing must be made to the local committee, Professors Vowles, Lilly and Cumming. While application to the state committees must be on the regulation blank, this blank is not necessary for application to the local committee. In this case the student should state in writing that he wishes to be approved as a candidate for the Rhodes Scholarship in (name of state). A Davidson student may stand either in North Carolina or, if his legal residence is in another state, in that state. If, as frequently happens, the applicants for North Carolina exceed the maximum quota of five, the committee has the right to reduce the number, either by elimination or by assigning candidates, when this is possible, to other states. Our district comprises Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida and Tennessee, but a student whose home is not within the confines of this district is not restricted to it, but may appear in the state of his residence. A candidate must be a male citizen of the United States, unmarried, must have been born between Oct. 1, 1910, and Oct. 1, 1916, and have completed at least his Sophomore year in a recognized degree-granting college or university. The stipend is 400 pounds a year, payable for two years. Usually a third year is allowed, which in some cases may be spent in some other foreign university. No candidate has to pass an examination. His college record, curricular and extra-curricular, his letters of recommendation and his personal appearance before the state (or district) committee are the determining factors. A candidate should have a scholastic record approaching the Phi Beta Kappa standard, as well as a well-balanced record of student activities, including some participation in athletics, though he need not necessarily be a letter man. 

As is well known, Davidson College has had a good number of Rhodes Scholars, a record of which we may take extensive pride.

FERA EMPLOYS STUDENT GROUP

College Allowed To Employ Only Sixty Per Cent Of Those Needing Aid

Davidson students, who would probably not be able to remain in school this year without more financial aid, are at present being employed by the FERA and are working at a minimum wage scale of 30 cents an hour under the supervision of a committee composed of members of the faculty. In fact, the committee has received a great many more applications than it can take care of with the funds allotted it by the Federal government, and in an attempt to clarify the tangled application situation, Professor F. K. Fleagle, chairman of the committee, this week issued the following statement:

“The committee has received about 125 applications for FERA work, and can only employ 72 persons in any one month. That means that most of the applicants won't be able to receive help throughout the whole year. We shall try to help only the most needy cases.

“Questionnaires will be given to applicants and letters will be sent out to their parents this week explaining exactly what conditions are, in an attempt to get information so that we can put to work immediately those in the most urgent need.”

The committee in charge of the government-financed work at Davidson is composed of Professor Fleagle, chairman, and professors G. R. Vowles and J. F. Fulcher.

New Sound System To Be Used For Duke Tilt

Richardson Stadium is to be equipped with a new amplifying system which will probably be completed in time for the Duke game. The new system will allow for four horns on each of the stadium amplifiers. This will greatly improve the clarity of the system as well as increase the volume. A special feature will be the installation of a modifier or volume control, which will select the volume necessary to be audible over the cheering. This $125 system, being installed by the Auten Incorporated of Charlotte, is to be another step toward making Richardson Stadium completely up-to-date.

CHEER LEADERS ELECTED FRIDAY

Dees And McLeod Of Junior Class Chosen On Second Ballot

Joe L. Dees, of Greensboro, and Hinton “Scotty” McLeod, of Brevard, were chosen on the second ballot this week to act as junior cheerleaders. From a number of candidates appearing in the spring, five were nominated by Varsity Cheerleader Paul Warren. They were A. W. Price, Carlisle Lewis, Charles “Bud” Okey, Dees and McLeod. The first vote was about equally divided with Price being eliminated. Second voting was also very close, the two highest, McLeod and Dees, receiving the honor. McLeod and Dees will cooperate with Warren in the duties of cheerleading until next spring when the two will be placed before the student body in a vote to select the Varsity Cheerleader for 1935-36. McLeod is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity and has been active in publications work. He now edits a column in “The Davidsonian,” passing the “Campus.” Dees is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity and was one of the sophomore football managers last year. As is the custom, both the newly elected cheerleaders are members of the Junior Class.

Dormitory Lighting Is Limited By Regulation

No student will be allowed to use more than one hundred and sixty watts of electricity in his room, Dr. Lingle pointed out in chapel on the morning of September 25. He stated that the College had gone to a great expense in securing the new amps using 100 watt bulbs that have been placed in all rooms, and that these, with an additional sixty watt lamp, should be sufficient. The student body was told that more than this would overload the fuses and cause the lights to go out. This happened on Friday night in East and West Dormitories. If the students do not think that this is enough light they were told to see Mr. Jackson to make arrangements about using more electricity.

Hugh Yelverton Made Honorary Council Head

Hugh Yelverton was elected president of the Honorary Fraternity Council at the organization's first meeting of the year last Tuesday after the chapel hour. This Council is composed of a representative from each of the honorary fraternities on the campus. Its purpose is to insure smoothness and cooperation between the different societies in their activities and programs. A list of the societies which make up the Honorary Fraternity Council follows: Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, Sigma Delta Pi, International Relations Club, Sigma Pi Sigma, Alpha Phi Epsilon, Scabbard and Blade, Eta Sigma Phi, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Delta Phi Alpha, Delta Pi Kappa, Omega Phi Alpha, Le Cercle Francais, Sigma Delta Psi, Mu Beta Psi, and Pi Delta Alpha. New representatives have not been elected by all of the fraternities as yet and so the membership of the Council can not be announced.

SIXTY STUDENT ASSISTANTS ARE ANNOUNCED

Bible And Chemistry Departments Lead Others In Number Of Assistants

MEN ARE NAMED TODAY

Only Honor Students Allowed To Have Positions

A list of assistantship appointments for the coming year was made available today. Over sixty students received these positions, each carrying with it from sixty to eighty dollars a year and responsibility for grading student papers. The Bible and Chemistry Departments employ six assistants each, leading other departments in that respect. The Music Department also received a larger number of assistants than usual with a total of five. This is an increase of four over last year. The list as follows is slightly incomplete: Bible: J. M. Douglas, C. B. Ross, D. R. Brandom, R. F. Coit, C. T. Fort, J. McMullan. Biology: A. W. Shaw, J. Walker, W. B. Stokes. Business Administration: J. K. Thompson, Jack Hellinger, R. L. Orr. Chemistry: A. W. Shaw, M. W. Alderman, E. S. Hodge, M. Barnett, W. B. Hartmann, J. Batte. Economics: Blanton Little. Education: J. B. Hicklen, A. B. Rhodes. English: C. S. McCall, C. G. Smith, W. R. Taber, H. L. Sutton. French: J. N. Hassell, Paul Cassell. German: G. Wood, H. Ross. Greek: A. B. Rhodes, J. I. Bowers, J. R. Taylor. History: M. Anderson, R. Hillier, W. C. Neill. Mathematics: C. A. Coleman, J. W. Hassell, A. W. Shuford, A. Kuhn. Political Science: A. C. Rogers, C. Lucas. Spanish: W. H. Batte, G. I. A. Merchant. Physics: J. Green, J. A. C. Wadsworth. Recorders: I. F. McPhail, J. H. Glass. Music: H. W. Bradley, R. R. Purdy, Hubert Morris, A. M. Cunningham, K. M. Scott.

DAVIDSON GIVES RADIO PROGRAM

College Songs And Yells Feature Second Broadcast Over Station WBT

The second in the series of Davidson radio programs to be presented over Station WBT in Charlotte this fall, was heard last Friday night at 10 o'clock. The program was announced by Grier Martin, Alumni Secretary, and was in the form of a pep meeting in preparation for the football game with the N. C. State Wolfpack Saturday night in Greensboro. 

Twenty-three members of the Davidson College Band were present and supplied the program with stirring music and enthusiastic yells. The band music was led by J. C. Pfohl and the cheers were led by Varsity Cheerleader Paul Warren. Immediately after the conclusion of “O Davidson,” which served to introduce the program, the members of the band gave a typical Davidson yell. The Band then rendered “Cheerio,” by G. Goldman, a song which has proved exceedingly popular among the student body for the past two years. The band then paid tribute to the State team by playing “State College Keeps Fighting Along.” The famous fight yell was then heard. Following the fight yell, the Band played “Salutation,” a march by Seitz, and the march, “Washington Post,” by Sousa. They then told how they felt about the matter by playing “Who's Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf,” and “The Old Mare.” The program was then completed by the playing of “O Davidson.” In the future Davidson College radio programs will be presented at 9 o'clock Friday night instead of 10, according to an announcement by Grier Martin.

DR. LINGLE GOES TO NEW YORK

Dr. Walter L. Lingle left Monday night for New York, where he will remain for a few days attending to some business relative to the college. Mrs. Lingle states that the Doctor

CLAY WILLIAMS SLATED TO FILL NAA POSITION

Davidson Alumnus First Selection To Board By President RooseveltMEMBER CLASS OF 1905

Prominent Winston-Salem Industrialist For Many Years

S. Clay Williams, of Winston-Salem, graduated from Davidson in the class of 1905, has been selected by the new national industrial recovery board to be the chairman of this five-member board. President Roosevelt named this board, designating Clay Williams first as his selection. The board is to take over the duties of Hugh Johnson, General re-signed head of the NRA. Mr. Williams is well known in industrial circles, having been the president of the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company for a number of years. He resigned this position to become chairman of the industrial advisory and planning council of the NRA. Previously he had been chairman of the Wagner Labor Relations board.

Williams has given much of his time and has taken a prominent part in the NRA since soon after its inception. This position held by Mr. Williams as chairman of the board is as near to filling the place left vacant by General Johnson as is possible under the new plan. When the selection was made, Williams was not in the capital. The conference of the board members was held chiefly by telephone.

The selection of Clay Williams should be of deep-hearted interest to Davidson College. He was outstanding in the class of 1905, having taken part in many student activities all through his four years at the institution. In Mr. Williams’ senior year he was the class historian, as well as being the editor of both the student publication, the Magazine, and the annual, “Quips and Cranks.” He was on the school honor roll during the full time he spent here. At other times during his life at Davidson he was editor of the two aforementioned publications in his junior year; he was President of the Library Committee, the Second Critic of the Society, an organization of the time; a member of other organizations of the period; a monitor for four years; an assistant in English, and a Junior Commencement orator.

S. Clay Williams graduated from Davidson with an A. B. degree.

Hal Thurston To Play For Council Dance Set

Hal Thurston and his Orchestra have been secured to play for the dances to be held in the Hotel Charlotte Ballroom in connection with the Duke game on October 19th and 20th, Mims Rogers, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, announced yesterday. This set, comprising a formal Friday night and an informal Saturday, will be the first Council-sponsored dance of the scholastic year; and as there will be only one other—Pan-Hellenic—and the Sophomore Week-End House-parties before the Christmas holidays, a large attendance is expected.

Thurston has played engagements in almost every resort on the Atlantic Seaboard and a large number of Southern colleges and universities. A number of United Artists Radio has gained wide recognition for his individual style and his unique arrangements. Thurston has been well received and comes highly recommended to Davidson.

It was thought that Johnny Long and his Duke Collegians would play for the Homecoming dances of November 9th and 10th, but he has since broken the contract and another orchestra has not yet been secured for this event.

While plans for the Sophomore Weekend have not yet been announced, it is understood that the Centennial will attempt to secure Red Nichols and his Pennies for their dances.

WILDCATS LEAVE FOR NEW YORK THURSDAY

Single Cuts Arranged Day Of Army Game

A number of Davidson men will take advantage of the single cuts next Saturday and will attend the Army game at West Point. For some time it was rumored that cuts on the day of the game would count double, however, an agreement has been reached with the faculty whereby the cuts on the day of the game at West Point and also on the Saturday of the Citadel game will count as single. The cuts on the preceding Saturdays will be counted as double according to the agreement. In view of the fact that cuts will be counted on Saturday, a number of trips to ‘the Point’ are being planned.

BELK CHOSEN FOR VESPERS

Richmond Pastor Will Conduct Fall Series Beginning October 28

Dr. J. Blanton Belk, pastor of Grace Covenant Presbyterian Church in Richmond, Va., will conduct the Fall Vesper Services, beginning Sunday, October 28, and terminating Wednesday night, October 31. Dr. Belk, who is pastor of one of the largest churches in Virginia, is an alumnus of Davidson College, class of 1915. He is one of the outstanding ministers of the Southern Presbyterian Church.

The credit for obtaining Dr. Belk for the Fall Services goes to A. B. McClure, general secretary of the Davidson College Y. M. C. A. An attempt was made by Sam Wiley, Y. M. C. A. general secretary in 1934, to obtain Dr. Belk, but when interviewed Dr. Belk found that it would be impossible to visit Davidson. He accepted the invitation to speak at Davidson this year in preference to numerous other requests to talk.

During the past summer, J. Blanton Belk made an intensive study of religious movements of today. He is outstanding as a minister and an authority on present-day religious questions. McClure stated, “Dr. Belk is an attractive speaker with a special appeal to young people. He is in great demand as a college speaker because of his vivid personality.”

Dr. Belk will speak for the morning and evening services on Sunday, October 28. He will address the students at the chapel hour and also at night during October 29th, 30th, and 31st. The securing of Dr. Belk to speak is the first step toward the fulfillment of the aim of the vespers service committee this year, viz: to secure prominent speakers from a wider range. Each year there are two major series of Vesper services, the fall services, and the spring Vesper series in early April.

Bands Of Davidson And State Unite In Figure

Coincident with the fine showing of both the Wildcat and Wolfpack football teams at the Greensboro game was the appearance of improved college bands, N. C. State and Davidson. The bands united at the half, the Wolfpack musicians marching in alternating lines with the ‘Cat Band. After playing several numbers together, the massed band faced the respective stands and were led in “O Davidson” by J.C. Pfohl, and in the State College “Fight” song by Director Kutchinsky, of the N. C. State department of music. The combined band totaled 119 pieces, the colorful red and white uniforms of N. C. State contrasting well with the smart and well-fitting R. O. T. C. uniforms of Davidson. Both bands marched before the game and during intermissions.

The Davidson Band received a surprise the afternoon when it was gathered before the O'Henry Hotel and given the opportunity to broadcast over Station WBIG in Greensboro. Just previous it had marched down the streets of Greensboro. Both the N. C. State and Davidson departments of music have gone through extensive rejuvenation. Kutchinsky, a former Army Band director and Head of Music at the Winston-Salem Public Schools, took over the State Band a year ago.

Twenty-six Players Will Make Army Trip On Special Pullman

WILL RETURN ON MONDAY

Alumni Plan To Entertain Team At Banquet

Army scouts attended the State game Saturday to get advance dope on the Wildcats who leave here Thursday with intentions of disturbing the complacency of the Army Mule. Around twenty-six players will board a special Pullman at 1:51 P.M. and will arrive at the Pennsylvania station in New York City at 6:45 the next morning. After eating breakfast at the station, a Blue-Line bus will take them for a two-hour journey along the scenic Hudson river, upon whose banks rests the United States Military Academy. Arriving at the Academy at 9:30 A.M., the team will spend the morning resting, idling or looking over the school and will workout during the afternoon at the Cadet football stadium. They are to remain at West Point overnight, meeting the Army team at 2:30 P.M., Saturday.

Immediately after the game, the Wildcats will again board the special bus and, accompanied by a motorcycle police escort, will journey to New York, where they will attend a banquet given in their honor by Davidson alumni of New York and vicinity. With the Pennsylvania Hotel as headquarters, they will remain in New York until 6:45 P.M., Sunday, and, again traveling on the Pullman, will roll into Davidson at 10:32 A.M., Monday.

Three hundred tickets have been set aside for Davidson alumni and others. Captain Pritchett reports that many former Davidson men of New York, Baltimore, Jersey City and vicinity are expected to attend and with the few students fortunate enough to make the trip, a good representation is expected. Pritchett expects to go along with Coaches Newton, McIver, Grier Martin, and Heath Whittle, track coach, are also planning to attend.

N.Y. ALUMNI TO FETE WILDCATS

Davidson Football Team Will Be Escorted To And From West Point

The alumni of Davidson College in New York City will entertain the Wildcats at a banquet in New York immediately following the game at West Point next Saturday. Plans for the affair are in the hands of W. G. Morrison and I. G. Knox, president and secretary respectively of the New York Alumni Association. They plan to have the team brought down from West Point in a bus with a motorcycle escort to the LaSalle Hotel in New York City where the dinner will take place. A large number of alumni living in New York will attend, as well as all other alumni up for the game. Dr. W. L. Lingle, Captain N. G. Pritchett, and Coaches Newton and McIver will be present.

When the Davidson Wildcats went to New York to play Army in 1929 they were elaborately feted by the New York Alumni. The alumni plan to be even more hospitable to the team this year.

Students Enthusiastic In Pep Meeting Friday

Gathered before the lighted steps of the Chambers Building last Friday night, an enthusiastic student-body voiced its confidence in the Davidson Wildcats to make a good showing in the conflict with the State Wolfpack on the following evening.

In two well-put stories, Capt. Pritchett likened the Davidson team to David in his successful attack on Goliath, who outweighed him on a scale comparative to State's outweighing Davidson; and he likened the cheering section of Davidson supporters scheduled to witness the encounter Saturday to the rescuers of Little Red Riding Hood, who also had her trouble with wolves. The band carried on this train of thought by playing the appropriate tune, “Who's Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf?”