THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 7, 1934

Davidson To Send Delegates To Publications Conference

Six Representatives Will Attend State Collegiate Press Meeting

HIGH POINT TO BE HOST

Banquets And Dances Will Supplement Confab

Next Thursday afternoon six Davidson representatives will leave for High Point College, and the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association. Davidson
College, in its initial meeting with the association, sends K. D. Weeks and Joe Wadsworth for THE DAVIDSONIAN; Ben Rose
and Bob Smith for QUIPS AND CRANKS; Ben Wyche and Lorenzo McPhail for THE YOWL. Each campus publication sends two
delegates, one for the editorial staff and the other for the business staff.

During this convention different problems will be discussed in regard to editorial and business problems; advertising rates will be discussed
mainly by the business section of the convention. All colleges of the state, including Queens-Chicora, N. C. C. W., and
Greensboro College, will be represented there. The convention will meet on the 8th, 9th, and 10th.

Last year Davidson was not a member of this association, but this year, having complied with the requirements for entrance,
and paid the entrance fee, Davidson is now privileged to send to the conclave of editors and business managers the
representatives of this campus. Last year, Duke was host to this meeting, but this year High Point College has been
selected to act as host for this assembly. The purpose of the congress is to organize the student publications and
to have competition and critical advice for the two sections represented.

Features of the convocation will be three dances, and three banquets to be held on successive nights, the dates of
which have been mentioned above. The business part will be taken care of in the mornings and the afternoons, while
these three dances and banquets will fill the social part of the program.

Officers of the association are: Larry Martin, of N. C. State, president; Thompson Greenwood, of Wake Forest College, vice-president; Norman
B. Livingood, of Duke University, treasurer; Catherine Hines, of Eastern Carolina Teachers College, secretary; and D. K. Cloninger, of High
Point College, host.

John Hunter, a Davidson graduate of '34 who taught in the high school his last year, is teaching in the
Gulf Coast Military Academy, Gulfport, Miss.

Belk Holds Concluding Service Of Fall Series

Dr. J. Blanton Belk, pastor of Grace Covenant Presbyterian Church of Richmond, closed the Y. M. C. A. Services last
Wednesday evening. The topic of his concluding service was “Putting Away Childish Things.” Dr. Belk opened the series of services
on Sunday morning, Oct. 28, at the regular church hour with the subject “The Quest For Religious Experience.” His talk
at the Wednesday evening service brought to an end a four-day series of morning and evening talks. His morning talks,
excepting Sunday, were presented during the regular chapel periods and were especially prepared for the student body.

Dr. Belk, a former student of Davidson, came here highly recommended, for he conducts a Young Peoples’ Forum in Richmond
and is prominent in young peoples’ work. His services were well received by local citizenry as well as by students
and were the object of much favorable criticism.

ALUMNI TO HOLD LUNCH SATURDAY

Johnston To Be Toastmaster In Feature of Davidson Homecoming Day

Next to the football game with Carolina on Saturday afternoon, the most important feature of Homecoming Day will be the
Alumni Luncheon. It will be held in the Alumni Banquet Hall of Chambers Building at 12:30 P. M., and all
Davidson Alumni and their friends are cordially invited. Last year there were nearly 250 present, and this year Grier Martin,
Alumni Secretary, is expecting an even larger crowd.

Joseph B. Johnston, head of the Barium Springs Orphanage, is to be toastmaster for the occasion. He is an alumnus
of the college and one of its most loyal supporters. Johnston is also the president of the Alumni Association. There
is to be no special speaker for the luncheon, but a number of men will be asked to speak informally.
Since neither the college nor the Alumni Association is financially able to entirely pay for this luncheon, it will be
necessary to charge fifty cents per person for the lunch. The Alumni Secretary would greatly appreciate being notified if you
wish him to include your name for lunch.

CAROLINA LUNCH

The Book-Lovers Club was entertained next to Hotel Dan by Mrs. A. McGeachy, of Charlotte. The Jordan, Its Place in
Christian Story, was the subject of the paper given by Mrs. C. M. Richards.

Hot Dogs
Hamburgers
Sandwiches
Cold Drinks

Opening “Charlotte Sunday Observer For Sale”

JOHNSON’S BOARDING HOUSE
The Best Food Always At
Located at Old Carolina Inn

THE DAVIDSON MANOR
Service $22.50 Per Month

WELCOME Pi Kappa Phi Alumni

Managers at DICK HAYWORTH AND HACK SANDERS

The Minister of Tomorrow—Needs the best of theological training that is available today.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., Pres.
Richmond, Va.

Rev. O. M. Anderson, D. D., '08, is Secretary of Stewardship and Superintendent of Education for the synod of Mississippi,
located at Jackson, Miss.

Thad Brock, '31, is assistant football coach at Charlotte High School.

S. J. Bryant, '33, is entering his second year of law at the University of Virginia Law School.

L. H. Corbett, ’31, of Burgaw, received his law license recently.

Fred Q. Dickerson, '33, is coaching at Lees-McRae College in Banner Elk.

Bill Fugate, ’34, is studying law at the University of Virginia.

W. B. Goodson, ’31, is head coach at Shelby High School. He coached last year at Fallston High.

J. L. Guy, ’32, of Charlotte, is working for the American Telephone and Telegraph Co.

Andrew Hewlett, '30, of Wilmington, is coach at Morganton High School. He played on the Davidson varsity in 1929-1930.

H. H. Harris, Jr., ’32, has resigned his position as accountant in New York and is now working for McKessons-Murray
Drug Co., in Columbia, S. C.

Edward A. Hancock, ’33, is chairman of the Men-of-the-Church organization, First Presbyterian Church, Bluefield, W. Va.

James Halverstadt, '34, met Malone Courts at Biltmore Club in Atlanta in the Georgia state tennis singles championship tournament on
Sept. 1.

W. M. Hart, '34, has gone to Louisburg to teach French. He graduated from Davidson last June.

J. A. Keemier, Jr., '31, of Greensboro, recently received his law license.

P. M. McDermid, '30, is with the U. S. Forestry Service, and is located in Whitmire, S. C.

W. B. McGuire, Jr., '30, is a member of the State Council of the American Bar Association. He is the
attorney for the Duke Power Co., in Charlotte.

Rev. W. B. McSwain, '31, is pastor of the Robinson Presbyterian Church.

M. C. McDonald, '32, had his arm fractured in an auto accident on Thursday of last week. His home is
in West End.

J. C. MacConnell, '33, is working in the Statistical Department of the A. A. A., in Washington, D. C.

Percy McEldreth, '34, varsity center and co-captain of the Davidson football team last year has been selected as the successor
of Ted Fix as athletic director and coach at Graham High School.

W. A. Mason, '31, of Belmont, received his law license recently.

W. H. Mathews, '32, attended the University of Texas last year, working on his Master's Degree in Chemistry.

Omicron Delta Kappa Has High Leadership Standards

There was founded at Washington and Lee University in 1914, by a group of faculty members and students, a nationally
known honorary leadership fraternity known as Omicron Delta Kappa. This honor society is now in its twentieth year and is
represented in thirty-seven American colleges and universities, the Delta circle of Davidson College, founded in 1917, being the fourth circle
to be established.

The purpose of the original group of fifteen founders, among whom were Dr. Henry Louis Smith, former president of Davidson
College, and Dr. W. M. Brown, continuous holder of the important office of Executive Secretary from the founding of the
fraternity down to the present time, has been stated as being: “The formation of a national honor society, which would
be significant of campus leadership in any and all branches of college activity; which through its local circles, would act
as the clearing house for the exchange of ideas; which would practically mold college opinion (by virtue of the fact
that its membership is composed of the leaders from all interested groups); which would, by the exchange of ideas at
conventions, in the national publications, and at sectional meetings, provide better intercollegiate feeling and understanding.”

The Omicron Delta Kappa Fraternity was organized for just this purpose. Although founded twenty years ago, the foresight and vision
of its original members in drawing up its constitution and forming...Its ideals have rendered it ideally suited for the present
situation. Indeed, the founders have gone even farther, for by providing for alumni and faculty members, they have made the
local circle truly representative of all interested in the welfare of the college. Therefore, membership in its circle is as
coveted by members of the faculty and alumni as by the undergraduates themselves. That this is the case is due
primarily to the high standard of membership, which is guarded jealously by both the local circles and the national organization.
The members are selected from the recognized leaders on the campus in the following five classifications — scholarship, athletics, social
leadership (including conspicuous service to the institution), non-athletic activities (other than publications), and publications. A good general average of scholarship
is, of course, required in any case. Not more than one-fourth of the members may be selected from any one
of these groups, and thus the domination of the fraternity by any one group is prevented. There are four active
faculty members and as many associate faculty or alumni members as the local circle may see fit to have. Article
II, Section 1, of the Constitution states that: “The purpose of the Omicron Delta Kappa Fraternity shall be three-fold: First,
to recognize men who have attained a high standard of efficiency in collegiate activities, and to inspire others to strive
for conspicuous attainments along similar lines. Second, to bring together the most representative men in all phases of collegiate life
and thus to create an organization which will help to mold the sentiment of the institution on questions of local
and intercollegiate interest. Third, to bring together members of the faculty and student body of the institution on a basis
of mutual interest and understanding.” Perhaps the secret of the success of the O. D. K. is stated in Article
V, Section 1 of its constitution: “Character shall be the primary consideration for membership in this organization.” The highest claim
of O. D. K. probably lies in the fact that it has been the common meeting ground for ideas and
ideals, with equal rights of expression coming from members, friends, alumni, faculty, and students. As stated above, Delta circle of
Omicron Delta Kappa was founded at Davidson College in 1917, being the fourth such circle to be established. Rho circle,
at Duke University, was the sixteenth circle to be established, and is the only other circle in the state. Mr.
Frank L. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson College, is on the General Council of the national organization of O. D. K.
and is a member of the Finance Committee, being quite active in this work. The twentieth anniversary of the founding
of O. D. K. will be celebrated at a banquet given by the Alpha-Delta circle of George Washington University in
Washington, D. C., on December 15. Several members of the local circle are planning to attend. O. D. K. at
Davidson is a development of a former local organization of similar purpose known as the “Gryphons.” On the Davidson campus,
O. D. K. has been instrumental in abolishing hazing; as a go-between between the freshman class and upperclassmen; standardization of
the college ring; founding the North Carolina Press Association; originating the “point system,” whereby a man is only able to
hold a certain number of offices on the hill; in establishing an audit board, composed of men who deal with
the finances of the college; forming two new literary societies; (above all) in keeping alive that intangible thing known as
the “Davidson Spirit.” The power of O. D. K. lies in the fact that each member is pledged to work
towards the best interests of Davidson College and society in general.

Consistently Good Food Throughout the Month
HOTEL DAVIDSON

Burial Of Latane In College Library
Steel Engraving Owned By College Proves To Be Valuable Possession

A unique and picturesque steel engraving of an event during the Civil War period, “The Burial of Latané,” painted by
W. D. Washington in 1864, now adorns the index case in the College Library. “The Burial of Latané,” owned by
the College, is a very rare engraving by A. G. Campbell made from the original painting of Washington. It pictures
the burial of Captain Latané, a Confederate officer, who had been killed in a hotly contested hand-to-hand combat with a
party of Yankees near Goshen, Virginia, toward the latter part of the Civil War. Latané’s dead body was carried from
the battleground to a neighboring plantation home by his brother, who was captured by the Yankees on reaching the gate.
Unable to obtain an Episcopal clergyman to perform the ceremonies, Mrs. Brockenbrough, a pious Virginia matron, read the solemn burial
services. Grouped around the prostrate form lying in the coffin were a few ladies, a fair-haired little girl, her apron
filled with white flowers, and several slaves who stood reverently near. Mrs. N. T. Smith, Supervisor of Dormitories, is responsible
for the historical connection of the picture. During her annual summer stay at Alleghany Springs, Mrs. Smith was shown the
only other copy that is supposed to be in existence. The picture is owned by Mrs. Calhoun, proprietor of the
summer resort, who lived in the vicinity in which the burial took place. The steel engraving, “The Burial of Latané,”
was among a group of paintings and sketches presented to the College by Dr. J. B. Shearer, President of Davidson
College from 1888 to 1901. Mrs. Smith stated that the picture was very valuable. This picture portrays the pathos surrounding
the Civil War, the dress in vogue, and the conditions in which the Southern people lived during this period. It
clearly represents the type of negroes and that remained true until the termination of the war. A poem was written
by J. R. Thompson, Southern journalist of this period, commemorating the burial of Latané. The poem is titled, “The Burial
of Latané.”

HAMPDEN GIVES PERFORMANCE IN CLASSIC DRAMA
America’s Finest Character Actor And Company Present Two Favorites
GIVEN IN CHARLOTTE

Walter Hampden, America’s finest dramatic actor, together with a large company of well-known dramatic players, arrived in Charlotte Tuesday to
present to Charlotte’s audiences two of their large repertoire of great dramas. The company presented Shakespeare’s Macbeth on Tuesday afternoon
and Bulwer-Lytton’s Richelieu on Tuesday evening, both at the Carolina Theatre. Mr. Hampden played the lead in both dramas, each
among the most famous plays of all time. Macbeth is a play which has lived for centuries and will continue
to live, with the name of Shakespeare himself. There was in reality a Macbeth of olden times who killed a
Scottish king, Duncan, in 1039, and seized the throne. This, however, was not the same Macbeth of whom Shakespeare wrote.
He finally became a tyrant when he heard of conspiracy within his kingdom and trusted no one. Richelieu is an
early Victorian drama based on the life of the immortal French Cardinal. Only four American actors have played the role
on the stage: Edwin Booth, Robert Mantell, E. H. Sothern, and Mr. Hampden. Cardinal Richelieu was the most powerful, hated,
and feared man in the first half of the seventeenth century! A large audience was present for both performances.

Pi Kappa Alphas Alumni Welcome

FREDRICKSON’S

Dr. Shelton Phelps To Be New Winthrop Head

Dr. Shelton Phelps will be inaugurated president of Winthrop College, the South Carolina College for Women, Rock Hill, S. C.,
on Friday, November 10th. In accordance with the general custom, a large number of colleges and universities will be represented
at the installation and attendant festivities. Davidson College will be represented by President Walter L. Lingle. Another member of the
Davidson faculty, Dr. G. R. Vowles, has been requested by his Alma Mater, Yankton College, Yankton, South Dakota, to do
the honors for that institution. The academic procession will form at ten o'clock. After the inauguration ceremonies, luncheon will be
served to delegates and other guests in the college dining room. At this occasion, delegates will be introduced. At four
in the afternoon, a reception for guests will be held at the home of President and Mrs. Phelps. In the
evening, delegates will be the guests of the college at a concert by Kathryn Meisle, contralto of the MSO Opera
Company.

Henderson’s Boarding House

CARS FOR RENT

Gulf Gas and Oil

M. P. HENDERSON

The new suits in our college and student department will interest you.

New Furnishings
New College Shoes

J O JONES INC
208 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

COMPLETE OUTFITTER FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

Dyke Out the Ray Way
Ray Harrison
