THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 14, 1934

Alumni From Many Points Attracted By Homecoming

About 160 Graduates Ranging From Class Of 1875 To 1934 Register For Day

CROWD SETS RECORD

Several Members Of 1926 State Championship Team Attend

The exceedingly large number of alumni returning to the Davidson campus for the Homecoming game probably set a record for all times. Out of this large gathering of old graduates, ranging from the class of 1875 to the class of 1934, there were 160 who registered and 260 at the Alumni luncheon. Among the alumni were four members of the '26 state championship football team: Jim Pinkney, Washington, D. C.; Dick Grey, Charlotte, N. C.; Joe McConnell, Washington, D. C.; and J. W. Grey, Charlotte, N. C.

The Alumni coming from the farthest points were: Rev. Plumer Smith, '07, Mutato, Belgian Congo, now at Davidson; Dr. P. P. Vinson, '09, Rochester, Minn.; and E. E. Routh, '11, New York City. The Alumni from the earliest class was R. S. Burwell, Davidson, N. C., who is a member of the class of 1875.

A list of the Alumni who registered is as follows:

1875: R. S. Burwell, '75, Davidson, N.C.
1888: Wm. Martin; D. R. McKee, Asheville, N. C.
1893: S. W. Moore, Bluefield, W. Va.; J. M. Douglas, Davidson, N. C.
1895: Chas. C. Orr, Asheville, N. C.
1896: A. H. Stone, Spray, N. C.; G. W. Maxwell, Roanoke, Va.; P. P. Maxwell, Washington, N. C.
1897: A. Currie, Davidson, N. C.; E. H. Ramson, Salisbury, N. C.
1898: J. A. Steele, Mooresville, N. C.
1899: Louis G. Beall, Black Mountain, N. C.; Mr. and Mrs. S. A. Robinson, Gastonia, N. C.
1900: John Hall, Wilmington, N. C.; J. A. Winn, Greenville, S. C.
1901: Hansell Watt, Thomasville, Ga.; Wm. A. Watt, Thomasville, Ga.; Jos. B. Johnston, Barium Springs, N. C.
1904: Joel S. Morse, Abbeville, S. C.
1905: D. Shemwell, Albany, Ga.; J. Boyard Clark, Fayetteville, N. C.; A. W. Shaw, Fort Mill, S. C.
1906: E. T. McKeithen, Aberdeen, N. C.; H. T. Mills, Greenville, S. C.; Henderson Irwin, Eureka, N. C.; E. G. Finley, North Wilkesboro, N. C.
1907: P. Smith, Mutato, Belgian Congo; Hinton McLeod, Brevard, N. C.; F. L. Blythe, Davidson, N. C.; Don Scott, Graham, N. C.; F. S. Neal, Jr., 1000 Grove Street, Charlotte, N. C.; J. Lacy McLean, Charlotte, N. C.
1908: Oren Moore, Charlotte, N. C.; Irwin P. Graham, Cooleemee, N. C.
1909: R. E. Denny, Pinehurst, N. C.; P. P. Vinson, Rochester, Minn.; Hugh A. Query, Gastonia, N. C.; E. S. Clark, Clarkton, N. C.
1910: J. L. McClintock, Monroe, N. C.; J. W. Thomas, Jr., Charlotte, N. C.; Coit M. Robinson, Lowell, N. C.
1911: E. E. Routh, New York City.
1912: John Watson Moore, Winston-Salem, N. C.
1913: S. B. Hoyt, Route 2, Concord, N.C.
1914: Z. V. Roberson, Roanoke, Va.; J. H. McEwen, Burlington, N. C.; Bruce, Greenville, S. C.; D. T. Caldwell, Petersburg, Va.
1915: James C. Harper, Lenoir, N. C.; W. S. Cunningham, Charlotte, N. C.
1916: Lacy Edgerton; D. Sparrow, Charlotte, N. C.
1917: D. J. McKinton, Columbia, S. C.; B. F. Hagood, Easley, S. C.
1918: A. E. Finley, North Wilkesboro, N. C.; Allen Ives, New Bern, N. C.; Hugh Akers, Greenville, S. C.
1919: Joe Hollingsworth, Mount Airy, N. C.; B. Hall, Belmont, N. C.; T. R. Alexander, Washington, D. C.
1920: B. Hall, Jr., Belmont, N. C.
1921: Carl H. Long, Fries, Va.; J. Cassell, Coward, N. C.; C. K. Brown, Davidson, N. C.
1922: Edgar Tufts, Banner Elk, N. C.; D. R. LaFar, Gastonia, N. C.; John C. B. McLaughlin, Laurel Hill, N. C.
1923: Robert H. Gordon, Gastonia, N. C.; James McCutchen, Spartanburg, S. C.
1924: Watt McCain, Orangeburg, S. C.; J. P. Stevenson, Statesville, N. C.; M. J. Murray, Banner Elk, N. C.; Donald J. Ch..., Winston-Salem, N. C.; E. D. Brown, Jr., Greensboro, N. C.; W. G. Houck, Charlotte, N. C.
1925: Ted Moomaw.
1926: James Appleby, Maxton, N. C.; Byrd T. Crayton, Charlotte, N. C.; Ernest Milton, Barium Springs, N. C.; Alton B. Cl..., Lincolnton, N. C.; Wm. N. Harris, Charlotte, N. C.; Walter H. Lynch, Jr., Augusta, Ga.
1927: J. Kuykendall, Charlotte, N. C.; Joe McConnell, Washington, D. C.; Jim Pinkney, Washington, D. C.; Frank Wilkinson, Rocky Mount, N. C.
1928: J. W. Grey, Charlotte, N. C.; M. N. Hall.

(Continued on Page 5, Column 2)

One Third Of Seniors Have Snapshots Made

A new feature of the 1934-35 edition of QUIPS AND CRANKS, that of securing snapshots of every member of the Senior class this year, has met with only fair response so far, according to Bob Smith, editor. About one-third of the class have had pictures made and turned in. All Seniors are urged to hand in one of these snapshots as soon as possible. The photographer will be back on the campus in about two weeks prepared to make pictures of all three lower classes as well as the Senior photographs. The proofs of the pictures which were made the latter part of October have been returned and accepted. Prints of these pictures can be secured in attractive folders at a nominal sum. Pictures of the various fraternity groups which were made some time ago will be returned within a few days for approval. The staff requests that all students having snapshots which they think would be suitable for publication in the yearbook, please turn them in, as it is only through the cooperation of the student body that the snapshot section will be successful this year.

FORENSIC GROUP PLANS SCHEDULE

Alpha Phi Epsilon To Draw Up Tentative Schedule Of Debating Trips

The Phi chapter of Alpha Phi Epsilon, national honorary forensic fraternity, will hold its second meeting of the year at ten o’clock next Thursday night. Plans for the coming year will be discussed, and possibly a tentative schedule of trips to be taken to various universities and colleges throughout the states by members of the debating team will be adopted. The members will also give a brief program.

The Phi chapter of Alpha Phi Epsilon was founded at Davidson in 1923, succeeding the old “Gavel and Forum Club,” which had existed here as a forensic organization for a number of years. Bids are issued twice a year to men who show exceptional ability and interest in public speaking on the campus. The debating team, literary societies, and Y. M. C. A. workers are represented. Meetings are held once a month which have proved valuable in stimulating forensic development, both in regard to the individual members and to the student body. The society members have complete charge of the selection of the freshman debating team and also the membership of the varsity team. During the second semester of each year, the fraternity sponsors a series of talks by visiting speakers on problems of the day.

The present student members of Alpha Phi Epsilon are R. H. Smith, Jr., president; Warner DuBose, vice-president; D. R. Brandon, secretary-treasurer; G. H. Brown, D. B. Bailey, R. T. Coit, P. M. Rogers, W. P. Sprunt, Jr., and A. C. Stutts.

Physical Ed Students Take Theoretical Work

The department of Physical Education, headed by Captain Norton G. Pritchett, is organized into three types of classes, the most advanced type of these being devoted to Juniors and Seniors, the middle one to Sophomores, and the elementary type to Freshmen. As most of the Juniors and Seniors taking a course in Physical Education do so with an eye to becoming coaches in some sport, or possibly professors of Physical Education, the work done by the advanced sections is mostly of a theoretical nature. During the first semester the students are considering a text called “Methods in Physical Education,” in addition to a number of basic notes. As the Physical Education department is working along different lines this year from those pursued last year, the Sophomores, while their gymnasium work is done alone, unite with the Freshmen for the lectures.of the first six weeks, as the two classes are equally without background in work of this sort. All students not taking R.O.T.C. work, or not on some Freshman or Varsity athletic team, if not in a Freshman or Sophomore Physical Education class, are required to make monthly reports stating that they have complied with the college regulation by having taken at least three hours of exercise per week, on three separate afternoons.

Appleby Is Heard At Vesper Service
Alumnus Chooses “The Problem Of Doubt” For Evening Topic

A large crowd of approximately 225 persons was present at Chambers auditorium Sunday night to hear the Rev. Jim Appleby speak at the regular Y.M.C.A. vesper services. The Rev. Mr. Appleby, “Jim” Appleby as he preferred to be introduced, is a graduate of Davidson and served as “Y” secretary here during the years 1926-28. He is now pastor of the Maxton Presbyterian church.

The theme of his sermon was “The Problem of Doubt.” In this, he pointed out the doubts which assail any college student as he enters into a new and changed environment. He characterized an “honest doubter” as “one who eagerly and sincerely digs for facts” to refute his doubts, as contrasted to one who adopts as his motto “I won't believe what I cannot explain.” His sermon was interesting throughout and its effectiveness was accentuated by a rather personal style of deliverance.

Dr. Appleby in his sermon recalled several reminiscent incidents from his life at Davidson. During that period, the “Y” services were conducted in Shearer Hall since the new Chambers auditorium was not completed. “It might be interesting to note,” Mr. Appleby added, “that your present ‘Y’ secretary, Albert McLure, was a freshman when I was here.”

The speaker was introduced by John Newton, of the Senior class, who also presided over the preliminary exercises. Special music consisted of the presentation of “Little David Play Your Harp,” by the College Glee Club.

Upon graduation from Davidson in 1927, Mr. Appleby became secretary of the Y.M.C.A. here and remained in that office for two years, at the end of which time he entered the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. After three years of work there, he moved to the University of Edinburgh in Scotland where he continued his ministerial studies. Upon completion of his course in Scotland, he made an extended tour of Europe and the Holy Land.

As a student of Davidson, Mr. Appleby was universally liked by both students and members of the faculty, and was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Gamma Sigma Epsilon. His service as secretary of the “Y” was marked by advancement in every phase of its activities. His achievements elsewhere have been equally outstanding as those at Davidson.

Around Town

President and Mrs. Edward M. Gwathmey, of Converse College, were weekend guests of Major and Mrs. John Rhett.

The As You Like It Club met Friday night at the home of Mrs. Alice Buckner. Prof. Ernest Beaty gave an interesting paper on Choosing Our Literary Friends.

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Sprunt of Wilmington visited Prof. and Mrs. Price Gwynn during Homecoming.

Mrs. Frank Hall of Wilmington spent the past week with Mrs. Mattie Burwell Murphy. Mr. Hall and son, William, joined her for Homecoming.

The Kill Kare Klub was entertained at dinner Thursday night at the home of Miss Margaret Adams.

Lieutenant Colonel and Mrs. William Scott of Fort Benning, Georgia, have announced the marriage of their daughter, Isabel, to Lieutenant Claude Leslie Bowen, Jr., on Tuesday, November 6. Lieutenant Colonel Scott was formerly connected with the R.O.T.C. department at Davidson.

Mrs. J.M. McConnell and Mrs. J.D. McConnell were at home to their friends Wednesday afternoon, November 14, from four to six o'clock.

Miss Mary Ellenwood, who until recently has been a winter resident of Davidson, died November 10, at the home of her sister.

Mrs. Mary Lee Sloan of China is visiting her uncle and aunt, Dr. and Mrs. Walter Lingle.

The Sorosis Club met Friday night with Mrs. Thomas Hamilton. Mrs. Frank Hall of Wilmington was an out-of-town guest.

Davidson Presents Second Broadcast
President Lingle Welcomes Alumni In Short Address Friday Night

Davidson College held its regular weekly radio program last Friday night at 9 o'clock. The only college organization to participate in the program was the band, who dedicated the first four numbers to John Philip Sousa, who has become so famous in the eyes of the world for his marches.

The program was presided over by Skip Brown, president of the Student Body. “O Davidson” was played as the first number. Dr. W.L. Lingle, president of the college, gave a short address of welcome to the coming alumni, and reminded them of the Alumni luncheon Saturday.

The band played in succession four numbers of Sousa: “March of High School Cadets,” “Washington Post March,” “The Thunderer,” and “Stars and Stripes.” Then followed a piano solo by Kenneth Scott, Schumann's “Romance.”

In view of the coming game with Carolina, the band played the Carolina Alma Mater, “Hark the Sound,” as a salute to the Davidson opponents. Then followed William Gaston's “The Old North State,” Elbel’s “Victor's March,” and “The University of Minnesota Rouser.” The playing of “O Davidson” by the band concluded the program.

Orphaned Boys To Hear Address By Dr. Lingle

Dr. Walter L. Lingle will be the principal speaker at the Fatherless Boys banquet to be given at Ifrd’s dining room in Charlotte Thursday night at 6:30 o'clock, under the auspices of the boys’ department of the Y.M.C.A., it was announced yesterday by the committee in charge of arrangements. The banquet is held annually for the fatherless boys of the city of Charlotte. This year the committee expects the largest attendance in the history of the program. Each fatherless boy will be accompanied by a business man of the city who will act as his father for the occasion.

Dr. Currie Represents College At Association

Dr. Archibald Currie, Davidson professor of political science and economics, attended a meeting of the Southern Political Science Association held in Atlanta, Ga., on November 1-2-3. Representatives from all the colleges and universities south of Virginia were present.

A number of papers dealing with the New Deal and other matters of current interest in politics were presented. Dr. Currie gave a paper entitled “Intelligent Muddling in Political Crises.” Among the distinguished guests present at the meeting of the association were: Dr. Shepherd, president of the American Political Science Association; Dr. King, secretary-treasurer of the American Political Science Association, and Dr. Holcomb, professor of Political Science at Harvard. Dr. Currie saw the Carolina-Georgia Tech game before returning to Davidson, Saturday night.

Varied Program Given By Oxford Orphanage

The Music and Dramatic department of the Oxford Orphanage Home, presented a varied program of entertainment on Tuesday night, November 13th, at eight o'clock in the Davidson High School auditorium. The program, which was rendered by approximately fourteen children from the orphanage, was given in the form of a concert and pageant. It consisted for the most part of humorous sketches, songs by the singing class, folk dancing, drills, historical and present-day character sketches, a Spanish Castanet dance, and several other performances.

Kennedy’s Shoe Shop
Skilled Workmanship at Reasonable Prices
“The best possible Material” is used.

It leaves a clean dry ash — no soggy residue or heel in the pipe bowl
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO Co.

In the manufacture of Granger Rough Cut Pipe Tobacco the Wellman Process

The Wellman Process is different from any other process or method and we believe it gives more enjoyment to pipesmokers.
... it gives the tobacco an extra flavor and aroma
... it makes the tobacco act right in a pipe — burn slower and smoke cooler
... it makes the tobacco milder