THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 21, 1934

NEW BOOKS ARE NOW IN LIBRARY
Ten Popular Writers’ Latest Works Made Available To Davidson Men

The Davidson College Library announces the arrival of several new and popular books as an addition to the bookshelf of newly written books. The names and discussions of the books follow:

“Paderewski,” by Charles Phillips. The story of a modern immortal with reference to the love of art and music. Charles Phillips is the author of “New Poland.”

“The Choice Before Us,” by Norman Thomas. It is the story of mankind at the crossroads. Thomas is the author of “America’s Way Out,” and “As I See It.” His book discusses another world war within the next ten years with reference to Fascism and Socialism.

“Wings of Fame,” by Louise Wallace Hackney. The novel is based on the life of James Smithson, founder of the Smithsonian Institute in Washington, D. C.

“The Beloved Physician of Teheran,” by Isaac Malek Yanan. It is the story of the miracles of the man who walks and talks with God.

“American Song,” by Paul Engle. It is a book of poems. Paul Engle is one of the new tone poets in American folk literature. He is a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford and bids fair to become one of the dominant figures in this decade of American poetry.

“Education For Successful Living,” by James E. Clarke.

“A Child Went Forth,” by Helen MacKnight Doyle, M.D.

“Men, Money, And Mergers,” by George L. Hoxie. The book relates a collection of statistics and events based on modern human instincts.

“Woodrow Wilson,” the caricature, myth, and the man by Edith Gittings Reid. She is the author of the “Great Physician.” She relates in the book several incidents when Mr. Wilson would spend visits with her in Baltimore and also some very valuable letters.

“Liberia Rediscovered,” by James C. Young.

“State,” by George E. Spankle, Ph.D. It gives valuable information on names, flags, songs, birds, and other symbols.

“War Memoirs of David Lloyd George,” 1916-1917. He was a member of the British cabinet during the war and remained continuously in office throughout the World War.

In front of the library, a new walkway has been constructed to avoid the congestion during the rainy season.

Armaments Cost World 4½ Billions During 1933

Last year the world spent approximately four and one-half billion dollars on armaments. The race for increased armaments has become a mania with the larger nations of the world. This year the total expenditure for the same purpose will be over five billions. Mussolini is rattling the sabre in Italy. His government is increasing expenditures for the navy, the air fleet, and is subjecting young boys to compulsory military training. France, England, Germany, Russia, and Japan are all following similar procedures. In the United States, sixty-four cents of every dollar paid in taxes go for wars past, present, and future. The slogan among the nations seems to be that the cannon must be fed, even if the people have to starve.

Nations have their military attaches and naval attaches in legations and embassies abroad. The time has come when every nation should have also a peace attache whose special business would be to study the problems of the relation of nations from the viewpoint of peace, which hitherto all nations have studied and approached from the viewpoint of war. It is for the students of all countries to study the questions of war to try to bring about a change in the attitude of all nations. If intelligent men and women will lay aside their prejudices and extreme nationalism, they should be able to come to some understanding that will save civilization and keep us out of the jungle.

Among the GREEKS

With all eyes turned toward Thanksgiving with the Wake Forest football game in sight and the prospects of a good many of the fraternity alumni on the campus, the activities of The Court were very limited over the weekend.

Beta Theta Pi — The usual Sunday night feed was enjoyed by the brothers. A number of the members attended the Carolina-Duke game, returning to Davidson Sunday after a most enjoyable weekend.

Kappa Alpha — Scottie McLeod, Tom Downie, and Harvey McConnell were sent as delegates of the Sigma chapter to a convention in Columbia, S. C. Some of the brothers attended the Isham Jones dance at the University the past weekend.

Phi Delta Theta — The Beta chapter at Chapel Hill was visited by a number of brothers over the weekend. Those remaining on the campus spent a quiet weekend.

Phi Gamma Delta — Numerous brothers of Delta Kappa attended the classic football game Saturday at Chapel Hill. The Fijis who remained on the campus spent a quiet weekend browsing among various magazines and listening to a number of new records which have recently been purchased.

Pi Kappa Phi — The Pi Kappas are looking forward with a great deal of enthusiasm to the approaching Thanksgiving holiday and game. The members are expecting a large number of the alumni to be present and in anticipation of this event had a somewhat uneventful weekend. The Pi Phis have decided to buy some new furniture in the near future.

Pi Kappa Alpha — The chapter was visited over the weekend by the following: Andy Little, Charlotte; A. C. Cline, Concord; R. H. Lafferty, Charlotte; and P. L. Lafferty, Concord. The members of the chapter are proud to announce the recent initiation of W. F. Cox, Jacksonville.

Sigma Phi Epsilon — The Sig Ep's will receive two loving cups from the Grand Chapter in Richmond for attaining the best scholastic average of any social fraternity on the campus. Bill Broadway, Shelby, while on a visit to Davidson, was taken ill and had to remain in the College infirmary for three days. He expects to return to take up his work during the second semester. A placard with the engraved name of the most outstanding freshman in the Centennial class of the fraternity will be presented to the chapter by the senior class of last year.

Senior Cagers Defeat First Year Men 19-14

The Seniors downed the Freshmen, 19-14 in the first game of the intramural basketball tournament last Monday afternoon in the gym. On Monday night the Sophomores met the Juniors, but the results of this game and those played Tuesday and Wednesday were not known when this paper went to press. In the first game, Yager of the Seniors was high scorer, getting 5 points while Elvery and Munroe got 4 points each.Four each. Rhinehart and Myres held the scoring honors for the Freshmen, each getting three points. The Seniors started with a rush and scored seven points before the yearlings could get going, but shortly after the start of the second half, the freshmen rallied and several times held a one-point lead over the upperclassmen. The Seniors, however, came back and pulled away in the closing minutes of play. The captains of the various teams are: Seniors, Colin Monroe; Juniors, Hugh Yelvington; Sophomores, Dick Parker; and Freshmen, Charlie Harris.

M. H. GOODRUM
Dry Goods, Groceries
Hardware
Radio and Radio Tubes
PHILCO AND GRUNOW
DRUGS
WE HAVE SUNDRIES IN EVERYTHING
White Drug Co.
SODAS
THE BEST PRESCRIPTIONS
Davidson Students

Y.M.C.A. Freshmen Begin Rifle Christmas Holidays

To town of Grange, Ro; Tobacco the IS used, the ug Wellman

Marksmanship Cotte! Begin On December 19

Members Of Rifle Team Also Beginning Practice For Season

Christmas holidays will last exactly two weeks this year, starting Wednesday, December 19, and ending on Thursday, January 3. As customary, all classes will end at twelve-thirty o’clock on the beginning of the vacation. Classes will resume at eight twenty-five o'clock on Thursday morning.

The regular monthly reviews for the month of December will end on Saturday, December 15, four days before the beginning of the vacation.

Five Seniors Will Appear Before Committee For Rhodes Scholarships

Five Davidson seniors will apply in Alabama and North Carolina, and E. K. Emunian, class of '31, B. A. summa cum laude, will be submitted by Union Theological Seminary, as a candidate for Virginia. The local committee made up of Professors Cumming, Lilly, and Vowles, approved and submitted the following names: Robert H. Smith and John R. Taylor, for Alabama; Gordon H. Brown, John M. Douglas, Thomas H. Sutton, and Gordon R. Wood, for North Carolina.

The Y.M.C.A. sent two deputations this past weekend to Concord. The first deputation was composed of W. C. Neil, speaker, and Frank Tucker, Humber Morris, John Washburn, and John Morgan, quartet. The second deputation went to the First Presbyterian Church Sunday morning, at which time W. C. Neil spoke. Musical accompaniments were played by Warren Babcock, assistant professor of music. Warren Babcock also supplied music for the second deputation, Sunday evening, at the Young People’s Meeting.

The R.O.T.C. has recently begun its course, including several periods of actual shooting on the gallery range, under the direction of Captain Cochran. The course will last the remainder of the semester. Members carried over from last year are also easing into the armory and onto the range to see if they can still “hold and squeeze.” Match shooting begins February 1, and challenges are coming in from schools and civilian clubs all over the country. These matches are shot on local ranges, and results are sent to opposing teams by mail. In addition, there will be several shoulder-to-shoulder matches with organizations nearby.

Young Men's Sweaters with Sport Back and Leather Buttons are being shown as the newest thing in the Students’ Department of Smith and J O JONES INC
208 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The ping-pong tournament began last week, but to date, has progressed rather slowly.

The annual Mission Fund campaign will probably be begun soon, the Y.M.C.A. announcing the campaign dates.

The Eumenean Literary Society held its regular weekly meeting last Tuesday night at 7:15 in Eu Hall. The program consisted of a debate on the subject, Resolved: That the NRA should be abolished. The debaters, all of whom were new members of the society, were: Affirmative—Edward Turner, J. M. Westall, W. P. Yelverton; negative—T. B. Hoover, Knox Thompson, and W. M. Wicker. The debate was hotly contested; but the house, acting as judge, voted the negative side winners.

At the next meeting of the society, the new officers for the year will be installed. The new officers are: President, Luther Shirey; vice-president, Bob Lindsay; secretary, John Allen.

Professor Beaty Will Speak At Fayetteville

Professor H. A. Beaty, Latin instructor at Davidson, will be the speaker when the eastern division of the North Carolina Education Association holds its annual meeting in Fayetteville next Saturday, November 24. He has been invited to address the Classics Teachers’ section on phases of Roman education as applied to modern problems.

YOU'LL BE HAPPY IN HANES!
Shorts... Shirts... Union Suits
SERVICE VARIETY
P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
WINSTON-SALEM

HOTEL DAVIDSON
QUALITY QUANTITY