DIRECTORY MAKES LATE APPEARANCE, WITH NEXT ISSUE ALENDA LUX UBI! THE DAVIDSONIAN LIBERTAS ORTA

’CATS OPEN GRID SEASON SATURDAY WITH ELON GAME

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 19, 1934 No. 1

POTTER TO READ DAVIDSON AOTC Ro CADET MAJOR

Fort, Rogers, Coit, And Douglas Are Company Cadet Captains

RHETT MAKES ADDRESS

A. J. Potter, Jr., of Barium Springs, has been appointed to serve as Cadet Major and Battalion commander of the R. O. T. C. unit at Davidson College during the 1934-35 school year, according to an early announcement by Major John T. Rhett, professor of Military Science and Tactics in command here. The promotion of Potter as Major and 44 other seniors as commissioned officers in the battalion, followed a six weeks’ training encampment at Fort McClellan, Anniston, Ala., during the summer. Their appointments became effective last Friday, September 15.

Commanding officers of the four companies which compose the battalion are as follows: C. I. Fort of Mobile, Ala., Company “A”; A. C. Rogers of Bennettsville, S. C., Company “B"; R. T. Coit, of Richmond, Va., Company “C"; and J. M. Douglas, Jr., Company “D.” A. M. Cunningham of New London, Conn., was appointed Cadet Captain of the band.

The first military formation since the opening of school was held last Friday with 386 students reporting for drill. These cadets reported to their respective companies and were arranged according to height, then separated into platoons. Monday, at drill period, formation was again held and the battalion marched by companies to Chambers Auditorium where Major Rhett delivered an address on the history of wars in the United States, explaining the place R. O. T. C. has in the national defense act, and why we should have military training.

The non-commissioned officers, who are taken from the present Junior class, will number approximately 40 men. The promotions were: Battalion commander: Cadet Major, A. J. Potter. Cadet Captains assigned to Staff: J. H. Batte, Battalion Adjutant; J. H. Powell, Personnel Adjutant; W. B. Ravenel, III, Plans and Training; D. M. Hutchins, Supply Officer.

Company “A”: C. T. Fort, Cadet Captain; 1st Lts., R. M. Porter, R. O. Dees, Jr., Ostwalt, B. O. Simpson; Cadet 2nd Lts., W. F. Brewer, R. W. Richardson, J. R. Taylor, J. K. Thompson, Cadet 1st Sgt., C. L. Windham; Cadet Sgts., W. M. Archer, W. F. Bell, G. P. Erwin, C. L. Okey, W. F. Pearce, D. M. Stewart, W. R. Taber, J. R. Hayworth, and A. W. Price.

Company “B”: A. C. Rogers, Cadet Captain; 1st Lts., E. B. Garrett, R. H. Smith, W. B. Templeton, J. R. Withers; Cadet 2nd Lts., C. A. Coleman, C. D. Deans, L. E. Quarterman, J. H. Simpson; Cadet 1st Sgt. A. L. Bulwinkle; Cadet Sgts., M. J. Barnett, V. Cassels, T. E. Downie, D. B. Griffin, W. B. Mickley, J. H. Morrow, L. J. Blackwelder, F. H. Young.

Company “C": R. T. Coit, Cadet Captain; Cadet 1st Lts., H. Yelverton, L. F. Byerly, E. G. Holt, G. R. Wood; Cadet 2nd Lts., T. H. Griffith, P. M. Rogers, C. B. Ross, A. C. Stutts. Cadet 1st Sgt., (Continued on Page 2, Col. 5)

New Men Entertained At Reception Monday

The Y. M. C. A. held its annual Freshman reception last Monday night at eight o'clock in the Chambers building banquet hall. All members of the faculty, freshman class, senior class, and all new men, whether freshmen or not, were invited to attend. In all there were about five hundred guests present. Refreshments consisting of ice cream, cake, and punch were served. Entertainment was provided by the music department. Those taking part on the program were Donald Pfohl, flutist; Warner Babcock, cellist; James Selango, tenor; and Carleton Chapman, pianist. Mrs. F. W. Hengeveld was hostess of the event. She was assisted by Mrs. G. F. Laird, Mrs. H. E. Fulcher, Mrs. A. H. Whitele, Mrs. L. B. Schenck, and Misses Helen DeVon, Mary Gaffney, Madeline Lyons, Ruth Adams, Margaret Douglas, Miriam Goodrum, Goudylouck Erwin, Dorothy Johnson, Mary Louise Moffett, Libby Rhett, Elizabeth Shewmake, Frances Stough, and Jenny Thompson.

ALUMNI HEAD

Joseph B. Johnston who succeeds Dr. Lacy as Alumni President

ALUMNI CHOOSE JOHNSTON HEAD

Graduate Of '01 Succeeds Mr. Ben Lacy In Election Held Last Spring

An outstanding feature of the commencement activities last spring was the election of Mr. Joseph B. Johnston as president of the Alumni Association. The annual meeting of the Alumni Association was held at 10 o'clock Tuesday morning, June 5, at which time all officers and alumni trustees were elected. Mr. Johnston is now superintendent of the Presbyterian Orphans Home at Barium Springs. He is a member of the class of ‘01 and in his undergraduate days was prominent in athletics and other campus activities. Mr. Johnston has been an unusually loyal alumnus and is a frequent spectator at Davidson's athletic contests. He has often been called upon to address the student body at pep meetings and other gatherings. Mr. Johnston succeeds Dr. Ben R. Lacy, president of Union Theological Seminary. Dr. John Walker, ‘06, was chosen vice-president. In his address, Mr. Johnston said, “Now, if it were possible to harness all the potential goodwill that we know is in the alumni, couldn't we make our old college a wonderful place! Knute Rockne once said that he wanted to coach at a penitentiary sometime, because that would be a place where there would (Continued on Page 2, Col. 5)

Student Registration Attains Highest Peak

After all registrations were received for the 1934-1935 session of the college, it was revealed that the largest enrollment in the ninety-eight years of the college’s existence had been received. A statement from the registrar’s office announced that six hundred forty-nine students are now enrolled and in school. This number surpasses by two men any former registration, the nearest being in the 1931-1932 session when the enrollment was six hundred forty-seven. This number, however, included the second semester registration. Registrar Hengeveld estimates that during the year we shall have about six new men added to the student body, basing his estimate on the increase in past years. As yet, there are no figures on the registration by states and foreign countries. These will be announced in the near future.

As usual, the freshman class is the largest, with two hundred eight members. The sizes of the respective classes decrease according to years, the senior class having the smallest enrollment in the college at this time. The sophomore class is second with an enrollment of one hundred seventy-five members, the junior class next with one hundred thirty-eight members, and the senior class with one hundred twenty-eight members. Of the total enrollment of over six hundred, there are two hundred forty-three new men. There are thirty-five transfers from other schools not in the freshman class.

Four New Faculty Members Come To Davidson This Year

Babcock, Clifford, McGavock, And Minault Join Davidson College Faculty

BABCOCK ASSISTS PFOHL

Arbuckle Unable To Work Because Of Sickness

Four new faculty members have been added this year at Davidson. Three of them are replacing for this year the old faculty men, and the fourth has been added to the music department. Dr. A. T. Clifford takes the place of Dr. H. B. Arbuckle in the department of chemistry. Dr. Arbuckle has been ill and will not resume work until the second semester. Clifford was a graduate of the University of North Carolina, getting there his Ph. D. and M. S. degrees. He also studied at the University of Pittsburgh and received there the honorary title of “Industrial Fellow of the Mellon Institute and Research.” From 1928 until 1934 he was assistant instructor in chemistry at the University of North Carolina.

S. S. Minault takes A. V. Goldiere’s place in the French department this year. He graduated from Ohio State University in June, 1933, with the B. A. degree and distinction in French. He was born in England but spent most of his childhood in France and French schools. His mother was English and his father French.

Professor W. McGavock, who graduated from Davidson in 1930, is taking the place of Professor J. T. Kimbrough in the math department. He received a B. S. degree and Cum Laude distinction. He taught in the Battle Ground Academy at Franklin, Tennessee, since graduating. He will now teach four sections of freshman math and one of sophomore.

W. P. Babcock is assisting J. C. Pfohl in the music department. He was a graduate of the University of Michigan in 1933 and was supervisor of music in public schools of Eaton Rapids, Michigan. He will teach private work in all instruments and will play in the various musical organizations and occasionally in chapel. Babcock is a member of Phi Kappa Phi Honor Society and Delta Kappa Educational Fraternity. He will work especially in the community and help organize an orchestra among the girls and boys of Davidson.

STUDENTS GIVEN WORK BY FERA

Professor Fleagle Has Charge Of Giving Work To Seventy-three Men

The Federal Emergency Relief Administration made its appearance in Davidson College this year, by granting the permission to render work to a maximum of seventy-three students. The work, which includes the selecting of students for the various positions, and designating the type of work to be done is headed by Professor Fred K. Fleagle. According to Professor Fleagle, the students who are most needy will be given work first, and then other applications will be considered. The United States government allows only twelve per cent of the registration number of October, 1933, to obtain jobs under this administration. Also the college is not allowed to remove any employees who have been working during the past and place F. E. R. A. men in their stead. Another ruling which governs this type of aid is that fifty per cent of the funds paid out must be received by men who are now in their first year at Davidson.

The school, however, has the right to add additional employees in places where more help could be used. The majority of the work will be in the improvement of the campus, the buildings, and the upkeep of Chambers building. There are, at present, a good many plans in consideration as to other types of work that students may do to receive aid from the F. E. R. A. funds. So far about fifty applications have been noticed and work given, and the remaining twenty-three permitted positions will have to be selected from applications numbering about twice that number.

ORIENTATION IS CONCLUDED FOR CLASS OF 1938

“Y”, Faculty And Student Body Unite In Introducing Newcomers To Campus Life

HOLD GROUP DISCUSSION

The annual freshman orientation program was held Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday of last week, in order to give the new men essential information that they should have about the college. Prominent members of the faculty and the student body delivered talks at different times during the three days. Several meetingswere held by the Y. M. C. A. on Monday and Tuesday for the benefit of those freshmen who are particularly interested in Y. M. C. A. work. The freshman retreat took place Monday night on the golf course. Sam Wiley, retiring Y. M. C. A. secretary, delivered a talk on life at Davidson. Walter Sprunt, president of the Y. M. C. A., led the devotional of the meeting Tuesday night. The main speaker was Albert McClure, new Y. M. C. A. secretary, who spoke on Ideals of College Life. The Wednesday morning devotional was held by Dr. H. M. Moffett, pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church. Dr. J. M. McConnell, dean of faculty, spoke on Student Scholarship, and Prof. F. K. Fleagle talked about The Use of Time in College. Discussion groups were held by various students at the end of its various activities. Dr. M. E. Sentelle, dean of students, spoke Wednesday afternoon on College Regulations. G. H. Brown, president of the student body, delivered a talk on Student Body Government, and Albert McClure one on Campus Organizations. Discussion groups followed. On Wednesday, the final night, Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, gave advice about the Handling of Money and the Care of Property. Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of the college, gave the last talk of the Orientation, speaking on What Davidson Can Mean to a Student.

WRITER PRAISES DAVIDSON BAND
Largest Band In History Of The College Is Expected This Year

“The Davidson Wildcats don't know how far they will go on the gridiron, but one thing is certain; this Presbyterian institution is going to have one of the best bands in Big Five circles this season. It seems the school has become music conscious. There will be an 80-piece band blaring forth when the kick-off time arrives for the Elon game here September 22. This band is due to be ‘right’ by the night of September 29, when Davidson meets State College in Greensboro. Half of the talent for the band is to come from the college students, the other half from the R. O. T. C. unit here. It has been said the crop of musicians at the school is the best in years. The Wildcat band always has been pretty good, but it is going to be bigger and better than ever this year.” Thus read Ed Mitchell's “Speaking of Sports” column, which appeared in last Friday's Greensboro Daily News. It is plainly evident that big things are expected of the music department this year, and with this in mind, Professor Pfohl has already organized the men and begun serious practice. So far, a total of 152 students have enrolled for participation in the band, orchestra, and Glee club, while more are expected to sign up later. Many improvements have been made in the equipment of the band, and over two thousand dollars spent during the summer for new instruments. In addition to this, all of the old band equipment has been completely overhauled and already issued to a number of students who were not able to provide their own. All of the new equipment was obtained through the college and the R. O. T. C. department. The following list comprises the new instruments, which were added to the music department during the summer: (Continued on Page 2, Col. 5)

COLLEGE SPENDS $25,000 FOR IMPROVEMENTS ON BUILDINGS

NEW FEATURE

“The Davidsonian” would like to announce that in future issues of the paper it is planning to publish an “Open Forum” column on the editorial page for the use and benefit of the students. This column will contain letters and editorials concerning any phase of campus life in which the student may be interested. Any subscriber of the paper is eligible to use this space. All articles will be printed which are deemed advisable to print, and they should be placed in the hands of the editor before four o’clock each Monday. The column was originated with the idea in mind of making the paper one that is truly “the voice of the students”.

RUSHING SEASON TO END TONIGHT
After Hectic Week Fraternities Will Hold Pledging Ceremonies Tonight

Tonight at nine o'clock will break the day of silence observed by the fraternities on the Davidson campus at the end of rushing season and will conclude a week of ceaseless activity on the part of fraternities in their efforts to choose men for their respective lodges. A rushing season cut in half by a faculty ruling was the feature of this year’s program, resulting in a scramble by the fraternities in an effort to get appropriate dates with new men. More competition than usual has been noted this year and many fraternities have found themselves unable to become acquainted with all prospects due to the short length of time. The rushing season proper began on September 12, Wednesday, although most of the lodges were entertaining the newcomers beginning Monday, September 10. A highlight in the rushing program was Saturday night when many of the fraternities gave extensive dances, banquets or house parties to entertain the freshmen. Rushing ended Tuesday night at ten o'clock with the beginning of the Day of Silence. Bids were being mailed today and tonight at nine o'clock those receiving invitations to join will go to the fraternity of their choice. The Pan-Hellenic Council will meet beforehand and in cases where a man has been invited to join more than one fraternity, each fraternity will be allotted fifteen minutes in which to speak to the rushee. These talks will begin at seven o'clock.

Pan-Hellenic Council Sponsors Dance Sat.

The Pan-Hellenic Council will present Stubby Taylor and his Green Park Orchestra next Saturday evening in the first dance of the scholastic year. This dance, which is held in conjunction with the opening of football season, will be held in the Hotel Charlotte ballroom from eight-thirty till twelve the night of Saturday, the twenty-second. The orchestra comes straight from a summer engagement at the Green Park Hotel in Blowing Rock, where it has proven very popular. And as, due to faculty restrictions, there will be only one other dance during the football season, a large attendance is expected. Each of Davidson’s nine social fraternities will cooperate in making the event a success. While tickets will be on sale at the gate, those wishing to purchase them in advance may do so through any of the council members. The next Pan-Hellenic dance will be the home-coming dances of November the ninth and tenth. Dates and plans for the four other council-sponsored functions will be announced later in the year.

DIRECTORIES IN NEXT ISSUE

Due to last minute changes in the room assignments of those enrolled at Davidson this year, the Davidsonian was unable to print the Student Directory in this issue. It will in all probability come out in the next issue of the paper, along with the directory of the faculty.

AND CAMPUS

Dormitories Are Repaired And Painted, And Many Campus Roads Paved

PLACE LAMPS IN ROOMS

Six hundred and forty-six students arrived at Davidson September 12, to find many changes and improvements on the campus. Over $25,000 has been spent by the college in improving the campus and repairing the buildings. Probably the most appreciated and noticeable improvement was the building of new roads and walks. The roads have not been completed as yet, due to the rainy weather which has prevailed for the past several weeks. Plans are being made to put the finishing touch on the roads sometime in the near future. The roads under construction to be hard-surfaced are the “D” road, roads in the front and rear of the dormitories and the drive leading to the stadium. The “circle” in fraternity court is being hard-surfaced also. Concrete walks were laid from the Y. M. C. A. building to the Post Office and walks to fraternity court and to the Concord road were made of brick. Much construction work has been done on the dormitories. Georgia, once dilapidated, is now the best dormitory on the hill. New floors, wall paper, painting of the woodwork, installing of new tables, chairs, beds and chiffoniers renovated Georgia dormitory. Russwin automatic locks have been added in all the rooms on the campus, thus increasing the safety of the Davidson students. One of the outstanding features of this summer's work was the purchase by the college of 272 Illuminating Engineering Society lamps, one for each dormitory room on the campus, causing the Southern Public Utilities Magazine to say, “Davidson is now the best lighted college in America.” The lamps were made according to the specification sent in by Roy A. Palmer, illuminating engineer for the Illuminating Engineering Society, and are designed to give indirect lighting to the student's desk. East, West and Watts received a new coat of paint on the walls and woodwork. The floors were sanded and then painted in East and West. The walls were patched and other minor improvements added. Rumple, having been renovated summer before last, was worked on very little. North and South were painted and minor repairs were made in the general clean-up. An eight inch water main was laid, underground, from the town line to the college. Previously a four inch pipe furnished water but this pipe did not supply sufficient pressure on the top floors of the dormitories. The new water main, with its higher pressure, will aid greatly in case of fires. Advantageous improvements have been made on several of the college buildings. The laundry, once small and inconvenient, is now being enlarged to accommodate more laundry. The banquet hall in the Chambers building, notorious for its bad acoustics, has been fixed so that there is no echo at all. The college recently remodeled the “Davidsonian” office on Elm Row. New floors and wall paper improved the appearance of our Y. M. C. A. building. Some work was done on Shearer Hall in line with the improvements on other college buildings.

Dr. Sentelle Reveals New Monitor Selection

The new monitors for this year as given out by the dean's office Monday are B. W. Wyche and A. A. Gammon, monitors for the freshman class; P. F. Warren and J. L. McClintock, monitors for the sophomore class; H. A. Cathey, junior class monitor, and C. F. Fort, senior class monitor. New rules regarding tardies and absences in church and chapel are also announced by Dr. Sentelle: A man is tardy if he is not in his chapel seat by the opening of the organ prelude. He is counted absent if he comes in after the opening of the second exercise, generally the hymn. At the morning church service a tardy is incurred if a man is not in his seat by the opening of the doxology, an absence if he comes in after the sermon has begun. For retiring from either chapel or church a man is given an absence. Retiring is either leaving the service or moving from the seat assigned him.