THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 31, 1934

Dr. Harding Recalls Years of Experience At Davidson

Screen “Massacre” Has Been Professor of Greek and German for Nearly Fifty Years

DAVIDSON GRADUATE

Many Changes Effected Since Arrival at College

Few men of today can boast of a record of faithful service in the field of education as long as that of Dr. C. R. Harding, professor of Greek at Davidson College. For the past fifty years, Dr. Harding has specialized in the teaching of Greek and German in various schools throughout North Carolina and Virginia. In 1888, after teaching at Hampden-Sidney College, he accepted a position as professor of Greek here at Davidson and in this capacity, he has taught since that time.

Born in Charlotte, Dr. Harding made the most of the poor educational conditions which existed at that time, and at the early age of fifteen, he entered Davidson College as a freshman. Apparently, freshing or hazing was the order of the day, and Dr. Harding, being the youngest in the college at that time, received no little share of the events that followed. One event particularly vivid in his mind was the “smoker” that several sophs decided to give for his benefit. Taking their pipes and plenty of tobacco, they proceeded to puff and blow up a veritable cloud of smoke, which soon engulfed all occupants of the room. Unaccustomed to such a dense atmosphere, and noticing a sudden opening in the doorway, Dr. Harding made a break for liberty which far surpassed any previous attempt at speed records and soon he was safely hidden in the shelter of a nearby woodpile. However, he was not destined to stay for long as the sophs, “hot on the trail,” soon discovered his presence. In a very short time, they started such a furious barrage with chips and other missiles, that he again broke from cover and ran. Finding, however, that the sophs could run too, he desperately sought the shelter of the village church. Fortunately, the village choir was practicing for Sunday’s service and attracted by sounds that at least promised refuge and solace for the disturbed and distracted, Dr. Harding made his way to the choir loft and safety.

Another humorous incident was recalled by Dr. Harding, of the freshman who, late one evening, heard the footsteps of one walking through the corridors of Chambers and, being anxious to take revenge upon an older student, whom he had reason to believe to be the person approaching, he concealed himself behind the door until a form partially appeared. The freshman then yelled loudly in the person’s ear and shook him with all his might until he saw the gray whiskers of a very dignified professor whom he knew very well. Realizing his mistake, the freshman tried in vain to utter an apology, but the incident had rendered him speechless. The professor’s astonishment can well be imagined, but eventually, he understood and uttering a kindly laugh, he continued upon his way, leaving a very bewildered freshman.

According to Dr. Harding, the college before the war was nothing like the college of today for numbers, but had a good representation as compared with other schools at that time. The campus consisted only of the old Chambers Building, two society halls, Oak and Elm Rows, and the old chapel, which is now known as Shearer Hall. However, in 1868 through the efforts of the student body, various walks and drives on the campus were laid out, and later grass, trees, and shrubbery were added for its beautification. The great circular driveway on the campus, which is an exact mathematical curve except for a short distance near the gate, was planned and calculated especially by Davidson math students. As time went on, various other classes contributed to the campus in an honest effort to improve its appearance. Evidently, they succeeded in their objective, for now we have one of the most beautiful campuses in North Carolina, and as Dr. Harding says, “is quite a contrast to the campus that he lived upon during his career at Davidson.”

SENATOR R. R. REYNOLDS HEADS FLAG ASSOCIATION

U.S. Senator Robert R. Reynolds from North Carolina has been elected chairman of the executive board of the United States Flag Association. The body is now waging an intensive nationwide war on crime which has been endorsed by President Roosevelt and approved by the Department of Justice.

Noted Educator

Dr. C. R. Harding, who for almost fifty years has been professor of Greek and German at Davidson College, has reviewed some of the interesting things that have happened about the campus during his time of faithful service to the college.

Mecklenburg C.E. Union Will Meet at Davidson

As a result of their request, the Christian Endeavor Union of Mecklenburg County will hold its meeting in Chambers Building on Friday, February 2, beginning at 8:00 p.m. In the absence of President W. L. Lingle, Treasurer F. L. Jackson will extend a welcome to this union of the Christian Endeavor Societies of the county. After that, Methodist Bishop Edwin D. Mouzon, of Charlotte, will deliver the principal address of the evening. A special invitation to attend this meeting is extended by the Christian Endeavor Society officers to all those who wish to do so.

Pre-Medical Frat Bids Six Davidson Students

According to R. C. Morrow, president of Pi Delta Alpha, local pre-medical fraternity, bids were issued to six students, Friday, January 26. Those bids were: B. C. Barnes, J. H. Batte, B. B. Fort, L. M. Huie, J. A. Wadsworth, and K. D. Weeks. Plans are underway for an open meeting, to be held in the zoological laboratory Friday, February 2, at 7:00 p.m. At that time Dr. Addison G. Brenizer, of Charlotte, will lecture upon “Down the Alimentary Canal With Camera and Tools.” The address will be illustrated by both lantern slides and moving pictures.

Phi Society Discusses Policies of Roosevelt

The Philanthropic Literary Society discussed the policies of the Roosevelt administration in its regular meeting Tuesday night. Speakers were W. L. Fugate, C. F. McNeill, and George Hornbeck. Fugate gave a resume of the developments of the “New Deal” in 1933 and laid particular stress on the agricultural aid involved. “The NRA,” stressed Fugate, “is particularly radical in its policy that any thorough recovery must come from the ground up—must start with agriculture. This policy is diametrically opposed to the policy of former regimes who have maintained that the bankers, the railroads, and the big industrialists are responsible for prosperity.”

“The Monetary Policy of the Present Administration” was the topic of McNeil’s talk. He showed how inflation favored the debtor class and was repulsive to the creditor class. “The present administration,” said McNeil, “seems to be inclined to aid the little man—the debtor.”

“Will the NRA work?” George Hornbeck seemed to believe it would in his discussion of that question. He stated that its principles were sound and that barring any unforeseen calamity, the NRA would carry America back to prosperity.

Students in the department of geology at the Pacific College will make a trip to the Mohave Desert region and Death Valley during the spring vacation to study soil and rock formations.

Local Theatre

Richard Barthelmess Acts in Indian Role

Wednesday, January 31—Four Frightened People

This is a tropical story of four people who are forced to become companions on a strange island. The four people are Claudette Colbert, William Gargan, Herbert Marshall, and Mary Boland, school teacher, chemist, radio announcer, and club woman, respectively. They are on a ship that is stricken with bubonic plague, and escape from their ship to a tropical island, where their characters are very strikingly revealed. Outstanding is the good photography, made with the picture in the Hawaiian Islands.

Thursday, February 1—Fugitive Lover

Robert Montgomery and Madge Evans are co-starred in this picture, which shows them, an escaped convict and a girl from the night clubs, also escaped, thrown together in their attempt to continue into the frozen West. There the convict saves a busload of school children, is paroled for his bravery, and the two are married.

Friday, February 2—Eight Girls in a Boat

Life in a girls’ school, with the girls’ likes and dislikes, is shown. Seven of the girls try to make life better for the eighth, the wayward one. Their attempts to help her, and her attempts to get along are portrayed very vividly by Dorothy Wilson, the eighth, a Swiss school girl. With her are Douglass Montgomery and Kay Johnson.

Saturday, February 3—Massacre

Richard Barthelmess plays the role of an Indian chief on exhibit at the World's Fair, with Ann Dvorak, his sister, and Claire Dodd and Sidney Toler. The story carries him through prison for murder, and prison break, an appeal to a senate committee and finally to work for the government.

Monday, February 5—Bedside

A very touching story that brings to the screen Kathryn Sergava, the mysterious Russian actress, in the role of a grand opera singer. William Warren, Jean Muir, and Allan Jenkins are in the cast.

Tuesday, February 6—All of Me

A new love story with Frederic March and Miriam Hopkins in the lead. They should be very good, after their successes in “Design for Living” and “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.” In the cast are George Raft and Helen Mack.

New Officers Elected At Ministerial Meeting

The last meeting of the Ministerial Band was largely taken up with the election of officers for the coming term and a brief discussion of plans for future programs. Palmer M. Kirkpatrick was elected president; Don Brandon, vice-president; and W. D. McGirt, secretary-treasurer. These men will serve in these positions for three months, planning programs, selecting speakers, and in general guiding and binding together the ministerial students on the hill. Attention is called to the change in hour from 9:00 to 7:00 p.m., for the meeting to be held Thursday, February 8. The program committee hopes to secure Dr. W. L. Lingle to address the group at that time.

Two Students on Sick List Will Return Soon

The many friends of Dick Hayworth and Felix Gee will be delighted to know that both are doing nicely andHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

are expected to return to the campus soon. Hayworth suffered an attack of appendicitis while taking a shower in the basement of Watts Hall. He was taken to the Infirmary and later to his home in High Point where his appendix was removed. Bob Smith, roommate of Hayworth, stated that he stood the operation well and is now on the road to a speedy recovery. Gee, who has also been on the sick list, was taken to Charlotte for treatment. His malady was first branded as spinal meningitis, but examination proved the rumors to be entirely unfounded. Mae West has been chosen to select the girls who make up the beauty section of Louisiana Tech’s yearbook.

With the Social Fraternities

During the holidays the Phi Gam’s, the Kappa Sig’s, the Pika’s and the S. A. E.’s had their floors worked over and their houses painted on the inside. The K. A.’s had their house fixed over this fall and several others have announced plans to have work done before mid-winters. The Phi Gam’s entertained at their house last Friday night, January 12. Alice Cowles Barringer, Laleah Gray, May Lebby Smith, Miriam Steele and Eve Stevenson, all of Charlotte, were guests of the fraternity. Kappa Alpha social fraternity announces the pledging of Lindsey Watt, of Thomasville, Ga., a member of the class of 1937. The Pi Kappa Phi's entertained informally at a party on Saturday evening, January 13, at the chapter house. Visitors attending were: Major and Mrs. John T. Rhett, Misses Libby Rhett and Margaret McKnight, of Davidson, and Caroline Hammond, Sarah Thompson, Mildred Young, “Rett” Carroll and “Pete” Carroll, all of Charlotte. Pi Alpha of Beta Theta Pi announces the addition of Crawford Harris. Harris is a junior and a transfer from Westminster College. Henry H. Rhyne, senior of Kappa Sigma, has returned to Davidson for the next semester.

Survey Shows Frat. Men Get Better Grades

Scholarship ratings of fraternity men at Davidson College show a higher average than those of non-fraternity, according to a survey just released by the National Interfraternity Conference, an organization of sixty-nine fraternities leading in the United States. Not only does the scholastic average of the fraternity men rank higher than the non-fraternity in a majority of the 150 colleges studied, but the rating is higher than the all-men’s average, which includes both Greek-letter students and unaffiliated men. The group average of 59 percent of the fraternities exceeds the all-men’s average on respective campuses. The total undergraduate enrollment of the institutions in the report numbers approximately 250,000, of whom nearly 70,000 are members of the 2,104 chapter groups of the Greek-letter organizations in the Interfraternity Conference.

Outstanding among the facts revealed by the 1933 survey is that all-men’s averages have risen in 79 percent of the institutions of the country, denoting an increasing amount of attention to academic objectives on the part of undergraduate men. The best performances of the year were made at the Universities of Wisconsin, Michigan, Penn State, Syracuse, Alabama, and Mississippi. The most marked scholastic improvement, according to geographic sections, was made by the Southern group. Second in improvement was the Pacific Coast section. According to the report, the younger fraternities still outstrip the older, scholastically. The most steady improvement is found among larger national groups and is attributed to the more extensive programs carried on by these organizations. No internal evidence of the study is found substantiating the belief that disciplinary control has aided in the solution of the scholarship problem. Scholastic first places in the 156 institutions reporting this year are distributed among 52 members of the Interfraternity Conference, the widest distribution ever obtained. Greater interest in scholarship and the steady improvement in the past five years are removing much of the grounds for criticism directed toward fraternities and fraternity systems, the scholarship committee believes.

Fraternity Publication Compliments Arbuckle

A picture of Dr. Howard B. Arbuckle, head of the Davidson Chemistry Department, appears in the January issue of “Banta’s Greek Exchange,” an inter-fraternity journal. Underneath the picture were the cutlines, “He retired after twenty years of service as Grand Councilor of Pi K. A.” With Dr. Arbuckle’s voluntary retirement from the office of Grand Councilor, there was effected a change in the name of the highest position in the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity.

Mid-Winter Dances to Feature Emerson Gill

Davidson's annual Mid-Winter dances, sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council, will be held this year at the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium on February 9 and 10, and will feature the music of Emerson Gill and his orchestra. The affair will include a group of three dances, a formal one Friday night from 9:00-2:00, a tea dance Saturday afternoon from 4:00-7:00, and an informal entertainment Saturday night from 8:30-12:00. Gill’s orchestra is composed of an accomplished group of musicians who have worked together for the past ten years, and who recently completed an engagement at the Lotus Garden in Cleveland, where they broadcast daily over WITAM. Shortly before Christmas, Gill and his band played for dances at Duke and the University of North Carolina.

Pfohl Announces Trips For Music Departments

According to Professor J. C. Pfohl, director of music, the spring will be a busy time for the music department. Although no long trips have been taken by either the Band, Glee Club or Orchestra so far this year, plans have been made for one long trip and several shorter ones in March, April, and early May. Most of the dates have not been definitely settled as yet. The Band will play a concert at Lenoir High School on March 9, returning to Davidson to give a concert the following night. Arrangements have been made for the appearance of the Glee Club and Band at Barium Springs, Clemons, High Point, Shelby, Statesville, Steele Creek, and Winston-Salem, and at Flora Macdonald, Greensboro, and Queens-Chicora colleges. Return engagements have been secured with Charlotte and Lenoir high schools in the spring, as well as other leading bands. Appointments for concerts have been secured with T. M. Johnson and his Salon Orchestra, and with Nelson B. Kennedy, University of North Carolina organist.

Jan. 13 Celebrated as Guilford Charter Day

Saturday, January 13, was Charter Day for Guilford College, it being the one hundredth anniversary of the ratification of the charter of New Garden Boarding School, the original institution from which the college later developed. The occasion was celebrated with elaborate ceremonies lasting throughout the major part of the day. On the program were Dr. Robert Kelly, executive secretary of the American Association of Colleges, and Hon. J. C. B. Ehringhaus, governor of North Carolina. Greetings and congratulations from Davidson College were conveyed by Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr., and Mr. F. L. Jackson, the official representatives of the college. It is interesting to note that the actual founding of the school for which the charter provided did not take place until three years after the grant. Hence Davidson and Guilford will have their centennial celebrations in 1937, in the same year. The Friends and the Presbyterians have long been active in the educational activity of the state.

Charlotte Community Concert Drive Closes

The membership drive for the Charlotte Community Concert Association closed last week. The campaign for new members in Davidson was under the supervision of Mrs. P. H. Gwynn. Twenty memberships were taken by the students and townspeople during the drive. The Charlotte organization is a branch of the Community Concert Association, whose purpose is to make concerts possible on a basis which eliminates all financial risk on the part of the artist or the person sponsoring the performance. The association is organized on a membership basis. Each student member pays dues of two dollars per year which entitles him to attend all of the concerts that are presented by the association each season without additional expense. The committee appointed to select the artists has secured Richard Crooks, the famous tenor. For the other two performances, the artists have not been secured. Much effort has been put forth to get either the London String Quartet or the New York String Quartet for one of the concerts. This association has proven itself to be well worthwhile and the members derive much benefit from it.

Davidson Again on Air With Sports and Music

Under the supervision of Grier Martin, two radio programs have been broadcast over WBT so far this month in an attempt to bring Davidson College before the eyes of the public. On January 10, the feature of the program was a talk by Captain N. G. Pritchett on athletics at Davidson. In this talk Captain Pritchett directed his remarks mainly to the alumni, praising them for their reasonable and sympathetic attitude toward athletics here at Davidson. He also gave statistics on the number of men engaged in varsity, freshman, and intramural sports, proving conclusively that the intramural program, since its installation here four years ago, has been a decided success. The musical portion of the program was provided by David McLain, who sang two numbers.

The program presented on January 17 consisted entirely of musical selections. First, Professor J. C. Pfohl gave two cornet solos, “An Old Irish Air” and “Last Night.” Then David McLain sang “Song of the Turnkey,” followed by “Asleep in the Deep,” by Petrci. The concluding number on the program was a piano solo by Professor Pfohl, “To a Wild Rose,” by McDowell. No program was presented last Wednesday night due to the broadcasting of the world premiere of “Carolina” from the Carolina Theater in Charlotte. However, a program is being planned for this Wednesday, January 31, at 8:30 o'clock.

McGill University (Canada) students have turned out in such numbers for ping-pong matches that the school has built a special bleacher section to accommodate all spectators.

Start the Semester With a Shine

See “TED” JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP For the Man Who Cares

Johnson’s Barber Shop

SODA SANDWICHES GET IT AT COLLEGE PHARMACY Davidson’s “Service Drug Store” SCHOOL SUPPLIES DRUGS

Avoid Trouble--- Drive HENDERSON’S U- PUSH - ITS Day and Night