va ‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 7, 1934

ALUMNI NEWS

Local Alumni Clubs Plan Meetings For First Founders Day

Seven Chapters Have Definitely Completed Plans for Celebration of Davidson's 97th Birthday

MAGAZINE TO APPEAR

Plans Not Complete for Radio Program

Dr. J. P. Munroe has been recently confined to the Charlotte Sanatorium. However, he was reported to be greatly improved and it is expected that he will be able to resume his practice before long.

Dr. Walter Lee Lingle spent last weekend in Greenville, S. C., preaching on Sunday in the Presbyterian Church of that city. While in Greenville, Dr. Lingle visited in the home of Mr. H. T. Mills, '06.

Several new directors for the Charlotte Council, Boy Scouts of America, were elected recently at the annual meeting of the organization. Dr. Robert Lafferty, who has served as Scout

Seven local alumni chapters have made definite plans for meetings on the night of April 12, which has been set aside by the trustees as Founders’ Day. The ninety-seventh anniversary of the founding of Davidson College will be celebrated at the college and by alumni groups all over the South. The seven local chapters which have planned dinner meetings for the night of the 12th are Atlanta, where Dr. E. L. Bishop, '12, is president, and W. S. Woods, '27, is secretary; Central Florida with Sidney Ives, III, '24, president, and J. W. Good, '25, secretary; Charlotte, Col. E. L. B. Davidson, '80, president, and J. B. Kuykendall, '27, secretary; Gaston County, R. D. Hall, '19, president, and W. T. Spencer, '26, secretary; Greenville, S. C., J. I. Smith, '24, president, and B. R. O'Neal, '15, secretary; Rowan County, I. P. Graham, '08, president; Winston-Salem, George W. Coan, Jr., '11, president, and J. H. McKeithen, secretary.

Plans for the radio broadcast over WBT, Charlotte, have not yet been definitely completed, but it is expected that the program will be broadcast. In the event that it is, it will include an address by the president of Davidson, music by the Davidson Band, and an address by a prominent Davidson alumnus to be selected later. The plan is to have all the alumni who can, tune in on the station to listen to the program.

The first week in April will mark the appearance of Davidson’s first alumni magazine. This magazine will carry a story by Dr. W. L. Lingle, announcing Davidson's centennial program, which was adopted by the trustees at their February meeting. Other features will be details of the Founders’ Day celebration, a Davidson sports review by Odi Casali, editor of The Davidsonian, plans for commencement, and features about individual alumni, as well as class items, marriages, and deaths. The magazine will be illustrated with campus scenes. It will be sent to all of Davidson's 4,500 alumni.

Davidson Alumnus Dies In 88th Year

Entered Davidson During Civil War—Was Member of Class of 1869.

One of Davidson's oldest alumni, L. M. Hoffman, '69, Dallas, died last week at the age of 87. Mr. Hoffman had been in poor health for several years, and was confined to his bed for the last week of his life. He entered the preparatory department of Davidson College in 1862, and remained here until 1864, when he entered the Southern army. He was commissioned a second lieutenant, and was attached to Johnston’s army when it surrendered to Sherman near High Point in 1865. He returned to Davidson in 1865 and finished his education there in 1869, receiving the A.B. degree. He went to Arkansas in 1870, and taught school, studying law at night. He was admitted to the bar in 1873. He returned to North Carolina, after an attack of malaria fever, and practiced law in Gastonia. Giving up his law practice, he again entered educational work, and served for twelve years as county superintendent.of public instruction in Gaston County. Commissioner for the past three years, was elected president of the council.

It has been rumored around the political circles of the Piedmont section of this state that Dr. John T. Burrus, a prominent High Point surgeon, is contemplating entering the 1936 gubernatorial race. He intends to return to the State Senate and from there to make a survey of the possibilities of becoming a candidate for governor.

Uhlman S. Alexander has recently started a series of articles in the Mecklenburg Times on the various offices of the county government. One of these articles in the series appeared recently and was entitled, “Our County Government.” In this writing, Mr. Alexander calls upon the people of Mecklenburg County to select men to run their government that are qualified and fitted to do so. In determining their qualifications, the writer tells of all the offices of the government and what each office holder is responsible to do. This series should prove quite interesting and instructive.

The Southern States Industrial Council, designed to seek more equitable representation on code authorities for the South and wage differentials, was recently made a permanent organization. On this council was Mr. Charles A. Cannon, of Concord. The planned purpose of this council is “to represent the South in all questions of industry, much as the New England Council does for that section.”

Dr. Thomas H. Spence, Jr., is now general supervisor of the School of Christian Education at Hastings College, Hastings, Nebraska. This school is conducted under the auspices of the Department of Religious Education for the benefit of the children of the City of Hastings.

Rev. W. E. Crane is now pastor of the Ormewood Presbyterian Church in Atlanta, Ga. He was called to this church from the First Presbyterian Church of Porterdale, Ga.

Dr. J. McD. Richards has recently completed a series of religious services at the Berry Schools, Mt. Berry, Georgia.

Bill Goodson, coach of the Fallston basketball team, has reported a very successful season, which was climaxed with the defeat of Shelby High School for the county championship. Goodson’s team was presented with a beautiful trophy as a symbol of their achievement.

W. C. Thompson, who is now working in Charlotte, was a weekend visitor on the campus.

Mr. and Mrs. John D. McConnell spent a few days here with Dr. and Mrs. McConnell. Mr. Hoffman was a member of the Lutheran Church and was a well-known Bible teacher. He is survived by three children, Miles Hoffman, Jr., Dallas; Mrs. W. K. Mauney, Kings Mountain; Dr. Ernest Hoffman, Washington, D.C.; seven grandchildren; one full brother, Fisher Hoffman, Long Shoals; and two half-sisters, Mrs. O. P. Rhodes, Dallas, and Mrs. Jake Ramseur, Lincolnton.

Mr. and Mrs. Houston White announce the birth of a son, Corwin White, January 25, 1934, Atlanta, Ga.

From the Diamond Horse-Shoe of the Metropolitan Opera House at 2:30 P.M., Eastern Standard Time, over Red and Blue Networks of NBC, LUCKY STRIKE will broadcast the Metropolitan Opera Company of New York in the complete Opera, "Pagliacci" and "Cavalleria Rusticana."

THE JOY OF GOOD TASTE

And good taste is one great pleasure you find in every Lucky Strike, for only the finest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos are used in Lucky Strike... and always the Finest Tobacco... only the Center Leaves... GOOD TASTE only the center leaves. They are the mildest leaves, the most tender. Every Lucky Strike is fully packed... always so round, so firm—no loose ends. NOT the top leaves—they’re underdeveloped—they are harsh! The Cream of the Crop - “The mildest, smoothest tobacco” NOT the bottom leaves—they're inferior.