THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 28, 1934

Student Volunteer Group To Give Mission Play, ‘Ba Thane’
Brandon, Coit, Gammon, And Coit Sent On Deputations Work By “Y”

The Student Volunteer Group's activities last Sunday included deputations to Winthrop College and to Mitchell College, as well as a
regular business meeting. Audley Gammon and Paul McClanahan journeyed to Rock Hill, South Carolina and spoke to the Student Volunteer
Group at Winthrop College. McClanahan showed the Egyptian as a normal human being and the spiritual need for the Egyptian.
Gammon presented Brazil as the land of opportunity, bringing out the opportunities for the gaining of wealth, the appreciation of
beauty, and for helping the people to develop their spiritual nature.

Bob Coit and Don Brandon visited the Student Volunteer Group of Mitchell College at Statesville, the last of a series
of four deputations. They reviewed briefly the book “Presbyterian Missions in the Southern United States,” by E. T. Thompson and
developed the subject “What A Mitchell College Girl Can Do To Enhance the Cause of Christ.”

Next Sunday, December 2, Dr. Gwynn will continue his series of discussions on world social problems at 4:30 P.M. This
discussion, the third of the series, will concern “Increased Materialism in the World as Opposed to Spiritual Values.” Anyone who
is interested in world problems is invited to come to the “Y” social center and enter the discussions.

The Student Volunteer Group is also planning a missionary play entitled “Ba Thane,” which is to be given with the
help of the Volunteer Group of Queens-Chicora College. Saturday night four members of the local society went to Charlotte for
the first complete rehearsal. The business meeting held last Sunday was largely devoted to the play and criticisms of the
rehearsal.

STUDENT HAS ORIGINAL IDEA
Designs Christmas Greeting Card To Be Sent To President Roosevelt

During the regular chapel program this morning Stewart Barnes, of the Sophomore class, presented to the Student Body an idea
that he had caught from President Roosevelt's speech at Harrodsburg, Ky. The President, who had been viewing the Tennessee Valley
Project, had in his speech, compared the spirit of the people of today with that of the pioneers of the
early days of this great nation. The student told how it had made him stop and think about the wonderful
opportunities that he had today. He showed how the NRA was responsible for the FERA and how the funds from
the FERA had helped so many students of the nation to continue their education. It is easy to see how
an education helps mold the characters of a person and that we the students are to be the citizens of
tomorrow. It was brought out how easily it is to accept a gift and just let the appreciation be taken
for granted. On catching the spirit of the address he designed a card to show clearly that we the students
are firmly backing the administration in this field and wish to express our gratitude to the President while he is
still in office and not wait until later on to thank him and commend him on the courage it took
to invest such a large amount of the country's wealth in such an experiment.

The card, which is showing at the Student’s Store, shows plainly the spirit of the thoughts given above. On one
side the letters NRA are stamped. In the middle of the card there is an old-fashioned stagecoach carrying some men
and women. Over the top of the coach are the words, “The Pioneers of 1934.” By the side of the
road on which the coach is traveling is a signboard bearing the inscription “To Peace and Prosperity.” The originator of
the idea expresses the hope that the students of Davidson will catch the spirit of the movement and will send
one to the President at Christmas.

BUFF SHOE SHOP
Modern Shoe Rebuilder
When It Is Done By Buff That Is Enough

Annual Drive For Christmas Fund Starts
(Continued from Page 1)

give such as they have. They have given trees, lumber, and other materials and months and months of hard labor.
Just now the men of Foster Memorial Church have been working at their crops all day, and going to the
church at night to put up the laths. The men at Gillespie Church have grown a crop of potatoes. This
shows that people are vitally interested in doing what they can.” And speaking of the type of people in this
section he also says, “The people are descendants of our Scotch-Irish forbears. Many of them have been denied cultural contacts,
have been neglected by county and state, and are in many cases, victims of an ignorant ministry. But they have
hearts of gold and their ambition for their children is a passion. One fine elder, who it was my privilege
to baptize, said to me, ‘Our children never had a chance until the Presbyterians came’. Right before our eyes we
are seeing communities transformed by the grace of God and the people interested in the Kingdom enterprises.”

In selecting a goal for this year it was thought best to choose one within reach. So the Cabinet decided
on $750 as the minimum. If each man has a share in this great work, it will not be difficult
to exceed the set goal.

Davidsonian Photo Contest Has Begun
Pictures Are Being Taken Of Life On Davidson Campus

Picture-taking is getting to be quite a habit on the campus of Davidson College. Everywhere one goes he sees Freshmen,
Sophomores, and even Juniors and Seniors taking pictures of the many different and varied activities that are each day preserving
the history of Davidson. What is all this picture-taking about? These photographs are being taken by contestants who are in
the contest being sponsored by Mr. W. I. Van Ness, Charlotte dealer in photographic supplies, and The Davidsonian. All pictures
are to be made between now and December 12, of any phase of life on the Davidson campus, including athletics,
student life, fraternity life, etc. Any students wishing to enter this contest may do so, but all pictures must be
turned in at The Davidsonian office by six o'clock P.M., on the closing day of the contest. The first prize
of five dollars worth of photographic equipment is offered by Mr. Van Ness. The second and third prizes, $2.50 and
$1.50 respectively, are being given by The Davidsonian.Davidsonian, The Davidsonian Receives Honors (Continued from Page 1)

...ing accorded by the All-American Critical Service. The Davidsonian of 1933-34, which received this rating of Excellent from the Watts-Georgia
Situation, is Tense (Continued from Page 1). This will be the third engagement of the two teams, and Watts will
go on the field conscious of having their title, the only permanently undefeated team in the Nation, at stake, defeating
Georgia 7-0 in 1932 and 6-0 in 1933. Bethea, Smallridge, Sprunt, and Wallace, of last year’s Watts Varsity, are again
eligible this year, while Byerly, stellar end, is the only Georgia Varsity player remaining. Watts evidently has the advantage in
weight, particularly in the line, but Georgia is doped to have the speedier team, particularly as regards the backfield. Dickson
and Partridge are outstanding in Georgia’s backfield. The Watts line will undoubtedly be aided by members of the Freshman Class,
Ogburn, Sparks, and Shephard. Georgia, however, possesses only four freshmen, and they are all on the Yearling football team and
therefore ineligible. Forecasting statistics, however, may be thrown to the winds when Georgia meets Watts. The Watts coaches are hard
at work training the Watts “Terriers” in the accepted methods of exterminating “Rats” and, on the other hand, the Georgia
coaches are busy oiling and regulating the Georgia dynamo so as to increase its production of Kilowatts. Statements from the
managers, coaches, cheerleaders, and the janitors follow:

Manager Atwater Speaks
“Watts expects nothing less than a decisive victory. Watts labels as clowns, shines, and buffoons any and all who have
the audacity to suggest that Georgia has any possible chance whatsoever of a victory over the only undefeated team in
the Nation, Watts dormitory. With the spirit shown by the men of Watts, such as Bethea, Sprunt, Weeks, and Shepherd,
nothing less than this can be expected. One of our right tackles is quickly getting in shape for the tilt
by indulging in strenuous road work between Davidson and Cornelius.”

President Brown Explains
Upon being approached for a statement of his faith in the merits of the Georgia team, Brown refused to make
a statement. He regretted keenly that his political position would not allow taking sides in issues vitally concerning the interests
of his constituents. Because of these inhibitions, Brown stated that he could not take a strong position in favor of
Georgia, inasmuch as this stand would entail a betrayal of his erstwhile bosom friends who, in their greatest hour of
sorrow, need sympathy, condolence, and encouragement rather than the scorn of one who, by a combination of circumstances, has been
removed from their woe-charged ranks.

Coaches Siewers and Ravenel
Line Coach J. D. Siewers: “With a sturdy line such as we have in front of our flashy backs, there
is no reason why we shouldn’t down the Watts team, whose first team is no good and who has no
reserve material at all. Our team is out for revenge over the tea hounds as shown by the interest aroused
in the superior type of pep meetings being held in front of our Alma Mater.”

Backfield Coach Ravenel: “We are expecting our boys to go out there and beat the Beau Brummels from Watts by
a rather large score. All our boys will see action in the game, as we have so much reserve strength
that there is not much choice as to who should play on the starting team. In ‘Dixie’ Partridge, we have
the smartest quarterback since Benny Friedman.”

Say Wingfield and Cathey
Wingfield and Cathey regret that the gym, having only a backfield—Wingfield, Doc Unger, and Doc Charlie—cannot enter the game but
are forced to divert their gridiron proclivities to Watts. “Boody” says: “As for comparing the two teams, my sense of
logic is hurt as there can be no comparison to the superior team of Watts. I will put out such
backs that Watts will need no line except for a center.”

“Flip” Cathey: “The game between Watts and Georgia will make Sherman’s march through Georgia look like a picnic. I hate
to see my pal and roommate, ‘Boody’, work so hard to produce a good line backfield when all my line
will need is a punter.”

And The Janitors—
John, Georgia: “Yessuh, Gawgia’s goin’ to beat Watts.”
Crawford, Watts: “Watts will sho ovuhcome Gawgia, that’s my sentiments.”
Hujohn could not be found, but we strongly suspect that “thems his sentiments too.” Enoch, veteran prognosticator among the colored
race, refuses to commit himself.

The probable lineup:
Georgia Position Watts
Byerly RE Downey
Archer RT Fryfogle
Sours RG Duff
McNabb Center Shephard
Rose LG Wallace
Partridge QB Bethea
Dickson LH Sparks
Loftin RH Sprunt
Harkins FB Tipton

Davidson Theatre
The Best of Pictures Always

A bale of aromatic Chesterfield Turkish tobacco. © 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. Mild ripe home-grown tobacco used in
Chesterfield Cigarettes. There are as many kinds of tobacco as there are folks—long, short, thick, heavy, dark, light—all kinds and
styles. It takes mild ripe tobacco—Turkish and home-grown—to make a milder better-tasting cigarette. That’s the kind you get in every
Chesterfield package. Down South in the tobacco country, where they grow and know tobacco—in most places, Chesterfield is the largest-selling
cigarette.
