THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 14, 1934

The Davidsonian
“FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915”
Member of Associated Collegiate Press — 1933-1934

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: $2.00 the Collegiate year. Ten cents per copy.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o’clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

EDITORIAL STAFF
J. D. CASALI..................Editor
W. T. JOHNSON........Business Manager
G. L. E. F. B. L. K. D. SEKS...........Managing Editor
HELLINGER.................Alumni Editor
RAWLING PRATT-THOMAS...Editorial Writer
A. B. TE....................Sports Editor
S. K. C....................Feature Editor
C. S. L....................Feature Editor
L. W. D....................Feature Editor
A. F. N....................News Editor
W. M. M....................Associate Editor
JACK WILLIAMS...........News Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
GILS GREEN................Assistant Manager
W. L. ARS................Assistant Business Manager
J. R. TAYLOR.............Assistant Business Manager
A. C. WADSWORTH.........Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 1934

Far away there in the sunshine are my highest aspirations. I may not reach them, but I can look up
and see their beauty, believe in them, and try to follow where they lead.
—L. M. Alcott.

Our deepest sympathies are with Coach Gene McEver in the death of his father.

A GOOD MOVE
Recently, there have appeared in the Davidsonian several editorials reminding of the need for better walks and urging the authorities
to take action on such a project. It is true that in several places better walks are needed, for in
wet weather some of the most frequently used ones are nearly washed out and an inch or two of water
stands in them, making them useless as walkways. This fact has not been overlooked by the administration nor has it
been set aside to be considered at a later date. During the last two or three years of the depression,
improvements on the walks, dormitories, etc., have been made accordingly as the college budget would allow, a fact which the
majority of the students have not realized.

In the last three or four years, the budget has been decreased considerably while student scholarships and loans which amount
well up into the thousands of dollars have not been decreased. The decrease in the budget, however, necessitated a cut
in the expenses somewhere, and when it came to a choice between the relative values of help to needy students
and improvement on the walks, it can easily be seen which was chosen. Therefore, we can see why more improvements
about the campus in general have not been made.

When the Trustees of Davidson College convened here February 22, an appropriation of $25,000 was made to the college to
be used for general improvements about the campus. This appropriation came as the result of a request made by the
Buildings and Grounds Committee, which is composed of Dr. W. L. Lingle, Mr. F. L. Jackson, Dr. J. M. McConnell,
Prof. W. W. Wood, and Prof. H. E. Fulcher. This money will be put into use in the near future,
and improvements will be made on the walks, roads, dormitories, and golf course as long as the appropriation holds out.
One of the first projects to be undertaken will be the construction of hard-surfaced walks, one of which will begin
near the library and extend along the front of the dormitories. All the floors and doors of the dormitories will
be refinished and painted; a more effective lighting system will be put in the dormitories. If there is sufficient money
left, the “D” road running through the campus will be hard-surfaced, and two holes will be added to the golf
course. Davidson College is one of the very few schools to receive such a large appropriation to be used for
such purposes, and especially is it unusual during the present economical situation. The students of Davidson College gladly receive the
action taken by the Faculty Committee and Trustees.
—K. D. W.

A SOUND MIND IN A SOUND BODY
As spring draws on and the days begin to become a little warmer and less airy, more students should avail
themselves of the opportunity of getting out every afternoon and taking some sort of exercise. There are some students on
the campus who are continually taking advantage of the equipment offered them by the college for such exercise, but there
are also many other students who never get any out-of-doors exercise other than walking to the post office or to
meals. These latter students seem sometimes to have the idea that their sole purpose in college is to learn all
there is to know, and that while they are here that is all they are to do. Their main purpose,
of course, is to store and develop their minds, but they forget the fact that they are to grow “in
wisdom and stature...,” to develop the body along with the mind. They have almost separated mind and body when the
two are so closely knit together. They have forgotten the fact that the further development of the body will allow
and aid further development of the mind. Through exercise we create energy, without which we become sluggish and worn. Our
minds are then not as receptive to our studies as they might be were our bodies in better condition.

The college has a gymnasium and an athletic field and it also supplies soccer, football, and volleyball in order that
those who wish exercise may do so at their own convenience. It even compels some to report that they have
exercised a certain amount, but this should not be necessary, for it should be natural for us to want to
develop ourselves. Exercise should be considered a pleasure and a privilege. We wish to be understood to say, not that
all who exercise would be, or should have it their purpose to be, perfect specimens of physical manhood, but that
the body, when sound, allows the mind to function more properly. The old slogan, “A sound mind in a sound
body,” should then be our goal.

In connection with this subject of exercise it might be profitable to point out that on the part of the
college there is still plenty of room for the improvement and extension of the equipment which it lays out for
the students’ use. In the first place there is a crying need for a larger and better gymnasium. During the
cold days of the winter, even the few that chose to exercise found it difficult to do so due to
the crowd in the small gym which we now have. Not only the space but also the equipment is limited.
Anyone wishing to use the “pulley-weights” on most afternoons of the week must wait fifteen or twenty minutes for a
turn to do so. Then, too, the old problem of the swimming pool might be brought up. There is no
place within miles of the college where one may take a good swim, and as the weather grows hotter we
will wish more and more for such an opportunity. And so, we see that the cooperation of the college with
the student is necessary to the accomplishment of our goal: A sound mind in a sound body.
—B. L. R.

THE IDEAL COLLEGIAN
The ideal college man has been defined again. The Rev. John A. Barons, S.J., dean of men at Marquette University,
has listed ten cardinal points to be considered in selecting the best student. Summarized, these rules touch upon leadership, ambition,
and other admirable character qualities. They call for participation in outside activities. They require a pleasant countenance, and neatness in
appearance and habits. Taken as a whole, the points are fundamentally indicative of the quality of manhood. They are desirable
traits in any young man. One rule, however, is of special interest to college men: He must be mature. A
boy who appears immature at the age of 18 should delay entering college. A year or two of work would
bring him into contact with the difficulties of life; he would learn the value of money and develop a better
outlook on education.

The application of such a policy on general practices would do much to prevent college misfits and to raise the
standards of achievement in the university. It may be argued that the university is an institution for the development of
young men and women, that parents send their sons and daughters expecting them to grow as they are educated. That
attitude does not recognize that college should be more than an advanced kindergarten. College should be a training ground to
help prepare one to meet the difficulties of everyday life, for college life itself is an adventure and an experience
which will yield more bountifully to a student who has already received a few of the hard knocks of the
world. That is the student who knows what he is after.

Year by year the faces under freshmen caps appear younger. That may indicate greater intelligence and more effective schools, but
it means too that boys instead of young men are being thrust into colleges to flounder for two or three
years, perhaps, before they learn why they are there. A year or two of work before entering college would help
the immature boy to acquire a sense of purpose of education, as well as the realization of the practical problems
of living and handling money. He would be better able to judge men, toknow what students to imitate and whose
ways to scorn. Would not such men, prepared to be students, raise the level of accomplishments for the university and
present fewer problems for the dean of men? —West Virginia Atheneum.

DIGEST By DOPEY McCALL

RESCUERS
Intrepid Soviet airmen saved ten women and two children from floating ice floes in the Bering Sea while compatriots were
rescuing five hundred and forty-five fishermen in the Caspian Sea in a similar predicament. The daring rescue work was done
under terrible weather conditions. The thermometer was down to forty degrees below and the landing field was on the ice
pack itself surrounded by hummocks of ice as hard as rock. The women and children were marooned on the floe
when the ship on which they were traveling from Wrangel Island to the mainland sunk in the midst of the
pack.

HISTORY REVEALED
The Royal Princess of Russia, Irena Youssoupoff, was awarded damages amounting to one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars in a
suit against the motion picture producers, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, for libel in the picture, “Rasputin and the Empress.” She claimed that the
historical interpretation given in the picture of her relations with Rasputin were entirely wrong and without foundation. The whole hidden
life story of Rasputin and the members of the royal family was brought out in the trial amid the gasps
of the audience.

WYNEKOOP GUILTY
Dr. Alice Wynekoop of the famous operating table murder has at last been tried and found guilty after numerous physical
breakdowns had dragged out the trial for several months. The now aged woman was sitting in a wheelchair as the
verdict of twenty-five years imprisonment was read. She is now 63 years old and the verdict is tantamount to life
imprisonment. Dr. Wynekoop made no comment when the verdict was read, but tried to maintain at all times that stoical
calm which she used during most of the unusually long trial.

MORE FLYERS KILLED
Reports coming in from all over the United States tell of the recent deaths of over fifteen people who were
in airplane accidents during the past week. The latest crash in Wyoming brought death to ten people at one time
as their heavy passenger plane crashed against a power line at Cheyenne. Another accident took place in Florida where the
pilot of an army bomber was killed. Later two men were burned to death in Ohio when their ship struck
the ground in a blinding snowstorm. The flyers are having a bad time everywhere in the unusually bad weather which
has recently struck in so many different places.

ARMY FLYERS SUSPENDED
President Roosevelt has recently issued an order suspending for three days the activities of those army airmen who have been
flying the mail. Plans are as yet indefinite as to the action to be taken, but it is felt that
something must be done to protect the lives of these men who have been killed in droves lately. The President
seeks some kind of curtailed schedule whereby this may be effected. Certain individuals have criticized the army flying severely, but
it seems to me that a man who has been long trained in the art of firing a gun from
the air and of keeping that gun in the air should also be able to keep a bag of mail
there.

NEW NAVAL RACE
Some weeks ago it was announced that France intended to begin a new naval campaign which would put her among
the leading nations of the world in armament. Japan also entered the list as a contender for this honor. Now
the new participant is Great Britain with the announcement that she will build seventeen new battleships and with an increase
of several thousand men. England fears the threat of the East; her supremacy on the seven seas is being threatened
for the first time since the Spanish Armada and she intends to do something about it. Thus we see a
new and gigantic naval race to see which can build the bigger and faster ships. The United States will probably
be drawn in to protect herself because the big shots of the Navy Department in Washington will soon be crying
that our shores are unprotected and invasion imminent. The world did not learn much from the last war. We said
that “war is hell,” and let it go at that, but we did not practice what we preached. Sherman said
it was so, Foch said it was so, even Caesar said it was so, but the world goes on as
it did. Maybe someday we will learn what it is to fall beneath the hammer of Mars as a result
of our own negligence and short-sightedness.

‘Roman Scandals’ Is Booked for 2 Days
Cantor’s Latest Will Be Shown at Local Theatre

This week brings to the screen two of the best musical comedies that have been offered lately, “Roman Scandals” and
“The Cat and the Fiddle.” Both are light and humorous. This week’s pictures include:

Wednesday, March 14—The Mystery of Mr. “X”
Robert Montgomery takes the lead in this picture in the role of an attractive young Englishman who is a diamond
thief. The authorities in some way connect him with a series of murders attributed to Mr. X. He sets about
to right this wrong, and many clever situations occur. He even so much as romances with the daughter of the
police commissioner, and attempts to sell a large stolen diamond while doing this. In the cast are Eliza- beth Allan
and Lewis Stone.

Thursday and Friday, March 15 and 16—The Cat and the Fiddle
Ramon Novarro, as a worthless young composer, sets out to make love to a singer, Jeanette McDonald, and finally gets
her to agree to live with him. He does not succeed, while she does, and Frank Morgan talks him into
leaving her for her own good. His opera, The Cat and the Fiddle, finally makes a hit, and due to
luck she is placed in the lead, the two being united again. In the cast of this musical comedy are
Jean Hersholt and Charles Butterworth.

Saturday, March 17—The Last Round Up
Randolph Scott is the hero, who finds himself connected with a band of outlaws by mistake. Barbara Fritchie furnishes the
romance, and Monte Blue and Fred Kohler complete the cast. The picture is built around the popular cowboy song bearing
the same title.

Monday and Tuesday, March 19 and 20—Roman Scandals
Eddie Cantor in his finest production comes at last. He is the small-town boy of Oklahoma who dreams one day
of Old Rome and all the glory that it was. In his dream he becomes connected with poison plots and
attempts to free the beautiful young princess, and others of this nature. In the show, he and Ruth Etting bring
us many good songs, including “Keep Young and Beautiful,” “Build a Little Home,” and, when Eddie is cutting up on
the auction block, “No More Love.” This is probably Eddie’s best musical comedy.

On Other Campuses
That a girl can always tell a man’s real opinion of her by whether he asks her to dye her
hair red or let it grow, and while on the subject of women remember this: that while women have been
likened to a heavy wine, there’s one big difference, wine grows more intoxicating with age! (V. M. I. Cadet).

The editors of a student publication at Akron University conducted a test to see how many persons would sign a
document without reading it. They obtained the signatures of 153 students and three professors. The “petition” bound the signers to
submit to decapitation.

Two professors at Vallepin College in Spain, says the Fern College Cauldron, were locked in a room and kept there
until they promised to pass the whole class of fifty.

Law students at Louisiana State University have decided to follow the precedent set by students at the University of Wisconsin,
that is, carrying canes during the second semester. Pretty soft, being down amongst the cane fields!

And then there was the professor somewhere who shouted, “Wake that fellow sitting next to you!” The student replied, “Wake
him yourself, you put him to sleep.”

The optometry department at the Ohio State University selected a student to be examined by the students of the department.
Each one examined the student and all produced their prescriptions for the glasses they believed were necessary. All admitted that
his eyes were more or less weak, but none knew until after class that the student had one glass eye.

An investigation at the University of Iowa shows that only one out of every eleven college engagements turn out in
marriage.

The fire bug is still trying to burn up Wake Forest. Conversation on fire was again going on following the
trailing of bloodhounds from the college golf house which was destroyed by fire several days ago. The fire was thought
to be of incendiary origin.

CALIFORNIA
From the “Clemson Tiger” we find the news that every male student at the University of California must undergo two
weeks of football training, one week in the line and one week in the backfield.

WHEN A FELLER NEEDS A FRIEND
COLLEGE MUSICAL KEPT FACTORY FRESH by inner lining of CELLOPHANE
BRIGGS PIPE MIXTURE
P. Lorillard Co., Inc.

If you’re forced to go chorine in the interests of art, let a pipeful of BRIGGS restore masculine poise. BRIGGS
Pipe Mixture has a rare and Rabelaisian gusto that’s tempered by long aging ’til it’s genial, mellow, biteless. When a
feller needs a friend there’s no blend like BRIGGS.
