THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 9, 1934

SUCCESSFUL ALUMNI PLAN TO ATTEND MEETINGS

COMMENCEMENT Alumni Gatherings Recently Held in Northern Cities

Bladen County celebrated its founding; appeared in an issue of the “Christian,” sions, Atlanta, Ga., recently addressed Successful Dinner Meetings Held in Washington, Philadelphia, Boston, and New York

SECRETARY ATTENDS Meetings Well Attended by the Alumni

Enthusiastic meetings were held recently by four Davidson alumni chapters in Washington, Philadelphia, New York, and Boston. These local clubs delayed their Founders’ Day meetings until the last of April, so that a representative of the college could be present at the gatherings. All the meetings were well attended by alumni, over fifty percent of the alumni in each city attending. Grier Martin, alumni secretary, was present at all of the gatherings.

WASHINGTON

Thirty-five Davidsonians in the capital city gathered at Sholl’s Cafe on Tuesday night, April 24, for dinner. William A. Elliott, '09, president of the Washington chapter, who had charge of the arrangements for the dinner, presided at the meeting. Dr. J. W. MacConnell, college physician, was present but was unable to stay for the entire meeting. The alumni secretary made a brief report of activities at the college and told something of Davidson's Centennial program. Several members of the Washington chapter spoke. Mr. J. A. Thames, '18, was chosen president in the election of officers. Tyree Dillard, '28, was elected secretary, and Joe McConnell, '27, was elected sergeant-at-arms.

PHILADELPHIA

The Philadelphia chapter of Davidson alumni met at Kugler’s Cafe, Wednesday night, April 25. H. S. Shaw, '08, Haverford, Pa., president of the Philadelphia group, presided at the meeting, which was attended by fifteen former students of Davidson. The alumni secretary spoke, and there was an informal discussion of Davidson affairs. Dr. J. P. Hendrix, '25, was elected president of the chapter for the coming year, and C. M. Norfleet, '33, was chosen secretary.

BOSTON

On Monday night, April 30, alumni of Boston and vicinity gathered at the Faculty Club of the Harvard Business School for dinner and a meeting. Since there was no active chapter of Davidson alumni in Boston, a chapter was organized. Fifteen alumni were present for the meeting. The arrangements for the dinner were made by P. M. Conway, '32, and B. F. Martin, '28. Officers selected by the newly-formed chapter were B. F. Martin, '28, president; W. F. Mulliss, '33, vice-president; P. M. Conway, '32, treasurer, and M. T. Gilmour, '29, secretary.

NEW YORK

Fifty-five alumni of Davidson attended the meeting of the New York chapter, which was held on Tuesday night, May 1, at the LaSalle Hotel. Clifton Murphy, '13, president of the local group, presided at the gathering. Dick Grey, '28, secretary of the New York chapter, was in charge of the arrangements for the meeting. Among the alumni who spoke at the meeting were several visitors, including Dr. W. T. Thompson, '05, professor at Union Seminary, who is doing graduate work in New York, and Rev. A. R. McQueen, '03, Dunn, N. C.; H. S. Richardson, '06; J. P. McKnight, '28; Captain L. A. Mullen, '16, and others. The alumni secretary was present at the meeting and made a short talk. The alumni chapter decided to have a meeting next fall on October 6, the date of the football game with Army. Dr. A. B. Reese, '17, has invited the Wildcat football team to be his guests at dinner that night, and the New York chapter will hold a meeting at the same time. W. Gilbert Morrison, '16, Newark, N. J., was selected president of the New York alumni for the coming year, and H. A. Knox, Jr., '29, Newark, N. J., was elected secretary.

Deaths

DR. FRANK M. BURST died at his home in Baltimore, Md., on April 20, following an operation. He is survived by his wife.

DR. HENRY LOUIS SMITH, former president of Davidson, and president emeritus of Washington and Lee University, will deliver the annual address to the graduating class of the Sanford High School, Monday evening, May 14.

In a recent address before the North Carolina Public Health Association, DR. F. M. REGISTER, of Kinston, called for a “new deal” in governmental health work.

DR. JOHN T. BURRUS, candidate for Democratic nomination to the State Senate, attacked the sales tax as now set up as fundamentally wrong, in an address May 3 to the Labor Voters’ League.

“Repair of Fractures” was discussed by DR. E. W. PHIFER, of Morganton, at a meeting of the Catawba Valley Medical Society on May 8.

DR. C. A. CORNELSON is connected with the Library of Congress.in Washington. 

05 J. BAYARD CLARK, of Fayetteville, Democratic representative of North Carolina, recently acted as master of ceremonies in Elizabethtown, as 200 years ago. Representative Clark is a native of that county.

H. W. MOORE, of Concord, was elected to the board of directors of the American Cotton Manufacturers Association at its convention in Charleston recently.

DR. FRED W. RANKIN, of Lexington, Ky., internationally prominent in the field of operative and clinical surgery, spoke at the 81st annual session of the Medical Society of the State of North Carolina on May 2.

07 N. C. M. C. DR. I. A. YOW, popular coroner of Cabarrus County, announced recently that he will be a candidate to succeed himself, subject to action of Democratic voters at the primary to be held June 2.

10 DR. ROBERT W. MILES, pastor of the First Church, Lexington, Ky., continued his studies at prayer service on the “Life and Letters of Paul,” when he spoke on the subject, “Other Gods,” at a recent meeting of the young people’s service conducted by a group of students from Asbury College, Wilmore, Ky.

16 A series of articles by Rev. W. C. CARSON, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Richmond, Va., recently appeared in the “Presbyterian Observer.”

DR. ROBERT KING, of Johnson City, Tenn., was elected chairman of the board of trustees of the Edgar Tufts Memorial Association at its annual meeting at Banner Elk on May 6.

18 J. A. THAMES is secretary to Representative J. B. CLARK of Fayetteville.

19 JAMES A. ABERNATHY, JR., who had charge of the Roosevelt Ball at Lincolnton for the purpose of raising funds for the Warm Springs Foundation, will attend a reception given tonight at the White House in Washington.

20 Professor E. A. BEATY, head of the Latin department of Davidson, spoke recently at the annual meeting of the Sunday School and religious education department of the Second Presbyterian Church in Charlotte.

21 CHIH MENG is associate director of the China Institute in America, with offices on West 57th Street, New York City.

22 Rev. P. D. MILLER, D.D., educational secretary of the executive committee of the Assembly’s Home Missions, spoke recently to the Woman's Auxiliary of the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte.

23 Rev. LEROY P. BURNEY is pastor of the Sugaw Creek Presbyterian Church, which will celebrate its founding on May 20. The first church edifice was built in 1756.

J. H. DAVIS, of Clinton, S. C., accompanied the Presbyterian College freshman track team to Davidson on April 28. He is president of the Lions Club of Clinton.

24 Mr. and Mrs. J. M. W. Gregory of Durham have announced the engagement of their daughter, Miss Priscilla Read Gregory, to DR. ANGUS McBRIDE, of the Duke University Medical School and Hospital.

27 Rev. H. G. GOODYKOONTZ acted as temporary clerk at a recent meeting of the Presbytery of Washburn in Fort Smith, Ark.

29 HENRY JENNINGS, of Newark, N. J., is visiting his father, H. B. Jennings, of Lumberton.

31 Dr. and Mrs. R. J. Williams, of Rocky Point, have announced the marriage of their daughter, Evie, to LEON H. CORBETT, of Burgaw.

Following the four alumni meetings in Northern cities, it has been determined that 615 Davidson alumni have attended local alumni meetings during the present school year. A total of fourteen meetings have been held during the year by chapters scattered from Boston to Atlanta, and from Philadelphia and Washington to Chattanooga and Birmingham.

Chapters that have held meetings during the year are Charlotte, Richmond, Chattanooga, Birmingham, Greensboro, Winston-Salem, Atlanta, Gastonia, Greenville, S. C., Concord, New York, Boston, Philadelphia, and Washington, D. C.

DELEGATES ATTEND N. C. SCIENCE MEET (Continued from page 1)

Coker, professor of botany at the University of North Carolina, showed a number of beautiful pictures of parasitic plants of North Carolina. Among these plants were the insect-catching plants. Following these talks, the election of officers for the following year was held, with the result that Dr. H. R. Totham, professor of botany at the University, was elected president. The North Carolina Academy holds much interest for scientists of the surrounding colleges and universities.

“It’s toasted” 

Luckies are all-ways kind to your throat—so round, so firm, so fully packed—no loose ends that’s why you'll find Luckies do not dry out. We like to tell about the finer tobaccos in Luckies—the choicest Turkish and domestic, and only the mild, clean center leaves—they taste better—then “It’s toasted”—for throat protection. But we’re just as proud of the way Luckies are made. They’re so round and firm, so free from loose ends. That’s why Luckies “keep in condition”—that’s why you'll find that Luckies do not dry out—an important point to every smoker. Luckies are always—in all-ways!—kind to your throat.