THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 19, 1934

College Dormitory Lighting System Wins Much Comment

New Study Lamps Make Davidson Best Lighted American College

GETS WIDE PUBLICITY

Among the countless improvements made on the Davidson campus and in the dormitories during the summer, probably the most outstanding one is the entirely new lighting system which has been installed throughout the dormitory rooms and in the administration offices. There has been placed in every room one study lamp for the convenience and aid of all students. The lamps were constructed on the indirect lighting principle and were procured at great expense to the college. The lamps were manufactured by the Illinois Engineers Society about four months ago and a patent was secured by that company. Many companies have produced these lamps since this time but they must adhere to the specifications laid down by the Illinois Engineers Society. When Davidson College placed an order for these lamps toward the last of July, the Southern Public Utilities Magazine published an article naming Davidson as “the best-lighted American college.” Grier Martin, alumni secretary, then wrote a story concerning this matter which was accepted by the Associated Press and appeared in the leading southern newspapers. 

The National Better Light-Better Sight Bureau of New York City asked for pictures of the college buildings and last week's issue carried these pictures together with a complimentary story about the college. This article states that “Davidson College, a small cultural school, has set an example to the larger universities of our country.” “The Electrical Dealers” magazine, a periodical put into the hands of all the electrical dealers in the country, and published in Chicago, has also asked permission to carry these pictures and stories in their next issue. This is indeed an honor that Davidson's action on the important matter of well-proclaimed lighting has been recognized throughout the country.

Radios In Dormitories Are Put On Probation

The Davidson College Student Body met in regular session today in an attempt to adopt some sort of policy in regard to the keeping and playing of radios in the dormitories. At the request of the Faculty that some definite decision be reached on this matter, G. H. Brown, President of the Student Body, called the meeting in an effort to reach a decision as to how the playing of radios could best be prevented from becoming an annoyance to students wishing to study or have quiet for other reasons. The Faculty has agreed to permit the playing of radios for a probation period of two weeks, the Student Council being responsible for keeping the situation under control during this period, the date of which will be announced later. Should the Faculty approve of the way in which the matter is handled during this period, students will probably be allowed to continue playing radios under the same regulations as are enforced during that period. Should no satisfactory solution of the problem be obtained, Faculty action will be taken.

Buff Shoe Shop
Modern Shoe Rebuilder
Davidson, N. C.

PRESIDENT LINGLE

Dr. Warren Lingle, who is starting his sixth year as President of Davidson College, conducted the first vesper service last Sunday night.

DR. LINGLE CONDUCTS VESPER

President Lingle Discusses Effects of College Life On Students

“College life is a period for developing oneself physically, mentally, and spiritually,” said Dr. Walter L. Lingle in speaking at the first Vesper Services Sunday night. “College has various effects on people. Some come to school mentally or morally ‘starved’ and develop themselves into normal individuals, while others with normal personalities allow themselves to become degraded,” Lingle told. By way of illustration, he pointed out that a child, though a weakling in his early life, when properly fed developed into a normal child. That development is similar to that which can come from a well-ordered life. He pointed out former President Roosevelt as an example of development physically and advised all students to make use of all the facilities offered for physical improvement. In the development of one's mental being, Lingle impressed the importance of good reading and quoted the statement by Ruskin: “Why is it that men associate with the vagabonds of literature when they may associate with the kings and princes?”

“A man reaches his full physical development at the age of 25,” said Lingle, “his full mental development at the age of approximately 45 and his spiritual development at 60 or more. By making full use of his environment, such as that afforded by a Christian college, he can more thoroughly develop himself.” Bob Coit was the student leader for the service and Bob Smith led the prayer. Music was rendered by Mr. Pfohl on the organ.

James Pfohl And Miss Nelson Wed Last June

The many friends of Mr. James Christian Pfohl, head of the music department at Davidson, were delighted to hear of his marriage last summer to Miss Louise Nelson of Springfield, Mass. The wedding took place on June 11 at the home of the bride’s brother, Mr. Erwin Nelson of Ann Arbor, Mich. After the wedding, Mr. and Mrs. Pfohl traveled through Michigan. They attended the National High School Band and Music Camp at Interlochen, Mich. Mr. Pfohl has returned to take up his duties at the College and he and Mrs. Pfohl are making their home at Davidson for the winter.

SUNDRIES
WELCOME WILDCATS
“Make Our Store Your Store”
Give Us The Pleasure Of Serving You
WHITE DRUG STORE
DRUGS and PRESCRIPTIONS

Among the GREEKS

Fraternity houses on the Davidson campus have been the scenes of intense social activity the past week as all the lodges have concentrated on the task of procuring new members. Smokers, feeds, dances, banquets and house parties have been frequent, the season reaching its peak Saturday night.

BETA THETA PI—Prominent alumni of Phi Alpha chapter have been down to assist in the rushing season the past week. They are Fred Smyre, '34, Gastonia; Ben Taylor, '34, Baton Rouge, La.; Joe Stevens, '33, Wellsworth, Va.; and James McClintock, '32, Charlotte. Brothers who have failed to return to Davidson for the coming year are Elliot Motley, Charles Fowler, Bill McCoy, Crawford Harris, Tommy Miller, Jake Balsley and Bob Richardson.

PI KAPPA ALPHA—Beta chapter of the Pika’s held their best affair of the rushing season Saturday night in Salisbury at the Salisbury Country Club. Approximately thirty couples attended; the music was furnished by Dick Wright's orchestra. Alumni present at times during the week were Bill Mulliss, '33, Martinsville, Va.; Zeb Long, '32, Statesville; Bruce Peabody, '33, Andy and Charley Little, '33, all of Charlotte.

KAPPA ALPHA—Sigma chapter of Kappa Alpha gave their annual rushing season banquet at the Charlotte Hotel, approximately 60 couples attending. Dancing was enjoyed after the banquet. Among the alumni down for the week was J. D. M. McConnell, '33, of Davidson. Bill Bowman, E. L. Whitley and Bill Cannon failed to return this year to Davidson.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON—Theta chapter had the pleasure of seeing Alec Schenck, '34, Charlotte, former President of the chapter, return for a short while on the campus. Schenck left for Harvard Tuesday. They regret to announce that Addison Brenizer, Bob Dodge, Gyte McCord and “Ras” Evans failed to return to Davidson this year. Dodge and Brenizer were down for rushing season, however.

KAPPA SIGMA—Delta chapter gave a dance Saturday night at the Elks Club in Charlotte with Myers Cole’s orchestra playing. About thirty-five couples attended. Brothers who failed to return to Davidson this year are Benny Garrison, Jack Gaw, and Bud Shemwell, who will enter at the beginning of the second semester. Alumni present during the week were L. Davis, '31, Winston-Salem; Ed Kuykendall, '33, Greensboro; Charles Norfleet, '33, Winston-Salem; and Mac McQueen, '31, of Dillon, South Carolina.

PI KAPPA PHI—The Pi Kappas held two house parties during rush week, the highlight being held Friday. A large number of girls were present at the affair which was held at the house. Numerous alumni visited during the week, among them being C. W. Thompson, '32, John Boyd, '32, both of Charlotte; John Miller, '34, Jefferson, S. C.; Red Stuart, '31, Mt. Holly; A. W. Colwell, '34, Clinton; J. M. Covington, '34, Wadesboro.

PHI GAMMA DELTA—The Fijis gave their party at the American Legion Hut outside of Mooresville. The “Rascals” from Charlotte were scheduled to play and they lived up to their name by failing to appear, due, however, to an automobile wreck. A radio fixed things up and with the aid of the Pills Brothers the party finished in great style. Among the alumni who were down during the week were Johnny Creech, '33; Ned Heifner, '31; Gaither Jenkins, '33, and Thomas Wilson, '35, all of Winston-Salem, and Lyman Clardy, '34, who left for Harvard Tuesday. Leaving Davidson this year are Coleman Branton, Dick Brock, Dick Cann, Dave McLain, Tommy Wilson and Jerry Taylor.

PHI DELTA THETA—This fraternity gave their Saturday affair at the Woman's Club in Charlotte with the “Tarheelians” furnishing the music. Alumni attending were “Hack” Sanders, S. P. Laurin, John Lafferty, Bob Glasgow and Bill McKnight. About thirty couples were present. Warner Wells of Greenville, Mississippi, a member of the Class of '35, did not return to Davidson this year.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON—Kappa chapter presented the highlight of their rushing program at the Carolina Golf Club. Approximately thirty-five couples were present.

ANNOUNCE CUT REGULATIONS

Rules For Class, Chapel And Church Absences Remain The Same

The rules for absences from classes, Chapel, and Church are the same as they were last year. It was rumored that the rules had been changed, but these rumors were proven to be false. In classes each student is allowed during a semester as many cuts in any course as there are credit hours per week in that course. Three tardies count for one absence. A student whois absent from any class beyond the limit above, shall be required to take a written test with a view to the part of the fee. A fee of $1 will be charged for this test. If more absences are incurred, the fee for the test will be doubled, and the student placed under restriction, making up the course he has missed. This fee may be rebated if half the absences are due to sickness in the hospital. All students are required to attend the daily Chapel exercises. Seniors are allowed twelve absences during a semester. All other students are allowed eight absences during a semester. All students are required to attend Church once every Sunday. Freshmen and Sophomores shall attend the morning service of the Davidson Presbyterian Church. Juniors may attend the morning or evening service at the Davidson Presbyterian Church or their home Church. Seniors may attend the Church of their choice. A student may be absent from Church service four Sundays during a semester without penalty. Freshmen and Sophomores may attend their home Churches four Sundays during a semester without penalty.

Credit Now Given For Participation In Music

In pursuance of a policy adopted last year, when Mr. James Christian Pfohl came to this school as Director of Music, the trustees have approved the establishment of a regular Department of Music. Three laboratory courses in music now have their place on the regular curriculum, each offering one semester hour of credit. It is felt that these courses meet what has long been a growing demand, and that many will avail themselves of this opportunity for advancement along musical lines. Upon the approval of the trustees, the faculty has issued the following statement regarding these courses:

“These courses will consist of the discussion and study of such fundamental factors of the language of music as may be necessary to acquaint the student with an understanding and an appreciation of the many forms, styles, and moods of musical literature. There will be one recitation and two laboratory periods each week. The laboratory periods will also contain instruction. They will be of one hour and a half duration. The credit to be given will be one hour each semester or two hours for the year. Papers and reviews will be required the same as in other courses. These courses will be open to all students who demonstrate sufficient talent and technical training to enable them to conform to the standards set for the election of these courses.

“This arrangement will allow all students to carry one of these courses in addition to his regular work without impairment to his regular work. No one student will be allowed to elect more than one of these courses for credit at one time.”

Courses are offered in Band, Orchestra, and Glee Club work. Students wishing to enroll in any of these organizations without taking any credit course in music may do so by qualifying before the Director of Music and pledging their faithful attendance and cooperation. Students wishing to enroll in credit courses are urged to see Mr. Pfohl as soon as possible that they may obtain a full and clear explanation of all that is involved.

Club in Charlotte with Billy and his orchestra supplying the music. Alumni attending were: '34, Pendleton, S. C., preparing to enter West Point; Charlie Gold, '34, Rutherfordton; Ben Moore, and John Knox, '34, Liberty, S.C.

CHARLOTTE

Delicious Meals served at all hours
Famous for Good Waffles and Sandwiches
COME TO SEE US AFTER THE GAME
LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOP
DAVIDSON

The High School entered upon its year's work Wednesday, Sept. 12, in accordance with the county regulations. The original plan was to open on the fifth, but Mr. Edmonson, county superintendent, expressed a desire that all of Mecklenburg County should open on the twelfth. The high school is very fortunate in being able to add another course to its curriculum. The course will be physics on even years and chemistry on odd years. Due to the lack of sufficient equipment, the classes will be allowed to make use of college laboratory material. Mr. Harvey Mortvison, Davidson graduate of 1933, has been secured as instructor in physics and biology. The regular forty-five minute periods current in the high school during past years have been increased to fifty-five minutes each, thus making five periods per day, instead of six. This system will almost entirely eliminate conflicts with the schedules of practice teachers from the college classes. The grade school will remain unchanged, except for the addition of Mrs. Cathey, who will teach the seventh grade in place of Miss Feriba Stough.

Prof. and Mrs. Goldiere are now located at 51 Lake Place, New Haven, Conn., where Prof. Goldiere is doing graduate work. Their home is being occupied by Prof. and Mrs. James C. Pfohl. Guests of Mrs. Scott Lyon during the past week were Mrs. John Otto and her daughter, Jean, of Fort Benning. Capt. Otto was formerly connected with the R. O. T. C. department of Davidson College. Mrs. Clayton Cochran, son of Capt. and Mrs. Cochran, left Saturday to attend Georgia Military Academy. Libby Rhett, daughter of Major and Mrs. Rhett, will enter Converse as a freshman this week. The Twentieth Century Study Club held its first meeting of the year at the home of Mrs. Dusenbury. Prof. and Mrs. Stough had as their guests this past week their daughter and her husband, Mr. and Mrs. Alec Haliburton of Miami, Fla. Mr. Haliburton is a former Davidson student and track man. Mrs. G. Black and her little daughter of Florida are visiting at the home of Major and Mrs. Rhett. Martin's mother and brother, Samuel, of Covington, Va., are spending the winter in Davidson. They are occupying the house on Concord. Samuel has entered Davidson College as a freshman. Prof. F. Meagle, of the Spanish Department, was accorded the honor of initiation into the Masonic Order Rose Crucians at Duke University, Saturday, Sept. 8.

Ban On Student-Owned Cars Effective Monday

Following the custom of many years, boarding students of Davidson College will not be allowed to keep automobiles on or near the campus at any time during the school year, according to an announcement made by Dr. M. E. Sentelle. This ban on automobiles has been in effect at Davidson for about twenty years, and students violating the regulation are subject to discipline by the executive committee. Last Monday Dr. Sentelle issued the order that all cars kept by students be stored and reported to him. On special occasions, such as big weekends on the campus, a student may keep and operate a car for a limited time by securing permission from the Dean, stating the length of time he wishes to have the car on the campus. Students commuting daily are allowed to use cars for this purpose.

RAILROAD RATES DISAPPOINT FANS

Captain Pritchett Stops Rumors Of Cheap Rates For Army Games

Captain Pritchett last Friday blasted the hopes and expectations of many Davidson men and loyal followers of the Wildcats. Pritchett announced that rumors of cheap round-trip rates were entirely unfounded. In quoting railroad fare, he said that there would be no reduced rates to encourage a large attendance on the part of Davidson men. The lowest possible fare offered by the Southern Railroad in conjunction with the Pennsylvania Railroad would be $21.72 for round-trip transportation in coaches, $36.87 for round-trip in upper berth, and $38.74 for round-trip in lower berth. Pritchett said he would like to have a large crowd of Davidson men at the game, but that owing to the high cost of the trip he felt that few could find it possible to go. He wanted to stop the rumors of inexpensive round-trip rates, which were common on the campus. On Monday, Pritchett said that he did not know of any arrangements which had been made with reference to cuts for men who were planning to make the trip to New York. This question presents another difficulty to those who wish to make the trip. The schedule of games on Richardson Field is unusually good this year, Pritchett said, and he has arranged for a student rate of fifty cents at the Davidson-N. C. State game, which is to be played in Greensboro Saturday night, Sept. 29th. Also, student tickets will be sold for the Davidson-Citadel game in Charleston.

Faculty Advisor Plan Undergoes Big Change

According to Professor J. P. Williams, dean of freshmen, the entire registration system for assigning freshmen to faculty advisors has been altered. Previously, freshmen were registered and assigned some member of the faculty as faculty advisor in alphabetic order. Under the new system, Professor Williams finds out what type of course the freshman desires to undertake and assigns him to one of the professors interested in the same type of work. The student thus assigned would be with that faculty advisor for two years. Then he may choose any advisor he desires for the remaining years in Davidson College. Under this plan, Williams hopes to keep the students in closer contact with the faculty. A committee composed of faculty advisors meets once a week and discusses plans for aiding students in their work.

Alumni Journal To Be Given One Year Trial

The Alumni Journal, under the supervision of Grier Martin, Alumni Secretary, is now on a one year’s trial to determine whether or not it will become a permanent publication. The Journal is issued four times per year. A vote to be taken at the Alumni commencement will decide the Journal's fate.

Dry Goods, Groceries
Hardware
Radio and Radio Tubes
PHILCO AND GRUNOW

KEEP THIS UNDER YOUR SHIRT!
P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
WINSTON-SALEM