THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 28, 1934

BEAT! DEACONS

In the Field of Sports

BEAT! DEACONS

by MAIMOR® BROWN

Felix has been rather weary and forlorn for the past few days as a result of thinking about the thirteen
Wildcats who sing their “swan song” with the Deacon contest tomorrow. He cheers up, however, when he thinks how marvelously
these men are going to perform in the Turkey Day classic. He likes to believe that the Wildcats, with this
group of Seniors getting their last crack at the Deacons, will pile up at least a three-token margin over the
Baptists. That's the real spirit of confidence that every team’s mascot should display, but I'm afraid my loyal comrade is
overestimating his boys somewhat. I do agree with him about two-thirds of the way. A two-touchdown victory for Davidson seems
to me a very sane prophecy, even though the majority are inclined to anticipate a toss-up.

Tomorrow will be the last time for Wildcat fans to witness certain features that have characterized the play of the
Newtonites this season. The Mackorell-Morgan pass combination, Wingfield’s spectacular punt returning, Siewers’ Freddie Crawford-like way of getting down under punts,
and the thrilling type of play that has been displayed in every contest, are a few of the things that
have made the supporters like to watch Davidson on the gridiron this fall.

Tentative plans have been made for several alterations in the Wildcat grid schedule for next season, and dame rumor hath
it that Army and William and Mary will be replaced on the Davidson card by the Universities of Virginia and
South Carolina. These two teams from neighboring states should furnish very interesting competition for the Felines.

At the University of Georgia, where the members of the Senior class are recognized by their black derbies, they have
a custom that the fourth-year men parade on the field with the band during the half of every home game.
This is somewhat similar to a practice that used to be indulged in here at Davidson. The cheerleader would march
the members of the Freshman class over the field in a snake dance while the teams were getting their mid-game
rest.

How ‘bout: ... Georgia students bringing the goal post from New Haven to Athens after the Yale game... the report
that Georgia Tech played its best game of the season against Alabama... More than twelve hundred whisky bottles that were
collected on the Harvard side after the Army-Harvard game... Davidson having the best amateur team in the country?

CALLIGAN WITH ALLSBROOK

It was stated in “The Davidsonian” several weeks ago that Woody Calligan, a graduate of Davidson in the class of
‘31, is with Johnny Long's orchestra. This was a mistake, as Calligan is with Bill Allsbrook’s orchestra, and now has
the job of arranging the numbers of that band. While at Davidson, Calligan was with the “Southernaires” of Davidson, and
arranged the numbers that the band played. Allsbrook’s orchestra is now playing in Washington, and in December they will go
to the Paramount Grill in New York City.

Mr. and Mrs. Fred Fleagle visited in Davidson during the week, with Prof. and Mrs. F. K. Fleagle. They are
now making their home in Wilson, N. C.

INTET STARTS ACTIONS FOR

Lettermen Harris, Morgan, Ross, Windham, And Yelverton Are Back

GEORGIA TRIP PLANNED

Schedule For Season Has Not Yet Been Completed

With football season nearing the closing whistle and winter's grim grip encircling us, the thoughts of those aspiring to a
berth on the basketball team have turned to the dribbling ball and the small white basket which will judge their
defeats and victories in the coming season. Coach “Red” Laird announced Monday that a number of candidates have been participating
in a regular night practice and that the squad for the coming year will be rich with material.

Five varsity men will be available this season from last year’s cagers. Two of these men, “Big Jim” Morgan and
Colie Windham, will not be out for practice until football season is over. Charlie Harris, Courtney Ross, and Hugh Yelverton,
all lettermen, have been reporting regularly for night practice and are rapidly regaining their last season's form. Dick Cathey, Ken
Knorr, Maurice Peabody, “Lefty” Porter, and Bill Quick, who were the mainstays of last year’s freshman team, are expected to
aid materially in building up this season's five. Sam Bernardo, Joe Johnston, and Colin Monroe, members of last year’s squad,
have been reporting regularly for night practice.

The schedule as yet has not been completed and is not available for this week's publication. Efforts are being made,
by those arranging the schedule, to have a trip in Georgia and if games in that state can be secured
there will be no other out-of-state trips. All the teams represented in the Big Five have been scheduled by the
Wildcats. For the past week, practice has been held at night but in order to make the time of practice
more convenient to those on the squad it has been changed to the afternoon.

FELIX PREDICTS

Felix, fresh from an aerial survey of training camps from coast to coast, dropped hurriedly into the Davidsonian office yesterday,
reported 12 wins out of 15 flips, laid a startling batch of selections on the table, and then left for
the nearest gridiron points to view some of the results of his handiwork. Here are his forecasts for Thursday:

DAVIDSON vs. Wake Forest, DUKE vs. North Carolina State, NORTH CAROLINA vs. Virginia, ALABAMA vs. Vanderbilt, TENNESSEE vs. Kentucky, W.
& L. vs. South Carolina, TEMPLE vs. Bucknell, PITT vs. Carnegie Tech, GEORGETOWN vs. Western Maryland, RICHMOND vs. W. &
M., V. P. I. vs. V. M. I., CLEMSON vs. Furman, MARYLAND vs. Johns Hopkins, CITADEL vs. Presbyterian, COLGATE vs.
Brown, MERCER vs. Oglethorpe, FORDHAM vs. New York University, GEORGE WASHINGTON vs. Oklahoma.

Saturday: ARMY vs. Navy, GEORGIA vs. Georgia Tech, TULANE vs. Louisiana State, FLORIDA vs. Stetson, WASHINGTON vs. Southern California, MISSISSIPPI
vs. Miss. State.

Tuesday: GEORGIA DORMITORY vs. Watts Dormitory.

Wildcats Ready For Deacon Outfit

(Continued from Page 1)

Dave Holton, Deacon 165-pound fullback, is another star who will bear watching in the game. Coach Weaver, together with numerous
sport fans throughout this part of the country, think he is the best blocking back in the state, and although
he is comparatively small, he makes up for it in his ferocity.

VARSITY - 35¢ . . . UNDERWEAR 50¢

“Underneath It All They Are The Best”

RAY HARRISON’S

75¢

COMING SEASON, “CHUB” YARBOROUGH

Baxter “Chub” Yarborough has held down the fullback position on the Wildcat eleven this season, and will be back next
fall to compete for his berth in the Davidson backfield.

CLASS TOURNEYS ARE UNDERWAY

Seniors Are Ahead In Basketball Race. S.P.E.’s And K.A.’s Leading In Volleyball

Intramural basketball and volleyball tournaments for the past week saw the Seniors forge into the lead in the inter-class basketball
race and the S.P.E.’s and K.A.’s advance to the lead in the inter-fraternity volleyball.

The Seniors defeated Freshmen 19-14 in the first battle, Monday noon. Yager, Coley Monroe, and Elvery were the mainstays of
the Senior aggregation, and Rinehart, Moyer, and Keiswetter stood out for the first-year men. With Bell, high scorer with 14
points, and Stewart leading, the Juniors won over the Sophomores 28-11 in the second game.Game Monday night. Johnson and Dickson
were prominent in the Centennial play. The Senior cagers scored an overwhelming victory Tuesday over the Sophomores, 23-4, and took
the lead in the standings as the Juniors lost to the Freshmen, 18-7. Legare and Yager, for the Seniors; Purdy
and Woodward, for the Sophomores; Frazier, Leukle and Bell, for the Juniors, and Freshmen Keiswetter and Martin shone brightly in
this series of battles. Wednesday's tilts put the Seniors still closer to the title and placed the Freshmen definitely in
second place, although they have a mathematical chance to tie for first. The Seniors defeated the Juniors in a close
25-22 affair and the Freshmen again showed their lack of regard for the Sophomores, this time in a 21-11 basketball
game. Coaches for the class teams include Colin Monroe, Hugh Yelverton, Dick Parker and Charlie Harris, coaching the Seniors, Juniors,
Sophomores and Freshmen respectively. Opening the inter-fraternity volleyball tourney, the S.P.E.’s defeated the Phi Delts and the K.A.’s downed the
Pi Kappa Phi's. The interclass basketball tournament will be concluded this week and the inter-fraternity volleyball tournament the following week.

Wallace Wade’s mighty pit his Wolfpack against Coach Blue Devils. The first meeting of these two famous teams on the
gridiron has occasioned much interest. Duke is considered the favorite, but State managed to tie Carolina earlier in the season,
while Duke lost to them by a one-touchdown margin. State also has the added incentive of knowing that a victory
over Duke will advance them to second place in the Big Five standing, while a victory for Duke would not
change the ratings. The Wolfpack almost succeeded in beating Duke's powerful 1933 aggregation and is always regarded as a dangerous
foe by the Blue Devils. It is certain that Coach Anderson will have his charges in shape to do their
best against Duke, in the hope of redeeming a rather disappointing season. The Davidson-Wake Forest game will determine whether the
Wildcats will occupy the Big Five cellar alone, or whether they will have the company of the Deacons.

Counts Chickens Early

Last summer while acting as bouncer in an Asheville dance hall, Pat Swan promised a Davidson student that the Wake
Forest Demon Deacons, whom he captains, would trounce the Wildcats this year 40-0. Mr. Stewart Barnes, of the Sophomore class,
is the gentleman, and he has a signed statement given him by the Baptist leader, which is convincing proof of
his commitment. He also told Barnes that he would be safe in saying that only Duke would defeat the Deacons
in their Big Five encounters during the 1934 grid season.

WILDCATS MEET DEACONS

Carolina Has Chance At Southern

Close their 1934 season on Thanksgiving and Davidson

"TUBBY" "TUBBY" "HAND-GUARD"

"Tubby" has served for three years on the Wildcat varsity, being a very dependable mainstay in the Davidson forward wall.
He will play his last game for the Felines tomorrow.

UNGER PREDICTS IMPROVED TEAM

Stronger In Upper Weights, Four Meets Will Be Held On Campus

The Davidson wrestling team is now well underway in its practice for the 1934-35 season. Regular workouts began about two
weeks ago and all men are fast getting into shape for the intercollegiate meet which will be held in the
near future; two before Christmas. A good bit of interest has been shown and a large number of men have
answered the call this year to make the squad the largest in several seasons. Three lettermen from last year: Captain
Charlie Fort, L. J. Blackwelder, and Lawrence Quarterman, as well as most of last year’s squad, are back in the
ring again. Looking good in practice so far have been Hodgin, Siewers, and Allan. Frank Owen, on the squad two
years ago, has also returned to school to add to the number already out. According to Coach Unger, the squad
this year is strongest in the upper weight classes. Probable plans are to use Captain Fort in the unlimited class.
Tentative plans for meets with V. M. I., Duke, Carolina, State, Washington and Lee, and High Point Y.M.C.A. have been
made. Negotiations are now going on for meets with several neighboring Y.M.C.A.’s. The majority of the meets this year will
be held on the campus; four straight to be held in the local gym.

KITTENS LOSE IN FINAL GAME TO WOLFLETS 46-0

Raleigh Boys Overwhelm Freshmen In One-Sided Battle

HOGAN OUTSTANDING

Davidson Threatens Once In Fourth Quarter

A bewildered Davidson freshmen football team, which did not wake up until the second half, dropped a one-sided contest to
the yearlings from North Carolina State College in a game played on Riddick Field in Raleigh last Friday afternoon. The
Wolflets tallied three times in both the first and second stanzas and added another in the final period, piling up
a 46-0 count. Davidson received the opening kickoff and Lafferty returned it from the goal line to the 20, Hogan
punted to Berlinski who took the ball on his own 33-yard mark and reeled off 28 yards before being hauled
down on the Kittens’ 39-yard stripe, beginning his team’s first touchdown march. Fullback Hoek slipped through center for five and
then Berlinski flipped a pass to Berry, which was good for 25 yards and a first down, placing the oval
on the 9-yard marker. On the next play State was penalized 15 yards for holding, but Hoek more than made
up for this by dashing around his own right end to the 5-yard mark. Lawler picked up 3 at center
and then Hoek crashed over for the score. Gadd place-kicked the extra point. All during the remainder of the first
half State, led by Berlinski, Entwistle, Hoek, and Kuzma, continued to roll up the yardage and scores, tallying 40 points
before the rest period came. Being forced to punt only once, they were on the offensive most of the time.
Frequent jaunts of from 5 to 20 yards produced five more counters, Hoek scoring once more, Lawler once, and Kuzma
twice. Ed Entwistle was the key man in the attack. Besides registering numerous comparatively short gains, he gathered in one
Wildcat kick-off on his own 15 and zig-zagged his way 8 yards up the field before being brought down from
behind on the 1-yard line by Barrow. Davidson’s only first down came in the second quarter when Lafferty cut off
right tackle for seven yards after a pass, Hogan to Brown, had picked up 5. The second half opened in
a driving rain, which continued to fall all during the afternoon, turning the field into a soggy and muddy pond.
This seemed to aid the Kittens who completely checked the State attack in the third period and played on practically
even terms with their adversaries. However, early in the final frame the winners slipped over an additional counter as the
result of a series of line plays led by halfback Mein. Davidson's only threat came in the closing minutes of
play. The Cats recovered a State fumble on State’s 25-yard line and, after a line play failed to gain.

Get this Thanksgiving Day. $1.25 per person. But be in Charlotte for Dinner! This is your last-minute reminder of the
very special dinner that Hotel Charlotte’s doing for Thanksgiving Day. If we only had room to print the menu here—but
maybe not; it might make you unhappy to realize that you must wait till Thursday. In the Main Dining Room,
where the day’s climax will be waiting for you, there’ll be dancing from 7 to 9—and no cover charge, of
course; the dinner is $1.25. Downstairs, in “The Tavern” (we don’t have to tell you about “The Tavern”, do we?)
there’s another good menu for the day, at 80c. In each restaurant service is at both noon and evening—and we'll
expect you to bring a real Thanksgiving-Day appetite; we're fixed for it.

HOTEL CHARLOTTE

DAVIDSON, N. C.

SPECIAL!

Mi 31 ANTISEPTIC SOLUTION and your choice of either one of these KLENZO TOOTH BRUSHES

Some prefer the concave (or tufted end) brush. Others like the convex or massaging type. You may have your choice
of either—for a limited time—by purchasing this full pint of Mi 31 Antiseptic Solution. Mi 31 protects you from “rude
breath” and it also protects teeth and gums. For its reinforced formula kills dangerous nose and throat germs in a
few seconds. You should keep Mi 31 handy for other uses too! Now is a good time to try it.

WHITE DRUG CO.

Full pint of both for 49c

DRUG STORE
