PHI BETA KAPPA ISSUES BIDS TO EIGHT SENIORS

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

FRAZIER ELECTED VICE-PRESIDENT OF JUNIOR CLASS

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 31, 1934 No. 6

ANNUAL COLLEGE CONVENTION TO MEET ON NOV. 8

Professor Hood Of Davidson Will Preside Over Convention In Greensboro

PROFESSORS INVITED

T. W. Lingle And J. M. McConnell Are On Committees

The fourteenth annual convention of the North Carolina College Conference members will convene in the King Cotton Hotel, in Greensboro,
November 8th and 9th, with Dr. Frazier of Davidson, as acting president. Committees are expected to render important reports concerning
various fields of college activity. These groups are composed primarily of faculty members of the numerous institutions of the State.
The association consists of thirteen committees plus a special committee, recently appointed.

Dr. Frazier Hood, Professor of Psychology at Davidson, was elected president at the annual meeting of the group held last
June. President Hood decided to make the central theme of the Greensboro meeting, “The Selection and Preparation of Teachers.” Dr.
Hood is also actively engaged in work on College Admissions, Necrology, and the Executive Committees.

All college officials and faculty members are requested to attend this convention to be held in Greensboro. The privilege of
the floor is always extended to faculty members of member institutions, whether they are visitors or official delegates.

Dr. T. W. Lingle, Professor of History, and Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dean of Faculty and Professor of History, have
been selected to represent Davidson College. Dr. Lingle is now serving on the High Schools Relations and Collaboration with State
Department Committees and is also Chairman of a Special Committee appointed to prepare a manifesto as regards the bearing of
athletics on our intellectual and ethical life. Dr. McConnell is now an active member of Committees on Athletics and Student
Mortality. Dr. W. L. Lingle, President of Davidson, served with the Students Loans group during the past year.

The meeting will consist of three sessions—the first at 3:00 o'clock, Thursday afternoon, November 8th, the second at 8:00 o'clock
in the same evening of that day, and the third and final session will be held at 9:00 o'clock on
Friday morning, November 9th. A dinner, followed by a short program of classical music, will be presented to the assembly,
Thursday evening at 6:45, in the dining hall of the King Cotton Hotel.

Leading colleges and universities throughout North Carolina send delegates to the yearly College Conference Conventions held in important cities of
the state each year.

Seniors’ Church Ruling Changed By Committee

Seniors will now be allowed to count attendance at the Vesper Services as their Church attendance. This privilege was granted
by the members of the Executive Committee at a meeting held last week.

Seniors were accorded this privilege last year but at the beginning of this year it was discontinued. They were required
to attend either the morning or evening services at the Davidson Presbyterian Church or any other church of their choice.
Several members of the class expressed the desire that they be given the same privilege as last year’s class, and
at the last meeting of the Executive Committee they granted this year’s Senior Class this privilege.

Seniors may now attend the morning or evening services of the Church of their choice or they may attend the
Vesper Services which are held every Sunday Evening in Chambers Auditorium. Church attendance regulations for the other three classes will
remain the same, and students will have to abide by the regulations found in the book of Rules and Regulations
for Students of the College.

Masquers Give First Program

“Wurzel Flumery” And “A Night At An Inn” Presented By College Dramatists

The Red and Black Masquers, on Tuesday night, October 23, at 8:30 o'clock, presented the first set of their series
of plays to be produced this year. The plays were received by a small but appreciative crowd. The light spirit
of Milne’s “WURZEL FLUMERY” was executed by a complete Freshman cast. However, the play which attracted most attention and considerable
praiseful comment was Dunsany’s “A NIGHT AT AN INN”. The radical departure of the stage setting of the last mentioned
play brought forth much enthusiastic praise from those who saw it. Much credit is due those members of the technical
staff and the cast who spent their afternoons for two weeks or more in the construction of the framework, the
paneling, and the lighting effects for the inn scene. The set itself, something entirely new here, was a sort of
collective brain trial of Wood, Herring, and Hilliar. The plan was worked out on paper first, then actually constructed by
students entirely, here on the campus.

The lighting effect was very clever. A triangular box of lights covered with blue cellophane created the desired weird effect.
This box, placed behind the baseboard, threw the mysterious blue light on the cyclorama curtain to picture the distant sky.
The entire setting and particularly the lighting, blended perfectly for the scene.

The actors in the second play, a cast continued on Page 6, Col. 1

JUNIORS CHOOSE FRAZIER V-PRESIDENT

Coley Windham Advanced To Presidency In Recent Junior Class Elections

Cole L. Windham, of Gastonia, and Earl N. Frazier, of Charlotte, were elected president and vice-president respectively of the Junior
Class in elections held recently.

These elections were made necessary by the withdrawal from school of Bill Bowman, who was elected president of the class
last year. When Cole Windham, who was elected vice-president at that time, was advanced to the presidency by acclamation, Earl
Frazier was elected to fill the vacancy.

Windham distinguished himself since coming to Davidson chiefly along athletic lines. In his freshman year he was alternate captain of
both the football and basketball teams. Last year he earned varsity letters in both of these sports and was made
second vice-president of the Athletic Association. He is a member of the “D” Club and of the Beta Theta Pi
social fraternity.

Earl Frazier is considered by many one of the best long-distance track men in the South. He set his first
record in the freshman cake race, and since then has broken one mark after another. At present he holds the
state record in the mile and the two-mile run, and the college records in the mile and the two-mile, as
well as the cross country and the cake race.

Long’s Orchestra Will Play For Soph Dances

Johnny Long and his Duke Collegians have been engaged to play for the Sophomore Week-end Dances on December 14 and
15, the week-end preceding the Christmas holidays. The dances will consist of the usual set of three, a Friday night
“Formal”, a Saturday afternoon tea dance, and a Saturday night “Informal”. Johnny Long’s Orchestra is said to be much improved
this year and special music is being arranged for the occasion. Several novelty numbers will feature the tea dance. The
various social fraternities on the campus are planning house parties for the Centennials’ Week-end, and the cooperation of the student
body in making the dances a success is urged.

May Secure Extension Wire

Will Be Dependent Upon Action Taken By Executive Committee Of Trustees

PROGRAMS WILL BE VARIED

Broadcasts Will Be Made From Chambers Auditorium

Because of the inconvenience of taking a number of the members of the student body to Charlotte weekly to broadcast
the regular Davidson programs over station WBT, the school, represented by Mr. Grier Martin, priced wire from various big concerns,
the intention being to run such a wire from the college to the station in Charlotte, so that programs could
be broadcast from the campus.

At last finding a wire whose price fitted into the school’s budget, Mr. Martin made arrangements to have it installed,
only to find that the wire in question was of an inferior sort which would transmit a speaker's voice only,
while accommodating no music at all. This discovery seemed to definitely close the matter.

Recently, however, a representative of the Columbia Broadcasting System, of which WBT is a part, was in Charlotte, where he
discussed this matter with Mr. Schudt, an executive of station WBT. It was agreed then that the Columbia Broadcasting System
would authorize station WBT to aid in the financing of the plan, so that the cost to the College would
be reduced to some degree.

At the time The Davidsonian went to press no definite action had been decided upon, as the matter was to
be referred to the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees, which met yesterday, October 30th. If the committee sanctions
the expenditure, the wire should be installed immediately, and it is probable that the first program will be broadcast from
the Davidson campus on Friday night. Should the committee not think the project a wise one, it is believed that
the programs will continue to originate in the studios of station WBT.

In the event that the extension line is secured, the first program which will be held in the near future,
will be a musical one utilizing the combined resources of the band, orchestra, glee club, and organ. Other programs to
be given later will be composed of educational talks, athletic contests other than football games, debates, pep meetings, and more.
Arrangements will be made so the microphone can be transferred to suitable locations on the campus in order to make
varied broadcasts.

Finance And Business

J. H. Tregoe, ex-president of the National Credit Association in New York City, spoke before the classes of Professor J.
P. Williams and Dr. A. Currie, Wednesday, Oct. 24, taking as his subject Current Topics. For the last few years,
Tregoe has toured the country lecturing on various economic problems. He spoke before the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, October 23,
and was secured here mainly through the efforts of C. O. Kuester, secretary of the Charlotte C. of C. He
spoke before the finance and business classes.

QUADWRANGLERS DOCTOR IN INITIAL MEETING

Dr. J. M. Donnelly, Head Of Mecklenburg Sanatorium, Addresses Faculty Group

TALKS ON TUBERCULOSIS

Distinguished Specialist Discusses Prevention And Control Of Prevalent Disease

At the first meeting of the Quadwranglers’ Club of the faculty, held Thursday evening, October 25, the guest speaker was
Dr. John M. Donnelly, head of Mecklenburg Sanatorium, and a distinguished specialist in tuberculosis. The speaker was introduced by Major
John T. Rhett.

Dr. Donnelly pointed out that tuberculosis is a practically universal disease, which has been known since the earliest time of
which there is any record, but that it is only in comparatively recent years that we have been able to
cope with it with any success. The most important phase of tuberculosis work is that among children. Prevention work comprises
three procedures: 1. Location and care of adult cases. 2. Examination ofAll contacts and the care of those found diseased,
3. The periodical tuberculosis school clinic.

In 1900 tuberculosis ranked first as a cause of death at all ages. Today it is seventh, and yet it
is true that:
1. Tuberculosis is the greatest cause of death between the ages of 15 to 45 years.
2. It kills almost twice as many girls as boys between the ages of 15 to 25 years.
3. It is the greatest cause of death from disease among school children between the ages of 5 to 20
years.
4. More than one-fourth of all deaths and almost one-fifth of all deaths of young men between the ages of
15 to 30 years are due to tuberculosis.
5. It is the most expensive of diseases.

Dr. Dornelly stressed emphatically the rapidly growing need for greater facilities to handle the problem of tuberculosis among negroes. While
the facilities of the Mecklenburg Sanatorium are fairly adequate to care for the needs of whites, of a possible 160
beds only 26 are available for negroes.

Dr. and Mrs. Cumming Lecture At Converse

Dr. and Mrs. Cumming were invited to Converse College, Spartanburg, S.C., on Wednesday, October 24, to speak to the students.
Dr. Cumming spoke in chapel on “Reasons for the Vitality of the Novel.” Later in the morning, Mrs. Cumming talked
on “Nathaniel Hawthorne.” Mrs. Cumming has written several articles on Hawthorne. She published a work on the sources of the
early tales of Hawthorne, edited previously unpublished works by him, and has also discovered several of his works.

The stage is rapidly being set for a gala Homecoming Day celebration, Saturday, November tenth, announced Grier Martin, Alumni Secretary,
this morning. The prime attraction for the hundreds of old graduates expected to throng the campus will be the Davidson-Carolina
football tilt, and those football prognosticators who pretend to be knowing in such matters say that this will be the
most likely spot for this year. A capacity crowd is expected.

Professor James Christian Pfohl will present the Davidson Band in its first concert of the season. A highlight of this
program will be the presentation of “The Overture to William Tell” by Rossini. Both the Davidson and Carolina bands are
expected to be on hand for the football game. The younger graduates may join the Student Body in the Pan-Hellenic
dances to be given in Charlotte. Jimmy Poyner and his band, from State College, will furnish the rhythm.

An added attraction for the incoming graduates will be the absence of speakers from the alumni program. Martin announces that
this burdensome feature has been removed from the program, as well as official business and elections. An Alumni luncheon, to
which families and friends are also invited, will be held at the Chambers banquet hall at 12:30 P.M. Joseph B.
Johnston, President of the Alumni Association, will act as toastmaster for this occasion. The acoustics of the Banquet Hall have
been improved during the summer and the banquet is expected to be more enjoyable on that account.

The program for the day is as follows: At 10 o'clock A.M., there will be an informal alumni gathering and
registration, probably at the Faculty room. At 11:45, a concert by the Davidson Band. At 12:30 P.M., the alumni luncheon
in the Banquet Hall, friends and families invited, 50 cents per plate. The football game will probably be at 2:30
P.M. On page 5 of this paper will be found a registration blank, to be filled in by those alumni
expecting to attend.

Executive Committee Transacts Routine Business At Session In Charlotte

The semi-annual meeting of the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College was held in Charlotte last
Tuesday. At this meeting, only the regular routine business of this body was transacted and all the officers of the
college gave their regular reports on the condition of the college. The Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees is
elected annually at the spring meeting of the Trustees and is composed of ten men. This committee exercises practically all
the powers of the Trustees between meetings of the larger body, but its action is subject to control and review
by the Trustees at their regular meetings. This committee has two regular meetings each year, once in the fall and
again just before the regular Trustee meeting at commencement. At these meetings, they receive reports from the college officers which
are to be presented to the Trustees and pass on all matters to be put before the Trustees for action.

This committee is composed of the following men: Dr. R. H. Dunn, Charlotte, chairman; Mr. S. A. Robinson, Gastonia, secretary;
Mr. I. P. Graham, Cooleemee; Rev. A. A. McLean, Lenoir; Dr. H. W. McKay, Charlotte; Mr. L. S. Richardson, Greensboro;
Mr. W. J. Roddey, Rock Hill, S.C.; Dr. C. R. Wilcox, Rome, Ga.; Mr. S. Clay Williams, Winston-Salem. Mr. H.
N. Pharr of Charlotte, who was also a member of this committee, died early this fall.

PROFESSORS TO PICK BEST BOOK
Shewmake And McConnell To Be Judges For Mayflower Society Award

An honor has come to Davidson College in the selection of Dr. E. F. Shewmake, of the Department of English,
and Dr. J. M. McConnell, of the History Department, to serve as the judges for the award of the 1934
Mayflower Society Cup. This cup is awarded annually by the State Literary and Historical Association for the best book written
by a North Carolinian. This year there are thirty-six competitors for the award within the twelve months ending September 1,
1934. In 1931, the cup was awarded to an honorary alumnus of Davidson, Dr. M. C. S. Noble, Sr., in
1932 to Prof. Archibald Henderson of the faculty of the University of North Carolina, and last year to R. B.
Vance. Dr. Shewmake and Dr. McConnell will complete the work of judging the thirty-six works submitted in time for the
presentation of the award to be made at the meeting of the association in Raleigh on December fifth.

Delta Circle Of O.D.K. Hold Tap Day Nov. 7

The Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity, will hold its annual Fall tap day service next Wednesday,
November 7, according to a statement made by G. H. Brown, president of the Davidson Circle. The tap service will
be held during the regular morning chapel period at which time it is anticipated that five or six men will
be tapped. The present members will be seated on the rostrum of the auditorium and one at a time will
come down into the audience to tap the selected man. The one tapped will signify his acceptance by going to
the rostrum where he will be greeted by the members. The present Circle of O. D. K. consists of the
following members: “Skip” Brown, Dewey Hutchins, Fred McPhail, A. J. Potter, Bob Smith, Walter Sprunt, and K. D. Weeks.

EIGHT SENIORS ARE HONORED WITH BIDS TO PHI BETA KAPPA
Douglas, Coit, Neill, Rhodes, Bogart, Alderman, Powell, And Coleman Are Honored

JOHN M. DOUGLAS LEADS
R. T. Coit And W. C. Neill Rank Second And Third

Eight members of the Senior Class have been invited to become members of Phi Beta Kappa this fall semester, according
to Dr. P. H. Gwynn, secretary of the Gamma chapter of North Carolina, located here. J. M. Douglas, W. C.
Neill, R. T. Coit, A. B. Rhodes, W. M. Bogart, M. W. Alderman, J. H. Powell, and C. A. Coleman
are qualified for membership in this honorary fraternity. Douglas leads the group with a scholastic rating of 3.329. Coit has
3.311; Neill, 3.130; Rhodes, 3.073; Bogart, 3.071; Alderman, 3.069; Powell, 2.945; Coleman, 2.901. From 3 to 3.5 is interpreted as
Summa Cum Laude, from 2.5 to 2.99 as Cum Laude.

The qualifications for Phi Beta Kappa are two-fold. First, the students must have the three-year highest averages in the Senior
Class; second, they must be of good moral character. These qualifications make Phi Beta Kappa the most respected and sought-for
of all honorary fraternities in the United States. Phi Beta Kappa is the oldest and largest of honorary Greek letter
fraternities in America. Founded at William and Mary College, Virginia, in 1776, it had established chapters at Yale, Harvard, and
Dartmouth by the end of the century. Many chapters have been added since then, and there are now over 100
chapters in the outstanding institutions of the United States and Canada, and its enrollment has grown to 60,000 members. It
started as a social fraternity and developed into an honorary society as a reward for excellence in scholarship. Its motto
is, “Philosophy, the Guide of Life.”

J. M. Douglas, of Davidson, leader of the class, is the son of Dr. J. M. Douglas, Professor of Physics
at Davidson College. Douglas is also a captain in the R. O. T. C. unit here, and is a member
of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, as is W. C. Neill. Neill, of Hollins, Va., is treasurer of the
Philanthropic Literary Society and is a member of Eta Sigma Phi honorary fraternity and the International Relations Club. R. T.
Coit, of Richmond, Va., has been prominent in many of the college activities, being a member of the Y. M.
C. A. Cabinet and an R. O. T. C. officer. He is also a member of Eta Sigma Phi, Alpha
Phi Epsilon, and Le Cercle Francais. M. W. Alderman, of Alcolu, S. C., is a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon
honorary fraternity and is a Pi Kappa Phi. There are three boys from North Carolina besides Douglas. C. A. Coleman,
from Salisbury, is a member of Eta Sigma Phi and Le Cercle Francais. W. M. Bogart, of Charlotte, is president
of the Gamma Sigma Epsilon honorary fraternity.

College Band Presents Feature Radio Program

The Davidson College Band received a special invitation from Station WBT in Charlotte to present a 30-minute program over that
station on Friday, October 26th. The band presented an entertaining college program lasting 30 minutes, the first program ever presented
by a Davidson band to last that long. The band opened the program with three marches, “Them Basses,” “The Men
of Ohio,” and “Cheerio.” The second division of the program consisted of the college songs of the “Big 5” in
North Carolina. Songs of the leading colleges in the United States were played in the third part of the program.
These were:
- Georgia Tech: “Rambling Wreck”
- University of Chicago: “Wave the Flag”
- University of Indiana: “Indiana, Our Indiana”
- University of Michigan: “The Victors”
- University of Wisconsin: “On Wisconsin”
- Northwestern University: “Go, Northwestern, Go”
- Notre Dame University: “Victory March”

Yells were led by Hinton McLeod, Davidson Junior Cheerleader, and the band concluded with the march, “The Booster.”
