THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 17, 1934

NINETY MEN HIRED BY FERA

Satisfactory Scholarship Is Required Of Men Receiving Federal Aid

The Federal Emergency Relief Administration is now employing about ninety men at Davidson. Professor Fleagle is in charge of the FERA at Davidson College. At first, he was allowed to employ only seventy-three men, but now he can work more, just so he keeps under the budget assigned to this college. There has been a little misunderstanding as to the maximum amount that can be earned. No student can earn as much as twenty-one dollars a month. The Davidson student's allotment is based on an average of fifteen dollars per student. Satisfactory scholarship is one of the requirements of continuing on the FERA payroll. When a student's scholastic grade becomes unsatisfactory, he may expect to be summoned before the committee in charge of the FERA work and may be dropped from the payroll until the student improves his standing.

The most important project being handled now is the clearing of the woods surrounding the golf links. A crew of twelve men is at work under Professor Blythe and Captain Cochrane.

’Cats Plan Comeback

(Continued from Page 1)

...them to the tune of more than several touchdowns in each game. The first game with the “Flying Squadron” of V. M. I., ended in a rout for the Virginia team, with the powerful, well-polished Duke team scoring almost at will. The following Saturday, the Clemson Tigers were on the receiving end of the Blue Devils' walloping attack, and although the jungle beasts fought courageously, they were humbled 20-6. The game with the rambling wrecks from Tech proved to be quite an unexpected smash-up with the team from Atlanta being rolled under 20 to 0 before a crowd of 28,000 people.

So far, Davidson has only one victory to her credit, the Elon game, which was in itself a track meet for the far superior ‘Cat team. The two defeats handed them by State and Army were games played away from home and against the country’s best teams. However, with the Duke contest to be played here, the 'Cats are much more confident and believe that they can present a scrappy fight, if not a winning team, when the whistle is blown at 2:30 Saturday afternoon. Davidson’s probable starting lineup will average 182 pounds as against Duke’s 185 pounds per man. The backs will average around 163 pounds per man compared to Duke’s approximate 170 pounds.

Of the twelve games that have been played since 1922, Duke has won seven and Davidson four. One of these games ended in a 0 to 0 tie in 1931, when Wade first took over the Blue Devils. The Duke teams have scored 169 points to 94 for the Presbyterians.

Probable lineups:

Duke - Position - Davidson
Wientz - LE - Morgan
Durner - LT - Siewers
Potter - LG - Dunlap
Lee - C - Nee
Noland - RG - Johnston
Rowe - RT - Eiland
Eller - RE - Gant
Matraville - QB - Windham
Parker - LH - Mackorell
Cornelius - RH - Wingfield
Alexander - FB - Yarborough

As Felix Goes 'Em

(Continued from Page 4)

...three-mile cross-country course. He ran the distance in 16 minutes and 3 seconds, which is about four seconds slower than his school record time. This tireless junior absolutely refuses to be beaten.

Low Growls: Johnny Mackorell gets into big-time news with his picture appearing in the Washington News Herald... Freddie Crawford signs a contract to take part in a Hollywood production; he should add to the beauty of things in the movie city... Carl Snavely sends a circular letter to each member of his football squad after every game pointing out the major mistakes in the contest as well as individual errors... Brad Reed has a piece from Jack Buckler’s jersey that was left in his hands after he had made an attempt to tackle the Army satellite during the Davidson contest at West Point.

Miss Mary Hamilton, a former president of the student body at Converse College, and now a teacher of French in the high school at Mebane, North Carolina, spent last weekend with her mother in Davidson.

Davidson College Men Make Military Salute

A military firing squad composed of eight students taken from the Davidson College R. O. T. C. department Saturday afternoon fired a military salute at the funeral of World War veteran Shewmake in Mooresville. The squad was composed of the following students: Tom Downey, Edward McConnell, Edwin Wooten, Dan Griffin, Jake Morrow, Bob Saurs, Linwood Mann, and Woodrow Hassell. R. A. Leonard was the bugler. The commander of the Mooresville American Legion Post expressed his thanks to the Davidson R. O. T. C. department for the ceremony.

Dr. Sweets To Speak At Vespers Sunday

Dr. Henry Sweets of Louisville, Ky., has been secured as the speaker for vespers next Sunday evening. Dr. Sweets is the head of the Department of Education of the Presbyterian Church and he is very interested in young people's work. This is his first visit to Davidson to address the students. He comes to Davidson highly recommended both as a speaker and as a man. Those who are responsible for his coming to Davidson College praise him highly and are very anxious to have a large...Crowd at vespers next Sunday to hear him. Dr. Sweet's visit to Davidson is part of a program to be carried out by the Y.M.C.A. authorities in securing leading speakers to address the students at Vesper Services.

T. W. Lingle Takes Trip
Professor Speaks At Wake Forest And Attends Meeting At Greensboro

Dr. T. W. Lingle recently made a very interesting trip to the Northeastern section of the State. This trip took him to Wake Forest where, on Sunday, September 30th, he addressed the faculty and college community of Wake Forest College at the Baptist Church. The subject of the address was “The Oldest Bible Lands, and the Influence of These on The Old Testament History”. On this same trip, Dr. Lingle conferred with President Graham of the North Carolina Conference athletic committee, and with Coach Wallace Wade of Duke University. On Monday, Dr. Lingle, accompanied by Mr. Jackson and Mr. Moffett, will attend a commissioners’ meeting at Greensboro. This commission of fifteen men has been appointed by the Presbyterian Senate of North Carolina to deal with the case of the Church-by-the-Side-of-the-Road, in Greensboro, versus the Presbytery of Orange.

John Wellington Finch, former dean of the school of mines, University of Utah, (Salt Lake City) has been appointed director of the United States Bureau of Mines.

President Franklin D. Roosevelt attended Groton Preparatory School, Harvard University, and Columbia University law school.

Ten Per Cent Increase Found In Registration

An increase of ten per cent over last year’s college enrollment was noted in a review of the reports sent in by colleges and universities to the National Student Federation and the most marked increase was in the enrollment of Western colleges. Authorities attributed this lead to the rise in the price of farm commodities. In other parts of the country good business conditions pointed toward an increase in enrollment. The Federal Emergency Relief, which makes available funds for part-time relief, has aided about fifty thousand new students to enter college. This figure represents about six per cent of the total number of college students. The fact that tuition has become a good deal lower in many colleges has led to a marked increase in registration. Almost every college reported an increase in the number of its freshman class. Columbia, Vassar, Wellesley, and many similar institutions reported a great increase in the number of first-year students. Harvard, Brown, Colgate, and universities like them, have reported a thirty-five per cent increase in applicants for enrollment. In no institution in the Middle West is there a report of a decrease in their enrollment. The figures for the far West indicate a swing toward an even higher level than the national average.

Exercise Required For Men Not Taking ROTC

Captain Pritchett announced in chapel last Thursday morning that all men who are not taking R.O.T.C. are required to take three hours of exercise per week. This year all freshmen who are not taking R.O.T.C. are required to take a gymnasium workout under supervision three times a week on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday afternoons at 3:30 o'clock. There is also one lecture on health and hygiene one night each week for such students. Credit for this course is given for attendance and examinations. The same thing is true for sophomores not taking the military training course. Therefore, all freshmen and sophomores who are not taking R.O.T.C., who are not on the varsity or freshman football squads, and who are not taking the class in physical education, are required to take outside exercise and make a written report of it. Blank cards for these reports may be secured at Heath Whittle’s office in 142 Chambers.

New Drainage System Installed At Davidson

Two new culverts will be installed to carry off the surplus water, which surrounds the Presbyterian Church of Davidson during rainy weather. This has been a source of great concern to Davidson students attending Church with white shoes. Other culverts were installed during the summer in various places on the campus to accommodate the water and prevent the campus from being soggy. The tar sprayer and roller were loaded on a truck Wednesday, October 10, terminating construction work on the hard-surfaced drives. They have been here for the past several weeks for the purpose of improving the drives.

See The New WOOL TIES WITH FRINGED ENDS 65c

New Fall Suits and Overcoats Just Arrived

J. O. JONES INC
208 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The chief surgeon of the ear, nose, and throat department of the Civil and Military Hospital, Nice, France, Dr. Jacques Vialle, is now studying under Dr. Chevalier Jackson, of the Temple University, (Philadelphia, Pa.) faculty.

STATIONERY CALLING CARDS PROGRAMS Fine Printing

Copyright, 1934 The American Tobacco Co.

Send Her FLOWERS

Buff Shoe Shop
Fine Shoerebuilding
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO.
Printers of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and of THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE ALUMNI JOURNAL

You get in Luckies the finest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos that money can buy—only the clean center leaves—for these are the mildest leaves—they cost more—they taste better. “It’s toasted” Your throat protection—against irritation—against cough