THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 12, 1934

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Associated Collegiate Press
Published Weekly
“For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

KAD. WEEKS .......... Editor
J. A.C. WADSWORTH ... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Martin Barnett
Paul Haran
Tom Marchant Managing Editor
He Walker Managing Editor
Harvey Glass Managing Editor
Lamont Brown Sports Editor
Ed Bowers Exchange Editor
Carlyle Lewis Feature Editor
Scotty McLeod Feature Editor
G. L. Guterre Associate Editor
E. F. McPaul Associate Editor
B. L. Rose Associate Editor
Jack Helinger Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. B. Gosten Asst. Business Mgr.
Val Cassels Asst. Business Mgr.
Tom Ross Asst. Business Mgr.
S. McMullen Asst. Business Mgr.
P. Morrow Asst. Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1934

Most persons would succeed in small things if they were not troubled with great ambitions.
—Longfellow.

The weather conditions for the past two or three days certainly show indications that Sophomore Week-End is not far off, especially the snow. It hasn’t failed to snow or rain for the past three years on this occasion. However, the class of ’35 feels as though there was enough snow on the ground during its week-end two years ago to last for many Sophomore Week-Ends to come. Despite the inclement weather conditions, however, these social events have proved to be among the most enjoyable on the social calendar and all indications point to another enjoyable one this week-end.

Now that the Georgia-Watts football classic is over and all is quiet on dormitory row, night life on the campus has returned to normal again. The big game and the spirited pep meetings in anticipation of the game proved to be very exciting and enjoyable. It really brought things to life around here for a while anyway.

HELP MAKE THE Y. M. C. A. GIFT FUND A SUCCESS

TONIGHT will be the second and next to the last opportunity that Davidson College students will have to pledge their support to the Christmas Gift Fund. A canvas of the dormitories was begun last night and will continue through tomorrow night. This will give every student ample time to pledge his contribution. Everyone is already aware of this drive being made by the Davidson Y.M.C.A. Each year this organization sponsors a Christmas Gift Fund drive, the proceeds of which are sent to some worthy and needy cause. In past years the goal of the drive has been set at $1,000 and has been reached. However, in 1932 this amount was not obtained and consequently the goal has been set at $750 for the last two years. As has already been announced, the proceeds this year will go toward aiding the “mountain work in Ashe County.” Anyone who heard Reverend Ham Stone speak at the vesper service last Sunday night was convinced that this is a most needy cause and one that is worthy of your contributions. The sum of $750 should not be hard to raise among nearly 650 students. The Y is not asking you to give a large contribution. It is asking you to give only what you can afford, regardless of whether small or large. Every student at Davidson College is a member of the Y.M.C.A. The success of the drive is dependent upon the spirit in which the organization’s members support it. Be sure to contribute your share and help reach the goal. If you have not yet pledged your contribution you will have another opportunity tonight and tomorrow night.

THE OPEN FORUM
(Continued from Page 1)

number and type (outstanding in all that is best in our church and civic life) I know that they will not be willing to let the matter die. Surely a father wants his son to come to him in an honest, straightforward way, with a look straight into his eyes, and tell him what he is thinking, and appeal to him as a father, to see his side of things. I would shudder for a father who would turn away from his son at a time like this. Something would be killed in that boy’s heart and life that no right-thinking father could bear to have die. It is splendid that you boys have come to the authorities in this fine spirit. We all like the frankness and honesty in the heart of the boy who writes, “There is in the prohibition of dancing on the campus a connivance against which many of us secretly rebel.” Many of us parents and friends feel exactly the same way. Everywhere I’ve been recently I’ve heard the matter of the management of the social life at Davidson discussed. Mothers of sons and mothers of daughters are equally concerned about it. With the mothers the dance is an accepted form of entertainment, but with high standards as to how and where the dancing shall be done. Suppose the dances were at present being held at Davidson and the suggestion should come to begin having them twenty miles off the campus. Who among us would like the idea?

Ethel Boyce Lindsay.
(Mrs. Walter Lindsay).
204 Cascade Ave., Winston-Salem, N. C.

MERRY CHRISTMAS, HAPPY NEW YEAR!

WITH this issue we bring to a close our work on “The Davidsonian” for the year 1934. It will be impossible to get another issue to the students before the Christmas holidays begin since the paper comes out in the afternoon and the students leave for their homes at 12:30 on the same day, Wednesday, December 19th. We have striven in each issue to improve “The Davidsonian.” We have tried to make it interesting and representative of student life here on the campus. Criticism of a constructive nature is always welcomed and appreciated. If you have a suggestion to make, let it be known to a member of the staff. With the holidays so near at hand and the New Year rapidly approaching, we would like to take advantage of this appropriate time to make a prophecy. At the beginning of each year many resolutions of good intentions are made. Very soon they are forgotten and no good has been accomplished by them. However, we feel that after two weeks of holiday and recreation we will return with renewed interest and eager intentions of making “The Davidsonian” in 1935 a better newspaper. The next issue of “The Davidsonian” will appear on Wednesday, January 10, 1935. The staff would like to take this opportunity to wish for the Davidson student body and its other readers “A Merry Christmas and A Happy New Year.”

PREVENT RECURRENCE OF PRE-HOLIDAY THEFTS

EACH year just before the Christmas holidays begin, there recurs a phenomenon which has several times in the past proved very costly to many Davidson students. Last year, just a night or two before the holidays began, a wholesale robbery took place in North and South dormitories resulting in the theft of dozens of suits, overcoats, shoes and other miscellaneous wearing apparel. The thieves proved to be outsiders and, luckily enough, were tracked down by bloodhounds a few miles from here, most of the clothes being recovered. Similar thefts occurred at the same time in one or two of the other dormitories. The same thing has happened for several years in succession except that the robberies were more scattered and on a smaller scale. Outsiders who are capable of committing such deeds are aware of the fact that at this particular time students are in a gay frame of mind over going home and are prone to be somewhat careless about the way they leave their rooms and the valuables contained in them. They also know that things have been gotten in readiness to take home and that money has been secured for transportation. Let us this year prevent the recurrence of such a thing. Be on the lookout for prowlers and strangers who do not belong on the campus. And above all, be careful about where you leave your money and other valuables and be sure to lock your doors when you leave the room.

“SELECTED PAPERS of PHINEAS SPOON.”

“THE AUDACITY OF UTOPIA”

The only substantial difference between Man and the lesser animals is a peculiar genius for rebellion. Cows are forever cows. There is really no historical evidence to show that the bovine ilk has ever become incensed at its estate in the appointed scheme of things. Abraham had a flock of heifers, once upon a time. He threw them corn—and Abraham had contented cows. Today, because 5,000 years have passed, do their progeny agitate for cake? No, they still crunch corn—and like it! Cows don’t mutiny. What is true of cows pertains to amoebas, zebras, and other creatures less than men. They have quietly acquiesced in the fiat of creation with a uniform passivity. But the story of Mankind is the story of rebellion. It tells of a giant offensive against the natural order fought on a thousand fronts. Acquiescence is not the portion of human flesh. Each day there is some new evidence to show that Mankind’s work of revamping the state of nature is both incessant and, to a limited degree, successful. A cow, with her submission to the constraints of circumstance, pays lackey homage to Nature’s tyranny. Man, on the other hand, is ennobled by his resistance to the same. If men were content to merely improve their status, if they could be satisfied with becoming better men it would require surprisingly little effort to show that men have an edge on cows. gods. Since his first intimation of mortality, man has had agonizing perceptions of the great gulf fixed between himself and Mount Olympus. The obsession seems to be that man’s destiny leads up into the stars. With a damnable audacity, the human heart hankers for perfection. Among the myriad orbs of the Milky Way there gyrates, in a minor solar system, a negligible planet. On this pea of a body there creeps a race of men. But parasites who do not know themselves for what they are. Who, having contrived to ameliorate in some measure the grievous pain of their natural difficulties, address themselves to the problem of their positive elimination... It seems to me that the gods somewhere must be amused. There should certainly be a sardonic humor in the sight ofFunny little men so pompously bent upon an improvised millennium. How can this preposterous conceit of Man be doubted? See how persistent has been his secret longing for perfection. Wherever there has been the semblance of human thought there have been men who in sundry ways have sought escape from terrestrial limitations into the perfection of some premature paradise. In a grey dawn of pseudo-science, medieval alchemists wracked their wits and juggled their patients in a quest for the Philosopher’s Stone. What was their purpose — the reduction of human encumbrances? Nothing so picayune! They aimed to discover some formula by use of which the limitations of flesh could be transcended. They sought to inaugurate a new dispensation where milk and honey would come by a wish. These abject creatures were tired of being slightly “lower than the angels.” They conspired to storm the very gates of heaven. What drove Ponce de Leon to gamble life and fortune on trackless seas in an expedition to the “new world?” The lurid fancies of European dreamers attributed to a continent of mystery extramundane qualities: Ponce de Leon reflected the inherent rapacity for the unattainable. He was in search of a mystic water of such properties as would vouchsafe immunity from death. How cravenly Men have schemed for release from the temporal. The Sons of Tantalus have agonized their souls in an eternal effort to appropriate the things which have not been provided. The quest has been for an abracadabra of transport into the land of splendid indefectibility. There are limits beyond which Man's most ardent spirit, his most artful contrivance cannot carry him. In aspiring to the transcendental there is an audacity incongruous with the wretched stuff out of which Man is fashioned. Man’s destiny is linked with flesh and its inherent limitations. He was made to creep through three dimensions charged with death, decay, and defalcation. When obsessions of divinity provoke the human mind to strain for New Jerusalem, my hat goes off to cows. The self-effacement of the cow is its proverbial weakness. But, still, the cow makes no pretense of a thwarted destiny. After all, there is virtue in acquiescence to the inevitable. PHINEAS. Spoon.

Scientist Einstein would have no examinations in his ideal university, no drilling of the memory. “It would be mainly a process of appeal to the senses in order to draw out delicate reactions,” he says. But, men have always aspired to be COMPASSING the, By Scorry McLeod Varying our usual mode of procedure in writing this column, we begin today a series of weekly character sketches which shall be known as Campus Personalities. Our first victim will be the one student at Davidson that everybody knows—and the one person who knows everybody else. We shall not state here whether or not this is a fortunate circumstance. However, gentlemen, we give you Mr. Brown:

Note the combed hair, the unplucked eyebrows, lack of mascara, the pointed ears, the ever-present tie, the ridged nose, the staring eyes, and other evidences of true character and trained gentlemanliness. Such is the facial mask of Brown. Football and radio announcer of note, forensic head, scholar, ever and anon the campus wag, writer of Phineas Spoon’s immortal papers, president of Beta, presider at many meetings, great traveler — these things exemplify the life of Brown. When first approached for an exclusive interview Skip made this unequivocal statement: “When I was a little boy I had an avid appetite for spinach; to this I attribute my masculine virility.” The best of us have misconceptions. He doesn’t chew. Prefers Edgeworth smoking tobacco. Has his moments. “The Skipper” intends to study law at Columbia University for the next three years, then to practice criminal law in New York City for about five years; at the conclusion of which period he has said that he would consider accepting the position of district attorney of New York County. Notice he did not commit himself to a direct statement. He merely said he would consider the job. Following is a brief quizzing interview which the C. C. reporter has recorded:

Q. Mr. Brown, do you believe that sassafras tea is an efficacious remedy for sustained lumbago?
A. Your question is a reasonable one, Mr. McLeod, and is tersely put. My feeling is that a majority of our bodily complaints have their origin in the imagination. This fact is evidenced, for example, by the frequency with which a boy on the eve of an undesired date mysteriously contracts an incapacitating illness.

Q. Do you believe in love at first sight?
A. If you mean in the realm of the duck-billed platypus I would answer definitely in the affirmative. It is a notorious fact that although on other occasions the duck-bill is a timorous beastie yet when it comes to matters of love its feelings are motivated by the wildest impetuosity.

Q. What do you think of parking autos?
A. I think that if the prevalence of inactive vehicles in dark places is due to defects in the automotive machinery, then the technical proficiency which is supposed to typify this age is a gross overstatement. Thank you, Mr. President.

Brown was captain of the tennis team his freshman year, is a member of most honorary fraternities on the hill, and once roomed with Oscar Bethea. The New Jersey lad is making one of the best student body presidents that we have ever had at Davidson, in the opinion of many.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES By En Bowers

Washington and Lee: Miss Gertrude Stein, who thinks that a rose is a rose is a rose, and who believes in herself for herself because she is just herself a writer, will speak at the University of Virginia, an elephant beaten with candy, on January 8th. Along with Miss Stein will also come her inseparable companion and bodyguard, Alice B. Toklas, about whom Miss Stein wrote an autobiography last year for Miss Stein who monopolizes the contents while Miss Toklas, swept away by the domination of Miss Stein, merely looked on. On Wednesday afternoon after the last practice of the Generals, the entire football team descended en masse on the Sophomore and Junior football managers and as a good luck token before the game with the South Carolina Gamecocks, threw them one by one into the icy waters of the swimming pool—a pre-Saturday bath.

University of South Carolina: (The following news was taken from “The Gamecock”) Around Converse College there seems to be much discussion concerning the dismissal of Professor P. A. Carmichael, professor of philosophy, on charges of teaching in such a manner as to disturb the religious beliefs of students of that region and community of Spartanburg. Recent press reports state that Converse will not be put upon the black list of the A.A.U.P. pending action to be taken by the authorities at Converse to correct conditions there for which the association indicated the school. It seems as though the institution violated two of the association’s rules of (1) tenure and (2) academic freedom.

Hampden-Sidney: In the Hampden-Sidney “Tiger” a large headline read: “Dances Hugh Success, Declare Inebriated German Club Guests.” There followed a long list of the guests. Directly under this story was an article announcing a prize to be given by the W.C.T.U. for the best essay on “The Value of the Total Abstinence from Alcoholic Drinks.”

State College: A proposal submitted by the Senior Class to the general faculty assembled to exempt seniors from examinations all three terms was voted down by that body by a two to one vote. Following the veto sentiment ran high among the Senior class members and there was heard rumors of a strike as an effort to carry their point. The feeling for a strike subsided a short time later. The Seniors did not think that their petition was given a fair hearing by the faculty who referred it to a committee for further consideration. At present, the Seniors are exempted from the last quarter’s examinations.

Colleginia: Students at Tulane vote for their dance orchestras... The University of Missouri football team has scored only one touchdown since Frank Carideo, former Notre Dame star, took over the job last year... Northwestern University is offering a course called “Bull Session A,” and the University of Washington inaugurated one on “Bluffing”... The Washington and Lee faculty added two extra days to the Christmas vacation... At Northwestern the men have formed a knitting club... At the University of Alabama a girl has enrolled in the boxing class... A Georgia Tech student amused himself by shooting pins at the dancing dames in an Atlanta burlesque theatre. In court the presiding judge expressed his intention of examining the wounds before passing judgment... A girls’ orchestra is being formed at Queens-Chick by Joe Roman...

ON THE HILL: The mighty Centennial class continues its scintillating undergraduate career with plans for a great Soph Week-End. Drifting down with the pure white snow last Monday came many yellowed sheets of paper publicizing the Centennial Dances. Dropped from an overhead airplane, numbers of students scampered eagerly after the yellow squares only to be disappointed in finding the Sophomore notes. It will be worthy of this class of ’37 if they present a week-end one-third as good as did their immediate predecessor.

From DAVIDSONIANS IT WAS NEWS of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO: Juniors sponsor Christmas house party... Glee Club and Orchestra give program over WBT... Nineteen varsity football men receive letters... Y.M.C.A. to give banquet for Freshmen class... Eight men taken in by the Phi Beta Kappa... Dean Carroll of U. N. C. speaks to economic students... Twenty-two freshmen receive numerals.

TEN YEARS AGO: Davidson will benefit from generosity of J. B. Duke... Will receive a minimum of $75,000 per year... Ninety men get bids into fraternities... Glee Club’s first performance here scores a big hit... Emory defeats Davidson in Forensic frag... Wildcats to play Concord “Y” quintet in first basketball game of season... Chief Alaskan speaks to R.O.T.C. unit... Edgar C. Rames gives lecture here on Alaskan tour... Dr. William Currell speaks at Phi Beta Kappa initiation.

TWENTY YEARS AGO: Asheville High defeats Huntersville on Davidson gridiron... Dr. Arbuckle addresses Y.M.C.A... Twelve letters awarded to varsity football men... Wildcats to debate Clemson and Emory in near future... Davidson responds to call for aid by Red Cross...