THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 17, 1934

CONCERT SERIES WILL BE OPENED IN NEAR FUTURE

Palmer Christian, Widely Known Organist, Will Play November Sixth

OTHER ARTISTS BOOKED

Joseph Brinkman And Wilson Angel Will Appear

Announcement has been made here of the three artists who will participate in Davidson’s 1934-35 concert series. They are Palmer Christian, organist, Joseph Brinkman, pianist, and Wilson Angel, singer. This announcement of Davidson's first concert series was made by James Christian Pfohl, director of music. The innovation is in line with the general policy of musical expansion, which has been in effect since Mr. Pfohl was secured last year as director of music.

Palmer Christian, known throughout the United States and Canada as one of the outstanding contemporary concert organists, will present the opening concert of the series on November 6. The Detroit News stated that, “Palmer Christian is an artist of sensitive nature, able to discern the composer's most fragile and fugitive thoughts and display the same, crystal clear, to his audience.” After his last Chicago recital, the Chicago Herald and Examiner found that, “he proved that the organist may exercise his imagination within the limits of his instrument and achieve expressions of beauty that are characteristic and that cannot be duplicated by either the piano or the orchestra.” Mr. Christian has made solo appearances with the Chicago, Detroit, Rochester, and New York Symphonies, New York Philharmonic Society, and Philadelphia Orchestra. At present he holds the position of University Organist and is head of the Organ Department at the University of Michigan, at Ann Arbor, where he was appointed a few years ago for the express purpose of giving an annual series of recitals.

Joseph Brinkman, one of America’s outstanding pianists, will be heard in February, the exact date to be announced later. He will play at Davidson just after an appearance in New York at the Town Hall.

Wilson Angel, bass, formerly of Winston-Salem, will appear in a recital during the month of April. He was the winner of the National Atwater-Kent audition in 1931, and is one of North Carolina’s most outstanding musicians.

It is possible that a symphony orchestra will be presented on the series also, but no definite announcement has been made regarding this.

All concerts will be presented in the auditorium of Chambers Building, at 8 o'clock. Season tickets will be $2.00 and $1.00 for students. Admission for single concerts will be 75 cents and 50 cents for students.

If this concert series proves successful another will be assured for next year.

Students Will Study Best Of Negro Poetry

“Singers in the Dawn” Published To Promote Interracial Appreciation

Atlanta, Ga, July.—“Singers in the Dawn,” a condensed survey of American Negro poetry, has just been published by the Commission on Interracial Cooperation and the Conference on Education and Race Relations, as a means of promoting interracial appreciation, now available to the public. Designed primarily for use in Southern colleges and public schools, it is expected to meet a long-felt need. Though off the press only two weeks, it is already in use in a score of Southern colleges in their summer school classes in literature. In the fall it will be made available to thousands of public schools.

The volume comprises 24 pages and cover, beautifully printed in a color scheme of primrose, India tint and brown. It embodies brief sketches of more than forty of the best known poets, and quotes a large number of selections presenting a cross section of the best work of the principal poets, from Phillis Wheatley to Countee Cullen and James Weldon Johnson. The title is taken from James D. Corrother’s tribute to Paul Laurence Dunbar: “He came, a dark youth, singing in the dawn Of a new freedom, glowing o'er his lyre, Refining, as with great Apollo's fire.”

Around TOWN

Three of the Davidson book clubs met this past week. The Thelemite Club held its annual picnic at Rozelle Ferry, Friday evening at 6:30. The As You Like It Club met with Mrs. G. G. Slaughter, Friday night at 8:00. Mrs. Cloyd Goodrum was hostess to the Twentieth Century Club, Friday afternoon.

Dr. M. E. Sentellé and his sister, Mrs. Agnes Brown, had as their guests during the week, Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Houghton of Birmingham, Alabama, and Rev. Edgar Houghton and family of Anchorage, Kentucky. Rev. Edgar Houghton graduated from Davidson in ’22.

Mrs. J. R. Withers has gone to Garner, N. C., to visit her daughter, Sarah, who teaches in the high school.

Mrs. Sam Thompson is visiting her daughter, Elizabeth, of Richmond, Virginia, who is recovering from an operation for appendicitis.

Rev. and Mrs. Plummer Smith and children are spending the winter in Davidson. Mr. and Mrs. Smith are on furlough from their missionary work in Africa.

Mrs. F. M. Watts, who lives with her daughter, Mrs. Norton Pritchett, has returned to Davidson after a several weeks visit in Kentucky and Ohio.

Cochrane Enlists (Continued from Page 1)

Was a promising football man until he injured his knee, which kept him out of the game from then on. He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, was President of Sigma Delta Psi, Secretary-Treasurer of the “D” Club, member of Scabbard and Blade, Captain of the R. O. T. C. Band, member of the Pan-Hellenic Council, of the Athletic Council, of the Philanthropic Literary Society, and of the Junior Speaking Committee.

Before coming to college, while Cochrane was with his family in the Philippines, he shipped on a dollar liner and made a trip around the world, which lasted about four months. Among his exciting adventures was the burning of his ship while in the harbor of Singapore.

ROTC UNIFORMS TO ARRIVE SOON

Smaller Sizes In Outfitting Davidson Battalion Expected This Week

The noticeable lack of uniforms among members of the R. O. T. C. battalion will soon be ended by the arrival of new uniforms. Major Rhett expects the new shipment sometime this week. The new uniforms will be of smaller sizes. The men of the battalion were apparently not as large as was expected, and a good many of the smaller men could not find uniforms to fit them.

The new uniforms for Juniors came last week and were fitted on them. Any of which needed alterations were returned.

The band will march with the rest of the battalion sometime during this week if present plans are followed, according to Captain Siefert.

Members of the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit attended a military funeral of a member of the Mooresville American Legion Post, where they fired a salute over the grave.

This year's rifle team will have as captain Gordon Greta, and as manager D. P. Johnston. Calls for tryouts will probably not be made until spring.

Cathey Elected (Continued from Page 1)

Coit, Duke Glasgow, Carl Carlson, Bob Lindsay, John Partridge, and K. D. Weeks. The following men were recommended for nomination by the committee to fill the office of second Vice-President of the Student Body: Lamont Cathey, John Pearce, Partridge, Martin Barnett, Hunter McCluney.Earl Frazier. In the first ballot, Brown, Henry, and John McClung were eliminated from the voting, and in the second ballot, Part and Frazier were eliminated. On the third ballot, Jarnett and Ridge were dropped. Pearce was eliminated, leaving Cathey and Brown in the race. Final voting, which was held Tuesday, decided the voting in favor of Cathey. According to Section three, Article I of the constitution, it shall be the duty of the Vice-President to preside at the meetings of the Student Body in the absence of the President.

Have your Shoes rebuilt at Kennedy’s Shoe Shop. “We use the best material.” M. P. HENDERSON

Masquers Plan One Act Plays
Dramatic Group To Make Presentations On Night Of Oct. 23

The Red and Black Masquers will offer three one-act plays on the night of October 23, 1934, under the joint direction of Richardson Hillier, D. I. Herring, and Gordon Wood. The following plays are to be given at the time by the Red and Black Masquers: Grandma Pulls a String, Wurzel-Flummery, and Night at an Inn.

Grandma Pulls a String is a comedy. Its plot centers around the attempt made by Grandma and Hildegard to encourage the mutual love of Thorton and Julia. Since both Hildegard and Grandma have romantic Victorian ideas about how a young gentleman should propose, their attempts to further the action are quite humorous. The cast is as follows:
Grandma — C. S. Howard
Julia — A. R. Cates
Hildegard — J. Latterty
Thorton — L. C. Cline

Wurzel-Flummery is another comedy. Would any man be willing, for a legacy of fifty thousand pounds, to change his name to Wurzel-Flummery? Two men, rival M.P.s, are placed in this predicament. Crawshaw, the elder of the two, becomes aware of a will with this proviso in it and is jeered at unmercifully by the younger, Meriton. But when Meriton himself is placed in the same predicament, his views change. The cast is as follows:
Mr. Robert Crawshaw — Mrs. John Newman
Robert Crawshaw — Elizabeth Shewmake
Mr. Denis Clifton — C. K. Malone
Mr. Richard Meriton — Caton Denis

Night at an Inn is a melodrama, written by Lord Dunsany. It has held the stage for years and is one of Dunsany's more popular plays. The cast is as follows:
A. E. Scott-Fortescue (The Toff) — J. W. Washburn
William Jones (Bill) — F. L. Danigan
Albert Thomas (Bert) — Jacob Smith (Sniggers)
Three Priests of Klesh — The Edwards
Klesh Idol from India

Cathey is the First Vice-President of the Athletic Association, holds a regular tackle position on the Varsity football team, is a member of the “D” Club, a monitor, Captain of the Freshman football team in '32, and is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

LOCAL PLAYERS ERECT NEW SET
Scenery To Be Completed In Time For First Play

Within the last week, the Red and Black Masquers have secured a room over the old armory. They plan to use this room as an experimental laboratory in which to work on new sets and staging effects, and an entirely new set has already been constructed under the supervision of Dave Herring and Dick Hillier. This set, which will be used in Night at an Inn, has been built on a principle entirely new to the Davidson stage. The fundamental idea which governs this innovation is that the mind can imagine reality in a much more delightful and interesting fashion than reality can be created. Therefore, if the essentials of a set are suggested, then the mind will imagine the details to perfection. Symbolism, rather than realism, has been resorted to.

The interior of an inn has been constructed in the following manner: The heavy, paneled wainscoting has been erected in its entirety. From it, heavy timbers rise up to the suggested ceiling. Between the beams, there is no wall; however, the presence of a wall is implied by the windows and doors which project upward from the wainscoting. Behind the wall is a backdrop colored a deep sky blue by means of special lighting effects which have been worked out for it. On the backdrop, several symbolic stars will glow fitfully, thus producing a suggestion of nebulous unreality. The paneling has been so constructed that it can also be used interchangeably with the present “brown” set, thereby providing the possibility of yet another interior.

Additional lighting equipment such as spot and floodlights has been constructed in order that the present electrical resources may be usefully augmented. In addition to work on flats, there has grown up under the direction of Smallridge and Hillier a new interest in the construction of masks. The face which they created for the idol Klesh is a very fine example of masking skill and hideousness.

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP
GOOD HAIRCUTS
Ask the Men who've had one

R. L. Price Selected As Pi Kappa Phi Chaplain

The Silver Anniversary number of the Star and Lamp of Pi Kappa Phi carries the news that at the 17th Biennial Supreme Chapter meeting held recently in New York, District Archon Reginald L. Price, Epsilon, was selected to fill the position of supreme chaplain. The Star and Lamp says, “It was an excellent choice and a recognition deserved.” Price resides in Charlotte, takes a very active interest in his old chapter (Epsilon) at Davidson, and is editor of “Pi-Kapp-sules,” a feature of the Star and Lamp.

“Hello, Clothes... we’re certainly glad to see you... and Oh Boy do you look swell... Undergrad never saw you look better.” That’s the kind of welcome America’s Leading Young Men’s Clothing gets... what popularity... it must be deserved!
$20.00 & $25.00
2 Trousers
TATE-BROWN Students Dept. Third floor

I’m glad I live in a country where a dime is money and where I can get good pipe tobacco. The tobacco which we believe is best suited for pipes is used in making Granger Rough Cut. It is made by the Wellman Process, and we believe that it will compare favorably with higher-priced tobaccos. We wish, in some way, we could get every man who smokes a pipe to just try Granger.
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
The pipe tobacco that’s MILD
The pipe tobacco that's COOL

In order that the book may have the widest possible use, it has been published to sell without profit at ten cents a copy, or $1.00 per dozen, postpaid. Those desiring copies for personal or classroom use may order from the Conference on Education and Race Relations, 703 Standard Building, Atlanta, Georgia.