THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 16, 1934

COMMENCEMENT PLANS COMPLETE

ALUMNI NEW — MAKE RESERVATIONS FOR COMMENCEMENT

Commencement Plans Are Given to Public
Activities Begin Monday Afternoon and Continue Through Alumni Luncheon Tuesday

Final plans for Davidson's ninety-eighth commencement were announced in the bulletin of the college which was sent out last week to 4,500 alumni and 3,000 other people. Alumni activities begin Monday afternoon with the meeting of the Executive Committee of the Alumni Council at 4 o'clock, and continue with the reuniting class suppers at 6:30. At 7:30 the Alumni Council will meet in a business session, and after this the discussion of the college will be led by the members of the graduating class who have been elected members of the Alumni Council.

The annual meeting of the Alumni Association will be held at 9:30 Tuesday morning, and the Alumni Luncheon will be at 12:30 that day. This luncheon is free to all alumni.

Dormitory space in Rumple and another dormitory will be provided by the college, and it is imperative that all alumni expecting to be on the campus for the night write to the alumni secretary. A card will reserve a room and a place at the luncheon.

A president and vice-president of the Alumni Association, three alumni trustees, three members of the Executive Committee of the Alumni Council, and members of the Athletic Council will be elected by the association meeting on Tuesday morning.

Marriages

The wedding of Miss Margaret Gibbon Smith and JAMES LAREY GREY, both of Charlotte, was solemnized last Saturday, May 12, at the First Presbyterian Church of that city. W. R. GREY, '28, acted as best man for the ceremony, and SAM BLACK, '29, and JAMES MOORE, '30, served as ushers.

GLENN A. PRICE, '29, recently married Miss Mary Alice Higdon, of Henderson, Ky. He is connected with the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company in Louisville.

A clock that still runs after being in operation for more than 50 years keeps time for Iowa State Teachers College students.

WITH THE ALUMNI:

'75 Rev. R. S. BURWELL, D.D., of Davidson, preached Sunday morning, May 13, at New Hope Presbyterian Church, near Gastonia, where he administered the sacrament of the Lord's Supper.

'95 DR. R. S. CROMARTIE is county health officer of Bladen County.

'06 Rev. J. M. WALKER, pastor of Steele Creek Presbyterian Church, was principal speaker at the Confederate memorial day exercises held at York, S.C., recently.

'07 JAMES H. CLARK, Elizabethtown business man, is a member of the State Budget Commission. He was formerly a member of the State Highway Commission.

'08 The annual 57th Rotary district conference, held last Thursday and Friday at Greensboro, was presided over by District Governor ROSCOE McMILLAN, of Red Springs, who expressed appreciation for the enthusiasm and co-operation of Rotarians of that locality in making the conference a success.

'10 Dr. C. H. PUGH, prominent physician of Gastonia, was advanced to the position of Grand Master of the Second Veil of the Grand Chapter, Royal Arch Masons of North Carolina, at the annual meeting of the Grand York.Rite bodies held recently at Wilmington.

12 Dr. DeWITT D. CLARK, Clarkton physician, appeared in the Bi-Centennial edition of the “Elizabethtown Journal.” Dr. Clark served as captain of the 80th Division during the World War.

14 In the annual meeting of the Barium Springs Orphanage Board on May 8, Dr. J. R. McGREGOR, of Burlington, was selected to fill the vacancy left on the board by the resignation of M. W. Norfleet of Winston-Salem. At this same meeting of the Orphanage Board, Dr. W. H. SPRUNT, JR., of Winston-Salem, was chosen as a representative of Winston-Salem Presbytery, following Dr. McGregor’s departure to Orange Presbytery.

25 H. K. WILKINSON has moved from Mebane to Durham, and is now with the Alexander Motor Co. there.

26 Dr. H. C. LAWSON is assistant professor of physiology at the University of Louisville Medical School in Louisville, Ky.

29 CHATHAM C. CLARK, whose picture appeared recently in the Bi-Centennial edition of the “Bladen Journal,” has served efficiently as Relief Administrator of Bladen County.

M. T. GILMOUR, a student at Harvard Medical School, has been awarded a Rockefeller research fellowship, and will study this summer in Raleigh, Tallahassee, Fla., and Opelika, Ala.

K. RIGGS McCONNELL, of Davidson, was recently chosen as one of the twenty-five students to receive fellowships and scholarships to Columbia University. His fellowship, for graduate work in law, amounts to $1,500.

J. W. WILLIAMS, who has been teaching at Haverford School, will teach at the Tower Hill School in Wilmington, Del., next year.

30 F. R. LAWTHER will intern at Bellevue Hospital in New York in June.

L. A. MILLS, JR., has been transferred from Washington, D. C., to Baltimore, Md., by the Standard Oil Co. of N. J.

J. A. MOORE will graduate from Harvard Medical School this spring.

31 R. M. KING is now working for King Stores, Inc. in Johnson City, Tenn.

JAMES A. WARD has recently been appointed a fellowship in mathematics at Louisiana State University for the third consecutive year. He expects to receive his master of science degree in that subject in June.

32 P. M. CONWAY, E. C. DWELLE, and J. R. KELLER graduate from Harvard Business School in June.

33 EARLE BRADSHER is working for the dye department of Burlington Mills, Burlington.

TOM DAVIS was chosen president of the middle class at the annual spring meeting of the student body and Society of Missionary Inquiry of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.

A. H. GRANT is foreman of a department in a mill at Hemp.

The difference between cigarettes is the difference between what goes into them and how they are put together. Luckies use only the clean, center leaves, for these are the mildest leaves—they taste better. That's why farmers are paid higher prices for them. And Luckies get the benefit of the famous process—“It’s toasted”—for your throat protection. And every Lucky is round, firm, and fully packed. That's why you'll find that Luckies do not dry out—an important point to every smoker. Yes, Luckies are always in all-ways kind to your throat.

“It’s toasted” - Luckies do not dry out - Luckies are All-Ways kind to your throat.