WALTER SPRUNT WILL LEAD Y.M.C.A.

The Davidsonian
Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

SPRING HOLIDAYS BEGIN TOMORROW.

Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 28, 1934 No. 23

A. J. Potter Heads Athletic Association In Coming Year
Henry Cathey and Coley Windham Are Selected Vice-Presidents
GRACEY IS SECRETARY
Wingfield Eliminated by Potter on Final Ballot

A. J. Potter, of Barium Springs, was elected president of the Athletic Association for the coming year, as a result
of the student body voting held Tuesday morning during the chapel period. Potter was elected over Joe Wingfield, of Reidsville,
on the final ballot. Henry Cathey, of Charlotte, and Coley Windham, of Gastonia, were elected first and second vice-presidents, respectively.
Hugh Gracey, of Franklin, Tenn., was chosen secretary-treasurer, defeating Dick Johnson of Charlotte on the final ballot.

The Athletic Council nominated the following juniors for president: F. L. Bumgarner, V. W. Dillon, D. B. Elvery, C. T.
Fort, D. M. Glasgow, George Gullette, C. H. Hand, C. C. Harris, D. M. Hutchins, J. B. Lee, J. C.
Mackorell, J. R. Morgan, E. F. McPhail, A. A. McFayden, A. J. Potter, C. B. Ross, W. P. Sprunt, J.
D. Siewers, Joe Wingfield, Hugh Yelverton, and L. E. Quarterman. The juniors who have made varsity letters were eligible for
nomination. This list was narrowed down to five candidates at the end of the first ballot, leaving Charlie Harris, of
Welch, W. Va.; Dewey Hutchins, of Lexington; A. J. Potter; J. D. Siewers, of Winston-Salem, and Joe Wingfield still in
the running. On the next ballot, two men were dropped from the list, and Potter, Siewers, and Wingfield led the
field. Potter and Wingfield survived the next ballot, and on the final vote, Potter won the position. The voting was
close throughout.

Henry Cathey and Coley Windham won out over a field of five candidates on the second ballot for the vice-presidency
of the Athletic Council. The following were nominated by the council: L. J. Blackwelder, of Davidson; Henry Cathey, of Charlotte;
Earle Frazier, of Charlotte; I. E. Verble, of Concord, and Coley Windham, of Gastonia.

Hugh Gracey, of Franklin, Tenn., was elected over forty-five candidates (Continued on page 4)

Faculty Takes Part In N.C.E.A. Meeting
Three Davidson Professors Are Prominent in Convention

Dr. T. W. Lingle, Dr. P. H. Gwynn, and Dr. W. P. Cumming of the Davidson faculty attended the recent
meeting of the North Carolina Educational Association and played prominent parts in its activities. The association met March 23rd and
24th at Raleigh. Dr. Lingle attended the meeting of the council for higher education as a member of a committee
meeting there. Dr. Gwynn presided over the council for higher education at which Julian Miller, columnist for the Charlotte Observer,
was a principal speaker.

Professor Cumming, a member of the English Department at Davidson, addressed the council of English teachers on the subject, “Character
Building Through the Teaching of English Literature.” He pointed out several methods by which literature could be used to enable
the students to see the meaning and the values of life. He suggested that the student through the reading of
biography and through a discussion of situations found therein might be aided in forming a truer conception of moral and
social values. Emphasizing the importance of stimulating, clear, organized thought through composition, he illustrated the lack of clear thinking on
moral and social problems in college and public life. Cumming pointed out several ways in which the professor might equip
himself for character training in the student and emphasized the value of intellectual hunger in the teacher as a stimulus
for the student.

The three faculty members returned from their activities in Raleigh Saturday night after the committee meeting had formally adjourned.

Athletic Leader
A. J. POTTER - GUARD
A. J. Potter, of Barium Springs, a star guard on the football eleven and also a letter man in wrestling,
who won out over Joe Wingfield for the presidency of the Athletic Association.

Davidson Debaters End Eastern Tour
Davidson Team Debates W. & L., Rutgers, and Bucknell

The Davidson debating team, represented by E. J. Humphrey and J. H. Fitzgerald, won one debate, lost one and tied
one on their eastern tour. Leaving here March 14th, the team traveled to Lexington, Va., to debate Washington and Lee
that night. The decision rendered by the judges was given to W. & L., but the audience decision went to
Davidson. Leaving Lexington Thursday morning, the debaters went to New Brunswick, N. J., where they met Rutgers University. The decision
of one judge lost the debate for the home team.

On Friday the team went to Bucknell at Lewisburg, Pa., where a debate, which was scheduled not to be judged,
was held before a political science class and on a class vote the decision went to Davidson. The team returned
to Davidson on Saturday.

The negative side of the question, “The President of the United States Should Have His Powers Substantially Increased,” was upheld
by the Davidson team in all three debates. The debating season as a whole, stated Humphrey, was very good. A
majority of the debates were non-decision debates, but of the decision debates the University of South Carolina, University of Kentucky,
and Bucknell, all of whom were rated as (Continued on page 4)

Ten Students Bid To Dramatic Club
Red and Black Masquers Will Add New Members

Ten men were bid to membership by the Red and Black Masquers, the local dramatic club, at a meeting Tuesday
night, March 20. Bids to this society are issued on a basis of interest and assistance in dramatics, particularly the
Masquers’ productions. This election was especially held in order to reward those students who were concerned with the recent play
given by the club, “Candida.” Gordon R. Wood, secretary and treasurer of the club, announces that the following ten men
accepted their bids: L. W. Clardy, J. M. Harris, S. C. Henry, G. L. Gullette, F. L. Cade, W. F.
Goodykoontz, A. H. Haake, D. F. Hereing, W. M. Taylor, and N. H. Wauda. Another election will be held late
this spring, according to D. Wills Hollingsworth, president of the Masquers, after the production of another play.

Other members of the Red and Black Masquers are: H. H. Hodgin, D. W. Hollingsworth, D. P. McLain, A. S.
Rachal, J. H. Simpson, Jack Williams, G. R. Wood, T. F. Wood.

Deputation From Seminary Speaks At Services Here
Group Present Consisted of Joe Clower, “Jas. A.” Jones and Fred V. Poag
MAKES ANNUAL VISIT
Three Students Speak at Various Religious Services

Last week-end the Union Theological Seminary sent a deputation to Davidson consisting of three men, Joe Clower, J. A. Jones,
and Fred V. Poag. Jones graduated from Davidson in 1931, and Poag in 1930. Poag spoke at the regular church
service Sunday morning, March 25, and Jones at the vesper service that night, and also in chapel Monday morning. Clower
preached at the evening church service.

The vesper service Sunday night was led by Bob Smith of the Junior class. After an organ prelude by Kenneth
Scott and a hymn, the scripture was read, which consisted of selections from the Psalms. Another hymn and a violin
duet by W. J. Robinson and J. H. Ross followed, after which Mack Holland led the assembly in prayer. The
speaker, better known as “Jas. A.” Jones, opened his sermon by saying that we are living in a changing world.
Philosophers, preachers, teachers, business men, economists, and psychologists are perplexed with changing conditions, and are constantly trying to adjust themselves
to new trends of thought.

The changes are found even in religion, but there are three fundamental truths that are essential if our lives prosper.
(Continued on page 2)

Chemistry Students See McClaren Plant
Manager of Plant Explains Processes to Class

On Wednesday, March 21, Professor H. B. Arbuckle’s chemistry 6 class enjoyed a visit to the McClaren Rubber Company’s plant
in Charlotte. Mr. Miller, manager of the plant, personally explained to the class the source of their rubber products, its
preparation in field and factory, and the final stage in which crude rubber emerges as a finished automobile tire.

Manager Miller further explained that the McClaren Company has one of its finest plants located in Charlotte and that their
principal field of business is centered in the Southern and Central States. Most of their crude rubber is exported from
Brazil. The plant is well equipped and modern in every respect, from the giant compressing machines to the ever-burning mercury
vapor lamps that furnish light for the whole factory. The Palmer Street factory has for twenty years stressed the building
of heavy-duty truck tires, and today this factory manufactures some of the finest truck tires in the entire world. It
is estimated that a skilled workman is able to make a tire in approximately one hour and fifteen minutes. In
several departments requiring the use of chemicals, gas masks are worn by the workers.

The twelve members of the class were divided into groups and taken through the factory by guides who explained the
various processes entailed in the manufacture of a tire.

Grier Martin’s Father Dies at Georgia Home

The many friends of Grier Martin, alumni secretary of Davidson College, were very sorry to learn of the death of
his father, who died last Thursday night from injuries received in an automobile accident. Mr. Martin’s death was very sudden
and came as a shock to all those who knew him. Grier Martin went to his home in Covington, Ga.,
immediately upon hearing of his father’s accident, the cause of which is unknown at the present time. The Davidson friends
of Grier Martin joined him with deep sympathy in his time of bereavement. The time of Grier Martin’s return to
Davidson is indefinite.

Social Events Are Featured In Junior SpeakingWeekEnd Johnny Long’s Collegians Play Before Large Number in Charlotte

MASKS ARE POPULAR

Unique Decorations Add Color to Dance Program

The Junior Speaking dances, featuring Johnny Long and his Duke Collegians, held in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium this past weekend, proved
to be a success. There was a formal dance Friday night, with an informal tea dance Saturday afternoon, and another
Saturday night. All of the fraternities had house parties, and the following girls attended the dances:

Beta Theta Pi: Misses Joyce Sayre, Asheville; Elizabeth Motsinger, Winston-Salem; Ruth Settlemyer, Helen Nicely, Kings Mountain; Betsy Sykes, Converse College;
Sarah Meetze, Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Misses Blanche Turner, Wilmington; Marion Townsend, Red Springs; Lucile Alderidge, Logan, W. Va.; Dougie Long, Beverly Burgess,
Greensboro; Margaret Gilliam, Charlotte; Martha Moore, Atlanta, Ga.

Kappa Alpha: Misses Catherine Crowell, May D. Marion, Eleanor Hayes, Charlotte; Grace Carpenter, Statesville.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Misses Jane Hashagen, Gastonia; Carrie Marshall Young, Betty Shull, Mary Mickley, Norma Van Landingham, Toi Monroe, Margaret
Vaughn, Frances Ann Cannon, Charlotte; Mary Banks McPherson, Durham; Elizabeth Morton, Lynchburg, Va.; Florine Ellis, Greenville, S. C.; Virginia Moore,
Bennettsville, S. C.; Katherine Alexius, Wilmington; Eleanor Cely, Greenville, S. C.; Eleanor Nunn, New Bern; Eliza-

(Continued on page 2)

Dr. Hood Will Speak At Decatur

Georgia Psychology Professor Will Deliver Smyth Lectures

Dr. Frazer Hood, head of the Psychology Department at Davidson, will on April 9 begin a series of lectures at
Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Ga., known as the “Smyth Lectures.” The chief subject of the lectures will be “The
Challenge of Faith,” with the subtitle being “The Psychologist's Viewpoint.” Dr. Hood will speak for six successive days, beginning on
April 9 and closing on April 14. These lectures are a foundation somewhat similar to the Otts Foundation here at
Davidson. Heretofore a clergyman has been invited to speak, this being the first time a layman has ever been asked
to conduct the lectures. This change was brought about by Dr. W. T. Thompson, of Richmond, who decided last year
that it would be well to have a layman discuss the meaning and functions of the religious life. While visiting
in Decatur Dr. Hood will be the guest of President McDowell Richards, an alumnus of Davidson College. The invitation to
deliver these lectures is an honor not only to Dr. Hood but also to the college.

Delta Pi Kappa Elects Leaders for New Year

Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, held its regular meeting on last Wednesday evening at 7:00 o'clock. At this meeting,
officers for the coming year were elected. Those chosen to lead the local fraternity next year were: K. D. Weeks,
president; Jack Hellinger, vice-president, and George Gullette, secretary and treasurer. At the next meeting, the society will extend invitations to
new men who have been outstanding in journalistic activities here on the campus. One member of the Freshman class who
has been especially efficient on the Davidsonian staff this year will be invited to become an honorary member and will
be formally taken in during his sophomore year.

Heads Y.M.C.A.

Walter Sprunt, of Wilmington, has been chosen to lead the Y. M. C. A. work at Davidson for the ensuing
year. He won the election over Bob Coit on the third ballot.

Exhibit of German Art Is Given Here

Most Popular Picture Will Be Given to College

The exhibit of German art, brought to Davidson College under the auspices of the Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation, which has
been on display during the past week, closed today. The picture which received the most votes during this time will
be presented to the college this summer, it was announced. During the weekend, this exhibit was taken for the second
time to Raleigh at the request of the State Department of Education. The reason for this was the three-day teachers’
convention held there. The collection was displayed for two days at the Carolina Hotel and at the Hugh Morson High
School, where most of the meetings took place. It served as the basis of an illustrative lecture, given by Mrs.
Johnsen principally to the art teachers, on German Art and Etchings. These works of art had formerly been shown in
Raleigh for two weeks during January. The purpose of the exhibit is to encourage appreciation of art among students and
to stimulate interest in German culture. While it is taken to the majority of the big universities, it is also
shown at many smaller places where people have no opportunity to see and appreciate German art. After leaving Davidson, the
art collection will be shown in Charlotte for two weeks under the auspices of the Woman's Club. It will also
be taken to colleges in South Carolina, probably going as far south as Charleston by the end of the school
year. The modern wing of the exhibit is all original, containing the works of the most important illustrators, painters, and
sculptors, as well as specialists in the graphic arts. Many of these are the first impressions of a plate and
are consequently very rare. The lead cuts by Otto Nueckel are

(Continued on page 2)

ROTC Department Will Be Inspected

Colonel J. M. Little Will Be Here April 26 and 27

The annual government inspection of the Davidson unit of R. O. T. C. will be held this year on April
26 and 27. The inspecting officer will be Colonel James M. Little, who is now stationed at Winston-Salem. On Thursday,
April 26, Colonel Little will call on Dr. W. L. Lingle, inspect the government property here, and part of the
classes. Friday morning Colonel Little will inspect the remainder of the classes. At 2:10 that afternoon he will inspect the
unit on the drill field. This inspection will consist of calisthenics, followed by a parade, after which Colonel Little will
inspect the battalion as a whole, examining first a squad, then a platoon, and company selected at random, in close
and extended order drill. The final exercise of the inspection will be a demonstration of a chosen company that will
exhibit a tactical exercise under assumed war conditions. The Davidson R. O. T. C. unit has received an excellent rating
by the inspecting officer for the last six years.

Sprunt Elected Y President By Students On Third Ballot

Marsh and Purnell Are Elected Vice-Presidents for the Coming Year

COIT IS RUNNER-UP

Board and Cabinet Officers to Be Elected

In the student body elections held last week, Walter Sprunt, of Wilmington, was chosen president of the Y. M. C.
A. for the coming school year, being selected Thursday on the third ballot from a group of eight nominees of
the Junior class. S. F. Marsh, of Newport News, Va., and Treadway Purnell, of Spartanburg, S. C., both members of
the Sophomore class, were elected vice-presidents in the same balloting. Nominations for president, made by the Y. M. C. A.
Cabinet nominating committee, and placed before the student body Friday, March 16, were: Don Brandon, Bob Coit, Richmond, Va.; John
Phifer, Columbia, S. C.; Bob Smith, Mobile, Ala.; and Walter Sprunt. The following were nominated from the floor: W. B.
Ravenel, Charleston, S. C.; A. B. Rhodes, Rocky Point; and Teal Rogers, Bennettsville, S. C. On the first ballot, Phifer,
Ravenel, Rhodes and Rogers were eliminated. Brandon was eliminated on the second ballot, and Sprunt was elected over Coit on
the third. For vice-president, nominations made by the committee were: Bill Bowman, Aberdeen; Carleton Chapman, Talladega, Ala.; Harvey Glass, Richmond,
Va.; S. F. Marsh and Treadway Purnell. Bob Lindsay was nominated from the floor. Marsh was elected on the first
ballot, Chapman and Lindsay being eliminated. On the second ballot, Bowman was eliminated and Purnell was elected over Glass on
the third. Sprunt, the president, is a member of the “Y” Board of Control, Student Council, assistant manager of the
Davidsonian, assistant circulation manager of Quips and Cranks, wrestling team, “D” Club, and a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity.
The Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, composed of men who have been outstanding in religious activities, will be selected soon,
and a Board of Control will be

(Continued on page 2)

Davidson Teams Will Make Vacation Trips

Interesting Holidays Planned by Other Students

Now that the greatly anticipated Easter holidays are almost here, it is interesting to note just how and where members
of the student body intend to spend them. The tennis team will take it upon themselves to travel to the
“Land of Flowers,” and will encounter six teams during their vacation period. The first part of their program calls for
a trip to Savannah, Ga., where they will spend one night. Then Thursday afternoon at Gainesville they will encounter the
University of Florida tennis team in the first match of the season. Saturday the team will meet Rollins College at
Winter Park, Fla., and then will begin the return trip north, meeting Emory and Georgia Tech at Atlanta, Furman at
Greenville, S. C., and finally the University of South Carolina at Columbia. The baseball team will enjoy a trip, too,
although a very short one as compared to that of the net team. They are scheduled to meet Carolina in
two games, one at Gastonia Saturday, and the other at Concord Monday. However, during the rest of the vacation period
the team will return and continue practice on Richardson Field. Several members of the student body have announced their intentions
of making a trip to New York. They are planning to leave Thursday by automobile and return to the campus
Wednesday morning. There are still other men who believe that a better time can be had by remaining upon the
campus. However, as usually is the case, some irresistible force attracts them to Charlotte, Greensboro, or other points, where they
can enjoy the company of their girlfriends.
