THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 25, 1934

Columbia Students Conduct Services
John Howard Speaks at “Y” Vesper Service

A very helpful and inspirational series of services was conducted here last Sunday and Monday by a deputation of students
from Columbia Theological Seminary. Davidson students were indeed fortunate in the opportunity of hearing this group, consisting of John Howard
and L. B. Colquitt, Davidson, '33; Allan Fleece, Washington and Lee, and Bert Wilkinson.

Allan Fleece, of Louisville, gave the sermon in the College Church Sunday morning, speaking on the loveliness of Christ. He
selected his text from a portion of the Song of Solomon in which the Church describes in glowing terms the
physical beauties of her Beloved, and dwelt on the physical and spiritual beauties of our Lord. Fleece also conducted the
evening service, his talk dealing mainly with God's plan for the redemption of man. He mentioned that Christ was present
before the creation of the world and has always existed. Until His existence on earth, it was customary to spill
the blood of some creature as a sin offering in atonement of sin. This law was always observed by the
Jews as necessary for atonement for sin. He then described the Tabernacle with its veil separating the Holies of Holies,
a veil through which only the High Priest was permitted to pass, and he when making the sin-offering of blood.
On Christ's crucifixion this veil was rent to signify that henceforth any man might come unto the Lord through Christ.
Christ came into the world as a lamb to be slain that His blood might be the final sacrifice for
the sins of man, a substitute for the old blood offering as atonement for sin.

John Howard spoke at “Y” vespers of his own personal experiences which finally influenced him to enter the ministry. His
outstanding impression was that we should leave our minds more open to the call of Christ. In chapel Monday morning
he spoke of this present generation’s sin of indifference. The Holy Word of God, as contained in the Bible, has
little chance of living or being lived if we continue to lay it aside as an ornament, never use it.
Howard also spoke at the Unity Church on Sunday evening.

College Magazine To Come Out This Week
Appearance of Yowl Delayed by Cigarette Ad

According to announcement by Wilber L. Fugate, editor of the Yowl, Davidson’s humorous magazine, the last edition of this publication
will appear during the latter part of this week. The Yowl was scheduled to appear some time last week, but
due to tardiness in the receipt of copy for a cigarette advertisement, its appearance was postponed. The exact date of
its arrival is unknown.

With this issue Fugate ends his term as editor of the Yowl. This position will be held next year by
Lorenzo McPhail. The coming issue, the third of the year, is thought to be the largest ever published. It contains,
among other features, a number of caricatures of prominent campus figures, a section of interviews with the captains of various
athletic teams, and two short stories by Stuart Henry and Gordon Wood. The cover illustration is done by “Skip” Brown.

Pan-American Day Held By Spanish Fraternity

The Omega Chapter of Sigma Delta Pi, national honorary Spanish fraternity, had charge of the services in chapel on Saturday,
April 21. The program was to celebrate Pan-American Day. In 1931 President Hoover, in order to promote better feelings between
the Pan-American countries and the United States, made a proclamation setting aside one day each year as Pan-American Day, inviting
all schools and other organizations to take part in celebrating this day. Fred Smyre read this proclamation. Last year President
Roosevelt made a statement on Pan-Americanism. Bob Woodside read this statement. Professor Fleagle, professor of Spanish at Davidson College, and
faculty advisor of Sigma Delta Pi, then gave a short talk explaining Pan-American Day.

Local Cinema Will Play Wonder Bar
Weismuller Appears in His Second Tarzan Picture

Wednesday, April 25—A Modern Hero
This is one of the newest of the modern love stories, along the general lines, with a different sort of
cast and good acting. In the cast are Richard Barthelmess, Jean Muir, Marjorie Rambeau, Dorothy Burgess, Veree Teasdale, and Florence
Eldridge, the man and the women in his life.

Thursday and Friday, April 26 and 27—Wonder Bar
This is the musical with the greatest cast, the best theme, and probably the most enjoyable of them all. Among
the cast are Al Jolson, as Al Wonder, and Dolores Del Rio, Dick Powell, Kay Francis, and Ricardo Cortez. Among
the songs are “Why Do I Dream Those Dreams,” “Wonder Bar,” and “Going to Heaven on a Mule.” There is
a good plot, something unusual in a musical, and the acting is outstanding. This is one of them that should
not be missed.

Saturday, April 28—She Made Her Bed
The cast includes Richard Arlen, Sally Eilers and her husband, Robert Armstrong. The couple run a small station, and Arlen
is the one who finally persuades the wife to run off with him. For a good reason, this is broken
up, and she continues to live with her husband, who treats her badly, and life goes on. There is a
thrilling climax, with a loose tiger and a large fire. The acting is good and the show should be enjoyed
by all.

Monday and Tuesday, April 30 and May 1—Tarzan and His Mate
Johnny Weismuller and Maureen O’Sullivan are said to be the best pair ever to make this picture, and there have
been a great many in the past to try it. It is along the same general lines, with some modern
improvements, and these two fit together perfectly. In the cast are Neil Hamilton and Paul Cavanaugh, and there are wild
animals and thrills galore.

COMING: “VIVA VILLA,” IN THE NEAR FUTURE, WATCH FOR IT.

Grier Martin Leaves For Northern Cities
Alumni Secretary to Make Extended Tour

Grier Martin, alumni secretary of Davidson College, left Monday night for an extended trip northward, where he will attend several
postponed alumni chapter meetings, a convention of the American AlumniCouncil, and a meeting of the Faculty Club, Harvard Business School.
He will be away for slightly over a week. Yesterday, April 24, Martin spoke to a group of Washington, D.C.,
alumni gathered in Sholl’s Cafe, the president of that group being William R. Elliott, ‘09. Today he attended another alumni
meeting, headed by H. S. Shaw, '08, at Kugler’s, in Philadelphia, Pa. Tomorrow, Friday and Saturday, Martin will represent Davidson
at the convention of the American Alumni Council, which will be held in Skytop, Pa. On Monday, April 30, he
will address the Faculty Club of the Harvard Business School in Boston, Mass. On Tuesday, May 1, Martin will complete
his trip, attending a meeting of Davidson alumni at the LaSalle Hotel in New York City. Clifton Murphy, ‘13, is
president of that group and Dick Grey, ’27, is secretary. Martin will probably return to the campus sometime next Wednesday.

NYAL — MILK OF MAGNESIA

College Pharmacy
“Davidson’s Service Drug Store”

A. M. Examinations Begin at 9:00
P. M. Examinations Begin at 2:00

MAY
Freshman | Sophomore | Junior and Senior
Thur. | A.M. ROTC 1 | ROTC 2 | ROTC 3, 4
24 P.M. | | Education 2 | | Chemistry 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
Chemistry 1 Chemistry 2 | Economics 2
Fri. A.M. Economics 1 | Economics 1, Philosophy 3
25 P.M. | Greek 3, 4, 5, 6, Business 3 | | Geology, Astronomy
Greek 1 | Greek 2 | Scientific Greek
Philosophy 4
Sat. | A.M. English 1 English 2 | English 3, 6, 8, 9
26 P.M. | Physics 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
Physics 1 | Physics 2 | Polit. Science 4, Sociology
Mon. | A.M. | 28 P.M. | | Education 1, Bible 6
Spanish A Spanish 1 | Spanish 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
Tues. | A.M. Basic Math. | | Math. 3, 4, Polit. Sc. 3
Mathematics 1 | Mathematics 2 Business 1, Psychology 2
29 P.M. | French 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7
French A French 1 Geography 2
Wed. A.M. German 2, 3, 4. Education 3
30 German A German 1 Political Science 1
P.M. Economics 3, Education 4 Psychology 1
Thur. A.M. Philosophy 1, Economics 4 Psychology 4, Polit. Sc. 2
31 Geography 1 Geography 1 History 3, 5, 6, Italian
P.M. History 1A, B History 1A, B Fine Arts
Business 2, History 2, 4, 7
Fri. A.M. History 1C, D History 1C, D Applied Math. 1, 2
June 1 P.M. Biology 1 Biology 1 Biology 2, 3, 4
Sat. A.M. Basic Language 2 Latin A Latin 1 Latin 2, 3, 4
P.M. Bible 1 Bible 2

Recitations will close Wednesday, May 23rd, at 12:30 P.M.

Fraternities Have Week of Activity
Pi Kappa Alpha’s Receive National Athletic Trophy

BETA THETA PI
W. F. Brewer, A. L. Bulwinkle, J. L. McClintock, and J. C. Winn represented Phi Alpha Chapter at a district
reunion of this fraternity held at Washington and Lee University the past weekend.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
The Riculfi Athletic Trophy, given each year by the national fraternity to the chapter having the greatest percentage of its
members winning athletic letters, has just arrived at the Pika house.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Between the tea dance and the Bowery Ball, the members of this fraternity and their dates attended a banquet at
the Lucinda Tea Room in Charlotte. Joe Wadsworth has been elected rushing captain for next year.

KAPPA SIGMA
The Kappa Sigs are planning a May Frolic for the nineteenth of next month.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
The Phi Gams held a banquet between the dances Saturday night at the S. & W. Cafeteria in Charlotte. This
fraternity is planning a chapter house party for May 19.

PHI DELTA THETA
This chapter and their dates enjoyed a banquet at Efird’s Dining Room between the dances in Charlotte this past weekend.
Several alumni of the chapter were also present.

Faculty To Appoint Student Assistants
Candidates Chosen on Basis of General Merit

The Davidson faculty is meeting this week for the purpose of appointing student assistants for the coming year. It will
probably take some time to complete the appointments, but the complete list of those chosen will be published by the
end of the week. The candidates for assistantships are nominated by the different professors on the basis of proficiency in
the subject and general merit. The faculty makes the final selection on the basis of financial need and general merit.
Monitors and library assistants will also be named by the faculty. They are chosen from men who have applied for
the jobs on the basis of financial need.

Davidsonian Being Sent By Registrar’s Office

According to Grier Martin, alumni secretary, copies of the Davidsonian are being sent during the next few weeks to high
school seniors by the registrar's office as a part of the school’s advertising program. Approximately three hundred and fifty copies
of each issue are sent to prospective students that have asked the school for additional information. Especially selected pupils have
been receiving this paper for the past month and it is stated that they will continue to receive it until
the end of the school year. Students now enrolled in the college are asked to leave at the office of
Registrar F. W. Hengeveld the names of any prospective students desiring information about Davidson College. A copy of the Davidsonian
will be mailed to them each week.

TRUE TO MEASURE FOR MEN AND BOYS

No Underwear could grow as HANES has grown, unless it offered comfort, quality and style! The complete Spring line of
HANES is now being shown by wholesalers. Inquiries are cordially solicited. You will be happy with HANES—because your customers will
be happy in HANES!

HANES WONDERWEAR
P. H. Hanes Knitting Co.
Winston-Salem, N. C.

FOR EVERY SEASON

There is nothing miserly about the cutting of HANES Wonderwear. No skimping of a half-inch here and an inch there.
HANES Shirts, Shorts and knitted Union Suits (both light and heavy) always tally with the tape measure. A size forty-two
IS a forty-two.
