EXAM SCHEDULE FOR FIRST SEMESTER APPEARS THIS ISSUE

be Mabidsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

LAST ISSUE OF “THE DAVIDSONIAN” BEFORE CHRISTMAS

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 12, 1934 No. 12

Dr. J. M. McConnell Is Named President Of History Group

North Carolina Literary And Historical Association Meets At Raleigh

DAVIDSON MEN ATTEND

Freeman Speaks On General Lee And North Carolina

The North Carolina Literary and Historical Association last week elected Dr. J. M. McConnell, dean of the faculty at Davidson, as its president for the next year. The 34th annual session of the Association, meeting at Raleigh, Tuesday and Wednesday, Dec. 4th and 5th, elected Dr. McConnell to succeed Dr. Frank P. Graham, president of the University of North Carolina, who has served as the Association’s president for the past year.

Dr. McConnell and Dr. E. F. Shewmake, were members of the committee which awarded the Mayflower Cup to Dr. Erich Walter Zimmerman, University of North Carolina professor. Dr. Zimmerman, whose book, World Resources and Industry, was judged the best of more than thirty-five reviewed by the judges, was presented the award at Wednesday night’s session by Governor Ehringhaus.

One of the interesting speakers of the meeting was the North Carolina poet, James Larkin Pearsons, mountain poet from Boone, who delivered an address on “The Soul of Poetry,” and also read some of his own poems. Dr. A. R. Newsome, Secretary to the North Carolina Historical Commission, was re-elected Secretary of the North Carolina Literary and Historical Association.

In addition to Dr. McConnell and Dr. Newsome, the Association in its morning session named Phillips Russell of Chapel Hill, as first vice-president, Mrs. John H. Anderson of Raleigh, as second vice-president, and Mrs. Kate R. McDiarmid of North Wilkesboro, third vice-president.

Dr. McConnell presided over the Wednesday evening meeting in the absence of the president, who was called to Washington. The principal address of the session was made then by Dr. Douglas Southall Freeman, editor of the Richmond News-Leader.

Dr. Freeman spoke on “General Robert E. Lee’s Association with North Carolina.” He was introduced by Dr. T. W. Lingle, Davidson professor. Dr. Freeman covered briefly General Lee's visits to North Carolina prior to and subsequent to the Civil War. The greater part of his address was devoted to a discussion of his relations with the State during the war. Author of a four-volume biography of Lee, Dr. Freeman covered his subject in detail. Lee’s first visit to North Carolina, Dr. Freeman said, was on November 7, 1840, when he came to the State as a captain of engineers in the United States Army to inspect Fort Macon and probably Fort Caswell.

Rules Of Photography Contest Are Changed

Due to requests on the part of entrants in the photography contest being sponsored by “The Davidsonian,” there have been several changes made in the rules and regulations concerning it. Contrary to a statement previously made, any picture taken during the first semester will be eligible. This change was made because it was decided that the time limit first set by the judges would not cover long enough a period and also the semester has been rather uneventful for picture taking during this short time. The new deadline has been set for February 15. Any picture taken concerning campus life or any phase of life connected with the college during the first semester and up to this date will be accepted. As announced before, three prizes will be awarded depending on the merits of the pictures submitted.

(Continued on Page 6, Column 4)

CO-CAPTAINS TO LEAD ELEVEN

Henry Cathey And Coley Windham Selected By Football Lettermen As Heads

Cole Windham and Henry Cathey were elected co-captains for next year’s football team in a close race for the 1935-36 Wildcat captaincy last week. Henry Cathey, better known as “Flip” was captain of the Freshman team in '32, and has played at tackle for the past two years on the varsity. He is now vice-president of the Student Body and a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and makes his home in Charlotte.

C. L. “Coley” Windham, stellar Wildcat end, who acted as alternate captain for Cathey on the ‘Kitten eleven, is president of the Junior class, a member of Beta Theta Pi and a Gastonia boy. These men were chosen by a vote of all football lettermen. Other lettermen returning next year are: Wood Burns, Dick Johnson, Six Johnston, Paul Pittman, Midge Verble, and Baxter Yarborough.

ELECT 1935 MANAGERS

According to a statement issued by retiring Varsity Manager Billy Northern yesterday, J. B. Goslen will be the Varsity football manager for the 1935 season. D. B. Griffin will fill the post of equipment manager which Rigdon Dees occupied this year. The position of Freshman manager, held this year by Billy Atwater, will go to R. L. Harris. The three men to fill the above positions are elected each year from the Junior managers by all men on the Varsity squad, the one receiving the highest

(Continued on Page 3, Column 2)

Fire Chief Calls Attention To Christmas Fire Hazards

During the Christmas season each year many lives are lost and homes destroyed by fire. Volunteer firemen in the TOWN OF DAVIDSON find it important to point out the special Christmas hazards to the Citizens of Davidson at this time of year. Fires during this part of the year bring hardships to firemen as well as to people who may lose property and loved ones. The freezing of hands and feet at winter fires is a common occurrence. Exposure of men who are driven into the cold to answer alarms and to fight needless fires is frequently followed by pneumonia. Then, too, fires are more difficult to fight in winter and the freezing of extinguishing appliances hinders the work of firemen.

Christmas fires are largely caused by carelessness in use of decorations and lighting effects. The presence of combustible Christmas trees, decorations, trimmings, toys, and other things that are used to brighten up and help the holidays, are easy subjects for ignitions by small sparks and they spread fire rapidly. In the last few years the availability of decorations which do not burn rapidly has somewhat improved this situation.

The Davidson Fire Department is ready to cooperate at any public gatherings during the Christmas holidays, to see that aisles and exits are kept clear of obstructions and that other fire safety precautions are taken. Even a small fire in a crowded store, theater, church or school may result in a panic and loss of life.

Evergreen trees are highly flammable, especially when they have been allowed to become dry. They should not be placed near a fireplace or stove and neither should they be placed in a position where they will block an exit. Trees should be firmly anchored so that they cannot be easily tipped over by children reaching for things on them. In all cases trees should be removed a few days after Christmas day as they become more of a hazard the longer they are in a warm house. Many fires are caused each year because trees are not removed soon enough.

The use of cotton for “snow” has caused many large loss fires. Asbestos wool, properly treated cotton, metal tinsel and glass decorations and trimmings are safe to use. The use of candles on trees is very dangerous. Although the use of electrical tree-lighting units has reduced this hazard they too must be used with care. Electric bulbs should be screwed tightly in their sockets and should not be placed near pine branches, wreaths, or other decorations, because bulbs generate considerable heat and may ignite them. The insulation on the wiring should be examined each year.

E. N. LINKER, Chief, Davidson Fire Dept.

BETA KAPPA MEMBERS HEAR REV. CHALMERS

Addresses Scholarship Group On Subject “Need Of Brains In Religion”

FOLLOWED BY BANQUET

Local Chapter Initiates Ten New Men In Ceremony

Rev. Dwight M. Chalmers, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Charlottesville, Va., addressed the North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, Monday night, December 10, at eight o’clock in the Chambers Auditorium, on the subject, “The Need of Brains in Religion”, after the formal initiations of ten new men into the Davidson Chapter.

Three aspects may be considered in regard to the title; theological, sociological and psychological. These fields require brains for development. The psychological field “deals with the inner development of one’s own soul.” After all, the primary business of the church is not to keep men’s theological opinions up-to-date, nor even to instruct them in social reforms, but their paramount aim is to bring men into contact with spiritual realities. “We have been unable to develop in man a profound sense of God and a clear apprehension of the mind of Christ and as yet we have no technique for this achievement”, stated Rev. Chalmers.

“During the past year,” the speaker said, “conferences on social problems were held at Montreat and Massanetta, Virginia.” Several Synods have strong committees on social and moral welfare and the General Assembly last May set up such a committee of its own.

Many factors have contributed to this new interest in the social aspect of redemption which are: (1) The increase and improvement in means of communication has tended to break down local prejudices and racial animosities which has helped create a cosmopolitan spirit. (2) A second factor was the growth of the idea that progress in human society is possible. Third, a new sense of the worth of each individual that is accompanying the rise of democracy, and four, the past century witnessing of the rise in industrialism. This system brought fabulous profits to industrial barons who controlled the system while the lives of the many were mechanized.

(Continued on Page 6, Column 6)

S.P.E.’s Take Frat Volley Ball Crown

Defeat Kappa Alphas In Finals In Two Exciting Games To Take Title

The S.P.E.’s came through three rounds of volley-ball competition and defeated the K.A.’s to capture the inter-fraternity crown in volley-ball. This defeat was the first handed to the K.A’s in the last four years. In the semi-final round the K.A.’s defeated the S.A.E.’s. In the first rounds of the tournament the Phi Deltas defeated the S.P.E.’s and the Kappa Sigs defeated the Phi Gams. In a preliminary round the Pika’s were beaten by the K.A.’s thus giving them a chance to enter the first round matches. In their first game they defeated the Pi Kappa Phi’s and the S.A.E.’s defeated the Beta’s. In the semi-final rounds theS.P.E.’s defeated the Kappa Sigs and the K.A.’s defeated the S.A.E.’s. The players outstanding in the final game for the K.A.’s were Fred McPhail and Sam Hutaff. Dudley Elvery and Martin Barnett were the “stars” for the S.P.E.’s. The S.P.E.’s won the first game in the final contest 21-5. The S.P.E.’s, rallying in the second game, won 22-20, thus making them the 1934 winners of inter-fraternity volleyball competition. The players representing the S.P.E.’s were: Captain Jack Jenkins, Martin Barnett, Dudley Elvery, Roy Gilks, Roy Lyons, “Dopey” McCall, Bob Orr, A. C. Rogers, and Orson Swindle. Players for the K.A.’s were: Captain Tom Duff, Warner DuBose, Tom Downie, Sam Hutaff, Joe Johnston, Scotty McLeod, Sandy Moffett, Fred McPhail, and Charlie Mauze.

TO BROADCAST XMAS SERVICE SUNDAY NIGHT
All College Musical Organizations To Participate In Vesper Program
EXPECT MORE THAN 1,200
Candle Light Service Annually Sponsored By “Y”

In addition to the regular Christmas Y.M.C.A. service, which is itself the most elaborate program of the year, a special attraction, that of broadcasting the service to the public, will be instituted this year. It will be held next Sunday evening at 7:30 o'clock under the direction of Albert McClure, “Y” Secretary, and Professor Pfohl, of the department of music. All the music organizations on the campus will participate and a very large audience is expected. All persons wishing to attend are requested to be seated in the auditorium at 7:30 promptly, because of complications that would necessarily arise from persons entering late. Approximately 1200 people attended this service last year and an even larger crowd is expected this year. The chorales throughout the service will be offered by the Concert Band, beginning at 7:20. These will be followed by the program proper beginning at 7:35 which is the part that will be broadcast over station WBT. The auditorium will be decorated in a manner befitting the Christmas spirit. The order of service follows:

Prelude—Arise, Shine, for Thy Light Has Come: Maker. (By the Orchestra)
Break Forth, O Beauteous Heavenly Light: Bach (By the Glee Club.)
Prayer.
“O, Come, All Ye Faithful” (Congregation Standing)
1. The Prophecy
Angels O’er the Field—Old French (By the Glee Club)
II. The Birth
Soprano Solo (By Mrs. Pritchett.)
The Adoration
Gloria—From First Mass—Mozart (By Orchestra and Glee Club)

College Musicians Appear At Queens Carol

The Davidson College Salon Orchestra and Glee Club made its first appearance of the year at Queens-Chicora College Thursday night, December the sixth. The orchestra and glee club were under the direction of James Christian Pfohl, head of the music department of Davidson. Selections were rendered by the glee club, cellos, a saxophone ensemble, the quartette, and the salon orchestra. The soloists were: Warren Babcock, Cello; and Frank Tucker, baritone. A novelty was introduced in the way of a saxophone ensemble, which played two of Sousa’s better-known marches “El Capitan” and “The Stars and the Stripes Forever.” The glee club sang the locally popular “Shortin’ Bread”, some spirituals, and a few Christian tunes. The “Sleeping Beauty” waltzes were played by the salon orchestra. An encore was responded to with “The Old Road” by Olispeaks. The program closed with the playing of “O Davidson”. The audience numbered about one hundred and fifty. They were mostly the upperclassmen of the college. A reception was given after the program in honor of the visiting club.

SOPH CLASS TO PRESENT YEAR’S THIRD DANCE SET FEATURING JOHNNY LONG

Dr. MacConnell Makes Statement About Flu

As the members of the Davidson student body sighed, some faked, some sadly true, in chapel yesterday morning, Dr. J. W. MacConnell, college physician, stood before them and reassured everyone with regard to the flu “epidemic” which the students seem to be so concerned with at the present time. Due to overcrowding and lack of beds and equipment in the college infirmary, a temporary ward composed of about twenty beds and several extra nurses has been organized in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. A canvas of all the dormitory rooms was made and all students needing medical attention were removed to the ward. Exaggerated rumors to the effect that school would let out early for the holidays on account of the flu were disqualified and Dr. MacConnell made the statement that while the number of cases was above normal none of the cases had reached the critical stage.

KENNEDY GIVES ORGAN CONCERT
Professor Of Organ, Piano, And Theory At Carolina Gives Recital Here

Nelson D. Kennedy, professor of organ, piano, and theory of music in the music department of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, last night rendered a very enjoyable organ recital in Chambers auditorium. The recital was attended by a large and appreciative audience. Mr. Kennedy is a past dean of the North Carolina chapter of the American Guild of Organists, and is a very accomplished organist. He is recognized by musicians as one of the leading organists of the state. His recital last night bore the critics out to the fullest in their praise of his ability and talent. The program which Mr. Kennedy rendered included the following numbers:

Sketches: Schumann
Overture B Minor: Rogers
Prelude B Minor: Bach
Meditation-Elegie: Borowski
Bells of St. Anne de Beaupré: Russell
Dock: Handel
Canyon Walls: Clokey
Hounds of Spring: Widor
Andante Cantabile—Scherzo—Finale

Many Apply From N.C. For Posts

Prof. F. K. Mitchell, Secretary of the Committee of Selection for the Rhodes Scholarships, has announced that there are this year nineteen applicants for the Rhodes Scholarship in North Carolina. Six are from the University of North Carolina, four from Duke, four from Davidson, and one each from Wake Forest, State, Guilford, Yale, and Princeton. The applicants from Yale and Princeton are residents of North Carolina. The four Davidson candidates are G. H. Brown, J. H. Douglas, T. H. Sutton, and G. R. Wood. Professor Mitchell has issued invitations to all candidates and members of the committee of selection to a dinner to be given Friday evening, January 4, at the Duke Union. The next morning the formal interviews will be held, after which the names of the two candidates to represent the state at the district meeting in Atlanta will be announced.

THE OPEN FORUM
Letters To The Editor

“The Davidsonian” does not necessarily endorse or accept any opinions expressed in this column.

To the Editor of The Davidsonian:

It is not my habit to enter Open Forum discussions, in fact, this is my first venture, but I feel so strongly that the time has come for their real friends to stand by the Davidson boys in their efforts to effect a change in the social life of the college that I would be willing to do a good many things I’ve never done before to encourage the boys, and to urge their sympathizers to express themselves wherever such expressions may help. I speak with confidence of your sympathizers. When I consider their...

(Continued on Page 2, Column 2)

Set To Consist Of Friday Formal And Two Saturday Informal Dances
NOVELTIES OFFERED
Sponsors Selected By Thirteen Men On Committee

The Sophomore Class will present the third set of dances of the year December 14 and 15, Friday and Saturday of this week. There will be a Friday night formal from 9:30 until 1:30; a Saturday evening tea dance from 4:30 until 6:30; and a Saturday night informal from 8:30 until 12:00. The Friday night dance will be held in the Charlotte Hotel and the Saturday night dances, in the Charlotte Armory. The Sophomores feature Johnny Long and his Duke Collegians, an orchestra popular with Davidson students. The Sophomore Class exhibited the first of the promised novelties when dance circulars were spread throughout the campus by an airplane. This is the first time such a method of advertising has been used in connection with Davidson dances. Members of the dance committee are: J. D. Allen, Louisville, Ky.; Carl Carlson, Greensboro; David Sellars, Burlington; John Winn, Greenville, S.C.; J. O. Branton, Greenville, Miss.; Harman Woodward, Bluefield, W.Va.; Jack Branch, Washington, D.C.; and Bob Stewart, Montgomery, Ala. Assistants are: Worth Sprunt, Ed Armfield, Kenneth Knorr, O. Swindle, and F. A. Cathey. The officers of the Sophomore Class are: Carl Carlson, president; F. A. Cathey, vice-president; and J. D. Allen, secretary and treasurer. The following girls will act as sponsors for the Sophomore committee: Miss Virginia Shaver, Catawba College, Salisbury—escort, Jack Branch; Miss Margaret Maples, Women's College, Montgomery, Ala.—escort, O. Swindle; Miss Dorothy Bagwell, Atlanta, Ga.—escort, Harman Woodward; Miss Jerry Teague, N.C.C.W., Greensboro—escort, Carl Carlson; Miss Isabella Huntington, College, Montgomery, Ala.—escort, Bob Stewart; and Miss Blevins Vogler, Salem College, Winston-Salem—escort, John D. Allen.

I.R.C. Group Holds Discussion Friday
Make Tentative Plans For Convention Which Will Be Held Here In Spring

The International Relations Club discussed tentative plans for the Southeastern Convention of their organization, which will be held here at Davidson this spring, at a meeting held last Friday night. This convention will bring to the campus a large number of delegates from all over the south. Colleges and universities in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia will be represented. A definite date for the convention has not been set, but it will probably take place sometime during the latter part of February or the first week in March. The meeting will last for three days and will be presided over by Charles Lucas, who was recently elected president of the Davidson International Relations Club to replace “Skip” Brown who resigned from that office last month. The speaker for the event has not been chosen yet, but it is assured that he will be an eminent man, nationally prominent in his field. Besides the principal speaker, the program will include numerous other leaders and some sort of social entertainment. Since many of the colleges sending delegates are co-educational, it is expected that approximately one-half of the delegates will be co-eds. In the near future, the club plans to extend invitations to a number of outstanding upper-class students in history and economics to submit a paper on some subject of international interest. On the merits of these papers, bids to membership in the club will be issued at a later date. The club has recently received a number of books from the Carnegie Foundation. These books will be assigned to different members of the club to be reported on at an early meeting.