THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 7, 1934

Marshal Ney Thought To Be Originator Of Davidson Seal

Napoleon’s Famous General Believed To Have Survived Own Execution

ESCAPED TO AMERICA

Ex-Soldier Taught School Eight Miles From Here

“Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas,” the motto of Davidson College, is freely translated to read, “Light is nourished where Liberty
is arisen.” In 1839, the founders of Davidson realized the need for a college seal or insignia, and a committee
was appointed for the purpose of choosing one. Being unable to devise a suitable emblem, the members of the committee
rode one day in 1840 to a small Mecklenburg schoolhouse about eight miles away. At recess, the delegation cornered the
school teacher, a mysterious Frenchman, and told him of their need for an insignia.

This school teacher, noted throughout the section for his amazing scholarship and eccentricity, sat by the well this recess hour
and designed on a scrap of paper what was to become the seal of Davidson College. With a deft hand,
the teacher drew the outline of a man’s right hand, piercing a coiled serpent with a dagger. In the dagger’s
handle, he fashioned a star from which flashed rays of light, and around the design in a double circle, he
inscribed the words “Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas.” Across the center of the design appeared the words “Ne Ultra.” This
particularly fitting insignia was unanimously adopted by the board at their next meeting to become forever the seal of Davidson
College.

The chapel program at the Davidson High School Saturday morning was presented by a group from the Davidson Music Club.
Mrs. W. P. Cumming gave a short talk on English folk music, and the group sang several selections. The fourth
grade, taught by Miss Bonnie Shelton, gave two selections.

Captain and Mrs. John Elkins have announced the marriage of their daughter, Leonora McSweeney, to Lieutenant Louis Augustine Guenther, on
the 25th of October. Captain Elkins was formerly connected with the R. O. T. C. Department of Davidson College.

Prof. and Mrs. J. T. Kimbrough are the parents of a baby boy, born Sunday, October 28. Prof. Kimbrough is
doing graduate work at the University of Chicago this year.

Dr. and Mrs. Porter Vinson, of Rochester, Minn., are guests of their sister, Miss Maude Vinson. Dr. Vinson, a graduate
of Davidson, is connected with the Mayo Clinic.

Coach and Mrs. G. F. Laird had as their guests this past week Mr. and Mrs. John Laird and daughter,
of San Francisco, California.

Mrs. Gooch and children, of Chapel Hill, spent Wednesday, October 31, with Mrs. Gooch’s parents, Prof. and Mrs. F. K.
Fleagle.

TAPPED BY O. D. K.

The above men were tapped this morning for membership into O. D. K. They are R. T. Coit, C. F.
Fort, Mackorell, P. M. Rogers, and G. Wingfield. Wingfield’s picture was not available.

R. O. T. C. Regulations Made On Uniforms

At the beginning of the school year, the Battalion was equipped with new serge uniforms, consisting of 18 dozen blouses,
with blue lapels, and trousers. Due to the constant increase of commodity and manufacturing costs, and to reduced appropriations, the
necessity for...

Literary Societies Hold Elections of Officers

Both the Eumenean and the Philanthropic Literary Societies had an election of officers at their respective meetings last night. Their
meetings of the past week were postponed due to the Y. M. C. A. Vespers. Any new men who are
interested in this work are cordially invited to attend.

Among the GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi: Among the many plans made by the Phi Alpha Chapter for the Homecoming weekend is a banquet
to be given at the S & W Cafeteria in Charlotte. A “feed” was enjoyed by a number of the
brothers last Sunday night.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Last Saturday night, the Beta Chapter gave a party at which approximately forty-five were present. Alumni visitors
over the weekend were: Chas. and Andy Little, Charlotte; and William Hill, Statesville.

Kappa Alpha: The Sigma Chapter plans to have an intermission party Friday night at the home of J. C. Crowell,
Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Phi: Dr. Blanton Belk, a charter member of the Epsilon Chapter at Davidson, was entertained by the brothers
during his stay here. The chapter paper, The Epsilonian, will be printed in the near future.

Phi Gamma Delta: The Delta Kappa Chapter enjoyed seeing John Creech and John Foster from Winston-Salem over the weekend. Nearly
all the chapter was present at a most enjoyable “feed” last Sunday night.

Mills Brothers Appear Before Large Crowd

On Monday night, October 29, the renowned Mills Brothers presented one of their famous programs at the Charlotte Armory. A
negro dance was held in connection with this program. “Tiny” Bradshaw and his orchestra furnished the music. There was a
large number of negroes...

CAPT. PRITCHETT SPEAKS AT VESPERS

Athletic Director Talks At Vespers On “The Dissatisfied Mind”

Captain Norton Pritchett, the speaker at the regular “Y” Vesper Services on last Sunday night, talked on the “Dissatisfied Mind.”
Lorenzo McPhail, who was in charge of the service, read the scripture after which he called on W. A. Benfield
to lead in a prayer. A quartet composed of J. W. Washburn, J. W. Morgan, Frank Tucker, and Paul McClanahan
rendered a special selection.

In his talk, Captain Pritchett said that a dissatisfied mind is an active mind. The mind that is satisfied with
what it knows will never accomplish great things. On the other hand, it is the dissatisfied mind that stands out
in the world. As an example of this, he cited the fact that Thomas Edison had a dissatisfied mind. As
a result of this dissatisfaction, he discovered a method of dissolving uric acid which has been so beneficial to the
world. Others had been satisfied to let things go on as they were, but the active mind of Edison could
not be satisfied, therefore he went on as a pioneer in his field.

“We must endeavor not to be self-complacent,” said Captain Pritchett. “This was the case in the time of Jeroboam II.
The prophet, Amos, cried against this state of mind, but the people would not hear. They felt that he was
trying to disturb them when they were enjoying a time of prosperity; however, they later saw that he was working
for their best interests.”lege. The “mys- | @ : ; i E t t t ime. ; an appropriate design
was Peter Stuart crept d ee rte aed brs a At the last meeting of the Philantro-|‘I"ed white persons were
spectators at FASHIONABLE Jey, believed to have been the famous are urged to exercise diligence in reduc) ty Courtney Rosee
and Murphy | the dance. Many Davidson students were ’ Ney) peneye TipaNanslecns ing to a minimum the wear and
tear | P71! ‘Ys y PHY | present. Marshal Ney, a general in Napoleon's which the new uniforms must undergo,
| Smith delivered talks, Courtney Ross, IB leet Atilis Brothers eae Ge: tage TU Xx E DOS army. Those students
residing out of town his talk on “History of the Society, : te a § i ng 4 t gave
an account of the glorious past of at ten thirty and again at twelve thirty. Michel Ney, Duke of Elchingen
and ; may have to wear their uniforms a ter Hie asclety Aid: WRERAE a ueabera Outstanding among their songs
were COAT and TROUSERS Prince of Mowska, born at Saarlouis,|{ Don’t take her to the game the drill periods, but
men living on the} °° © M 7 : “Sleepy Head,” from the picture “Op- eres 8 ; campus should
change their uniforms | Watch their steps in the future. Fperaay $ 50 France, in 1769, was destined to become|}
without giving her a chrysan- Dre Be pode erator 13,” “Tiger Rag,” “Put On Your . one of. the bravest
and most beloved h for civilian clothes before engaging in} niform and part civilian clothes, is never |Old Gray Bonnet,”
and “How'm I marshals that France has ever known. _themum. athletic games or labor. The uniform to be worn, When-the
uniform is.worn|Doin’.” ‘The program,.with music’ by Serving under Napoleon in all his major should be worn only on drill oe
it should be complete: regulation trous- | Bradshaw’s band was broadcast over the IDE campaigns, he won for him much
glory Will be sold at the game Mixed uniform, that is, part issued|ers, shirt and tie. Columbia System by WBT.
and honor, and was of unestimable value Other than the Mills Brothers them- DRESS SHIRTS eee : 35c each selves,
the most entertaining person was ‘ $ When Napoleon escaped from exile, e 6 : “Tiny” Bradshaw. He and his
negro or- 2.45 Marshal Ney was called upon to cap- G y G 1 A LAUGH chestra played last winter
at the Phila- ture him. Rather than harm his former ive our ir delphia Cotton Club and he has the
repu- commander, Ney and his army joined $ tation of being one of the best negro DRESS TIES forces with
Bonaparte, for which he was Send Her The YOwWI orchestra leaders in the country. 48c d 75 falsely accused and
found guilty of ras and 75c “high-treason.”, He was sentenced to aE The Intermediate Department of the death. Although reports
of his execu- RATCLI ® ; 25¢ per Copy Davidson Presbyterian Sunday School tion vary, it. is known that he
denied his gave a Hallowe’en party Wednesday BELK BROS CO guilt and remained loyal to the last. Charl : night,
at the church. Tuesday night, the . . Marshal Ney was led from his prison arlotte iz es Intermediate Christian
Endeavor enter- CHARLOTTE, N. C at nine o’clock on a cold and clammy Ben Wyche 2 z 202 West tained
with a Hallowe'en party at the pase December morning. The carriage in|@ 2 home of Mrs. Slaughter. é oe: which
he rode was stopped suddenly S 7 jz when it was only half way to the regu- lar execution ground.
Ney was re- quested to alight. He was startled, but understood the meaning of this move. After embracing ; the
priest who rode with him, he got down and marched rapidly through the silent ranks of soldiers to the indicated
, execution spot, in front of a long wall . of black. nares: The commanding officer stood hesitant between the
hero and the platoon. In this moment Ney cried} “I protest be- ai =. fore God and my country against
the 5 t sentence which has condemned me. Vtve hy -I dont believe L la France!” : : “Do your
duty,” shouted an official to A a pp Te the confused officer. Ney, seeing his hesi- ave USCA A wpe
cleaner tancy, advanced toward his executioners = ) y and said, “My brave comrades, when I Lae L 7eeé or
“Ur WEE. S place my ete on my sae aS oe Ihe the manufacture that you take sure aim ai
e hea: i Taking off his hat he commanded in a of Granger Rough Cut Pipe Granger leaves no gum
loud voice: “Soldiers, straight to the Tobacco the Wellman Process in the bowl of my pipe heart—fire!” a In saying
this he struck his hand to is used. ue : : his heart. The report echoed and Ney The Wellman
P is dif. of moisture in the stem. ; ; rocess 1S - fell to the dirt without a sound.
Spec- It burns down toa clean tators, officials, and soldiers all, turned ferent from any other process or h.” away
from the gruesome scene. ° ' 9 ash. The theory is that Ney, being a Mason method and we believe
it gives dry himself, gave the Masonic sign of dis- more enjoyment to pipe smokers. tress to the executioner, also
a’ Mason. ‘ Due to a prearranged plan, he began to ooo gives the tobacco an ex- fall before he
struck his breast, just in time to have the bullets pass over his tra fla vor and aroma head. A
bag of red fluid resembling ..2t makes the tobacco act blood was concealed under his coat 3 is ; ina
which he burst by striking his breast. right ina pipe— burn eee This, of course, added to the effect. slower
and: smoke cooler common - sense Ney might easily have escaped from 0c (Continued on Page 8, Column 3) ...
2tmakes the tobacco milder = pense e e .. dt leaves a clean dry ash Get that Home-com- ee eet
or heel A ; in the pipe bowl ing Hair Cut and pip , LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO . Shampoo
co e e 4 : the pipe tobacco that’s MILD ON’S * JOHNS the pipe tobacco that’s COOL Barber Shop
: i —/folks seem to like st © 1924, Lacanrr & Blvaas Toascos Ca,
