THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 24, 1934

Palmer Christian To Appear In Initial Contest Of Series

Famous Organist Was Student Of The Masters, Stroube And Guilmant

Palmer Christian, who will present the first concert of the College’s musical program for this year, is known throughout the
United States and Canada as one of the outstanding contemporary concert organists. Christian, a native of Kankakee, Illinois, says that
he was born without anything except a musical sense. His mother and father started him at the piano early in
life, being anxious to develop in the best way possible his musical talent. By the time Christian was twelve years
old he was genuinely serious and sincere about music, and started his organ instruction. A sister of Clarence Dickenson, living
in Kankakee, interested young Christian in taking lessons from her brother in Chicago. Progress was more rapid then, so by
fifteen the boy was able to take his first professional post at St. Paul’s Episcopal Church. Simultaneously he was finishing
a high school education, and dabbling in amateur music. He admits he was a good student with high grades.

At eighteen, he obtained a better position in Grace M.E. Church, Chicago, and subsequently moved to Hyde Park Presbyterian, where
he remained for three and one-half years. During this time he continued his work with Dickenson. He is particularly grateful
to this teacher for his excellent foundation, influence, and inspiration. By 1909 Christian was ready for European study. There he
tutored under Stroube and Guilmant until the latter's death in 1911. He traveled extensively, attended numerous concerts, and had the
usual good time. In exchange for the use of the organ, he rehearsed the boys, and acted as tenor soloist
and assistant organist in the American Episcopal Church.

Coming back to Chicago he took the post at Kenwood Church where he remained until 1918. At that time his
health failed him, and he was forced to live a while in the Southwest recovering. Then he became municipal organist
in Denver for two years. Getting back his strength, he returned to Chicago for a short time, and from there
entered his present position at Ann Arbor.

Progressive Changes In College Rooms Noted

Many New Improvements Made During Past Century

If one were to go back one hundred years, he would find that life in a college dormitory was far
different in 1834 from what it is in 1934. For example, a typical student's room in a dormitory. In this
room whale oil lamps and tallow candles furnished light by which a student studied. The Bible, a classical dictionary and
some textbooks composed a student’s library. A cast-iron wood-burning stove furnished the heat, a flat-iron with which the student pressed
his own clothes was just as important as the stove itself. The favorite indoor sports were chess and checkers played
to the accompaniment of pipes and chewing tobacco. The rooms were small and usually contained only one window, and were
not as collegiately decorated as they are now.

In the dormitories of 1934, we find large airy rooms, well lighted and well ventilated, and very collegiately decorated. The
rooms are lighted by electricity and heated by steam. The Bible can still be found as well as many textbooks.
The student has great libraries to which he can go at any time for reference or research work, and does
not have to depend on the few individual volumes that a student of 1834 would have to have depended on.
There is no such thing now as pressing one’s own clothes. In addition to the necessities we find in a
room, in this day and time are usually found a radio or a victrola or some kind of musical instrument
that a student keeps for his pleasure and entertainment. Pennants and girls’ pictures bedeck the walls and chiffoniers.

Chambers Under Arcs Seen In Recent Digest Pictorial Features Chambers

Last week in the Collegiate Digest, there appeared a picture of Chambers Building under the heading of “Campus Beautiful”. The
picture, which was taken from the dormitory side under the glare of the floodlights, showed the large columns at the
entrance of Chambers. The Collegiate Digest is an illustrated magazine, which is issued throughout the colleges of the nation. There
have appeared in this publication before, pictures of football players and band leaders of Davidson. This has and will add
greatly to the national publicity of Davidson College and its recognized beauty.

GIFTED ARTIST Palmer Christian

This celebrated organist will give the first of a series of concerts designed to afford Davidson men an opportunity to
hear really fine musicians. He is a native of Illinois, and has risen to preeminence through his own musical ability.

ROTC Juniors Procure Snappy New Uniforms

The R. O. T. C. unit of Davidson College announces the equipment of new uniforms to the junior class of
forty-one members. The new uniforms going to the advanced class consist of long trousers, blouse, caps, and belts. They are
furnished by the government and are tailored by the Jacob-Reed Company of Philadelphia, Pa. The uniforms are very attractive and
make a distinction between the officers of the junior and senior class. The expense of the new outfit is a
great deal less than the uniforms used by the junior class of last year. The senior class, this year, are
wearing the uniforms with leggings but next year will have the same outfit of the juniors this year.

CARS FOR RENT

Gulf Gas and Oil

M. P. HENDERSON

Around Town

The American Legion Auxiliary of Davidson, Cornelius, and Huntersville met in the Civic League Hall Tuesday afternoon. After the installation
of officers, Mrs. E. N. Linker, newly-elected president, took charge.

Word has been received by friends in Davidson of the birth of a son to Lieut. and Mrs. Robert Beckett,
of California. Lieut. Beckett was formerly connected with the R. O. T. C. Department at Davidson College.

Capt. and Mrs. Norton Pritchett entertained the Thelemite Club Friday evening. Prof. Lewis Schenck was in charge of the program.

The Book-lovers Club met Friday afternoon at Miss Maude Vinson’s. Miss Cornelia Shaw gave a paper on The Nile, the
Highway of the Pharaohs.

Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin, who are planning to spend part of the winter in Davidson, are residing in
Miss Ellenwood’s home.On North Main, Dr. Martin was formerly president of Davidson College. Miss Sarah Withers, a teacher in the
Garner High School, visited her parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Withers, this past weekend. Prof. John Davis, an alumnus
of Davidson College, now teaching at Presbyterian College, was a guest of Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Cumming last weekend.
Prof. and Mrs. W. W. Wood had as their guests this past week, Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Price of Lewisburg,
W. Va.

On Saturday, October 13, a daughter was born to Mr. and Mrs. Martin Foil of Concord, N. C. Mrs. Foil
was formerly Jean Martin, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin. Mrs. T. W. Lingle, who has just returned
from New York, and Mrs. Thomas Hamilton are attending the Synodical at Burlington, N.C. Mrs. J. P. Williams entertained at
a dinner and movie party Thursday for her daughter, Margaret. Dr. P. H. Gwynn spoke to the mothers of Mrs.
Hunter's School in Charlotte Wednesday afternoon on the subject, "Education Today and What It Should Offer." Mrs. C. K. Brown
has returned after several weeks’ visit with her parents in Tallahassee, Fla.

The Sorosis Club will meet Friday night with Miss Hattie Thompson. Miss Agnes Brown, who is a student at Salem
College, and Miss Libby Rhett, a freshman at Converse, were home for the weekend. Dr. James McDowell Richards, president of
Columbia Theological Seminary at Decatur, Ga., preached at the Myers Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte Sunday morning. President Richards is
a son of Dr. C. M. Richards and an alumnus of Davidson.

A man who has been smoking Granger for a long time said this: “A package of Granger gives me and
my old pipe about 9 hours of enjoyment. My pipe is about average size, and smoking it leisurely as I
like to do, a pipe-load of Granger lasts me about 25 minutes, and that means that I get about 21
good pipe-loads from every package. Was there ever so much enjoyment for so small a cost?” © 1934, Liggett &
Myers Tobacco Co.

Dr. Lingle Delivers Talks in Richmond
President Will Preach In Charlotte Sunday

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, made an address Sunday, October 21, at the annual meeting of the
Presbyterian League of Richmond, Va., in Richmond. Several hundred members were present at the meeting. Dr. Lingle’s subject for the
morning was “What the Presbyterian League has done for its members and for the Presbyterian Churches and Institutions of Richmond.”
The object of this league is to give aid to the churches and institutions in need, in and around the
vicinity of Richmond. Sunday night, Dr. Lingle spoke at the First Presbyterian Church at Rock Hill, S. C. He preached
at this church, at one time, for a period of five years. Next Sunday morning, he will speak at the
First Methodist Church in Charlotte, N.C.

Good Desks Are Given All Dormitory Rooms

During the past few days, the inhabitants of the various dormitories have received new desks, and more are promised sometime
soon. While these desks are really old ones which have been renovated, they are possessed of un-carved tops, un-broken book-racks,
and coats of gleaming varnish. The supervisor of Dormitories hopes that the students consider these desks as a trust which
they hold in the name of future Davidsonians, and that they will accordingly abstain from abusing them in any selfish
way. The name which is preserved through the years on a desktop is, after all, not thereby inscribed in Davidson's
hall of fame. Let's keep these desks new; it may be years before new furniture again enters our halls. The
work on these desks is a continuation of the work started by the college during the summer. The work is
being done off the hill and the repaired desks are being brought by truckloads to replace the old ones that
are now in use.

“Run it...”

AT THE LOCAL THEATRES

Thursday and Friday, Oct. 25 and 26
CLEOPATRA
This is Cecil B. DeMille’s current hit and is produced in a colorful and spectacular fashion. Claudette Colbert as Cleopatra
gives a fine performance, so does Warren William as Julius Caesar. This is a typical historical production having lavish and
colorful scenery and costumes. The cast includes Claudette Colbert, Warren William, and Henry Wilcoxon.

Saturday, Oct. 27
THE LEMON DROP KID
This is the picturization of Damon Runyon’s “Lemon Drop Kid.” The role of the race track follower is portrayed by
Lee Tracy, he is ably assisted by Helen Mack, and Baby LeRoy. It should offer good entertainment for all.

Monday, Oct. 29
BIG HEARTED HERBERT
This picture brings Guy Kibbee and Aline MacMahon together again in another of their amusing performances. It is very entertaining
and has received much favorable criticism.

Tuesday and Wednesday, Oct. 30 and 31
MADAME DuBARRY
Dolores Del Rio is the lead in this picture portraying the life of the notorious Madame DuBarry. There are many
lavish scenes and beautiful costumes in this production also. The cast includes Dolores Del Rio, Reginald Owen, Victor Jory, Perkins,
and Verree Teasdale.

Campus Improvements Are Brought To Close

No further major improvements on the campus or college buildings are being contemplated in the near future, F. D. Hobart
said this week. However, workmen are occupied at present building a bathroom and breakfast room on the rear of Dr.
Sentelle’s home. Mr. Hobart said that he did not know exactly when this construction project would be completed. Other workmen
will be employed at the task of moving 500 tons of coal from the railroad station to the heating plant.
This work will have to be finished before Christmas.

The regular fall meeting of the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees has been set for Tuesday, October 30th.
On this day, the committee will convene, in the words of Dean Sentelle, in a “business meeting for business purposes,”
and no matters of an outstanding nature are scheduled for consideration.

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP
GOOD HAIRCUTS
Ask the Men who've had one

BUFF SHOE SHOP
FINE SHOE REPAIRING

P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
WINSTON-SALEM

Let Us Dye For You

The pipe tobacco that's MILD
The pipe tobacco that's COOL
Folks seem to like it
---in a common-sense package—10c
