THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 3, 1934

DAVIDSON LOSES TO STATE 7-0 IN SPIRITED CONTEST

In the Field of Sports: ’CATS BOARD TRAIN THURSDAY FOR WEST POINT

State won over the Wildcats Saturday night, but they didn’t do it without plenty of trouble. This revamped aggregation of
Coach Hunk Anderson's is certainly a polished machine, with a vast amount of power and speed, and Saturday evening they
showed an unusually good spirit, which is more than could be said of any team from the technical institution in
the last few seasons. In spite of all of their potency, it was no easy job for them to push
over those seven points against the ’Cats, who always fight. Johnny Mackorell, being pretty well covered on his offensive play,
only averaged eight yards per try running with the ball, but he made up for his lack of ground gaining
by the wonderful defensive work he did. The Wildcat captain was in on practically every tackle and quite a number
of times he stopped State advances unassisted. Big Jim Morgan was right in there getting his share of the tackles
too, but probably the greatest thrill the Wildcat fans got all night was when this dependable flankman leaped into the
air between two opposing backs and snagged a high pass thrown by Mackorell.

While we are talking about this man Morgan, it might be interesting to comment on the way he can punt
that old spheroid. He is decidedly the best kicker on the Wildcat squad when it comes to distance, but it
takes a little too much time for him to get his foot into the leather after it has been snapped
to him. When the team practiced in Charlotte last Thursday night, Jim was consistently booting them between sixty and seventy
yards.

One of the most striking features of the State battle was the fact that there was only one penalty during
the whole contest. Davidson lost five yards for being offside. It was one of the cleanest and fairest played games
I have ever seen. The only thing that has come to my attention which was even slightly unsportsmanlike is a
report that the Wolfpack men would make an effort to get Davidson substitutes engaged in a conversation when they first
entered the game so the officials could penalize them for talking before they had taken part in one play. This
bit of jesty gabbing gained nothing for the Techmen, however.

Another interesting fact about this affair is that every Davidson man who took part in the game lives within a
hundred-mile radius of Davidson. There are few college teams in America that don’t have to go much farther than a
hundred miles to get a group of football players as good as Davidson has this year. Coach Gar Davidson, head
mentor at the United States Military Academy, evidently remembers the Wildcat team of 1929, because in his speech to the
Army student body a few weeks ago, he rated the Davidson game as the hardest home engagement the Cadets would
play this season. The Wildcats enter this contest on fairly even terms so far as weight is concerned, and I
believe they are just as good football players as Coach Davidson's proteges, so it wouldn't surprise me at all if
the 'Cats bumped off Mr. Buckler and all of the lads at the Point.

Radio station WBT in Charlotte has a new football commentator, who in his Monday night broadcast sang Davidson's praises quite
profusely. He gave the Felines more credit for their work in the contest with the Wolves than he did the
boys representing the West Raleigh aggregation. He also placed Captain Johnny Mackorell on the list of fame for the excellent
performance he turned in against the Andersonites. I see that Felix has thrown a little straw in his suitcase for
the Army mule. The poor fellow will probably need something to cheer him up Saturday night.

HEELS, DEVILS EXHIBIT POWER IN VICTORY WINS

Carolina Overcomes Wake Forest 21-0; Duke Slaughters V. M. I. By 46-0

BACKS SHOW ABILITY

Cornelius and Alexander Run Brilliantly For Duke

With a surprising show of power and speed, Carolina and Duke convincingly defeated their opponents by unusually large scores last
Saturday, and thereby bolstered their standing in the Big Five Wildcat Flankman Conference. Coach Carl Snavely’s Tar Heels drubbed a
highly rated Wake Forest team, 21-0, exhibiting a finesse and punch which exceeded the fondest hopes of Carolina supporters. The
Deacons were outclassed in every department of play and incurred many penalties for unnecessary roughness as they fought desperately to
halt Carolina’s mounting score.

Duke's Blue Devils created an even greater sensation by trouncing the V. M. I. Cadets, 46-0. Scoring only six points
in the first half, the Blue Devils, led by their brilliant Corky Cornelius and Jack Alexander, came back in the
second period to run roughshod over the Cadets and crossed the goal six times to pile up 40 points. Duke's
passing attack was especially effective when Arlington Kelly, a 125-pound back, entered the game to exhibit an uncanny accuracy in
dropping his long tosses into the arms of Liana and Johnson. The Blue Devils attempted nine passes and completed six
of them for a total gain of 120 yards. V. M. I. failed to complete any of their three attempted
passes.

Next weekend, members of the Big Five Conference will furnish even more interesting competition. All but one of the scheduled
games will be played with out-of-state teams. Davidson will be in the limelight next Saturday when they journey to West
Point to meet the Army in an intersectional game of interest to the entire South. Sports writers of the New
York papers are predicting that the spirited Wildcat team will furnish a real battle against the Cadets. Carolina will engage
the Tennessee Vols at Chapel Hill. Coach Snavely’s first edition of the Tar Heels have already proven their power but
they will doubtless have their hands full in this game. Corky Cornelius and his Blue Devil cohorts will entertain the
Tigers of Clemson at Durham. This is Duke's first home game. State and Wake Forest, both members of the Big
Five Conference, will lock horns at Raleigh in a night game. These are two of the heaviest teams in the
conference and should furnish quite an exhibition of power.

Four Out of Five College Men come to JOHNSON’S Barber Shop

WHITE DRUG STORE

DRUGS | SODAS

We want you to have Knowledge but why Get Humpbacked from studying over a Desk, when you can use a
LAP BOARD with your EASY CHAIR. Lap Boards, $1.25

PRESCRIPTIONS

J. W. Gilbert, 12.

JIM MORGAN - END

Big Jim Morgan, star Wildcat end who has played excellent ball in both of the two starts that his team
has made thus far this season, is a very likely hope for the mythical All-state eleven this fall. His pass
receiving has been particularly outstanding.

WHITE WINNER OF CAKE-RACE

Twenty-Eight Prizes Donated By Local Boarding Houses and Business Men

Rick White of Jacksonville, Fla., last Thursday afternoon led a field of 58 members of the class of 1938 to
win the annual Freshmen cake race in eleven minutes and eleven seconds. In this cross-country jaunt of one and seven-tenths
miles, the red-haired lad from the sunshine state was followed by Roy Gilks, who came in approximately three yards behind
the winner. Freshmen Dowdle and Parcell were third and fourth respectively. The record for this mile and seven-tenths course is
held by Earle Frazier of the Junior class, who covered the course in 9:35.5. From this start as a runner,
Frazier has developed into one of the most outstanding runners Davidson has ever produced. Last year he won both the
mile and the two-mile events at the state track meet at Chapel Hill, breaking the existing state records for both
events. Frazier also holds the college record for the freshman two-mile cross-country course.

In Thursday's race, 28 prizes were awarded to the men finishing between first and twenty-eighth. Their names are: 1. R.
K. White, 2. R. Gilks, 3. P. G. Dowdle, 4. B. F. Parcell, 5. D. Iverson, 6. R. J. Melchor,
7. H. W. Raney, 8. H. Lyons, 9. J. W. Morgan, 10. S. H. Isler, 11. J. Pharr, 12. J.
F. Reinhardt, 13. C. H. Graham, 14. J. G. Gamble, 15. A. R. Cates, 16. A. L. Ingram, 17. G.
B. Cleveland, 18. J. B. Graham, 19. J. O. Lafferty, 20. W. B. Kieswetter, 21. W. O. Cooke, 22. H.
E. Maples, 23. D. L. Pfohl, 24. W. T. Man-

KITTENS MEET DARLINGTON IN OPENING GAME

Barrow, Dennis, Harrison and Hogan Will Probably Start In Backfield

Freshmen Swing Into Action Friday at Richardson Field

The Davidson Wildkittens will open their 1934 gridiron schedule Friday afternoon at 3 p.m. at which time they will meet
the Darlington Tigers, a prep school of Rome, Georgia, at Richardson Field. The opening lineup for the Kittens will be
somewhat as follows. At ends, Nicholson and Williams appear to have won over the posts with Raider and Calloway ranking
probably third and fourth respectively. At guards, you can take your choice of Gray, Shytle, and the two Green brothers,
Bob and Brent. Gray and Brent Green, however, seem to be the best bets. Freeman and Graham will probably open
at tackle with Moore and Goodman being held in reserve while Overall will be at center.Faison is now running second
string center. In the backfield, Wade Barrow, who hails from Denver, Colo., will call signals with Hogan and Harrison at
left and right halves respectively. At full, Dennis, who showed to good advantage in the varsity scrimmage, will get the
call. A second string backfield is composed of Lafferty, Sparks, Charles, and Alex Brown. The Wildkittens will have plenty of
trouble on their hands when they face this invading eleven from Georgia who have some fine material down that way.
In Walter Hackett of Rome, Darlington has an All Mid-Southern quarterback of last year. Also in the backfield will be
Jimmy Leach, a halfback, who played on the National Interscholastic champion football eleven of Knoxville, Tennessee, high school last season.
Two guards, Frank Huguenin and Dan Beattie, who hail from Greenville, S. C., are plenty good and will be able
to take care of their position in no uncertain manner. Several of the Darlington men of last season are this
year on the Kitten eleven. Among these are Bailey Williams who was alternate captain of the Tiger squad last season
and Billy Nicholason. Both are ends and have already won berths on the freshmen team. Others who played at Darlington
last year are Oren Moore and Billy Sparks who are showing up well. Last Wednesday afternoon Coach Laird got a
chance to see his proteges under fire for the first time this year. In a scrimmage with the varsity, they
displayed plenty of defensive ability. They were not given a chance on the offensive and therefore their ability in that
capacity is not as yet known. Freeman as a tackle, broke through consistently to break up Wildcat plays in the
scrimmage but the work of the two ends, Williams and Nicholason, was probably the most outstanding feature. Dennis, fullback, also
backed up the line in good form.

Clemson, TENNESSEE vs. North Carolina, N. C. STATE vs. Wake Forest, CITADEL vs. Oglethorpe, ERSKINE vs. Appalachian, GEORGIA vs. Wofford,
CATAWBA vs. Newberry, SOUTH CAROLINA vs. V. M. I., PRESBYTERIAN vs. Howard, ELON vs. Langley Field, NAVY vs. Virginia, FLORIDA
vs. V. P. I., ALABAMA vs. Sewanee, TULANE vs. Auburn, GEORGIA TECH vs. Vanderbilt, W. & L. vs. Maryland, KENTUCKY
vs. Cincinnati. (Words in Capitals indicate Felix’s forecast.)

BELIEVE IT OR NOT
The Vacuum filled Pen in our window is filled more times in one day than an average pen is filled
in 30 years.

Hunk Anderson Praises Wildcat Quarterback
A telegram received in the office of the publicity department from Coach Heartly “Hunk” Anderson of North Carolina State reads
as follows: “Johnny Mackorell is a great triple-threat back. He is better in my opinion than any back we have
had at Notre Dame since Marchmont Schwartz. Mackorell will do everything as well if not better than Buckler of Army.”
This is a very high compliment paid the Wildcat Captain, not simply because it comes from Mr. Anderson who should
know football players, but because of the fact that he compares the versatile Wildcat with Army’s All-American, Jack Buckler. It
will be interesting to see these two backs in action at West Point Saturday.

WILDCATS PLAY WEST POINTERS
Davidson and West Point Cadets Are Expected To Use Aerial Attacks
The Davidson Wildcats will leave tomorrow for New York City where they will encounter the United States Military Academy Saturday
afternoon at the West Point Stadium. This will be the third game of the 1934 gridiron season for the Cats
while the Cadets will be playing their second. Both teams have a victory at present but the Wildcats also have
a defeat on record which they received at the hands of the North Carolina State eleven last Saturday night. The
Army team will find the Wildcats as tough an eleven to beat as the team of '30 who all but
defeated the Cadets. At the half, the Davidson team was on the good side of a 7-3 count and except
for the fact that the Cats hadn’t the reserves they would have probably walked off the field with a win.
However, they weakened in the last half and the Cadets went ahead to chalk up three touchdowns and took the
contest by a 23-7 score. The Wildcats with Mackorell at the helm will be out to defeat the Army at
their own game, an aerial attack. The Cats have a very nifty passing combination and will put all they have
got into pulling an upset and conquering the Army team. Last Saturday night the Cats put up a wonderful fight
against a stronger and heavier eleven and only for a third period touchdown they would have left the field with
a moral victory. The Cadets, on the other hand, were none too impressive last Saturday in their initial contest with
the Washburn College, of Topeka, Kas., whom they barely managed to defeat by a 19-0 score. The Cadets were held
in check for the first three periods by the 194-pound Washburn line and were not able to get started until
the later part of the closing period when they started their aerial attack. Joe Stancock is the captain of the
West Point team this year. He and Jack Buckler are two of the few lettermen.

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

WILDCATS BOW TO ’PACK IN GAME SATURDAY NIGHT
McAdams Carries Ball Over For Lone Score In Beginning of Third Quarter
MACKORELL ’CAT STAR
Davidson Shows Great Spirit In 7-0 Defeat
A powerful and sustained drive by the State College Wolfpack in the third quarter resulted in a 7-0 defeat for
the Davidson Wildcats in the first Big Five encounter of the year. Playing under the arc lights in Memorial stadium,
Greensboro, the outweighted Wildcats held their own against a rejuvenated State organization for two quarters, but were unable to withstand
the alternate attacks of Rex, Roy, and McAdams in the march at the opening of the third. Capt. Johnny Mackorell,
Davidson’s All-American prospect, was the backfield star of the ’Cat team, along with little Midge Verble who, sent in as
a substitute, knocked down two State passes and intercepted one more intended for one of two six-foot ’Pack ends. The
Davidson line, Siewers, Lee, and Morgan starring, upset the dope by refusing to be crushed by the powerful and much
vaunted State line. State College presented a fine array of backs in Rex, Roy, McAdams, and Farrar. Mackorell opened the
game with a bang by slipping around right end for 25 yards and the first first down of the night.
An unsuccessful pass and an equally unsuccessful line play forced the 'Cats to punt. State had the advantage the remainder
of the first half although Davidson fought successfully to stave off a score. State received the ball at the beginning
of the half on the five-yard line, Roy carrying it up to the thirty. McAdams and Rex hammered the line
successfully and a pass, McAdams to Redding, put the ball in position for Rex to score. McCulley place kicked the
extra point. Davidson came back and threw a scare into the State followers by making its one big threat. A
duo of successful passes, Mackorell to Morgan, put the ball on the seven-yard line with but one yard to go
for a first down. A loss on a line play and pass over the goal broke the spirited ’Cat rally.
State continued to hammer at the Davidson line for the fourth period and both teams suffered from some intercepted passes.
Mackorell took the team from what seemed certain disaster by running 22 yards from punt formation on the one-foot line.

Davidson Pos. State
Morgan LE Stephens
Siewers LT Isaacs
Potter LG Stanko
Meggs Center Sabol
Hand RG Worth
Cathey RT Daughtry
Windham RE Redding
Mackorell QB McCulley
Wingfield LH McAdams
Yarborough RH Bardes
Puckett FB Farrar

Score by Quarters:
State 0 0 7 0—7
Davidson 0 0 0 0—0

Scoring: Touchdown, Rex (State). Extra point, McCulley.

Under New Management
J. O. JONES INC
The Carolina Inn is under New Management and we would like for you to try us. The food is inexpensive
but not cheap.

Mrs. Otto Goodnight Proprietor

J. O. JONES INC
208 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Potter & Newton
Student Managers

A Complete line of Shaeffer Pens
FREE
Your name in Gold on any $5.00 pen

COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson's “Service Drug Store”
PRESCRIPTION DRUGGIST
Next Door to Post Office

The Quick Reference Book of Information on All Subjects
Webster's Collegiate
The Best Abridged Dictionary
Merriam-Webster
“The volume is for quick work, and altogether the best dictionary for desk work of which I know.”—Powell Stewart, Dept.
of English, University of Texas. Presidents and Department Heads of leading Universities agree with this opinion.

The Largest of the Merriam-Webster Abridgments
106,000 entries, including hundreds of new words with definitions, spellings, and correct use; a Gazetteer; a Biographical Dictionary; Foreign Words
and Phrases; Abbreviations; Punctuation, Use of Capitals. Many other features of practical value. 1,268 pages. 1,700 illustrations.

See It At Your College Bookstore or Write for Information to the Publishers.
G. & C. Merriam Co.
Springfield, Mass.
