THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 28, 1934

DAVIDSON—23 ERSKINE—32

Around the Wildcat’s Lair

SPRING SPORTS BEGIN SOON

If “Three and Two” were legal in the township, we might put a bit of real spirit into the old toast, “Here's to spring, just around the corner, and a farewell to Old Man Winter.” The days are getting longer now, and the boys in the lighter clads are getting out and under way. It won't be long until the start of the spring sports.

We owe a hand to the boys of the cinderpath, by the way. That was a splendid showing the Wildcat representatives made in the West Virginia Indoor Meet recently. They will have another chance to repeat their success soon, when the Carolina Indoor Meet is run off on March 10 in Chapel Hill. Captain Pritchett is looking forward to a most successful season this year, with possible prospects of a perfect record. With Frazier, Merchant, and Oakes in the distances, Cochran in the weights, and Evans and Faison in the dashes, he has the foundation for a fine team. We of the common people are all for the lads.

When the copy for this column went to press, the results of the Big Five had not yet been made public, but at the last report, Davidson’s entry, Johnny Mackorell, was still well in the running, and was slightly in the lead of Earl Clary, South Carolina’s entry. The other winners in this contest will probably be Crawford of Duke, Barclay and Weathers of Carolina, and Stassavitch of Lenoir-Rhyne.

Davidson will have a glimpse of some of her future athletes Saturday when the boys from Barium Springs come to town and the Wildcats entertain at the annual Barium Springs Day. That's a fine bunch of lads, with the makings of real Davidson men. Hope we see more of them in the future. The Barium boys who have attended Davidson have always made a nice showing in their athletic ventures while they were here.

Saturday will also see the end of the spring football training period, when the Reds and the Blacks meet in a full-length game. Boy, what a team we ought to have next year! I for one would surely like to go up to see the West Pointers try to put something over on the Wildcats. It would be fine if Davidson could take a cheering section up to help out the team. Why not?

If you have happened over to the gym lately, you may have seen any number of “daring young men on the flying trapeze.” No, it was only the boys entered in the annual gymnastic competition. Last year this contest was won by Lacy Adcox. There is some pretty stiff competition this year, from all reports, and the contest waxes warm.

Too bad the grapplers had to cancel their meet scheduled for Saturday night. There seems to be a consensus of opinion that the Wildcat wrestlers would have put up a pretty good fight, and the result probably would have been hard to foretell. I haven't quite gotten over the way the Davidson lads handled themselves against a stronger team last Friday week. In a line, with the winter sports, those boys from South Carolina surely deserve a word on their really remarkable showing against three of the strongest quints in the Southern Conference, and on successive nights, to make it all the harder. Those Birds seem to be gluttons for punishment. Almost foolish at times, say we. They seem to be ably equipped to take it, though. We'd like to be present at the Southern Conference run-off Friday and Saturday of this week!

While we are on the subject of basketball, the Wildcat cagers ought to receive congratulations on their showings for the season. The varsity has had a bit of tough luck. Better luck next year, ’Cats. You should have it, with the splendid material coming up from the freshman squad. They have an enviable record for this season.

(Continued on page 6)

ERSKINE FLYING FLEET TRAMPLES WILDCAT QUINTET

Davidson Loses to S. C. Team, 32-23, as Season Ends

LAFFERTY IS STAR

“Swan Song” for Holland and Lafferty

The Davidson Wildcats, playing their last game of the season, were defeated by the Flying Fleet from Erskine, 32-23, in a hard-fought game here last Friday. The game was close, especially during the second half, with the locals leading 18-17 at one time. The score at the half was 15-12 in favor of Erskine.

Baker, Erskine forward, was high point man for the night, scoring five field goals and one free shot for a total of eleven points. For the Wildcats, Lafferty played best, chalking up seven points. This game spelled finis to the college basketball careers of two men—Lafferty, forward, and Holland, guard. All other players have one or more years to their credit. The referee for the game was McCachren, of the Charlotte Y.

Line-up:
Dav. (23) Posi. Erskine (32)
Harris (6) R.F. Baker (11)
Lafferty (7) L.F. S. Miller (4)
Ross (4) Center Bolton (5)
Holland (1) R.G. Reid (5)
Windham L.G. P. Miller (4)

Substitutions: Davidson—Morgan (5), Erskine—Smith (3).

Practice Tiff Ends In Tie; Pearce Stars

Passes, Kicks, and New Plays Feature Scrimmage

In a scrimmage featured with reverse kicks and passes, the Reds and Blacks fought to a 13-13 tie here Saturday on Richardson Field. The two teams put up an airtight defense and took advantage of every break that offered itself, but to no avail as far as a victory was concerned. Wingfield and Mackorell led the Reds and were responsible for their two touchdowns, while Johnny Pearce put over both counters for the Blacks. Wingfield was transferred to the Red team due to the fact that two members of that team, Garrison and Yarborough, had to drop out because of injuries. He and Mackorell exhibited a fine brand of football and should cause trouble for more than one team this fall. Pearce proved the most elusive ball carrier on the field Saturday and is another likely candidate for the backfield next year.

Paul Pittman created quite a sensation in the game when he, on receiving a punt, immediately booted the ball back to the onrushing Red team, who were caught unprepared. The exchange of kicks, which netted the Blacks several yards, took on a humorous aspect as twenty-two men rushed back and forth in a desperate attempt to down the ball. Another feature of the contest was a lateral pass which so completely baffled the opposing team that a substantial gain was made practically every time. Other new deceptive plays introduced by Newton and McEver were used in the game to an advantage.

In the past four weeks of football practice the coaches have spent much of their time on blocking and in teaching the men new plays. However, Coach Newton especially stressed the need for cadence and precision in executing these plays, and by next year he hopes to have a team well instilled in these points.

Freshman Cindermen List Hard Opponents

After a fairly successful season in cross-country, and showing signs of having some little track talent in their ranks, the Davidson freshmen are preparing for a hard season this spring, which starts on March 4 against High Point High, and includes mostly home meets. The schedule is as follows:

March 24—High Point High, at Davidson.
April 7—Richmond Freshmen, at Davidson.
April 21—V. P. I. Freshmen, at Blacksburg, Va.

(Continued on page 6)

’Cat Baseball Schedule

March 27—Michigan State, at Davidson
March 31—Carolina, at Gastonia
April 2—Carolina, at Concord
April 4—N. C. State, at Davidson
April 5—N. C. State, at Davidson
April 9—Wake Forest, at Wake Forest
April 10—Wake Forest, at Wake Forest
April 13—Duke, at Davidson
April 14—Duke, at Davidson
April 17—Carolina, at Chapel Hill
April 20—Wake Forest, at Davidson
April 21—Wake Forest, at Davidson
April 25—Duke, at Durham
April 26—Duke, at Durham
May 9—N. C. State, at Raleigh
May 10—N. C. State, at Raleigh

Davidson Netmen To Take Southern Tour

Wildcats to Meet Foes in Many States

With the prospects bright for a strong varsity tennis team this year, two extensive trips to the North and South have been arranged, Manager “Wee” Thompson announced. The team will leave for Gainesville, Fla., on March 29th, during the spring holidays, where Davidson will engage the University of Florida on March 30th. The Wildcat netters will be away for a week, and will cross racquets with leading colleges and universities in Florida, Georgia, and South Carolina. On April 7th, the team will take a Northern trip to Virginia, engaging the University of Virginia, William and Mary, and Country Club of Virginia, in Richmond. Davidson will meet Carolina at Chapel Hill on April 18th and Carolina will play here.April 28th. The Wildcats will enter the state tournament in Chapel Hill on April 19th, 20th, and 21st. A tournament to decide the positions of the men on the team will be staged beginning on Tuesday, March 6th, and continuing throughout the week. The following week will be used for “challenging,” and the first six men will leave for the Southern invasion.

Athletic Fraternity Holds Meeting Tues.
Annual Picture and Initiation of Men Discussed

A discussion of the taking in of new members was the object of the recent meeting of Sigma Delta Psi, national honorary athletic fraternity, held last Tuesday, February 20. A discussion was also brought up at this meeting as to whether or not the fraternity would have its pictures in the Annual. It was decided that they would delay the discussion of this question until after the initiation of the new members, when another session will be called. Interest is growing at this time in the passing of tests for entrance into the society. All members of the student body are eligible to try out, and it is possible to pass off the tests in one year, tests which cover most of the sports, and include twelve requirements. There are at present ten student members of the fraternity, of which Miller Cochran is president and Fritz Byerly, secretary and treasurer. There are only two faculty members who have attained this honor, Captain N. G. Pritchett, and Heath Whittle, athletic director and assistant director respectively of the Davidson athletics.

Reds And Blacks To End Spring Practice

Saturday, March 3, will be “Barium Springs Day” here at Davidson and the Reds will meet the Blacks in the final game of the winter football practice. The game is to be of full length and will have all the aspects of a real contest. The Reds will have such men as Mackorell, Wingfield, “Swede” Johnson, Burns, Newton, Siewers, Hand, Lee, Dickson, Brewer, Koenig, McClung and Patterson, while the Blacks will have Verble, Pittman, Pearce, Carlson, Cathey, Johnston, Dick Johnson, Young and Gracey. The teams will be fighting for supremacy in the winter football session, and also because it means a lot to the individual players. The squad has been divided long enough for the men on each side to get a group spirit. Rivalries between the players have also been developed and Saturday's contest points to a close game. So far the two teams have played three contests. The Blacks won the first 6-0 and the last two have resulted in ties, indicating the evenness of the squads. The proceeds from the game are to be given to the Barium Springs loan fund. The movement was started by Davidson alumni, and is being handled by them. The money will enable students at the orphanage to attend college. In addition to the football game, a program by the Barium children is being planned, and some of them will appear at the regular chapel period at Davidson Saturday. All of the Barium Springs students will be brought to Davidson for the afternoon and will be guests of the college while they are here.

Faculty Quintet To Offer Special Award
Varsity Cager Showing the Best Spirit to Receive Trophy

A special award is soon to be presented to the man on the varsity basketball squad who has shown the best team spirit during the season which has just been completed, in the form of the trophy which has lately been on display in the Chambers trophy case. The man who is recognized will have his name engraved on the plaque, which contains room for names up through 1939. The award will be presented by a committee of three, who have not yet been decided. This plaque is a gift of the faculty basketball team, unusually active this year, who played against the Dallas All-Stars, the Seniors, and scrimmaged against the varsity several times. The faculty team is composed of Coach Laird, Grier Martin, Coach McEver, Freshman Coach Peabody, Professor Schenck, Coach Unger, Heath Whittle, and Sam Wiley.

Shirts and Shorts

There is nothing miserly about the cutting of HANES Wonderwear. No skimping of a half-inch here and there, and heavy with forty-two. HANES Shorts and knitted Union Suits (both light) the tape-measure. A size forty-two is a No Underwear could grow as comfort, style! You'll be happy in HANES. P.H. Hanes Knitting Company Winston-Salem, N. C.

The Famous Samsonbak Union Suit Shirts, always tally has and 1934 Tennis Schedule

March 30—Florida, at Gainesville, Fla.
March 31—Rollins, at Winter Park, Fla.
April 2—Emory, at Atlanta, Ga.
April 3—Georgia Tech, at Atlanta, Ga.
April 4—Furman, at Greenville, South Carolina.
April 5—U. of South Carolina, at Columbia, S. C.
April 7—Wake Forest, at Davidson.
April 10—(Tentative) Roanoke College, at Davidson.
April 12—University of Virginia, at Charlottesville, Va.
April 13—William and Mary, at Williamsburg, Va.
April 14—(Tentative) Country Club of Virginia, at Richmond.
April 18—Carolina, at Chapel Hill.
April 19, 20, 21—State Tournament, at Chapel Hill.
April 28—Carolina, at Davidson.

Intramural Fighters Hold Annual Contest
Thirty Men Expected to Compete in Contest

The annual Davidson intramural boxing tournament is scheduled to start tomorrow, March 1, and will last through March 3. The first two days of the tournament will be given over to the preliminaries, while the finals will take place on the last day. Around thirty men are expected to enter the contest and boxers of the different weights will compete with others in their own class. The men will enter one of the following classes, namely: welterweight, lightweight, middleweight, and heavyweight. Although last year’s tournament was fought for class standing only, the winners of the contest this year will be rewarded with medals. For the past several weeks boxing classes under the direction of Captain Norton Pritchett have been conducted, and the men are in good shape for the bouts. In order to avoid congestion on the main floor of the gymnasium, the classes were held upstairs at 5 o'clock each week day except on Saturdays. However, any and all students are invited to come out, whether they have been members of this class or not.

Varsity Defeats Quint Representing Faculty

The “Flaming Five” of the faculty bowed in defeat to the Davidson varsity by the score of 41-38, although they held a lead for the first two and one-half quarters. The game was close and well played, the deciding factor being the physical condition of the players. The faculty swung into an early lead which they kept throughout the first half, although the varsity kept the lead slim at times. They continued the pace for part of the third quarter, when the varsity gained the lead and kept it the rest of the game. Both teams were handicapped somewhat in not having one of their stars playing. Peabody was unable to play for the faculty and Lafferty and Morgan were absent from the varsity lineup. The line-up:

Varsity Posi. Faculty
Harris R.F. McEver
Windham L.F. Laird
Johnson Center Martin
Holland R.G. Schenck
Yelverton L.G. Unger

Substitutes: Varsity—Ross, Munroe, Bernardo, and Rogers. Faculty—Wiley.

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY
“CAROLINA”
JANET GAYNOR—LIONEL BARRYMORE

FRIDAY
“HIPS, HIPS, HOORAY”
BERT WHEELER—ROBERT WOOLSEY

SATURDAY
“BABY IN THE ICE BOX”

MONDAY
“MAN OF TWO WORLDS”
FRANCIS LEDERER—ELISSA LANDI

TUESDAY
“I BELIEVE IN YOU”
ROSEMARY AMES—JOHN BOLES

KITTENS DEFEAT LAST TWO FOES TO FINISH YEAR
Yearling Cagers Defeat Crossnore, 35-23, and May’s Hosiery, 48-17
END FINE SEASON
Freshman Team Defeated 24-20 by Boiling Springs

The freshman basketball team of Davidson College has just completed its 1934 schedule with a rather successful week, recording one loss and two victories to climax a somewhat brilliant season. The Centennials met the Boiling Springs team last Tuesday, February 20, at Boiling Springs. Although Peabody rang up ten points for the frosh, the boys from Boiling Springs were too much for the Davidson aggregation and the visitors heard the final whistle as they were still at the losing end of a 24-20 score. Mauney, flash center for the opposition, scored 12 points for the winners, being high scorer of the game. Boiling Springs led at the half, 12-11.

D. Fresh (20) Posi. B. Springs (24)
Porter (2) R.F. Wilson (2)
Swindle L.F. Connor (4)
Cathey (4) Center Mauney (12)
Peabody (10) R.G. Putnam (4)
Quick (4) L.G. Brown (2)

Substitutes: Davidson—Knorr. Referee, Shehan; scorer, White; timer, Harris.

On their home court Friday, February 23, the frosh basketeers defeated the Crossnore High School team in a fast and lively game. Peabody led the scoring with a total of 14 points, while Goforth was outstanding for the visitors, chalking up 11 marks to his credit. Porter, Davidson forward, and (Continued on page 6)