DAVIDSONIAN HAS CONTEST FOR PHOTOGRAPHERS

The Davidsonian

ALENODA bd LUX U ORTA LIBERTAS

CONGRESSMEN CLARK AND BULWINKLE ARE INITIATED BY O. D. K.

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 21, 1934 No. 9

DAVIDSON RADIO PROGRAM GIVEN NATION'S PRAISE

Letters Received From Thirty Different States By Program Officials

LAUDED BY BANDSMEN

Congratulations Extended From New Hampshire To Florida

The Davidson College radio broadcasts from Chambers Auditorium, which began Friday, November 3, have excited considerable comment from all parts. Station WBT, Pres. Lingle, and Prof. Pfohl have received letters of praise from thirty states.

The following night letter was received from Houston, Texas: “Your entire program enjoyed immensely. Band, Dr. Lingle’s talk, orchestra, glee club, and organ. You have a wonderful organization, and one that Davidson can well be proud of. We congratulate you and will listen in each Friday evening. Reception excellent, better than CBS from same station.”

This letter from a Davidson alumnus in Lenoir: “We have just been listening to the initial broadcast from the Chambers Auditorium over station WBT. While we had to contend with a certain amount of static, the program came through very nicely and we enjoyed it very much indeed. It is indeed a far cry to the music, or what passed for music while I was a student at Davidson, and Prof. Pfohl has done the college a service which we will be discovering new benefits from for a long time to come. The entire program tonight was one in which the college and its friends may well take pride. Hearty congratulations on the new move to broadcast direct from the college. I feel that it will prove a distinct step forward.”

The following word was sent from Indiana, Pennsylvania: “I listened to the broadcast of your band tonight over station WBT. My opinion is that you have one of the finest college bands in the country. Davidson College should be justly proud of its fine band. As a bandsman, I am looking forward to future Friday night programs featuring the Davidson College Band.”

And from Laconia, New Hampshire: “We heard your splendid band tonight over the radio. Please accept our congratulations for having such a fine outfit.”

From Tallahassee, Florida: “Davidson Glee Club Program came through fine in Tallahassee.”

And from Charlotte: “The program of the Davidson College Department of Music recently presented over station WBT was one of the very best I have ever heard. Davidson College and its friends should be proud of the splendid efforts which you are giving to the school in a musical way. I feel that such a program will put Davidson College to the front from every standpoint.”

From Leslie, Michigan: “I have just listened to your band program from what I think was station WBT. If I am not mistaken you directed the University of Michigan band at Ann Arbor last summer. I was one of the “poor” baritone players at the time. Best of luck, and I will be listening for you next week.”

Lucas Replaces Brown As President Of I. R. C.

Charles Lucas was elected to succeed Gordon “Skip” Brown, who resigned because of other pressing affairs, as president of the International Relations Club at a meeting of the club Thursday.

Lucas will thus have the important job of presiding over the three-day International Relations Club convention which is to be held at Davidson in late winter or early spring. This convention will be attended by delegates from colleges and universities from Virginia, North and South Carolina, Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee, Kentucky, and Mississippi.

The International Relations Club was founded by the Carnegie Endowment for Peace and this endowment will aid in the securing of speakers for the meeting. The convention’s being held at Davidson is the culmination of the efforts of club presidents for the past two years to get the selection of Davidson.

Prominent Davidson Founder Pioneer In Educational Field

TWELVE MEN TRY FOR OPPORTUNITY ANNOUNCING

Captain Pritchett Will Select Three Students From Second Audition

A tentative list of twelve men was selected from a group of approximately thirty students who turned out for the first competitive trial, Wednesday, Nov. 14, to fill the announcing position for the coming year.

The twelve students selected by Captain N. G. Pritchett, professor of physical education, who is acting as judge in deciding the representative, were chosen as outstanding members of the preliminary trial. These students were chosen on quality of diction, clearness of enunciation, and the adaptability of their voice to the amplifying system.

A second audition will be held Wednesday or Thursday afternoon of this week, during the varsity and freshman scrimmage hour. Other requirements, which will begin then, are: rapid fire talk, clearness of the voice, and ability to announce play by play of the Davidson teams in action.

Captain Pritchett will select three students from the second audition, who are to take quizzes on rules and regulations of football now in vogue. English test and questions on intricate plays will be the basis of the writs. Manuscripts, extemporaneous talks, and memorized passages are authorized for material in rapid fire talk and the voice tests on Wednesday and Thursday.

Captain Pritchett stated, “Quite a number of the students had good voices and I was well pleased with results.” This is the first time competitive announcing trials have been given here. Before, a member of the varsity debating team was selected to act as the College’s announcer. “Skip” Brown, Student Body President, has broadcasted all the Davidson athletic events for the past two years. “Goof” Clark, ex-Student Body President, filled the same position during the two years before Skip Brown.

MUSICIANS GIVE THIRD PROGRAM

Male Quartet And Solo Numbers Featured On Program From Chambers

Davidson went on the air from Chambers Auditorium for the third time Friday night at nine o'clock, and presented a half-hour program of orchestra, male quartet, and solo numbers.

Two cello solos by Professor Warren Babcock opened the program proper. These numbers were “Chante Du Minestrel,” by Glazounow, and “Jesu, Meine Freude,” by Bach. He was accompanied at the piano by Louise Nelson Pfohl, wife of the Davidson Director of Music, who accompanied all the soloists and the quartet.

The Davidson Concert Orchestra, which has shown real development since last year, played “Sanctus from St. Cecilia,” by Gounod. The organ, played by Kenneth Scott, combined with the orchestra in this number.

Frank Tucker, Baritone, rendered two solos, “Somewhere a Voice is Calling,” by Tate, and Cadman’s well-known “At Dawning.” He was followed by James Christian Pfohl at the organ, playing two chorales “Fierce Was the Wild Billow,” and “Thy Majesty, How Vast it is.”

The College male quartet, composed of Hubert Morris, Paul McLanahan, John Morgan, and Frank Tucker, sang the old English air, “Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes.” A saxophone solo, “Serenade,” by Gabriel-Marie, was rendered by James Chrisman. “O Davidson” played by the orchestra, concluded the program.

The program was broadcast from Chambers Auditorium, with a good crowd of students attending.

The members of the concert orchestra (Continued on Page 6, Column 2)

Robert Hall Morrison Believed In Education Of Women; Had Six Daughters ALL MARRIED HIGHLY

Charlotte Observer Writes Unusual Story Of Morrison’s Family

A story of unusual interest, both to Davidson students and others, appeared several weeks ago in the Junior League issue of the Charlotte Observer. This story concerned the life of six daughters of Rev. Robert Hall Morrison, D.D., who in 1837 founded the training school for Presbyterian ministers and named it for the Revolutionary General William Lee Davidson, who gave the land on which the College now stands, our own Davidson.

In those days, the emancipation of women was a thing so little thought of that very few even perceived the possibility of its ever existing. Dr. Morrison, however, realized the important part that intelligent women play in the success that great men achieve. He often said, “Educate the women and you elevate the whole race of mankind.” No doubt, this was a very bold statement for those times, but he stood up for his beliefs in the education of his six daughters, all of whom married outstanding men in Confederate history.

Dr. Morrison gave his daughters all of the religious, cultural, and intellectual advantages that he knew to be essential for a life of usefulness and enjoyment, and these daughters reflected the influence of his Christian teachings throughout their lives, and they left to the world many invaluable gifts in the way of their Christian character and intellectual attainment. They were often and rightly called “the remarkable Morrisons,” and they certainly lived up to this title. Even when the time came for their formal introduction into society, two were presented at a time, always one blonde and one brunette. All were attractive in appearance and presented a very striking contrast of types.

In regard to learning and Christian training, the girls were very much alike, but early in the life of each one, her own individual characteristics began to form. Isabella, the eldest of the family, realized the responsibility of her position, to show by example as well as teach her younger sisters the difference between right and wrong. These qualities made her especially fitted to be the wife of General D. H. Hill, one of the South’s leading educators, writers, and military men. At the time of their marriage, General Hill was Professor of Mathematics at Washington College (afterward named Washington and Lee University) in Lexington, Va. Following her marriage, the couple lived in Lexington until the war between the states, in which General Hill distinguished himself for his bravery and military acumen. After the war, the couple moved to their home on South Tryon Street in Charlotte.

Harriet, the second daughter, was a frail child but very learned, and she received much pleasure from her father’s interesting library. One year after her sister's marriage to General Hill, Harriet was married in a quiet ceremony at her parents’ home in (Continued on Page 6, Column 5)

Johnny Long Will Play For Sophomore Dances

The next dance set on the Davidson social calendar will be Sophomore Weekend, held on the 14th and 15th of next month in Charlotte. Johnny Long and his Duke Collegians will band together to attempt to make the three dances of the set a credit to all second-year men.

Following Sophomore Weekend will be the Pan-Hellenic mid-winters, scheduled for either the first or second weekend in February; at which time it is hoped to secure some nationally-known orchestra (not yet decided upon) as an answer to the much-heard prayers of the student body. Other Pan-Hellenic functions are the Junior Speaking Dances in March, and the Bowery Ball in April.As a special feature this year, the local chapter of Scabbard and Blade plans a “bigger-and-better” Military Ball which they hope to make an annual affair along with other traditional “weekends.” As yet, the date is undecided.

MANY DEBATE TO COMPETE IN TRYOUTS
Prevention Of International Shipment Of Arms Is Debate Subject
POSSIBILITIES ARE GOOD
Entire Freshman Team Of Last Year Returns

Approximately thirty men have signified their intentions of competing for positions on the debating team this year, according to Bob Smith, president of the Forensic Council, and a member of last year’s varsity debating team. A general subject will be given to every man and the candidates will be at liberty to choose either side he wishes. The subject on which the debaters will speak in the preliminary tryouts will be: Resolved, that the nations agree to prevent the international shipment of arms and munitions. The time for the first tryout has been postponed one week and will be held on the evening of November 27 instead of November 22, as previously announced.

The prospects this year seem to point to a very successful debating season. With this in mind, a very ambitious schedule has been planned including visits to: Rutgers, Bucknell, University of Richmond, Sweetbriar, Sewanee, Centre, University of Miami, University of Florida, College of Charleston, and Mary Baldwin College. With graduation taking only two men from the varsity debating roster last year and the entire freshman team returning this year, the possibilities are unusually promising. Among the men who have given notice of their oratorical hopes, there is a large number who have had experience in forensic activities in the past. The list includes: J. A. C. Andrews, Bill Benfield, Wade Boggs, J. S. Brown, L. L. Burton, Joe Dees, Warner DuBose, Wilbur Edwards, Kenneth Fryfogle, George Gullete, J. R. Harker, P. Y. Harlan, Dick Hayworth, Field Horne, Blanton Little, E. J. Mack, Tom Marchant, Charles Matze, Harry Morris, Pete Neill, Hal Overton, Jay Oswalt, Tyler Porte, Jimmie Salango, Fred Sides, Bob Stewart, Harold Sugg, and Tom Sutton. These men will supplement the list of varsity debaters who will return this year.

In the tryouts on November 27, each speaker will be given five minutes apiece; preliminary eliminations will probably then be made before the team is formed. The debating trips are now being arranged to begin about March 1. Debating has taken its proper place in the extra-curricular activities on the campus in the last few years and Davidson is seeking to encourage and to extend the scope of this art to the highest possible degree.

Louise Nelson Pfohl To Present Piano Concert
Graduate Of Michigan University Will Give Piano Recital

Mrs. Louise Nelson Pfohl, pianist, will present the second concert of Davidson's musical calendar on Monday, November 26. Mrs. Pfohl took her M.A. at the University of Michigan and, as the winner of the Juilliard Scholarship, studied under Albert Lockwood at Ann Arbor. She spent one year of post-graduate study in Vienna with Paul Weingarten. From there, Mrs. Pfohl returned to Ann Arbor to teach piano in the University School of Music. During her period of teaching, she made several solo and orchestral appearances.

The program of her concert is as follows:
Bourrée - Bach—Saint-Saens
Chorale, “Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring” - Bach-Hess
Sonate Pathétique, Op. 13 - Beethoven
Grave; Allegro di molto e con brio.
Adagio Cantabile
Rondo
Intermezzo Op. 117 No. 1—Cradle Song
Intermezzo Op. 119 No. 3
Rhapsody Op. 119 No. 4
Impromptu in F sharp
Nocturne in E flat
Scherzo in C sharp minor

TWO MADE HONORARY MEMBERS AT OMICRON DELTA KAPPA MEET

PHOTO CONTEST TO BE FOSTERED BY DAVIDSONIAN
Photographic Contest Sponsored Jointly By Charlotte Dealer And Davidsonian

A photographic contest is being conducted for local photographers by the Davidsonian in connection with Mr. W. I. Van Ness, Charlotte dealer in photographic supplies. Mr. Van Ness is offering as first prize five dollars worth of photographic stock to the student who enters the most valuable photograph preserving the history of Davidson. The Davidsonian is adding a second prize of $2.50 and a third of $1.50. Any information concerning this contest may be secured at the Davidsonian office.

The contest is strictly limited to Davidson students. The photographs can portray any phase of student life at Davidson: athletics, fraternity life, or anything that pertains to Davidson College or its students. The pictures are to be judged on their originality and the value in preserving the history of the College, and must be taken between November 21 and December 12, 1934. They can be of whatever description; taken at night or in the daytime, snapshots or time exposures, and of any size.

In those issues of the Davidsonian which will appear during the duration of the contest, there will be published a few pictures which have been entered in the contest. The judges will be selected by the Davidsonian, and their opinion will be counted as final. The winning pictures will appear in the earliest possible issue of the Davidsonian after the closing date of the contest. All pictures must be turned into the Davidsonian before six o'clock P.M. December 12, 1934.

YMCA SERVICES WELL ATTENDED
Band, Orchestra And Glee Club Combine In An Impressive Musicale

Departing from the usual order of the weekly vesper service, the YMCA this week sponsored a program consisting entirely of music. The Davidson musical organizations, namely, the glee club, salon orchestra, and band were directed by Professor Pfohl and Warren Babcock, cellist. Assisting Mrs. Pfohl in this highly successful program of music were James Christian Pfohl and the musical organizations.

First on the program was a march by the concert band, entitled “March on ‘Old Hundred’”, by Gerald Frazee. This march is built around the well-known doxology hymn-tune, and was played with exceptional accuracy and finesse by the band. Following, the congregation sang “Come Thou Almighty King,” and was accompanied by the band, organ, and glee club. After a prayer by Sid Marsh, the band presented the well-known Largo from the “New World Symphony”, also known as “Goin’ Home”, by Anton Dvorak. Few compositions could have been chosen which have so beautiful and appealing a melody as Dvorak’s most famous work.

The scripture reading, read by Harvey Glass, was selected with especial regard to the importance of worship. The choral prelude, “Ich ruf’ dir, Herr Jesu Christ”, by Johann Sebastian Bach, was played on the organ by Professor Pfohl following the scripture, and lent itself entirely to the musical theme of the service. The salon orchestra, with organ accompaniment, next rendered Gounod’s immortal Sanctus, from the “St. Cecilia Mass”. Following, Warren Babcock, assistant to Professor Pfohl, presented two cello solos, both accompanied at the piano by Mrs. Pfohl. The latter solo, “Jesu, meine Freude”, represented the position of music in worship.

Hon. J. B. Clark And Maj. A. L. Bulwinkle, Congressmen, Admitted To O. D. K.
SIX SENIORS INITIATED
Ceremony Followed By Banquet In Chambers Building

Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, initiated two honorary and six student members at a meeting held last Monday night in the faculty room of Chambers. At six-thirty the meeting was called to order by G. H. Brown, president. K. D. Weeks then presented two loyal friends of Davidson, the Honorable J. B. Clark, of Fayetteville, and Major A. L. Bulwinkle, of Gastonia, as candidates for admission. They were duly received and welcomed into the fellowship of Omicron Delta Kappa by all present.

Following this ceremony, the six students who received bids at the Annual Tap Day exercises held two weeks ago were initiated. These students were: R. T. Coit, Richmond, Va.; C. T. Fort, Barium Springs; John C. Mackorell, Hickory; William A. Northern, Sarasota, Fla.; P. Mims Rogers, Florence, Ala.; and George Wingfield, Reidsville. The body then withdrew to the banquet hall, where they were joined by a group of charming ladies, the partners and guests of the various members. The dining room was tastefully decorated with autumnal flowers through the efforts of a decorations committee under the leadership of Mrs. L. B. Schenck.

Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of the college, pronounced the blessing. Then followed a well-cooked dinner of turkey, dressing, and other seasonable foods. Brown, as the first speaker of the evening, welcomed new members and guests of the Circle and then presented Dr. J. M. McConnell, who in turn presented Major Bulwinkle. When Maj. Bulwinkle had concluded his timely and well-chosen remarks, Dr. McConnell introduced the Honorable Mr. Clark, who also gave a most interesting and entertaining address. Dr. Archibald Currie, and a number of other members gave short, impromptu talks which concluded the banquet.

The banquet was arranged by a banquet committee under the chairmanship of Mr. Jackson. Besides the new initiates, about fifteen associate members, three active and seven student members were present. The Honorable Jerome Bayard Clark attended Davidson as a member of the class of 1905. He did not graduate here but completed his education in the U.N.C. law school at Chapel Hill. Admitted to the bar in 1906, he began to practice law in Elizabethtown. He also served as president of the Bank of Elizabethtown from 1910 until 1922. Long active in political circles, he was elected to the N.C. Assembly in 1915 and served as a presidential elector in 1916. For ten years he was Chairman of the Bladen County Democratic Executive Committee and a member of the North Carolina State Democratic Committee. In 1920 he moved to Fayetteville, becoming a member of the law firm of Dye and Clark. In 1924 he was named Senior Counsel of the North Carolina Railroads.

Freshman Pep Meeting Held Before V. M. I. Tilt

A spirited pep meeting was held last Friday night in Shearer Hall in anticipation of the V. M. I. game on Saturday. The rally was in charge of Paul Warren, varsity cheer leader, and Joe Dees, junior cheer leader. The meeting was well attended by freshmen, but only a few upperclassmen were in evidence. The band was present to furnish music. After opening the proceedings with the Davidson yell, Cheerleader Warren made a short speech thanking the freshman class for cooperating with him during the season and asking them not to let up on the last two games. Dr. Walter L. Lingle made the pep talk of the evening, urging the student body and team not to get overconfident about their chances for success against V. M. I., but to fight as hard as they had against stronger foes. The rally ended with the band playing “O Davidson.”