THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 2, 1934

Quips and Cranks To Be Ready Soon

Williams Urges Prompt Payment of All Debts

All those students who have not yet taken up their checks in payment for Annual debts are urged to do
so at once. The deadline has been set as May 10 by the staff. After that time all accounts will
be turned over to administrative authorities. This right to pay by check was granted as a favor to students. There
are also some clubs who have not yet paid debts incurred by them. This year’s staff does not want to
prorate accounts and have each man pay extra for his Annual, as this puts an added strain on the individual.
The treasurers of those clubs that have not yet paid up should add up the assessment and hand it in
to the business manager. This is thought to be a much better plan. All clubs in arrears are urged to
meet and arrange for payment. Those students leaving school before the beginning of the second semester who want an Annual
may get it by paying an additional $2.00. A special price of $4.00 has been made to the co-eds of
the college. All faculty members wishing to purchase an Annual should see some member of the staff so as to
be included in the order. The editorial staff is hard at work now finishing up the subject matter. Work on
the Spring Sports section, the last section to be submitted, is now being completed. The Annual this year will be
different, and it is hoped “that the attractiveness will not be sacrificed, but added effectiveness will be gained,” Editor Williams
stated.

Many Speeches Occupy President Lingle’s Time

The personal program of Dr. Walter L. Lingle for the next ten days is filled with sermons, speeches, and commencement
addresses. On Sunday morning, April 22, Dr. Lingle gave a sermon at the Steele Creek Presbyterian Church, near Charlotte. The
Steele Creek Church is the largest country institution of its kind that is connected with the Southern Presbyterian Church. Sunday
afternoon, a large audience at the Berryville High School heard Dr. Lingle deliver a commencement address to the graduating class
of Berryville High. The graduating exercises of Barium Springs High School were held Tuesday night and Dr. Lingle made the
address at that ceremony. The high school is operated in connection with the Barium Springs Orphanage, and several Davidson students
have graduated from it. Dr. Lingle spoke for the ladies of eight or ten neighboring counties at the Mooresville Presbyterian
Church Tuesday afternoon at 2:30. The occasion was the annual meeting of the Concord Presbyterial. Dr. Lingle made another talk
to the same group on Wednesday morning. The Presbyterian Theological Seminary in Louisville, Kentucky, has asked Dr. Lingle to speak
at commencement, and he will deliver his address to the graduating class on Tuesday, May 1. His talk will explain
the things that the church requires of its ministers.

Lecture Committee to Offer Fewer Lectures

Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake, chairman of the Lecture Committee, announced today that the committee had practically decided not to have
any more lectures during this school year. Lack of time in which to secure a good lecturer and lack of
appreciation on the part of the student body were reasons that influenced the committee's decision. It has been the policy
during the last few years to allow some member of the faculty to suggest a man that had excelled in
his especial field and then to invite him here to speak. This system has since proved its worth. Dr. Shewmake
has been contemplating for several years the plan of having fewer lecturers at Davidson. This plan will probably be adopted
next year and will enable the committee to secure the best available lecturers in the United States. The Committee on
Lectures, besides its chairman, Dr. Shewmake, is composed of Dr. Frazer Hood and Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman. Dr. Paul H.
Douglas, University of Chicago economics professor, has been awarded the $5,000 prize for the best original work on “The Theory
of Wages” offered by Hart, Schaffner & Marx. Drew University in Madison, N. J., has been willed more than $4,548,000
by the late Ella V. von E. Wendel.

Dr. Watts Writes In April “Books Abroad”

Davidson Professor Reviews Six Books for Magazine

In the April number of “Books Abroad,” published by the University of Oklahoma Press, there are six reviews of modern
French works written by Dr. G. B. Watts of the French department of Davidson College. “Books Abroad” is a quarterly
publication which aims to supply information on all the important books published in foreign countries. A force of reviewers from
the leading colleges and universities of America report regularly on the latest publications from abroad which have come into their
hands. These are not the first articles that the Davidson professor has submitted to this publication; he has been submitting
articles regularly for the three years that he has been connected with this publication. Two Ripon (Wisconsin) College faculty men
recently campaigned for municipal offices in that city.PROFESSORS TO DO GRADUATE WORK
(Continued from page 1)

at Yale. He will return in time for the school year 1935-36. Professor J. T. Kimbrough, who has been assistant
professor of mathematics at Davidson since 1928, graduated from Davidson in 1926. After finishing here he entered Carnegie Tech where
he studied engineering for several months. Later he entered the Kentucky State Teachers College, completing his course there and finally
coming to Davidson in the fall of 1928. While he has not yet made any definite plans, Professor Kimbrough will
probably spend the summer at the University of Kentucky at Frankfort, entering the University of Chicago in the fall for
the completion of his work.

MANY STUDENTS FIND PLACES AS TEACHERS
(Continued from page 1)

nearly every applicant must be able to handle some extra-curricular activity, either in music, publications, dramatics or athletics. There seems
to be a greater demand for science and mathematics teachers, coupled with some extra-curricular ability. Dr. Gwynn states that he
recently received a letter from a high school superintendent who, although not a Davidson graduate, had seen “Shrimp” Morris and
“Lefty” Pearce playing ball in Edenton and wanted to know if he had any other Davidson graduates who could accept
a coaching position.

MUSIC CLUB TO GIVE PROGRAM IN WINSTON
(Continued from page 1)

Band, at a reception in his home. The morning program, though not completed as yet, will include “Straussiana,” a collection
of Strauss’ famous waltzes; the overture “Stradella,” by Verdi, and the March “Americans We,” by Fillmore. The male chorus will
sing “Innicotina,” by Candlyn, three negro spirituals, and “Home on the Range,” by Fox. Soloists for the morning will be
Kenneth Scott, who will play as a piano solo, “Tarantelle,” by Donnee, and Harris Bradley, who will render on the
clarinet “Finale from the Somnambula,” by Lazurus. The band will open the night program with “Hall of Fame,” by Olivadoti;
the overture “Poet and Peasant,” by Von Suppe, and a cornet solo, “Grand Russian Fantasia,” by Levy, rendered by Moreland
Cunningham. The Glee Club will follow with “Now Let Every Tongue Adore Thee,” by Bach; “Lo, How a Rose E're
Blooming,” by Praetorius; “Hymn of Praise,” by McDowell; “Landsighting,” by Gray, and a bass solo by David McLain. The concert
band will conclude the program with the overture to Pinafore, by Sullivan; “Children’s March,” by Goldman, and “O Davidson,” by
Shields.

QUADWRANGLES CHOOSE RHETT AS NEW LEADER
(Continued from page 1)

which wives of the members are invited. The plan of having afternoon teas every two months was inaugurated this year,
under the direction of Prof. A. V. Goldiere as chairman of the social committee, these teas have proven very successful,
according to the members and their wives. The Quadwranglers from the science department are leaving this week for Chapel Hill
to attend the 33rd annual meeting of the North Carolina Academy of Science, which was held at Davidson last year.
Several members of the Quadwranglers Club are athletically inclined, as attested by their competing in a golf match with Carolina
at the Carolina course in Charlotte Monday afternoon.

DR. VOWLES URGES RHODES APPLICANTS
(Continued from page 1)

tainments; (2) qualities of manhood, truth, courage, devotion to duty, sympathy, kindliness, unselfishness, and fellowship; (3) exhibition of moral force
of character and instincts to lead and take an interest in his schoolmates; (4) physical vigor as shown by interest
in outdoor sports or in other ways. There is a competition for Rhodes Scholarships every year in every state. For
purposes of election, the 48 states are divided into eight districts of six states each. Each state committee is empowered
to nominate two men to appear before the district committee, and from the 12 men so nominated the district committee
selects four to represent the state at Oxford. The secretary of the committee of selection for North Carolina is Prof.
F. K. Mitchell of Duke University.

Predicting the end of the “skyscraper age,” Frank Lloyd Wright, prominent American architect, told a Northwestern University audience recently that
“the architecture of the future will grow out of the inward nature of the American people.”

The clean Center Leaves are the mildest leaves
Luckies are all-ways kind to your throat

WHEREVER the finest tobaccos grow—in our own Southland, in Turkey, in Greece—all over the world, we gather the very Cream
of the tobacco Crops for Lucky Strike. And that means only the clean center leaves. The center leaves are the
mildest leaves—they taste better and farmers are paid higher prices for them. These clean center leaves are the only ones
used.

“It’s toasted”
Luckies are all-ways kind to your throat
Only the Center Leaves—these are the Mildest Leaves in making Luckies. Then “It’s toasted”—for throat protection. And every Lucky is
fully packed with these choice tobaccos—made round and firm, free from loose ends—that’s why Luckies “keep in condition”—why you'll find
that Luckies do not dry out—an important point to every smoker. Naturally, Luckies are always in all-ways kind to your
throat.

Copyright, 1934, The American Tobacco Company.
