*THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 21, 1934

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Associated Collegiate Press — 1933

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications for publication must be signed.

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON................. Editor
G. L. GULLETTE........ Managing Editor
E. F. McPHAIL............... Editor
B. L. ROSE..................... Editor
K. D. WEEKS........ Managing Editor
C. HELLINGER........ Alumni Editor
BOWLING PRATT-THOMAS... Editorial Writer
J. A. HUNTER........... Sports Editor
J. B. BAILEY............. Feature Editor
R. K. EATON........... Feature Editor
J. S. McCALL........... Feature Editor
L. W. CLARDY........... Associate Editor
A. F. MITCHELL........ Associate Editor
W. M. THOMAS........ Associate Editor
JACK WILLIAMS........ Night Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
G. L. GREEN........... Business Manager
W. W. WADSWORTH... Assistant Business Manager
J. A. C. WADSWORTH... Circulation Manager

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1934

How much easier our work would be if we put forth as much effort trying to improve the quality of it as most of us do trying to find excuses for not properly attending to it.
—George W. Ballinger.

THE VALUE OF A UNIVERSITY EDUCATION

In the January issue of “School Life,” a monthly publication of the United States Department of the Interior, Office of Education, there appears under the title, “Advice to Harvard Freshmen,” the following editorial, written by Dr. James B. Conant, president of Harvard University:

In my opinion, one of the greatest values of a university education is that for four years one is living in a free and vigorous intellectual atmosphere. A spirit of tolerance based on reason is in the air. Dogmas are courageously examined, compared, attacked, defended. Of course, it would be quite erroneous to believe that the members of a university are free from prejudices. Such a condition would be impossible, perhaps even undesirable. But if the academic community is in a healthy condition, there should be among its permanent members intelligent men with assorted prejudices and with a tolerant point of view. Thus the student may have a wide choice of opinions. May I suggest that your college career is an excellent time to cultivate a tolerant, skeptical spirit? No one need worry lest he have too few prejudices.

Students are often worried about the relation of their field of concentration to their future vocation. Such worries are based on an erroneous idea of a university education. Except for a few special requirements for some of the professions, it is of relatively little importance which one of our fields of concentration you decide upon, provided you choose a subject which you may thoroughly enjoy. For many of you who will go out into the world of affairs, the last three years of your college life may be the only time when you will have the privilege of indulging in a whole-hearted interest in some purely intellectual activity. If you are fortunate enough to have the experience of a real intellectual passion, you will, to my mind, have gained what is best in a university education.

In the course of your work you will be led to study with men who are devoting their lives to some branch of learning. They are the intellectual descendants of the long line of earnest scholars who have accumulated and preserved what are the most priceless possessions of our race today. If you understand their enthusiasms, you will have gained an insight into the forces which have civilized the world.

VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE

The Davidson College Y. M. C. A. is to be highly commended for its recent activity in the field of vocational guidance. The recent vocational inventory showed that one hundred and ninety-one men had not yet chosen their vocation. No doubt many of those men who stated that they had chosen their vocation did so with little assurance that they would actually enter that work. On inquiry, one will find that so many men think they will enter this or that field of endeavor. Such indecision often results in disappointment, unhappiness, restlessness, and loss of time and money. The fields of endeavor of this modern era that we are living in today are becoming more and more specialized. Jobs are very scarce and a man is likely to find it rather discouraging when he starts seeking a job, unless he is a man of unusual ability and merit. Employers in specialized fields are looking for men who are thoroughly trained for the job they offer.

The old idea that an individual has a certain niche to fill in the great field of human activity is not necessarily true, for there are many who can do one phase of work equally as well as another. But there are a great many of us who are “cut out” for a certain vocation and could excel in that work. Very often there are those who find out too late that they have missed their calling, and deeply regret the opportunities that they have passed up. Certainly this should bear out the importance of vocational guidance for us who are here in college. It should help to prevent such mistakes and the disappointments and regrets that follow.

If vocational guidance plays such an important part in our lives, then isn’t it plausible that it should receive an important place in our college curriculum? After all, the primary function of education is to give the individual a fighting chance in society. It is up to us to choose that field of activity in which we can put up the best fight. Too many of us are prone to enter college merely for the sake of “going to college,” forgetting that we are actually preparing ourselves for the part that we are to play in society.

In various vocations, such as medicine, engineering, and law, there are required subjects which one must study. The sooner we can make up our minds, the more time we will have for preparation. Vast amounts of valuable time and money are wasted by merely sitting on the fence of indecision, from whence we scan the fields of human activity and wonder which way to go. The college student who has definitely selected his vocation has a purpose for being in college and a goal toward which he must strive. He finds a special interest in his studies, and experiences no restlessness of indecision and no regrets. The reading of books and the attending of lectures, in which various vocations are discussed, will be of great help to those who are experiencing difficulty in choosing their vocation. We should avail ourselves of this aid which will be rendered by the Y. M. C. A. in the near future.
—G. L. Green.

KEEP OUR CAMPUS CLEAN

Davidson is, and should be, commended on its beautiful campus and walks. It is therefore the duty of every student to see that the campus stays in excellent shape. It should not only be a duty, however, but the student should take pride in it and do it of his own accord. Paper strewn all over the walks and edges of the grass does not in any way add to the beauty of our campus, and yet students do not seem to care where they throw their waste paper and envelopes. A student will go to the post office and, if he gets a letter, nine times out of ten will open it on his way to the dormitory or to Chambers Building and carelessly throw the bits of the envelope or the envelope itself on the campus as he walks along. It is, no doubt, merely a thoughtless and a careless act on the part of the individual student, but he should bear in mind that when over six hundred individuals do the same thing that it mars terribly the beauty of the campus.

More trash cans might be suggested as a remedy for this, but if the student will think long enough to put the paper in a can close at hand, why can’t he think long enough to hold it until he comes to one of such cans already on the campus, and spare the college the extra expense? Then, too, trash cans are not helpful to the beauty of the campus. The college pays men to prune the trees, cut the grass, rake the leaves, and even pick up some of the paper. The rest of the burden at least, therefore, should be assumed by the individual student in aiding to keep the campus beautiful through his own pride and thoughtfulness. Do your bit to keep the campus neat.
—B. L. R.

Here and There

Prof. Rollin M. Perkins, of the University of Iowa, has been appointed chairman of the committee on criminal law and criminal procedure of the Association of American Law Schools.

Kampus Kadets is the name of a co-ed society at the Lewiston, Idaho, State Normal School.

A milk truck ran away from its driver on the campus of the College of St. Thomas in St. Paul, and was captured only after its wheels failed to keep it going on a long stretch of ice.

The end of capitalistic economics and government was predicted by George E. Frazer, Chicago financier, in an address at the University of Iowa.

NEWS DIGEST

REVOLT IN AUSTRIA

The roar of machine guns and heavy artillery thundered in the streets of Vienna and other Austrian cities as the government sought to tear down the barricades erected by Socialist troops. Many were killed and wounded in the worst European civil strife since the World War. Heavy artillery and field batteries were used to destroy the more firmly entrenched troops. Chancellor Dollfuss, fighting for the life of his party, issued an edict declaring the Socialist party dissolved.

FRENCH STRIKE ENDS

The nation-wide strike which followed the riots in the French capital ended quietly when most of the strikers returned to work. The Socialist leaders applauded the restraint with which all men returned to their jobs with the exception of some disgruntled Communists who were most active in leading the recent revolt against the government. The country is quiet again after a week of fighting around the capital where many were killed and wounded.

PRISON UPRISING

One of the bloodiest prison breaks in the history of the country was quelled when guards at the Washington State Prison cut a wide swath through forty escaping men with machine guns.guns. Six men were slain and twelve wounded in this attempted escape. The forty men, armed with butcher knives and improvised weapons, attempted to rush the guards as they were being led back to their cells, but the attack was frustrated.

ARMY AIR MAIL
The move of President Roosevelt to turn the handling of all air mail over to army fliers will go into effect Tuesday. This move, causing a great deal of criticism over the country, will be the first attempt made by the President to operate something in which a great many of the people have disagreed with him. Anyway, the work goes on and even now the army fliers are carrying the mails.

REDS RISE
Not many years ago the Communist party was a group which was sometimes heard about but never did it seem so close to us as it does today. The Reds are astir in Germany and in Italy. They are even now fighting for possession of Austria. And the latest event is an uprising in our own New York where three thousand Reds stormed a Socialist meeting and started a free-for-all fight which was not broken up until hundreds of extra policemen were called to the scene. They are growing stronger and stronger; their organization is perfecting its implements of war; they are undermining the governments of the world. What are we going to do about it?

A WARNING
The three great European powers, England, France, and Italy, have served a warning on Germany that the independence of Austria must be observed and that no encroachments on the part of Germany will be tolerated. As a result, the tense situation in Austria has lapsed again into a semi-dormant condition, each waiting for the other to make the first move.

BELGIUM MOURNS
Belgium mourns the death of its beloved King Albert. His broken body, which fell from a towering crag while he was mountain-climbing, lies in state at Brussels and the world grieves the death of this king so great in war and so kind to his subjects. His was a grand reign and he was well beloved by his subjects. His son, Prince Leopold, will ascend the throne at once as soon as his father is buried. The new Belgium king, Leopold III, is also well liked by his subjects, but if he has the neighborliness, the kindness, and the bravery of his father, he will be an exceptional ruler.

MacCRACKEN JAILED
MacCracken and Britten, who refused to attend the Senate investigating committee on the question of air mail contracts to private companies, were put in jail for ten days for contempt of court. It is the first time in history when a man deliberately refused to meet with the Senate and the following drastic step shows what the Senate thinks of the idea.

NAPOLEON ON UNEMPLOYMENT
From Arthur Brisbane: Napoleon was perpetually vigilant on this point. He would send for his ministers and say that there was not enough work. He would then order foodstuffs and furniture, and he would advance money to the principal manufacturers. One of these crises cost him in this way more than two million pounds sterling.

Washington Professor Starts Language Move
In the opinion of Dr. DeWitt Croissant, of George Washington University, words in the English language should be spelled simply and just as they sound. Dr. Croissant says that spelling should be phonetic, so that people can tell from the way a word is written how it sounds. The doctor thinks there are too many letters to most words, too many words with the same meaning, and often too many meanings for the same word.

DR. C. E. MACARTNEY CLOSES 4-DAY LECTURE
(Continued from page 1)
and purposes of the Otts Foundation. Dr. Lingle announced that the general theme of the lecture this year was “Christian Faith and the Spirit of the Age.” Dr. Macartney’s subject for the first lecture was “The Christian Book.” Dr. Macartney referred humorously to an early textbook written by Gen. D. H. Hill, a member of the Davidson faculty during the War Between the States, in which, he said, all of the problems were illustrated by Confederate heroes and fleeing Yankees. However, he said that though he was a Northerner, he welcomed the opportunity to speak to the student body of this Southern school, and to visit here in the Carolinas. Referring to the students as those who in the future would occupy the seats of the mighty, Dr. Macartney emphasized the importance of a strong Christian foundation upon which to build our lives. This period of college life, too, he explained, was the very time and place to lay that foundation or to strengthen it if we already have it.

First, the speaker outlined briefly the history of the Bible, mentioning the famous Codex Sinaiticus, which recently figured in the news as having been purchased by the British government from Russia for $500,000. This, he said, is evidence of the power of Christianity even in our present-day governments. The Book, which is the foundation of our religion, is God’s revelation to His people, and through it He guides our lives. The only alternative which is left for us if we refuse the Bible is human wisdom, which has been tried and found wanting. There is a definite need to recognize the divinity of the Scriptures, and there are many proofs of its divine inspiration from the first word of Genesis to the end of Revelation. No book has such a singular history as our Bible. It is the life story of a great and chosen people whose characteristics are so well portrayed, and whose history is so accurately given, which has been proved by careful investigation. In spite of the tremendous range of time which the Book covers, and the large number of authors who contributed to it, it has a singular unity which plainly shows a power guiding and directing its progress as it came into existence through the ages. Every book contributes its part to the grand theme of the Bible which is, according to Dr. Macartney, the redemption of man’s soul.

In proving its divine inspiration, we may think of it under seven heads as divided by the speaker: contents, precepts, doctrine, omissions, prophecies, confirmation, and influence. The subject matter or contents of the Bible is plainly divine. Its precepts are well summed up in the Sermon on the Mount. As to doctrine, every church seems to find a strong basis for its own doctrine but there are certain fundamental doctrines everywhere evident, such as the doctrine of the Trinity and the often-debated doctrines of predestination and free will. Dr. Macartney called attention to the fact that these two apparently conflicting doctrines were often discussed together in the Bible so that they harmonized.

STATIONERY CALLING CARDS
On Other Campuses

CLEMSON
Soccer is a new intramural sport at Clemson this year. Much interest toward the game has been created among the students. In an effort to create still more interest and to get as large a number as possible to participate in this outdoor sport, two games with Furman University (intramural team also) have been scheduled. The games are played in four quarters of fifteen minutes each. There is one minute rest between the quarters, and a maximum of ten minutes between the halves. In case of a tie, two extra periods of five minutes are played, the resulting score to stand as official.

N. C. STATE
Part-time jobs for 148 State College students will soon be available under a Federal Emergency Relief Administration ruling which provided for students in non-profit making institutions which desired aid for its students.

TEMPLE
Forty of the most brilliant high school and prep school students entering Temple University from Philadelphia and vicinity this year have been put in an experimental group, relieved of most of the regular college student routine. No definite course of study will have to be taken by the group; no credits earned; no marks given; class attendance will not be compulsory. The first two years will be devoted to the study of world problems and how to solve them. The last two years will be devoted to specialization in the field of the student’s choice.

PURDUE
What next?? The co-eds at Purdue are now taking a course in “Charm.” Those who pass the course successfully will know how to hold a cigarette gracefully and also how to sip cocktails without spilling a drop.

EMORY
And now this. Recently, when the Emory Aces played for the Roosevelt Ball at a neighboring town, the ballroom was sorta cold. A mere seven degrees below zero. It was so cold that moisture froze in the wind instruments and stuck the keys, necessitating regular periods for thawing in a warmer place. Page Blanche Calloway.

The omissions in the Bible are notable. For instance, Moses, the great philosopher and the man who probably understood God better than the author of any of the other books of the Bible, fails to mention the future life or anything connected with it. It is to be remembered that Christ Himself makes only a few references to the same question. Only divine influence could have caused Moses to omit the subject. Every one of the gospel writers leaves out accounts of the early life of Jesus, though they all probably knew something of it. No mention is made of world events of that day, though they were many and important, and the writers were sure to have known them, living in a country so centrally located as Palestine. One of the strongest proofs of the divine inspiration is the way the prophecies given in the Bible have come true. Without exception, all of the Old Testament prophecies were fulfilled exactly as given. We do not have to say the Bible is true just because it is the Bible. Science is time after time proving it to be accurate in its descriptions of times, peoples, places, and events. The recent reading of ancient inscriptions bears out the Bible in many ways. The influence of the Bible is untold. Compare countries which have the strong influence of Christianity with those which have not, as for instance the United States with Mexico. Compare the United States at its lowest moral ebb to Mexico at its best. Think of the advantages which Christianity brings, such as schools, hospitals, and charitable institutions. Its influence is (Continued on page 3)

PROGRAMS FRATERNITY PAPERS
Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates
See BILL JOHNSON @ 203 Watts
Standard Printing Company @ Garland Court - CHARLOTTE, N. C.