THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 14, 1934

N.C.C.W. Will Pay Annual Visit Here
Next Vespers to Be Led by Miss Lucy Crisp
GIVEN BY Y. W. C. A.
Subject to Be Discussed Nationally

The vesper services next Sunday night will be conducted by the Y. W. C. A. of N.C.C.W., under the direction
of Miss Lucy Crisp. The program will be a discussion of "My University Students." This program will be discussed at
the same time by other students over the nation. For the past few years, it has been the custom for
the local Y. M. C. A. to make an annual trip to the Greensboro school, and in turn, the organization
from the woman's school would conduct one vesper program each year at Davidson. Throughout the nation, college students will have
a part in the discussion of this subject. A special day in the year has been set aside for this
program, and for the past few months, material on this subject has been sent all over the nation in an
attempt to create interest in the subject. The program to be given Sunday night was selected by the Y. M.
C. A. of N.C.C.W. because of the national interest as well as the local interest that it will create.

With the Social Fraternities

Mid-Winters occasioned considerable activity last weekend among the fraternities on the hill, with numerous banquets and other gatherings of a
social nature taking place in celebration of the affair.

BETA THETA PI
The Betas held a banquet last Saturday night at Efird’s, with Rawling Pratt-Thomas being the toastmaster. Pledges of the fraternity
will be formally initiated on February 17, and many alumni are expected to be present for the occasion.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
The Pika freshmen entertained members of the chapter and their dates with a play Sunday afternoon. The Pikas are planning
to have their house refinished on the inside sometime soon.

KAPPA ALPHA
K.A. formal initiation will be held next Tuesday and Wednesday, and a model initiation will take place Friday night. The
K.A.’s had a banquet at the Lucinda Tea Room in Charlotte last Saturday night between the dances.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Last Friday night after the dance, the S.A.E.'s were entertained at the home of Dr. V. M. Matthews, and Saturday
evening Addison Brenizer gave a dinner party at his home for chapter members and dates. Guyte McCord, of the class
of 1937, was pledged by the fraternity on February 8.

KAPPA SIGMA
The Kappa Sigs held a banquet at Efird’s last Saturday evening after the tea dance, with J.T. Thompson presiding as
toastmaster. Alumni present were Dr. Hamilton McKay, Professor and Mrs. Lewis Schenck, and Harry Whitner.

PHI GAMMA DELTA and PHI DELTA THETA
Two other banquets also took place Saturday night, the Phi Gams gathering at the S. & W. Cafeteria, and the
Phi Delts at Efird’s Tea Room. Murray Christian, who graduated in 1930, acted as toastmaster for the former, and Julian
West presided over the latter.

Eu Delegates Present Program in Charlotte

A delegation from the Eumenean Literary Society gave a program before a combined audience of both literary societies of Queens-Chicora
College Tuesday night. The principal feature of the program was a debate, the query of which was, “Resolved: That examinations
as a test of knowledge should be abolished.” Hugh Hawkins, former president of the society, argued that the practice of
cramming, the large field of a subject as compared with the small number of questions, and the ill effects of
over-studying caused examinations to be undesirable. To this, John Shirey replied that studying for an examination caused the student to
view the subject as a whole and to refresh himself on the major points. “The real test of a man’s
ability,” argued Shirey, “is not what he knows but his ability to display it at the proper moment.” Gordon Wood
read a paper on E.E. Cummings, his life, work, and ability. E.S. Hodge discussed Hitler propaganda in America, and R.T.
Banks gave a humorous reading to conclude the program, which was led by Rufus Morrow, president of the Eumenean Society.
The Queens-Chicora societies will make a return visit to Davidson in the near future.

“Search For Beauty” Will Be Shown Here
Barrymore to Come in New Picture

Wednesday, February 14—You Can't Buy Everything

May Robson plays the lead in this story that tells about the lady of the day becoming the queen of
Wall Street, then the theme of the story that money cannot buy everything. With her are Jean Stone.carrying out buy
everything. Parker and Lewis

Thursday, February 15—This Side of Heaven
Lionel Barrymore in his newest lead, with another great characterization. In this, his latest picture, with Una Merkel, Mae Clark,
and Tom Brown, his acting is as good as ever.

Friday, February 16—Good Dame

Saturday, February 17—Search for Beauty
With the thirty international beauty winners, this picture leaves nothing to be desired in the way of adornment. It is
the story of the beauty contest to decide the international winner, in which the real winners of the contest are
starred, with the contest winners Buster Crabbe, Ida Lupino, the new English starlet, Robert Armstrong, and Toby Wing.

Monday, February 19—As Husbands Go
Warner Baxter is starred in a role that leaves much to be desired from such a good actor, although he
does get the most from his part that could be expected. He is the loving husband whose wife returns home
from a trip abroad with her new lover, and with whom he starts to be good friends. Helen Vinson is
the wife.

Tuesday, February 20—Dark Hazard
This is the name of the racing greyhound that Edward G. Robinson buys when he becomes infatuated with gambling on
the dogs. In fact, he becomes so taken up with it that it replaces his love for his wife, Genevieve
Tobin. Many interesting phases of gambling on the dogs are shown.

Committee to Present “Jack Williams” Trophy
The award committee for the “Jack Williams, Jr. Trophy” has been announced. The appointments have just been made and the
committee will consist of Sam Hines, chairman, A. W. Colwell, and Jack Williams, Jr. This committee of three will select
the freshman in the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity whom they consider to be the best all-round as proven by his
record for the spring term. Dr. G. R. Vowles was asked to formally present the cup to the group at
a recent meeting and point out the advantages of winning such a trophy. The committee announces that the three requisites
to be considered are: scholarship, participation in extra-curricular activities, and interest in the fraternity. There is room for other names
on the front and back of the cup for many years to come. It is now on exhibition at the
club hall, where it is to be kept. The donor is Jack Williams, Jr., retiring president, who presented it as
a token of his appreciation for the cooperation of the members during his tenure of office just expired.

TYPING CLASSES START
Raymond Reel, a member of the Senior class, will start typewriting classes this Friday evening at 8:30, and continue three
nights a week for one month. Enrollment in the classes should be made before Friday, it was announced. Classes are
held for one hour, on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays of each week.

COCHRAN CAPTURES FIRST IN SHOT PUT
(Continued from page 1)
The first three men to come in in this distance all broke the field house record, the winner being timed
at 4:27. This indoor meet at the West Virginia school is one of the biggest of its kind in the
East, and a strong aggregation always participates. The last time Davidson men entered this contest was four years ago, when
“Pete” Whittle, present assistant director of athletics, and Tom Brohard attended the same meet. It was at this time that
Whittle tied the world indoor record existing at that time in the 70-yard hurdles. It is around the three above-mentioned
men that Captain Pritchett expects to build up his 1934 track team, for which he holds hopes of being one
of the best ever to enter competition in Davidson’s name. The first scheduled meet listed by the Wildcat cindermen is
with Wofford on March 24 at Davidson.

Avoid Trouble--- Drive HENDERSON’S U - PUSH - ITS Day and Night

Direct from the fields, always the Finest Tobacco
Copyright, 1934, The American Tobacco Company

Saturday at 1:45 P. M., over the Red and Blue Networks of NBC, Lucky Strike will broadcast the Metropolitan Opera
Company of New York in the complete Opera, “FAUST.” Direct from the Metropolitan Opera House Eastern Standard Time, over Red
and Blue Networks of NBC.

Only the Center Leaves
Luckies’ finer, smoother taste comes from the finest Turkish and domestic tobaccos. We use only the center leaves for they
are the mildest, most tender leaves. And every Lucky is so round, so firm, so fully packed. NOT the top
leaves—they’re underdeveloped—they are harsh! NOT the bottom leaves—they’re inferior in quality—coarse and always sandy!
