THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 7, 1934

ORGAN RECITAL RENDERED HERE

Palmer Christian, Of University Of Michigan, Offers Recital Tuesday

Of unusual interest to the musical-minded at Davidson, as well as to those of the entire state, was the organ recital rendered before a large audience by Palmer Christian last Tuesday evening in Chambers Building. The recital was played on the three-manual Skinner organ by the eminent organist, whose name is known wherever there is interest in the organ or in organ music. Mr. Christian at present heads the organ department of the University of Michigan.

Mr. Christian opened his Davidson program with the impressive Psalm XIX, by Marcello, which was followed by Rameau’s Minuet et Gigue en rondeau. Following was Handel’s Largo in E, which enjoyed a very enthusiastic reception. Mr. Christian’s sole Bach selection, Fantasie and Fugue in C minor, proved exceptionally well fitted for the Davidson organ. This fugue, unlike most fugues, kept its listeners’ attention by its swiftness and vigor. In this number, Mr. Christian’s brilliant pedal technique, as well as his ease and unexcelled mastery of the console were particularly outstanding.

The contrast of the number following, Hage’s “Aftonfrid” (Evening Peace), with the vigorous fugue was most pleasing. DeLamarter’s “The Fountain” delighted the audience by its colorful effects. Mr. Christian’s mastery of the great French composer, Cesar Franck, was shown by his excellent rendition of the composer’s Choral in A minor. This particular number proved to be the highlight of the program, and received notable acclaim by the audience. Prelude in E, by Saint-Saens was followed by the crisp and brilliant Minuet and Scherzo, by Jongen. This number displayed the most colorful resources of the organ, in the use of which Mr. Christian is scarcely equalled.

“O Zion,” an arrangement of the familiar spiritual, “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot,” was done with especial regard to the spirit and character of this type of composition. This selection delighted all members of the audience, and is quite typical of the famous organist’s excellent judgment in the choosing of concert selections. As his final number, Mr. Christian played his own arrangement of Sinding’s “Norwegian Rhapsody.” The colorful, joyous, and powerful mood of this composition brought into prominence the magnificent full organ, and made a fitting close to the splendid program.

Mr. Christian’s precise and brilliant technique, his absolute ease at the console, and especially his beautiful and colorful stop selection were but a few of his outstanding points of excellence. He is known especially for his program building, by which he captures the interests of all types of listeners. Mr. Christian, unlike many concert organists, plays his programs entirely from memory. His poise and finish at the console made his concert unforgettable to all those fortunate enough to hear him. In the audience were many well-known North Carolina organists and musicians, as well as a splendid showing of students and interested individuals from Davidson and surrounding communities.

1934 Yearbook Editor Studying In New York

Jack Williams, Jr., editor of the 1934 edition of “Quips and Cranks,” is studying journalism at Columbia University, New York City, this winter. He has recently been elected secretary of the Southern Club and also been invited to join the New York Writers Club. He and his sister, Miss Ruth Williams, spent ten weeks traveling in Europe last summer. While abroad he acted as correspondent for several Georgia newspapers, while Miss Williams took notes on styles at the Paris openings.

While at Amsterdam, Williams called the Kaiser on long distance for an interview. The Kaiser was unwilling to give an official interview, but they did stop to see him at his estate at Doorn. Other figures they report seeing on the trip were: King George V of England; Queen Wilhelmina and Princess Juliana, of Holland; the Prince of Abyssinia; and Mussolini.

BE WELL GROOMED for HOME-COMING
Norton’s Barber Shop

ALUMNI HEAD

Mr. Joseph B. Johnston, who succeeds Dr. Ben R. Lacy as President of the Alumni Association of Davidson College. Mr. Johnston is a member of the class of '01, and was prominent in athletics and in other campus activities. He has been an

Y.M.C.A.

The ping pong tournament to which the wooden racqueters have looked forward with much enthusiasm will begin at the “Y” next week. Material for covering the pool table located in the “Y” building has been purchased and is to be placed on the table this week.

On Sunday a “Y” deputation journeyed to Jefferson, North Carolina, where they conducted the following services in three churches: Bon Brandon renderedA sermon for the morning service of the Lansing Church; at 2:30 P.M. Don Bailey spoke to the members of the Gillespie Church; and Tommie Phifer preached for the evening service of the Foster Memorial Church. Hubert Morris and Bob Leonard furnished special music at each of the services. The members of the various churches cordially received the visitors and expressed their appreciation for the splendid manner in which the services were conducted.

MILITARY FRAT TO MEET SOON

Davidson To Send Delegate To Scabbard And Blade National Convention

Tentative plans are now being made by the R.O.T.C. battalion here to send a delegate to represent the Davidson Reserve Officers at the 19th Convention of the National Society of Scabbard and Blade, which will convene on the campus of the University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio, on November 15. Scabbard and Blade is an honorary organization of advanced R.O.T.C. The organization numbers 78 companies, with an active membership of approximately 2,000, and a total membership of about 22,000. The National Convention is assembled every other year, with the organization as a whole bearing the expense of one delegate from each company. Quite frequently the companies send alternates to share in the information to be derived. The organization sponsors a pistol match and a rifle match between the various companies each year. A cup is held by the winning team. They also support a national publication, the Scabbard and Blade Journal, and coordinate the efforts of all companies.

AT THE LOCAL THEATRE

Thursday & Friday, Nov. 8 and 9
MRS. WIGGS OF THE CABBAGE PATCH
This is the picturization of the well-known work of this name. Pauline Lord, W.C. Fields, and Zasu Pitts play the leads. This picture should afford good entertainment for all.

Saturday, Nov. 10
STRAIGHT IS THE WAY
Franchot Tone, May Robson, and Karen Morley.

Monday and Tuesday, Nov. 12 and 13
THE MERRY WIDOW
This is the latest production of The Merry Widow and is said to be an excellent picture with its lavish costumes.

Wednesday, Nov. 14
SIX BICYCLE RIDERS
This picture brings Joe E. Brown, that howling comic, back again. This picture is very amusing. He gets into all kinds of jams but manages to get out again. The cast includes Joe E. Brown, Maxine Doyle, and Frank McHugh.

Mooresville Men Are Struck By Automobile

Two unidentified young men who said that they were residents of Mooresville were struck by an automobile on the main road through Davidson last Saturday. The two men were evidently trying to catch a ride when they were hit by a Ford car driven by a woman, also from Mooresville. Neither was seriously hurt. They were taken to the college infirmary, where it was found that one man had a gash in his head which necessitated several stitches. After treatment, the pair got into an automobile and continued on their way.

Kennedy’s Shoe Shop
Skilled Workmanship at Reasonable Prices
“The best possible Material”

The quartet consisting of Frank Tuckett, John Morgan, John Washburn, Paul McClanahan, and Carlton Chapman at the piano, sang before the student body of Gastonia High School on Monday. The numbers presented by the quartet were met with loud applause and were thoroughly enjoyed by the entire audience, consisting of more than 1,000 students.

Davidson Theatre

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, NOV. 8 AND 9
MRS. WIGGS OF THE CABBAGE PATCH
WITH PAULINE LORD, W.C. FIELDS, AND ZASU PITTS

SATURDAY, NOV. 10
STRAIGHT IS THE WAY
WITH FRANCHOT TONE, AND KAREN MORLEY

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, NOV. 12 AND 13
THE MERRY WIDOW
WITH MAURICE CHEVALIER, JANETTE MacDONALD, EDWARD EVERETT HORTON.

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 14
SIX BICYCLE RIDERS
WITH JOE E. BROWN, MAXINE DOYLE, AND FRANK McHUGH

Dr. Pepper Bottling Company
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Helps PREVENT many colds

“It’s toasted”
Your throat protection—against irritation—against cough
Copyright, 1934 The American Tobacco Company

The clean center leaves are the mildest leaves—they cost more—they taste better—so of course, Luckies use only the clean center leaves—the choicest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos.