Peet LAST ISSUE OF THE DAVIDSONIAN | PICTORIAL SUPPLEMENT “THE DAVIDSONIAN” | ON INSIDE PAGES FOR SCHOOL YEAR OF THIS
ISSUE. a Glenda Lux Gbi Orta Libertas | . Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 16, 1934 3
No. 29

Newton Is Appointed Judge of Next Court of Control
Siewers, Harris, Lewis, Johnson, Robinson and Armfield Also Chosen
SELECTED BY SENIORS
Joe Wadsworth Named Recorder in Elections Saturday

Last Saturday the senior members of the Student Council met and selected the Court of Control for the ensuing year.
John Newton was appointed judge and Joe Wadsworth was named recorder. Other senior members are John Siewers and Charlie Harris.
Carlyle Lewis and Red Johnson, of the rising Junior class, and Hoke Robinson and Ed Armfield, of the rising Sophomore
class, complete the personnel of this board.

Article 10 of the College Constitution provides: “There shall be a body to be known as the Court of Control.
It shall be the duty of this court to hear, investigate, and deal with the charges of upperclassmen against freshmen
for improper conduct, such as jibing, violating freshmen regulations, or breaking college traditions.” Section 5 of this Article states: “This
body shall have the power to confine to the campus any freshman found guilty of an offense not serious enough
to warrant suspension from college.” Other sections of Article 10 provide for the membership and proceedings of the body.

The Court of Control has met with great success during the past two years, both with upperclassmen and freshmen. It
has always been the purpose of this court to maintain the proper relations between the freshmen and upperclassmen and to
impress upon the freshmen a desire to uphold the college’s traditions.

Newton’s home is in Gainesville, Ga. Since his arrival on the Davidson campus he has taken an active part in
extra-curricular activities. He is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. Retiring members of the board are Jimmy
Halverstadt, judge; R. O. Dees, L. M. Grimes, T. H. McCallie, L. W. Pratt, L. T. Purnell, W. B. Ravenel,
and A. F. Schenck.

Class Day Exercises Will Be Held June 4
Humphrey and Huie to Make Class Speeches

Monday, June 4, will be Class Day, a day traditionally set aside during the commencement exercises for a get-together of
the graduating class. The exercises, which will be presided over by F. L. Smyre, president of the class, will be
held at 5:30 o'clock in Chambers Auditorium. They will include the class valedictory speech by E. J. Humphrey and the
class salutatory speech by L. H. Huie. These speeches are distinguished from the valedictory and salutatory speeches held on commencement
night, as the speakers are selected by vote of the class and not by scholarship.

Rawlings Pratt-Thomas will deliver the class oration; W. L. Fugate will give the class poem, and the class historian, Alec
McGeachy, will read the class history. All the above officers were elected at a recent class smoker, except McGeachy, who
was elected historian during his sophomore year, as is the custom.

Other plans for the occasion are indefinite. It is possible that the Concert Band may stay over for commencement.

(Continued on page 6)

Dr. McQuilkin to Hold Final Vesper Services

The Davidson College Y. M. C. A. will hold its last Vesper service Sunday, May 20. This service, known up
until last year as the Annual Sermon before the “Y,” will have a specially prepared program. The speaker will be
Dr. R. C. McQuilkin, president of the Columbia Bible School, Columbia. Dr. McQuilkin is widely known for his work with
young people and the Y. M. C. A. feels very fortunate in being able to secure his services.

Marshalls Chosen From Junior Class
Four Men to Assist Seniors at Commencement

In the balloting last Saturday, four members of the Junior class were selected to act as junior marshals for the
graduation ceremonies. The following men were chosen to serve in this capacity: W. E. Atwater, Burlington; D. M. Glasgow, Charlotte;
C. C. Harris, Welch, W. Va.; P. M. Rogers, Florence, Ala. These men will remain until the end of commencement
exercises, serve as ushers, and in other ways assist the senior marshals at both class day and commencement exercises.

Runners-up in the election were: E. F. McPhail, W. C. Neill, W. B. Ravenel, and B. L. Rose. L. W.
Clardy, of Talladega, Ala.; J. M. Holland, Jr., of Gastonia; E. L. Powell, of Mobile, Ala., and F. L. Smyre,
Jr., of Gastonia, acted as junior marshals last year.

New Men Initiated By Military Frat.
Honorary Banquet Given in Charlotte Tuesday Night

Fifth Company, Regiment, of Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity, initiated fifteen new members at a formal meeting held
in the Quadwranglers’ room last Monday night. These men were all juniors, chosen for their particular efficiency in military work
shown throughout the past year.

A banquet in honor of the new members was held last night at 7:30 in the banquet hall of the
S & W Cafeteria in Charlotte. All members attended in full uniform. The officers in charge of the local R.
O. T. C. unit were present with their wives. The wives of the faculty members also attended.

E. J. Humphrey acted as toastmaster. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle gave the address of the evening. Retiring Lieut.-Col. W. M.
Brown and Cadet Major J. Rhett also spoke.

The informal initiation was held Thursday and was opened by Bill Northern, the one-man band, who blew Reveille for formation
in front of the (Continued on page 6)

New “D” Club Council Adopted at Meeting
Twenty-seven New Men Initiated Into Club

Twenty-seven men were formally initiated into the “D” Club at a meeting held Monday night in the Chambers banquet hall.
The “D” Club constitution, which was revised last year under the presidency of Mack Holland, was read to the new
men. Following this a discussion was held with regard to the operation of the club next year. Holland made a
suggestion that the club create a council to consist of one representative from each sport and the president of the
“D” Club, which would act as an investigating committee and bring each infringement of the constitution up before the club
for judgment. This was adopted at the meeting.

Music was furnished by Gettys Monroe, P. D. Guerrant and Madison Armistead, who sang several novelty numbers for the club.
Captain Pritchett and Gene McEver were present at the meeting. The club decided to hold the informal initiation next fall.

The recent initiates are: Wrestling—L. J. Blackwelder. Basketball—Hugh Yelverton. Baseball—W. W. Burns, R. H. Gladstone, J. A. Jenkins, A. B.
McLean, W. B. Ravenel, R. B. Richardson, Teal Rogers. Track—M. Armistead, L. F. Byerly, W. B. Corbin, J. E. Dill,
R. H. Evans, A. M. Faison, J. H. Glass, A. A. Gammon, J. N. Lee, J. R. Pearce, P. C.
Pittman, R. E. Woodside. Golf—W. F. Bowman, B. C. Barnes, W. C. Cannon, C. F. Hamrick. Tennis—M. J. Barnett, C.
B. Lewis.

District Gathering of O.D.K. is Held With Local Circle
National President of Organization Delivers the Principal Address
McCONNELL SPEAKS
Georgia Tech, Rollins, Duke, and D. C. Are Represented

The Southeastern Province of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary fraternity, convened at Davidson on Friday, May 11, for a two-day
session. Delegates from four of the six chapters of the Province were present. Georgia Tech, Rollins, Duke, and Davidson were
represented. South Carolina and Emory sent no delegates.

Omicron Delta Kappa was founded in 1914 at Washington and Lee, and it has since spread to all parts of
the country. The principal speakers on Friday night were Dr. W. L. Lingle, president of Davidson, and Mr. Ivan Allen,
Jr., of Atlanta. On Saturday morning W. M. Thompson, of Davidson, gave the welcome, which was responded to by W.
E. Newsome of Duke. Other speakers at the morning meeting were Dr. Wm. M. Brown, national executive secretary, and Dr.
Lang, national president. In the afternoon Dr. J. M. McConnell, dean of the faculty, spoke.

D Company Wins Cup In Competitive Drill
Winning Company Commanded by Captain Odi Casali

The annual company competitive drill was held on Friday, May 11. Company D, commanded by Captain Odi Casali, was decided
by the judges to have the best drilled company in the battalion. The judges were Captain F. M. Cochran and
Captain C. W. Seifert. The competition consisted of a short drill and was judged on the basis of the correctness
of the commands given by the company commanders and the execution of the movements by the companies. Each company was
divided into two platoons.

Other officers of the winning company are Captain A. F. Schenck, and First Lieutenants B. L. Moore and R. H.
Pratt-Thomas. The final parade was held this afternoon at 3:05 in the Richardson Stadium. At this time the commissions as
officers in the reserve corps of the United States Army were presented to the senior members of the battalion. Also
the cup won in the above-mentioned company competition was presented to the company. This will complete the field work of
the R. O. T. C. department for the year.

All of the members of the first-year advanced course are being prepared to go to the summer camp which will
be held for six weeks starting the first part of June. This camp will be held at Fort McClelland near
Anderson, Ala. There will be forty-four men from Davidson to attend this camp. There the cadets from all the infantry
units in the eight southeastern states will be gathered. Altogether there will be about seven hundred students. The work in
the morning will be military instruction. In the afternoon the students will participate in organized athletics. Athletic competition of all
kinds will be held between the representatives of the different schools.

Seniors Win Matches In Intramural Golf

The senior golfers tied three and three with the freshman aggregation in the intramural golf tournament last week. The seniors
also defeated the sophomores, but the second-year men came back strong to give the juniors a drubbing. The last round
of the tournament will be played off some time in the near future.

In the other intramural sport competition the sophomores took the honors in tennis, and the juniors won the campus baseball
title.

Phi Beta Kappa Is Making PlansFor Initiation May 22

Hines, Morrow, Schenck, and Scott Are Initiates to Scholastic Fraternity

TO ELECT DELEGATES

Officers to Be Chosen at Meeting Tuesday Night

The annual spring meeting of the Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, North Carolina, is scheduled for Tuesday, May 22,
at 7:30. At this time the following items of business will be handled: election of officers, reports of committees, annual
report of the treasurer, and initiation of the new members elected in March.

The men to be initiated are all members in course—seniors who are graduating this spring. They are S. M. Hines,
of Warsaw; R. C. Morrow, Jr., of Zitacuaro, Mexico; A. F. Schenck, of Charlotte; and F. H. Scott, of Tsianfu,
China.

Hines is a member of Eta Sigma Phi, classical fraternity, and of the Southernaires, local college orchestra. Morrow is a
member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, the “Y” Cabinet, president of the Student Volunteers, president of the Bumenean Literary
Society, and is a member of Alpha Chi Sigma, chemistry fraternity, and Sigma Pi Sigma, physics fraternity. Scott is a
member of the “Y” Cabinet, Delta Phi Alpha, honorary fraternity, on the varsity tennis team, captain of the R.O.T.C., head
of the state organization of Student Volunteers, and captain of the rifle team. Schenck is a member of Sigma Alpha
Epsilon, social fraternity, the Beaver Club, “Y” Board of Control, Delta Phi Alpha, and Tulane Forensic Society.

No alumni or honorary members are to be initiated at this time. Mr. Emery Flinn, who was elected last fall
but was prevented from coming to Davidson for his initiation, has requested that he be allowed to petition Columbia University
of New York City to initiate him, in place of the Davidson chapter.

At this meeting also delegates are to be elected to attend the eighteenth triennial council of Phi Beta Kappa, which
convenes in Cincinnati, Ohio, September 10 to 12, 1934.

Ninety Diplomas Are Ordered for Seniors

Exact Number to Graduate Not Yet Known

There will be approximately ninety men who will graduate in the class of 1934. W. Hengeveld, registrar, states that the
exact number will not be known until after the examinations, but those for whom diplomas have been ordered are as
follows: L. B. Adcox, Madison Armistead, Jr., R. T. Banks, J. T. Blair, W. M. Brown, J. B. Caldwell, Odi
Casali, L. W. Clardy, F. M. Cochran, W. B. Corbin, Pierce Dalton, J. E. Dill, A. A. Dofflemyer, J. S.
Drake, J. T. Fitzgerald, Jr., B. B. Fort, W. L. Fugate, L. S. Gladstone, Jr., C. F. Gold, Jr., J.
T. Goodykoontz, J. H. Graham, J. B. Gregory, A. F. Gregory, J. A. Halverstadt, J. M. Harris, Jr., F. P.
Harrison, W. M. Hart, S. C. Henry, H. M. Hawkins, S. M. Hines, H. H. Hodgin, Jr., J. M. Holland,
Jr., D. W. Hollingsworth, Jr., E. J. Humphrey, J. A. Hunter, E. N. Jenkins, W. T. Johnson, W. A. Kirkland,
P. M. Kirkpatrick, A. B. Kuhn, Jr., J. W. Lafferty, T. H. McCallie, P. J. McElrath, Jr., J. A. McGeachy,
Jr., A. B. McLean, C. A. McNeill, A. H. Manson, Jr., H. W. Marshall, F. L. Mock, Jr., R. B.
Moffett, B. L. Moore, E. W. Morrison, R. C. Morrow, Jr., G. T. Newnam, S. M. Nickey, Jr., Ellis Oakes,
B. F. Ormand, Jr., W. A. Parker, E. L. Powell, L. W. Pratt, H. R. Pratt-Thomas, B. O. Ravenel, Arnold
Ray, Raymond Reel, W. M. Reid, A. W. Rice, C. M. Rives, Jr., G. C. Robbins, J. H. Robbins, A.
F. Schenck, (Continued on page 6)

Annual to Be Out By Next Weekend

Editor Advises Societies to Meet Obligations

A number of students have inquired as to when the Annual is coming out. As it stands now, it will
probably be ready by the latter part of next week. All members of honorary clubs should see the treasurers of
the clubs to which they belong at once, and find out if they have paid in full for their space
in the book. To save inconvenience for both students and the staff, books will not be issued to members of
a club until that organization has met its obligations. This will replace the old plan of pro-rating the cost among
the individuals.

Senior Class Gift Chosen at Smoker

Alumni Council and Permanent President Are Elected

The Senior class held what was probably its last smoker Wednesday night, May 9, in the banquet hall of the
Chambers Building. In the absence of the class president, Fred Smyre, the vice-president, A. F. Manson, presided. The election of
those seniors who are to be members of the Alumni Council was held, and ten members were elected. Besides those
elected automatically, Odi Casali, Welch, W. Va., editor of The Davidsonian; Fred Smyre, Gastonia, president of the Senior class; Wee
Thompson, Richmond, Va., president of the Y.M.C.A.; Julian West, Larium Springs, president of the Student Body, and E. L. Willson,
Athens, Tenn., president of the Athletic Council, the following men were elected from the class: W. M. Brown, Knoxville, Tenn.;
A. B. McLean, Aberdeen; C. M. Rives, Greensboro; A. F. Schenck, Charlotte; and W. T. Thompson, Richmond, Va.

The class decided on a school gift, but this is not final. It was selected from the following list of
gifts: an arch over the walk that leads from Chambers to the street, a spouting fountain, and a bell system
to be placed in the dormitories. The class has been considering a luminous clock to be placed on the north
end of the campus.

Mims Rogers Heads Pan-Hellenic Council

Nine Social Fraternities Choose Representatives

At the initial meeting of the newly-elected Pan-Hellenic Council, P. M. Rogers, Phi Gamma Delta, was chosen president and Hugh
Yelverton, Pi Kappa Phi, was elected secretary-treasurer of the council for the coming year. The council consists of nine representatives,
one from each of the social fraternities. Each fraternity chooses their representative and these elect their officers among themselves.

The following is a list of the new councilmen and the fraternity which they represent. These men have recently replaced
the old members and have taken over their full duties: D. M. Glasgow, Phi Delta Theta; C. C. Harris, Pi
Kappa Alpha; E. F. McPhail, Kappa Alpha; T. D. Miller, Beta Theta Pi; A. C. Rogers, Sigma Phi Epsilon; P.
M. Rogers, Phi Gamma Delta; W. B. Ravenel, Kappa Sigma; J. A. C. Wadsworth, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; and Hugh Yelverton,
Pi Kappa Phi.

The members of the retired council are as follows: F. L. Smyre, president, Beta Theta Pi; J. M. Holland, secretary-treasurer,
Kappa Sigma; B. C. Barnes, Phi Delta Theta; F. M. Cochran, Theta Upsilon Omega; J. A. Hunter, Sigma Phi Epsilon;
W. A. Kirkland, Pi Kappa Alpha; A. B. McLean, Pi Kappa Phi; E. F. McPhail, Kappa Alpha; E. L. Powell,
Phi Gamma Delta; and S. H. Tomlinson, Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

Byrd is Speaker at Annual School Athletic Exercises

Letters and Numerals Presented in Eight Different College Sports

MEDALS ARE AWARDED

Two Alumni Members Are Given Gold Footballs

H. C. Byrd, vice-president of the University of Maryland and holder of four major athletic letters, was the speaker of
the occasion at the annual Athletic Day ceremonies held in Chambers Auditorium at chapel period Tuesday. Dewey Hutchins, president of
the “D” Club, presided over the chapel program, which was opened with a prayer by Dr. Moffett and scripture reading
by Dr. Lingle.

Following this, certificates were presented to athletes who earned letters in football, basketball, wrestling, baseball, golf, tennis, and track. Freshmen
making numerals in spring athletics were announced.

The physical improvement medal was then presented by Dr. Hood to R. R. Purdy, of the Freshman class, who showed
the greatest amount of physical development during the year. The medal, awarded each year to the Junior gymnastic winner, was
presented by Sam Wiley to Shirey.

Mack Holland, a member of the basketball team who was recently picked by members of the faculty as best showing
the elements of team spirit during the season of 1934, was presented with the basketball trophy by Grier Martin.

Presentation of a gold football for the “best blocker” on the football team was presented by Coach Newton.

Presentation of the “victory footballs” from The Citadel, V.M.I., and William and Mary was also made.

Eleven Classes Will Hold Annual Reunion

Alumni Will Hold Luncheon in Banquet Hall

Eleven classes, scattered from 1884 to 1933, will hold reunions at the 1934 commencement at Davidson College. The commencement exercises
have been scheduled for June 3rd through the 5th, the shortest program ever planned for a Davidson commencement. The program
has followed this trend for the past few years and has thus shortened the commencement considerably. This has been done
so that parents of students and alumni of the college can attend most of the exercises, and still not be
away from home any length of time.

The activities begin Monday afternoon at four o'clock and run through Tuesday noon. The alumni luncheon at 12:30 Tuesday is
the closing event of the program.

Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Charlotte, and also father of W. T. Johnson of
the graduating class, has been secured to give the baccalaureate sermon, Sunday, June 3.

The eleven classes which will hold reunions are: 1884, 1898, 1899, 1900, 1901, 1909, 1917, 1918, 1920, and 1933. The
class of 1884 is having its fiftieth reunion; the class of 1909, its twenty-fifth; and the class of 1933, its
first. Two contemporary groups of four classes are also meeting.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Holds Final Gathering

The chemical fraternity, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, held its last regular meeting of the year Monday evening in the laboratory building.
The program consisted of an interesting talk by the president of the society, Mat Alderman, on the subject, “Water Analysis.”
The senior members were given a surprise when they were asked to make extemporaneous talks of about two minutes each.
They were equal to the occasion, however, and responded freely, discussing various subjects.

E. L. Willson, retiring president, presided.
