SEMESTER EXAMS WILL BE GIVEN JANUARY 18-27

The Davidsonian
Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

REGISTRATION FOR NEXT TERM WILL BEGIN JANUARY 17

Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 10, 1934 No. 14

Zamsky Will Return To Make Individual Year-Book Photos

Many Students Express Desire to Have Photographs Made During This Visit

WILL COME IN FEBRUARY

Class Pictures to Be Sent to Publishers Soon

Jack Williams, editor of the 1934 yearbook, has definitely announced that the annual photographer will return to the campus in February to take individual pictures of those students who responded to his announcement in chapel last week regarding the possibility of a return visit by the cameraman. The original plan was to have the photographer make only one visit to the campus, and at this time to take all the pictures that were to go into the annual. Owing to the large number of boys who have come to members of the staff requesting the return of the photographer, the editor has decided to have one more day devoted to individual pictures.

Williams stated that in a yearbook it is most important to have individual pictures of all seniors. The majority of these pictures have been taken, and others have signified their intentions of making an appointment in February, but the staff feels that it is necessary for at least a score more to apply before it will be financially worthwhile to take those pictures which are held over until February. If those who are given appointments will keep them promptly, it will be a great help to the staff as well as the photographer.

The work during the first semester has been more or less in a formulative stage. Plans were made last spring, and the work so far has been the carrying out of these ideas. The individual pictures are to be sent to the engraver, and then work is to begin on the features. Letters have been sent out from the business department to the various social fraternities and honorary groups upon the campus asking them to decide about their page in the book. It will be a great help in arranging the financial side for all fraternities and clubs who expect to be represented in the publication to pay one-half of their fee the first semester. This will help to meet current obligations and in turn aid the organizations by making the payments in two installments instead of one sum in the spring. The editor wishes to request that all organizations decide as soon as possible if they are to have a page or a section.

Emerson Gill Engaged For Mid-Winter Social

Popular Radio Artists Secured by Pan-Hellenic Council

Emerson Gill and his popular radio broadcasting orchestra featuring “Pinkie” Hunter and Marion Mann, vocalists, have been engaged by the Pan-Hellenic Council to play for the Davidson Mid-Winter dances to be held in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium February 9 and 10. The set will consist of three dances, a formal dance Friday night, an informal tea dance Saturday afternoon, and an informal evening dance Saturday night. The Friday night dance will be from 9:30-2:00; the tea dance from 4:00-7:00, and the Saturday night dance from 8:30-12:00.

Emerson just completed an engagement at Cleveland’s Lotus Garden, where he and his band were on the air twice daily over WTAM. It was on this program that Emerson’s latest discovery, Marion Mann, a Cleveland debutante, became so popular that she is now one of the features of his program. Other of his broadcasts have taken place from the renowned Pavillon Royal on Long Island; the Steel Pier in Atlantic City; the Mount Royal Hotel, Montreal, and Norumbega Park, Boston.

Coach Praised “Doc” NEWTON

Head Coach William “Doc” Newton, head coach of Davidson's football, whose work here brought favorable comments from a Birmingham writer.

Coach Doc Newton Lauded by Paper

Birmingham Newspaper Writer Calls Him a Rare Specimen

Panegyric words were dished out to “Doc” Newton, head coach of the Davidson football team, by Jerry Bryan, Birmingham news writer, recently. Newton used to coach football teams in the southern metropolis before assuming duties here. Part of the news story, which was headed, “Here’s One Coach Who Wasn't Fired, But He Got a Raise,” is here reprinted:

“A specimen of genus homo as rare in this unstable post-season football era is a coach who feels no qualms about his job. So we give you a man marked among men—William ‘Doc’ Newton, head football coach at Davidson College—he got a raise!

“Newton several years ago chunked horsehide pellets for the Birmingham Barons. He coached the freshman teams at both Birmingham-Southern and Howard and won victories with the frosh on both sides of the city.

(Continued on page 6)

Centennials Penalized By Judge Halverstadt

Freshmen Suffer Strict Campus for Misdemeanors

A two weeks’ strict campus for the Freshman class and an extension of the date on which freshman caps may be removed were announced by J. A. Halverstadt, Judge of the Court of Control, as penalties for misdemeanors on the part of certain members of the centennial class. These misdemeanors consisted in the painting of numerals of the class on prominent parts of the campus and in the raising of a flag bearing the freshman numerals.

Judge Halverstadt stated that members of the Freshman class would be allowed fifteen minutes off the campus after each meal. The campus extends from January 4 to January 18, and the date for the removal of freshman caps was set for May 1. Judge Halverstadt asked the cooperation of the entire student body in the enforcement of these regulations.

Dr. Walter Lingle to Lecture in Gainesville

Dr. Walter L. Lingle left Davidson Saturday, January 6, for Gainesville, Florida. He will speak twice a day, beginning Sunday, January 7, at the First Presbyterian Church of Gainesville. Dr. Lingle, in the evening services, will dwell on the more serious Biblical questions that may arise, while he will devote his mornings mainly to the discussion of everyday problems. The First Presbyterian Church of Gainesville is located on the campus of the University of Florida and many of the university students are expected to hear Dr. Lingle throughout the week that he will speak. Dr. Lingle is expected to return to Davidson next Monday.

Large Percentage Of Students Make Gift Fund Pledges

North and South Jointly Lead Dormitories in Percentage of Contributions

RUMPLE COMES SECOND

Money Will Go for Relief of Davidson Unity Church

Pledges toward the annual Y. M. C. A. fund, which this year goes to the Davidson Unity Church, to date have amounted to a total of six hundred and fifty dollars. The reports, however, are incomplete, and it is hoped that the goal of seven hundred and fifty dollars will be reached when the remaining campaigners have turned in their results.

North and South dormitories made their contributions jointly, and the total pledged by this group amounts to ninety-five dollars with ninety-nine percent of the number taking part, the largest percentage of any dormitory. Rumple came second in percentage of contributors, giving sixty-eight dollars for an eighty-eight percent rating. The others in order are: Watts with one hundred and thirty-one dollars pledged and a percentage of seventy; East and West tied on their percentage at sixty-six, but West's pledges amounted to one hundred and thirty-seven dollars, while East had a total of ninety-five dollars and ninety cents, and Georgia was last, having a total of seventy-eight dollars promised, showing forty-one percent of its occupants taking part.

Two hundred and forty dollars of the amount pledged has already been

(Continued on page 2)

Go To Washington

Dr. Harding and Professor Bailey Attend Meeting

On a trip to Washington during the holidays, Dr. C. R. Harding and Professor J. C. Bailey, of the Davidson Greek department, attended the sixty-fifth annual meeting of the American Philological Association, held there in conjunction with the Archaeological Institute of America and the Linguistic Society of America from December 27-29. These three societies, meeting in the Hotel Washington, entertained members of their groups from all over the United States, sometimes meeting jointly and at other times conducting their discussions in separate groups. Both Dr. Harding and Professor Bailey are members of the Philological Association. This association is concerned with the study of the science of languages, and during the period of the convention a great many interesting and instructive papers were presented to the members on this subject.

Aside from attending this convention in Washington, Dr. Harding also spent a good deal of time while there in examination of the types of architecture embodied in various important buildings in Washington, and also visited several art galleries in the Capital City. A special feature of the convention was offered on Thursday evening, when the members of the three societies were entertained at a banquet, at which Campbell Bonner, president of the Philological Association, presided.

Prof. Schenck Attends Two Bible Conventions

Professor L. B. Schenck attended during the holidays two conventions of Biblical associations in New York. On December 27, he was present at the annual meeting of the National Association of Biblical Instructors at the Union Theological Seminary. This assembly was opened by an address by Dr. James Muhlenburg and lasted throughout the day. It included a luncheon and discussions of business matters and methods of teaching Bible.

The next day, Mr. Schenck was present at the convention of the National Bible Association, also held in the Union Theological Seminary.

Soph. Houseparty Proves Itself To Be Great Success

Tommy Tucker and His Californians Provide Music forWeek-end Dec. 15 LARGE ATTENDANCE Armory - Auditorium Decorated for Pre-Xmas Dances

The Sophomore class held its annual house party this year the weekend of December 15 and 16. Tommy Tucker and his Californians rendered the music for the three affairs staged in the appropriately decorated ballroom of the Charlotte Armory. In addition to these, all Davidson fraternities held “open house” during the weekend. Guests of the fraternities were as follows:

Beta Theta Pi: Misses Mary Wisdom Lambeth, Elinor and Elizabeth Stone, Kitty Van Echop, Charlotte; Miss Mary Lou Means, Concord; Miss Mary Richardson, Reidsville, and Miss Jean Shepherd, Durham.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Miss Virginia Booze, Winston-Salem; Miss Virginia Fraley, High Point; Misses Vernice Lang Jones and Mary Louise Rumley, (Continued on page 6)

Many Books Added To College Library Recent Additions Represent Wide Variety of Subjects

Many interesting modern books have been added to the Davidson College Library. To those students who like books concerning theology, “The Christ of the Christian Faith” by Doctor W. Douglas MacKenzie, and “The March of Faith” by Winfred Ernest Garrison would appeal. The changing picture of the churches and of their theology, the record of the men and women who made them, and the summary of religious impact on our national life comprise this story of religion—this “March of Faith.”

“World Prosperity” by Wallace McClure, “Tammany at Bay” by James E. Finegan, “Humanity Uprooted and Red Bread” by Maurice Hindus, and “Gandhi versus the Empire” by Haridas T. Muzumdar are invaluable parallel books for history students. Doctor Muzumdar, in his book on Gandhi, is a supporter of the Gandhi principle of non-violent revolution and is very sympathetic in his writings on him. The soul of India, of the deepest and gentlest people known to history, is found in this book on Gandhi.

“The Way of a Bee,” one of George Rendl's books, is a story of the ant’s strange cycle of bee-life. “The Art of Whistler,” by Elizabeth Robins Pennell, is pleasing to those particularly interested in painting. “My Friendly Contemporaries,” by Hamlin Garland, “The Facts of Fiction,” by Norman Collins, “A Tale of Troy,” by John Masefield, and “The Puppet Show,” written by Follansbee, are some of the new English books. The latter was dedicated to the belief that there can be peace-time as well as war-time patriotism.

Beautiful Music Given At Christmas Vespers

The annual Y.M.C.A. Christmas vesper services, which were held Sunday evening, December 17, were featured by Christmas music rendered by the Davidson College Orchestra, the Glee Club, and the Band, under the direction of James C. Pfohl. A beautiful candle-light service was conducted and the auditorium was appropriately decorated for Christmas. The music was assisted by several visiting artists, Miss Ruth Whittington Pfohl, harp, John Kenneth Pfohl, Jr., ’cello, and Albert Blumenthal, violin. The musicians are all from Winston-Salem. Approximately fifteen hundred people were present, which is the largest audience ever to attend the Christmas service.

Examinations

Mid-term examinations will begin on Thursday, January 18. Recess for the examination period will begin on Wednesday, the day before. The examination period will close on Saturday, January 27. The second semester will officially begin on Sunday, January 28, at 11 o'clock a.m. College work after the Christmas recess was resumed at Davidson Thursday, January 4, at which time registration fees for the second semester were paid at the treasurer's office.

Pritchett Attends Chicago Assembly Track Coach Returns From National Athletic Meeting

A meeting of the National Intercollegiate Athletic Association which took place in Chicago on December 27, 28, 29, and 30, was attended by Captain Norton G. Pritchett, head track coach and director of athletics at Davidson. The chief discussion of the meeting centered on problems relating to the subsidizing of football players, and the evils in this method of obtaining gridiron men were brought out. The financing of athletics was discussed at round table gatherings, and much interesting data was revealed concerning the monetary policies of various institutions throughout the nation.

Along the line of intramural activities, Captain Pritchett stated that athletic competition between the classes of colleges and universities in the United States had shown an average increase of from one-third to fifty percent in the last three years. “There has been a definite tendency in most institutions to get as many as possible engaged in some kind of activity,” he said. Numerous addresses were made at the meeting by officials of various universities. (Continued on page 2)

French Club to Meet With Winthrop Circle Joint Performance Will Be Given On January 16

Le Cercle Francais of Davidson College has accepted the invitation of the chapter of Beta Pi Theta of Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S.C., for a joint performance at Rock Hill on Tuesday, January 16. It is expected that the twenty members of the local French Club will arrive by automobile in time for a complimentary dinner given by the college at 5:30 p.m. The joint program will begin in the college auditorium at 7:30. The Winthrop French organization will present a one-act comedy, “L'Arlequenade.” The Davidson Cercle Francais will offer a program, consisting of five numbers: L'Incendie, comic dialogue, by Lanier Pratt, William Hart, and Dave McLain; a selection from Gounod’s Faust, Dave McLain; Dans une Rue de Provence, Geo. Gullette and Robt. Smith; Bercense de Jocelyn, Frank Tucker; L’Anglais Tel Quoi le Parle, comedy in one act, by Tristan Bernard, with the following cast: La Caissiere, Geo. Gullette; Le Garcon, Jack Williams; Julien Cuandel, Lanier Pratt; Betty Hogson, Madison Armistead; Engene Interpriete, Bob Coit; James Hogson, Dave McLain; L’Inspecter de Police, T. Hooke McCallie, and L’Agent de Police, Dale Spencer. This is the same cast which appeared in the performance at Converse College on November 27. The program will be followed by a reception in honor of the visiting group.

CHEMISTRY FRAT MEETS

Members of the local chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national chemistry fraternity, heard Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, head of Davidson’s chemistry department, discuss some of the exhibits of the World’s Fair, at a meeting of the fraternity last Monday night. “Discovery of Rare Gases” was the subject of a paper read by Edward Hodge, and the meeting was brought to a close with the discussion of a few plans for the coming year.

Nine Davidson Men Represent College At Rhodes Tryout Barnett of U.N.C., and Lassiter of Yale Are North Carolina Representatives DR. VOWLES ATTENDS Barnett, Gordon, Booth, and Pollack Are Winners

During the holidays nine Davidson men appeared before their state committees in competition for the Rhodes Scholarships which are offered annually. None of them who represented Davidson College were selected to attend the regional meeting that was held in Atlanta last Monday. The men who represented Davidson and the states in which they appeared before the committee are as follows: Gordon Brown, New Jersey; Odi Casali, West Virginia; Ed Humphries, North Carolina; John McGeachy, North Carolina; Rufus Morrow, North Carolina; W. B. Ravenel, South Carolina; Francis Scott, North Carolina; W. M. Thompson, North Carolina, and W. T. Thompson, Virginia.

Thirty-two scholarships are offered annually to the young men in the United States. This sum of money was provided through the will of an Englishman, Cecil Rhodes. Davidson has Dr. Guy R. Vowles of the Language department as its representative on the North Carolina nominating committee. He has been a member of this committee for the past six years.

The men who were selected from the states which compose this district are as follows: Georgia, G. A. Gordon, Jr., Savannah; E. T. Booth, Woodstock. North Carolina, R. W. Barnett, Shanghai, China; R. Lassiter, Charlotte. South Carolina, Edward King Harding, Chester; Isaac Ball, III, Eastover. Virginia, Frederick Nolting, Jr., Richmond; H. C. Pollack, Phoebus. Florida, C. E. Bennett, Jacksonville; M. F. Knowles, West Palm Beach. Tennessee, F. Robinson, Mt. Pleasant; John Fischback, Memphis. From this group of men, four will be selected to go to England to study. The Rhodes Scholarship provides enough money for a student to spend two or three years abroad. Davidson is now represented by Dean Rusk, who is completing his third year. Recently he was given permission to go to Germany to study for six months. In the finals in Atlanta Monday, Barnett, Booth, and Pollack were chosen to receive scholarships.

Dr. T. W. Lingle Takes Short Trip to New York Mrs. Lingle Accompanies Davidson Professor on Tour

Shortly after the Christmas holidays had begun, Dr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Lingle left Davidson for New York, where they visited their son and daughter. After a week's stay in the city, Dr. Lingle went to Philadelphia where he attended the annual meeting of the American Association of University Professors, of which he is the Davidson chapter’s president. He also attended the banquet held at the Benjamin Franklin Hotel and talked with the newly-elected president of the association, Dr. Mitchell, who is Professor of Astronomy at the University of Virginia. Dr. Mitchell stated that he hoped to be able to visit Davidson in the near future. He is a friend of various members of the Davidson faculty.

Dr. Lingle next went to Washington and was present at the national convention of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity then in session at the Wardman Park Hotel. He was also present at the fraternity banquet at which Bishop McDowell and Newton D. Baker were the chief speakers. While in Washington, by previous engagement, he discussed the question of “Allied Debts” with Congressman Doughton and other members of Congress.