THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 9, 1934

DUKE TIES ’CAT TRACKMEN IN MEET AT DURHAM

In The Field of Sports

ATHLETIC DAY TO BE HELD AT CHAPEL TUESDAY MORNING

Those Duke Blue Devils should be very generous in their thanks to the gods for their barely-eked-out tie with the
Wildcat trackmen in Durham Saturday. Captain Pritchett’s charges, with that sophomore trio of Earl Frazier, John Lee, and Ras Evans
turning in their usual brilliant performances, led the Devils until the final event of the meet, which the Durham lads
won first honors in to even the count at 63-all. In this last race of the day, which was the
half-mile run, Coach Whittle reports that Ellis Oakes turned in an unusually surprising run. He paced his Blue opponent for
almost the entire distance but was unable to maintain the lead all of the way, consequently he trailed the winner
by only a few feet when they crossed the finish line.

Frazier again sliced his own mile record, this time to within about two seconds of the North Carolina college record.
He ran the four laps in 4 minutes, 23.9 seconds, almost seven seconds faster than the new record he established
against Wofford on the preceding Saturday. This man’s consistent and rapid improvement has enabled him to be classed as one
of the fastest milers in the South, and certainly there is no college sophomore below the Mason-Dixon line who can
hold a light to him.

John Lee seems to be dissatisfied unless he can add a few inches to his pole vault record in every
meet, too. He has now gotten it up to a dozen feet and if the pole hadn't broken with him
at Duke Saturday he might have gone higher. There are two remaining years for him to progress, so he will
no doubt raise his mark several inches and maybe augment as much as a foot before he lays aside his
pole for good.

The Wildcat sprint star, Ras Evans, hasn’t been able to chalk up any record-breaking times this season, but he has
accounted for quite a large number of points. In the Blue Devil meet he captured three first places, the century,
220, and low hurdles, all of which he stepped off in very creditable times. When these second-year men compete in
the state meet at Chapel Hill Saturday, we predict at least one first from each of them, and it is
practical to say that they will account for more. Captain Miller Cochrane, along with quite a few other performers, is
also a bright hope for several points in this titular contest.

Coach Laird’s boys gave us a very pleasant surprise by trouncing the N. C. State Wolfpack Monday afternoon. This is
the most decisive victory that the 'Cats have earned this season, and even though the exact statistics haven't been secured
at this writing, the score indicates a clean-cut win for the Lairdmen. It isn’t such a bad aggregation after all,
and I believe they will take one if not both of the contests off the Deacons at Wake Forest when
the teams mix tomorrow and the next day. These engagements will bring to a close the Wildcat season of 1934.

In spite of the fact that the tennis team started off like a lion and ended up like a lamb,
their season was one of the most successful in history. The first ten matches were all triumphs for the ’Cats,
and among the teams met were some of the very best in the East, but Carolina and Duke seemed to
have a jinx which the Davidsonians couldn't stifle. Four of the six men on this team will graduate in June,
but there are some stars in the lower classes who should be able to carry on next year in very
able fashion.

The Feline linksmen make a Southern invasion this week in one last effort to increase their number of victories to
more than one measly win, which they obtained at (Continued on page 6)

Athletic Day Will Be Observed Next Tuesday in Chapel

Certificates Will Be Awarded to Lettermen in Different Sports

BYRD TO MAKE TALK

Various Trophies Will Be Presented to Winners

Athletic Day, an annual event at Davidson, will be held at the chapel hour next Tuesday for the purpose of
presenting athletic trophies and certificates to varsity lettermen. The date will be May 15 and not May 8, as was
erroneously stated in last week's Davidsonian.

This day is set aside each year for the purpose of presenting certificates to lettermen in football, baseball, basketball, track,
tennis, and golf. Senior letter certificates, bearing a summary of the letters won by each man, will also be presented
to graduating stars. Several athletic trophies will also be presented at this time. The basketball team play plaque, which is
given by the faculty basketball squad to the man showing the best team spirit, will be formally given to Mack
Holland, ex-"D" Club president, and a star member of the 1934 quintet. The winner of the gymnastic trophy, John Shirey
of the Junior class, will formally receive his award. The winners of the various classes in boxing competition will also
be given recognition and be awarded medals. A gold football will go to that member of the alumni or friend
of the college who, in the opinion of the athletic department, has been the most interested and valiant supporter of
the Davidson football team and also of other sports. The winner of the physical improvement competition will be announced at
this time and publicly presented his trophy.

The principal speaker of the program will be Prof. H. C. Byrd, vice-president and director of athletics at the University
of Maryland. Professor Byrd is one of the best qualified authorities on athletics in the country, being the only living
man who holds four letters from four different colleges. Class periods will be shortened Tuesday morning to provide ample time
for the exercises.

Kappa Sig’s and Beta’s Win Close Ball Games

Two baseball games were played here last week in the inter-fraternity tournament. The first game between the Beta’s and the
Pika’s ended 8 to 7 in favor of the Beta’s, while the second contest between the Kappa Sig’s and the
Phi Gam's ended by the same score, with the Kappa Sig's on the big end.

Beta Theta Pi, 8; Pi Kappa Phi, 7

Led by Coley Windham, who knocked a home run with three men on base, the Beta’s defeated the Pika’s and
entered the semi-finals of the inter-fraternity baseball tournament. Four home runs were accounted for during the game, Tommy Miller and
Windham each making a home run for the Beta’s, while Hugh Yelverton and Joe Hunter brought in a four-bagger apiece
for the Pika’s. Bill Brewer pitched for the Beta’s and Ralph Smith for the Pika’s. The winner of the Sigma
Phi Epsilon-Beta Theta Pi game this week will enter the finals.

Kappa Sigma, 8; Phi Gamma Delta, 7

The Kappa Sig’s entered the finals of the inter-fraternity baseball tournament by defeating the Phi Gam’s, 8 to 7, in
a see-saw contest. The Phi Gam’s led by one run until the fourth inning, when Thompson knocked a home run
for the Kappa Sig’s with one man on base. Holland, Thompson, and Lindsay were the outstanding men for the Kappa
Sig's. The Phi Gam’s got off to an early start with Siewers and Northen getting a run apiece in the
first inning, but the rally staged by the Kappa Sig’s in the fourth overcame the difference in scores. The Phi
Gam’s accounted for four runs in the last inning to take the lead, but again the Kappa Sig's rallied to
take the game. Rogers, West, and Northen played a fine game for the Phi Gam’s.

Seven hundred student musicians representing 27 schools assembled at South Dakota State College recently to participate in the annual music
contest.

SOPHOMORE TRACK STARS

This trio of Wildcat trackmen have turned in consistently good performances all season in their respective events, and will be
depended upon to uphold a large part of the Davidson honors in the state meet at Chapel Hill this Saturday.
They are, left to right: Earl Frazier, distance runner; John Lee, pole vaulter.and Ras Evans, sprinter.

LEE EVANS

Wildcats Win State Series Opener 15-9

Win Two Practice Games — to Play Deacons Twice

Davidson's varsity baseball squad journeyed to Raleigh last Monday and defeated the Wolfpack in their third victory in the intercollegiate
ranks this season, by a decisive score of 15-9. Coach Laird’s team played State a second game on Tuesday, but
the results were not known at the time this paper went to press.

The Wildcats played two practice games last week in preparation for their four-game schedule this week. They defeated the Cornelius
nine on Richardson Field last Thursday by a score of 5-2, with West and Harris pitching. On Friday, they defeated
the Mooresville team on the Mooresville field by a score of 8-4. Bob Richardson did the work on the mound
in this game.

After their game on Tuesday with State, the Wildcats return to the campus, but take the road again on Thursday
for a two-game series with Wake Forest on Thursday and Friday. These games, originally scheduled for the earlier part of
the season, were rained out and are just now being played off.

The varsity team, under Coach Laird’s careful supervision, has been steadily improving during the entire season and the team is
working together for the first time during their schedule. The ’Cats suffered numerous defeats during the early part of the
season, but are coming back strong in their recent contests.

Yearling Tennis Team Downed By Charlotte

The Centennial tennis team came up against strong opposition when they met the Charlotte High team on the courts of
Myers Park Country Club last Thursday. The freshman team lost the match by the score of 6-3. Carl Carlson, number
one man on the Davidson team, met Earl Ruth, state high school champion for the past two years, in the
feature event of the match, losing by a score of 7-5, 7-5. Spratt and Campbell, number two doubles team for
Charlotte High, were forced to forfeit their match with Boggs and Woodward of Davidson while the score was 10-10 in
the first set.

In the singles matches, Carlson (D) lost to Ruth, 7-5, 7-5; Boggs (D) lost to Campbell, 6-3, 11-9; Gaw (D)
lost to Dulin, 6-2, 6-4; Woodward (D) lost to Spratt, 4-6, 6-2, 6-0; Findlay (C) lost to Cassidy, 5-7, 7-5,
7-5; LeGrand (D) lost to Kelly, 3-6, 6-3, 6-3. Doubles: Carlson-Gaw (D) lost to Ruth-Dulin, 6-1, 6-4; Boggs-Woodward (D) tied
Spratt-Campbell, 10-10; Cassidy-LeGrand (D) lost to Kelly-Jenkins, 6-3, 6-2.

The freshman team will play its last match of the season against Presbyterian College on the Davidson courts on Tuesday,
May 8.

SLEEP LATE and DINE WITH US

LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOP

Varsity Tennis Team Has Enviable Record

Win Ten and Lose Three Matches for Good Season

Making a record toward which future Davidson tennis teams may aspire, the varsity tennis stars concluded the season with ten
consecutive wins and three consecutive losses. In addition to winning most of their scheduled meets, members of the team took
prominent places in the North Carolina Intercollegiate Tennis Tournament, held recently. Jimmy Halverstadt, number one racquet-wielder for the Wildcats, defeated
Barney Welsh, Duke star, 6-4, 6-2, 6-1, to win the state championship, and the doubles team of Halverstadt and Lafferty
went to the finals, losing to Welsh and Higgins of Duke, 5-7, 6-2, 6-3, 6-4.

To Halverstadt, incidentally, goes the imaginary medal for the best individual performance during the 1934 season. Meeting the best college
players of the South, he lost only twice, once to Billy Reese of Georgia Tech, Atlanta, Ga., and Cotton-States champion,
and once to Barney Welsh, aforementioned Devil star, whom he had previously beaten in the state tournament. Doubles honors go
to Halverstadt and Lafferty who, having played together seven years, were losers to only one opposing doubles team this year.

(Continued on page 6)

Blue Devils Force Tie With ’Cats on Cinderpath 63-63

Frazier and Lee Shatter School Records in Mile Run and Pole Vault

EVANS HIGH SCORER

Duke Evens Count With Places in Half-Mile Race

Davidson's strong cinder squad was tied by the Duke tracksters last Saturday at Durham. After retaining a lead up until
the last event, the Wildcats were forced into a deadlock in the half-mile run by losing first and third places
to the Blue Devils. The final score was 63-63. Oakes of Davidson was passed on the home stretch by Reichman
of Duke, and this, together with a third place obtained in the same event, allowed the Blue Devils to even
the count.

Frazier of Davidson again lowered his record in the mile and topped off his performance by taking a first place
in the two-mile run. John Lee also shared in the record-breaking honors by raising his pole vault mark to 12
feet. Living up to his brilliant record, Ras Evans, Wildcat dash star, led the scoring with a total of 15
points. He took first places in the 100 and 200-yard dashes and in the 220-yard low hurdles.

Captain Pritchett’s squad have shown up well in every meet and are expected to be strong contenders for the state
title. They are now in intensive training for the state meet which will take place next Saturday in Chapel Hill
at the University of North Carolina.

The summary:

100-yard dash—Evans, Davidson; Terrall, Duke; Dodd, Duke; time, 10 seconds. 220-yard dash—Evans, Davidson; Terrall, Duke; Dodd, Duke; time, 22.2. 440-yard
run—Winstead, Duke; Garriss, Duke; Reichman, Duke; time, 50.3. 880-yard run—Reichman, Duke; Oakes, Davidson; Crist, Duke; time, 1:59.5. Mile run—Frazier, Davidson;
Bird, Duke; Heritage, Duke; time, 4:23.9. Two-mile run—Frazier, Davidson; Bird, Duke; Heritage, Duke; time, 10:5.8. 220-yard low hurdles—Evans, Davidson; McPhail,
Davidson; Stoneburner, Duke; time, 25.3. High hurdles—McPhail, Davidson; Pratt, Davidson; Atkinson, Duke; time, 15.7. Pole vault—Lee, Davidson; Pittman, Davidson, and
Stroud, Duke, tied for second; height, 12 feet.

(Continued on page 6)

Follow The Crowds To Norton’s Barber Shop

All This Week

NYAL 2 for 1 Sale

BUY ONE — GET ONE FREE

COLLEGE PHARMACY

Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY, MAY 9
“WE’RE NOT DRESSING”
BING CROSBY — CAROL LOMBARD — BURNS & ALLEN — ETHEL MERMAN — LEON ERROL

THURSDAY, MAY 10
“A VERY HONORABLE GUY”
JOE E. BROWN — ALICE WHITE

FRIDAY, MAY 11
“KEEP ’EM ROLLING”
WALTER HUSTON — FRANCES DEE

SATURDAY, MAY 12
“AS THE EARTH TURNS”
JEAN MUIR — DONALD WOOD

MONDAY, MAY 14
“MERRY WIVES OF RENO”

TUESDAY, MAY 15
“DOUBLE DOOR”
