THIS ISSUE DEDICATED TO THE SENIOR CLASS; NEXT TO BE PICTORIAL

The Davidsonian

Alenda Lux G@bi Orta Libertas

COMMENCEMENT PROGRAM ANNOUNCED; COVERS PERIOD OF SIX DAYS

Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 9, 1934 No. 28

Twelve Are Tapped By O.D.K. | Commencement Program to Extend Over Six Day Period

Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson Will Deliver Baccalaureate Sermon on June 3rd

CLASS DAY JUNE 4

Several Classes of Alumni Will Hold Reunions

As Davidson College draws near to the close of its ninety-eighth session, elaborate plans are being made for commencement. Commencement
this year will be from May 31st through June 5th. The program this year will be shorter than any previous
year, in order that more of the alumni may be able to attend. The two most important days of the
commencement period will be Monday and Tuesday, but those who wish to come for a longer period can come for
the weekend preceding the exercises.

Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, will deliver the baccalaureate sermon on Sunday, June
3, at the regular church hour. Dr. Johnson is the father of R. S. and W. T. Johnson, both of
whom attend Davidson. The following is a brief outline of the program:

Thursday, May 31
11:00—Meeting of the Executive Committee of the Trustees, to be held in Charlotte.

Friday, June 1
10:00—Trustees meet at Davidson.

Sunday, June 3
11:15—Baccalaureate sermon, Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, at the Davidson Presbyterian Church.

Monday, June 4
4:00—Meeting of the Executive Committee of the Alumni Council.
4:30—Reception for members of the families of the graduating class, given by the faculty.
5:30—Class Day exercises graduating class.
6:30—Suppers held by members of each of the reuniting classes.
7:30—Meeting of the Alumni Council. The meeting will be divided into discussion groups led by ten members of the graduating
class.

(Continued on page 6)

O.D.K. Convention to Be Held at Davidson

Southeastern O. D. K. Province Meets May 11 and 12

By an announcement from the Davidson faculty members of Omicron Delta Kappa, Davidson will be the site of the annual
convention of the Southeastern Province of that fraternity, to be held here on the weekend of May 11 and 12.
The convention will open on Friday afternoon with the registration of the delegates and visitors at the treasurer’s office, from
four until six o’clock. A slight registration fee will be required for those attending.

The next function of the convention will be presented in the form of a smoker, to be held in the
Quadranglers’ room on the third floor of Chambers. At this time the attendants will hear addresses by President W. L.
Lingle and by Ivan Allen, Jr., of Atlanta, Ga. The floor will be open for informal remarks from others.

Saturday morning will see the first actual session of the convention, which will be held in the faculty room on
the second floor of Chambers. F. L. Smyre will make the address of welcome, in his capacity of president of
the Davidson Delta Chapter. An answer will be made to this talk by a brother from the Duke-Rho Chapter. The
feature address of the convention will be heard next; when Dr. William Moseley Brown, the national executive secretary, speaks on
“Honor Societies and the American College Campus.” Then will follow the reports of the different circles by the circle delegates,
a discussion of these reports, and the appointment of new committees. The convention members will con-

(Continued on page 6)

New Publications Board is Elected

McPhail, Smith and Weeks Elected by Student Body

Three men, to compose the Publications Board for the ensuing year, were elected in the student body balloting last week.
Those selected are Lorenzo McPhail, editor of the Yowl; Bob Smith, editor of the Annual, and K. D. Weeks, editor
of the Davidsonian. These men were elected on the first ballot over a group of nominees consisting of two candidates
from each publication. The retiring Publications Board also nominated Sam Eaton, J. A. C. Wadsworth and Ben Wyche. The newly-elected
board will succeed Jack Williams, retiring president; Odi Casali, and W. L. Fugate. Professor Fleagle and Mr. F. L. Jackson
will continue to serve as faculty advisers.

It is the duty of the board to act as a regulating and supervisory committee for the three publications. This
board holds monthly meetings, at which time the various problems are discussed and questions of finance and management are dealt
with. Each member of the three major publications must submit a financial statement to the board at these meetings concerning
expenses of the past month. Due to this business-like procedure, the Publications Board has been unusually successful in handling their
problems. It is also the duty of the Publications Board to select the business managers for the publications. Publications under
the jurisdiction of the board are “Quips and Cranks,” “The Yowl,” and “The Davidsonian.” All three members of the board
were previously elected as editor of their publication.

Delegates Attend N. C. Science Meet

Five Professors Represent College at Annual Meeting

Five Davidson professors attended the annual meeting of the North Carolina Academy of Science which was held at Chapel Hill
on the weekend of May 4 and 5. Dr. Arbuckle, Dr. Porter, Professor Thies, Professor Mebane and Professor Fulcher were
those attending.

The meeting was presided over by Dr. B. W. Wells, professor of botany at North Carolina State, and retiring president
of the Academy. The first number on the program was the presentation of a number of papers on the work,
in the field of physics, biology, mathematics, chemistry, and other sciences. Next Dr. Bert Cunningham gave an illustrated paper on
a number of double-headed snakes. The illustrations were in the form of slides. Then Dr. Prouty, professor of geology at
the University of North Carolina, made a presentation of a specimen of fossil whales that were discovered in the eastern
section of the state. Following this address, Dr. W. C.

(Continued on page 5)

Pictorial Issue

In the next issue of “The Davidsonian” will be made an attempt to present to the readers, in pictorial form,
the leaders of the various fields of activity on the campus. A rotogravure section, composed of several pages will be
devoted toward presenting the retiring student leaders and their successors.

At least a page will be given to each major branch of student activity, including Student Government, Publications, Y. M.
C. A., and Athletics. The issue will be as inclusive as possible in an attempt to present the student leaders
in their respective fields.

RETIRING SENIOR CLASS OFFICERS

The retiring officers of the Class of ’34, pictured above, are: Top row (left to right)—F. L. Smyre, Jr., of
Gastonia, president; A. H. Manson, Jr., of Jacksonville, Fla., vice-president; bottom row (left to right)—W. A. Kirkland, of Durham, secretary-treasurer;
C. M. Rives, Jr., of Greensboro, senior marshal.

On Davidson

The following statements were made by members of the Senior class upon any topic which they wished to choose. These
statements were made especially for publication in “The Davidsonian.” An attempt was made to get such a statement from every
member of the class, but some are missing due to the fact that some did not wish to make any
statement and others could not be found before time of publication:

Lacy Barrett Adcox—“My freshman year was the hardest and happiest.”

Madison Armistead, Jr.—“Truth lies in the bottom of a beer cup, or a textbook maybe.”

Richard Torrance Banks—“A mighty good prep school. Now for the University of Experience.”

James Thomas Blair—“I would advise going through college once before entering.”

William McAmis Brown—“Your four years here are the beginning of learning.”

John Barry Caldwell—“For me to leave Davidson is to leave home.”

Odi Casali—“If you've gotta go—why, you've gotta go.”

Lyman Warren Clardy, II—“The greatest thing that Davidson can offer is friends.”

Franklin Miller Cochran—“Four years of college impresses a man with how very little he really knows.”

A. W. Colwell—“Good times and some work for four years—what next?”

W. B. Corbin—“Good old Davidson—I’ve gotten no more than I put into her.”

J. M. Covington—“Years at Davidson have been concise, but the value gained will abide perpetually.”

J. E. Dill—“What Davidson needs is a better grading system.”

A. A. Dofflemeyer—“Mankind must be taken as it is, not as we would have it.”

J. S. Drake—“Hope life will be as good in the future as in the past.”

J. T. Drake—“We have been in Davidson four years—Davidson will be in us always.”

W. L. Fugate—“Davidson has made us feel a bit superior.”

S. Henry—“If G. B. S. is right, I haven’t thought since I’ve been here. If he isn’t, I’m still uncertain.”and
there isn’t any more.” J. H. Fitzgerald — “Davidson—a great institution.” B. B. Fort—“I’ve just been lucky.” Lyne S. Gamble—“Four
years at Davidson should help one to recognize those things in life which have true value.” A. F. Gregory—“Only married
man in student body.” J. A. Halverstadt—“Knew more four years ago but didn’t know it.” J. M. Harris—“Hope life will
be as pleasant as last four years.” F. P. Harrison—“A debut, a swan song, My prelude was not long.” W.
M. Hart—“Four years and one regret—didn’t go to Charlotte enough.” H. M. Hawkins—“Four years for a sheepskin—so what!” S. M.
Hines—“Four years with one regret—the symphony replaced jazz.” H. H. Hodgin—“Little Man, What Now?” J. M. Holland—“It is with a
great deal of regret that I leave my Davidson days behind.” D. W. Hollingsworth—“Oh, to be in April now that
May is here!” L. M. Huie—“I came, I stayed, I’m vanquished.” E. J. Humphrey—“Education: that which remains after we have
forgotten all that we have learned.” J. A. Hunter—“‘We are lost,’ the captain shouted.” E. N. Jenkins—“It’s great to live
in the town where the greatest little college of the South is located.” H. G. Johnston—“The spice of life is
education.” W. T. Johnson—“A little bit goes a long way.” W. A. Kirkland—“The years are the hardest.” P. M. Kirkpatrick—“The
last four years are the hardest.” J. W. Lafferty—“The friendships formed are the greatest part of college life.” H. W.
Lucas—“I will never forget the days spent at Davidson and the lessons of fair play I learned here.” T. H.
McCallie—“Davidson is a great place to live.” P. J. McElrath, Jr.—“Davidson is a great place, but some of the rules
are a bit severe.” A. B. McLean—“The educational system of today is very doubtful.” C. A. McNeill—“No man in the
class of ’34 regrets having entered here four years ago.” A. H. Manson, Jr.—“May we look back and profit by
our mistakes, and may Davidson succeed in making one a Christian, a gentleman, and a scholar.” H. W. Marshall—“Davidson has
given me a broader outlook on life.” J. C. Miller, Jr.—“Davidson has become a relief after two years of The
Citadel.” F. L. Mock, Jr.—“I consider my days at Davidson well spent and I recommend the school highly.” (Continued on
page 6)

College Physician Pledged By Leadership Organization

Managers Elected to Student Store

Taylor and Simpson Chosen for Next Year

At a meeting of the Student Store Board last week, J. R. Taylor, of Mobile, Ala., was elected finance manager
and J. H. Simpson, of Gainesville, Ga., bookkeeping manager of the Student Store for the coming year. These two men
will succeed A. H. Manson, Jr., of Jacksonville, Fla., and E. L. Powell, of Mobile, Ala., who have served in
the capacity of student managers for the past year. Taylor, member of the present Junior class, is on the varsity
wrestling team, assistant manager of the Davidsonian, and a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. Simpson is a junior
track manager, a Red and Black Masquer, and a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

The board, which elected the managers, was composed of A. H. Manson and E. L. Powell, managers; F. L. Jackson
and M. W. McGill, faculty representatives; Julian West, president of the Student Body; E. L. Willson, Athletic Association representative, and
Mack Holland, Student Council representative. After lengthy discussion of the twelve applicants, seven of whom were clerks in the store
during the past year, a secret ballot was held, which resulted in the election of Taylor and Simpson to fill
the managers’ positions.

The Student Store was created long ago by Dr. J. M. Douglas, who was athletic director of the school at
that time. (Continued on page 6)

Quips and Cranks Will Appear Soon

Publication Staff Making Plans for Coming Year

“The ‘Quips and Cranks’ will be available to all Davidson students in about two weeks,” stated Jack Williams, editor-in-chief. B.
O. Ravenel, business manager, will be in charge of the distribution of them to the students and alumni of Davidson
College. All students will receive the annual free at Ravenel, in Chambers, since the cost of this publication is already
included in the registration fees. A mimeograph letter will be sent to all students who have left school since the
beginning of this year, giving the cost of the annual, etc., in hopes to extend the sale of the publication.

On Monday, May 7, the old and new publication staffs held a meeting, discussing the plans for the coming year.
Dr. W. L. Lingle was to give an estimation of the expenditures and possibilities for next year’s publication. “It was
thought,” stated Jack Williams, “that the budget would be cut for the following year, but, due to new circumstances, the
chances are good that the same amount allotted (Continued on page 2)

Senior Marshal

Charles Rives was elected senior marshal in the election held last Saturday. He won the position over six other members
of the Senior class, namely, R. T. Banks, W. M. Brown, E. J. Humphrey, W. A. Kirkland, L. W. Pratt,
and E. L. Powell. Rives has been captain of the football team for the past year. As chief marshal he
is in charge of the commencement exercises, and heads all the senior processions. As yet the junior marshals have not
been elected, but will be in the near future. Last year’s junior marshals were Lyman Clardy, Mack Holland, Duck Powell
and Fred Smyre.

Brown, Hutchins, McPhail, Potter, Smith, Sprunt, and Weeks Are Juniors Tapped

FOUR SENIORS HONORED

Bids Extended to Cochran, Humphrey, Lafferty, Williams

Twelve, including one member of the faculty, four seniors, and seven juniors, were extended bids for membership into Omicron Delta
Kappa, national leadership fraternity, at spring tap-day services conducted by Delta Circle in Chambers Auditorium this morning. Dr. John Wilson
MacConnell, physician and professor of hygiene at Davidson, is the faculty member. Franklin Miller Cochran, of Davidson; Edward Joseph Humphrey,
of Wilmington; John William Lafferty, of Rome, Ga., and Jack Williams, Jr., of Waycross, Ga., are the seniors. Gordon Haviland
Brown, of River Edge, N. J.; Dewey Milton Hutchins, of Lexington; Ernest Frederick McPhail, of Charlotte; Albert Jarman Potter, of
Barium Springs; Robert Hardy Smith, of Mobile, Ala.; Walter P. Sprunt, Jr., of Wilmington, and Kenneth Durham Weeks, of Rocky
Mount, are the juniors.

The tap-day exercises took the place of the regular chapel services. Faculty and student members of the Delta Circle, as
Davidson’s chapter of the honor organization is designated, were seated on the stage. The exercises were opened with a devotional,
after which Fred L. Smyre, president of the local circle, introduced Prof. Ernest Beaty, who recounted the history of the
fraternity and explained its purpose. Following Professor Beaty’s address, Smyre explained to the student body the peculiar method of bidding
employed by Omicron Delta Kappa. At a signal from President Smyre, given by sounding a gavel upon the altar, a
student member of the circle would leave the platform, proceed through the audience to the person previously selected to be
extended a bid, tap him, and return to the stage. A tapped student would signify his acceptance (Continued on page
6)

Band and Glee Club Broadcast Program

Musical Units Give Two Concerts at Winston-Salem

Bringing to a close their concert tours for 1934, the Concert Band and Glee Club played before two Winston-Salem audiences
Friday, May 4; in the morning before the student body of the R. J. Reynolds High School and in the
evening before an audience at Memorial Hall, Salem College. The evening concert was broadcast over Station WSJS of Winston-Salem. Outstanding
among the numbers rendered by the band was “The Overture Poet and Peasant,” by Von Suppe, and equally prominent among
the vocal numbers were the negro spirituals sung by the Glee Club. Soloists for the evening were A. Moreland Cunningham,
cornetist, who gave “Grand Russian Fantasia,” by Levy, and David McLain, who sang as bass solos “The Jolly Roger,” by
Robertson, and “Trav’lin’,” by Enders. On the morning program Harris Bradley rendered as a clarinet solo “The Finale from La
Sonnambula,” by Lazarus, and Kenneth Scott, pianist, played “Tarantelle,” by Donne. David McLain acted as announcer for the night broadcast.
The morning program featured the playing of the marches, “Cheerio,” by Goldman, and “Washington Post,” by Sousa, with the Winston-Salem
High School Band. Special numbers on this program were “Americans We,” by Fillmore, and “American Patrol,” by Gilbert. The evening
program is as follows: The Concert Band: Hall of Fame, concert march by Olivadoti; Overture (Continued on page 6)
