THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 14, 1934

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Associated Collegiate Press

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

Editor W. T. JOHNSON
Business Manager G. L. HUNTER
Managing Editor E. F. SHEWMAKE
Managing Editor B. L. SMITH
Managing Editor K. D. HUNTER
Managing Editor JAC. C. HARRIS
Alumni Editor R. A. LEE
Editorial Writer S. S. C. HUNTER
Associate Editor D. L. W. HUNTER
Associate Editor JAC. C. HARRIS

STAFF
G. L. HUNTER -- Assistant Business Manager
W. T. TAYLOR -- Assistant Business Manager
A. C. WADSWORTH -- Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1934

You better live your best and act your best and think your best today; for today is the sure preparation for tomorrow and all the other tomorrows that follow.
—Harriet Martineau.

A NEW ELECTIVE SYSTEM

Last spring just after student body elections were held an amendment affecting the voting of students was passed and inserted in the Davidson Constitution. The amendment which in part reads that “freshmen become members of the Student Body with full rights to vote immediately upon the installation of the president of their rising Sophomore class,” was designed to rob members of the Freshman class of a right to vote in the general student body elections. Those who proposed the amendment felt that the first-year men, although they seldom knew the candidates for the student offices and were easily influenced by upperclassmen in the voting, practically controlled the student body elections and oftentimes robbed a worthy candidate of an honor.

“The Davidsonian” condemned the proposal when it was placed before the vote of the student body, and showed the harm the amendment did in the Junior cheerleader elections last fall. We mention this again because it appears that Davidson leaders took steps similar to those most schools are taking in making their student body elections more efficient and more just. It is interesting to note that at Temple University a novel student government system, compelling all students except Seniors to vote in student elections, goes into effect this week. Temple permits no student to complete his registration for the second semester until he casts his ballot.

The new Temple system has many other features, designed to kill politics in college elections. The famous Pennsylvania school carefully studied government systems of other colleges and borrowed ideal features to include in their new elective plan. Davidson student body elections will soon be here. We consider the elective system here a poor one, and for that reason do not hesitate in asking the Student Council to investigate improved voting systems of other colleges so that Davidson elections this year might be conducted in a manner better than in past years.

EVIDENT INFLUENCE

Once more the influence of Captain Norton G. Pritchett, director of athletics here, has brought results and placed Davidson a notch higher in the sports world. Captain Pritchett’s influence this time became evident when three Davidson track athletes made creditable showings in the Sixth Annual West Virginia Indoor Track and Field Meet held last week at the University of that state.

Two of the three representatives had no track experience whatever before Captain Pritchett took them under hand. Miller Cochran, who won first place in the shot-put event, and Ellis Oakes, who ran in the mile event, received all their track instruction from the Davidson athletic director. Earle Frazier, who came in fourth in the mile run, had experience before he came to Davidson, but in a year and a half Captain Pritchett has developed him into one of the leading long-distance runners in the South if not in the East.

SENIOR PRIVILEGES

Early last fall the Seniors met to decide upon special privileges which they would petition the college to grant them. Interest was then at a high pitch and it appeared that there might be some mark of distinction between the Senior class and the other two upper classes. Whether or not the petition ever got to the Faculty Committee is not known, but if it did no action has ever been taken on the request, it appears. For the Seniors, only three and a half months of college life remain. Unless something about the matter is done soon, the meeting held last fall was for no purpose at all. Why nothing has been done in the matter of Senior privileges we do not know, but it is time that those trusted with the responsibility, by the class, should make some report.

WET SHOES

It rains frequently at Davidson. One attends classes daily at this institution and church on Sunday. It is customary for the students to indulge in three meals a day. Now participation in these events is necessary and the necessity is not called off on account of rain. For four years we have been “puddle-jumpers” while traversing that swampy terrain in front of dormitory row; for four years we have dared to wade across the morass between the dormitories and Chambers. We have contributed muddy shoes, wet socks, and creaseless trousers to the cause of non-paved walks. We have been trusting, hopeful, and now after the recent wet weather, we are despairing and fed-up.

We understand that a recent attempt was made to have the CWA or PWA construct cement walks, but the inevitable red-tape and technicalities that accompany all political plans resulted in Davidson being termed a “private institution” and the money could not be appropriated. And so “wetter and wetter walks” is still our slogan. Of all the improvements that Davidson needs, properly constructed hard-surfaced walks in front of the dormitories; from the dormitories to Chambers; and down to Fraternity Court are the most important and badly needed. Inclement weather will continue, at least we feel fairly safe in hazarding this assumption. If things continue as they have for the last four years, we can assure ourselves that whatever improvements are made, hard-surfaced paths will not be among them. Colds, wet shoes and socks, messy trousers—what of it? We ought to be used to them by now!
—R. P.-T.

Here and There

Students are busy forming a socialist club on the campus of Louisiana State University. Its purpose is to expound the virtues of socialism and develop leaders for the movement.

Enrollment at the University of Detroit shows that 3,543 women and only 77 men attend the school.

Freshmen at Butler University get a free haircut if they fail to don a frosh cap.

A party with an appropriate program has replaced hazing in the introduction of freshmen to Connecticut State College at Storrs.

Gettysburg College in Pennsylvania, starting its 102nd term this year, is without a co-ed on the campus for the first time in 45 years.

A student at New Orleans University received a medal from the Italian government for rescuing a Turk from drowning there two years ago.

A complete course in aviation has been instituted at the University of Oklahoma City this year.

Belts have been substituted for paddles in the hazing of freshmen at the Colorado School of Mines.

About this time it is a consolation to know that Lindbergh flunked out of the University of Wisconsin; Dr. W. J. Mayo, of the Mayo Clinic, flunked out of the University of Michigan Medical School; and Stewart Edward White and Franklin P. Adams were likewise given their walking papers from the S. L. A. College of the same institution during their freshman years.

The president of the University of Southern California says that a college freshman has only about one-half the vocabulary of the common laborer. “Swell,” he says, “is used to describe 4,972 situations.”

Princeton freshmen admit they prefer Phi Beta Kappa keys to varsity letters.

Because college petters parked their cars before his home, a professor at New York University asked trustees of his suburban town not to have snow removed from the roads so that he could spend some peaceful evenings.

NEWS DIGEST

CUBAN CONSTITUTION

With a sweep of his pen President Mendieta signed the new Cuban constitution together with the eleven members of his cabinet. Former Provisional President Grau San Martin had previously signed away the old constitution which had been in use since 1901. The new document consists of ninety-nine articles and fourteen provisional parts. It is to correct so many of the current abuses and in it is embodied most of the principles of the Constitution of the United States. The new magna charta is to remain in force until the constitutional assembly meets at the latter part of the year.

THE OLD STORY

During the 1920 eraThere was a tremendous amount of trading on the stock market with everybody trying to get rich. Then the crash came and everybody was sorry that they had used too little discretion in their trading. The general opinion was that we would know better how to act in such a case if the occasion ever again arose. Last week the stock market took a big jump and immediately was flooded with orders with no discrimination as to whether the stock was good or not. Well, it seems as if we will never learn anything. How can we expect to prevent another depression if we don’t use a little common sense?

REIGN OF TERROR

History repeats itself and France is struck by a new reign of terror in the age of republics and dictators. Furious mobs in revolt against the government battled police and soldiers before the Chamber of Deputies and the American Embassy and then paid the death toll as the machine guns of the police opened upon the mob, killing and injuring scores of the populace. The fighting came as a result of the governmental corruption which was disclosed when a huge pawnshop concern collapsed and many prominent names were found connected with it. The cabinet resigned but the French, a hot-headed people, were not satisfied and protested with guns and angry mobs.

BREMER

We call this civilization, but is it? When a man must pay two hundred thousand dollars to get a gang of hoodlums to release his son who has been held prisoner for twenty-three days and subjected to every torture, is that civilization? When a fortune representing years in the life of a man is paid as a tribute to gangland to obtain the life of a loved one, civilization is a thing of the past or a thing of the future. But that was what Adolf Bremer had to do to save his son from death. We say that the world is getting better, but a thinking man will question the veracity of this statement when he hears of such things.

MORE CWA MONEY

After hours of spirited debate the administration forces voted the CWA nine hundred and fifty million in additional funds to be used throughout the nation in the fight against the depression. This bill was passed in the Senate and will now go to the House for another long discussion before the final action is taken. The good results accomplished by the CWA heretofore were cited and no trouble was had in getting the bill through. An amendment to the bill provided that all CWA appointments must come from the White House hereafter.

MORE GOVERNMENT CONTROL

The government is gradually acquiring more and more control over industry and this time it is the air mail. As you no doubt remember, army planes first carried the air mail and this plan has been renewed since President Roosevelt voided all the carrier contracts. Evidence of fraud and collusion was given as the reason for this action. The President ordered Postmaster Farley to end all contracts and immediately issued an executive order placing the army fliers at the disposition of the post office department.

MacCRACKEN

It was the first time in history when such a thing had occurred but William MacCracken, former assistant secretary of commerce and now aviation attorney, steadfastly refused to meet the Senate investigating committee who were going over the papers in the aviation department. Certain papers relating to the air mail were missing from the attorney’s office and MacCracken was called before the committee to explain their absence, but he refused to come. The incident was widely discussed in Washington, where such conduct was unheard of before.

OTTS FOUNDATION TALKS ARE BEING DELIVERED

(Continued from page 1)

was given on Tuesday, and “The Christian Way,” given today. The schedule for the rest of the week will include “The Christian Act,” Thursday, February 15, and “The Christian Destiny,” Friday, February 16. All lectures begin promptly at 10:15 a.m. In order that the students may hear the lectures, the registrar has arranged a schedule during the week so that only one recitation period will be omitted each day. On Tuesday and Wednesday, the periods from 10:40 to 11:35 were omitted, while on Thursday and Friday the period beginning at 11:35 will be omitted, and the regular 10:40 class held then. These lectures, while primarily intended for the students, are open to the general public also. The Otts Foundation was established in 1893, when Rev. J. M. P. Otts, D.D., LL.D., endowed a foundation at Davidson College, the income of which is to be used in securing distinguished speakers, from time to time, to deliver at the college courses of lectures in defense of Christianity against current heresies, especially such as may seem directed at the foundations of the Christian faith. Since the first lecture in 1893, by Dr. Otts himself, Dr. R. L. Dabney, Dr. J. B. Shearer, Dr. W. W. Moore, and Dr. Harris B. Kirk have spoken at Davidson on this foundation. These lectures are published in book form, and are supposed to take place at least once every two years. Dr. Macartney is a graduate of Princeton University and of Princeton Theological Seminary. From 1914 to 1917 he was pastor of the Arch Street Presbyterian Church, Philadelphia, Pa., and since that time, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Pittsburgh, Pa. Besides being a distinguished clergyman, Dr. Macartney is the author of a dozen books, the majority of which are upon questions of religion and politics. While in Davidson, he is the guest of Dr. and Mrs. W. L. Lingle.

DR. GWYNN GIVES TALKS TO CHARLOTTE AUDIENCE

(Continued from page 1)

“The Christian home is successful in marriage. Such a home is one where God dwells. There is a reverence, an awe, a sense of dependence on God and the child learns to orientate his life. In a Christian home there is a trust and confidence which prevails. The one who has a Christian home has the most priceless heritage the earth can yield. He is taught love, but not an over-sentimentalized love, understanding, sympathy, forgiveness, and patience. Discipline also finds a place in a Christian home. There is a family discipline, and best of all the family learns self-discipline.”

On Other Campuses

GEORGIA TECH

A professor at Georgia Tech tested one of his classes to determine how accurately a man’s character and occupation may be judged by seeing his picture. Lewis Laws, warden of Sing Sing, was identified as a banker, statesman, politician, doctor, factory worker, and aviator; Sinclair Lewis, author, as a carpenter, murderer, explorer, radio announcer, insurance agent and astronomer; Walter Lippmann, editorial writer, as a lawyer, gangster, plumber, governor, preacher, and musician; H. L. Mencken, critic, as a butcher, beer baron, mill worker, gambler, detective, traveling salesman, and bootlegger.

MINNESOTA

Bring back the slot machines. That is, if conditions at Davidson resembled those at Minnesota. Students at the U. are offered seventeen meals a week for a total of $2.50.

N. C. STATE

Golden Chain, senior honorary society, and the Interfraternity Council, composed of various representatives from the social fraternities, have endorsed the return of the freshman caps, which were abolished from State College in 1930. It is understood that other societies will be approached in reference to their attitudes on restoring frosh hats.

WAKE FOREST

Plans for an elaborate centennial program in appropriate celebration of the one hundredth birthday of Wake Forest College to be coincident with the May graduating exercises are now being worked out by the centennial committee of the college trustees. One of the most interesting parts of the tentative program is a pageant to depict the growth of Wake Forest College from a “manual and classical” school to a full-fledged college of “big five” standing. This pageant, in which college students and local talent will take part, is slated to be staged in the open air on the athletic grounds Monday, May 28, the opening event of the program.

LOS ANGELES

One of the most drastic steps in the history of public education was taken recently when the Los Angeles board of education ordered the abandonment of 275 elementary school buildings which had been condemned as unsafe after last year’s earthquake, and the substitution of 2,000 tents to house the 303,000 pupils put out of the school buildings. Dr. Gwynn gave two lectures to the Sunday School and the Men’s Bible Class. Several Presbyterian churches dismissed their prayer meetings to attend the lecture.

“WHEN A FELLER NEEDS A FRIEND”

Placed on the market a year ago, this pipe mixture made many friends before it had a line of advertising. Aged in the wood for years... BRIGGS is mellow, packed with flavor, biteless! Won’t you try a tin and let genial BRIGGS speak for itself? KEPT FACTORY FRESH by inner lining of CELLOPHANE © P. Lorillard Co., Inc.