THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 28, 1934

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Associated Collegiate Press

1933 (Waiom Covent) 1934

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed. Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4 o'clock p.m., Monday.

EDITORIAL STAFF
ODI CASALI Editor
W. T. JOHNSON Managing Editor
G. L. GULLETTE Managing Editor
E. F. McPHAIL Managing Editor
B. L. ROS Managing Editor
K. D. WEEKS Managing Editor
VEE HELLINGER Alumni Editor
RAWLING PRATT-THOMAS Editorial Writer
A. HUNTER Exchange Editor
J. B. BAILEY Feature Editor
S. K. EATON Feature Editor
C. S. McCALL Feature Editor
L. W. CLARDY Sports Editor
A. F. SCHENCK Sports Editor
W. M. THOMPSON Sports Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, JR. Sports Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
G. L. GREEN Business Manager
W. L. SPRUNT Assistant Manager
J. R. TAYLOR Assistant Manager
A. C. WADSWORTH Assistant Manager

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1934

The victory of success is half won when one gains the habit of work.—Sarah A. Bolton.

ON MILITARY TRAINING

Commentators in the state are of the opinion that the Trustees of Davidson College acted wisely when they approved the recommendation to make Military Training at Davidson optional with the students. This is what some of the editorial writers had to say about the action:

An editorial in the “Charlotte Observer” says: “The Davidson College Trustees have settled the controversy about military training in a practical manner. The system will be continued, but not on a compulsory basis, as students whose parents desire, will be exempted—and we anticipate that few instances of the sort will develop. The people have come to distinguish between militarism and military preparedness, for there is a difference. There is a distinction between military training for defense and military training for offense, and the training given at Davidson is not of the latter class. Then there is the advantage of physical upbuilding. This training puts young men in fine physical condition, and that alone makes it worth while. Davidson is all the finer college to send young men to because of this particular feature.”

The “Greensboro News” expressed a similar opinion in an editorial comment on the matter. “Trustees of Davidson College have acted wisely, we think, in making military training at the college optional. Heretofore the student has had to participate in the R. O. T. C. work, but hereafter he can do as his parents desire.

“There are many benefits to be derived from this military training, but at the same time it is not difficult to understand why it has objectionable features for many parents, and it is not so essential, we think, that it should exclude the student who doesn’t want to participate. Many parents who are not conscientious objectors had rather their sons were not given such training, and they have contended in the past that their sons should not be denied the other privileges and benefits to be found at Davidson because of this objection. The ruling of the Trustees, we predict, will find hearty commendation among the majority of the Davidson alumni, supporters and well-wishers.”

Here’s what Julian S. Miller, “Charlotte Observer” columnist, had to say about it: “Compulsory military training in church colleges is a hot brick that requires the shrewdest sort of hands to handle.

“Many churchmen, preaching the overtones of peace, consider it an arm of the military establishment and are, therefore, hostile.

“Davidson College has made admirable disposition of the issue by leaving the gate open for future students to step aside if they elect not to engage in this definition of physical education.

“If this training, by actual instruction or by suggestion, invests the mind of youthhood with the instincts of war, it is unwholesome.

“If, on the other hand, it is accepted and engaged in as a species of physical development, it is immensely beneficial and virtuous.”

The “Davidsonian” also considers the action of the Trustees in the matter wise. The optional clause will have little effect upon the R. O. T. C. here—that is, it will not noticeably reduce the number of students taking the course—but it will permit students who were objectors but favored Davidson otherwise, to come to school here.

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CLUB

Another success has been scored for Davidson College. At an invitation extended to the Southeastern Students International Relations Clubs at their annual conference in Hattiesburg, Miss., by Lyman Clardy, President of the Davidson International Relations Club, the decision was made to hold this conference at Davidson in 1935.

D. D. McBryde, President of the Davidson club during the last school year, and Grier Martin, at present Alumni Secretary of Davidson, had long attempted to have this conference held at Davidson, and this acceptance comes as a reward to these three men’s efforts.

This is a distinct advantage to Davidson. This conference will bring many outstanding speakers on international affairs from over the East, and approximately 125 student representatives will be present. The Southeastern Students International Clubs includes states all the way from Kentucky through Mississippi, down to and including Florida. Davidson has been sending representatives to these conferences, but this year the distance was too great, and the conference being held here next year will mean a great advantage to the Davidson club. This local organization’s outstanding work in this field is pointed out by the acceptance of the conference to hold its meeting here next year.

DR. MACARTNEY

The student body has recently received one of the most valuable benefits which can come to a group of modern students, namely, the series of lectures delivered by Dr. Macartney. No greater tribute could have been paid to the speaker throughout the entire series than the way in which his messages were received by the student body. The attendance, which is shown by actual record to have been much better than the average chapel attendance, and the undivided attention which prevailed throughout are indications of the value which the students placed upon the services.

It is seldom that the student body is able to hear a speaker of Dr. Macartney’s type, a man so representative of the modern leader, the profound thinker, and the devout Christian. The response to his messages shows that the overwhelming majority realize and appreciate the opportunity of listening to one who typifies so completely the modern Christian scholar.

Dr. Macartney throughout his addresses showed himself to be well read and quite abreast of modern times in nearly every respect. Yet he was absolutely free from the radicalism so often found in the so-called modernists and scholars. His addresses proved him to be an unconditional defender of the Faith, a Christian of the active type, steadfast and immovable in his beliefs and in his life.

The Otts Foundation, which is responsible for providing the series of addresses, performed a wonderful service in procuring Dr. Macartney as speaker. He is a prominent leader in the Northern Presbyterian Church, and is recognized by all as one of the most outstanding ministers in the Church. His record of service in his own church in Pittsburgh speaks of his character and his value to Christianity.

Dr. Macartney was given a year’s notice to prepare for the series of lectures he delivered at Davidson. His addresses showed careful preparation and unusually good organization and unity. He had a great responsibility in organizing and delivering so important a message to a college group. He fulfilled this responsibility in such a way that it was received as few others have been. The reception of the lectures proves that the spiritual side of life still has its place in the make-up of modern youth. Much could be done to develop the spiritual side if speakers like Dr. Macartney were available more frequently.

—E. F. McP.

Here and There
By A. HUNTER

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Permission from the Dean’s office must be obtained by any man wishing to engage in any major extra-curricular activity, athletic or non-athletic, according to a resolution passed at the regular bi-weekly meeting of the faculty at Washington and Lee. The resolution, which will become effective March 4, does not change the former activity rulings, but provides for their enforcement.

DALHOUSIE

You have heard of hearts of various types, but now you are going to be introduced to a rubber heart. Dr. Gibbs, of Dalhousie University, has been able to place rubber hearts in cats by surgical operation. These hearts are in the nature of rubber pumps, and their sole function is to keep the blood in motion, apparently all that is necessary for hearts to do. He! he! tough on heart-breakers.

Honorary Fraternity Will Be Theatre Host

Five Films Pertaining to Physics Will Be Shown

Alpha Chapter of Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary physics fraternity, will be host to a theater party at the Davidson Theatre Thursday, March 1.Five films pertaining to physics have been loaned by the General Electric Company of Philadelphia and will be shown at 3 o'clock. The program will last about two hours. Although the pictures will be interesting to students of physics, they are not technical and will be entertaining to everyone who comes. The titles of the different films are “Walter Damrosch,” “Liquid Air,” “Brighter Times Ahead,” and “Years Ahead in Welding.” The Messrs. Stough of the Davidson Theatre have kindly consented to show the pictures and everyone is cordially invited to attend.

Faculty-Student Golf Match to Be Run Over

Another match, beginning today, will be played between the students and the faculty golfers, due to the failure of some contestants to find time to play in the last one and to the entrance of more student contestants. From the students making the eight highest medal scores in the tournament will be chosen the golf team. The match just run off resulted in an eight and one-half points to five and one-half points win for the students. Professor Fulcher, advisor to the golf team, states that the results of the first tournament are quite pleasing and that prospects are somewhat brightened by the performances of Barnes, Bowman, Cannon, Cochran, Hamrick, and Vaiden. The faculty-student match will end March 15th, and on the 20th the eight medal scorers will compete at the Carolina Country Club in Charlotte for a place on the golf team. Until then, C. F. Hamrick will act as temporary captain and Professor Fulcher as advisor.

PFOHL MAKES GOOD AS HEAD OF MUSIC
(Continued from page 1)

Pfohl has been given complete charge of Davidson's musical organizations, which include the R. O. T. C. band, the concert band, the concert orchestra, and the glee club. Not only does the handling of these groups require unusual musical talent, but an ability to exercise calmness and determination and to secure the confidence of those under him must all be used to their best advantage. From all reports, and as was brought out in the recent newspaper articles, “Pfohl has surpassed the expectations of even his best friends and has succeeded admirably in his work at the college.” One article says: “Never has Davidson College, in all its hundred years of history, had better music than at the present time.”

It is interesting to note that, although he plays many musical instruments, Pfohl has never taken a music lesson on any instrument other than the piano or organ. Playing all of his instruments well, he excels with the cornet and organ, giving lessons in the latter to eight students. Playing in the Moravian band at the age of six, Pfohl has continued his musical career without stopping. Perhaps the secret of his success lies in the statement taken from the recent article about him: “... his highest ambition is to be a concert director. Emphatically, he does not like jazz.”

JUNIOR SPEAKING WILL BE HELD MARCH 23-24
(Continued from page 1)

give a concert in Chambers Auditorium and on Saturday afternoon a track meet will be held on Richardson Field between Davidson and the Wofford varsity trackmen. Other features are being planned for the weekend and will be announced to the student body later. The name “Junior Speaking” was given to the weekend many years back when members of the Junior class delivered orations, which lasted over a period of days. Parents and friends of the students were invited to attend this series of orations and it was looked forward to as one of the most outstanding social events on the campus each year. However, as time went on and the classes grew larger, the custom was abandoned and a different form of entertainment put in its place.

NEWS DIGEST By DOPEY McCALL

COSTNER CONFESSES

Isaac Costner, young Tennessee bad man, violated the ethical code of the underworld and turned traitor when he gave evidence for the state against the kidnappers of Jake Factor. Costner, in a slow drawling voice, told his story of the snatch and the crimes of his partners, the Toughy gang. The criminal of fiction never tells on his companions, but this is not always so in real life, and I imagine that the authorities are mighty grateful.

BAD LUCK

The new custodians of the air mail skies have been flying scarcely four days and already the elements have turned against them. Fog and snow in the Rocky Mountain territory and over a large section of the Middle West turned the airlanes into a howling terror which resulted in five deaths and many forced landings. Pilots have been killed in Ohio, Texas, Maryland, and New York, which gives some idea of the spread of the storm. However, of all these stories of death and hardship, may it also be said that the mail went through in all except one case.

SANDINO DIES

General Augusto Sandino, the swashbuckling little Nicaraguan who defied the United States, was dead last Friday, killed by national guardsmen in a raid. Authorities searching for a motive for the assassination think that Sandino must have said something derogatory about the guardsmen. A state of siege was immediately declared by the Nicaraguan congress at the request of the president, since it was feared that the many followers of Sandino might try to avenge the death of their leader.

LEOPOLD III

A million loyal subjects lined the roads of historic Brussels as Leopold III, son of the late Albert I, rode to the parliamentary building to be crowned King of all the Belgians. At the same time Princess Astrid of Sweden became the queen. The young monarch was thin and pale as he met with members of the parliament to hear the address of loyalty. According to custom, members of the cabinet handed in their resignation, but the government was told to continue in its present duties.

LAST FARM LOAN

The President Friday signed the farm loan bill for forty million dollars and declared that it would be the last of its kind. The government is beginning its tapering off process and it thinks that the farmer is about ready to take care of himself. The past loans have worked out smoothly and this will be the end. Monday, the President has called a conference to decide another question, this time it is to map out a program of foreign trade which promises to be a job far from easy.

PRINCELY DEFIANCE

Prince Sigvard of Sweden has defied his royal elders in his determination to wed the popular German motion picture star, Erika Patzek, who is the descendant of a commoner. Count Bernadotte, who was sent to London in an attempt to dissuade the prince of his new romance, was told by the prince to return to the royal court and tell his father that he intended to wed the German actress despite the efforts of the royal house to prevent it.

COMMUNISTS

The Communists and Socialists are waking up all over the world and the news of the day is full of their activities and their battles. The latest thing to happen after the war in Austria and the Socialist-Communist fight in New York is the stoning of the Austrian embassy in Uruguay by a mob of Communists who were protesting the “massacre” of Vienna. The Fascist group in England, although not belligerent, is growing rapidly and it is estimated that this group will number five million people by the end of the year.

"WHEN A FELLER NEEDS A FRIEND"

When fate hangs heavy over your head, retain a cheerful outlook with a pipe of genial BRIGGS. There's not a bite in a bushel of this aged-in-wood blend... and it has a rare and spicy savor that will thrill your taste. You'll find BRIGGS the blend a feller needs.

KEPT FACTORY FRESH by inner lining of "STAY-FRESH" CELLOPHANE
P. Lorillard Co., Inc.