THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 21, 1934

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915

MEMBER
Associated Collegiate Press
1934 Collegiate Digest 1935

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor
are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

Editor
J. A. C. WADSWORTH .. .. Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Mastin Barnett -- Managing Editor
Paul Haran -.- Managing Editor
Tom Marchant -.- Managing Editor
John Walker -- News Editor
Mary R. Glass -- Managing Editor
Lawton Brown - Sports Editor
Ed Bowser -- Exchange Editor
Carlyle Lewis - Feature Editor
Scotty McLeod - Feature Editor
G. L. Gunter - Associate Editor
J. P. Morgan - Associate Editor
B. L. Rose - Associate Editor
Jack Hellinger - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
W. B. Goshen - Asst. Business Mgr.
Val Cassels - Asst. Business Mgr.
J. S. McMurray - Asst. Business Mgr.
R. P. Morrow - Asst. Business Mgr.

1934

Language most shows a man; speak that I may see thee; it springs out of the most retired and inmost
part of us. —BEN JONSON.

PARAGRAPHICS

The last issue of the HI-PO, official publication of High Point College, carried a report submitted by the new board
of trustees which said that this board would consider at its next meeting a petition submitted by the student body
asking that dances be brought on the campus. In this same report it was stated that the board would gladly
consider any problems or petitions in behalf of the student body. The tone of this article gave the impression that
a favorable verdict was expected from the board of trustees.

The Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa is indeed honored to have two such distinguished gentlemen as Congressmen Bulwinkle and
Clark accept membership in the fraternity. Not only is it a credit to the local Circle but to the fraternity
national also. The banquet held after the initiation last Monday night was one of the most successful and one of
the most enjoyable that O. D. K. has ever held here. Gordon “Skip” Brown, president of the Delta Circle, proved
his ability as a toastmaster. He performed most efficiently and entertainingly in this capacity.

DAVIDSON ALUMNI WIN NATIONAL PROMINENCE

WITHIN the last few months, two Davidson graduates have won national prominence. They are Mr. S. Clay Williams, who is
the new leader and chairman of the National Recovery Administration succeeding General Hugh S. Johnson, and Mr. Don Wharton, author
of a new best-seller, The Roosevelt Omnibus. These two men have not only brought glory upon themselves, but they have
also brought glory upon their Alma Mater of which we are very proud and for which we wish to congratulate
them upon their recent accomplishments and wish them continued success.

Mr. Williams’ record since he graduated from Davidson College with an A.B. degree in 1905, is one that is in
keeping with the fine record that he made during his four years here. He took active participation in many of
the school activities, being editor of two publications, the Davidson Magazine, not now in existence, and the “Quips and Cranks”
which is still published annually. He was also an exceptional student, making the honor roll most of his time here.
For a number of years, Mr. Williams served as president of the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. in Winston-Salem through
which he became connected with the Wagner Labor Relations board, being chairman of that body. His recent appointment by the
President to the position of chairman of the NRA board is one that is difficult to fill and is one
that carries with it high honors. It marks him as one of the outstanding men in the nation, especially so
since he has been elected to steer this board through the present time of crisis. Unless the position has been
shorn of its former prestige, he is probably more powerful than any other administrative official with the exception of the
President himself. The eyes of the nation are on Mr. Williams and his difficult task.

Mr. Wharton, a native of Smithfield and a graduate of the class of 1927, likewise made a good record while
at Davidson College. As would be expected, he devoted most of his extra-curricular efforts toward the literary line having been
quite active in the Literary Societies. His volume, The Roosevelt Omnibus, which has recently been published has received much praise
from leading American critics, among them Lewis Gannett. Mr. Wharton is comparatively young yet, but his literary brilliance has already
achieved for him a fine reputation in select circles.

These men are two among many of our alumni of whom we are proud on account of their accomplishments. The
average college cannot boast of such illustrious sons—men that spent their most important formative years at Davidson College. Accomplishments of
such men and, in fact, of every alumni bear a reflection on the school and on the faculty of which
we are all justly proud.

OUR ADVERTISERS, PATRONIZE THEM!

PATRONIZE our advertisers. Although there is a mutual benefit derived by both the advertiser and “The Davidsonian”, the advertisers are
the ones that help make possible the publishing of our paper. They are the ones that are most interested in
you and your welfare. This is manifest by the fact that they solicit your patronage by advertising in “The Davidsonian”.
Why not give them first consideration when you are buying, whether in Davidson or Charlotte or wherever you may be?

With this issue there will begin two different and new types of advertising, that is, different in the way the
ad is set up. The Charlotte Hotel under new management has expressed the desire that Davidson men make it their
headquarters whenever they are in Charlotte. Each week the Hotel will sponsor in “The Davidsonian” an ad announcing special features
and attractions that will be of interest to Davidson men. Ivey's Department Store of Charlotte will each week sponsor an
ad in the nature of a style column, featuring pictures and descriptions of the latest styles of clothes for young
men. When buying remember our advertisers and don’t forget to tell them you saw it advertised in “The Davidsonian”.

ANOTHER HONOR SYSTEM UNDER FIRE

THIS year has seen the passing of the Honor System in several of the South’s largest and most prominent schools.
Within the last few months, the School of Arts and Science of Tulane University and N. C. State College have
abandoned the System. Only a year or two ago Georgia Tech did away with its Honor System. Other colleges are
at present contemplating taking the same action, the System having been in existence for a number of years but having
never functioned successfully.

In almost every case where the Honor System has been abolished it was done because it was said to be
unfair to those that abided by it. A small group of students, especially where it was not vigorously enforced, would
repeatedly violate the regulations of the Honor System depending on others in order to pass their work, but would nevertheless
get just as much credit as those that abided by it. At one college it was made evident by a
poll of the students there that the System was failing because a majority of the students signified that they would
not report infringers of the code knowing that severe disciplinary steps would be taken against the guilty ones if they
were reported. At the University of South Carolina, where the Honor System is now on trial, a vote was sponsored
by the “Gamecock” the results of which showed that only one student out of three would be willing to report
a case of cheating provided the offender would be punished. Naturally, under these conditions nothing but failure can be predicted.
An editorial in the “Gamecock” made the statement that “the percentage was not large but if each of these students
who voted “yes” was sincere, then there is a possibility the Honor System can be enforced.” Only one-fourth of the
student body voted. So small a percentage of the students voting on so vital a question demonstrates the fact that
there is a general indifferent attitude as to the status of the Honor System. Although there are some that would
vigorously uphold the institution, they are fighting against overwhelming odds. Indications of this sort put a pessimistic outlook on the
future existence of the Honor System at the University of South Carolina. It is to be hoped that this trend
can be checked—that wherever the Honor System is hanging in the balance these institutions will take warning from the above
examples and undertake to more rigidly enforce it. Although failure results from the conduct of a few, it is nevertheless
a reflection on the student body as a whole.

OPEN FORUM

Letters to the Editor will appear in this column each week hereafter. (Note: “The Davidsonian” does not necessarily endorse or
accept any opinions expressed in this column).

118 E. Smith St.
Greensboro, N. C.
Nov. 12, 1934.

Dear Editor:

I would like to send my subscription to The Davidsonian as I liked so much an editorial in a recent
copy sent me by a friend. The contention voiced by this article has my heartiest sympathy. It is natural and
right for the students to be free to express themselves through the medium of their own publication, provided it is
done in a Christian spirit, without personalities or intolerance.

In another matter I claim “The privilege of antiquity” (according to Shakespeare) to express my sentiments. Not only age, but
having had a preacher father and three preacher brothers, my opinion on Church matters should have some weight, though only
a woman. As I look back to a former generation it seems to me that a man who “abstained from
all worldly amusements,” attended regularly Sunday school, Church, prayer meeting—praying fervently and long, was unquestionably considered one of the elect,
though he might be close-fisted, hard, and unfriendly. Today a Christian is expected to give a just proportion of his
time, his talents, and his money to his Lord and “to do justly, love mercy, and to walk humbly before
his God.” Such a man can be trusted in regard to “worldly amusements.” The “salt of the earth” needs earthly
contacts to be effective. Our Saviour said, “I pray not that thou shouldst take them out of the world, but
that thou shouldst keep them from the evil.” I am convinced that any evil connected with dancing can be eliminated
or controlled on the Davidson campus, certainly better than in a city twenty miles away. Music, rhythm, and dancing are
natural instincts in our young people. Do not drive themaway from a sheltered environment. Neither feel that the statement “There
is no dancing at Davidson” is anything but an evasion. I speak also for the mothers of the girls who
attend. They deplore the fact that Davidson dances are not at Davidson, controlled by the college spirit and atmosphere. Let
us pray that blind eyes may be opened.

Sincerely interested,
Mrs. Lunsford Richardson, Sr.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES
By Enip Bowers

Colleginia

Control of athletics at Cornell University, both intercollegiate and intramural, has been invested this year in a three-man committee on
athletic control, appointed by the president of the university. It is the first time in its history that the university
is in the position of directly fostering sports... Organization of an American Academy of Poets through which it is the
hope to provide between eight and ten $5,000 fellowships annually to American writers... M. I. T. Catholic Club gave a
dance several days ago and the admission prices depended on the chemical value of the girl. This was done through
some set of meters... Delta Upsilon Fraternity recently celebrated its 100th anniversary at a convention at Williams College, Williamstown, Mass...
Hunk Anderson’s little daughter is playing mascot to the Freshman football team; she wouldn’t go with the Varsity—they lose too
many games... Young students at the University of Michigan receive $15,000 yearly in prizes for their novels, plays, poems, and
essays. The money is paid from a special fund, and the prizes are open only to students in the department
of rhetoric in the University...

COMPASSING THE CAMPUS
By Scotty McLrop

A splendid illustration of the psychological fact that power without moral support constitutes a weakening influence on any body of
people may be taken in the Duke-Carolina fray and the circumstances which surround it. The night before the big game,
both schools had pep meetings on their respective campuses. At Carolina, practically the entire student body was on hand and
a mammoth cheering meet was held to encourage and exhort the Tar Heel players to play their very best football
on the morrow. The congregation showed spirit and absolutely shouted to the team that the entire school was supporting the
football squad. At Duke, a very small attendance was noted at their so-called “pep meeting” Friday night because the average
Dukester felt that the game was a push-over, a cinch, a walk-away, and in the “bag.” We purpose to venture
the suggestion that if the Duke students had displayed as much spirit, enthusiasm, and evidence of moral support as did
the Carolina boys that the outcome of the game might conceivably have been otherwise. But the spirit that evidently pervaded
the Duke campus was one of over-confidence and assurance of victory. Not for long can such a spirit endure anywhere;
it is inherently destructive to a wholesome triumph and incompatible with the real and proper spirit of college loyalty and
devotion. We may be assured of victory, in a sense, but the expression of that assurance in whole-hearted and enthusiastic
support is the proper and vital force which should be the foundation of our collegiate character.

Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa initiated six new men Monday night in their usual impressive ceremony attended by campus
notables and two national figures: Major Bulwinkle, of Gastonia; and Congressman Clark, of Fayetteville. All the new initiates are members
of the Senior class and were tapped several weeks ago in the chapel exercises.

PERSIFLAGE: The arrival of the volley-ball season in a whir of dust and flying hands... Herb Willis and Stuckey with
a flat tire just out of Chester, S. C... Bob Atwater with Miss Crum at the Duke-Carolina game in Chapel
Hill; a most versatile man with the femmes... Bud Hunter, Charlie Harris, and Mal Grimes left Charlie Thompson on the
campus when they toured this weekend. Charlie swears he'll make up for it... Tom Downie needing a cup and cane
in Columbia, S. C... Reggie Harris made a serious mistake in the Hotel Columbia too... Phifer Erwin was on time
for chapel one day last week, creating a near-sensation... The fine musical vespers in Chambers last Sunday evening with all
the campus musical organizations in evidence... Fred Fleagle, one-time famous track star at Davidson, visited the Kappa Sig house here
Sunday... We still remember some people at the Home-coming affair: Misses Feuchtenberger, Morton, Crosby, Robinson, Dyer, Wharton, Taylor, Walker, and
Messrs. Ravenel, Macfie, Creech, Kirkland, and McCallie.

Phineas Spoon, that verbose observer of modern times, varied his usual selection from his written papers last week to present
a thoroughly interesting review of alumnus Don Wharton’s great new book, “Roosevelt Omnibus.” Usually interesting, Mr. Spoon aroused a new
appeal in his last “Selected Paper” by touching a novel chord for him. The spectacular rise to new dramatic heights
of pretty little Jean Muir in her recent starring vehicle, Desirable... The ominous softness of Warner Oland’s detective manner as
Charlie Chan... Pugnacious James Cagney and vivacious Patricia Ellis putting over St. Louis Kid...

NOVEMBER 25, 1914
A petition from the student body to the executive committee for an extension of the Christmas holidays was granted... The
holidays will be from Dec. 23 to Jan. 5... The Wildcats were primed for their Thanksgiving battle with Wake Forest
in Charlotte... Over 100 girls were expected to attend the Senior speaking exercises... The Seniors and Freshmen, tied for the
lead in the basketball tournament.

NOVEMBER 20, 1919
Carolina downed D. C. 10-0 after a hard defensive battle by the Wildcats... The Juniors and Sophomores were tied for
first place in the intramural basketball tournament with each team having two more games to play... The State Student Volunteers
Union announced that their state convention would be held here early in the spring.

NOVEMBER 20, 1924
Carolina defeated Davidson 6-0. The score was made by two field goals kicked by Bunn Hackney in the last quarter...
The R. O. T. C. department was making plans to have an air map made of the college by airplanes
from Ft. Bragg. Nearly all the fraternities gave house parties after the U. N. C. game, about 100 girls attending...
The annual fall golf tournament got underway with 30 men qualifying.

NOVEMBER 21, 1929
Davidson was prepared to meet the Duke Blue Devils in a Thanksgiving tilt on Richardson Field... The Stunt Night held
after the Home-coming game was a big success... Dr. W. L. Lingle delivered the Home-coming Day address... The Y plans
to raise a Home Mission Fund to be sent to Lees McRae school in Banner Elk.

SELECTED PAPERS OF PHINEAS SPOON
A Reflection on the League of Nations
Part One

The League of Nations was created, and is maintained, as a mechanism of government meant to furnish the several nations
with a more equitable instrument for world action than the hitherto legitimate practice of rule by force. The circumstances constant
with its genesis made this function imperative. As an agency for world peace, the “League” is essentially built around the
status-quo, and ipso facto, must perpetuate national integrity and political frontiers as fixed by the participation powers at Versailles. The
very word “Versailles” holds different connotations for different bodies of peoples. To some states it signifies security, and particularly in
the Balkans it is the symbol of release, of resurrection, and even of genesis. But to other great states, with
equal sensibilities, it is anathema and the eternal reminder of inordinate subjection which time and renewed nationalistic energies must reverse.

A decade has passed since the Peace in Paris. Now, in sober retrospect, we can see that it was not
a just peace. It is for the peoples concerned to say whether it has left “any trace of a rankling
sense of injustice.” To the calculating eye, Versailles conceived, not an instrument of peace but rather an instrument of vengeance
in a tacit attempt to crush forever a former leading power in the concert of Europe. We must not forget
these peoples who have been emasculated by its terms, for they never can forget us. Looking at what was done
at Versailles, it is inconsistent with historical precedent that so great a repudiation of humanity and justice should not soon
inspire revolt, or that the struggle for freedom should not before long be taken up afresh. No peace can be
perpetuated but a just peace. No western peoples have acquiesced for long in what they considered to be oppression. Indeed,
no one else can claim to be judge of what constitutes oppression than that people themselves. This is the new
doctrine of “self-determinism.” All have their breaking point. Even our American republic owes its birth to the armed refusal on
the part of the Colonists to tolerate longer a status-quo against which they conscientiously rebelled. Natural law is neither intimidated
nor annulled by arbitrary treaty. Action is still followed by reaction; cause by effect. The revenge phenomenon is an historical
fact. Any scheme for world peace which ignores the human capacity for blind passion and reprisal is liable to be
wrecked when faced with the practical realities which today lead to war.

For forty years the French ostensibly acquiesced in the Treaty of Frankfort. But in their thinking the French never ceased
to hope for the recovery of the lost provinces of Alsace and Lorraine. Nor could they forget the humiliating conditions
of the peace which sealed the loss. In 1919 France realized a long nurtured ambition. This was not a coincidental
phenomenon. It was the plain consummation of a generation’s hopes. M. Poincare clearly and forcefully epitomized this revanche psychosis when
he asserted to university students before the war: “In my years at school, my thought bowed before the spectre of
defeat, dwelt ceaselessly on the frontier which the Treaty of Frankfort had imposed upon us, and when I descended from
my metaphysical clouds I could discover no other reason why my generation should go on living except for the hope
of recovering our lost provinces.”

We are not attempting here a controversial treatment of any party’s claim to the territory at issue. We are endeavoring
to stress the inevitable mutability and the temporary nature of a peace, a status-quo arrived at by conquest. The truth
of this point is strikingly emphasized by a very simple alteration in the above quotation of French righteous indignation. One
has only to substitute the word “Versailles” for “Frankfort” and one has the equally consistent protest of a young German
rising from the ranks to assumption of leadership like Poincare’s with potentialities of equal fruition. And so the vicious circle
is complete.

PHINEAS SPOON.

Ed. Note—This is part one of a paper on the “League of Nations.” The second section follows in this column
next week.
