THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 28, 1934

Science Students To Study Subjects By Sound Movies

Chemistry, Physics Departments Purchase Projector For Scientific Films

Professor O. J. Thies of the Chemistry department has announced the purchase of an R.C.A. portable projection machine to be
used by the combined Physics and Chemistry departments as a method of instruction and to illustrate some of the practical
applications of these sciences.

This projector is fitted for the showing of standard 35-millimeter films. It is complete with up-to-date sound equipment that works
by means of a photoelectric cell, which picks up the sound track of the film. Its 1000-watt projection lamp furnishes
brilliant illumination.

Last Thursday night the machine was demonstrated by the purchasing committee and it proved satisfactory in every respect. The lens
are of such nature that a clear focus can be obtained at any reasonable distance. It is the plan of
the science department to borrow some of the educational films that are available at the present time. General Electric Co.,
The Bureau of Mines, and several other agencies put out a number of these films, which can be secured by
payment of the transportation charges only. The Chemistry department has in mind as its first picture, General Electric’s “Arrangement of
Atoms in Molecules.” The Chemistry lecture hall will be adapted for a projection room and due to its limited seating
capacity the pictures can be witnessed only by students of the science departments.

The machine was purchased for the exclusive use of the Physics and Chemistry departments but the two departments plan to
set up a nominal rental fee by which other departments may secure its services. In the near future an operator
will be appointed and a set of rules governing the use of the machine will be drawn up.

Young Accompanist Praised By Critics

Miss Southwick Obtains Success In Recent Concert In Greensboro

Those members of the Davidson student body who were fortunate enough to hear the piano program given last spring in
chapel by Miss Sue Kyle Southwick will be interested to hear of her brilliant success as accompanist for Luigi Boccelli,
blind tenor, in a recent concert in Greensboro.

Miss Southwick is a member of Woman’s College faculty, and is quite well known throughout this section of the country
for her outstanding ability as a pianist. In addition to her masterful accompaniments, Miss Southwick also played the “Aeolian Harp”
étude, by Chopin, and the “Concert Waltz,” by Delibes-Dohnányi on the Greensboro program.

Quoting the Greensboro paper: “Adding immensely to the beauty of the concert was the sympathy of the accompanist, Miss Sue
Kyle Southwick, pianist, of the music faculty of Woman’s College, whose understanding was lasting during the entire concert.”

Luigi Boccelli, featured singer on the program, has been hailed as “the second Caruso,” and judging from comments on the
program in Greensboro, well deserves the appellation. Mr. Boccelli gave a program of well-known classics to an audience numbering several
hundred.

The distinction of being chosen accompanist for a singer of Mr. Boccelli’s ability bespeaks in itself Miss Southwick’s extraordinary excellence
at the piano.

Mrs. W. O. Sample and her daughter, Bessie, are spending several weeks with relatives in Roxboro.

Hand And Potter Will End Grid Careers

“TUBBY” HAND

C. H. “Tubby” Hand, huge Wildcat guard, will be among those seniors who climax their college gridiron careers Thanksgiving against
the Wake Forest Deacons. Hand’s career reflects a great deal of glory on him for his outstanding achievements in strengthening
the light Davidson line. His consistent hard fighting has done much to bolster the team’s spirits. His play has attracted
the attention and praise of many of Davidson’s opponents.

“Tubby” has played football during his entire four years in college and is one of the few Wildcats who have
won their letter in their Sophomore year. In high school he was a regular at the fullback position. He played
tackle for his first three years at Davidson and this year he has been shifted to running guard. Hand weighed
268 pounds when he entered college and lost 10 pounds during the first day’s practice. He still tips the scales
at the same weight that he registered on his second day of freshman football—258 pounds. In spite of his monstrous
size “Tubby” is incredibly fast. He has also taken part in wrestling and has proven his strength and skill in
this sport. Football is Hand’s favorite sport as you might well imagine. He has also secured a service letter in
mathematics. According to “Tubby” his favorite pastime is “beating on his roommate, Knox Thompson.”

In regard to the approaching game, “Tubby” believes “that Wake Forest will give us a good fight but we ought
to beat them. We have had a pretty unsuccessful season this year, but most of our reverses can be blamed
on our...

In Wake Game

A. J. POTTER

A. J. Potter, varsity guard, will play his last football game for the Red and Black next Thursday when the
Wildcats meet the Deacons on Richardson Field. Potter has been a reliable and hard-fighting player since he first walked on
the field in his freshman year. He was elected captain of the yearlings and the following year he won his
letter in his first season of varsity competition.

In addition to his prowess on the gridiron, Potter has made an enviable record in other campus activities. He has
won his letter in wrestling, is a member of the track squad, major of the R.O.T.C. battalion, president of the
student body association and vice-president of the student body in his junior year. Potter belongs to several honorary fraternities including
O.D.K., Sigma Delta Psi, Scabbard and Blade, and the D Club. His favorite sport has always been football, with track
running a close second.

In regard to the coming Wake Forest game Potter says, “I think we will win alright. The spirit for this
game has been above par and we'll all be doing our best. I hope that Mackorell will be able to
play against Wake Forest. I would rather have Mackorell on my team than anybody I’ve played against. He is a
great leader and a great player.”

Your reporter then switched the discussion to a review of the past season. The conversation reveals that Potter considers “Army
is the best team we have played against. Barclay of North Carolina has impressed me as being the smartest guard
that I've seen this year. We have run up against some mighty tough opposition and have really been playing teams
out of our class most of the time.”

Among the GREEKS

The past week-end has not seen a great deal of activity on fraternity court. Since there was nothing of special
interest going on here on the hill, quite a few of the Greeks took this as a good week-end to
make a few long-promised excursions around North Carolina and the adjoining states. Apparently those who remained here turned their interests
in other directions than fraternity houses. In spite of the lack of much activity a few items of interest were
gathered from the members.

Beta Theta Pi—The brothers enjoyed a feed at the house Sunday night. Brother Ward of the mother chapter of the
fraternity at Miami University was a guest of the week-end.

Pi Kappa Alpha—The chapter entertained with an informal on Saturday night featuring a nameless playlet given by the pledges. This
was the second of a series of informals planned by the chapter for this year. Following the play refreshments were
served to the members of the chapter and the following guests: Isabel White, Marian Cannon, “Baby” Hoover, Gertrude Ross, Alice
Cline, Caddie Willis, Coralie Means, and Francis Gibson of Concord; Ann Purnell, Peggy Jones, Mary McBrayer, Bonnye Cox, Martha Pettiway,
and Mary Durden, of Charlotte; Nelly McCubbins and Brownie Rendleman, of Salisbury; Frances Stough of Cornelius; Jennie Thompson, of Davidson;
James Towery, Parks Lafferty, Jr., and Julius Fisher, of Concord.

Kappa Alpha—After the usual Sunday evening feed the brothers of Sigma chapter held a sing. This feed and get together
was enjoyed by all.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Among the travelers in the Theta chapter were Lamont Brown, Harris Barkeedle and Henry Eve, who were attracted
to Atlanta; Archie Shuford and George Mathis spent the week-end in Durham; and Yates Faison and Billy Merchant went to
Raleigh.

Kappa Sigma—The brothers were present in large numbers at a feed Sunday night. The chapter is expecting a number of
visitors for the Thanksgiving Day game, and are planning to have a big day Thursday in their honor.

Pi Kappa Phi—The brothers of Epsilon are planning a Thanksgiving party to be given at the house on Thursday night.
Many girls have been invited and a number of alumni brothers are expected. Brother Everett Otey, present head of the
chapter, was operated on early in the week for appendicitis.

Phi Gamma Delta—The guest of honor for the Fijis this week was brother Sam Nickey of Memphis, a graduate of
the class of ’34. An unusually large crowd attended the feed Sunday evening. Visitors during the day were: Ralph Olson
of Hartford, Conn.; and Wayne Varnell.of Cleveland, Tenn., both students at Emory and Henry. At a recent chapter meeting, the
brothers decided to have a dinner between the two Saturday dances of Sophomore Week-End, and they have engaged the S.
and W. for the occasion.

Phi Delta Theta — The brothers of Gamma chapter held their usual Sunday night feed, but aside from this, they
do not report any other chapter activities.

Sigma Phi Epsilon — This chapter spent a quiet week-end; however, most of the brothers were present at the weekly
feed at the house Sunday evening.

Against teams out of our class. “In regard to school spirit, I think it has fallen quite a bit since
my freshman year but seems to be rising again this year. The student body has backed the team unusually well
this year and the freshman cheering section has been good.”

DEMON DEACONS WEAVER CAPT. PAT SWAN/-TACKLE

Pictured above are the Coach and Captain of the Wake Forest Demon Deacons who will face the Wildcats tomorrow in
the traditional Turkey Day classic between the two schools.

Run it...

AT THE LOCAL THEATRE

Thursday, November 29
A sparkling comedy filled with fun and laughter. It brings together one of the outstanding older stars in W. C.
Fields, and one of the most promising child stars, in Baby LeRoy.

Friday, November 30
“EVELYN PRENTICE”
From all reports, this production will reap the praises of the theatre-going world. Warner Brothers gives us a sequel to
Thin Man, with the identical cast. Myrna Loy shares honors with William Powell in the featured role while Una Merkle
and Isabel Jewell lend able support in this picture of exceptional caliber.

Saturday, December 1
"WAGON WHEELS”
A western musical production starring Randolph Scott. A story full of excitement and pathos.

Monday, December 3
“THE PRIVATE LIFE OF DON JUAN”
Douglas Fairbanks brings us another of his daring romantic stories in this Alexander Korda production. Fairbanks is ably supported by
a fine cast including Merle Oberon, English artist Benita Hume, and Binnie Barnes. This feature, presented by London Films and
released by United Artists, brings into the talking picture all the glamour and jollity of Fairbanks in the days of
silent films.

Tuesday and Wednesday, Dec. 4 and 5
“MARIE GALANTE”
Spencer Tracy carries off the honors in this production. In Relli Gallean, an imported star from Europe, Mr. Tracy is
given a very fine co-star. Ned Sparks and Helen Morgan also lend their support. The reports have it as a
very entertaining picture.

Tough schedule and failure to get the breaks. Army is, without doubt, the strongest team we have met this season.
Symms, Citadel center, impressed me as being the outstanding player that I've been up against.

“We should have won both the State and Citadel games had we not failed to coordinate properly. The scores of
our games have not been so much of a reflection on our team and coaching staff as they only show
that we were up against teams out of our class.”

STATIONERY CALLING CARDS PROGRAMS

YOU'LL BE HAPPY IN HANES!
Fine Printing
Shorts... Shirts
Union Suits
PRINTING CO.
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
Printers of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and the DAVIDSON COLLEGE ALUMNI JOURNAL

IVEY-GRAM ENTIRELY FORMAL

When the college man is making preparations to attend formal affairs, the most exacting care for correct dress must be
exercised. For the truly formal occasion, he must wear the full-dress tailcoat and not the “formal” dinner jacket. It has
been the custom for a long time in various institutions that the tuxedo is the correct dress for formal functions.
Fashion experts have decreed that it is only to be worn at the formal dinner and that “tails” are to
be worn to formal dances.

BLACKER THAN BLACK

One of the latest innovations in evening clothes has come to us from London. The new tailcoat is of fine
basket-weave fabric, in midnight blue instead of the conventional black. Under artificial light, it looks blacker than black itself, which
has a tendency to look greenish under the bright lights of the evening. The stubby short lapels are extremely wide
and are faced with a dull ribbed silk grosgrain, and the coat sleeves have false cuffs. A fine white linen
shirt which carries two white pearl studs should be worn, as well as a white waistcoat. The latest design in
formal vests has no back and pointed ends. The lapels are cut square across the bottom, giving a “broadening” effect
which is new and modern. The vest may be either single-breasted or double-breasted, but if the former, then black buttons
should be worn on it. One of the distinguishing features of this new tailcoat is the absence of an outside
breast pocket.

MORE WING-SPREAD

The days of the narrow, cutting wing collars seem to be passing speedily because all the latest designs in wearing
apparel are bringing in a collar with more wing-spread that should prove much more comfortable. The collar shown in the
inset is one of the latest and most authentic of the new styles. A white pique bow which is of
semi-butterfly shape and tied with a small knot makes this new collar look extremely modernistic. Both of these articles may
be secured at IVEY’S as well as the white vest and midnight blue tails mentioned above.

ACCESSORIES

Care should be taken in the purchase of accessories to select only those that are ultra-modern in design. IVEY’S are
showing apparel jewelry styled by Hickock at very reasonable prices. These sets, for evening wear, include cuff-links, studs, and vest
buttons. Another important article which adds just that necessary dash and finesse to “tails” is a red carnation worn as
a boutonniere. As yet, this has not attained such great popularity in the south, but before the winter season is
over, the red carnation will be an indispensable part of your formal outfit.

RANGE AVAILABLE FOR RIFLE TEAM

Captain Cochrane To Coach This Year; Numerous Matches Are Scheduled

Davidson's varsity rifle team will be under the supervision of Captain F. M. Cochran this year. Gordon Green is captain
and Dune Johnson, manager. The range is now open for the convenience of all men wishing to take advantage of
early training and practice. The members of the team will not be picked altogether from the members of the R.O.T.C.
unit; therefore, all men interested are urged to participate in the tryouts.

Numerous correspondence matches have already been scheduled, among which are matches with the University of Maryland, Cornell University, Michigan State,
Montana State, Oregon State, South Dakota State, Pennsylvania State, the City College of New York, and the New Mexico Military
Institute. Also, several shoulder matches are being sought with N.C. State, Oak Ridge, and Gastonia. These matches will be arranged
so that Davidson may engage each team twice, once on the campus here, and next, a return match to the
neighboring ranges.

The team has accepted the challenge to enter the Competitive Fourth Corps Area matches and also the Hearst Trophies matches.
A team of fifteen men will be selected at the beginning of the second semester. Only those men who are
properly trained through practice and who are in good physical condition will be considered in the eliminations.

Riflemen Fire Volleys At Funeral Of Veteran

On Tuesday, November 20, a squad of riflemen from Davidson College, commanded by Sergeant Burton, journeyed to Mooresville to fire
three volleys at the funeral of a World War veteran there, who had expressed the request several weeks before his
death that his burial should be a military occasion. Those besides Sgt. Burton who made the trip were J. W.
Hassel, J. R. Pearce, Joe Dees, C. L. Mann, Dan Griffin, Bob Sours, George Leukel, Treadway Purnell, and R. A.
Leonard, who blew taps.

Third Round Begun In Ping Pong Tournament

The annual ping-pong tournament is coming along nicely. The contestants have been keeping the hardwood court in the Y in
almost constant use for the past week and a half. All the matches through the second round have been played
off and some few of the third round matches have been completed. All the favorites have been coming along strongly
but so far the only outstanding contestant is Bell, who won over Crew in the third round. Bell will next
play the winner of Hill and Woodward for the semi-finals!

The contestants who have not played their third round matches are urged to do so by Saturday. After that date,
it will be necessary for one of them to forfeit. The ping-pong tournament is being sponsored by the Y.M.C.A. and
this year the students in charge are Don Brandon and Pete Neill.

WARNER BROS. BROADWAY GALA PREMIER TONITE AT 8:30 P.M. WED. NITE, NOV. 28th

WARNER BROS.’ BRILLIANT MILITARY ROMANCE..... At 8:30 P.M. All Seats 40c

MIDNIGHT SHOW WED. NIGHT—11:30 P.M.
“MURDER on the BLACKBOARD”
With Edna May Oliver and James Gleason

Wednesday Night and Thanksgiving
Friday-Saturday
Tom Tyler in “SILVER BULLET”
and
Doc Schneider’s YODELING COWBOYS
Matinee, 20c—Night, 25c
STATE
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
