THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 19, 1934

ROTC OFFICERS WIN AWARDS IN SUMMER CAMP

Local Military Unit Sets Camp Record In Wall Scaling Competition

P. C. AWARDED TROPHY

The annual R.O.T.C. encampment, concluded July 18 at Fort McLellan, near Anniston, Alabama, saw the local military representation win numerous
awards and second place in the efficiency cup rating. Forty Davidson Cadet Officers and Capt. F. M. Cochrane, who served
as head of the military police, were those of the local unit who spent six weeks at the camp.

The local unit walked away with the baseball championship on Field Day, broke the camp record for the wall scaling
competition, and followed these victories with second places in the machine gun tests and tug of war battles. The record-breaking
time made by the local unit for getting eight men over an eleven-foot wall was 32 seconds.

Presbyterianism ranked highly in the race for the efficiency cup as Davidson, leading until the last two weeks, was overtaken
by the unit from Presbyterian Junior College. Although there were no competitive matches for riflemen, Davidson men did well in
that department, two achieving the rank of expert riflemen.

Starting at five o'clock in the morning, the cadets went through training on the automatic rifle, machine gun, trench mortar,
37 millimeter gun, and the United States army rifle. They received lectures on Anti-Aircraft guns and gas attacks. Each day
there were problems to be solved. Battle practice in various methods of laying down fire, using actual bullets, was held
and often the cadets were afield taking instruction in making and breaking camp and in outpost duty. A plan of
rotation of officers was followed, thus giving each student actual experience in various positions.

A. J. Potter, Battalion Commander for the coming year, reports excellent morale for the entire six weeks. Dances were sponsored
by various colleges every week, Davidson and P. C. jointly sponsoring the first. Opportunity to attend the R.O.T.C. training camp
is given every year to those rising Seniors who are officers in their military unit. Colleges and military schools from
all over the South send their Cadet R.O.T.C. officers for summer instruction. The camp this year was directed by Commandant
MacGruder, of Fayetteville.

Dr. Lingle Makes Many Tours During Vacation

Dr. W. L. Lingle, President of Davidson College, made several speaking tours this summer in addition to his regular duties
at the college. He spoke for a week at the Young People’s conference at Camp Smyrna, Georgia, and for a
week in Jefferson, N.C.

Dr. Lingle also had Sunday engagements from time to time which included the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, The
First Presbyterian Church of Hickory, The First Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, The First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, The First Presbyterian
Church of Asheville, and The Third Presbyterian Church of Pittsburgh.

On Friday, Sept. 21, Dr. Lingle will make the opening address at Hollins College in Roanoke, Va. He will address
the Junior Chamber of Commerce in Winston-Salem the following Monday.

Freshmen Match Wits With President Brown

According to a little incident as told by “Skip” Brown, President of the Davidson student body, the incoming class of
Freshmen have at least two keen wits in their midst. In the first few days of this session, Brown, amongst
his numerous duties, had the pleasure of showing the new men the high spots on the campus. At the particular
instance under observation, he had two of the members of '38 in tow, and was proceeding up from the Y.M.C.A.
building toward Chambers, pointing out the interesting buildings as he went.

Pointing toward the sleeping quarters, Skip continued, “And here is the dormitory row. Now to your right over there you
find new Chambers, where we hold most of our classes.” At this point, one of the Freshmen, who had been
silent for some minutes, impulsively blurted out, “Aw, we know all about that.” Skip remarks that after this he surrendered
the point. Perhaps these Freshmen aren’t so dumb as they're set forward as being.

Assistants To Manager Of Wildcats Announced

With competition for football manager well underway again, nine men have been selected from among the junior and sophomore candidates
to assist Bill Northen, varsity manager; Rig Dees, equipment manager; and Bill Atwater, Freshman manager.

Junior managers for the 1934 season are D. B. Griffin, Charlotte; J. B. Goslin, Jr., Winston-Salem; and R. L. Harriss,
Jr., Roxboro. These men were chosen from a field of six candidates who served in the capacity of sophomore managers
last year, and all but three were eliminated at the beginning of the football season.

Sophomore managers who weathered a similar process of elimination are as follows: D. R. Sellers, Burlington; G. S. Norfleet, Winston-Salem;
R. M. Vance, Clinton, S.C.; J. O. Branton, Greenville, Miss.; L. K. Hill, Statesville; and H. S. Harkins, Asheville. All
freshmen interested in this work are asked to report to the manager at their earliest possible date.

D. C. Program Resumed With Musical Concert

The Quarter Hour over radio station WBT was resumed Monday night, September 17th, at nine o'clock. The program offered proved
to be very entertaining. The Davidson band, composed of twenty members, and under the direction of Professor Pfohl, played several
selections, among them, O, Davidson and the Elon College song, anticipating the Davidson-Elon game to be played on Saturday. Dave
McLain, a former member of the present senior class and now a student at Vanderbilt University, sang two songs.

According to Publicity Director Grier Martin, the programs this year are to be more varied and interesting than those last
year to the students and the public at large. Plans are being made to interview coaches of Athletics, and different
faculty members on campus. In the near future it is hoped that the Red and Black Masquers will put on
a play on this program.

Another program will be given next Monday night at the same time, but after that the program will be given
on Fridays instead.

AT THE LOCAL THEATRES

Wednesday, Sept. 19 and Thursday, 20
Treasure Island
This great work of Robert Louis Stevenson with which we are all familiar is produced very colorfully. Jackie Cooper in
the role of Jim Hawkins does some splendid acting. The role of Billy Bones is played by Lionel Barrymore. Wallace
Beery plays the role of Long John Silver. The cast also includes Lewis Stone, Otto Kruger, and Dorothy Peterson. This
show has received much favorable criticism and should afford entertainment for all.

Friday, Sept. 21—Now and Forever
This is a very enjoyable picture and brings us again that diminutive and sparkling star, Shirley Temple, who came into
fame during the past year. Gary Cooper, Carol Lombard, and Shirley Temple compose the cast.

Saturday, Sept. 22—The World Moves On

Monday, Sept. 24—The Affairs of Cellini
This is a Twentieth Century production, appearing in it are Frederic March and Constance Bennett. It is the story of
the loves of the great lover Cellini (Frederic March). According to reports this should be an interesting picture.

Tuesday and Wednesday, Sept. 25, 26—The Scarlet Empress
The Scarlet Empress is a very colorful and spectacular picture. The scenery and costumes are very sumptuous. It gives a
very thorough and colorful picturization of the Russian court, and the conditions of that time. It takes Marlene Dietrich from
an innocent princess to the empress of Russia by winning the affection of the army. Marlene Dietrich is at her
best in both looks and acting.

Student Identification Simplified By Pictures

Following the policy of several institutions of large student bodies, for the first time, Davidson College is undertaking to takepictures
of every student. These pictures will be attached to the students’ ledger cards in order that they may be more
easily identified. This service is done free of charge for the students.

Students Welcomed By Negroe’s Usual Appeal

This fall, as usual, it has been a common sight with the Davidson students to see the younger among the
colored population in the town haunting the grounds and the campus in the hope of procuring some type of work.
The fact becomes apparent from the moment the student enters the college for the first time to start the new
session. When a student stepped off the bus—or train—there is no distinction, he was immediately hailed by at least a
half dozen lusty young voices. “Hey, mistuh, lemme ca’y yo’ trunk up to the dormitories.” Although the object of their
pleas is very doubtful of the ability of such a small coon to “tote” such a large trunk, he invariably
either gives in in amusement, or, hard-boiled, tells Hurdle to clear out. For little Hurdle, known to every old Davidson
man, is sure to be among the foremost in the crowd. His lower lip sticks out in advance to warn
you that he too totes trunks with abandon and skill. His two-sizes-too-large trousers almost trip him in his eagerness. His
shoes form an added hazard. You find it hard to refuse him, unless, as some suggest, you are inured to
the ways and forms of begging among the little negroes of Davidson's campus.

Fifteen Men Are Lost By Returning Classes

More than fifteen men from Davidson's three upper classes did not return to school this year, and over half of
these have transferred to other institutions. Those about whom information is available are as follows: W. C. Branton, entering the
University of Tennessee; A. G. Brenizer, Jr., will enter Princeton; C. D. Daffin, planning to attend a business college; S.
E. Eaton, Wesleyan; A. J. Gillespie, probably Wofford; A. F. Henderson, Jr., transferred to Clemson; and T. W. Pritchard, who
enters the University at Chapel Hill. A. M. Faison, F. O. Gee, H. H. Ryan, D. Shemwell, E. H. Evans
and W. A. Zachary plan to return for the second semester or the fall term next year. W. A. Broadway
of the Sophomore class has been delayed by illness, but will return to school as soon as possible.

The machines are rented from a company in Philadelphia, which furnishes machine and films at a very nominal charge.

SYNOD CONVENES ON D.C. CAMPUS

Dr. Lingle Addresses Body On History And Future Of Davidson College

EXPANSION STRESSED

The Synod of North Carolina held their yearly meeting the sixth and seventh of September at Davidson College. The principal
speech was rendered by Dr. Walter S. Lingle who spoke on Davidson College and Christian Education. Dr. Lingle traced the
development of the College from small beginnings ninety-seven years ago to its present development. “Like all good things Davidson began
in a small way. I wonder if you men realize how small it was? The College in the very beginning
was only a small quadrangle. It was bounded on the South by the two Literary Society Halls, on the North
by the old chapel, which is now known as Shearer Hall, on the west by Oak Row, on the East
by Elm Row. That is just how big or how small the original College was.”

Davidson's president at this point of his speech tells of Mr. Maxwell Chambers' gift of a quarter of a million
dollars and explains how it was spent to build old Chambers which was burned in 1921, and of the various
improvements made on the campus. With the growing college well out of financial difficulties and with what was thought a
secure future Lingle continues. “But the Civil War soon came and gave an almost fatal blow to the college. Most
of its endowment was swept away. Its students and faculty joined the army and for several years there seemed little
left.”

The speaker explains how the college began to rebuild its faculty and student body and how with the turn of
the century an education revival was felt in the South. Campaigns for raising money were launched and nearly a million
dollars was received. Almost one third being given by the General Education Board. The World War came, old Chambers burned
and the outlook was dark, but through numerous campaigns enough money was raised to build New Chambers. Dr. Lingle goes
on to say, “In 1926 in the midst of the campaign for the new buildings there came another out of
the blue. Mr. James B. Duke created an endowment of forty million dollars and provided Davidson should receive five per
cent.” The last five years have been trying but notwithstanding the large shrinkage in our income we rejoiced to report
that we have been able to close each financial year with all obligations paid and a small cash balance in
the bank. Dr. Lingle here outlines the Centennial Campaign.

In the second section of his speech the president tells the members of the Synod what the college is attempting
to do in the way of Christian Education.
1. First of all our colleges are trying to store the hearts and minds of our students with a rich
store of information from a Christian point of view.
2. Our Christian Colleges are trying to develop in their students an appreciation of the finest and best in the
world in which we live.
3. Our schools are trying to teach our men to think.
4. Our Christian Colleges are trying to awaken in their students a holy ambition to be and do something.
5. Our Christian Colleges are attempting to develop Christian character.

The North Carolina Synod drew up a resolution giving their sincere thanks to Davidson College, to President Lingle, Dr. H.
H. Moffatt, Mr. F. L. Jackson, for his handling the details of the reception and to Dr. R. B. Lacy
for the expeditious way in which he presided over the session of the Synod.

AS FELIX SEES ’EM (Continued from Page 4)

five contests in which to get themselves in proper readiness for the engagements? Having the games so nicely set up
in that way is mighty fine, but the real nice part about the schedule is that all but three of
the games are to be played on Richardson Field, right in the Wildcats’ own pasture. The Rose Bowl could not
furnish a more perfect setting for Davidson to play in than the beautiful little stadium that has been erected by
those liberal-hearted alumni of the institution, Lunsford and Smith Richardson. There is nothing in the world that can give a
team inspiration like the spirited yelling of Davidson’s “six-hundred”, and, too, there is no place like home, even to a
bunch of tough, hard-fighting football warriors. Felix is planning to start making his prognostications on football games in the next
issue of the paper, so be ready to check his predictions and see how accurately he’s scratching this season.

Chesterfields are like Chesterfields

When a trade-mark is registered, it means that no one else can use the same name and the same package
for the same kind of product. To us the Chesterfield trade-mark means that every Chesterfield is manufactured by the same
formula, and one is like every other Chesterfield—not like any other cigarette ... —the cigarette that’s milder —the cigarette that
tastes better —the cigarette that satisfies
