O. D. K. PROSPECTS BEING CONSIDERED TAP DAY NEARING THE DAVIDSONIAN ALENODA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS TENTATIVE PLANS FOR WBT STATION EXTENSION HERE Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 17, 1934 No. 4 Spirited Cats RECORD CROWD HEAR RICHMOND MINISTER'S TALK Professor At Union Theological Seminary Leads Y. M. C. A Services Here IS DAVIDSON ALUMNUS Special Music Furnished By College Glee Club Dr. W. Taliaferro Thompson, Professor of Religious Education at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., spoke at the Y. M. C. A. Vesper Service last Sunday, taking temptation as his general subject. The service, which was led by Bob Smith, was attended by the largest vesper crowd of the year. The musical part of the program consisted of an organ prelude by Prof. James C. Pfohl, hymns by the entire audience, and a special number rendered by the college glee club accompanied by Carleton Chapman at the organ and Kenneth Scott at the piano. Don Bailey led in prayer. Dr. Thompson is a Davidson graduate, having compiled an outstanding record while in attendance here. After his graduation, he served in several pastorates before taking his present position at Union Seminary. His keen insight into the problems of a young man has made him a popular speaker with college students. Dr. Thompson took as his text Hebrews xii:4, “Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin.” “We are all,” he said, “subject to temptation. Even if we climb to a moral plane where we lose our old temptations, we are sure to find new ones.” Temptation is a fight. The majority of us withdraw from the fight before we have drawn blood. We want to parley with temptation. No man can reach the heights unless his life is a challenge, not a truce. We cannot allow ourselves to yield to a small sin just because everybody is doing it and we think we can. That small sin will not only lead on to greater sin, but will undermine our whole moral structure just as bleeding from a small vein will weaken the whole body. First, we must define our temptations. Every occupation, every time of life, every individual has his own temptations. Each man must search out his own, so that he can meet them squarely. The search must be honest; most people have a tendency to try to cover up the blackness of their sins even to themselves. “The first mark of maturity is the facing of the realities of life.” “Having defined our temptations,” said Dr. Thompson, “the next thing for us to do is to try to avoid them.” He compared men with kegs of powder. They must stay away from any place where a spark might fall on them and cause disaster. We must also avoid people who might lead us into temptations which might prove too strong for us. The fight is hard, but we must not lose courage. We can always get help from the example of One who “was tempted in all things like as we are, yet without sin.” Dr. Thompson closed his talk by illustrating this point with the story of a corporal who was overcome with fear just before going over the top. An officer saw him and yanked him to his feet, “Look at me,” commanded the officer. The corporal looked, and drew courage from his eyes. When the moment came, the corporal followed his officer over the top and was the first in the enemy trenches. Dr. Thompson led the audience in prayer, and after the singing of a hymn pronounced the benediction. READ Features This Week On Page Two “A College President's Inaugural Address” “Quips and Cranks’ Appeals to Students” Selected Papers of Phineas Spoon NEWLY ELECTED Henry Cathey Elected on the fourth ballot to the position of second vice-president of the student body. GEORGIA GIVEN NEW BOOKCASES Recently Improved Dormitory Receives Additional Equipment For Rooms New oak bookcases are being placed in the dormitory rooms of Georgia as fast as they can be constructed. Only six have been created as yet but the remaining twenty-seven are to be completed as soon as possible. The omission of side shelves or racks in the new type of tables, which were placed in Georgia last summer, necessitated individual bookcases, removed from the tables. Hook-racks will not be placed in rooms containing the old style tables (built with shelves to accommodate books and papers on each end with two spacious drawers in the sides). The six bookcases were placed in the students’ rooms last week, to see if they would prove satisfactory and convenient to the occupants of Georgia. These bookcases have four shelves, thirty inches long by nine and one-half inches wide, and stand four feet high. The oak boards are first planed and then the parts are assembled; a coat of heavy oak stain is applied, followed by a covering of shellac. These bookcases are being constructed in the College workshop, located back of the dormitory row, under the supervision of Mr. Hobart, supervisor of the grounds. Hornbeck Injured In Chemistry Lab George A. Hornbeck, '36, Rocky Mount, N. C., left yesterday to spend the winter at his father’s home in New York State, due to injuries received in a laboratory accident. The accident occurred on the afternoon of Thursday, October 4th, in the Chemistry 3 Laboratory. Hornbeck was performing a private experiment to pass the time, when his apparatus exploded and splattered him with glass and a chemical mixture consisting of potassium chlorate, red phosphorus, and sulphuric acid. His hand, chest, face, and arms were burned, and some of the solution, along with several pieces of glass, entered his eyes. Hornbeck has been out of school since the occurrence, spending several days at a Charlotte hospital and making a trip to an eye specialist in Philadelphia. Local doctors succeeded in removing several pieces of the glass, but the trip was necessary to remove a particle lodged in his eye lens. Hornbeck was “fortunate not to be permanently blinded” by the accident, according to all doctors consulted. However, his eyes were naturally weakened by the acid, for which reason he is unable to read for any length of time and must temporarily wear dark glasses. CATHEY ELECTED TO STUDENT BODY POST Chosen On Fourth Ballot Over Lamont Brown As Second Vice-President GLASS TO BE ADVANCED Failure Of Richardson To Return Causes Change As results of a move presented by Gordon “Skip” Brown, President, and which was adopted by the students, Harvey Glass of Richmond, Va., was appointed to serve as First Vice-President of the Student Body in place of R. B. Richardson of Reidsville, N. C., who did not return to school this year. Glass, who was elected second Vice-President last Spring to serve with Richardson, was automatically moved to first Vice-President upon the approval of the Student Body that some action should be taken to meet the situation caused by the vacancy of Richardson. President Brown, on behalf of the Student Council, presented the promotion of Glass for the consideration and approval of the students, who immediately signified their acceptance of the plan by a large majority of votes. Upon the acceptance of Glass as first Vice-President, another selection was necessitated in order to provide for a second Vice-President of the Student Body. In this balloting, which was completed Tuesday, Henry Cathey of Charlotte was elected to fill this office. Cathey defeated Lamont Brown of Barium Springs in the final ballot. Seven men of the Junior class were recommended for this office by the Student Council recommendation committee, which consists, according to the provisions of Article three of the constitution of the Student Government of Davidson College, of seven members, four Seniors, two Juniors, and one Sophomore. The men who are on this committee are as follows: Hugh Yelverton, Bob (Continued on Page 3, Col. 3) PHOTOGRAPHER RETURNS SOON Pictures For The “Quips And Cranks” To Be Taken On October 22 to 24 The photographer for “QUIPS and CRANKS” will be in the parlor of Watts to secure photographs for the yearbook on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, of next week, October 22-24. All students who have not as yet had their pictures made for this year’s annual are urged by the staff to take advantage of this opportunity. It is hoped by the staff that as many men as are able will endeavor to have their pictures made, in order that the book this year may be as interesting as possible. The regular charge of four dollars will be made, payable either when the picture is taken or on an extended payment basis, if desired. Men who have their pictures made are asked to wear a white shirt and a plain dark coat and tie. Mr. Dunbar, of Dunbar and Daniels, Inc., of Raleigh, will make the photographs this year. This company has had wide experience in making college annual photographs. Among the schools they have served are N. C. State and Winthrop. PHI GAMMA DELTA IS CLOSE SECOND IN ANNUAL SCHOLARSHIP RACE S. A. E. FINISHES THIRD Winners Gain Permanent Possession Of Scholarship Cup Phi Gamma Delta won first place among the social fraternities at Davidson in scholastic averages during the session 1933-1934 to secure permanent possession of the Harper trophy, by virtue of holding the highest average on the court for three consecutive years. They held an average of 2.117, to lead the Phi Gams by .134 points. The greatest improvement over last year’s average was shown by the members of Phi Gamma Delta, who advanced from fifth place to run a close second to the S. A. E. Chapter. Alex Harper, of Lenoir, gave the cup three years ago in memory of his father and grandfather, stating that his purpose would be to create a spirit of competition for higher scholastic averages between social fraternities. He also stated that if any fraternity should maintain the highest average for three consecutive years, the cup would become their permanent possession. The grading system was changed last year from a numerical to an alphabetical basis by Registrar Hengeveld.3.0; B plus, 1.0; D. The members of the Sigma Phi Epsilon chapter for the year, on an alphabetical basis, are as follows: Seniors: D. B. Bee (6), S. Ween, Urey (12), L. Orr, R. M. Porter, Jr., A. C. Rogers; Juniors: Barnett, W. G. Bradley, G. P. Erwin, A. P. Hassel, J. A. Jenkins, J. W. Knox; Sophomores: J. W. Bailey, W. A. Broadway, Marshall Dilling, Jr., A. F. Henderson, G. H. Kuykendall, J. P. Moore, J. T. Morten, J. A. Sommerville, O. G. Swindle, W. B. Swope, L. C. Taylor, B. D. Turner, W. Burford Young. The fraternity averages follow: Sigma Phi Epsilon, 2.117; Phi Gamma Delta, 1.983; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 1.904; Kappa Sigma, 1.959; Beta Theta Pi, 1.837; Kappa Alpha, 1.709; Phi Delta Theta, 1.705; Pi Kappa Phi, 1.742; Pi Kappa Alpha, 1.697.

Davidson Spirit Lives On Undimmed By The Years

An article appeared in the last edition of the Davidsonian concerning the school spirit of the Student Body, when it turned out to welcome the football team upon its return from New York, after taking a severe drubbing from West Point's eleven. Fifteen years ago, an almost identical scene occurred when the Student Body, leaders and all, turned out to greet the Wildcats who were returning from Lexington, Va., after being defeated by W. & L. University. The entire article mentioned Davidson men were always behind their teams even after physical defeat.

FOOTBALL TEAM ADOPTS PLEDGE TRAINING POLICY

In accordance with the training policy which has been followed for the past few years by those representing Davidson in the field of sports, it is necessary that the varsity football squad pledge themselves to the following oath:

“I understand fully the training regulations that have been set forth by the coaches in charge of varsity football, and I expect to comply with such requirements until I have been released therefrom officially. The specific regulations that are most necessary have been explained as follows:
1. I shall not use tobacco in any form.
2. I shall retire before eleven P.M. daily unless academic duties and conditions otherwise beyond my personal control make it imperative for me to remain up longer.
3. I shall comply with instructions otherwise explained to me under ‘number three’.
4. I shall eat at regular times set for meals and shall not eat such food forbidden during the training season.
5. I shall not indulge in alcoholic drinks.”

The following men signed the pledge: E. M. Armfield, Jim Batte, L. J. Blackwelder, Floyd Bumgarner, William J. Brewer, Woodrow Burns, Dick Cathey, James A. Dickson, C. T. Fort, Hugh C. Gracey, C. Holland Hand, Jr., Joe L. Hunter, Dewey Hutchins, R. W. Johnston, John Koenig, John Lee, J. Tom Corbin, B. Lee, Arch Legare, John Mackorell, Jim Morgan, M. E. Peabody, John R. Pearce, Paul C. Pittman, A. J. Potter, William B. Ravenel, III, John Siewers, Ira E. Verble, Cole Windham, George Wingfield, Baxter Yarbrough, Fields Young.

CATS PLAN Friday Pep Meeting To Precede Duke Contest

There will be a Student Body pep meeting held in front of Chambers immediately after supper Friday night, in preparation for the Duke game on Saturday. This meeting, which promises to be the largest held so far this year, will be under the direction of Varsity Cheerleader Paul Warren and the recently elected Junior Cheerleaders, Joe Dees and Mac McLeod. The band will be there to assist with the songs, and a speaker, whose name will be announced later, will give the pep-talk. A shirt-tail parade around the campus is planned to conclude the rally.

A Freshman pep meeting was held in Shearer Tuesday night for the purpose of teaching the new men songs and yells. As a result of this and other similar meetings, the cheerleaders are confident that the cheering Saturday will be greatly improved both in quantity and quality, and that the team will receive much better support than in the Elon game of some weeks ago.

FOOTBALL DANCE SET TO FEATURE Hal Thurston And His Orchestra Will Play On Friday And Saturday Nights

Davidson students will turn out in gala fashion in Charlotte this weekend to celebrate the first school dance of the year. From all indications, the largest number of girls ever to attend a Davidson dance will throng the campus next Friday and Saturday. Hal Thurston and his orchestra, headed by Mims Rogers, will make their debut. The set of dances will consist of two; a formal on Friday night in the Charlotte Hotel ballroom, and an informal Saturday night at the Armory-Auditorium. Hours are: Friday night, 9:30 till 2; Saturday night, 8:30 till 12. The Armory will be decorated with Duke and Davidson colors in honor of the Duke-Davidson football game held Saturday afternoon. The Duke team has been extended the invitation to attend, and both Duke and Davidson “breaks” will be held.

Hal Thurston, famous for his novelty numbers, has added to his repertoire a special arrangement of “O Davidson”. Also on his list are several college medleys including one with the Duke college song. All fraternities are planning social functions on campus for the weekend, including banquets, parties, and dances. This set of social functions is the most inexpensive ever given by the Pan-Hellenic Council.

Cochrane Enlists At Randolph Field

F. M. Cochrane, Jr., a member of the class of '34, and one of the most outstanding athletes ever on the Davidson Campus, left last week for Randolph Field, near San Antonio, Texas, where he will enlist in a two-year Flying course. For years past, flying has been a hobby of Cochrane, and he has been looking forward to training at Randolph Field for some time. He reported there on October 12, enlisting as a flying cadet. Examination of candidates included a physical examination at Langley Field, lasting a week, where, out of the eighteen who submitted to it, only three, including Cochrane, passed successfully. Another examination was given when he enlisted in Charlotte, and still another, more thorough than any of the others, is to come after he reports at Randolph Field.

When Cochrane was at Davidson, he was one of the school’s most outstanding athletic representatives. He holds the college record in Discus and Shot. He was captain of the track team. (Continued on Page 3, Col. 2)

To Clash With Mighty Duke Team

COMEBACK AGAINST BLUE DEVILS
Line-Up Changes And New Plays To Help Davidson Meet Duke Invaders

DUKE YET UNDEFEATED
Duke Outweighs Davidson

Duke's mighty Blue Devils, fresh from triumphs over three Southern Conference teams, will make their second straight appearance on Richardson Field Saturday, when they engage Davidson's fighting Wildcats. It will be the 13th meeting of football teams representing the two institutions. Although the Wildcats, according to early season games, will be the decided underdogs, the Presbyterian machine has a habit of pulling upsets out of the bag now and then, particularly against Duke, and Coaches Newton and McIver feel that, with the help of Lady Luck, the "Cats will upset the dope and send the Dukes back to Durham with an empty bag.

The Davidson Coaches, anticipating a hard struggle, have been putting their charges through every phase of the game, with special attention being devoted to the line, which will receive the brunt of Duke's offensive. According to reports, several major changes in the lineup will be made in order that better results may be obtained. Several surprises are also planned for the Wade-coached eleven, and with a smart backfield to execute them, anything can happen to upset the dope.

Mackorell, Wingfield, Hutchins, Yarborough, and other regular backs, have been showing up fine in practice scrimmages, while several reserves have attracted attention by their performances, particularly Paul Pittman, a triple threat quarterback. The line, though comparatively weak, will feature one of the most outstanding ends in the state in big Jim Morgan. Morgan will be ably assisted on the opposite flank by Coley Windham, while Fred Cathey, the Sophomore end who furnished plenty of trouble for Army, will also be in line for action. Special attention has been given to other positions in the line, especially center, which is one of the main weaknesses of the forward wall, due to lack of weight. However, this has been partially made up for in the aggressiveness of Joe Lee, who looked good in the game with Army.

The Dukes, who defeated the Wildcats 19 to 7 last year, are without the services of several stars which led the team to that victory. Crawford, Laney, Rossiter, Schock, and several others were lost by graduation. However, Duke has ample replacements for those men, but the Wildcats will have to be shown and they are ready for the exhibition Saturday.

“Corky” Cornelius, Duke's side-wheeling halfback and rated one of the best in the country, will be the main threat of the Durham team’s offensive. Clarence Parker, a Sophomore triple threat back, and Jack (Scooter) Alexander, a 165-pound fullback, also have proven themselves worthy of similar praise. Earle Wentz and Elmer “Snooky” Tarrall, ends together with E. B. Dunlap, center, and Captain Jack Dunlap, guard, will be Duke’s main standbys in the line. The Wade-coached team has met three Southern Conference teams, V. M. I, Clemson, and Georgia Tech, so far this year and had little trouble in crushing them. (Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

Davidson Concert Band Chooses New Officers

The new officers of the Davidson Band were elected by a popular vote of the band members last week. These officers are changed every year; the men chosen were all seniors. Moreland Cunningham was elected president, Frank Tucker, vice-president, and Harris Bradley, secretary. Hubert Morris was chosen to be the business manager. The band is at present working on concert music, especially practicing the William Tell Overture. This, along with other selections, is to be played at a concert which is to be given sometime before the Christmas Holidays.