THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 16, 1934

The Davidsonian
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915
Member of Associated Collegiate Press
1933 Ganome Covinact) 1934
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the editor by 4:00 o'clock p.m. Monday. Letters to the editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

Editor ........................................... KENNETH D. WEEKS
Business Manager .................... J. A. GWADSWORTH

EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor ........................................... MARTIN R. COLE
Managing Editor .................... JOHN W. FAULKNER
Associate Editor .................... G. L. GULLEY
Associate Editor .................... E. F. McKAY
Associate Editor .................... J. L. ROSENBERG
Associate Editor .................... JACK HEINZ

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager .... COLEMAN BRANTON
Assistant Business Manager .... A. G. BRENIZER
Assistant Business Manager .... J. B. GOSSETT
Assistant Business Manager .... TAL CAIN
Assistant Business Manager .... TOM SMITH

WEDNESDAY, MAY 16, 1934

Self-mastery is the first and noblest victory of all. —Plato.

FINAL ISSUE OF “THE DAVIDSONIAN”

With this issue, we end our work on “The Davidsonian” for the school year. This is our final issue of the semester. We wish to thank the Student Body for its help in the past and ask for the same cooperation when we resume publication next fall. In the past few issues, we have not adhered to any special policy because we have been experimenting in an attempt to publish the best paper possible. We also welcome any constructive criticism and suggestions as to how we can make “The Davidsonian” of greater interest to you. This final issue, as has been announced, contains a pictorial supplement of the student leaders in their respective fields. Due to lack of space, we could not use as many pictures as we would have liked. Also, it was impossible to obtain some pictures which we had intended to use.

THE OLD AND NEW “Y” SECRETARIES

In writing an editorial of this kind, it is extremely difficult to treat the subject successfully, since the facts are so well known. This short article contains nothing which is not already evident, and it would take an abler pen than ours to do justice to this subject. We wish this sketch merely to be taken as a reflection of the facts already widely known on the campus at Davidson.

Sam Wiley entered Davidson with the class of '31, and his four years here as a student were years of particular merit and distinction. He was affiliated with practically every phase of student life, being active in student government, athletics, and the YMCA Department, all of which culminated in his election to Omicron Delta Kappa, a leadership fraternity. He also gained distinction in the literary and academic fields, being a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Upsilon. At his graduation in June 1932, the position of Y. M. C. A. secretary was left vacant when Carl Pritchett left at the end of this school year. Mr. Pritchett filled this office very efficiently for two years, leaving open a vacancy which was hard to replace, and which is also a very important one on the Davidson campus. Because of his interest in the “Y” and his ample qualifications, Sam Wiley was chosen to succeed Pritchett. His work here at Davidson has been two years of fruitful efforts. His ability, coupled with his personality and understanding of college students, has made him invaluable as an advisor and a friend. After two years in this position, he has decided to leave Davidson and enter the Seminary.

History is said to repeat itself. Especially does it do so in this case. Pritchett left a vacancy which it has been proven was filled by a man who was quite capable of the job. With Wiley’s departure, the same difficult task is left to fall upon another’s shoulders, those of Albert McLure. We feel confident that McLure has the qualifications to fill this job the same as his predecessors have. He graduated from Davidson in '31 and has since been a student at Union Theological Seminary. He was active in student affairs and also took great interest in Y. M. C. A. work, being student pastor of the Davidson Unity Church for two years. He is a member of O. D. K. and was awarded the Algernon Sidney Sullivan medallion.

It is with a feeling of regret that we are forced to part with a person with such a character and personality as Wiley, but we are sure that his future will be even more outstanding than his past. We are confident that he will succeed in whatever branch of the ministry he undertakes and that he will leave his mark of Christian service on everything which he may undertake. We wish both these men great success as they assume their responsibilities in new fields.

COMPULSORY CHURCH ATTENDANCE

Whether or not there should be compulsory church attendance has long been a topic of discussion among Davidson students. The conservatives feel that compelling the undergraduates to attend the Sunday services is a good thing. The radicals feel that the compulsory attendance gets an effect just opposite to that intended. It is neither intended by these few words to set forth that compulsory church attendance is bad nor that it is good; but rather to show why students do object to being forced to attend the Sunday services.

Last Sunday, as usual, freshmen and sophomores had to attend the morning services. Quite a few juniors and seniors, who could get credit for attending the evening services, were also present. The students went expecting a sermon on “Mother’s Day”; a sermon to satisfy their sentimentalities. But there was no satisfaction, and they all went away disappointed, for nothing concerning Mother’s Day was mentioned during the services. The sermon instead was of a technical nature; and not even addressed to the students, who comprise over half the congregation of the Davidson College Church. Sunday’s sermon is excellent testimony as to why church attendance at Davidson should not be compulsory. Why should students be forced to sit through sermons not intended for them; inappropriate for the occasion; and of little concern to them? We venture to say that if more sermons appropriate to the occasion, of interest to the students, or concerned with their problems, were delivered, students, or at least a majority of them, would not raise objections to compulsory church attendance; and would go to the services, not with a feeling of “going because we have to go,” but rather with a feeling of “going because we love to go.”

RADIO EXPERIMENT, A SUCCESS?

Several months ago when Julian West announced that radios had been legalized by order of the Executive Committee, a riot of applause burst forth from the Student Body. This action of the Committee was sanctioned very heartily by popular approval because the privilege to possess and operate radios had long been in demand by the Student Body, as a whole. The spirit of the occasion was dampened somewhat when West immediately followed his first statement in regard to the lifting of the ban on radios with the statement that “this is being done as an experiment to find out how it works.” The purpose of the experiment is, I take it, to find out whether or not radios will interfere with students who wish to study.

The radios have worked perfectly! Judging from their consistency I do not believe a single radio has broken down up to date. At any and all times one can hear radios blaring out their tunes. And such an incoherent conglomeration of noises! (My respect for a tune prompts me to use the word “noise” here). Each radio seems to be competing for volume supremacy; but this is no fault of theirs. Some human hand is operating the controls of each one of the numerous radios! And the purpose of the experiment was not to find out how loudly the radios could play, but to find out how loudly they would be played! Is this never-ceasing, nerve-racking noise which comes in from above, below, and from all four sides conducive to studying?

The radio experiment has been duly executed. Is it not fair that the results ascertained from the trial be given due consideration? And is it not equally as fair that any adjustments which the results make needful be executed? Davidson College expects her students to do their best in the scholastic field. Is there any reason why Davidson students should not expect Davidson to give them every opportunity to do their best in their scholastic endeavors? —J. A.

One group of 102 Haverford (Pa.) College students has sent to President Roosevelt and Senator David A. Reed a petition announcing their refusal to “fight in any war.”

The Broadcaster

Seniors, our thoughts are of you. You came, you saw, and you conquered (I really should wait until after exams to write this), and now you are about to say good-bye to your college days at Davidson forever. Seniors, we are proud of you and are happy to call you the graduates of Davidson College where your friendships formed here will remain always. You call yourselves educated, but you must now realize that your education has just begun. Yes, this is just the beginning of your learning and you now will go out to face the facts of life. College is easy; life is difficult. There is only one solution for your success and that is WORK. You will soon receive your diploma, which is the result of the work which you have done, but it is not the result of the work which you are going to do. You have taken the first step, now don't falter, but keep going ahead to reach your goal in life. Don’t think that because you have a college diploma, you are better than anyone else, but remember that it is the man who is willing to work who will get the job.

Let me tell you about an interesting conversation which I had with a professor some time ago. We were discussing vocations when I asked what he considered the most important quality necessary in applying for a position. The answer was surprising. He replied that he considered the most vital quality necessary in an applicant for a position was not for him to wear a Phi Beta Kappa key, nor an Omicron Delta Kappa key, not for him to be a football hero, but he must have PERSONALITY and a willingness to WORK. He must be able to meet people, to mix with people, and to KNOW people, and above all, he must not be afraid of hard work.

Seniors at Davidson, you have developed mentally, physically, and thanks to a Christian school, you have trained spiritually. Now don't let yourdevelopments cease, but strive on for perfection in making your body a palace beautiful both on the inside and outside. You are leaving, but our thoughts will be with you and we will be wishing you Godspeed. Mother's Day has come and gone, but although one particular day is devoted to the mothers, every day is Mother’s Day. The Y. M. C. A. vesper services on Sunday evening were most impressive. The services were conducted by the Junior class, with Don Brandon and Bob Smith as speakers. When we sat up and listened to these boys speak about the mother’s sincere devotion to her sons, we could feel our mothers so near to us and we felt how much our mother’s love really means to us. Isn’t it strange that everything seems to pile up on us right here at the close of the school year? Just when we have our dreams and visions of summer, there is so much to do before our dreams become a reality. And too, don't we threaten never to come back to this place again, but when September rolls around we are all ready to go back to dear old Davidson and get back to work?

Things I never knew till I came to Davidson: That a Davidson student really has to study... That I know so little about the Bible... That the old Davidson fighting spirit never dies... That Charlotte is just a thumb’s length from Davidson... That a fraternity is a better place to bum cigarettes... That ATOM wasn’t the first man... That a BEAKER is not Eb Willson’s snozzle... That John Walker has the honey-britches... That a moment in a classroom is more than sixty seconds... That Mrs. Smith has such lovely ways, but detests dirty pictures hanging in the rooms... That the Pills Brothers (Bill, Dave, and Geddie) have made several radio appearances... That it rains every other day... That Charlie Rives ought to be in pictures... That the faculty golf team has such graceful form on the links... That the local Davidson girls are SHOOTVs scence... And last of all, that I would turn out to be a Broadcaster.

This is the last appearance of The Broadcaster this year, and I wish to say that our weekly visits with you have been a pleasure. I appreciate your interest, and if the editor lets me, I'll be back broadcasting with you again next year.

Compassing The Campus

In this, the last issue of The Davidsonian for the school year, we wish to thank the editor for his sympathy with this column, and all of you for your kind reception of it. We hope to be Compassing the Campus again next year with you, and until that time wish all of you a very happy and successful summer. Now for a little campus talk:

MOTHER'S DAY

Last Sunday we honored the greatest of all people—our mothers; the closest relative, the dearest friend, the most sympathetic guide, and the most understanding person in the world is Mother. She thinks of you every day. The eternal debt that we owe to our mothers, and the best way to discharge this debt was brought before those who attended vesper services on the campus. President Weeks conducted the Junior class service, with Don Brandon and Bob Smith bringing to the listeners a realization of what Mother’s Day should mean to all of us. It was an impressive service, and one that will long be remembered. In a service such as the one held Sunday evening, there is brought to the mind of the student an intangible benefit in the realization of what constitutes a true and noble life—the kind of life your mother wants you to lead. Only by living this ideal life can Youth recompense Motherhood.

MILITARY

The initiation last week of a number of new members into Scabbard and Blade brought a pleasant interlude into the monotonous routine of weekday life. With Billy Northen supplying the so-called music, the Scarem and Raid pledges did an elaborate shine-act up and down the main street of our fair city. A. J. Potter gave the commands which the junior detail did its best (none too good) to follow. In the afternoon, a thrilling foot race was held in front of Georgia with Mack Porter, Bill Brewer, Mims Rogers, and others probably among the first to finish. Maybe there was nobody at the finish line because we couldn’t find out who won the race. Brewer and Porter ran nose-to-nose on the last lap, and unless Rogers necked them out, they very likely won the derby. Dewey Hutchins surely looked lonely on sentry duty; maybe he’ll make the National Guard yet.

ON THE RIVER

In typical Southern style, the Kappa Alphas held a suitable pre-examination house party on the Catawba River last weekend. While Sandy Moffett and Lindsay Watt indulged in a game of horseshoes, others deluged in the river. Perhaps you can’t imagine why, but Broadus Yarborough upset a heavily laden boat and generally played havoc with the fairer (and weaker) sex. Whenever the party became dull, a wild goose chase was arranged and carried out in the greatest detail. The novel feature of the function was the hayride, with P. A. Robbins doing his best to throw all the hay overboard. Also on the river this weekend were the S. P. E.’s with a number of Charlotte and Salisbury girls, including Biddie Maddox, Nancy Singleton, Kitty Van Eschops, Marie Kline, Margaret Kline, Sarah Montague, and others. Ed. Humphreys and Martin Barnett were the main power behind the party, according to all reports. Despite the lack of even so much as a little grass shack to keep out the foggy, foggy dew, the Betas threw a big party at Lineburger Beach on the old Catawba. After an afternoon of swimming in the clear, limpid waters of the crystal river, an open-air feed was disposed of in a few brief moments. The Phi Delts and Phi Gams will have house parties this weekend; when are we going to study for exams around this place?

ET CETERA

TWADDLE & PALAVER: Friendly boos and cheerful hisses were aimed at President Fred Smyre when he was late arriving at a recent Senior class meeting. Congrats to the local O. D. K. chapter for their recent recognition... Odi Casali again honored when his Company D won the competitive drill in R. O. T. C. for this year... Bill Cely received a letter the other day from one of his favorite female admirers; the letter contained a one-dollar bill and two neatly pressed pansies... Wish we had more pictures like “The House of Rothschild” and more actors like George Arliss... “The first four years are the hardest,” says Buck Kirkland and is contradicted by P. M. Kirkpatrick, who asserts that “the last four years are the hardest”... Wonder if the editor of the Carolina Buccaneer tells his folks about his job... When is Jack Williams’ yearbook gonna reach us guys? See you next year.

Radio Log

Salute King and Queen Cotton: A display of scenes of ancient Memphis on the Nile, a pageant depicting De Soto's discovery of the Mississippi will be presented over the NBC and CBS networks Wednesday afternoon, May 10th, at 3:00 o'clock. Other features will be music by twenty bands from three states, the 100-man Mississippi Jubilee Singers, the American Legion Drum and Bugle Corps, and Mayor Watkins Overton’s welcome. This will be broadcast from Memphis.

Josef Lhevinne: This noted pianist will give a recital over the NBC network Thursday evening, 10:30-11:00.

White House Musicale: A Southern Folk Musicale will be given at the White House, Thursday, NBC, 11:35-12:00. The musicale is given by a group from Virginia under the direction of John Powell, Richmond composer. It is the result of an invitation from Mrs. Roosevelt.

The World Court: On Friday evening, over the NBC network, at 6:15, Manley O. Hudson, Bemis Professor of International Law at Harvard University, will speak on “The World Court.” This address is a series of national radio broadcasts presented by The Intercollegiate Council, which are presented each Friday evening. On the following consecutive Friday nights, one may hear Norman Thomas, Charles W. Taussig, Ogden Mills, and Willard L. Thorp.

Marquis de Lafayette: President Roosevelt's address before a special joint session of Congress, convened in the House chamber for services commemorating the 100th anniversary of the death of the Marquis de Lafayette, will be broadcast over the combined NBC and CBS networks, Sunday, May 20th.

Empire Day: Monday, May 20th, will be celebrated as Empire Day by the British Empire. Special programs from London will be broadcast.

T. S. Stribling: The noted author of “The Forge” and “The Store” has written especially for radio presentation “Conflict” which is presented over a CBS network each Tuesday and Friday at 8:30 p.m.

Byrd and World’s Fair: Through an electrical impulse transmitted by short-wave radio from his station in the Antarctic, Admiral Byrd will share with President Roosevelt the honor of opening the World’s Fair in Chicago, Saturday, May 26th. The ceremony will take place during the regular weekly broadcast from the Byrd Expedition and will be heard over the nation-wide CBS network between 9:00 and 9:30 p.m.

FRED WARING and his orchestra begin their summer vaudeville tour this month. H. V. KALTENBORN, CBS news commentator, will spend part of the summer touring Russia and broadcasting from Moscow and Warsaw. PAUL WHITEMAN’S first engagement in Canada at Montreal's Mount Royal Hotel will net him $6,000 for five days. QUEEN MARY OF ENGLAND goes on the air for the first time over CBS early next fall. The occasion will be the launching of a new Cunard liner at Glasgow. Other notables who have never broadcast are: The Sultan of Zula, Emperor of Abyssinia, Llama of Tibet, and The Mahatma Gandhi. WALTER HUSTON, film and stage star, will be the guest artist on The Hall of Fame program next Sunday night. ANSON WEEKS replaces WAYNE KING at the Aragon Ballroom, May 19th, when the latter goes on his vacation. JEANIE LANG and FRANCES LANGFORD, radio songstresses, have been offered roles in Broadway productions next fall.

On Other Campuses

N. C. State College

The Prisoner's Song will be enacted in real life at State and will be the theme song of The Order of the Ball and Chain, an organization whose membership is made up of Benedicts and old Heads. “Mope” Cumiskey is acting as head of the club at present. The show goes on! Two students were the guests of Dr. A. C. Campbell, the State College physician, in the operating room during an operation. The boys reported that the spectacle was most interesting to watch but that in the middle of it Dr. Campbell’s pants fell down, and he had to finish the job without them.

The Wataguan, a humorous magazine, will publish their last edition after the style of the popular Esquire. The cover will be a reproduction of the one used by Esquire, and follows the colors, drawings, and type.