TWO MORE ISSUES; NEXT ISSUE WILL BE SENIOR EDITION

The Davidsonian
Alenda Lux Abi Orta Libertas

DR. BROWN CLOSES SPRING SERVICES WITH TALK TONIGHT

Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 2, 1934 No. 27

Dr. Vowles Urges Rhodes Applicants To Apply At Once
Complete Information on Rhodes Scholarships May Be Obtained Now

ELECT MEN NEXT FALL
Only Juniors and Seniors Eligible for Selection

Dr. G. R. Vowles, institutional representative of the Rhodes Scholarship for Davidson College, recently announced that all men interested in
applying for a scholarship next year could obtain copies of the memorandum of regulations, application blanks, or other information from
him. The applications for next year’s Rhodes Scholarships must be handed in by November 17, 1934. The elections for those
receiving the scholarships will be held the first week in January, 1935, and the men selected at that time will
enter Oxford University in October of the same year.

The Rhodes Scholar receives a stipend of 400 pounds a year, and there is no restriction on a student’s choice
of studies. He is ordinarily selected for two years, but an excellent record and a course requiring more time to
complete will enable him to be selected for a third year. A candidate, to be eligible, must—(a) be a male
citizen of the United States and unmarried; (b) be between the ages of 19 and 25; (c) have completed at
least his sophomore year at college. Candidates may apply either in the state in which they live or in one
in which they have received at least two years of college education.

The qualities considered in the selection of Rhodes Scholars are—(1) literary and scholastic ability and at-
(Continued on page 5)

Dramatic Club Holds Trials For New Play
“Dover Road” Will Be Presented by Masquers

Tryouts for the Red and Black Masquers’ new production, “Dover Road,” were held Wednesday, April 18. The original plan of
the Masquers was to produce Sheridan’s “The Rivals,” but due to the length of the play, the short time, and
the number of actors required, the choice of play was changed to A. A. Milne’s “Dover Road.” This change was
not known until the last moment, and the tryouts were handicapped by the fact that the contestants were not familiar
with the play. However, the tryouts were a success because of the large number of contestants and the new talent
revealed.

“Dover Road” is unusual in that there is no one leading part, but all the characters play important roles. The
character about which the play centers is that of Latimer, played by Nate Wauda, who performed in “Candida.” The other
characters are as follows: Dominic—Dick Hillier; Nicholas—Billy Higgins; Leonard—Stuart Henry; Eustasia—Kalista Hood, and Ann—Adele Arbuckle. All the players except Hillier
and Higgins have participated in previous Red and Black Masquers’ productions. The play will be presented in approximately three weeks.

Fee for Senior Gowns Must Be Paid Today

According to John Hunter, chairman of the Senior Caps and Gowns Committee, the fee of $2.35 for these robes must
be paid by tonight at the latest. This fee may be paid to any member of the committee, consisting of
John Hunter, chairman, Joe Drake, and Rawling Pratt-Thomas. “It is absolutely essential that this money be paid at once,” Hunter
stated, “as the gowns will not be sent until a check is received for the full amount by the company
making the robes.” The rest of the senior assessment, $3.45, may be paid the latter part of May. This assessment
will pay for the class gift, the senior class sponsor’s picture in the Annual, and a senior smoker.

Professors Given Leave
A. V. GOLDIERE
J. T. KIMBROUGH

Professors A. V. Goldiere and J. T. Kimbrough, shown above, have been granted a leave of absence of a year
to do graduate work. Goldiere will study at Yale; Kimbrough is undecided at present as to where he will go,
but he hopes to study at the University of Chicago.

Davidson Professors To Do Graduate Work Next Year

Davidson Students Attend Convention
West, Brown, and Richardson Represent Student Body

Last Friday and Saturday three members of the Davidson student body, Julian West, “Skip” Brown, and Bob Richardson, attended the
annual North Carolina Federation of Students Convention, which was held at Chapel Hill. Dr. Rondthaler, president of Salem College, delivered
the first address at a luncheon Friday, and cordially welcomed the men to the convention. After spending the afternoon preparing
their quarters and meeting other student representatives, the men heard Dr. Justin Miller, dean of the Duke University Law School,
who talked Friday night at supper on the responsibility invested in student leaders. Groups made up of students discussed the
subject of “Extra Curricula Activities” after the supper address.

Saturday morning these discussion groups were again held, this time on the subject of the different honor systems employed in
our state colleges and universities. Both good and bad points in these systems were brought out for the benefit of
each representative. At lunch Saturday, the convention heard Mr. H. Grady Miller, head of the department of music at Carolina,
who spoke on the different honor codes employed in the state, their efficiency, and the need for an all-round honor
code which could be strictly enforced. The convention was brought to a close Saturday night by a novelty dance affair.
It is through these conventions that each educational institution in North Carolina is given the opportunity to profit by the
good and bad points of the student governments of other institutions in the state.

Music Clubs To Give Program In Winston
Concert Band and Glee Club Will Leave Friday

The Davidson Concert Band and Glee Club, combined, will close their tours for the year with two concerts in Winston-Salem,
Friday, May 4. The first will be presented in the morning before the student body of R. J. Reynolds High
School and the second will be given at 8:30 o'clock Friday night at Memorial Hall, Salem College. A feature of
the morning program will be the playing of the Winston-Salem High School Band with the Davidson Band in two numbers,
“Cheerio,” by Goldman, and “Washington Post,” by Sousa. After the concert Friday night the members of the band will be
the guests of James C. Pfohl, director of the Davidson
(Continued from page 5)

Kimbrough and Goldiere Secure Leave of Absence

Two prominent Davidson professors, A. V. Goldiere of the French department and J. T. Kimbrough of the math department, will
be away on a leave of absence next year in order that they may take up graduate study in their
respective subjects.

Professor Goldiere, who has taught French at Davidson since 1922, first entered college at Dartmouth, but during his sophomore year
at that school, war with Germany caused him to enlist in the A.E.F. However, he was later assigned to the
United States Army Ambulance Service which served as a part of the French army in Paris. After serving from May
until October, 1918, he was stationed with the tenth French army of occupation on the Rhine. It was while serving
in this capacity that he was one of six selected from his company to study French at the University of
Caen, in order that a better spirit might be created between the French and the Americans.

After the war, Professor Goldiere returned to Dartmouth, where he graduated in 1920. Two years of post-graduate work at Yale,
where he studied the Romance languages and majored in French, followed. Professor Goldiere then began his work here at Davidson,
although he has taken summer courses at the University of North Carolina, University of Chicago, Sentro de Estudios Historicos at
Madrid, and the French Institute at Penn State. He acquired his Master of Arts degree in 1928. Professor Goldiere plans
to teach at summer school here this year and then he will leave with Mrs. Goldiere for New Haven, Conn.,
where he will work for a degree of Doctor of Philosophy
(Continued on page 5)

Many Students Find Places As Teachers
Dr. Gwynn Optimistic Over Placing Applicants

Placement of Davidson students in schools this year is rapidly being completed, stated Dr. P. H. Gwynn, professor of education
and chairman of the placement committee. About thirty applicants are on hand to all appearances. Each will have a position
next year. At the present time vacancies are to be had for positions in high or prep schools, teaching science
and mathematics, Spanish and German, or French and Latin. Lately have been received a vacancy for a high school principal
and a band director. These positions have come from all over the South.

To underclassmen who have in mind teaching as a profession, Dr. Gwynn points out several facts. First is that more
and more prep schools are demanding work in education courses as a prerequisite for positions and that
(Continued on page 5)

Dr. Frank C. Brown Opens “Y” Services With Talk Sunday
Opening Lecture Is on “Christ’s Manifesto to the Church of God”

TALKS CLOSE TODAY
Charleston Minister Speaks Twice Daily During Stay

Dr. Frank C. Brown, of Charleston, W. Va., was the featured speaker on the Y. M. C. A. Spring Service
program which began last Sunday and closes with the evening service tonight. Dr. Brown is pastor of the Bream Memorial
Church of Charleston and has made quite a name for himself among the young people of the Presbyterian Church.

Dr. Brown opened his series of talks at the Sunday morning church hour and he used as his subject “Christ’s
Manifesto Concerning His Church.” In this sermon he stressed the idea that it was necessary for a Christian tobelieve in
Christ as the Son of the Living God, to believe in the Cross, and to believe in the second coming
of Christ. At the vesper services his subject was “Three Men Seek Thee.” At the morning chapel services he used
as his theme, “Things That Matter Most.” This theme was divided into three topics, which he delivered on successive mornings.
The first topic was, “What You Believe”; the second was, “What You Are,” and the third, “What You Do.” These
services were in the form of confidential talks to the students and the general public was not invited to attend.
The evening services were conducted every night at 7:00 o’clock in Chambers Auditorium. Dr. Brown spoke on the following subjects
at these meetings: Doctrine of Devils, Facing Life’s Crises, and What Lack I Yet? During his visit here, Dr. Brown
held informal conferences with the students. All students who had problems to discuss were invited to make appointments with him.

Members Elected To “Y” Board of Control
Coit and Glasgow Will Represent Senior Class

In the balloting for the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control, the following members of the rising Senior class
were elected to represent that class in this capacity: Robert T. Coit, of Richmond, Va., and D. M. Glasgow of
Charlotte. Both of these men have been outstanding in the Y. M. C. A work for the past semester and
are well qualified for their positions. Representing the rising Junior class, Robert Lindsay, of Winston-Salem, was elected on the first
balloting and there remains an election to be run off between Archie Shuford and C. B. Chapman for the other
representative. Representing the faculty on the board, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle was elected. The nominations for this position were made
by the present Board of Control, which is composed of Professors Schenck, Bailey, Jackson and Arbuckle, and the following students:
Alec Schenck, Lynn Huie, Lyman Clardy, Walter Sprunt and Hubert Morris. The Board of Control, acting jointly with the Y.
M. C. A. Cabinet, has charge of the general policies and financial matters of the Davidson “Y.” The Sophomore class
does not have a representation on this board.

Quadwranglers Choose Rhett as New Leader

At a recent meeting of the Quadwranglers Club, composed of the Davidson faculty members and other instructors, Major John T.
Rhett, head of the college R. O. T. C. department, was elected president; Professor E. A. Beaty, vice-president, and Professor
E. J. Erwin, secretary-treasurer. These men succeed the retiring officers, Prof. H. E. Fulcher, former president; Capt. F. M. Cochran,
vice-president, and Prof. P. H. Gwynn, secretary-treasurer. The Quadwranglers Club has regular monthly meetings, and also several open meetings during
the year, to (Continued on page 5)

Senior Gift May Be Clock Or Hall Bell
Class of ’34 Will Choose Present Soon

The 1934 graduating class will, at its t, formally present a gift to the school. The class has decided to
give either the installation of bells in the dormitories or a large clock to be placed on the north end
of Chambers building. The bells or buzzers will be placed on every hall and used in place of the large
bell now on the roof of Chambers. The clock will be thirty-six inches in diameter and will face the dormitories.
However, neither has been decided upon as yet. It has long been the custom of the graduating class to give
some present to the school before they graduate. Last year the graduating class gave the trophy case now in the
hall at the entrance to Chambers.

Col. Little Makes Annual Inspection
Local R. O. T. C. Unit Receives Excellent Rating

In the annual inspection of the Davidson R. O. T. C. battalion held last Thursday and Friday, April 26 and
27, by Colonel J. M. Little of the United States Army, the battalion received a rating of excellent in the
classroom as well as on the drill field. On Thursday morning Colonel Little visited President Lingle. He also made a
complete inspection of the armory and two of the second-year advanced classes. The afternoon was devoted to a detailed inspection
of the records and property of the administration, including an examination of the latest statement of the inventory. On Friday
morning Colonel Little looked over a first-year basic class, a second-year basic class, and a first-year advanced class. In the
afternoon, he inspected the battalion on the drill field, which inspection consisted of calisthenics, parade, rifle inspection, maneuver and tactical
inspection.

In the parade, First Lieutenants W. A. Lyon and A. F. Schenck were promoted to the rank of captain, and
Second Lieutenants W. A. Kirkland, Ralph H. Smith and D. K. Spence were promoted to the rank of first lieutenant.
Units from each of the four companies were chosen for the maneuver. The following were picked: Company A, under Captain
E. L. Powell; Second Platoon, Company D, under First Lieutenant R. Pratt-Thomas; a squad from the First Platoon, Company B,
under Corporal W. A. Benfield. In the tactical inspection, Company C was combined into a full-strength war platoon to solve
an assigned problem. Major Rhett stated that the battalion, in his opinion, showed up fine in the inspection, and that
there was an unusually large crowd out on the drill field to see the inspection.

Chemical Fraternity Holds Open Meeting
Dr. Arbuckle Reads Brief History of Fraternity

The Alpha Alpha Chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon entertained about 25 students of chemistry Monday night in the chemical laboratory
at an open meeting. Men showing outstanding ability in the subject were welcomed by Rufus C. Morrow, the retiring president
of the chapter. Dr. Arbuckle, professor of chemistry, gave a brief history of the fraternity, stating the reasons for which
it was founded. C. S. McCall read a very interesting paper concerning the metric system and its possible adoption in
the United States. The advantages of the change were brought out, and methods by which it could be effected were
shown. This was followed by a series of very interesting lecture table experiments by Ben Moore, in which he made
solid alcohol, a spontaneous explosion, and other spectacular demonstrations. Edwin S. Hodge gave an exhibition of chemical light produced by
chemical reactions.

Walter Sprunt Is Chosen Secretary Of “Y” Conference
Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. Hold Annual Leaders’ Convention at Raleigh
THOMPSON PRESIDES

Davidson Sends Delegation to Three-Day Meet

Walter Sprunt, recently elected president of the Davidson Y. M. C. A., was elected secretary and treasurer to the North
Carolina Y. M. C. A.-Y. W. C. A. Officers’ Conference, which recently held its annual convention at Raleigh as guests
of North Carolina State College. Davidson was represented by Don Bailey, Bob Coit, Sid Marsh, Sam Wiley, secretary of the
Davidson “Y,” and W. M. Thompson, who presided over the men’s discussion group. Meeting April 27, 28 and 29, the
conference discussed the theme, “Right Relations With God and Man.” Principal speakers for the occasion were Claude Nelson, regional secretary
of the Y. M. C. A.; Rev. J. F. Fletcher, of St. Mary’s College, and Rev. E. McNeill Poteat, pastor
of the Pullen Memorial Baptist Church in Raleigh, North Carolina. Nelson delivered the opening address Friday night, speaking on “Integration
of Personality—Within and Without.” He emphasized the importance of integration on the campus, at home, in business, and in all
fields before the Christian worker could render the highest service. “Not only must the worker have a well-balanced (Continued on
page 6)

McConnell To Speak At Emory University
Dean of Faculty Will Make Phi Beta Kappa Address

Dr. J. M. McConnell, dean of the Davidson faculty, has accepted an invitation to deliver the Phi Beta Kappa address
at Emory University on Friday morning, May 4. His subject will be “Scholars in American Politics.” Dean McConnell will be
the guest of honor of the university scholarship fraternity at a banquet to be given Thursday evening at 7:30. His
principal address will be delivered to the assembled faculty and student body of Emory University in the Emory Auditorium at
convocation hour on Friday morning. The Gamma Chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa was founded at Davidson in 1923 and
Dr. McConnell was instrumental in having this scholastic fraternity established. He was made a charter member of this chapter. The
Phi Beta Kappa fraternity established a chapter at the Emory University several years ago. “Scholars in American Politics,” Dr. McConnell’s
subject, shows the advantages of education in American politics. In his talk, Dr. McConnell plans to cite examples of leadership
in the United States, where education is essential. Dr. McConnell will also discuss the leaders of America, past and present,
and their relation to education. Dr. McConnell will leave for Emory University Thursday morning, May 3, and plans to return
the following week. Emory University is located in Atlanta, Ga.

Photographers Group Holds Regular Meeting

The Davidson Amateur Photographers’ Group held its regular meeting yesterday in Dr. S. C. Lyon’s classroom at 4 o'clock. Dr.
Lyon showed some photographs of his own on which he pointed out several common mistakes of beginners in photography. It
is the intention of the group at present to have an exhibit of amateur photography in the near future, to
which each member will be expected to contribute at least two photographs of their own each month, whether they develop
well or show some common mistake, which will be helpful to others. All students who are interested are invited to
join the group in its next meeting in Dr. Lyon’s classroom Tuesday.
