THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 16, 1934

Student Speakers Honor Mothers In Y Vesper Service

Don Brandon and Bob Smith Are Junior Speakers in Campus Services

JUNIORS IN CHARGE

Outdoor Services Draw Large Crowd Sunday Evening

Don Brandon and Bob Smith were speakers at the “Mother's Day” Y. M. C. A. vesper services last Sunday afternoon.
The services were under the direction of the Junior class, and K. D. Weeks was in charge. They were held
outdoors on the campus near Phi Hall. After a piano prelude by Douglas Wauchope and a hymn, Warner DuBose and
Walter Sprunt led the meeting in prayer.

Brandon, the first speaker, took as his subject, “What Mothers Mean to Us.” He said that God blesses us with
many blessings, friendships, sunsets, and all the wonders of nature. These blessings are manifold. But for each of us, there
is only one supreme blessing, our mother. Many of the world’s greatest men have given all credit for their success
to their mothers. This is true for each of us. It is she who has stood behind us and made
us what we are. “What I really think our mothers mean to us,” said Brandon, “is this: a complete, absolute,
self-sacrificing love, which lasts from before our birth until long after our death, expressed every day in little things. No
matter how the world may react to a man, however much of an outcast he may be, he is still
his mother’s son. Mothers are a perfect solace and encouragement. There may be such a thing as a man without
a country, but there is no such thing as a man without a mother.”

Following Brandon's talk, Dave McLain sang Kreisler’s “Old Refrain,” accompanied by Wauchope. Smith spoke on the subject, “What We Should
Mean to Our Mothers.” The question has often been raised whether children should honor parents who are not worthy, because
of the lives they lead. Smith's answer is yes. Our love for our mothers should be unconditional, just as they
love us when we do wrong, and the obligation holds both ways. Our mother’s love is a trust with which
we start into life. It is a tremendous debt. How can we even begin to pay it? Certainly, it cannot
be repaid merely by material support. It must be paid in the terms in which it was given, devotion and
self-sacrifice. This does not mean sentimental outbursts. It means letting our mothers know, even though we may be widely separated,
that we remember her with love and gratitude. It is the tribute of our hearts that will help to repay
them. However, this does not altogether pay up the bill. We are in a way an expression of our mothers’
personalities. They have molded us as they wanted us to be, they worked their ideals into us. And the world
will judge them by us. In order to fully repay our mothers, we must live as they want us to.

The benediction was pronounced by Bob Smith.

Dr. Lingle Will Deliver Graduation Addresses

Dr. W. L. Lingle has a series of thirteen appointments to fill with various schools throughout this section of the
state, and also the eastern section of North Carolina, during the period of graduations and commencement exercises. On last Sunday,
May 5, he visited the high school at Bessemer City, N. C. Dr. Lingle witnessed the commencement exercises and delivered
the baccalaureate sermon to the graduating class there. Among the other trips, which are tentative at this time, is included
a trip to the high school at Roxboro, N.C. near the Virginia border line, where he will give the baccalaureate
address to the graduating class next Sunday morning. Our president is called upon to deliver a series of lectures of
this nature every year at this period and he is necessarily taken away from the campus a great part of
the time.

AROUND TOWN By RICHARD VOWLES

Dr. R. A. White, pastor of the Mooresville Presbyterian Church, has been chosen by the Senior class of Davidson High
School to deliver the baccalaureate sermon, Sunday, May 27. The graduating class is made up of the following members: Dill
Allison, Lucile Brown, Kenneth Caldwell, Fannie Cashion, Margaret Douglas, Goudyloch Erwin, Joe Gamble, Miriam Goodrum, Robert Gudger, Avery Hobbs, Dorothy
Johnston, Kathleen Kennedy, Blanche Knox, Myrtle Knox, John McClain, Mary Louise Moffett, Sarah Mott, Rachel Raymer, Sadie Reid, Libby Rhett,
Elizabeth Shewmake, Edith Slaughter, Jennie Thompson, Richard Vowles, Evelyn Watts, Grace Ann White, and Mary Withers. This class is the
largest and one of the best scholastically in the history of the high school.

The Book Lovers’ Club held its final meeting of the year at the Civic League Hall, Friday, May 12. The
hostesses were Mesdames Arbuckle and Harding, and those in charge of the program were Mrs. W. P. Cumming and Miss
Hattie Thompson. The program consisted of original literary work presented by Wills Hollingsworth, Stuart Henry, Tom Wood, Bill Goodykoontz, Gibson
Smith, and Hubert Overton. Two piano selections were rendered by Kenneth Scott.

The congregation of the Davidson Presbyterian Church met Sunday afternoon to elect three elders and six deacons. The new elders
are J. L. Douglas, F. K. Fleagle, and E. A. Beaty. As Douglas and Fleagle were deacons, it became necessary
to elect eight deacons, as follows: S. L. Black, F. L. Blythe, F. D. Hobart, J. V. Lore, M. W.
McGill, W. N. Mebane, O. J. Thies, and J. P. Williams. This makes a total of eighteen elders and eighteen
deacons. The installation of the new church officers will take place at an early date.

Professors

Mrs. Maude Erwin and her daughter, Genelle, entertained last Saturday evening for their weekend guest, Miss Frances Crawford of Greenville,
S.C. Professor and Mrs. G. B. Watts spent the weekend in Winston-Salem, at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Harry
Elliott, former Davidson residents. Sara Jetton had as her guest the past week Miss Mary Fuller of Lumberton, N. C.
Miss Louise Currie, who is teaching at the Salem College Academy, spent the weekend at the home of her parents,
Prof. and Mrs. A. Currie. Coach and Mrs. Wilson, former Davidson residents, now of Blacksburg, Va., were the guests of
friends in Davidson Saturday. The Telemite Club will hold its last meeting of the year Friday, May 18, at the
home of Prof. and Mrs. E. J. Erwin. The Senior class of the high school has been entertained during the
past two weeks by Miss Bonnie Shelton, Mrs. J. R. Withers, Mrs. Slaughter, Mrs. Rhett, Mrs. Vowles, and Mrs. Moffett.
Mrs. Gwynn and children have been visiting relatives in Reidsville, N. C.

Annual Outing Held by Sigma Upsilon Society

Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary society of Davidson College, enjoyed its annual outing last Monday night at 6 o'clock in
the Greer cabin located two miles southwest of Huntersville. The program began at 6 o'clock and included a specially prepared
supper and several speeches from the assembled literati. This society holds its meetings every two weeks either at a local
fraternity house or at one of the faculty’s homes. The retiring officers of this chapter are: Lyman Clardy, president; “Skip”
Brown, treasurer; and Gordon Wood, secretary. The officers recently elected to serve next year are: Tom Wood, president; Gordon Green,
treasurer, and Gordon Wood, secretary.

“DRUGS” “SUNDRIES” A Complete Drug Store “Make Our Store Your Store” Reliable Prescription Druggists WHITE DRUG COMPANY “SODA”

Masquers To Give “Dover Road” Soon

Local Dramatic Club Presents Milne’s Play Monday

A play, “The Dover Road,” will be presented at Chambers Auditorium Monday evening, May 21, at 8 o'clock, by the
Red and Black Masquers. The play, the last of a series presented by the student dramatic club, was written by
A. A. Milne, author of “Mr. Pim Passes By” and “Winnie the Pooh.” Miss Adele Arbuckle and Miss Kalista Hood
will take the prominent feminine roles, both having appeared in previous Red and Black Masquers’ productions. Nathan Wauda, whose imitation
of the cockney dialect in the play “Candida,” by George Bernard Shaw, received so much applause a few weeks ago,
takes a leading role as Latimer, the innkeeper who harbors the runaway lovers. Stuart Henry and W. H. Higgins will
take the other leading masculine parts, playing opposite Misses Arbuckle and Hood.

The plot of the play, a comedy, is summarized: A runaway couple, somebody else’s husband (Leonard, played by Stuart Henry),
and somebody else’s wife (Anne, played by Adele Arbuckle), find it necessary to stop at a so-called hotel owned by
Mr. Latimer (Nate Wauda) on the road to Dover. During the course of the evening, Latimer acquires an attraction for
Anne and emphatically belittles Leonard. After the meal is over he explains to both of them why he has forced
them to stop at his house. Leonard's wife (Eustasia, played by Kalista Hood) and Anne’s husband (W. H. Higgins) who
also play the runaway couple, are about to leave, and have endured the romantic control by Latimer for the past
week. Leonard appears for breakfast with a very bad cold and relates to Latimer a number of very humorous grievances
against the hotel—his suit is dropped in the bathtub, his luggage is lost and his razor is gone. At this
moment Anne’s husband appears—and what happens next will be disclosed most dramatically at the performance.

Other student actors in the play are Dick Hillier, Miss Mary Louise Moffett, J. D. Allen and Horace Small. The
play is being directed by Prof. E. J. Erwin and Wills Hollingsworth, president of the Masquers.

New French Cinema Is Seen At Theatre

Cercle Francais Sponsors “A Nous, La Liberte”

A French production, “A Nous, La Liberte,” was shown at the Davidson Theatre at 1 o'clock this afternoon. The picture,
“A Nous, La Liberte” is a satire on modern industrial civilization. It was sponsored by the Cercle Francais, which invited
the student body to attend, a knowledge of the French language not being necessary for the understanding of the show.
The picture was essentially comic, although it contained satire and romance. Reviewers have welcomed it as a step forward toward
international pictures. The “New York American” says of the picture, “‘A Nous, La Liberte’ is a clever stinging satire, capably
directed, well staged and competently acted. Knowledge of the French language is not essential to an adequate understanding of the
picture.” It is pointed out that in “A Nous, La Liberte” there are only 1,500 words of French dialogue while
in the average talking picture there are about 250,000 spoken words. The “New York Herald Tribune” says: “A picture not
to be missed, no matter what your demands of the screen may be. It is an enormously exciting and compelling
work of art.”

The story of the picture is that of two convicts, Emille and Louis, who decide to escape from prison. Louis
succeeds but the other is captured and returns to prison. Louis becomes president of a large phonograph company, ruling his
workers with an iron hand. Emille, at the end of his term, wandersabout Paris and follows a pretty factory worker
into the factory to make her acquaintance. He is set to work and, being inexperienced, is brought before the president,
his old friend Louis. Louis promises to aid his pal in his love affair but the girl says “No.” In
the meantime, Louis learns that the police have discovered the skeleton in his closet and prepares to take French leave,
taking a suitcase of money with him. He loses it, and accompanied by Emille, takes to the open road. They
sing along the road, one having lost his money, the other having lost his girl, but both having regained their
liberty.

Fraternity News

BETAS HAVE HOUSE PARTY

Beta Theta Pi entertained with a house party last weekend on the Catawba River. The affair was informal and included
swimming, dancing, and a feed near the Horseshoe Bend Beach. Among the girls present were Misses Helen and Virginia Poovey,
Sarah Metz, Dorothy McClintock, Mary Eleanor Horne, Martha May Asbury, all of Charlotte; Inez Caudell, Bertha Hough, Clara Taylor, Mildred
Hammel, Harriet Mallard, Sumter; Elizabeth Motsinger, Winston-Salem; Pauline Neisler and Sarah Finklestein, Kings Mountain; Betty Schillette, Hollins; Frances Withers and
Mary Odell Hovis, Gastonia.

KAPPA SIGS TO HOLD ANNUAL MAY FROLIC

The Kappa Sigma fraternity announces a party to be given on the Catawba River this weekend in celebration of their
annual May Frolic.

S. P. E’s ENTERTAIN ON CATAWBA

Sigma Phi Epsilon held a house party on the Catawba River last weekend and many girls from nearby cities were
their guests. The S. P. E. fraternity also announces that they have pledged a member of the Junior class to
their society, W. M. Bogart, Charlotte.

PHI GAMS WIN CUP

The Newton D. Baker Cup has been awarded to the local Phi Gamma Delta fraternity for making the largest advances
in every phase of social progress during the past year. This includes all such social work as Y. M. C.
A. activities, and Boys’ Work among the younger groups of the town. This is the second time in three years
that the Phi Gams have captured the cup. This weekend the fraternity will drive to Roaring Gap where the Phi
Gams are entertaining a number of girls with a house party and dance.

PHI DELTS TO GIVE DANCE

The Phi Delta Theta fraternity announces that it will give a dance in Salisbury this weekend.

PI KAPPA PHIS ELECT OFFICERS

At a meeting held last week, Pi Kappa Phi elected the following officers: Everett Otey, president; Mat Alderman, secretary; Ben
Wyche, warden; Hugh Yelverton, treasurer; Hugh Yelverton, Pan-Hellenic representative. Pi Kappa Phi is also making plans for a dance at
the Mooresville Legion Hut on the weekend of May 19. A house party on the Catawba River is also being
arranged for the fraternity.

K. A.’s ENJOY HAY RIDE

A hay ride Saturday night was among the attractions of the Kappa Alpha house party on the Catawba last weekend.
The guests were entertained with a swimming party and a dance during the two days. Among the guests was Mr.
T. P. Johnson, of Rollins, who had been attending the O. D. K. convention in Davidson. Dr. Thomas D. Sparrow,
of Charlotte, acted as chaperone for the affair.

Dr. Gwynn Will Deliver Address at Charlotte

Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr., of the Department of Education and Sociology, has been invited to deliver the commencement address
to the graduating class of the Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte on June 6, 1934. Last week Dr. Gwynn went to
Asheboro, N. C., where he preached the baccalaureate sermon for the Senior class of the city high school. Tuesday night
of this week Dr. Gwynn delivered the commencement address for the high school at Valdese, N. C.

Dr. Watts, head of the French department, stated that if the venture was successful, next year it might be possible
to have several French films. In addition to the regular picture, which was run in 90 minutes, a 15-minute French
short was shown. Mr. Stough, owner of the theatre here, has donated the use of the theatre without cost and
an admission charge of 25 cents was charged to cover the other expenses.

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Four Out Of Five College Men Come To Johnson’s Barber Shop

Dr. Brown Writes On Trends In Education

Article Is Featured by the American Review

Dr. C. K. Brown wrote one of the feature articles for the May issue of “The American Review.” In his
article, “Education in Machine Utopia,” he discusses the statement made by Mr. Walter B. Pitkin, who says that a Utopia
is in sight. “Education will be geared more accurately to the demands of real life; everybody will be trained to
handle five or six jobs well and to use leisure advantageously and pleasantly.” Pitkin’s prophecy had as its basis the
assumption that the machine method would shorten working hours. Thus, a man should be enabled to work more jobs and
have much more leisure than ever before. So education must play the role in fitting man to attain the most
from his leisure.

Dr. Brown stated that this prediction for education has been the ideal for years; but the success of preparing men
to make a living and to live abundantly has become more and more meagre. He points out the way machinery
is affecting men now. “If we are looking for real life, we might be able to observe that the machine
method of production has rendered the business of making a living utterly distasteful, and that our distaste for it is
responsible for our attempt to reduce the world’s work to the status of a mere means existing for the furtherance
of some end held to be desirable.” He states that the danger of this attempt would destroy the unity of
life. He shows that life would refuse to be departmentalized to such an attempt that work would be routine. “The
life that exists beyond the bounds of the world’s serious work must be of a piece with that which characterizes
men as they go about for their daily bread.” He furthers this view by saying that Mr. Pitkin’s future economic
system would crush the personality of man. Men could not be enterprising—their leisure taken up by art, music, literature, religious
expression could not subordinate the real business of life.

Dr. Brown says that education can’t make man in general capable of sustaining a high order of human expression, but
only a few can attain or could attain a desire for the full appreciation of art or contribute to art.
Education cannot undertake to dismember life’s organic whole—the work for sustenance and for enterprise and profit. “If machine civilization is
barren and ignoble during the hours when it exacts human servitude, it must inevitably be so in the hours that
remain,” he stated. He furthers this conclusion by saying that it is a conclusion from which we shrink; and, having
no other power to call on, we promise ourselves a soul-satisfying leisure which education must make into a full life.
He sums the whole theme up by stating that education should not be sent on a vain search for a
way to escape from the machine method. It should hunt for a new principle upon which a unified life could
be achieved. “Education has no right to its name unless it follows its true pole-star—the oneness of life.”

Hundreds of college men and women have found a pleasant and dignified career as optometrical eye specialists! The Pennsylvania State
College of Optometry, a class ‘A’ school, offers a degree course. Extensive clinical facilities, well-known faculty.

Pennsylvania State College of Optometry

For catalog write Registrar, Box C, Spencer Ave. and Twelfth St., Philadelphia, Pa.

Dr. Lyon Gives Lecture To Photography Group

The Amateur Photographers Group held its fourth regular meeting Tuesday, the 15th, in Dr. Lyon’s classroom. Dr. Lyon, head of
the Biology Department, gave a brief lecture and a general discussion and criticism of pictures taken by club members followed.
Dr. Lyon’s lecture, “The Making and Development of Pictures,” is one of a series he plans to give in connection
with taking and developing pictures. In his talk, he divided the developing of pictures into seven distinct steps and explained
the chemicals and work required in each. A dark room has been set up in Shearer Hall with running water
and the necessary lighting system for construction of pictures. Pans and tubes have been purchased and other essential equipment for
development of pictures is being bought by Dr. Lyon.

Several members of the Amateur Photographers Group exhibited pictures which were criticized by Dr. Lyon and club members. Students in
the photographic club are encouraged to bring pictures they have taken so that their faults may be pointed out. Davidson
students, who own cameras and take an active interest in taking and developing pictures, are eligible for membership. Many students
have taken advantage of this opportunity to learn how to make and develop their own pictures. The organization plans to
get special rates on films for its members.

Sigma Delta Psi Holds Several Tryouts Daily

Tryouts in the different events required for membership in Sigma Delta Psi, honorary athletic fraternity, were begun last Monday and
will be continued until some time during the examination period. According to a statement by Heath Whittle, two events will
be run off each day until the fifteen events have been completed. The present members of Sigma Delta Psi will
assist in the supervision of the various events. The entire student body is eligible for membership in the fraternity and
upon the satisfactory completion of the fifteen requirements, one automatically becomes a member. Whittle urged that as many as possible
come out for the events when they are announced from day to day, and especially urged the freshmen who intend
to try for the honor to come out this year in order to get an early start. Once an event
has been passed, it never has to be passed again, and any passed this year will count next year or
whenever the other events are passed.

Following are the requirements for membership which must be successfully completed for membership in Sigma Delta Psi:

1. 100-yard dash—11 3-5 seconds.
2. 120-yard low hurdles—16 seconds.
3. Running high jump—5 feet.
4. Running broad jump—17 feet.
5. 16-pound shotput—30 feet.
6. 20-foot rope climb—12 seconds.
7. Baseball throw—250 feet.
8. Javelin throw—130 feet.
9. Football punt—120 feet.
10. 100-yard swim—1 min, 45 sec.
11. 1-mile run—6 minutes.
12. Front hand spring—Landing on feet.
13. Hand stand—10 seconds.
14. Fence vault—Chin high.
15. Good posture—standard B (H. B. M.).
16. Scholarship—Eligible for varsity competition.

Buff Shoe Shop
Modern Shoe Rebuilder
Davidson, N. C.

“MANHATTAN MELODRAMA”

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY, MAY 16
“LOOKING FOR TROUBLE”
JACK OAKIE—SPENCER TRACY

THURSDAY, MAY 17
“30 DAY PRINCESS”

FRIDAY, MAY 18
SATURDAY, MAY 19
“NOW I’LL TELL”

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, MAY 21 AND 22
“STAND UP AND CHEER”
