THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 9, 1934

Vespers Will Be Led By Juniors on Sunday

The “Y” vespers next Sunday night will be conducted by members of the rising Senior class. K. D. Weeks will
preside at this meeting, which will be held outdoors on the campus. Two speakers will be chosen to deliver addresses,
but at the time this paper went to press, who these men would be was still uncertain.

BAND AND GLEE CLUB BROADCAST PROGRAM

(Continued from page 1)

Poet and Peasant, by v. Suppe; cornet solo, “Grand Russian Fantasia,” by Levy, rendered by A. Moreland Cunningham. Glee Club:
Now Let Every Tongue Adore Thee, by Bach; Lo, How a Rose E’er Blooming, by Praetorius. Vocal solo, The Jolly
Roger, by Robertson, and Trav'lin’, by Enders, both rendered by David McLain, bass. Glee Club: Hymn of the Pilgrims, by
McDowell; Land-Sighting, by Grieg. Concert Band: Children’s March, by Goldman; chant, Nobody Knows de Trouble I’ve Seen, Clarence White; Selections
from H. M. S. Pinafore, Sullivan; O Davidson.

COMMENCEMENT PROGRAM MAY 31 THROUGH JUNE 5

(Continued from page 1)

Tuesday, June 5

9:30—Meeting of the Alumni Association, auditorium of Chambers.
10:30—Academic procession.
11:00—Graduating exercises.
12:00—Alumni luncheon in the banquet hall of Chambers.

The program of the graduating exercises will be opened by the address of the salutatorian, followed by the presentation of
the class gift, the awarding of medals, the conferring of degrees, the conferring of honorary degrees, and will be closed
by the address of the valedictorian.

All of the alumni of Davidson are urged to attend the commencement program, and especially the members of the classes
which are planning to hold reunions this year. The classes holding reunions are: Class of 1884 (fiftieth), 1898, 1899, 1900,
1901, 1909 (twenty-fifth), 1917, 1918, 1919, 1920, 1933 (first).

The college will provide accommodations for the alumni in Rumple Dormitory and one other. They will be grouped as far
as possible according to classes, so that the men will be with the friends of their own class. The office
of the alumni secretary, at which assignments to rooms will be made, will remain open until late Monday night for
the convenience of those who may arrive late. The alumni office is 101 Chambers Building.

The alumni will be given a dinner at 12:30 Tuesday in the banquet hall of Chambers. It will be different
from the home-coming banquet in that it will be for men only. Attempts will be made to seat men according
to classes. The alumni secretary, Grier Martin, has prepared a bulletin to be sent to all alumni, which will outline
the program for the week of commencement. A large number are expected to be on hand this year.

O. D. K. CONVENTION TO BE HELD AT DAVIDSON

(Continued from Page 1)

vene for lunch at 12:30, to be served in the banquet hall of Chambers. After luncheon, the convention photograph will
be taken at 1:30. The committee meetings scheduled for 1:45, at which time those committees formed in the morning will
operate. At 2:30 p.m., the second session of the conference will convene in the faculty room. Committee reports will be
rendered at this time, and all unfinished business will be attended to. The delegates will next hear an address by
Dean of Faculty J. M. McConnell, of Davidson, who will speak on “Contributions of O.D.K. to the College Campus.” At
the completion of this address, the convention will be brought to a close.

VARSITY TENNIS TEAM HAS ENVIABLE RECORD

(Continued from page 4)

Welsh and Higgins, Duke players, defeated the pair twice, once in the state tournament and once in the Davidson-Duke meet.
Compilation of the scores for the season shows that Davidson took 87 matches to their opponents’ 29. In three meets
the Wildcats took every match, defeating Rollins College, Furman University, and William and Mary, 9-0.

BLUE DEVILS FORCE TIE WITH WILDCATS

(Continued from page 4)

Shot put—Cochrane, Davidson; Williams, Duke; M. Williams, Duke; distance, 45 feet, 5¾ inches. Discus—Crawford, Duke; Cochrane, Davidson; Rossiter, Duke; distance,
117 feet, 3 inches. Javelin—West, Duke; Pierce, Davidson; Cochrane, Davidson; distance, 195 feet. Broad jump—Plump, Duke; Atkinson, Duke; Polack, Duke;
distance, 20 feet, 10 inches. High jump—Gammon, Davidson, and Atkinson, Duke, tied for first; Lee, Davidson; height, 5 feet, 8
inches.

MANAGERS ELECTED TO STUDENT STORE

(Continued from page 1)

time. Dr. Douglas saw the need for a store, which would supply athletic goods to the students, and so he
bought out the rights and interests of several clothing agencies on the campus and united them into a commissary, which
was set up in the old Chambers Building. The money from the store was used for the promotion of athletics
on the campus. The management of the store is included in the school constitution and every month the managers are
required to submit a complete financial report, and to deposit the monthly net profits with the treasurer, at each regular
meeting of the board.

SENIORS’ VIEWS ON DAVIDSON AND EDUCATION

(Continued from page 1)

R. B. Moffett—(Slogan for prospective students)—“D. C. bred—best in the country—made of the flower of youth and the dough of
old age. (Made in a special way.) We use only the best.”

B. L. Moore—“Here's to a better and finer Davidson.”

E. W. Morrison—“To find our duty, to do it faithfully, tunes our lives into some feeble echo of the life
of God.”

R. C. Morrow—“From here we go to serve and live, or to be served and vegetate.”

G. T. Newman—“In God’s name, let us carry out our vision in spite of criticism and ridicule.”

S. M. Nickey—“Thanks be that my mind has been fecundated to other thought.”

Ellis Oakes—“What old men can only advise, young men can live.”

B. F. Ormand—“Turn not to the right nor to the left, but keep straight ahead.”

E. D. Otey—“Yum! Yum! Me fool ‘em heap much—Be back next year!”

E. L. Powell—“What man has done, man can do.”

L. W. Pratt—“People have more fun than anybody.”

H. R. Pratt-Thomas—“Davidson College should allow men to choose and not choose for them.”

B. O. Ravenel—“It’s a great life if you don’t weaken.”

R. Reel—“A glorious heritage—high scholastic prowess and a formalistic spiritual atmosphere are not comparable with the true Wildcat SPIRIT. ‘Montani
semper liberi.’”

W. M. Reid—“The sun rises and sets on D. C., but other places have their ‘pints’.”

H. H. Rhyne—“Don’t let studies interfere with your college education.”

A. W. Rice—“A good place to be from.”

C. M. Robbins—“School life is better to be looked back upon.”

F. H. Scott—“Davidson has meant everything to me in fitting me for my future work.”

A. W. Shaw—“I have enjoyed my college life, but now I’m glad that it is almost over.”

Fred Smyre—“Some persons have a sense of humor; the others have no sense—of humans.”

E. C. Snead—“Let the great spirit of friendlinessof Davidson reign forever.”

J. H. Robbins—“All is not gold that glitters.”

D. K. Spencer—“Davidson makes a full man.”

J. S. Steele—“I have enjoyed being at Davidson very much, and regret the fact that I will have to leave.”

W. M. Thompson—“College life is quite an interesting phase of one’s education.”

W. T. Thompson, Jr.—“It takes four years to discover that true education is that which remains after we have forgotten
all that we have learned.”

W. W. Thrower—“As the years come and go and I shall look back upon the four years spent on the
Davidson campus, may the impression which those days have made upon me grow more vivid and more dear to me.”

S. H. Tomlinson, Jr.—“I believe that my contacts at Davidson will prove to be invaluable above everything else.”

W. T. Walser—“In my opinion, the value of college is greatly overrated.”

J. W. West—“Success is the realization of the estimate which you place upon yourself.”

J. W. White—“Where will the members of the class of ’34 be in 1940?”

Jack Williams—“Twenty-one years old last Wednesday, but reassure the four years spent at Davidson the happiest of them all.”

E. L. Willson—“I am going to make a statement, that is, I was going to make a statement before someone
so rudely interrupted me in my period of meditation, but I guess that it is too late now to make
a statement, so I won't say anything.”

H. A. Wilson—“We shouldn't speak of ourselves any more than real aristocrats speak of their ancestry.”

R. E. Woodside—“We really don’t begin to appreciate this old place until we get ready to leave it.”

TWELVE ARE TAPPED BY OMICRON DELTA KAPPA
(Continued from page 1)

by following the member to the platform, where he was welcomed into the circle and decorated with a pledge ribbon.
All those who received bids, except Jack Williams, were present for the pledge ceremonies. His invitation and acceptance were made
public by President Smyre.

Membership in Omicron Delta Kappa is conferred “in recognition of conspicuous attainment and service in collegiate activities.” Positions of prominence
at Davidson have been attained by all the new pledges.

Dr. MacConnell, as the college physician, has served Davidson students for many years. He has long been prominent in both
state and national medical circles. Dr. MacConnell is also a member of Phi Beta Kappa.

Cochran, who is captain of the track team, has been conspicuous in that sport for the past two years, holding
Davidson records in the shot put and the discus throw. He is captain of the band in R.O.T.C. and holds
membership in several honorary fraternities. Cochran represents Theta Upsilon Omega on the Pan-Hellenic Council.

Humphrey has been prominent in debating and literary circles, and during the past year served as president of the Forensic
Council. He holds membership in several honorary organizations and is affiliated with Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. Humphrey is also
cadet-major in R.O.T.C.

Lafferty has held several class and student body offices. His junior year he served as vice-president of the Student Body.
The member of Phi Delta Theta has been a member of the varsity basketball and tennis teams for three seasons.

Williams is editor of “Quips and Cranks,” Davidson yearbook. He has been active in publications, literary, social, and dramatics while
here and holds membership in a large number of honorary organizations. Williams is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social
fraternity.

Brown is president of the Student Body for the coming year, and has been conspicuous in student body and class
governments in the past. He has earned intercollegiate recognition as an orator and debater, and holds the distinction of not
having lost a varsity debate since coming to Davidson. The new student body leader has also been active in publications,
social, and Y.M.C.A. fields. He is president of Beta Theta Pi.

Hutchins is president of the “D” Club. He has been a regular on the varsity football team the past two
years. He is a Kappa Alpha.

McPhail is president of the rising Senior class, star hurdler on the track team, and a member of the Pan-Hellenic
Council, representing Kappa Alpha. He has been active in publication and Y.M.C.A. work.

Potter heads the Athletic Association for next year. Varsity football, wrestling, and track occupy most of the Phi Delta Theta
member’s time.

Smith, who will edit next year’s “Quips and Cranks,” has been conspicuous in forensic, literary, publication, and religious fields here.
He is affiliated with Phi Gamma Delta.

Sprunt is president of the Y.M.C.A. for the coming year. He has been active on the business staffs of several
of the college publications. The member of Kappa Alpha also earned a varsity “D” as a member of the wrestling
team.

Weeks is the new editor of “The Davidsonian.” Besides being active in publications, he has served in several class offices,
notable among which was the presidency of the Junior class the past year. Weeks is a member of Sigma Alpha
Epsilon.

The election of eleven students increased undergraduate membership in the Delta Circle to twenty-five; eighteen of which are seniors. Old
student members of the circle are: William M. Brown, Odi Casali, James A. Halverstadt, Hugh M. Hawkins, J. Mack Holland,
W. Alexander Kirkland, Andy H. Manson, Edward L. Powell, Chas. M. Rives, Fred L. Smyre, Wee M. Thompson, W. Tee
Thompson, Julian West, and Eb. L. Willson. Initiation ceremonies for the new pledges have been set for Tuesday, May 22.

AS FELIX SEES ’EM
(Continued from page 4)

the expense of the University of South Carolina golfers, early in the spring. All of the players on the present
links’ outfit are members of either the Sophomore or Junior classes, so the results of their next year’s schedule will
probably be more pleasing.

Next issue we plan to run a sport-roll of honor on this page. It will include the men who have
been the most outstanding in the various sports for the entire school year of 1933-34.

© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co., the cigarette that’s MILDER, the cigarette that TASTES BETTER

wine cellars. wooden casks. Over two years to something to the them milder. they age good grapes to make rare
wines—and they do something like that to mellow good tobaccos.

HERE THE RARE WINES come from they know that the two most important things in wine-making are the selection of
the grapes and the long years of ageing in the casks.

IT’S VERY MUCH THE SAME in the making of a cigarette. You have to get the right tobaccos, then put
them away to age and mellow in wooden casks. You can’t make a good cigarette like Chesterfield in a day.
It takes over two years to age the tobaccos for your Chesterfields—but it adds something to the taste and makes
them milder.

Everything that modern Science really knows about is used to make Chesterfield the cigarette that’s milder, the cigarette that tastes
better.
