*Monday. THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 19, 1934*

THE DAVIDSONIAN | Founded by the Class of 1916

MEMBER Associated Collegiate Press

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

Editor Manager
J. A.C. WADSWORTH ... Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1934

In pursuing great things you may miss things close at hand.—Euripides.

SHORTER RUSHING PERIOD

The shortened rushing season of this year has caused quite a bit of comment. Some say that it is altogether too short, and others say that it should still be shortened. It is generally conceded that this period is a disrupting element for both upperclassmen and freshmen, in that it delays the normal settling down of students. Some freshmen get behind in their work to start with, along with most of the upperclassmen members of fraternities. In fact, school is not really in its proper stride until rushing season is over.

This question, like all others, is one that has two sides to it, each having its advantages and disadvantages. If the shortened period of rushing, which was cut to seven days and nights this year as compared with two weeks in previous years, was installed in order to get school to running in normal routine quicker, then it will probably be a success from that standpoint. But the question in doubt is this: Will this advantage be such as will offset the confusion and possible mistakes that the fraternities and freshmen run the risk of?

There are nine fraternities on the campus at present. It is plain to see that with only seven days of rushing it is impossible for a rushee to get around to them all even once. Of course, we are under the assumption and believe that the majority of the chapters here at Davidson are highly desirous of the night time in which to do their most important rushing. It is true that it is quite unusual for a man to consider as many as nine fraternities, but even though he had eliminated all but two or three, the time would still be inadequate to make more than one or two visits to a fraternity. Only in exceptional cases is this sufficient time for a prospective student or a fraternity to make a decision, and both parties run the risk of making mistakes.

Some schools allow three days for rushing, others two weeks, which is the most generally used, others a semester, and still others don’t allow pledging until the sophomore year. It is evident from this that the question is one that has caused much comment and consideration. If the old system must be changed, we would rather see the rushing period deferred until the beginning of the second semester. This would give both parties concerned ample time in which to become thoroughly familiar with each other. This should not mean, however, that the whole of the first semester could be used for rushing. Certain dates, such as houseparty weekends, could be appointed for this purpose by the Pan-Hellenic Council and the faculty. This, of course, would call for strict assurance and cooperation from all the fraternities certifying that they would not pledge or make any attempts at pledging until the specified time at the beginning of the second semester.

This, we believe, would do away with all the disadvantages of the system installed this year. It would do away with much confusion, and its most decided advantage would be that of determining a man’s character, his scholastic ability, and his other traits which this amount of time would undoubtedly bring out. It is true that all the fraternities have not yet endorsed the new system nor have they condemned it. It has been more or less a sort of novelty to them and as yet they have not considered it very seriously. We believe that if the present duration of rushing season is made permanent it will prove undesirable, and a change will be highly desirable.

We hope the student body will bear with us on this first issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN. This first issue is appearing a little earlier than in previous years and the staff was somewhat handicapped due to the general unsettled condition and rush that always prevails during the first week of school. We are hoping to be able to improve on future issues.

TO THE CLASS OF 1938

It’s not the purpose of this editorial to again welcome you to Davidson College. That welcome has already been exemplified to you by the faculty and by the three upper classes, and we feel sure that every one of you by this time has experienced the realization of that fact. You have been orientated and introduced to college life by a series of most beneficial talks, and we do not wish to go through all of that again. However, there are a few facts which may have already been presented to you that we would like to emphasize and impress upon you.

You are no longer the high school boy that most of you were a year ago today; you are men—college men. You must adapt yourselves to a new life, Davidson College. We say Davidson College life in order to give it a mark of distinction, for it is vastly different from campus life at many other schools. Here at Davidson you will find that there pervades above all other traits an atmosphere of friendliness, gentlemanly deportment, and courtesy. These traits have been established here by classes that have gone ahead of you, so far ahead that its reputation has had time to become known all over the United States. We urge you not to hide behind its reputation but to begin your first year at Davidson by putting its ideals and traditions into practice, ever striving to carry them to higher levels.

Remember that you are the most important class in school. More is expected of you than any other class because you have four years ahead of you in which to reflect upon the reputation of the school. While you are first-year men, be Freshmen! Don’t try to cover up this fact and don’t try to escape the few mild freshmen regulations that you are subject to. Nearly every alumnus of this college, if he were asked, would tell you that the days he spent as a freshman were the most pleasant of his college career. He would also in all probability tell you that this was true because his experiences during that year had proved invaluable to him. The success of your three years as an upperclassman will be determined to a great extent by the results of your first year.

Begin now, and discharge the tasks of each day as best you can so that you will be able to look back upon your freshman days with satisfaction and pleasant memories.

IMPROVEMENTS ON CAMPUS

It is needless to say here how pleasantly surprised all the students were on returning to school and finding so many wonderful and much yearned for improvements made on the campus during the summer months. The grounds and dormitories have taken on an entirely different aspect from that of last year. So many and such costly repairs and improvements have been made that the old place was hardly recognizable when we got back to school about a week ago.

We need not enumerate in detail the many results accomplished during the vacation period in order to show where the $25,000 expended went to. The hard-surfaced walks and roads, the work done on the dormitories including the new lighting system, the painting and redressed floors in all the rooms, the new equipment such as new beds and dressers, the new locking system and the complete renovation of Old Georgia are ample evidence to prove that value has been received for the large amount of money spent.

There shall certainly be no more comment forthcoming in this paper on the subject of sloppy walks and muddy roads which used to be a much overused source for editorials. Probably the most gratifying and most keenly appreciated improvement was the fixing of the eight-foot walkway in front of dormitory row and also the paving of the roads running through the campus. The hard-surfacing of the walks and roads has not been completed in entirety, but due to the frequent rains that we have already had, the satisfaction that will be ours when they are finished is being greatly anticipated.

The installing of the indirect lighting system which called for the purchase of 272 Illuminating Engineering Society lamps was one of the most valuable things done this summer. Every student in school has been afforded the advantages of this scientific lighting device. We should feel more than proud for the progress that has been made here in that field, because Davidson College has the distinction of being the first college in the United States to completely equip the dormitories with the I. E. S. study and reading lamps. In doing this, a situation has been remedied which heretofore has resulted in harming the vision of 44 percent (according to statistics) of the graduates of colleges. The addition of the Yale cylinder locks to all the room doors was...Another valuable improvement. When we lock our doors now, we can leave our valuables in our room with a feeling of security. With these many improvements behind us, we now look to the inauguration of our Centennial Building Program, which, when completed, will leave Davidson College second to none in the rank of schools.

COMPASSING THE CAMPUS
By Scorry McLrop

A total enrollment of 642 students, including freshmen and the mighty Centennials! It is the largest student body that Davidson has ever had in its ninety-eight sessions, and we hope it will be the best. Under the capable leadership of Skip Brown, we ought to go places this year. The new men have already shown their splendid spirit of cooperation in the few pep meetings that have been held, and in their ready response to the call for erecting the bleachers. It’s the traditional Davidson SPIRIT that never fails and never dies.

GRID COMMENT

In spite of a traditional triumph over the Elon team, the ‘Cats can always expect plenty of spirited competition from those boys. What the Davidson squad will need more than anything else is PEP, and plenty of it, from the sidelines. Enthusiastic cheering from the student body will do more than anything else to win a Davidson football game, and the college body must supply that cheering to the last down. Let's win the Elon game from the Wildcat cheering section!

AFTER ELON

In honor of the victory which we expect to win over Elon, the Pan-Hellenic Council, the Davidson inter-fraternity board, will sponsor an “ELON DANCE” at the Hotel Charlotte on Saturday night this week. Music will be by Stubby Taylor and his Green Park Hotel orchestra from Blowing Rock. Tickets will be $1.50 and may be purchased from any Council member. This is the first dance of the year, and the last before Homecoming.

DAVIDSON GETS AIR

Again this year, Charlotte’s prize station, WBT, will broadcast a weekly “Davidson program.” Now that we have radios in the dormitories, we can hear this broadcast in our rooms. A-hem. Next Monday night, Grier Martin, director of the air-waves for the college, plans to present Coaches Newton and McEver, together with Captain Johnny Mackorell, to Davidson's public. It’s to be an all-football program, as you might gather from the cast, and ought to spill some dope on how the coaches feel about the 1934 grid schedule.

ANENT RUSH SEASON

From the standpoint of the freshmen as well as that of the upperclassmen, the new abbreviated rushing season seems to be a most objectionable experiment. A six-day rushing season is a great handicap to the freshman in view of the fact that there are nine fraternities on the Hill, and about thirty men in each lodge. Considering this fact, it is almost impossible for the rushee to carefully and rationally look over even four or five of the societies in a six-day period of inspection. At the same time, it is a difficult task for all the members of the several fraternities to decide within a few days whether or not certain of their rushees would make desirable and congenial brothers. This column, therefore, voices a serious protest to the idea of such a brief session of rushing; and we implore the college authorities to extend the period in future sessions of the college. It seems to us that a period of two or three weeks would make a much more suitable and desirable rushing season.

OUR ODD TEAM

There are no Smiths, no Joneses, no Browns, and no Johnsons on the team; but there are five Johnstons! Count ‘em: Big Six Johnston, tackle; Jim Johnston, end; Swede Johnston, back; Dick Johnston, guard; and Joe Johnston, end. Furthermore, here is a fact that shows where Davidson draws its outstanding gridders from: Every player on the varsity team this year, and every letterman, is from the state of North Carolina! Midget Verble is the shortest man on the squad; he measures exactly five feet four inches. And, in contrast, Van Patterson, who is the tallest boy in school, is six feet four inches up in the air. Runt Peabody and O. F. Johnston each weigh only 140 pounds, while, on the other side of the scales, Tubby Hand tips off at 238 pounds.

TWADDLE AND PALAVER:

Hotel Georgia is sans frosh this year and the guests there must yell to Watts or West to secure a laundry-hauler.

Starting a NEW PAGE of a Fine Old Story

FROM DAVIDSONIANS IT WAS NEWS... of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

Wildcats conquer Elon eleven as visitors resort to strong aerial attack. Score 20-6... New $600,000 Chambers Building will be occupied in its entirety for the first time... Thad Brock is new leader for Davidson gridmen... Dr. Walter L. Lingle of Richmond, Va., is new Davidson president. Chapel period changed this year from 8:30 o'clock to 10:45... The day of silence in fraternity rushing was inaugurated.

TEN YEARS AGO

The Maxwell Chambers Hotel on Depot Street was formally opened. Christening of Richardson Field sees defeat of Christians by Wildcats 14-0... Six new tennis courts are under construction... History-breaking enrollment exceeds six hundred... Twenty-six Davidson men attended camp at Fort McClellan.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

One hundred fifty men were in the infirmary with flu... Pres. Wilson and Newton D. Baker sent messages to the ceremony inaugurating the Student Army Training Corps at Davidson... Wm. Jennings Bryan visits Davidson Campus... Lieut. Pressly R. Brown, Davidson graduate, was the first officer from Mecklenburg County to give his life for the Allied cause in France.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES

University of Tennessee

“Take a look,” said Major Robert D. Neyland, head coach at the University of Tennessee, “you will find there is no Dodd, no Feathers, no McEver, no Hackman, and no Melver.” This is a great tribute to our Coach McEver as his former coach was being interviewed by a sports writer several days ago. The Vols have a tough schedule this year for they play some of the strongest teams in the East including Centre, Fordham, Mississippi State, Vanderbilt, Kentucky, and Louisiana State.

University of Georgia

The Bulldogs are undergoing strenuous workouts at their private training quarters at Tallulah Falls, Georgia. Coach Harry Mehre is brushing them up on some old plays and fundamentals.

Washington and Lee University

George Sykes, an Alumnus of W & L who died last Monday, is accredited with having thrown the first curve ball in Southern Collegiate baseball. Back in 1878, he uncorked a curve vs. the University of Virginia to lead the team to victory by a 12-0 score. There are only three other members of this team that survive today.

The Citadel

The recently completed swimming pool on the campus of the South Carolina school was formally opened last week when members of the faculty and student body were allowed to swim for the first time. The construction of the pool was started with the aid of PWA funds. The original plans included a glass-enclosed housing for the winter swimming, but due to the lack of funds, it has not been started. The pool is modern in every respect. It is 45 feet by 105 feet and ranges in depth from four to nine feet. The water capacity of the pool is 250,000 gallons of water. There are four springboards and a high diving tower.

POTTER HEADS R. O. T. C.
(Continued from Page 1)

J. W. Hassell; Cadet Sgts., R. P. Morrow, J. R. Pearce, J. H. Ross, R. C. Sours, L. T. Purnell, W. B. Hunter, G. A. Leukel, H. A. Cathey. Company “D”: J. M. Douglas, Cadet Captain; Cadet 1st Lts., B. L. Rose, G. L. Green, R. L. Orr, T. H. Sutton; Cadet 2nd Lts., C. C. Harris, F. R. Hillier, S. L. Jetton, J. M. Smith; Cadet 1st Sgt. J. M. Hodgin; Cadet Sgts. W. M. Beaty, W. L. Brown, J. L. Dees, A. A. Kuhn, C. B. Lewis, W. M. Taylor, C. L. Mann, J. C. Cothran. R. O. T. C. Band: A. M. Cunningham, Cadet Captain; Cadet 1st Lts., J. A. C. Robinson, W. L. Northen; Cadet 1st Sgts., E. C. Wooten, Cadet Sgts., J. B. Huntington, E. C. Johnson.

ALUMNI CHOOSE JOHNSTON
(Continued from Page 1)

He no alumni association to bother. He was quite ready to admit, however, (as we all are) that the intentions of the alumni, individually and collectively, are good. It’s just the misguided activities that cause embarrassment. “The college needs the help of the alumni, and the alumni need the college. There should be some way for the two to draw nearer—not as two thunder clouds that must discharge their lightning as they approach too near, but in a spirit of comradeship and mutual understanding.

WRITER PRAISES BAND
(Continued from Page 1)

One Piccolo, one Flute, one Oboe, two Flugel Horns, one Bassoon, one Eb Clarinet, one Double French Horn, one Bell Euphonium, two Herald Trumpets, one Bass Trombone, two Street and Military Drums, one pair of Tympani or Kettle Drums, one 25-bar Glockenspiel, one Tuning Bar, one set of Orchestra Bells, one Xylophone, two Practice Pianos, one Crash Cymbal, one pair of Hand Cymbals, one Cello, and two String Basses.

STATIONERY
CALLING CARDS
PROGRAMS
FINE PRINTING
QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO.
Printers of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and of the DAVIDSON COLLEGE ALUMNI JOURNAL
1143 E. FOURTH ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.