6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 5, 1934

STUDENTS LEAD YMCA SERVICES
Brandon Conducts Services; “Forgiveness” Is Subject Of Talk By Coit

The Vesper Service last Sunday was conducted entirely by the students, with Bob Coit as chief speaker. The subject was “Forgiveness.” Don Brandon opened the service with a responsive reading which was followed by a prayer by “Duke” Glasgow. Hubert Morris, with Carleton Chapman as organist, led the audience in the singing of three hymns.

Bob Coit read as his text Matthew 18:21-35, which brings out in two incidents, the main point. Coit pointed out that “Forgiveness is inseparably entwined with love. The connection is so close that it cannot be broken. There was a man who, on his deathbed, promised to forgive his enemy. ‘Of course,’ the man said, ‘if I recover the grudge still holds.’ This illustrates lucidly the wrong attitude for a forgiving heart to assume. A friend is a person who loves you despite all your faults, a person who can forgive your mistakes and still think the same of you. We pray: ‘Forgive our debts as we forgive our debtors.’ First, we must forgive before we expect God to forgive us.”

Peter was a very devoted disciple, but he showed weak points and at times seemed childish. He said to Christ in the twenty-third chapter of Matthew: ‘Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? till seven times?’ Jesus said in response: ‘I say not unto thee until seven times; but, until seventy times seven.’

Two Koreans had been thrown into prison and treated violently with various forms of torture under inhuman conditions. In speaking to the man in charge, they expressed no hatred to this officer but only the hope that he might be a Christian and adopt a Christian attitude.

Americans showed their lack of forgiveness. After the war, they regarded the Germans with scorn and utter hatred. The German language was not taught to a large extent in this country. Students of this campus do not always forgive their fellows for their faults. We do not do as Christ did, when He said at the crucifixion: ‘Father, forgive them for they know not what they do.’

Wildcats Win In Closing Combat
(Continued on Page 6, Column 1)

yard marker. Two thrusts at center proved unsuccessful, so Warren skirted his own left end for the remaining five to give the Baptists a six-point lead. Tex Edens was sent into the game at this point to attempt a placement for the extra point but he failed to convert. Score: Wake Forest 6, Davidson 0.

For the remainder of this period, the teams played on fairly even terms with the ball staying around midfield most of the time. Shortly after the second quarter began, the 'Cats, taking the ball on their own 25, used only four plays to put themselves on the opponents' five. Mackorell smacked left tackle for the first five yards of this distance, Wingfield slipped through center for the next sixteen, he then flipped a pass to Hutchins to take and advance it 20 more, and Mackorell shot an aerial to Wingfield, who gathered the pigskin in on the 25 and raced to the five before he was pulled down by a pair of Wake backs. Mackorell and Wingfield were then stopped for no gain in respective drives at center, but on a third play, the Wildcat captain shot a short pass to the infallible Jim Morgan who snagged it over the goal for Davidson's initial counter. Paul Pittman substituted for Wingfield and place-kicked a beautiful boot directly through the uprights and over the bar for the seventh and winning point. Score: Davidson 7, Wake Forest 6.

Neither team threatened again during the first half until shortly before the end of the quarter, the Deacons were halted in a sustained drive, which began on their own 39, when Wood Burns, Presbyterian center, intercepted one of Kitchins' passes on the 'Cats’ 25.

In the third period, the 'Cats came to life again and pushed the ball from midfield to the one-yard line with Mackorell and Wingfield cracking the Deacon forward wall at will. Mackorell took it over from the one, driving with invincible power. The Deacons, however, still had a scare in the bag, and when Pittman kicked off to them, they held the ball until Holton took it over from the one-yard marker, getting it across the last line by only a few inches. Edens again went to try for a placement, but this time his boot, apparently headed for the promised land, was blocked by Coley Windham, Davidson right end. When the final whistle sounded, the 'Cats were on the Deacs' 15, making their way rapidly toward another score.

WATTS OUT FOR GEORGIA WATTS!
The two dormitory teams. The Georgia boys are just before giving the first floor of their rivals’ domicile a soaking good bath. The above picture is a mild scene during the big pep meeting between Watts and Georgia the night before the football clash. The fight is on for the supremacy of the two dormitory teams.

Wrestlers Expect Successful Season
(Continued from Page 4)

year, comes back to wrestle in the 145-pound bracket and will probably compete with John Shirey and John Sadler in the same region. 118-pound limits, however, will come from the new men. Among these, Dillon, who fought in the 118-pound boundary his sophomore year and returns to compete in the 135 lb class, J. D. Allen and Charles Parker are expected to offer strong competition for posts on the team. On December 14, the High Point “Y” wrestlers will compete at Davidson for the last tilt before Christmas. Contestants in the 135, 125, and 118-pound limits will come from the new men.

The thirty candidates for the team are: Blackwelder, Beatty, Baker, Dillon, Franklin, Feutchenberger, Fort, Griffith, Hodgin, Harper, Lyerly, Morrison, McConnell, Moore, Mack, F. M.; Neill, Okey, Purnell, Parker, Quarterman, Snow, Shirey, Sadler, Thompson, J. K.; White, W. G.; Woodward, L.; Summerrell, and J. D. Allen.

Xmas Cards... TAGS AND SEALS
College Pharmacy

Carolina Leads As State Race Ends
(Continued from Page 4)

The Carolina Tar Heels clinchedthe championship of the Big Five conference, November 17, with a thrilling 7-0 win over Duke. Carolina maintained a clear advantage in the viciously fought game. Davidson and Wake Forest met on Richardson Field November 29 in their annual Thanksgiving classic with the Wildcats emerging victorious, 13-12. The game was close and packed with many thrills with the brilliant play of Mackorell deciding the issue. Duke and State closed the conference on a mud-covered field last Saturday with the Blue Devils displaying a powerful attack which netted them a 32-0 victory.

Watts Losses First To Georgia Rivals
(Continued from Page 1)

from Georgia Dorm to their first victory in history over the Teahounds from across the way. He was very ably supported by Walter “Dahlia” Dixon, and Hank “Hollyhock” Loftin, in the backfield and Fritz “Jonquill” Byerly and “Pretty Boy” McNabb in the line. Watts, still wondering watts up, is able to boast of such limelight holders as Oscar “Tea Pourer” Bethea, Walter “The Goon” Sprunt, George “Triple-Threat” Tipton, and Scott “Charlotte’s Own” Shepherd.

The first threat of the game came when the Georgia boys drove the ball to their opponents’ ten-yard line only to lose it on downs. This drive down into Watts territory was featured by runs of Partridge and Dixon, sidewheeling aces of the Georgia eleven. All during the first half the two aggregations see-sawed around mid-field with the Georgia crew having somewhat the better record for gains in every department.

The second half opened with both teams seemingly invigorated from the half-time rest, but evidently the Georgia Rats were more thoroughly recuperated during this period, and came back more strongly to immediately march down into Watts territory. Coach Ravenel’s boys took the pigskin on the opponents’ 46-yard line. On the first play “Dixie” Partridge passed to Loftin for 20 yards and a first down. The ball now resting on the 26-yard marker. Partridge then got five through the line, and Guerrant goes through for a first down. Resorting then to uncanny tactics the Georgia quarterback called a lateral pass play. The center sent the pigskin back to Guerrant, who in turn relayed it to Partridge, scintillating Georgia halfback, who after eluding several tacklers made his way to the promised land. Loftin, another well-poised back on this Georgia eleven, heaved a nice aerial to Partridge for the extra point, making the score Georgia 7, Watts 0.

The leading team then kicked off to their opponents, and on the first play after the kick-off “Tea Pourer” Bethea dropped back and whipped a pass which was intended for Sprunt, but accidentally fell into the arms of “Goofy” Cook, Georgia center, who wriggled his way through the entire Watts team twenty-five yards for a touchdown. An attempted pass for the extra point was blocked. Score: Georgia 13, Watts 0.

Before another kick-off the third quarter ended, and it seemed to stop the apparently invincible march of the “sewing club,” and the losers stiffened to hold the victors scoreless for the remaining time. The crowd then gathered around the press box while “True Blue” Monroe presented the trophy of victory (nozzle off the hose used in Monday night’s fracas) to the winning team. Thus endeth another year of grid history, and a marvelous day of entertainment in Davidson’s back yard.

The line-ups:
Watts Pos Georgia
Stocks LE Rose
Hamrick LT Oakey
Shepherd Center Cook
Smallridge RT McNabb
Benfield Byerly
Tipton Loftin
Sprunt Dixon
Coffin Harkins

Officials: Referee, Mackorell; Umpire, Hutchins; Headlinesman, Sanders (all of Davidson).

’Cats Complete Tough Schedule With Final Win
Turners, led by George Wingfield, brought back opposition punts a total of 358 yards as compared with 157 yards for opposing punt returners. The comparatively small yardage of punt returns by the opposition was due to the splendid high punting of Johnny Mackorell, and the brilliant work of Siewers, Morgan, and Windham in getting down under those punts. Army, as expected, proved to be Davidson’s strongest opponent, and although the Southerners fared in pretty good style during the first half, the cadet team, led by “Texas Jack” Buckler, Simons, Stancock, and several others, waylaid the locals in the last half to pile up a total of 41 points.

Photographers Will Be Here Next Week
(Continued from Page 1)

All seniors who plan to have a snapshot in the annual must have it in to Bob Smith before the Christmas vacations. This will be the deadline for boys getting them in. It is very important that all seniors get these in as it has a lot to do with making a good annual and so far the response has been very poor. The request for the taking and getting of these pictures has been asked for many times and has had very poor response so please try and get your pictures taken and the snapshots in before the Christmas holidays.

Davidson Theatre
WEDNESDAY, DEC. 5
MARIE GALANTE
WITH SPENCER TRACY, KETTI GALLIAN, NED SPARKS, AND HELEN MORGAN

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, DEC. 6 AND 7
THE PAINTED VEIL
WITH GRETA GARBO, HERBERT MARSHALL, AND GEORGE BRENT

SATURDAY, DEC. 8
I AM A THIEF
WITH MARY ASTOR, RICARDO CORTEZ, AND DUDLEY DIGGS

MONDAY, DEC. 10
THE PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS

TUESDAY, DEC. 11
BABES IN THE WOODS

the cigarette that's MILDER
© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Men of the South have been “in tobacco” for years—growing tobacco and curing it—buying it and selling it—until they know tobacco from A to Izzard. Harvesting tobacco and packing it in the barn for curing—and (below) a scene at a Southern tobacco auction. Now folks who have been in tobacco all their lives, folks who grow it, know there is no substitute for mild ripe tobacco. And down in the South where they grow tobacco and where they ought to know something about it—in most places Chesterfield is the largest-selling cigarette.