PALMER CHRISTIAN TO OPEN SERIES OF CONCERTS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ALENDA LU xX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DR. BELK WILL BEGIN FALL SERVICES SUNDAY

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 24, 1934. No. 5

DUKE-DAVIDSON WEEK-END ENJOYED BY Guests For The Game Are Entertained By Pan-Hellenic Council Dances

GAME OFFERS THRILLS Wildcats Highly Praised By Duke Supporters

With thousands of visitors on the campus for the annual Duke-Davidson week-end and the set of dances, given Friday and
Saturday night, which were sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic council, the week-end proved to be one of the most successful which
have been given in the past few years. Despite the 20-0 setback which the Wildcats suffered from the Blue Devils,
the game was packed full of thrills and those who were on the campus only for the game were well
satisfied with their Saturday afternoon. Many favorable comments were heard by the writer of the spirit and fight of the
Davidson team. Several members of the Duke student body said they were of the opinion that Davidson put up a
much better fight than Georgia Tech against Wade's men. Scores of girls attended the dances and game, coming anywhere from
Randolph-Macon in Lynchburg, Va., to Agnes Scott in Atlanta, Ga. The dance set was well attended and the music furnished
by Hal Thurston and his North Carolinians proved to be most enjoyable. Fraternity banquets after the Saturday night dance were
given by several social fraternities. Those girls attending the dance set are listed as follows:

Beta Theta Phi: Alma Lloyd Ranson, Charlotte; Emilie Crum, Orangeburg, S. C.; Nancy Peterson, Woodbury, N. J.; Betsy Cooper, Henderson;
Lorena Fairbanks, Fort Denning, Delaware; Sarah Metz, Charlotte; Mary Louise Means, Concord; Margaret Abbit, Wilson; and Bess Laing, Charleston, W.
Va.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Virginia Harding, High Point; Virginia Wiler, Charlotte; Alice Cline, Concord; Mary Mauldin, Rock Hill, S. C.; Sue
Morgan, Albemarle; and Mary Crawley, Albemarle.

Kappa Alpha: Martha McGavok, Franklin, Tenn.; Martha Crosland, Bennettsville, S. C.; Jonnie Walker, Charlotte; Katherine Crowell, Charlotte; May D. Marion,
Charlotte; Lydia Stewart, Charlotte; and Clara Margaret Grantham.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Betsy Armfield, Asheboro; Mack Coyles, Hickory; Mary Glenn, Gastonia; Mary Fitzgerald, Wilson; Katherine Alexius, Wilmington; Ella Waters,
Washington, D. C.

Continued on Page 2, Col. 3

Several Portraits Are Given College Alumni Group Is Collecting Paintings of Ex-Presidents Of College

The Alumni Association of Davidson College decided a year or two ago to endeavor to secure portraits of all past
presidents of the institution, and several have been secured since that time. Portraits of Dr. Henry Louis Smith, who was
president from 1901 to 1912, and Professor John Rennie Blake, Chairman of the Faculty and acting president from 1871 to
1877, were formally presented at the recent Commencement Exercises and are now on exhibition in the college library. The portrait
of Dr. Smith, painted by Lloyd Freeman of New York City, was given to the college by Dr. Smith’s sister,
Mrs. Lunsford Richardson, Sr., of Greensboro, and her two sons, Messrs. Smith Richardson and Lunsford Richardson, Jr. Professor Blake’s portrait
was presented by Mr. George R. Wilkinson, '12, of Florence, S. C., and his brother, Mr. J. R. Wilkinson, '15.
The father of these Davidson alumni is superintendent of the Elizabeth Blake Hospital in China, a gift of Professor Blake.
It is understood that a portrait of Dr. William J. Martin, president of the college from 1912 to 1929, has
been received at Chambers Building, but the donors wish the portrait to have time to be thoroughly dried before being
exhibited. It is also understood that a portrait of James B. Duke, founder of the $40,000,000 Duke Endowment of which
Davidson College is a beneficiary, has been ordered painted by the Board of Trustees of the college. Mr. Wiltchek, of
New York City, is the artist. The portraits of Dr. Martin and Mr. Duke will probably be presented formally to
the college sometime during the present school year.

THOUSANDS SNAPSHOTS WANTED

All seniors are urged to turn in their informal characteristic snapshots to Bob Smith, Editor of the yearbook, as soon
as possible. Members of the Photographers Club have agreed to take these snapshots for a nominal sum, and those seniors
interested in this offer are asked to see Gordon Wood, 305 East, Graham Squires, 402 East, or A. P. Hassell,
409 East, in order that the snaps may be secured at once. The photographer for “Quips and Cranks”, who has
been on the campus since Monday, will leave tonight, and all students who plan to have their pictures made and
have not done so must have them taken before nine o’clock this evening (Wednesday). The regular charge of four dollars
will be made, a post-dated check being acceptable if the student hasn’t the cash available.

NEW EQUIPMENT FOR ALUMNI FILE

Martin Installs Modern Machines For Addressing Mail And Keeping Files

An entirely new system of keeping on file those alumni of the college who are on the mailing list has
been inaugurated in the office of the alumni secretary, Grier Martin. Two new machines, the Graphotype and the Addressograph, have
recently been procured to make possible this much more convenient and practical method of filing. Under the new system the
addresses of the alumni are filed alphabetically according to the state and town in which each alumnus lives. Each individual
file or card consists of a light metal frame, into which is inserted a metal name and address plate for
future printing and an index card which facilitates location of each alumnus’ address. The Graphotype is used for making the
metal address plates, the machine stamping each figure by means of dies. The Addressograph is, in turn, used to print
the alumni addresses on envelopes, cards, or other papers by means of the metal address plates made on the Graphotype.
These plates, filed in alphabetical order, are fed into the Addressograph in the same order, and the whole file can
be printed in an amazingly short time, each plate being restored to its proper place in the file after being
used. By means of this system it is possible to have all outgoing mail classified alphabetically as to state and
city, thus enabling the alumni mail, including “Davidsonians”, college circulars, etc., to be sent second class and saving the college
quite a bit in mailing costs alone. An entirely new file of alumni is being compiled by means of the
new system and should be completed before the Christmas holidays. A file of all ministers in the Southern Presbyterian Church
will also be kept.

First Grades Of Year To Be Released Friday

All grades for the first six weeks of this year’s work will be available to the students at the office
of Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, Registrar and Secretary of the Faculty, on Friday and Saturday, October 26 and 27. These
grades cover all daily work and the recent reviews. Senior, Junior, Sophomore, and Freshman grades will be available at the
same time. Reports will not be sent to the individual students in college but a record of all work will
be forwarded to the parent or guardian of each college student. The object in drawing up reports of students' work
for the first six weeks is to inform the students and their parents or guardian of their scholastic standing. A
six weeks report of work is sent out at the beginning of each year. Grades, which were drawn up Saturday
by the college professors, were turned in the same day so that Registrar Hengeveld would have ample time to record
them before the above stated time.

AN OPEN LETTER TO THE CENSORS

“The Davidsonian” assumes no responsibility for any sentiments embodied in this article.

“Give me the liberty to utter freely according to conscience, above all other liberties.” —MILTON.

This is the unequivocal, declaratory statement of a delicate matter—Student Body “rights”. Dispatched by its critics to the bone-yard of
causes that have “died aborning”. The epithet of “radical” will not alone suffice to vitiate its force as an expression
of opinion. Does this company of college students have what can properly go by the name of “rights”? In the
opinion of this writer, who is expressing here the sentiments of co-signers to this article, the answer is a positive
affirmative. As a corporate entity, this company of men have certain rights which should be courageously affirmed. Firstly, we have
a right to be heard in that concert of voices which promulgate the policies determining the social life on our
campus. Some experience as students at Davidson College has impressed us with the abject failure of the College to provide
for the development of Student Body social needs. Each week-end produces eloquent testimony to the reality of this distressing circumstance.
Manifold centrifugal forces operate to send members of the Student Body off to other places for the satisfaction of their
recreational and social impulses. After this regularly recurring exodus has run its course, the campus is left deserted and apathetic.
This fact is all the more insufferable when we consider its antithesis to the prevailing situation in the wholesome collegiate
communities on other campuses. With scarcely an exception in the college world, it is true that with the week-end there
comes an increase rather than a diminution of the college spirit and campus activity. This is an unwholesome situation. The
consummation of a program with dual objectives would effect its reform. The construction of an adequate “Social Center” on the
campus with facilities for handling the social and recreational needs of Davidson men is the first essential. This ought to
be the initial project into which any funds for new building be invested. Secondly, the reactionary prohibition of dancing on
the campus ought to be rescinded to allow for the intelligent use of these projected facilities. The Student Council at
a meeting last week entertained a report which embodied a programTending toward these two objectives, that group unanimously resolved that
many considerations made it both unwise and impolitic for this reformatory campaign to be pressed in the name of the
Student Body Government. As a consequence, this article and the opinions expressed therein are purely the sentiments of individuals. It
is to the writer of this article and its co-signers to whom responsibility for these statements justly attaches. Of course,
when we squarely face the facts, we see practical difficulties of formidable proportions. But even the fact of financial difficulty
in the construction of this project is not so formidable an obstacle as the prevailing prejudices which would unreasonably restrict
its use. What prompts the writing of this article is a conscientious conviction that the time is ripe for an
expressed objection to certain regulations imposed upon us from above. There are certain agencies responsible for social campus policy to
which dancing is anathema. Needless to say, despite their aversion, the institution persists. From these agencies issues the prevailing prohibition
of campus dancing. To trace back the source of this prejudice carries us beyond and above the college Faculty who
are properly administrative agents. No one has any proper right to ridicule the conscientious persuasions of others. It is strictly
not the purpose of this writer to treat the same with levity. But it is purposed to precipitate into an
open discussion which for too long has been rankling under cover. In the last analysis, the most prodigious obstruction which
stands between us and a wholesome, progressive social life on this campus are some reactionary prejudices. Measured by the enlightened
standards of contemporary society, these attitudes are untenable. As pioneers, our work is one of educating recalcitrants to a more
expedient adjustment with a fact, the stark reality of which they cannot “neglect out of existence.” There is in the
prohibition of dancing on the campus a connivance against which many of us secretly rebel. For whereas dancing is de
jure prohibited to Davidson men, it flourishes de facto! What possible purpose can be served by this anachronistic sentiment it
is difficult to imagine. As things now stand, the intentions of the promulgators of the anti-dancing regulation are thwarted, the
efforts to suppress the institution are a consummate failure, Davidson men travel miles to sponsor college dances under unfavorable, inconvenient
circumstances—and everybody winks! But even this anomalous condition is not our special grievance. Our grievance is that the arm of
control originating from these reactionary sources has fastened upon The Davidsonian, imposing such restrictions there that make that publication hardly
the “voice of the Student Body.” This paper is the only medium for the expression of undergraduate opinion. To strengthen
their recalcitrant position against campus dancing, the same parties have sought to discourage even the publicizing of dances in The
Davidsonian. That an unreasonable censorship of any nature should violate the integrity of this student organ of sentiment is intolerable.
One fact we strenuously aver. The Davidsonian is our paper to use at our discretion and within the limits of
decorum. It must be the voice of the Student Body. Can it be questioned whether the Student Body has a
voice, or that the voice has a “right” to be heard? No one will deny that the Honor System is
one of Davidson’s priceless, irreplaceable assets. To all intents and purposes, the moral energy which motivates the Honor System...

Continued on Page 2, Col. 5

What is more, it cannot be summarily des-

DR. BLANTON TO SPEAK AT ‘Y’ SERVICES

Dr. J. Blanton Belk will open the regular fall services of the Y. M. C. A. Dr. Belk is pastor
of the Grace Covenant Presbyterian Church of Richmond, Va.

MASQUERS GIVE ONE-ACT PLAYS

The Red and Black Masquers, with three one-act plays, opened their present season here last night. The plays were attended
by a large crowd. These plays were the first in a series which will be given by the Masquers. The
first play, “Wurzel Flummery,” was a romantic comedy, directed by David Herring. The play, which takes place on a June
day morning before the war in Robert Crashaw’s town house, deals with the late Antony Clifton who has left fifty
thousand pounds to two men who will take with it the name of Wurzel Flummery. All the cast gave excellent
performances. John Newman as Mr. Robert Crashaw, and Caton Denis as Mr. Richard Meriton were outstanding.

WURZEL FLUMMERY

The cast was as follows:
Mr. Robert Crashaw — John Newman
Mrs. Robert Crashaw — Elizabeth Shewmake
Miss Viola Crashaw — Goldyloch Erwin
Mr. Dennis Clifton — K. Malone
Mr. Richard Meriton — Caton Denis
O. M. Covington

Directed by David Herring

“Grandma Pulls The String,” the second play, took the audience by storm. This comedy provides many a laugh. A. C.
Cline as Thornton, C. S. Howard as Grandma, and J. Lafferty as Hildegard gave a good account of themselves in
this comedy which dealt with the proposal of Thornton to Julia. This proved a hit to the fans. Richardson Hillier
was the director.

Continued on Page 6, Col. 6

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Pledges Six New Men

The Alpha Alpha chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemistry fraternity, formally pledged six new men at their regular
meeting last Monday night. Dr. A. T. Clifford, who came here for the first time this fall as professor of
chemistry, was also initiated as an honorary member. Last week the following received mailed bids and later signified their intention
of accepting them at a brief meeting held after chapel: M. J. Barnett, of Meridian, Miss.; R. P. Morrow, West
Point, Ga.; E. D. Otey, Wytheville, Va.; J. H. Ross, Michoacan, Mexico; W. B. Wartman, South Hill, Va.; and E.
C. Womble, Wagram. They will be initiated at an early date. Alpha Alpha is the mother chapter of Gamma Sigma
Epsilon and was founded here in 1919. Membership is based largely on grades, interest in the subject, and the amount
of chemistry taken. Officers of the local group are: M. W. Alderman, president; C. S. McCall, secretary; E. S. Hodge,
treasurer. O. J. Thies, Jr., associate professor of chemistry and faculty member of this chapter, holds the rank of Grand
Keeper of the Cult in the national organization.

BELK WILL LEAD “Y” SERVICES

Richmond Pastor Is One Of The Leading Ministers Of Presbyterian Church

TO SPEAK FOUR DAYS

Is Great Sportsman, Pastor And Leader

The regular Fall services of the Y. M. C. A. will begin on next Sunday morning, October 28. The “Y”
considers itself very fortunate in securing Dr. J. Blanton Belk, pastor of the Grace Covenant Presbyterian Church of Richmond, Va.,
as the speaker at these services. Dr. Belk is one of the leading ministers in the Southern Presbyterian Church and
comes to Davidson highly recommended by Dr. “Tolly” Thompson, Dr. Ben Lacy, and other outstanding men of the church. Dr.
Belk was born in 1893, in Chatham, Virginia, the son of Rev. George W. Belk, D.D. He attended Davidson College
for two years and finished at the University of South Carolina, where he received his A.B. and M.A. degrees. At
the declaration of war in 1917, he enlisted in the army, serving in the First Division; a First Lieutenant of
Light Artillery, commanding a North Carolina Battery for 14 months in France. In 1921, Dr. Belk received his B.D. degree
from Columbia Theological Seminary. He married Miss Wanamaker of St. Matthews, S. C., and they have four children—three girls, and
one boy, Blanton, Jr. In 1927, Rollins College conferred upon him the degree of Doctor of Divinity. He has done
graduate work at Union Seminary in New York, and at Columbia Seminary. Dr. Belk has held several pastorates—at Clover, S.
C., First Presbyterian Church of Orlando, Fla., First Church of Huntington, W. Va., and since 1933 has been at the
Grace Covenant Church in Richmond, Va. Dr. Belk is a great sportsman, being an expert at hunting and fishing, and
also a great golfer. He has also always taken an active and prominent part in civic and community activities. His
pet hobby at present seems to be his Young People’s Forum, which draws capacity crowds, anywhere from sixty or seventy
to one hundred young people. His people love his preaching and his church is usually crowded. He also reaches a
great radio congregation through a private station at his church. Statement from Dr. Ben Lacy, President of Union Seminary, who
conducted the Fall Services last year: “Dr. Blanton Belk is a preacher of attractive personality and unusually great speaking gifts.
He has lived a life...

Continued on Page 6, Col. 6

Meetings Planned By Pi Delta Alpha

Pre-medical Group Discusses Future Speakers At Initial Meeting Of Year

The local chapter of Pi Delta Alpha, national pre-medical fraternity, held the first business meeting the latter part of last
week. The major part of the discussion dealt with the eligibility of various upperclassmen for membership. Eligibility is based on
scholastic average, interest in the study of medicine, and amount of pre-medical science taken. The possibility of securing speakers for
future meetings was also discussed. Each year this group endeavors to bring several outstanding physicians to speak at the open
meetings, which are held at intervals throughout the year. The purpose of these open meetings is to stimulate interest in
medicine and aid pre-medical students in their work. The Davidson chapter is the mother chapter of Pi Delta Alpha and
was founded in 1931 by Avery Patton, who is now president of the national organization. Officers of the local group
include: J. A. C. Wadsworth, president; K. D. Weeks, vice-president; and D. G. Monroe, secretary. Faculty members include: Dr. S.
C. Lyon, Dr. J. W. McConnell, and A. W. Shaw. Initiated members are: J. H. Batte, D. G. Monroe, J.
A. C. Wadsworth, and K. D. Weeks.
