THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 3, 1934

Dr. Lingle Visits N.C. Colleges To Confer With State College Authorities On Athletic Manifesto

Dr. Thomas W. Lingle, '93, left Monday for a short visit to the University of North Carolina, Duke, Wake Forest,
and North Carolina State College to confer with the athletic authorities of these institutions concerning the athletic manifesto which is
to be prepared for the next annual North Carolina College Conference meeting. Dr. Lingle is the chairman of this committee,
having been elected last November by the North Carolina College Committee, which is to prepare this athletic manifesto. The committee
is to set forth what should be the aim, purpose, ideals, and standards of athletic and physical education in general
in the programs of Colleges and Universities, toward which standard it is desired all institutions should strive. Other members who
will be present are Charles Mangum of the University of North Carolina, and President Benford of Guilford College.

Dr. Lingle spent the latter part of his vacation on a ten-day fishing trip on the lakes and seas of
Maine with his son, Eustace, '27, a young businessman of New York City. On the 18th of September at the
Rotary Club at Salisbury, Dr. Lingle gave a talk on the “Constitution of the United States,” stressing mainly the personnel
of the convention and some problems of the Constitution as they affect the American people today. September 17 was the
147th anniversary of the signing of the Constitution at Philadelphia and the Rotarians from the Atlantic to the Pacific observed
this week as Constitutional week. On September 25 Dr. Lingle gave the same address before an open meeting of the
Woman's Club of Shelby, to which the professional men and the teachers of the high school were also invited.

Regulations Governing Davidson Men Changed

There have been made evident at the beginning of the current school year several decided changes in the regulations governing
the Davidson dormitories and fraternities. A copy of the revised dormitory rules has been placed in each room, and a
bulletin explaining fraternity regulations and revisions has been posted in each chapter. Last spring the ban on radios was lifted
by the college authorities. At present the control of radios is being entrusted to the integrity of the Student Body
with the Student Council in charge. With the sanction of radios, there came a repeal of the regulation limiting the
number of electrical appliances to three. In the past year, no light bulb exceeding sixty watts was permitted. As the
new student lamps, which were recently installed by the college, require a one hundred watt bulb, this regulation has also
been discarded. In addition to the installation of indirect lighting, the college has begun a complete renovation of all desks.

Students have been warned that the rule forbidding the throwing of cigarettes or burning paper on the dormitory floor will
be rigidly enforced this year. Formerly, there was a penalty only when a burnt place was discovered on the floor.
This year, however, a fine will be imposed if a cigarette butt is found on the floor, whether extinguished or
not.

As to fraternity regulations, there has been only one significant change. This involves the shortening of the rushing season from
two weeks to one. The other rules, including the prohibition of hazing and dancing, Sabbath observance, requirements, and initiation will
remain the same.

Philanthropic Society Holds Initial Meeting

The Philanthropic Literary Society met in its first meeting of the year last Tuesday night, September 25, at 7 o'clock
in Phi Hall. The meeting was opened with devotionals led by George Hornbeck. Cameron Deans, president of the society, gave
the welcoming address, and Courtney Ross talked on the subject, “The Value of a Literary Society.” During the business part
of the meeting, which followed, all the new men who wished to join the society were given an opportunity to
express their desire to do so. Bids will be sent out within the next two weeks. A good many were
present at this, the initial meeting of the Philanthropic Society, and it is hoped that more will come to the
meetings that are to follow.

AT THE LOCAL THEATRES

Thursday, Oct. 4—Friday 5

CHAINED

This is another triangle affair. Joan Crawford is in love with Otto Kruger, who is married and has two children.
He also has not been able to persuade his wife to give him a divorce. When she finally decides to
give him a divorce, Miss Crawford is on a ship bound for South America. On this ship, she meets Clark
Gable and they fall in love. Their romance is interrupted when she...has to go back to the states. On arriving
home she learns of Kruger’s divorce and in a short while they are married. Everything runs smoothly until Clark Gable
comes to the U.S. After his arrival, he and Joan work out a plan by which she is rid of
her husband. The cast includes Joan Crawford, Clark Gable, and Otto Kruger.

Saturday, Oct. 6
SERVANTS' ENTRANCE
This picture is of the nature that its name implies. It has received much favorable comment. The cast includes Janet
Gaynor, Lew Ayres, Ned Sparks, and Walter Connolly.

Monday, Oct. 8
THE LAST GENTLEMAN
This last picture of George Arliss’ is not as powerful as “The House of Rothschild,” but it is very good
as are all his pictures. One very amusing scene is in which a hundred and twenty cuckoo clocks chime out
at a funeral service. The cast includes George Arliss, Edna May Oliver, Janet Beecher, Charlotte Henry, and Ralph Morgan.

Tuesday, Oct. 9
HAVE A HEART
The cast of this picture includes Jean Parker, James Dunn, Una Merkle, and Stuart Erwin. It has received much favorable
criticism and should afford good entertainment.

Annual Organizes With Hope Of Early Edition
A meeting of the staff of Quips and Cranks was held Tuesday night, September 25th, for the purpose of discussion
concerning the annual for this year. There were ten freshmen out for the work with each of the following editors:
Lamont Brown, Fraternity Editor; Harvey Glass, Photographing Editor; Martin Barnett, Sports Editor; and Gordon Smith, Activities Editor. The editor exhorted
the staff to show interest in the progress of the book and in the work assigned them. Much of the
designing of the annual has already been accomplished and as a result, it is hoped that it will be out
earlier than usual. The editor also announced that a return engagement with the photographer has been made for sometime about
the middle of October. All students are urged to have their pictures taken as soon as possible, since this action
on the part of the student body will enable the editors to secure the earlier publication to which they are
looking forward.

Dormitory Supervisor Changes Her Residence
Nearly all of the students of this College frequently “bum” rides to neighboring towns, but some fail to observe the
simplest rules of courtesy. Here is a short list of points governing “bumming” etiquette:
1. Don’t “thumb” in the middle of the road. It endangers your life and that of any passing driver.
2. Don’t smoke in the car unless the driver suggests it.
3. Don’t cover the car with cigarette ashes and mud from your shoes.
4. Don’t mar the back or front seat with your feet.
5. Don’t burden the driver with unnecessary conversation.
6. Above all, remember that you represent Davidson College.

For the convenience of the students, Mrs. N. T. Smith, supervisor of dormitories, announces that she has moved from her
old home on the campus. She now resides on South Street, near the high school. Mrs. Smith extends a welcome
to all students to visit her at her new residence. She states that she will be glad to be of
assistance to any student.

A system whereby students are able to read more rapidly and improve their grades has been developed by Stanford University
(Stanford, Calif.) psychologists.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4 AND 5
CHAINED
With JOAN CRAWFORD and CLARK GABLE

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 6
SERVANTS' ENTRANCE
With JANET GAYNOR and LEW AYRES

MONDAY, OCTOBER 8
THE LAST GENTLEMAN
With GEORGE ARLISS and EDNA MAY OLIVER

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9
HAVE A HEART
With JEAN PARKER and JAMES DUNN

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10
HIDE OUT
With ROBERT MONTGOMERY and MAUREEN O’SULLIVAN

“It’s toasted”
Your throat protection—against irritation—against cough
So round, so firm, so fully packed—Luckies are made of only the clean center leaves—these are the mildest leaves—they cost
more—they taste better.
