THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 5, 1934

Endowment Beneficiaries To Drs. Lingle And McConnell Plan To Attend Observance In Raleigh Tuesday

MR. PAGE WILL PRESIDE

Dr. W. L. Lingle and Dr. J. M. McConnell plan to be in Raleigh Tuesday, December 11, to attend the public observance of the tenth anniversary of the Duke Endowment, a celebration sponsored by the Raleigh Chamber of Commerce. Representatives from each of the numerous schools, hospitals, and orphanages which are beneficiaries of this endowment will assemble at the Sir Walter Raleigh Hotel for a series of commemorative exercises and discussions.

Registration of guests will be completed by eleven o'clock that morning after which the guests will be conducted on a tour of the beneficiary institutions and places of interest in the city. At twelve-thirty, the visitors will be entertained at a luncheon given through the courtesy of the Raleigh Beneficiary Institutions at the Methodist Orphanage. That afternoon at two-thirty the hospital representatives will convene as a separate group for reports on and discussion of “Group Payment for Hospital Care” and a roundtable discussion of various hospital problems. The orphan home group will meet simultaneously to hear a series of addresses on different phases of child care together with a brief devotional program and a number of selections by the Oxford Orphanage Chapel Choir.

Exercises for that evening will be held in the Memorial Auditorium with Mr. Frank Page presiding. The program follows:
7:30—Prelude: State Children’s Orchestra, Major C. D. Kutchinsky, Director.
7:45—Invocation: Right Reverend W. J. Hafey, Bishop Diocese of Raleigh.
7:50—Address of Welcome: The Honorable J. C. B. Ehringhaus, Governor of North Carolina.
8:00—Address: “A Ten-Year Review of the Work of the Duke Endowment”—Norman A. Cocke, Vice-Chairman, Board of Trustees, The Duke Endowment.
8:30—Chorus: Shaw University Choir.
8:25—Introduction of Doctor Lester: Dr. Frank P. Graham, President, University of North Carolina.
8:35—Address: “The Philanthropic Endowment in Modern Life”—Dr. Robert M. Lester, Secretary, Carnegie Corporation.
9:05—Solo: Edwin Hill, Methodist Orphanage, Raleigh.
9:10—A Sound Motion Picture: “The Trail of the Circuit Rider.”

“The Trail of the Circuit Rider” prepared by Pathe News, Incorporated, under the direction of the Trustees of the Duke Endowment and its filming has already occasioned much editorial comment throughout the Carolinas. As the title indicates, the picture is based upon the influence of religious teachings of two or three generations ago in the development of orphanages, hospitals, and schools. The purpose of the picture is to give a clearer insight into the character of the work of these institutions, their great value to society, and the limitations under which they strive to meet the great demands made upon them. The scenes of present-day conditions are authentic.

Davidson College receives approximately five percent of the income of the Duke Endowment, a source of revenue roughly equivalent to a private endowment of one million one hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars.

C. K. Brown Reorganizes Class For Discussions

Davidson’s Student Sunday School Class has been reorganized under the leadership of Dr. C. K. Brown. The class meets every Sunday morning at 10:00 A.M. in the Eumenean Hall. Discussion groups have been formed for the study of social problems and the program takes the form of an open forum after Dr. Brown completes his lecture. A great deal of interest has been shown in this work by the members of the class and the attendance usually numbers about thirty. Cameron Deans and C. L. Harper are officers of the group and they extend to the student body a cordial welcome to attend the class meetings.

BUFF SHOE SHOP
Modern Shoe Rebuilder
When It Is Done By Buff That Is Enough

Frat Competition High In Volleyball

The Kappa Sig-Phi Gam volleyball game was called after two games on Monday afternoon due to darkness and rain. The Kappa Sigs won the first game 21-19, but the Phi Gams came back strongly to take the second, 21-12. The final game of this match was played Wednesday, along with the Beta, SAE game, which was called off because a great number of men of both teams were practicing for the Watts-Georgia game. The SPE, Phi Delt game was also played, but the results of these games were not known when this paper went to press. In Monday's game, Pittman, Lindsey, and Barrow were outstanding for the Kappa Sigs while LeGare, Glass, and Branton played stellar games for the Phi Gams. Two matches had previously been played in this tournament, the SPEs defeated the Pikas and the KAs downed the Pi Kappa Phis about two weeks ago in the opening games. The interclass tournament will get underway as soon as this tournament is completed.

Eight Men Survive In Ping-Pong Tournament

The annual Y. M. C. A. ping-pong tournament is ongoing.

Gwynn Will Celebrate 10th Anniversary As Committeeman

Faculty Is On Assembly Committee To Prepare For 1936 Jubilee

Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr. has recently received and accepted an invitation to serve upon a special committee of arrangements, which has been set up by the General Assembly, to begin preparation for the celebration of the Diamond Jubilee Year, 1936. The general assembly has designated the year 1936, which marks the 75th year of the existence of the Southern Presbyterian Church, as “Diamond Jubilee Year.” The Assembly has authorized the setting up of special evangelistic, organizational, and educational objectives, as goals to be achieved by that time, toward which the whole Church shall work. It is hoped that by the jubilee a special program will be arranged which shall properly set forth the glorious history and achievement of the Church during these 75 years of progress.

The Committee of Arrangements is composed of four women and eight men who have been selected from members over the General Assembly. This committee will organize and direct the program preparatory to, and through, Jubilee Year. The Committee will have its first meeting in the Henry Grady Hotel, Atlanta, Georgia, December 4th, at 9:30 A.M.

Y.M.C.A. News

No Y. M. C. A. deputations were sent out this week, although the Student Volunteer Group sponsored a deputation to the Young People’s Meeting of the Second Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. Watson Street made a talk, Warren Babcock played a cello solo with Kenneth Scott at the piano, and Jimmie Salango rendered a vocal solo, with Val Cassels accompanying at the piano.

Commenting on a YMCA deputation sent out some weeks ago, “The Ashe County Presbyterian” states: “Ashe County was settled in the 1760's. Davidson College was organized in 1837. So far as is known, never before this Fall has an official delegation of the Davidson College YMCA visited Ashe County. On the first Sunday in November, Lansing, Gillespie, and Foster Memorial Churches rejoiced in the presence of Messrs. Don Brandon, Hubert Morris, Don Bailey, Tommy Phifer, and Bob Leonard. They conducted helpful services in each church and we look forward to their return.” The student-conducted service last Sunday met with such approval that another such service is planned for the month of February, the topic of which is to be “Peace”. For the coming Sunday's service, the YMCA plans to have Reverend R. H. Stone as speaker. Rev. Stone will make an appeal for the mountain mission fund. The YMCA also plans to sponsor two vespers services to be used as a workshop and as scout troop meetings.

Campaign Started To Erect Building Site

Forty Dollars Have Been Contributed By Members Of The Community

The Boys’ Work Department of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, under the leadership of Ed Hodge and Ben Rose, is setting out on a campaign to erect a two-room building.House in which the Boys’ Work may be carried on more adequately. This building of two rooms will be built as there has been no location for work for nearly a year. Sam Nickey, a member of the "34, organized a manual training shop for the younger boys of Davidson, which the boys made much use of until its center, Old Louisiana, was torn down. About the same time, the schoolhouse had to cease being used as the headquarters for the scout troop, and since then, they have had no place at all. The workshop was used for a month last year, and during that time it was visited by ninety to one hundred and twenty boys each week. Attempts are now being made to raise the money to erect this community house for the boys. At the present time, the site and forty dollars have been contributed within the community. It is estimated that the building will cost about $175. Any students or members of the community who may be interested in helping with this project are asked to see Ed Hodge.

Around TOWN

The Davidson Music Club met Tuesday night at the Civic League Hall. The subject for the evening was “Christmas Folk Music.” A program of French, German, Norwegian, Bohemian, and English Christmas carols was given. Major and Mrs. John Rhett entertained a party of young people Friday evening for Miss Libby Rhett and her guest, Miss Becky Gwathmey. Miss Agnes Brown, who is a junior at Salem College, spent the weekend with her mother, Mrs. A. S. Brown. Mrs. W. W. Wood visited with relatives in Hickory Wednesday. Miss Letitia Currie visited with friends at Salem College this weekend. Miss Jane Leighton Richards, of Flora McDonald College, spent the Thanksgiving vacation with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. C. M. Richards. Mrs. Nelson Mebane and children have returned from a visit with relatives in Radford, Virginia. Many of the Davidson girls who teach in North Carolina high schools spent their vacations in Davidson with their parents. Among them were Misses Daisy Caldwell, Mary Gaffney, Susie Jackson, Susan Moffett, and Sarah Withers. Prof. and Mrs. F. K. Fleagle have returned from a visit to Charleston, South Carolina. Prof. Fleagle attended the sessions of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association.

The Ministerial Band held a meeting on Sunday afternoon at the Social Center. W. J. B. Livingston, president of the band, led the meeting which began with scripture by T. B. Hoover and prayer by T. D. Mullis. Talks on “What Shall I Choose” and “Trust in Christ” were rendered by W. T. Manson and J. S. Brown respectively. R. Bixler led in prayer and Livingston gave a report on the meeting of the State Ministerial Convention which met in High Point on Nov. 10th and 11th. In his report, Livingston mentioned that L. C. Vass of Davidson had been elected Treasurer of the state association. Following this, a report on how the ministerial candidates voted on the question, “I am a ministerial student, in favor of modern dancing.” Nineteen of the votes were against dancing, seven were for it.

Rev. J. H. Stone, of Jefferson, North Carolina, will speak at the Y.M.C.A. Vespers next Sunday, December 9. Mr. Stone will bring a special message about his work in the mountains of western North Carolina. It is to Mr. Stone's work in Ashe County that this year's Davidson's Christmas Fund is to go. Mr. Stone is a graduate of Davidson, class of 1918, and of Union Theological Seminary.

The next issue of the Yowl will appear by December 17 or 18. All material will be turned in to the printers within the next day or so. Lorenzo McPhail, editor of the magazine, states that “the jokes will be on a much milder scale” and that “the poems turned in have been of much lighter vein than in previous issues.” The cover for the Christmas issue is being drawn by Hal Overton. Other art workers are Collier Ellis, S. S. Ryburn, and M. M. Calloway.

The YMCA Ping-Pong tournament has progressed to the semi-finals, with four contestants remaining. The only game of the quarter-finals saw Martin Barnett defeat White in a close match. All quarter-final matches must be completed by Wednesday night.

On Monday, December 3, at the drill period, the names of six men were read out by Capt.-Adjutant Jim Batte, to be honored by a bid to the Scabbard and Blade fraternity. Each of the six men is a senior and, of course, a commissioned officer in the battalion. The list consisted of the following: John Douglas, Gordon Green, Charles Harris, Ben Rose, Bob Smith, and Hugh Yelverton. At the time this paper went to press, plans for the initiation were not complete, but Charlie Fort, president of the Scabbard and Blade, gave a brief outline for the initiation.

Preparations for the Christmas Vespers give promise of a most impressive service, which will, as has already been announced, be broadcast in its entirety. The YMCA Ping-Pong tournament is rapidly drawing to a close. The final round matches: Bell, Barnett, Cathey, Coit, Hill, Morrow, Robinson, and White.

Kennedy's Shoe Shop offers skilled workmanship at reasonable prices. Treat yourself to a Fountain Special any day at the College Pharmacy. Johnson’s Barber Shop provides the best possible material and service.