Davidsonian DEBATING TEAM STUDENT ELECTIONS LEAVES ON WILL BEGIN WESTERN TRIP NEXT WEEK Glenda Lux Abi Orta Libertas Vol. XXI
No. 20 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 7, 1934 College Orchestra Merits State-Wide Praise For Ability Band to Give
Concert Thursday Night in Chambers Auditorium PFOHL SUCCESSFUL Collection Will Be Taken to Secure Uniforms. A concert at 8 o’clock
on Thursday night by the Davidson College Band will open its drive to secure uniforms. No admission will be charged,
but a collection after the concert will give Davidson followers a chance to contribute. Starting in September, the college band
played at all home games and at two off-campus games. Other activities of the band were their concerts over Station
WBT in Charlotte and a concert at Barium Springs. Letters were received from all over the South commenting on the
band’s activities. Several North and South Carolina newspapers have carried articles on the band’s performances at the games, and J.
C. Harper, director of the famous Lenoir Band, stated that “the Davidson band has come from one of the worst
college bands in the state to one of the best in the South.” But along with the praises received by
the band were inquiries concerning “the soldier suits,” “the poorly dressed band,” and similar phrases. The band has practiced three
times a week regularly throughout the past five months and is now working overtime to polish up the performance. The
program for the night is termed by Pfohl as “one which any college band would be proud to render.” It
includes the difficult Overture to Stradella, by Flotow, “The Atlantis Suite,” by Safranek, and “Romance,” (Continued on page 2) Students’
Aid Asked In Securing New Men Prospects for Next Year Are Unusually Good During the latter part of last week,
blanks were distributed throughout the dormitories for the purpose of ascertaining the names of prospective students. This plan was followed
last year and the results obtained were very satisfactory, according to a report from the registrar’s office. More students are
obtained through this method of advertisement than any other way. Special notice should be taken by the students in filling
out and returning these cards. January bulletins “On Choosing Your College” were sent to approximately twenty thousand high schools throughout
the South from the college advertisement headquarters of Davidson. Davidson bulletins were also sent to all the leading preparatory schools.
Registrar F. W. Hengeveld stated that “the number of students accepted by the college for the coming year is about
the same as were accepted at this time last year. The prospects for next year are unusually good.” Davidson advertisements
are being carried in several leading church periodicals and magazines throughout the South. Dr. Walter L. Lingle has active charge
of all the advertising. Mr. Hengeveld will make an extensive tour of the high schools in this state the latter
part of this month for the purpose of talking with prospective students. Emory Glee Club Sings In Charlotte Tuesday The
Emory Glee Club of Atlanta, Ga., sang in the auditorium of Queens-Chicora College in Charlotte on Tuesday night, February 27.
The glee club sang several classical numbers and numerous negro spirituals. The selections, especially the spirituals, were greatly appreciated by
the large audience. In the opinion of Mr. James C. Pfohl, director of music at Davidson College, this glee club
is one of the finest in the country. Mr. Pfohl was impressed by the fact that this glee club rehearses
five times a week before singing their weekly program in one of the churches in Atlanta. Student Elections Will Be
Held Soon Freshmen Receive No Vote in Balloting March 13 Julian West, president of the Student Body, announced here today
that the student elections will take place next week, starting Tuesday, March 13. Nominations for the president of the Student
Body will come first from the Student Council, and then from the floor. Following the election of the president of
the Student Body, the following elections will take place: President of the Y. M. C. A., president of the Athletic
Association, and editor of The Davidsonian. In accordance with the amendment to the constitution made last year, freshmen will not
be allowed to vote in the elections. Masquers To Give “Candida” Tuesday Bernard Shaw’s Famous Play Is Club’s First Tuesday,
March 13, has been decided upon to be the date of the Red and Black Masquers’ presentation of George Bernard
Shaw's “Candida.” On that date, one performance will be given at 8 o'clock in the evening. Rehearsals have been held
for the past three weeks under the direction of G. R. Wood and under the supervision of Prof. E. J.
Erwin. This week’s rehearsals will be upon the play as a whole, instead of single acts, as formerly. The dress
rehearsals will be held Monday night. The cast is led by Mrs. W. P. Cumming as Candida; D. W. Hollingsworth
acts as Morell, her husband; W. F. Goodykoontz, Marchbanks, the “weakling,” who thinks himself in love with her; N. H.
Wauda, Burgess, Candida’s comic, cockney father; Miss Orrie Steele, Proserpine Garnett, and J. H. Simpson, Mr. Mill, the curate. None
of the cast is without considerable experience in acting, either with the Masquers or with other companies. A. S. Rachal,
stage manager, states that all of the stage properties have been completed, and that the old ones have been rebuilt,
and that several additions to the Masquers’ sets have been made in the past few weeks. Rachal is assisted in
that work by Reid Grantham, D. F. Herring and W. M. Taylor. “Candida” is one of Shaw’s best-known plays today,
although when it was written in 1894, the author was unable to find a publisher for it until several years
later. First produced in Germany, “Candida” created a stir wherever it was given in the “Gay '90's.” Since its first
appearance, the play has had long runs in New York, Boston, Cleveland, London, Edinburgh, Berlin, and Quebec. Riflemen Win Three
Out of Seven Meets Correspondence Matches Held With Many Colleges The Davidson College rifle team won three out of seven
matches, the week ending March 24, but as yet the results from the matches last week have not been heard.
The rifle team holds correspondence matches each week with other colleges and universities scattered throughout the United States. The Davidson
team won from Washington and Lee, Kemper Military School, and the University of Michigan, but lost to Georgetown University, Alabama
Polytechnic Institute, and North Dakota Agricultural College. The match with Montana State College has not yet been heard from. The
five high men were, in order, D. P. Johnson, S. L. Jetton, G. S. Green, C. B. Ross, and T.
S. Thompson. This week there are matches with Presbyterian College, New York Stock Exchange, Cornell University, and Lafayette College. A
return shoulder to shoulder match is trying to be arranged with State College there, either March 13 or 15. Davidson
Debating Team Represented In Western States Stutts and Smith Left Saturday on Trip to Tennessee and Kentucky The Davidson debating
team left Saturday on its Western trip. Albert C. Stutts and Robert H. Smith uphold the affirmative side throughout the
tour on the subject, “Resolved: That the powers of the president of the United States of America should be substantially
increased as a settled policy.” They debated March 5 with the University of the South, Sewanee, Tenn., and then with
the University of Kentucky, Lexington, on March 7. Davidson was represented by Gordon H. Brown and Rawling Pratt-Thomas on its
Southern tour. They debated over the radio with the University of Georgia. Then at Coral Gables, Florida, they debated the
University of Miami on an open-air platform. There was no decision on this tour, but on February 27 they won
an audience decision against the University of Charleston, at Charleston, South Carolina. Another trip will be taken by J. H.
Fitzgerald and E. J. Humphrey through Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey. Although no decisions were given on the Southern
trip, the coaches of each team that was debated conceded that the Davidson men had the best arguments. Many Davidson
men heard the debates broadcast from Miami and the University of Georgia. Freshmen Talk of Future On Campus Powell, Jackson
and Williams Are Speakers at Smoker The freshmen met in their first get-together at a smoker Friday night when they
discussed plans whereby the class of '37 could make a name for itself at Davidson. The meeting was called by
the freshman adviser, E. L. Powell, and speakers for the occasion were F. L. Jackson and Dean J. P. Williams.
The abolition of theft was emphasized by Jackson as a goal toward which the class could work. He related numerous
incidents of theft that he had seen during his administration and pointed out that the criminal was nearly always detected
and that there was no second chance for a thief at Davidson. He told several stories where remorse of conscience
had led students to confession of crime many years after graduation. “If the class of '37 could individually bear down
on personal honesty,” stated Jackson, “and collectively fight theft, it would add much to Davidson.” Dean Williams presented two plans
for consideration by the freshmen. The first was a “privilege plan” which involved the consideration of absence cuts, student government
and the question of freshmen wearing caps and carrying laundry. The second plan, a “progress plan,” was one by which
the class could take steps toward building a social center, for activities, or for a swimming pool. Powell first presented
two definite ideas that the freshmen could combine in their plans and then listed four (Continued on page 2) Initiations
Completed By Social Fraternities Five juniors, six sophomores, and 84 freshmen were initiated by nine social fraternities during their initiation
season, which lasted from February 14 through March 7. One fraternity, Theta Upsilon Omega, has not as yet made definite
plans for an initiation of pledges. Sigma Phi Epsilon conducted its formal ceremonies this afternoon. A list of initiates is
as follows: Juniors, Robert Langdon Orr, Byhalia Miss.; freshmen, Joe W. Bailey, Murphy; William A. Broadway, Shelby; James T. Morton,
Bullock; Orson G. Swindle, Camilla, Ga.; William B. Swope, Welch, W. Va.; Lee C. Taylor, Oxford; E. D. Turner, Gainesville,
Fla.; W.Buford Young, Elkhorn, W. Va.

Founders Day To Be Observed Here Thursday, April 12

Special Program Planned for the Observance of 97th Anniversary

A special program has been planned for Thursday, April 12, as an observance of Founders’ Day at Davidson. This day
was set aside by the Board of Trustees at their recent meeting. The observance this year will mark Davidson's 97th
anniversary and will be held in anticipation of the centennial celebration in 1937. These Founders’ Day exercises will be held
each year until that date.

The program this year will include an outstanding speaker of the alumni, who has not yet been decided on, and
a special musical concert during the chapel hour. Classes will not be held after chapel on that day. A radio
program will be given on the night of the 12th with an address by Dr. Lingle, a talk by the
speaker, and a band concert. All the Davidson alumni chapters are planning to hold meetings on that night and speakers
from the faculty will be sent to all nearby chapters.

Plans for a special centennial project of building and an improvement arranged by the trustees will be announced on this
date.

President Resigns Lenoir-Rhyne Post

Action Follows Controversy Over Athletics

Dr. H. B. Schaeffer, president of Lenoir-Rhyne College since 1926, has definitely tendered his resignation to the Board of Trustees
of Lenoir-Rhyne, it was learned here Wednesday, February 28. This action came after the trustees refused to abolish the athletic
program as at present constituted. Dr. Schaeffer, it was explained, did not wish to do away with athletics entirely, but
under his plan, the present system of intercollegiate football now in vogue at the college would have been eliminated.

The resignation has been accepted by J. A. Moretz of Hickory, chairman of the college board. Mr. Moretz, in a
statement, said that the request of Dr. Schaeffer to be released cannot, of course, be formally acted upon by the
trustees until their regular meeting, which will be held in May. He expressed the view, however, that the wishes of
Dr. Schaeffer should be respected, and since he feels that it is not feasible for him to continue on as
head of the institution, the board will have no other alternative but to comply.

Dr. Schaeffer had formally placed his resignation on file with the board at its meeting February 8, but the trustees
had rejected it at that time. Dr. Schaeffer will remain in office until July 1. The demand of Dr. Schaeffer
to have his resignation accepted followed one of the most important meetings of the Board of Trustees of Lenoir-Rhyne College
in many years. The meeting, which was set for the (Continued on page 6)

Lenoir High Band Will Present Concert Here

The famous Lenoir High School Band will appear in a concert here in Chambers Auditorium on the evening of March
15. The band is directed by James C. Harper, an alumnus and supporter of Davidson. The band is credited with
being one of the best bands in the state, having tied for first place in the class A music contests
last year. Harper has shown much interest in Davidson as an alumnus and he donated the Harper Inter-Fraternity Scholastic Cup
which has stimulated fraternity interest for the past years. He is also a member of the Board of Trustees and
acted as guest-director for the Davidson band at its recent concert.

WEST VIRGINIANS MEET

Students from West Virginia are asked to meet in the Y Social Center tonight at 8 o'clock.

Seniors To Order Graduation Gowns

Measurements Are to Be Taken Throughout the Week

The measurements for the caps and gowns of the seniors will be taken throughout this week, John A. Hunter, chairman
of the caps and gowns committee, announced. The members of the committee will visit the rooms in order to take
the measurements. This year the gowns will be sent individually packed, bearing each senior’s name. Chairman Hunter urges the graduating
members to be sure to be measured this week in order that the order may be made immediately. The caps
and gowns will be secured from the C. E. Ward Company, New London, Ohio.

Davidson Students Attend Convention

Two Men Elected Officers at Volunteer Union

The Twenty-third Annual Missions Conference of the North Carolina Student Volunteer Union was held in Winston-Salem March 2-4, with Francis
Scott of Davidson, retiring president, in charge. The theme of the conference was “Christ in the World Today.” Developing this
central topic in a series of addresses were Dr. C. Darby Fulton, Executive Secretary of the Foreign Missions Board of
the Presbyterian Church; Dr. P. H. Gwynn, of the Davidson College Sociology Department; the Rev. A. B. Dipeolu, native-born West
African, now working towards his Ph.D. degree in Columbia, and Mr. J. W. Clay, former missionary to Brazil. The conference
closed with a banquet Saturday evening and a final address by Dr. Fulton at the regular service Sunday morning at
the Brown Memorial Church.

About a dozen colleges and universities over the state were represented at the conference. Delegates were entertained at the homes
of interested families in the city. The retiring council selected the following members to serve for the coming year: Dorothy
Clay, Greensboro College, president; Charles Foggie, Livingston College, vice-president; Katie Sue Taylor, Greensboro College, secretary; Evelyn Caudle, A. S. T.
C., treasurer; Robert Woodside, of Davidson College, out-of-college secretary; John McMullen, Davidson College, editor of the “Spotlight and Reflector,” and
Juanita Walker, Winston-Salem, librarian.

The delegates from Davidson were William Bell, Frank Brown, Robert Coit, Audley Gammon, John McMullen, Rufus Morrow, Hervey Ross, Francis
Scott, Kenneth Scott, Robert Woodside, and Sam Wiley, “Y” secretary. The Davidson group won the distinction of having sent out
more deputations than any other to neighboring churches and schools, largely as a result of the efforts of Robert Woodside,
deputation secretary for the local group.

Juniors Plan Unique Feature For Dances

Partial Masquerade to Be Held at First Dance

According to the president of the Junior class, K. D. Weeks, the first of the Junior Speaking dances will be
in the form of a partial masquerade. Last year this class in presenting its part in the social functions of
the college exercised a touch of originality by staging a cabaret affair in the school gymnasium, and again we see
the third-year men introducing something new into Davidson dances, with the masquerade idea. Eye masks will be given the dancers
as they enter the hall, and they are to be worn until intermission, when everyone shall remove his disguise. There
will be a host of balloons dropped from the ceiling during the rest period, which should add to the color
of the occasion.

This set of dances will be held in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium Friday and Saturday, March 23 and 24, with Johnny
Long and his Duke Collegians furnishing the music.

Dr. T. H. Sparrow Gives Lecture To Pre-Med Students

Prominent Charlotte Physician Talks to Students on Medical Field

TALK GIVEN FRIDAY

Answers Questions Handed in by Attending Students

The first of a series of vocational guidance lectures was delivered in Phi Hall last Friday night by Dr. Thomas
H. Sparrow, of Charlotte. Dr. Sparrow, a well-known physician and a graduate of Davidson College, chose as his subject for
the lecture “The Vocation of Medicine.” A large crowd of prospective medical students and others interested in that particular field
attended. These lectures, which are being sponsored by the “Y,” have been very beneficial in the past to men undecided
in their life work, and are a great help to those who wish to become more familiar with their prospective
occupations.

In Friday night’s address, Dr. Sparrow chose questions which are most likely to confront the medical student in his preparation
for a career in medicine. As an introduction to these questions, he pointed out that the study of medicine is
arduous, but it is wonderful in its accomplishment and its varied interest. “If you can but forget its rewards,” he
said, “in the worry over whether you are doing what is expected of you and what is best, and strive
to do it, rewards will come until you wonder whether you deserve them.” (Continued on page 6)

Local French Circle Has Recent Meeting

Make Plans for Joint Program With Salem

Members of Le Cercle Francais, Davidson honorary French fraternity, were entertained at their regular monthly meeting last Wednesday night, by
a program which took place at the Phi Gamma Delta house. The meeting was opened by the president, Lanier Pratt,
who directed the business session at the first period of the program. At this time the report of the committee
on the drawing up of the new constitution was heard. The society also voted to fill their usual two pages
in the Annual. A discussion was formulated during the session of the joint meeting to be held with the Salem
College “Alliance Francais” at a date later in March. At that time the local organization will present the two new
plays which it has been preparing for the occasion.

At the end of the business period a varied entertainment was offered, including the reading of two papers, on Montaigne,
whose birthday was celebrated Wednesday, and Lamartine, whose death anniversary was commemorated on the same day. Another feature of the
program was the presentation of one of the plays now being practiced by the club. After playing several French games,
the Cercle was served delicious refreshments prepared by Mrs. Watts and Mrs. Goldiere, and the group adjourned.

At the next meeting of the club, it is probable that a French lecture will be given by a visiting
French native. This meeting will be open to all students interested in French.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Holds Regular Meeting

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national chemistry fraternity, held a meeting Monday night, March 5, at which a program of several talks
was given. Ben Moore talked about certain researches being made in the field of atomic physics. Sam Nickey also addressed
the meeting on a subject related to chemistry. The remainder of the meeting was taken over in a discussion of
business which was then before the fraternity. The prospect of a mineral exhibit to be held at the college was
discussed. Several comments were made about the proposed adoption of the metric system in the United States.
