SOCIAL FRATERNITIES BEGIN ANNUAL INITIATIONS

Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

The Davidsonian

DR. MACARTNEY CONCLUDES OTTS LECTURES

Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 21, 1934 No. 18

Large Number of Men Initiated By Davidson Social Fraternities

Five Greek Letter Societies Have Completed Formal Initiations

SOME HAVE BANQUETS Others Plan to Complete Ceremonies Soon

The season for the formal initiations of the social fraternities at Davidson was opened the latter part of last week
and will continue through the first few days of April. Kappa Alpha held its initiation last Wednesday and Thursday, the
14th and 15th. After the regular initiation, a model initiation was held for the benefit of the faculty, Worth Sprunt,
Wilmington, president of the pledge group, being the honored initiate. The initiation was followed by a feed. The other initiates
are as follows:

Sophomores: Charles L. Okey, Charlotte. Freshmen: John G. Anderson, Tampa, Fla.; Philip R. Cook, Pasadena, Calif.; J. C. Crowell, Charlotte;
C. Banks Gladden, Chester, S. C.; Charles W. Mauze, Kansas City, Kan.; John H. Sadler, Paw Creek; Marshall Sanford, Mocksville,
and Robert M. Vance, Clinton, S. C.

Pi Kappa Phi held its initiation on Thursday night, February 15. The initiates are as follows:

Juniors: Heath B. Howie, Monroe. Freshmen: Daniel G. Cassells, Pulaski, Va.; Thomas G. Corbin, Fremont; Dunlap Covington, Wadesboro; William M.
Deyerle, Bluefield, W. Va.; Daniel P. Franklin, Roanoke, Va.; William M. Horne, Wilson; Harry E. Parker, Sumter, S. C.; Van
D. Patterson, Charlotte; Robert T. Peters, Jr., Bluefield, W. Va.; Fred E. Renfrow, Sumter, S. C.; Charles W. Shuff, III,
Greenville; and William A. Stuckey, Sumter, S. C.

Phi Gamma Delta held its formal initiation Saturday afternoon, February 17, in the Dome Room of Chambers. It was followed
by a formal banquet, the annual Norris Pig Dinner, at the S & W Cafeteria in Charlotte Saturday night. Two
rings were presented at the banquet for the pledge showing the best scholarship and the pledge most active in extra-curricular
activities. They were won by Russell H. Patterson, Trenton, Tenn., and A. Tyler Port, Winston-Salem, respectively. The other initiates were
as follows:

Juniors: William T. Hall, Belmont; (Continued on page 5)

N. C. State Riflemen Beat Davidson Team

Several Matches Planned for Near Future

With the selection of a school rifle team, the Davidson sharpshooters have gotten underway with their 1934 intercollegiate matches. A
shooting match with the riflemen from N. C. State College was held in the Davidson armory last Wednesday, the visitors
copping the top score with a total of 885 points. Davidson was 43 points behind, with an aggregate score of
842 points. B. O. Simpson, a junior, led the scoring in this match with a total of 183 points; Whitley
of N. C. State was close behind with a total of 182. Four positions were used in the contest: prone,
kneeling, sitting, and standing. This meet was the first actual shooting contest held by the college team this year, although
several correspondence matches have been held. Members of the team are now shooting the Fourth Corps Area match. The membership
of the rifle team was decided early last week by an elimination shooting contest, in which D. P. Johnson was
high scorer. Others among the first ten in the order of their scoring were: F. H. Scott, G. L. Green,
J. D. McLean, E. T. McConnell, B. O. Simpson, W. C. Link, S. L. Jetton, T. G. Corbin, and J.
W. Bailey. It has been announced by the team manager, Gordon L. Green, that Captain Seifert will donate a suitable
prize to the winner of the elimination contest. Several matches are planned for the near future. Tentative arrangements call for
a match with the Gastonia Rifle Club, and a return contest with the riflemen of N. C. State, according to
Manager Green.

Davidson All-Time Results Announced Only Winner Still Mackorell College

The winners of the All-Time Davidson football team poll recently sponsored by Wade Ison, sports editor of the Charlotte News,
were announced in the sports section of the Sunday Charlotte News. Johnny Mackorell, captain-elect of the 1934 Wildcat team and
unanimous All-State choice last fall, received more votes than any other player. He is the only man elected to this
honor who attends Davidson College at the present time. The others honored in this ballot may be found on page
four.

Fall Term Honor Roll Is Announced

Thirty-two Davidson Students Attain Necessary Average

Thirty-two Davidson students made the honor roll for the first semester, with averages of A or better. The list included
fourteen seniors, eight juniors, three sophomores, and six freshmen. According to the new system of grading, the maximum average was
set at 3.5; 3.5 is now equivalent to an A plus; 3 to an A; 2.5 to a B plus;
and 2 to a B. Only two students made the maximum average. They were J. A. McGeachy, a senior, and
J. W. Hassell, Jr., a sophomore. The following is a list of students with averages of A or better for
the first semester:

Seniors: J. A. McGeachy, of Fayetteville, 3.500; W. A. Parker, of Mt. Mourne, 3.388; S. M. Hines, of Warsaw, 3.342;
W. M. Thompson, of Richmond, Va., 3.285; R. C. Morrow, of Zitacuaro, Mexico, 3.218; B. L. Moore, of Pendleton, S.
C., 3.173; F. H. Scott, of Tsinanfu, China, 3.136; J. W. White, of Graham, 3.119; A. F. Schenck, of Charlotte,
3.083; W. T. Thompson, of Richmond, Va., 3.078; J. E. Dill, of Buchanan, Va., 3.026; Odi Casali, of Welch, W.
Va., 3.000; W. M. Hart, of Charlotte, 3.000; E. J. Humphrey, of Wilmington, 3.000.

Juniors: W. M. Bogart, of Charlotte, 3.333; R. T. Coit, of Richmond, Va., 3.282; J. M. Douglas, of Davidson, 3.276;
J. H. Powell, of Navasota, Texas, 3.142; A. B. Rhodes, of Rocky Point, 3.071; G. R. Wood, of South Charleston,
S.C., 3.071; W. C. Neill, of Hol- (Continued on page 5)

Funds Now Available For Part-Time Work

Purpose Is to Render Students Financial Aid

Some of the funds of the Federal Emergency Relief Administration (FERA) have been made available for the part-time employment of
college students, according to an announcement made by Mr. F. L. Jackson, school treasurer, in chapel last Saturday morning. The
purpose of this fund is to enable certain students to go to college who would otherwise be unable to enter,
as well as to keep other students in college who, without financial help of this kind, would be forced to
withdraw. Not more than 75 percent of the total of the funds allotted to an institution shall be paid to
students who were regularly enrolled during the fall semester. The pay is to be the same as is ordinarily paid
in the locality for work of the type done. The minimum rate per hour is thirty cents. Some of the
jobs that have been proposed for Davidson students are: addressing, bulleting, or other clerical work, polishing furniture, washing windows, caring
for the golf greens, and raking leaves on the campus. Only three new men are working here, so it is
understood that only about nine of the men who were in college last semester will be able to get jobs.
Approximately twenty men have applied for work.

Juniors Announce Plans For Annual Class Festivities

“Junior Speaking” Will Feature Music of Johnny Long and His Orchestra

DATE IS MARCH 23-24 Special Added Attractions Are Planned for Affair

Each year in the early spring the Junior class sponsors a week-end of social functions which is known as “Junior
Speaking.” This name was given to the week-end some years back when members of the Junior class delivered orations which
lasted over a period of days. Parents and friends were invited to attend the “Speaking,” and it was looked forward
to as one of the most outstanding social functions on the campus each year. However, as times changed and the
classes grew larger, the custom was abandoned and a different form of entertainment put in its place. At a class
smoker last Wednesday night, headed by President K. D. Weeks, the Junior class discussed and decided on definite plans for
Junior Speaking this year. March 23 and 24 was decided upon as the date of the week-end. This is the
last week-end before the spring holidays, which begin on Thursday, March 29. There will be a set of three dances,
which will be given in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium. The first of these dances will be held on Friday night and
will be formal. The next two will be held Saturday afternoon and evening and will be informal. (Continued on page
5)

French Groups To Stage Three Plays

Local Society Will Combine With Salem Organization

Members of Le Cercle Francais, honorary French society, are rehearsing two new plays to be given in Chambers Auditorium early
in March. These will be given in conjunction with members of the Salem College French Club, who will present a
one-act play. As a curtain raiser, the Davidson group will present the modern farce by Forest, “Service d’Ami.” A young
doctor is called out of Paris by urgent business and at length persuades his friend, a young lawyer with whom
he shares his office, to replace him for the afternoon office hours. He assures him that he has no patients
whose cases require medical knowledge, and that the chances are that no one will come because of the bad weather.
But two patients do come, and the lawyer-doctor has his troubles in getting rid of them. Suddenly, amid noise and
confusion, it is announced that a lady has been run over by an automobile and is being brought to the
office. At this, the lawyer faints, but luckily the doctor returns, having missed his train. Bill Hart plays the part
of the doctor; Bob Coit, the lawyer; Fred Slaughter and Harvey Glass, the two patients, and Jack Williams, the servant.
The Salem girls will present the modern comedy of manners, Brieux’s “L’Ecole des Belles-Meres.” The popular comedy by Labiche, “La
Lettre Chargee,” will conclude the evening’s performances. This play has long been a favorite, and is a good example of
nineteenth-century comedy. Lanier Pratt will have the leading role, supported by Madison Armistead as the heroine, Dave McClain, and Ben
Wyche. Lanier Pratt, as a wealthy American, will become deranged, in the play, when he hears of the death of
his wife. Seeing a resemblance to his wife in Hortense (Madison Armis-tead), he insists upon her marrying him. She is
also sought after by Hector, whose chief weakness is the use of long adverbs. When the American receives Hortense’s refusal,
he tries to hang himself. Just then, however, he learns that his wife is not dead; thereupon, he rushes to
tell Hortense that if he ever does become a widower, he will come back for her. Dr. G. B. Watts
is coaching “Service d’Ami” and Prof. A. V. Goldiere, “La Lettre Chargée.”

Trustees Convene For Discussion On Committee Report
Davidson Concert Band Entertains Board Today at Chapel

MEET SEMI-ANNUALLY
Twelve Trustees Elected by the Alumni Association

The Trustees of Davidson College met today in their semi-annual gathering for the purpose of discussing such material as was
prepared at the meeting of the Executive Committee yesterday in Charlotte, and for the hearing of reports delivered by Dr.
Walter L. Lingle, president, and Mr. Frank L. Jackson, treasurer. The Davidson Concert Band entertained the members of the board
at the chapel hour Wednesday, presenting on its program “Hall of Fame,” by Olivadoti, “Selections from Pinafore,” by Gilbert and
Sullivan, and “Stradella,” by Verdi. Morton Cunningham rendered as a cornet solo, “Jupiter,” by Goldman.

There are forty-nine trustees of Davidson College, thirty-three being elected by the Presbyteries of North Carolina, four by the Presbyteries
of Florida, and twelve by the Alumni Association, each serving a term of four years. Ten members of the board
compose the Executive Committee, which holds the power of the trustees between meetings. Officers of the trustees are: Dr. R.
A. Dunn, Charlotte, president; Mr. H. S. Richardson, New York, vice-president; Mr. S. A. Robinson, Gastonia, secretary, and Mr. I.
L. Jackson, Davidson, treasurer.

Southern Debating Schedule Is Begun
Brown and Pratt-Thomas Leave for Georgia

A telegram from Rawling Pratt-Thomas and Gordon Brown reported that in the Davidson-Georgia debate in Athens Monday night there was
no decision, since decision debates are not their policy. The Georgia coach admitted, however, that the Davidson argument was not
torn down by his team. Whittle and Magruder were the Davidson opponents.

One of the Davidson College debating teams, composed of Gordon H. Brown and Rawling Pratt-Thomas, left Monday on a tour
of southern colleges and universities. Their first debate was with the University of Georgia in Athens on Monday night, February
19. Tonight they meet the University of Florida in Gainesville. This debate will probably be broadcast over the radio, but
the hour has not yet been announced. The third debate will be with the University of Miami on Friday, February
23. The final debate will be with the College of Charleston on the 26th. The debaters plan to return on
the 28th. They are representing the negative side of the question, “Resolved that the Powers of the President of the
United States Should be Substantially Increased as a Settled Policy.” Debaters representing the affirmative side of the question will leave
on the western trip on March 4. The northern team, representing the negative, will leave on March 14.

Historic Places Visited By Dr. C. E. Macartney

Dr. C. E. Macartney, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Pittsburgh, Pa., during his stay at Davidson took great
interest in visiting old churches and cemeteries within reach of Davidson. He visited Prospect Church where the Presbytery passed the
resolution in 1835 towards the founding of Davidson College. He was particularly interested in the colorful history of Davidson College
and the mysterious Peter Stuart Ney, whom tradition states to be Marshall Ney, the great general of Napoleon.

(Continued on page 5)

Davidson Enters Nation-Wide Meet
Paper Is Member of Press Association

The “Davidsonian” has again entered the National Intercollegiate Press contest sponsored annually by the National Scholastic Press Association. The “Davidsonian”
is a member of the Association, along with nearly two hundred other college newspapers in the United States. Last year
the “Davidsonian” was given a second class rating in the contest. The papers are judged upon the entire written content,
including the choice of typefaces and variety of headlines and the general make-up.

MacConnell Tells Of Dead Monarch
College Physician Describes Battlefields After War

Dr. John W. MacConnell was presented to the late King Albert of Belgium in 1919 after the Armistice. When asked
about the interview, Dr. MacConnell replied: “I was in Brussels on the way to the Belgian battlefields when King Albert
visited the Canadian Y. M. C. A. headquarters. Being the ranking American officer present, those in charge asked if I
desired to meet the King and, of course, I was glad to do so.

“He was a magnificent specimen physically, about six feet two inches tall, and decidedly blonde, resembling a Dane. He was
dressed in a field marshal’s uniform, khaki in color, and puttees. His English was perfect and when I spoke of
the admiration which Americans had for him, he replied that he was deeply grateful for our aid both on the
battlefield and in relief work.

“On this same trip to the front, I visited Kemmel Hill and other bloody battlefields. The dead, German, French, and
English, were still lying unburied over the field, though it was five months after the Armistice. Strange to say, the
bodies were being collected by Chinese coolies from Hong Kong under a Welsh officer, showing that it was indeed a
world war.”

King Albert was very near-sighted and wore thick glasses. His defective eyesight may have contributed to the fatal fall down
the mountain.

Registrar Releases Senior Class Grades
Forty-seven Seniors Average 85 or Better

By a recent announcement from the registrar’s office, the men listed below have made an average of 85 or above
for their first three years in college and have automatically made the Dean's list, which entitles them to absence privileges
for the rest of the year. This privilege allows a doubled number of absences per semester to these men. The
men making the Dean’s list are: J. A. McGeachy, of Fayetteville; W. M. Thompson, and W. T. Thompson, Richmond, Va.;
J. E. Dill, Buchanan, Va.; Odi Casali, Welch, W. Va.; R. C. Morrow, Zitacuaro, Mexico; J. T. Blair, Albemarle; A.
F. Schenck, Charlotte; F. H. Scott, Tsinanfu, China; S. N. Hines, Warsaw. E. J. Humphrey, Wilmington; S. C. Henry, Concord;
J. W. White, Graham; F. P. Harrison, Mt. Ulla; W. A. Parker, Mount Mourne; B. B. Fort, Barium Springs; L.
W. Pratt, Louisville, Ky.; R. T. Banks, Charlotte; D. K. Spencer, Grassy Creek; W. M. Brown, Knoxville, Tenn.; W. M.
Hart, Charlotte; H. H. Fitzgerald, Crewe, Va.; H. A. Wilson, Lake City, Fla.; E. W. Morrison, Luray, Va.; L. W.
Clardy, Talladega, Ala. J. A. Halverstadt, Atlanta, Ga.; W. L. Fugate, Radford, Va.; E. N. Jenkins, Davidson; W. B. Corbin,
Fremont; E. L. Powell, Mobile, Ala.; B. (Continued on page 5)

Dr. Clarence Edward Macartney Closes Four-Day Lecture Period
General Theme Is Christian Faith and Spirit of the Age

WELL-KNOWN SPEAKER
Lecturer Speaks Under Sponsorship of Otts Foundation

Dr. Clarence Edward Macartney, opening his series of lectures at Davidson Tuesday, told students that now was the time that
they needed the Bible and Christian faith more than any other period in their lives. Dr. Macartney, who is pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church of Pittsburgh, Pa., spoke to the student body of Davidson under the sponsorship of the
Otts Foundation. This foundation brings distinguished lecturers to the college every few years.

The Otts Foundation was established in 1893, when Rev. J. M. P. Otts, D.D., L.L.D., endowed a foundation at Davidson
College, the income of which is to be used in securing distinguished speakers, from time to time, to deliver at
the college courses of lectures in defense of Christianity against current heresies, especially such as may seem directed at the
foundations of the Christian faith. Since the first lecture in 1893, by Dr. Otts himself, Dr. R. L. Dabney, Dr.
J. B. Shearer, Dr. W. W. Moore, and Dr. B. Harris have spoken at Davidson due to this foundation. These
lectures are published in book form, and are supposed to take place at least once every two years.

Dr. Macartney is a graduate of Princeton University and of Princeton Theological Seminary. From 1914 to 1917 he was pastor
of the Arch Street Presbyterian Church of Philadelphia, Pa., and since that time, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of
Pittsburgh, Pa. Besides being a distinguished clergyman, Dr. Macartney is the author of a dozen books, the majority of which
are upon questions of religion and politics.

The lectures were given at the regular chapel time for four days beginning Tuesday, February 16. Classes were arranged to
lengthen the usual 25-minute period to over an hour. Tuesday's service was opened by an organ prelude, Largo by Dvorak,
played by James C. Pfohl. Dr. C. M. Richards led the assembly in prayer. The speaker was introduced by Dr.
W. L. Lingle, who outlined the history (Continued on page 2)

Barium Springs Day To Be Held March 3
Chapel and Sports Program to Feature Day

March 3 will be known here this year as “Barium Springs Day.” On that date the chapel period is to
be turned over to Mr. J. B. Johnston, superintendent of Barium Springs Orphanage. He will present several groups of “his
children” in various forms of entertainment for Davidson students. That afternoon, Barium Springs Orphanage will declare a holiday, and all
the children will come to Davidson College for an afternoon of entertainments.

Immediately after lunch, Barium Springs will compete with Appalachian State Teachers College in a wrestling meet, in the D. C.
gymnasium. It will be recalled that it was A. S. T. C. who defeated the Duke wrestlers, and that Duke
defeated Davidson in that sport.

After this meet, a short basketball game will be played between the 125-pound Barium Springs team and the Davidson High
quintet. Finally, weather permitting, two picked Davidson College varsity football teams will bring to a close their winter practice with
a short scrimmage before the Barium Springs children. The Davidson College Band will furnish music for the games whenever possible.
If there is sufficient time, a selected group of R. O. T. C. students will give an exhibition of the
manual-of-arms and close-order drill.

An invitation is extended to all alumni and friends of Barium Springs and Davidson College to attend these entertainments.
