THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 14, 1934

New Facts Shown By Dr. W. L. Lingle Concerning Wilson
Pamphlet on War President Has Been Sent Out to Alumni

WILSON NOT SHIPPED
“Tommy” Saved Ball Game in Ninth Frame

The following is an excerpt taken from the editorial section of The New York Times concerning a question that has arisen many times before. The query is whether or not Woodrow Wilson was expelled from Davidson College. The editorial also gives incidents in his life at Davidson disproving statements degrading his character.

“Another development of the present era is a story that Woodrow Wilson was expelled from Davidson College, which he attended for one year from the fall of 1873. Questions about this and the reason for the act, if true, came in to President Walter L. Lingle of Davidson, and he sent a pamphlet out to alumni with some new and very entertaining facts about the war President. One of these pamphlets has just reached this office. Woodrow Wilson was not expelled. Having disposed of that from the records of Davidson, President Lingle took up the oft-told tale that Tommy Wilson, at that college, ‘interspersed his conversation with a good deal of profanity.’ The minutes of the Eumenean Society, revealed by Dr. Lingle, show that Wilson was appointed by the students to lead the devotional exercises at the opening of the society. It would seem to dispose of the legend about unusual profanity.

“But the most interesting thing brought to the surface by Dr. Lingle’s researches is an eye-witness account of a ball game which proves that Wilson was the forerunner of Frank Merriwell, and not a lone, lorn, bespectacled boy, standing on the sidelines without any part in college activities. The account is furnished by ex-Governor Glenn of North Carolina, who was pitcher in that very game, and who is credited by Wilson’s official biographer with the contemporary statement that ‘Tommy Wilson would be a good ball player if he wasn’t so lazy.’ Here it is, slightly abridged:

“Davidson was playing its strongest rival. It was the last half of the ninth inning. The opposing team was up, the score 4 to 3 for Davidson. Two were out; a man was on first and second... I decided to give the batter four bad balls and take my chances with the next batter, who was weak. I threw a ball wide of the plate and the batsman stepped out and hit it fairly. The two men on bases started to run, as did the batter. It looked like a home run. With the crack of the ball Wilson started after it... Just as it got over his head he leaped several feet in the air and the ball hit his hand. It stuck. The game was over and Woodrow Wilson won it. Apparently he wasn't lazy that day.”

CAT CAGERS TROUNCE LENOIR-RHYNE BEARS
(Continued from page 5)

Substitutions—Davidson: Windham; Lenoir-Rhyne: Stetler, Williams.

The Wildcats, unable to stop the two Deacon aces, Joe Mulhern and Hack Malloy, who scored 11 points each, suffered a 36 to 23 trouncing by Wake Forest in a fast basketball game played in Raleigh, February 8. This was the second defeat the Baptists have handed the Presbyterians this season. Trailing at the end of the half 23 to 10, Davidson came to life late in the game but could not overcome the big lead of the Deacons. Featuring the late rally of the Wildcats were Captain Charlie Harris, forward, and Courtney Ross, guard.

The line-up:
Dav. (23) Posi. W. F. (36)
Lafferty (1) R.F. Mulhern (11)
Harris (10) L.F. Forney (6)
Morgan (6) Center Swing (3)
Holland (1) L.G. Malloy (11)
Ross (5) R.G. Clark (2)

Substitutions—Davidson: Bernardo, Johnston, Windham; Wake Forest: Brunt (3), Hatcher, Patton, Pero.

Little Jack Little Is On Air With Orchestra On February 13

Little Jack Little and his orchestra started their first sponsored program. They can be heard every Tuesday evening from 8:00 until 8:15 on the Columbia Broadcasting System. This program is one of the happy baker series. The happy baker trio and Vivian Ruth will continue to broadcast on Monday, Wednesday and Friday at the same time. In each of his programs he will feature a novelty medley of songs of yesterday and his unusual arrangements of dance music. Little is best known as a composer of popular music and a vocalist and pianist. He, before directing the present orchestra, rendered solo selections over the Columbia network.

New Football Rules Favor More Passing

The National Intercollegiate Football Rules Committee changed three rules to make the next fall football games more spectacular. W. S. Lanford, secretary of the committee, after the three-day annual meeting, announced:

1. Elimination of the five-yard penalty for a second, third or fourth illegal or incompleted forward pass.
2. Treating of the first incomplete forward pass over the goal line—except on fourth down—just as though it had become uncompleted in the field of play.
3. Changing of the definition of the punt so as to permit the kicking of the ball from the hands of a teammate.

The new rules give the offensive more power and therefore more touchdowns. The team with the speedy backs, good passers and ends will be exceptionally dangerous this year. The change in the punt definition will bring the quick-kick into more use and effectiveness. The main change this year is in the elimination of the five-yard penalty of the successive incomplete forward passes. The last quarters will probably bring many thrills, upsets, and, of course, a better chance for the losing team to raise its score. The loosening of the defense will, in all probability, bring about more spectacular running plays. All the minor changes in football this year tend to do this. Last year was a bad year for football financially, compared to the six previous years; so the committee has endeavored to draw the public to the games through a more spectacular and thrilling football. The crowds who don’t know football will enjoy and be more attracted by the 1934 football games than the 1933 games. The longer runs and larger scores will be more interesting to them than the straight football skill which is so necessary but unobserved by the novice. The committee also made a number of clarifications and codifications of the rules. They were referred to a committee to make proper wording, which will be decided upon later. The 1934 football rules committee made no radical changes, but compromised on many minor details.

Flaming Five Contest Opened by Jake WadeThe time has again come for all sports fans to send in their ballots with the men they think to be the five most outstanding athletes in North and South Carolina during the year 1933.

MID-WINTER DANCE FEATURES FAMOUS ORCHESTRA
(Continued from page 1)

...ing girls and alumni of the various fraternities. Following is a list of the girls who attended the dances and house parties:

Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Mary Virginia Barnes, Randolph Macon; Nell White, Agnes Scott; Eileen Campbell, Cleveland, Tenn.; Mary Jane Carney, Sweet Briar; Edith Christian, Randolph Macon; Jane Claxton, Aloguine.

This contest is sponsored every winter by the sports department of The Charlotte Observer, of which Jake Wade is editor. Every year since this contest was inaugurated there has been at least one Davidson man’s name present on the list, and last year two Wildcats were selected. One of these, Charlie Pearce, was in school at the time and Bill Goodson, who was the other, saw many good hours of service on Davidson teams not many seasons passed. Johnny Mackorell, outstanding grid star and star baseball performer, is our most probable candidate this time.

FIRING AT RANDOM
(Continued from page 5)

...of fighting, and not with an eye on a purse or prize of some sort. Captain Pritchett is going to stage, some time in the near future, a pugilistic contest among the Davidson students, and it promises to be plenty good, too. Those of you who saw the fights last year remember what they were like, and this time, with many of those who took part in ’33 competing again, the bouts should be more interesting.

Short shots: Congratulations to Miller Cochran for his excellent showing at the West Virginia track meet. Send in your ballots to North Carolina’s Flaming Five. Davidson should have at least one man on it. Which Carolina university team is going to win the Southern Conference cage title? We like the boys from the Palmetto State.

Lura Maude Edwards, Charleston, Tenn.; Chloe Frierson, Sweet Briar; Elizabeth Ferguson, Saint Mary’s; Barbara Fulton, Knoxville, Tenn.; T. Fonde, Mobile, Ala.; Morgan Hozen, Knoxville, Tenn.; Sarah Hopkins, Atlanta, Ga.; Margaret Kirk, Sweet Briar; Betty Kenna, Columbia, S. C.; Wilhelmina Monroe, New York, N. Y.; Midge Parmlee, William and Mary; Miriam Steele, Belmont; Dorothy Shivell, Atlanta, Ga. and Caroline Wharton, Winston-Salem.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Misses Claiborne Bunch, Columbia, S. C.; Claudianna Evans, Salisbury; Laura Lyon, Washington, D. C.; Gladys Klugh, Spartanburg, S. C.; Martha McManus, Albemarle; Marian McCleaghn, Raleigh; Martha Scott Johnson, Richmond, Va.; Emma Sykes, Richmond, Va.; Elinor Stone, Charlotte; Caroline Stringer, Anderson, S. C.; Frances Stough, Davidson; Mary Wright, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Isabel Wright, Concord, and Ellen White, Kannapolis.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Misses Mary Willis Roddy, Rock Hill, S. C.; Helen Fritts, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Elizabeth Lucas, Greenville, S. C.; Nell Joslin, Raleigh; Detty Johnston, Roanoke, Va.; Louise Jordan, Greenville, S. C.; Margaret McCreight, Atlanta, Ga.; Sara Pierce, Danville, Va.; Estelle Patton, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Jessie Purnell, Charlotte; Louisa Rankin, Fayetteville; Betty Meade Smart, Chattanooga, Tenn., and Ruth Whitton, Charlotte.

“DRUGS” “SUNDRIES”
A Complete Drug Store
“Make Our Store Your Store”
Reliable Prescription Druggists
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
“SODA” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

Pi Kappa Phi: Misses Sarah Gibson, Gibsonville; Corine Ellison, Lancaster, S. C.; Sue Huddleston, Anna Mae Feuchtenberger, Bluefield, W. Va.; Ret Redfern, Monroe; Mary Clare Stokes, Wilson; Jennie Harrison, Greensboro; Marian Cannon, Concord; Frances Callahan, Red Springs; Betty Hickson, Cheraw, S. C.; Lib Ray, Martha Johnston, Caroline Hammond, Charlotte; Betty Smith, Gibsonville; Jane Hardson, Mullins, S. C.; Betty Yeaton, Sumter, S. C., and Mary Lee Feuchtenberger, Ashland, Kentucky.

Beta Theta Pi: Misses Betsy Cooper, Henderson; Louise Tipton, Atlanta, Ga.; Betty Shalett, New London, Conn.; Alice Cowles Barringer, Sarah Mettze, Frances Huges, Jane Wiley, Peggy Townsend, Charlotte; Dorothy Grey DeGrotte, Reidsville; Myra Gapen, Reidsville; Harriet Martin, Greenville, S. C.; Sarah Finger, Pauline Nielsler, Ruth Settlemyre, Jean Ware, Kings Mountain; Rosanne Howard, Florence Dargin, Winthrop College, and Joyce Sayre, Asheville.

Phi Delta Theta: Misses Louise Shull, Nashville, Tenn.; Laura Roy, Louisville, Ky.; Barbara Massey, Atlanta, Ga.; Sue Todd Roy, Louisville, Ky.; Dosty Blackmon, Rock Hill, S. C.; Rosebud Leide, Atlanta, Ga.; Anne O'Keefe, Randolph Macon; Betty Lou Houch, Sarasota, Fla.; Elleen Starr Davis, Gainesville, Ga.; Edith Allen, Talladega, Ala.; Vesta Murray, “Way Way” Lumpkin, Columbia, S. C.; Sally Jordan, Greenville, S. C.; Marjorie Lewis, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Dorothy Shivers, Atlanta, Ga.; Sue Huddleston, Bluefield, W. Va.; Mary Lee Feuchtenberger, Bluefield, W. Va.; Ruth Humphreys, Fernandina, Fla.; Betty Grover, Asheville; Happy Dubose, Columbia, S. C.; Lilia Berkeley, Roanoke, Va.; Sara Hopkins, Atlanta, Ga.; Virginia Gaddie, Durham, and Janet Early, Charlotte.

Kappa Sigma: Misses Nancy Lee Summerell, Greenville; Adelaide Fortune, Beda Carlson, Geraldine Bonkemeyer, Lucy Neal Brooks, Greensboro; Dot Berger, Florence, S. C.; Julia Finley, North Wilkesboro; Bette Lewis, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Elizabeth Hill, Richmond, Va.; Lucy O’Neile, Richmond, Va.; Eleanor Killick, Courtland Preston, Charlotte; Nina Pinton, N. C. C. W.; Mary McBrayer, Charlotte; Evelyn Meisenheimer, Salisbury, and Nancy Means, Spartanburg, S. C.

Kappa Alpha: Misses Katherine Crowell, May D. Marion, Mildred Brown, Eleanor Hayes, Mary Lib Moore, Lydia Stewart, Virginia Pegram, Charlotte; Mary Lib Sanders, Greensboro; Louise Hempstead, Mobile, Ala.; Alice Bartwright, Katherine Alexius, Wilmington; Sara Vondiver, Anderson, S. C.; Jeanne Shephard, Durham; Marty Houston, Houstonia, Pa.; Jane Shelton, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Elizabeth McInnis, Red Springs; Nancy Peterson, Woodbury, N. J., and Evalina Stevenson, Camilla, Ga.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Misses Rinda Gay, Welch, W. Va.; Evelyn Wilson, Boynton, Va.; Gladys Green, Charleston, S. C.; Margaret Peoples, Oxford; Catherine Wade, Dorothy Tarleton, Charlottesville, Va.; Mary Davall, Cheraw, S. C.; Frances Wever, Anderson, S. C.; Tut Gorrell, Margaret Smathers, Greensboro; Nancy Athenson, Tampa, Fla.; Virginia Parsons, Gene Ware, Kings Mountain; Mary Lewis Engles, Lynchburg, Va.; Harriet Moore, Margaret Gillian, and Mary Frances Ehrlick, Charlotte; Margaret McLeod, Darlington, S. C.; Frances McColl, Bennettsville, S. C.; Lib Hill, Tarboro, and Mary Margaret Lee, Ronceverte, W. Va.

STATIONERY
CALLING CARDS
FRATERNITY PAPERS
Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates
PROGRAMS
See BILL JOHNSON
203 Watts @ Garland Court
Standard Printing Company
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

The cigarette that's MILDER
The cigarette that TASTES BETTER

All you need is a light. And all you want is a cigarette that keeps tasting right whether you smoke one or a dozen. That’s what people like about Chesterfields. You can count on them. They’re milder—and they taste better. In two words, they satisfy. That says it.

Chesterfield