THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 21, 1934

FOUNDERS’ DAY APRIL 12

ALUMNI NEWS

EDITOR—GRIER MARTIN
ASSISTANT—JACK HELLINGER

DR. GEER TO SPEAK ON FOUNDER

Furman President Accepts Invitation To Speak Here

Dr. Ben E. Geer, president of Furman University, has accepted an invitation to make the principal address at the first
Davidson Founders’ Day program, which will be held here on April 12th. Dr. Geer was elected president of Furman last
summer and has proved himself one of the outstanding educators in the South. Since his election to the presidency of
the Baptist institution, he has served on several boards and committees of the NRA.

The address of Dr. Geer will take place at the chapel exercises on Thursday morning, April 12. The chapel hour
will be moved from 10:15 to 11:00 o’clock, and a holiday will be granted to the student body after the
chapel period. Another feature of the program will be the baseball game between Duke University and the Davidson Wildcats, which
will be played that afternoon on Richardson Field. The game was originally scheduled for April 13, but the Duke authorities
agreed to change the date of the game so that it could be a part of the celebration of Davidson’s
ninety-seventh anniversary.

A concert will be given by the Davidson concert band. The details of this musical program have not yet been
completed, but it is expected that it will be an outdoor concert which will precede the baseball game. Alumni chapters
all over the South will meet on that night to celebrate Founders’ Day. Faculty and administration members will speak to
several of the local chapters. Plans are not yet complete for the radio program which is planned as an added
attraction for the day’s program. It is expected that the local chapters will listen to the radio program.

The “Alumni Journal,” Davidson’s first alumni magazine, will make its appearance about the first of April and will announce details
of the Founders’ Day program and of the plans that have been made for the celebration of Davidson's centennial, which
comes in 1937. Other features of the publication will be news of the college of interest to the alumni, athletic
news, written by Odi Casali, editor of “The Davidsonian,” alumni news, and alumni marriages and deaths. The magazine will be
sent to all of Davidson’s 4,500 alumni.

Students Speak On Deputations

Under the direction of the “Y,” six deputations to nearby churches and schools were sent out this week. Tom Phifer
and Nate Wauda went on the regular weekly deputation to the Charlotte “Y” Sunday; Phifer spoke to the older boys,
and Wauda to the younger. Bob Johnson and John Walker conducted the Sunday School and regular morning worship service at
Sherrill’s Ford this past Sunday. At the same time, Rufus Morrow and Bob Woodside were in charge of services at
the Concord Iredell Church, outside of Statesville.

In connection with the “Come Clean Campaign” being conducted by the Y. M. C. A., Rufus Morrow spoke Friday morning
at three county schools, outlining the purpose and ideal of the campaign there. Monday morning W. M. Thompson made a
similar visit to three other schools, and Wednesday morning E. L. Powell visited and spoke at three more.

Huntley M. Sinclair, Washington University professor, has resigned his position so that he may return to Canada to run for
a seat in the Canadian Parliament.

CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

Founders’ Day Speaker

Dr. Ben E. Geer, president of Furman University, who will be the principal speaker on the Founders’ Day program at
Davidson on April 12th.

DR. McCONNELL GIVES OPINION OF PROGRAM

(Continued from page 1)

their products, to engage more workers, and to pay higher wages. “The whole scheme of restoration and recovery adopted by
the Roosevelt administration looks toward more government supervision of private business than we have ever had before in this country,
but as the President himself explains, the government has no desire to dictate, but to establish a co-operative partnership with
business, so that all economic groups may work together and thus maintain a well-co-ordinated economic organization.

“Rugged individualism may be disappearing, but mutual co-operation and helpfulness will be substituted in its place. I believe that most
modern and thoughtful men will agree that this is a better plan than the old plan of bitter competition to
the destruction of any rival business.”

NEW STUDENT BODY HEAD IS ELECTED

(Continued from page 1)

president of the Student Body and last year was president of the Sophomore class. He is a member of the
varsity debating team, Alpha Phi Epsilon, International Relations Club, Sigma Upsilon, and Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. Richardson is a
member of the Beaver Club and president of the Sophomore class. Richardson earned his numerals on the baseball team, serving
as pitcher. He is likewise a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. Glass is a member of the Beaver
Club and of Le Cercle Francais. He earned his numerals in cross-country. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta
social fraternity. Sprunt is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity. He is on the business staff of the Annual.
Brown succeeds Julian West, of Barium Springs, who will graduate this spring.

Davidson Ties State In Final Rifle Meet

The Davidson College rifle team held its final match of the season with North Carolina State College in Raleigh on
Tuesday, March 13. The final score showed that both teams had the same total, 857 points. Throughout the entire match,
the two teams shot next to each other, and a great amount of enthusiasm was displayed by the spectators. Gordon
Green, who is captain of the Davidson team, was high scorer for Davidson in this meet. Other members of the
team, in the order of their scores, were: Scott, Simpson, Ross, and Johnson. On Thursday the rifle team will shoot
in the National Hearst Tournament for the trophy given by William Randolph Hearst, and awarded to the best collegiate rifle
team.

INDUSTRIALS DAY WITH THE ALUMNI

'70 DR. GEORGE SUMMEY, Austin, Texas, was recently present at a luncheon at the First Presbyterian Church of Waco, Texas.
The luncheon was given in honor of Dr. Ernest Thompson, moderator of the General Assembly. Dr. Summey is a former
moderator of the General Assembly.

'19 DR. MARCUS CICERO STEPHENS NOBLE, Chapel Hill, called the “grand old man of education” in North Carolina, celebrated his
seventy-ninth birthday on March 15th. The former dean of the school of education of the University of North Carolina spent
the day quietly at home. He has been engaged in educational work in North Carolina for over fifty years.

'91 DR. J. A. TILLINGHAST, Spartanburg, S. C., member of the Converse College faculty, will address the first meeting of
the Spartanburg Chapter of the National Federation of Business and Professional Women’s Clubs on April 3rd.

'92 DR. WALTER L. LINGLE, Davidson, will deliver the literary address at the commencement exercises at Barium Springs on April
23rd. Dr. Lingle will also preach the baccalaureate sermon before the graduating class at Greensboro College on May 27th.

'93 At a recent meeting of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Christian Ministerial Association, planswere carried forward for a ten weeks’ course in
archaeology, to be taught by Dr. T. W. Lingle, professor of history at Davidson.

'00—N. C. M. C.

DR. JOHN T. BURRUS, High Point, has been elected to the board of directors of the North Carolina Fair Tax
Association, according to a recent bulletin issued by Paul Leonard, secretary of the organization. Dr. Burrus, a former member of
the General Assembly of North Carolina, recently addressed the association in Greensboro.

'02—DR. D. W. RICHARDSON, Richmond, Va., was a member of the delegation from Union Theological Seminary which spoke to the
churches of Wilmington recently. Dr. Richardson is a member of the faculty at Union.

'05—One of the most prominent opponents of Congressman J. B. CLARK, Fayetteville, for re-election, will be Mr. L. C. Grant,
New Hanover.

'05—S. CLAY WILLIAMS, Winston-Salem, president of the Reynolds Tobacco Company, has been praised for his work in the NRA. Mr.
Williams has been serving as a member of the Advisory Board of that body, and has more recently been appointed
as a member of the National Labor Board.

'06—DR. BEN R. LACY, JR., president of Union Theological Seminary of Richmond, Va., led a delegation from Union Seminary to
speak to the Presbyterian churches of Wilmington. These churches had a “Union Seminary” day.

'06—DR. J. M. WALKER, pastor of the Steele Creek Presbyterian Church near Charlotte, spoke at a recent conference on religious
education held at the Cook Memorial Presbyterian Church.

'08—DR. OREN MOORE, prominent Charlotte physician, recently addressed members of the Woman’s Community Club of Charlotte at the Glenwood A.
R. P. Church.

'14—REV. J. R. McGREGOR, Th.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Lexington, will deliver the baccalaureate address at the
commencement exercises at Barium Springs on April 22nd.

'15—REV. NORMAN JOHNSON, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Rocky Mount, was one of the principal speakers at the
meeting of the Nash-Edgecombe County Young People’s Interdenominational Conference which was held in Rocky Mount.

'16—JUDGE E. McA. CURRIE, Charlotte attorney and chairman of the executive committee of the Mecklenburg Democrats, recently called a meeting
of that group to discuss the selection of the Charlotte postmaster.

'23—REV. L. P. BURNEY, pastor of the Sugaw Creek Presbyterian Church, director of religious education for Mecklenburg Presbytery, presided at
a recent meeting of the religious education forum of Mecklenburg County.

'23—REV. S. H. BRADLEY, formerly pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Roanoke Rapids, N. C., has accepted a call to
the Knox Presbyterian Church in Norfolk, Va.

'28—JOHN P. McKNIGHT, formerly director of the Associated Press staff in Havana, Cuba, has been transferred to the New York
office of the Associated Press. During the recent disturbances in Cuba, Mr. McKnight wrote most of the accounts which came
over the wires of the Associated Press to newspapers in the United States.

'30—E. L. LAFFERTY, Banner Elk, is in charge of the federal aid work at Lees-McRae College at Banner Elk, N.
C.

'31—The Fallston basketball team, winners of the Cleveland County championship, have brought considerable fame to W. B. GOODSON, former Davidson
basketball and baseball star.

'31—M. W. NORFLEET, student at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, was a member of the delegation from that institution which recently
delivered addresses in the churches of Wilmington.

'32—J. H. McKINNON, JR., Union Seminary, delivered an address in Wilmington as a part of the Union Seminary Day in
that city.

'33—H. B. JOHNSTON is taking law at the University of North Carolina.

Fraternities to Stage Baseball Tourney Soon

According to an announcement from Heath Whittle, the inter-fraternity baseball tournament will take place two weeks after the close of
the Easter holidays. In the opening round, the Pikas will play the T. U. O.’s, while the Pi Kappa Phi’s
will meet the S. A. E.'s. The Beta’s, K. A.’s, Kappa Sig's, Phi Gam’s, Phi Delt’s, and the S. P.
E.'s drew first-round byes and will not have to play in the preliminaries. Each team that reaches the finals will
have to play four games, except those drawing first-round byes. The winner of the tourney will be awarded 20 points
toward the Athletic Cup, which is an award given each year to the fraternity winning the most points in the
inter-fraternity sports. Last year an unusual amount of interest was shown by the students in this competition, and already some
are looking forward to getting started again.

Fred Waring, the popular dance maestro, will judge a beauty contest to be staged on the Ohio University campus by
that institution’s yearbook.

Prof. O. L. McCaskill, of the University of Illinois College of Law, recently advocated the complete abolition of all grading
systems.

For Relief of COUGHS & COLDS

NEAL

An Effective Relief for Coughs, Hoarseness, Bronchial Irritations

College Pharmacy
“Davidson’s Service Drug Store”

Ministerial Band Conducts Service

The Davidson Ministerial Band took charge of the regular Sunday evening service this week at the local church. John W.
Morgan of the Junior class presented the evening message, speaking on the subject, “The Greatness of Salvation.” Hubert Morris led
the congregational singing, and W. C. Link played a violin solo. P. R. Arrowood read the scripture selections and led
in prayer. A. D. Wauchope accompanied the special music at the organ, and also played for the hymns. The program
was arranged by W. J. B. Livingston.

Morgan selected for his text the third verse of the second chapter of Hebrews, “How shall we escape if we
neglect so great salvation?” He listed the steps toward salvation under ten heads, namely, Forgiveness, Repentance, Redemption, Regeneration, Imputation, Justification,
Sanctification, Restitution, Perseverance, and Reward, and after the discussion of each stated that it figured greatly in, but was only
a part of, God’s great plan of salvation. Dr. H. M. Moffett closed with the benediction.

Dramatic Club Meets To Choose Production

The Red and Black Masquers met in the Social Center Tuesday night at 7:00 p.m. to discuss various matters of
business and to decide upon bids to be issued. The meeting was presided over by D. Wills Hollingsworth, president of
the club. The Masquers discussed the question of their production. It was agreed that the choice lay between A. A.
Milne’s “Dover Road” and Noel Coward’s “Hay-Fever.” Both these plays are of the same general type, clever dialogue and little
action.

Buff Shoe Shop
Fine Shoe Repairing
Next Door to Linker’s Pressing Club

SLEEP LATE and DINE WITH US
LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOP
“WHEN A FELLER NEEDS A FRIEND”

Aged in wood for years... you can KEPT FACTORY FRESH by inner lining of OP. Lorillard Co., Inc.

When you can’t draw a pair... draw pleasure from a pipeful of BRIGGS. BRIGGS is mellow, fragrant, bite-free. You can
pay twice as much for tobacco... not half so good. Won’t you let BRIGGS win you in its own mild
way?
