4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 14, 1934

ALUMNI NEWS

CHANGE OF ADDRESS

Hellinger in New York, returned to North Carolina to accept a position with the Wachovia Bank and Trust Company in
Winston-Salem, and later came to Dr. C. G. Vardell, Presbyterian minister and president-emeritus of Flora Macdonald College, Red Springs, and
chairman of the dry forces in Robeson County in the recent campaign, has announced his intention of being a candidate
in the June primary for the Democratic nomination for State Senator from Robeson. Dr. Vardell is the first to offer
for office in Robeson in this year’s campaign.

In the general sales and turnover taxes is seen the beginning of a new and important form of taxation by
the American States, Dr. B. U. Ratchford, Duke University economist, declares in an article in the Harvard Business Review. "It
is true that two of these laws are due to expire in 1934," says Dr. Ratchford, "and that eight others
will terminate in 1935, but it is quite probable that most of them will be re-enacted, perhaps with modifications."

John B. Christenbury, who has made an enviable record coaching at Crossnore, has been granted a leave of absence to
take additional work at Columbia University. He took over Crossnore’s team with the athletic department $200 in debt and wound
up the first year, 1930-31, owing only $13. During the season he gave Mitchell County its first football performances. He
also put in basketball and won a dozen summer games. Last summer Christenbury was elected secretary of the North Carolina
Club at Columbia, and he has been named vice-president for the coming season.

J. H. McKinnon, of Jacksonville, Fla., has accepted a call as assistant pastor of First Presbyterian Church at Durham. He
will go to Durham in the early summer and will remain until fall, at which time he will return to
Lenoir to manage the furniture factory which his father had founded. Then he decided that music, and not business, was
his career, and this decision was reached in spite of the fact that he was eminently successful in his business
endeavors. Since he took over the Lenoir High School Band there has been a remarkable development in the interest in
music in Lenoir. Recently the town voted the extra tax assessment for the schools, in order that the band could
be retained. That shows the feeling of the people of Lenoir for the band. Letters have been received from many
prominent people in this country and abroad, congratulating the band and the director. The organization has played at most of
the colleges in North Carolina, has won many prizes for high school bands, and has in many other ways been
honored. Mr. Harper himself is recognized as a leader in the musical field, and particularly in the field of high
school bands, having been recently elected one of the three directors of the National School Band and Orchestra Association. He
has written several marches, one of them, “The Fencing Master,” having gained popularity throughout the country. Mr. Harper accepts no
pay for his services; in fact, he puts money into the Lenoir band, and considers it a wise investment. The
interest that has been aroused in music in Lenoir is shown by the fact that, out of a student body
of 303 pupils, 75 are in the senior band, 40 are in the junior band, and there are 115 on
the waiting list to try out for the band.

Ministerial Group Will Conduct First Services

The evening service of Sunday, February 18, will be in charge of the Ministerial...Band. This will be the second of
a number of services that the band will hold this year.

Above—Recent picture of the Lenoir High School Band and Glee Club. Bottom right—James C. Harper, director. Bottom left—Plaque won by
the Lenoir Band at Greensboro last spring. (Cut Courtesy Charlotte Observer)

From the members of the organization, Ed Humphrey and Donald Bailey have been chosen as principal speakers with Ben Rose
and Hubert Morris assisting. The choir will be led by Hubert Morris. Nate Watida opened the series of services Sunday,
February 11, when he spoke at the Union Chapel.

Six members of the Iowa State College faculty have been named directors of three Ames banks.

For the Man Who Cares... Johnson’s Barber Shop

Union Seminary for his final year there.

Marriages
Miss Florence Eleanor Daniel, of Tallahassee, Fla., and Mr. Vereen M. Bell, of Cairo, Ga., were married January 28, 1934,
in Monticello, Fla. Since being graduated from Davidson, Mr. Bell has been studying short story writing and journalism under a
private tutor in Lake Charles, La. He has had several stories accepted for publication. After a wedding trip through Florida,
Mr. and Mrs. Bell will be at home for the present in Cairo.

Births
Mr. and Mrs. Thompson S. Baker, of Jacksonville, Fla., announce the birth of a daughter, Sara Church, January 25, 1934.

Deaths
Mrs. Janie Wilcox, wife of Dr. C. R. Wilcox, president of Darlington and executive manager of Shorter College, died January
2nd at Asheville. Mrs. Wilcox had been ill for some time and had been in a hospital at Baltimore before
going to Asheville. Dr. and Mrs. Wilcox went to Rome from Chattanooga in 1921. At Chattanooga, Dr. Wilcox had been
headmaster of the McCallie School.

William H. Dodge died Saturday, February 3, 1934, in Jacksonville, Fla.

James C. Harper, '15, Is Director of Band
Lenoir High School Band Has Achieved National Recognition Under His Leadership

Unusual is the man who gives up a successful business career to devote his time to directing a high school
band. Such a man is Captain James C. Harper, ’15, of Lenoir. In the Sunday edition of the Charlotte Observer,
Miss Ruth Moore tells the interesting story of Mr. Harper’s life, of his success in business, and of his later
success as director of the Lenoir High School Band.

After graduating from Davidson in 1915, he attended the University of North Carolina, securing his M.A. degree, after which he
entered the army, was made a lieutenant, and was promoted to captain before the close of the war. Returning to
this country, Mr. Harper studied banking for a year.

© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

The best tobacco for pipes comes from Kentucky... and it’s called “White Burley”

We use White Burley in making Granger Rough Cut. It comes from the Blue Grass region of Kentucky—ripe, mild leaf
tobacco that just about tops them all for fragrance and flavor. From the right place on the stalk, we select
the kind that’s best for pipes. Then we make it into Granger by Wellman’s Method and cut it up into
big shaggy flakes. White Burley tobacco—made the way old man Wellman taught us how to make it—that’s Granger. “Cut rough
to smoke cool” is the way pipe smokers describe Granger—try it.

Granger Rough Cut
The pipe tobacco that’s MILD
The pipe tobacco that’s COOL
