THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 3, 1934

Faculty Advisors And New Pan-Hellenic Council Meet

A Two-Year Extension Is Granted To All Fraternities On House Rent

SPEECHES ARE HEARD

Two Dances Are Planned For Mid-October

The Pan-Hellenic Council held its first meeting of the year with the Faculty Advisory Committee and the president of each fraternity last Thursday night. It is the custom to have two such meetings each semester. The purpose of these meetings is to enliven the interest and friendly relationship between the faculty and the fraternities. All problems held mutually by the two groups are also brought up at these meetings.

The Council goes on record as being against the present system of time for rushing season, since the majority were opposed to it. However, no definite action was taken on this question. It was decided Thursday night to abandon all plans for the dance after the Elon game. In its place, a set of two dances on Friday and Saturday nights, October 19, 20, immediately preceding and following the Duke game, was planned.

Short talks were given to the group by each member of the Faculty Advisory Committee, who are: Mr. F. L. Jackson, chairman, Prof. A. Currie, Dr. J. M. McConnell, and Mr. F. W. Hengeveld. In these talks, the work of last year’s Council was praised, and hope was expressed that the new Pan-Hellenic Council would do as well. The position of the Faculty Committee was emphasized as being advisory rather than executive. The committee wishes to stand as an intermediary between the fraternities and the college and faculty as a whole. Moreover, Mr. Jackson gave the good news of a two-year extension of the rent on the fraternity houses at 6 percent of their valuation instead of the expected raise to 8 percent.

B. L. Rose Is Appointed To Fill Post On Annual

B. L. Rose was selected to fill the position of business manager of the Annual, which was left vacant by S. K. Eaton, who was selected manager of the annual by the publications board and faculty committee, but who was forced to give up the position due to his recent appointment to West Point. Rose was chosen from the assistant managers of last year, which consisted of Edwin G. Holt and Walter Sprunt. The new manager stated that as yet, no definite plans have been made for the functions of the business staff but that Dunbar and Daniel of Raleigh, N. C., have been selected as photographers for this year. They have already taken some pictures and will be back on the campus from time to time during this year’s school session.

Collegiate Digest Will Sponsor Football Poll

With large returns coming in from colleges and universities throughout the United States in Collegiate Digest’s All-American Football Contest, readers of “The Davidsonian” are urged to send in their nominations for the mythical eleven immediately. This is the first college poll of its kind ever taken, and the All-American team selected will be the only one chosen by the college students themselves. A coupon to be found on page 8 of today’s issue of Collegiate Digest should be used in voting, and ballots should be sent or brought to “The Davidsonian” office. Rules state that each undergraduate may submit one complete team as his or her All-American selection—and then, if spectacular play brings a change in the original selection, another team may be submitted. No more than one team a week may be submitted by each individual.

Football players who win places on the All-American eleven will be presented with gold medals significant of the honor which has been bestowed upon them.

Eumenean Society Meet Second Time In Eu Hall

The Eumenean Literary Society met for their weekly meeting last night, October 2nd, in the Eu Hall. Ed Hodge, president for this year, presided. The dissertation of the evening was a debate on “Resolved that the Quarter System Should Be Used at Davidson Instead of the Present Semester System.” J. D. Allen and E. F. Horine took the affirmative, while J. A. C. Andrews and C. White argued for the negative. The subject proved a most interesting one, with many contributions coming from the open forum. Following the oratorical period of the meeting, a feed was given, sandwiches and cakes being enjoyed by all. A number of new men were present for the first time.

U. S. Army Band To Play “O Davidson” Over Radio

“O Davidson” will be broadcast Friday, October 5, at 4:30 E. S. T., on Columbia networks by the U. S. Army Band. Mr. Ralph K. Ostrom, solo cornetist of the band, stated that he was very glad to do this and that he would do any other possible favor for Davidson College. This is a result of the effort of Mr. Pfohl in sending band arrangements of “O Davidson” to the major bands of the country. This college song, by B. Ernest Shields, a former Davidson student, has made a great appeal with popular orchestras in recent years. It has been played frequently by Fred Waring, Emerson Gill, Tommy Tucker, and Oliver Naylor over national networks.

WHITTLE MAKES SPORTS REPORT

Baseball Proved To Be Most Popular Sport Among Fraternities

According to records kept in the office of Pete Whittle, director of intramural sports at Davidson, the Sophomore class last year led the school in points won in inter-class competition. The Freshman class provided the largest number of participants. Baseball proved to be the most popular sport among the fraternities. In the inter-class contests, 102 seniors won 132.5 points, 121 juniors provided 125, 124 sophomores led with 162.5, and 181 freshmen collected 130 points. (It should be understood that if a man takes part in more than one sport, he is counted in each one, so that the actual number of participants is not represented by these figures). The number of participants in inter-fraternity clashes are as follows: Baseball, 135; football (touch), 131; volleyball, 118, and basketball, 84.

Prof. Bailey To Marry Miss Sophia Richards

Dr. and Mrs. Charles M. Richards, of Davidson, announce the engagement of their daughter, Miss Sophia Richards, to Mr. John Crooks Bailey, Jr., of the Davidson College Greek Department. The date of the ceremony is not yet definite, but the marriage will take place sometime in the winter.

After long and faithful service as superintendent of the Sunday School, Mr.F. L. Jackson handed in his resignation. His successor is Prof. John Bailey, of the Greek Department. A junior choir is to be organized and directed by Mr. Frank Tucker, who is in charge of the Sunday School music this year. The Twentieth Century Club held its annual picnic Friday evening, at Harris Lake. The hostesses were Mesdames Fulcher, Schenck, Gwynn, and Stough. A program of stunts followed the supper.

The As You Like It Club met with Mrs. Roy Caldwell Friday evening at 8 o'clock. On the same evening, the Sorosis Club met with Miss Florence Barnes. Dr. T. W. Lingle was the guest speaker of the Women’s Club of Shelby, N. C., Tuesday of this past week. His subject was “Certain Inflexibilities of the Constitution of the United States.” Charles Harrison has returned to Duke, where he will continue his graduate studies. Miss Mary Potts, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Potts, has enrolled as a junior at the University of North Carolina. She took her first two years at Agnes Scott. Her sister, Miss Elizabeth Potts, has resumed her teaching duties at Concord. Miss Kalista Hood left Thursday for New York, where she will study dramatic art.

Mrs. F. D. Hobart entertained at a tea last Wednesday afternoon for her sister, Mrs. Rand, of Garner, N.C. Misses Miriam Goodrum, Mary Withers, Elizabeth Shewmake, and Goudyloch Irwin assisted in the serving. Mrs. I. B. Schenck entertained Monday evening, the graduates of the Junior Department in the Presbyterian Sunday School. Dr. J. M. McConnell, of the History Department, was the chief speaker at the dedication of the new athletic stadium at Mooresville last Friday. A few musical numbers contributed by the College band were included.

Last Tuesday, a son was born to Mr. and Mrs. Robert Garth, of New York City. Mrs. Garth is the daughter of Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle. Last week, Misses Bonnie and Johnsie Shelton entertained for the brides-to-be, Miss Ruth Siler and Miss Sophie Richards.

DRAMATIC CLUB HOLDS TRYOUTS
Season Opens This Month With Presentation Of One Act Plays

The Red and Black Masquers have a full season planned for this year. Tryouts for new men were held last week and results were said to be very satisfactory. The officers of the club for this year are Gordon Wood, the new president; J. H. Simpson, vice-president, who was elected at a called meeting last week to take the place of Nate Wauda who failed to return to school this year. W. M. Taylor is secretary and Dave Herring is manager. The season is to start this month when three one-act plays are to be presented. These plays are: “A Night at an Inn,” “Wurzel Flummery,” and “Grandma Pulls the String.” At this time the casts for these plays are undecided but they will be published in an early issue. Three major productions are planned to be given before the Christmas holidays. The organization of the Masquers is to be changed this year. This new arrangement is hoped to give a greater opportunity for the members to use their talents in several different kinds of work which has to be done before a play can be produced.

Acoustics Of Banquet Hall Greatly Improved

Among other additions and improvements made on the campus during the summer was the installation of the Celotex treatment in the Banquet Hall. This renovation has done much to improve the acoustical condition which prevailed in previous years. Extensive tests were made in determining sound conditions of this hall and musical programs in the hall proved unsatisfactory. Before this improvement was made, it took about a half a minute for the reverberation of a note to cease; now with the new acoustic treatment installed in the walls and the ceiling, the reverberation lasts approximately one second.

Opening! Carolina Lunch
Hot Dogs Hamburgers Sandwiches Cold Drinks
Next to HOTEL

Among the GREEKS

BETA THETA PI—The following members of the Pi Alpha chapter were visitors over the weekend: Brothers Frank Holt, Tommy Miller, and Bob Richardson.

PI KAPPA ALPHA—Alumni of Beta chapter who visited the hill last week were: Bill Mullis, Zeb Long, Buck Miller, Jack Wagner, George Baily, Bruce Peabody, Archie Marrow, John Brown, Charles and Andy Little.

KAPPA ALPHA—The Sigma chapter had a feed in the house Sunday night and all the members of the chapter were present and a good time was had by all. Misses May Brown, Katherine Cromwell, Webb, Mildred Cannon, Marion, Amelia, and Anne were down for the Elon game Saturday.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON: Misses Anne Boyce Rankin, Anne Little, and Betty O'Herron of Charlotte, were visitors during the weekend. Brother Addison of Charlotte, Brother Nab Armfield of Winston, and Brother Arthur Ross of Asheboro were also down.

PHI DELTA THETA—A feed was held at the house Sunday night and all the members of the chapter were present, and a few visitors.

Buff Shoe Shop
Now Open
Modern Shoe Rebuilder

Ideal Barber Shop
In Back Of Ray Harrison's
Davidson, N.C.
Shave 15c Haircut 25c
“Come give us a trial”

KEEP THIS UNDER YOUR SHIRT!
P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
WINSTON-SALEM

White Burley—the best tobacco for smoking in a pipe
Rough-cut the right way to smoke cool and last longer
Common-sense package—keeps tobacco fresh, handy to carry
10¢
Wellman's Process adds to the fragrance and makes it act right in the pipe
© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.