4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 21, 1934

EDITOR—GRIER MARTIN
ASSISTANT—JACK HELLINGER

FLOWERS
H.B. MACKORELL
Q.B. D. GREY
F.B. KLUTTZ

Mackorell, Brock
And Gardner Are
On Selected Group

Contest Conducted by Wade Ison
Arouses Interest Among
Davidson Alumni—

GREY BROTHERS PICKED

Dr. DeWitt Kluttz Is the Oldest
Alumni Chosen

The Charlotte News last Sunday announced the all-time Davidson football team, selected by a poll of sports fans. The pictures of the all-time players are shown on this page.

Wade Ison, enterprising sports editor of the Charlotte afternoon paper, was the conductor of the contest, and was eminently successful in his efforts. Hundreds of Davidson alumni all over the South voted in the contest, and the team that was selected is probably as representative a one as could be chosen.

Players from 1907 on up until the present time were selected on the team, Dr. DeWitt Kluttz, Washington, N. C., being selected at an end from the 1907 team, and Johnny Mackorell, back on the present Davidson team, leading the field in number of votes received.

Awards for the best selections were made to Don McQueen, Laurel Hill, S. C., and Harry A. Townsend, Blenheim, for selecting the largest number of the final all-time team. McQueen and Townsend got 10 out of the 11 correct.

Three teams were selected because of the heavy voting. It was felt that the other men should be recognized since they had so many supporters.

The first team was composed of:
End, Thad Brock, High Point; tackle, Lawrence Hammett, Honea Path, S. C.; guard, Billy Sayad, West Palm Beach, Fla.; center, Buddy Gardner, Decatur, Ga.; guard, Hugh Grey, Concord; tackle, Tom Baker, Jacksonville, Fla.; end, DeWitt Kluttz, Washington; quarterback, John Mackorell, Hickory; halfback, Buck Flowers, Atlanta, Ga.; halfback, Dick Grey, New York; fullback, Jack Black, Greenville, S. C.

Dr. Kluttz is the veteran of the first eleven, having played at Davidson four years from 1907 through 1910, while Mackorell still has another year of competition.

Mackorell polled the heaviest vote, receiving ballots for all four backfield positions and lacking but four votes of tying for a halfback post. He received an overwhelming majority for quarterback. Thad Brock was second in the number of votes received and was repeatedly nominated for guard. Tom Baker led in polling the most votes for a single position and was closely followed by Hammett.

Jim Morgan and Charlie Rives, present Wildcat stars, landed berths along with Coach Flake Laird on the second team. Monk Younger, former Davidson coach, was also included on the second eleven.

It is considered quite coincidental that two brothers, Hugh Grey of the class of '17, and Dick Grey, '27, were placed on the first team. It is also interesting to note that Dick Grey was the only member of the Big Five championship team of 1926 to land on the mythical all-time aggregation.

Former Coach Bill Fetzer’s 1916 and 1917 teams dominated the entire field, placing three men each on the first string. Bill Fetzer himself received a backfield post on the third team.

Alumni

'17
Rev. Thornton Whaling, D.D., for many years professor of the Columbia Theological Seminary, spoke at the Imperial Theater, Columbia, S. C., Sunday afternoon, January 7, under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. Dr. Whaling used as his subject, “Jesus, the Only Saviour.”

'86
Dr. Edward Mack, professor at Union Theological Seminary, contributed an article, “Impressions of Present Day Palestine,” to the recent issue of the “Union Seminary Review.” Dr. Mack made an extended tour of Palestine last year.

Dr. C. G. Vardell, Red Springs, president-emeritus of Flora Macdonald College, was recently honored with a banquet on the seventy-fourth anniversary of his birth. Dr. Howard E. Rondthaler, president of Salem College, was the principal speaker of the occasion.

'22
Rev. E. B. McGugin, pastor of Lafayette Church, Norfolk, Va., has been extended a unanimous call to the pastorate of the Loudon Street Church in Winchester, Va. The pastorate has been vacant since the death last summer of Rev. Frank T. McFaden.

'26
W. T. Spencer, Gastonia, was recently elected president of the Carolina Retail Lumber and Building Material Dealers Association, which was meeting in Columbia, S. C. More than 200 delegates were in attendance at the meeting.

'26
Rev. Chester F. Monk, Long Beach, Miss., recently accepted a call to the Ingleside Presbyterian Church near Atlanta, Ga. Mr. Monk is a graduate of Columbia Theological Seminary.