THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 21, 1934

N.C.C.W. DEPUTATION LEADS AT VESPERS

Miss Ione Perry Discusses Various Phases of Prayer

URGES CONSECRATION

Misses Sharpe and Combie Render Musical Number

A deputation from N.C.C.W. had charge of the vespers program last Sunday night. W. M. Thompson, president of the Davidson
Y.M.C.A., introduced the deputation. Miss Gertrude Hatcher had charge of the program. She read a portion of the 46th Psalm
as scripture. Miss Lucy Crisp, secretary of the Y.W.C.A., led the meeting in prayer. Miss Suzan Sharpe rendered a solo
on the flute, accompanied at the piano by Miss Ruth Combie. Miss Ione Perry, president of the Y.W.C.A., then addressed
the audience. She stated that as the World Student Christian Federation had set aside that day as a day of
prayer for students all over the world, she would bring her remarks to bear on the subject of prayer. She
pointed out the confusion of our present age and the need for prayer, concentrating on five types of prayer that
are used today. The beautiful uplifting qualities were brought out by the inspiring poem of Sidney Lanier, “A Ballad of
Trees and the Master,” which was quoted. She read a statement by Sir Wilfred Grenfell on prayer, urging that people
take prayer earnestly and refrain from making it a repetition of vain words. Prayer was pointed out as a great
help in the solution of both personal and universal problems. Miss Ruth Combie closed the meeting by rendering “Seal Us
O Holy Spirit” as a vocal solo.

Police Forbid Use Of Slot Machines

Gambling Machines Banned from Local Stores and Cafes

By an order of local police officials, all slot machines have been removed from the City of Davidson. These machines
were removed from cafes and drug stores last week. These machines were licensed as vending machines, but when it was
discovered that they were not giving merchandise in return for the money that was deposited in them, the local police
officials issued an order that prohibited their operation in Davidson. This movement was not made only in Davidson. Statesville, Mooresville,
and many other nearby towns have been making drives on these gambling devices. The main objection to their use in
Davidson was that they were causing the students to spend and throw away money that they ordinarily would have used
for buying things that they really needed. It was also noted that a large number of small boys were playing
the machines. These smaller children watched Davidson students play the machines and this created in them a desire to do
the same thing. Thus the Davidson students, without knowing it, were exercising a bad influence over the younger children of
Davidson. Due to these undesirable conditions, and to the fact that the operation of these machines was unlawful, the local
police authorities, in co-operating with the school authorities and the citizens of Davidson, have forced local merchants to get rid
of their slot machines. These machines were not seized by the police. The merchants were made to return them to
the companies which had loaned the machines to them. But in the event that they were not returned to the
companies, they would have been seized and confiscated by the police.

DR. C. E. MACARTNEY CLOSES 4-DAY LECTURE

(Continued from page 2)

...powerful, as is shown by the destruction of pagan worship wherever Christianity has spread, as for instance, Greece, Italy, and
Germany. Dr. Macartney closed his first lecture with the statement that he who looks through the Bible sees God.

On Wednesday, John A. Baird, organist of the First Presbyterian Church of Pittsburgh, opened the chapel service with an organ
solo, which was well received by the students. Dr. Macartney’s subject for Wednesday was “The Christian Way.” There always has
been opposition to the Christian way, said Dr. Macartney, and it seems that opposition is stronger today than ever before.
Hostility is open and loud with direct attacks on the Bible, the Church, and all Christian principles and beliefs. Where
formerly the doctrines were the center of the attack, it is now the precepts of Christianity. There was a time
when the world lauded Christ the man and His principles, but the spirit of the age is no longer even
that tolerant. They seem to place attention on man the animal rather than on man the son of God. The
Church is the target of a hostile drive, according to the speaker, which seems to be based on three things:
a false conception of man, the revolt against and condemnation of the standards of the Church, and the rage for
self-expression and personal liberty. That the Christian way is the desirable way was shown by the fact that, because it
is the harder way, more is accomplished in the end. Stating that history is not made up by wastrels, Dr.
Macartney attacked the evils found in so many of the things we commonly have around us: the movies, our literature,
world politics, liquor, and moral questions. That the wall of Christianity cannot stand the concerted attack of these evils for
long is evident, thinks Dr. Macartney. Already it is weakening, and unless new strength is added it will fall. Dr.
Macartney urged the students to take advantage of their college days to build Christian characters which could themselves withstand the
attack, and then lend their support to the cause of the Church.

Speaking on Thursday, Dr. Macartney discussed “The Christian Act,” the death of Christ. He called attention to the fact that
teachers should remember that college men were often intensely interested in subjects as deep as the meaning of the cross
from more than a purely academic standpoint. The cross, he pointed out, was the distinguishing thing about Christianity. It was
the event led up to by the whole Bible, the event upon which we found our faith and hope for
salvation. Christ lifted on the cross was the great act of God. Without the cross there would be no Christianity.
Saying that it is a fact noticeable in literature that a comparatively short part of any biography or story is
given to the death of a person, but it is treated rather as a small incident, the lecturer pointed out
that the gospel writers give from one-third to one-half of their accounts of Christ to the story of His death
or his last twenty-four hours on earth. Yet, he said, today we want to place more emphasis on the life
of Christ than on His death. The death on the cross is an eternal act, as new today as it
was nineteen centuries ago. It is a saving and redeeming act, and through it, Christianity, assuming that man is a
sinner, promises him salvation and eternal life. We are forgiven only through God’s act of the cross. Dr. Macartney warned
his listeners to remember that the great thing about Christianity was what God had done for us, not what God
expects us to do for ourselves. God’s love for His people drove His mercy even to the limit of the
cross in order to save them. The cross is so often a source of sadness, but with all due respect
to the divinity of the man who died there, it should be the greatest source of joy in the life
of every Christian. It is our hope for salvation, the proof that God lives for us, so why should we
not rather rejoice in the cross than sorrow for it? It is, too, the solution of all of life’s problems,
and Dr. Macartney urged his hearers to remember that the act of the cross was done for every man individually,
not for mankind in general.

On Friday, Dr. Macartney delivered his last lecture on “The Christian Destiny.” The eternal triangle of questions he said was,
whence did we come, why are we here, and where do we go? Great writers and thinkers of all ages
have been puzzled over these questions. There is a tendency today in modern religion to emphasize the second one, why
are we here and how shall we act? By their treatment of this second subject, many people show that they
have little thought for the third, where do we go from here? With many it is of little importance; they
don’t believe in a life hereafter. Dr. Macartney brought out, however, that the Bible promises for us a resurrection of
the body and spirit and a final judgment. Christ says that He goes to prepare a place for us, and
the speaker called attention to the word “place,” not an indefinite state of being. Christ knew all about heaven, yet
He told us nothing of it, rather choosing to ask us to...Trust Him. The discussion of heaven is difficult, said
Dr. Macartney, because we know nothing of it. Each person can judge for himself, and it will more than fulfill
his expectations. Since we are to have some qualities of the body when we get there, it is logical to
suppose that we will continue to derive pleasure from the same pursuits of mind and body which we enjoyed here,
reasons Dr. Macartney. It will, of course, be a place of moral and spiritual perfection. We should make every effort
to prepare ourselves in this world to enter whatever is to follow. Dr. Macartney, after briefly summarizing his four lectures,
gave these two quotations as closing statements: “Use or lose your opportunity,” and “Work as if to live forever, and
live as if to die tomorrow.” Thus Dr. Macartney brought to a close one of the finest series of lectures
given at Davidson in many years. They were attended by a large number of people outside the student body. He
was well received by the student body because of his ability as a speaker and thinker, and because of the
scholarly nature of his lectures. One of the outstanding qualities of his lectures, which impressed the students, was the wide
range of reading which Dr. Macartney showed and his ability to quote and illustrate from his vast store of information.
His knowledge of local conditions and history also was noticed by the student body.

Noted Russian Reveals Results of Science Test

Scientific tests have proven the popular notion that your brain cannot do good work until at least one hour after
a meal. A noted Russian pediatrician and professor of children’s diseases said that his tests in the laboratory showed that
reactions were much slower within an hour after the person had eaten, and that during the second and third hour
the speed gradually increased. He said that some of the mysteries of the subconscious mind had been solved. He found
that he could put children in a hypnotic trance and stimulate them so that these stimuli would produce reactions even
when the children were awake, although the children could not tell why they obeyed the impulses. While a person is
asleep or in a trance the mind had a low degree of excitability, while death as he defined it is
a “complete lack of excitability.”

“BROADWAY THRU A KEYHOLE” SHOWN

Local Theatre Gives Walter Winchell’s Famous Production

This week brings to the screen one of the most publicized of the present movies, in the person of Walter
Winchell’s “Broadway Thru a Keyhole.” The famous columnist brings to the world the private lives of Broadway’s great, as seen
through a keyhole. This movie peers into their lives, and shows them to the public as they really are.

Wednesday, February 21—Broadway Thru a Keyhole

As mentioned above, this is Walter Winchell’s pet story, written by him for the screen. Throughout the show there is
much good music, furnished by Abe Lyman and his band. There are a number of good musical numbers in the
show. Starred in it are Constance Cummings, Russ Columbo, and the late Texas Guinan, who was such a Broadway night
club favorite before her death. The show will come as a surprise to most, but should be greatly enjoyed, and
very interesting.

Thursday, February 22—No More Women

Edmund Lowe and Victor McLaglen come back to the screen again together in one of their favorite roles, that of
the rough and tumble life where there is always danger and complicating situations arising, out of which they gracefully manage
to escape. Their female partner in crime this time is Sally Blane, who manages to fit into the complications very
well.

Friday, February 23—Advice to the Lovelorn

This show has all the earmarks of a screaming comedy, with the fun arising from a rousting reporter who is
transferred from the city desk to that of the writer of a column, Lonely Hearts, giving advice to the lovelorn.
The situations are perfect, but there seems to be something lacking in the way the comedy is carried out. However,
Lee Tracy is best fitted in a production of this sort, and the picture will prove interesting as well as
amusing to those who like him. With him is Sally Blane.

Saturday, February 24—Blood Money

For those who like George Bancroft, this picture will come as a very pleasing surprise, for out of the comparatively
dark immediate past, he stars in this show, which is one to show him at his best advantage. He is
again the leader of men, and his force is brought out very strongly. With him are Frances Dee, Chick Chandler
and Blossom Seeley, that new personage who rivals even Mae West and Pert Kelton, though in a slightly different way.

Monday, February 26—Mandalay

In this picture, probably one of the best of her screen career, Kay Francis is the night club hostess who
passes to the queen of the Rangoon underworld in four minutes on the screen, during which she employs the use
of as many thousands of dollars worth of gowns. She is superb in this outstanding characterization of her own, and
her acting is as well as possibly could be expected. The cast includes Ricardo Cortez, who has starred so successfully
with Kay Francis in the past; Lyle Talbot, and Warner Oland.

Tuesday, February 27—Ever Since Eve

This brings in much of the night life of the people of money and standing, their happiness, supposedly. George O'Brien,
a man’s he-man, is starred, along with Mary Brian and Herbert Mundin, who never seems to fail.

CBS Has Features for Washington Birthday

Washington’s Birthday features, over the Columbia network tomorrow, will include a joint program of the Sons of the Revolution, the
Sons of the American Revolution, the Children of the American Revolution, and the D. A. R., from Continental Memorial Hall,
in Washington, D. C., with the principal address by Secretary of War George Dern at 10:00 a.m. Congressman Sol Bloom
and others will take part in a program, “Debunking the George Washington Legends,” given under the auspices of the Bicentennial
Commission at 12:30 p.m. A special broadcast from Washington by the Loyal Order of Moose will begin at 3:45 p.m.

Chemical Fraternity Holds Meeting Monday

John Drake and Ed Holt Give Talks

The Alpha Chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemical fraternity, was entertained by Mesdames H. B. Arbuckle and O. J.
Thies at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle the evening of February 19. This was the regular bi-weekly meeting
of the local chapter. At that time the fraternity discussed possible new members, and many chemical samples were displayed. John
Drake gave a discussion of “New Methods of Analysis,” and Ed Holt talked on “The Making of Rayon.” During the
meeting refreshments were served. Gamma Sigma Epsilon was founded at Davidson College in 1919, Dr. Arbuckle and Professor Thies being
the charter members. Since that time it has grown into a national honorary fraternity. At the last national convention Alpha
Chapter was given a very high rating.

Collegiate Football Rule to Be Changed

Three changes made in the 1934 collegiate football rules have been said by the National Collegiate Athletic Association Football Rules
Committee to be of little importance, but sport writers believe these changes will make football a real aerial game next
fall. The changes in the rules are:

1. The second five-yard penalty for the successive incomplete pass is eliminated.
2. The first incomplete forward pass over the goal line—except on fourth down—will be treated the same as if incompleted
in the field of play, instead of as a touchback.
3. The definition of a punt is changed to permit kicking from the hand or hands of a teammate.

CARLOS YOUNG RETURNS

Carlos Young has returned to school after three weeks’ absence. He underwent an operation for appendicitis at the Shelby Hospital.

Loading a pipe, son, is like building a fire

“Now if you want to build a fire you've got to have the right kind of chimney, and you've got
to have the right kind of wood, seasoned right and packed right in the fireplace. If you've got all this,
it’s easy to light up.

“It’s pretty near the same way in smoking a pipe. Now if you’ve got the right kind of pipe tobacco—any
old pipe will do.

“And if you put in a pinch at a time and pack it down good and tight—the way to load
a pipe—all you need to do is strike a match.

“Granger smokes sweet and cool right down to the bottom of the bowl.

“That’s pipe comfort, I tell you.”

Granger Rough Cut

1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
