THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 21, 1934

DAVIDSON TEAMS AND PLAYERS OF PAST RECALLED

Johnny Mackorell Included On All-Time Davidson Team Selected By Charlotte Paper

Spectacular spots in Davidson's football history are the 38-6 victory over Georgia Tech in 1900, the 1906 championship team, the 1926 State champions, Joe McCall’s 55-yard run for a touchdown against Army in 1930, and Davidson’s memorable 13-12 victory over Duke in 1929. It was in the latter game that Thad Brock ran 102 yards from behind his goal line to be downed on the five-yard line, the play leading to a score. Brock, an end, was one of the best kickers in the State. Davidson had made a gallant stand on the seven-yard line, holding the Devils for four downs, and Brock was called back to punt. Seeing a hole, he went through it for a run of 102 yards before being pulled down.

Another speedy player in the days of Brock was Joe McCall, the aforementioned player making a touchdown against Army. He was the leading ground gainer for the Cats, received honorable mention for All-American, and was one of the best broken field runners ever to perform in the Old North State.

In 1915, Monk Younger entered Davidson and although a freshman, was named an All-South Atlantic end. In 1923, he, with Tex Tilson as backfield coach, came back to begin the longest coaching reign in Davidson's history. They both left in 1931. The reign of Younger and Tilson is itself an era in Davidson's history. Gloomy Monk, as he was called, never made a happy prediction. They infused in their teams much of the spirit that has become a Davidson tradition. Their style of play, as described by Professor Blythe, called for the line buck very often. The quick kick and the forward pass were also well developed. These men produced the 1926 State Champions.

Coaches Newton and McEver experienced their first season here in 1931 and we run the risk of editorializing by saying that they have continued Davidson's reputation for clean, fast, and hard-fighting football. These coaches have developed Johnny Mackorell and the present edition of Wildcats who have performed brilliantly against teams from institutions recently gone “big time.”

An All-Time Davidson football team was selected by popular vote conducted by the Charlotte News (in the spring of 1934), and the result consists of a sort of “honor roll” of Davidson football. Johnny Mackorell was elected quarterback on this mythical eleven. Buck Flowers, Dick Grey, and Jack Black compose the rest of the backfield. Thad Brock and DeWitt Kluttz, ends; Lawrence Hammett and Tom Baker, tackles; Hugh Grey and Billy Sayad, guards; and Buddy Gardner, center, complete the roster of the immortal. Johnny Mackorell is the youngest of the honored players and DeWitt Kluttz, '07, is the oldest.

The Grey brothers are sons of Dr. and Mrs. Grey of Davidson, Hugh playing in 1917 and Dick in 1927. Teams coached by Bill Fetzer in 1916 and 1917 landed three berths on the first team and Fetzer himself received the third team. Davidson's greatest victory came in 1905 over Oak Ridge, 75-0, and their greatest loss was to Georgia Tech in 1920, 0-66. In 1927, the year that Georgia Tech beat Cumberland College 222-0, Davidson only was beaten 10-32, so had Davidson gotten a crack at Cumberland that year, we might boast of a 200-0 victory.

From 1899 to 1933, opponents of Davidson on the gridiron have scored on the Wildcats 2,207 points and the ’Cats have rolled up a total of 3,050 points. Davidson’s high scoring year came in 1917 under Coach Bill Fetzer, scoring 254 points against their opponents' 116. In that year, Wake Forest was beaten 73-7. And if you doubt the authenticity of the foregoing, you may spend a pleasant afternoon in the basement of the library exploring the annuals and records left by former classes. After doing so, you will find that you know much more about Davidson than you did before.

You will discover in these annuals that where the two new golf holes are now, existed “Lake Wiley,” that football games were once played on Buttermilk Hill, that censorship is not new, that the sponsors in those days were more beautiful than those found in today’s annuals. You will note the activities and proclivities of Davidson professors in their younger days, that the Literary Societies were once the controlling powers in Student politics, that tennis clubs were quite popular, and that always at the head of their page in the annuals were pictures of girls engaged in the sport. But that’s a story for someone else to write.

The wife and six daughters of Dr. R. H. Morrison, first president of Davidson College. Top row, left to right are: Lottie, who married James Patton Irwin; Eugenia, wife of a singer of the Confederate army; and Mrs. Resaine, mother of the girls. Center row, left to right, are: Isabella, the wife of General Daniel Harvey Till; General Rufus Barringer; Morrison, one of the south’s leading educators and military men; Laura, who married Colonel John Edmunds Brown; and Susan, who became Mrs. A. C. Avery. On the bottom row is Mary Anna, who became the wife of the famous Stonewall Jackson.

Fifty-One Boys Enter Ping-Pong Tournament

The annual Y. M. C. A. ping-pong tournament got underway last week with fifty-one men entering it. The first-round matches must be finished by Thursday and the second-round matches must be finished by next Monday. This is an event sponsored by the Y. M. C. A. every year, and a prize is always given to the winner. The students in charge of this tournament are Don Branton and Pete Neill.

STATIONERY CALLING CARDS PROGRAMS FINE PRINTING

AT THE LOCAL THEATRE

Thursday and Friday, Nov. 22 and 23

HAPPINESS AHEAD

This is another musical featuring Dick Powell. Josephine Hutchinson starred with him. The comedy is rendered by Frank McHugh and Allen Jenkins. There are many favorable reports on this.picture and it should afford entertainment for all. The cast includes Dick Powell, Josephine Hutchinson, John Halliday, Frank McHugh, and Allen Jenkins.

Saturday, Nov. 24
WAGON WHEELS
This is the annual refilming of “The Covered Wagon,” but it is exceptionally good. Gail Patrick also has a major role. The story is by Zane Grey. The cast includes Randolph Scott, Gail Patrick, Monte Blue, Raymond Hatton, and Billy Lee. It is very entertaining.

Monday, Nov. 26
GENTLEMEN ARE BORN
This picture has an all-star cast, including Franchot Tone, Margaret Lindsay, Jean Muir, and Ann Dvorak. Reports are very favorable and it should afford good entertainment.

Tuesday and Wednesday, Nov. 27 and 28
TRANSATLANTIC MERRY-GO-ROUND
This is a nautical “Grand Hotel,” with a cast of stars and very lavishly produced. In this picture, Nancy Carroll makes her first appearance for quite a while. The cast includes Jack Benny, Nancy Carroll, Gene Raymond, the Boswell Sisters, and many others. Both the Boswell Sisters and Jack Benny give good performances.

VARSITY PAJAMAS
Through the courtesy of Ivey's Department Store in Charlotte, the Davidsonian expects each week to run a column depicting the authentic trends in men’s fashions. Shakespeare or somebody once coined the phrase “the rougher the better.” Of course, he didn’t know at the time that he was predicting the style for men’s clothes this fall. Everything is going “woolly.” Shetland tweeds, Harris tweeds, rabbit fur socks and ties, and even “fuzzy” hats have come into great popularity with the masculine connoisseur of “snappy” wearing apparel.

All the leading men’s stores are showing heavy tweeds and mixtures. Speaking of mixtures, wild colors have gone frequently this fall. Gray and brown mixtures are seen in hats, socks, ties, and suits. Shetland tweeds and Harris tweeds have been worn in England for a great number of years, but it is only recently that they have become so popular in this country. No doubt the chilly winds and the cold cement stadium of a football field have had a lot to do with this popularity.

Rabbit fur socks are just the thing to keep the feet warm on those cold late winter afternoons and nights. Ivey's is showing both “rabbit” socks and ties in figured and plain patterns. These socks are made by Interwoven and are of heavy wool with a white sprinkling of rabbit fur on them. They have been especially popular in the two-color horizontal stripe designs, but the solid colors for the more conservative “sock wearer” with neat clocks are also being shown.

A word about rabbit fur ties. These are displayed in both stripes and solid colors. Made by Botany, these ties are just the thing to wear with a rough tweed suit and they give the wearer a careless but extremely sporty “air.” Just as in suits, the brown and gray mixtures are extremely popular in socks, although there are mixtures such as red and white, blue and yellow, and the like.

Hats this fall have taken a queer turn. Have you seen the fuzzy felts Mallory has just put on the fashion counter? One especially is the brown and grey (there you go again) overplaid with sprinklings of rabbit fur on the crown and brim. This hat is almost entirely one to be used for sport wear, but of course, there are the blacks and dark blues and dark grays for the more formal wear. The plaids are still with us too. Heavy wool and lisle socks in many varieties of color combinations are being shown. Knitted wool ties, also in plaids, are still being worn constantly. But remember when buying socks, suits, and ties, even hats, “the rougher the better.”

Misses Corine and Jessie Wagner are guests at the home of their sister, Mrs. Frazer Hood. The Eat-a-Bita-Pie Club will be entertained at dinner Thursday evening at the home of Dr. and Mrs. C. M. Richards. Mrs. Lewis Schenck was the leader of the Tuesday Bible Class which met with Mrs. Walter Lingle on November 20. Mrs. W. H. Hunter will be the next leader.

All-Americans End Season
On Monday Under Direction Of Unger, Team Wins Three Games, Loses One, And Ties One
Davidson's 1934 edition of its traditional “All American,” under the direction of Coach Unger, wound up its playing season last Monday by trouncing a scrapping Belmont Abbey team 8-6. The reserve team played five contests this year, defeating Wingate Junior College, Belmont Abbey, and the Charlotte Bulldogs. They tied Campbell College 0-0, and lost a close decision to Mars Hill.

Although it was a reserve team, the All American outfit was studded with stars. Such men as Van Patterson, giant tackle, Bill Quick, brilliant quarterback, Jim Johnston, Heman Clark, and Jim Hodgins were the outstanding performers, and for them, Coach Unger had special praise. In a statement to the Davidsonian, the mentor thanked the boys for the spirit shown throughout the season. “The boys have all worked hard,” Unger said, “And some have shown a very marked improvement. Patterson, Quick, Johnston, Clark, and Hodgins were especially outstanding.”

“I do not feel that these men are ready for the varsity yet. However, with a good spring training period of devotion to offensive work, they will be ready for varsity competition to some extent next fall. There are others who might have had a much better season had not their work been hampered by injuries. I wish to add a note of thanks to the entire team for coming out and showing their wonderful spirit in helping to make the varsity a better-groomed machine although they didn’t get a place on it.”

The All Americans had an unusually well-balanced outfit, both defensively and offensively. Their offense was featured by a trick “spread formation” which seldom failed to result in yardage. The team will close its practice season next Tuesday. The players were given a rest period Monday and Tuesday of this week. During the remainder of the week, they will scrimmage the varsity, employing some of the Wake Forest plays brought back from Richmond by the Davidson scouting staff.

Eta Sigma Phi Meeting Indefinitely Postponed
A meeting of Eta Sigma Phi, national honorary classical fraternity, which was originally scheduled to be held Monday night, was indefinitely postponed. It was announced that the meeting would possibly be held later this week. Professor Vowles, of the college German department, was scheduled to speak at the meeting, but his address will not be delivered until a later meeting, probably after the first of December.

Admission to this fraternity is limited to students in Greek or Latin courses who have evinced an interest in these languages and have fulfilled the scholastic requirements, securing the recommendation of their professors. Plans for the coming year were discussed and a program of work outlined at a previous meeting.

Mrs. E. J. Erwin is visiting with relatives in Atlanta.

Stuffy Head
Just a few drops up each nostril. Quickly, breathing again becomes clear!

WARNER BROS. BROADWAY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
SHOWING NOW
THURS.-FRI.-SAT.
“THE CAPTAIN HATES THE SEA”
With VICTOR McLAGLEN
JOHN GILBERT
And 15 Other Stars

MON.-TUES.-WED.
NOV. 26, 27, 28
“THE FIREBIRD”

STATE
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
TODAY AND TOMORROW
FRANCHOT TONE AND MAY ROBSON IN
“STRAIGHT IS THE WAY”

FRIDAY-SATURDAY
JACK HOLT IN
“THE DEFENSE RESTS”

NOVEMBER 26, 27, 28
“PECK’S BAD BOY”
WITH JACKIE COOPER

Plan To Attend Our Big Midnight Party THANKSGIVING EVE!