THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 31, 1934

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of Associated Collegiate Press

1933 (canons Pie) = covenact) 1934

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communications intended for publication must be signed.

ODI_CASALI........--......... Editor
W. T. JOHNSON........ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
G. B. GUBBINS........ Managing Editor
E. F. McPHAUL........ Managing Editor
B. L. SMITH........ Managing Editor
K. D. WILLIAMS........ Managing Editor
JACK HEELBEINGER........ Alumni Editor
C. E. NICHOLS........ Sports Editor
RAWLINS THOMAS........ Editorial Writer
S. A. SMITH........ Feature Editor
S. K. JONES........ Feature Editor
S. C. BROWN........ Feature Editor
C. S. WILLIAMS........ Feature Editor
D. W. HARRIS........ Review Editor
L. W. JONES........ Associate Editor
A. F. SMITH........ Associate Editor
W. M. THOMPSON........ Associate Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, JR........ Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
G. L. GREEN........ Assistant Business Manager
W. L. SMITH........ Assistant Business Manager
R. TAYLOR........ Assistant Business Manager
A. C. WADSWORTH........ Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 1934

If time be of all things most precious, wasting time must be the greatest prodigality, since lost time is never found again; and what we call time enough always proves little enough. Let us then be up and doing, and doing to a purpose; so by diligence shall we do more with less perplexity.
—Franklin.

The Davidson student body extends deep sympathy to William Zachary in the death of his father.

NO TIME TO LET UP

Last Saturday marked the close of the first semester examinations; we have already entered upon the threshold of a new semester. Literally speaking, the new semester is only a continuance and advancement of our first term studies, but for every student of Davidson College it should and does mean more than that. Whether we realize it or not we are entering what might be well termed a stepping stone which will bring us a step nearer our goal, or certainly a step nearer our destiny. It is because of the seriousness of this fact that we should, at this appropriate time, stop to think about it and give it consideration.

After examinations are over we are always prone to let up in our studies and take a sort of rest after such long and continuous hours of study. This delay in getting back to work is the greatest cause of failure at the end of the term. We allow our work to pile up on us thinking that we can catch up over the weekend. Several weeks pass and we continue to put off. Then it is too late; the habit is acquired and we never catch up with our work.

Now is the time to look back over the first semester and realize the mistakes we made and the bad habits we got into. But we shouldn’t be discouraged by the results of the past. We should benefit in the future by our past experiences. The bad habits that we correct and the good habits that we formulate and practice while in college have a great bearing on our future success in later life. Many people spend their later years trying to overcome the mistakes they made during their early years. Never before have the economic conditions warranted the necessity for thorough and careful preparation as they do today. There is no better time to start this preparation than at the beginning of this second semester.
—K. D. W.

A SUCCESSFUL NEW YEAR

The title of this article would suggest that we are very much behind the times, but a moment’s consideration explains the seemingly tardy topic. In actuality the New Year did not begin for us until eleven o’clock on Sunday, January 28th, 1934. Our work up to that time was really a continuation and conclusion of the scholastic endeavors that we launched four months ago. In the last issue of The Davidsonian we attempted a word of warning and advice prior to examinations. How beneficial and helpful this proved to be we do not know.

The period immediately following the semester exams, however, is likely to prove more filled with pitfalls than any other. After ten days of nerve-racking strain and tension, we are likely to adopt any one of three attitudes. The fellow who has studied conscientiously and endeavored to make satisfactory grades may possibly have been quite disappointed in the outcome. His reaction is likely to result in a “devil-may-care” and “what’s the use” mood. This is a symptom of sure fatality. The ability to get up when knocked down is a sure sign of strong character and the potentiality to succeed.

The student who has done poorly in his work may also be suddenly fired with a consuming enthusiasm and for three weeks will grind steadily. He is determined to do or die and his ambition is certainly a worthy one. The unfortunate aspect is that the hard work and earnestness ceases as suddenly as it began. He labors for three weeks and loafs for three months. Result: he is no better off than the first individual.

Probably the most common reaction is just a simple “let-down.” For ten days we have lost sleep, become worried, and tired. Now we’re through! A splendid opportunity to relax, sleep, and idle away hours of valuable time. We proceed to get behind at the beginning and find only too late that our minds cannot absorb, in the short time left, the mass of material that our courses have covered.

A good beginning is half the battle. We can obtain a splendid record, if we apply ourselves now, no matter how poor our accomplishments may have been during the first semester. We may have the impression that we deserve a rest and that our professors are inclined to leniency. The truth will be learned by sad experience. We are in the whirl of studies as much as ever. Let us make “Steady and Serious Application” our motto for the coming weeks, and reap the happy reward of contentment in the knowledge of a job well done. “Do your best, angels can do no better.”
—R. P. T.

A DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SPEAKING

I was interested in what Mr. Julian S. Miller of Charlotte had to say about public speaking at Vespers the other Sunday afternoon. He voiced the hope that there was a department of public speaking at Davidson, and without a doubt there is nothing for which there is a more vital need than such training. A number of ministerial students come to Davidson, yet there is no provision for teaching them how to get up and speak in a convincing and pleasing manner. The Y. M. C. A. conducts deputations to churches in the surrounding territory and these are fine experiences but they do not fill the need. There is no one to supervise and criticize the work.

If an instructor of public speaking were secured he could coach debating, too. A liberal sum is allotted the Forensic Council for trips and with an addition it seems that provision for an instructor could be made. Our debaters meet teams which have been coached by debating experts. The economics professor coaches the team, but it is a labor of love and with his duties as a professor it should not be expected of him. The fact that the teams of the past have been as successful as they have is a tribute to the talent to be found here and the wonderful opportunities that should be developed. Another job which could be taken over by this department is reviving interest in our literary societies.

The main objection that will be raised against having a department of public speaking is that it will be too expensive. This is always a good argument, but in the end it would mean money to the college. I know students who came to Davidson and then went to Princeton or elsewhere because they could not get the training in public speaking they desired. The high school I attended in a town in South Georgia had a department of public speaking and it was kept up even though that whole section was hard hit by the depression.

We have seven men at Davidson who coach athletics or help carry out the athletic program. The college is to be congratulated on this because athletics are important in the college curriculum. It develops students to participate in athletics and we enjoy attending these contests. Many of our activities could not be carried on if it were not for the revenue gained from this source. My contention is that with such a competent athletic staff it is not expecting too much to have one person in charge of the cultural program. We have a director of music this year in Mr. J. C. Pfohl, and as a result of this fine addition there has already been a decided shift to an appreciation of good music. Let us not stop here but aspire to new heights by working toward another goal—a department of public speaking for Davidson, and maybe our dream will come true.
—JACK WILLIAMS, JR.

Professors at Mills College, California, defend the slang of undergraduates as a technical college language.

J. H. Dennis, 70, city claim agent, is giving up his job in order to enter the University of Manitoba, Canada, as a freshman next week.

NEWS DIGEST

NEW POSSESSIONS

The report from London on the proceedings of the new “admirals’ conference” is that America is attempting to gain control of several small British islands in the Southern Pacific in order to combat the continued encroachments of Japan. These islands might be ceded to the United States as a cancellation for part of the British war debt. They will be used as air bases. The report on such a move was given wide publicity in the London papers under the banner heading: “America seeking way around Japan’s island forts.”

FLOOD

The Yellow River of China, one of the greatest rivers in the world, is now having its periodical flood. Ten thousand persons are reported to have drowned or frozen in the raging waters which are bringing...down great ice cakes from the hinterlands of Asia. The ice and cold are making the rescue and relief work difficult. The water is still rising and the report is that it has risen more than five feet in the last thirty-six hours.

AVIATION
People are continually amazed at the great progress we have made in aviation and the many remarkable feats that have occurred. Balbo has spanned the Atlantic with a flight of twenty-four planes. The army squadron of five planes flew from the United States to Honolulu in one day. The Lindberghs flew thirty-six thousand miles over four continents without mishap. And now the latest feat is proclaimed as four Italian flyers cross the South Atlantic in a tri-motored plane in ten hours. At this rate, whole armies will be able to cross from Europe to America in less than a day. The problem for us to face is how to guard against an alien enemy who may conceive of this as a good plan of attack and attempt to execute it. The World War gave everybody something to think about.

CUBA RECOGNIZED
Four days after he took over the presidency, Carlos Mendieta’s newly-organized Cuban government won the coveted recognition of the United States, a thing that former President Grau San Martin had vainly tried to accomplish for three months. Formal recognition, however, awaits the word of other nations. Cuban envoys, who have recently seen the President with such a purpose in mind, were thrilled by the American decision and expect some U.S. aid in the battle against revolution.

LONG REGIME OVER
The rule of Huey Long in Louisiana is over. His candidate for mayor of New Orleans, Klorer, came last in a three-sided race for this position. The general opinion is that the “Kingfish” was through when he clashed with the President. Long was rather surprised at the results of the election and in his privately printed paper he carried the streamer heading across the front page: God Pity New Orleans.

FRENCH CABINET
After a long and strenuous debate while police battled the mobs outside, the French Cabinet resigned under fire after it had been exposed for official corruption in connection with the forty million dollar collapse of the Bayonne pawnshop. The Premier’s own name as well as those of many high officials in the French government was dragged into the discussion. Mobs clashed repeatedly with heavy police reinforcements and the mounted guards, and kept shouting, “The parliamentary regime is rotten.”

O. J. THIES ELECTED TO SCIENCE ASSOCIATION
O. J. Thies, associate professor of chemistry at Davidson, was recently elected a member and fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, according to an announcement from the society’s permanent secretary in Washington. Only persons who have contributed to the advancement of science, usually by the publication of scientific research, or in other significant manner, such as teaching or directing research in an institution of repute, or persons who advance science by research are eligible for election to the association.

PLAYS “O! DAVIDSON”
Tommy Tucker, who played in Charlotte for Sophomore Week-end, recently played “O! Davidson” over the radio from Station WHAM in Rochester, N.Y.

QUADWRANGLERS DISCUSS METHODS OF EDUCATION
(Continued from page 1)
At Pennsylvania and Harvard University, there are special instructors who do no lecturing, but merely guide those students who are doing honors work in their reading and hear them report on the researches. From his talk, it would appear that too much emphasis is being placed on mass education rather than the stimulation of the scholar. After a brief open discussion of the topic, the meeting adjourned about 9 o'clock. With reference to the Quadwranglers’ future plans, Prof. H. E. Fulcher, president of the club, stated that three more afternoon teas will be given soon, one of which will be open to the wives and lady friends of the Quadwranglers.

T. W. LINGLE MAKES
(Continued from page 1)
Court with Senator Pittman of Nevada, who is chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. He discussed the same problem with Senator Robinson of Arkansas, floor leader of the Senate, and with Judge Moore, Assistant Secretary of State. In his discussion with Robinson and others, he found that the various members of Congress took a pessimistic view as to the collection of the allied debt. The two Senators assured him that a recommendation would be brought before the Senate for adherence to the World Court as soon as the way might be clear for proper consideration. Advocates of a larger navy cited a great list of facts to show that both England and Japan have built more warships since the Washington conference in 1922 than the United States, and that disparity of naval strength is far greater today than ten years ago. Dr. Lingle was amazed at the credence given by many members of Congress to exaggerated stories given out by parties returning from Europe concerning the restlessness of the nations on that continent.

PROJECTS CARRIED ON BY CWA IN DAVIDSON
(Continued from page 1)
One of these was the draining of all streams whose headwaters come within the limits of the town. Among these is the stream running through the college golf course. Another project was the building of the walk along the campus front on the main street of the town. The material for this work was furnished by the college, obtained from old Louisiana, which had been condemned and torn down by CWA workers. Older alumni will remember that “Louisiana” was formerly the residence of Dr. J. B. Shearer during his period of presidency at Davidson. Professor W. W. Wood and his class in engineering, students will be interested to learn, made the survey on this project of the CWA, in line with the work they have been taking up. The mayor and the town council of Davidson with the school committee have been trying to put through a project to build a gymnasium and community house on the local graded school grounds, but as yet the plan has not been put into effect.

FRED WARING TO PLAY ON SUNDAYS AND THURSDAYS
Fred Waring, who has been playing on the Old Gold program, has been engaged to play on the Ford program each Sunday at 8:30 p.m., and each Thursday at 9:30 p.m. Waring has thrilled Davidson students on several occasions with his playing of “O! Davidson” over the Columbia Broadcasting System.

DON QUIXOTE WILL BE PRESENTED OVER NBC
Spanish students may be interested to know that Cervantes’ famous tale of “Don Quixote,” which has ranked among the world’s masterpieces for more than 300 years, will be dramatized for the radio audience over an NBC-WJZ network, beginning Thursday, February 8, at 7:15 p.m., E.S.T.

STATIONERY
CALLING CARDS
FRATERNITY PAPERS
Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates

On Other Campuses
NORTHWESTERN
Three new courses in aeronautical engineering were offered for the first time this fall in the School of Engineering at Northwestern University. A primary course, open to juniors, seniors, and fifth-year engineering students covers technical and non-technical material. A second semester course is devoted to the study of airplane and airship structure. A general advance course in internal combustion engines is also offered to fifth-year engineering students.

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
“No Corsages” was the verdict of the Junior Prom Committee at the University of California during the fall. According to the general chairman, the male faction in the class is hard hit by the depression, and the women, who have also been hit in like manner, should welcome the elimination of flower stains on formal dresses.

SYRACUSE
Is it possible to receive an A from one professor for a season that another professor will think is worth only a D? Whether or not this is true will be determined by a series of tests to be given by the English Department of Syracuse University, made possible by a grant from the Carnegie Corporation, through the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. An experiment is also being made to consider the value of different methods of instruction. Three groups of freshmen, equally proficient in English, have been selected and each group will be instructed by a different method. Businessmen have given impetus to this inquiry by their many complaints of the inability of college graduates to write properly.

MONTANA
Woman’s Day is one of the traditions now at Montana State College. It started with Woman’s Assembly and constantly grew until it is one of the outstanding affairs on the campus. A day for this is set aside just previous to commencement week. The activities take place in the afternoon, preceded by a processional in which the girls appear in their gayest sport clothes. All awards and honors for women on the campus are made at that time.

NEBRASKA
An interesting project has been in process at the University of Nebraska since the fall of 1932. The McCall Company established a model laundry on that campus in which research might be carried on. The purpose of this research was: first, to make a survey of laundry methods which are approved by the various home economics departments. The work is done under the supervision of a graduate student. Periodical reports are sent to McCall’s Magazine from which articles are written.

NEW COLLEGE
Realizing that education should be directly related to the needs of the student as an individual, as a member of society and as a worker, New College has broken away from the accepted administrative and philosophic set-up of the American college. New College is a part of Teachers’ College of Columbia University. The fundamental problem that New College faces is attempting to build up the character and personality of the would-be teacher. The period of study varies according to the ability of the student. In general, it requires from three to five years. At the end of the course, the student spends a year in intern work, that is, teaching in a school, and at the same time under the supervision of members of the college.