THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1934

HARVARD GIVES EXTRA SESSION
Mid-Year Entrance For College Graduates And Experienced Business Men

Cambridge, Mass., October 25: The Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration announced today that an Extra Session designed both for recent college graduates and men with some business experience would begin on January 28. The Extra Session will be open to students with degrees from accredited colleges. In addition, well-recommended men who do not hold college degrees but who have had adequate business experience will be admitted under the regular provisions governing special students.

Students in the Extra Session will have the same instruction under the same faculty as those in the regular first-year class and will be entitled to full academic credit. The Session will continue until August 14, thus enabling the students to enter the regular second-year class in September, 1935. By the elimination of vacations, the normal two-year course is consequently compressed into a period of only one year and four months.

The shorter period of time of the Extra Session permits a reduction of about 25% in room and board expense, thus making an approximate cost of $1,000 for room, board, tuition, and books for the seven months of school from January to August. A limited amount of financial assistance will be available to those men who are unable to defray all expenses from their own resources. This assistance includes various jobs about the School, in the Dining Halls and on the grounds, as well as the School Loan Fund which is available to properly qualified students.

Decision to hold an Extra Session in January will make available an opportunity to begin training for business openings without waiting until the September term. That such openings are available is evidenced by the placement of the 1934 graduating class, over 90% of whom had been placed by the first of October.

Selected Papers Of Phineas Spoon Continued from Page 2

tutional “Bill of Rights”, no matter how hoary, is Jeffersonian. The balance of power between State and Federal governments is immutably fixed by the Constitution. And neither Mr. Roosevelt nor anyone else can expect that their economic innovations will find either contemplation or sanction in that instrument of “political liberty”. Let’s quit the pretense. Mr. Roosevelt can’t forever get by with being universally pleasing. His suggestion that economic security and political liberty can exist together is balderdash. The Declaration of Independence and the Constitution were framed by men who put political liberty above all other considerations. The guarantee of popular freedom against the tyranny of centralized authority was their triumph. It may be that economic security is the insistent popular demand today. If it is, let’s face it. Let’s stand four-square and call it by its name. Above all, let’s count the cost. There may be nothing wrong with Mr. Roosevelt's far-seeing, far-reaching pseudo-collectivism. We don’t mind your bringing a perfect stranger into the house, Franklin, but for heaven’s sake don’t try to persuade us that he is dear old Uncle Samuel!

The unpredictable factor in this integrated economic system is the psychological factor. If the “Security” of Administration doggerel is to be really effected, then this hitherto capricious element must be frozen. This involves the regimentation, the standardization of opinion. Without this totalitarian psychology, “economic security” is political claptrap. Economic security and political liberty are as impossible of co-existence as the immovable body and the irresistible force.

Around Town

Mr. and Mrs. F. D. Hobart and children are spending two weeks vacation at Smithfield, N.C.

The As You Like It Club was entertained Friday evening by Mrs. William King.

Mrs. Dr. Walter Lingle and daughter, Louise, spent the weekend at their cottage in Montreat.

Mrs. J. M. Douglas spent several days with her mother, Mrs. C. M. Munroe, of Charlotte, who is recovering from a recent fall.

Mrs. C. M. Myers, of Greensboro, N.C., was a guest of her daughter, Mrs. Lewis Schenck, this past week.

Miss Susan Moffett, who teaches at Paw Creek, spent the weekend with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. H. M. Moffett.

Capt. F. M. Cochrane was the guest speaker for the Davidson Hi-Y at their meeting last Wednesday.

Mrs. Charles Harrison has as her guest her brother, Mr. G. R. Edmunds, of Ingersoll, Ontario, Canada.

Dr. and Mrs. Frazier Hood spent the weekend at Banner Elk, where he attended a trustee meeting.

Mammoth Pep Meeting Set For Friday Night

A colorful shirt-tail parade, one of Davidson’s better-known methods of exhibiting school spirit, will be the feature of a mammoth pep meeting to be held in Shearer Hall Friday night. This assembly will precede the game with the Catawba College Indians which will be played on Richardson field Saturday. Paul Warren, cheer leader, says he expects all freshmen to be present at the meeting which will begin at seven o'clock. Upperclassmen will probably be there in their usual number to cheer and jeer the freshmen in their snake-like formation. The band will lead the parade in its trek across the campus.

Newspaper Account Of Offer To McEver False

Last Friday an article appeared in The Charlotte News stating that Assistant Coach Gene McEver of Davidson had been prominently mentioned for a coaching position at the University of Tennessee, his Alma Mater. When interviewed, McEver stated that he knew nothing of the rumored offer. The newspaper account stated that McEver had been mentioned for the coaching place as a result of the announcement that Major Bob Neyland, veteran Tennessee coach, would be transferred next year. It was under the tutelage of Coach Neyland that McEver achieved All-American fame as a halfback.

Chemistry Professor Is Improving Rapidly

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, who is convalescing from his recent illness, has shown marked improvement recently. He is able to be up and he has been out several times. It is not known definitely when he will be able to resume his duties in the Chemistry Department of the College, but it is the sincere hope of all the students and his friends that he will be able to resume his duties very soon.

See The New WOOL TIES WITH FRINGED ENDS 65c

New Fall Suits and Overcoats Just Arrived

J O JONES INC 208 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

STATIONERY 1143 E. FOURTH ST.

Fine Printing

QUEEN CITY PRINTING CO. Printers of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and of the DAVIDSON COLLEGE ALUMNI JOURNAL PROGRAMS CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DR. BELK CLOSES YMCA SERVICES Successful Fall Program IsCompleted Under Leadership Of Dr. Belk

Dr. J. Blanton Belk, guest speaker from Richmond, Va., will close the Y. M. C. A. Fall Services here tonight with a talk on “Putting Away Childish Things”. The program will be held in Chambers Auditorium at 7:00 P.M. Dr. Belk is pastor of the Grace Covenant Presbyterian Church of Richmond and came to Davidson highly recommended. He is an outstanding leader in young people’s work and conducts a Young People’s Forum in Richmond. His services on the Davidson campus have brought forth much favorable comment from the student body and townsfolk.

The Fall Services were opened at the Sunday morning church hour with Dr. Belk using as his subject, “The Quest for Religious Experience.” This sermon was based on the eleventh chapter of Luke and the text was “Seek and ye shall find”. In the course of his sermon he made it plain that “An experience of God comes only to those who believe in God. Three definite attitudes are required of those who make this quest. First, an attitude toward God that involves reverence, dedication, and trust. Jesus has embedded this in the Lord’s Prayer. Second, an attitude of undiscourageable good-will toward our fellowmen. Third, an attitude of morality toward ourselves.”

In his other morning services, held at the chapel hour, Dr. Belk used as his themes “Storing Up Reserves”, “The Beast of Sin”, and “Finding Thrills in Religion”. These talks were especially directed to the student body. At Vespers Sunday Dr. Belk spoke on “The Path of the Just”. His other evening services were on “Herod, the Prince of Galilee”, “Calvary,” and tonight, “Putting Away Childish Things.”

Mrs. P. H. Arrowsmith of Florence, S. C., visited in Davidson this past week. Her sons are students at Davidson College.

Campus Dance Problem Is Debated By Society

Featuring the meeting of the Eumanean Literary Society last week was an extemporaneous debate on whether or not Davidson dances should be held on the campus. Those taking the affirmative side of this debate were J. A. C. Andrews and J. L. Shirey; W. M. Wicker, R. B. Stewart, and E. F. Horine upheld the negative side. During this meeting Horine also gave a book report on “The Black God”. The annual election of officers was held by this society last night. However, the results of this election have not yet been obtained.

First Official Parade Of R. O. T. C. Unit Is Held

The first R. O. T. C. parade of the year for the Davidson battalion was held at 3:30 last Monday afternoon, October 29th on the Freshman field. This was the first official parade for the local unit, under the leadership of the newly chosen officers, headed by A. J. Potter, battalion major. This parade came as the result of six weeks of steady drilling and from now on will be a weekly event. Quite a difference was noted by the officers in the snappy appearance of the battalion last Monday and its straggling appearance in mid-September.

AT THE LOCAL THEATRES

Thursday and Friday, Nov. 1 and 2
THE BARRETTS OF WIMPOLE STREET
This picture has received a vast amount of favorable criticism. It has been said by many to contain Norma Shearer’s best performance of her career. Charles Laughton also gives an excellent performance. Charles Laughton plays the role of the pious, vicious, and sinister Victorian parent and Norma Shearer plays the role of his daughter, Elizabeth. The cast includes Norma Shearer, Fredric March, and Charles Laughton.

Saturday, Nov. 3
THE CASE OF THE HOWLING DOG
This is a murder mystery in which Perry Mason (Warren William) the king of crime hunters again solves the mystery and brings the guilty to justice. He is ably assisted by Helen Trenholme, Mary Astor, and Allen Jenkins.

Monday, Nov. 5
I SELL ANYTHING
Pat O'Brien has returned again in the role of a high pressured salesman whose gift of gab not only sells his goods for him but also helps him in his pursuit of the fairer sex. He gets in and out of jams with great ease. The cast includes Pat O'Brien, Ann Dvorak, Claire Dodd, and Roger Pryor.

Tuesday, Nov. 6
THE WOMAN IN RED
Barbara Stanwyck again returns in another of her individualistic performances. She plays the role exceedingly well and has received much favorable criticism. The cast includes Barbara Stanwyck, Frank Morgan, Ricardo Cortez, Lyle Talbot, Phillip Reed, and Hobart Cavanaugh.

MUSICIANS ARE HERE TUESDAY

Mr. And Mrs. John Powell And Lamar Stringfield Are Visitors At Davidson

Mr. and Mrs. John Powell, and Lamar Stringfield, conductor of the North Carolina Symphony Orchestra, paid a visit to Davidson last Tuesday while on their way to Charlotte, where the Symphony played that night. They were very much interested in the musical work at Davidson, and said that the chances here for musical development are good. Mr. Stringfield is the founder and conductor of the N. C. Symphony Orchestra, and Mr. Powell is considered America’s greatest pianist. Mr. Stringfield expressed his hope that the Symphony can play here this year, at which time Mr. Powell would give a recital. It is the hope of the department of music to have this concert. Mr. Pfohl says that the N. C. Symphony will be included in the series of musical concerts to be given here this year, if enough tickets are sold.

Dr. and Mrs. W. T. Patterson of China are guests of Mrs. Patterson’s mother, Mrs. Hallum. Mrs. Patterson, who is a daughter of Mrs. Hallum, will spend the winter here, while Dr. Patterson will study at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. Dr. Patterson is an alumnus of Davidson College.

Buff Shoe Shop
Fine Shoerebuilding
Let Us Dye For You

M. H. GOODRUM
Dry Goods, Groceries, Hardware
Consistently Good Food Throughout the Month

PHILCO AND GRUNOW RADIO
In the manufacture of Granger Rough Cut Pipe Tobacco the Wellman Process is used. The Wellman Process is different from any other process or method and we believe it gives more enjoyment to pipe smokers. It gives the tobacco an extra flavor and aroma. It makes the tobacco act right in a pipe—burn slower and smoke cooler. It makes the tobacco milder. It leaves a clean dry ash—no soggy residue or heel in the pipe bowl.

LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.