THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 14, 1934

N. C. PRESS BODY HOLDS MEETING

Collegiate Press Association Urges Uniform Advertising Rates

Business managers of all North Carolina college publications planned last Friday at the twenty-eighth semi-annual convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association held at High Point College last Thursday, Friday, and Saturday to continue the movement among college publications last spring for the establishment of a standard advertising rate for all publications. Tentative rate schedules, based on the circulation of each class of publication, were discussed, and schedules drawn up last spring were revised.

The HI-PO, student paper at High Point College, was host to the convention, and according to the officers of the association, one of the best arrays of speakers had been presented in recent years by the organization. The principal address of the convention was delivered by D. Hiden Ramsey, president of the North Carolina Press Association, and general manager of the Asheville Times-Citizen, at the banquet Friday night. “The youth of today is not the lost generation,” Ramsey claimed, “it is the saved one. We older ones are the lost, caught up by fate and left to flounder. The world today belongs to its youth.”

D. Kermit Cloniger, business manager of the HI-PO, was advanced from third to second vice-president to fill the vacancy left by the resignation of Margaret Graves, of W. C. U.-N. C. Betty Allardyce, also of Women's College, was elected to the office vacated by Cloniger.

The highlight of the convention was the group discussion period Friday morning. John Cannon, head of the High Point Bureau of the Greensboro Daily News, led the discussion for the newspaper editors. Liston Pope, former editor of the Duke Chanticleer, addressed the editors of annuals. John Mebane, literary editor of the High Point Enterprise and former editor of the Carolina Magazine, headed the discussion for the magazine editors. Business managers of all publications were presided over by A. M. Beck, of Edwards and Broughton Co.

Committees serving for the convention were Charles Harris, Wake Forest, chairman; Mary Gorham, E. C. T. C., and Bill Sullivan, State; rules committee, Waldo Cheek, of Wake Forest, chairman, Ben Rose, Davidson, and Betty Allardyce, W. C. U. N. C.; resolutions committee, Hazel Hardison, Flora McDonald, Clyde Hurt, Atlantic Christian, and Jim Barnhardt, State; publicity committee, C. T. Morris, High Point, Margaret Gilliam, Queens-Chicora, and Guy Angell, Appalachian; time and place committee, Monk Livengood, Duke, Margaret True, Queens-Chicora, and Bets Nelson, W. C. U. N. C.; nominating committee, Women’s College, in Greensboro, will be the hostess to the spring convention. It was selected following an invitation to that effect and the recommendation of the time and place committee.

The delegates were the guests of the High Point Enterprise at a luncheon Friday. Rev. Tom A. Sykes spoke, stressing the influence wielded by the college editors, and urging them to use it in a constructive way.

Science Fraternity Initiates Members

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Takes In Six New Men Who Were Recently Pledged

At a meeting yesterday of Alpha-Alpha chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemistry fraternity, the following men were formally initiated into active membership: M. J. Barnett, of Meridian, Miss.; R. P. Morrow, West Point, Ga.; E. D. Otey, Wytheville, Va.; J. H. Ross, Michoacan, Mexico; W. B. Wartman, South Hill, Va.; E. C. Womble, Wagram. Dr. A. T. Clifford, of Statesville, was initiated as an honorary member of the fraternity last October 22. Dr. Clifford, who came to Davidson for the first time this fall as a professor of chemistry, has been serving in that capacity during the necessarily prolonged illness and convalescence of Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, head of the chemistry department of the college.

Alpha-Alpha is the mother chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, having been founded at Davidson College in 1919. There are now over thirty chapters in the fraternity. Membership is based largely on scholarship, interest in the subject, and the amount of chemistry taken. Dr. Arbuckle was instrumental in the founding of the fraternity and is therefore known as the “Daddy of Gamma Sigma Epsilon.” Officers of the local chapter are: M. W. Alderman, president; C. S. McCall, secretary; E. S. Hodge, treasurer. Other members are J. H. Batte, E. G. Holt, and K. D. Weeks. C. J. Thies, Jr., associate professor of chemistry and faculty member of the chapter, holds the office of Grand Keeper of the Cult in the national organization.

Rev. and Mrs. James Appleby of Maxton were guests of Prof. and Mrs. C. K. Brown during Homecoming. Mr. Appleby was the speaker at the Sunday morning service and at Vespers.

M. H. GOODRUM
Dry Goods, Groceries
Hardware
Radio and Radio Tubes
PHILCO AND GRUNOW

Homecoming Game Attracts Record Crowd Of Alumni
(Continued from Page 1)

Reidsville; Dorothy Grey DeGrote, Reidsville; Macine Myers, Tyrone, Pa.; Barbara Newbill, Oklahoma City, Okla.; Florence Britton, Asheboro; Sally Montague, Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Sue Morgan, Albemarle; Mary Crawley, Albemarle; Virginia Hardin, High Point; Gavnell Raney, Salisbury; Evelyn Misenheimer, Salisbury; Francis Klutz, Salisbury; “Tick” Fraley, High Point; “Bobbie” Rayland, Atlanta, Ga.; Kitty Hoffman, Charlotte; Jane Holman, Charlotte; Isabel White, Concord; Vernice Long Jones, Greensboro; Mary Harris, Welch, W. Va.; Jean Robinson, Gastonia; Alyse Henry, Philadelphia, Pa.; Helen Battersby, Philadelphia, Pa.; Mary Preston, Columbia, S. C.

Lingle To Hold Second Service In Myers Park

Dr. Walter Lingle spoke at the regular service of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, N. C. Dr. Lingle’s sermon was based on the commemoration of Armistice Day. Due to the absence of Dr. Gammon, the pastor of this church, Dr. Lingle will preach in Charlotte again next Sunday morning. Next Wednesday Dr. Lingle will speak to a men’s organization at Newton, N. C. On Thursday of this week the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. will be the sponsors of a banquet given by two hundred men to the same number of fatherless boys. Dr. Lingle will be the principal speaker at this event.

Pi Delta Alpha Sends Out Bids To Ten Men

Pi Delta Alpha, honorary medical fraternity, announces a list of men recently bid. The following men have been asked to join: W. M. Bogart, R. T. Coit, R. O. Dees, J. M. Douglass, C. S. McCall, G. L. Green, C. A. Munroe, W. L. Northern, S. Maynard, and R. M. Porter. Pi Delta Alpha was established at Davidson College two years ago. The present members of this chapter are Joe Wadsworth, K. D. Weeks, D. G. Munroe, and Jim Batte. The initiation of the men extended bids will take place at the next meeting.C.; Mirvine Garrett, Greensboro; Mary McKoy, Concord; Ruth McLeod, Maxton; Margaret Johnson, St. Louis, Mo.; Margaret Sherrod, Greensboro.

Kappa Alpha: Mary Elizabeth Sanders, Roxboro; Sarah Dalton, Norton, Va.; Sarah Frances Crosby, Chester, S.C.; Cecelia Moore, Washington, D.C.; Jean McClung, Lexington, Va.; Betty Harper, Hickory; Katherine Crowell, Charlotte; Amelia Webb, Charlotte; Marty Houston, Houstonia, Pa.; Eliza Morton, Devon, Pa.; Sara Vandiver, Anderson, S.C.; Catherine Alexius, Wilmington; “Jonnie” Walker, Charlotte; Betty Hunter, Charlotte; May Marion, Charlotte; Elizabeth Peden, Fayetteville; Mary Helen Stewart, Raleigh; Eleanor Dunn, Greensboro.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Sara Sancken, Augusta, Ga.; Lib Lucas, Converse College; Beda Carlson, Sweet Briar; Elizabeth Matthews, Hollins, Va.; Martha Matthews, Charlotte; Mary Sibley, Wilmington; Jane Snyder, Washington, D.C.; Celia Wadsworth, Charlotte.

Kappa Sigma: Mary Letty Mebane, Greensboro; Hilda Weill Penn, Winston-Salem; Lufred Brooks, Decatur, Ga.; Lillian Williams, Hartsville, S.C.; Frances Beale, Greensboro; Martha Webster, Greensboro; Gerry Bonkemeyer, Greensboro; Jane Ellen Taylor, Charlotte; Hortense Jones, Greensboro; Nina Pinton, Greensboro; Meda Johnson, Dunn; Elizabeth Higgins, Richmond; Nita Smith, McAdamsville; Emma Lee Suttanfield, Statesfield; Miriam Finklin, Atlanta, Ga.; Esther Richard, Atlanta, Ga.; Katherine Harris, Raleigh; Evelyn Wyatt, Raleigh; Ann West, Charlotte; Marjorie Boggs, Atlanta, Ga.; Marjorie Robinson, Lowell.

Phi Gamma Delta: Mary Louise Haywood, Winston-Salem; Betty Bahnson, Winston-Salem; Katherine Ellison, Greensboro; Rose Rogers, Greensboro; “Ikey” Dyer, Winston-Salem; Miriam Steele, Belmont; Caroline Hinkle, Charlotte; Caroline Wharton, Winston-Salem; Cleve Wharton, Winston-Salem; Margaret Montgomery, Reidsville; Hortense Wilhelmina Monroe, Palm Beach, Fla.; “Cokey” Preston, Washington, D.C.; Emma Renn Jones, Charlotte; Lucy James, Greenville; Nell White, Talladega, Ala.; Mary Withers, N.C.C.W.

Pi Kappa Phi: Nancy Cox, Raleigh; Martha Carlisle, High Point; Irene Little, Raleigh; Corinne Ellison, Lancaster; Sue Huddleston, Bluefield, W.Va.; Alice Reeves, Charlotte; Virginia Carey, Charlotte; Frances King, Weldon; Ermine Cater, Augusta, Ga.; Dorothy Burger, Florence, S.C.; Betsy Sparrow, Florence, S.C.; Margaret Melchor, Mooresville; Lydia Stewart, Charlotte; “Dusty” Blackmon, Rock Hill, S.C.; Elizabeth Dargan, Florence, S.C.; Edna Peyler, Lancaster, S.C.; Libby Atkinson, Timmonsville, S.C.; Jane Yelverton, Wilson; Frances Ray, Charlotte; Anna Mae Feuchtenberger, Bluefield, W.Va.; Mildred Vann, Ahoskie; Betsy Johnson, Wytheville, Va.; Jacques Lee, Lynchburg, Va.; Ret Redfern, Monroe; Mary Clare Stokes, Wilson; Miss Frances Renner, Roanoke, Va.

Phi Delta Theta: Evelyn Bagby, Raleigh; Sue Sharp, High Point; Evelyn Sharp, High Point; Myrtle Mizell, Fernandina, Fla.; Emma Rice, Asheboro; Jean Kent Early, Indianola, Miss.; Edith Wyatt, Raleigh; Carolyn Bayne, Selma, Ala.; Betty Lou Houck, Bradenton, Fla.; Rosanne Howard, Florence, S.C.; Pattie Pratt, Louisville, Ky.; Virginia Shaver, Salisbury; Virginia Booze, Greensboro; Nancy Flanders, Hendersonville; Helen Miller, Shelby; Lina Vance, Johnson City, Tenn.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Margaret Calder, Charlotte; Lois Thomas, Mullens, W.Va.; Greta Thomas, Mullens, W.Va.; Juanita Cline, Shelby; Elizabeth Carter, Ruffin; Nancy Finch, Ruffin; “Mickie” Mason, Greensboro; “Libby” Bishop, Greensboro; Martha Ogburn, Greensboro; Helen Baker, Mooresville; Margaret White, Greensboro; Jane Woodside, Easley, S.C.; Frances Weaver, Anderson, S.C.; Margaret Peeples, Oxford; Nancy Redfern, Asheville; “Teeny” Cook, Salisbury; Frances Weathersbee, Wilmington; Anna Black, Greenwood, S.C.; “Dot” Tarleton, Charlottesville, Va.; Lettie Jackson, Daytona Beach, Fla.; “Snooky” McColl, Sennettsville, S.C.

College Alumni Journal To Appear In December

The third issue of the Davidson College Alumni Magazine, The Alumni Journal, will appear on December 1. This issue will contain college news, a résumé of the football season, and alumni news. This magazine was started this year at Davidson, and it is still on trial. It will be decided at the end of this college year whether or not this magazine will become a permanent publication at Davidson. The decision will depend on the support which the magazine receives this year at Davidson. Grier Martin, alumni secretary, is behind the movement to launch this magazine.

Eumenean Society Has Elected New Officers

During the school year three administrations direct the work of the Eumenean Literary Society, and the second of these for the current year has been recently elected. The new officers are: Luther Shirey, who succeeds Ed Hodge as president; Bob Lindsay, who succeeds Joe Dees as vice-president; and John Allen, who succeeds G.V. Squires as secretary. These officers will be installed at the regular weekly meeting of the society on next Tuesday night, the old officers having had charge of last night's meeting.

The Civic League of Davidson held a business meeting Tuesday afternoon at the Civic League Hall.

Mid-Semester Marks Will Be Posted Soon

The next report of grades will be released about November 25, according to an announcement made by Mr. F.W. Hengeveld, Registrar and Secretary of the Faculty. These grades will constitute the regular mid-semester report and will cover all the work done so far this year, including two reviews and all daily grades. The grades will be posted as usual in the books in Mr. Hengeveld’s office, so that students may obtain their marks by calling by this office at any time after the twenty-fifth. Grades for all classes will be posted at the same time. A copy of each student's report will be mailed to his parent or guardian. This report will be the last to be issued until the semester report comes out after examinations, during the latter part of January. The semester exams will be in session very shortly after the return from the Christmas holidays.

BUFF SHOE SHOP
Modern Shoe Rebuilder
When It Is Done By Buff That Is Enough

FRIDAY, NOV. 16
Davidson Theatre

THURSDAY, NOV. 15
DESIRABLE
WITH JEAN MUIR, VERREE TEASDALE, AND GEORGE BRENT

THE FIREBUG
WITH VERREE TEASDALE, RICARDO CORTEZ, LIONEL ATWILL AND ANITA LOUISE

SATURDAY, NOV. 17
CHARLIE CHAN IN LONDON
WITH WARNER OLAND, MONA BARRIE

MONDAY, NOV. 19
ST. LOUIS KID
WITH JAMES CAGNEY, ALLEN JENKINS, AND PATRICIA ELLIS

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 20
LIMEHOUSE BLUES
WITH GEORGE RAFT, JEAN PARKER, AND ANNA MAY WONG

We tell you that Chesterfield Cigarettes are made of mild, ripe tobaccos. We’ve told you about the paper—that it’s pure and burns right, without taste or odor. We have said that Chesterfields are made right. The tobaccos are aged, then blended and cross-blended, and cut into shreds the right width and length to smoke right. These things are done to make what people want—a cigarette that’s milder, a cigarette that tastes better—a cigarette that satisfies. You can prove what we tell you about Chesterfield. May we ask you to try them—that would seem to be fair enough.

the cigarette that's MILDER
the cigarette that TASTES BETTER