THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 11, 1934

WILDCAT NINE TO PLAY DUKE

Around the Wildcat’s Lair

CINDERMEN MEET TENNESSEE SATURDAY

Well, I must admit that I never saw a place so changed in such a short period in my life. Before we went away for the holiday period, it was cold and dreary on the campus, and the trees were bare and wintry. The students went about their work with a certain amount of pep and vigor. Then, look at it now. Trees showing an advanced shade of green, robins everywhere, and the students lolling around the campus in a state of suspended animation, with thoughts of everything else but their lessons in their minds. What a change!

The boys in the light clads are noticing it, too, and things are picking up all around. Wildcat sports are showing up in an excellent manner this spring so far. We might go so far as to say that prospects look very bright for two teams finishing an undefeated season this spring. Congratulations to the tennis team on the fine showing they have made for themselves thus far. Seven victories in a row are not to be sneezed at. And they weren't made against any puny teams, either. Take Georgia Tech, Emory, South Carolina—oh, any one of those teams rates well. Captain Halverstadt and his teammates have a fine aggregation there, and one which will be hard to beat. I'd like to see them fight the Carolina bunch this spring, and we'll probably get a chance, because they are scheduled to meet here. It will be worth watching, and the outcome will be interesting.

The boys of the cinderpath have rendered a rather full account of themselves so far, too, by the way. Those of you who saw the meet with Richmond last Saturday will agree with me that they will be standing up for their rights also. That Richmond team was a good one, in fact, one of the best in the history of the college, this year, and that adds to the Wildcats’ glory. With Captain Cochran consistently turning in sterling performances in the weights, a pair of speedsters worth watching, and at least two distance men that can push anything in the state, this issue of the Davidson team will bear watching. The freshman squad was outclassed this week by a splendid Richmond frosh team. The Virginia lads simply had the best of the deal on all turns. We notice that in one weight event they actually beat the varsity distance, throwing the javelin about two feet farther.

Well, it seems that the baseball team, reorganized by Coach Laird, has at last come into its own. They came out handily to win the second game from State by a stirring eighth-inning rally. The boys have a lot to measure up to if they follow the example set them by last year’s state championship team. But they should be able to go to town now that they have the winning spirit. They miss the figure of Shrimp Morris standing behind them a little, I believe. They have some good boys in there this year, though, and ought to do some good playing yet.

Congratulations to Mack Holland on winning the basketball trophy. Mack was one of the driving motives behind the Wildcat play this year, and surely deserves praise for his reliability. That trophy will be something to fight for in the future.

Although the Wildcat golfers have yet to play their first match, we feel that something should be said as to prospects. Their first match will be a hard one. They meet Furman, which reputedly has a whale of a well-rounded team. Luck to the lads in their initial venture. You may be sure they’ll do their best.

As this page goes into new hands, for good probably, for the first time, we'd like to ask your tolerance until the editor gains more experience, and your aid in making sports what they should be.

CAT BALL CLUB DEFEAT PACK IN BIG FIVE GAME

Davidson Nine Shows Spurt After Losing Two to Carolina

STATE WINS ONE

Bumgarner and Mock Drive Homers in Victory

The Davidson Wildcat baseball team, Big Five champions last year, got off to a slow start this season, losing two games to Carolina, and breaking even in the series of games with State. The lone victory with the Raleigh team came as a result of a shift in line-up, with Wingfield in centerfield instead of behind the plate, McLean on first base, Smyre at third, and Ravenel as catcher. The revamped combination presented by Coach Laird enabled the ‘Cats to click for the first time this year.

Carolina, 15; Davidson, 4

The Tar Heels, led by Ernest McKeithan, pitcher, and Tommy Irvin, shortstop, collected 16 safe hits, most of them solid and resounding smacks off of Coble and Jenkins who pitched for the ‘Cats. Wingfield, Mock, Morgan, and Ravenel were responsible for Davidson's four runs.

Davidson
AB R H O A E
Mock, 3b .......... 4 0 1 1 2 1
Wingfield, cf ...... 4 1 2 2 0 0
Mackorell, ss ...... 4 0 0 1 1 1
Bumgarner, 2b ..... 4 0 1 1 3 0
Morgan, If ........ 4 1 1 2 0 0
Ravenel, c ........ 4 1 1 6 0 0
Burns, c .......... 2 0 0 0 0 1
Harris, p .......... 2 0 0 0 0 0
Richardson, p ...... 0 0 0 0 0 0
Smyre, 3b ......... 2 0 0 0 0 0
Totals ........... 34 4 6 24 6 3

Carolina
AB R H O A E
Leonard, 3b ........ 5 1 2 2 0 0
Brandt, cf ......... 5 1 2 3 0 0
Weathers, 2b ...... 5 1 1 2 4 1
McCaskill, lf ...... 5 1 2 3 0 0
Irvin, ss .......... 5 2 3 2 2 0
Tatum, rf .......... 5 2 2 2 0 0
Vick, 1b ........... 5 2 2 10 0 0
McKeithan, p ...... 4 2 2 0 2 0
Totals ........... 44 15 16 27 8 1

Summary: Two base hits: Irwin, McKeithan, Vick, Wingfield, Mclver, Tatum, Morgan. Home run: Irwin. Stolen bases: Ravenel, Leonard, Brandt. Sacrifice: McKeithan. Double plays: Tatum to Weathers to Irwin. Left on bases: Davidson 3; Carolina 6. Bases on balls: off McKeithan, 4; off Jenkins, 2; off Coble, 2. Struck out: by McKeithan, 3; by Jenkins, 4; by Coble, 2. Hits: off Jenkins, 8 in 4 2-3 innings; off Coble, 7 in 3 1-3 innings. Wild pitches: Jenkins, McKeithan. Passed ball: Ravenel. Umpires: Hanna and Ballard. Time: 2:15.

Carolina, 13; Davidson, 5

Carolina handed the Wildcats their second defeat of the Easter series in a game staged on Richardson Field. The Davidson team took the lead in the second inning when Bumgarner, Morgan, and Ravenel started a parade of hits, netting four runs. However, Carolina came back in the third and soon held a safe lead.

Davidson
AB R H O A E
Mock, 3b .......... 4 0 1 1 2 1
Wingfield, cf ...... 4 1 2 2 0 0
Mackorell, ss ...... 4 0 2 3 3 0
Bumgarner, 2b ..... 4 0 1 1 3 0
Morgan, If ........ 4 1 1 2 0 0
Ravenel, c ........ 4 1 1 6 0 0
Burns, c .......... 2 0 0 0 0 1
Harris, p .......... 2 0 0 0 0 0
Richardson, p ...... 0 0 0 0 0 0
Smyre, 3b ......... 2 0 0 0 0 0
Totals ........... 34 4 6 24 6 3

(Continued on page 6)

Davidson Trackmen To Meet Tennessee

Pritchett Expects Hard Fight From Strong Foes

On Friday morning the Davidson track team will make its way to Knoxville, Tenn., where Saturday it will engage the strong University of Tennessee team on its home field. Tennessee has a strong team this year, having just recently defeated Maryville College by more than 20 points. Davidson showed up well in the Southern Indoor Conference meet at Chapel Hill, and has recently overcome the Furman and University of Richmond trackmen here. The latter institution is said to have one of its strongest teams in recent years. The spirit of the school and the team was expressed recently by Captain N. G. Pritchett, who said: “Tennessee has a strong team, but we feel that we should be able to take them.”

Davidson Netmen To Make Virginia Tour

To Visit Charlottesville, Williamsburg, and Richmond

Davidson's first six ranking tennis players left this morning on a tour through Virginia. Tomorrow the team will play a match with the University of Virginia at Charlottesville. They will meet William and Mary College on Friday at Williamsburg, and Saturday the Country Club of Virginia will oppose the Wildcats at Richmond. Those players making the trip are, in order of their rank, Captain Halverstadt, Tee Thompson, John Lafferty, Martin Barnett, Francis Scott, Carlyle Lewis, and Manager Wee Thompson. The Country Club of Virginia is expected to furnish very strong competition for Davidson's netmen, as they are credited with having the best tennis team in the state.of Virginia probably has the first-ranking intercollegiate team in the state. The Wildcats have made an excellent showing this season and, if they can come through this series undefeated, they will be well in line for championship honors.

Golf Team To Play First With Furman

The Davidson varsity golf team will open its season Thursday afternoon when they meet the Furman University golfers on the Carolina golf course in Charlotte. While this is the first match for Davidson, Furman has the advantage of having played three matches already this season, losing only to Georgia Tech. In one of these matches, they defeated the strong University of Richmond team.

The team is now composed of Barnes, Bowman, Bunn, Cannon, and Hamrick. From this group, four will be selected to compete in the match, the other serving as an alternate. On Friday afternoon, the Davidson team will meet the University of South Carolina. This match will also be played in Charlotte.

Inter-Class Baseball, Tennis, and Golf Begin

Three intramural tournaments will begin this week. The indoor-outdoor baseball tournament was begun this afternoon with a game between the Seniors and the Freshmen; tomorrow afternoon, the Sophomores will meet the Juniors. The captains of the class baseball teams are: Seniors, Dale Spencer; Juniors, Sam Bernardo; Sophomores, Lamont Brown; and Freshmen, Bill Pritchard.

The tennis and golf tournaments will begin later in the week with matches in both sports between the Seniors and Freshmen on the first day, and between the Juniors and Sophomores the next day. These matches will be conducted as regular intercollegiate matches in these sports are conducted. The captains of the class tennis teams are: Senior, Mack Holland; Junior, Tom Sutton; Sophomore, Bill Rell; and Freshman, Kenneth Scott. For golf, the captains are: Senior, Alex Schenck; Junior, Mack Porter; Sophomore, Bill Snow; and Freshman, Buddy Branton.

Prepare yourself for Easter by getting that Hair Cut at Norton’s Barber Shop

Buff Shoe Shop
Fine Shoe Repairing
Next Door to Linker’s Pressing Club

“DRUGS” “SUNDRIES”
A Complete Drug Store
“Make Our Store Your Store”
Reliable Prescription Druggists
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
“SODA” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

Wildcat Cindermen Defeat Richmond And Furman On Richardson Field

Trophy Winner

MACK HOLLAND has recently been picked by the members of the faculty basketball team as best showing the elements of team spirit during the season of 1934.

Mack Holland Wins Team Spirit Trophy

Plaque Is Offered by Faculty Basketball Team

Mack Holland, of the Senior class, according to a recent statement by the faculty basketball team, is the winner of the plaque offered each year for the man showing the best team spirit during the basketball season. Accordingly, Holland’s name will be engraved on the plaque, which contains places for names through 1939, and the plaque will be publicly presented to him at some time in the near future.

Holland is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, being the Pan-Hellenic representative from this group, and has been a letterman in basketball for the last two years. He was a mainstay on this year's team.

The plaque is a gift from the faculty basketball team, which was unusually active this year, playing several games in actual competition. It was composed of Coach Laird, Grier Martin, Coach McEver, Freshman Coach Peabody, Professor Schenck, Coach Unger, Heath Whittle, and Sam Wiley. The plaque has been on display for some time in the Chambers trophy case. It will be presented by a committee of three from the faculty team, who have not been designated as yet.

Frat Baseball Teams Open Tourney Thursday

The annual intrafraternity baseball tournament will start tomorrow afternoon with a game between Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Pi Kappa Phi. On Friday, Phi Delta Theta will meet Kappa Sigma. Next week, there will be games between Kappa Alpha and Phi Gamma Delta, Sigma Phi Epsilon and Pi Kappa Alpha, and Beta Theta Pi and the winner of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon-Pi Kappa Phi game.

Cochran and Frazier Set New Records in Four Events

FROSH DEFEATED

Trackmen Down Furman 98-37, and Richmond 74-52

The Davidson track team defeated Furman by a score of 98 to 38 in a meet held here Wednesday afternoon, March 28, taking 12 out of 14 first places. Three school records fell during the meet. Miller Cochran, captain of the team, set new records in the shot-put with a distance of 46 feet, 9 inches, and in the discus with a throw of 134 feet, 9½ inches. The previous records set by Cochran last year were 44 feet, 3 inches for the shot and 134 feet, 4 inches for the discus.

The other record broken in the meet was the two-mile run made in 9 minutes, 59 seconds by E. N. Frazier, sophomore. The previous two-mile record, held by Brannon, ’32, was 10 minutes, 2.5 seconds. Evans and Cochran tied for high scoring position with 13 points each. High scorer of the Furman team was Meindell with 9 points.

Summary:
100-yard dash—Evans (D), first; Scott (F), second; Faison (D). Time, 9.9 seconds.
One-mile run—Oakes (D), first; Morrow (D), second; Glass (D). Time: 4 minutes, 50.5 seconds.
220-yard dash—Evans (D), first; Faison (D), second; Scott (F). Time: 23.2 seconds.
Pole vault—Lee and Pittman (both of Davidson), first (tie); Dennis and Robinson (both of Furman), third (tie). Height: 10 feet.
120-yard high hurdles—McPhail (D), first; Pratt (D), second; Meindell (F). Time: 16 seconds flat.
Shot-put—Cochran (D), first; McElrath (D), second; Tranyham (F). Distance: 46 feet, 9 inches.
440-yard run—Trowbridge (F), first; Boney (F), second; Fraley (D). Time: 54.5 seconds.
Two-mile run—Frazier (D), first; Gullette (D), second; Montgomery (D). Time: 9 minutes, 26.6 seconds.
Discus—Cochran (D), first; Dill (D), second; Anderson (F). Distance: 134 feet.
High jump—Gammon (D), first; Meindell (F), second; Lee (D). Height: 5 feet, 6 inches.
Javelin throw—Pearce (D), first; Cochran (D), second; Meindell (F). Distance: 160 feet, 8 inches.
880-yard run—Oakes (D), first; Trowbridge (F), second; Corbin (D). Time: 2 minutes, 7.1 seconds.
Broad jump—Wingfield (D), Meindell (F), first (tie); Armistead (D). Distance: 21 feet, 18.4 inches.

Davidson, 74; Richmond, 52

With Captain Cochran smashing his (Continued on page 6)

SLEEP LATE and DINE WITH US:
LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOP

“SUCCESS AT ANY PRICE”
“MEN IN WHITE”
Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS—GENEVIEVE TOBIN

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY
“DAVID HARUM”
WILL ROGERS

SATURDAY
“HAROLD TEEN”
HAL LEROY—ROCHELLE HUDSON

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
CLARK GABLE—MYRNA LOY