PICK YOUR ALL-TIME DAVIDSON TEAM

The Davidsonian

Glenda Lux

Gbhi Orta Libertas

OTTS LECTURES WILL BEGIN TUESDAY

Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 7, 1934 No. 16

E.L. Powell Chosen Freshman Adviser In Class Election

Rives and Lafferty Runners-up in Race for Freshman Representative

WAS CLASS PRESIDENT

Powell to Guide Yearlings Until Spring Elections

In the final ballot taken last week, the Freshman class elected E. L. Powell its Senior Counselor and Adviser. Several years ago, an amendment to the constitution forbade the Freshman class from electing its officers. It has been the custom, then, for the last three years to elect some outstanding senior to act as adviser to the first-year men. The class of ’35 elected Sam Wiley as its adviser. Last year, owing to a vacancy, the president of the student body, Jerome Clarke, presided over the class.

Powell was the last president of a Freshman class. Since that time, he has been a leader not only of his class but of the campus as a whole. Powell is cadet captain of Company A of the local R. O. T. C. unit and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, of Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity, manager of the Student Store, a member of the “Y” Cabinet in charge of freshman work, and a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, chemistry fraternity.

Nominations for candidates were made at a meeting of the Freshman class the week before last, the ballots being run off last week. The first ballot had nine nominees: E. L. Powell, J. W. Lafferty, C. M. Rives, Boggs Corbin, Mack Holland, A. B. McLain, Lanier Pratt, Alex Schenck, Eb Willson, of which all but the first three were eliminated. The second ballot re- (Continued on page 2)

Midwinters Bring Famous Orchestra

Fred Smyre and Mack Holland Lead Figure

Old Man Groundhog failed to see his shadow last Friday at noon, and if the familiar legend concerning him holds true, Davidson students should have favorable weather for the celebration of their annual Mid-Winter dances in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium on February 9 and 10.

Featuring the music of Emerson Gill and his orchestra, the series will include a group of three dances sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council. There will be a formal affair Friday night from ten till two, a tea dance Saturday afternoon from four till seven, and an informal one Saturday night from eight-thirty till twelve. The ten social fraternities on the Hill are having house parties for the occasion, and girls from all over the South have been invited to attend. A number of banquets to take place in Charlotte between the dances have also been planned by various fraternities.

A figure in which members of the Pan-Hellenic Council and presidents of fraternities will participate is to be held Friday night. Those of the council who will form the figure are: Fred Smyre, president of the council, and Miss Alice Cowles Barringer, of Charlotte; Mack Holland, secretary and treasurer, and Miss Adelaide Fortune, of Greensboro; W. A. Kirkland and Miss Laura Lyon, of Durham; Fred McPhail and Miss Katherine Crowell, of Charlotte; Sidney Tomlinson and Miss Mary Willis Roddey, of Rock Hill, S. C.; E. L. Powell and Miss Edith Christian, of Mobile, Ala.; Bradford McLean and Miss Sarah Gibson, of Gibson; Miller Cochran and Miss Martha Neal, of Salem College; D. M. Glasgow and Miss Margaret Blackmon, of Rock Hill, S. C.; John Hunter and Miss Tut Gorrell, of Greensboro; and Ben Barnes and Miss Sarah Williamson, of Rock Hill, S. C.

Gill’s orchestra has recently completed an engagement at Cleveland’s famous Lotus Garden, and has played from the Pavilion Royal in Long Island, the Steel Pier in Atlantic City, the Mt. Royal Hotel in Montreal, and many other well-known places through- (Continued on page 2)

Charlotte News Sponsors All-Time Wildcat Grid Team

Mr. Jackson Speaks Before Kiwanis Club

Talks on Tendencies in Modern American Education

At the meeting of the Gastonia Kiwanis Club held last Tuesday, Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson College, gave a brief talk on the tendencies in modern American education. Mr. Jackson brought out the fact that there are three matters of training which are now receiving the special attention of educators and educational institutions. They are: training in government, physical education, and the proper use of leisure time.

Recently we have been brought to the realization that we need to give our young men better training for government positions, a fact that England has long considered one of the most important in educational methods.

In addition to Mr. Jackson’s talk, a musical program was given by the quartet of the Davidson College Glee Club, accompanied at the piano by Mr. J. C. Pfohl, director of music at Davidson. The quartet, consisting of D. P. McLain, F. H. Morris, J. C. Robinson, and F. A. Tucker, sang a medley, entitled “Street Urchin,” and also “Short’nin’ Bread,” while McLain sang two bass solos, “The Three Grenadiers,” and “Asleep in the Deep.”

G. B. Watts Plans His Ninth Tour of Europe

Plans for an extended tour of Europe for the summer of 1934 have just been completed by Dr. G. B. Watts of the Department of French. The Davidson professor will again act as leader of a group of American tourists under the management of a Boston tourist bureau with which he has been associated for several years. This will be his ninth European tour as a group leader.

Sailing from New York on the S. S. Olympic late in June, the party will motor in England, visiting London and the Shakespeare country. From England, the route lies to Paris, where several days will be spent. Switzerland and Northern Italy will be visited, including several motor trips through Alpine passes. From Venice, the party will travel to Innsbruck in the Austrian Tyrol. The anniversary performance of the world-famous Passion Play of Oberammergau will be a feature. This will be the third performance of the play witnessed by Dr. Watts. After a short stop in Munich, the party will go to Prague, Vienna, and Budapest. Leaving Hungary, they will turn north, stopping at Dresden, en route to Berlin. Several days will be spent in the German capital before going to Cologne and Brussels. The party will visit Bruges, sailing from Amsterdam on the S. S. Westmoreland the second week in August.

Lectures Delivered On Physiology and Hygiene

A series of lectures on physiology and hygiene given by Dr. J. W. MacConnell is now in progress. The lectures will be given at the last period on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons during the next few weeks. These lectures are primarily for freshmen, but all other students are invited to attend as they are of interest to all.

The first of the series, which was given last Thursday, was on the skeleton system. The subjects of the remaining lectures are as follows: the circulatory system, the digestive system, the muscular system, the nervous system, and the reproductive system. These lectures are sponsored by the Student Health Service, whose main function is the prevention of disease. They are designed to instruct the student as to the best methods of preserving his health and increasing his bodily vigor.

Dr. MacConnell was formerly the head of the Department of Biology at Davidson, in which position he served for twelve years.

Wade Ison, Sports Editor, to Settle Much-Argued Question by Ballot

STUDENTS MAY VOTE

Mackorell Placed in Dr. Oren Moore’s Selection

During the past week, a contest has been conducted by Wade Ison, sports editor of the Charlotte News, in his column “Isonglass” in an attempt to select an All-Time Davidson Football Team. The contest was occasioned by the fact that Dr. Oren Moore, an ardent Davidson alumnus, who had previously picked an All-Time Davidson team, shifted his line-up somewhat by placing Johnny Mackorell in the place of Booe, due to Mackorell’s sparkling play during the past season. Other outstanding players on Dr. Moore's team were Sayad and Wooley Gray, both guards.

This selection naturally occasioned quite a bit of interest among Davidson fans; accordingly, Wade Ison proposed his plan in order to decide this matter once and for all. Now, in order to secure a wider range of opinion, he has asked the assistance of the Davidson students in making this selection, since naturally they are interested. In view of this, a ballot with spaces for the players’ names may be found on the sport page of this issue of The Davidsonian. Any student who wishes to enter his choice may fill out this ballot, sign it, and send it to the sports department of the Charlotte News. A list of outstanding Davidson football players, which the student may consult in making his choice, is included with the ballot on the sport page in this issue.

Local ROTC Unit Promotions Made

Brown Is Raised to Cadet Lieutenant-Colonel

W. M. Brown has been promoted from the rank of cadet major of the battalion to that of cadet lieutenant-colonel, former Cadet Captain-Adjutant E. J. Humphrey is cadet major and T. H. McCallie was raised to the position of captain-adjutant from the rank of cadet first lieutenant, according to an order published last Wednesday at the weekly military parade. A copy of the order follows: Headquarters, Reserve Officers Training Corps, Davidson College, January 31, 1934. Special Order No. 10.

1. Under authority contained in Army Regulations 145-10 the following promotions of cadets are announced effective this date: To be cadet lieutenant-colonel, W. M. Brown, battalion commander; to be cadet major, E. J. Humphrey, executive officer; to be cadet captain, T. H. McCallie, battalion adjutant; to be cadet first lieutenant, H. R. Pratt-Thomas.

2. Immediately upon receipt of this order Cadet Captain McCallie will report to the battalion commander for duty as adjutant. (Continued on page 3)

“The Home” Is Subject Of Lectures by Gwynn

Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr., is making two addresses this week at the Second Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. The first lecture was on Tuesday, February 6, and the second will be Wednesday night, February 7, at 7:30 o’clock. His general subject is “The Home.” These lectures are in connection with the reading and study of “The Home and Christian Living,” a book which was the basis of instruction of the local auxiliary. At least 100 copies are now in the hands of families for instruction. Dr. Gwynn’s subject for his address on Tuesday, February 6, was “The"Home in a Changing Civilization," and on Wednesday night the topic will be "Family Adjustments in the Spirit of Jesus." All who have been pursuing the course on the home as conducted by the special book, and also the general public, are invited by the church leaders to hear Dr. Gwynn.

Dr. Brenizer Talks With Illustrations To Pi Delta Alpha
Charlotte Physician Explains the New Advances in Abdominal Surgery
SHOWS OPERATION
New Fraternity Officers Elected After Lecture

Dr. Addison Brenizer, prominent Charlotte surgeon, gave an illustrated lecture before an open meeting of Pi Delta Alpha, pre-medical fraternity, on Friday evening, February 2, in Chambers Building. The topic of the lecture was, "Down the Alimentary Canal with Camera and Tools." This was Dr. Brenizer’s third visit for the purpose of giving the pre-medical students an insight into current medical advances. Rufus Morrow, president of Pi Delta Alpha, introduced the speaker, who began by showing slides of the abdominal regions. The stomach, both normal and defective, was shown on the screen and explained by the surgeon. Many obstructions in the stomach were noted and their causes and effects were explained. The most obstructive area was found in the lower outlet of the stomach called the duodenum. "The severest pain," the speaker remarked, "results when the duodenum forms an ulcer, which is a sore attended with the secretion of pus. When this action is not checked, the food reverses and causes vomiting." The remedies for the incorrect function of the stomach were explained by Dr. Brenizer by use of lantern slides. In most cases, the lecturer stated, "the proper action to take is an immediate operation to cut out the obstructed area and sew the lining to the intestines." The climax of the meeting was a moving picture of an actual operation on the stomach performed by Dr. Brenizer. The remarkable feat of the operation was that not a drop of blood (Continued on page 6).

Mecklenburg County Young People Gather

The Mecklenburg County Christian Endeavor and Epworth Leagues held a joint rally in the Chambers Auditorium of Davidson College Friday, February 2. The speaker for the occasion was Bishop Edward D. Mouzon of Charlotte, whose topic was "What About Jesus Christ?" "Four fields," said Bishop Mouzon, "should hold our thoughts on Christ. They are the economical, social, interracial, and international." He stressed the point that if we would be Christians, Christ’s standards of morality must be ours. Chester Morrison was in charge of the program, and J. C. Alexander read the scriptures. At this rally, the Christian Endeavor Society of the St. Andrews Presbyterian Church won the permanent possession of the attendance cup, winning it during the past two rallies and having a 100 percent representation at this meeting.

Scientific Movie to Be Given by Physics Frat

Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics society, at its regular meeting Monday night, made plans to give, through the cooperation of the management of the local theatre, a movie relating to some interesting subject of science. Six new men were also voted upon to be issued bids to become members of the society. The films for the picture will be ordered within the next few days in order that a free showing can be made to the public one afternoon in the near future. It will be presented immediately after the regular matinee at the Davidson Theatre. A. P. Hassel, E. S. Hodge, Al. Kuhn, Tom Marchant, Jake Morrow, and Rufus Morrow are the men who have received invitations to become members of the fraternity. The initiation ceremony for these men will be held at the meeting three weeks hence.

Notice to Juniors

Since there will be no evening services at the Presbyterian Church next Sunday evening, February 11, Dr. Sentelle has issued the following notice: Both juniors and seniors will be allowed to count attendance at vespers as their church attendance next Sunday.

MASQUERS TO HOLD TRYOUTS FOR PLAY

Dramatic Club Plans to Give Shaw’s "Candida"

"Candida" by George Bernard Shaw, is to be the next production of the Red and Black Masquers. Coached by D. Wills Hollingsworth, who is assisted by Gordon Wood, the play is to be given about the second week of March. Mrs. W. P. Cumming has consented to play the lead, Candida, and Miss Orrie Steele, Proserphine Garnette. Four other characters are to be played by students: Morell, Candida’s husband; Rev. Alexander Mill; Mr. Burgess, Candida’s father; and Marchbanks, the leading male character. Tryouts for these four parts will be held in the Social Center Thursday night at 7 o'clock. Copies of the play are to be found in the library. "Candida," a psychological study of a woman, is held to be the best comedy since Sheridan. Since it first appeared in 1895, it has had long runs both in New York and London, and also many presentations by stock companies.

Davidson Team May Stage Radio Debate

Will Contest Florida or Washington and Lee

It is hoped that some time in March the Davidson debating team will contest by means of radio the team of either the University of Florida or the team of Washington and Lee University. The definite date has not been set for the debate, but the president of the Forensic Council, Ed Humphrey, has already seen the officials of WBT, the Charlotte station, and has made tentative arrangements with them. It is hoped that the debate can be delivered at night. The purpose of this radio debate is to stimulate interest in the Forensic Council, and for the purpose of obtaining prospective students. The subject of the debate will be "The Power of the President of the United States Should be Substantially Increased as a Settled Policy."

Six Men Are Initiated Into Alpha Phi Epsilon

Six new men were initiated at a recent meeting of Alpha Phi Epsilon, national honorary forensic fraternity, when Richard Banks, Robert Coit, H. H. Fitzgerald, Stewart Henry, Rufus Morrow, and Walter Sprunt were received into the organization. Following the ceremony, the new initiates were called upon to demonstrate their forensic abilities by making extemporaneous speeches on various subjects of international interest. In a business discussion which then took place, it was decided that the picture of the fraternity should be placed in the Annual this year, as customary.

Davidson’s Radio Hour To Cease Temporarily

Davidson’s weekly radio program will be temporarily discontinued, due to a conflict in schedules. This program has been broadcast Wednesday evenings at 8:30 p.m., but it became necessary for the Columbia Broadcasting Company to substitute another program at this hour. As soon as a suitable hour is available, the programs will continue over Station WBT in Charlotte. Mr. Grier Martin has announced that either the Florida or Washington and Lee debate with Davidson will be broadcast this spring. This debate will probably be an afternoon program and will be broadcast through the courtesy of Station WBT.

Rev. Macartney To Deliver Addresses On Christian Faith

Lectures to Deal With Otts Foundation at Davidson College
LECTURES AT 10:15
One Recitation Will Be Omitted Each Day

The lectures on the Otts Foundation at Davidson College will be delivered this year by Rev. Clarence Edward Macartney, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Pittsburgh, Pa. His general theme will be "Christian Faith and the Spirit of the Age." Specific lectures under this topic will be given as follows: The Christian Book, Tuesday, February 13; The Christian Way, Wednesday, February 14; The Christian Act, Thursday, February 15; and The Christian Destiny, Friday, February 16. All lectures begin promptly at 10:15 a.m. In order that the students may hear the lectures, the registrar will arrange the schedule during the week so that one recitation period will be omitted each day. These lectures, while primarily intended for the students, are open to the general public also. The Otts Foundation was established in 1893, when Rev. J. M. P. Otts, D.D., LL.D., endowed a foundation at Davidson College, the income of which is to be used in securing distinguished speakers, from time to time, to deliver at the college courses of lectures in defense of Christianity against current heresies, especially such as may seem directed at the foundations of the Christian faith. Since the first lecture in 1893, by Dr. Otts himself, Dr. R. L. Dabney, Dr. J. B. Shearer, Dr. W. W. Moore, and Dr. Harris B. Kirk have spoken on this foundation, and these lectures are published in book form. The lectures are supposed to take place at least once every two years. Dr. Macartney is a graduate of Princeton University and of Princeton Theological Seminary. From 1914 to 1917, he was pastor of the Arch Street Presbyterian Church, Philadelphia, Pa., and since that time, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Pittsburgh (Continued on page 3).

J. P. Williams Gives Address to Civitans

Speaks on Different Business Systems in America

The beginning of the end of the capitalistic and individualistic systems of business in America was seen in 1933, Prof. John P. Williams, professor of business administration at Davidson College, declared today in an address at the Civitan Club luncheon at the Chamber of Commerce. America as a nation was founded on the individual, who in a business way could start what he liked, make money and spend it as he chose, and this has been the spirit of the history of this country, the speaker said. But since March 4, there has been a change and today the federal government is in control, Professor Williams continued, pointing to examples of this control as the subsidy of the farmer, the NRA for industry, and the plan of paying at least an existence wage for labor. "Who of us on March 4, as we listened to the President's inaugural address, would have thought that the NRA and General Johnson would be playing the part they do today? There is one question that now arises, what will happen, not in the next six months, not in the next two years, but probably in the next five or ten years, if a political party would wield the principle of the NRA for its own purposes?" the speaker asserted. For the future, this country may expect that the admonition of caring for the poor, as well as realizing that the poor "ye have always with you" shall be carried out, he continued. Also, he said, the future will show that the federal government will have an ever-present part in the conduct of business and industry.