THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 26, 1934

RADIO SITUATION DISCUSSED IN CHAPEL MEETING

Intimation Of The Executive Committee Made Necessary The Discussion

IN PROBATION PERIOD

A meeting of the student body was called Wednesday, September 19th, by President “Skip” Brown to formulate a definite policy in regard to the radio situation. For the greater part of last year, radios were not allowed on Davidson campus until during the latter part of the year when, by a faculty ruling, the radio situation was placed in the hands of the Student Government. A plan submitted by officers of the Student Administration was approved by the student body. This plan has nothing to do with the honor system, but gives permission to students to own and operate radios using their own discretion concerning the probability of disturbing their neighbors. Provision was made in the plan stating that if three complaints were made against the owner, the instrument would be removed from the occupant’s room.

Due to an Executive Committee intimation that rigid control was not being exercised and that an administration injunction against the ownership and use of radios would be forthcoming unless action was taken, President Brown made an earnest plea to Davidson students to aid by cooperative means to control and enjoy the use of radios. Article 5, Section 9 in the Constitution under which the radio situation shall be governed, reads as follows: “There shall be no playing of musical instruments or unnecessary noise between 7:30 P.M. and 7:30 A.M., except on Saturday and Sunday nights.” This article is no part of the honor system, and is not subject to action by the Student Council, but placed in what might be called “Davidson's Bill of Rights” to protect the interest of those who might be distracted or in any way disturbed by what is called unnecessary noise.

Dr. Gwynn Engages In Summer Religious Work

Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr., professor in the Department of Education and Sociology at Davidson College, spent the earlier part of this summer in the meeting of the Committee on Purpose of the National Council on Religion in Higher Education, held in New York City. Dr. Gwynn was chosen to represent the southern section of the United States in the work of this committee. Later in the summer, Dr. Gwynn spent three weeks in the state of Arkansas lecturing in synodical conferences of the Southern Presbyterian Church. During one week in August, he continued his educational work by directing a Patients’ Institute for Camp Sequoyah near Asheville, N.C. During the early part of September, he attended the Week-of-Work of the National Council on Religion in Higher Education at Rochester, N.Y.; and just before returning to Davidson to resume his duties here, he represented the local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at the meeting of the Triennial Council in Cincinnati, Ohio.

Persistent Rains Cause Delay In Campus Work

Work on the new walks and roads on the campus, which was halted by rain, will be resumed the latter part of this week if the weather continues to be fair. It is necessary to have an absolutely dry surface on which to apply the last surface treatment. The work was halted before school opened by rain. But now it is hoped that this work can be resumed immediately so that the roads will be completed and ready for use by the time of the next home football game, which is on October 20. With the completion of the new hard surfacing, in connection with the general program of rehabilitation in progress at Davidson, the students will be relieved of the muddy condition of the walks that caused so much hazard before.

Staffs Of Davidsonian Given Elm Row Office

The office of the Davidsonian has been moved this year to Elm Row, facing the main highway. The new office has been equipped with new tables and lighting fixtures, and the walls have been re-papered. In the future, all meetings of the editorial and business staffs of the Davidsonian will be held in the new office instead of in the dormitory parlors.

Around Town

The Davidson Hi-Y held its annual tap day last Wednesday in the high school auditorium, during the regular chapel period. After a preliminary talk by Dr. Frank Buckner, Davidson alumnus, the following members were tapped: Pete Metcalf, Bob Pharr, Cyrus Colvin, Bill Pope, Kenneth Pope, Louis Parker, Edwin Shewmake, Edward Jackson, and Frank Caldwell. At a preceding meeting, the following officers were elected for the coming year: William Withers, president; Richard McClain, vice-president; Harold Mooney, secretary and treasurer; James Mooney, and Frank Carter, sergeant-at-arms. Archie Shuford and Billy Merchant will continue to be the student advisors of the local Hi-Y.

The Tuesday Afternoon Club met with Mrs. Gene Meliver on September 18th. On Friday, September 21, the Book Lovers’ Club held its annual picnic at Barium Springs. Mrs. J. M. Douglas and Mrs. E. Shewmake were in charge. The Telemite Club met Friday evening with Mrs. J. T. Rhett. Architecture is the subject for the year’s study.

Mr. Frank Buckner, who is a medical student at Duke, spent the week with his mother, Mrs. Alice Buckner. Mr. Buckner has just passed the State Board Examinations. Dr. J. H. Hartness, who has recently succeeded Dr. Bell as dentist, has purchased the old Pi Kappa Alpha house, and is now residing there with his family. Mrs. Olin White, a former Davidson resident and house mother of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, is the guest of Dr. and Mrs. C. M. Richards. Mrs. J. R. Withers entertained for her guest last Saturday evening. Miss Edith Slaughter left Saturday morning for State College, where she will enroll as a freshman. Coach and Mrs. G. F. Georgia have moved into their new home at the farther end of Thompson Road. Mrs. Scott Lyon and daughter, Maline, are the guests of friends in Clarksville, Tenn. Mrs. C. K. Brown and little son are spending a few weeks with relatives in Tallahassee, Fla. It has recently been discovered that extensive repairs on the church furnaces will be necessary. The officers of the church hope that these repairs will be completed before October 1.

Seek Successors For Student Body Officers

Bill Bowman, president of the Junior Class, has withdrawn from Davidson and is continuing his studies at Duke University. Bob Richardson, first vice-president of the student body, also failed to return, and is working at Reidsville. As these two men hold important positions in the student body, the problem of selecting their successors must be dealt with. In the case of Bowman, the vice president of the Junior Class, Coley Windham, will call a meeting of the class.At which session a new president and a new vice-president will be elected. This is made necessary by the fact that there is no written constitution to provide for the succession. Therefore, it shall be decided by the Junior Class whether or not the present vice-president will succeed Bowman. Harvey Glass was elected 2nd vice-president of the Student Body in the spring elections, and he will arbitrarily succeed Bob Richardson as first vice-president. At a convenient time, a general student body election will be held to fill the post vacated by Glass.

Students Fill Chemical Lab Classes To Excess

Martin, the college's oldest and most picturesque building, is filled and overflowing with chemistry students this year, according to a report sent out by the instructors in charge of the various lab classes. The Organic Chemistry 3 class reports fifteen to twenty students above the laboratory capacity. Consequently, a portion of the 1B and 1C lab was converted for use in Organic Chemistry. The Chemistry 6 class, which deals with industry, has more members than ever before, with approximately ten over the usual class roll. Sections 1B and 1C Chemistry have from five to ten more students than before. Throughout the entire Department of Chemistry, it is estimated that there are forty students above the usual enrollment.

M. W. Alderman of Chemistry 1C has been compelled to give up his assistantship temporarily on account of sickness. Other Chemistry assistants include: A. W. Shaw, overflow section of Chemistry 3; William Wortman, section 1B; Martin Barnett, section 1B; and I. S. Hodge, Chemistry 3.

RUNIT... At The Local Theatre

Friday, Sept. 28
YOU BELONG TO ME

"You Belong To Me" is the type of picture that one doesn’t see every day. It is the story of a young actress whose husband has just died when the picture opens. She and her young son are destitute. They are befriended by the theatre manager and a comedian (Lee Tracy). She marries an actor, who soon leaves her. She commits suicide by falling from a swing at the end of her act. The rest of the show is taken up with her son (David Holt) and his adopters (Lee Tracy and Helen Morgan). Helen Morgan is exceptionally good, as also are Lee Tracy and David Holt. David Holt is a new child find who is a challenge to Shirley Temple.

Saturday, Sept. 29
DEATH ON THE DIAMOND

This is a very good baseball picture. In the cast are Robert Young and Madge Evans, who lend the romantic touch, and Nat Pendleton and Ted Healy, who add the comedy. This picture has received favorable criticism and should afford good entertainment.

Monday, Oct. 1—Tuesday, Oct. 2
THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO

This is the picturization of Alexandre Dumas’ immortal classic. Robert Donat and Elissa Landi, the talented and versatile actress, both give fine performances. Almost everyone is acquainted with this work, and it should not be missed.

Wednesday, Oct. 3
BULLDOG DRUMMOND STRIKES BACK

Ronald Colman, the star, gives another of his excellent and entertaining performances as Captain Hugh Drummond. Warner Oland as Prince Achmed, the villain, also gives a fine performance. Charles Butterworth and Una Merkle add much comedy. There are several murders and people are constantly disappearing. The cast is composed of Ronald Colman, Loretta Young, Warner Oland, Charles Butterworth, and Una Merkle.

The purpose of the fall is to carry on the general policies of the Department. Dr. Th. B. Arbuckle, head of the Department, has been forced to stop teaching on account of bad health, and Dr. O. J. Thies, Jr., is temporarily head of the Chemistry Department in his absence.

A cigarette that's MILDER, the cigarette that TASTES BETTER

Chesterfield... just about every cigarette smoker knows that—but here are some other facts to keep in mind... For a cigarette to be milder and taste better, it must be made of mild, ripe Turkish and home-grown tobaccos. We wish you could go into the factories and see Chesterfield made. The mild ripe tobacco is cut in long even threads—then packed into the cigarette so as to make Chesterfield draw right and burn evenly. A good cigarette can give you a lot of pleasure, and we would like for you to try Chesterfield.

© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Greek Letter Societies (Continued from Page 1)

Alcolu, S. C.; P. H. Arrowsmith, Florence, S.C.; M. Cathey, Rockingham; McRae Covington, Wadesboro; T. U. Cameron, Raeford; D. B. Burns, Asheville; A. Bowles, Fayetteville; Ralph Chandler, Southern Pines; Max Gregg, Wilmington; Chester Maples, Pinehurst; R. Melchor, Mooresville; I. W. McLean, Charlotte; W. T. Yelverton, Wilson; J. Wilson, Lake City, Fla.; W. L. Rainey, Asheville.

PHI GAMMA DELTA: W. O. Cooke, Greensboro; T. S. Bull, Winston-Salem; J. L. Dooley, Jr., Knoxville, Tenn.; G. Harris, Jr., Oxford; D. Iverson, Jr., Garner; Percy, Miss.; R. R. Gregory, Miami, Fla.; J. W. Lipstreu, Greensboro; J. A. Holt, Greensboro; S. G. Lowe, Blacksville, S. C.; John McNabb, Cleveland, Tenn.; Laurence Reid, Newnan; F. S. Taylor, Oxford; R. Vowles, Davidson.

PHI DELTA THETA: J. T. Baskerville, Gallatin, Tenn.; Herman Best, Shelby; B. B. Crooks, Meridian, Miss.; S. A. Cothran, Charlotte; Robt. Greene, Frankfort; Brent Greene, Frankfort; W. M. McAfee, Winnsboro, S.C.; C. McKnight, Shelby; J. E. McClelland, Atlanta, Ga.; I. L. Sides, Asheville; J. W. Tonnissen, Jacksonville, Fla.; J. M. Westall, Asheville; W. G. White, Jr., Norfolk.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON: M. Armitage, Greeneville, Tenn.; C. Bixler, Long Island, N.Y.; G. C. Currie, Jr., Mullins, S.C.; Roy Gilks, Charlotte; J. P. Hanes, Winston-Salem.

Faculty Group Attends Meeting Of Presbytery

The regular fall meeting of the Concord Presbytery was held in Concord on last Tuesday and Wednesday, September 18 and 19. A large delegation of faculty attended. Those attending from the Davidson faculty were: Dr. Walter Lingle, Dr. W. C. Richards, Professor Currie, and Dr. Moffet, pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church, also was present. The regular routine of the business of the Presbytery was carried on, including the reading of reports, reports of committees, and other general and special business.