THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1934

DUDLEY ELVERY WINS FALL TENNIS TOURNAMENT

In the Field of Sports

CATAWBA NEXT FOE OF WILDCAT AGGREGATION

RAINON BROWN

Those pugnacious Bulldogs from The Citadel more thoroughly confirmed their reputation of being an extremely difficult team to defeat on its home field by the way in which they fought themselves into a 12-12 deadlock with the favored Wildcat eleven in Charleston Saturday. Evidently, the ‘Cats suffered from a tremendous letdown after their excellent showing against the Dukes on the preceding weekend, and that, coupled with the unexpected strength of Coach Gressette’s charges, was a little more than they could overcome in one afternoon.

The contest wasn't without its thrills, however. Both Wildcat touchdowns came after two lengthy jaunts by Boody Wingfield and Johnny Mackorell of 95 and 35 yards, respectively. Coach McIver's two diminutive backs “Joe” Wingfield and “Midget” Verble furnished the great thriller of the afternoon when “Boody” took a Citadel kick-off in the third quarter and raced 95 yards behind Verble’s perfect interference for the second Wildcat score. This same Wingfield gent had thrown Johnny Mackorell a pass in the first period, which the Wildcat Captain gathered in and sped the remaining 35 yards to the promised land.

Johnny, as usual, won the plaudits of the mentors of the opposing aggregation. Particularly did they compliment him for his blocking, tackling, and kicking. He had somewhat of a punting duel with E. Hall of The Citadel. Hall averaged 48 yards on his punts for the afternoon and Mackorell had 45 on his. This was the best pair of averages turned in by any southern game played Saturday.

“Tubby” Hand, “Big-Six” Johnston, and Henry “Flip” Cathey get the laurels among the Wildcat linesmen. They all turned in nice performances. Johnny Siewers did a nice job of going down under punts. He was nailing the Bulldog safety man in his tracks nearly every time.

“Wimpy” Ravenel, one of the younger members of Charleston's aristocracy, and halfback candidate on the Wildcat squad, took his mates to the city zoo in his hometown Saturday morning, where they all had a big time getting the monkeys stuck up in chewing gum and throwing the ducks into the air and letting them splash down on the pond. Great entertainment for the boys. Some of them, no doubt, felt perfectly at home among the wild creatures.

It will be Catawba this week, and despite the fact that seven members of Coach Kirkland’s regular Indian eleven are reported on the injured list, it will be no easy engagement for the Felines. These gridsters from West Salisbury haven’t been scored on this season, and they will be making a gallant effort Saturday to maintain this unblemished record. I forecast a victory for the 'Cats, but it isn’t going to be a pushover.

Paul Pittman, substitute triple threat back, sustained an ankle injury in the Citadel affair, which will probably keep him out of action for the remainder of the season. This is a considerable loss to the reserve strength of the Wildcats.

It is interesting to know that every member of the varsity football squad is well equipped with brains as well as brawn. Not a single candidate was ruled ineligible for deficiency in his scholastic pursuits when the first month’s grades were published last week. Even though the first-year men haven't set the woods on fire in their football endeavors this fall, they have a few very promising looking members on the first string. Captain Hogan should develop into another triple threat back of varsity caliber. He does all three of the offensive assignments well and can execute his share of the defensive burden in very able fashion. Lafferty is also a bright prospect from the backs. Alex Brown, Billy Nicholson, and Bailey Williams will probably be the most dependable hopes from the forward wall.

Hear GUY LOMBARDO on DECCA RECORDS—Price 25c Parker-Gardner Co. Charlotte, N. C.

THE WILDCATS’ PONY QUARTET

These four backs have proved themselves to be the best ball carriers in the southland. They win the praise of every team the Wildcats face and are expected to bear a large part of the burden when the Newton-McEver machine meets Carolina a week from Saturday.

HUTCHINS WINGFIELD VERBLE

Baxter Yarborough has substituted a great deal for Verble, who was kept out of most of the early games with an injury.

Phifer Fights Hard in Final Match, But Loses, 3-6, 6-3, 6-8, 6-2, 6-1

BARNETT LOSES EARLY

Lewis And Morkew Are Beaten In Semi-finals

Dud Elvery defeated Tommy Phifer 3-6, 6-3, 6-8, 6-2, 6-1, in a long and hard-fought match to win the final round of the annual fall tennis tournament. Elvery was seeded third and Phifer fourth. Phifer won two out of the first three sets of the five-set match, and until the beginning of the fourth set seemed to hold the upper hand. For the most part, he played in the backcourt, seldom coming to the net. Elvery, on the other hand, adopted opposite tactics and rushed to the net whenever he had an opportunity. After volleying the third set, Elvery’s steady attack wore Phifer down, and he took the last two sets with apparent ease to win the tournament.

Martin Barnett, seeded number one, suffered the biggest upset of the entire tournament when he was defeated in the second round by John Walker. Walker was then beaten in the third round by Jake Morrow, who lost to Elvery in the semi-finals. Carlyle Lewis, seeded number two, fared easily until he reached the semi-finals where he was beaten by Tommy Phifer, seeded number four. The tournament wasRun off under the direction of Ed Garrett, varsity tennis manager. Garrett also played in the tournament himself, being eliminated in the third round by Tommy Phifer. The fall tournament is held every year as a prelude to the regular tennis season for the purpose of lining up material for the varsity tennis team. It also serves to give the players additional practice in tournament competition.

SPECIAL | Student Rates
Try Our STEAK SANDWICHES
AMERICAN CAFE

Charlotte Sunday Observer and News

Elvery Is Victor In Annual Autumn Tennis Tournament

Alls Americans Lose To Mars Hill Team

The Davidson College “B” squad was defeated 7-6 by Mars Hill last Saturday, in a loose game filled with penalties and breaks.

The “All-Americans” kept Mars Hill on the defensive practically all afternoon, making two sustained drives for nearly the length of the field, but when they got within striking distance they were not able to score because of several penalties inflicted on them. The Wildcats scored on a pass from Peabody to Jim Johnston from the spread formation which has been used by this team so successfully in the past. Later in the game, Tom Thurston intercepted a Mars Hill pass on Davidson's thirty-yard line and raced to the goal line seventy yards away for a touchdown, but for reasons unknown to the Davidson team, this play was called back, and when Quick, Davidson's captain for the game, objected to the play being called back, the team was penalized 15 yards for arguing with the referee.

Mars Hill scored their touchdown on a sustained drive and kicked the goal for the winning point on the second trial, having been offsides on the first trial. Jim Johnston and Jim Hodgin at ends and Peabody, Quick, and Thurston in the backfield were the outstanding players for the “B” squad, while in Wertz Mars Hill had a player of exceptional caliber, it being the boast of the Mars Hill student body that this halfback from Indiana has not failed to make a gain on a punt return this season. The “B” squad made a total of nine first downs compared to four for their opponents. In ground gained the “All-Americans” also had a marked advantage, gaining 253 yards compared to the 77 made by the mountain boys, however, the Wildcats were set back 75 yards in penalties while Mars Hill received only 25 yards. The passing attack of the reserves was functioning nearly as well as that of the varsity, completing 8 out of 14 tries. This was the third game the “All-Americans” have played. They beat Wingate Junior College 13-0 in their opener, and two weeks later they fought to a 0-0 tie with Campbell College.

Sergeant Jasper L. Kirby left Saturday for Atlanta, where he will take up his new duties at the Georgia Military Academy.

Hellinsworth CANDIES = White Drug Store t Whitmans

CATO TO PLAY CATAWBA TEAM

Catawba Indians Replace William And Mary On The Davidson Schedule

The Indians of Catawba College come to town Saturday to meet the Wildcats on Richardson field. Catawba replaces William and Mary on the Davidson schedule, the Virginians being forced to cancel the game as they had previously carded V. M. I. for November 3. The Salisbury boys should give the ’Cats a struggle despite the fact that injuries were received by seven players in last week’s scoreless tie with Presbyterian. They have tallied 114 points and have yet to suffer defeat or to see their own goal line crossed. The most crushing blow to the Indians’ hopes came when “Red” Meehan, third in the entire nation in points scored, sustained a broken arm in the P. C. game, which will keep him on the sidelines for the remainder of the season. Costly injuries were received in Coach Kirkland’s line also, in the persons of Captain Bob Pearson, end; Van Vaniewsky, all Little-Six conference center; and Garland, 225-pound tackle. It is possible that these casualties will not prove as serious as they now appear, and that these men, with the exception of Meehan, will see service.

The Wildcats came out of the Citadel fracas in pretty good shape, except for Paul Pittman, back. Pittman, whose ability as a punter has proved a great asset to the team, received an ankle injury, but he will probably see service. The probable line-up is as follows:

Davidson Position Catawba
Morgan L E Pearson
Siewers L T Garland
Potter L G Machan
J. B. Lee Center Vaniewsky
D. Johnston R G Williams
S. Johnston R T Fuller
Windham R E Kesler
Mackorell Q B Maggilo
Wingfield L H Dinges
Hutchens R H Clark
Yarborough F B Smith

CADET ELEVEN TIES WILDCATS AT CHARLESTON

Unexpected Offense Offered By Bulldogs Proves Effective Against Wildcats

DAVIDSON BACKS STAR

Ferguson, Jenkins, And Symmes Feature For Cadets

Ably led by Captain Johnny Mackorell and “Little Joe” Wingfield the Davidson Wildcats staved off the stubborn attack of a fighting Citadel eleven Saturday and emerged with a 12-12 tie. The game was packed with thrills and kept the 2500 spectators standing on their feet from beginning to end. The Wildcats, favored to win before the game, were slightly outplayed by their Cadet opponents who offered unexpected offense with their military shift and reverse spinners.

Davidson got off to a flying start shortly after the game opened. Citadel recovered a fumble deep in her own territory and punted out to Wingfield who was downed on Citadel’s 45-yard line. On the first play Wingfield dropped back and threw a 20-yard pass to Mackorell who stepped the remaining distance for a touchdown after eluding two would-be tacklers. Mackorell’s try for extra point was blocked by Andy Hall.

The Cadets’ fighting spirit was now aroused and after the kick-off was brought out to the 20-yard line, they made two first downs and punted to Davidson, the ball being downed on the Wildcats’ 21-yard line. On the next exchange of punts, Wingfield fumbled and Yandell recovered for Citadel on Davidson’s 26-yard line. Then with a beautifully executed off-tackle play Ferguson got away for a touchdown, tying the score at 6 all. Faulkner attempted to pass to Yandell for the extra point but the ball was knocked down and in a few minutes the half ended with the score still even.

The second half opened with practically the same lineups that started with the exception of Verble, who had replaced Yarborough in the Davidson backfield. Mackorell received Symmes’ kick-off and returned it to the 18-yard line. Wingfield picked up 16 yards and first down on a short end run. On the first down the Wildcats were penalized and the ball now rested on the 21-yard line. Two line plays failed and Mackorell dropped back to punt, but as the ball was snapped, Jenkins, alert Citadel tackle, broke through and blocked Mackorell’s punt which bounded over the Cadets’ goal. Still dazed, Jenkins dived for the ball and missed it but Captain Billy Symmes recovered, putting the Bulldogs in the lead 12-6. Hall's try for the extra point was blocked by Big Six Johnson.

However, Citadel was not to hold the lead very long. Symmes kicked off to Wingfield who gathered in the ball on his own 5-yard line and did not put it down until he had crossed the goal line, tying up the score again. This run was without equal and gave the spectators a thrill long to be remembered. Receiving the ball, Wingfield ran to mid-field behind beautiful blocking where he slowed his pace slightly, picked up Midget Verble and cut over to the sidelines where the Bulldogs were moving in fast. Verble sprawled two Cadets on the ground, leaving Boody on his own. On the 5-yard line Tom Faulkner made a desperate attempt to avoid the tie score but Wingfield gave him that hip movement for which he has become famous in the past two games, and crossed the goal standing up. Pittman was rushed in to break the tie score but several Bulldogs broke through and blocked the kick.

This ended the scoring but the game was far from being over. The last quarter saw the Cadets make a determined effort to score only to fumble on Davidson's 20-yard line where the ‘Cats recovered. Here they tried several long passes which were unsuccessful and the game ended still deadlocked 12-12.

For Citadel, Captain Symmes, Yandell, Eldie Hall, and Ferguson stood out, while for Davidson, Fort, D. and L. Johnson, Wingfield and Mackorell were always a threat to The Citadel.

Citadel (12) Davidson (12)
Fishburne L E Fort
Jenkins L T D. Johnson
Fonvielle L G L. Johnson
Symmes Center J. B. Lee
Lowe R G D. Johnston
Therrell R T S. Johnston
Townsend R E Windham
Yandell Q B Mackorell
Faulkner L H Wingfield
E. Hall R H Hutchens
Ferguson F B Yarborough

CITADEL 6 6 0 0 — 12
DAVIDSON 6 6 0 0 — 12