THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 2, 1934

Duke Dean Speaks About Preparation For Law Students
Miller Urges People of Country to Prepare Leaders for Coming Years

DAVIDSON IS PRAISED
Advises Law Candidates to Take Full Arts Course

Dean Justin Miller, of the Duke Law School, spoke in chapel Wednesday, taking as his subject, “Type of Selection and
Training in Preparation for Law.” Dr. J. M. McConnell, dean of faculty, introduced the speaker, saying that Mr. Duke, endower
of Duke College, had asked for schools of ministry, teaching, medicine, and law and that an institution stressing each of
these desires was to be founded in the state. McConnell said that Duke is one of the most outstanding law
schools in the country and that much credit is due to Dean Miller in having a hand in making the
law school what it is today. In introducing the speaker, Dr. McConnell said that Miller was not only one of
the best-known law teachers in the South, but he was for years known as one of the most outstanding lawyers
in the country.

Dean Miller in his introductory remarks said that the law school at Duke had much appreciation of Davidson men. “The
men from Davidson who have come to Duke have done well,” said Miller. The high points in Dean Miller's talk
follow: “The people of the country should think seriously about preparing leaders for coming years. Leaders are produced by a
great crisis; on the other hand, if we had great leaders we would not have crises.” Miller continued by saying,
“What does a lawyer do? The general idea that prevails among the common run of people is that a lawyer
spends his time before juries and judges stating his case in a dramatic manner. This impression is entirely wrong, a
twentieth-century lawyer spends most of his time in his own study with a law book before him.”

“Law is a jealous mistress,” Miller said. Men who choose law must give all of their time to the study
of this vast subject. When one prepares himself for law he is prepared for almost any other occupation. Better lawyers
can be obtained only by the men who come from the various law schools over the country receiving better preparation.
Spending the latter part of his speech advising the students what courses to take in their undergraduate work, Dean Miller
said that there is a widely varied opinion on the courses that a student should take, but that his advice
was to take a full arts course as it is more generally needed.

Psychology 2 Class Goes To Morganton
Dr. Hood Takes Class Through State Insane Asylum

Members of Dr. Frazer Hood’s psychology 2 class made a trip last Tuesday, April 24, to Morganton, N. C., to
visit the State Insane Asylum located there. Leaving Davidson at 9:30, the party, led by Dr. Hood, began its tour
of the clinic about 1:30 in the afternoon. The clinic is directed by Drs. Whitaker and Long, the former in
charge of the men’s and the latter in charge of the women’s ward. Several of the patients at the clinic
were used to illustrate simple cases of mental diseases, the symptoms—which included waxy flexibility, negativism, and mutism—being shown. Poetic, manic
depression, and cephallitic cases were illustrated, all of the patients examined being classed under the head of “dementia praecox.” Dr.
Long stated that over half of the hospital beds now in use are devoted to cases of insanity and that
over one-fourth of these cases are “dementia praecox” cases, which are incurable. After talks and explanations by Drs. Long and
Whitaker, the Davidson students were allowed to visit the wards and study cases of mental deficiency at first hand.

TYPING CLASS STARTS
Another typing class is being taught by Raymond Reel of the Senior class in the parlor of Watts Dormitory. The
class meets every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday nights from 8:30 to 9:30, and affords members of the student body who
desire to take advantage of it the opportunity to learn Touch Typing in a four weeks’ course.

AROUND TOWN
The Davidson High School commencement will be held in the high school auditorium Monday, May 28, at 8:00 o'clock. The
Senior class has chosen as their speaker Professor F. K. Fleagle of the Spanish department of the college. The speaker
of the baccalaureate service, May 27, will be announced at a later date. The high school junior-senior banquet will take
place tonight at the Civic League Hall.

The Book-Lovers’ Club met Friday at the home of Mrs. J. M. Douglas. The paper, “Good Companions,” by Priestly, was
presented by Mrs. Walter Lingle.

Mrs. J. M. McConnell has returned from a visit to her son Joe in Washington, D. C., where Joe holds
an important administrative position.

Davidson High School boasts a new red velvet curtain for the stage of its redecorated auditorium. The curtain was paid
for from the proceeds of plays coached by Miss Grace James, Senior class counselor.

Miss Jane Layton Richards, of the faculty of Flora Macdonald College, spent the weekend at the home of her parents,
Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Richards. She had as her guest Mrs. Sanderson of the English department.

Out of three papers submitted by the Davidson Senior French class in the state high school contest, that of Blanche
Knox was accorded honorable mention. It ranked ninth among those entered from over one hundred schools. Miss Maude Vinson’s pupils
have been unusually successful in these contests.

A meeting of the congregation of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church has been called for Sunday afternoon, May 13, for
the purpose of electing additional elders and deacons. Through deaths and removals, the officer personnel of the church has been
reduced to about twenty-five; the purpose of the election is to increase the session and diaconate to the requisite numbers.

The Intermediate Christian Endeavor Society, under the guidance of Ed Hodge, enjoyed a progressive party last Saturday evening. The hostesses
were Mesdames Shewmake, Withers, Pritchett, and McClain.

Riggs, at the home of his parents, Dean and Mrs. J. M. McConnell, has recently been awarded a scholarship at
Columbia University.

Miss Helen Derricks of the Concord High School faculty was a weekend guest at the home of Professor and Mrs.
Goldiere.

Honorary Frats Are Entertained By Girls
Representation From Phi Beta Chi Speaks Here

Phi Beta Chi, science fraternity of Queens-Chicora College, sponsored a program on Friday night, April 27, at 8:15 o'clock at
Davidson in the science building before Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, the honorary physics fraternity, Sigma Phi Sigma, and
the pre-medical fraternity, Pi Delta Alpha. This program was presented as a response to the program which Gamma Sigma Epsilon
presented at Queens-Chicora College last year. It is the hope and plan of the two fraternities that the exchange of
similar programs will be continued in the future. Dr. Graham and Mrs. McEwen, of the chemistry department, and Dr. Greene
and Miss Cathey of the biology department, went with members of Phi Beta Chi to the co-meeting. All of the
above mentioned are faculty advisers of the fraternity at Queens-Chicora.

Mary Bowen was in charge of the program, which was as follows: Discoveries within the Clam, Mary Bowen; violin solo,
Ruth Martin; Current Events in Science, Mary China Stevenson; Ultra-Violet Light: A Demonstration, Miriam Steele and Ruth Grover; musical numbers,
Virginia, Grace, and Mary Steele Hubbard.

Inter-Fraternity Baseball Started Tuesday
The Phi Gamma Deltas and Kappa Sigmas entered the semi-finals of the inter-fraternity baseball tournament by virtue of a win
over the Kappa Alphas and Phi Delta Thetas, respectively. After playing one of the best inter-fraternity ball games ever played
here, the Phi Delts lost by the close score of 5-3. Rives proved to be the shining light of the
game, driving in three of his team’s runs. Much enthusiasm was shown by the members of both teams, and the
spectators organized a cheering section for each nine. Mack Holland and Charlie Rives served as the battery for the Kappa
Sigs, and Tom McKinney and Stewart Barnes (Continued on page 6).

Phi Beta Kappa To Hear Dr. Voorhees
Speaker Is National Historian of Fraternity

Oscar M. Voorhees, national historian of Phi Beta Kappa, will give a lecture Friday evening, May 4, at 7:30 o'clock
to the Davidson Gamma chapter and alumni from surrounding towns. His talk will be based on the history of this
national fraternity. Voorhees will talk on the four organization periods. The Virginia period deals with the establishment and early history
of the first Phi Beta Kappa fraternity at William and Mary in 1776. Under the second period, 1780-1845, the New
England universities formed chapters. The next period was characterized by large expansion. Between 1845 and 1883 chapters were established throughout
the country, and the First National Council was organized. From 1883 to the present time the Phi Beta Kappa fraternity
has organized stronger nationally and increased the chapters to a total of 119. There are about 70,000 members today. Voorhees
has been connected with the National Council since its early times. He served as national secretary for a time and
is now national historian. He has compiled some new material on the history of Phi Beta Kappa and is now
making lectures throughout the South on this new compilation of data and old history.

The Gamma Chapter of North Carolina, Davidson, which is sponsoring this lecture, is composed of ten members. They are: J.
T. Blair, Odi Casali, J. E. Dill, S. M. Hines, J. A. McGeachy, Jr., J. C. Morrow, A. F. Schenck,
J. H. Scott, W. M. Thompson, W. T. Thompson, Jr. The faculty officers are C. M. Richards, president; A. Currie,
vice-president; P. H. Gwynn, secretary-treasurer.

French Society To Hold Annual Fete
Banquet Will Be Held With French Surroundings

Le Cercle Francais will have their annual “Grand Restaurant” sometime next week at Dr. Watts’ home. President Lanier Pratt stated
that as usual the annual occasion will be in true French style with French food and French surroundings. As members
of the club arrive at Dr. Watts’ home, an allotted amount of imaginative French money will be given each customer
to use as purchasing power when he is admitted to the restaurant. French will be spoken during the entire meal
and a menu made up only of French foods will be placed on each table. The maitre d’hotel will have
charge of all food served andWaiters will take and deliver the orders in French. Pratt expressed the desire that every
member be present at the appointed time.

Pan-Hellenic Council To Consist of Seniors

One definite change in the organization of the Pan-Hellenic Council was made when the members passed a ruling that in
the future only seniors could be representatives on the Council. This will cause no great change in the representation of
the Council, however, as in past years the majority of its members have been seniors, although until now there have
been no requirements for this.

No changes have yet been made in the rushing program to be carried on by the social fraternities for the
coming year, as it is above the authority of the present Council to make any such changes, and the new
Council, whose duty this will be, has not been installed.

Dr. MacConnell Visits Alumni in Washington

Dr. J. W. MacConnell, professor of physiology and hygiene, made a trip to Washington, D. C., during the past week
and met many of the Davidson alumni of that city. He also attended the annual alumni dinner of the Washington
chapter, given at Sholl’s Cafe, April 24. William R. Elliott, ’09, is president of that chapter. Grier Martin, alumni secretary
of Davidson College, attended this banquet and spoke to the members gathered there.

Recently, Dr. MacConnell was invited to attend the meeting of the Medical Society of North Carolina, given at Pinehurst on
Tuesday and Wednesday, May 2nd and 3rd. While there, Dr. MacConnell was asked to present a paper on Mastoid Operation
before this group.

Rhodes Scholars

President Frank Aydelotte of Swarthmore College, American Secretary of the Rhodes Scholarships, urging early announcement of the 1934 competition for
the Rhodes Scholarships, says: “I know by my own experience how vitally important it is that those students who expect
to try in the autumn for Rhodes Scholarships should begin to make their plans some time before the end of
the spring term of their present college year.” Those seniors and juniors who are interested are urged to secure from
Dr. G. R. Vowles copies of the “Memorandum,” which gives a summary of the conditions and details of the competition.
“Oxford of Today,” by Crosby and Aydelotte, which may be found in the library, should be read by every prospective
candidate for a scholarship.

The Trumpet Blows Will Be Shown Here

Wallace Beery Will Be Starred in “Viva Villa”

Wednesday, May 2—Melody in Spring

In this production Lanny Ross, Show Boat’s singing sensation, will appear. He will be supported by an able cast, including
Charles Ruggles, Mary Boland, and Ann Southern. This musical affords much entertainment. One of the best scenes is of milking
time in the Swiss Alps.

Thursday, May 3—The Trumpet Blows

This is a picture of a bullfighter (George Raft), and his sweetheart, a Mexican senorita (Frances Drake). It shows how
her love for him changes, as well as his success in bullfighting. Adolphe Menjou plays the role of a bandit.

Friday, May 4—The Upper World

This is a drama of neglected husbands, repentant wives, and understanding chorus girls. The cast includes Warren William, Mary Astor,
and Ginger Rogers.

Saturday, May 5—Murder in Trinidad

This is a breath-taking, hair-raising murder mystery and you will be held in suspense from the beginning to the end.
The cast includes Nigel Bruce, Heather Angel, and Victory Jory. This is a Fox production.

Monday, May 7—Viva Villa

This is the picturization by Wallace Beery of a Mexican bandit. Its opening scene is one in which the little
boy Villa sees his father flogged to death and from that point on it is never mild or lacking in
zest. People are hung, eaten by ants, and shot. It portrays the oppression of peons and lays bare the roots
of revolt. Wallace Beery’s acting is excellent. Fay Wray and Stuart Erwin are also in the cast.

Improvement Trophy To Be Awarded Soon

Physical Measurements Have Already Been Taken

Under the supervision of Captain Norton G. Pritchett, director of athletics, measurements have been taken in order to decide the
winner of the Physical Improvement Trophy. This trophy is awarded each year to the student who shows the greatest physical
improvement during the year. The basis of the decision is the measurements taken of all students in the fall and
in the spring. At those times, the neck, chest, biceps, forearms, thighs, and calves are measured. The contestant showing the
most improvement wins the Physical Improvement Trophy, and the first twenty men will receive points toward the intramural trophy for
their classes. This contest has been conducted for the past several years. W. M. Archer, of Salisbury, was last year’s
winner of the trophy.

CARS FOR RENT
Gulf Gas and Oil
M. P. HENDERSON

Several Fraternities Are Planning Parties

Several Groups Elect Pan-Hellenic Representatives

PI KAPPA PHI’s SELECT REPRESENTATIVE

Hugh Yelverton of the rising Senior class was recently elected Pan-Hellenic representative by the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity. The Pi
Kappa Phi’s are also planning to hold a house party on the river next weekend.

PI KAPPA ALPHA TO ENTERTAIN

The Pika’s are also planning a house party on the river this weekend. Several girls from nearby cities will attend.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON ELECTS OFFICERS

In a recent election of officers, the S. A. E.’s elected the following men as leaders for the coming year:
K. D. Weeks, president; Bob Kornegay, vice-president; Sam Eaton, secretary; Lamont Brown, treasurer, and Joe Wadsworth, Pan-Hellenic representative.

PHI GAMMA DELTA PLANS HOUSE PARTY

The Phi Gam’s are planning a house party on the weekend of May 19, to be held either at Blowing
Rock or Roaring Gap. A number of girls have been invited and are expected to attend. Mims Rogers has been
chosen to represent Phi Gamma Delta on the Pan-Hellenic Council next year.

KAPPA SIGMA HOLDS ELECTIONS

The Kappa Sig’s will entertain a party of girls at their house next weekend. Ed Garrett was recently elected president
of the Kappa Sigma chapter and W. B. Ravenel was chosen Pan-Hellenic representative.

Three Deputations Are Sent By YMCA

Groups Are Sent to Three Nearby Churches

Three deputation groups were sent out last Sunday by the local Y. M. C. A. to conduct services in other
churches. The largest of these went to the First Presbyterian Church in Salisbury, which was observing “Davidson Day” at that
time. It was composed of Ben Rose, who led the Sunday School worship program; Don Brandon, who conducted the morning
service; Lynn Huie, who spoke to the Young People’s group, and Rufus Morrow, who led the evening service. Music was
furnished by Dave McLain and Buddy Robinson.

Bob Lyerly spoke to the young people at the Presbyterian Church in Cornelius last Sunday night. Bob Coit spoke to
the young people at the Beth Page Presbyterian Church near Kannapolis. Ed Humphrey will conduct the outdoor vesper service at
Barium Springs next Sunday night.

Catholic students of College Newman Clubs from Indiana, Ohio, Kentucky, and Michigan met recently at Purdue University for a three-day
conference.

Davidsonian Gives Banquet To Staff

Casali, Johnson Preside Jointly as Toastmasters

The Davidsonian staff entertained its members at a banquet last Friday evening in the Chambers banquet hall. This was the
first time in the history of the paper that such an entertainment has been undertaken. Odi Casali, retiring editor, and
W. T. Johnson, retiring business manager, served jointly in the capacity of toastmaster.

The purpose of the banquet was not only to reward the members for their successful work during the past year,
but also to bring about closer harmony between the editorial and business staffs of the paper. There were several guests,
outstanding in campus publications, present. These included Professor Fleagle, faculty adviser of the Publications Board; Bill Fugate, editor of the
Yowl, and Ben Wyche, newly-elected business manager of the Yowl.

The new editor of the Davidsonian, K. D. Weeks, and the retiring managing editors were called on for impromptu speeches.
Professor Fleagle was the featured speaker of the evening and he took occasion to compliment the retiring officers of the
Davidsonian for their outstanding work of the past year. He also discussed the possibilities of adding a course in journalism
to the college curricula.

At the close of the banquet the desire was unanimously expressed that the occasion be made an annual event.

National Vocational Conference To Meet

Leaders in Business Fields to Assemble in Newark

A large representation of men and women prominent in all fields of activity will assemble in Newark, N. J., next
June 26, 27, and 28 in the first Choosing-a-Career Conference for college men and women. This will be one of
the greatest galaxies of “Who’s Who” personalities ever assembled for an educational cause. Bankers, railroad presidents, famous dress designers, noted
journalists—leaders of 31 different fields, will speak on the career opportunities in their respective branches of American affairs.

This series will enable college men and women who are in doubt about which field to enter to obtain clearer,
more definite conceptions of the leading industries and professions, and to see and hear leaders at a time when it
is most imperative—following the close of the college season. A further aim is to eliminate the floundering of the student
starting out in business. University officials believe that if the business brains of the country can open forum with those
seeking a career, many years of manpower wasted in a misfit field can be eliminated. It is hoped that the
conference, an entirely new experiment, will stimulate young men and women to think beyond merely getting a job.

Among the speakers will be Leonor F. Loree, president of the Delaware and Hudson Railroad, who will speak on railroads;
Percy Strauss, president of Macy’s, who will speak on retailing; “Roxy,” who will speak on the entertainment field; Roy Chapman,
acting manager of the Museum of Natural History, who will tell of exploring as a career, and many others, including
Amelia Earhart, Elizabeth (Continued on page 6)

MOTHER’S DAY
Sunday, May 13th
Give “HER” Nunnally’s Candy
“THE BEST TASTE IN GIFTS”
COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”
ALSO “WHISTLIN KETTLE” $1.69

Attention! Order Your Personal Engraved Cards Now. Twenty Styles to Pick From
A SPECIAL PRICE FOR DAVIDSON STUDENTS
Bill Johnson—203 Watts
Standard Printing Company
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
