EXAM SCHEDULE ON PAGE THREE OF THIS ISSUE

The Davidsonian

Glenda Lux Abi Orta Libertas

DR. FRANK BROWN TO OPEN SPRING SERVICES SUNDAY

Vol. XXI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 25, 1934 No. 26

New Members of Davidson Student Council Selected

Newly-Elected Class Presidents Are Also Student Council Members

WERE INSTALLED FRIDAY

New Student Body President to Head Council

In the balloting Thursday by the Student Body were concluded the elections for the new Student Council. Five rising seniors,
three juniors, and two sophomores were chosen in addition to the president of the Student Body and the presidents of
the classes, who automatically become members.

Members of the rising Senior class chosen are: R. T. Coit, T. N. Phifer, Walter Sprunt, K. D. Weeks, and
Hugh Yelverton. Rising junior representatives are: Harvey Glass, R. B. Lindsay, and John Partridge, and those elected from the next
year’s Sophomore class are Jack Branch and T. G. Corbin. In addition to those elected the past week are G.
H. Brown, recently elected president of the Student Body; E. F. McPhail, president of the rising Senior class; W. F.
Bowman, president of the rising Junior class, and Carl Carlson, president of the rising Sophomore class.

Nominations made by the recommendation committee, composed of seven men chosen by secret ballot within the council, were revealed Tuesday
and several nominations were made from the floor. The voting began Wednesday and final selection was concluded Thursday, in order
to comply with Article 3, Section 3 of the Constitution which requires that the council be elected not later than
April 20th.

Upon the Student Council rests the major part of the responsibility for carrying out the student government at Davidson. Article
2, Section 5 of the Constitution states: “It shall be the duty of the Student (Continued on page 6)

Summer School Will Begin June Eleventh

Session Will Extend Over Period of Six Weeks

Davidson’s annual summer school session will begin this year on June 11, and will continue for a period of six
weeks, according to Professor F. K. Fleagle, head of the Department of Spanish, who has charge of the summer school.

The tuition fee for the six weeks of summer school will be $30.00. This does not include the $4.50 fee
for the laundry nor the $12.50 charge for a room in the dormitories. An added fee will be placed on
those students taking physics or zoology, but this fee has not been definitely decided yet. The total expenses for this
year’s summer school, except for meals and the extra fee placed on those students taking physics or zoology, will be
$47.00.

The following courses will be offered this year for summer school students: Bible 2 under Dr. C. M. Richards, head
of the Department of Bible; Biology 2 under Dr. S. C. Lyon, head of the Department of Biology; Education 2
will be taught by Professor F. K. Fleagle, head of the Spanish Department; English 2 under Dr. E. F. Shewmake,
head of the English Department.

French 1 or 2 will be under Professor A. V. Goldiere, associate professor of French; Geography 1 or 2 will
be under Professor W. L. Porter, head of the Department of Geography and Geology; Math 1, under Professor W. W.
Wood of the Math Department.

Physics 2 will be taught by Dr. J. M. Douglas, head of the Department of Physics; Political Science under Professor
A. Currie, head of the Department of Economics and Political Science, and Spanish 1 or 2 will be taught by
Professor F. K. Fleagle if a sufficient number of students wish to take either of these courses.

Classes will meet twice a day and no classes will be given in the afternoon. All class work will be
done in the morning. The schedule will be arranged (Continued on page 6)

Spring Revival To Commence Sunday

Dr. Frank C. Brown Will Conduct Annual Services

As announced in the Davidsonian last week, the annual Spring Services, sponsored by the College Y. M. C. A., will
begin next Sunday, April 29, continuing through the following Wednesday. The “Y” Cabinet has been fortunate in securing for this
series of religious services Dr. Frank C. Brown, pastor of Bream Memorial Presbyterian Church in Charleston, W. Va., who comes
to Davidson well qualified both as a speaker and as a religious leader.

Dr. Brown will conduct the morning church service and the vesper service on Sunday as well as two regular services
on the weekdays. The regular chapel hour will be lengthened and given over to these services, and an evening service
will be held at 7:00 o'clock. The chapel services will be used for intimate talks to the student body only
and will begin at 9:00 a.m., Monday, and 10:05 a.m., Tuesday and Wednesday. The general public is cordially invited to
attend the evening services, however.

Phi Beta Kappa Will Hear Noted Speaker

Dr. O. M. Voorhees Will Address Local Chapter, May 4

Dr. Gwynn, secretary of the Gamma Chapter of North Carolina, Phi Beta Kappa, reports that on the night of May
4, the Davidson chapter will have as its guest Dr. Oscar M. Voorhees, national historian of the society. Dr. Voorhees
will address the chapter on the history of Phi Beta Kappa.

“Who's Who in America” reveals that Dr. Voorhees is eminently qualified to speak on the past record of the great
scholarship fraternity. He is a distinguished clergyman in the Dutch Reformed Church, having held prominent pastorates throughout the eastern section
of the United States. Dr. Voorhees was for many years secretary and treasurer of the United Chapters of Phi Beta
Kappa. He was also editor of the “Phi Beta Kappa Key,” the official journal of the society. In 1923 he
prepared the Phi Beta Kappa General Catalogue. Dr. Voorhees is author of many publications on the history of this fraternity,
and is prominent in historical societies. Davidson is honored by his visit.

The Davidson chapter is preparing to invite members of nearby communities to attend the lecture of Dr. Voorhees. A general
invitation is also extended to members of other chapters living in the immediate vicinity to be present on the occasion
of Dr. Voorhees’ visit.

Little To Inspect Davidson R.O.T.C.

Annual Inspection Begins Thursday and Ends Friday

Colonel James M. Little, of the United States Army, will inspect the Davidson unit of the Reserve Officers Training Corps,
on Thursday and Friday, the 26th and 27th of this month. A rather extensive program has been planned for the
two-day inspection period:

On the morning of the first day, Colonel Little will visit President W. L. Lingle; afterwards, the officer will make
a complete inspection of the armory and two of the second-year advanced classes. That afternoon will be devoted to a
detailed inspection of the records and property of the administration, including an examination of the latest statement of inventory.

Colonel Little will, on Friday, look over a first-year basic class, a second-year basic class, and a first-year advanced class.
In the afternoon he will inspect the Davidson battalion on the drill field. This particular inspection will include physical drill,
in which R. O. T. C. students do calisthenics, parade, tactical inspection, and maneuver, in which one company will be
sent out to exhibit reconnoitering.

Since the inspection of last year, the (Continued on page 6)

Jimmy Halverstadt Wins In Intercollegiate Tennis Meet

Davidson Team Also a Runner-up in Doubles to Divide Honors With Duke at State Tournament

Jimmy Halverstadt, Davidson ace, won the state title in the North Carolina Intercollegiate Tennis Tournament which took place April 19-21
at Chapel Hill. All of the Big Five colleges plus Lenoir-Rhyne entered men in this tournament. There were thirty-eight men
entered, which is the largest number on record for this annual meet.

The first four seeded players came through the first round without much difficulty. Welch, who was seeded second to Halverstadt,
encountered stiff competition in the person of McGlinn, but used his cannonball service and sizzling drives to win out. Halverstadt
turned in the most impressive performance, giving up only two games in his first two matches. Lafferty of Davidson won
his first match easily but was defeated by Harris of Carolina in the second round.

The second day’s play left North Carolina with little hope of retaining either of the titles which Tar Heel players
have monopolized for a long time. By their concentrated action, Davidson and Duke succeeded in dethroning Carolina in both the
singles and doubles events.

Jimmy Johnston, tenth ranking Tar Heel player, furnished the major upset of the tournament when he defeated two teammates who
outranked him, including Captain Dave Morgan. He also pushed Higgins to the limit before the Duke star eked out a
victory.

Davidson and Duke split honors in the finals with Halverstadt defeating Barney Welch of Duke for the singles title, 6-4,
6-2, 6-1, and Welch and Higgins defeating Halverstadt and Lafferty, 5-7, 6-2, 6-3, 6-4, for the doubles championship. Halverstadt seemed
to reach his peak in the finals and combined his flashy play with brilliant headwork to display a great all-around
game. Welch furnished plenty of competition, but Halverstadt’s superior steadiness decided the match. The point score by sets showed Halverstadt
32, 35, and 29, and Welch 25, 25, and 15.

Bowery Ball Ends Brilliant Weekend

Archie Davis Plays for Set of Colorful Dances

Davidson's annual Bowery Ball, one of the most delightful social events of the college year, was held Saturday night in
the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium and proved to be an unusually successful and brilliant affair. Two other dances served as preliminaries to
the ball and these were held in the Charlotte Hotel.

The social fraternities on the hill invited a large number of guests up for the weekend, which included a formal
dance Friday night, a free tea dance Saturday afternoon, and the colorful Bowery Ball Saturday night.

The Armory-Auditorium was gaily decorated with various colored streamers and designs. Confetti and paper serpentines were furnished to all who
wanted them, while balloons were released from the top of the Armory, to the delight of all.

The costume prize for girls at the ball, a compact, went to Miss Marjorie Robinson, of Lowell, who wore a
black hat with ostrich plume attached, black and white dress with jabot effect at the neck, and white shoes tied
with black ribbons. Accessories were matched in black and white also. The boys’ costume prize, a carton of cigarettes, went
to Jack Williams, who wore a rakish suit of checkered brown with peg-top trousers of Bowery style, a pink shirt,
a purpleTie, and a big brown derby, all of which was accentuated by a large red flower in the lapel
of his coat. Archie Davis and his orchestra, composed of ten men and a torch singer, (Continued on page 6)

Holland Leads ‘D’ Club Ceremonies in Chapel

The “D” Club, with their president, Mack Holland, presiding, conducted the chapel services Tuesday morning. Holland read the scripture lesson
and then explained to the student body the purpose and aim of the chapel exercises. Holland said: “We, the members
of the ‘D’ Club, in keeping with the spirit of Davidson and her morals and traditions, feel that it is
wise to bring before the student body the oath and training regulations to which every member of the club is
obliged to submit. We feel that, with the cooperative efforts of the student body and the influence of the club,
Davidson athletics will be aided by this movement.”

Hugh Hawkins, varsity cheer leader, offered a prayer. Holland read the “D” Club oath and then called the roll, asking
that each pee would signify his intention of abiding by these rules by coming on the platform. Wearing their “D”
sweaters, the members took their places on the platform and rose and repeated the “D” Club oath.

New Publications Managers Chosen

Business Managerships Go to Eaton, Wadsworth, Wyche

The Publications Board met last Thursday in Treasurer F. L. Jackson’s office to elect the business managers of the various
campus publications for the ensuing year. Men eligible for these positions were discussed at great length before the voting took
place in an effort to determine the most able candidate. Those elected, and the publication on which they will serve,
are: S. K. Eaton, “Quips and Cranks”; J. A. C. Wadsworth, “The Davidsonian,” and B. W. Wyche, “Yowl.” They will
handle the financial and business end of their publications and will be in charge of the budget, advertising, and the
collection of accounts.

Largely due to the efforts of the retiring business managers, the Davidson publications have enjoyed a very successful year. The
retiring managers are: B. O. Ravenell, W. T. Johnson, and A. W. Colwell. Members of the present Publications Board are:
Jack Williams, Jr., president; Odi Casali and W. L. Fugate. This board has met regularly on the first Tuesday of
each month. At these meetings a complete financial report of the past month’s expenses is submitted (Continued on page 6)

Two Junior Assistants Will Aid Cheer Leader

According to Paul Warren, newly-elected varsity cheer leader, the outlook for the junior cheer leaders during the coming year looks
very bright, with eight candidates working for those positions. Several men who have reported for the tryouts look as though
they have had previous experience, and those who are out for the first time are working industriously, learning the fundamentals
of the job. Those men making up the list of candidates for junior cheer leader are: Jake Balsley, “Cokey” Branton,
Joe Dees, Bud Hunter, Carlyle Lewis, Scotty McLeod, Bud Okey, and Ab Price. These men will work out at the
few remaining athletic contests of this year and at the pep meetings in the fall. They will also lead cheers
at the first football game in September. This is done in order that the student body may judge which two
of the men will make the best assistants for the coming year. The election for the junior cheer leaders will
be held after the first football game next fall. Warren is expecting to introduce some new yells next year, and
several new college songs, on which Professor Pfohl is now working. He is also working on plans for taking a
cheering section from Davidson to the Army game at West Point, and is trying to get reduced rates for a
special train.

Bailey Will Edit Wildcat Handbook

Assistant Editors Chosen for the Y. M. C. A. Publication

Donald Bailey has been appointed editor-in-chief of the 1934-35 Wildcat Handbook by the “Y” Cabinet, succeeding W. T. Thompson, Jr.,
who edited the publication for the past year. The staff of assistant editors selected by Bailey are as follows: John
McMullan, Y. M. C. A. Editor; T. E. Downie, Activities Editor; Carlisle Lewis, Sports Editor; T. M. Marchant, Student Government
Editor, and P. Y. Harlan, who will edit the section on fraternities. Bailey expects to have the handbook ready for
distribution about the middle of next summer so that copies may be mailed to members of the incoming Freshman class.
Work has already begun on the book. The newly-appointed editor is from Rock Hill, S. C., a member of the
International Relations Club, associate editor of the Annual, former vice-president of the Eumenean Literary Society, manager of the freshman baseball
team, and a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity. The Wildcat Handbook is yearly issued under the direction of the
Y. M. C. A. to the student body. Addison Brenizer will aid Bailey in its publication, having recently been elected
business manager.

Dr. Miller Addresses Students At Chapel

Duke Law Dean Speaks on Completing College Courses

Dr. Justin Miller, dean of the Law School of Duke University, spoke to the students of Davidson College this morning
at 11:55. He spoke on the general subject of completing your college course before taking up your professional work. In
his address Dean Miller endeavored to aid all of those students who are in doubt as to the advantages of
finishing their college work before they start their professional work. He also explained the advantages and the attractions of law
as a profession. Dean Miller is widely known as the dean of the Duke Law School and as a lawyer
of distinction. He came from California to Duke University five years ago, and has since established himself as an educational
leader of the South. Prior to his appearance at Davidson he addressed a mass meeting of the citizens of Charlotte
on the subject of “Improvement in Educational Facilities.” While in Davidson Dr. Miller will be the guest of Dr. and
Mrs. J. M. McConnell.

Students Organize Photography Club

E. R. Motley Elected President at First Meeting

The initial organization meeting of the Amateur Photographers Group was held last week on Tuesday, the 17th. At this meeting
about thirty men were present. Any Davidson student who owns a camera and takes his own pictures is eligible for
membership. The purpose of the group, organized by Dr. Lyon of the biology department, is to stimulate interest in the
taking and development of pictures from an amateur point of view. “The accomplishment of these things is valuable as a
hobby and may prove to be of concrete value later on,” said Dr. Lyon. Plans have been made for regular
meetings, which will be held on Tuesdays of each week. These meetings will be held for the purpose of discussing
various problems in connection with the taking and making of pictures, and also individual problems. An exhibition of the work
of the members will be given at each meeting to be criticized by the group. A dark room will be
set up in Shearer Hall, where pictures may be developed.

Retiring Officers Yield Positions To Incoming Leaders

Fred Smyre Presides Over Ceremonies in Chambers Auditorium Friday

BROWN TAKES OATH

New Student Council Are First to Be Installed

In an impressive installation service last Friday night in Chambers Auditorium, the reins of leadership were handed over by the
retiring officers to their respective officers-elect. The meeting, presided over by Fred Smyre, was opened by an organ prelude by
Kenneth Scott. At the first rap of the gavel, the retiring and incoming members of the Student Council took the
platform. The new council, composed of Jack Branch, Skip Brown, Bill Bowman, Carl Carlson, Bob Coit, Tom Corbin, Duke Glasgow,
Harvey Glass, Bob Lindsay, Fred McPhail, John Partridge, Tommy Phifer, K. D. Weeks, and Hugh Yelverton, was administered the oath
of office by Julian West, retiring president. At the second rap of the gavel, Julian West and Skip Brown, retiring
and incoming presidents of the Student Body, ascended to the platform. West spoke about certain conditions at Davidson that were
not what they should be: “Smooching” and behavior during devotional exercises. He ended his talk by formally turning over his
office to Skip Brown. The incoming president stressed the nature of the trust he was assuming as “a job to
be done and not an honor acquired.” He expressed himself as being confident of nothing except the sincerity of a
heart’s desire to serve the student body with as little thought of self as West had done. (Continued on page
6)

Brown Elected Head Of Forensic Council

Smith, Rogers and DuBose Are Other Officers

Gordon “Skip” Brown, of River Edge, N. J., was elected president of the Forensic Council for the ensuing year, at
the regular meeting of this group held Wednesday, April 18. Bob Smith, of Mobile, Ala., was chosen to serve with
him as vice-president and Mims Rogers, of Florence, Ala., was elected secretary and treasurer. Warner DuBose will act as debating
manager. Brown has an outstanding record on the Davidson campus. He was elected president of the Student Body for next
year and last year was president of the Sophomore class. He is a member of the varsity debating team, Alpha
Phi Epsilon, International Relations Club, Sigma Upsilon, and Beta Theta Pi, social fraternity. Smith, editor of the “Quips and Cranks”
for next year, has been a member of the varsity debating team for the last two years, is a member
of the Reporters’ Club, and of Delta Pi Kappa, local journalistic fraternity, and Phi Gamma Delta, social fraternity. Rogers was
a member of the Reporters’ Club, was on the staff of the Annual, sergeant in local R. O. T. C.
unit, and is a member of Phi Gamma Delta, social fraternity. DuBose was a member of the Reporters’ Club and
is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity. The Forensic Council has charge of inter-society debating, runs off the debating
tryouts, and has charge of the debating team, election of the members and the schedule. The Forensic Council tries to
stimulate interest in national and international questions among the Davidson students through debates. Brown succeeds Humphrey as president of the
Forensic Council. Jack Williams and Brown acted as vice-presidents for this year. Hawkins was secretary and Pratt-Thomas acted as treasurer
of the Council for this year. Smith had charge of the trips and schedule for this year, acting as the
debate manager. Recently “Skip” Brown discussed the possibilities of having regular meet- (Continued on page 6)
